Can you feel it? Sense it in the air?
The Fraerling hummed as he adjusted the doublet in the morning. He checked his reflection in the full-length mirror, barely more than a compact for anyone else.
He was the most famous Fraerling in the world. The only one with a name, really. One that remained.
Niers Astoragon. The Titan of Baleros.
The other species knew so little of his kind. Fraerlings were as reclusive as Gazers. As mysterious as Demons, if not so feared.
One foot high, and still athletic. Far stronger than he looked, although that was strong for his size. And…the [Grandmaster Strategist] checked his hair.
“Greying. Should I dye my hair, do you think, Perorn?”
The Centaur [Strategist] sighed. Another famous member of her species in her own right. She eyed Niers’ clothes critically. This was the third outfit.
“No. And the doublet’s too much.”
“Damn. You think so?”
“Try this one.”
She handed him another outfit, one less flashy. It wasn’t the style of the doublet, it was the eye-catching color. Niers Astoragon had clothes that could put a [Troubadour] to shame. Good-naturedly, he tried on the other suit, a more restrained Chandrarian-style outfit for semi-formal occasions.
“Thank you. I think this might do?”
“I’m not sure why you asked me to help you choose clothes. I’ve never even worn pants.”
“Ah, but it was you, Peclir, Foliana, or a few others. And you’re known for having a sense of fashion. The others? Not so much.”
Perorn preened a bit at the rare compliment.
“I suppose that’s true.”
She herself had a light cardigan on—something for teaching. And true to her comment—Centaurs wore kilts, or long dresses, rather than anything so form-fitting as pants. Niers shook his head.
“Fashion sense matters across species. I think it’s a talent. Even if there are no Centaur pants.”
“No doubt. And I didn’t say there aren’t pants for Centaurs. I saw a Centaur wearing them. Once.”
The Titan was sufficiently thrown by the comment, enough to stop putting on his boots.
“…Say what now?”
“Pants. I saw a female Centaur wearing them, once. The most unattractive thing ever. I nearly found the [Tailor] so I could kick him.”
“What did it look like?”
“Imagine…pajama pants, but all four legs. Ran all the way up to here.”
Perorn indicated her midsection. Niers hesitated.
“That cannot be comfy.”
“Oh, it wasn’t. She wore it to put off her suitors. It worked.”
“Dead gods. I wish I could have seen that. Pants on a Centaur.”
Niers sighed. But then he resumed putting on his boots, humming under his breath. A marching song, a tune from Baleros. It meant he really was in a good mood. Perorn eyed him.
She was a bit confused. The Titan could be jolly as you liked at times. Expansive, excited, keen—or sourly annoyed. His students had long learned to watch out for his mood, as had his enemies in battle.
But she wouldn’t have expected him to be so…chipper today. Especially since she felt like the news wasn’t calculated to make the Titan smile.
The news. It wasn’t just informant reports, or gossip anymore. It was…a thing. The scrying orb on Niers’ table-room aside, Perorn saw the ‘news’ lying there, freshly printed from the Mage’s Guild by a [Scribe] in ink.
Chess Weekly, delivered just this morning. She had a subscription herself and after reading the front page and the big font next to the stylized cover of the magazine (a giant rook piece on a chess board, outlined since the [Scribe] had to draw it for each edition), she’d been dreading Niers’ mood.
 
Eight of the best games you’ve ever seen! An exclusive interview on weather-based combat with the [Knight Marshal of the Rains] himself!
 
The writer of the magazine, this Olesm Swifttail, had begun to learn the art of selling each magazine. Headlines designed to attract attention. The subheading was the one that Perorn had winced at, though.
 
Earl Altestiel’s battle with Grand Strategist Chaldion! Best of 5! Down to the final game!
 
Earl Altestiel. If you didn’t understand why it mattered that he was in the same place as Chaldion of Pallass, you didn’t know geography or politics. But more than that…for them to be in the same place, they were in a certain building.
An inn.
Which meant the famous Earl was there. And as Perorn had thought she understood it—Niers Astoragon should have been spitting fire. Certainly, he had been three days ago when the news had come to the academy. He’d had the students hiding under the desks.
But today he was humming. It boded. What, exactly, Perorn didn’t know. She studied the other pieces of paper on the table.
Next to the chess magazine was another sheaf of papers, this one copied out and harder to get ahold of—although it was offered at a pittance.
The Liscorian Gazette. Not as widely circulated as, say, The Pallassian Times or the other newspapers now competing for attention. This one was a local paper.
No less important to those who read it, though. It had memorable events, news for [Traders], adventuring opportunities—
It was going to change the world. Assuming of course, you had a supply of parchment or paper and the infrastructure to support this industry. Certainly, you wouldn’t get this in a nation newly impoverished due to war or catastrophe. But most decent nations?
Perorn could already see how it was changing things, let alone the scrying orb. It was exciting times for the [Strategist]. After all—she didn’t just specialize in war. The business of empire was her job.
The Forgotten Wing Company was a nation unto itself. One of the Four Great Companies of Baleros—and she was near the top.
She read with a practiced eye, catching headlines as she paged through the newspaper. Niers was busy shaving, assembling his morning kit—she opened the folded newspaper. Niers had to buy the large-print editions used by the ‘tall people’.
Few Fraerlings were employed in cities and he would have had to have the newspaper copied by a second, Fraerling [Scribe] to read it in miniature. He only did that for reports he wanted made permanent.
Well, that was his prerogative. Perorn read the first sidebar—for quests around Liscor.
 
Wanted: Adventurer to kill rats. Not a joke. Hundreds. Big as dogs, some of them. 2 CP per Tail, again, a bargain since there are HUNDREDS. Please hurry, inquire at Adventurer’s Guild.
 
“Nasty infestation of rats. Have you seen anything in the Fraerling-ways?”
“Not a one. Damned things. I’ve been thinking about finding a [Beast Master] who specializes in attack-mice. Fraerlings buy them for the villages sometimes.”
“Attack…? Okay.”
Even after having been comrades for so long, there were things you learned about the other. Perorn shook her head. A section on trade news…
 
…Prices up on Sage’s Grass nearly 17%, expected to rise further, according to local expert, Wailant Strongheart. ‘Business has never been better, so you should buy my stocks while it’s still cheap!’ says the former [Pirate], now successful [Farmer], and Strongheart Farms outside of Celum has indeed…
 
She passed by the ‘Business’ section. She knew the writer of that section, Drassi the [Reporter]. Ah, here was the main news. The first headline stood out to her as Niers muttered about cats.
 
[Farmers] Returning to Floodplains?
 
The article was speculating about the future of Liscor. Perorn had to remember the unique geography of that place. She read down…something about a crazy [Druid]…yearly floods, but…aha!
 
‘Now the Shield Spider population is so reduced, I’m really thinking about putting down some roots there. Rock Crabs—well, they’re nasty, but I have it on good authority you can scare ‘em off with some seed cores. Freaks them out. And why not? That’s perfect grazing land. Farming too, if you can find a big enough hill for the spring…’
 
A [Farmer]’s take on it. Celum, Pallass, even as far as Invrisil, prospective [Farmers] and [Herders] were thinking of acquiring a lot of cheap real estate.
“Good for them.”
“Good for whom?”
The Titan of Baleros emerged, boots on, freshly-pressed outfit straight and gleaming. Hair combed, and as always, artifacts on. Perorn nodded to the newspaper.
“Have you, ah, read the latest news, Niers?”
“I have, Perorn. Would you mind helping me towards the dining room? I don’t feel like walking.”
What was a 30-second stroll was a few minutes’ walk if Niers used the Fraerling-ways. Perorn blinked.
“…Of course.”
So he’d read the magazine. The Centauress frowned as she picked him up, set him on her shoulder, and trotted towards the dining hall.
Foliana was there. Eating beets. Cooked beets.
No one so much as bat an eyebrow. The Squirrel Beastkin, leader of the Forgotten Wing Company, was not alone.
Unusually today, Niers Astoragon had invited a number of people. He preferred to dine with only Foliana or Perorn, or his closest confidants. But now all of the top brass of the Forgotten Wing Company was present, eating, chatting…
“Aha! Peclir!”
The [Chamberlain] was eating uncomfortably with the others. Niers had insisted. Perorn recognized the six top-strategists Niers had recalled from their posts. Foliana, every senior instructor—who were also [Generals], [Commanders], and the best of the Forgotten Wing Company in times of war in their own right.
The citadel that had been converted into part-academy, part-base of the Forgotten Wing Company was the only real home Perorn had had for two decades. She forgot, sometimes, that it had been a base of royalty until the Titan had bought it for them. The exquisite private dining room was still far from filled. And the private [Chef] had laid out a sumptuous meal, even for breakfast.
“Lord Astoragon. Good morning. May I ask what this is all in aid of?”
One of the Dullahan [Strategists] stood up at once, more formal than the others. Some just waved, or called greetings. Foliana twitched her tail, looking ready to vanish at all the unwanted company.
“Would you put me down, Perorn? Thank you.”
Niers had a little dais and tray that allowed him to eat closer to head-height at occasions such as this. He regarded his meal, perfectly arranged in miniature. Then he took his glass, and tapped it with a fork.
The sound was tiny. Half the diners looked up, but some didn’t notice. Niers sighed. He lifted the glass, downed the magical, flavored water, smacked his lips, and threw the glass onto the table.
The shattering sound made all conversation stop abruptly. Foliana vanished and reappeared a heartbeat later. She stared reproachfully with her tricolor eyes at Niers.
“Your attention, please.”
Perorn rolled her eyes as she reclined into some cushions. Even here he had to steal the spotlight in the most dramatic way possible. A [Servant] delicately swept up the powdered glass as Niers looked around.
“Friends. Comrades of the Forgotten Wing Company. Foliana.”
“Morning.”
The Titan looked around the table.
“I see a number of faces that haven’t been here in a while. Strategists—thank you for making the long trip.”
The six nodded to Niers. He went on.
“And congratulations—our interference in the battle with Maelstrom’s Howling and the Iron Vanguard was effective, unexpected, and eye-catching. Not what I would have done, but just as effective. Tulm was very upset. He nearly threw his head at us!”
The others chuckled. Perorn just listened. The six [Strategists] had formed a think-tank to come up with that maneuver, and facilitated the diplomatic agreements that led to the Bannermare getting her surprise reinforcements. Niers had ordered them to do it. He had not taken part in the planning, only execution.
“I’m sure you’ve all speculated why I asked for that little maneuver. And why indeed I’ve been moving our top people about. Concentrating them here when we have so many holdings.”
“I have to ask. Is it war?”
A Lamia grinned from her seat at the table. Niers threw a fork at her. It bounced off the scales of her arm.
“Don’t devalue the saying, Zecila! Too many people use it and it loses what makes it so great to begin with.”
“Well, is it a war we’re preparing for, Niers? There’s few other reasons to call more [Strategists] here.”
If they let him dance about, he’d do it for an hour. Perorn raised one brow and the others murmured. The expectation in the air heightened.
Was it war with another of the Four Great Companies? Niers shook his head after a moment, almost regretfully.
“No. The truth is, friends, Foliana—the truth is that I called the [Strategists] here to see if they could manage the Forgotten Wing’s affairs. They can. So—in my absence, they will take over. For a while.”
He let that sink in. The others blinked. Foliana chewed down another beet. Perorn started.
“Niers. Are you—”
“I. Am going on a vacation. Don’t worry. I have a double set up. The Forgotten Wing company does not lack for intelligence or capable minds in my absence. But I will be gone for a while.”
Silence. Stunned silence. Niers Astoragon had not taken a vacation…ever. He, like Foliana, embodied the newest of the Four Great Companies. They had any number of powerful, talented individuals like Perorn.
But the Titan was one of the reasons why the other Four Great Companies took theirs so seriously. And unlike Foliana, Niers was the most responsible, most…
It was the infatuation. Perorn had seen all the signs. The Titan growing distracted, moody—she’d seen it with the Lord of the Dance fiasco. She just hadn’t expected it to get this far. It had only gotten this far twice.
She and the others had questions. But the Titan just held up a hand. And there was silence. He spoke, looking from face to face.
“Friends. It won’t be long. But listen to me. I’ve realized something of late.”
He glanced at his reflection in a tiny spoon, at the others. All far older than when they’d first met. He chuckled, almost ruefully.
“We have grown complacent. All of us. Look at what we are. The Forgotten Wing Company. One of the Four Companies of Baleros and all that. But do you remember how we started? We were adventurers. A mercenary group, fighting for gold—running, negotiating—look at us now. Growing fat and complacent in our success. Our old age.”
“I’m not fat.”
“Shut up, Foliana. I’ve been thinking, and it seems to me that in Baleros at least, age is, if not complacency, then preservation. The old excel at keeping things running. At creating nations. Building and managing and maintaining things the way they are. The young are good at, well, destroying things. Growing fast. Not so much building.”
Fair statements, if general. There were murmurs, agreeing and dissenting. Niers sighed.
