Good point. Well, so long as you’re cool with Goblins…we’ll head out in two days. Big guests. Bring lots of food. No killing Goblins, got it?
 
Laken lost his patience.
 
I do not kill Goblins out of hand. There is an entire area in my domain known as the Goblinlands. They are accorded rights and protected by my authority. Does that reassure you?
 
Erin Solstice’s fingers slipped on the quill. She stared at the message. And everything changed. She looked around. Then—came to a quick decision.
 
We’re leaving tomorrow morning if we can. Tell me about these ‘Goblinlands’.
That is a discussion best had in person.
I’m sure. Tell me about them now.
 
—-
 
Niers Astoragon entered The Wandering Inn in a coat pocket after a twenty minute wait. Apparently, the door had just been finished.
It was such an anticlimax he nearly poked his head out of the pocket. He heard—
“Are any of you here harboring ill intent against Liscor, The Wandering Inn…oh, hold up. Is that The Cherinion Swords? What are you bastards doing here?”
“Todi? Is that Captain Todi? You’re on guard duty? How much are they paying you? A thousand gold an hour?”
Good natured laughter. Todi’s voice was irritable.
“I’m helping out. You lot coming through?”
“No, we’re ah, going through the door right away. Is that alright?”
“Hm. ‘Sfine. Let me just adjust the door there—done.”
“Thank you so much.”
“See you around, Todi!”
One of the Swords called out, ribbing the other Gold-rank Captain. As they passed through the door, he muttered to his friends.
“I hate him so much.”
“Shut up. Lord Astoragon—”
Niers nearly stabbed Remane with his enchanted shortsword. For an agent, he was as obvious as the sun! But he was whispering.
“—we’re just entering Liscor. Should we head to the inn now or…?”
The Fraerling heard a murmur of voices. He hesitated.
The other inn Peclir had booked would be good. He’d stay there, maybe get a lay of the city, hear about the inn. And then the next morning? Walk on in…by himself.
“That’s fine, Remane. But now that I think of it—do me a favor and do a walkabout outside the city?”
“Outside? That’s—”
“Shut up.”
Remane hissed at the others. He spoke.
“Very good idea, Lord Astoragon. Change course! Out the gates.”
Niers nodded to himself. The one thing he couldn’t do was see the landscape for himself. Short legs.
“Let me know once we’re out of the gates. And Remane?”
“Yes, L—”
“In the name of Gazers, stop saying my damn name.”
He was going to recommend Remane for immediate reassignment after this, hard work or not. Niers sat back and waited for his first view of Liscor. And The Wandering Inn.
 
—-
 
The Rock Crab was dead. The [Ambush Captain] saw it stop moving at last and breathed out. He was—shaken.
“Injuries?”
Half his squad had taken hits in the fight from the pincers. No one was dead thanks to them noticing the monster in time. But they were armed with crossbows and shortswords. Not exactly how you wanted to fight a giant crab armored in stone.
“That’s Liscor’s monsters? Ancestors! What’s wrong with this place?”
“We fight Bloodfield things.”
One of the Drakes retorted. But they were all a bit shaken. The [Ambush Captain] shook his head. He called in to the other squads.
“The area is not secure. Recommend moving forwards or finding a secure spot.”
A moment of hesitation and chatter as the words were repeated from squad to squad, bouncing along the link.
“…Agreed, 4th Squad. Let’s do some damage and get the hell out of here. Hectval forever!”
“Hectval’s arrows! Move up and communicate targets…”
At this point, one of the Listeners below the chattering Drake squads felt this merited relaying. It had listened to the quite loud conversation amid all the other background noise. It sent out a signal. Soon—the entire conversation was relayed to a thinking mind, rather than just the sensor-Antinium.
 
—-
 
“Hmm. Hmm. That is odd. Hectval?”
In The Wandering Inn, Belgrade received the incoming transmission via the Free Queen. He tilted his head left and right. Simultaneously, Yellow Splatters halted his patrol of the city and saluted.
“Senior Guardsman, I beg to report an incident!”
Jeiss nearly jumped out of his scales. He whirled as the first Antinium patrol followed him around, observing the Senior Guardsman and [Councilmember].
“Ancestors! Don’t shout, Yellow Splatters! What is it?”
He listened, around the same time as Belgrade was deciding that this was a hostile force and something should be done about it. He looked around.
“Numbtongue? I have an issue and Miss Erin is not here. Would you hear me out?”
The Hobgoblin sat in a chair, moodily playing on the guitar. He looked up and grunted.
“What?”
It was an uncharitable response from the [Bard], who normally had a lot of time for Antinium. It was because Numbtongue was in a bad mood.
He had a problem. And it was this: Badarrow cheated at video games and was, therefore, a terrible person. He wouldn’t even admit he was cheating, and Numbtongue, who had practiced and was the best player in the inn, was, in fact, better.
The second was a more prosaic matter. And it was that he had an unhappy ghost in his head.
Well, two. Reiss was sulking somewhere, as per usual. But the second Goblin was being moody.
Shorthilt. Numbtongue understood the problem just as well. See—the issue was—
The Circle of Thorns and the Assassin’s Guild of Izril had gone to war against Erin and Ryoka and lost. It had been a huge battle. [Assassins]. The Small Queen. A war in a city, and he hadn’t cut anything with his Dragonblood Crystal sword!
“This is the problem, Numbtongue. I believe the Watch will handle it, but I thought it might be dangerous. You see…are you listening, Numbtongue?”
“Maybe.”
The [Tactician] looked so hurt that Numbtongue grudgingly put his guitar down and listened. Then he sat up. Then he brightened.
“Really? Sure?”
“I believe that is the case. Bird has confirmed two squads moving in. He saw them three hours ago, but did not report it until Silveran asked.”
Belgrade’s antennae waved in a mix of irritation and anxiety. Numbtongue grinned.
“What do we do, Numbtongue? The Watch appears to be classifying them as a threat, or so Yellow Splatters relays. The Queen also desires them removed.”
“Where are they now?”
“Heading straight for the city. Camouflaged. Numbtongue? Numbtongue what do you think we should—”
The Hobgoblin slowly reached for his sword. Belgrade stared at it.
“Ah. That works.”
The [Bard] nodded and grinned as the [Weapon Expert] in his head clamored. He stood up, looking around furtively. One of the squads was heading right this way. Oho! Ohohoh—
“Numbtongue. What are you doing?”
Lyonette du Marquin was standing behind Numbtongue. A timid Silveran was behind her. The [Bard] closed his eyes slowly.
“Nothing.”
“Oh, really? What’s this about Drake squads I hear?”
She tapped her foot as the Hobgoblin glowered at Silveran, who shrank behind the [Princess]. Lyonette glanced out the window.
Hectval’s glorious four avenging squads crept towards the city. Stealthy. Unnoticed by all.
 
—-
 
Niers Astoragon poked his head out of Remane’s pocket once they were past Liscor’s walls. He inhaled the fresh air gratefully. Too much pocket odor and wine fumes of late.
The Cherinion Swords had made good time out of the city. Niers had actually heard them leasing horses from a stable to expedite the reconnoitering.
“I think I’d like a look at the dungeon, Remane.”
“Of course, Lord Astoragon. It should be ahead.”
“And the inn?”
“We’re past the walls, sir.”
“Ah.”
The Fraerling thought that was fine. Take a scout around. Check out the dungeon—was it truly a Vengeance Dungeon? Maybe he could investigate. Head to The Wandering Inn at first light, though. That was the priority. Tonight? He’d lay low, get Remane to gather some of the local gossip on…
He looked around. The area wasn’t what he’d expected. But then—he thought of vast hills and valleys, filled with waters. The awe-inspiring High Passes reaching upwards. Brave Drakes who’d settled there against all odds, or with that characteristic arrogance and stubbornness.
“Hmf. Short walls for a Drake City. At least, compared to Zeres.”
He muttered. But then, he only had the City of Waves to compare against. The Titan looked ahead. Looks like someone had terraformed the local area. Not many hills or valleys at all.
The Titan frowned. He felt at his side though.
“Gear’s all here. Dead gods, that vinegar wine better not have ruined my tonics. They cost more than an Iremmien, each.”
“Really, Lord Astoragon?”
Remane did a double-take as he stared at Niers. The Fraerling had a number of tonics he was checking in his bag of holding. Not standard potions either. The Fraerling noticed the Drake’s avaricious look, then how Remane caught himself.
“Er—that is, I’m sorry, Lord—”
“No need, Remane.”
Niers decided not to upbraid the Drake over his name. He lifted one of the custom-made tonics he had brought with him. Six. He put it back carefully as all the adventurers and Remane stared at it.
“What’s that tonic? Some kind of super-potion?”
“You could say that. If you had to put a market value on it—it’s probably a hundred thousand gold pieces.”
One of the adventurers sprayed the liquid he’d been drinking out of his mouth. A potion? The colored liquid hit his companions and a horse reared.
“A hundred thousand?”
Remane stared. Niers grinned at his look.
“Don’t be so amazed, Remane. It’s not something you can sell on the market. And that’s a comparative price. That’s…about what the Fraerlings charge for it. Incomparable to change, really. More common in the villages—but outside? I’m pretty much the only one with a source.”
“I see. Well, Lord Astoragon—I’m afraid there’s not much to see, as you can…see.”
“Indeed. It’s sort of disappointing.”
The Flood Plains really weren’t all that. Oh, the High Passes were high, but the city wasn’t as grand as a Balerosian fortress. Niers sighed. He eyed the road they were travelling down.
“We can circle back, Remane. I’ll take care of my business after taking a look at the dungeon.”
“Ah, of course, Lord Astoragon. Just a bit further. Then we’ll get you to the inn so you can visit the [Innkeeper].”
The Fraerling nodded to himself. He looked ahead…
And his spine prickled. Wait a moment.
He’d never told Remane or Merxel he wanted to meet Erin Solstice.
 
—-
 
Todi was watching the portal room. Half his team was in the inn. Something was up. Drakes? Lyonette was calling for Mrsha, arguing with a Goblin.
But his attention was on the door. One of his adventurers, a [Mage], was frowning at the door where The Cherinion Swords had just gone through.
“Why’d they go through to Esthelm, Todi? Do you think they’re on the Wyvern bounty?”
The Gold-rank Captain grunted sourly. He adjusted his grip on the crossbow he’d drawn out of reflex.
“If they are, good. And good riddance. You don’t want that team lurking about Liscor, Geori. I’d actually have to talk to Miss Solstice about that.”
“Why?”
Todi pursed his lips to spit, and checked the tiles and temporary flooring Hexel had laid in record time after all the disruptions. The visitors mostly thought the door was still offline, but a few had been trickling in. Good thing the inn wasn’t too full if they had to wipe off some Drake idiots. He hoped it would earn him credit. And he was just glad the other team was gone. He nodded at the door as he muttered.
“They’re thugs for hire. Disreputable bastards, the lot. Closer to the Gangs then actual adventurers. Mark that Drake’s face too. You hire that team if you want to kill someone.”
 
—-
 
The road was so flat. And they were headed through the High Passes—Niers stared back at the city in the distance.
“Did you say The Wandering Inn, Remane?”
The drake faltered. His eager smile flickered. The Cherinion Swords glanced up.
“I just assumed that was your destination, Lord As—sir. What else is there to see? Besides the dungeon, of course.”
“Oh, of course. Damn. Well, that’s me. Slipping up. Clever picking up on it.”
The Drake saw the Fraerling nod, disappointed.
“It’s really not always that secret, you know, Remane. A clever Drake like you can figure that kind of thing out.”
“Thank you, sir.”
Remane beamed. Then his head rotated slowly as Niers went back to pondering the disappointing ‘Flood Plains’. He looked at the Captain of The Cherinion Swords. The scarred man gave the Drake a slow nod and finished downing the potion. His team waited. The Drake looked down.
“Incidentally, Lord As—”
The tip of the tiny crossbow bolt punched into the roof of his mouth and blew the top of the Drake’s head off. Niers felt the flash of heat as he yanked another bolt out and slapped it into his crossbow.
“Dead gods!”
The adventurers recoiled. Niers took aim, standing out of the pocket.
“You fools! You damn—”
He fired. The bolt went low; Remane’s corpse was collapsing. But the enchanted quarrel blew open one of the adventurer’s stomachs. The man dropped.
It was a trap! Niers cursed as he reloaded. He was reaching for one of the expensive Fraerling tonics. Idiot! Idiot! He should have done it all himself! He should have planned!
But he had been betrayed. It was one of them. It could only be—Niers’ eyes flickered. Most had been allies for too long to be traitors now. And of those who could have feasibly found out—
He was preparing to leap clear of the Drake when a Gold-rank adventurer recovered from their shock. Too fast. He lifted a wand.
“[Fireball]!”
Niers saw the flash of burning orange light. He tried to raise the tonic to his lips—
He thought he heard a voice as the explosion blew the corpse to bits. It was a man’s voice. Jovial. Laughing, yet serious. Speaking to him.
“We have grown complacent.”
 
—-
 
By now, the trap would have been sprung. In the inn, wherever the Titan went. It was a Gold-rank team. That was the Titan of Baleros—
But he was a Fraerling. Vulnerable. And he had left his guard down. He thought he was surrounded by allies. That was how great men and women died, regardless of species.
Because of the traitor.
“So that was how he did it.”
The [Chamberlain] murmured as he regarded the racks of wine bottles, some large enough to fit a tiny body through the spout. He’d wondered why the Titan of Baleros wanted to maintain such a collection.
Foliana didn’t drink and even if Niers spent the rest of his life in the cups, only a fraction of the bottles would be necessary. Had it just been for his guests?
