You have been afflicted with Domain Withdrawal.Separation from your domain weakens you.-10% to maximum health.Affliction – Duration: Indefinite. Count: 4

Ali moaned quietly and sat up, realizing there was no way she was going to get any more sleep. Not that she had slept particularly well anyway.

She stared at the golden text of the notification for a long while before swiping it away.

Four…

So far, she hadn’t needed to spend any more points on endurance to mitigate the pain, but it was a persistent, nagging ache in the background, and combined with her stressful environment, it was taking a great toll on her ability to rest and recover.

After surviving the first battle against the Kobolds, Ali had expected she would find her way out of the ruined city within a day or two at most. It had been her home after all, and she had a good idea of how long it took to walk the city. However, it had been four days already. If it goes much longer, I won’t have any health left.

“Done sleeping?” Mato asked quietly from the doorway where he was keeping watch.

“Withdrawal again,” she answered. “I’m not going to be able to sleep anymore. Let’s go.” She ignored the clenching of hunger in her belly. They had used up the last of the food Mato had packed yesterday, and complaining would do nobody any good.

If it wasn’t for the Kobolds and Skeletons…

If it wasn’t for them, they could have just walked out. Instead, they had been forced to sneak around, keeping alert for patrols and traps at every turn. Regularly they had been forced to hide – sometimes for hours at a time – just to allow patrols of Kobolds that they couldn’t begin to face to pass them by.

They emerged from their hiding spot – a building that Ali was convinced had once been a convenience store – into a street thankfully devoid of monsters. She scanned the skyline, trying to get a good view between the buildings, but all she could see was more stone and darkness.

If only I could see the library from here…

She stopped and examined the intersection ahead. I think… it’s that way. She had been directing them through the last residential district near the central hub of the city, trying to reach one of the enormous radial boulevards. Ali was certain that the main thoroughfare would prove the fastest access to the library, and their passage out of here. Unfortunately, every time they had to detour or hide, she would get turned around in the chaos and confusion – and the unremitting sameness of a city stripped bare of nearly everything except stone left her without all the familiar landmarks she might have used to get her bearings.

“This way,” she whispered, with a certainty she hardly felt, glancing back at Mato.

She gathered her own personal wolf pack around her, drawing a sense of security from the proximity of their enormous, shaggy bodies. Two Alpha wolves and three of the lower-level ones.

At least this way, if another one of those black-scaled rogues crept up on her, they would have to get through her wolves first. With her racial penalty to vitality and Domain Withdrawal chopping another forty percent off her health, she felt precariously low.

One or two hits would finish her. I probably wouldn’t even know what happened.

Ali had invested every single attribute point in vitality, but beyond that, she was at a loss for how to improve her situation. I just need to get out of here. Was this Domain Class a good idea? How did dad manage?

Health: 120/120 (-40% Domain Withdrawal)Stamina: 150/150Mana: 407/520 (113 Reserved)

It did not look good. She had no armor, unlike Mato, and her health was pitifully low. Her only advantage was her large mana pool – allowing her the extravagance of reserving one hundred and thirteen mana for wolves to act as her defense while keeping enough mana available to cast her roots and barrier.

It will have to be enough, she thought, following Mato and keeping her eyes on the dark skyline, searching in vain for a glimpse of the towering library. She would use the lower-level wolves as expendable defenses if they ran into anything dangerous.

She sent one of her wolves ahead of her just in case they missed a tripwire, and she walked the twisting dark stone streets, avoiding obvious wires and any suspiciously uneven flagstones just in case they were traps. They spoke only in whispers, constantly vigilant for the ever-present wandering Kobold patrols. At least the streets seem to be getting wider, she noted, a good sign they were headed in the right direction.

The sudden chirping of Kobolds up ahead sent Ali diving for a dark doorway. It was a sadly familiar routine by now, she automatically stepped over where the tripwire would be if there was one and directed her wolves with a thought. As they hid, waiting for the patrol to pass, Ali wondered why the Kobolds were so prolific with their traps. What even would set them off down here? Other than us? Is it an instinctual behavior? Even the slow trickle of her mana draining when the Kobolds were nearby was familiar and ignored.

A sudden motion and a clicking noise froze her in place. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw a bone-white creature about the size of her fist crawling across the floor and, to her horror, up onto her leg. She wanted to scream, to kick it off, to run, but she clamped her hands over her mouth and stared wide-eyed at the horrific thing. It paused, looking around, the rounded white carapace pulsing slowly as it breathed. Its eight slender legs pricked at her skin as it began crawling once again.

Suddenly Mato reached out his hand and grabbed the creature, tossing it off into the darkness, and Ali breathed a gasping breath.

“The Kobolds are gone,” he whispered. “What is that thing? Is it made of bone?”

Bone Skitterer – Elemental – level 1

“Yes,” she breathed back.

The creature’s legs made a rapid clicking noise on the stone as it scurried across the floor and up the wall. Ali slowly got her breathing back under control and watched the creepy, crab-like creature hiding in the corner of the room. Elemental? Made from bone? She knew she would have been fascinated by the creature, provided she had been able to study it from the other side of a sturdy glass window or something. But she shivered at the remembered sensation of it crawling over her skin.

After Mato verified the patrol had moved on, they emerged from their hiding spot and slowly crept forward down the street. A few buildings later, another of the strange little bone creatures scurried out of sight around a corner, startling Ali again.

Their progress was slow and painstaking. As the streets widened, the crab-like bone elementals became much more common. Always skittish, scurrying out of sight as soon as they approached.

When she turned onto the next street, she drew up in surprise. The nearest house seemed just as nondescript as all the others, but the entire front of the building was encrusted with a thick gray substance that even covered the window holes and doorways. Ali walked up and examined it more closely. She poked at it with her finger, glancing over at Mato as he moved over to join her. Whatever it was, it was surprisingly hard and the clacking of her finger tapping it reminded her uncannily of the creepy bone elementals.

“This looks like bone, too,” she whispered as Mato duplicated her tap-test with his finger. But it isn’t shaped like any bone I’ve ever seen. It looked like it had been sprayed onto the wall by some giant hose before it hardened in place.

“This is really unnatural,” Mato commented with a frown.

“I mistook it for spiderweb at first.” Very thick, dense cobwebs.

“Me too.”

Checking further down the street, she saw several other houses that had similar defacements on a wall or across a part of the roof. In one place it seemed like it even extended across half the street. The closer they got to the location she hoped was the main street, the more bone-encrusted substance they encountered – much of it infested with bone skitterers. She could even hear the distant scrabbling and clacking of their crawling legs.

Mato suddenly pulled back from the corner and sucked in his breath. “Careful,” he whispered, putting a finger to his lips, and indicating that she should approach from the cover of the building. “Look.”

Ali stared at the sight that unfolded before her. She stood at the end of the street, overlooking the main boulevard from the height of one of the taller terraces. In the far distance, the majestic tower of the Grand Library Arcana rose to an imposing height, its dark cylindrical bulk barely visible against the darkness. Gone was its glory, the gigantic, yet intricate workings of runic magic and enchantments that had lit it up for the whole city to see.

Instead, hundreds of campfires burned around its base. And by the light of those campfires, Ali saw that the entire plaza was crawling with monsters. She bit back a gasp, hiding it behind a hand, even though it could not possibly have carried over the hubbub.

The entire boulevard below her – one of the main radial thoroughfares for the city – was encrusted with the same mysterious bone-like substance. But the detail that caught her attention, that drew her gaze instantly, was the giant bone monstrosity plastered to the distant wall on the opposite side.

The monster looked like a giant pill-bug, only it must have been over three meters long. Its broad carapace was made from curved segments that allowed it to twist and turn as it slowly crawled along the wall. Dozens of small legs were visible under the carapace, like the Bone Skitterers, except so many more. The legs worked in unison, creating sinuous waves to propel the huge bulk of the monster along the wall – improbably, magically glued in place despite its great bulk.

Ali gaped at the spectacle, dumbfounded. When it reached a pile of bones, with a crunching noise that was loud even from her distant vantage point, it chewed them up whole and swallowed. A few seconds later, it reared up and sprayed a powerful jet of gray fluid that hardened on contact with the wall ahead of it.

She used her Identify, but the monster was too far for her skill to work.

“What is that?” she whispered.

“I have no idea, but we definitely can’t go this way.”

Numb all over, Ali barely noticed Mato catching her when her knees wobbled. She had been so certain the library was their way out that she hadn’t even considered what would happen if there were too many monsters. Her eyes were inexorably drawn once more to the fires and the horde of Kobolds and skeletons at the base of the library, and the piles and encrustation of bone that appeared to be everywhere. Now that she examined the scene more closely, she could see more of the giant bone creatures among the Kobolds in the distance.

Her lips trembled as she stared at the devastation and ruin.

“Is there another way out?” Mato asked quietly, distracting her from her rapidly mounting despair.

“The … the other end of the boulevard,” she said, her voice cracking as she pointed away from the center. “The city’s main entrance is that way. I … just hope it’s still passable.” Ali grimaced at her memories of that path. She had avoided that way at first because it was the same way she had left the city with her mother. That way had led to the Death Knight and the arrogant horror that was Nevyn Eld.

She had hoped to find the library intact.

The only problem was that it was in exactly the opposite direction. And it took us four days to get this far.

“What about this spot?” Calen asked. It was a brief break in the densely wooded, sprawling forest with a few yellowish weathered sandstone boulders the size of small houses, covered with lichen, and sprouting stunted bushes, providing a natural chokepoint.

“This is perfect,” Malika said, picking one of the larger boulders to hide behind – a spot less than two paces from the narrow gap. “I’ll set up here.”

Calen nodded, approving of her strategic choice, and stepped into the shadows, using his Eclipse skill to hide himself. He quickly headed out into the forest, the most recent Goblin tracks popping from the ground under the influence of his Explorer skill.

They had both agreed, in principle, that finding out everything they could about the abnormal Goblin infestation and reporting back would prove critical to the safety of Myrin’s Keep. Unfortunately, Malika had no skills suitable for the task, so she would have to remain as his backup out of necessity.

The plan was straightforward. He would scout as far as he could, and if necessary, he would lure any Goblins back to Malika where they would fight them together.

He paused at the intersection of two trails, crouching down to examine the tracks. Several groups passed this way. There were footprints from the smaller, green-skinned Goblins, and pawprints of the wolves they sometimes used as mounts. What he didn’t see were the tracks of rabbits, deer, or even rats. Nothing other than Goblins.

What sent chills down his spine was the enormous imprint of a Bugbear paw right in the center of the trail. According to the Monster Compendium, Bugbears would sometimes show up in the bigger Goblin warrens. They were typically six- to eight-foot-tall, giant feral Goblinoids with a reputation for cruelty and violence, even among their own kind.

I definitely don’t want to run into one of those. It’d use my arrows for toothpicks.

His feet tracked lightly across the edge of the trail as he ran onward, quiet even to his own ears. All he could hear was the wind through the trees and his own breathing. Not even the calls of birds disturbed the silence. Guess the Goblins ate everything. Calen had spent a lot of his youth exploring the woods around Myrin’s Keep, so the complete absence of any other wildlife stood out to him as a glaring signal that the Goblin warren would be close, probably a big one at that.

He hopped across a small stream, using a couple of exposed rocks as stepping stones, and landed lightly on a game trail on the other side. He checked his landing spot reflexively, choosing areas of hard-packed dirt for his footfalls to conceal the evidence of his passing. Crouching down behind a fallen tree, he peered out into a clearing. Up ahead, five of the small, green-skinned Goblins had made a fire and were arguing over something sizzling on the spit. Where they had found something to cook, Calen had no idea. He crept closer, making sure to check that none of them were high enough level to see through his stealth. Settling into the shadow of a large oak, he observed the camp and the altercation. None of the Goblins spoke Common, but there were numerous gesticulations towards the south. Is that where their warren is?

