Having nothing better to go on, he left the group to their arguing over the dubious hunk of meat and headed in that direction.

A few minutes later, Calen caught the muffled sound of voices up ahead. Instantly, he hopped off the trail he had been following, concealing himself amongst the trees and bushes, and waited. Presently, a patrol of Goblins came into view. Perhaps better to call them foragers. Or scavengers.

Scavenger – Goblin – level 1-2 x3.Rogue – Goblin – level 5.Timber Wolf – level 4-6 x2.

The scavengers were everything an average person would imagine if someone mentioned the word ‘Goblin’. They were dirty, green, and dressed in rags. Yellowed crooked teeth were bared as they called and yelled at each other, and Calen was grateful for the distance between them, otherwise, he was certain he would be choking at the stench.

The three-and-a-half-foot-tall rogue was a cut above the dregs, wearing worn but serviceable leather armor with a brace of daggers at his waist instead of the more typical rocks or sticks.

The Timber Wolves were hulking beasts of black fur and uncannily bright green eyes, almost half again as large as the Starving Wolves in the cavern below the sewers back home. He decided on the spot not to tangle with them – at least, not in close combat.

As he studied the group, trying to gauge their strength, another Goblin appeared, bringing up the rear.

Hunter – Goblin – level 10.

This one seemed larger than the others, but whether that was because he simply stood taller or was actually bigger, Calen couldn’t quite tell. He wore higher-quality leather armor than the rogue and wore a well-used longbow slung crosswise across his back. Just from the way he carried himself, Calen knew he was dangerous.

He concentrated for a moment on his Explorer skill, getting a new set of chimes to confirm his suspicions.

[Explorer]A Goblin with a higher-than-normal level and an uncommon class.Category: MonsterThreat Level: EliteMonster Type: GoblinoidDamage: Ranged, Physical

An elite. Probably similar skills to mine.

Calen calmed his breathing, observing their approach from the shadows of his hiding spot. He should be far enough from the path that he wouldn’t be discovered, but with a level ten elite, it would be imprudent to take unnecessary risks.

As the Goblins drew closer their high-pitched, grating voices grew louder and Calen strained his ears to hear if they said anything useful. Unfortunately, again they seemed to not know Common, and the only thing he heard was the occasional barked command from the Hunter, which caused the other Goblins to scurry around or flinch.

The patrol continued down the path, moving right past him. Suddenly, the breeze shifted and one of the wolves raised its muzzle, sniffing the air.

Shit!

Calen realized the wolf had caught his scent at the same instant the wolf did. With a howl, the great black Timber Wolf charged directly toward his hiding spot, and the entire patrol scrambled to follow. At the back of the group, the Hunter nocked an arrow to his bow.

With his stealth ruined, Calen turned and fled, dodging bushes and vaulting rocks with the sound of his heart hammering loudly against his chest.

Shit!

Even with the speed bonus of his Blessing of the Dawn, the Timber Wolves were unbelievably quick, and very much at home in the forest. He sprinted as fast as he could, not bothering to even try and shoot back. Any second, he expected an arrow in the back. He leapt clean across the stream he had crossed earlier, heading for the clearing and Malika. He needed backup. Fast.

Faster! The howls of the pursuing wolves were far too close.

A sudden burst of pain and an impact made him stumble as an arrow punched through his upper arm. Recovering himself with a quick roll, he sprang to his feet and continued his headlong dash, dodging left and right as he passed trees desperately trying to present a smaller target to the obviously skilled Hunter lurking behind him. Gritting his teeth, he grabbed the head of the arrow and yanked sharply, pulling it all the way through his arm in an instant. He held back a scream of pain and he simply shoved the arrow into his own quiver, shaking his head to clear the haze of pain.

There it is! He spied the giant pile of boulders and the clearing as he leapt the stream. At a dead run, gasping for breath, he made for the gap in the rocks, narrowly avoiding a second arrow whizzing by his cheek by sheer luck.

I hope she’s ready. He couldn’t call out and give Malika away, so all he could do was trust her to be vigilant.

As he passed between the boulders, Malika’s hand appeared, palm out, reaching for him like a savior. He slapped it as he passed. Instantly, the burning rush of her healing magic coursed through his body. Not for the first time, he wondered why her healing always felt so aggressive.

Not complaining right now. The hole in his arm was healing rapidly, which meant he would be able to draw his bow.

He spun just in time to see Malika kicking the lead wolf in the snout, causing it to yelp as its fangs clacked together. The second wolf barreled in through the gap, knocking them both further in with the weight of its charge. Immediately, the two wolves began to circle Malika, working as a team to execute rapid lunging attacks to which she responded with equally quick kicks and punches. Calen scrambled up one of the boulders, taking an elevated position halfway up, choosing a spot which would still afford some cover, and loosed an arrow at the slightly smaller Timber Wolf.

“Goblins incoming,” he called tersely. “Level ten elite Hunter, level five rogue, bunch of scavengers.” She didn’t respond, occupied as she was with the wolves, but he knew she had heard him.

Our best chance is to kill one of these wolves before the rest arrive. Once the Hunter arrived, the battle would almost certainly revolve entirely around controlling the elite Goblin, and the fewer monsters they had to deal with the better. Fortunately, Malika was no slouch when it came to understanding strategy and she unleashed a heavy barrage of punches and kicks concentrating most of her strikes on the same wolf he had shot. Pouring his mana into Arrows of Brilliance, he fired a shaft that streaked across the clearing, incandescent with his light magic enhancement. It buried itself deep into the wolf’s hindquarters, just the fletchings visible protruding from the thick black fur. The creature yelped, whirling in an attempt to bite at the spot, and Malika wasted no time taking advantage of its distraction.

He fired three more times before the Goblin Hunter appeared, bow drawn and firing a volley of arrows at Malika. Right as the first arrow arrived, the Goblin rogue appeared from the shadows behind Malika and stabbed her low in the back with a rusty dagger. She stumbled from the vicious Ambush, but her body flickered immediately with the light of her potent healing spell. Calen returned fire, shooting an arrow at the Hunter’s head, making him duck for cover.

I hope she can handle herself. Calen quickly assessed the battle and determined that their best strategy was still with the smaller Timber Wolf. Malika would simply have to take some damage from the rogue and the Hunter while he eliminated the first enemy. But then he noticed something different about Malika’s fighting. In addition to skillfully dodging many attacks, she was now using her elbows, forearms, and hands to deflect many of the rapid dagger strikes, keeping the Goblin rogue stymied.

She must have learned something new. He had definitely noticed how close-lipped Malika was with her class and skills, but a development like this was as dramatic as it was obvious. Right now, though, it meant he could likely leave her to tank multiple enemies without his assistance. Sweet. My turn!

He fired three times in quick succession, spending his precious mana to empower each shot as his hands blurred through the motions. The smaller Timber Wolf dropped to the ground with a whimper and expired. About to redirect his attention to the Hunter, Calen caught sight of three green Goblin heads popping out on top of the far boulder. Slings loaded with rocks whirled above their heads and they began pelting Malika with their crude attacks.

As rapidly as he could, he fired two arrows at one of the scavengers, causing it to stumble and fall from the boulder with a pained shriek and a satisfying series of thumps. That sent the other two scurrying for cover. Good. They would cause no end of trouble if they were allowed free rein. Goblins were notorious for the tactical buffs they received when fighting in groups.

Returning his attention to the melee below, Calen saw, to his surprise, that Malika was now focused mainly on the rogue, allowing the larger Timber Wolf freedom to flank her.

I’ll support her. Calen wouldn’t have made that choice, but Malika must have a good reason. He loosed an arrow at the Hunter, making him duck behind cover again. Calen winced as the precious arrow shattered against the boulder. Fuck, that was one of the only straight ones. Then he swiveled and loosed a second arrow, enhanced with his magic, and struck the rogue solidly in the middle of his ribs. The surprised stumble he caused was immediately exploited by Malika’s rapid flashing kick combo.

Keeping a close eye on the Hunter, Calen continued firing at the rogue. Every time the Hunter presented himself, Calen would divert an arrow at him instead, trying to keep him pinned down and reduce his freedom to fire indiscriminately. Could do with Ali’s Roots right now. His attention returned to Malika in time to see her finish off the rogue and spin to kick the last wolf in the throat.

How is she so durable? Technically, he knew exactly how, but watching it in action was quite another story. Without her healing and defensive skills, pitted against two similarly leveled opponents, she would likely have been struggling or dead by now.

Calen scanned the battlefield perimeter again and caught two of the scavengers scaling a different boulder. They began to lob fist-sized rocks down at Malika, endangering the wolf almost as much as her. Aiming carefully, Calen shot one of the scavengers through the leg, once again causing a stumble and comical cartwheeling fall from the boulder. That probably didn’t kill it. At least it was out of the fight temporarily. The lack of the notification chime confirmed his guess.

Calen left the Timber Wolf to Malika, confident that she would be able to finish it off on her own. Instead, he switched his focus to the Hunter, aggressively shooting whenever he poked his head up. Calen quickly flattened himself against his rock cover as an arrow splintered right next to his head. Upset you a little too much? Drawing the ire of the Hunter was dangerous, but Calen dodged around to the other side of his rock, fired a couple more arrows, and then immediately ducked out of sight as his attack was returned so rapidly, rock chips pinged off his cheek.

Damn, he’s quick. I’m not going to win like this.

The soft, pure sound of a notification chime echoed within his mind. Malika finished the Timber Wolf. Immediately, he took the risk and stood up to fire at the Hunter. The elite Goblin ducked away once more, oblivious to Malika charging towards his hiding spot.

Perfect timing. Come on…

As the hunter popped up to take a return shot, Malika’s furious right hook connected with his ear, rocking his head sideways as he screeched in surprise. Calen took a quick shot at a scavenger poking a head out from the side of the boulder, clipping its arm. He watched while Malika pressured the Hunter, searching for any opportunity to help, no matter how brief. Even the higher-level archer would have a difficult time against an aggressive melee attacker like Malika, but it meant that he couldn’t do much without endangering her. Instead of trying to miss his ally to get in a shot, Calen chose to sneak closer.

With a nasty elbow strike to the crown of the elite Goblin’s head, Malika created an opening for him. Firing in haste, Calen managed to lodge an arrow through the Goblin’s thigh, causing it to stumble and trip. Again, Malika didn’t let the chance go to waste going to ground with the Goblin, and the elite Hunter succumbed to her furious onslaught of punches and elbows.

“We can’t let the scavengers get away and warn the warren,” Calen said urgently.

“Let’s go,” Malika responded immediately. “Which way?”

Calen had made sure to wound each of the scavengers in the battle. The one with the leg wound would probably be the easiest to track. Scanning the ground with his Explorer skill active, he quickly picked up their trail, both blood and footprints, the survivors heading south as a group.

Nice. He headed off at a sprint with Malika close on his heels.

***

They managed to hunt down the fleeing scavengers quickly, ensuring that their presence was kept secret, for the time being.

“I believe their camp is to the south,” Calen said. He didn’t know for sure, but all the signs seemed to point that way. “I can sneak past the patrols, but the wolves can sniff me out. I think we should try to go the remaining distance together.”

“That’s probably smart,” Malika agreed, and Calen settled in to rest and recover his stamina. He had nearly run empty after his desperate sprint followed by the battle. At least he had a whole lot of notifications to catch up on.

Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Goblin – level 5.Your group has defeated Timber Wolf – level 4-6 x2.Your group has defeated Hunter – Goblin – level 10.Your group has defeated Scavenger – Goblin – level 1-2 x3.Archer of Light has reached level 7 (+2).+20 attribute points.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 7.Explorer has reached level 6 (+2).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 6.Eclipse has reached level 4.Requirements met for skill advancement.Explorer has reached at least level 5.Perception has surpassed 50.Tracked multiple groups of foes while remaining undetected.Explorer gains Untraceable Movement.Explorer gains the Stealth and Movement traits.Explorer – level 6You have enhanced spatial perception and perfect recall for places you have explored. You can discern important details about the places you are exploring and the creatures that inhabit them.Stamina: Use your enhanced perception to track your prey.Stamina: Move without leaving traces or making sounds.Knowledge, Movement, Stealth, Identify, Scouting, Tracking, PerceptionAccept this advancement?

