My first skill advancement! He studied it carefully, weighing up the advantages. All the books he had studied on class growth emphasized choosing only the best advancements. But there was really nothing to weigh it up against – the advancement was a straight-up improvement – and one which would have been exceptionally useful against all the Goblin foragers he had been hunting. Still, after the fact is better than nothing at all. Seems good all round.

No sound. Not only would he leave no signs of his passage, or footprints to be tracked by his enemies, but he would no longer need to worry about being discovered by the sound of his footsteps or breathing. Instead of standing absolutely still to avoid detection, he would be able to change his position for the best advantage, without giving up his location. Perfect for surprise shots.

I’ll still have to worry about the wind and scent perception, he noted, recalling how easily the Timber Wolves had picked up on his location through smell. But he would be vastly harder to find with two complementary stealth skills. Without any doubts, he took the offered advancement.

The notification chime played a quick happy ditty, while the glowing white mind-text exploded in a bright display just like the summer solstice fireworks.

That’s… wow.

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the DawnClass: Archer of Light – level 7- Radiant Archery – level 7- Arrows of Brilliance – level 7- Motes of Light – level 5- Explorer – level 6- Blessing of the Dawn – level 6- Eclipse – level 4- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Bowcraft – level 4- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 4Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingAttributes- Vitality: 20- Strength: 9- Endurance: 12- Dexterity: 55 (+18)- Perception: 52 (+17)- Intelligence: 43 (+14)- Wisdom: 14Equipment- Weapon: Guard Bow – level 3Health: 200/200Stamina: 120/120Mana: 112/140 (28 Reserved)

Calen browsed through his status, checking the numbers carefully. He certainly had grown stronger, especially with the enhancement provided by Blessing of the Dawn to boost his dexterity, perception, and intelligence. However, he was lagging in stamina and mana – both his total and his regeneration. None of his skills’ primary attributes provided him with additional resources. He could do lots of damage, but he always ran out of mana too quickly, and it took an hour to regenerate it fully.

And I lost my armor when we were captured, he thought. It wouldn’t be good to get hit by anything. Not unless I’m near Malika.

More annoying though, they had taken his notebook and all the notes he had made about his class skills. He felt a distinct anxiety about not being able to note down his newest advance anywhere, but he resolved to memorize it for when they got back to town. And that was not even accounting for the fact that the Town Watch now had insight into his class. Suddenly, Malika’s reticence to share made all too much sense. He was no troublemaker, but this felt like a violation of his privacy.

Putting his status aside, Calen laid out the arrows he had collected from the Hunter and began to repair the ones that were damaged using his Bowcraft, while he waited for his and Malika’s mana and stamina to regenerate.
