“That’s what other people have said, too. And the stone can only withstand a level one version of [Strike], so 10 HP at a time means a lot of [Strikes]. It’s not a fun leveling method.” She put the stone away. “But I’ve trained much more on Earth than a lot of the level 20s at the guild.” She turned to Erick. “That’s what the fight with Bulgan was about. I kept thrashing his level 30 teammates in the training ring and they were getting pissy. But he’s a level 55 Scion of Strength with over 6000 HP. He’s got all the levels and magical combat experience that I do not.”

Al asked, “If you don’t mind, could you explain your build?”

“Uh. Sure. It’s not as rare as I thought it would be, actually. Pretty standard all-rounder with a movement skill. [Rejuvenation] and [Strike]. The 2x-3x base value skills for Strength, Willpower, and Focus. I just got [Blink] and that is a lot more disorienting than I thought it would be.” She smiled wide. “But it’s very, very fun.”

“You must be exhausted.” Al stared at Jane. “You should have experienced both Mana Exhaustion and Health Fatigue. How did you continue to exploit the Script in your condition?”

Jane nodded. “Vomiting from too much healing? Falling down after regenerating too much mana?”

“Yes.”

“Didn’t seem that bad to me. I’ve had worse.” Jane laughed. “Broken bones. Smashed ribs. Blood loss. Gunshot wounds. Stabbings. Ruptured eardrums. Running for days in the desert— not the crystal forest desert. An actual desert. Snake bites. Not to mention common colds, food poisoning, and the flu being four times worse than healing fatigue and mana exhaustion.” She turned to Erick who was about to object to at least two of those confessions. “Sorry for not telling you about some of that.”

Erick focused on the worst offense. “Who the heck shot you!”

She ignored him. “Veird has magical healing. It’s honestly too easy to ignore the problems of over training on this planet. So I ignored them. I asked about long term side effects. Everyone said there was none that they knew of.”

Erick just sighed.

“Ha ha!” Al laughed and eyed Erick. “I should increase your minimum iterations to six per day!”

“I am not my daughter.”

Everyone laughed but Erick. He just ate his sandwich.

After they finished lunch, Al had a proposition. “I would like to see you in action, Jane.”

“What’s your idea?”

Al said, “There have been signs that an ooze is in the sewers, but no one has seen fit to kill the beast.”

“There’s that word again!” Erick said, “What’s an ooze?”

Al answered, “Slimes are always the first monsters to spawn in a magically dense area, like we have in the sewers. Basic slimes only eat dead and rotten things, turning the detritus of life into healthy biological material, and condensing mana into rads. This is a good thing. But when someone improperly dumps magical waste in a place like the sewers, it starts a chain of events where healthy slimes try to eat the magical waste and die due to magical corruption. Someone started this process about ten days ago, but no one caught on to what had happened until the damage was already done.

“Because of that, there were a lot of dead mutated slime bodies rotting in the dark.

“Eventually, you end up with a slime who has developed a taste for other slimes, and for everything else that moves. These monsters are called oozes.

“Oozes are fast, carnivorous pools of acid that blend into their surroundings when they’re not stalking prey. They’re smart, they’re deadly. And we have one in the sewers.”

Jane asked, “How do you kill it?”

“I know how I would kill it, but how would you kill such a monster?”

Jane smiled. “I’d like to find out.”
