“Not immune,” Ameliah said from the back. “Don’t forget piercing skills. There aren’t supposed to be any monsters in this zone with them, but it pays to be cautious.”

“How much mana do you have?” Genn asked.

“At the moment?” Rain glanced at his HUD, though he didn’t need to. “About a quarter million.”

Someone stumbled, probably Bryz, as she was the one that spoke next. “So much!”

Genn sighed. “Siiiiilllllllllveeeerrrr. I swear. Nim, find smarter friends.”

“You’re the one who can’t figure out why no one likes you,” Bryz fired back.

“Let’s pick up the pace,” Rain said, managing not to laugh while increasing his speed to a jog. Even with the constraining fabric binding up his joints, it felt good to run. The tunnel was sloping sharply downward now, but it flattened out again ahead. As he understood it, the coming section of the delving had been constructed to give a nice, wide spawning zone for hunting purposes. He could feel tunnels splitting off on either side ahead of them, spreading in a honeycomb-like structure.

“We’re not going to be jogging the whole way, are we?” Nim asked.

“Of course not,” Rain replied. “We’d never make it in time. Tiger, please activate the imperial performance-enhancers.”

“Is that what we’re calling them?” Ameliah asked. “And are you sure? We can always stop for the night.”

“You need the practice, and so do they,” Rain said. Pressing with his soul, he sent some additional subtext. We don’t have time to take it easy.

“Okay,” Ameliah said, seeming to understand. She clapped her hands. “Everyone, I’m about to boost all your stats. Before I do, is anyone using any stat-boosting equipment? I don’t want to exceed anyone’s tolerance.”

“I have a plus-ten Strength stat ring,” Genn said.

“You’ll be fine,” Rain replied. “Havenheild?”

“Yeah,” Genn confirmed.

“Maybe not fine, actually,” Rain said, scratching his beard. “I almost lost a finger to one of those once.”

“I can also heal,” Ameliah said. “Just putting that out there.”

“Wait, what?” Nim asked, glancing at her brother with concern.

Ameliah didn’t give Rain time to respond. “Stat boost in three...two...one.”

On ‘one’, Rain flicked his eyes up, watching a shimmering distortion appear. Empire of Will created a blue flame that hung above the brow of anyone affected, while Empire of Grit and Empire of Brawn did the same in green and red. Ameliah had long since internalized his objectively correct color associations for the stats, even before they had become Ascension-standard. As for Empire of Drive, it was a little different from the other Imperial Auras, both in effect and in visual manifestation. Mechanically, it boosted the associated secondary stat for any of the others that were active. Visually, it manifested as a golden crown, into which the fires of the other skills set themselves like gemstones.

Ameliah was using them all at once through Prismatic Intent. She’d been forced to take it so she could level Empire of Drive, which couldn’t be used alone. The amount of prerequisite juggling she’d had to do to unlock it had set her back by half a day. Then, she’d gone and leveled it to rank four with barely an issue, making Rain feel like a total scrub. She’d had his example to follow, but still.

“Everyone okay?” Ameliah asked.

Rain checked his status as the others answered in the affirmative, seeing that she’d added a single point to all of his stats. She would have had to set Channel Mastery a good deal higher on Empire of Drive than on the others to do that, given that she was still leveling it. Unity was tantalizingly close but as yet out of reach.

“I’m going to increase it now,” Ameliah said. “Let me know if it gets uncomfortable.”

Rain smiled, watching the numbers increase. Increasing numbers were his favorite thing. Unfortunately, it stopped as soon as it started.

“Ah!” Nim cried, hissing through her teeth.

“Backing off to plus four,” Ameliah said. “I’ll try plus five again later, once you’ve had time to get used to it.”

[Crown!] Dozer sent excitedly, bouncing up and down on Rain’s shoulder.

Rain glanced at the slime and smiled, seeing the ghost of a crown hovering above his gelatinous body. From their earlier practice, he knew Dozer could ‘hear’ the spell’s effect, though how that worked was a bit of a question. The crown would begin to look like a physical object if Ameliah boosted the power, but it had thus far remained immaterial, even at her maximum output. As it was, it was fully visible, just translucent.

“Why did we feel...that?” Remezzo asked after a moment. “It was like my bones were—”

“On fire?” Rain interrupted, not about to tell him that he was weaker than a slime. “That’s what happens when you exceed your tolerance. The rule of thumb at bronze is to not let your buffs exceed ten times your level, though there’s some wiggle room. You don’t know this?”

“They should,” Genn said. “Pardon me, Miss Tiger, but four points isn’t going to make much of a difference.”

Rain had to stifle an undignified giggle. Miss Tiger!

“Can you add more to Strength and Vigor?” Genn continued, oblivious. “Or can you give me more than the others, since I can take it?”

“It’s all or nothing,” Ameliah lied. “Mouse, your turn.”

“Is this really wise?” Bryz asked. “I know you’re silver, but this seems a little reckless, running full speed in the dark...”

“What dark?” Rain asked, activating Radiance and boosting the light from Genn’s orb to fill the entire tunnel. Next, he activated Essence Well, sending mana to both Ameliah and himself. On the next tick, Ameliah activated Energy Well, transforming the mana he was feeding her into stamina and spreading it around the group. Meanwhile, he bumped up Purify, further brightening things, though that wasn’t what he was after. Detection had just informed him of a monster corpse lying on the ground ahead, and he wanted it gone by the time they got there. The last thing he needed was for Dozer to realize there was filth down here. Only then did he activate Velocity, following Ameliah’s example and starting at a pathetic one percent.

Despite his restraint, more than one of their charges managed to stumble. It probably had more to do with the sudden light show, though really, being from where they were from, their reactions seemed a bit much.

“What in the hells!?” Genn shouted.

Hells, huh? I suppose this tunnel is a bit like a highway. That’ll work, but this is going to be tricky to translate.

Nudging Velocity up to two percent, Rain didn’t bother being gradual with his voice, instead pushing it straight to eleven. “Livin’ easy! Lovin’ free! Season ticket on a one-way ride!”
