Ren nodded slightly. “Just tell the driver when they need to come and get you.”

“Thank you.”

Ren waved her thanks away. “It should have been available a while ago.” He said. “I've just had so much other stuff happen...”

Angeilin chuckled. “Yes, I've heard.”

“Have a great day at work.” Ren said and looked at the driver. “Go ahead.”

The driver waved and flicked the reins, then the cart left the stable's lot, and went down the road.

“You treat some of the people here really nice.” The woman said and held out a hand. “Hi, I'm Delilah.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and her face flushed a little red as she realized that he knew the social custom she'd just thrown at him.

“I'm sorry, Ma'am.” Ren said, and stepped away. “I won't enter a relationship with you.”

“W-wh-what?” She stammered badly, trying to sound shocked. “I just... I was introducing myself!”

“My apologies.” Ren said, and bowed slightly to her. “If you will excuse me, I have work to do.” He enchanted the House Neram crest on the other 3 carts he'd made, activated them, and turned to the stable. “Can I get 3 more horses and drivers, please?”

Workers came over and hooked up the horses, and Ren gave the drivers the addresses of the workers that needed a ride.

“Drop them off up the road at House Neram Keep.” Ren said. “There's a 300 foot long road beside it, and a workshop at the end of that. Bring them there, please.”

“Yes, sir.” They said, climbed into the carts, and left the stable.

“I've got to visit the Main House.” Ren said. “If they haven't decided on the details for the medical building, I'll be back to make more carts.”

“A medical building?!?” One of the workers asked.

“I've already hired 2 dedicated healers.” Ren said. “I just have to make somewhere for them to work.”

“But... but... no one has their own medical building.” Another one said.

“That's right.” Ren said. “But I want anyone that works or lives here to have access to help if they need it, rather than send for someone, or have to go all the way to the city for it.”

“That's... that's amazing.”

Ren shook his head. “I didn't want anyone moving here without providing basic living requirements.”

“Like what?”

Ren turned to the woman who spoke. “Free medical care and free housing.”

“I saw the big building on the way by.” She said. “The thing out back looked like a Barracks.”

Ren chuckled. “The big building is the Main House, and that is a Barracks behind it.” He said. “But that's for the House Neram guards.”

“Oh.” She said. “Then where...”

“I'm having houses built.” Ren pointed. “There's only a dozen so far, but more will be started in a few days.”

“Did you say a house?” Someone said, and a woman gasped. “You're giving away houses?!?”

Ren laughed. “Nearly half of them are full already.” He said, then thought. “Or over half. It depends on if the healers took a couple for themselves.”

“You're crazy.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I hear that a lot.” He waved and started to walk towards the Main House. Delilah stepped in front of him.

“Did I hear you say that if someone moves here...”

“When someone joins the House, they get a house.” Ren said, and tilted his head as he looked at her. “A job as well, if they need it.”

“I... I have a job...” She said.

Ren grinned. “I know you do.”

Delilah looked at him with wide eyes. “What... what do you mean?”

Ren leaned in and whispered in her ear. “Whoever provided you with clothing to come out here and pretend to be someone who works around horses, doesn't have a clue how to make proper clothing.”

Her mouth dropped open and she stared at him.

“You... you know that I...”

Ren smiled and leaned back.

“Why aren't you upset, or having me kicked out like-” She clapped a hand over her mouth, and Ren grinned.

“Yeah, I thought so.” Ren said. “It would have been better to wait a week before coming here.” He sighed. “I wouldn't have been suspicious at all.” He said. “I'd have just thought you were scraping money together, and barely had enough to get the clothing made.”

“Boy, did I blow this job.” Delilah sighed.

“What was your cut?”

She snorted a laugh. “Half of the value of that pretty ring of yours.”

“Which one?” Ren said and lifted a hand to her. “This one?” He pointed to the pinky finger, and she nodded. He slipped it off and held it out between his thumb and forefinger, then crushed it.

“Ahh!” She gasped as she reached for it, then let her hand drop. “How could you!”

“Is it worth a lot now?” Ren chuckled, as she shook her head with a tear in her eye.

“It's worthless.”

“That's how much only one of them is worth.” He said. “They only work if you have both of them.”

She stared at him, and didn't say anything.

“He didn't tell you that?” Ren said, then shook his head. “He didn't know that to tell you.”

She nodded slightly.

“Well, unless you've got another normal job to get to, you're welcome to stay here and keep working.”

“W-what?!?”

“I'm a big believer in second chances.” He said. “If you work well, you get paid well.”

“I... I have another... ah...”

“Yeah, I know.” Ren chuckled. “I hope it goes better for you than this one did.”

“You're not going to turn me in?”

“For what?”

“I was trying to rob you!”

“You were?” Ren looked around. “I thought we were just talking.”

Her mouth dropped open again.

“Be safe, and take care.” Ren said, and smiled.

She turned around and started to walk away. Ren took out a gold coin and enchanted it with Screaming Terror, thinking of Delilah.

“Hey.” Ren said, and tossed the coin to her when she turned around. “You can give Ogshorn that, and tell him it was all you could get.”

She slipped the coin into a pocket. “I assume you have a message for him?”

“When he has the coin in his hand, say 'activate'.” Ren grinned. “He'll know what it means.”

Delilah nodded slightly and walked away down the road. He repaired the ring and enchanted it with Protection again.

She didn't have a clue that it wasn't the Sending Ring. Ren thought as he made another cart, dyed it white and enchanted it with the House Neram crest, then turned to the workers.

“This cart is reserved for the medical staff.” Ren said. “No one but the healers can use it.”

They nodded, and Ren switched to his personal Aura; then he ran down the road to the Main House. He went inside and to Ereka's office. He knocked, and she laughed.

“How many times do I have to tell you...”

Ren opened the door, and grinned as he felt her amusement. He saw she wore the outfit he'd made the day before, and he let her feel how pleased he was about that.

“As many times as I come in here?” Ren said, and she blushed slightly as she felt how much he liked seeing her wearing his clothes.

“Sir...”

Ren raised a hand. “I'm always going to knock, unless you get rid of the door.” He said. “Then I'll knock on the door frame.”

Ereka laughed again. “All right, I'll stop telling you to stop.”

“She learns a valuable lesson!” Ren exclaimed. “And it only took 2 days!”

She shook her head, as she felt his amusement. “What can I do for you?”

“Did the healers decide what kind of building they wanted? Did they pick a house? Any word about the armory?”

“Yes, yes, and yes.” Ereka said, and Ren grinned. “Here's the plans for the building.” She said and handed him several sheets of parchment. “They picked the house closest to the spot for the medical building.”

“House?” Ren said. “They're living together?”

Ereka looked at him as she felt his surprise. “Is that a problem?”

Ren felt her indignation start to flow. “Of course not.” He grinned. “People can love whoever they want. It's really none of my business, anyways.”

“Oh.” She said. “Okay, then.”

Ren looked at her. “You're a little jealous of them.” He said, then felt her utter surprise.

“I... I'm not!”

He held up a hand. “Not of them specifically.” He said. “Of having someone to be with.”

“I...” Ereka blushed slightly. “I'm not supposed to worry about any of that yet.”

Ren chuckled. “When are you supposed to worry about it?”

She opened her mouth, then closed it. “I don't know.”

“Then do what you want.” Ren said. “You can worry over it, or be content that you don't have to worry about it.”

“What are you saying?”

“I'm saying...” Ren looked at her. “...when the time comes, you're not going to have a problem finding someone to fawn over you.”

Ereka felt his sincerity, and she blushed.

“Now.” Ren said. “The armory?”

“Yes!” She said. “The crafters at the Garrison will have it built by the end of the week.”

“Good.” Ren said. “I've been carrying these weapons and shields around for a while.”

“How many?”

“More than I'll probably ever need.” Ren chuckled, waved to her, and turned to leave the office. “I'll begin the medical building when I get back from the Library.”

“I'll see you later.”

“More than likely.” Ren said as he got to the door. “Despite being so busy, I'm still coming here to find things out.” He chuckled. “Bye, Ereka.” Ren ran out of the building and poured on the speed when he hit the main road. I hope they start delivering the paving stones soon. Ren thought. I need to finish the lot around the Main House. And the Barracks. And the road in the housing sub-division.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Narhilda was right. You are doing more than one person can.”

Ren laughed. I'm happy about that, though!

*

Ereka felt how happy Ren was just as he passed the Aura's outer limit.

“How can anyone feel so happy?” She sat down and waved a hand in front of her face. “He's... by the gods... his fiance is so lucky!”

*

Ren went to the Library, and told the Librarian what he wanted, and she hugged him so hard, he thought he was going to stop breathing. She let him go, and they sat down as Ren laid the entire tale of his encounters with the Council and it's members; starting with Tegwen's duel on the ship and ending with the Council telling people a different version of events.

“Dammit, can you hold the book there for a bit?” Ren said. “I need to head to the Main Keep to get something.”

The Librarian nodded, and Ren ran to the Main Keep. He went inside and to the General Information desk, which was also the Hall of Records, and was greeted warmly by the female dwarf there. Ren asked her for the transcript of the last Council meeting, and she handed him several copies of that, and the Council's edicts. Ren asked to register a new ritual, and he wrote it out on a piece of parchment. He folded it and handed it to her. He paid the fee and she dropped it into the magic filing cabinet. A moment later, she brought a letter of notice. Ren read it, and grinned.

Congratulations!

You have registered a new ritual for thanking someone. Word of it, and it's origin, will spread quickly. It will change how people deal with each other in many different situations.

Influence: +10,000

Honor: +5,000; Lady Neram +5,000

Ren walked around the desk to the female dwarf, and she looked up at him.

“Thank you very much for all of your help.” Ren said, and took her hand. She smiled as he bent down, but her mouth dropped open as he gave her a kiss on the cheek.

“But... but...” She put a hand on her cheek where he'd kissed her. “By the gods!”

Ren walked back around the desk, and bowed deeply to her. “Good day, Ma'am.”

She stared at him as he left the room

*

“He... he just...” She rubbed her face. “How in the world did he...” She went to the cabinet and looked at a copy of what he'd written. “By the gods.” She said and sat down. “He... he made it an Honor to do!”

*

Ren ran back to the Library and added all the information the Hall of Records had given him, and the Librarian nearly fell out of her chair when she saw it all. She had no idea that the Council had been that corrupt. Ren had the book made, and gave her a hundred platinum to make as many copies of the book as she could, and as quickly as possible.

She told him it would take an hour for that many books, and Ren ran back to the house to pick up his own cart that he could pull himself. He went back and waited as the books were copied, and picked them up to add to the cart. The book itself didn't have a rating; as the Librarian had helped him leave out the details that would require it to be rated. Ren went along the streets and gave a book to everyone he could see. He left one at every business, and one on every doorstep. It took another 2 hours to do that, but once he was done, he only had 20 or so left. He stored the books, and then the cart.

“Let's go home, Teepo.” Ren said, and ran back to House Neram. “I've got more work to do.”
