“We’re proposing to help Riverfarm. We have come here and worked these last weeks, haven’t we? Don’t we deserve a chance to use our classes to their fullest extent? Give us a chance! I am a former [Councilwoman]—there are [Mayors] such as Rodivek from Hewlat—we can take over some of the tasks that have clearly left you and Mister Prost running ragged. Let us manage a few small groups. We are familiar with our citizens—we can take care of pressing issues, like paving the ground.”
She gestured outside to the muddy streets. Lady Rie did something like a smile with her face, but her voice was somewhat icy as she replied.
“While I understand your enthusiasm, Miss Beatica—”
“Councilwoman, please, Lady Rie. I didn’t give up my class when I left my city. And I consider myself in charge of my people, even though we have lost our home.”
The woman interrupted Rie smoothly, gesturing to the crowd behind her. But that wasn’t what made Durene sit up in amazement. The half-Troll girl saw Rie’s mouth open and close while she spoke, but no words had come out. Beatica had used a Skill! Lady Rie made a sound and then glared at Beatica.
“I would appreciate you not using your Skills on me, Miss Beatica. And while I appreciate your…zeal in taking care of your people, I remind you that you came here. This is Emperor Laken’s domain. Not Lancrel’s. He may appoint leaders among Lancrel’s population when he returns. Until then, I believe Riverfarm is adequately handled between Prost and I and the people we have chosen.”
A murmur of agreement rose from some of the rural crowd in the room. Beatica pursed her lips. She clearly didn’t like Rie’s response, so she turned and appealed to the people from Lancrel and the towns.
“You say that, Lady Rie, but you’ve been saying that for nearly two months now! This talent is going to waste lying unused! Don’t we have [Tailors] without work, [Secretaries] whose Skills could be used setting up businesses—”
“We have no need for business at this moment, Miss Beatica. The money Riverfarm earns goes to build Riverfarm. Private ventures can wait until everyone has a roof over their heads, don’t you agree?”
It was Rie’s turn to sweetly interrupt Beatica. The woman narrowed her eyes.
“How will we earn a living then, Lady Rie? So far, we have generously donated to Riverfarm’s construction, but many of us would like to earn money, would we not?”
That got a round of nods, mostly from the city dwellers again. Rie looked around and raised her voice.
“This is not his city. I remind you that this is the sovereign territory of [Emperor] Laken. His Majesty has allowed any number of Lancrel’s folk to come to Riverfarm, provided shelter and food despite having no obligation to—he even fought for Lancrel when the city’s own militia abandoned it, didn’t they?”
She looked pointedly at Beatica. The woman colored.
“The army failed to liberate Lancrel—”
She hesitated, and her eyes flicked around the room. Many of the villagers had folded their arms. Beatica switched sentences so fast Durene blinked.
“—and we appreciate their sacrifice of course! But there is such a thing as democracy, surely? Don’t we, as citizens of His Majesty Godart’s, ah, empire¸ deserve a voice? Or is his will the only one we are permitted to follow?”
Uneasiness followed her words. Rie’s brow twitched.
“Of course you will have a voice. But I invite you to wait for His Majesty to return, Miss Beatica. This is all quite forward of you. In fact, the fourth day in a row you’ve made this a public subject. I was discouraged to learn that you spent little time helping in your assigned task. One would almost imagine that you regarded the effort of washing clothes beneath you.”
All eyes swung back to Beatica. The woman hesitated and flushed.
“Not at all. I’m simply concerned with the wellbeing of—”
“Lancrel. Indeed. I would suggest you help clothe them, then. One cannot work with sullied garments. All of Riverfarm is working, Miss Beatica. Which reminds me, I must get back to my job. Enjoy your break.”
With that, Rie swept past the [Councilwoman]. Durene felt oddly pleased to see Beatica’s eyes flashing furiously as Rie and her bodyguard, the [Fistfighter] Geram, swept out of the mess hall.
“Wow. There are people even Rie has trouble with.”
Durene murmured to Frostwing. She was glad Rie had won, though, and fairly convincingly so if the nods from the people around her were anything to judge. Even so, there was a murmur among Lancrel’s lot as she left, and Beatica instantly turned to her crowd and addressed them, looking apologetic and slightly outraged. Durene didn’t listen to what was being said—she grabbed Frostwing and hurried towards the door, hoping to catch Rie.
On the way, Durene passed Beatica and the crowd of well-dressed folk. Durene did nothing but stride past them, but as the first heads turned and noticed her, a woman recoiled and cried out. The shrill shriek was echoed by exclamations from the crowd. Durene paused and turned.
“Something wrong?”
The Lancrel city folk stared up at Durene, faces pale. Councilwoman Beatica smiled, but she visibly placed her hands behind her back as everyone but her stepped back.
“Nothing at all. You’re Miss Durene, aren’t you? I apologize—my people have never met someone, ah, as notable as you.”
“You mean a half-Troll.”
“Ah. Of course.”
The woman hesitated. Durene turned to her.
“I’m a [Paladin]. One of Riverfarm’s protectors. I was at Lancrel fighting the Goblins. I’m glad to see so many people made it out alive. We paid a heavy price that day. How do you do?”
She held out a hand. The people behind Beatica murmured and looked at her. The woman hesitated. She looked at Durene’s hand and held out her own. When she shook Durene’s hand, it was very, very quickly, and her touch was so light—the woman withdrew her hand and gave Durene a charming smile. Durene wasn’t fooled. She’d felt the sweat on the palm.
“We are all grateful, of course. And I hope to meet His Majesty, Laken Godart, and convey my personal thanks. Ah—I notice you have a companion. What a radiant fellow.”
She indicated Frostwing. Durene looked at the bird, and Frostwing fluttered her wings. Some in the crowd admired the bird’s brilliant blue plumage.
“It’s a she.”
“How magnificent. I’ve never seen the species.”
Beatica reached out for Frostwing.
“I wouldn’t. She pecks.”
Frostwing lashed out, and Beatica withdrew her hand just in time. She eyed the bird and winced as Frostwing screeched.
“I—see. Well, it’s a pleasure to meet you, Miss Durene. Do I understand that you’re, um, deeply acquainted with His Majesty?”
She looked Durene up and down. The half-Troll girl flushed.
“He and I are in a relationship.”
The murmur from the Humans behind Beatica this time went quiet as Durene looked at them. Beatica smiled thinly.
“How incredible. I do hope you’ll introduce me to His Majesty. Until then?”
Durene nodded. Without a word, she turned, and Beatica stepped back. Durene felt the woman’s eyes on her all the way to the door and out of it. And she began understanding just how worried Prost and Rie were.
Beatica reminded Durene of a weasel, and Lancrel’s folk were like anxious chickens who’d convinced themselves she was one of them. Frightened chickens, gathering together en masse. Only, if you’d ever seen chickens pecking one of their own to death, you understood why that was a problem.
 
—–
 
That night, Durene met Wiskeria at the cottage. She hadn’t seen the [Witch] all day, but Wiskeria’s exhausted face told her the [Witch] had been working hard in her own way. Durene made them tea as Frostwing huffily settled herself in her nest. Outside, Bismarck groaned at the door until Durene threw out some freshly grown produce to shut him up.
“How was your day?”
Wiskeria sipped from her drink and shrugged.
“It wasn’t great. Wasn’t bad either. I mainly—talked. With families. And survivors. There are a lot of us.”
“Are you—”
“No. No army.”
The [Witch] put down her cup with a grimace. She looked at Durene.
“I saw you for a bit. You pushed over a tree.”
“It was a small one. And it’s faster than cutting.”
Embarrassed, Durene felt at her hair. Wiskeria shook her head. She stared into her mug and then spoke pensively.
“You know what most of the [Soldiers] called me? The ones who fought? ‘General’ Wiskeria. As if I deserve the name.”
“You have the class.”
“I don’t deserve it. You remember what that woman, Rehanna, said to me?”
“She was just angry. She wasn’t right—”
Wiskeria shook her head. She adjusted the hat and looked down.
“I’m no [General]. That’s just something Laken gave me. It’s not my true nature. I was playing at being a [General]. When push came to shove—I collapsed. I should never have accepted his offer.”
Durene hesitated.
“But you gained the class. You led an army. You led me, Wiskeria. Or didn’t fighting all those Goblins mean anything?”
The [Witch] shook her head.
“It’s not the same as a real battle. I could do some things, but when I found a real enemy to fight—strategy, tactics, leadership—I could make a lot of people move in one direction, feed them, set a few traps with helpers. But in that battle, I was swallowed, Durene. I couldn’t lead, and that’s part of the reason we lost.”
Silently, Durene put down her cup. She took a slow breath.
“I’m a [Paladin], Wiskeria. Laken gave me that class.”
The [Witch] nodded.
“And I’m a [General]. Do I look like one to you?”
She touched her hat. Durene inhaled to protest, and then she studied her hands. Her grey skin. She gazed around at her cottage, hand-built, out her window at the garden that Bismarck had torn up searching for food, and then at Wiskeria. The young woman stared back.
A witch and a farmer girl. They held each other’s gazes a moment and then burst out laughing. They laughed as if it were the funniest joke in the world. The saddest. In the end, Durene caught herself before a laugh could turn into a sob. They sat together then as the light faded and a candle Durene lit flickered low on the table. It was dark. Frostwing tucked her head under one wing.
“I want to be a [Paladin], Wiskeria.”
“I know. And I think you can do it, Durene, I really do. But I don’t want to be a [General]. I can’t do that again. I can’t be responsible for all those lives.”
Durene nodded. Wiskeria was looking down at the table. At last, the [Witch] raised her head.
“What is a [Paladin], by the way? I never asked. It’s like a [Knight], but…is it some rare class variant like Beniar’s [Cataphract]?”
Durene shook her head. She played with her empty cup as she recalled asking Laken just that.
“Laken says they used to be just trusted military leaders in service to some [Emperor]. But apparently the word changed. It began to mean…well, a [Knight], but one dedicated to heroism and chivalry. Someone who does good deeds.”
“Isn’t that what knights are supposed to do?”
Durene smiled. She quoted Laken.
“A [Knight] is a retainer. A warrior pledged to a cause. A [Paladin] is someone who crusades. Who goes out and…helps people. Apparently, it’s perfect for me. I just want to help people. But I haven’t leveled for a while. I think I’m missing something.”
Wiskeria nodded. She stared at Durene and then took her hat off and looked at it.
“I’m a [Witch]. Do you…know much about my kind?”
“No. I hear stories, um…but Riverfarm never had a [Witch]. Other villages do.”
Durene bit her tongue before she went on. From the stories she’d been told before meeting Wiskeria, [Witches] weren’t to be trusted. They could make potions and do some magic. But they were shifty, dangerous even. Wiskeria smiled bitterly.
“I’m sure you’ve heard stories. And like I said this morning, [Witches] are complex. We do magic, but we have a wide variety of abilities. Alchemy, magic—even beast taming and gardening and more. But we’re not specialists, like, say, a [Beast Master].”
The half-Troll girl nodded, then she had a thought.
“Hey, Wiskeria. Can you make potions? I heard a [Witch] can make potions like an [Alchemist]. Mister Prost was saying that if we could get a good [Alchemist] here, we’d be able to heal all sorts of things without needing to buy potions. What if you made them? I’m sure everyone’d appreciate that!”
She looked at the [Witch] hopefully. Durene had always wanted to know how potions were made! That was real magic, as powerful as any spell. But Wiskeria shook her head.
“No, that’s a myth. Or an exaggeration of the truth, really. I made poison when Laken asked me to. Enough of it to poison the Goblin army. Healing…I can’t do potions. [Alchemists] do complicated reactions in bottles, and I don’t have the equipment or the knowledge.”
“Oh.”
Durene felt a bit let down by that confession. She had an image of a [Witch] hunched over a cauldron full of magic. Wiskeria hesitated. She touched her hat and thought for a second, then looked up.
“I can’t do potions. I can do a brew, though.”
 
 
Day 55 – Ryoka
 
Running was fun. Running was good for the body. Running relaxed Ryoka. It could also be boring, though. That was why, surprisingly, it was fun to have Charlay running with her as Ryoka headed south down the increasingly less-populated main roads towards Riverfarm.
She had a delivery. And she had a lot of money waiting for her when she got there. And a possible crisis. But unlike her run to Walta, Ryoka wasn’t pushing it. Nor could she, really; the wind had been unhappy yesterday, and it was upset today. Not that it mattered; Ryoka had run for eight hours yesterday and for nearly eight more today with a few breaks and she was still far from her destination.
It wasn’t one day’s journey, or even two. Ryoka thought they’d reach Riverfarm in another day at their pace. It was good enough for her; Laken had said he needed her there soon, but he wasn’t paying for a lightning-fast delivery. Charlay couldn’t resist complaining, though.
“I’m tired. When do we get another break?”
“When we find an inn or another village. Why? I thought you were the fastest runner in Walta.”
Ryoka teased the Centauress as they ran side-by-side down a deserted road. Riverfarm was far from a populated hub, so sometimes they could find themselves running with few to no travellers for hours at a time. Charlay glared at Ryoka as she folded her arms, trotting to keep up. She had sweat on her brow, and she looked displeased.
“I said fastest! I don’t normally trot everywhere, you know.”
