“No. This isn’t like a regular spell. It’s the best I can do. I need to finish it now. Don’t worry; it feels…bad. I know. But the worst thing I could do is stop. There’s a lot of guilt in the air. Guilt and regret.”
Durene nodded. She stared around the cottage. Wiskeria breathed in and out rhythmically.
“I gathered it. That’s a thing [Witches] do. That’s what’s making this brew powerful. Now I need to perform the incantation. Durene, this is the most important part. You can listen. But don’t speak.”
Durene opened her mouth for a flippant remark and closed it. Wiskeria nodded. She turned back to the cauldron. This time, she walked around it. Not in the perfect circle, but urgently, bending, investigating the liquid inside. The soup swirled, as if following Wiskeria. And then she spoke.
 
“For a drink to warm the heart and body both,
I offer this harvest, by [Witch]’s ways and humble host
Sage’s Grass, gathered without cold iron’s sting,
Mushrooms, plucked from a faerie’s ring
Herbs grown in garden plot and nature’s walk,
Eleven dried things from [Merchants] bought
To bind it all, a liquid draught of ritual wrought
Come together now, to cure from this humble pot.”
 
It was a slow chant. Rhythmic. And with each step, the fire beneath the cauldron flared up a bit. Durene watched, breathless. It felt like the shadows were gathering around Wiskeria and the pot. The smell was beautiful, enticing. Durene felt her stomach gurgle. But what was the unease in the air? Wiskeria pointed.
A red glow sprang from the soup. Durene jumped until she realized. The Sage’s Grass. It was glowing in the pot. The [Witch] stepped closer, and Durene saw she had a knife. The half-Troll girl’s stomach clenched in unconscious anticipation, and she opened her mouth before she caught herself. Wiskeria murmured.
“And grief. And regret. And despair and death. And hatred, I add all of thee. Be swallowed and changed by goodwill. For a [Witch]’s repentance. Mercy.”
She flicked, and something flew into the pot. Durene saw it go, or did she feel it? The hum in the air intensified. Now she saw it. Wiskeria was struggling with something, pushing the shadows into the pot. Her face twisted with guilt, anguish, like Durene had seen in the meeting hall when she’d spoken to the families of the dead. She raised the knife in her left hand.
“And for power. A sacrifice for blood lost. Come now, come hither! Mend wounds and give life, for those who died in winter’s frost!”
The knife flashed down. Durene saw it slash across Wiskeria’s wrist. She stared in horror as blood splattered the cauldron, the sides—but none fell into the soup. It ran down and into the fire. The fire flared up, roaring for a moment, engulfing the cauldron. Wiskeria stumbled.
“Wiskeria!”
Durene rushed forwards. She couldn’t hold it in anymore. Only the [Witch]’s hand stopped her. Wiskeria put one hand on the cauldron to steady herself, and Durene saw and heard her hand hiss on the metal. The [Witch]’s face contorted with pain, but she looked up at Durene, panting.
“I’m fine. It’s not done. Hold on.”
The fire had died down. The boiling soup was still. Durene, hesitating, realized the shadows in the cottage had returned to normal. But there was still something left. Wiskeria reached for the stirring spoon. With her good hand, the one not burned and cut, she lifted some of the broth to her lips.
It was a thick, creamy soup that Durene saw Wiskeria sipping from. But it seemed deeper, more complex, better than any soup Durene could remember smelling. Ever. Wiskeria gulped down the soup hungrily, then looked at her right hand, the cut and burn there. And Durene gasped.
The wounds were closing! Slowly, so slowly. But Durene could see the flesh knitting, the blood stopping. The burn disappeared as Wiskeria and Durene stared at it. When the [Witch] lowered her hand, her eyes were green and yellow, sparkling, and her cheeks flushed with pride. Pride and life. She turned to Durene and smiled, tired, jubilant.
“It’s done. Want a taste?”
Durene stared at Wiskeria, then the soup. She stared at the offered ladle, felt her stomach rumble, and threw her hands up in the air.
“What was that?”
 
—–
 
“Old ways.”
That was all Wiskeria said when Durene had calmed down. She was grimacing, trying to figure out how to load the cauldron onto a handcart to transport it to Riverfarm. It wasn’t going to be easy; the cauldron was full, but neither she nor Durene could countenance wasting a drop of it. And it needed to be eaten from the cauldron, apparently.
“It’s the vessel it was made in. You can’t just bottle it, Durene. Well, you could, but it’ll be weaker. And it’ll lose its power after the first day, most of it. People need to eat this fresh!”
“And it’ll cure them? What did you do? I’ve never heard someone chant like that. No [Mage] could do that! What was with the shadows? The fire?”
Wiskeria shrugged.
“It’s [Witch] stuff.”
She hesitated as Durene made a fist. Wiskeria sighed.
“I can’t tell you everything, Durene. Like I said, these are old ways. Witchcraft is all about ritual. Using power that’s not our own, you understand. We’re not walking mana batteries like [Mages] or able to mix, say, Unicorn hair and Kraken teeth like [Alchemists]. We have to get our power from other things.”
“Like what?”
The [Witch] paused for a moment.
“Emotions, for one. That’s what the shadows were about. I was gathering all the regrets I had. Some of the ill will, the pain from people who lost their families.”
“Oh. But why was it so—”
“Sinister? It wasn’t so bad. It just built up there. If I’d let it all out, it could have been nasty. But good will, bad—it’s all power. I burnt it up, don’t worry.”
“With your hair? And blood?”
Wiskeria shrugged, smiling a bit. She touched her healed hand and made a face.
“Everything requires a sacrifice. And because of what I offered, you helping me, I think this will be a good stew. It’ll heal wounds, energize people—make them feel better about what happened.”
“All that in this?”
Durene stared at the cauldron. She’d had a mouthful, and she didn’t feel different. Okay, she felt good and like she could plough a field with one hand—but stamina potions did the same. Only this felt better than the burst of frantic energy a stamina potion gave her. Wiskeria nodded when Durene said that.
“It’s magic, Durene. A magic soup. It’ll do a lot of things. It’s what I’m good at. Soups, brewing. That’s my specialty as a [Witch]—I’m not great, but I can do a bit. Poison doesn’t require as much. That’s just vapors and steam. But this is magic. Not as good as potions, I guess. Well, better than most you could buy as a Silver-rank adventurer. Maybe even Gold-rank, these days. Not the best, even so. But it’ll do.”
Again, her clarifications only demanded more questions. Durene did a hop—then leapt, almost laughing with delight at the energy coursing through her.
“You’re sure? It feels better than any stamina potion, Wiskeria! All that runs out—this isn’t going away!”
Wiskeria looked embarrassed.
“Well, I put a bit of the old incantations into it as well. You heard me chanting? It’s largely free-form, but the blood sacrifice—I guess that puts it above your average [Witch]’s brew, despite my level. Again, it’s not really special. It’s all I can do.”
“What’s really special, then?”
All this false modesty! Or not false, because Wiskeria wistfully stared at the glowing liquid.
“Oh, really special stuff? Something invigorating to mend and made of mercy and regrets? My mother could make a stew that’d mend shattered bone and have the oldest enemies hop into bed with each other. A great witch could set a stew between two armies and forge a peace.”
Now that was the stuff of legends, and Durene laughed heartily at the notion as she did laps around the pot, trying to burn up the amazing energy in her.
“Yeah, but that’s just stories! Like the Lightning Thief and such!”
“Every story’s based on something, even if it’s just imagination, Durene. And, in these two cases—truth only seems impossible until you witness it. Believe me. This isn’t much.”
The way Wiskeria spoke suddenly sounded weary and old. Durene stopped running and saw Wiskeria wistfully looking at the pot. She was still satisfied, but she was wistful. Durene blinked, then kept her voice light.
“It tastes better than any potion. I’d use this every day if I could.”
Wiskeria broke out of her introspection and nodded with a smile.
“It’s certainly good enough. Hey! Not you, you greedyguts.”
She pushed Bismarck’s head out of the way as the Mossbear went for the pot for the twelfth time. He and Frostwing had come out of hiding once the ceremony—ritual—Durene wasn’t sure what to call it—was done. And now he really wanted what was in the pot. Wiskeria ticked off points on her long fingers with a sigh.
“It is good, but it won’t last, you can’t transport it so easily, and potions are faster. Easier to make too, I guess. It’s too bad; there was a time when [Witches] were very valuable. Because [Alchemists] weren’t so good at what they did. We could earn a living this way. Now it’s only good for rare occasions.”
“That’s too bad.”
Durene mumbled. She felt humbled, at peace after seeing the ritual, despite the blood Wiskeria had shed. It felt a bit like forgiveness, if you could make that into a spell. Wiskeria nodded. She looked relaxed too.
“You think? You should hear the old [Witches] I’ve met complain about it. They’re all too young to remember, but they know all the stories, and they moan about the good old days—Mother just complains about Dragons. Do you think you can carry it?”
“I do. Just watch the front so it doesn’t spill out?”
Durene lifted the cauldron onto the handcart with a grunt. To her relief, the cart was well-built, but the cauldron was heavy. She and Wiskeria watched the cart anxiously, but it felt sturdy, so after a moment, Wiskeria nodded, and Durene proceeded carefully.
“I think I want to meet more [Witches] after this. Well, not that Mavika one. The crows were scary.”
“She’s not so bad. But she is one of the senior [Witches] of Izril. There’s no formal ranking, but she is one of the most important.”
“Really? And she seems—most of Izril has good [Witches], right? Like you?”
Wiskeria smiled slightly and shook her head as they walked. The sky was beautiful and dry. Durene was smiling, despite managing the wagon. A black bird flew overhead, and even it sounded welcoming.
“It’s full of [Witches], Durene. Good, bad, we band together. We’re most numerous in Izril and Terandria. Few, if any, live in Chandrar or Baleros.”
“Why? People don’t like [Witches]?”
“No…I just think few want to live in the desert or fight off snakes. And not all species take to [Witches]. I hear Humans make up most [Witch] covens. It’s a very specific class. We have a history.”
“Huh. So what’s a coven do anyways? Why haven’t I heard of them?”
Wiskeria smiled.
“We’re spread out. Covens can be very large—Mavika’s all the [Witches] in about, oh, three hundred miles. They’re actually a lot more pleasant than she is. The Marshlands Coven.”
“Marshlands? But there’s only a small one up north. Are there more far from here?”
“No. I think there was a lot more marsh in the past, though. The coven’s old, Durene. Members come in and out, but they’ve been here on Izril since Humans first came. Before that, maybe. [Witches] are—”
The two broke off from their chat as they entered Riverfarm. Durene saw a crowd of people walking down the street, many heading to—she looked up.
“Oh! Perfect! It’s lunch!”
Wiskeria looked up. It had taken all morning to make the cauldron of enchanted soup! She smiled, and Durene called out. The half-Troll girl’s voice echoed down the street, attracting attention.
“Hey! Everyone! Come over here! Wiskeria brewed a magic soup for you to try! Come on! It’s fantastic!”
Heads turned. Durene saw to her pleasure that it was mostly villagers, Riverfarm folk about here. She waved at them and spotted a girl skipping towards them. Chimmy. The girl gathered with Ram, Miss Yesel, and some of the other villagers, including an entire host of [Wood Cutters]. They stared at the cauldron as Durene carefully placed it on the ground. They were just outside one of the cookhouses, but even the [Cook] came outside when they smelled the pot.
It smelled marvelous. And magical; you couldn’t deny that magic was a scent when you inhaled the magical potato soup. It felt like there was more than just the ingredients inside, and as Durene proudly shouted, more and more people stopped.
“This is a magical soup, General—I mean, Miss Wiskeria?”
Ram looked into the cauldron, half-warily, but licking his lips. Wiskeria nodded. She addressed the curious crowd.
“It’s a brew. More like a soup than actual potions. It’ll accelerate healing in the body. Scratches, small cuts—they’ll disappear overnight or in hours of drinking. Even bigger injuries. Plus, there’s some stamina ingredients too. You can eat it with breakfast, and it’ll work all day. But this will go bad in two days, three at most.”
“What’s it for?”
Miss Yesel pushed Chimmy back as the girl tried to peer inside the pot. She looked interested too, but wary. Wiskeria was a [Witch]. Durene hurried out with some bowls and spoons as Wiskeria tugged on her hat’s brim.
“Goodwill, Miss Yesel. Call it goodwill and an apology. A bit of magic to help everyone today. That’s all.”
“I see.”
Miss Yesel looked dubious, but Chimmy, her eyes shining, reached for a bowl.
“It smells even better than your soup, Ma! Let me try?”
“Hush!”
Yesel looked scandalized, but that provoked a laugh from the crowd. More people drew over as Durene took the bowls and handed them around. Wiskeria smiled as she explained more to Ram and the others.
“It’s nothing much. But it is tiring to make. I can’t mass-produce anything like an [Alchemist] can.”
“And it’s safe? It’s just helpful?”
Ram hesitated as he took a bowl. Durene nodded.
“It’s good! I had some, don’t worry, Mister Ram! Your only complaint will be there’s not enough after you try it! Here, who wants to be first? Anyone want some?”
“Me, me!”
Chimmy waved her arm excitedly. Yesel stopped her, looking apologetic.
“Maybe if someone else tries it first?”
“Of course. I can have some, or Durene. But if anyone else wants to try…”
