Charlay was tired after eight hours. To be fair, Ryoka was too, but she’d only used one stamina potion on top of her breaks. Charlay had used two and might need a third, which was slightly dangerous. But she was genuinely tired, not just complaining.
She had the endurance of a horse, which meant that she could run much faster than Ryoka on flat terrain, but she tired faster too. And since she had to chain herself to Ryoka’s pace, it was ironically Charlay who struggled more.
“If I was doing my deliveries, I wouldn’t have to run at your slow pace. All my Skills are devoted to galloping fast or doing tricks, not long-distance! I wish I had [Lesser Endurance]. Or [Greater Endurance]. Or [Second Wind] or something. Hey, what Skills do you want to get? You never told me what level you are.”
Charlay’s complaints instantly switched back to chatter. Ryoka sighed.
“Sorry, trade secret.”
She ducked as Charlay tried to shove her with one arm. The Centauress galloped further to the side, away from Ryoka, affronted.
“What? I thought we could share Skills! Well, fine. I won’t tell you my class or my Skills either, then!”
She tossed her head, as she always did, but Ryoka saw she was genuinely hurt this time. Charlay was…Ryoka could best describe her as dramatic, like a caricature of a girl who took everything personally and never said what she was really feeling. But apparently it was typical of Centaurs, who were all about appearance.
Ryoka had figured that out, and Charlay was actually fairly sensitive underneath her bluster. The young woman sighed as she tried to figure out a possible excuse—or make up a bunch of Skills—when she spotted something on the road ahead of her.
“Hold up. Charlay, you see that?”
The Centauress was pouting, but she looked up at the tone in Ryoka’s voice. She slowed from her trot, and Ryoka went from a fast jog to a walk. She stared at the building up ahead of her. Or rather, what was left of it.
“Dead g—shit.”
A blackened ruin of a building lay just off the side of the road. A farmstead, destroyed and abandoned. The two Runners looked at each other and ran closer, but hesitantly. Ryoka felt at her bag of holding, and Charlay pawed the ground with one hoof, uneasy.
“[Raiders], do you think?”
“Maybe. Do we check for people?”
Ryoka eyed the buildings. They looked long abandoned, and she was reluctant to investigate. You never knew what might be lurking in places like that. Said [Raiders] or monsters. Charlay shook her head.
“If it was still smoking, maybe. But look—the field was burnt over there, see? It’s already started to regrow in places. This is abandoned.”
Ryoka noticed the field beyond the farmstead and nodded. Someone had set flame to the field beyond, but the blackened soil was already showing bits of green.
“Let’s go, then. Keep an eye out?”
Charlay nodded silently, her tiff with Ryoka forgotten. The two Runners moved on, now cautiously scanning the landscape. But they soon found that whatever had afflicted this one farm wasn’t a singular occurrence.
“Oats. What happened to this place?”
Charlay stared at the eighth ruin they passed by. Ryoka just shook her head. This road they were taking south wasn’t the only one, but it painted a horrible picture. Every single place they’d come to was like this. Lonely houses, even a village, all lying in ruin. Something had swept down this way, leaving only destruction in its wake.
Burned farmlands. Houses pillaged by fire. Ryoka didn’t know if it was [Bandits] or…she eyed a ruined mill and wondered how many [Bandits] could do this much damage. Surely villages and towns had militias. Or what about local cities? Adventurers would hunt [Bandits] just like monsters. What had caused this?
“This is Laken’s home? What the hell happened here?”
She muttered to herself as she ran. Charlay turned her head to stare down at Ryoka.
“Laken. That’s your client, right? The [Emperor]? Is he really an [Emperor]? And how does he know you?”
The young woman paused.
“It’s, uh, a long story. I was hired by him in Invrisil.”
“And is he really an [Emperor]?”
“…Maybe? How do you know about him?”
Charlay snorted and stamped a hoof. She ran ahead of Ryoka so she could twist at the waist and glare down at the young woman.
“Informants, of course! I can buy information just like everyone else. And everyone’s heard the rumors. An [Emperor] was with Tyrion Veltras—he’s claimed the lands around Riverfarm—but it’s in the middle of nowhere! An [Emperor] should have a huge amount of land! And a, you know, empire?”
“Well, he’s got one village. And he hired me because I met him once.”
“Really? To deliver a bunch of low-grade potions to a [Lady]?”
Charlay eyed Ryoka, arms folded. The Runner girl shrugged.
“Yup.”
“You’re lying.”
“Maybe I am. But you’re coming with me, so you can see what I’m doing.”
“You’re not going to tell me why you know this [Emperor] or he wants you? We’re friends, Ryoka.”
“And friends don’t pry into each other’s secrets, Charlay. You’ll find out soon enough. Don’t kick dirt at me or I’ll hit you.”
“You deserve it! I’m going with you out of the goodness of my heart, and you won’t even tell me why—”
Bickering, the two were climbing a slight rise when Ryoka saw movement below them. She took one look down at the shapes below them and held out a hand. Charlay nearly ran her over and reared.
“Don’t do that! I could have hurt—”
She shut up as Ryoka whirled.
“Get back!”
Charlay wheeled, and Ryoka sprinted back down the hill. The Centauress crouched, although she was still far bigger, and Ryoka turned her head, her heart suddenly racing.
“What? What’d you see?”
“Let me check again. Stay there.”
Ryoka flattened herself to the earth and crawled back up the slope. Charlay ran a bit down the rise, and Ryoka peeked over the edge. She came crawling back and then ran at a crouch to Charlay.
“Oh shit. [Bandits].”
The Centauress froze.
“You’re sure?”
Ryoka nodded. Down the hill was a straightaway and what looked like marshland up ahead. They’d have to cross through the edge of it, but what had caught Ryoka’s eye was a bunch of distant riders. Normally, Ryoka would have assumed it was a caravan, an adventuring group—but she’d seen the corpse on the ground before Charlay.
“I only saw a few people on horseback. You’re sure it was [Bandits]?”
“Either that person on the ground is napping or they just killed a traveller.”
Ryoka snapped back, checking her belt. She’d counted sixteen, and half of them mounted. Some local group? A wandering band using the marshes as a base? Charlay pranced nervously.
“One of them might have been injured—”
“He was napping in blood, Charlay.”
“Oh.”
The two City Runners looked at each other. Ryoka’s hands were shaking a bit. She’d run into [Bandits] on runs before, but this was the first time she’d seen them before they saw her. And this was a larger group than most.
“We can try going off the road and sneaking around them. Or going back and taking another route.”
“Maybe. They won’t stay there for long, though. They’ll hide, and then we won’t know where they are.”
Charlay peered uneasily at the group up ahead. Ryoka nodded.
“So what do we do? Try and break through? They’re on horses. If I could use the wind, I could try blinding them. Or using caltrops, but it’s risky—”
The Centauress was shocked.
“What? I was saying let’s go way around them! Miles away! Are you crazy? I’m not tangling with a [Bandit] group if I can help it.”
“Oh.”
Ryoka blushed. She looked at Charlay.
“But you do have some Skills, right? If they attack us, can’t you whip out a bow and fight them off?”
“I don’t use a bow! Do you think all Centaurs use a bow? That’s racist!”
“Excuse me. How do you fight back, then?”
“I…have my hooves? And two wands. And this!”
Charlay pulled out a dagger and waved it uncertainly at Ryoka. The young woman stared at it. Charlay turned red.
“It works! I outrun people, mostly. And I can knock someone off a horse with my wands. That’s usually all I need. And I can make a dust cloud.”
“Right. Dustrider Charlay.”
Ryoka sighed. She supposed that was all Charlay needed. She stared at the rise and shook her head.
“I’m no good without the wind. And I agree; I’m not fighting [Bandits]. We’ll have to go back, find a really long way around. Damn.”
“Better than having them chase us. Let’s go before they finish and come this way.”
Charlay pointed back down the road. Ryoka nodded. She felt…guilty leaving the [Bandits] there. And the person on the ground—were they alive? Ryoka bit her lip. She couldn’t dwell on it. She was no hero. And neither was she a killer. Sixteen [Bandits]?
She and Charlay might be able to break through if Ryoka was certain the wind would come to her. If she conjured a dust storm, she’d be pretty confident they could get away. But that still was only for getting away. City Runners didn’t take unnecessary risks, and running ten miles around that group was preferable to risking any kind of fighting.
Slowly, Ryoka began to jog down the road after Charlay. The Centaur was trying to trot as quietly as she could, which was not that quiet at all. She beckoned to Ryoka and then froze, pointed. Ryoka inhaled sharply.
Someone was coming down the road. The figure was far distant and moving at a brisk walk, but they were definitely headed this way. Ryoka and Charlay exchanged a glance.
“One of—”
“No. Just a traveller. Let’s warn them. Come on!”
Ryoka was instantly worried. Not for them, but for the traveller. She and Charlay were going to run to get out of the [Bandit]’s line of sight, but whomever this was might not be able to get away. And if the [Bandits] came over the rise and saw them—
Ryoka and Charlay raced towards the distant figure a few hundred feet away. As they neared, Charlay called out.
“Hey! Hey, you! Stop! There’s [Bandits] up—”
She halted in her tracks, staring. Ryoka, catching up, halted as well and stared in astonishment. Alevica tipped up her purple hat and regarded Ryoka and Charlay with a blink of surprise. Her bright pink eyes flicked from Ryoka’s face to Charlay’s.
“You two again. What a surprise.”
She smiled, a flick of sardonic amusement. The young woman, still older than both Ryoka and Charlay, looked at the two and then past them.
“What’s your rush?”
“Uh—”
Charlay backed away from Alevica, frightened. Ryoka glanced over her shoulder and spoke tersely.
“[Bandits]. They’re on the road ahead, just before the marsh.”
Alevica’s brows rose, but that was it.
“Really? You’re sure?”
“I think they killed someone. We’re heading back. You should too. There are sixteen of them.”
“Really now.”
The other City Runner put her hands on her hips and smiled slightly, looking at Ryoka. She shook her head.
“You’re running from the [Bandits]? I thought the Wind Runner was tougher than that. I’d expect this from Charlay, but you?”
The amusement hit a button marked ‘Anger’ in Ryoka’s chest. She gritted her teeth.
“I’m just being practical. There’s at least eight on horseback, and some could be [Mages]. I have no idea what level they are.”
Alevica looked around the deserted landscape.
“If this is where they’re hiding, I’d say it’s low. You can hide, but I’m heading this way. I’ve done my delivery, and I don’t feel like wasting time.”
So saying, she reached into the pouch at her side and began rummaging around in it. A bag of holding. Ryoka stared at that and then Alevica.
“Wait, you’re going to fight?”
“Sure am, Miss Wind Runner. You’re free to join me. Charlay, you can hide over there. There might be a bush large enough to hide you.”
Alevica pulled out something from the bag and shook it out. Ryoka stared as Alevica fastened it around her head. And then, with a start, Ryoka recognized what they were.
Goggles. Crude, compared to the modern, streamlined kind. Glass lenses set into leather. But goggles nonetheless. Alevica secured them and then reached into her bag of holding a second time.
“How about it, Ryoka? I’m sure you like [Bandits] as much as I do. Besides, it’s the job of [Witches] to clean up messes when we come across them. I don’t…except when it’s easy like [Bandits]. How about you, good little Miss Runner? Want to show me how good Reizmelt’s top runner is?”
“I—”
Ryoka looked at Charlay. The Centauress was shaking her head, her eyes wide. Ryoka looked at Alevica. The young woman paused. Then she pulled out a broom from her pouch. Ryoka’s eyes went wide.
“Well?”
Alevica tossed the broom on the ground. It was a broom, but it wasn’t at the same time. Ryoka was familiar with brooms, sweeping brooms, plastic-handled, with wide, flat bottoms from her world. This one wasn’t. The handle was wooden, long, and the end was thrush, tied together in a way that didn’t look at all appropriate for sweeping. But it did look like—
Ryoka looked up and met Alevica’s eyes. In her mind, something exploded. It couldn’t be—
“Well? Last chance.”
Alevica grinned as she put one foot on the handle of her broom as it lay in the dust. Ryoka hesitated. She glanced at Charlay and took a bit too long in replying. Alevica sighed.
“Too bad. I really expected more from you. I’ll do it myself, then. Up!”
So saying, the [Witch] placed her other foot on the broom’s handle. And it rose from the ground. Ryoka stumbled back, staring. Alevica, standing on the broom as if it were a skateboard, as if it were solid, winked down at Ryoka. She put one hand on her hat. And she flew.
The broom shot forwards like an arrow, carrying Alevica with it over the rise in the hill. As she flew, Alevica laughed, a wild, free sound. She shot over the hill, faster than Ryoka could sprint. Ryoka’s jaw stayed open. Charlay danced over to her.
“Ryoka! We have to go! The [Bandits] are going to—”
She halted as Ryoka whirled to her and pointed. The Human girl shouted, forgetting about the [Bandit].
“She can fly!?”
“She’s a [Witch]! What did you think she could do, lay eggs?”
“But—”
Ryoka stared at the air where Alevica had been. Yes! She knew Alevica was—but they could actually—Charlay was tugging at Ryoka.
“We have to go.”
“She just went right towards the [Bandits]!”
Ryoka protested. Charlay shook her head.
“It doesn’t matter! She’s fast on that broom! She could outrun them! But what if she sets them on us?”
“She wouldn’t do that. Would she?”
The two stared at each other. Charlay’s eyes were wide and frightened. Ryoka felt a lurch in her stomach.
