Wiskeria looked around. The street was crowded, but no one was moving. A crow alighted on the building opposite; a dog wandered forwards, sniffing. But no Humans. Durene impatiently eyed the crowd for volunteers and nudged Ram repeatedly. Once one person tried it—but the villagers hesitated. Then a quavering voice spoke up.
“I’ll—uh—I’ll have some, if you wouldn’t mind. That smells like a wonderful soup. And clearly magical. Not magic I know, though.”
Durene saw Nesor, the timid [Mage], appear in the crowd. He walked forwards and looked awkwardly at Wiskeria. He hesitated. Wiskeria bit her lip.
“Nesor. I haven’t seen you in a while.”
“I, uh—avoided you. Wiskeria. I’m sorry about—you know, it was me who was sending [Messages], so I’m sorry…”
The [Mage]’s stutter hadn’t improved. He hesitated and looked around, then shrank a bit as he lowered his head.
“I’m sorry about that.”
A moment of silence followed his words. Wiskeria nodded tiredly.
“I am too.”
The two looked at each other until Ram cleared his throat.
“It wasn’t your fault, Miss Wiskeria. Nor His Majesty’s. It was them Goblins. And whoever knocked out poor Nesor.”
Everyone nodded at that to Durene’s relief. Nesor nodded too. He couldn’t meet anyone’s eyes. Instead, he eyed the magical soup with a [Mage]’s interest.
“I’d gladly try the first bowl, Miss Wiskeria. I’ve always heard [Witches] make powerful concoctions, but I haven’t ever tried…would you allow me the honor?”
“Of course.”
Wiskeria smiled, and Durene offered her a ladle. Wiskeria poured the soup into a bowl, and Nesor took it. He sniffed the soup and smiled timidly. Then he took a spoon and, without hesitation, took a bite.
His face changed at once. It grew peaceful, content, and his eyes brightened. No one needed to know what the soup tasted like, but the crowd waited anyways as Nesor finished the bowl, eating quickly and hungrily. He looked up, realized everyone was staring, and blushed. But then he pointed at the cauldron.
“This is the finest soup I’ve ever had. And—powerful! I feel reinvigorated, as good as any [Alchemist]’s concoction. I urge you all to try it! Please!”
He waved a hand, and the crowd moved forwards. Durene, smiling and laughing, reached for the ladle, and Wiskeria’s smile was no less wide than Nesor’s. Chimmy hopped into place, bouncing for a bowl. Durene reached for the ladle, and the shout behind her nearly deafened her.
“You bitch!”
Rehanna ran forwards. The woman hiked up her dress, and before anyone could stop her, as Durene and Wiskeria were turning, she kicked at the cauldron. With a cry, Durene turned, but it was too late. The iron pot didn’t overbalance with Rehanna’s enraged kick—so she heaved against the metal until it went over. The heavy pot tipped, and gravity did the rest.
The liquid in the cauldron poured onto the street, mixing with the wet earth. The pleasant aroma in the air faded and turned sour. Wiskeria leapt back as the magical soup stained her feet. And the pleasant liquid was suddenly brown, mixed with the soil unpleasantly. Rehanna, panting, eyes alight with hatred, pointed in triumph at it.
“See? It was a trick! It wasn’t good at all! Poison, it looks like!”
“Rehanna!”
Mister Ram roared in fury. He threw his bowl down as the convivial, pleasant atmosphere turned just as hostile. Wiskeria was in shock, but the [Rancher] advanced on Rehanna furiously.
“You just kicked over enough food to feed everyone here! And the best smelling soup I’ve ever had! How dare you! Prost will put you in the pillory! You should be thrown out of Riverfarm on your ear for that! After Miss Wiskeria—”
“Don’t you fall for her lies! She’s a [Witch]! She was trying to buy you all with her fake magic! You think she can make you a stew and beg your forgiveness? Did you forget what she did?”
Rehanna bellowed back, her face red with fury. There were tears in her eyes. Ram recoiled, and Rehanna pointed at the foul-smelling liquid now staining the ground.
“You see that? Can’t you smell it? I knew it was a trick! The same trick that made everyone think she was a [General]! It’s just black magic!”
“It wasn’t bad magic.”
Nesor mumbled.
“How would you know, you half-rate [Mage]?”
Rehanna spun on him, and he flinched. But he raised his voice, gritting his teeth.
“I know just as certainly as I knew any magic from Wistram. Miss Rehanna. That was no poor spell. It was a [Witch]’s brew, not alchemical, but there was good magic there. I’m afraid you ruined it.”
He pointed at Rehanna. The woman’s face turned even deeper crimson, and there was a rumble from the villagers. She pointed at Wiskeria, and her voice was a screech of fury.
“Say what you will, but I know who killed my husband! It was her! Her and your mad [Emperor]! And if you had half the sense I do—that Lancrel’s people do, come to it—you’d see the truth.”
“You’re drunk, Rehanna. And you’ve been listening to those idiots from Lancrel’s Council.”
Miss Yesel looked disgusted. Durene realized not all of Rehanna’s flush was from anger. The half-Troll girl clenched her fists. How dare she?
And yet, more than one person was eying Wiskeria’s spoiled soup uneasily. The smell was foul. They looked at Wiskeria. She was standing, feet still in the wet soup, head bowed. The rest of the crowd rumbled ominously. Rehanna had insulted Laken too. But the woman just looked around with a sneer.
“You think I’m wrong? She’s a [Witch]! You know what they do! How would you ever trust a bloody [Witch]? A witch!”
No one replied. Disgusted, Ram turned and spat.
“Someone help me. We’re hauling you to Prost. He can deal with you—he’s taking care of that [Thief] right now. Or Lady Rie. Where is she?”
He reached for Rehanna. She tore herself away, stumbling back. She retreated as Ram and a few other men and women reached for her.
“Don’t touch me! I want Councilwoman Beatica! She’s smart enough to see through that bitch’s lies. And she knows what’s right about everything else! Don’t touch me! Riverfarm’s going to have proper laws. Proper laws and—”
She was backing away towards the cookhouse door. Rehanna reached for it, probably intending to barricade herself inside. Ram, growling, reached for her, but the woman seized the doorknob—and shrieked.
The sound split the air. It wasn’t like her scream of fury earlier. It wasn’t a Human sound, but animalistic. Pain. Pure pain. Rehanna’s shriek froze Ram and the others in their tracks. Durene saw the woman flail back from the door, clutching at her right hand, the one that had touched the knob. And then she held it up.
Red, burnt flesh and blood trickling down her hand. Scorched skin, part of her hand torn away—
The crowd stared in horror. Rehanna opened her mouth to say something, but another shriek tore its way out. She could only wave her hand and scream, looking around, begging them to do something. But everyone was frozen. Durene’s mind was locked up. What had just—
“I didn’t do it! I didn’t touch her!”
Ram was shaken, white-faced. He stared at Rehanna’s hand. Then someone behind him uttered a strangled oath.
“Ram! The door—”
The man looked and froze. Durene saw a bright light. She stared at the doorknob. It was ordinary brass. But something was wrong. The door knob was burning white with heat! Somehow, it had grown hot as metal in forge’s fire. And it had burned Rehanna’s hand when she’d put it on the doorknob.
Some of it was still there. Parts of her palm sizzled and cooked on the doorknob. Durene smelled the scent of cooked meat, but her stomach roiled as she saw Rehanna holding her mutilated hand. Someone behind her gagged—it was Miss Yesel.
“What on earth—how did this happen?”
Ram stared at Rehanna, and then he turned.
“Healing potion. We need a—”
Half the people felt at their belts. The rest stared in horror. But it was Nesor, face white, who ran for one. As Rehanna collapsed to her knees, unable to speak for agony, in the silence, heads turned.
“Who did this? Why?”
Ram whispered. Then he turned. He looked. He couldn’t help it. Neither could Durene. She stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] was frozen in the street. She looked around, started.
“It wasn’t me. I didn’t—”
The shock on her face was apparent to everyone. But still, the eyes searched the street, then went back to her. If not her, who? Rehanna made another sound, a groaning, weeping scream. Miss Yesel clutched at Chimmy, who was white with fear.
“Miss Wiskeria?”
“I didn’t do it. That was not my spell.”
“Was it a spell?”
Ram looked at Wiskeria and then past her at Nesor, who’d rushed out of a building with three vials in his hand. Wiskeria hesitated.
“I—the magic—”
“It was not Wiskeria who cast that spell.”
Durene breathed in and out, trying to clear the smell from the door. The knob was turning red, cooling. But the damage was still done. Ram looked around, clearly disconcerted.
“If not Wiskeria, then who? Who—”
“Me.”
The voice came from above and behind. Durene spun. Ram, Yesel, Chimmy, Wiskeria, everyone, looked up. There they saw her.
A woman perched on the roof of the house opposite the cookhouse. At least, she looked vaguely like a woman. Her arms were thin, her posture hunched. She was dressed in grey rags, and she had a dark grey hat. Pointed and bespectacled with feathers. But the woman’s frame looked—wrong. Too long. And as she hunched there, in a crouch, Durene saw she was not alone.
A flock of crows were sitting next to the woman, as silent as could be. Durene hadn’t even noticed them arrive. Now they turned their heads, their beady eyes staring down at the crowd. More than one person shuddered. Not just for the crows. But for the woman. She looked like the crows. Her eyes, when they stared down, were piercing. And the irises were nearly black.
“I cast that spell, Master Ram. If you seek a [Witch] to blame, here I am. But such is consequence for rudeness done. That woman’s pain was justly won.”
“What—who are—”
Ram stuttered as he pointed up at the woman. Wiskeria had gone white. She looked up, and the woman—no, the [Witch] stood up. The villagers backed away as the crows took flight, circling the air, cawing. And the woman’s voice was loud as Rehanna screamed on the ground.
“Remember this well, people of Riverfarm: Those who scorn a [Witch]’s gift must pay the toll. Discourtesy shall be matched with discourtesy, and ill for ill. In equal measure do we reap kindness or misery each. Such is humanity’s will.”
The words came out like a chant, like a spell. The woman who was as much bird as person leapt down, and the murder of crows flew low overhead, cawing, and the people ducked or shouted. They backed away. But Wiskeria held still. She stared at the woman with the hat. The [Witch]. And she said only two words as her hand slowly reached up to tip her hat.
“Witch Mavika.”
The [Witch] bowed slightly as she touched her own black hat. A smile crossed her lips. Yellow teeth—Durene shuddered. Mavika looked at Wiskeria. And to her she said only this:
“I am the first.”
The rest followed soon after.
