Wiskeria patted her pouches. Durene nodded, and they coaxed Bismarck back to the path and let him snuffle onwards. Frostwing screeched overhead; she’d caught a baby bunny. Durene sighed.
They were making a brew. As Wiskeria had told Durene last night, potions were out of her expertise., but [Witches] had a unique set of talents of their own.
“It’s between cooking and alchemy. Closer to alchemy, really, but I’ve met a few [Witches] who could make magical dishes. But mostly, it is just stuff in cauldrons. It’s easier with water and heat. That’s where that image of [Witches] comes from, you know?”
Wiskeria led Durene through the forest. The half-Troll girl grunted as she peeled off some bark from a tree. You could actually eat the bark—and Bismarck was trying to—but Wiskeria didn’t want much. She was investigating patches of plants, picking them up, comparing what she had in her pouches and basket, and tossing some, keeping others. The [Witch] was so business-like that Durene didn’t feel like they were doing magic, just preparing a forest soup. Which was close, apparently.
“[Alchemists] buy all kinds of expensive and highly magical ingredients to make their potions so powerful. [Witches] don’t often have that kind of money, so we make natural recipes. This is just a healthy, restorative brew. It doesn’t need to follow an exact recipe like a Stoneskin Potion or something.”
“And where do wild strawberries figure into it?”
Durene peeked at a few red fruits in the basket Wiskeria held. The [Witch] smiled.
“They’re tasty? Seriously, though, strawberries feature in some recipes I know. Not this one; there aren’t enough, and they’d ruin the taste. Don’t worry, Durene. I know what I’m doing.”
“I’m not worried. It just doesn’t feel like magic.”
The [Farmer] girl complained as she yanked the basket off Bismarck’s back. It was full after three hours of scavenging, and he was trying to take it off and couldn’t be bribed. She walked back to the cottage with Wiskeria. The [Witch] needed her biggest cauldron.
“Will mine do? It generally just holds spare vegetables.”
Durene anxiously washed it out and plopped the heavy iron pot down outside. Wiskeria frowned as she ground up some of what she’d brought, including the bark.
“It should. Okay, we need to fill this cauldron with about half water—and we need some milk.”
“Fresh?”
“Preferably. Oh, and some broth. I know there’s some in Riverfarm. Can you get it?”
Durene looked dubious.
“What kind of broth?”
“Uh—vegetable? Yellat or turnip would do, but I think even a mix will be fine. It’ll have to be enough to fill the rest of the cauldron so high. No meat.”
Durene stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] stared back, hands busy grinding. She looked over—Bismarck went for her bowl, and she slapped him across the face. The Mossbear groaned and retreated.
“Hurry up, will you? I can’t keep Bismarck busy for long. Hey! Fetch this potato! Oh, we’ll need more potatoes, Durene. And carrots. Actually, I have a list here—”
The half-Troll girl hesitated, but she was too far in it to back out now. She took the list, did a double-take, and frowned at Wiskeria. But then Durene tromped down into the village. It was abuzz with activity. More than one person had abandoned their job; Durene found out why as she caught hold of Miss Yesel and Chimmy helping pass out food. Miss Yesel blinked at the list, but she had Chimmy help source the ingredients willingly enough.
“What’s going on, Miss Yesel?”
The woman frowned as Chimmy helped fill a handcart for Durene to go back with.
“The trial’s what’s going on, Durene. My Prost’s going to show everyone that so-called Master Elmmet’s nothing more than a [Thief]! But the Lancrel folk aren’t happy. They’re already saying he’s innocent—whereas everyone with sense wants him out of Riverfarm or flogged! Or both! But there was already a fight when Prost tried to put the [Thief] in the pillory!”
She glared. By ‘everyone’, she’d meant all of the villagers. Durene nodded, glancing out the window as Chimmy put a closed-lid pail on the handcart with a grunt.
“I think we need at least two more pails, Chimmy.”
Yesel put her hands on her hips.
“Goodness, what’s all this for?”
“Magic, I think. I’ll be back soon, Miss Yesel. Wiskeria’s making something, but I’ll come to Riverfarm before the trial. What’s it in, an hour?”
Yesel nodded, looking relieved.
“I don’t expect any trouble, but it’d be good to have you about, Durene. Just in case. Everyone’ll see that Elmmet’s a monster, but just in case. That everything Wiskeria wants?”
Durene nodded and scowled at her list. She had a deep suspicion—she stomped back up the way to her cottage, pushing the handcart and taking care not to spill anything. Wiskeria was mixing the ingredients in the cauldron when Durene came back, and the [Witch] had started a fire.
Durene smelled a few acrid hints from the pot, but the rest looked just like edible stuff. And the Sage’s Grass. She had to admit, the red-green herbs swirling around in the pot, with their slight glow that illuminated the water, made the soup look more properly magical.
Wiskeria didn’t look the part, though. Oh, she had a hat and robes, but she was stirring the pot with a long-handled spoon. When Durene set down the cart, the [Witch] brightened.
“Oh good, you’re here. I was worried I’d boil this all too long. Okay, we’re going to dice the potatoes and carrots and toss them in here. Along with the broth. Did you get the spices?”
“I did.”
Durene eyed the pot and folded her arms. Wiskeria nodded.
“We don’t have to peel the potatoes. Just wash them. We’ll bring the brew to a boil, let it simmer for about twenty minutes, then add the cream. And then—”
“Wiskeria!”
The [Witch] jumped as Durene stamped her foot. Bismarck, sneaking up with his mouth open to the handcart, backed off hurriedly. The half-Troll girl glared at the [Witch]. Wiskeria looked at Durene warily.
“What?”
“This isn’t a brew! This is potato soup!”
The half-Troll girl howled in outrage. There was nothing magical in the soup besides some edible plants and the Sage’s Grass! She’d made soup like this a hundred times! Wiskeria turned red.
“No, it’s a brew. It just looks like potato soup to you. And it’ll taste a bit like it. The milk’s what I normally add—”
“You’re just making food! That’s not magical! How am I supposed to believe it’ll do anything besides fill my stomach?”
“You haven’t seen the final step. Besides, we added Sage’s Grass. That’s important.”
Wiskeria weakly protested. Durene glared.
“If I’m not impressed, I’m going to dump the entire pot over you. This had better be magic, Wiskeria. People need magic. Not food.”
The [Witch] opened her mouth to protest, and then her gaze grew distant. She tugged her hat lower and adjusted her spectacles.
“Food’s important. But this will be magic, Durene. I swear it by my fingers. If I lie, you can feed them to Bismarck. I swear it by the dead. It may look like fun and games, but I swear there’s magic here, by a [Witch]’s name.”
And when she said that and looked at Durene, her eyes were suddenly, scarily serious. Durene hesitated.
“You don’t have to do that. I mean, I like a good soup…”
She smiled lamely, suddenly disconcerted by Wiskeria’s change of mood. After a second, the [Witch] smiled, and everything was normal.
“That’s part of it. Good food is good magic, or so one of the [Witches] who taught me used to say. But there’s more to witchcraft than everyone thinks. It’s not the kind of magic [Mages] understand…let’s put in that broth. Do you have a spare cutting knife? I hate using my dagger.”
It was a potato soup. From the way the two diced the carrots and potatoes—Wiskeria had forgotten celery—to adding in spices and letting the soup simmer and thicken. Wiskeria even offered Durene a taste, and the girl had to admit it was good. Not magical, though.
But the magic was coming. Wiskeria’s solemn oath was first. As the soup was boiling and she had Durene stirring in the creamy milk from the cows, the [Witch] walked around the cauldron. Six times clockwise, three times counterclockwise. She traced a perfect circle each time, her steps all the same width.
Durene, busy tasting the soup for consistency as she added milk, barely noticed at first. But then she noticed that with each circle, the flames of the fire at the bottom of the cauldron were jumping slightly. Higher and higher with each of Wiskeria’s circuits. Durene nearly dropped the ladle.
“Wait, are you doing magic? Am I in the way?”
Wiskeria didn’t answer at first. She completed the third circle counterclockwise and then turned to Durene. The Troll girl stared. She had never thought of it, but Wiskeria’s eyes were a faint, yellowish green, weren’t they? Only, they looked more yellow than green. And they seemed to have the faintest luminescence in the morning.
Morning. Durene looked around her cottage. Trees all about, and the road leading down to Riverfarm was normal. It was just that there were a few more shadows. As if it were evening all of a sudden. But the sun was rising in the sky when she glanced up. Bright…except when you looked down.
“Wiskeria? Is this the magic bit? Are you going to cast a spell?”
Durene tried to chuckle. To her relief, Wiskeria laughed lightly and smiled.
“Just a bit of preparatory stuff. It’s just a ritual, Durene. [Witch] magic is more like rituals. We cast a few spells like my [Fox Fire] spell, but that’s [Mage] magic. This is about patterns.”
“Potato soup.”
Neither one laughed at that this time. Wiskeria just smiled. She glanced at the simmering pot. The soup was turning an appetizing creamy color, spotted with the spices and bits of herbs and carrots Durene had tossed in. The smell made Durene’s stomach rumble.
“It’s about intent. Intent, bits of magic—but mostly…will.”
“Will?”
“Oh yes. Good will, bad will…I’m sorry, I can’t explain. What’s left?”
“Uh—nothing much. It’s pretty close to done. Hey, this is a good soup. But it’d be better for some bacon or something. You know, for taste? I could run down and get some—”
“No. No meat. No dead flesh.”
Wiskeria’s head snapped up. She stared at Durene. The half-Troll girl froze.
“Okay.”
“That’s not the intention here. This pot is made with goodwill. To heal. For regrowth. Meat would spoil it. And I can’t do it twice. Give me a second.”
Wiskeria knelt and began adding wood to the fire. Durene felt like the soup was hot enough; any hotter and they’d burn it. But she only watched as the fire grew, and the brew began to bubble.
“You couldn’t make it twice? Why not? There’s enough ingredients in the forest and in Riverfarm to make a hundred soups like this, I wager.”
Wiskeria glanced up. She stood up slowly, and the fire ate up the wood, greedily rising.
“I can’t make a second brew or soup. Just like I can’t cast a hex the same way twice. The emotions are wrong. The history makes the magic. The wrongs I’ve done are going into this brew.”
She pointed down into the pot. Durene peered in and chuckled nervously. She looked around. Were there shadows in the cottage? She glanced up at the sun for reassurance, but it felt paler.
“I didn’t see you throwing anything bad in there.”
“It’s not just about what goes into it. It’s what’s done. Where’s the knife?”
Durene paused. Wiskeria found it and nodded. She reached up and, without hesitating, cut a lock from her hair. Not much. She went back to the pot with it.
“Aw, Wiskeria—”
The [Witch] tossed the hair onto the fire. Durene closed her mouth, and the flames ate the hair greedily. The stench of burning hair filled the air—and then it vanished. Durene blinked. She felt at her nose. Suddenly, the smell of the soup was there, but not the hair smell. And it smelled better than before.
“Um. Wiskeria? Is this more magic?”
“Yes.”
The [Witch] turned back. Her eyes were glowing. She took a few breaths and blew over the pot’s surface. And the liquid inside moved as if she were stirring it.
“Nearly done. The magic’s there. The stew’s good. All that’s left is the incantation.”
The [Witch] murmured to herself. Durene hesitated. She wasn’t sure she liked this anymore. The shadows were longer, she was certain. And—suddenly, Durene realized she hadn’t seen Bismarck. The greedy Mossbear would love this soup. So why wasn’t he…?
She looked around. Bismarck was nowhere to be seen. Slowly, Durene fixed on Wiskeria. The [Witch] was walking around the pot, doing that perfect circle again. Murmuring under her breath.
Goosebumps raced up Durene’s arm. Quickly—just to make sure he wasn’t going to interfere—she went around the cottage. She found Bismarck huddled in his den. He stared at her as she paused in relief.
“There you are. You’re, uh, not going to eat the soup, right? It’s important you don’t.”
The Mossbear stared up at Durene. He didn’t seem bored or hungry like he always did. Rather, he looked—wary. She reached for him after a second.
“You want to eat some scraps?”
Bismarck resisted Durene’s pull. He growled and then snapped as she tried to pull him out with more force. She let go at once. The Mossbear huddled in his den.
“Okay then. I’ll leave you.”
Disconcerted, Durene backed away. The fire was hot under the cauldron. The smell of the soup filled the air. There was another feeling too, a sense of tension. Almost like the feeling before a storm, but different. Wiskeria was bent over the cauldron. Durene couldn’t see her face. The half-Troll girl looked around. She didn’t like this anymore.
“Frostwing?”
The bird was hiding in her nest inside Durene’s cottage. Her head was under her wing, and when Durene tried to bring her outside, she flew back. She didn’t scream; that was the thing. She was silent, but she fought Durene coming out. At last, Durene walked outside and saw Wiskeria standing there.
Watching her. Durene halted. The [Witch] stood in front of the cauldron, and her eyes were glowing. Yellow mixed with green. Wiskeria spoke slowly.
“Remember what I said about [Witches] being different, Durene?”
“Yes?”
Durene quavered. Then she straightened. This wasn’t something to be afraid of! It was just—Wiskeria had told her she wasn’t above Level 30 in her [Witch] class. It was just a spell. If Durene kicked over the cauldron—her eyes flicked to the pot.
Kick over the cauldron? She didn’t want to do that. That felt like a…bad idea. But Durene was unnerved.
“This isn’t like regular magic, Wiskeria.”
The [Witch] smiled slightly. She breathed in and out—she was sweating hard, Durene realized.
