That was when the screaming started. The two Runners jerked as a shrill scream split the air. Charlay bolted—Ryoka whirled, grabbing a handful of caltrops from her bag of holding. She called for the wind, but it only blew into her face.
“Ryoka!”
Charlay beckoned. But Ryoka, listening, heard a second scream split the air. It was a man’s voice. The first had been a woman’s. Neither sounded like Alevica. She looked back at Charlay.
“I have to see.”
“No—”
The Centauress’ eyes widened as Ryoka ran for the rise, caltrops in hand. She hesitated and then ran after Ryoka, pulling out a wand from her bag of holding. Ryoka was first to the top of the incline. She stared down as Charlay appeared next to her. The Centauress stared down.
“What—”
Her breath caught in her chest. Below them, on the road where the marshy forest began, the two saw the group of [Bandits]. They were scattering, running, horses galloping left and right. Some were shouting, waving swords or trying to take aim. But the rest were running. Dying.
A [Witch] on a broomstick was swooping down on the [Bandits], holding something. Ryoka saw a flicker, and one of the [Bandits] fell, screaming. Alevica’s broom swerved as a [Mage] aimed and shot a bolt of lightning at her. The lightning crackled through the air where she’d been, and the [Witch] threw something. Ryoka saw the vial break and a plume of smoke and a small explosion—the [Mage] disappeared in it, but she heard his voice, shrieking.
“Dead gods. She’s fighting all of them?”
Charlay breathed. Ryoka stared down the hill. The [Bandits] were fleeing this way, trying to regroup. Alevica dodged down, avoiding an arrow, and, laughing, shot something back at a woman, who dove to avoid it. The [Witch] was still standing on her broom, circling, diving, turning at a pace the [Bandits] couldn’t follow. Like a bird in the sky. A hunter.
But it was one against over a dozen. Or—was it? Ryoka looked down the hill at the [Bandits]. Something was wrong. They were turning, fighting something besides just Alevica. The ones with bows and magic were futilely shooting at her, but the rest—
“Look! Dead gods, Ryoka, look! Undead!”
Charlay saw them before Ryoka could make out the distant shapes. Ryoka saw a pair of skeletons slashing at the [Bandits] from the side, advancing with iron swords. And more were appearing, thrusting their way out of the earth.
A trio of skeletons were dragging one man down into the ground they’d emerged from, pulling him into the earth, tearing at his face with their fingers. The man was screaming, trying to fight them off as they tried to pull him into the ground. His friends fought the undead, but Alevica refused to let them save him. She dove lower and pointed something at a man trying to pull his friend up.
Thunk.
Ryoka and Charlay both recoiled at the distinctive sound and noise. The man stumbled back, and a feathered shaft of wood appeared in his chest, going straight through his leather armor. Alevica had fired it from point-blank—her broom accelerated, carrying her past the other [Bandits], who chased her before she took to the air again. Ryoka stared at what the [Witch] was holding.
A crossbow. And her other hand was reaching for her bag of holding. Alevica flew up, high, high overhead, angling her broom up. Her feet slid down the handle until she stopped, forty feet overhead. There she calmly reloaded the crossbow.
“Kill her!”
The roar from below came from a woman on horseback. She had a spear, but Alevica was far out of range. Two [Bandits] fired, and one pointed a wand. Alevica glanced down, and her broom casually carried her forwards. The arrows and ray of light missed. Alevica turned, sat side-saddle down on her broom, and pulled another thing out of her bag of holding. Ryoka saw a glint of glass. She saw the small smile.
The broom dove. Alevica shot down as the [Bandits] scattered. The woman with the spear, the [Bandit Leader], refused to move, though. She aimed and, as Alevica dove, threw her spear with a roar.
It was a good cast. Alevica blinked as the spear flew at her. Ryoka saw it happen in a moment. The [Witch] turned, flying around the spear, but the spear turned to catch her. Alevica’s eyes widened—
Then the broom twisted. Alevica, sitting upright, rotated underneath the spear and flashed back up as it passed her. The spear tried to twist again, but it had lost momentum. It struck the ground. And Alevica flew at the [Bandit Leader]. She fired, and the horse the woman was riding screamed. The woman grabbed at her reins. Alevica flashed past her. Alevica’s other hand lashed out, and she threw something in the woman’s face.
A vial. It broke, and Ryoka saw a flash of fire. The [Bandit Leader] screamed, clutching at her face as the fire erupted along her face, her arms and shoulders. She writhed on the ground, rolling, but the flames wouldn’t go out. Alevica laughed, mockingly, and the rest of the [Bandits] fled. One threw down her weapons. Alevica flew towards her, and Ryoka saw her lash out. The shortsword slashed through part of the [Bandit]’s neck, and she collapsed.
The rest, seeing the fate of the one who’d thrown down their weapons, turned. They fought and died.
The last man disappeared as the skeletons surrounded him, hacking with bloody weapons. They looked up as Alevica flew past them and stopped, their bones and blades red. She made a sign, and they collapsed, turning to…dust.
It was silent after that. The [Witch] landed and investigated the bodies. She went from each one, checking them, rolling them over. Taking something from each. She spent only a few minutes there, and then the broom flew over to her. With one foot, she stepped up and turned the broom. She aimed towards the marsh ahead of her, the road, and began to fly forwards. At the last moment, she stopped and looked back up towards the slight hill and the two figures who’d watched her the entire time.
She was too far away, then, for Ryoka to see. But she knew Alevica was grinning.
 
—–
 
Silence. After Alevica had gone, it took Ryoka and Charlay a long time to go down the hill. It wasn’t for fear of Alevica returning. It was just frightening in another way.
The [Bandits]—and they were [Bandits]—had died hard. Several had fallen to Alevica’s crossbow bolts, two to the vials she’d thrown. The [Mage], whose corpse was still emitting smoke, made Ryoka and Charlay keep a wide distance. The [Bandit Leader] had stopped burning, but her upper body was charred.
Ryoka stared around at the dead sixteen. Some had died to skeletons. The last few Alevica had chopped down herself with the shortsword. She stared at the woman who’d thrown down her sword and noticed something else.
“Money pouches.”
“What?”
Charlay was breathing hard, her face white. She looked over as Ryoka pointed down.
“She took their money pouches. Potions too, I think.”
“O-oh. Well, that’s normal.”
“It is?”
Ryoka glanced up. Charlay nodded.
“If you kill [Bandits], you might as well sell their stuff, right? Adventurers do it. So why not…I don’t know any City Runners who kill [Bandits], but I heard…”
She broke off. Stared around at the bodies. Ryoka peered at the Centauress.
“You knew Alevica could fly?”
“Everyone knows. She can’t do it forever. That’s why she takes the carriage. But everyone knows she’s a [Witch]. She can do witchy things. No one messes with her, even though she’s got a bad reputation. But I’ve never seen…”
Charlay stared at the burnt corpse and shuddered. Ryoka stared down the road at where Alevica had gone. Part of her wanted to be impressed. Alevica had taken out a [Bandit] group. Low-level perhaps, but one had known a lightning spell, and she’d beaten sixteen of them by herself! But Ryoka couldn’t be impressed. Alevica had cut the rest down mercilessly, even when they’d tried to surrender, to run. It was—cruel.
But she had flown. The wind stirred. Ryoka touched her chest and felt her heart racing. She had flown. She looked at Charlay and, after a beat, pointed.
“Come on. We’ve got to report this.”
The Centauress started and nodded uncertainly. Someone had to know this [Bandit] group was dead. They’d report it at the next Runner’s Guild they came to. Ryoka doubted Alevica would even mention it.
It was very quiet as the two ran on. Very, very quiet. They never caught up to Alevica, and that night, both stopped at the town they’d come to. They made a short report at the Runner’s Guild. And it turned out Alevica had reported the encounter. She’d asked about a bounty on the [Bandits]. There had been none.
Ryoka left the guild as the [Receptionist] confirmed her report. She and Charlay ate quietly and went to bed in the only inn without saying much. And Ryoka thought of her.
The Witch Runner, Alevica.
She wondered what Ivolethe would have made of her. Alevica’s laughter haunted Ryoka’s mind. But it wasn’t a cackle. In a way, Alevica was everything Ryoka had wanted to be. That thought kept Ryoka up late into the night.
The next day, she arrived in Riverfarm with Charlay.
 
 
Day 56 – Durene
 
Durene and Wiskeria ate breakfast together in her cottage. After tossing the crusts out and watching Bismarck trying to catch them, they grabbed a basket each and headed into the forest. It was just the day for it.
The morning was amazingly, refreshingly dry. The sky was clear with not a cloud to be seen. And the sun’s warmth was welcome after so much drizzling. In fact, it had warmed the forest floor enough that neither Wiskeria nor Durene needed boots. The two walked, talking lightly, chatting, as Wiskeria led them into the forest on a hunt.
Frostwing flew from branch to branch, sometimes shrieking and diving after something in the forest. The rest of the time, she was restless, but she did stay in the general area around Durene and Wiskeria. Bismarck just ambled along next to the two, snuffling around for anything edible.
“I think she’s smarter than he is by a bit. Frostwing misses Laken, I can tell. And she’s smart enough to know where I keep food, and she can follow orders. Even if she never wants to. Bismarck is simpler. He’s just a stomach with legs.”
Bismarck currently had a basket strapped to his back with a bit of twine, and he didn’t seem at all bothered by it. When he heard his name, he looked up hopefully, as if expecting food.
“Gaurgih.”
Wiskeria smiled. She walked ahead of Durene, scouting the forest path they were using.
“You’re sure you said I could find everything I said I needed? Especially the Sage’s Grass?”
Durene nodded.
“I think so. The forest’s got a lot of good stuff growing in it. And I’ve seen, er—what did you call it?”
“Sage’s Grass. It’s slightly magical, and it’s a great ingredient that’s easy to grow. It’s slightly red and green, and it grows so long—”
Wiskeria indicated, and Durene nodded.
“Yes, I’ve seen that! It grows in clumps in the forest. Meadows usually. It’s worth something, isn’t it? One of our [Farmers] tried to grow it to sell at one of the other towns. He had a great big field of it. Only, that didn’t go so well.”
“Ah, I’d have warned him if I heard about that. It’s not good to try and grow if you’re not prepared.”
Wiskeria smiled and tugged on her hat. Durene nodded.
“Well, it was going well at the start. He bought a lot of expensive seed and got it to sprout, but he was having to pour lots of soil on it, fertilizer and such. And water. When it did begin to grow…”
“I think I know what happened. A monster?”
Durene shook her head, then hesitated.
“Well, sort of. It was a pack of huge rats. Each one as big as a dog. They just appeared and ate everything in the field. And everywhere else as well! We had to burn the field and send for as many dogs as we could to hunt them down. But I still found two trying to eat my piglets the week after.”
She shuddered at the memory. Wiskeria shook her head, but she didn’t look surprised.
“It’s a risky business. I’m surprised that [Farmer] got the grass to grow at all. He must have had a Skill or gotten lucky; Sage’s Grass feeds on mana. It produces it too, but there’s the problem. Magic attracts monsters. And farms, let alone ones with Sage’s Grass, are a magnet for anything hungry. [Alchemists] love the stuff, though.”
“Does anyone grow it? I can’t think of anyone around here who would. Not after the rats.”
Durene was curious as a [Farmer]. Wiskeria pondered the question, her head on a swivel for said grass or anything else on her list.
“I think a lot of Sage Grass comes from some farms up north around…Reizmelt? There’s a swampland there. Oh, and some from Celum in the south. Apparently, some [Farmer] specializes in growing it. It makes him rich. A double handful is enough for us, though. It’s not the most magical thing, but I can make do.”
“And you’re sure this’ll work? With mushrooms and some magical grass and stuff?”
“Yes. And there are no mushrooms necessary, Durene. Although if you find some edible ones, we can toss them in there. For variety and taste.”
The half-Troll girl frowned. But Bismarck was the one who interrupted the two. Wiskeria stepped aside as the bear lumbered forwards, suddenly snuffling.
“What is it?”
The Mossbear instantly headed off the path towards several large trees. He wove around them, and Wiskeria and Durene, following, saw him rooting at something. It was a large stand of—Durene and Wiskeria identified it at the same time.
“Barley grass.”
The Mossbear was happily tearing up the grass and consuming it. Wiskeria bent and took out the sickle she carried. Bismarck gaughed as she swept some up. Durene pushed his head back as he tried to nibble at Wiskeria’s bundle.
“Back off, Bismarck. We need that, right, Wiskeria?”
“It’s a component. I’ll need to extract the juices, but yes. If we can find more and prevent Bismarck from eating it—”
Wiskeria tossed it into the basket on his back. The Mossbear immediately tried to get it, but Durene grabbed his head.
“No, Bismarck. Help us find more of what Wiskeria wants and you get a potato. Understand? Potato.”
She bribed the bear with one, and he bit the ripe potato and licked her hand. Durene wiped it on his fur with a sigh. It had been a good idea to bring the Mossbear; his senses were better than hers or Wiskeria’s. It was just hard to control him.
“What else do we need?”
“Sage’s Grass. Barley grass…Tindleflowers, maybe dandelions or Americ if they’re budding…we’re going to be here for a few hours. Don’t worry, though. It’s not an exact recipe. The basis is really Sage’s Grass plus some extras. And I have dried herbs.”
