“I assume he did, though I cannot be sure. The real story is that one of his brothers bombarded our lines to kill a powerful shaman. Sidjin’s merl friend died in the friendly fire. Before that, he had encouraged us to earn our place in human society so that incident… broke him. He felt he had betrayed us with his words. He became obsessed with that colorless magic of his. In any case, we all escaped through the portal he opened during the span of one night, leaving the outer walls completely defenseless. Execution is the most likely outcome.”

“Hmmm.”

Viv wouldn’t be so sure. A mage capable of opening a portal? She would kill a town to harness his secrets. As she considered Tweek’s words, a nagging feeling finally turned into a memory.

“Wait, you are talking about the northern wall, the most recent one. When did this all happen?”

“Five years ago.”

Viv’s cheeks inflated from ballooning outrage. They had made it sound like it was a founding myth or something! Tweek gave a squawking laugh.

“Don’t be mad at me. Of course I would teach the younglings what I know before old age and braggarts twist it into a farce. We have just been through a… difficult time. Half of those around are too young to remember what we have lost. If Sidjin hadn’t taken pity on us…”

He froze, gaze lost.

“You led your people through an extinction event and they emerged on the other side in one piece. That’s more than most would have achieved,” Viv replied. She felt it was the right thing to say.

“Extinction event?”

“It’s a rapid decrease in, errr, the number of species in a place.”

“An accurate description. Beastlings eat everything that can be eaten, then they peel the bark, dig out the roots, and pull the leaves then eat those as well. The jungle will take a century to regrow after the last of the horde dies.”

He looked a bit sad.

“I suppose this is our home now. In any case, it pleases me that you enjoyed our show. Sidjin was not close to me as he was to the friend he lost, but I miss our conversations. I have had no occasion to practice human languages in a while.”

“And the reason why you asked me if I was from Glastia was in case they would seek revenge for the loss of their outer wall?”

“And the lives that must have come with its fall. I would do it again in a heartbeat, but I can imagine what the First Prince must have said, something about biting the hand that fed. They never saw us as people. If they learn where we are, there is a possibility they would seek revenge. I wouldn’t put it past them.”

“I’m sorry. It seems to be a common thing among some of the northern cities.”

“Sidjin mentioned it, yes, but let’s not dwell on that. You have a long day ahead of you tomorrow so I will explain what you need to do. A guide will lead you to the eastern edge of our territory, then it’s only a short walk to the hollow mountain that hides the Hidden River, a subterranean waterway that ends in northern Enoria, or at least this is what scouts reported. They saw humans and left. It will take a little over two days to reach the river and another one to follow it. Perhaps less. You humans are so fast on flat ground. And now, you should rest. I can tell you have been through much recently.”

“Is it that obvious?” Viv asked bitterly.

Tweek silently pointed at the multiple gashes in her dress, their edges still stained brown despite her attempt to wash it off.

“Oh, right.”

“Unfortunately we have nothing your size, but if you wish, we could have it cleaned and darned for tomorrow.”

“Thanks Tweek, I really appreciate it. I have received a warmer welcome from you than from most of the people I have met so far,” Viv remarked, subtly fishing for confirmation that there wasn’t a catch. She could not help but be a little suspicious.

“You are welcome, Viviane, and thank you for indulging an old man. Hospitality used to be a sacred practice among the tribes. I am happy I had the chance to show it again. And I would have a request in return.”

“I will not share the knowledge of your existence with your enemies.”

“Good. I will have one of my sons show you to your room. Sleep well, ‘Lost Heiress’. I hope you find your way.”

He made to leave, the Viv stopped him.

“Wait!”

“Yes?” Tweek asked with a little concern.

Viv bit her lip. Hospitality was, well, he was right. It was sacred. And she had shown up empty-handed. The thing was that she had nothing she could really spare to show her appreciation, but this was it, was it not? The true test of character. Sacred rights mattered the most when they actually cost something.

Viv removed her helmet from her pack and handed it to Tweek.

“This is too much, I cannot accept—”

“You may have just saved my life. I don’t know much about the Deadshield Woods but I know they’re dangerous and it’s not because I’ve met nothing too dangerous so far that it won’t change. It would make me happy to give you this gift in return for your help, and also as a symbol of friendship from the first human you’ve met in five years. To new beginnings, so to speak.”

Tweek’s tongue flicked out. It was clear he was tempted.

“Will you not miss it? Is it not a set with your shield?”

“Oh no, the shield is different. The enchantment is for durability only, the sigils you see have been added by people I’ve helped.”

Tweek smiled and Viv knew the unwieldy thing was going to become heavier again.
