[Merl Prophet of War. Proficient battle caster, slayer of men, beastling nightmare, unbreakable, leader of merls…]

Ooooh shit, she hoped he was friendly. Fourth step, and not a peaceful one either. He would probably pulp her against the cliffside if she engaged.

The man spoke a few words in a language Viv recognized as that of the northern cities, but she didn’t understand it. At least she remembered enough words to tell him she was not fluent. He nodded and switched to Enorian.

“Good afternoon. Before we begin, I would like to know if you are in any way associated with the city of Glastia.”

His voice was barely more than a croak. He enunciated every word with care in a way that reminded her of the Yries

“Glastia?” Viv asked, “In the north, right?”

“Yes.”

“Not to my knowledge? I’ve never been there.”

“Are you a lost traveler then?”

“Yes, I’m trying to return to Enoria.”

To her surprise, the old one sighed in relief, his shoulder drooping a bit under the slightly ratty cloth. He approached, his escort milling around hesitantly. Viv noticed that they all carried flexible bows, spears, and some sort of uniform made of wood and feathers. Bird feathers, not their own.

“My name is Tweek. I would like to offer you the hospitality for the night, and tomorrow a pathfinder will show you the way out of our domain and to the Hidden River. It will lead you out of the woods.”

Sounded better than trudging around looking for a path.

“My name is Viviane and I’d be delighted,” she replied, and the use of proper etiquette seemed to make the old man happy.

“Then let’s go, there isn’t any tea here. Speaking of, I need to teach the future of our tribe about following a war caster and then offering her unseasoned bushwing as a gesture of friendship.”

Tweek stood up, called the two kids who came sheepishly, then he whacked them on the head. The whole group departed after a tirade delivered in a calm, low voice. It reminded the outlander of her mom promising small Viv a shiny red ass once they’d returned home after a morning of misbehaving. The threats always carried the weight of what the fiery woman would do behind closed doors, far from the eyes and ears of a judgemental public. Viv shivered.

“They noticed your tracks after leaving our lands. Two followed and one returned to warn me. All three of them should have returned, of course. They are first step. If you had been unfriendly or easily scared, things could have gone poorly,” Tweek explained.

“No harm done on my end, at least. I assume you have very few humans here?”

“You are the first in a long time, and the first since we came here.”

“Wow, then how is your Enorian so good if you don’t mind me asking?”

“I will tell you the story tonight,” he replied with a smile, “it’s a bit long. Why did you assume there were few humans?”

“Your pathfinder tamed me with dumplings.”

Viv snitched on the poor lad but kept her tale humorous. Tweek was obviously embarrassed, but Viv’s good mood soon led to a sort of hissing sound Viv assumed were chuckles.

“The younger generation have never met humans. Please forgive them. And thank you for not reacting too strongly. Some others would have taken liberties with us.”

“No problems.”

Viv was tempted to say she had worked with Hadals and Yries before, but one of the lessons her dad had taught her was that you can’t say anything wrong if you shut the fuck up. No need to volunteer information that could land her in hot waters since things were going well so far.

The trip back was uneventful. Tweek inquired how Viv was managing, and the witch explained she had found berries and ambitious snakes. The old merl promised her food and they arrived at the edge of his species’ land.

This part of the wood was craggier and more vertical, with many canyons and corridors separating elevated rock formations. At first, it seemed empty, but the group soon came across the first dwellings.

The merls lived in wood houses built on stilts across chasms or by the cliff, with bridges allowing them to cross the gap. Garland-like vegetation formed natural roofs. They sagged with fruits and vegetables ripening under the early summer sun like colorful ornaments. Meat and pelts hung from driers while Merl women moved adroitly across the place, babies strapped to their backs. They used their prehensile feet to travel with as much grace as if they were on flat land.

The people she came across looked at her with wide eyes and some measure of alarm, but they relaxed when they saw her companion. Strangely, it was the older folks who glared with suspicion.

They came across several more such farming villages on their way deeper into the territory. Viv saw a lot of bone tools but no iron. It also seemed like the merls liked their colors a lot. They didn’t have anything like cornudons but they did keep birds as cattle, possibly for eggs. The tallest of the men were around Viv’s size, and they were lithe and graceful. They were, however, a bit slow on the ground. Viv had to take smaller steps to match the others’ speed.

The path led higher soon.

It was late afternoon when Viv arrived at the merl city.

“Sikoua. It means peace at last,” Tweek commented.

Hidden in a recess of the mountains, Sikoua occupied an inverted cone plunging deep in the mountain flank like an ancient caldera. Hanging gardens criss-crossed its width, loaded with flowers and the occasional platform. Workshops and dwellings dug into the cliff displayed wares and drying laundry. The squawks of conversations were loud, until Viv was spotted that is, then they were replaced by worried whispers. Tweek gave Viv a comforting smile.

“Please do not take their reaction to heart. Humans are why we survived but also why we almost perished in the first place. One of them is also why we are free.”

He pointed at the center of the city, far below, where a simple stone statue stood surrounded by tall trees. It was a man, clearly a human. He had a hand raised in casting or as if holding something back.

“Who is that?” Viv asked.

“Our savior, Sidjin. He was a powerful mage who sacrificed his life to guide us to safety against the wishes of his city. We are in his debt. We will tell you his story tonight! It is a good story.”

“Sure.”

Viv was led to a communal room near the bottom of the city. This deep underground, the sunlight was low but colorful mushrooms provided a varied illumination. Cooks grilled or boiled dumplings on nearby fires.

Several important tribe members came to visit, mostly to have a look at Viv and be reassured that humans were not on the verge of invading the place. When night fell, Viv settled on a comfortable couch filled with feathers while a group of juveniles brought a light orb and flat dolls made of carved wood. Food was served, and Viv sat next to Tweek. The old merl gave a signal with clear excitement, checking Viv’s reaction all the time. It felt strange but seemed harmless enough, so she indulged him when he served her macerated fruits. It was… not very good, but Viv sipped it anyway.

The light orb was placed in a recess of the wall and activated, so that a circular beam illuminated the far wall, casting shadows of plants held in the foreground by the excited younglings. Viv smiled. She hadn’t seen a shadow puppetry show in fifteen years! She leaned forward while the far wall was made into a screen showing a dense jungle covered in liana… and then a hint of mana infused them with color. A light wind caressed Viv’s nose, bringing heat and the rich smell of wet earth. Drums and whistles spoke of bird calls and the passage of unknown creatures. A girl sang in merl while Tweek whispered translations into Viv’s ear.

“Thick forests, so wet and warm, with lianas making bridges without our help! This was where we used to live. The jungle fed us and protected us.”

The trees move apart to show several landmarks in turn.

“Angry old mount Kwehk spat stones to cut and stab.”

A mountain appeared with a warm, dry wind.

“Mother Ril gave us fish every day, delicious and white.”

The sound of flowing water replaced the roars of falling rocks. Viv got some water in her face and had to cover her drink.

“Our tribe lived in cities across the land, from the southern plain to the bitter waters of the north. Lo! So many ancestors made a name for themselves!”

Several minutes passed with small stories of merls accomplishing great things, mostly through cunning and determination. Those were nicely educational, Viv thought.

“But the jungle did not feed only us…” the narrator continued, and her voice turned gloomy and foreboding.

“The beastlings were here, our hated enemies. A thousand times they assaulted the firebear patriarch to eat his fruits. Their bones covered his orchards, but one day… they won.”

The drums formed a low drone, then a slow crescendo as the shapes of clawed limbs built up on one side.

“The beastlings did what they always do: make more of themselves, spread like tree rot across a fruit grove. They fell upon the jungle in numberless hordes and slew its guardians, eating them and growing. Tens of thousands fell from our arrows, but they were as innumerable as ants. One by one, our heroes perished and then it was the turn of our families. The jungle was lost, and we were lost with it. Tweek, the last of our great shamans, drove us south to the plains, to seek shelter.”

Viv’s eyes widened in genuine surprise and considered her companion with renewed interest. Tweek was obviously quite pleased with himself, and for a moment Viv wondered if he was trying to bullshit her, but the respect the other merls had for him said a different story. There was also the ‘beastling nightmare’ title. Only Solfis had a nightmare title. Or rather, he had all of them. The old caster must have massacred thousands of individuals to reach that point.

“And there we found the human city of Glastia.”

The jungle faded, replaced by towering white walls and the call of trumpets. Silhouettes of armored warriors formed tight ranks, pushing the drone away, but it did not die out.

“The humans of Glastia agreed to let us in if we fought. They built a second wall around their city and had us stand on it. The merls fought bravely! We kept the beastlings at bay. We bled and we died on those walls, day after day.”

Sad music replaced the din of battle as the merl shapes on the wall disappeared one after the other. There were more accounts of battle, but Tweek’s voice choked in his throat and Viv didn't get the translation. It didn’t take a genius to guess the merls had been used as a meat shield.

“But there was one who disagreed with our fate. Prince Sidjin!”

Blaring horns announce the coming of a robed man standing heroically next to the remaining merls. The roar of artillery covered the drone of the beastlings and the earth shook enough to force a ripple across Viv’s liquor glass.

“Sidjin fought on the first wall with us, but he saw how his countrymen treated us and defended us however he could. Sidjin brought food and medicine. He brought armor made of cloth and steel-tipped arrows. He was a great man! Until one day, he had enough.”

The drone of battle faded, replaced by a moon-lit night vista. Sidjin stood alone in an empty street, and behind him, a white disk appeared. It soon turned into a doorway to a forest until all Viv could do was whisper.

“Teleportation magic.”

“Yes,” Tweek replied, “he opened us a passage to the forest. We escaped.”

Viv’s mind worked feverishly while the play finished. She knew teleportation magic was a thing, of course. Her first camp back in Harrak had been next to an expended teleportation circle, so it was definitely a thing, but she was under the impression it was excessively rare, the stuff of legend. That someone would be able to open one… It would be nice if she could talk to Sidjin, but she was under the impression he was dead from the way Tweek talked. Who would kill a mage capable of opening teleportation gates and pass an entire fucking people though it? Crazy.

And yes, that was a crazy story, and put her own into perspective. Her revolution might have felt like the whole world to her, but to others, the civil war or the beastling tide were the one deciding event of their lives. She was only one among many, floating on the whims of fate, even with her strange luck. The thought was sobering.

Viv clapped when the show ended, something that scared the young ones but caused tweek to laugh, asking his bashful guest if it was a mark of appreciation. Viv’s confirmation led him to comfort the young ones while they made their way out, pleased with the show of appreciation from the first human visitor. Viv turned excitedly to her host and gifted him the compliments he was obviously looking for.

“Alright, that was amazing, especially using spells to improve immersion.”

“We got the idea from Glastia, but decided to apply it to our traditional shadow puppetry rather than using actors. I quite like it.”

“It was breathtaking. I loved it.”

And she had. Her genuine smile appeased Tweek who gestured for dessert.

“Did you learn much from the humans during your stay? As unfortunate as it was,” Viv quickly amended, feeling callous at the tremendous loss of life.

“Yes. We had met and traded with humans before, of course. Many expeditions traveled to the foot of Mount Kwehk looking for precious stones. Those were just that though, contacts. Living in Glastia, we observed much. For example, the merls only had hunting parties but now we can fight in groups. We also studied agriculture and husbandry to fit it to our needs. A pity we couldn’t learn to use iron, not that we have found any around so far.”

“And Sidjin? The play said he died?”

