Pyre rose as well, giving her bandages a quick tug to make sure they were secure. It definitely wasn’t a coincidence that Edna had paired the two of them to spar, she thought in amusement. A forty or thirty-something year old beating up a teenager probably wouldn’t be the best look. This wasn’t the greatest for her, though, since she was pretty sure this guy was one of the ones who actually knew how to fight to some degree. She’d have to hope her quick shove strategy worked before Edna started getting suspicious.

A few murmurs rippled throughout the watching cadets as the two of them moved to the middle of the ring. Declan gave Pyre an enthusiastic wave when she passed by him, which she took to be a silent “good luck.” She snorted. The kid seemed determined to befriend her—probably purely for the sake of getting workout tips or something. Hey, she could respect the determination.

Pyre moved to stand on one end of the open space the cadets were seated around while Merrick stopped on the other side. His face was as expressionless as ever. The demon shot him a wide grin, which only caused him to frown slightly. She was starting to think this smiling thing wasn’t worth it, or maybe she just had to get better at it.

“Ready,” Edna said, and Merrick immediately bent his knees and raised his hands in a ready stance that looked decidedly practiced. Yeah, he definitely knew what he was doing.

The demon mirrored the stance. Well then, she’d just have to hope she could knock him down before her lack of human-shaped fighting experience became obvious. She’d use a little more strength than planned if she had to.

The ensuing whistle rang throughout the training facility.

Merrick narrowed his eyes, but he didn’t move from his spot. Pyre didn’t either. She wasn’t going to be the one to approach first.

For several seconds, the two simply circled around each other, neither one stepping closer. Both sizing the other up. Pyre was acutely aware of the whispers from their spectators and of Edna’s sharp, watchful gaze.

Finally, when they’d just about completed a full circle, Merrick finally made the first move.

Lightning fast, the man lunged, one arm drawn back for a punch. Pyre began to dodge, but the instant she stepped aside, Merrick switched hands. Suddenly, his other fist was barreling straight towards her.

The demon reacted on pure instinct. She couldn’t say where she’d learned the movements from, nor could she explain them. It wasn’t like she was in any real danger.

All she knew was that somewhere, buried in those fragmented memories, some part of her knew to slide one foot back while her other arm automatically rose to grip Merrick’s arm.

In one smooth motion, she threw the man over her shoulder and slammed him into the ground.

For a second, it was quiet. Pyre was aware of Merrick’s bewildered face looking up at her and had a moment to wonder if she’d accidentally used too much strength. Then, she realized what she—no, what her past self’s instincts had done. Her eyebrows rose.

The fuck?
