“Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck," I swore over and over as I rushed to my impromptu workstation nearby. The air between the layers of Mana Skin protected my hands, but it did nothing for the rest of me.

"Do you have my hammer?" I called over my shoulder, sensing Tabitha right behind me.

“Ready," she replied.

“Good, because we only have one shot at this. Don’t blame me if it doesn’t look very nice," I tell her.

"As long as it works, I could care less what it looks like," Tabitha deadpans behind me.

“You say that now, but what about after we escape? What will people say about my work then?”

"Then I'll just beat them up; now hurry up; you're starting to smell like a well-cooked steak."

"That's not funny," I whine as I pour the liquid metal into a circular divot on the top of my workstation, which was nothing more than a stack of grey bricks. Now, of all times, Tabitha decides to prove she has a funny side—what a joke, but I'm too busy to laugh.

"I wasn't joking," Tabitha retorts with a sly smile.

"I liked you better when you were serious," I jokingly tell her as the divot in front of me is filled with molten metal. As soon as the last drop fell, I chucked the glowing grey stone that was my crucible into the distance like a hot potato. It crashed against the wall across the hallway, shattering into a million angry red fragments.

Even the grey stone couldn't hold up against that kind of temperature for that long.

Now that I wasn't holding a crucible barehanded out of the hottest forge I'd ever felt, I could again use Mana Skin to shield my body. The relief I felt was instant.

Checking my status page quickly, I frown at the 500-odd health points I lost on that little stunt. I wish I could’ve done things differently, but no matter how you sliced it, it was the only way I got the crucible out of the forge before the metal inside started to harden.

Glancing at my arms, sections of my skin were flaking off in patches, but at least my hands were okay, which meant I could still work. I had to hurry.

Unlike the forge I built on the exposed patch of earth, my workstation was connected to the rest of the colosseum, so it was sucking the heat out of Tabitha's shield, which was exactly what I wanted. My mana pool was still floating barely above 20%, so I needed help to bring the metal down to a more workable temperature in a controlled manner.

I waited for that crucial window of opportunity where the metal was cool enough to temper with my hammer but still malleable enough to work. I had no way of heating it back up again, so I only had one chance at this.

I could sense the mana structure inside the metal settling into place as it cooled. Once it was fully formed, that was the time for me to start hitting it with my hammer.

Now!

Holding my hand out, Tabitha handed me my hammer. It was a good thing I had practiced using it to fix her armor, or else I might be more nervous than I already was.

I didn’t hold back and used every one of my physical skills to swing my hammer down on the glowing disk. The result was a ringing noise so shrill it cut my eardrums, filling the empty tomb.

The grey bricks making up my workbench groaned and cracked under the force of my swing, but I barely noted any of that because my hammer flew back at me with almost as much force as I had swung it.

“I wasn’t expecting that," I wheeze sillily as I try to steady my hammer.

Luckily, I saw it all with Sense Mana. Like the gray bricks around us, the shield absorbed a part of my hammer strike, but unlike the stones, it didn't hold onto the energy and release it over time— it did so all at once, right back the way it came.

Holly shit, did I just recreate magic Vibranium?! It was missing a few of the qualities I remembered from comic books in my past life, but the comparison was close enough.

I couldn’t help but cackle maniacally as I swung my hammer again. On the surface, it looked like my hammer strikes were doing nothing, but that was the farthest thing from the truth. With each swing, the metal's mana structure was refined— With each swing, more of my hammer's force was repelled back at me.

Three, four, five; on the sixth swing, my arms feel like they're about to fall off. Taking that as my cue to stop, I grab the remaining tree root and press the end against the still semi-pliable metal. Like the grey bricks, the metal wasn’t the best against constant force, so I could feed a few inches of the root through it where the root wouldn’t damage the internal mana structure of the shield, creating a way for me to craft a handle for Tabitha.

When the last of the heat was sucked out of the shield and dispersed around us, I picked it up and examined my handiwork with a manic smile.

It was only eighteen inches in diameter, making it more of a buckler than a shield. The edges were jagged and irregular, and the metal was unevenly spread. What little weight there was was noticeably off-balance.

Now that it was cool, the metal had turned a sickly greyish/green color. It had no embellishments or any other defining features other than how horrible it looked up close—

It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. Tears welled up in my eyes as I gazed down at the shield in my hands.

"I think—" I struggle to say. "I think we have a chance.”

Wiping the tears from my eyes with my shoulder, I finally turn to face Tabitha, who had subtly relaxed upon hearing my words. “Let’s kill a dragon,” I grin wickedly.

My arms hurt, my skin was flaking off in places, and my ears felt like they were bleeding, but even so, I couldn't stop smiling.

The fuckin snake wasn’t going to know what hit it!
