I knew hope could be dangerous for people in our situation, but I was starting to get optimistic.

After hours of searching for and prepping what little I had— and a lot of cutting on Tabitha's part— my stack of roots had quadrupled in size, and everything was essentially ready. I had fuel, a forge, a crucible, a workstation, and metal to work, all the basics I needed to attempt this little endeavor of mine. I was still missing some of the more mundane tools a blacksmith needs, but I wasn't focusing on that now.

Until now, everything had been in my head, but now that I had the essentials in front of me, I could finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. The small amount of water we discovered while gathering roots was just the icing on the preverbal cake.

I had already taken a quick nap and meditated to draw in as much ambient mana as possible, so I was brimming with energy—Let's just hope it was enough.

“I’m ready," I say aloud to pump myself and clear my head, signaling Tabitha that I was finally starting.

Tabitha almost instantly appeared at my side, her support unwavering. She knew what was at stake, and her stone-like demeanor didn't so much as crack under pressure. Knowing she believed in me gave me the strength to not second-guess myself, so I started.

I first carefully added the driest roots to my forge, interweaving them around the crucible like a bird might build a nest. The metal fragments we scavenged from the skeleton were already inside the crucible, waiting to be melted. My theory was that the drier roots would ignite easier, and once I got the fire going, I'd add the others as needed.

“Here goes nothing.” I place my right hand over the forge, bracing my wrist with my left.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

A small flame sprouts from my fingertip. It was comically tiny and produced very little light in the dark hallway, but it didn't stay small for long.

Mana Manipulation, Inject Mana, and Empowered Spell synchronized, turning the minuscule flame into a roaring inferno.

I didn’t hold back; I couldn’t. Next to me, Tabitha dropped her light spell to conserve mana as the flames spewing from my hand illuminated everything around us in a warm glow.

I could feel my mana pool emptying rapidly, but I didn't stop—I didn't even slow down. The grey bricks were gradually turning red under the magical fire. It was working; they were absorbing heat like I hoped they would. However, they weren't my focus; the roots were. Their outer casings were charring, but none of them were burning yet.

All right, step one is complete. It's time to move on to phase two.

I kept conjuring fire from my hands but stopped trying to burn everything in front of me indiscriminately. Instead, I split my focus between maintaining my spell and using Inject Mana to directly force my fire mana into the roots.

“Come on!” I shouted over the roar of my empowered spell. I was trying to burn the roots inside and out, but I would run out of mana if something didn't give soon. All the work I've done getting this far will be pointless if the roots don't light. I couldn’t melt the metal fragments with my mana alone, not even if I had ten times the amount of mana I had now.

I'm able to force my fire mana into the steel-like wood, but even partially dead, the roots' internal mana refuses to ignite.

To the side, Tabitha stood like a statue in the face of the heat I was producing. In her hand was our last mana potion. If my mana pool dropped to twenty percent before the roots started to burn, I would have to drink it, but that was my last resort. Along with the one remaining health potion, it's all we had left, and we needed everything we could get our hands on for our fight against the winged serpent.

If it were up to me, I'd never touch the potion; sadly, the choice was out of my hands. If the roots didn't catch fire soon, I'd have no choice but to drink it. We could plan around not having a mana potion; the same couldn’t be said about Tabitha’s shield. That said—

“Light, damn you,” I grit my teeth as my mana dipped below 600. I would reach the 20% cut-off mark in another few seconds. I couldn't afford to go any lower than that and risk passing out. If I did, I could be out for days, which was basically a death sentence.

Light

Light

Light!

As I was about to lose hope, I felt a spark not sustained by magic. A single tail of smoke wafts from the tip of one of the roots—it was burning!

It started slow, but I could sense the fire spreading inside the root. That said, I wasn’t going to risk stopping prematurely.

I kept channeling my magic until it wasn't wise to exhaust myself even further. By that point, a handful of the roots were burning brightly, to my immense relief.

Sweat dripped down my face from the heat of my spell and from exhausting 80% of my mana pool in under a minute. My legs shook, but that didn't stop me from grinning like a loon.

“I did it,” I mumbled under my breath.

“You sure did,” Tabitha placed a steadying hand on my shoulder.

"They're burning well," I note, staring into the slowly expanding flames in my forge. The dense mana from the roots mixes with my fire mana in spurts, causing the flames they produce to dance wildly and fluctuate. When the flames were low, it felt like the forge back home, but when they expanded, it felt like I was standing next to the sun.

Mana Skin struggled to cope with the immense heat, even with the improvements I had made since entering the mana-dense region. But it wasn’t enough— regardless, I didn’t back away.

“Alright, let’s see how hot we can get this." I waited a few minutes for the fire to stabilize before adding more roots. One by one, I fed more wood to the fire, to the point that it felt like I was the one burning.

Tabitha had long since stepped back, unable to tolerate the sheer amount of heat my forge was putting out.

The rust on the metal scraps had already vaporized under the inferno, but other than that, they were still whole. “It needs to be hotter,” I talked to myself while I worked, partially to narrate for Tabitha, who was watching me work from a distance, but mostly to distract myself from how hot it was standing next to the magical fire— and it was magical.

Adding magical substances to the forge wasn’t new to me, but this wasn’t simply adding magicite to an already raging fire. The roots didn’t have the mana density of magicite, but they were close, and this wasn’t mixing two substances together to create something new.

The roots and the mana within them were one structure. As the wood burned, so did the mana inside it, as was the opposite. It created a perfect feedback loop, producing powerful, magic-infused flames.

The force-absorbing bricks I used to make my forge were bright red now and couldn’t contain all the heat they were absorbing. In the bright light produced by the magical fire, you could see the air twisting and shimmering around each brick like the air itself was about to catch fire.

At some point, while I worked, Tabitha pulled out our waterskins and held them in front of her with the caps off. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see faint traces of steam coming out the tops, meaning the water inside was either boiling or close to it.

My body screamed to step away from the flames, but I ignored its warnings. I pushed through the burning sensation and added more roots until it happened. A single bead of liquid metal ran down the side of one of the metal fragments as if it were sweating.

I wish I could say the same about myself; my sweat vaporized the moment it left my skin.

But that didn't matter; the fragments were melting, and with them, an unimaginable weight was lifted from my shoulders. My crazy plan was working, but I couldn’t celebrate yet.

I had to keep tending to the fire, which was difficult without tools. I used the longest tree roots as makeshift fire pokers. However, they only lasted a few seconds before they, too, burst into flames, and I was forced to add them to the forge as kindling.

More metal fragments began to liquify, and soon, a puddle of molten metal was at the bottom of my crucible. At the same time, my pile of roots was steadily vanishing into the flames.

I kept working, ignoring the burning sensation that had now seeped into my bones. I couldn’t stop— I wouldn’t stop.

This shield was our salvation; I had to tough it out.

Then, when I felt like I couldn't take anymore, a cool sensation briefly washed over me, offering me a moment of respite before the heat returned in full force. It happened so fast that for a second, I thought my mind was playing tricks on me, but then I felt the trickling sensation of experience points fusing with my soul.

I didn't need to pull up my status page to know what skill I just unlocked. Ever since I started apprenticing under Del, I wondered if I would ever unlock this skill. I thought I would never get it because of Mana Skin, but I guess enduring these magic flames was enough to do the job.

I finally acquired Heat Resistance, my tenth tier 3 skill.

At level 1, Heat Resistance did nothing against what I was currently facing, but I was happy to take whatever I could get; the psychological boost from unlocking it was enough to help me endure the heat a little while longer.

Resistance skills are some of the most coveted in the world and some of the hardest to obtain, and I just got my third. What does that say about my life?

Grinning through the pain, I kept tending to the fire.

"You aren't going crazy on me again, are you?" Tabitha's deadpan voice reached me over the burning hell pit that was my forge.

"Not this time," I hollered back with glee. "I just unlocked Heat Resistance."

“You hadn’t already?” Tabitha seemed genuinely baffled.

“Never needed it before," I continued to smile through the pain. My lips were so dry, I could feel the moisture being sucked out of them along with my throat and lungs, so I added another round of roots to the fire and finally stepped away from the fire, and retreated towards Tabitha.

I didn't care if the water was safe to drink or boiling; I grabbed my water skin from Tabitha's hand and started chugging. There was a considerable temperature difference where Tabitha stood compared to next to the forge, but it was still unbelievably hot. All the grey bricks around us were absorbing the ambient heat and dispersing it amongst the greater structure, but they couldn’t keep up with what the forge was putting out since they weren’t connected.

After guzzling half my boiling waterskin and thinking it felt cool against my lips, I returned it to Tabitha and forced my way back to the roaring inferno.

While I was gone, most of the metal fragments had liquified, but I could still sense some chunks stubbornly refusing to melt suspended in the liquid solution. Everything needed to melt before I moved on to the next step, or I risked the structure of Tabitha's soon-to-be shield.

By this point, almost all of the tree roots we gathered had been fed to the fire and turned to ash— It was going to be close.

I added the remaining roots to the fire one by one until I was down to my second-to-last root. Carefully, I placed it where I thought the forge needed it most and stepped back, as there was nothing more I could do.

I needed the last root to make Tabitha's shield, and there was no time to cut down more. This meant I had nothing else to add to the fire besides my hopes and dreams, and those didn't burn so easily.

Using Sense Mana, I monitored the liquid metal in the crucible and the slowly shrinking fragments hidden under the surface. The flames were slowly decreasing, but the heat was still intense. The temperature was slowly dropping, but the heat loss wasn't too bad, thanks to the grey bricks holding it in.

"How is it?" Tabitha asks as she rejoins me at my side now that the temperature has fallen to a more reasonable level.

“There’s a few more fragments in the process of melting,” I told her without taking my eyes off the forge.

"I take it that's bad," she says with little emotion. I took my eyes off the crucible for only a fraction of a second to steal a glance at her, but even in that short time, I could see the signs of worry hidden in her eyes.

“If they don’t melt fully, it could lead to a critical failure in your shield. I don’t have to tell you how bad that would be. Two fragments left," I note clinically as I stare into the dying inferno.

Neither of us said anything else as the fire dimmed.

We stood there silently until the last flames went out and were again plunged into darkness.

“Tikth idwessgh fral nhtig!”

Tabitha slowly recited her country’s version of the light spell, pushing back against the abyss but not fully conquering it.

"Well?" She asks, the slightest trace of worry in her voice.

After a moment and a massive sigh of relief, I gave her the good news. "It's done—barely." I gave her a thumbs-up.

“And that’s okay?”

"Should be, now, for the fun part." Rushing forward, I glanced down into the forge at the still-glowing pool of liquid metal. Time was of the essence.

Gritting my teeth, I dropped Mana Skin on everything but my hands, channeling the small amount of mana I recovered waiting for the fragments to melt into what remained. Without my skill protecting me, I was forced to bear the brunt of the remaining heat with nothing but my physical stats and LV 1 of Heat resistance.

Scratch that, LV 2 of Heat Resistance; I grin, feeling a minuscule amount of experience points fusing with my soul.

Needless to say, my already red skin started to blacken as I was cooked alive. Holes started to form in my clothes, and I could smell burning hair. Not wasting any more time, I leaned in, grabbed my makeshift crucible with my bare hands, and pulled it out of the forge.

