But though the Fairwoods proved a prison, Adam found himself unfettered by their inner confines. His shard flew faster by his will. Its acceleration grew with every second it remained in flight. No longer did it travel in a straight path across the dimensions. He controlled how it moved and in what direction. To his delight, he realized it possessed the recoilless nature of his wings as well. It could accelerate and decelerate without a care for momentum. It could hover in place. It could wait. It could explode back into motion in an instant. And just like that, he had a new way of scouting the world. His Seer of Horizons peeked out from the arrow—could be cast out as well. The moment he did that, however, his physical form merged with the arrow’s flaming tail still trailing behind.

Adam was carried within his own arrow. His being echoed in the divine conflagration he left behind. And he felt heavy points of sensation from that which he struck in the world—azure-constructs of his person flickered and faded for some reason, and he felt his These Arrows, My Memory Skill trigger but do nothing. He wasn’t sure why his Propagating Salvo’s Skill Evolution had activated—and didn’t dare to focus on them overmuch.

He didn’t want to risk losing his focus or ruining this flight of his across the Fairwoods. He commanded his shard to travel faster, to seek that fading pillar of heroism he sensed in Shiv. He burst out from the side of the dragon and took stock of its personage for the first time.

The Culturist hadn’t been lying; the massive beast did have a sack of gold slung over its shoulder. There were also hundreds of winged Fae that clung to an even larger forest sprouting out along its back and from the plumes of its wings. Adam caught glimpses of other details as he shot away from the dragon. It was coated with a vibrant clash of colors. Green. Red. Yellow. Blue. It had as many flowers as it did leaves sprouting from its body. It was nature incarnate, but it soon vanished from sight.

Adam wished he could linger and behold the full glory of the great elemental beast, but Shiv’s presence was already fading, and he couldn’t stop and smell the flowers.

Faster, Adam commanded. Even faster.

Shard of Exalted Flame 206 > 207

And then he burst through a threshold. Static mana crashed and flowed around him, carrying him across leagues of space in an instant. There were dense walls of blackness—now more visible than ever—preventing his departure from this dimension. All places within were waves upon which he could ride, and there was a single point in this chaotic sea of space magic that called to him—a tower of brightness far, yet not so far away. Distance was just a factor of frequency in this place, and the constellations connected to the arrow shifted in configuration. Suddenly, it dipped down into the waters of Integration, and then surfaced right in front of the tower Adam sought, hundreds upon hundreds of kilometers away.

He surfaced back in reality and struck Shiv dead-on. A crash resounding with power detonated. Adam’s soul shuddered as he found himself stumbling forward, staggering in a place of azure brightness—nested inside the existence that was his friend.

Shiv had a lot of heroism inside him, and that translated to an ample amount of space. As Adam moved about, he realized their souls were stacked over each other as well, and sharing skills took only a thought.

Thought was another thing. Shiv’s inner monologue spilled over into Adam and vice versa.

The moment was sublime. Weird. Wonderful. Empowering.

They were both still strangers in a strange land in the Fairwoods, but together, they burned brighter than ever before, and it was that unity that made Adam feel a kind of righteousness that strengthened his soul.

You have performed an act of self-worship…

Domain strengthened

***

“Alright, so your Path has been entirely changed, you’re at least semi-divine, you ended up purging the orc-iness out of the Culturist with your light, and then you somehow tracked me because I had a bunch of Heroism inside me? And also, you think this is because I fed you a slip and ended up driving some of the beacon’s fires into your flesh?”

“That about sums it.”

Shiv snorted. “Adam.”

“Shiv.”

“That’s complete bullshit. You’re complete bullshit. I should have eaten that slip myself.”

The Paragon laughed aloud inside his friend’s soul, his voice resounding like booming thunder. “Been waiting a while to say that to me, eh? Speaking of, why didn’t you eat that slip?”

“Couldn’t risk it. You were hurt bad. I thought I could get away. I knew you couldn’t.”

And then the mockery went as fast as it came, and only gratitude remained. “There’s a reason why I could find you from across the Fairwoods. I think I can find you anywhere now, so long as we’re in the same dimension. Maybe Uva too.”

It wasn’t exactly a thank you, but that wasn’t needed between them anymore. All of them owed each other more than a life. After a while, there was no more score to keep.

“Definitely her too,” Shiv said. “She burned to keep you from getting swallowed. If you can find me, we can find her, and once we’re all together again, we can—”

Attention: Character Uva Mettabon has severely deviated from designated character development track.

Resetting Seasonal Narrative in 3…

Shiv's thoughts froze. “What?” he hissed. “Adam, you seeing this?”

Resetting Seasonal Narrative in 2…

“I do.” Adam didn’t fully know what that meant, but something felt wrong. There was a hostile presence to the world—a rival flame that moved in a place adjacent but parted from his own Domain.

Resetting Seasonal Narrative in 1…

Without any warning at all, the world around Shiv turned into a fluttering mess of pages. However, the pages were now rushing from left to right, and Shiv felt himself lurch back in time and action. He felt an agonizing pain as Adam was wrenched out from him—but before he could scream, he was back, slamming the crust of the crab shut, shooting back up through the water, speaking in reverse with the Princess, and back further yet. The world around him blurred faster and faster, until he was tearing his back into that dense mess of gravy, and then—

Darkness.

For a heartbeat, Shiv lost track of everything.

And then a series of recent notifications loaded again, causing a disturbing feeling of déjà vu to take hold.

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

Phase Frame 90 > 93

Eldritch Physiology 68 > 80

Bifurcated Processing 86 > 89

Inertial Overdrive 271 > 278

Vitality Drain 138 > 150

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 514 > 523

Skill Reclamation Resisted: Lord Commander of the Slumbering Uneaten (Narrative) retained

Warning: Unable to retcon Unique Skill Levels gained for character Tanner “Shiv” Lowe.

Non-Sequitur (Unique) 185

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul (Unique) 219

What… what the hells just happened? Shiv remembered… He remembered… He remembered flashes of speaking with Adam, of having been here already. Did time just turn backward?

***

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

Once more, the flame of consciousness ignited within Adam, but this time, he didn’t spend so long on the ground. He shot back to his feet in an instant, but instead of seeing the autumn forest all around him, he found himself lying on a vast beachside, with pristine blue waters crashing just in front of him and a salty breeze tickling his nose. A groan escaped the Paragon. He lifted his head and spat out a mouthful of sand. “There you are, System. I was wondering why everything was going so smoothly. Just waiting for me to drop my guard so you could stab me in the balls, weren’t you?”

Character Uva Mettabon is advised to behave for this cycle.

An eighth forced reset of the narrative will result in penalties to your arc.

As he stared out over the vast ocean before him, Adam paused. “Wait—eighth?”
