“System’s giant gaping, fucking cunt… You must be the biggest godsdamned woman I’ve ever seen.”

“Why, thank you. And you are an extraordinarily small, foul-mouthed human. Why is your hair that way?”

“Just is. How did you get that fucking big?”

“A hearty diet!”

“Right. System… Fuck… What you fancy the most, then?”

“Oh, I’m an everything lady. But… I do have a yearning for radish after a mountain of chicken. I see you’re dressed as a chef. Might you be so inspired to serve me?”

“Inspired? Bloody about to soil my knackers. But do like myself a big godsdamned challenge…”

—Georges Archambault and Princess Plum Blossom

325

Paragon [III]

“How in all the godsdamned hells am I going to cook this?” Shiv muttered to himself. Back at the Swan-eating Toad, he'd been a confident chef, perhaps not the greatest chef, nor the most creative chef, but he'd been a reliable chef, one who never quavered or turned in the face of any difficulty. He was one who had experienced the true crucible of working under a master who was both unrelenting and unforgiving.

Shiv had done everything in the kitchen. He'd manned every station, skinned and prepared every kind of ingredient, known all the sauces. He even sampled the wines to know what went together. After he gained a Path, his experiences expanded. He learned how to compose exotic meals, hunted strange creatures, tested otter meats, and, with his Cooking Skill evolution, infused every dish with skill-enhancing bonuses.

Such was how he recovered from his neurological damage in record time. He cooked a Jealousy, and then he cooked even grander monsters, such as the Court Leviathan, basilisks, Heroic-Tier orcs, even his own flesh. Shiv had thought the size of a dish was no longer a factor. He'd thought he could face any challenge, overcome any ingredient, no matter how large or bestial the source.

His imagination needed work.

Never in his life could he have conceived of Princess Plum Blossom's sheer immensity, and never in his life did he anticipate being given an entire forest of kelp to prepare as a meal. And what a grand and magnificent aquatic forest it was. The flat leaves of the kelp undulated with the placid waters, radiating through the surface with a soothing emerald glow. Schools of long-bodied fish trailing pods of clustered eyes behind them swam and slithered through the subnautical trenches, feasting on pearl-shelled crustaceans that hid jellyfish-like tentacles within their armored shells. They sprouted out like risen ladders from fertile, midnight-colored soil lining the base of the edible biome. And frankly, that was the best way to describe it. Princess Plum Blossom was large enough to devour entire biomes. The bowl holding the kelp was enormous, wider than all of Lost Angeles before Sullain and his Tarrasque vaporized all of it. It also wasn't made from porcelain, clay, or any common materials. No, it was quite literally sculpted from the tectonic substances that made up a planet’s crust.

It was like someone had plucked a section of a planet free and used it as a holder.

That was what Princess Plum Blossom wanted Shiv to prepare. She called it a slight pre-appetizer. Something to whet her palate in preparation for actual meals to follow.

Shiv was a responsible chef, a brave chef, one who feared not labor nor difficulty. He would fail a thousand times and succeed through sweat and blood alone if that was what it took. But the amount of blood and sweat it would take to fill that aquatic basin was beyond his ability to estimate. Before the Princess, he felt small, literally. Now, his Cooking Skill felt diminutive, comparatively.

“How in the Broken Moon am I going to do this?” he whispered to himself once more. But while there was doubt inside him, there was also another emotion that rose in challenge: thrill.

He was excited; this was something beyond him. Beyond his knowledge. Beyond his expectations. Beyond his capacity to manage. But that was why he became a Pathbearer—to surpass the horizon, that which belonged to the world, and that which served as the borders of his ability.

A feeling of inspired heroism boiled inside his breast. Even if he failed, he would fail in the attempt rather than surrender before the battle started.

To do anything else would be unworthy of his title as Legend.

The Chef Unwavering cast a scintillating veil over every piece of kelp, every bit of fluid, every living organism, even parts of the tectonic matter sculpted to serve as a receptacle. His culinary instincts, whispering tantalizing truths to him, told him that every bit of the aquatic forest should be served to the Princess to satisfy her delights. It even gave him a hint about how he should go about this.

Pyromancy. Layered sections of Pyromancy. The bottom-most of the trenches should be boiling hot, rendering everything there well-fried to ensure the crustaceans were ripened from within. The schools of fish would then rise, fleeing from the heat to embrace and find comfort amidst the shade cast by the kelp. There, they would be seared into the plant matter, lining it with their internal oils and adding a dense flavor of salt to the ensemble. But Shiv needed to prepare the kelp plants themselves. He couldn't just let the heat run wild. That would ruin the vegetation and render the meal as something foul. The kelp would give this meal proper flavoring, and so he needed to preserve the state of the forest if he wanted to tackle this dish at all.

But that was only one way he could approach this creation—the easiest. And despite being the simplest approach, he still ran into a series of obstacles he wasn’t sure how to overcome. He needed to examine the organisms living near the kelp: the fish. He had to know how they would taste, if they were edible at all. How hot the flames needed to be to cook the crustaceans. The flavoring of the kelp when alone, the flavoring of the kelp when mixed in with the other lifeforms—and how all that changed with an application of heat. The aquatic forest would need to be boiled in its entirety as well. This required a Tier of Pyromancy Shiv simply didn't have, so he needed to find another means to heat things up.

“Is something the matter?” Princess Plum Blossom's voice always held the edge of a smile. The Summer Court Princess was a cheerful sort, but the cheerful sort that would eat you without any compunction. One should never confuse pleasantness with morals. Princess Plum Blossom might act like a person, but she was closer to a monster in the way she viewed the world. She wanted to be fed. She wanted to taste delights, novel and delicious flavors; meals that were uniquely atrocious. The Princess wasn't picky. She wanted to devour it all. And that was another reason why Shiv wanted to stick around—if Georges spent any time in the Fairwoods at all, then he must’ve come through here. The man wouldn’t have missed this for his life.

“Just thinking,” Shiv finally replied, shrugging off the hurricane-level winds battering him from behind. “Trying to figure out how I’m going to do this.”

“Ah. Do not overstrain yourself, my little cook! If you think it cannot be done, I can always just eat you instead.”

“Yeah, maybe later,” Shiv muttered. He was deep in thought to disagree. “I want to give this a good try first. You can eat me if you’re unsatisfied.”

“Oh, how sweet of you!” The Princess chuckled. “Why, your temperament is nothing like the prickliness of your soul. What a layered little enigma. I cannot wait to see what it might feel like, biting into you!”

Shiv just grunted in response. She sounded determined to consume him, but he already had a plan to deal with that. His Severed Shadow had faded into a faint silhouette, and it was currently making a run for the borders of the table—and the Summer Court. She could bite into his physical body instead and chew that to death for all he cared in the meantime. He would gain more than he lost if she could kill him, and it allowed him to escape and stay at the same time.

“Princess Plum Blossom, this honest knight has a declaration!” Toasty called out. The Bread-Knights lingered close and kept a close eye on Shiv, but had given him more distance since they'd realized their weapons couldn’t hurt him at all. One of them had tried to use some kind of yeast magic to infest Shiv’s mana field and soul, but that ended with their field getting sliced apart by his cutting aura. They adopted a more dignified refrain toward him after he injected a plume of enkindled flame into the offending caster. “The Deathless One faces this appetizer alone! Though he is considerable and strange for a Patternist, he remains small and pathetic, like all your faithful servants, incapable of feeding you by his own power. I think this contest unnecessary! I think—”

The Princess grinned. “Do you speak on my behalf?”

The Bread-Knight froze as if a blade had been pressed to his neck. “I…”

“Do you think on my behalf?” Plum Blossom continued. Her emotional core surged with agitation. She was about to do something.

“No, My Lady!” Toasty cried in horror. “I only meant—”

“He means to deprive you of my meal,” Shiv said, seeing his chance to remove an ungrateful annoyance. “Because he thinks that I’m so uniquely bad, you shouldn’t get to taste what I can make. He’s making a decision for you. It’s almost like he thinks he knows better.” He added a sneering laugh.

Toasty turned and stared at Shiv, aghast.

“Shouldn’t have tried to play fuck-fuck games with me, asshole,” Shiv declared telepathically.

Plum Blossom leaned forward in a burst of terrifying speed—so fast Shiv guessed her Reflexes Legendary at the very least—and loomed over her table, the piece of furniture larger than any mountain on Integrated Earth that Shiv had seen. The rush of wind that followed sent lighter plates and cups tumbling. A three-kilometer-tall glass of wine tumbled in a roll, spilling a lake’s worth of red wine down upon Shiv and the Faebread legion. The Bread-Knights shrieked in comical terror. Their horses shrieked. A wall of wine and glass smashed into most of them like a swatter greeting a swarm of fleas. The knights were flattened immediately. The incoming attack was more devastating than its weight alone—it would have taken a considerable cultivation of his Pillar of Orichalcum to resist.

Which was why Shiv Phase-Framed through it instead. Thanks for the training, Jessica.

Phase Frame 93 > 94

When Shiv returned, he expected to see the kelp forest contaminated with crimson swirls of wine. To his astonishment, the wine quivered and twisted through the air in crawling tendrils, held back from splashing down and staining any of the other foods. An invisible power guided it through the air in coursing rivers, and soon the wine ended up flowing away and filling a new and empty decanter crusted with emeralds and diamonds to the side of the table.

“Cibomancy,” Princess Plum Blossom announced, seeing Shiv's confusion. She laughed heartily. “It is what allows me to reach out and seize my little tasties without ever using my hands.”

Shiv blinked. “You really weren’t shitting me about the Food Magic.”

“What does fecal matter have to do with this?” the Princess replied, confused.

“It doesn’t. It’s just a figure—uh, is… is this Cibomancy a skill anyone can get?”

“No,” the Princess sang sweetly.

Shiv wasn’t sure if he should press further, but he couldn’t help it. “So… how does someone get it?”

“By right of consumption! Or to be exposed to a dimension infused with a lore of food.” She giggled. There was a twinkle in her eye as she examined Shiv. “It can also be bestowed as a gift, should one have the power. But alas, I reserve such gifts only for someone who has pleased my tongue.”

“How's that for another hit of motivation?” Shiv quipped. “Alright, Princess. I got an idea of what I want to make for you, but before I begin… how long do I get? And can I get any help to help with the prep work?”

“Well, I usually finish enjoying my pre-appetizers by the end of spring’s first day, and so, since I’m an ever-lenient maiden, you may have the remaining hours of this day as your allotted time. And help… Oh, dearie me! My pardons, I forgot how slight you are.” She pressed her colossal fingers together and leaned in closer, loudly humming as she contemplated Shiv's request. “Hmmmmmm. No.”

Shiv just stared at her. “Okay. So you want me to prepare a meal the size of a small ocean without any help at all?”

“Correct! After all, if I lend you the aid of my dedicated staff, they will be distracted from the actual meals that need to be made. You are a novelty item. Pre-entertainment. That's why you are preparing things out here instead of in the kitchen proper. I want to taste you in adequacy, unpurified by the hands of a proper chef.”

Her words lit the fires of rancor within Shiv’s chest, and that boiled away the impurities in his mind.

