Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Do not react or mock her. We will find our opportunity to turn everything around on these fairies. Before this is over, we are going to have another conversation with the Anointed Knight. A long, thorough conversation in which we will carve bits free from his soul and leave him a miserable, ruined piece of toast. For now… let us do what we can. She wishes to see you fail, to do as poorly as you can, so that you can make the most uniquely bad meal possible. Her psychology is selfish and casually violent. You saw how she struck the Bread-Knights without a care. Trying to reason with her won't work because she doesn't listen to reason. She is only motivated by food. If we wish to change her mind or gain information about the Fairwoods, we need to impress her tongue first. Start with the fish and the crabs in the bowl. See what we can do with them, and then think about how we can separate different portions of the kelp forest in preparation for the boiling to come.

Turning away from the colossal Princess, Shiv crouched, and he leaped toward the aquatic forest of kelp. He speared into the water and continued plunging down. His Atlas of the Flesh Scryer allowed him to track the fish and the crustaceans present. Most of them gave him a wide berth, though they all kept careful watch. The pod-like eyes trailing behind the fish stuck out from behind the risen stalks of kelp. Something told Shiv they were trying to guess if he was predator or prey. Up close, he and the fish were about the same size; they also had rows of jagged teeth lining their bellies instead of filling their heads. The crustaceans, meanwhile, could be compared to small buildings, but they rarely lashed out at the fish unless the latter drew close.

A series of booming claps shook the world. Shiv ignored it. Princess Plum Blossom was doubtless amusing herself in one fashion or another. Alright, time to start from the bottom. I'm gonna crack open one of those crab things and see what the insides are like. After that, we'll figure out what we can make using that crab and if it even prepares well with heat.

His Shapeless Tides spiked downward. Shiv plunged like a ballista bolt, and he struck the base of the bowl in a heavy impact. Dust and dirt filled the water, shrouding his position, and he proceeded to augment his stealth using his Creeping Void Skill. The schools of fish were in disarray. None of them dared approach while Shiv conducted his hunt. He found a solitary crab thing—dubbing it a Jelly Crab in his head—and prepared to pop it open. As he got within ten feet, its glistening tendrils lashed out at him, piercing out from ports and slight cracks between its exquisite shell. Shiv let the creature grasp him, felt the sting of strange neurotoxins seep through his skin and try to ruin his nervous system—a nervous system that had already gone recursive. Using his Eldritch Physiology, Shiv made himself impervious to most damage; however, there was still a little feeling of static strangeness creeping through his body. That soon became a source of strength as his Plaguefueled Skill activated, spiking his strength and size.

Plaguefueled 81 > 82

He grew a half-meter in a few seconds. It was impressive in most places, but he doubted Princess Plum Blossom would even notice. She probably had a hard time sorting him from another human, like he would a louse from a flea with his naked eyes.

Pushing through a wall of lashing tentacles, Shiv sank his fingers into the cracks lining the crustacean shell and pulled. A slight crack disturbed the waters around him. A plume of glossy blue fluid washed over his body, clinging to him like a gelatinous membrane. It tasted sweet and then sour, and then a coppery tang lingered for a moment too long. There was a stinging sensation in his eyes, and after a moment it cleared—absorbed by his Plaguefueled Skill as well. When his senses stabilized, he found himself staring at a mess of sloppy blue substance. It appeared to glow bright with bioluminescence, but in actuality, it was simply an organ that pulsated with a glow of surging electricity and gleaming venoms.

The soft, jellyfish-like tissues were a sort of internal nervous system that also doubled as a protective measure. It was grown into the exoskeleton, but it also seemed odd, like the crustacean aspect didn't fully fit with the rest of the organism. The crab-like shell was being worn rather than being integrated. The blue substance filled space within the shell, but aside from using it as a layer of protection, the brittle exterior served little purpose.

Kind of a weird trait to have, Shiv thought to himself. What was that Helix told me about organisms and evolution? Most natural creatures became the way they are because of effects from their environment interacting with aspects of their blood code. Well, this doesn't look that natural to me. This looks like somebody made this artificially, or at least gave these jellyfish crab-like housing…

Before Shiv could theorize further, however, a swelling warmth seized his attention. His core was resonant with virtue, and he felt an incomparable urge to rise out from the basin and defy the immense Princess—to demand respect and recognition from her, to force her to acknowledge his worth as a chef. Suddenly, a second urge overcame the first. He wanted to make the best boiled kelp soup forest in existence. Shiv was going to earn her respect no matter how many attempts it—

Something slammed into him. It speared deep into his soul, hard, and Shiv's soul flared with a flash of brilliant azure. Whatever struck him felt like a falling mountain landing directly on his back, but instead of pain, he felt an elation, an augmentation. He felt stronger than ever before, and his skills all grew, expanding, hardening, leveling. Shiv had experienced something like this before, but only when Adam blasted him with his Shattered Star. And just then, a whole list of other skills loaded before his eyes. He was staring at someone else's skill status, Adam's skill status, and there were a whole lot of things he didn’t understand.

Adam walked the Path of the Archer. Why did it now say Paragon? And what the hells was a Changeling?

A skill notification appeared before Shiv's eyes, one that interrupted his thoughts.

Skill Gained: Commander’s Foresight

“Well, I'm glad that still works.” Adam's voice boomed inside Shiv like thunder. “The new evolution didn't take anything away from me after all.”

Adam? Shiv thought. Where the hells are you? Wait, how are you talking to me right now? Did you get some kind of new Psychomancy Skill Evolution? Because I'm not using any telepathy at all.

“The situation is a bit stranger than that. I think I'm inside you right now. I'm hiding within your soul, the bits of you that are very, very heroic and… System. You have a lot of heroism in you. I mean, there's a big, thick pillar of goodness right in the middle, surrounded by jagged bits of predatory instinct.”

The dying Jelly Crab stabbed Shiv in his left eye while he processed what was happening. So… you're hiding somewhere inside my soul right now.

“Your heroism. I'm not sure if that's part of your soul or not. It seems like it, but I don't exactly understand the specific anatomy. I can also see everything you see and feel everything you feel. It's like I'm a passenger inside you…”

It's like you're a literal sun, firing my skills up. How'd you manage to find where I am, anyway? Actually, where were you? Don't tell me you woke up in this foodtopia too.

“Foodtopia?” Adam sounded lost. “No, I woke up somewhere else entirely, practically half the Fairwoods away. I was closer to the Court of Autumn than anything else. The Culturist is here too. He helped secure my body, and he took me to a safe place to treat my injuries. I only managed to find you thanks to my Divination and Domain.”

Wait, Domain? Shiv asked. Isn't that the stuff gods have?

“Well, yes.” Adam coughed. “It should be.”

A moment of awkwardness passed between the two.

Adam, Shiv asked, how are you a fucking god now?

“I’m not. Or at least not a complete one. Honestly, I’m not sure what I am anymore.”

***

“I can still feel him,” Adam said. The Divination link might have been severed by Shiv's cutting aura, but that bit of Heroism inside his friend burned hot. It was like a second sun calling to Adam, and where the fires of virtue blazed, they shone like beacons, severing darkness and distance in equal measure.

Pure instinct guided Adam as he called his Spellstring to hand. The bow gifted to him by the Composer appeared in his grasp, and when he instinctively tried to shape a Veilpiercer, the typical dimensional arrow didn't form. Instead, a massive shard of brilliant blue flame combusted into existence. It shone so bright that it drowned everything around Adam in a glow of pristine azure radiance. Waves of crushing pressure rippled out from the arrowhead, but with it also came a gleam of incandescence, of power, of the Shattered Star that once hovered like a halo behind Adam's head. The Shard of Exalted Flame was more than an arrow of Dimensionality. It was an arrow infused with the full power of his Domain. It was an arrow of fire, but it gave no heat to the world, yet served as a bonfire for all worthy souls.

And Shiv's soul called to Adam.

It still flared bright in the distance, far, far beyond the horizon. His friend was half a world away, yet practically before the Paragon at the same time. He knew where to aim. He knew how to guide his shot. As Adam drew the many strings on his bow back, the arrow lengthened into a lance of flickering illumination longer than his body.

It trailed flame like a comet's tail, yet it was not a physical thing; rather, it was a dimensional vector infused with divine weight. As the flames danced, so too did Adam's resplendent regalia glimmer in mutual delight. His blazing wings brightened, and each one revealed itself to be another shard waiting to be unleashed. The crown wrapped around his head went off like a solar flare, and tendrils of light twisted in whirls before sinking into his eyes like circuitry. His gaze burned brighter than ever before. The iris of his remaining eye vanished, and pools of starfire spilled out of Adam in beams of glory—searing twin paths toward where Shiv waited. Atop Adam's head, the constellation of stellar fragments spun fast. A path was charted. A virtuous soul had been found.

Instinct took hold of Adam's every action. He was not a Pathbearer who relied on intuition. Understanding was the Young Lord's way once upon a time, but now his very body had been usurped by his skill. All this felt natural. It felt more than destined. It felt like who he fundamentally was.

Nearby, the Culturist watched on with bated breath. His own eyes were wide, and he was wise enough not to interrupt the newly risen Paragon. There was something delicate about this moment. Something precious. Something that was happening for the first time.

Two Pathbearers, one an orc, the first of his blood to be unshackled from the cruel hand of his sadistic god in all of history, and the other something altogether different, stood within that emerald forest, drowned by waves of azure incandescence. From within the stomach of that gargantuan dragon, a shot was loosed. A shot that didn't tear a wound across reality, but rather threaded a needle of flame through it. Adam felt his soul sink into the tissue of Integration itself. He couldn't describe it. It was like a merging between him and the world. He felt closer to the System than ever before, but there was also a layer of insulation, a barricade that separated them inexorably. What's more, the arrow didn't separate from him. Instead, the arrow remained connected to him. More accurately, he remained part of the arrow. Adam could guide its path. Adam could see out from it. Adam could feel its flames connecting back to him in a coursing flow of incandescence. It was chained to his crown, bound to his constellation, bleeding out from his wings. At any moment, he could slip across, could emerge from the sailing shard that was a higher expression of his soul.

It wasn't just an extended limb. It was the shape of his soul itself. There was no difference between him and the arrow. There was no border between him and heroism.

He beheld as his Shard of Exalted Flame tore across the dragon's inner forest. At points, Adam demanded the arrow solidify, and it shredded through trees, severing them down the middle like a blade of unmatched sharpness. Then, with a change of his whims, it softened, sank back beneath the surface of Integration, and became an ethereal fire, slipping from point to point without ever striking the material, gliding across dimensions, swimming through the unstable tides of spatial mana that connected one world to another.

The Fairwoods, however, felt like they were encased in dense marble. He couldn't pierce through, and there were so many points that held him back, billowing tides of pressure that refused his exit. He could move within this place, but if he tried to travel the axis out from this reality into another or back to integrated Earth, he couldn't. It was greater than him still.

He remained caged, even with his great evolution.

