“Well, damn.” Ren said, sadly. He looked around at the town they were in, and recognized all of the buildings. He had designs for them all, and then he looked below. He saw Elerlyth strike out with her sword and decapitate the last ghoul, and a Mana bolt went down through the head while another went through the body.

“Nice teamwork!” Ren said. “Your two skills sets work well with each other.”

“I felt that spike of sadness.” Elerlyth said as she started to loot all the bodies. “What is it?”

“Out of all the ghouls in the next horde, only 3 of them...” Ren looked at the mirror. “...dammit, only two of them... can be saved.”

“By the time we get over to them, there probably won't be any to save.” Elerlyth said. “Where are they?”

Ren asked the All-Seeing Mirror and it showed the spot on the map.

“I'm sorry, Ren.” Elerlyth said and finished looting the bodies. “It's going to take us a few minutes to get there.”

“I know.” Ren said. “Zetaya! Let's go!”

The fire elemental disguised as a colossal cow, ran through the air over to him. He showed everyone on the map where they were going, and they all left the abandoned town.

“Ren, when we're done, I'm going back to loot the town.” Elerlyth said.

“If you find anything interesting, bring it to me.” Ren said.

“You're not going to get angry?”

“What for?” Ren said. “There's literally no one left.” He said and held up the All-Seeing Mirror to show her none of the ghouls were highlighted.

“I really am sorry about that.” Elerlyth said.

“I can feel that you are.” Ren said. “Before you explain why, it doesn't matter that it's for the wrong reason.”

Elerlyth chuckled. “Yes, I'm sorry because you don't have anyone left to save.”

“No one except the people that are going to be attacked by this new horde.” Ren said. “I can't believe how fast they went from none of them gathered, to over a million!” He shook his head. “I'm thinking the conversion percentage numbers were tweaked.”

“No doubt.” Elerlyth said. “We're getting close.”

“Get ready, Zetaya!” Ren said and took out his Staff of Earth. “Elerlyth, Artemis, Princess!” He said and hopped off of Princess and ran beside her. “Get the ones on the outskirts! It's gonna get messy!”

“No mercy!” Elerlyth said and her mount Etheria darted forward.

Ren used the Staff of Earth to split the dirt above the cavern and pushed it to the sides, and Zetaya jumped right into the opening. Princess followed the fire elemental, and Ren felt how happy Princess was that she could run as fast as she wanted and could ram the ghouls as hard as she could without having to worry about not killing them.

“Artemis?” Ren looked at his newest familiar.

“I'm letting her have her fun.” Artemis said, then shot a ghoul that tried to grab Princess. “Safely, of course.”

Ren nodded and used the All-Seeing Mirror to see if any of the ghouls were trying to escape. They were, and Ren directed his combat team to head them off. Without having to sort them, the group made short work of the undead threat, and Ren just stood there in mid-air and watched them.

“Wow, you guys.” Ren said as they all came back over to him, and he filled in the underground cavern. “That was amazing!”

Elerlyth laughed. “I don't think I've ever had my kill get pulverized while I was in the process of killing it.”

“You were too slow!” Princess brayed in amusement.

“At least it didn't splash me.” Elerlyth said.

Ren looked around at the members of his clean-up group. In fact, none of them had any blood on them, and he smiled as he took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked it for the closest ghoul horde, then asked for the closest nest.

“Show me all the nests close by.” Ren said, and about 150 nests appeared. “Okay, we have our work cut out for us.” He said. “If we stick to the 3 minutes per nest, give or take half a minute for the different sizes, that's close to 8 hours.”

“What if we split up?” Elerlyth asked as she came over to him.

“I don't know.” Ren said.

“Check to see how many can be saved.” Elerlyth said, and put a hand on his shoulder.

“I... okay.” Ren said, and asked the All-Seeing Mirror to show the potential saves they would have. None of the nests were highlighted, and he sighed.

“Make another Staff of Earth, and give me a wand with the Locate spell.” Elerlyth said.

Ren handed her the staff he had in his hand, and took out a wand and changed it's spell charges to Locate.

“I'll take Princess with me, and you keep Zetaya and Artemis.” Elerlyth said. “We'll get this done in half the time.”

“Be careful.” Ren said and looked at Elerlyth, then at Princess. “I mean it.”

“I run too fast for the blood to touch me, My Lord.” Princess said. “I will still be careful for you, though.”

Ren smiled and scratched her chin. “I'll meet you both back here in 4 hours.”

“You got it.” Elerlyth said.

“If you meet High Elves, don't engage unless they attack first.”

“Ren, even though we're saving them, they are going to attack first if they get close enough to see me.”

“Yeah, I know.” Ren said, then smiled. “What was it you said? No mercy?”

Elerlyth nodded.

“Princess, take care of her.”

“Yes, My Lord.”

“Great, now I've got two mounts that are going to tell me what to do.” Elerlyth said and chuckled.

“It's because they care... or were told to care.” Ren grinned, and Elerlyth laughed.

“See you soon.” Elerlyth said and she rode her mount towards the next nest, and Princess kept pace with her.

“Let's go.” Ren said and showed Zetaya the next nest in another direction, and he ran through the air beside the colossal cow and Artemis flew beside him.
