Filled with glee, Tiny sped through the fortress as quick as he could, bounding over the top of columns of ants and leaping through open doorways. When he burst out of the front gates, he found his two siblings already arguing.

[You shouldsssssss defeat thissss thing,] Invidia said, [I insisssssst.]

[No, you should,] Crinis said. [I can’t destroy it, because the master has found out about my clone and he’ll force me to take it out if I destroy it!]

[How do you knowssss that?]

[Because of the clone I hid inside our master!]

[Hiding thingsssss issss bad,] Invidia reproached her gently.

[If I didn’t hide it, then he wouldn’t let me do it,] Crinis rebutted weakly.

[That meanssss you knowssss it’sss bad.]

Tiny bounced up, flexed his legs, then slammed them into the ground, sending his frame flying dozens of metres into the air and sailing over their heads.

[I FIGHT!] he declared. [My battle!]

Crinis sighed.

[Yes, fine. That also works.]

[By all meansssss,] Invidia hissed, well satisfied that someone else was stepping forward.

Tiny was glad to have their approval, but he hadn’t really needed it. He was going to fight this opponent no matter what. The only possible way he would give it up was if he slept through it. He would have to repay the master at some point. Maybe Tiny wouldn’t include the organ he’d been secretly studying that converted brain matter into muscle fuel in his next evolution.

Leaping away from the fortress, Tiny swung and rampaged his way through the tunnel, heading toward the foe that he could sense drawing closer with every passing second. Excitement thrummed in his chest almost as much as the lightning surged through his frame. Sparks were flying off his fur and crackling around his fists as he moved. This was going to be fun!

Finally, he saw it. Already engaged in battle, the monster was slaughtering its way through the Dungeon spawn, smashing them apart as it progressed further up the tunnel. That must have been what Master sensed. Impressive! Tiny hadn’t felt a thing.

Furred, like he was, but on four legs, with a powerful-looking muzzle filled with teeth, three tails, and feet made of lightning, Tiny was delighted to see that the monster looked strong. Hopefully it wouldn’t be over quickly.

He hooted his challenge as he landed heavily, his fists cracking the ground with the force of his arrival. Drumming his palms against his chest, he roared and bared his fangs, announcing his intention to fight.

Shaking off the weak challengers, the hound-like beast stared at him, fury and a strange dignity in its eyes. It carried itself proudly, a powerful monster driven from its home, not some savage and wild slug-thing. Tiny grinned. That was good, it would fight smarter.

His eyes burned red as power surged throughout his frame. He could feel every fibre of his flesh bursting with energy as the will to fight suffused him. Lightning writhed over his arms and chest like snakes, burning so brightly he almost couldn’t see.

He raised his fists and began to bounce on his feet. He was ready.

The hound watched him for a moment, then blurred out of existence. Like a lightning bolt, it streaked through the air, faster than he could see. Tiny’s body reacted before his brain could, a neat left hook, compact and fast, his knee rotating inward to put the power of his hips into the punch.

Materialising in front of him, mouth open wide and ready to rip Tiny apart, the monster didn’t see the punch coming. It slammed into the beast’s head, a discharge of electricity sending it flying away as if it had been struck by thunder.

As quickly as he could, Tiny recovered his form and curled his body a little tighter, covering his head with his arms.

Fast. It was much faster than him.

The beast refused to stay down, leaping up with a snarl and shaking its head, now looking more wary than before.

Tiny couldn’t stop the broad grin from splitting his face. It wasn’t over with one punch. It wasn’t over!

With a roar, he rushed forward, keeping his form tight. Once he was close enough, he flashed out with his left, three rapid punches, faster than an eye-blink and with enough power to smash down a castle wall.

Those paws of lightning flashed and the beast retreated out of range, avoiding the blows, but Tiny pursued. From his shoulders, his wings of shadow emerged and beat down powerfully, giving him greater speed as he continued his forward rush.

Always lead with the left. Tiny’s fist flashed through the air, each punch a precise work of art, blasting energy forward dozens of metres. Against an opponent this fast, he needed to keep himself mobile, but defensively solid. Lock the enemy down with rapid punches, and then, when they were still, he could deliver the damage.

His right fist ached, ready to unleash mayhem.

Again, the monster flashed, and again, Tiny reacted on instinct, swivelling to his left where the monster appeared, slashing out with one leg. He slipped the blow, getting his body low and leaning to the side while stepping forward, his fist already in motion.

A right hook this time, coming back with the momentum of an avalanche. Tiny pivoted, his teeth pulled back to reveal his fangs.

The punch connected, lightning cracked and again the beast was sent flying, twenty tons of wolf slamming into the wall.

Watching and waiting, Tiny recovered his form and rolled his shoulders, wanting to make sure his muscles stayed loose.

From the cloud of debris and dust, a deep growl emanated, the air itself beginning to crackle as power flooded the tunnel.

When the hound emerged into the light, it was transformed, its hair standing on end as dense mist flowed outward from its body and clouds gathered over its head. Lightning crashed and thunder rolled, deafeningly loud in the tunnel.

Tiny grinned. This was everything he could have hoped for.