She had put all her experiments and exploration of her new advancements on hold and skipped out on all her research to book a little of Donella’s time to look at her wands. Calen was due home soon, and she didn’t want to miss the opportunity to help her friends break the town’s trade monopoly. As soon as Lydia finished her new robe, they would have to fly through the Emberforge Mines and clear everything in record time – and probably kill the Corrupted Fire Drake at the end just to have a shot at leveling Lydia past one hundred and triggering her evolution.

To be certain of winning the fight, she wanted to bring to bear every tool she had. Having her Ice Mages able to cast their Ice Bolts almost three times faster was a bonus she couldn’t afford to ignore.

“Can you recharge it?” Ali asked. The clerk downstairs had said the wand was too high level for any of the normal staff to recharge it and had suggested that only Donella may be able to authorize it.

“Holy… where did you get this?” Donella exclaimed, snatching up the wand and examining it with awe. “This – this item is incredible, even for a non-ice-affinity mage.” She put the wand down reluctantly, after examining it from every angle. “Yes, I can recharge it for you. We do have a high-power mana transducer, but you can just leave it in an area with a high-density ambient mana and it will slowly recharge the magicite on its own. You have your domain, and that’s probably safer.”

“How long would that take?” Ali asked.

“A couple of days, maybe? With your domain’s mana density.”

“I need it faster than that,” Ali said, frowning. “How fast is the transducer?”

“Less than a minute, but I should warn you, force-charging it with a transducer is inefficient and it does have a small chance of failure, which might cause the magicite to explode.”

“It has magicite in it?” Ali asked, examining the wand carefully.

“Yup, that’s wand-crafting one-oh-one for you,” Donella explained, her voice taking on a classic lecturer tone. “There are three ways to make wands. You can take any old stick and imbue it with runes and your mana, making a consumable artifact like a scroll. Once the user expends the charges the item is broken. The advantage is it’s cheap, doesn’t require magicite, and can be used by anyone. We make a lot of those here at the Academy. The second approach is a rod – a reusable artifact that is inscribed with the runes for a single spell. The creator’s mana doesn’t matter because the user must supply compatible mana every use, but rods don’t have charges and can’t expire.”

“And the third?” Ali asked, glancing at the crystal wand in her hand.

“Wands like this are artifacts of a bygone era. They are powered by magicite and are fully rechargeable. Because the magicite casts the spell for you, compatible mana is not required. The crafter doesn’t need compatible mana to inscribe it, but you do need to charge it with a transducer or ambient mana.”

“So,” Ali said, looking at the wand speculatively. “In theory… I could make this?”

“If you know the runes, yes, but you will need to secure magicite, and that’s obviously next to impossible. I’ve made a few in my time using salvaged magicite. More recently, with whatever I can buy from Weldin Thriftpenny – I’m no expert with nature-affinity runes, but I’m rapidly becoming one,” Donella said, chuckling wryly.

“Hmm…” Ali said, examining the quartz wand carefully, weighing up the possibilities. Absently, she said, “Ryn secured a fascinating book on nature-affinity rune magic from Ciradyl. I copied it for our library if you want to study it.” There was a distinct possibility that there wasn’t enough magicite in the three wands, but she desperately wanted to try. She retrieved some paper and quickly inscribed the runes she found on the wand with her mana sight, memorizing them and the structure of the connections. She pushed the page over to Donella along with one of the wands.

“Would you mind double-checking my notes?”

Donella looked puzzled but checked the runes carefully before pronouncing her reproduction to be perfect.

Ali retrieved the other two depleted wands, laying them on the table next to the first one.

“You have three?” Donella gasped. And then she made a choking cough as Ali’s deconstruction turned the first wand into a puff of sparkling mana, drifting away across the desk.

Ali ignored her for a moment, deconstructing the remaining two wands. I hope it…

Variant: Quartz added to Imprint: Stone.Variant: Magicite (Ice) added to Imprint: Stone.

She did not get the wand imprint itself – that would have required a supply of almost fifteen of them – but with the magicite in her imprint, she should have enough of the pieces.

“You… you…” Donella stammered, still struggling.

Ali let her process what she had just witnessed and channeled some mana into her Grimoire, finding that enough of her new denser domain had permeated the academy from the sewers below that she was able to shape the quartz with her Sculpting and Domain Mastery.

Once she had her wand base, Ali gathered her mana and began inscribing the runes into the quartz, consulting her notes whenever she wanted to double-check her memory. At first, Donella looked on in silence, but she leaned forward to study Ali’s work and before long she began delivering an increasingly animated lecture on the finer points of rune theory, pointing out nuances in the construction and arrangement of the individual circuits that Ali had been unaware of.

“This is fine work,” Donnella nodded when Ali offered it up for inspection. “I just don’t understand how you could destroy the working ones just to practice. Those wands were priceless.”

“I wasn’t just practicing,” Ali said, wielding her Grimoire and producing a small sliver of ice-affinity magicite which she caught and inserted into the waiting hollow chamber in the wand before closing it up. As soon as she linked it to the runes, her chime sounded.

Runic Script has reached level 46 (+3).Winter’s Desolate Celerity – level 85 (Ice)A delicately carved wand of quartz with a deep core of glowing blue energy.+52 Intelligence.Charge: Cast Winter’s Desolate Celerity. Your target gains +85% [skill] to spell haste. The bonus is doubled if the target is chilled or frozen. Duration: 10 seconds. Charges: 0/9.Requirements: Intelligence 596.Created by Aliandra Amariel.Main Hand – Wand

“Yes! It worked!” Ali crowed, ecstatic that her gamble had paid out. She turned the brand-new wand over in her hands, examining the sheen and the delicate runework. It was her first one, and she didn’t even care that it was a copy of Mok’freja’s work and wasn’t an original.

The strangled half-words coming from Donella brought her eyes up to regard the speechless Gnome mage. “Here,” she said, passing the wand to her. “Would you accept this as payment for your time, and for the use of the mana-transducer to recharge some of the wands?” Ali asked, channeling her mana as she set out to make a few more. If there was a chance of blowing them up, she would take it and make more – she needed them charged urgently. Later, when she had the luxury of time, she would take advantage of Donella’s suggestion and use her domain.

“I… I… yes,” Donella said, finally collecting her wits and breaking her gaze from the wand in her hand. “This is far more than fair payment, please let me know if there’s anything else I can help you with. I’ll let the staff know that you can use the mana transducer for free whenever you need it.”

Happy, Ali finished several more wands under the watchful eyes of the lightning mage before she got up to go get them charged.

“Hey, don’t forget to put your mana signature on these,” Donella said.

It was only after she was halfway back to the guild hall that Ali realized this was the first time she had shown Donella she could make magicite.

Oh well, she thought. It wasn’t like it changed much, only now she didn’t feel quite so constrained about adding magicite to her dungeon as a reward for the adventurers. And I have three different affinities now. Oh, and the Abyssal Bloodstone, that makes four. Although, Donella is probably going to badger Weldin until the ice magicite shows up in his store. Ali chuckled as she spotted a courier in Academy colors already approaching the guild.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
