As much as Song tried not to play favourites, she had no choice but to admit that Mama Bun was, without a doubt, the softest, snuggliest, floofiest creature out of all of Rain’s pets.

Blackjack was a close second, with his smooth, velvety fur, but his short hare fur lost out to the sheer volume of Mama Bun’s long, luscious locks, an ample mane of delicate fur with the texture of creamy silk. Sarankho’s fur looked softer and fluffier, but her bristles were tough enough to braid together into a suitably durable rope, while Princess’s fur was about as far from soft as one could imagine without actually being spiked. The bears and quins ranked somewhere between the wildcats and weasel-bear, and while Guai Guai’s fur was also soft and thick, underneath his outer coat lay rough and dense inner coat that kept him warm in the Northern Winters, but came off in clumps every week here in Central, which understandably lessened the satisfaction one gleaned from petting him.

But Mama Bun? If there was a creature with a coat more pleasant to sink one’s fingers into, Song had yet to pet it. The other rabbits were similarly soft and comfortable, but the difference between them and Mama Bun was like night and day, like petting a cloud that enveloped your hand in silken warmth. Best of all was how the sweet bunny snuggled into Song’s embrace, curled up on her back and wiggling her soft little hindquarters in search of the most comfortable position, all while scrunching her eyes shut and rubbing her smushy cheeks against Song’s arm as a sign of affection. She saw this same scene play out almost every single day, only with Mama Bun laying in Rain’s arms rather than hers, and Song envied him for the privilege each and every day.

Which was why she wasn’t all that concerned when he handed her the sleepy rabbit and disappeared in the blink of an eye, off to do Mother knows what for some reason or the other. A small part of her screamed to follow and find him lest he travel beyond her allotted five kilometre range, but calm logic and past experience prevailed against irrational panic. Until told otherwise, Song trusted Rain to remain close enough to keep her Oath from taking effect, as evidenced by the trail of destruction he left behind during his private battle against the Wraiths. Mama and Brother Baatar tracked the entirety of the fight, and not once did Rain step even a single foot outside of a five kilometre radius, which showed that he kept her Oaths in mind at some level. Though her Oaths wouldn’t immediately trigger the moment he stepped foot outside her range and compel her to track him down, an unexplained absence would undoubtedly throw Song for a loop, though she was not in any rush to find out how. Her specific Oaths had been laid out by her trainers and given at an age Song could barely remember anymore, but Teacher Du very rarely travelled and back then, she was still bound to her chain rather than an actual person, so this particular aspect had never come into effect.

Either way, she knew Rain would be back soon enough, though in her eyes it was far too soon as Monk Happy led him back through the monastery gates on foot only a few minutes later. Padding directly over as soon as he saw her, Rain dropped his sword and shield to the ground and let them clatter against the stone while he reached out for Mama Bun from a respectful distance, and Song reluctantly handed the sweet bun over without waking the snoring floof. Somehow, Mama Bun seemed to sense she was back with Rain and slumped into his embrace while still fast asleep, so used to being carried in his arms that she’d long since memorized the most comfortable position to lay in. Arms bereft of that soft, silken mass, Song gathered the reluctant Guai-Guai into her arms and placated him with a handful of berries, as his scowling expression almost made up for his less than perfectly furry texture. She especially loved his polite manners, taking the berries into his paws and shoving them into his mouth rather than eat directly out of her hand, as it added an extra bit of charm to the process that none of the other pets could emulate, except maybe the strange Sir Inky.

Who by in large wasn’t really a pet at all, as he much preferred living out in the wild, not that Song could blame him considering the alternative was spending his time in a pot of water he could barely stretch out in. A shame he wasn’t like the turtles and able to breathe on land, but considering his strange predilections and bizarre response to Rain’s Emotional Aura, perhaps it was best if the octopus remained wild and free, rather than became a household pet.

“Hiya Hubby,” Lin-Lin exclaimed, greeting him even though he would not greet her back. Not verbally at least, but the half-hare paid his silence no mind as she melted into his embrace much like Mama Bun in his other arm. Turning her attention to Monk Happy, she asked, “Where’d hubby go mister monk?”

While Song gathered Rain’s weapons and placed them neatly beside her, Monk Happy settled in across from them and said, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Junior Brother Rain was merely investigating a disturbance at the village, a minor altercation between Junior Brother Jorani and Chieftain Asmani.” His customary smile faltering for a moment, he added, “Or perhaps not Chieftain anymore, as the tribesmen put much stock in combat ability. A matter for another day, however, as this incident proves Junior Brother Rain is more aware of his surroundings than he lets on.”

Something Song could’ve told the monks weeks ago, before they even arrived at the monastery in fact. How else would he have known to slip out under Concealment to engage a pack of murderous Wraiths? Far be it for her to criticize, but thus far, the monks of the Penitent Brotherhood had done little to inspire confidence in their ability to help Rain speed up his recovery. Aside from their bouts of less than impressive self-flagellation, the monks of the Brotherhood were a surprisingly pleasant bunch to be around, or at least those who made themselves available were. Those who didn’t locked themselves in their rooms or travelled away to another monastery so as not to be disturbed by the guests, leaving only the monks who were either amicable to Rain’s plight or curious enough to lend aid. Thus, they were always coming up with new ways to test his condition, usually with puzzles, paintings, and other such visual aids, all with varying effect. In the end though, Rain usually responded with Aura and nothing really changed, so she was understandably impatient to see an improvement.

Somehow sensing her discontent, Monk Happy’s smile returned in full force as he gestured for Song to come closer, and while she might have hesitated were it any other man, she trusted the Monk in a way she trusted few others. In all their time together, Monk Happy had never given her cause to doubt his intentions, as he carried himself with an air of amicable indifference to Song’s gender and appearance. Most other men and women always saw Song’s beauty first before anything else, but she felt like Monk Happy would treat her the same even if she were the most beautiful or ugly woman alive, or even not a woman at all. There was something about this that Song found so liberating, as she no longer had to worry about ulterior motives or lecherous intents when it came to Monk Happy, a luxury she only shared with one other man in her life, Papa. Even Brother Baatar often watched her with a calculating eye, not out of his own interest, but rather to gauge if she was good enough to be Rain’s future bride, a fate Song was not entirely opposed to, but not a prospect she desired either.

Who said she needed a husband anyways? Song was perfectly happy to live out the rest of her life sharing her bed with no one besides Rain’s pets.

With this in mind, Song scooted over to Monk Happy’s side and waited for the man to speak, but instead, he handed her a deck of carved wooden cards and indicated she should help with Rain’s test today. She was getting much better at reading non-verbal communication, whether it be body language or Aura expression, and Monk Happy utilized both to great effect. A hint of encouragement mixed with subtle reassurance, one meant to spur her to discover the answers for herself. Glancing at the top card, she saw that she held what she’d taken to calling the favoured deck, one depicting all the things Rain preferred over the sword. Hardly surprising he picked almost anything over the weapon, since it was obvious that despite his astonishing talents, he had little love for the Martial Path and the bloodshed it entailed, while simultaneously being unable to tear himself away. If Song were to describe it, she would say Rain was in love with the ideals of the Martial Path, the strength and freedom it embodied, but he hated the reality of the situation which was the eternal struggle against the Father’s foul minions and his own inner demons.

What Rain wanted was all of the power without the struggle, a concept Song personally found terrifying, as she’d seen what people were capable of when given absolute power over others without oversight or repercussion. Even Jin Tok had tried to be kind at first, but grew angry when Song tried to refuse him, only to become violent and forceful once he realized she had no real ability to resist. Worst of all, he quickly grew drunk on his power and abused it more and more often, especially when Song somehow drew his ire, like when she failed to defeat the ‘savage brat’ who broke his ankle and lost face for his father, Cho Jin Kai, a man who was even more of a monster than his lecherous son.

To this very day, she still had nightmares about the punishment Kai inflicted upon her for losing to Rain and ‘allowing’ the savage child to humiliate him in public, as if she’d lost on purpose even though her Oaths would not permit it.

Trials and tribulations, but ones she had long since left behind her, and while Rain had never abused his power over her, this was far from enough to reassure her subconscious mind, especially in light of his sometimes lascivious gaze. Though he tried to hide it and make Song feel comfortable in his presence, the mere fact that he was mildly attracted to her on even a superficial level was enough to keep her on her guard, but it was not so with Monk Happy and Papa. Thus, rather than question his motives, Song trusted the monk and held out the first card for Rain to see, while Monk Happy held out the card bearing Rain’s sword beside her. Though he behaved as expected and picked the bow-tie wearing bunny, Song wasn’t expecting the wave of bored frustration that accompanied the decision as Rain made his feelings clear. “We’ve done this every day for the past month,” he seemed to be saying, and Song could almost see his shoulders slumping as he ‘spoke’. “Isn’t it time we moved on?”

Under Monk Happy’s urging, Song showed Rain the next card, and again, he responded in the same way, with only minor variations in his Emotional Aura that all said the same thing. Right up until the last card, which depicted his transforming glaive, a card meant to spark a response and guide him to reform his third and final Spiritual Weapon. While it worked with his shield, and Song saw firsthand how he carved up his left hand and fabricated the shield out of blood and bone, in the weeks since, he’d been unable to replicate his initial success and always lapsed into distracted thought when presented with this last card, or so Song thought until she presented it to him herself.

Rain emanated yet another surge of frustration, but one tinged with impatience and laced with self-loathing. “I get it,” he said, without voicing a word. “But I can’t do it, because I’m weak and stupid and worthless.”

So overwhelmed by his emotions, Song responded with an Aura of encouragement and support, one she Condensed without even thinking. “You are strong,” she tried to tell him without saying a word, but that didn’t seem to help. “You will get through this.” Which somehow made things even worse. Turning to Monk Happy for help, she was greeted with yet another smile, one that said he was waiting for her to solve the problem by herself. Reluctant as she was, she saw no other option as she handed Guai Guai over to Rain, while Lin-Lin followed suit and planted Blackjack on his head. Clinging to Rain as if he were merely furniture to rest on, Guai Guai continued snacking on berries with the same surly expression, not giving one whit about who held him so long as it was someone he trusted. Blackjack was a different story, as the sweet hare hopped in a circle atop Rain’s head before leaning down to look him in the eyes. Though his expression remained static, his Aura of angst and frustration faded away as the animals stole his attention away, and it was as if all his worries simply melted into nothingness, already forgotten at the sight of Blackjack’s adorable expression. They would be back the next time they did this test, of this, Song had no doubt, but while the experience was an enlightening look into Rain’s state of mind, she was unsure of the lesson to be gleaned from this.

There was always a lesson when it came to the Brotherhood, and Monk Happy in particular. He didn’t frame them the same way Teacher Du did, with a meticulously planned lecture detailing everything he intended to teach followed by examples to draw from and inferences to follow, but rather in a more free-form manner wherein the lesson was more subtle and less clear cut in purpose.

