In times like this, when Song didn’t know how to proceed, Mama always said the first thing to do was identify the problem. “Rain is unable to reforge his glaive,” Song began, but Monk Happy said nothing and waited for her to continue. “He is frustrated by his inability, to the point where one might suspect he has become unbalanced. Hence his fixation on the pets and the many hours spent each and every day playing with them, but there has yet to be any improvement. Is there nothing more anyone can do to help him?”

Monk Happy knew what she meant, but Mama had warned Song against speaking about the Abbot after arriving in the monastery. Patting Song’s head, Mama explained, “The loss of another Divinity will be crippling to the Brotherhood, as they’ve openly revealed they have guided at least two individuals to the highest peaks of the Martial Path. Some will think to join them, but most will see this as an opportunity to plunder a prized treasure trove of secrets. Like vultures circling their dying prey, various factions of the Empire will watch the Brotherhood for weakness, and while the Arid Wastes is barrier to all but the most determined of scouts, the potential rewards will be well worth the effort in the eyes of countless desperate Warriors and aging nobles. Divinity is the end goal of all Martial Warriors, and though few ever reach it, Warriors are a prideful bunch and many believe knowledge and understanding are all that keeps them from reaching their goal. Thus, the Brotherhood will pretend as if their Abbot is alive and well, but lurking in waiting to catch whichever vulture swoops down first. Whether he lives or has died, the end result will be the same. The vultures will circle until one grows bold enough to test the waters, and the rest will react accordingly. Either way, the Abbot is out of our reach until he is healthy enough to stand on his own, assuming he still yet draws breath.”

Thus far, no vultures had come swooping in, but judging by Monk Happy’s Aura, the Abbot was either dead or not yet ready to reveal himself, not even to help Rain recover. “Answer me this,” Monk Happy said, handing her yet another pouch of Spiritual Berries to replace the one Guai Guai just emptied into his belly. “How has Junior Brother Rain’s condition changed since reforming his Spiritual Weapons?”

“...It hasn’t,” Song replied, though she would much rather know how the Brotherhood had a seemingly endless supply of Spiritual Fruits to dole out, a mystery which Medical Saint Taduk seemed utterly uninterested in solving. Likely because he knew the answer already and didn’t want to share, but she imagined it had something to do with the mysterious Spiritual Panda Bear that she had yet to meet. Perhaps the panda wasn’t a Spiritual Beast at all, but rather a Divine Beast like Ping Ping and Pong Pong, or perhaps the Brotherhood had another method of cultivating Spiritual Plants, but either way, Song didn’t know enough to draw any conclusions. As for Rain’s condition, he was still doing the same things he did back in the District Manor, playing with the animals everyday followed by random bouts of teaching moments that occurred with varying frequency. Since she had yet to personally be guided by him herself, Song wasn’t sure what to make of his lessons, though they did seem largely inspired by Insight since the student in question generally turned out to be whoever managed to catch his interest, whether it be Lin-Lin running along the monastery rooftops, Princess wrestling with Banjo and Baloo in the courtyard, or even one of the monks doing something innocuous like sparring, carving, or even painting.

Rain never picked up weapon, chisel, or brush, but he nonetheless somehow guided his ‘students’ with astonishing accuracy. In the handful of days following Tate and Tali’s lessons, Song noted a marked improvement in both their Demonstrations, but only because they were young and made many mistakes. It was harder to see the improvements in Sister Mila, Niece Alsantset, Sister Yan, or anyone else close to Song’s level, because if she could pick out their flaws, then she would have pointed them out herself. That being said, everyone who received a lesson swore that even a few minutes of guidance was an incalculable boon to their progress along the Martial Path, one similar to a brief bout of Insight pointing them in the right direction. Song would be lying if she claimed she wasn’t interested in receiving such guidance, but despite Demonstrating the Forms in front of him each and every day, her movements had yet to spark Rain’s scholarly interest. He would much rather try to teach Jimjam and Blackjack how to Cloud-Step or show the rabbits how to solve Lin-Lin’s mechanical puzzles, simple contraptions of wood and wire the monks of the Brotherhood crafted at her request. Festooned with latches, barred hatches, fitted blocks and more, they were designed to hold a Spiritual Berry and crafted so that even rabbit paws could open them with ease. Guai Guai and the laughing birds were clever enough to solve them with little or no help, but the bunnies made next to no progress even after being shown the same puzzle and solution dozens of times. Still, it was adorable to watch their little tantrums when their patience eventually wore thin, especially sweet Thumper whose name served her well as she cleverly smashed apart the puzzles with her back feet.

Mama Bun never even tried to solve the puzzles, as being the most clever of the bunch, she simply brought them to Ping Ping who was more than happy to crunch open the container for her little long-eared friend.

Realizing she’d allowed her mind to drift, Song glanced at Monk Happy to see how she fared, but predictably, his expression was as unreadable as Rain’s. He neither agreed nor disagreed with her assessment of Rain’s condition, but after giving the question further thought, she concluded that Monk Happy would have phrased it differently if Song’s answer was right. He would have left out the ‘how’ if nothing had changed, meaning Song just hadn’t noticed the change, a conclusion she shared out loud. Being unable to come up with the right answer was an answer in and of itself, so long as one took the effort to try in the first place. Ignorance was no sin, not unless it was wilful ignorance, as omnipotence was the purview of the Divine.

“Oh?” Monk Happy responded, clearly surprised by Song’s failure to come up with an answer. “This monk thought you of all people would have noticed it first. When you all first arrived, this monk struggled to understand the meaning of Junior Brother Rain’s Auras, as it was a torrent of emotions without delineation. In recent days however, his clarity has much improved as he is able to bring one emotion to the forefront every time he Condenses his Aura. While much of his message is still lost in the process, at least now we are able to glean the most dominant emotion he feels at any given time.”

Upon reflection, Song realized that Monk Happy was right, but that she failed to notice because she never found his Aura all that difficult to understand. The only thing that surprised her was how much he blamed himself for every little thing that went wrong and how strongly he... not hated, but was ashamed of his own actions. Somehow picking up on all of Song’s thoughts, Monk Happy nodded and said, “Ah, of course. You understood him all along, so failed to notice his improvement.”

“Hehe. Li-Li understands hubby really well,” Lin-Lin exclaimed, beaming from ear to ear as if it were some great accomplishment. “Because they’re so alike, ya?”

A point Song wanted to argue, but she didn’t know where to start. In what ways were they alike? Sure, they shared a similar past, and a love for animals due to their simplistic innocence, but otherwise, they were as different as Blackjack and Tawny One. Both roughly similar at first glance, but utterly distinct once past the initial impression. Sensing Song’s dissatisfaction, Lin-Lin unrepentantly stuck out her tongue before burying her face into Rain’s arm, as if the inability to see Song’s reaction would will it out of existence. It was the sort of thing one might expect from young children or silly animals, but Lin-Lin was just too endearing to fault, so Song let sleeping dogs lie and shared an Aura of love and affection laced with a hint of dissent.

Turning her attention back to Monk Happy, Song hesitated before giving voice to her thoughts, but they needed to be said. Though the Western Wall was still holding strong for now, she knew Rain would blame himself for every death and setback along the way, and doubly so for those that took place in his absence. A foolish and prideful mindset to take, since it meant Rain thought that he could defend the Western Border better than Colonel General Shuai Jiao, but there was no sense using logic to argue with Rain. Thus, the only way to mitigate his depressive spiral was to limit the amount of time he spent away and out of control, leaving him with a more manageable burden of irrational guilt rather than an overwhelming one that might crush him underfoot. “Perhaps he has improved,” she began, unsure how to properly frame the issue, “But... it is not enough. He still has yet to craft his third Spiritual Weapon, and we do not even know if doing so will fix him.”

“Oh, it almost certainly won’t,” Monk Happy said, shrugging in the face of Song’s dumbfounded expression. “The damage to his weapons shattered his Core, but considering how he managed to fix his Core without reforming his Spiritual Weapons, it makes no sense to believe the missing weapons are the cause of his woes. No, we believe Junior Brother Rain’s problems stem from Balance, more specifically a lack thereof.”

Frowning, Song quietly accepted Sarankho’s headbutt and nuzzled the sweet wildcat close, making sure to offer the same to Jimjam as well if he should so choose to accept it. For a change, the diffident wildcat was in the mood for a hug, and for a moment, all was well in the world. Then she was forced to face reality once more and ask a question she wasn’t entirely sure she wanted answered. “You think he turned Defiled again?”

It was impossible right? Rain would never succumb to the Father’s lies, Song just knew it in her heart.

“No, no,” Monk Happy said, much to Song’s relief. “Junior Brother Rain lacks Balance the same way a bird lacks fur or a turtle feathers. Rather than hold to Balance or fall to Imbalance, Junior Brother Rain appears to have... for lack of a better phrase, rejected the entire system. Too much is as bad as not enough, this is an adage many Martial Warriors have heard in reference to Balance, but it appears that this might no longer be true in the case of absolute nothingness. Rather than struggle or surrender, we believe Junior Brother Rain chose to empty himself of all emotion and thus...” Pausing to issue a long sigh, Monk Happy explained, “This monk struggles to explain without revealing too much of what lies ahead, for the Martial Path is one best tread in ignorance, because the wrong misconception can be far more damaging than simple lack of information. The latter is much more easily corrected than the former, and this monk fears your mother would not be so forgiving if he were to ruin a seedling as promising as you. All else aside, Junior Brother Rain divested himself of all emotion and found a... different sort of Balance, one wherein the scales are equalized because there is nothing on either side to weigh.”

Her chest wracked with pangs of sympathy, Song studied Rain’s relaxed, neutral expression as he lay in the grass with Mama Bun in his arm, Guai Guai braced against his chest, and Blackjack in his hand, so calm and at peace in the moment. She understood his desire to feel nothing, for she too had tried to die inside since she lacked the ability to die in real life. Sometimes, feeling nothing seemed a damned sight better than going through all the pain and misery of life, for the endless trials and tribulations had a way of wearing one down. It never worked though, because it wasn’t possible to feel nothing, not while still drawing breath, and though Rain evidently found more success with his attempt than most, he learned the same lesson they all did, that he was only fooling himself into believing he had no emotions at all.

“So what does this mean for him going forward?” And more importantly, how was the Brotherhood planning to fix him?

Catching onto her real question, Monk Happy rubbed his bald head in thought. “I brought him here in hopes of helping him, but I fear I have only enabled him to hide his head in the sand. Perhaps the Abbot could do more, but he is otherwise occupied, so I can only tell Sentinel Song the truth. We... have come up with dozens of theories that might hold water, and differing opinions on what must be done, but we are unable to agree upon any one approach. One thing we do agree on is that we all believe that Junior Brother Rain has recognized his own failings and is rectifying the mistake on his own, to some extent. See how he does as he pleases, without care for pride or appearance? He is submerging himself in his emotions and making up for a lifetime of such experiences he suppressed, discarded, or otherwise tried to forget, but this is clearly not enough.”

