Because life wasn’t solely comprised of safe and happy times spent with loved ones. Life was also about loss and failure, struggle and hardship, conflict and compromise. “He cannot stay?” Song asked, more because she didn’t want to admit that she already knew the answer. Rain was clearly happy here, or really anywhere he and his loved ones could be together safely, but a return to the Western Wall would not be the joyous reunion he no doubt desperately desired. While large Defiled armies had yet to take the field, small cavalry patrols were harassing Imperial soldiers and citizens wherever they could, running the patrols and mounts ragged as they struck like lightning and faded away to safety west of the Wall. No Imperial troops would willingly step foot west of the Wall, not without a massive army behind them, for the battle along the second line had shown that Divinities on both sides were willing to lend aid to their respective sides, if only to Conceal troop movements from the naked eye. Alas, this gambit served the Enemy far better than the Imperials, for the latter held a static defence whilst the former were free to pick and choose their targets at will.

And if Rain were to return there in his current state, he would be helpless to do naught but share in the pain and misery of ‘his’ failures.

Was this why he refused to reforge his third and final weapon and lacked any and all sense of urgency? Because he had no desire to return to the war? Presumably, he’d come here for guidance, and the monks of the Brotherhood guided him towards the reformation of his Spiritual Weapons, but surely this was not all they could do. “Is there nothing else you can do for him?” she asked, hoping above all hope that he had some miracle in his pocket, but alas, Monk Happy merely shook his head.

“Alas, until he is able to speak and explain his issues, we are unable to help, so we are deadlocked in that we have no way to proceed, except to say that he is already on the right path, and that his path leads away from the monastery for now.” Bowing his head, he added, “Of course, I will travel with him, to aid in keeping him safe, but the Mother helps those who help themselves, and She is helpless to help those who refuse to heed Her advice.”

Since Mama’s last letter told her all was still well, she decided to give Rain at least one more day to enjoy the peace and serenity of the Brotherhood’s monastery before giving him some much needed motivation to get better. She watched as he played with Blackjack and snuggled with bunnies and called the laughing birds to his hand and stroked their feathered heads with tender care. Then he play wrestled with Banjo and Baloo, guiding them on how to overcome Princess, and laid on his side to invite the weasel bear to come snuggle in his embrace, an invitation she steadfastly ignored. He ate his meals with relish, sharing scraps with those who would eat them, and chased his wildcats about the courtyard with reckless abandon while the rabbits hopped along behind them, all before coming back to sit with Lin-Lin and hold her tight, no doubt showing her just how much he loved her all the while.

A pleasant life, all things considered, full of joy and good cheer, but alas, Rain was needed for more.

After sending Lin-Lin off to bed, Song followed Rain back to his room, where they could speak in silence. Upon realizing she was there, his surprise was evident in the form of an Aura that even she couldn’t entirely understand, mostly a tangled web of confusion and self-loathing. Settling into the chair as she gestured for him to sit on the bed, she spent a few moments petting Ping Ping and gathering her thoughts. First, she detailed what Monk Happy shared with her to ascertain Rain’s thoughts on the matter, and what she got was a mixture of muted frustration and self-deprecation combined with mild indifference and scorn. Clearly, he disagreed with something Monk Happy had conveyed, but given the long delay between statement and response, Song wasn’t sure which part had earned Rain’s scorn.

That being said, she felt the need to give Rain a little push, just in case he’d forgotten why he was here in the first place. “The Defiled are on the attack,” she said, and for once, his body language gave him away as he straightened in alarm and surprise less than a minute later. How strange to think there was a time when his expressions were so easily read, but things changed, and not always for the better. “Not out in force, but minor raids, mostly one to four hundred strong. The districts have taken a beating, because while their militia are more than up the task of weathering a single attack, the Defiled have taken to repeatedly raiding the same districts until soldiers are dispatched to guard it.” She left out that Colonel General Shuai Jiao had yet to order any troops to defend them and Luo-Luo had been forced to organize off-duty volunteers to stand guard during their downtime, not an ideal solution by any means but the only one they had available to them. Shuai Jiao saw the deaths as an acceptable loss, as he valued soldiers over civilians and saw war as an issue of mathematics more than anything else. It wasn’t necessarily the wrong decision, as in truth, the Defiled raids had done little to no lasting damage as of yet and civilians were still lining up for a chance to settle along the Western Border, but it left a sour taste in Song’s mouth, as it would in Rain’s.

“Mama believes there is at least one Defiled army in the field,” Song continued, surprised by how quickly Rain reacted to this news. There was a time when it took minutes, if not hours to get a message through to him, but lately he’d improved to the point where he seemed aware of all conversation directed towards him. Lin-Lin was the first to notice and Song had paid it little mind, but now she wondered if this was yet another sign of his improving condition, one that they’d all overlooked. “Because the Wraith attacks have stepped up in frequency despite learning that their newfangled abilities are some form of Blessing and easily countered by Elemental Chi. The Enemy losses have been substantial, but the raids and assassination attempts continue, no doubt to distract us from seeing what’s happening in front of our eyes.” Taking a deep breath, she added, “This morning, Colonel General Shuai Jiao took sole command of the Imperial defences, and Luo-Luo has declined to contest the decision, though she gives no reason why. According to Mama, Shuai Jiao means to sit and hold the Walls as best he can, because so long as the walls remain standing, a few small raids are of no consequence, especially now that he has the support of the Marshals and can keep the Wall supplied via overland travel. A losing gambit, in Mama’s opinion, as it costs more in both coin and blood to accept this status quo, but Nian Zu and Ryo Dae Jung agree with his plan of action, and there is little we can do.”

Clearly, Rain agreed with Mama as he trembled with suppressed rage, and Song could see how conflicted he really was. She offered him everything else she knew regarding the war efforts, but it was precious little, and though she was prepared to stay and repeat herself if necessary, Rain dismissed her with an Aura of grief and gratitude stained with uncertainty and indecision. He didn’t know what he was going to do, but he needed time to think, and this was exactly what she wanted him to do. Trusting Naaran to keep a close eye on Rain, she left his room and hoped he would stay there, as the last thing anyone wanted was for him to slip away and do something stupid like engage the Enemy on his own.

Which was exactly what he might try if left to his own devices, but there was nothing Song could do to stop him. Not entirely true, as she could bind herself to him using rope like Sister Mila and Yan had, but then that meant sharing a room with him, and she wasn’t quite willing to do so just yet. Instead, she trusted Naaran to keep him close, but not only this, she trusted Rain not to forget her Oaths and leave her here unattended, where she would then be compelled to find him no matter the cost.

He wouldn’t do that to her, not Rain. This, Song believed without fail. What he would do, no one could say, perhaps not even Rain himself, but whatever it was, Song had faith that he would do whatever he thought was right.

And sometimes, that was the best one could hope for, because life was not necessarily about doing everything right, but rather to be true to one’s self in the face of adversity. Easy to speak of honour and honesty when rich and well-liked, but what of the starving farmer who resisted the urge to turn bandit or the honourable merchant who was sorely in debt yet refused to cheat his customers? Yes, the true measure of a person was how they behaved in the face of adversity, and thus far, Falling Rain had done nothing but remain true to himself. This, more than anything, was what defined his Path, and Song hoped to one day understand what defined hers as well. For now, she would follow Rain on his, not because her Oaths compelled her, but because given everything she knew about him, she believed that his Path moved parallel to her own.

Though others might see them as master and slave, in their eyes, they were family, friends, and comrades in arms, so Song would follow Rain wherever he might lead her, so long as he remained true to himself.

Then again... there was no harm in pushing him a little further, just in case he’d grown complacent and was enjoying his time with the pets too much. As she stepped out the door, she was reminded of one last piece of news that might convince Rain to hurry, and she wasted no time turning around to tell him him. “Mafu and Atir’s eggs have hatched, so you have nine, healthy pups waiting to meet you. Mafu brings them by the manor every day looking for you and spends the mornings playing with them in the courtyard.”

Without waiting for a response, Song turned and left the room to avoid the inevitable glee and anticipation she knew would follow, because she feared she might lose herself if his Aura were compounded with her own eager impatience to cuddle the quin pups. If Rain needed rest and relaxation to help fill his emotional void, it would go much faster back home with the rest of their family. If he still had reason to be here, then he had best get to it before too much time passed, else he might recover only to find there was no longer an Empire to return to.

Or worse... he might miss out on seeing the quin pups at their cutest, when they were still awkward and ungainly as they bumbled about with waddling butts and half-lidded eyes...

Chapter Meme
