Strange times made for strange bedfellows.

***

Fabian Lacor, newly risen president of the Yukat Islands, looked at the shimmering haze of energy in front of him. It screamed evil and danger, but after his Awakening, as the new lords called it, he felt powerful and like he could take on anything.

Not that he would. If his life had taught him anything, it was that you never wanted to stand out too far until it was time to strike, and his Talent seemed to reflect that.

Tier 1 Talent: When you concentrate you may fade or amplify your presence. Fading can allow you to slip under people’s notice while amplifying enough can act as a mental attack.

The power was like a limb he had never known he had, and it had been instinctual to fade into the crowd.

He had some political enemies back home that he could test the other effect on, but that would need to wait. They were being shown what monsters there were to face in this brave new world.

Fabian didn’t expect much, but as they walked through the portal, he joined another group who inspected a pair of small green humanoids in the next room.

Someone asked about guns, and Fabian listened as Matthew answered. “Guns are viable to use to delve, but their main advantage, mass production, falls off fairly hard as you Tier up and Tiered materials become rarer. Guns also don't directly take advantage of physical or magical cultivation. These Tier 1 goblins would die to a simple well placed handgun shot, but a Tier 2 or 3 variant would be much harder to damage. And by Tier 4, they would be nearly bulletproof to mundane firearms. I would suggest picking up a weapon or a spell.”

Fabian had a million and one questions, but asked none of them as they took what felt like a tour of a mineshaft as the monsters just exploded after attacking their group.

He didn’t disregard the danger of doing this himself, but Fabian had never shied away from getting a little blood on his hands. Power was right there for the taking if he could reach out and grab it.

He would need to be careful, but he intended to enter these spaces as often as he could until he reached the power limit.

Then he would leverage his position as a world leader to accumulate more power until he was eventually strong enough to do anything he wanted.

He had clawed his way from nothing through the corrupt political landscape of his home, but that was where he learned a fundamental truth of the world. It was the flexible who survived. He had bent, twisted, and stabbed every opportunity he came across until he reached the highest level of power.

Or so he thought.

Just when he thought he reached the peak of possible worldly power, the heavens opened and showed him just how much further there was to climb.

Fabian could see the lesser men and women around him who considered this a calamity bearing down on their homes. They only saw the destruction, but he saw the clear blue sky that had been hidden from him his whole life.

This was what he was meant to do in life. Gather power, not just political power but real, tangible power that he could use to whatever he desired. Many, many people, institutions, and even the planet itself had slighted him too many times to count and he would have his reckoning.

There were a lot of wrongs to be righted, and he would get to them soon enough.

However, doing so would be a lot easier if he could slow this unveiling business down, and his mind went to the best ways to run subtle interference. There was no reason they should be giving power to the commoners.

Or were they peasants now?

That was the term the monarchies used, and Fabian found it rolled off the tongue well. The words' simplistic conjunction fit their simple lives and lots in life better than something like civilian or commoner.

One of the new lords, Matthew, had already mentioned delivering magical tools that could heal. He stated they were to be given to hospitals, but Fabian had no intention of doing that.

No, they would go to his loyal people. He would have them monopolize the so-called rifts and then, as he grew in power, he could strangle his enemies before they could even get started, ensuring he had enough time to get ahead of the curve.

His breathing quickened as he could almost taste their pleas and cries as they realized they had lost the race even before it had started.

Sadly, Fabian knew he couldn’t do it alone, but thankfully, a good portion of the other countries' leaders could be convinced to drag their feet on whatever plans these lordlings tried to push. Bureaucracy was slow, and he suspected so-called immortal bureaucracy would be even slower.

A delay here, a failed plan there, and the world leaders could double or triple whatever time frame these people wanted to hit without too much interference.

A decade or two should be more than enough time.

The two nobles talked a lot more about things like technology and ensuring food was distributed to the poorest regions of the planet, but Fabian relegated only a portion of his mind to listening. The majority was instead making plans.

Ah the naivety of youth. Thinking to give out food. As if the production lines needed to facilitate such actions wouldn’t strip anything of value out of whatever altruistic deal they were putting together, leaving nothing but a hollow shell to arrive at the people in ‘need’.

If these were their priorities, these children were going to be eaten alive as they dealt with real politics for the first time.

Fabian just needed to ensure he pushed the right people forward at the right time to keep both his hands clean, and himself out of the spotline until it was time to wrest control.

He couldn't help but smile as he thought about to the little Talent reader thing that supposedly told him what he was best at.

How fitting.

Maybe there was something to this magic stuff after all.

An interesting thought, and he’d need to get someone he trusted to try tinkering with those Talent reader things. They could be a good way to cut out any issues before they could take root and grow in their fertile new world.
