The young man nodded, but it was clearly only in acknowledgment of her question and not agreement. “As we further the integration, you will find that many of your positions will turn into governors, which even in the Empire are elected officials. We are willing to take feedback on our possible candidates, but I assure each and every one of you that the Baron who takes over Soerilia will be competent and compassionate.”

Feeling all of her and her ancestors' work slipping away from them, Tara tried one more time. “Is there truly no way for us to rule ourselves?”

The man blinked at her, and Tara was reminded of the eyes of killers she had encountered in her life. Eyes not quite dead, but that had seen more than anyone ever should in a single lifetime. “That is not within the purview we have been given. Local populations must be brought up to Empire standards as quickly as possible.”

The man gestured around the room. “Something as simple as language is a barrier for you all, but no matter which of the many worlds in the Empire that you travel to you will be able to communicate without issue. That is just one example of what is needed in an integration. Do you believe that a leader chosen from among you with your varied and tumultuous histories will be able to refrain from the squabbles of the past?”

Tara wanted to refute the man. She acknowledged that there was a thread of logic in bringing in someone from the outside, but that didn’t mean she liked it. She also didn’t like the idea that her people would be forced to learn some foreign language.

Language was life.

He was correct in that it was how people communicated, but it was so much more. A language was a growing thing that changed as people did. Its very essence was seeped in the history of its people, and no matter how good any translation was, it could never do justice to the original, for those who had been born in the language and understood its nuances and intricacies.

The kid might put flowers on the idea, but everyone speaking the same tongue across even a single planet would lead to homogenization and eventual stagnation as the rigid constraints of the language, unchanging and unbending, forced their thoughts into rigid predefined patterns.

These invaders from another reality might couch it as a good thing, but Tara could see this for what it was.

The death of Soerilia.

Tara just didn’t know what she could do to prevent it.

If even half of what the folder said was true, these people were like gods.

That thought had her looking over to the Grand Secretary of the Palkar Union. Gerard seemed genuinely apoplectic, and based on their almost religious belief in everyone being born equal and remaining equal throughout their life, with no person having more rights than another, it wasn’t surprising to see him reacting badly to the idea of real tangible differences in power between individuals.

He was screaming his head off in silence, and Tara doubted that he would be given any amount of vocal freedom any time soon.

Tara hated everything she had heard today, but the ability to silence people like that would be a power she would find hard to decline.

Westley Bakerfield stood and was given leave to speak by the raptor on the woman's shoulder, and Tara winced when she heard the young man's excitement. “You noted that you wanted to ease the common people into the idea of magic, but you will be giving technologies for us to integrate with. Is there any way to see examples of them? As well as magic in general? And these rifts? What about awakening, how does it work?”

The two lords shared a look which only reinforced that they were an old couple to Tara. It was short, and a million words seemed to pass between them in that instant.

If they were a couple walking down the street, Tara would have smiled at young love, but the packet said these people were hundreds of years old. And then as if that wasn’t absurd enough, it implied that people of their age were considered young.

The woman spoke, and Tara swore the bird was watching her with uncanny intelligence. “We can tell that many of you don’t fully believe us, which we acknowledge is understandable. We can take you to the nearby world that is typical of an Empire planet. While there, we can awaken anyone who wishes to undergo the procedure, and we can show you what a rift looks like and what your people will be dealing with.”

One of the dictators spoke, but Tara didn’t recognize them from their voice alone. They changed leaders so quickly, she could hardly keep up. “Must we go through this procedure?”

The man shook his head before pointing at Westley. “By Empire law, all peoples must awaken. However, there is an exception dating back to when mandatory awakening was first introduced that those above the age of 45 can decline. While no longer relevant in the Empire proper, as none can reach that age without being in breach of mandatory awakening laws, it still applies to newly integrated worlds such as your own. That said, while all but one of you are old enough to decline, be aware we will require you to not run for another term, step down, or otherwise remove yourself from your current position if you choose to exercise that right. You will be who the common citizen will look to in the coming years. We don’t want to set a bad example.”

Westley, the foolish child, looked positively giddy at the rule that should have any reputable leader of a democratic country weeping for the loss of freedom. He seemed seduced with power and new shiny toys, ignoring the noose he was tightening around his neck.

The man waved and an oval of blue light appeared on the AC speakers floor. “This will take us to the teleporter where we can visit the nearby planet. Please proceed through the portal and then clear the terminus location so others can go through.”

Tara looked around, and despite the man implying they wouldn’t force anyone, no one believed they wouldn’t be thrown through the portal should they try to sit this one out.

As she shuffled down the steps, Tara wished her guards had been allowed in the meeting, as their assistance would have been helpful.

Just as she was thinking that, the secretary man who stood behind the two appeared next to her side.

“Would you like some assistance, madam?”

Tara looked at him and shook her head vehemently. She wanted no part in their magic and said so.

The man blinked at her, and she realized he had slitted eyes like a predator. “I was offering help of the more mundane variety. But I could also cast a healing spell on you that, while it won’t change your age, will relieve some of the rigors of old age you are experiencing.”

Tara nearly fell over at the idea of magical healing. It seemed unnatural. Old age was a part of life and death, both of which were perfectly normal. This whole immortality business went against the fundamental truths of nature. It might not be fun or pleasant, as she well knew, but it was part of the cycle that returned to the planet which had birthed them.

Not that she could say that outloud here and now. The man had crossed the twenty foot distance in a blur, and if that speed translated to power, he could break her with a thought. A part of her wished he would do so and show those foolish enough to be agreeing that these monsters were here to end their way of life so completely, they wouldn’t even know their histories in a generation or two.

No, it was better to be polite, at least on the surface. “No, thank you. I have managed for the last eighty two years. I can manage for one more.”

The man nodded before blurring back to his place beside the golden haired one.

Marcus Daltor, an older man with a missing finger he covered with a glove with an insert, stepped out of the line to the portal and removed his glove. “You mentioned healing. Is it possible to heal a severed appendage?”

The woman nodded. “It is possible, and I am technically able to do so, but I would prefer it if you wait a few moments. Magical healing is as much a specialized discipline as non-magical medicine. While we are on the other planet, we can have a true specialist come over during our tour and get that taken care of.”

“And the cost?”

Tara had to nod at the man's good sense finally showing through, even if he trembled with excitement. Fell bargains always had a price to be paid.

“All healing is free for civilians in the Empire.” The woman seemed to believe it, but Tara was sure that no monarchy could be so enlightened to have something like free healthcare. There was the caveat about civilians, and Tara expected that the moment the fools accepted the magic power stuff they were talking about they would no longer qualify.

She had seen similar tactics played out before.

Tara braced herself as she stepped through the blue disk expecting to trip and fall or something similar, but instead she found herself in a train station. As she stepped away from the magical portal thing, she saw that the wall in front of them seemed transparent and showed the busy floor of people walking around in what she recognized as the Grand Central Station of Noricum.

Turning around, she got a fright, as a massive circular platform of metal sat there in what felt like plain sight.

The copper haired woman gestured for everyone to stand on the platform, and Tara acutely felt the absence of her guards as people filed in.

The golden haired man was the last through the portal,and as he stepped onto the platform, a sphere of blue appeared to trap them in.

An instant of vertigo nearly caused Tara to pass out, but a few deep breaths steadied her, and through watery eyes she looked up to find herself in a new room filled with more pale people.

She corrected herself as she squinted. Not everyone was as pale as a fish's underbelly, and a few people had a proper coloration to them.

That was the only bit of familiarity as they exited the room they were in. The man and woman both said a few things, their voices traveling to Tara’s ear like they were standing right next to her, but she ignored it all, her attention on the alien city.

On a surface level it looked normal enough but there was a stark absence of vehicles. What she thought was a bus tumbled past silently, and the same was true for a lone car with a slogan stenciled on its side.

The fact that the car looked strikingly similar, but just alien enough to register as different was a bit of a shock, but what really caught her attention was the air. It smelled almost right. There were the smells of people, of steel and glass, but there was the absence of fumes from combustion engines and burning petrol whose lack made everything else smell weird.

Tara took the time to inspect the people they passed on the large sidewalks on their short trip. The people looked normal, people in what she thought were the equivalents of suits chatting to the air as they walked briskly, a mother trying to wrangle two children who seemed more interested in exploring the flowerbeds that lined the sidewalks than walking.

It all seemed normal until a man flew down above to land in front of their group.

After a deep nod, or shallow bow, to the two nobles, the man in robes of blue and white moved to Marcus and Tara stopped with everyone else who craned their necks to watch.

The nub that was his missing finger seemed to pulse with the blue color she was starting to recognize as magic. In seconds, the man's finger grew out until it was indistinguishable from the others.

Even as Marcus was ecstatic, Tara couldn’t help but fear what she had watched.

If they can shape the body like that, what else could they do to it, if they have less than good intentions?

The healing man moved around at the request of some of the world leaders, healing various ailments, but Tara waved him off and was thankful that it wasn’t forced upon her.

That thought occupied her as they entered a nearby building where a number of Soerilia’s world leaders sold themselves to the enemy.

Those that sat in the chair all seemed excited as they stood up. One of the dictator's skin turned a metallic sheen for a moment, and his laugh boomed out.

Monsters giving power to future monsters. Tara was sure the man would be going on a rampage as soon as they returned.

How many would suffer now that power to lord above those weaker was at anyone's fingertips?

As they were led to what they called a rift, Tara had seen enough to make a commitment to create as much of a resistance as she could when they got back. It might be hard, impossible even, but she would prepare her people to survive the inevitable degradation of their beliefs and histories.

It was clear they couldn't stop this, but she could set her people up for the long fight of resisting being turned into little more than cogs in this massive machine.

Looking around, she noticed that the fight wouldn’t just be against this Empire, but her fellow Soerilians.

As she noticed the line of leaders not yet awakened become shorter and shorter, she made a decision. It was a hard one, and her plans might be easier if she could keep her current position, but someone had to make a stand. Even if it took years before the people realized what she had done, she was old. If taking a stand got her killed, better her than someone younger who never expected the blade to fall.

As she ignored the pointed glances of her homes new tyrants, she started to consider what her resignation speech would look like. Wouldn't do to give them an excuse to remove her more…completely, after all.

She still had two more years before her reelection, she just hoped it would be enough time to do everything that needed to be done. And as she crossed eyes with Grand Secretary Gerald, standing just as unmoving as her, she realized she might not be quite as alone in this as she first thought.

