“You're not Nathalia!” Ren exclaimed, and the woman raised her head and looked at him.

“Of course I'm not.” Ereka said, after waking up from the shout. “I couldn't get away when you grabbed me, though.”

“Hey, I didn't... um... wait.” Ren thought back. “When I rolled over in bed, I thought Nathalia had come here to see me.” He let Ereka out of the hug he had her in, and sat up. “I'm sorry.”

“No, it's okay.” Ereka said, and sat up herself. “I felt how much you love her.”

Ren blinked a few times, and realized he was still concentrating on his House Neram pendant. “Now I am really sorry.” He said. “I said I'd never share my Aura with anyone I didn't care about.”

“You don't care about me?” Ereka asked, and he felt her hurt flow into the shared Aura.

“It's not that.” Ren said. “I do care about you, and what happens to you; but, I don't love you.”

Ereka got a flood of intense feelings, and she wrapped her arms around herself.

“By the gods, how do people not lose themselves when you share like this?” Ereka asked. “Your emotions are so powerful!”

“I usually try to keep things restrained most of the time.” Ren said. “But when I get upset or nervous, I can't control them like I usually do.”

“Which one are you now?” She asked. “Upset or nervous?”

“Both!” Ren said. “I just woke up in bed with another woman!” He took several deep breaths to calm down. Ereka felt the calmness fill the shared Aura, and her eyes widened.

“Wow.” She said, feeling calm herself now. “That was neat.”

“Yeah, there are benefits to it.” Ren smiled. “It's not just intense feelings all the time.”

“That's good to know.” Ereka said. “It's also good that I wear my slip to bed every night.” She smiled. “Or you would have felt a lot more of me than my butt.”

“I'm sorry. I thought you were Nathalia.”

“You grab her butt when you're in bed together?”

“Among other things.” Ren said.

Ereka felt mischievousness and longing fill the Aura, and she raised her eyebrows as she covered her chest with an arm. Ren snorted a laugh, and shook his head.

“I was thinking of Nathalia.”

“I'm thinking of you, too.” Nathalia said, and Ren hopped out of bed. He looked around, then down at his glowing Sending Ring.

“Nathalia?”

“Yes?”

“Where are you?”

“I'm coming up the road to House Neram Keep.” Nathalia said, and concentrated on her House Neram pendant. “I'll be there in a minute.”

“Sweet!” Ren said. “I'll meet you at the gate!” He equipped his clothing and cloak, and the Sending Ring stopped glowing. “You can stay in bed, Ereka.” Ren said. “I'll be sleeping in Nathalia's room tonight.”

Ereka got out of bed, and put on a small dress that barely covered the tiny slip she wore. “No, I'll greet her in person and face the consequences of being in bed with her fiance.”

Ren shook his head. “I'll be doing that.”

“Wh-what?”

“It was my fault for not checking to see if you were in the house, let alone in bed already, before I climbed into bed myself.”

Ereka shook her head. “I think we were both at fault here.”

Ren opened the bedroom door. “We can agree to disagree here.” He left the bedroom and walked down the hallway and opened the front door. He ran to the gate, opened it, and saw a figure walking with two metal dogs.

“Riley! Stacy!” Ren shouted, and the dogs ran to him. “I thought you were going to guard Narhilda.” He said and knelt in front of them and pat their heads, then felt Nathalia enter his Aura's radius. Her Aura merged with his, and he smiled as he felt her love.

“She decided that she didn't need them anymore.” Nathalia said. “Or me.”

Ren stood up and looked at a woman's face that he'd never seen before. She still had the long braid, but her hair wasn't brown anymore, but a rich mahogany. Even in the dark, with Ren's perfect night vision, he could clearly see the reddish-brown color clearly.

“What happened?” Ren asked, as he took her into a hug.

“I made Narhilda release me from my vow.” Nathalia said. “When she did, I... the Polymorph spell that kept me looking like her... it was broken.”

Ren smiled as he leaned back and looked at her. “So this is the real you?”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “Are... are you disappointed?”

Ren caressed her face, and felt along her jaw, up across her forehead, and down along her nose. “How could the woman I love disappoint me?” He asked, and let his love flow into the Aura.

“I could tell you how it happened.” Nathalia said. “You might be disappointed then.”

“If you want to tell me, sure.” Ren said. “Since we're sharing, though; you should know that I slept for a while in the old bedroom, with Ereka in the bed.”

“You didn't have sex, though.” Nathalia said, feeling what Ren felt.

“No. I did grab her butt to start the ball rolling...” Ren said. “...but, I thought she was you.”

Nathalia shook her head. “You and your butts!” She said, and chuckled. “Why do you like them so much?”

“They're the mounds that lead to paradise.” Ren said, and grinned at her as he felt her amusement. “From behind, anyways.”

She laughed. “How do you do that?”

“Do what?” Ren said and held her close.

“Make me feel okay that you grabbed another woman's butt?”

“My brutal honesty that I really did think it was your butt, that it's irresistible, and I love you?”

Nathalia snorted a laugh. “Shut up and kiss me, you fool.”

“I thought you'd never ask.” Ren said and kissed her. He broke the kiss a minute later. “Lets go inside.”

“Ren, I... can you just hold me tonight?”

Ren chuckled. “I need to sleep, so... yes. I can just hold you.” He led her and the dogs through the gate, past the guards, then closed and locked the gate. Ren asked the dogs if they wanted to come in, or go to the stable to visit Princess. The dogs went to the stable, and he took Nathalia inside the house.

“Nathalia, I'm really sor-” Ereka's words cut off as she saw a woman she'd never seen before. “Ren! I thought you said Nathalia was coming?”

“This is Nathalia.” Ren said. “Polymorph spell.”

“Oh!” Ereka said. “No wonder they looked so much alike!”

Nathalia shook her head. “Okay, Ren. How did you do that?”

“Do what?”

“Ereka knew exactly what you meant, and all you said was 'polymorph spell'.”

“Well, Ereka could be a lot smarter than you just gave her credit for.” Ren said, and Nathalia turned to Ereka as she felt Ereka's reaction to Ren's words.

“I'm sorry, Ereka. I didn't mean to be insulting.”

“I was just in bed and cuddled up with your fiance.” Ereka laughed. “I'm pretty sure insulting me goes with the territory.”

“I'll be in your room, Nathalia.” Ren said, and yawned. “By the gods, I'm tired.” He said, and walked into the room, just off the hallway. “Goodnight, Ereka.”

“Goodnight, Ren.” She said, as Ren shut the bedroom door.

*

“Ren already told me he grabbed your butt.” Nathalia said. “So I told him I just wanted to be held tonight.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “You're punishing him without him realizing it.”

Nathalia nodded slightly herself. “He did crawl into bed with another woman, no matter the circumstances.”

“Nothing happened.” Ereka said, and Nathalia felt the truth in her words. “I still had my slip on.”

Nathalia smiled. “He can do a lot of things, and you'd still have your slip on.”

“Really?” Ereka asked, and looked down at herself. “I wonder why...”

“Did he kiss your neck?” Nathalia asked, and Ereka shook her head. “He must be exhausted, then.”

“He starts with the neck?”

“Usually.” Nathalia said. “I'm ticklish there, and he works his way down.”

“Oh.” Ereka nodded slightly. I don't know if I should be glad, or sad, that he only grabbed my butt.

Nathalia tried not to react as she felt Ereka's emotional turmoil, and walked over to her bedroom door. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Ereka responded.

*

Ren was settled in the bed, but it felt weird. He wasn't sure it was because it was a different room, or because the bed was different. He shrugged and tucked the blanket up under his chin, and Nathalia came into the room.

“There you are.” Ren said and yawned. “Are you done scolding Ereka already?”

Nathalia laughed, stored her clothing, then stored her slip as well.

“So, it was just your face that was polymorphed.” Ren grinned.

“Yes, My Love.” Nathalia said as she crawled into bed under the blanket, and pressed her large chest up against him. “This body is all natural.”

“Naturally awesome.” Ren chuckled, then kissed her. Nathalia snuggled into him, and sighed.

“My changed face doesn't bother you at all, does it?”

Ren stroked her hair. “It's you that I love, not your face.”

Nathalia lifted her head, and looked at him with raised eyebrows. “What if I'd been a hideous monster?”

Ren had to think about that one. “It would depend on the monster, I think.”

“Really?” Nathalia asked, surprised.

Ren nodded slightly. “I mean, there would have to be a line that I wouldn't cross. Like, no face for me to look at, or... or body compatibility...”

“Okay, stop thinking about it.” Nathalia laughed, as she felt the range of emotions he was going through while thinking about it. “You need sleep, remember?”

“Right.” Ren said, and kissed her again. “Goodnight, My Love.”

“Goodnight, My Love.”

*

Ereka had gone back to bed, and had felt the gamut of emotions Ren and Nathalia went through in the last few minutes. She was happy that she could still feel it all; but, she couldn't tell what they were talking about. She didn't want Ren to stop sharing his feelings, so she tried to hide her happiness about the situation. As she drifted off to sleep, her happiness filled the Aura without her knowledge.

*

Ren felt happiness fill the Aura, and let his own join it, then drifted off to sleep.

*

Nathalia sighed as she gripped Ren tightly. He still loves me, even though I don't look like I used to. She thought. He's such a wonderful man! She smiled and felt happiness fill the Aura, then fell asleep herself.
