"Something like that—it's quite complicated," she paused. "I see you are half dragon? How well-versed are you with human culture and social norms?"

"Um, not that familiar," Nymeria admitted. "While my mother was human, she left when I was a child, and I grew up surrounded by fellow monsters in the wilderness. I know how your cities and sects are vaguely set up, but only from the abandoned ruins as we walk behind the initial wave of monsters."

"Fascinating."

Nymeria wasn't sure why she was being so open and answering this strange girl's questions, but she didn't feel the need to be hostile or mysterious; this girl was oddly easy to talk to despite being human... or tree. Whatever she was.

Maybe they were just bonding over both having a weird parental situation.

"So... are these spirit trees calling down lightning related to your father, this great spirit tree in some way?"

Stella nodded. "They are his offspring and operate as an extension of him. As are the floating islands and the Ents."

Ents? Those must be the names for those wooden abominations. Nymeria frowned. "Your father," she said aloud, "He seems incredibly strong."

"He is, as are the people and monsters in our sect. We have the strength to stand up to the beast tide and wipe it out, as I'm sure you are noticing."

Nymeria briefly glanced outside the window at the death and destruction. "You could say that," she agreed. While what was on display wasn't enough to contend with Zephyrine, that didn't concern her. Her focus was on being able to pass these trees and continue forward. Whether this spirit tree had the strength to wipe out the beast tide or not didn't matter if she never lived to see it.

That's why she decided to try to negotiate.

"What is it you propose?" Nymeria asked. As she was quite lacking in information about this group's goals, she decided to go on the offensive.

Stella tapped her chin. "We want the beast tide to pass around our territory without interfering. While we have the strength to fight you all off, I'm sure you know that a fight never benefits anyone. It's just a waste of Qi and time."

"While I agree with your suggestion, unlike humans, we are not a cohesive unit," Nymeria pointed out. "The only monsters I can order are those under me. None of us wants to fight with the human cultivators; we are forced to fight and clear the path for the stronger monsters behind us."

"Are you not the daughter of a Primal Overlord? Can't you ask him to order the monsters to avoid our lands?"

Nymeria snorted, "The last time I asked my father for help, he threw me through a building. I think that is a favorable outcome for what he would do if I told him I was making a deal with the humans."

"Really," Stella frowned. "But if we have the strength to fight and kill the Primal Overlords, why wouldn't they want to avoid us?"

Echo laughed from across the room.

Nymeria glared at him, "What's so funny?"

Uncurling, the dragon walked over and placed his head next to Nymeria. She could smell his breath and feel the air coming from his nose.

"Listen, little human, I'm only saying this out of respect for you speaking in draconic. The Primal Overlords will see you, foolish humans, as an opportunity to eliminate one another. The balance between the Primal Overlords is delicate, so the appearance of an outside force will change everything."

Stella nodded. "I see. Is there any way we can contact Zephyrine? My mother and Zephyrine are acquainted, but she cannot contact Zephyrine directly."

Echo's eyes widened, as did Nymeria's.

She coughed into her hand. "Ahem, and who might your mother be?"

"You might not believe this," Stella paused, "but my mother is the World Tree."

Nymeria and Echo exchanged a look.

"You're a liar," Echo growled deeply. His great claw smacked the communication jade out of Nymeria's hand, and it bounced a few times before coming to a stop against a pillar. The projection of Stella was now sideways along the floor.

"I don't lie, dragon," Stella replied, unfazed by his reaction.

"All humans are deceitful bugs that should be crushed."

"Stop Echo!" Nymeria demanded, but the prideful dragon didn't listen. He crushed the communication jade underfoot into green dust, cutting the connection.

Silence blanketed the room.

Echo snorted at Nymeria. "You saw her—she was clearly human yet claimed her father is a spirit tree and her mother is the World Tree? And they have the strength to fight off Zephyrine? Don't be ridiculous. The only part I believed is that she knew a dragon, but it was probably being kept in a cage and forced to teach her." He turned his massive body and trudged toward the exit of the room.

Yet he was stopped, not by Nymeria or any of the guards.

The doorway had been replaced by a tear in space that soon widened to become a portal. But it was strange. Unlike a normal spatial portal, it was corrupted, as if it were eating through reality itself.

From within the portal's darkness, a human girl stepped out—the one she had just been speaking to—and she had her sword drawn.

She also hadn't come alone... there was a dragon behind her.
