And then the play began. The Horns of Hammerad stared at the actors as they began to act, and realized as they were sitting what that word meant. Acting. Telling a story. Of course they’d heard of performers and storytellers and even the occasional reenactment of an event, but this? This was different. They sat in stunned silence as on the stage of the Frenzied Hare, the people in silly costumes came to life and told a story.
For Ceria’s part, she sat with a slice of hot pizza in front of her, chewing slowly and relishing the new taste. She tried to follow the performance on stage. What was this about some kind of revenge plot? Apparently the character – some [Prince] with an odd Human name – was trying to avenge his dead father, who’d come back as a ghost to ask him to slay his killer.
Human [Kings] and [Princes] and betrayal and death. Ceria had trouble keeping up with the plot in truth, but she felt mired by the sheer depravity of it all. The people on stage backstabbed and poisoned each other, dragging all down into death in the end.
It reminded her of Terandria, actually, and the rumors she’d heard of the games of politics played by each nation. She didn’t like the premise of the play, but she couldn’t look away. And the food was good.
But if she was the least-riveted by the performance, the same could not be said for Pisces. The instant the play began the mage was fixated, to the point where he actually stopped eating and just focused on the play.
He sat hunched forwards, eyes intent on each character as they spoke. Occasionally Pisces would sit back and nod his head or shake it sadly as they delivered complex verses in Shakespearean prose, or roll his eyes and smirk when a joke was spoken that passed over the audience’s head.
To Ceria’s right, Yvlon sat tensely in her chair, just as gripped by it. She was entranced too, although in her own way. Yvlon frowned when the premise of the play—a [Lord] who had slain the rightful [King] married the [Queen] to usurp the throne—was revealed. Thereafter she sat rigid in her seat, clearly rooting for the main character of the play to uncover the truth and bring down the traitorous villain.
And on the other side of the table? Ksmvr sat still, his slice of pizza drooping in his hand, staring as the tragedy unfolded. He seemed fascinated rather than emotionally moved, but Ceria didn’t see him look away once.
She suspected a lot of what was going on was passing right over—or perhaps between—the antennae on the top of his head. But he was a keen observer nonetheless, and sat almost completely still as he watched the play reach its conclusion.
When it was over, when the young [Prince] lay dying and the rest of the cast lay sprawled out on the floor and his friend called out an end to the sorry tale, the audience leapt to their feet. They cheered the actors who stood and bowed repeatedly, and only then did Ceria find out the name of the play. She had missed it when getting her pizza, but now the name of the play was on everyone’s lips as they talked excitedly about the story and called for more food and drink.
It was called Hamlet.
 
—-
 
It was close to midnight before the inn finally cleared. The people left, most drunk and almost all half-asleep on their feet. The [Actors] had already left. Ceria had seen one of them—the [Guardsman] with the fuzzy mustache who’d played Hamlet—stumbling off, looking partly dead. She wondered how he could work his job and act like this every night.
The [Innkeeper] Miss Agnes and the staff of [Barmaids]—four of them, all needed to keep up with the crowds—had long since retired. Only Erin remained. She sat in the messy room, looking exhausted and happy. And with her sat the Horns of Hammerad.
There was a different kind of feel to the air as they sat, talking quietly and eating the leftover pizza Erin had made. The excitement from the play had gone—Pisces had asked Erin many questions about it, as had Ksmvr. She’d told them all about the first few performances of the tale of Romeo and Juliet, and how it had changed the city.
The play was a new, amazing thing. The tale enacted on stage was a classic. After the first night, the new [Actors] had put on repeated performances, each time filling the Frenzied Hare to the brim with eager, paying guests. Other inns had immediately tried to entice the performers to their inns, but the troupe had stayed here.
And of course, where success came, countless people followed, wanting to perform the play themselves, become [Actors]…Erin told the amazed Horns of Hammerad that other groups were already imitating the play, and even going to other cities to perform.
But the [Actors] with the highest levels were by far Wesle and Jasi and the original crew of people who kept performing. They had already gained a handful of Skills and they had been bitten repeatedly by the acting bug. So Erin had taught them another play, Hamlet, which they were performing each night to great success.
“I just don’t know what I’m going to do. They want to learn all the plays! And they said they want to create a travelling performance—just like Shakespeare did! It’s so wild!”
“Who’s Shakespeare? The one who wrote this play? Where does he live? Can I meet him?”
Pisces chewed the crust of the pizza furiously as he stared at Erin. Ksmvr was busy eating some raw dough—he was obsessed with the stuff, and only he could eat it with the charm against food poisoning.  Erin just waved Pisces away, shaking her head.
“He’s long dead. And besides—there’s just so much to do! I’d like to stay, but doing these plays is exhausting! I can teach Wesle and the others the plays I know—some of them have [Perfect Recall] like me. But I just wanted to show them a play, you know? I didn’t expect it to get this big.”
“Forget famous. This will sweep across the world.”
Ceria sat back in her chair, amazed at the idea. She could already see the play becoming a huge hit in Terandria. Why, every [Lord] would want to put on a performance. How much money could be made from it? She couldn’t even imagine what would happen next.
Erin just shrugged. She hadn’t wanted to talk about the play at all. She stared at Yvlon’s arms again as the woman dozed in her chair.
“I can’t believe what happened to you guys. You’ve been through so much. And Ryoka…I thought she would come back with you.”
“I think she’s okay.”
Ceria tried to reassure Erin. She honestly had no idea what Ryoka was going through, or why she’d attracted the attention of Magnolia Reinhart, but Erin looked worried.
“She’ll be fine. She’s tough. And she has that Frost Faerie with her.”
“Oh yeah! Ivolethe!”
The young woman brightened up, as if having a Frost Faerie follow you around was a good thing. She stared at the others and sighed.
“I’m just so glad you’re alright. So glad. I was worried.”
Ceria smiled slightly guiltily at Erin.
“We did it. It cost us a lot, but we did it.”
Pisces and Ksmvr nodded. Yvlon blinked and nodded as well, automatically.
“What—yes. Yes we did. And we have come here to repay the debt.”
“Not that we have any gold to pay you with.”
Pisces’ sardonic remark made Erin wrinkle her nose at him.
“I don’t care about that! I’m just glad you’re okay. Besides, Ryoka has all your stuff, right? When she comes back you can give me coin. Or a magical sword. That would be cool. Or the bag of holding! That would be so useful!”
“We owe you a great deal. We’ll find something worth repaying you with, even if it’s only a bucket full of gold.”
Ceria meant every word. Without Erin’s help they would have never had the coin to get to Albez, let alone found Ksmvr and joined up the way they had. Erin smiled, and then looked wistfully towards the window.
“And now that you’re here, you’ll help me go back, right? To Liscor?”
The others at the table sat up. Pisces cast a glance towards Ceria and she hesitated.
“I think we can. But it’s dangerous.”
“That’s okay. I’m used to danger.”
No one could disagree with that. Even so, Ceria hesitated. She looked around the inn. It was still messy, but it was a nice place, in its own way.
“Are you sure you couldn’t stay here? At least for a month or two? Celum isn’t bad.”
Erin looked at Ceria seriously.
“No, it isn’t bad. But Celum…it’s not Liscor, you know? All my friends are in Liscor—well, you’re here but you know what I mean. But my inn’s there, and so is Mrsha and Lyon and…I have to go back. Even if it’s dangerous. You get that, right?”
The half-Elf breathed out slowly as Ksmvr nodded across the table.
“I believe I do. We do. And we’ll help you get back, but we’ve got to be careful. But Erin, there’s one thing you haven’t talked about. How did you get here?”
Erin had been smiling at Ceria, but now her smile vanished in a flash. She looked down at the crumbs in the plate and drew a finger through them.
“Toren.”
Next to Ceria, Pisces sat up, looking suddenly alert and slightly worried. Ceria scooted closer to the table, staring at Erin.
“Yeah. Ryoka mentioned him. What about your skeleton, Erin? What happened?”
The girl looked at Pisces.
“He’s your creation, isn’t he? Can you tell where he is now?”
Pisces hesitated, then shook his head.
“I’m not linked to him at the moment. I can sense him, but only vaguely. He’s…to the south, a good distance away.”
“Okay. That makes sense. It…matches with what I’ve heard.”
Erin’s face was troubled. Ceria saw Yvlon staring at Pisces and the way the mage stared hard at Erin’s face.
“What did my creation do, exactly?”
“I’ll tell you all I know. But it—it makes no sense.”
Briefly, Erin told the adventurers everything that had led up to her arriving at Celum. Ceria watched Pisces’ face. It changed only a little as Erin spoke, but when she talked about Toren disappearing he glanced down at his hands.
“I don’t know what happened. I just fell asleep…and then I was all the way over here. Toren must have dragged me here in the sled when I slept. But he left me in the middle of nowhere.”
“I see.”
The Human [Mage] tapped the table, seeming to think. He looked…slightly worried, Ceria thought, and a foreboding feeling appeared in her chest.
“Pisces. What happened to Erin’s skeleton?”
“I have a number of theories but…it would be best to collect more information first. Miss Erin, have you heard anything else of your skeleton?”
Erin nodded, and now she looked…sad. Terribly sad.
“I kept asking Wesle—the [Guardsman]—about him. At first there was nothing. But…the other day he told me a skeleton on the road was attacking people. He killed a bunch of travelers and buried them in the snow. A group of adventurers nearly got killed by him, and afterwards they found all the dead people. Over twenty of them.”
All four people in the room stared at Pisces. He raised his hands defensively.
“I didn’t order him to do that!”
“Well then, what the hell happened!?”
Ceria stood up in her chair. She pointed a finger at Pisces, who flinched.
“That sure sounds like your spell failing! Did Toren lose control somehow? Why did he start killing people?”
“I don’t know. I have an idea but—”
“That’s not all.”
Erin interrupted the two. They stared at her. Erin stared at them in the darkness, her face only lit by the few candles burning low in the inn.
“There’s more. A bunch of reports just came from Esthelm.”
Yvlon stirred in her seat, looking confused.
“Esthelm? I thought it was destroyed.”
Erin nodded.
“It was. But apparently a bunch of people survived. They managed to retake the city—they fought off another army of Goblins and a bunch of undead. Apparently, a Goblin army came by just as all the dead in the city began to rise. And the dead were being led by a skeleton. One who could fight like a swordsman and had purple eyes.”
Pisces froze in his seat. Ceria stared at him, but Erin wasn’t looking at either of them.
“The people apparently were being led by this [Knight] guy. He saved them. Everyone’s talking about him. The Savior of Esthelm. A Gold-rank adventurer named Ylawes Byres.”
Yvlon froze in her seat, eyes wide. Ceria stared at her.
“Is that a relative of yours, Yvlon?”
She vaguely remembered the name from somewhere. Where? Then Ceria remembered.
The pit. The pit of insanity. At one point Yvlon had claimed to be Ylawes. Now the woman closed her eyes. When she opened them, she smiled ruefully.
“I know Ylawes. He’s my older brother. He must have journeyed south to see me. He normally works far to the north, around our family estates.”
Everyone stared at Yvlon. She just shrugged, tired.
“Surprised? I’m only a Silver-rank, but my brother’s quite famous up north. His team—the Silver Swords—often take up causes like this one. Esthelm’s just another one of his triumphs.”
“I’ve heard of the Silver Swords.”
It wasn’t as if Ceria knew all of the adventurer teams by heart, but the Gold-rank ones tended to stick in one’s memory. But she’d never known Yvlon had a brother. Then again, she’d never asked. It was surprising to say the least, but Yvlon didn’t seem to want to talk about her brother at the moment. She looked at Erin.
“Putting aside my brother…you said Toren was spotted at Esthelm?”
Erin nodded unhappily.
“Yeah. Leading the undead. They killed a lot of people. The attacking Goblins too, but a lot of people. It was definitely him.”
She looked at Pisces, helplessly.
“Why did he do it? Why did he run off and…”
All eyes were on the mage. He shifted in his seat, looking uncomfortable. Twice he glanced at Ceria, but then he sighed and sat up in his chair.
“Numerous theories come to mind. He could have been controlled, or simply gone rampant if my spells failed. However, both outcomes are unlikely in the extreme. My best theory is that he simply…grew too powerful for your commands to control him. And he decided to go his own way.”
“How?”
The word came sharply from Ceria. She stared at Pisces, heart beating faster.
“Toren’s just a skeleton, isn’t he?”
She remembered the skeleton’s gaze, almost intelligent. Almost alive. Pisces hesitated.
“He may have developed the capacity for thought.”
“Toren?”
Erin looked incredulous. So did Yvlon. Ksmvr just stared silently at Pisces as the mage nodded.
“It can happen. Revenants retain the personality of their former selves. Toren is no Revenant of course, but he could have gained the…ability to think.”
“Gained.”
The word was heavy on her tongue. Ceria couldn’t look away from Pisces.
“You keep using words like that. Gain. Grew. But the undead can’t grow. They’re not alive. They can’t change unless a [Necromancer] alters them in some way. Nothing can. Unless they can level.”
