Pisces stared past Ceria. Silent. Unmoving. Ceria’s pulse was thunder in her ears. She remembered the past. She remembered Wistram, and she gave voice to her fears.
“Toren couldn’t have changed. Unless you did it. You actually did it. You gave him, an undead, the ability to level.”
Erin’s eyes grew wide across the table. Yvlon sat up straight, and even Ksmvr grew shocked. Ceria just stared at Pisces. He looked ahead, face emotionless. Then, slowly, the façade broke. His lips turned up. He looked at Ceria.
And smiled.
“You bastard!”
Ceria leapt from her chair. She knocked Pisces out of his seat, and slung him to the ground. He gasped as she put her hands around his throat and tried to choke him. Ceria felt him push her hands off him as Pisces backed away, speaking quickly, urgently.
“I didn’t know he would gain any type of sentience! His capability to level up was only meant to be a feature, nothing more!”
“You knew! You gave Erin an undead that could level! Are you insane!?”
Ceria pursued Pisces, ready to punch his brains out. To her surprise, hands grabbed her. Ksmvr used three of his to hold her, and Yvlon grabbed her other arm. Erin was just sitting at the table, looking blank and shocked.
“Yvlon!”
“Calm down, Ceria. We need to know just what Pisces did before you beat him to a pulp.”
The look in the woman’s eyes clearly said a beating was in order either way. Pisces gulped, but began to explain. He was too eager to do so. Ceria glared at him across the table as the [Necromancer]’s eyes lit up as he told the group what he had done.
“Yes, Ceria is right. I created an undead that could level. Toren, as Erin named him. He was just an experimental prototype—something meant to repay her and guard her inn. But I wanted to see if he could level as well, so I gave him to Erin. I never expected him to gain sentience, though.”
“He can think?”
Erin stared at Pisces, looking horrified. He hesitated, and then nodded.
“He must be able to, to abandon you and do what he has done. Had you noticed him taking independent action or…questioning your orders?”
“I didn’t—I thought it was just him being weird. But now…”
Erin stared at her hands, blinking.
“I—yeah. He did. He was acting so odd lately and I was going to bug you about it. He can think? He’s alive?”
“And he can level.”
Ceria glared at Pisces. He edged away from her, but it was Yvlon who spoke. The woman looked deeply troubled.
“How? How is that possible? I’ve never heard of a leveling undead, ever. Not even the greatest [Necromancers] could make one.”
“More like none of them were crazy enough to try. Any undead that can level will eventually rebel, just like Golems.”
Ceria glared at Pisces. The young man raised his hands, looking nervous but elated.
“I told you it was possible. I told them all at Wistram. Toren was proof I could do it. But I never expected him to level up quickly enough to subvert my control. I did check, you know, whenever I saw him.”
“Not well enough. Look what’s happened!”
“How, though?”
Ksmvr was the one to speak. He stared at Pisces, looking troubled.
“Is comrade Pisces truly that great of a prodigy? Or is his level high enough that he is able to create such a miraculous undead through some Skill?”
The half-Elf shook her head, smiling darkly.
“He didn’t learn how to make leveling undead by himself. He’s not that smart.”
Pisces opened his mouth and then shrank back in his chair as everyone glared at him. Ceria explained.
“A Golem taught him. A Truestone Construct; one of the most powerful types of Golems in the world taught him an incomplete formula for creating beings capable of leveling up. And he—completed it.”
“So you made a thinking, leveling undead.”
Yvlon’s eyes could have bored a hole through the mage. He shook his head.
“I was taught a theoretical piece of magic, it’s true. But it’s still not perfect. It wasn’t even certain my creation—Toren—would be able to level.”
“But he did. And he learned to think!”
“Evidently.”
Pisces stared uncomfortably at Erin, and then away. She had a haunted, horrified look on her face.
“I made him do chores. But he could think the entire time?”
“Erin…”
Ceria reached out and touched her friend. Erin shuddered, and then stared at Pisces angrily.
“Okay, he was alive. But why did he start killing people? I never told him to do that! He just did chores for me!”
Pisces spread his hands out, helplessly.
“He probably wished to. I can only speculate, but as I told you once, Toren is not meant for peaceful activities. He may have rebelled out of his desire to fight.”
“Why? He’s not evil! I mean—he wasn’t made that way, right? All he did was do chores! How could he just kill like that?”
Erin tried to snap her fingers, but couldn’t. She was trembling. Pisces closed his eyes, when he opened them, he looked regretful for a moment.
“It is what he was made to do. You see—I made him to fight, to protect. I imbued him with the capability for rational thought in the fashion of Golems. Problem-solving skills; but nothing more, certainly not a groundwork for actual cognition. But I never gave him anything else.”
Erin turned towards Ceria. The half-Elf crossed her arms.
“He didn’t give him a conscience. Or…morality.”
“What? Why not?”
Pisces shrugged eloquently at Yvlon. She clenched her fist, and Ceria interjected.
“He can’t. He doesn’t know how.”
“Then why make a creature like that? You’re just inviting trouble!”
Ceria wasn’t about to defend Pisces on that. He just looked at her, though, haughty and unrepentant.
“Cognita has no moral compass. She functions well enough without one.”
“She’s a monster too. She’s killed more [Mages] than any other being in the world, I’ll wager. She might be helpful to some, but you know she’ll kill without a qualm as well.”
Pisces nodded reluctantly, but he still didn’t appear convinced what he’d done was wrong. Remorseful, yes, guilty, even. But he looked like he had when he stood in front of the Council of Wistram the day they’d exiled him. He was certain, and it made Ceria sick because at least in some way, he was right.
He’d done it. He’d actually done it. She could hardly bear to look at him.
Pisces turned back to Erin. The young woman was pale. She looked like she was about to vomit. The [Mage] modulated his tone, spoke softly and, for Pisces, gently.
“Let me be clear, Erin. This was not your fault. The error lay with me in underestimating the capability of my creation. Toren was a loyal servant until he grew strong enough to break the orders you and I had given him. Now he is a threat.”
“A killer. He killed people. Men. Women. Children. But he’s also like…a baby, isn’t he?”
“An odd way of looking at it. But I suppose he would be young.”
“Could you change him? Make him…not kill people?”
Erin looked up at Pisces, a glimmer of hope in her eyes. Ceria waited too. Pisces hesitated, but after a moment shook his head regretfully.
“I could stop him, perhaps. But it would be dangerous and all I would be able to do is render him harmless. Ceria is correct: I cannot give him a conscience. I do not know how. No one does.”
“You have to stop him.”
Yvlon said that. She stood up, staring at Pisces and Erin.
“If what you say is true, that skeleton is a huge threat. A thinking undead, one capable of leveling and leading others? It could become a threat capable of taking on Gold-ranked adventurers soon if not stopped.”
“Yeah.”
Erin’s voice was quiet, but her eyes were suddenly focused. Her hands—she kept them on the table, but they trembled as she looked at Pisces.
“Can you stop him?”
“I can.”
The [Necromancer] said it quietly. He looked at Ceria and she understood.
“Severing the link?”
“It’s the easiest way.”
Pisces explained to Erin and the others.
“Erin feeds Toren with her natural mana. No matter how far away she is, he and she are connected. Without her mana, he cannot survive, powerful as he may be. If I cut it, he will cease to…live.”
Silence fell over the room. Yvlon opened her mouth, clearly wanting to tell Pisces to do it now, but she stopped when she saw Erin’s face. Ceria understood, a little bit. For all Erin yelled at her skeleton, Ceria had seen it with her since as long as she’d known Erin. It was Erin’s…
What? Friend was too strong a word. The girl had thought Toren was a mindless tool for the entire time. But she’d relied on him, even liked him. What he was to her couldn’t be explained in words.
And now she had to kill him.
“Perhaps we can track him down.”
That came from Ceria’s mouth. She blinked when she said it, but everyone stared at her and so she spoke, desperately trying to give Erin another option.
“If we set out, we might be able to track him down. You said he was at Esthelm? He may still be in the area. Or we could find him, look for rumors—”
“No. Do it now.”
Erin cut her friend off. She stared at Pisces. The mage stared back, looking as shocked as Ceria felt.
“Now?”
“Yes. Cut Toren’s supply of mana right now. This instant!”
“Are you sure?”
Why was Ksmvr saying that? But the Antinium had the same sense Ceria did. Erin was shuddering. Her face was pale and sweat stood out on her forehead. She was not well. But the look in her eyes was steel.
She spoke quietly to the others.
“He killed people. I asked, and I made sure. Toren killed people. Not just one, not just two, and not in self-defense. He killed them because…because he wanted to. And he’s going to keep killing people if he’s not stopped.”
She stopped, gulped. Erin closed her eyes, but then went on, voice hoarse, choking on her next words.
“If this were a movie…or a play…I’d be the stupid idiot who didn’t stop Toren before he killed thousands of people. He’s already killed dozens, maybe hundreds. And how strong would he become if he kept leveling up? Maybe if I knew I could find him I’d—but I can’t. He’s too far away. And I won’t let him kill anyone else. It has to be now.”
No one could answer her. It was the right decision. Pisces hesitated as Erin walked over to him.
“Do you need to cast a spell or something?”
“No. It’s a simple enough procedure. As the one who cast the spell I can unravel it. It will just take a minute—”
“Do it, then.”
Ceria stared at Pisces. He looked at her, uncertain. She just stared back. See, she wanted to ask him. See what you’ve done?
Pisces looked away. He made no sound, but after a moment laid his hands on Erin’s head. She shifted, once, and then was still.
No sound. No grand show of lights, no mystical chanting. Pisces just moved magic and Ceria saw a thread, thinner than silk and stronger than stone flowing from Erin out into the world. Pisces pulled at it and slowly, the connection broke.
That was it. It was over. He let go of Erin and she stared up at him.
“It’s done? He’s gone?”
“He will be. No undead can live without mana and Toren consumes…consumed more than most.”
“Okay.”
Erin took a few steps away from Pisces. She stared blankly at him, and then looked around the room. Everyone stared at her, Yvlon with a pale face, Ksmvr silently, Pisces full of what might have been regret, and Ceria with no idea what to say.
“I’m tired. I’m gonna go to sleep, okay?”
So saying, Erin began to walk up the stairs. She left the Horns of Hammerad behind and went into the small room that wasn’t hers and crawled onto the bed. She didn’t bother undressing, and lay down in the rough blanket. She put her pillow over her head, and curled up into the smallest ball possible.
She didn’t cry. She couldn’t cry. But something in her heart broke. Erin whispered the words into the night.
“Goodbye.”
She listened, hoping to hear a reply. But all she heard was silence.
