Erick would make a proper [Void Aura] later, though.

And besides that, Erick was pretty sure that the Void Song was actually a Domain, anyway.

But back to the current problem. Nirzir’s beams of power were still getting too far into his Domain, so he added [Discord] back into the mix, targeting Force spells, like he had originally tried to do.

Nirzir’s violet spellwork crashed against the edge of his Domain, and died. Force transformed back into broken mana. Complete protection! Complete success!

As her spells faded, Nirzir stood there, eyeing Erick’s aura. “So… I don’t know what you are doing, exactly. I can’t help you refine that into something that can help you erase other spellwork. Want to try yourself against my Void Song?”

“Yes.”

Erick decided to play around with his [Physical Domain] through Ophiel, later. He shut off that aura, and turned on his [Greater Lightwalk]… Come to think of it, with [Greater Lightwalk] and [Lodestar], he wondered if he could shift his sunform into Extreme Light, and shut down magics that way.

… He might even be able to achieve something like with an Undertow spell, too. ‘Stars in the Void’ seemed like it should be an achievable idea. ‘Stars in the Void that emit Extreme Light’ seemed like a logical extension of that idea.

He turned his attention back to Nirzir. The young woman had turned on her aura, but to his mana sense, it was barely active. A highlighting rim of pale shadow clung to her skin and extended out along the ground for ten meters in every direction. Whatever she was doing was highly controlled.

Nirzir stated, “Ready.”

Erick launched a [Force Bolt] from his chest, aimed directly at Nirzir.

The Bolt vanished the second it passed within her power. The effect was too fast to see. Nirzir smirked a little, knowing that she had surprised Erick, and then she crushed that emotion off of her face. She was a reserved, proper type of girl, for sure.

Erick threw another Bolt at her.

This time he saw as the Bolt entered her aura and vanished, for lack of a better word; like a light had simply been turned off. ‘Voided’ was the proper term, but seeing it happen was different than knowing what had happened.

Nirzir asked, “Care to try a slightly larger spell?”

She was teasing; trying to be playful. She was enjoying this.

Erick was kinda enjoying this, too.

He responded with a [Force Beam] that tried to carve across the air beside her, but the beam hit her Void, and vanished, like a magician hiding a rabbit in their hat.

Nirzir giggled.

Erick said, “That’s rather much more solid than I assumed it to be.”

Nirzir paused. “Did you never try to cast spells under the Void Song while inside Eralis?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “I didn’t spend too much time inside the city proper, either. I could hear the Song everywhere I went; it was not the most comfortable thing to hear.”

“Ah. True.” Nirzir said, “I had to live outside the city for the same reasons. I cried a lot as a baby until they moved me outside Eralis.”

Poi spoke from the sidelines, “Lunch is ready.”

Erick instantly decided, “Then let us stop here, for now. You’ve given me a lot to think about, Nirzir.”

“And you as well.” Nirzir turned serious, and bowed. “I thank you for your instruction, Archmage Flatt.”

“You can call me ‘Erick’.”

Nirzir rose, looking a bit happier than before. “I shall, Erick.”

“And during lunch, we can talk about dragons and how best to find them.”

Nirzir’s purple eyes went a bit wide, but then she steeled herself, and said, “I know of several things that I am never supposed to do, or else I will draw the gaze of a dragon. But. I suppose…” She couldn’t help but smile a bit. “Now is the time to do all of those things.”
