“And the desire to leave everything you are behind. That is a large demand; it is a rare personality that is able to do that to themselves.” Nirzir said, “But that’s just what I’ve been told; I have no personal experience with that.”

Erick nodded—

The moment stilled.

He had a brief mental flash of Nirzir casting the Void Song at him, ripping him apart before he could do anything to stop her.

The moment resumed.

Erick winced with a tiny smile that quickly went away as he took great pains to silence the sudden shitstorm of paranoia raging in his mind. If Nirzir had noticed, then she gave no reaction.

From one moment to the next, Erick decided to take his paranoia and strangle it with as much force as he could. Nirzir would be welcome here as long as she showed no signs of something untoward, and that was that.

Erick said, “If you figure out the rest of your immaculate spell, I’d like to learn that one.”

Nirzir brightened at that. And then she calculated, and chanced, “You will have to give me something commensurate in return. I will accept [Renew].”

Erick laughed. “I would make that trade. But for now: Got any spells you want to make? I’d like to see how you make your magic.”

“I would be delighted!” After a moment, and after looking suddenly guilty, Nirzir added, “It would only be fair, for I have already watched you make some of your magic. It wasn’t… It wasn’t outright spying. But...” Her voice trailed off.

Erick smiled. “A lot of people have; I made little secret of the actual creation.”

Nirzir looked tense, as though she wanted to ask something but wasn’t sure how. So she just blurted, “Why do you make your magic so publicly?”

There was a lot more to her question that she wasn’t saying. Erick guessed it had to do with Wizardry. He wasn’t willing to speak on that subject, though; not fully.

He said, “Because I didn’t want to scare people with the magic I made, so I made it in the open, and shared the blue boxes with the people I invited to watch.”

Nirzir nodded.

She wasn’t convinced that was the whole answer.

If Nirzir was already at tier 7, and since the international ‘archmage’ designation was at tier 8, perhaps both of them had intimate experiences with being called Wizards. But Erick wasn’t willing to voice that word, and neither was Nirzir. Maybe they would broach that topic some other day.

- - - -

Erick and Nirzir stood upon a field of sparse grass to the far east of Holorulo, where the sun beat down and heat mirages marred the horizon in every direction. Poi stood behind the two of them; far behind, so as not to be exposed to whatever dangers the archmage and the would-be archmage were planning on bringing into existence. Five Ophiels, however, flitted wherever they wished, with one standing on the ground next to Nirzir, looking up at her with eyes shining bright.

Nirzir glanced at that Ophiel, but then turned back toward Erick.

“This is a spell that I have made a few times, but it’s never turned out exactly as I wanted.” Nirzir said, “All Singers are trained to provide for their accompanying soldiery. I am no different in that regard. To that end, we have the house spell. I can manage the normal house spell just fine, but I am aiming higher than that. Much higher.” She held out her hand, and channeled purple mana, speaking as she went, “[Stoneshape] and [Watershape] and [Grow], but targeting grasses and other small plants in the area.” The purple jet of mana flexed from solidity to liquid flows, to strong growth. Then the plume shifted to light, and then shadows, and then became invisible, as Nirzir said, “Then the components to [Illusionshape], along with [Invisibility].” She gestured with her other hand, adding in the demarcations of [Ward], saying, “And finally, [Ward], to tie it all together, to provide the framework to allow chosen people to see through the working. Can’t have soldiers unable to see the place, after all.”

Nirzir closed her eyes, briefly. And then she opened her shining violet eyes, and a soft hum filled the air as the space surrounding the young girl began to vibrate with power, thrumming the manasphere with intent. She moved her right foot back, and lifted both arms forward in a languid pose. Spots of purple color filled her aura like polka dots, each one thrumming differently, each one joining to the rest, as purple light flowed to her outstretched hands. Magic built. Air and light condensed, and then suddenly popped; purple light vanishing in a single instant.

The spell was cast. The land in front of Nirzir shifted.

Grasses flowed like twining vines, up, and up, into invisibility, becoming seen only through the use of Erick’s mana sense, or Ophiel’s Sight spells. [True Sight] made the working fully visible, and so Erick switched to that. He watched as sands evened out like liquid and walls rose from the joining of light and shadow. In less than ten seconds, Nirzir had conjured a small house in the pagoda style. It was two stories tall and eight sided, with a flat roof for soldiers to stand upon, to scan the horizon while on watch.

The windows were arrow slits in the half-meter-thick walls, made that way to deny the entry of monsters while still allowing people to look outside. On Veird, they called them ‘slit windows’, though. The entrance had no door. Instead, it was a switchback that led to a kill room. The whole place could probably house twenty soldiers, if half of them were on watch at any one time. The place looked ready for war. Erick flicked off his [True Sight] and the conjuring vanished from sight. The only hint that it was there was in the odd flatness of the land it occupied.

Nirzir was looking to the air, waiting for the blue box, no doubt.

Erick asked, “Does it take you a while to get your blue boxes, too?”

“Oh yes.” Nirzir said, “Longest I ever had to wait was one minute and tw— Ah! There it is.” She glanced at it, then frowned, and handed it over to Erick, saying, “Another failure.”

Hidden Fort, instant, medium range, 1007 mana

Create a large invisible fort. The fort will remain even when the magics do not. Recasting this spell upon an existing hidden fort has a chance to replace the missing spellwork. People you designate at the time of casting will be able to see through the obscuring magics.

Erick asked, “What’s wrong with it? Aside from the missing duration.”

“I used to get durations listed on this spell, but that stopped happening months ago. That doesn’t matter anyway.” She gestured at the fort and cast again. This time, Erick did not need [True Sight] to see the structure; he had been given permissions. Nirzir said, “But now you see the problem, yes?”

Erick did not. The fort looked perfectly serviceable. She hadn’t made an ‘eternal stonegrass’ fort, which is what Erick was expecting her to make, based on the combination of spells she was using. The walls were simple stone, while the vines were here and there, perhaps making the structure look old and natural. Like it had been there all along and there was no one inside? Maybe?

There could be any number of problems here.

Erick said, “Explain the problem.”

For a brief moment, Nirzir was crushed. And then she shoved that emotion away, and said, “Ah. Right. You have to try going inside of it, then. Or Ophiel could?”

An Ophiel took off, into the fort, passing through the kill room and twirling through the rooms.

Fully visible.

“Ah. I see the problem,” Erick said.

Nirzir smiled softly. “Not only is the spell supposed to make the land look normal, [Invisible] is supposed to make everyone I designate also [Invisible], with the fort itself obscuring detection even if someone were to come through with a [True Sight].” She added, “I’ve gotten parts of this spell to work well before, but not the whole thing.”

Erick grinned. “Okay. I want to try making this spell, then.”

Nirzir was shocked, suddenly standing straight. “… Okay?” And then she realized something, and said, “I have heard that you can make the White Tree. Uh. The point of a house spell is to be taken down afterward. Nothing permanent.”

Erick paused. “… Okay. There goes that idea. Well.” He added, “I can try to do all the rest, then.”

Nirzir ceded her ground.

Erick turned away from her fort, to face the other direction. With a mental command, he counted out six Ophiel, one for each part of the spell, and had them gather. With only five of them nearby, one more had to come in from where he was standing guard over Teressa and First Devouring Nightmare Mountain. Four were still back there, so that should be more than enough for any normal problem that might occur while he was out and about.

Erick looked to Nirzir, confirming, “So a hidden fortress, that hides everyone inside, and that blends into the world around itself. That’s everything, yes?”

Nirzir watched Ophiels dance around Erick as she said, “Yes.”

Erick nodded. “I think making it invisible to mana sense is a bit too much for a tier two spell, so I will leave that out, for now. You can always add that in with another spell layered over the first. I know it is not ideal, but it might be necessary to do it that way.”

Nirzir scrunched her face, but said nothing.

Ophiels took to the points of a hexagon, floating around Erick as they were wont, while Erick had each of them pick up a part of the tune. [Stoneshape] was a big part of this spell, forming the basis to which everything else was attached; he made that Ophiel sing loud and pure, the sound of foundation. [Watershape] and [Grow] was another large part of the working. That pair of Ophiel sang together, harmonizing into a small beat of life springing up from the stone, crawling over the ground as natural as could be. The [Shadowshape] and [Lightshape] Ophiels were there to hide the—

No.

That didn’t sound right. The sound was destabilizing; discordant.

Erick went over the other parts of the spell, and restarted the whole thing with [Ward].

[Ward] was the largest part of this working. It was the basis of everything, wasn’t it? Inside the [Ward] the designated people would be free of the confounding effects of the fort, while being [Invisible] themselves. Everyone else would merely see illusions and falsities.

Yes.

Erick had been wrong about [Stoneshape]. [Ward] was the true backbone of this working.

Everything slipped into place from there as Ophiels floated around Erick, like revelers dancing around a maypole, singing in harmony about the creation of a home away from home; a small tower hidden in the middle of hostile territory. For his own part, Erick added in the standard Permanency functionality he always did these days.

And then he cast.

The world shifted in front of him, the grassland bulging upward, dirt pushing aside dirt as rooms and hallways and otherwise formed underground, creating a small hill that was similar in stature to all the other small hills everywhere else, except without any grasses upon it. And then that fact changed, as light greenery spread over the single-basement house. In moments, Erick’s working became exactly the same as the surrounding lands.

Except it wasn’t.

An invisible second floor rose from that slight hill, looking like a mirage brought close. Erick flicked on his [True Sight] and saw the second floor. It was a short, eight-sided pagoda, with no roof and plenty of places to hunker down and watch the world. With his mana sense, Erick saw that the basement was similarly shaped, but without the defensive battlements and arrow slits and thick door of the top, invisible floor. While Nirzir preferred a killzone, Erick liked doors, so his working had doors.

A blue box appeared.

Obscuring Redoubt, instant, medium range, 2597 mana

Create a large stone redoubt using local materials. The final shape is malleable, but will always consist of two parts: an invisible, exposed floor of varying size, and an underground, fully hidden floor of varying size. Non-accompanied items brought into these hidden spaces will gradually become invisible. Anyone designated by you at the time this spell is cast is able to see through the obscuring magics, and become invisible when they are inside the obscuring redoubt.

Lasts 12 hours. Recasting this spell on the same location will renew the duration.

Erick handed the blue box out to Nirzir and Poi while simultaneously recasting the spell and designating them, and Ophiel, and himself, as participants in the spell. The top floor of the redoubt suddenly appeared, though it was still rimmed in light mirages.

Erick said, “I think that does it.”

Poi smiled, saying, “Now that makes me happier about a journey to the Core.”

Nirzir had yet to say anything. She just read the spell, looked up to the redoubt, then read the spell again, then looked up again. There was a slight disbelief in her eyes, that turned larger as more seconds passed. Erick let her have her moment while he walked toward the redoubt, wanting to get a look at the inside, from the inside. Poi followed.

Nirzir rushed to catch up, saying, “How did you do that!”

Poi smirked, but said nothing.

“It’s hard to hold all of that spellwork inside my head when the spells have more than four moving parts.” Erick patted Ophiel on his shoulder, and the little guy cooed in violins. “Ophiel helps to make sure the magic comes out right.”

As Erick passed into the [Invisibility] of the redoubt nothing changed for him, but if anyone else was watching, they would have watched Erick vanish halfway through his step. The redoubt looked perfectly serviceable on the inside. The rooms were bare, the floor was solid, the walls were thick with ample protection. Poi’s reaction was easy enough to tell; it was good enough for him.

