The commander clearly sensed her new position in some manner, and reality twisted once more, moving the automaton down and away, where it landed near one of the streets at the edge of the District of Doors… barely a hundred feet from the closest hold entrance.

She sensed the working more clearly this time, and while she was still unable to oppose it directly. She was starting to figure out how she might in the future.

In the moment, though, Tala felt an odd resonance between the soul within the commander’s head and the hold… the soul within.

That hadn’t happened with the central column that was closer to where she’d been fighting the thing than the commander was to the hold now.

She didn’t know what was different—and for all she knew the resonance had been triggered on the commander’s side—but it didn’t matter.

The automaton’s gaze snapped to the hold entrance, and it launched toward it, cutting down the House guards that got in its path in the street and absolutely obliterating the outer, passive defenses that would have otherwise slowed an attacker.

The greater, active defenses snapped into place an instant later, but it was already inside.

Tala blinked, frowning. Did he just.... run away? ...No…

That didn’t make any sense at all. The commander had come after her for snuffing legionnaires. The choice to leave her out here to do so again made no sense.

She sent her perception stoneward to where the hold was hanging, and was able to see a bit, even through the increased obscuration of the active wardings.

The commander was cutting a swath straight through every impediment it had encountered so far, directly toward the core—and soul within.

Tala had taken out cores before, and then she’d absorbed the dimensionality. It wasn’t that big a deal, honestly.

True, others had to very specifically help the dimensionality disperse, or bad things could happen, but that took time…

It took time in the event of a gentle extraction or passing of the soul-core.

She had no illusions that the commander would be gentle.

Alat! What would the fallout be of catastrophic collapse?

-That’s a hundred acre hold, filled with old-growth trees. A violent realignment with the superficial would cascade, at the very least knocking many, if not most, of the nearby holds free by destroying their anchors. At worst, they would explosively return their own dimensionality to the superficial. Worst case from there? Zeme would crack apart and everything within a hundred miles would simply cease to exist.-

How likely is that?

-Not at all. I would say vanishingly so.-

Tala did not growl at her alternate interface. Then, what is the most likely outcome?

-Dimensional realignment cascade. It would destroy more than half the city through spatial shear forces. Everyone above Honored would likely survive, but no Children or even the Mature would be able to ride that out.-

Tala did growl then. She couldn’t let that happen, which meant that this was an effective distraction technique on the commander’s part.

It was informative that it trusted she’d guess at its goal, but it was somewhat possible that it found the destruction of the city a reasonable price to pay for a few more legionnaires being snuffed.

Regardless, that didn’t make her choice any less locked in.

With a final growl, she gilded herself and flickered after the commander. She needed to get into the hold and stop him.

The sooner the better.
