As the blades of blood lashed out, and the Void Assassin’s holy sword and flame dagger flared to life, she saw her opportunity. So that’s what he meant. Malika teleported, appearing behind the Death Knight right as his ice swords were deflected by the brutal power of Blood Vortex, and his mithril greatsword shifted to parry the assassin.

Malika unleashed her fists and feet in a flurry of strikes, pulsing Soul Strike in a flashing staccato to pierce the dark armor, leaving the mark of her soul magic to damage and weaken him further. Blow after blow she rained down upon the Death Knight, and yet, even as pressured as he was, he still managed to block over half of her strikes, parrying two of them.

She saw the Riposte retaliation, her eye magic telling her in exquisite detail just how she was going to be hit, but she also saw the vast surge of stamina that presaged his Devastation Rush. She gritted her teeth, healing preemptively against the damage she was choosing to take, and let the two sword echoes pierce through her chest as she instead pulsed her energy into her eyes.

You have been cursed with Ice Vulnerability.

Martial Disruption flickered outward in a wave, bursting into the Death Knight and hitting his skill formation like a hammer striking a bell. It shivered, resonating chaotically with her energy, and then she ripped it apart, leaving a backlash of broken stamina that provoked a hateful glare and a hiss.

Your Ice Vulnerability has been dispelled.

Malika ignored the sudden deepening of understanding in the back of her mind; something for later. She slipped off the swords and dodged under the berserker’s whirling greataxe, allowing it to pass over her head and strike at Haverron, and then she followed up with several more strikes, further drawing the furious Death Knight’s ire. All the ice swords descended upon her in an overwhelming flurry of deadly precision as her body gave up blood from several dozen slashes.

But she could see the energy of the Blood Shaman surging as the canny troll took advantage of the brief opening she had provided, landing a strike with his blade to refresh Vampiric Hex.

Malika cursed at the limitations of her speed as she blocked and dodged under the unceasing onslaught, healing rapidly through the damage as she watched her recharge timer tick down by fractions of a second. As soon as it became available, she teleported, appearing beside Mato and filling him up with Healing Mantra before ducking back out of the way of the deadly-fast runic blade.

You have been chilled.

Just as she was congratulating herself in her mind, Infinite Perception registered the giant surge of his stamina a second time.

Devastation Rush! But how? It was impossible; she had disrupted it, and Martial Disruption still had fifteen seconds left on its recharge. Does he have multiple recharges? Is that even possible? Or a reset ability? But her perception skills revealed the ability in painstakingly incontrovertible detail. Not only was he using it again, but he was looking at…

“Ali!” she screamed.

But her voice was torn from her lips and scattered by the howling wind and ice. And her teleport refused to activate.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
