“Hey, guys, do you mind waiting for a few minutes?” Ali said, already mentally directing the tiny golden dragonets flying around her domain. “I need to go shopping really quick.”

“Are you serious? You know we’re in the middle of a fight right now?” Malika said, glaring at her with a comical mix of exasperation and surprised amusement.

“New slippers?” Mato put in.

“Well, not right at this exact moment,” Ali said, sticking her tongue out at Mato as she summoned a dragonet to facilitate her return teleport. “I won’t be long. I just need a few wands from the guild store, and Kavé just used the anvil to make a fantastic holy sword I want to use for this fight. Back in a flash.”

“I guess it’s fine,” Malika said, throwing her hands up in an exaggerated gesture that made Mato chuckle.

“Wait, if Kavé used the anvil, couldn’t you just make the sword with your Grimoire?” Calen asked.

“Yes,” Ali said, “but then she won’t get any experience from the fight.” She still couldn’t duplicate mana signatures, even with her Grimoire’s potent ability to replicate almost anything, although she hadn’t exactly spent a lot of effort exploring those possibilities. There always seemed to be far more urgent things she needed to learn, and her list of fun, exploratory research projects had grown into a neglected mountainous heap by now.

“Will she even get experience if your minions use the sword?”

“I don’t see why not?” Ali mused. “My minions gain experience, so the mana signature tithe should work just fine, right?”

“I guess so,” Calen answered, pursing his lips thoughtfully. He was so transparent, Ali could almost read his thoughts: it was abundantly clear he was mulling the idea over in his mind, dissecting it in every which way, intent on abusing it somehow.

“I’ll be right back,” she said, leaving him to it, and dropped a recall potion at her feet. The instant she appeared at the Myrin’s Keep locus, she used her domain and a well-placed minion to teleport directly into the guild store, startling Weldin and several of the adventurers in the midst of quietly browsing his wares.

“Hi, Aliandra,” Weldin said, adjusting his eyepatch with an almost flawless recovery that returned him instantly to his signature unflappable elegance. “What might I do for you today?”

“I’m in a bit of a hurry, but do you still have any wands of Fire Vulnerability in stock?” Ali asked. Her plan for Haverron’s horde of undead involved a lot of fire magic, both hellfire and regular, and she recalled that some of Donella Novaspark’s magic item crafters had started supplying the guild shop with samples of their work.

“I believe I do have a few left,” Weldin said, leading her to a display cabinet and opening a drawer. “Very popular item,” he added. “A must-have for any discerning up-and-coming Fire Mage.”

Ali watched while he rummaged around in the drawer before pulling out three wands that appeared to have been fashioned from Eimuuran steel – a prudent choice for fire magic, one that wouldn’t risk having them catch alight, unlike a more traditional wooden wand. Each had a functional-looking handle, perhaps a little larger than she preferred, and lines of tiny runes inscribed along the length of the wand glowed with a soft red light. It was excellent craftsmanship, but it wasn’t like she was personally going to wield the wands anyway. Still, given that her life, and those of her friends, might depend on it, she examined the work closely.

Wizard’s Wand of Fire Vulnerability – level 95 (Fire)The Pyromaniac's trusty helper.+57 Intelligence.+45 Wisdom.+22 Vitality.Charge: Curse your target with level 95 Fire Vulnerability. Charges: 25/25.Requirements: Intelligence 333.Created by Donella Novaspark.Main Hand – Wand – Eimuuran Steel

“These are perfect,” Ali said. Not very flashy, but functional. She inspected each in turn, but they were almost identical. Twenty-five charges would be more than enough for the fight, and with only four enchantments, they wouldn’t break the bank.

“Is there anything else I can help you with?” Weldin asked.

“Oh, yes, do you have any more Ice Protection potions or elixirs?” she asked, mentally reviewing her shopping list.

“I do, in fact,” he said, opening a glass display cabinet on the opposite wall and retrieving a box with the bubbling flask logo for Pretty Powerful Potions on the side. “Morwynne Fizzlebang dropped off a new batch just this morning.”

“Great! Can I take them all?”

That response got a raised eyebrow from Weldin’s good eye, but he was a consummate merchant and made no further comment. Anything for the sale. “Five gold each for the wands. Fifty gold for three dozen elixirs,” he suggested.

“Ok,” Ali said, dropping the coins into his hand. A trace of a frown crossed his brow, and suddenly, Ali remembered her manners. “Oh, I’m sorry, Weldin! I’m in a bit of a rush; can we haggle next time?”

“Of course,” he said, ever the smooth businessman, and bowed to her, making the gold coins vanish with a tiny flicker of his space-affinity magic. “Always a pleasure.”

Ali stored the three wands and teleported immediately, happy now that she had seeded her dungeon with a few respawning nodes of fire-affinity magicite. Apparently, the crafters over at the academy had been putting it to good use.

She materialized above the scorched, rocky terrain of the Emberforge Mines, right next to the Anvil. Waves of intense heat rolling off the pool of lava behind the forge greeted her. Coincidentally, this was at the precise location where she had originally found that first chunk of fire-affinity magicite lying under the corpse of the Corrupted Fire Drake so long ago.

“Och, lassie, ya spooked me,” Thuli exclaimed, clearly startled by her sudden appearance. Kavé, on the other hand, seemed oblivious to her entrance, remaining bent over the anvil with a look of intense focus on her face as she beat a piece of steel with a hammer that was overflowing with her mana.

“Hi, Miss Aliandra!” Havok shouted, waving a glowing holy sword at her. “Look! Havok get fancy sword!”

“Hi, everyone,” Ali said, smiling at the excited Goblin as she glanced around, taking in the small group of adventurers that were guarding the smiths while they worked. “Nice sword, Havok, you’re going to do some damage with that.”

“Smite, smite it!” he yelled happily, waving the sword rather dangerously above his head. “Smite holier and thank for the damage!”

She grinned at his excitement. “Too right! And congratulations, Kavé, I heard you got promoted.”

“This one is grateful,” Kavé said, turning and bowing to her.

“I’m in a bit of a hurry. We found a really nasty Death Knight, and I was wondering if you had maybe four of those swords to sell me?”

“Oh, this one is sorry, Ali,” Kavé said. “That one was made specifically for Havok, and the other is sold. There are only three other completed swords, but if you can wait an hour, this one should be finished.”

“I can’t wait,” Ali said. She didn’t want to have to face Grim Spark again when he eventually respawned. “Three will have to do.”

“Death Knight, eh?” Thuli asked, tugging his beard with a soot-stained hand. “Ice magic?”

“Yes, and death affinity, too,” Ali said. “I’m thinking of two swords for a troll warrior, and one for an assassin. I’ll need to find a second dagger or sword somewhere, but I think I can probably make something reasonable.” If Kavé only had three swords with her signature on them, Ali might just have to make up the difference with her Grimoire.

“Why don’t ya take this?” Thuli said, handing her a long, dark dagger that radiated heat from a blade wreathed in flame. “It could use some combat testing.”

“Wow, what is this?” Ali asked, taking the dagger and examining it closely.

Deadly Blade of Searing Flame – level 135An elegantly designed blade for the haste-conscious rogue who requires just a little extra oomph to get the job done.Damage: Fire, Melee, Physical, Slashing.+122% to Physical damage.Attacks gain +40% additional damage as Fire.+71 Dexterity.+56 Strength.+23% to Attack Speed.21% chance to cast level 102 Flame Burst on hit.Requirements: Dexterity 427Created by Thuli Emberforge in the Dungeon of Knowledge.One Hand – Dagger – Eimuuran Steel

“I was learning some of the flame enchants Grelda Flamebellows taught the Anvil. This design is intended for the royal weapons quest, but you can have the first one,” Thuli answered. “Let me know how it performs in battle. I can make adjustments if needed.”

“Thank you all so much!” Ali exclaimed, and with her brand-new flaming dagger, wands, and three holy avenger swords, she used her long-range teleportation recharge to switch herself back into the Crypt of Kings, right beside her friends.

Immediately, she shivered as the icy chill in the air banished the warmth of the Emberforge Mines.

***

Ali couldn’t have been gone for more than fifteen minutes, and already Calen had made several substantial improvements to their proposed strategy. She intended to burn everything with fire and holy damage, disrupt Haverron’s Siphon Life skill, which Calen said had both a stun and a life drain, and then generally make sure nobody died using a whole host of shields and barriers. But he had details and contingencies and a thousand other things written down.

She listened intently as he explained some of the subtle interactions of skills and how they might exploit them, but she also opened her Grimoire and got to work. She had a lot of monsters and gear to summon, and they were on the clock with the dungeon respawn timer, after all.

Scion of Azryet – Dragon – level 163 (Void) x2Mage of Piercing Frost – Troll – level 145 (Ice) x3.

Her first set of summons were some of her highest-level and most trusty minions, and she hoped their barriers and shields would be sufficient to block Haverron’s Elemental Storm.

“Here you go,” she said, handing the ice mages each a Fire Vulnerability curse wand. Their ice magic would be next to worthless for most of the fight, so she gave them the job of seeding the curses into the undead horde, and hopefully being her eyes to see through the snow and ice.

“Now I need fire. Lots of fire,” she muttered.

“You sound like a maniac, Ali,” Mato chuckled deeply.

“Hush, you.”

Hellfire Imp – Elder Demon – level 107-113 (Hellfire) x3.Fire Mage – Kobold – level 98 (Fire).Hellfire Warg – Demonic Wolf – level 95 (Hellfire) x2.Armored Drake – Dragon – level 108 (Fire).

If she were honest, she had made the kobold Fire Mage more out of nostalgia than anything else. Objectively, another Hellfire Imp would have been a better pick, if only a little, but the risk she was taking was low, and the payoff might be another evolution for her trusty little kobolds. The wargs and drake were intended to be skeleton tanks, and given that they were immune to the fire bombardment she intended to subject them to, they seemed to be ideal choices.

She shifted further down the demon imprint chapter and summoned two giant Sentinel eye-demons.

Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 151 (Arcane / Hellfire).Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 149 (Arcane / Lightning).Baelok Descrier – Demon – level 93-96 (Mind) x3.

“Odd choices,” Calen mused, studying the ugly demonic creatures.

“The first one will cast Explosive Conflagration and more fireballs,” Ali said, explaining her choice so he could finetune the strategy. “The second one is because Chain Lightning will be incredible against that horde. I’ll make both of them keep bombarding Haverron with arcane bolts the whole fight.” Furthermore, both demons could fly and buff her imps and wargs with extra shields and defenses.

“Those arcane bolts will be handy tracers in the storm,” Calen said, nodding his approval. “What are the Descriers for? Aren’t they a little weak compared to the Eyes?”

“They have a compulsion aura that protects against mind-altering effects,” Ali said. “This way, Malika doesn’t need to teleport everywhere to block the fear.”

“Oh, thanks,” Malika said. “I was worried I’d need to be everywhere. Especially with Calen’s strategy of spreading out to avoid the gaze.”

“What next?” Calen asked.

“More fire,” Ali said.

“Told you. Maniac…” Mato fake-whispered to Malika, making her chuckle.

“What, you too?” Ali gasped. But she kept up her stream of mana pouring into her Grimoire, and shortly, she had her next set of minions. The core damage dealers.

Wielder of the Sacred Flame – Kobold – level 140-141 (Holy) x3.

With the additional holy fire area damage, she was hoping she would be able to keep all her melee minions, Mato, and Malika healed under the onslaught of all those ice blades and the devastating blizzard, not to mention the continuous explosions of detonating wraiths. Despite the name, holy fire was not actual fire, and it wouldn’t benefit from Fire Vulnerability. Still, holy damage, or healing, was a ridiculously powerful tool wielded against the undead, and the simultaneous healing effect on their allies was far too good to pass up.

Joraa [The Betrayer] – Troll – level 160 (Blood)Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on the original website.Restoration Shaman – Troll – level 98 (Nature)Priest of Azryet – Kobold – level 144-146 (Holy) x2

Ali had been working around the clock to level up some of her newer minion classes, and one of the ones she was most eager to evolve was the Restoration Shaman. Similar in class to Teagan, she knew he could pull his own weight even though she had not evolved him yet. With her healers done, she turned to her melee monsters and her champions.

Tol’brekk [The Crimson Blade of Carnage] – Giant Troll – level 165 (Blood).Kir’mogan [The Brutal Blade] – Troll – level 161 (Bone).Void Assassin – Kobold – level 138 (Void) x2.

Haverron had to be some kind of Sword Master, and with the flurry of area sword strikes, flying ice blades, and Cleave, she wanted to keep the number of monsters within his reach as small as possible, so each had been chosen with exquisite care to maximize her damage and utility. The great thing about Carnage Berserkers is they were fantastic all-rounders – virtually immune to crowd-control magic, they had two powerful movement skills, a devastating area attack, and insane damage with their dual greataxes when focused on a single target. And of her berserkers, Tol’brekk was easily the most powerful; a cunning fighter with a wealth of experience.

