The foreman nodded and walked toward a seemingly random stone lying in the forest. In reality, it was a surviving piece of the Imperial Road, making it a convenient tool for communication and travel. Opening pathways without it was still possible, but it wasted both time and resources. Nevertheless, the foreman didn’t get the chance to send an inquiry before a golden portal opened on its own.

Eouso frowned and flashed over as a frowning Mistrum emerged.

“What’s wrong?” Eouso asked.

“Emir’s Soul Lantern went out an hour ago,” Mistrum succinctly said.

Eouso sighed. It had been over a month since they lost contact, so he’d been prepared to receive such news for a while. Still, getting the confirmation was a blow. Emir was one of the strongest Sealbearers under his command, and his family were loyalists who’d served faithfully since the beginning.

“Did he manage to leave a message?”

“Nothing. We fear the transmission was intercepted by the seal on Fuxi Halls,” Mistrum said, his eyes darkening. “Everything points to the Sindris Clan descendant. How should we respond?”

“Zachary Atwood…” Eouso mused. The last news they’d received from Emir’s side was the arrival of the local Flamebearer and his followers. As expected, Zachary Atwood had been made a member of Fuxi Halls. “Have there been any sightings of the Flamebearer since the seal was erected?”

“No, only of his demon companion. He’s currently under the protection of Interment Hall’s First Elder. Although we only have two operatives left inside Hollow Court, it’s possible that they’ve simply missed Zachary Atwood,” Mistrum said, clearly not believing his own words. “There’s something else.”

“Oh?”

“Shortly before Emir’s death, there was a slight fluctuation in our network. We think Emir tried to open a gateway in the sealed-off area.”

“He’s not nearly strong enough for that.” Eouso shook his head.

“Yet he succeeded. Unfortunately, something severed the connection on the other end before a gate could stabilize on our end. Only a gust of Void Energy made it through.”

“Void Energy? Is there word from the predecessors?”

“Neither the Order of Fertile Earth nor Margrave Wartorius has responded to our inquiries,” Mistrum said.

Eouso closed his eyes, rallying the mantra in his mind. Its complex web began moving through countless permutations, simulating various scenarios and comparing them to the prophecies. There was too little to go on, but a general picture began to emerge. The lack of clues was a clue in itself. Why did Emir risk his life instead of laying low until the seal lifted?

He’d discovered something too important, likely related to the unexpected emergence of the Left Imperial Palace. The fact that the predecessors had shut them out was also a clear indication of their stance on the matter. Eouso couldn’t very well go against their wishes, but he also couldn’t look the other way when the trajectories spiraled out of control. If nothing else, he owed Emir a response.

Eouso took out an Information Jade and a Middle-Grade Pesvati Crystal. It held Imperial Destiny equivalent to thirty thousand Imperial Merit, and it was one of the few he had left. “Send these to Yeaver. Have him assist the coalition in opening the hidden path to the observatory.”

“We’re going to interfere with the Undead Empire? The Primo is not a simple character, and he’s one of the few with direct insight into what happened here,” Mistrum said.

“Without his eye, Lord Galgallim cannot influence the events on the Left Imperial Expanse,” Eouso said. “The curtains are about to fall, and Hollow Court has achieved most of its goals. It doesn’t matter to us who brings away the eye, so we may as well thin out the numbers. Have them spit out the providence they’ve stolen from us.”

Eouso was curious to see if it would prove enough to deal with a complicated variable like Zachary Atwood. Part of him hoped it was not. Then, Eouso could see for himself when they met in the Left Imperial Palace. He already had his hands full dealing with the Buddhist Sangha, and the other Flamebearers were still setting fires left and right. There simply weren’t enough resources to worry about Hollow Court at this stage.

“I hope you enjoy my little gift,” Eouso muttered before stepping into the golden gate.
