Gulong led his clansmen against the fur-clad barbarians, charging towards them. For them to dare humiliate the Situ Clan, it was up to him, as the little patriarch, to regain the face of the Situ clan. His iron club in hand, he ran towards his enemies, yelling fiercely as he descended upon them. The yokels were armed with real weapons, but there was no need to fear injury, the foolish idiots risked too much with them. Swinging his club, he descended upon his first victim, a lovely little red-panda girl, grinning at the thought of subduing her. Perhaps he could even make her into a slave after this. Her parents would probably trade her for a few shiny baubles, the backwards idiots.

As soon as he approached, his club in mid swing, the girl booted him back, sending him to the ground gasping for air. He coughed, tears filling his eyes as he watched the bitch mercilessly tear through his cousins and guards, causing serious injuries, breaking helmets and bones with every swing. A madwoman, that's what she was, bloodthirsty and crazed, she risked killing as she fought in a frenzy of strikes. He would have her beaten by his fathers guards when the contest was over. Struggling to stand, he charged at a different target, a little runt of a child, strapping on his shield as he stood in front of an injured wolf-boy. Easier prey, his guards could deal with that crazy bitch.

The runt suddenly appeared before him, faster than possible, shield slamming into his chest, sending him back three steps. No chi in the attack, but a ferocious charge, leaving him winded once more. Wheezing hard, he raised his club once more, but again, the runt charged him, striking him in the face with his leather gauntlets. Tasting the salty blood flowing from his nose, Gulong grew enraged. How dare this brute injure his face! Tossing the club aside, he drew his longsword, ready to cut the insolent shrimp soldier to pieces. The savage was fast, but that wouldn't save him from death. Gulong's father would keep him from getting into too much trouble, especially if he made it look like an accident. It would be worth it, to see the smug look off his face.

With a charging thrust, he aimed it at the lout's throat, deflected by his opponent's sword, a tiny thing barely longer than a dagger. Longer is stronger, as they say. Grinning maliciously, Gulong contemplated how to best carve up the boy as he traded blows, each one as ineffective as the last. Sweat had begun to run down his neck as he moved about, striking high and low, each time failing to connect. He struck out with his most powerful moves, only to be answered in kind. Swiping the Rushes, countered by Hanging Branch Grasp, Traverses the Mountain defeated by Darting Fang, Striking Fury deflected by Fluttering Raindrops, every cut and thrust met easily as the savage continued to smirk, enraging Gulong even more. Twenty passes of his weapon, and he had yet to scratch his opponent, who continued to stand there mocking him, unwilling to strike at him, just toying with him, humiliating him. He grew unhinged, his strikes growing more deadly, no longer trying to pretend, his full power behind every attack, and still the runt smiled at him, as if to say 'this is your level of skill?'

Soon, his energy was spent and he stood still panting, sword lowered, glaring at this hateful bastard. “What's taking you so long?” An unfamiliar voice, not someone of his party. Glancing around, he looked in horror at his clansmen, all brutally beaten, lying upon the ground, pitiful moans and gasps coming from their lips.

“You fucking savages! Do you know who we are? Who I am?” Gulong screamed at them, before screaming in pain, the runt's sword piercing his shin, the pain unlike anything he had ever felt before. Screeching and crying, he fell to the ground, cursing the damn trash that didn't know their place.

The runt approached him, squatting down, a mocking smile upon his face.“Hello there. I see that you're in terrible pain. That is truly a shame. Luckily, I have just the thing for that.”

“Fuck you, you sheep shagging, shit-eating, backwoods, barbarian. Someone else will hunt you down for the bounty, and we'll see who's smiling then.”

The runt clamped his dirty hand over Gulong's mouth, leaning into him. “Shhhh... Why are all you young masters the same? We're just having a little friendly competition here, no need for all the name calling. Now, what's this about a bounty?”

As soon as he removed his hand, Gulong spit in his face, hitting him just beneath the eye. “I'll have everyone you love beaten and whipped, before I shove a spear up their asshole and feed them to the dogs. The pretty ones I will have raped by every man in the city, before I -” The runt's fist smashed into his face. Spitting out his teeth, he began to yell again, but a second blow landed, harder this time.

“I can see that you're loyal, that you'd rather be beaten than betray your source. I can respect that.” A third strike landed on his eye, and the world began to spin. He tried to speak, but was interrupted by another punch. “Don't talk, I wouldn't want you to bite your tongue.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It takes six punches for me to knock the entitled little bitch unconscious. It should be a good lesson for him, to keep his anger under check, or at least his mouth shut. He's skilled, aggressive and strong, but a little too obvious about his attacks, easily read. It was a nice match until he started his little hissy fit at the end there. Everyone screams about rape, it's incredibly unpleasant. I'm just glad I reincarnated as a guy.

Huushal is unable to control his roaring laughter, hollering in glee, gasping heavily. The man can't read the mood, I'm trying to be intimidating. Standing up, I look around at the others, taking note of what emotions I see in their faces. An example had been made, so now to find the weakest link. A lot of rage, and stubborn faces. I need a different target, someone timid and vulnerable. I spot my target, a wide-eyed girl, perhaps 18 or 19 years old, cradling her broken shoulder as she sits on the ground, shivering in fear. Reaching down to grab the beaten young master, I drag him forward and take a knee in front of her, flashing my most charming smile. “Hello. My name is Rain, of the People. What's your name?” She begins to hyperventilate, panicking at my approach as she tries to move away from me. I picked a good target. I do my best to calm her down while keeping her close, smiling with my hands held unthreateningly in front of me.

Eventually, I manage to coax a name out of her. Sniffling, she mumbles out, “Situ Ji Yeon.” She hiccups, still fearful of me.

“That's a very pretty name, Ji Yeon.” Smiling gently, I speak in the most friendly tone I can manage. “You're a very lovely young girl, long, ebony hair, pale skin, with high cheekbones and a refined nose. I bet you spend a good amount of time everyday, making sure you look lovely.” I give her a tiny tap on the forehead, and she flinches back. “I want you to take a look at this one.” I lift the young masters beaten face for her to see, her eyes widening in fear. “His jaw and cheekbones are broken, eye is swelling up, nose almost deformed. Doesn't he look terrible? Barely even recognizable anymore, hardly even human.” I continue after a pause, giving her time to study him. “I don't want to do that, not to you, a pretty young girl like yourself. I'm not a monster. I just want to know about this bounty business. Why don't you tell me what you know, Ji Yeon?”

She spills everything, speaking as quickly as she can, tears and snot dripping from her. “I don't know the details, just that someone will reward us with 5,000 gold, all we needed to do was- cripple all of you.” She quickly continues in a panic. “I was just following my clan orders, I don't know who or why, please, you have to believe me! Please, please, please!” Not so pretty, screeching and dripping like a faucet. Giving her a clean handkerchief, I pat her head soothingly. Damn, 5000 gold... why so much, just for us? I doubt she's hiding anything, the poor little girl is terrified. I feel terrible for doing this, but I needed to know. Who would even put a bounty on us? That's so random, we haven't really offended anyone since coming here. Whatever, it's not important. I should thank them, if it wasn't for the bounty, we might not have gotten a second token. Easy money.

Taking a pill from my jar, I place it in the girl's hand. “A pragmatist, that's what you are Ji Yeon. I respect that.” Sumila chortles and Huushal roars in laughter once again. Ignoring them, as well as Ji Yeon's wide eyed stare, I convince her to swallow the medicine, remaining at her side until she passes out, laying her gently on the ground.

Damn, I keep meeting pretty girls in bad situations, first cat girl, now this little beauty. Wiping the frown from my face, I once again put on my selling smile, raising my voice for everyone to hear. Time for them to show me the money. “See how effective my medicine is? Asleep and painless, within a few heartbeats after ingestion. This too can be yours, for only te – twenty five gold each.” These assholes were going to cripple us, no need to go easy. “I accept coin, silks, jewelry, really anything of value. No change or credit.”

Rich young masters are truly rich. A total of 18 defeated, but only 16 paid, since two were already unconscious. Those without coin pleaded from the others to borrow. I think my beating scared them, but I wasn't going to beat them if they didn't pay. That would be extortion. I didn't say anything to clear up the misunderstanding, however. I want the money. Two of them had the most money, each handing me a card of solid gold worth 100 gold coins. The rest is paid in coins and bars, worth 10 coins each, for a total of 400 gold. A lovely little profit, business is booming, and my money bag is delightfully heavy. They all pass out, none of them in dire need of assistance, but a search of their belongings turns up zero tokens. Can't win every time, I guess.

A few minutes after we break all their tags, several elders arrive, some walking out, some running, some landing down lightly. I was watching closely this time, and it just looked like they appeared, just a step off the ground, and landing. So awesome. One of the Elders, a bald crowned man, massive in size, begins frantically checking a few of the young masters. Roaring in anger, he points at us, yelling, “You audacious little bastards! You dare to hurt the Situ clan's youngsters, acting so viciously!”

“Now, now, Situ Bolin, no need to lose your temper.” Elder Ming appears, looking calm and grandfatherly. He has a big smile and his eyes almost disappear when he speaks. He needs some grooming though, the man has eyebrows longer than most people's hair. “This is simply called 'weeding out the weak'. It is what this contest is for, or have you forgotten?” Burn. A laugh escapes my lips, but I immediately cough, pretending to have swallowed something wrong. I don't need a repeat of the Brigadier.

Clapping his hand once, so hard that he lifts his leg to do it, Bolin points at me, red-faced, ignoring Elder Ming. “You are seeking death, to dare not give the Situ clan face. Such a brave youngster, do you dare tell me, Situ Bolin, your name?”

Why does everyone single me out? Do I just look like an asshole or something? Sighing inwardly, I clasp my hands at him and simply state, “Rain, Sentinel of the People.”

“Hmph, brat, know this. The Situ clan will find you for a reckoning of today's actions. You just wash your neck and wait. To brutally beat the First Young Master so, the Patriarch will have you whipped and flayed.” Why ask for my name and not use it? He's cradling the young master I punched unconscious, holding his beaten face for everyone to see. Young masters should be more like Fung. There's a stand up guy, polite and conscientious, commanding without arrogance. His daddy raised him right. “Well? Have you nothing to say, or are you green with regret?”

How does one turn green with regret? Isn't it green with envy? “They were going to cripple us for 5,000 gold. A light beating is hardly anything to cry about.” His injuries will take a day to heal, maybe two if he's terrible at healing and no one helps him. I don't see what the fuss is all about.

“Slander and lies!” Bolin turns even redder, an impressive feat. “Worth nothing more than dog farts! What need would the young masters have of a mere 5,000 gold? They only need ask this uncle here and I would give them 50,000 gold each without blinking an eye. They would be well within their rights to cripple you, you insolent bastard, to dare slander them so. I'll have you beaten until your own mother won't recognize you.”

What, is that like chump change to them? Should I have charged more? Economics is hard. “I'm unsure about the details, but they claimed there was an open bounty on us, for anyone to cripple me and my party. That's what they were here for.”

Elder Ming claps his hands twice. “I am issuing an inquiry. All of the Situ youngsters are to be taken in for questioning by an impartial party.” He looks at me, no longer kindly grandfather, but impartial judge. “Allegations of misconduct are taken seriously, and anyone who put a bounty on you will be dealt with harshly. The Society frowns on match fixing.”

