Bolin's protests are ignored, and the five of us are each separated and questioned, and after telling them the little I know, I am reunited once again with everyone, and sent on our way. It takes us six hours of hiking to reach the starting point, where an elder congratulates us and takes our tags, tokens, and materials. Damn, I wanted to keep the tokens. Those furs aren't free either. They have some food for us, just cold meats and buns, as well as healers to care for everyone's injuries. Huushal's ear is even regrown, rather quickly at that. It seems there are other Medical Saints around. After thanking the healer as graciously as possible, we're sent on a wagon home with a single elder to escort us. Settling back, I let myself be slowly lulled to sleep by the gentle swaying of the wagon, with Mei Lin nuzzled against my shoulder. It must have been hard on her, these two days in the forest, scared and tired. At least everything's over, and she wasn't hurt. A few days of quiet rest, and the next part of this hellish contest should begin.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Vivek Daatei sat and waited, patting his Garo on its snout to calm it. Too much excitement and too well fed these past days, the beast was anxious for more bloodshed. His tribesmen awaited his orders as he watched the verdant green sea of life, amazed by all the trees. He had seen scrawny little things, spindly and easily broken, but these majestic giants of wood and leaf were alien to him. He had killed three prizes before realizing they were not lying to him, that they truly were trees, just simply beyond compare with anything he had seen before. Higher than even the walls at the bridge, a verdant green fortress filled with more food and natural treasures than the entire tundra, this was truly a land of near endless bounty. He and his people were well fed, sated for the first time, more food than they could consume, a wondrous feeling welling up within. His son slept close by, a happy look upon his face, clutching a corpse as if it were his wife, a warming sight indeed.

He had ridden by the Bridge for a glimpse at the back of the massive walls that had held his people back for centuries, the same walls that stood in all their stories for as far back as could be told. Perhaps he was the first, to be born in the northern wastes and gaze upon the south end of the walls, and the very sight of it had shook him. Behind the great barrier was a second, of almost equal size, a massive number of troops marching through its gates, ready to throw back the Uniter. No wonder they were not attacking the Bridge. It would take months for enough warriors to move through the mountains before they had the strength to even threaten that fortress.

Still, the Uniter's plans were not flawless. The wraiths had failed, only a few returning with the news. Having demonstrated their worth, Vivek had them fed to the Garos, mute and emotionless as they were devoured. Made of shadow and death, barely even men, just cowards skulking in the dark. Vivek spit on the very idea of them, an affront to true warriors of the north. Were it not for the orders of the Uniter, he would have used the wraiths as sport. Instead of charging the city and taking them by surprise, the guards were now readied, their shiny red armor seen from a distance, bows at the ready. The Uniter had made a mistake. Had the devils only charged and taken down the walls while the enemy was still unsuspecting, Vivek and his 30,000 tribesmen would have torn the city apart. So many soft southerners to kill, once past that hard turtle shell, it would have been glorious, taking lives and loot, burning and rampaging through all in their path. They were weak, hiding behind their walls, unable to face his people on the open plains.

He studied the devils once again, fascinated by their power. One of them had invaded his mind and allowed the Uniter to speak through it. A curiously painful experience, as if the words were shouted directly into his ear, reverberations running down through his bones, his entire body burning as his mind almost melted. It was an experience he did not wish to repeat often, but the plan had been long in the telling, the Uniter seeming to delight in drawing it out.

“War Rider.” As if drawn by his thoughts, the Uniter's devil spoke once more, sending him into spasms of pain. “My infantry will arrive in five days. Continue as you are, and converge upon the city at the appointed time. You are to follow the orders of my general, who is in route. You do remember your orders, correct?” The bastard repeated the entire plan, knowing what it cost Vivek. When the conversation ended, he lay upon the floor for several breaths of time, staggering to his feet and wiping away the blood flowing from his nose and ears. Five days and the city would fall, this the Uniter had promised. He ordered his son away with a third of his men, to clear away the wooden camps and take the road so that the enemy reinforcements would be slowed, freeing them to overrun the city once the Uniter's hordes were in place.

He was no fool, he knew the Uniter thought too little of him, disdained him, and he would make that bastard pay for it. The man was not all-powerful or all-knowing, a coward who hid behind his devils. Eyeing the devil, he studied it once again, thinking of a weakness, a way to kill them. Vivek Daatei would not be a slave to the Uniter forever. He would unravel the secrets of the devils, and his people would flourish, perhaps even living in a city of their own.

He would follow his orders, for now, playing at being the loyal Garo. It would not always be so, for there would be a time for reckoning. Everyone knew there was no such thing as a loyal Garo, only a sated one. He was Vivek Daatei, the destined one, the conqueror, he who would devour the world.

Starting with this first city, Shen Huo.
