On Tuesday morning, they had barely had time to read the three ominous words that made up Penn’s answer before the doorbell rang. Taylor announced that Chief Inspector Haley wanted a word with the duke.

Only those two men will ever know exactly what passed between them as they talked in the closed study, but they were in there for a long time.

Eleanor secreted herself in the library. She could hear her father but couldn’t make out what he was saying. Each time his voice began the brief climb to full volume, it was cut off by a quiet murmur that was impossible to decipher. Thwarted, Eleanor left the library. She found Edward in the hall, standing nonchalantly by the study door.

He gave her a sympathetic smile, then came over.

“You couldn’t hear anything either?”

“No,” she grumbled.

They both turned toward the dining room. Aunt Helena was standing there, watching them. She only had one thing to say: “Jackanapes.”

Thus chastised, they went in to finish their breakfasts.

The second time the doorbell sounded, everyone knew who it would be. Edward and Eleanor turned to the baroness. Lady Helena’s lips thinned as she considered what to do.

“Aunt Helena?”

“All right!” The baroness looked at Eleanor. “You know your father will insist on talking to them.”

“He’s still with Haley.”

“Then we have to move quickly, child.”

All of them stood up.

As quickly as they moved, it wasn’t fast enough. The duke was already at the door when they made it to the front hall. Beside him was Inspector Haley. Since the duke was opening the door, Haley nodded his greeting to the three of them.

There were seven reporters that morning. They all filed in. Some smiled nervously. Some wished His Grace good morning. Most of their manners were subdued. Martin Jones was among them. He alone seemed alive and excited. He was the first to doff his hat.

Taylor was there to receive it, but before the butler could do his job, the duke said, “Don’t bother, Taylor. They won’t be here long.”

Erravold Aubrey-Serrs stood up as tall as he could. “Gentlemen, I’m sure you’re all here to get my reaction to Mr. Penn’s most recent letter. Here it is—I hope Mr. Penn will do nothing he regrets.”

This statement was delivered in a strange monotone. The duke’s face grew more and more red, but his words remained level. Eleanor glanced at Haley, but the policeman seemed determined not to look at her.

Now looking like a well-dressed beet, the duke swallowed and said, “That is all. I have nothing more to say to you.”

“But, Your Grace—”

Aubrey-Serrs turned his eyes to the unfortunate man that had spoken. Such restrained energy must have turned his gaze into a lance. Martin Jones shrank when it hit him.

“I have nothing more to say to you. If you don’t leave now, I will ask Inspector Haley to arrest you for trespassing. I wish you all a good day.”

The men shuffled out. Taylor shut the door.

“Father!”

The shock and admiration in Eleanor’s voice discharged the tension in the hall. Aubrey-Serrs put his hands to his head and laughed. The red color drained from his face. Taylor was at his elbow when the fit of mirth ended.

“Your Grace?”

“Yes. Something. I don’t know what. Something.”

The butler vanished to fetch a drink for his master. It wouldn’t be a neat drink—not with Helena watching—but there might be a splash of something in the beverage.

The duke turned to his daughter and put his beefy hands on her slim shoulders. “Eleanor, I will take care of you.”

More changes were in store. But none of them were quite so dramatic as that first great shift.

Lady Serrs-Comtess flatly refused to allow any policemen to stay with them—not even Inspector Haley, who she said was the least offensive policeman she’d ever met—so they asked their gardener and chauffeur to stay on after work. Together with Taylor, Edward, and the duke, they set up an informal watch.

It was informal in that it was being walked mostly by amateurs (Eleanor was surprised to learn Taylor had military experience and more surprised to learn he wouldn’t give her any details). It was not informal because it wasn’t well planned. Haley, now a frequent visitor to the Aubrey-Serrs mansion, helped them perfect the route and arranged for them to stagger their rounds so they could get some sleep. He also stopped by morning and night to inspect the structure of the house and see that nothing had happened while he was gone.

On Wednesday, he had a private interview with Eleanor. After she answered the litany of questions he posed to her (“Have you met anyone new recently?” “Do you know if anyone’s been asking about you?” “Have any old acquaintances tried to become closer to you?”), the inspector bowed his head and pinched the bridge of his nose.

Eleanor watched him, hoping she might be able to ask him something, but not wanting to upset him.

“Yes, Miss Serrs?”

“I didn’t say anything,” she muttered.

“No, but I can tell by your expression you want to say something.” He lowered his hand.

“You look so tired.”

“Is that what you wanted to say?”

Eleanor laughed.

Lucas went on, “You might have spared yourself. I know.”

“No, that’s not it.” She hesitated. “What are you worried is going to happen?”

“That’s a difficult question to answer. Penn’s talent lies in doing the unexpected. We can’t prepare for everything, and he knows that, so he finds something more ludicrous than we would ever expect and drags us all into his Wonderland.”

“That was my favorite book as a child.”

The inspector looked up when he heard her solemn announcement. Eleanor’s eyes were bright. Never mind that a thief might be breaking into her home! This was important.

Haley fought back a smile. “‘Curiouser and curiouser.’”

Eleanor was about to launch into a full discourse about children’s literature when the inspector rudely dragged them back to the matter at hand.

“Miss Serrs, I have a request to make. I’ve already talked to your father, but otherwise I want this kept quiet.”

Curiouser indeed. “All right.”

“I want you to sleep in a different bedroom. Get ready in your own chamber, but then switch over to the new place and sleep there. Mention this to no one. Are you an early riser?”

“I wake up early, but I waste some time in bed before getting up.”

“Can you be back in your own bed before the maid comes in the morning?”

“I think so.”

“I have a specific room in mind.”

“Which one?”

Haley pushed a pile of large papers toward her. It was the house plans for the mansion. Haley dropped his finger down, indicating one of the unused rooms on the second floor.

Eleanor raised her eyes. “Do you think he’ll hurt me?”

“Hurt you? No. I would be very surprised if Penn ever hurt a lady. I’m far more afraid he’s going to kidnap you.”

When Eleanor slept in her part-time quarters, she saw to her own bed as best she could, considering she’d never done any housekeeping and she only had a few minutes a day to do it in.

On Thursday, when she went for a walk in the park, one of the gardeners stopped her.

“Is everything all right, m’lady?”

“Yes, I think so. Why?”

The gardener glanced around. “There’s been more men around recently.”

Unease crept up Eleanor’s spine, but it abated as the gardener went on.

“Policemen. They’ve been following you when you go out. Did you know?”

Eleanor sighed. “That’s all right. It’s probably best to think of them as my pets.”

“Ah, well. If you’re all right with them.” He touched his cap and went back to work.

Haley confronted her that evening.

“Who was the gardener?”

“Why didn’t you tell me you were having me followed?”

To Eleanor’s surprise, the inspector blushed.

Haley looked around the room, confirmed they were alone, then muttered, “To be honest, I thought it’d be easier not to mention it, in case your aunt had an objection.”

“Chief Inspector Haley, my aunt does not own the public streets.”

“Does she know that?”

That night, deep in the witching hour, Penn came to pay his respects.
