Erick ducked back into the apartment and saw the enchanting book Ulrick had lent him. He was supposed to return that to Ulrick… Several days ago. Shit. Erick grabbed the book and put it in his shoulderbag.

And then he looked at his clothes.

He was still wearing the jeans, tee shirt, shoes, and underwear that came with him to Veird. He’d seen what other people wore for shoes and underwear, so maybe he’d keep his and not adopt the local style, but the shirt and jeans? Those could go. He could be a local.

He should do that, today!

Training montage and a clothing montage! Jane would be proud. The only clothing Jane had bought were new shirts and the shoulderbags for both of them. She still liked her jeans. … Erick still liked his jeans, too. And his shirt, for that matter. With [Mend], he could keep these clothes for the rest of his life, if he wanted.

No. Bad idea. It was time for new clothes. Be a local! Buy local clothes!

Get out of the house and get back into society!

He turned to Poi. “Where would I buy some decent working clothes? Kinda like what I have on now?”

“Market Street,” Poi said, resolute to keep his arms-distance demeanor intact.

“To Market Street we go!” Erick patted his shoulderbag. “I can give Ulrick back his book, too.”

Wordlessly, Poi followed Erick out onto the third floor landing. Erick looked down at the street—

[Blink].

—and then he was there. Poi popped into the air five feet behind him.

- - - -

“Ulrick is not in today.” A lovely young pinkscale girl behind the counter said, “Might I be able to help you, Mage Flatt? I’m Soux, Ulrick’s frontgirl and apprentice. Is there something you might be interested in purchasing?”

“Not buying anything right now.” Erick shook his head as he swung his shoulderbag around and pulled out the old textbook. “Can you give this back to Ulrick for me?” He set the book on the counter. “I told him I would return it to him the next day, but everything kinda got difficult after that. I read it all, though! Learned Ancient Script, but then my [Language Acquisition] ran out. Can you tell him ‘thank you, very much’ for me, please?”

Soux slid the book closer to herself. “Of course, Mage Flatt. Is that all?”

“Maybe— Are those [Mend] jobs still up at the guildhouse? I haven’t checked in a while.”

She shook her head. “Apologies, but no. He only posts those when I go out adventuring, or when I need to deal with some unruly shadowolves.” She smiled. “But I’m back now. And two levels higher, too.”

Erick grinned. “Good to hear. Then… Take care, Soux.”

“You too, Mage Flatt. And thank you for the rain.” She bowed. She stood. “Hearing an afternoon shower reminds me of my grandmother’s house in the rainforest mountains, far to the east.”

Erick smiled a bit wider, then nodded, and left the store. Poi kept right behind him, maintaining a respectful 5 to 7 foot distance at all times.

- - - -

Erick stepped up to the counter and set his badge on the marble divide between him and the bank teller, “Hello. I’m here to check on my account. Erick Flatt.”

“Of course. Just need to check authenticity.” The teller was a grey-black wrought dragonkin. Her metallic flesh looked exactly the same as Anhelia’s, the iron-flesh wrought incani at the Mage Guild. She took his badge and passed it over a truthstone, which had been glowing green this entire time, but glittered a brighter green when the badge passed close. She held onto the badge for the moment, asking, “How can I help you, Mage Erick Flatt?”

“Balance check, and probably a withdrawal. Have you guys sorted out the shadowcat money yet?”

“We have indeed.” She wrote down Erick’s badge numbers on a small slip of paper then turned to her assistant, a young male greenscale. She said a few quiet words, then handed him the paper. He ran off. She turned to Erick. “We’ll have your numbers pulled in 30 minutes. Would you like to make a withdrawal before your numbers are validated?”

“No. I guess not. I have enough cash on me for now. I’ll be back later.”

She handed him his badge back. “We shall see you then. Good day, Mage Flatt.”

30 minute wait for a check and withdrawal?

Erick was sorely tempted to try and reinvent the internet and modern banking. But then, he realized, he did not need any of that in his life. Not again. Fuck that noise. He liked the slow life. 30 minutes to check on balances? That was fine with him. He had clothes to buy and… 13 gold to buy them with! That was like 1300 dollars.

He was rich!

… Wasn’t he?

- - - -

Turns out cloth clothes are way expensive. Everything except leather was way more than he wanted to spend; the leather was only cheap because the shadowolves from Bulgan’s shadowcats had been turned into more leather. Erick didn’t want leather.

The problem was that Spur was both a rich town because of the adventuring opportunities of Ar’Kendrithyst, and it was very isolated. There was no cotton in the desert, after all. All fabric had to be imported. Importing wasn’t that bad with [Teleport]; many of the meat sellers actually had their farms far away from Spur itself. But the cotton fields were much, much further away than the cattle ranchers.

A third problem existed in [Mend]. The people who made clothes only made what fashion demanded, or the best damn shirts or pants or whatever, that money could buy.

Erick had to walk away from one store where everything was 14 to 25 gold. The next store was not much better, and the dragonkin vendor could not take his eyes off of Erick’s shoes. Erick’s shoes were synthetic rubber, leather and cloth sneakers. They were the most comfortable shoes he had ever owned, and Erick was not going to sell them for any price, thank you very much.

He found a much nicer store just a bit down the way, run by a nice older orcol woman. She sold him some ‘children’s clothes’ that were simpler than what he had found elsewhere. They were the right price, too. Erick thanked her, and she smiled at him, probably finding it funny that a human was wearing clothes sized for orcol kids. When Erick asked her about that, she said that the other races bought orcol children’s clothes often enough that it wasn’t a real scandal; other races liked simple clothes, too, but not many tailors were willing to work on such throwaways.

He paid her 11 gold, and then walked around for a bit, sporting a nice cream-colored shirt and nice tan pants. His other clothes were in his shoulderbag, save for his shoes and his underwear; he was still wearing those. His Silver Star was displayed prominently on the left side of his chest, over his heart, and his Guild Badge hung from a silver chain around his neck. It felt nice to wear local clothes in Spur, in the sun. Everything felt loose and breezy.

Erick ran a hand through his hair and felt his face. He hadn’t shaved in all his time here on Veird. He was never capable of growing a truly imposing beard, but what he was capable of growing had gotten a bit scraggly in the last few weeks. He used to have black hair, but it had all gone salt-and-pepper in the last few years. A lot of his hair had to be whiter since had gone through several near-death experiences in the last few weeks.

He pulled a bit of his bangs in front of his eyes. Yup, more white hairs among the black. Of course, that could just be his imagination.

His imagination, and his Meditation, had told him there was a giant shadow following him the whole day, but no one else seemed to see the shadow. Erick forced himself to think that his imagination was lying to him.

Maybe it was time for a haircut, and a shave.

But first! The bank!

- - - -

The iron wrought presented Erick with his balance.

1000 gold for one shadowcat, 100 gold for the second cat. 210 gold in various direct deposits in the last little while, and 148 gold from killing shadowolves, with the shadowolf portion available as either gold, or rads.

“1458 gold? I don’t have to work if I don’t want— Ahh. So that’s why the MCL job board is full.”

The receptionist of the Mage Guild bank smiled, saying, “But doing all those MCL jobs does help the community. We get complaints when they’re left to rot, and that’s not fun for any of us.”

“Right. Right.” Erick asked, “What about the grand-rads from the cats? Did something happen to them?”

Her perfectly practiced neutral face returned. “Unfortunately, magic of your caliber destroyed many of the rads from the shadowolves and both grand-rads we expected to recover from two of the shadowcats. Please do keep this in mind when expecting to recover rads from monster corpses in the future.”

“Ahh. Bother. Okay. Good to know. Thank you. I would like to withdraw a hundred gold.”

“Would you like that in rads, or metal?”

Erick thought for a moment.

He’d leave enchanting for another day.

He said, “Gold, please.”

“Of course.” She nodded to her helper, and Greenscale left. In moments, Greenscale returned with a small bag and set it in front of the receptionist. She counted it out in front of Erick, emptying the bag, then she put the coins back in the bag and handed that to him, saying, “100 gold has been deducted from your account. Is that all?”

“Yes. Thank you.”

“Good day, Mage Flatt.”

Erick put the gold into his shoulderbag, then left the Mage Guild Bank. Poi silently followed at a respectful 5 to 7 feet.

- - - -

After a quick stop at the Sewerhouse to stash most of the money—

Poi interrupted him. “Sir. You have scrying orbs around you right now.”

Erick activated Meditation. Yup. Two eyes were looking at him from several feet away. One was red, the other blue. Erick frowned at them. They vanished, and Erick moved to another part of the house to stash his money.

“Thank you, Poi.”

“My pleasure, sir.”

“Is there any way to stop those, permanently?”

“Not without a lot more effort than is comfortable. Thankfully, the Script makes it very difficult for a [Scry] to hide, if you know what to look for.”

Erick smiled. “Thank you very much, Poi! That was the most you’ve said since you started this gig.”

Poi said nothing.

“Dammit, and now you’re back to silence.”

Poi said nothing, but he did allow himself a smirk.

Erick tried, “Were those [Scry]s just a nuisance, or were they an attack?”

Poi said, “It’s best to discourage theft whenever you can, but in the event of theft, our investigators can [Witness] and [Scry] to find the culprits. But even if we do find the thieves, they’re usually gone from town after a robbery. Not much we can do besides put them on the Guilds’ Watch Lists.”

Erick smiled. He had figured out how to get Poi to talk.

- - - -

Erick, and thus Poi, walked into the Mage’s Guildhouse in the early afternoon.

Anhelia waved him over to the front desk. What could she want? Sizzi was not there. The rest of the guildhouse looked rather slow; not a whole lot of people in this afternoon.

“Hello, Anhelia.”

She smirked. “Hello, Mage Flatt.”

“You can call me Erick, if you want. That title still feels weird to me.”

“Erick, then. So what brings you in today, Erick?” She teased, “More curriculum to disrupt?”

Erick relaxed. This was actually perfect. He said, “Can I buy you a drink somewhere? I’d like to hear a lot more about what has happened in the last few days.”

Poi grumbled behind Erick, but before he could wonder what that was about—

Anhelia smiled wide and stood right up. “I love it! Yes! Let me just find Sizzi; she’s around here somewhere.” The grey-black wrought dashed off behind the counter, into the inner hallways of the Guildhouse. She returned in 17 seconds with a slightly winded Sizzi. “You’ve got the floor, Sizzi!” Anhelia plopped a slightly red faced Sizzi into her receptionist seat, then Anhelia wrapped her arm around Erick’s and guided him out of the Guildhouse, saying, “We’ll be back later!”

Her guidance might have been gentle and loose, but her arm still felt to Erick like holding onto a skyscraper’s I-beam. Anhelia was a very tough woman.

- - - -

Anhelia closed her menu and passed it to the waiter, saying, “And I’ll have an iron bar, thank you.”

Anhelia took them to a little place on the edge of the Mage District, on the second floor of a bakery, overlooking one of the few green spaces in the city. A fountain bubbled down below, while not-oaks shaded everything and a cool breeze flowed down through it all. There were a few others in the tea house, drinking tea and eating bread. Mostly incani, but no other wrought. A few of them eyed Erick, but their glances were simple appraisals; not the glances of people planning harm.

She said, “I love this little bakery and tea shop. The family that runs this place has been in Spur for over 400 years and I’ve only been here for a little longer than that. You’ll love the plum tea and biscuits I had you order; everyone says they do.”

Anhelia smiled, and if her iron flesh wasn’t so perfectly natural looking, if she didn’t move so fluidly, Erick would have thought her one of those street performers who paint themselves all one color and play the part of a statue.

She must have seen him looking. “You’ve never casually talked to a wrought before, have you?”

He felt his face flush. “Ah. Sorry.”

“Don’t worry about it!” She laughed. “You can’t offend me. Unless you plan on stiffing me with the bill. That would be pretty offensive.”

Erick chuckled. “Are you that expensive of a date?”

She smirked. “Only if that’s what this is.”

He grinned. She was fun. Erick flirted, “How would that even work?”

Okay. That was some bad flirting. How out of practice was he? A month and at least 8 traumas? That was probably a correct number.

Anhelia smiled. “Some hefty physical fortification spells for you and a rod of [Treat Wounds] at the ready, as per any interracial relations, but especially when it comes to wroughts.”

Erick laughed. “I’m not looking for anything right now, but I expected to pay the bill when I asked you out for a chat.” He asked, conspiratorially, “How much is an iron bar, anyway?”

“Inconsequential~”

Poi frowned from the sidelines. Now what was that about?

But as Anhelia avoided the question, their orders arrived. For her, a plain grey bar of metal served on a doily on a circle of wood, maybe 7”x2”x2”; for him, a small porcelain plate of five purple cookies and a pitcher of purple tea. The waiter presented Anhelia with her order, then filled a small tea cup and presented Erick with his.

Erick asked, “How’s the guild been while I’ve been absent?”

