She placed her hands on the iron bar and began pinching it into bite-size pieces, like Erick would have pinched dough to make rolls. He expected the action to make some horrible screeching noises, but the metal became putty in her hands. She finished, then popped one of the bites into her mouth, then swallowed.

She said, “There’s a lot of impurities in the metal you get outside of the major cities, but Spur has always been good about having good iron, among other metals; Silverite has connections to mines all over the world, you see.” She ate another bite, then said, “The guild has a lot of impurities in it, too. Magic as a whole has always had this sort of problem. No one thinks about the physical world, because there’s really no need. Do you know what magic was like before the Script?”

Wherever she was going with this, it sounded thorough. Erick had taken a bite of a cookie, and it was delicious. Sugar, fruit, and chewy cookie; it was wonderful.

He said, “Not much. Haven’t been in many libraries yet.”

“You should spend some tendays in the library.” Anhelia continued, “But anyway, I wasn’t there; none of us were. Wrought might be the oldest living race except for the dragons, but we were created by the Script. And I’m not that old anyway. Anyway, magic used to be a lot more open before the Script. All it took was a strong will and a connection to the manasphere and a wizard could manifest their dreams as reality.”

Conversation ceased at a nearby table of two when Anhelia said the word ‘wizard’.

Anhelia ate another bite of iron. “Then something like 1400 years ago the Old Wizards decided they wanted something else. Maybe they wanted to be gods, maybe they wanted to kill something. No one really knows, but the result was the Sundering. And then Rozeta and a whole bunch of others put the world back together, created two more moons, and wrought magic into the Script. That’s where we Wrought come from. We’re like little pegs holding the Script together, but that doesn’t grant us any abilities beyond what we choose to pursue. Like any normal person.

“That’s history. This is relevant today because the way that the Old Wizards used magic was very, very different from how the world actually works, but a lot of the Old Wizards survived and adapted to the Script, and thus their ways of thinking tainted the new world order, right at the beginning. And this brings us to the impurities in the guild, in arcanaeums all across Veird, and in the casual thinking of the average Mage.

“The old traditions of magic based upon imagination are not wrong. Not exactly. But current magical theory is like language, you see. You can speak a language you call [Stoneshape], and bend the ground to your will, but that’s your interpretation of how the world is, imposed upon the world. [Stoneshape] is a mental construct; it’s not affecting actual ‘stone’, but what the shaper thinks is stone.

“There are safeguards to prevent people from thinking of magic differently and thus abusing magic in ways not intended by the Script, of course, but mostly, magic is a mental construct.

“For example, in the real physical world, the composition of dirt is wildly different from biome to biome. If [Stoneshape] relied on real world physical properties, then a mage would need a dozen different versions of [Stoneshape] in order to function the same way in a deep swamp with half its murky bottom biological, versus a desert with relatively pure quartz sand which, by volume, is mostly air, versus a granite mountain.

“And so we come to the impurities in the magical community. Did you know that Fire, Water, Stone, and Air, are some Big Thoughts in the arcanaeums around the world, and in the Script? There’s even shaping spells for darkness and light. I can tell you right now that many people don’t believe that darkness actually exists, but then we look at a shadowolf and see shadows licking off the body, and that throws all proper experimentation out of the window, because ‘obviously shadows exist, there’s one right there’.

“What you’ve done, is to prove to the magical community that there is some underlying physicality to the world that operates independent of mana. You’ve given the Small Shock experiment a grand stage. You’ve explained why people are creating ice spells all over, but no fire spells, because bursting molecules apart is strictly against the Infinitesimal Ban. And stone spells just don’t work, because, apparently, there’s nothing ‘stone’ about stone, if you get my meaning. Everyone is trying to make air spells into lightning, but no one has succeeded at all, except for you. Probably because everyone still thinks of lightning as a fire spell. Light spells are being made across the world, and dark spells might truly not exist, except to absorb the light.

“You’ve started a revolution in magical thinking, turning this relatively dull part of local history into world history. With a few lectures and the addition of the first basic spell to the Script in a millennium, you have set Spur on the world stage. You’ve shown yourself as a kooky planar human who gave his daughter’s homework to the Headmaster and stumped the old dragon, and everyone else, for the first time in 1300 years.”

Erick had finished three of his cookies by now, and most of his tea.

He ate another cookie. Anhelia ate another bit of iron.

He sipped his tea. He was still thinking.

He said, “If it already works— I mean. If the shaping spells already work, and people already believe in them, then they exist. Social constructs are as valid as physical constructs.”

“You are correct.” Anhelia smiled. “But even if you say that, you can’t unring this bell. Changes are rolling down the mountain, and people must either get out of the way, or ride the waves of history. The only other option is to be crushed.”

The gravity of it all began to weigh on Erick.

“Fuck. How many lives have I ruined?”

“Oh! I’m just being melodramatic.” Anhelia chuckled, “Those societies based around elemental magic are going to be just fine. Mana still turns imagination into reality, and [Stoneshape] is still one of the most useful spells in the world, no matter that there might not be a particle version of the spell. That’s what people are calling your brand of magic, by the way. ‘Particle magic’. Elemental magic has a long and deep history, but now there are new options. Ones where mages can make it rain, Erick.

She repeated, “Rain. At tier 1. How neat is that?”

Erick tried to focus on a better subject. “How much has the rain helped?”

“Farms are booming. Production is up. Krakina is pissed. But she’ll buy [Call Lightning] as soon as she can, and then you’re out of a job because she has much deeper roots here. The Kali family will have a lean farming season, but that’s about it. The whole farming community here is pretty transient, anyway. They come in with the highwater and go back to the eastern mountains for the rest of the year.” She smiled. “Though, if you can make it rain all year long, we might have a whole new Spur on our hands. Everyone is very excited. And just so you know, if anyone is talking about killing you, they aren’t saying it near any of my information sources.”

Erick chose to not focus on people wanting to murder him. “The Kali family, as in Ikawa Kali? The one in Savral’s team?”

“Yup! That’s Krakina’s granddaughter. She’s set to inherit Krakina’s title of WeatherWitch when she comes of age and can drag a storm across the desert to Spur, all by herself.”

Poi stepped closer to Erick. “Sir, you are about to reach your limit of questions based on the money you brought with you to this encounter.”

Erick turned to look at the man. Then he turned back to Anhelia.

“Oh, Poi. Don’t worry about the full price. Whatever he has on him is fine.” Anhelia said, smiling, “I’ve got another ten minutes to kill. Ask anything you’d like, Erick. And I meant what I said earlier; you won’t offend me unless you stiff me on the bill, so don’t leave any questions off the table. I want you to be satisfied when you leave.”

“Sir, I must warn you that Anhelia sells to anyone. Don’t speak what you don’t want known.”

For the second time since he sat down to talk with Anhelia, he realized the gravity of his situation.

Anhelia sighed at Poi.

Erick said, “Thank you, Poi. I do have some questions I’d like answered, since I’m paying for it anyway.”

Anhelia smiled wide, waiting.

“What do the incani think of Jane and I since all this has happened, from Bulgan, to the shadowcats, to particle magic, to getting those three humans moved into Spur?”

Anhelia nodded. “Broadly, you’re fine. Like I said, no one is plotting murder or anything else against you. You’re too valuable. If anything, people are plotting against each other to allow you to ‘live a quiet life and have your daughter safe’, and then they’re going to race to use what other bombs you drop on magical society. The incani, Zago in particular, are rather repentant for what they tried to do. Except for a few discontents you’re mostly considered ‘not human’, and thus not a target of the Quiet War.

“Bulgan is a Shade in the Ar’Kendrithyst. That was confirmed yesterday. He will try to get to you and Jane, but no one knows what will happen there. Will he leave the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst? Maybe. But when Shades move, you notice. When they move to attack, they can’t hide, even at night. Spur can fight back one or two, and since Bulgan is a new Shade, he likely doesn’t have the clout to force all the Shades against you. You might even have some unexpected allies inside Ar'Kendrithyst, but fair warning: Dealing with shadows will get you on everyone's shitlist, no matter what good you can do.

“Only the most paranoid people think we’re in danger of a Great Purge.

“The humans you invited to Spur are being watched. There have been a few altercations, but nothing major. They’re staying on their side of the line you drew and none of the incani are willing to cross that line either. Now that Bulgan is a confirmed Shade, his transgression has put a heavy damper on local incani patriotism.

“And particle magic is proceeding about as good as I said. That Ice Mage has made two new basic spells so far. There’s the tiny cold AOE he showed everyone and a freezing beam spell he invented yesterday. With the addition of another spell that looks similar to another one of the Force spells, a lot of people are experimenting to find the corollaries to the other Force spells.

“You have time for one more question.”

Erick nodded. It took him a second to think. He asked, “Are dragonkin… Al said that Savral is his son. I don’t want to ask if he’s adopted… But… ”

Anhelia laughed. Poi might have frowned, but he was too professional to keep the frown for too long.

“This is your last question?” Anhelia said, “Well—”

“No. Sorry, that would be rude to Al and Savral both. Instead, what are wrought? Are you [Metalshaping] your body from a central core? Or…?”

She smiled. She said, “There’s a book in the guild library called ‘Sex and the Humanoid’. You should look that up.” She finished the final bite of her iron bar, and said, “And that’s our time.”

At her final bite the waiter came over and placed a face down slip of paper on the table, then took away the cleared plates. Erick went to pick it up—

Anhelia said, “Don’t worry about what it says on the paper. Whatever you have on you is fine.”

… Erick looked at the paper.

That was more gold than he was carrying, alright.

He emptied his pockets and his shoulderbag, placing all 55 of his gold on top of the slip of paper. Anhelia smiled gently at the small pile, then put her hand over the gold. All but two pieces slipped into her iron arm; the remaining two left for the waiter.

Erick said, “Thank you very much.”

“Anytime, Mage Flatt.”

Erick left the bakery cafe first. Poi followed.

The plan was to go back to the guild, but now he went to the bank and withdrew another 20 gold.

Then he went to the guild and picked up one of the [Grow] quests from the Esoteric board; they were all the same, so he only needed one. His job and pay would be determined by the Council members on site.

Anhelia waved at him both on the way in, and on the way out. He waved back both times, saying hello, and feeling like he really didn’t know much about anything about Spur. Not yet, anyway.

- - - -

Valok took a look at Erick, with his mage guild badge hanging out around his neck and the paper for a [Grow] job in his hand, and said, “You’re rather dedicated, aren’t you.”

Erick said, “The plan right now is [Call Lightning] and [Grow] combined as a tier two spell, possibly using Aurify for double to triple the range on [Call Lightning]. I’m hesitant to use Aurify on [Call Lightning] though. I’m not sure how the magic would react. [Force Shrapnel] as an Aura was already rather unexpected.”

Valok listened to Erick. Then he thought for a minute.

Valok said, “It won’t work with our current system, which you will be experiencing today. We’ve had to change everything. When you make this spell, we can test it out on the north side of Spur, where the water does not come close to the surface. Other than that, we’d need to… We’d need to do a lot. And you can’t cast this over the city. You want trees and roots and such destroying everything in a mad press to make space for itself?”

Poi said nothing, but he did look a bit closer at Erick.

Erick said, “Uh. I did not think about that.”

Valok nodded. “Plain rain is fine. No need to get fancy. The only thing stopping farm production is water usage. Your experiment has merit, but not for us, not right now.” Valok said, “I’ll take you to Apogough.”

- - - -

Apogough stood by as Erick stood in the middle of an empty plot of land.

Erick held an apple in his hand. He took a bite. It was sweet, well grown with a nice crisp texture and a bright red, thin skin. In his other hand, he had a seed from the same kind of apple tree.

“[Grow] for cultivation is just as important as [Grow] for generalized growth.” Apogough said, “Now that you’ve tasted the apple, think crisp. Think juicy. Think that size of apple. Keep that taste in your mind as you plant the seed and activate [Grow] at the same time, whenever you’re ready.”

Erick took another bite, then held the seed, and thought—

[Grow].

— as he thrust the seed into the fertile soil. He withdrew his hand. The magic had happened. What was supposed to happen next?

