Three seconds later, a tiny green shoot poked out from the brown ground. It uncurled into the sunlight, bright green, sprouting more leaves and tiny branches as it reached up, slowly. Slower. It stopped growing.

Apogough said, “Now use [Grow] in a small area for generalized growth.”

“Can I Aurify it?”

“Hmm. Not— Eh. Sure. Go ahead.”

Meditation. Aurify. [Grow].

The sapling began to grow. The apple in Erick’s hand exploded into several tiny plants, falling out of Erick’s hand to then hit the ground, and take root. Startled, his aura—

Apogough said, “Don’t cut off your aura now.”

Erick maintained his aura. Experience in [Grow] and Aurify steadily ticked up.

[Grow] has leveled!

Level 2!

Grow 2, instant, touch or close range, 5 MP

Cultivate a single plant, or induce plant growth in a sphere of diameter equal to spell level in meters.

Exp: 5/200

Erick’s aura doubled in size. The ground around him sprouted grasses and weeds, but the saplings rose above the non-food plants. And still they grew. The saplings from the apple were twining together, strangling each other for growth, until one rose above the rest and several thin brown saplings rotted in the presence of their older sibling. The one Erick had cultivated was three feet from the strangler apple, quickly rising tall in Erick’s aura.

They made noise as they grew. The sound was like a creaky door slowly opening and someone pushing a broom across the floor.

Now the trees were both waist high. Shoulder high. 6 feet tall, and growing, branching all the way. Erick backed up as the branches threatened to cage him between the trees. And still they grew.

[Grow] has leveled!

Level 3!

Grow 3, instant, touch or close range, 5 MP

Cultivate a single plant, or induce plant growth in a sphere of diameter equal to spell level in meters.

Exp: 5/300

Erick’s aura pulsed larger, and so did the trees. Apples appeared on the tree born from the apple like bright red orbs, but on the tree Erick cultivated, the apples were pink. And still, the apple trees grew taller. Higher, twisting upon each other. Apogough said nothing as he watched the growth. Erick just stepped back a bit further as the trees got even taller.

“Stop!”

Erick stopped. The apple trees relaxed.

A gentle breeze rustled the two-tree orchard as Apogough reached up to a pink apple and plucked it from the branch. He took a knife to the fruit, cutting it into pieces like a scientist dissecting a frog. He pulled off the skin, he rooted through the seed-filled core, he sniffed the white flesh, and then he put a small piece on his tongue.

He tasted. He chewed.

He didn’t die! So that was good news. Erick plucked a pink apple for himself, then looked to Apogough. The orcol nodded, and Erick tasted his apple. It was a pink lady, but much more actually pink. Pink ladies were Erick’s favorite apple, so maybe his mind wandered while he cultivated?

Apogough said, “Your mind wandered while you cultivated, but the outcome is decent. What do you want to call them?”

“Pink ladies.”

Apogough smiled. “A good name.” He pointed down a row of freshly picked apple trees; not a single tree in the whole orchard held a single apple. “Go aurify [Grow] that orchard. Cast until you see an apple fall, then move on; that’s how I judged when these two trees were done. If an apple falls to the ground and you’re not quick about it, that apple will start growing more trees, and that’s just disorganization. We don’t like that. I’ll check in on you in twenty minutes.”

Erick did what he was told. He had used some mana on those first two trees, so he had to pause halfway through the orchard. But quickly enough, he was done. He had used a little over 600 mana.

[Grow] has leveled!

Level 4!

[Grow] has leveled!

Level 5!

Grow 5, instant, touch or close range, 5 MP

Cultivate a single plant, or induce plant growth in a sphere of diameter equal to spell level in meters.

Exp: 545/800

But he had gone through all of the orchard! Since everything was organized, and he had used a little over 600 mana to [Grow] a single orchard, it was highly possible that the orchard was designed with a 600 mana limit in mind. Everyone used the same Script, after all, so organizing along Script-defined stats seemed like a natural thing to do.

But Erick didn’t have [Grow] 10 yet, so when Apogough returned, Erick was still putting the final [Grow]s on the last remaining trees.

Apogough said, “Good job! Now I sign off on that paper once, Krakina comes in and does the water while the pickers come and do their thing, and then you can [Grow] it all again. We do this until you can’t go anymore.”

Erick smiled. “I can do this four more times. That was only 670 mana.”

Apogough asked, “If you don’t mind me asking, are you going for Scion of Focus, or Willpower?”

“Focus. I can’t handle Mana Exhaustion.”

“A good choice if you expect to use a lot of mana every da—“

Krakina announced herself by saying, loudly, “You!”

Erick agreed, “Me!”

Krakina bustled right up to him. “Now you’re [Grow]ing, too? Are you not rich enough!”

“I’m technically homeless right now. So yes. I am not rich enough. By the way, I heard good things about your granddaughter out there in the Crystal Desert, killing monsters alongside my daughter.”

Krakina’s sand-colored feathers fluffed a tiny bit, but at mention of her granddaughter, a smile came over her face. “I hear good things about your daughter, too! Very good with a sword. Good with all weapons. Spear, sword, daggers, shields! What do they teach you all where you’re from, to fight with so many different weapons? She is like a whirlwind of variety!”

Erick laughed. “That’s just Jane. She’s been training for this sort of life her whole life. She knew what she wanted to be at a very young age.”

As pickers came into the grove, very few of them actually picked apples by hand. They walked past the trees, and apples floated into crates they towed behind themselves, like kids with little red wagons. Erick watched, trying to figure out how they were—

Apogough said, “It’s [Telekinesis].”

“He knows—” Krakina turned to Erick, eyeing him. “You didn’t know what they were doing?”

Erick smiled. “They were using [Telekinesis], of course!”

Apogough chuckled.

Krakina smirked as she walked away, to the side of the orchard.

With one quick stomp on the ground, in what was probably one specific spot, water burst up from the ground and caught in the air above Krakina. She held it there above her, somehow, the water bubble quickly reaching the size of an elephant.

Apogough said, “She’s using [Watershape].”

“I am not!” Krakina said, “I am using something much better!” She sealed the hole in the ground using some unseen method and walked through the orchard, dipping the water across the ground, letting it soak into the soil. The elephant-size water orb was gone by the time she reached the other side of the orchard. “Done!”

She moved on to the next location.

Apogough said, “Let me see your paper.”

Erick handed it to him. He signed off once, in perfect print, right across the top, leaving lots of room for more signatures later. He handed it back to him, then pointed to a waist high squat pillar near the road, maybe ten feet away.

“When you’re done, sit there. I only knew you were done because I was looking for it, but all the [Grow] mages sit on one of those by the road, so that we know it’s time to come clear their field. See you later.”

Erick stayed where he was until his mana reached full.

Then he went and Aurify’d [Grow], all over his orchard.

This process repeated three more times.

5 signatures was worth 15 silver. It wasn’t a good paying job, but it was necessary.

And hey! He also got a whole bushel of Pink Ladies, a lot of not-potatoes, some not-onions, two bags of not-rice, and even some not-tomatoes, all for free! It wasn’t a good paying job, but there were benefits.

Like [Grow] leveling up to 8.

Grow 8, instant, touch or close range, 5 MP

Cultivate a single plant, or induce plant growth in a sphere of diameter equal to spell level in meters.

Exp: 1705/3400

Damn he was tired, and carrying all these vegetables wasn’t exactly easy. But he had help.

He turned to Poi. “How much are you paid every day to follow me around?”

Poi carried three bags of groceries. “Not the 10 gold you’re paid per day, whether you make it rain or not.”

“Oh right. I do get that, don’t I?”

Poi frowned at him.

- - - -

Al made dinner using much of the produce Erick supplied.

Al said, “You should get some meat next time.”

“When rain is capable of making cows grow from thin air, I will be sure to get you one.”

“I accept this as a promise.”

“… I’m not sure you understand how rain works.”

“It makes the grass which feeds the cows which I then eat!”

“That’s not thin air.”

“I should hope not! I want a very fat cow.”
