And then Apista started licking the sweat off the side of Lyonette’s face. Another Gnoll, younger, female, clearly new to her job, walked up. She hesitated.
“Miss Human? Do you know there’s a bee on your face?”
Lyonette looked up at the helpful Gnoll. Then she snapped.
 
——
 
Apista’s Faerie Flower induced trip was slowly fading from her system. The bee had stopped believing she could make weird sounds with her mouth like Lyonette did and that the sky was giving her sage advice. She was still muddled however, but she’d found Lyonette, and she could sense the young woman’s emotions quite clearly as she clung to her face.
Exasperation, impatience, worry, guilt, more worry, and then…anger. It came from Lyonette, thorns amid flowers. Apista froze as the [Princess]’ turbulent emotions came to a boiling point in the guard house. The anger was red hot and blossomed like flames. Instinctively, Apista fanned her wings, but a hand caught her before she could fly and present her stinger to everything and everyone in the room as a warning sign.
“Stop.”
The command was mental and verbal. Apista felt it telling her to not fly about and cause a scene and stick to Lyonette. It was a powerful order, as if Lyonette were Apista’s queen of the hive. But the Ashfire Bee’s instincts were awakened by Lyonette’s anger, and Apista wanted to sting something.
And yet…maybe it was the Faerie Flower nectar or being so close to Lyonette. But Apista understood in a flash that this wasn’t a time for her stinger. Or rather, not her stinger. Because someone had kicked Lyonette’s hive, and the young woman was about to unveil her stinger. So the Ashfire bee clung to Lynette’s shoulder as the [Princess] got up, marched over to the Gnoll at the desk, and asked where the toilet was.
 
——
 
“Watch Captain Zevara?”
The Drake woman was writing at her desk, sorting through reports when the door opened. There was no knock, and no one announced themselves, as was customary of any [Guard]. Zevara looked up, already scowling, and opened her mouth to roar at whomever it was. She stopped as she saw it wasn’t one of her people but a Human who opened the door and stepped into the room.
“What in the name of scaled rats—who let you in here?”
Zevara rose behind her desk. She recognized Lyonette of course. And she’d decided not to see the girl as soon as her desk-guardsman had told her the Human wanted an appointment. So seeing Lyonette in person made the Watch Captain even unhappier.
“How did you get in here? This is a restricted area!”
No one was supposed to just walk into a Watch Captain’s office. Lyonette shrugged, looking around. She had a huge bee on her shoulder, waving its antennae at Zevara. But if the Drake let something like that slow her down, she’d never have survived Erin.
“I walked upstairs when the person at the desk wasn’t looking. When people on the second floor stopped me, I told them Erin sent me.”
“You what?”
Zevara nearly spat fire in disgust. She was going to smack at least a dozen heads down there. One [Innkeeper] could not do as she pleased! True, if there was anything that would qualify as an emergency, Erin Solstice could probably qualify. But this was ridiculous!
“If someone’s dead or we’re under attack or there’s a disaster about to happen—”
“There’s not. This is personal business.”
“Then get out.”
Lyonette stayed put.
“I was told you were busy. So am I. I won’t take up much of your time.”
Zevara felt heat rising in her chest. She fought down the instinct to flame, but some smoke still escaped as she glared at Lyonette.
“You think you can just walk in here and demand to talk to me?”
“Yes, I do.”
That threw Zevara for a second. She stared at Lyonette. For a moment, she debated shouting for someone to kick the girl out. But she had a feeling that might lead to Erin Solstice marching through her door in an hour. Rather than take that risk, she sat down, steepled her claws together, and glared at Lyonette, wishing she had [Evil Eye] as a Skill.
“Start talking.”
“I’ll have a seat, thank you.”
Lyonette walked forwards and calmly sat in the chair across from Zevara. Again, the Watch Captain blinked. She didn’t have a Skill that allowed her to use aura powers like a Wall Lord, but even without one, she’d mastered her hostile presence skill, as most busy people did. But Lyonette ignored the atmosphere as if it didn’t exist. In fact, she seemed…
Cool. Composed. Her chin was slightly raised, but not so high as to be condescending in any way. Just raised, and her shoulders and back were straight without slouching. She looked Zevara in the eye, and her voice was level despite the fumes coming from Zevara’s mouth. If Zevara had met a junior [Guardswoman] with that level of poise, she would have immediately promoted them on the spot.
Coming from Lyonette, the effect was almost intimidating. Zevara instinctively found herself sitting straighter and composing her thoughts, as if she were talking to another officer or someone she needed to impress, like Ilvriss. She caught herself doing it and stopped. With a growl, Zevara glared at Lyonette.
“What is it?”
“I’m here about my criminal record.”
Zevara hadn’t expected that either. She looked at Lyonette, frowning.
“What record? You mean, your exile and thefts? Taken care of. Or didn’t you notice that you’re strolling about my city without anyone arresting you?”
Maybe she’d heard Lism shouting on Market Street. That damn [Shopkeeper] was agitating hard, but Zevara couldn’t really arrest him after she’d let the people trying to drown him in the bath off. Lyonette nodded coolly.
“I know that. And I also know that General Zel Shivertail interceded on my behalf. You can’t have been happy about that, war hero or not.”
“I was not. But I made an exception for him, and you got your sentence cleared. Good for you. You had connections. What’s your point?”
Zevara glared, reminded of the moment when Zel Shivertail, the Tidebreaker himself, had strode into her office. No one had stopped him, either. Now that was something you remembered all your life. And then Zevara felt the pang as she remembered his funeral. Lyonette shook her head.
“My point is that I broke a law. I was exiled. A crime fitting for the punishment.”
“And you’d like an apology, would you?”
If she did, Zevara would punch the girl. Or…maybe not. That was an Ashfire Bee, wasn’t it? Erin kept one of those as a pet? Zevara eyed the thing. Was it napping? Lyonette leaned forwards, and the Drake looked back at her.
“I’m not asking for anything. In fact, I agree with the sentence. If anything, I think me being allowed into the city was the real problem.”
Thrown and thrown again. Zevara’s jaw opened a bit before she snapped it back shut. She stared at Lyonette. Why was the Human saying this?
“Really. You don’t mind the punishment, despite you nearly dying in the snow?”
It had been a cold day when they thrust the girl out of the gates. And they’d known it was close to a death sentence. But she’d have been dead at the paws of the Gnolls if she’d stayed, jail cell or not. Of that, Zevara was sure. And Lyonette’s gaze didn’t waver.
“There must be law. And that was Drake law, wasn’t it? I survived. And I got a second chance, fairly or not, thanks to Zel Shivertail. I don’t think I’ll get a third.”
There must be law. The words came at Zevara, full of…authority. She actually believed that. Impressed, despite herself, Zevara leaned back in her chair.
“Really? What makes you say that?”
Lyonette blinked once, as if surprised.
“The letter of the law, of course. The punishment for offence in Drake cities differs from Human cities in Izril. And from Terandria. Jail time is customary, but offenders of lesser misdemeanors may pay off their debts and clear their names, if not their records, as though nothing had happened. The fines are steep, but Drakes take a more mercantile approach to punishment.”
She raised one finger as Zevara gaped. Now she sounded like some kind of [Lecturer]. Or…[Historian].
“On the other hand, greater offences are much less tolerated. Depending on the severity, the least of the punishments employed will be exile. Sometimes exile with a hand or tail removed depending on the city. Thereafter, a criminal is marked; if they commit an offence of similar severity in another city, they are put to death.”
Practically the definition of Drake law, at least in general. Zevara had never heard anyone quote it at her, at least, no one who wasn’t a Drake. She stared at Lyonette.
“And you know that how?”
The young woman, no, [Barmaid] shrugged nonchalantly.
“I studied Drake law at one time. I never thought it would be useful. I’m well aware that the second time I break the law, I could be put to death.”
Studied where? But Zevara bit her tongue on the question because she didn’t think she’d get an answer. She studied Lyonette and realized the girl was moving towards a point. So, intrigued, she bit the bait.
“That is the law as described by most city-states. However, the implementation is hardly so strict. If you returned to stealing, I doubt I’d request the death penalty for that. In another city, perhaps. But your exile was also due to the Gnolls’ outrage at the time.”
“I understand that too. I’m not disputing it. But as I said, I was let back into the city without paying any fine. I’d like to redress that error.”
It took Zevara a second to work this out. Then her eyes narrowed.
“You want to pay for the damages you caused?”
“That’s right.”
Lyonette met her eyes. The Watch Captain drummed her claws on the table.
“And just what would you like in return? No, wait—I think I get it now. You want your things back, don’t you?”
She could have just come out and said it. But from the way Lyonette smiled, slightly, with a polite twist to her lips that gave nothing away, Zevara felt like Lyonette had maneuvered her into making the connection. Quite adroitly too.
If she’d just come out and said she wanted to buy her old things, what would Zevara have done? Thrown her out. But if you looked at it like repaying your debts to the city…
“You took the artifacts I had in my possession at the time. That’s standard procedure as part of recouping costs. But I’m fairly certain none of them have worked for you, have they?”
Zevara frowned. She could barely remember the minutiae of her job, but she was organized, so she yanked open a drawer and paged through the Watch’s reports of miscellaneous objects in their possession. She found the piece of parchment, yanked it out, and studied it.
“Those artifacts? Between all the incidents plaguing Liscor, they weren’t exactly on the top of our list, but I recall…ah, yes. They were almost all drained of mana, and the others seemed to be locked, due to keyword or some other nature of the enchantment. We were keeping them to have a Wistram [Mage] look at them when they checked the enchantments on our walls.”
“So you still have them. I’d like to pay my fine and reclaim my items.”
Zevara looked at Lyonette. As she recalled, the girl had owned artifacts that not only gave her the [Invisibility] spell, but had allowed her to throw webs and even [Fireballs] among other things. Those were powerful artifacts.
“Why should I entertain that idea? You barged into my office, you’re a former [Thief], and those artifacts are quite valuable.”
“If you can use them. If not, they’re useless. You’d pay a [Mage] more money than it’s worth to uncover their secrets, believe me. And as I said, there must be law. My exile being commuted aside, if I pay my fine, I should be entitled to the confiscated goods, shouldn’t I?”
Damn. That did make sense. If you agreed with exiling Lyonette, it was fair to let her buy back her things. Zevara scowled. She’d let Lyonette nod to her exile being fair, so she was supposed to nod to this.
“Are you a [Diplomat] of some kind? A [Diplomat]’s child?”
That would explain a lot. A wealthy nobleman’s daughter, far from home. Lyonette blushed slightly.
“No, but I’m pleased you think so. About my possessions—”
“I’m thinking. Hold onto your tail.”
Zevara glared and thought, but only for a moment. She sighed and pulled up some scrap paper. Why was she doing this? Oh yes, to make a headache go away. That was why she did most things these days.
“You’ve made your point. Rudely, barging into my office without permission, I might add. No wonder Erin Solstice hired you. Now, your fines. According to the damage reports—and this is bearing in mind that I’m charging you three times the damage you’ve done—”
“The Drake custom. Two eyes and a tail for an eye, right?”
Zevara almost dropped the quill she was holding. She glanced up at Lyonette. Was this the same [Thief] who’d shouted childish insults at her a few months ago? She nodded.
“Correct. Bearing that in mind, and from what the affected [Shopkeepers] have claimed…I’m going to ignore Lism’s claim here…and the notable absence of a substantive claim for Krshia’s shop, despite what the Gnollish reaction was at the time…forty-seven gold coins.”
Lyonette sucked in her breath. Zevara eyed her.
“Too much?”
“No. Well, it is a high number. I suppose I’m just relieved it’s not more.”
Zevara shrugged.
“You burned some stalls. But those were trade goods, not exactly enchanted artifacts. Even so, you racked up a steep fine. Congratulations. Between your spells from those artifacts and raiding the shops, you managed to beat the previous offender’s record quite handily.”
Lyonette paused.
“Who was the previous offender?”
“The [Necromancer]. Pisces.”
“Of course.”
The young woman sighed. Then she fished some coins out of her belt pouch. Zevara saw the sparkle of gold. Lyonette placed them on the table, eight coins.
“Here you are. That’s how much I can pay right now. I have a salary with Erin, but I can’t afford to pay the entire fine now.”
“Not going to ask the [Innkeeper] to foot the bill?”
That was sarcasm, but to Zevara’s surprise, Lyonette shook her head.
“Her money needs to go to rebuilding the inn and…other things.”
Zevara suppressed the urge to whistle. For a moment, her tail coiled in a knot of jealousy. Erin Solstice could afford to pay nearly fifty gold coins like that? She covered the instinctive emotion with a cough and looked at Lyonette.
“I’ll keep your artifacts impounded until the last coin is paid from your debt. But I will keep them. If you have a payment on your fine, place it at the desk and make them issue you a receipt.”
“Thank you. You’re very generous, Watch Captain.”
Lyonette smiled at Zevara. The Drake eyed her.
