“I am, aren’t I? I don’t know how you talked me into that.”
Talking of law and reminding her of the death sentence. That was clever. Zevara felt a twinge of admiration and covered that too with a dark glare.
“The next time you barge into my office, I’ll toss you out the window. Understand?”
“Perfectly. Thank you. I won’t waste your time anymore.”
Lyonette stood, nodded, and walked out of the room. Zevara saw the Ashfire Bee wave its antennae at her. She was gone so quickly Zevara was left staring at her back. The Drake blinked, stared at the eight gold coins, and swept them to the side. Drat. Now she’d have to divide and return the coin among the victims. And file a report.
Still, the encounter hadn’t left a sour taste in Zevara’s mouth, aside from the smoke. Lyonette. Zevara had never recalled the girl having as much presence, or being so…reasonable. Probably because Erin was the one Zevara was used to talking with. This had been almost pleasant. Now, why couldn’t Erin be as easy to deal with? Zevara sighed, returned to her work, then got up and strode downstairs to yell at the Gnoll manning the desk. A good shouting always made her feel better.
 
——
 
Victory! Lyonette wanted to punch the air as she left the watch barracks. The Gnoll at the front desk had seen her coming down the stairs and was getting to his feet, but he never got a chance to speak. Zevara had come down the stairs like a storm, and Lyonette had practically skipped out as she gave the Gnoll a tongue-lashing.
On her shoulder, Apista nestled next to Lyonette. Aside from the prickling of her legs, she was pleasant company. Her wings thrummed quietly, and Lyonette felt the bee mirroring her satisfaction.
That was the way to do it. Not by yelling or throwing a tantrum like a child. Be an adult, but be confident, be brave. Copy the examples Lyonette had seen at court, from foreign dignitaries, [Kings] and [Queens], not just her parents.
Back straight, chin up, glide, don’t walk. Act as if you have every right to be on the street and no one else does. No wait—ignore that last bit. Everyone has a right to the street, but you own the street. Something like that. Yes.
The next stop Lyonette made was a quick one. She asked for directions twice, both times from people with pets. The first time a Drake with a cat on a leash, which neither was happy about, the second from a Gnoll who owned a dog. They directed her to a shop filled with noise. Lyonette opened the door and heard a minor commotion in the back.
There was a bell on the counter and cages around the room. Only half of them were in use; a number of cats were lazing in the sunlight in the store front, and there was a dog sniffing something on the ground. Birds in cages who went still the moment Apista came in. The Ashfire Bee fanned her wings, and Lyonette soothed her.
She rang the bell. The shop went insane for a few seconds, and then a Gnoll poked his head out of the back.
“One second, please! Thank you! Everyone else—quiet!”
The shop went silent as the dogs and birds and one lizard all went still. One of the cats looked up and meowed defiantly, but the rest were quiet until the Gnoll came out. He had blood on his paws, and there was whimpering coming from the back. A dog? The Gnoll wiped his paws on his fur and looked at Lyonette. His eyes focused first on the bee on her shoulder and then on her face. His eyes widened with recognition.
“Sorry. I was dealing with a dog who had toothache problems. I had to pull—but I see there is no Mrsha. Is this a business call or social? Miss Lyonette?”
He remembered her. Lyonette smiled.
“Business, Mister Elirr. I wanted to ask for advice. Do you have the time?”
“Of course. I take it has to do with that bee? I recall it from the inn. Quite a fierce one too. I, ah, have a seat. I have a seat somewhere around here…”
The older Gnoll looked about. Lyonette shook her head.
“I won’t impose long. Unless—I am imposing?”
Her conversation with Zevara and Lism’s shouting had reminded her of the injustice she’d done the Gnolls. But Elirr waved that away with a brisk paw.
“You are known to the Gnolls of Liscor. But the debt was paid. Moreover, you are Mrsha’s caretaker, and she is owed a debt. Come in. I can give you—shoo!”
He scared a cat off a stool and offered it to Lyonette. Then he found a tea cup, some tea, and before she knew it, they were sitting and chatting at the counter. The Gnoll grinned at her.
“Pardon the animals, yes? They’re part of the job, but sometimes it seems they’re training me.”
Lyonette smiled politely. Part of her was still humming from her encounter with Zevara. So she acted more like that Lyonette and less like the polite, helpful, personality-less [Barmaid].
“You’re a [Beast Trainer], aren’t you? [Beast Tamers] and [Beast Masters] raise only a few animals at most.”
“Ah, you understand our class.”
“I’ve known some of both. [Falconers], [Kennel Masters], and so on.”
Elirr sniffed.
“Specialists. I deal in pets myself. More variety and challenge that way. But between you and me, I’ve tamed Shield Spiders for a dare and handled Griffin babies, but cats are the worst.”
He raised his voice. A few of the cats lounging at the window looked up as if they understood. Elirr glared at them.
“Yes, you! I don’t care if you’re all intelligent. You’re pests! If you eat another bird by unlocking the cages, I will eat you, understand?”
One of the cats lifted its tail and displayed its rear end. Lyonette laughed with delight as Elirr hurled a pellet of dried dog food at it.
“They can understand you? I had no idea!”
The Gnoll shrugged, but he was smiling, and his tail wagged.
“It depends on the species. You know [Beast Tamers] and such classes improve an animal? Dogs can grow beyond their natural size, or run faster, become tougher—it applies to all animals. All can learn some intelligence, if you have the right Skills. But some animals are naturally smarter.”
“And cats are smarter than dogs?”
“Would you doubt it? Or perhaps cats are more suited to some things. I can train a dog to fetch wounded [Soldiers] from battle or even apply healing potions—so long as the bottles are properly scented for them to pick out. But I can never tell how intelligent the cats get. I think they can understand words, at least some of them. But maybe they just understand tone? They’re clever enough to insult, at least.”
Lyonette looked down at a pure white cat that was twining about her legs. It leapt up onto her lap, clearly demanding a scratch. Apista fanned her wings, and the cat hissed at the bee.
“Enough of that.”
Elirr snagged the cat with one paw, deftly hoisting it up by the neck. The cat yowled, protesting the indignity, but Elirr was soon scratching it behind the ears, and it was purring loudly. Lyonette let Apista crawl down her arm and stroked the bee very carefully with a fingertip. Elirr eyed the bee.
“I have never seen a [Beast Tamer] with an insect before. I’ve heard some can have such creatures, but they live such short lives that it hardly happens.”
Lyonette felt a pang as she thought about how long Apista might live. She hoped Ashfire Bees lived longer than regular ones, however long that was.
“Really? Like what?”
“Oh—a Lizardwoman who kept ants. A colony as snacks as much as entertainment. A Dullahan who raised beetles. Not roaches, you understand. Beetles with big shells and huge horns.”
“Oh! I’ve seen pictures of them. Terandria doesn’t have many.”
“Yes. Hrr. Apparently, some Dullahans like them as pets. But as I say, they aren’t my expertise. Still, I assume you’ve come because this one is acting up?”
Elirr offered a finger to Apista. Lyonette was afraid the Ashfire Bee would show her stinger, but there was something about the Gnoll that appealed to the bee, because she walked up Elirr’s arm, fanning her wings. The Gnoll smiled.
“Ah, Ashfire Bees. I know something of them. Deadly and immune to smoke or fire which most would use to harvest honey. A terror for adventurers to fight—as many monsters are. But their honey is sweetest yet. I wondered how Krshia came by any honey from their hive. It made a lovely snack, and the cats enjoyed it with their milk. I understand more, now.”
Lyonette nodded.
“I got Apista from that hive. I have a trick—but I’ve raised her and not done much with her until now. Today she found me in the city. She must have slipped out the door. I don’t know how I should raise her. Any tips?”
Elirr puzzled over that for a second.
“Hm. You mean, how you should level or how to make her obey?”
Lyonette didn’t want to mention she had consolidated her [Beast Tamer] class into [Worldly Princess]. She hesitated.
“Both. I mean, she obeys just fine most of the time. But what should I do with her?”
The Gnoll frowned.
“Do? Nothing. If she is a pet, she is a pet. Feed her. Love her. That is all. But if she is not, then you have a problem. I see it sometimes with those who buy animals I have bred to war and keep them as pets. Animals have a nature to which they are inclined. It may be Apista seeks to realize that nature—or that she is simply uncontrollable.”
“Uncontrollable?”
Elirr nodded.
“Some animals are beyond [Beast Tamers] or even [Beast Masters] unless you are high enough level. Some…beyond even the highest-leveled, I suspect. I do not know. A [Beast Tamer] over Level 40 is exceptionally rare. I can think of a Named Adventurer who is so high, but no higher. So functionally, yes, there are animals that cannot be tamed. I could barely tame a Griffin, and only to the most basic of social functions, for instance. And insects may be too foreign for some training. Like Crelers, for instance.”
“Someone’s tried to train a Creler?”
Lyonette was appalled. Elirr nodded.
“Fools do anything, and there was a point. Imagine one of those in war? But it was futile, as I’m sure you can imagine. The first of the [Beast Tamers] who tried it enjoyed some success. Hrr. But it was short lived. He was found two months later in his home, dead. The Creler had devoured half of him and laid eggs in the rest. More tea?”
Lyonette hesitated, then saw the twinkle in Elirr’s eye. So she gave him a polite smile.
“Please.”
The Gnoll guffawed and filled her cup.
“Ah, but you are different than I thought you’d be! As befits one who raised Mrsha. Again and again I must change my thinking. But where was I? Crelers. Even the [Beast Master] who took the case found the Crelers were simply too instinctual, too…predatory to handle. The most he could do was direct them like a weapon, and as they grew older, their destructive instincts only increased. They are all hunger with little else to guide them. And the adults? The Gnoll who tried it told me she sensed a dark intelligence from it. Too intelligent. She suspected it was gaining too much from her Skills and had it destroyed at once. Terrible things.”
“So, a [Beast Master] can truly make an animal intelligent.”
Elirr raised a finger.
“To a point. But only beasts, I think. A truly intelligent creature, say, a Unicorn, if one existed, might not qualify as a beast but a person. And some animals grow truly smart, but I have never met one I thought I could carry on a conversation with. They were only able to grasp a bit of nuance, learn to perform small tasks. If they had more potential, they would not be animals, yes?”
“True. So is Apista a pet or something I can’t control?”
Elirr studied the Ashfire Bee.
“She has not stung me, which is a positive. Have you any Skills with her?”
“Uh…[Crimson Stinger] and [Lesser Bond].”
“Ah. Then I would not worry. The [Beast Master] who took the Creler could not bond with it. A bond denotes trust between master and animal. If you have it, she will obey most things, even if she does not understand. What she becomes depends on you.”
That reassured Lyonette. She smiled, thanked Elirr, and traded for his cat while he stroked Apista’s back and checked her over. She left a few minutes later as Elirr bade her farewell. He declined to accept payment, but left her a bit of advice.
“If you wish to tame this bee, I might suggest giving it a purpose, even if that purpose is only to be loved. I raise the dogs to be either companions or war hounds. Either suits, depending on the nature of the dog, and they can be shaped by lessons and Skills. But they must have purpose, or to what reason do we tame them?”
That was true. Lyonette looked at Apista. She felt guilty, remembering how she left the bee to its devices or to play with Mrsha so often. If she should carry Apista around or have her on a leash of some kind—both ideas were fairly ridiculous—or she needed to let the bee…be a bee. And how did you do that? Lyonette didn’t know, but she resolved to find out.
 
——
 
Before she left the city, Lyonette made one last stop, and this one was happy chance. She’d been intending to wait for Pawn to come by, although she feared he was still in mourning, but she saw a gathering of Drakes and a few Gnolls at an intersection and stopped to see what was happening. Then she spotted a familiar burly Drake and an Antinium, distinct because he had only two arms and a slimmer frame, as well as twin silvery swords, at the center of the gathering.
“Excuse me. Pardon me. I have business with that Antinium.”
Lyonette tried to force her way towards Klbkch, but she was rebuffed. A [Princess]’ haughtiness got her pretty far with Zevara, but there are some who generate their own natural egos that could resist even a [King]’s presence. She ran up against one such individual now in the form of an older Drake with slightly faded orange scales.
“We all have business with that Antinium, young Human. So wait your turn!”
She shook a claw in Lyonette’s face. The [Princess] backed up a step, and Apista fanned her wings. Lyonette soothed the bee and looked at the Drake.
“My apologies, Miss…?”
The Drake harrumphed.
“Elissa Slipscal, Miss. Not Slipscale—that’s a fault many Humans make! Now, if you don’t mind? I’m protesting to Senior Guardsman Klbkch about the rent.”
She turned back to Klbkch, who was writing and listening to the other Drakes and Gnolls. Relc hesitated, then waved at Lyonette when he saw her. She waved back, then directed her attention to the discussion. Predictably, Elissa Slipscal’s was the loudest voice.
“The rent’s gone up another four coppers this week! Four coppers! On top of last month’s rise? It’s nearly doubled what it was when I first moved here! Honest Drakes can’t afford to keep the rent rising, but did that [Landlord] listen?”
“I would assume the answer is no, Miss Slipscal.”
