The bee was confused. It had stung after being grabbed. As far as it was concerned, everything was great. The green thing had let it go and retreated. But Lyonette was angry. At Apista. The bee sensed it and didn’t know why. It flared its wings, wondering if the situation called for more stings. The green thing was keeping well away from it while the white thing bounced up and down at the table. Apista was about to fly about to look for more enemies when it heard another voice.
“I told you that bee’s a menace! A menace I say!”
Erin Solstice walked over, planted a huge plate of eggs and bacon in front of Mrsha, Numbtongue, and Lyonette, and mock-glared at Apista. She had tankards in her other hand as well. Milk for Mrsha, water for Lyonette, and milk for Numbtongue.
“That’s a lot of eggs, Erin.”
Lyonette eyed the eggs with mild alarm. Mrsha reached for the heaping plate, and Lyonette grabbed her paw.
“Ah! Did you wash your hands, miss? And where’s your plate? And fork?”
Mrsha’s face fell. She slunk off the table and found the washing bucket of water and the little soap ball. Apista flew with her. She thought about drinking from the bucket, but experience had taught her that was not good water. She was flying with Mrsha because she was wary of the fourth creature in the wood hive she lived in.
The scary one. If Lyonette was a fellow bee, the white thing a precious creature, like a baby larva, and the green one…a green one, then the scary one was a threat. Like a wasp or a bear, but somehow, still part of the hive. Lyonette liked her, and so Apista didn’t consider the scary one a threat—but she was still scary.
Erin Solstice stared at Apista warily as the bee flew about Mrsha. Apista was giving her much the same look.
Bees did not see like people. In fact, their eyes weren’t much hot stuff anyways. They could make out bright colors to find food, but it wasn’t for clear, stunning, high-resolution analysis. So Erin didn’t look that much different from Lyonette in Apista’s mind. But bees were also animals, and in that sense, Apista saw more than Lyonette.
To Apista, Erin was bigger than her form. At times, she was just the size of her body. But at others, she filled the room, the wood hive that was Apista’s home. She became the hive, and in those moments, she was a terrible giant. A thing the bee had no words for and which scared Apista.
So, the scary one. Right now, Erin wasn’t scary, but the bee had decided long ago not to get too near her. She flew past Erin and investigated the bright eggs and meat. Not her choice of food, and indeed, Lyonette instantly shooed her away.
“No, Apista! I’ll get your food in a moment. Erin, I’m going into Liscor today. We need more sugar for her water, and I’ve got some other errands to run.”
“Sounds good! I’m going into Pallass.”
The word made everyone look up. Erin’s face was set. Lyonette scratched her head.
“Pallass?”
“That’s right. Just to see what it’s like. You know, get a feel for the place? Ilvriss is still banned from there, and no one else is using the door—those jerks still don’t feel like visiting Liscor. So I’m going through.”
“Okay then. Mrsha will come with me, I suppose. Or visit Krshia?”
Mrsha, sitting at the table and bouncing up and down, waiting for her plate and fork, nodded eagerly. Lyonette smiled.
“And then that only leaves—”
They stared at Numbtongue. He was staring at the eggs and bacon as hungrily as Mrsha. He looked up belatedly and then shrugged—caught himself—and opened his mouth.
“I will go into the mountains. To mine.”
“With the mana stone?”
Erin was anxious. Numbtongue nodded.
“With stone. You’ll check the door?”
He looked at Lyonette. She nodded as well.
“If I’m not here, Ishkr or Drassi will check it every ten minutes. And they’ll have it set to your mana stone by default.”
She nodded to the rotating mana stones that had been installed on the door. There were five now. One for Celum, Liscor, a bright purple mana stone that Numbtongue carried, an orange gem for a door that Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers used, and Pallass. Erin nodded, smiling.
“We’re adding more mana stones! Hawk just put that stone up in Pallass—I’m still not sure how useful it is since we barely do anything, but I guess it’s convenient for security and stuff. Plus, Ilvriss paid for it, so that’s cool by me. But we’ve got two more connections.”
“That door that Griffon Hunt’s helping bring north to Invrisil. And Numbtongue’s personal door.”
Lyonette looked at Numbtongue. He reached into his pouch and showed them the purple gem.
“Have it here. Good way to go from mountains to here.”
“You’re sure you want to go alone? I don’t want you getting hurt.”
Erin looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin shrugged.
“Not too dangerous. Just climbing and looking for good spots mostly. Boring. And if I find anything—”
He pointed to the gem. Erin huffed and hesitated.
“Just remember you need a door to get it to work.”
“I will bring one. And mine all day.”
“You sure you just need a pickaxe? What about a shovel? Don’t miners work in teams or something?”
Numbtongue shrugged.
“Probably. But that’s not how Goblins mine. Not how he mined.”
The others fell silent. Apista flew into the kitchen and inspected some bacon grease before resuming her patrol, checking on if anything had changed in her ‘hive’, the inn, while she’d slept. As the sole proper bee, she had to make sure nothing had penetrated the hive and was lurking there. Like…hive beetles. Or spiders. She hated spiders.
“Okay then. I guess that’s our plan for today! Lyonette, the inn’s all yours. Now, let’s get some plates and dig in before the adventurers come by! There’ll probably be at least a few groups. Griffon Hunt’s started eating here every morning, plus the other teams come by to relax…”
Erin clapped her hands. Lyonette helped her get plates, smiling.
“They come here for the good food. You should be happy.”
“Yeah, but all they do is eat, argue, and take turns escorting the door.”
“Well, they are relaxing after the dungeon.”
“Adventurers relaxing means one of them starts causing trouble at some point. Remember when they tried playing baseball again? Right outside the inn? They cracked two windows.”
“Well, they paid for them. And today Ishkr will be here, not Drassi. I can trust him. I’ll be back soon enough, Erin. I’d let someone else get the supplies, but I have other business…”
“Ooh. While you’re at it, can you get me some more eggs? They’re cheap, but I, uh, used them for breakfast. And I want to make some more egg-based dishes when I get back from Pallass. Egg drop soup. I don’t quite know how to make it, but I assume you have egg and soup and there’s dropping involved…”
Lyonette sighed, but Apista felt the hint of amusement from her. The bee flew down as Lyonette filled a bowl with water and sugar. Erin eyed the bee greedily drinking up the syrup before Lyonette had even carried it back into the common room.
“You sure Apista’s fine with just that? I thought she needed more.”
“Well, I haven’t let her out of the inn for fear she’ll get attacked by birds, but there are the flowers.”
Lyonette waved towards the little yellow flowers blooming in the planters near the windows. Erin stared at them.
“Oh. Right. I forgot! We should make some more Faerie Flower drinks, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] shuddered.
“They’re not exactly social drinks, Erin.”
“No…but they are good for some people. Sometimes. And Halrac and Ilvriss ask me if I have more now and then. Say, could you get more honey as well?”
Lyonette paused.
“From the Ashfire Bee hive? I haven’t gone back there in a while. I could…try.”
The last time she’d harvested honey from them had been in the winter, but she’d stopped with the spring rains and the uptick in monsters. Now, the Floodplains were muddy, but some of the muck was turning into proper soil again. And there were plants blooming, the last of the undead had finally been taken care of…it was beginning to be a proper spring. Erin hesitated.
“I mean, I know it’s dangerous, but your smoke trick’s worked before, right? And honey is a money earner.”
“True. I’ll try it. After I see Krshia. Oh—and I’ll visit the Players of Celum and see why they haven’t dropped by yet.”
“Would you? It totally slipped my mind. Well, not slipped my mind, but every time I go through to Celum, Octavia’s bugged me about new potion ideas and helping her burn down this other guy’s shop…”
The two chatted as Apista drank the precious water and sugar up. She knew it was exactly what she needed to survive. But Erin was right. Water and sugar were one thing, but a bee lived on honey. And Apista was predisposed to another thing too.
Nectar. As she was not a queen who lived to lay brood, she was instinctively motivated towards the little flowers. So as the other adventurers came down the stairs, Numbtongue and Mrsha fought for a rasher of bacon, and Erin and Lyonette circled the inn, the Ashfire Bee flew up and towards the little planters near the windows. There she landed and inspected the flowers.
They were small and yellow. Vibrant, like little coins of gold sprouting from the soil. Ironic, since that was how Erin had first received them. Fake gold coins, a faerie’s trick payment. But she’d taken the flowers and planted them, and they’d bloomed into flowers that were very useful and very magical.
One sip of the nectar could make you see things. Mix it with alcohol and you’d see the past. Or a past that might have been or…just dream. Lyonette had found you could burn the flowers too. Dried and burned, they created an incense that put the Ashfire Bee hive to sleep and allowed her to collect honey. The flowers probably had other uses too, but they were as yet still growing and multiplying, and Erin wanted a veritable garden first.
A certain little Gnoll and Apista were responsible for the much larger body of flowers in the planters along the windowsill. Encouraged by their efforts, the flowers had multiplied from three boxes of scattered blooms in the soil to six full boxes, and a seventh one was on the way once Lyonette or Erin transplanted the delicate flowers. To Apista, it was a bounty of nectar.
And yet, still the bee hesitated. Bees had short memories in some regards, but in others? They could navigate back to a patch of flowers pollinated years ago. Because while individual bees died, a hive remembered. And Apista, short though her life had been, knew these flowers.
She knew what would happen next. But it wasn’t a strictly negative experience, one that would warn her away, like getting grabbed by the green thing or accidentally getting smacked by Mrsha while the Gnoll was asleep. It was something else. And because Apista had no concept of it, because she was programmed to seek the nectar in the little flowers, and because part of her wanted to, she drew closer. Her proboscis lowered, and she delicately inserted it into the bud of the first flower.
Bee fact. Regular Earth bees could forage as many as six miles outside of their hive. Ashfire Bees, the colossi of the bee families in this world, could forage for as many as twenty miles outside their hives, and further still if need be. They had to, as smaller flowers were far too tiny to provide them with enough nectar.
In that sense, the six beds of Faerie Flowers were just a warm-up for the Ashfire Bee. In another?
Apista drank. And the world slowed ddddddoooooooowwwwwnnnnnnnnnnn…………
Bees didn’t think like people. But they did think. And Apista was thinking about thinking, which was a novel experience for any bee. The idea of thought was to her like this strange thing. You could think? About thinking? That was…like…
Thought. Apista raised her head. Yellow flowers looked at her. But from a different angle, they looked like blooming gold. Or gold that bloomed through a flower. Maybe they were gold and the flowers were the illusion. Maybe this window was—
Apista ran into the window. Okay, maybe it wasn’t an illusion. The Ashfire Bee crawled up the window. Wow. This hard stuff was really hard. And see-through. She could see right through it, but it was there. Outside, the sky glowed with dawn light. Apista wondered if it had anything to say. She fanned her wings.
She could see—
—the shape of—
—tomorrow—
And it was green. With pink polka dots.
Apista tripped. And when bees tripped, they tripped hard.
 
——
 
“Huh. You know, I never realized it, but what does Apista do all day when you’re working, Lyonette?”
Erin was about to leave for her trip to Pallass when she spotted the Ashfire Bee. It was crawling all over the window where the Faerie Flowers were blooming. Erin assumed it was good for the little things, for all Apista could have squashed them. But they really had been growing nicely.
Lyonette looked up from learning a new word Mrsha had invented. A tap on the nose and quick circle meant ‘tracking’. An important word for Gnolls. She was wondering if there was a way to write all this down for other people. A book, maybe?
She looked up and blinked at Apista. Lyonette frowned, then shrugged, unconcerned.
“All day? Mostly that. She always gets like this after eating. Quiet. Some days, she just sits on the flower beds for hours. I guess I should let her out more, but I feel like she’s pretty happy like this.”
She got up and walked over to Apista, picking the bee off the window. Apista didn’t resist. Erin eyed Apista as Mrsha tried to teach her the new word.
“…Is she trying to fly upside down?”
“I think so?”
To Lyonette, Apista’s mind was a distant thing. She could sense if the bee was hungry, in pain, or so on thanks to their [Lesser Bond] skill, but that was about it. Right now, she was getting…something approaching static from Apista’s mind. It happened surprisingly often. Lyonette assumed Apista just wasn’t thinking that much.
“Well, that’s bees for you. Must be nice. That’s a nice word, Mrsha! Tracking. Got it! I’ll remember. And you can ‘track’ me down if I’m late. I’m off to Pallass! See ya!”
Erin waved at the others and walked through the magic door. Numbtongue was already gone for the day. That just left Lyonette, the adventurers who’d come downstairs and into the inn, and the hired help. Mrsha padded over to Ishkr and tugged on his leg. She was determined to teach everyone her new word.
“Mrsha, don’t—well, okay. But don’t bother Ishkr if he’s busy, got it?”
Lyonette sighed as the Gnoll [Waiter] obligingly bent down to learn Mrsha’s word. Some of the other adventurers looked up; they were playing dice and waiting to change places with the Halfseekers, who were lugging the door north.
