Lyonette wished that didn’t make her feel so relieved. But she took the emotion anyways to give her confidence. Slowly, carefully, she lit one of Octavia’s matches and tossed it on the kindling. It lit the dry wood and shavings at once.
Fire blossomed. Quickly, Lyonette stepped back and grabbed the long-handled fan she used. She began wafting the flames and smoke as the fire started devouring the wood—and the Faerie Flowers Lyonette had placed on the firewood.
You could use dry flowers, but Lyonette had found that fresh flowers actually worked better in some ways. It took longer for whatever was in them to burn, so the fire had more time to build. By the time they released their effects, Lyonette was fanning hard, blowing the smoke into the cave.
And holding her breath. Apista hovered well back from the cave as well. Lyonette knew how strong the Faerie Flowers were if you were close to them, and she had placed the fire inside the cave to avoid the wind blowing the smoke in her face. Now, that had been an unpleasant moment, waking up in the snow half-frozen to death.
But this time, the wind was stopped by the cave, and Lyonette was fanning hard. The smoke entered the cave, and she heard the thrumming turn to a sudden roar. The bees had detected the smoke.
Normally, smoke calmed a hive. Bees would go into flight mode and begin devouring the honey, half-blinded by the smoke and confused, preparing to flee their hive if the fire enveloped the fragile fortress they’d built. But not so for Ashfire Bees. They were practically immune to fire; Lyonette had once caught Apista fanning her wings in the fireplace. And when they detected flames near their hive, they went out and smothered them.
They were coming. This was the pants-wetting moment of the ordeal. The moment when the buzzing filled the cave and Lyonette sensed movement coming at her. She fanned desperately and saw the first bee shoot around the bend in the cave. It was an Ashfire Bee, not as big as Apista and stinger black instead of crimson, but huge, a giant among bees, poised for the attack—
It dropped and hit the floor with a small bump of sound. Lyonette breathed out slowly as the buzzing abruptly went out. There was more pattering of noise as the worker bees flying to investigate dropped, already asleep. Still, Lyonette kept fanning until the fire was mostly ashes. Only then did she grab her jars, punch the air in relief, and step into the cave.
“Bees first. Two big jars of bees, and two jars of honey.”
Lyonette muttered to herself as she grabbed a pair of tongs and began picking up unconscious bees. She’d enter the hive after that, slice her way in and grab as much honey as possible. And some larvae, why not? Klbkch had asked for some, and Pawn apparently considered it a delicacy.
Or was that too cruel to Apista? No, wait, wasn’t all of this cruel to Apista? Lyonette would feed her some royal jelly to make up for it tonight. Or—could she raise another bee? A sister for Apista? Or a brother? Wait, what gender was Apista anyways? Lyonette assumed she was female, but was there a definitive way of checking? Maybe Erin would—
The relieved thoughts flooding Lyonette’s head suddenly came to a stop. She turned her head slowly. Because she’d heard the sound.
A distant…buzzing. Not from inside the cave, but from behind her. Lyonette froze. And suddenly, she realized the error in her thoughts.
Normally, it would work. Her Faerie Flower smoke plan, that was. In the winter, the bees would be in the hive, staying put and disinclined to move. They might smell the smoke and be roused to action, but by the time they came out, the soporific magical effect would put them out. But that was assuming they were all in the hive. Only, this was spring and the bees weren’t all in the hive, were they?
She’d thought that since none were around the entrance, the hive hadn’t begun looking yet. And the Floodplains were so muddy and there weren’t any blooms—but these were Ashfire Bees. Twenty miles was the area they could patrol around their hive. And if need be? They could go farther.
And like bees, they could tell when their home was in danger. Maybe it was a warning pheromone, or maybe their queen’s telepathic link. Either way, the bees were returning. All of them.
Lyonette dropped the tongs. She dropped the glass jar. She ran for the exit. She was halfway out when the first Ashfire Bee dropped out of the sky, buzzing, stinger raised.
“Oh my—”
Lyonette flung herself down into the mud, rolling down the incline leading up to the cave. But the bee wasn’t aimed at her. It was attacking the fire! The dying embers and ashes of the Faerie Flower scattered as the bee struck it, knocking fiery sparks into the air. More followed. Lyonette, eyes wide, heart thumping, scrambled to her feet and ran. The bees ignored her, at least for the first moment.
They were attacking the remains of the fire, dispersing the smoke as they swarmed around it, fanning their wings. Lyonette snatched up her basket and ran. But she knew she’d never make it.
“Apista!”
She screamed, but her beloved pet was lost among the other bees. Nearly a hundred had come back and were circling the fire. They flew into the hive, probably to investigate that it was unharmed. Then they came out with a vengeance. And they went straight for Lyonette.
She was running. Head down, arms pumping, each stride hitting the muddy earth, taking her down the huge hill. A perfect run. Even the mud wasn’t slowing her down, and Lyonette didn’t slip as it spattered around her. But it was no good. Even a [Flawless Attempt] couldn’t save her.
A fact of bees. A honeybee from Erin’s world averaged about twelve miles per hour when laden with honey and pollen after a trip foraging. A bee unladen could go twenty miles per hour. Hornets, wasps, could reach twenty-five miles per hour to hunt their slower prey. The maximum speed of a Human sprinting, again, based on Humans from Erin’s world, was twenty-eight miles per hour. The fastest person in that world could hit twenty-eight miles per hour for ten seconds. Perhaps longer. But twenty-eight miles per hour was it.
And Ashfire Bees could do thirty.
They caught her as she was ascending the hill. Lyonette turned. She flung the Tripvine bag, but it exploded harmlessly in the air. Vines, tangling and green, burst everywhere, trying to coil around their target. But the Ashfire Bees just flew around them. They shot at Lyonette. She screamed.
“No!”
That was it. Nothing else. Just—no. It could not end like this. Not today. Not when everything was so…normal. She raised her hands, turning, trying to find a place to dive. A pool of mud, maybe. Some scrap of cover that might shield her from the stings.
But there was nothing. No snow. No cover. Lyonette turned as the first bee aimed at her face. She saw its stinger, black, pointed straight at her left cheek—
And then she saw another bee, larger, angrier, and oh so gloriously familiar hurtle out of the sky and smack the first bee with its abdomen. The Ashfire Bee worker tumbled out of the air, confused by the attack. The other bees flew around Lyonette, a terrifying whirlwind, but the bee defending Lyonette had all their attention. Hers too.
Apista, crimson stinger extended, buzzed as she flew around Lyonette, crashing into bees headed too close to the young woman. She was emitting a sound with her wings Lyonette could hear even amid the droning of others. It sounded louder, and the bee herself looked larger and more intimidating than any of the others. They backed away as Apista flew at them.
“Apista.”
The bee’s mind was open to Lyonette. She was angry. Angry, afraid—for Lyonette?—but mostly angry. She saw the other bees as attacking Lyonette, her hive, and she was warding them off. Her stinger jabbed at another bee, and it flew back, clearly intimidated by this foreign bee.
Lyonette looked around. The Ashfire workers were hesitating. This wasn’t going according to plan. They had one modus operandi, which was: find intruder, sting intruder. But this other bee was…different. It called to a different instinct in them, and so they hesitated. Neither Lyonette nor Apista realized why they weren’t attacking until they heard another buzz, coming from the cave entrance. Only, if the buzzing had been a primordial thrumming in the ears before with the hundred or so workers, this sounded like thunder.
“Oh, Calanfer eternal. My kingdom witness.”
Black and yellow streamed out of the cave. A torrent. A hurricane of bodies. It spiraled up into the sky, like a tendril, an arm made of thousands of bodies. And it spiraled down towards her, a hive’s worth of bees. Drones, workers, and leading them, a shape larger than the rest.
A very large, very angry bee. The queen of the Ashfire Bees shot out of the hive, followed by her throng. They buzzed around her as she stopped in the air, looking down at Lyonette and Apista. No, that wasn’t right. Lyonette was practically a speck. The Ashfire Queen had only one target.
Apista.
Yes, the bee was no queen. She had no hive. But she had been raised on royal jelly. She was of queens, even if she wasn’t one in truth. And though bees were social, though they were all part of a hive, nothing about that rationale extended to queens. When two queens met, after birth in the same hive or in the wild, only one could be tolerated.
The queen gave no warning. She issued no challenge—or maybe it was Apista who was the challenger. Either way, she dove, and her hive flew in the air as she lanced towards Apista, stinger extended.
“Apista!”
Lyonette saw her beloved pet rise, stinger extended likewise. She darted at the queen, and for a moment, they were tangled, stinging, missing each other, stingers glancing off abdomens as they tried to inject one another with poison. Then the queen twisted, and Apista went flying.
She was smaller than the queen Ashfire bee. She was of queen’s stock, but Lyonette was no worker who knew instinctively what to give Apista and when. The smaller bee was smacked by the queen’s wings and narrowly avoided a stinger to the face. Her stinger was as large, but she had never fought before. The open air was new to Apista, and the queen had weight, experience, and her hive on her side.
The other bees were bombing Apista, ramming into her as the queen tried to make the fatal sting. They didn’t sting her directly, but they rammed Apista as the smaller bee tried to fly away, gain distance on the queen. Battered, buffeted, Apista was lost in the maelstrom. Lyonette couldn’t see her, but she could feel Apista’s panic and fear.
The [Princess] stared up at the swarm. She could have run. She could have fled as Apista fought for her life. But she forgot to. In that moment, as the queen dove at Apista, out of sight, Lyonette felt something building in her. Rising. She was a poor [Princess]. A weak one. She had no home. She had run from home. But here was her pet. Her friend.
Her subject. Lyonette felt the emotion rise in her, fury and rage and possessiveness. And she pointed and screamed.
“Apista!”
The word blew the bees apart above her. Did they go flying, pushed by something, or did they push themselves? Lyonette only knew that they flew apart, leaving two bees in the sky directly above her head. Apista and the queen. The queen reacted to Lyonette’s voice, tumbling and then righting herself in the air. She pointed her stinger down at Lyonette, and the young woman suddenly felt the air around her change. The bees darted forwards. Apista, high above, sensed the danger and dove—but there was one of her and hundreds, thousands of the enemy. Lyonette sensed Apista’s fear change to a burning fury. And then—
Apista burst into flames. One second she was diving, a bee of gold and black, and the next she was on fire. The bees around Lyonette scattered, as much from shock as anything else. Apista dove past Lyonette, her wings trailing flames. She was…shooting it out of her body somehow! Like a jet’s engine—something Lyonette had no concept of until Erin had drawn her a picture—some small holes in Apista’s body were jetting flames. The bee blasted past Lyonette, and the girl felt the heat of her passing.
Lyonette had only seen her do that once before. To fight off a bird. But now Apista was wreathed in fire. Lyonette gasped as she flew rings around her, burning trails in her vision. She blinked in the afterimages, turning, perhaps to run now Apista had scared the bees off. Then she saw another bloom of light.
Above her, the queen bee burst into flame. Lyonette’s head snapped up as the queen blazed fire and descended towards Apista, a burning meteor aimed for Apista. That would have been enough to reignite the fear in Lyonette’s heart. Enough. But then she saw the bees forming behind the queen. Like a huge mass, a swarm like she’d seen smaller bees form, but larger, with the queen at its heart. They shot after Apista, who was flying, burning, across the Floodplains. And then, without warning, with a sudden burst of heat and light that scorched Lyonette even where she stood, they all burst into flame.
 
——
 
The walls of Liscor were always patrolled by at least forty members of the Watch, ten for each cardinal direction of the wall, and at least one pair of Senior Guardsmen. That was the minimum requirement for any Drake city at any time. Currently, there were two hundred [Guardsmen] on the walls of Liscor at any time, although Zevara had still left the oversight of the walls in the care of Senior Guardsman Jeiss and Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, the Gnoll-Drake pair known throughout the city.
It wasn’t a bad job now that Liscor’s siege and the dungeon threat were over. In fact, it beat walking the streets some days. You got to stand around and even make idle chatter. With so many [Guards] about, you could relax because you had dozens of eyes in every direction.
That was what Jeiss, the Drake, enjoyed. What he didn’t enjoy were stupid rookies who’d just been promoted coming up to him and asking questions.
“Senior Guardsman Jeiss?”
“What?”
The Drake opened one eye irritably. He saw a younger Drake gulp. Light pink scales—oh dear, he must have been humiliated growing up. Jeiss would have recognized that coloration, so he guessed the Drake was one of the new recruits. Zevara wanted at least two hundred more [Guardsmen] in the city by the fall, and she was pushing the Council to give her a budget for double that. After what he’d seen, Jeiss didn’t blame her.
