Ishkr nodded. Lyonette walked towards the magic door. She slipped through it, not noticing or caring that Dawil, in his huff, had gotten up to pee away his frustrations. He slammed the door open, and it slowly began to close. No one cared; they were all busy watching Typhenous begin to arm-wrestle Falene, both [Mages] actively casting spells on themselves and each other.
The door bounced back slowly towards the shut position. And that was fine, because Dawil would close it on the way back in. Or someone else would. Mrsha was too responsible to go outside without a Gnoll watching her now, and the zombies had mostly been eradicated. This was an inn full of adventurers, so what was the worry?
None at all. Unless, of course, a completely Faerie-Flower-drugged Ashfire Bee decided that it was going outside. Then you might have a problem.
 
——
 
Apista the bee spoke to herself for the first time. It was not the way a bee thought, but she had eaten from flowers and so it felt fine.
She said or whispered or spoke however a bee does, “Oh, I am a bee, and a bee I must be. But what is a bee, if a bee is not free?”
There was no one to listen, or even to hear. And her other half, the bee that walked and thought, wasn’t here. She had been, but now she was distant, as it sometimes happened. “Damn magic,” thought Apista, though she had no notion of magic or how to swear.
On other days, Apista might have lain and thought deep thoughts about flowers and basked in the sun. But oh! Look there! She saw an open door, a crack. And a great plot was begun.
Stealthily, as stealthily as a bee could be. Apista crept towards the door. It was a fabulous plan, as smart as an Ashfire Bee could hatch. But it was foiled by the creature of scales who came through the door, as loud as thunder, as loud as a boar.
“Ishkr! I’m here to work! Hey—”
Apista took wing, racing for the door. The thing of scales exclaimed, “Oh no! Apista! Shut the door!”
She lunged, but the door was ajar and the Dwarf coming through already sloshed at the bar. Apista flew at his face, and he jumped in surprise. The scaly thing, whose name might be Drassi, shouted, “Stop her! Get her, Dawil!”
And the Dwarf leapt for her, ready to foil her plans. But clever, she, the bee. She dodged and wove around the grasping hands, landed in the beard and crawled up the screaming face. Then she leapt again and flew out the door. Apista laughed at the one chasing her of scales and fright. She shouted at them in words they could not hear, “At last, I fly free!”
And then she was airborne! Apista flew through the skies. Free for once of her hive of wood. Free at last, as free as a bee. As free as could be. Until a terrible thought occurred to her. She was free, but could she be? (She was still high or drunk or tripping, as you clearly can see.)
She had no hive nor purpose. Apista flew through the skies, aimless and helpless, suddenly gripped by philosophical woes. She looked at the sky and wept, only bees do not weep. And there was no one to hear her. She was still hallucinating that she could speak.
“What reason have I?” cried the bee. “What am I to do? By what reason am I free?”
And the sky spoke. “You are alone.”
And the bee knew it to be true. So she flew across the land, looking for her other half. For she completed she, but even together they were a bee twice alone. For what is a bee without a queen? Two bees, then, flew together. Neither one worker, neither one queen. But both in between.
So the bee found her other self and flew down to her. Asking, “What shall we do? What do you see? What pulls you, and how do you see me? What shall I do? By what reason am I free?”
Thus was began Apista’s great quest in the open. And in an inn made of wood, a Drake stood in the door. Drassi stared at the open sky, mouth agape. Dawil swore as he felt at his beard that Apista had crawled up, and Drassi saw Apista’s form grow smaller and smaller in the sky. She gulped and looked back at Ishkr, who’d arrived too late.
“Oh, Ancestors. Lyonette is going to kill me.”
 
——
 
Lyonette’s journey to Liscor was uneventful, at least to begin with. She made her way down Market Street, saw a familiar Gnoll at her stall, and made her way towards her. She got halfway there when an angry voice shouted at her.
“There, you see? The [Thief]! I’ve been telling everyone, that inn is just a den of criminals! Look at her, without the decency to stay out of the city! She was exiled! And look! She’s swanning right about, defying the law. Just like that!”
Lyonette jumped. She looked around and saw the shouter was a familiar Drake. Lism was shouting from his stall, his scales red and purple as he screamed at the people around him.
“Not only did that damn Human bring a Goblin into our homes, but a [Thief]! They caused riots in the city, and one of their flesh-loving friends nearly drowned me in the confusion! Are we to let this pass? I ask you! You, Shopkeeper Malvilla, didn’t that [Thief] steal from you? And you, Skemil? And even honored Krshia over there was a victim! But it appears that Gnolls forgive and forget too easily! Not so with Drakes, I say!”
An accusatory claw was pointed at Lyonette. She flushed as all eyes turned towards her. The two [Shopkeepers] mentioned gave Lyonette dark looks. Lism, still spitting outrage, pointed at Lyonette.
“Well? What do you have to say for yourself? Nothing? Just like a Human! First your kind attack our city with Goblins, and now—”
“Shut up, Lism! No one wants to hear it. I came here to buy fruits, not hear you spray.”
A passing Drake shouted, annoyed. Lism turned his wrath on the Drake.
“Oh yes? And where were you when the Humans were throwing rocks at our gates? Waiting to welcome your Human friends with open arms?”
The Drake glared and opened his mouth. Not coming up with a response, he went with a simpler option and turned his claw into a fist.
“Shut it. Or I’ll shut that mouth for you.”
“Oho? You and what Humans? Got an army of fleshbags with you?”
“That’s it—”
Lyonette slunk away from the argument towards Krshia’s stall. The two Drakes were shouting at each other. Lyonette’s ears were crimson as Krshia waved her closer. The Gnoll bared her teeth, her eyes flashing as she looked at Lism.
“Pay no notice, Lyonette. He’s been angry since someone tried to drown him in the baths. And angrier still since half the city thinks it’s a pity whoever did it didn’t finish the job.”
“I—thank you.”
The [Princess] felt her cheeks redden. She looked at Lism. He was getting jeered on as the Drake on the ground challenged him to leave his stall and take a few swings, but there were a number of people still glaring daggers at her. Her and Krshia. Mostly Drakes, but a few Gnolls too.
“Has he been like this all the time?”
Krshia grimaced and dug at her ear. Lyonette realized she’d packed some wax in there as makeshift earplugs.
“All of yesterday, the day before, and today. The Watch warned him twice to keep it down, but he’s argued they’re showing favoritism since they didn’t investigate who tried to drown him. So they’re letting him waste his breath. I wish I could say that I had the same hopes, but that’s the price of healing and stamina potions, no?”
She grimaced. Lyonette nodded. She glanced back at Lism.
“He’s right. But wrong. I was let back into the city, but I didn’t ask for it. Zel intervened on my behalf. And it wasn’t us who led the Goblins here. Erin fought the Goblin Lord’s army.”
Krshia nodded. The Gnoll knew everything Lyonette was saying, but the [Princess] had to say it again. Just to hear it and not what Lism was shouting.
“It is a fact most Gnolls know, Lyonette. And we have settled our debts. Ignore Lism—he speaks because he cannot act. And those who listen reveal themselves. Myself, I just wish I had better earplugs.”
She offered Lyonette a toothy grin. The young woman half-smiled. She wished she could shout all those things back at Lism. But she had no ground to stand on. She had burned down Krshia’s shop and stolen from half the shops on this street. Every time she came here, she did feel their gazes on her. But she hoped she could rectify that today.
“I’m not staying long. But can you add some sugar to my delivery list for tomorrow?”
“Hrr. Of course. How much?”
“Um. Make it a big sack. I know it’s pricey—”
Krshia waved that away.
“Not so much now that the siege is lifted and spring begun, yes? One of the [Merchants] already made it from Celum. His goods were pricey, but the prices will already go down. Sugar is expensive since it comes from Baleros, but there are no wars there to drive up the price either.”
“Lucky for us, hrm?”
Krshia blinked and then laughed at Lyonette’s imitation of her way of speaking.
“Go along with you now! Unless you want to hear Lism bellowing more?”
Lyonette did not. She walked away from the market, but not before Lism got a few parting shots in.
“Hah! Look at that! Running like the cowardly Human she is! Not a tail to tuck between her legs! Hey—don’t you climb onto my stall! You attack me and I’ll call the Watch! I have a right to free speech! Not that a Human-loving pervert would understand anything of—”
For a second, Lyonette thought about going back. For a second. But no. Running up to Lism and calling him a peasant with eggs for brains would not be helpful. As much as she wanted to do just that. Lyonette walked down the street, passing by Drakes and Gnolls and knowing they could see her red cheeks and ears. And then, like that, a bee fell out of the skies and landed on Lyonette’s head.
“Apista!?”
The Ashfire Bee buzzed, her wings flapping rapidly as the Drakes and Gnolls took one look at the oversized insect and sprang away. Lyonette grabbed at Apista as the bee wobbled erratically around her in flight. The Ashfire Bee’s thoughts were disjointed, but Lyonette caught confusion, desperation, and—melancholy from her. She’d never sensed these emotions from Apista. Or seen her act like this!
“What is going on with you? And how did you get out of the inn? Did Mrsha let you out? Is something wrong?”
Lyonette scolded the bee. But Apista didn’t seem worried or in battle-mode as she might if something was wrong, like the inn being attacked. She landed on Lyonette’s open palms at last and fanned her wings. The [Princess] brought her up to eye-level, hesitated as she noticed the crowd staring at her, and made a rapid decision.
“Just hold on to me and don’t make a fuss, understand? I’m bringing you right back to the inn. After I—drat. You know what? Just stay here.”
Lyonette placed the bee on her shoulder and started walking. And despite the bee’s odd emotions, it did obey. Lyonette could do that, at least. She hurried down the street. Apista helped her make better time than usual; half the pedestrians took one look at Lyonette and decided to walk around her.
“I wonder if owning other pets is like this. Father used to have a dog, but it’s not the same as [Beast Tamers] raising an animal, is it?”
The young woman groused as Apista rubbed her face on her shoulder. She still felt the bee’s wooziness, quite intensely in fact. Lyonette hadn’t noticed it, but now she realized it was the same feeling she got from Apista every morning.
“It’s the Faerie Flowers, isn’t it? Of all the—no wonder you lie about all day! I’m going to have to stop you from eating those! Why didn’t I notice it until now?”
Predictably, Apista didn’t respond. But Lyonette sensed the bee sobering or waking up or…doing whatever bees did to flush out their system as she walked down the street. She guessed that Apista would usually go back to the Faerie Flowers for seconds or even thirds.
Idiot. Lyonette sighed as she pushed the door open to the Watch barracks and strode in. She marched up to the front desk. A Gnoll was on duty. He looked bored—right up until he noticed the bee on Lyonette’s shoulder. Then he stared at that as if it was the most interesting thing he’d seen all day.
“Uh. Excuse me, Miss?”
Lyonette pointed at Apista.
“Pet. I’m a [Beast Tamer]. May I ask if the Watch Captain is in today?”
“Um. She is. Are you looking to see her about…?”
The Gnoll waved at the bee. Lyonette shook her head.
“I’d like to request an appointment. I can do that, right?”
The Gnoll tore his gaze away from the bee. He looked at Lyonette, blinked, and then nodded.
“You can…I’ll send up a request. But, ah, she’s usually busy. If this is a minor matter, I or another [Guardsman] on duty could help you out, Miss…?”
“Lyonette. And no, I’d like to speak to the Watch Captain.”
The Gnoll frowned dubiously, but with a sigh, and another look at Apista, he got up and walked up the stairs to the second floor of the barracks. He came back a few moments later and shook his head.
“She’s busy. If she has time, she’ll hear your request. Please take a seat.”
Lyonette’s spirits fell, but she did find a seat. The barracks were full of activity—people coming in, Drakes or Gnolls being charged or paying fines, other [Guards] doing paperwork or chatting—it only occurred to Lyonette after a moment that the Gnollish [Guardsman] at the desk had omitted an important detail.
“Excuse me.”
He looked up and sighed.
“Yes?”
“How long did Watch Captain Zevara say I’d have to wait?”
The Gnoll frowned. He was scribbling on something on the desk with the air people had of something quite important. Since Lyonette could see the nude sketch he was doing of a Gnoll (not much different from a regular sketch, honestly), she wasn’t impressed. The [Guardsman] covered the paper with one paw and spoke briskly.
“She didn’t say, Miss Human. Watch Captains are very busy individuals. If you have a concern, I can redirect it to a Senior Guardsperson. However, for Watch Captain Zevara…”
“I see.”
“Please have a seat. I will let you know if Watch Captain Zevara wishes to see you. If you’d like, I can schedule you for a formal appointment.”
“And when would that be?”
“Watch Captain Zevara would have to make the determination. But perhaps later this week? Next week?”
Lyonette stared at the Gnoll. He stared back, the picture of helpful unhelpfulness.
“And will she have time for me today if I wait?”
“Maybe? It depends on—”
“Watch Captain Zevara. I see. Thank you.”
Lyonette went back to her seat. The Gnoll sighed in relief, muttered something about crazy Humans, and went back to his artwork. Lyonette sat very still as Apista crawled up the side of her face. A passing Drake, clearly hung over, walked past Lyonette, burping, and did a double-take. He pointed at her, laughed, and Lyonette remembered what she’d told herself.
Don’t be rude. Don’t be old Lyonette.
