It didn’t mean he had to like the rookies, though. They were always asking stupid questions. Like, ‘How should we stand?’ ‘What if we see some Shield Spiders, do we call someone?’ ‘How come that big Drake gets to slack off?’ Stuff like that. Jeiss wished they’d just leave him alone. When he was a junior [Guardsman], he’d known to keep his mouth shut.
“What?”
He snapped at the young Drake. The junior [Guardsman] gulped again. He had a spear and Watch-issued leathers, but he wore them like a bad dress.
“It’s just—I saw something, and I was wondering if I should report—”
“Is it monsters?”
“I, uh, don’t think so. It’s this bright—”
“Is it a spell? Is it aimed at the city?”
“I don’t know!”
“You don’t know if it’s a spell? Why don’t you ask your other [Guardsmen] what they think?”
“Well, they don’t know either. So they said I should ask you, because—”
Jeiss was about to argue more when a paw reached out and poked him in the side. Hard. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, who was reading an installment of Olesm’s latest chess magazine—he’d just come out with a new edition after a long hiatus—looked up and scowled at him.
“Just go and see, Jeiss.”
“Aw, come on.”
Jeiss was trying to relax. Senior Guardsmen got to sit, and he’d been on his claws all day. But Beilmark just poked him again. It was a Gnoll thing, and Jeiss had gotten used to it—mostly.
“Go.”
“I had to go the last three times!”
“He’s a Drake. We agreed you handle Drakes, I handle Gnolls.”
“That was before I remembered how many Drakes serve compared to Gnolls.”
Jeiss grumbled. He got to his feet and glared at the young, pinkish Drake.
“Lead on. And I swear, if this is another spell coming from that damned inn or someone on the road—”
His tongue froze in his mouth as he spotted the ball of flame blasting across the Floodplains. It was huge, larger than any fireball. The junior [Guard] gulped yet again when he saw it.
“Uh—I didn’t see that. I only saw two flames—”
“Beilmark! Get over here! Guardsmen, ready up!”
Jeiss turned and roared, scaring the junior guardsman. Beilmark’s magazine went flying as she leapt to her feet. Across the wall, other [Guards] looked up. Some of them grabbed their weapons and turned their attention towards Jeiss. The smarter, older ones directed the rookies to look ahead. You never knew what was coming from behind.
“What is it?”
The Drake just pointed the fireball out to his partner. Beilmark swore, a growling Gnoll epithet.
“Is that…a [Fireball] spell? It’s way too large to be one. Some other kind of spell?”
“It can’t be! Look how long it’s lasting! And it’s…turning? Ever see a [Fireball] do that?”
It was true. The ball of flame looked like it was following something. Jeiss’ eyes narrowed. It was hard to see from all the light, but it looked like a tiny speck of fire was detached from the fireball. Every time it turned or changed direction, the fireball changed to follow it.
“What in the name of the Walled Cities is that?”
And then the little flame darted up towards the walls. Jeiss’ eyes widened. He turned and shouted.
“Incoming! Brace, brace!”
The [Guards] on the walls raised their shields and hunkered beneath the battlements. The pink Drake was frozen until Beilmark dragged him down. Jeiss hunkered behind the stone, but his head was half-risen. He saw the fireball flying at him, then turning upwards to follow that speck of fire. And then it shot past the walls in a blast of heat. Jeiss saw what was inside the fireball.
“Bees?”
Thousands of them. They were swarming, following one bee as it shot across the city. The angry bees’ wings were like thunder, but the terrifying thing was the flames each one was emitting. Jeiss stared as they buzzed past a rooftop. Thank the Ancestors that they weren’t dropping sparks. Then he saw them blast towards him again and ducked. The fireball zoomed back over the wall and down across the floodplains. And that little bee was still flying.
For a moment after they’d gone, Jeiss could only stare. Then he got to his feet and shouted.
“Aw, hells. Ashfire Bees! Everyone off the walls! Remember your drills! Full body armor only! Get an adventuring team!”
Beilmark was already shouting the same. The [Guards] evacuated the walls. Their armor and training was little good against bees. Someone was hitting the bell, warning the city. It wasn’t an attack warning, but it was a ‘get indoors’ warning. Jeiss waited, heart pounding, hoping Zevara or Olesm or Ilvriss would get here soon. But his eyes kept turning back to the little bee flying ahead of the others. And he thought of a Human girl with a bee on her shoulder he’d seen in the barracks that morning.
“Beilmark. You don’t think—”
Her teeth were bared.
“—that this is an Erin Solstice event? Yes! I do! Why can we not have one day when something doesn’t threaten Liscor?”
Jeiss hesitated.
“I was going to say, do you think the weirdness is spreading? And second—is this a threat? Or is this the coolest race you’ve ever seen in your life?”
Beilmark and the junior [Guardsman] looked at him in silence. Beilmark stared at the fireball, at the little bee, and then reached into her belt pouch.
“Five silver says the little bee escapes.”
“No way. Five silver says they get her and we get buzzed.”
“Um. Two silver on the Human doing something to stop the bees?”
Both Senior Guardsmen looked at the pinkish junior [Guard]. He wavered at their stares as Jeiss and Beilmark exchanged glances. Then Jeiss slapped him on the back.
“Welcome to the Watch, kid. You’re going to go far here.”
And below them, Apista flew.
 
——
 
Up. Down, left, right. Corkscrew through the air. Catch the wind and dive. So close to the earth she could feel the mud hardening as her flames cooked the ground. Up again. Over a hill, past a Rock Crab which hid under its shell. Up, up, spiraling—and then down.
Behind her flew the swarm. Thunderous. Apista could feel the other queen’s rage. Intruder! She screamed it in the ways bees understood things. Intruder! Another queen was not fit to live.
But Apista was no queen. Not that it mattered. Her hive was threatened. Lyonette was in danger. So she flew, burning. And the bees flew after her.
Up, around—the wind buffeted Apista, and she slowed. In that second, the swarm nearly caught her. They dove at her, but she fell downwards. She didn’t know the sky like they did. The changing wind, the way the air interacted with other things, flowing, it was all new to Apista. She was at a disadvantage there.
But in other ways, she was ahead. Because bees loved to fly. Surely, they did. And Apista was flying. For the first time, her wings were open. And the flames issuing from her body gave her more speed. She flew, feeling alive. Fierce. And with each passing second, she found she was flying faster, faster. The flames poured from her body, bright and hot. And behind her, the other bees were faltering.
The queen was tiring. Lyonette stared up with open mouth. But it was true. The queen of the Ashfire Bees was running low on flames. You could see the fire around her fading, and the workers had already run out of steam. Their flames went out one by one as they exhausted whatever fuel supply they had. Mana. The bees had to have mana! And they’d just run dry.
But Apista and the queen still had juice. And it seemed that Apista had far more mana than the foreign queen did. For her flame was burning fiercely. Even more than she had at the start, or so it seemed to Lyonette.
Hotter and brighter than any other bee. Apista left a trail of fire in the sky. Lyonette could feel the magic she was burning up, but the bee had deep reservoirs.
“How? How could she…”
But Lyonette knew the answer before she’d even begun. She remembered Apista lazing in her flower bed box, sipping the nectar of flowers, a gift of faeries.
Magical flowers. Days, months of drinking Faerie Flower nectar and living in Erin’s inn. It all added up. And as Apista soared, Lyonette felt her joy. Sheer, pure joy. She flew up, and the swarm turned too slowly. Apista lost them on the next turn. Now she was flying alone, a streak of fire in the sky.
They saw her. The adventurers on the walls, the betting [Guards], Drassi from the inn. The Drake opened the door to let Mrsha play, took one look at the bees flying about, and dragged Mrsha inside and closed the door. But Lyonette stood in the mud, staring up at Apista and laughing.
Alone. Nothing could catch her. Apista flew up and then circled back. The swarm was hovering in the air, tired, uncertain. Apista aimed straight at their center, an arrow made of fire.
She charged the queen, and the workers and drones scattered before her. The queen backed up, but she was tired and afraid of Apista’s vitality. Lyonette watched, her heart squeezing.
Was Apista about to take the hive? She felt like that was what the bee was doing. That was how bees worked, wasn’t it? There had to be a queen. And when one queen died, another would rise.
But Apista?
The bee flew at the queen. Stingers extended, they clashed twice. Lyonette felt Apista driving for the kill. Felt, and felt something in her protest.
“No. Apista—”
Above her, the little bee broke off the assault. Suddenly, she wasn’t stabbing at the tired queen, but flying in a circle. The queen, bewildered, hesitated, and then began to circle as well. Lyonette stared up, confused.
All the bees were doing it now. Apista, still flaming, circled the others. The workers and drones shielded their queen. They darted at Apista, but she flew at them. And then—what was it?
Only a thing of insects. Only Klbkch could understand it. Standing on the walls, the Senior Guardsmen opened his mandibles.
“Ah. Of course.”
Everyone stared at him. The Antinium looked at them. Senior Guardsman Jeiss, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, Zevara, Relc.
“What? Is it not obvious?”
“No. What happened?”
The bees were dispersing. Flying back towards their cave. Zevara watched them anxiously, nervous of a threat immune to her fiery breath. Klbkch spoke calmly.
“I believe she just claimed her territory.”
“What? Her?”
Jeiss poked a claw at the little bee. Apista was descending, flying back towards Lyonette. Klbkch nodded.
“I am not an expert on Ashfire Bees. But I believe that was a queen’s battle turned into a hive’s dispute. And it appears she won.”
The people on the walls stared down at Lyonette. At Apista, flames gone out. Jeiss let out a long sigh. There was something incredible out there. A thousand Ashfire Bees. And one little bee had chased them away. He almost smiled. Then he felt a jab at his side.
“Damn it, Beilmark!”
“Pay up.”
 
——
 
She flew down from the sky. The young woman reached up to her, laughing, shaking with relief. She sensed Apista’s emotions. Exhausted, hungry, but triumphant. Lyonette raised Apista up in shaking hands and kissed the little bee repeatedly.
“You are the bravest, most wonderful—”
Apista fanned her wings, still warm, but cooling. She seemed to be venting heat—or else it didn’t cook her from the inside. Actually, maybe the flames were her way of cooling? Lyonette didn’t care. She cuddled the bee, hugged her, and then went home.
Of course, there were people to talk to. There always were. And Mrsha had to come up with a new name for ‘bee’ in honor of Apista. But the upshot of it all was that there was a large contract on the Ashfire Bee nest that none of the adventurers really wanted to fulfill. In the end, Pisces volunteered to use a Bone Horror, and Ceria and Falene were willing to try an ice spell.
The destruction of a semi-innocent bee nest aside, Lyonette had only one other eventful moment in the day. And that was realizing she’d forgotten to get Erin’s eggs! But she had a brilliant moment. So, as noon fell and Krshia was closing up her stall, Lism was shouting about how another Human had nearly killed everyone by bees as said bee flew down from the sky.
Everyone in the market ducked. But the bee was alone, and Krshia, spotting the tiny slip of parchment, reached up and, with a very careful paw, let Apista drop the scrap into her palm. She unrolled the slip of parchment and read it.
 
Dear Krshia, please send three dozen eggs with the next shipment. Chicken, please. Apista will deliver messages from now on if convenient. Of course, I’ll come to chat. Mrsha says hello.
–Lyonette
 
And Apista was as happy as a bee could be.
 
——
 
A few last things. That night, Erin and Numbtongue came back from their outings. Erin was waving her arms and exclaiming over the people she’d met in Pallass.
“You’ll never believe what a day I had! Okay, first, I went through into Pallass, and guess what? I met this couple that—”
Meanwhile, Numbtongue had wandered deep into the mountains and brought back some souvenirs. He uncorked a bottle that made Typhenous’ eyes pop, and Lyonette listened to both with a wide smile. Apista dozed in the fireplace, listening to the logs crackle beneath her. She paid no attention to what was said. After all, she was a bee.
That night, as everyone went to bed, Apista woke up when Lyonette was asleep with Mrsha in her arms. She crawled out of her cotton basket, fanned her wings, and noticed it was dark. Well, that was usually a call to sleep, but something made Apista fly out of Lyonette’s opened window. The [Princess] had left it open because she was sure Apista could protect herself and that the bee wouldn’t fly away now.
And that was true. But she hadn’t realized that Apista might fly just to fly regardless. And while a bee was blind at night, a bee that could make fire was not.
Apista’s glow lit up the sky. An owl, swooping past it, decided that it didn’t like hot food and flew away. Apista flew higher, past some Razorbeaks who eyed the tasty insect wreathed in flames and pined for desserts served cold. Higher and higher, until the inn was small below her.
Below her lay Liscor. And the inn. The inn was a small thing compared to the city, but Apista knew it as her hive. As home. And in her head, she felt Lyonette’s thoughts about the inn, complex, foreign, but just a part of Apista as her body. For, after all, she and Lyonette were connected. Apista was more than just a bee. More than a pet. She had part of Lyonette in her. The girl had shaped her, as all good owners do their pets. As all pets their masters. It wasn’t necessarily intentional. Sometimes, you could shape or be shaped just by loving.
This wasn’t actually a story about a bee. Because bees had no stories. It was really a story about a [Princess]. A young woman who was no [Queen]. But no ordinary worker, no normal girl either.
