“—Not even at Celum yet. Why don’t we hire a carriage and speed the process?”
Halrac was grunting to Dawil. The Dwarf shrugged as he rolled some dice in a cup.
“You in a hurry, lad?”
“I’m older than you are.”
“And I’m a Dwarf. I get to call Humans ‘lad’ and ‘lass’. Besides, the slow pace means we can take jobs around the door if we want.”
Halrac grimaced.
“True. Esthelm has hunting missions. It’s just—”
“Too good for Bronze-rank requests?”
The Dwarf grinned, teasingly. The [Scout] almost smiled.
“I was going to say that killing too many animals would hurt their [Hunters]. Roll the dice, will you?”
“I will as soon as we put up some money on this. How’s five coppers sound? Hey, pointy ears! You want to get on this? And no cheating like last time, or…”
All seemed well. Lyonette looked at Ishkr. He was managing a pair of Gnoll workers today.
“You can handle watching Mrsha for a few hours?”
“Yes, Lyonette. Honored Krshia is busy at work, and I think she will be fine here. One of us can let her run about outside now the undead are gone. Although I think she is content here.”
Ishkr was referring to Mrsha wandering over to Typhenous and Revi. They were talking magic, and the Gnoll was content to listen to them—or sit on Moore’s lap when he was relaxing. Lyonette nodded.
“I’ll be back, then. To Celum first. Remember, every ten minutes and keep—”
“—the door attuned to Numbtongue’s stone. I understand.”
Ishkr patiently nodded. Lyonette smiled sheepishly.
“Thank you!”
She put Apista back on the windowsill. The Ashfire Bee lay there, content with the world, or so Lyonette vaguely felt. The [Princess] shook her head. She stepped over to the magic door, envying Apista’s simple way of being. She on the other hand wasn’t always so happy. Even though Erin had given Lyonette run of the inn, the job wasn’t always easy. Especially when Lyonette thought about money coming and leaving the inn.
True, they were a thousand gold coins richer from the Redfang Goblins’ gift. But the third floor and Bird’s tower were still gone. Adventurers made up their small day-to-day earnings, and the new staff required pay too. Lyonette had big plans, so she needed big business. Which meant the Players of Celum had to come back and start putting on huge shows.
“They’ve been gone for a long time. I thought they’d be chomping at the bit to come back, but they didn’t. Not while Erin was crying, and not even afterwards.”
Lyonette frowned to herself, worried. That probably meant they were putting on performances in Celum. Which was…not ideal. But she had hopes she could convince them to come back to The Wandering Inn. Jasi and Wesle owed Erin a lot.
The instant Lyonette pushed the door open and stepped into Octavia’s shop, the [Alchemist] sprang from behind her counter.
“Lyonette! Just who I was looking for!”
“Not now, Octavia. I’m just coming through.”
“Right, right. But while you’re here, why not stock up on some potions? Stay and chat? Have a stamina potion, on me. This one’s extra sweet! Why don’t you sit, talk about Erin—has she mentioned me at all? I’ve just got this thing going on that—”
“Octavia, please. I don’t have time to talk.”
The [Princess] tried to fend off the dark-skinned Stitch-girl. She gritted her teeth, wishing she could shove Octavia out of the way. But that wasn’t right, was it?
“Come on, Lyonette? We’re pals, aren’t we?”
“I don’t think so?”
“What? You’re breaking my heart, Lyonette! We’ve been the best of friends! You and me, both working with Erin. Buddies, ever since you and Mrsha stayed here during the Face-Eater Moth attack. And friends help friends, right? If you could just…”
Lyonette felt a hand dragging at her. She shook Octavia off, making for the door. She tried to tell herself it was just Octavia being Octavia. No need to get upset.
Be polite. Smile, don’t think of Octavia as a peasant. And don’t kick her even if she shoves another potion bottle in your face.
“If you could just—”
At last, Lyonette slammed the door to Octavia’s shop. She shook her head. Octavia. That [Alchemist] had a way of getting on people’s nerves. She was always, always trying to get Lyonette or Erin or even Mrsha to do something.
“Not once have I walked through there without Octavia trying to get me to sit and listen to her idea for twenty minutes. Or spend a dozen gold pieces to ‘fund’ her.”
Lyonette grumbled to herself. She stomped away from the shop and only then noticed that part of the boarded-up exterior of Stitchworks was slightly charred. Lyonette stopped, frowning at the exterior.
Ever since one of Erin’s plans had ended up with the front of Octavia’s shop getting knocked in, it had been boarded up. It didn’t exactly make the shop look appealing, but the [Alchemist] hadn’t bothered to fix it. Only, it looked like someone had nearly set fire to the wooden exterior.
From the outside. Lyonette wondered if Octavia had dropped some matches or something. She frowned, hesitated, and then shook her head.
“Probably nothing. And if I go back in, I’ll have to listen to that…that…peasant talk some more.”
The invective slipped out of Lyonette’s mouth before she could stop it. She caught herself, frowning, and then turned and hurried away from the shop, suddenly ashamed. Lyonette walked past a gossiping couple of women, hurried down a street past a man with a cart full of radishes, and towards the base of the Players of Celum. All the while she was thinking to herself, barely noticing the people around her.
Peasants. Wasn’t that what Lyonette used to call them? It felt like a foreign word now. A stupid one to apply to everyone who crossed her path. True, it was somewhat accurate because they weren’t royalty, but—no.
“That was old Lyonette. Old me. I’m not like that. Judgmental. Stupid.”
Lyonette muttered to herself. The man with the wheelbarrow gave her an odd look. Lyonette gave him a strained grin, and he decided to cross the street to the other side. The [Princess] shook her head.
It had just been a slip of the tongue. But it was a good reminder. She couldn’t be old Lyonette. Not bossy, not stuck-up. She had to be nice and friendly, a good [Barmaid], a helpful friend…
Perfect. Meek, unassuming, content to be a [Barmaid]. And that was something Lyonette didn’t enjoy either. She’d loved running Erin’s inn without Erin. Being a host, being in charge.
Being a [Princess]. Pawn had shown her that. She didn’t want to be just in the background, but the old her had been a nightmare. So where was the compromise?
Lyonette shook her head. She felt more and more like the old her, sometimes. It was her [Princess] class reminding her. That was why she’d volunteered to run Erin’s inn while the [Innkeeper] went on a semi-vacation. She’d wanted the job, wanted the power. She had so many ideas…
At last, Lyonette came to the large storehouse that had been converted into the base for the Players of Celum. It was, of course, locked and usually had a pair of hired [Guards] lounging about the front to prevent fans of the Players from breaking in and watching the [Actors] at work.
They weren’t here today. Which was curious. And slightly worrying. Lyonette hesitated and then knocked hard on the door. She waited impatiently for a few seconds, knocked louder, and waited some more.
“Maybe they’re out?”
Lyonette wondered if she should do the Erin thing and push her way into the storehouse. But was that too bold? Too rude? Too much like old Lyonette? Because she wanted to. She knocked a third time, then put her hand on the door’s handle. She was about to yank the door open when someone pushed from inside.
“Whoops!”
The young woman sprang back. She saw an unfamiliar face appear in the doorway. A young man with a painted face. An [Actor]. He wasn’t one Lyonette recognized by name, but she’d seen his face in some of the plays. She blinked at him, and he blinked at her. Then his eyes widened.
“Miss Lyonette?”
“Uh—Temile?”
The [Actor] nodded. He pushed the door open and beckoned Lyonette in.
“Come in, come in! I didn’t expect to see you today! Apologies—we were practicing and we barely heard—is Miss Erin alright? Is the inn open at last?”
Lyonette stepped into the storehouse and looked around. The Players of Celum had bought the place with the first of their earnings and turned it into a miniature theatre and dressing room. There were wigs, costumes, fake weapons, a stage to practice on and seats for the ‘veteran’ [Actors] to critique the newbies, a place for Emme and the [Writers] to come up with new material or alter Erin’s plays, and so on. It was a bustling place, or it had been the other two times Lyonette had visited it.
But today, the storehouse was almost empty. A dozen people were in the building, three on the stage, the rest watching. There was one person fiddling with the costumes. Lyonette stared around. The Players of Celum was a troupe of over sixty members now! They were the hottest thing since flaming Corusdeer! Where was Wesle? Jasi? Grev and Emme? Kilkran?
“Temile, where is everyone? Are they performing?”
“Ah. Well, you see—I wish we’d been able to tell you. But what with the siege of Liscor and us not knowing when Miss Erin’d be back, and then the door going dead and—”
Temile was hesitating. His painted face, already supposed to look sad, looked even more apprehensive as Lyonette turned to him.
“What? Did they start performing at other inns? That’s fine, but Erin’s inn is back open. And we could really use the business…what?”
“You see, Miss Lyonette—and don’t be angry, it’s not my choice! Wesle and the others were talking it over, but we gave Miss Erin our word we wouldn’t put on plays anywhere but her inn. But everyone needs paying for food and families and so on, and we were just sitting there. And then came along an offer—”
“An offer?”
The [Actor] nodded miserably.
“A good one. From Lellisdam.”
Lyonette had never heard the name before. Temile elaborated.
“It’s a big city. Nearly eighty miles north of here. Far from Celum, but it’s one of the bigger cities on the road north.”
“Eighty miles? And they left? Without telling us?”
Lyonette was horrified. Temile winced.
“Well…you were out of touch! There was talk of war with the Drakes, and the [Mayor] of Lellisdam had heard rumors of our acts! He sent us gold as an advance, promised to pay for the entire troupe to come down the road with an escort…there was a huge argument about it. Lots of debates.”
“But in the end, they chose to go?”
Lyonette felt weak at the knees. Temile sighed.
“It weren’t easy, but yes. Jasi wanted to tell Erin, but the offer wasn’t going to sit. So…I’ve got a letter from her to Miss Erin explaining. The Players left for the north. Me and two of the old crew, Damius and Rima, stayed with some of the new recruits. We’ve been sitting here, learning the old plays and living off the funds from the main group. The plan was that if you took a long time to get here, we’d train up a new group while Wesle, Jasi, and the others earned money up north. There’s tons of interest in our plays, and no one in the north’s even heard of us yet. There’s a fortune to be made. So…”
“I get it.”
Lyonette spoke flatly. So, the Players had gone. She shouldn’t be surprised. Not really. But she was anyways. And she’d been counting on them to start pulling their old crowds in. Now…Lyonette looked about at the handful of [Actors] and the recruits. One of them was on stage. Lyonette could see him waving his hand about like a boneless chicken. Temile followed her gaze and winced.
“They’re new. But they want to learn, and we’re working on them. Not everyone’s got Kilkran’s voice or Jasi’s instinct.”
“Can they put on a play? I was hoping we could have you back. But…”
Lyonette stared at the [Actors]. Temile nodded hurriedly.
“Of course! We’re overjoyed to have the inn open. And we’ll put on a performance tonight! Dead gods, this is the time to recruit those Drakes and Gnolls, isn’t it? We might not be able to do as well as Wesle and Jasi, but with time and practice—we’ll draw in some crowds, at least, I’m sure. Why, with a few weeks to get our new group up to speed…”
He faltered a bit as Lyonette looked at him. But all the [Princess] did was nod and put a fake smile on her face.
“I’m sure Erin will be delighted. And yes, by all means come tonight. There were Drakes and Gnolls interested in joining. I’m sure they’ll be…a real help.”
“We could use more hands. Er, claws, paws, and whatever. So, ah, tonight? I’ve got to tell the others if we’re actually going to—I mean, prep them. We’ll do a simple play, I think.”
The man edged away from Lyonette. She nodded and saw him hurry over to the Players, shouting and pointing back at her. One of the young women on stage seemed to be taken with a bout of stage fright already. The actor with the floppy hand had the opposite reaction and began emoting with twice the waving of his arm. Lyonette debated staying, but decided she couldn’t. If she did, she might end up saying something she’d regret.
She went back the way she’d come, fuming a bit inside, and trying not to be angry. Part of her wanted to take the [Actor] to task. Would it have been that hard to send someone with a message? Really? Instead, the Players had just left for greener pastures. But she bit her tongue—it was entirely understandable of them.
Understandable, but it didn’t make Lyonette less angry. But she was slightly proud of herself for not blowing up at Temile. It would have done no good. She’d be polite, nice, and if they fouled up on stage and drove away her guests—
“I’m back!”
Lyonette slammed the door on Octavia before the [Alchemist] had a chance to pester her. She saw the adventurers were still at their tables, and Mrsha was watching Dawil arm-wrestle Typhenous. And lose.
“Damn it! What kind of spell is that?”
The Dwarf roared in frustration as the elderly [Mage] cackled. Lyonette sighed, but then saw Ishkr poke his head out of the kitchen.
“We’ve got the Players of Celum tonight? Should I get ready for a lot of customers?”
“Yes, and no. We’ll probably get some crowd, more from Liscor, at least until they realize what’s changed.”
Lyonette sighed. Ishkr raised his eyebrows, but she didn’t elaborate.
“Send one of the Gnolls—Rishka? Into the city and spread the word that the Players will be performing tonight. But maybe only people interested in joining should come. I’m going there too. I’ll be back.”
“Understood.”
