Erin looked at him and smiled slightly. It looked like he was really trying what she’d suggested—being a part of a group like Klbkch and Pawn were. But her smile faded as she looked at the despondent adventurers.
“Um, well, maybe you can do a few other requests.”
“Yeah.”
“Maybe.”
“Not likely.”
Ceria sighed.
“With all the adventurers around, we might get one or two good jobs, but steady work will be stuff like standing guard at night or killing pests. Even if we go north to Esthelm—and that will take coin we don’t have yet—it’s better if we start small. We need good equipment before we take on missions like fighting Mothbears.”
“What’s a—?”
“It flies and it’s a bear. With antennae. And claws.”
“Oh.”
“Some of them are poisonous.”
“Ah.”
“But honestly, I’d take on a group of them if we had the coin. If—”
“A month of work? Then we could look into riskier missions.”
“Yeah. It’s just…I’m sorry you guys. I wish I had better news for you, but if you’re all committed…”
Ceria looked around helplessly. Yvlon nodded.
“I’m with you, Ceria. I told you that.”
Pisces shrugged.
“I suppose wading through muck with you would be preferable to working with lesser companions.”
Ksmvr bowed his head slightly.
“I will work hard to make the most of the opportunity you have given me.”
Ceria smiled. It was a faint smile, but it was there. She stood up, and put her hand on the table.
“I’m sorry. It’s been so long since I’ve done this, I’d almost forgotten. But when we gather to form a team, it is a special thing. I was a member of the Horns of Hammerad for years; I was part of the team when Gerial and Calruz and I first formed it, and we were the greatest of friends, the closest of companions then.”
She shook her head and a shadow flickered across her face.
“They’re dead now. That’s what happens to us in the end. But the Horns fought until the end, except for one, who ran because her friends sacrificed themselves to keep her alive. Well, the Horns of Hammerad are not gone so long as I live. And if you’d fight by my side, then the Horns of Hammerad will keep fighting.”
Yvlon instantly rose and put her hand on the table. Erin held her breath as Pisces stood.
“You will keep the name? I believe it came from the Minotaur, did it not?”
Ceria shrugged.
“Unless you have a better one?”
“I do not. And I will fight with you, Springwalker. For pay of course.”
“Of course.”
Pisces gently laid his hand on the table. He smiled, and for a second Erin thought it was one of the most genuine looks she’d ever seen from him. Ksmvr was the last. He hesitated.
“I came here in despair. I was recommended—is it truly alright for one such as I to join so quickly?”
Ceria and Yvlon laughed.
“That’s adventuring for you. We’re spontaneous. An enemy can be a friend and fortune can change in a moment. If you’re with us, just don’t betray us.”
He nodded.
“I will not. I swear it.”
A fourth hand joined the circle. Erin held her breath, and the Drake standing behind her did too. Ceria, Yvlon, Pisces, and Ksmvr held their hands together for a moment, and then stepped back.
“The Horns of Hammerad live again.”
Yvlon shook her head.
“They never died.”
Ceria smiled faintly.
“And now, as your glorious leader, I will lead you in the greatest hunt for rats the world has ever seen. We’ll be wading through dung for weeks!”
Pisces shook his head and Yvlon laughed lightly. And another voice spoke, quietly.
“What if you didn’t have to do all that?”
Erin turned. Olesm was behind her again. Somehow, she wasn’t surprised. He’d come in—she’d sensed someone behind her a while back, as the four were forming their team. But he didn’t have the same energetic look about him.
Ceria hesitated. Pisces rolled his eyes and Yvlon sighed.
“Olesm? What are—”
“I ah, heard you forming your team. Congratulations.”
The Drake bobbed his head as he stared at the Horns of Hammerad. Ceria hesitated, and glanced at Erin. The Human girl could see the pain in her eyes.
“Um. Well, Olesm, they just formed the group but I’m sure if you became an adventurer too and trained, you could be—”
The Drake shook his head.
“No. No, I can’t be an adventurer.”
“Olesm. Just because I said—”
“It’s not that. I just received word via mage spell. There’s a Goblin Lord in the south. He’s raised an army, and until he’s dead, Liscor will need everyone on the walls if he heads north.”
Ceria gasped and Yvlon shook her head. Erin was confused.
“Goblin Lord? Is that bad?”
“Not like a Goblin King, but close. Did they say what size his army is?”
Olesm shook his head.
“There’s no details. But he’s strong. Zel Shivertail himself clashed with the Goblin Lord and retreated. He had a smaller army, but—”
“Dead gods. Shivertail lost a fight?”
Erin realized her inn had gone quiet. She looked over and saw some of the guardsmen were on their feet. They looked pale. Olesm turned and nodded.
“His army was already reduced, but until armies are sent to destroy the Goblin Lord, the city will be on alert. Captain Zevara will tell you more.”
The guardsmen exchanged glances and some of the other patrons in Erin’s inn rose and began putting money on the table. She hesitated, but Toren was there to sweep away plates and coins. Olesm looked at Ceria.
“The Council would never accept my request to leave. Even without me, Liscor’s walls would never fall in the time it took for reinforcements to arrive, but I’m the strongest [Tactician] around so…”
He spread his hands helplessly.
“I’m here to stay.”
Erin’s heart ached. Ceria hesitated, and reached out for Olesm. He moved past her and put something on the table.
“I found this earlier today. You should use it.”
Confused, Erin watched as Olesm cleared the table and then spread the parchment out. It turned out to be a map, a faded parchment detailing some vast complex. It had branching pathways, what looked like secret rooms—
“What is it? I mean, it’s a map, right?”
“A map. Yes.”
Ceria and Yvlon studied the map as Pisces stared hard at the symbols covering the parchment. They were faded, and Erin couldn’t read them. It looked like the odd script the Drakes used. She’d seen proper English writing, but this was different. But Pisces could clearly read the language. His lips moved, and then he looked up and turned white.
“Albez. You have a map?”
Ceria’s reaction was immediate. Her head raised and turned so fast Erin thought she’d get whiplash. She looked at Yvlon, and the two immediately raced to the windows. Erin stared at they began shutting them.
“Erin, can we lock this door?”
“What? S—”
Ceria barred the inn’s door and then helped Yvlon cover the last of the windows. The inn was suddenly very dark, but Pisces cast [Light] as the two adventurers went back to the map. Ceria’s face was pale, but her hands were shaking with excitement. Yvlon looked the same.
“Dead gods. Look at it! This is a map of Albez!”
“Are you sure?”
Yvlon looked at Ceria. The half-Elf paused.
“There should be landmarks. You’ve been there too, Yvlon. Can you see…?”
“There.”
The armored finger pointed down at a round building on the map. Erin craned over to see.
“That’s exactly like the ruined building that Carn Wolves use as a base sometimes, isn’t it? The one with the broken dome.”
“You’re right!”
Ceria stared at the map hungrily. Her finger traced the page.
“Look, if you see here—that’s got to be a secret room. It leads directly to what looks like a storeroom. If we could go there and verify—Olesm, do you know how valuable this is?”
The Drake nodded slowly. He smiled at Ceria, sadly, Erin thought.
“I had some idea. Look. It’s a gift. You need this, don’t you?”
“Olesm, this could be our big break.”
Erin still didn’t know what was happening. She looked from Olesm to Ceria to Yvlon and back again. Ksmvr was doing the same thing.
“What does it mean? This is good, right?”
Yvlon nodded slowly. She spoke as she studied the map.
“The Ruins of Albez are up north. They’re famous for well, being full of treasure. But most of it was cleaned out decades ago; adventuring teams can find something extremely valuable now and then, but it’s usually a fruitless effort.”
Pisces’ eyes were alight with avarice as he studied the ancient parchment.
“But if we had a map of the entire place and we knew where to search, we might find treasures never found before! It’s just a matter of hiding the fact we know as we request permission to explore and dealing with the monsters and traps there. But the potential—”
“No one has ever had a map of the ruins before, Erin. No one.”
Ceria stared at the parchment, and her hands gripped together tightly.
“This is big. Possibly bigger than the ruins here. Because most of the traps, all of the big monsters and guardians of this dungeon are already gone. Albez was unearthed during an earthquake. So if there is treasure, it might be unguarded. And the best stuff might be waiting for us.”
She looked up at Erin, and the girl felt a shiver of excitement as she saw the look in Ceria’s eyes. There was something blazing in the depths of the half-Elf’s eyes. A look reflected across the other three adventurers, even Ksmvr.
“This could change everything.”
 
—-
 
They left after four hours. Erin had been present for all of it, letting Lyon retreat to her room and Toren clean up and wander off as she listened to the adventurers argue and talk. Olesm had left early too, and Erin wished she’d had something to say to him. He’d been gloomy, and unfortunately, Ceria had been so excited she hadn’t said more than goodbye as he’d gone.
But the adventurers were consumed with a passion that Erin had only seen once before, the last day she’d seen the Horns of Hammerad together. No; this was even greater than that, in a way. Because the treasure was out there. They knew it, and they wanted to find it first.
They borrowed money from Erin. A lot of her gold, which they promised to repay when they got back. If it meant they would come back, Erin would have given them all of it.
She offered food and supplies and even Toren, but they only took the first bit. They were heading into the city to buy as much as they could, leaving Erin in her inn.
It made her feel lonely, just a bit. Her life wasn’t like that, full of passion and danger and possibilities. Part of Erin had wanted to say ‘take me too’, but she wasn’t a killer. Or an adventurer.
But a tiny part of her wanted to be. A small bit of Erin wanted to join them, and so she was sitting at a table, head propped up on her hands, thinking.
“Maybe I can be an adventurer. I’ve got Skills.”
She had some skills. And she had two levels in the [Warrior] class. Okay, that wasn’t great, but maybe she could train?
It was a beguiling thought. Erin had never considered herself a fighter, which is why she hadn’t leveled, according to Selys. But maybe if she wanted to…
Was there an [Adventurer] class? Probably not if Ceria and Yvlon didn’t have one, but could you make a class? Erin had never thought of that before. Perhaps—
Someone knocked on her door. Erin jumped, and then realized Ceria and Yvlon hadn’t even unshuttered the windows. They’d been terribly afraid someone would find out they had the map, especially one of the Gold-rank teams.
“Coming!”
Erin went over to the door and opened it. She expected another guest, perhaps coming for dinner. But instead, she blinked and her jaw dropped when she saw the butler.
He had to be a butler. Either that, or he was the coolest-looking manservant in the world. His hair was dark and combed, his coat and leggings were dark black with a white shirt perfectly tucked beneath, and he looked at Erin with an expression of courteous expectation. Silver lined the edges of his coat, and the buttons looked like they were made of gold.
Erin stared. She felt like she’d walked out of this world, and back into England or somewhere like that. The butler stood in the trampled snow outside, as more flakes began to fall around his head.
“Miss Erin Solstice? I am a [Butler] in Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s employ.”
Even his voice sounded formal and amazingly cool. Erin had no other words for it. Just…cool.
“What? Um, what? How do you know my name?”
“I am not at liberty to say, miss. Would you care to accompany me? I have an invitation for you to join Lady Magnolia Reinhart at her estate in Invrisil.”
He stepped back, another smooth motion, and raised his hand to indicate the carriage. Erin hadn’t even seen the carriage before that. It was a dark green edged with gold, and the wheels were painted black. And it had horses that looked like ghosts.
“Wh—”
Two spectral horses stood in the snow, pawing at the ground and snorting as if they were real. But they were both a bright, golden color and shimmered with magical energy. The [Butler] inclined his head slightly.
“Lady Reinhart hopes you will accept her invitation to join her. No harm will come to you.”
“W—b—why? What does she want with me?”
Ryoka had mentioned a Lady Magnolia, hadn’t she? Had she gotten her confused with Erin? But the [Butler] didn’t seem perturbed.
“To take you to the others, of course. Lady Magnolia wishes to reunite you with your people.”
“My people? I have people? Who are my people?”
The [Butler] raised one eyebrow.
“The other people from your world. Lady Magnolia has found eight others, not including Miss Ryoka Griffin and yourself. They are gathered with her, under her protection. Would you like to meet them?”
Erin stared. And then she looked at the carriage and the magical horses. And the [Butler]. And at the carriage and horses again.
Suddenly, she wasn’t sure if Ceria and the others were the ones she should be envious of.
