Not that Damien really noticed. He just nodded rapidly. "Honor is the son of one of our professors, I think," he said, pointing to the suit of armor. "Glory is the sword. They're both imbued life, but Glory is a really rare example of a complete life imbuement on a sword. Normally they're less, um, alive?"

"I'm familiar, yeah," Cale said, nodding. His eyes brightened. "I'm guessing something about Glory being a complete imbuement makes them special, then?"

"I heard they can fuse their mana cores," Damien said. He couldn't help but stare, waiting for it to happen. The idea of mana cores being able to fuse was a source of a morbid kind of fascination. For most mages, the very idea of it was disturbing. A mana core, after all, had long been thought to be an expression of the soul, and while that had long been disproved, mana cores were still deeply personal things.

It didn't seem to work the same way for this pair, though. Honor grabbed Glory by the hilt, holding him up toward the Scale, and both their mana cores began to flare and flicker in sync. One beat, then the next, and the next...

The entire Elemental Shrine of Fire seemed to hold its breath in anticipation.

Somehow, between one beat and the next, two mana cores became one. The new construct made a grand, regal gesture toward the Scale, causing a loud gong to resound throughout the shrine. The tempest of fire on one side of the Scale roared to life, flaring a good ten feet into the air.

Damien's ears rang. He squinted through the sudden surge of flame to try to see how much the Scale had moved.

They'd shifted by a full ten degrees.

"Archmage," he whispered, his eyes wide. Cale seemed impressed, but that was about the extent of it; Damien wasn't sure if his friend understood that two novices had just leapt several stages of core development just by fusing.

Or maybe this was nothing new to him. It was so easy to forget how much Cale had already seen.

"That's pretty cool," Cale said in agreement, which felt to Damien like an incredible understatement. "You said one of our professors is Honor's dad? How does that work?"

"Um," Damien said, thrown off enough that he had to think a moment to find the answer. "I don't think you've met him yet. He's our swordsmanship instructor."

"Oh." Cale seemed disappointed. "Figures. I don't know if I want to do swordsmanship again."

"It's one of the mandatory classes," Damien said awkwardly.

Cale wrinkled his nose. "Well, at least the instructor will be interesting, I guess," he decided. "I think it's your turn, by the way."

Damien froze. Sure enough, Honor and Glory had both managed to find a space to meditate, leaving Damien to go up to the Scale next. Cale gave him an encouraging smile, which... didn't really help the nerves fluttering in his stomach.

Well, it sort of helped, in the sense that it meant he couldn't just run away. He'd been considering it, but he was awful at saying no when he had even the slightest bit of encouragement.

That probably explained most of yesterday, now that he thought about it. Most days he would have shut down as soon as they ended up inside that labyrinth.

Very tentatively, Damien stepped up to the Scale and took a deep breath. He drew slowly on his connection with the awakened Manamorphic Cloak. It responded to him by fluttering against his shoulders, a rising tide of magic slowly wrapping around his core.

He could feel a small reserve of fire aspect mana waiting for him. It was everything the Cloak had managed to extract from his attempts at partial attunement over the last quarter-hour or so, and it felt pathetically tiny in comparison to the feats of magic he'd just seen.

It was all he could rely on, though. Unlike the others, he couldn't just feed the Scale his regular mana—decay couldn't be attuned even by artifacts like the Scale, and there was a good chance he would ruin the artifact besides. He needed to use only the tiny portion he'd managed to carve out for himself and store within the Cloak.

Damien tried to convince himself it was fine. The amount he'd converted was probably enough to count as an offering, even if it was a small one, and it would get him started down the path of acquiring his first resonance rank. That would eventually make it easier for him to do this same partial attunement. It didn't matter how he did. All he needed to do was send in what he had.

It took him twenty agonizing seconds to admit to himself that he didn't want to.

He didn't want to settle for this. He wanted to try. He wanted to try the way he'd seen his friends trying, to put in everything he had and measure where he stood among the mages of his cohort. Damien had never cared where he stood before, but now there was an ache inside him, because he'd seen what might happen if he didn't have the strength.

The Red Hunters were coming for them. They were willing to sabotage the school to do it. He didn't know Izzik, but that lizardfolk man had almost died. Where would he be the next time they came if all he did was the bare minimum?

What if his friends needed his help and the only thing he could use were his stupid decay spells?

Without Sternkessel, without the suppression wards in the Astral Wing, there was a very real chance anything he tried to cast would hurt his friends as well as any enemy mage they were fighting. Decay wasn't like fire, with an entire school of study dedicated to controlling and shaping it.

Damien needed to be more. And perhaps more importantly, for the first time in his life, he also found he wanted to be more. Cale's fascination with magic had been infectious in that sense: he wanted to look at magic the way Cale did, to see a spell in terms of its possibilities instead of its dangers.

What was it Cale had said earlier?

Don't let me stop you from doing your best. Remember: fire and decay aren't that different. You can do this. Focus on all the ways they relate and attune, step by step.

Damien focused on that thought. He tried to sink into the idea that fire and decay weren't all that different. Cale was right, he knew. Fire was warmth and destruction, both the spark that ushered in life and the ravaging force that often ended it. Decay, too, was—

—a force that led to ruin. Decay had rotted away at his first friends and his first home and all that he'd once dared to name family—

Damien gritted his teeth.

Decay was not what he'd allowed himself to believe for all these past years.

He clung to the memory, as ridiculous as it was, of Cale biting into the binding that controlled and contained that Abyssal One. That expression of decay was greater than any he'd ever seen. It had looked for a moment like he was staring at the very concept of a universal end, raw and unconstrained. The purest expression of rot infecting all of existence.

And despite the sheer, existential terror of that idea, Cale had bent that power and used it to offer hope and freedom to a creature that had never known either.

Because some things must end to make way for something new.

The thought clicked into place so smoothly that Damien almost didn't realize it had happened. Decay was a process that resulted in loss, yes, but that loss created room for something else to grow in its place. He'd understood the idea intellectually before, when Cale had explained it, but somehow what he was feeling now was different, like he'd accepted it in more than just his mind.

The end of a binding had led to freedom...

...and the end of a fire could lead to new life.

Without prompting, an image crystallized in Damien's mind with unprecedented clarity, almost intrusive with how much it demanded his attention. He saw a fire tearing through a forest, leaving behind nothing but cinders and devastation.

Like decay, fire could destroy. It could ruin.

But the remnants of that fire brought new life, and it did so through decay. Without decay, everything left behind in that devastation would be useless, dead things, organic matter left sitting in the ground. With it, however, all that was left behind could break down. Turned once more into nutrients that re-fertilized the soil.

There were plants, he knew, that took advantage of this. Seeds that needed the heat to germinate. But decay was the means by which the natural system healed, and though it destroyed everything that was left, it made sure there would be more to come after.

Something in Damien's core burned, hot and cold all at once. His mana fluctuated within him in fits and starts, almost like it was responding to his newfound understanding. Decay was a primordial aspect and could never be completely attuned, but he could feel something new taking form, a potent combination from the cycle of fire and decay and growth and healing—

You have learned [Legacy of the Verdant Flame]!

What? Damien's eyes shot open, startled, as he stared at the sudden intrusion of the Gift. The details of his new spell—not even a spell, an auric passive—spilled out in front of him.

[Legacy of the Verdant Flame, Level MAX] [Personal, Auric Passive]

You have comprehended the relationship between the primordial aspect of decay and the elemental aspect of fire. Primordial decay may now more easily be attuned to the formerly lost aspect of the Verdant Flame.

As a newly reforged mana aspect, the Verdant Flame is yours to explore, conferring the following bonuses:

This Legacy grants a single rank of Verdant Flame resonance.

This Legacy grants increased resonance acquisition for the decay and fire aspects.

This Legacy improves both decay and fire related attuning, spell acquisition, and spellcasting.

This Legacy can evolve, allowing you to return the Verdant Flame to its true form.

You have earned a Legacy. The Gift sees fit to offer an additional reward.

You have learned [Verdant Blessing]!

[Verdant Blessing, Level MAX] [Personal, Auric Passive]

When attuning for the Verdant Flame, receive a +20% bonus to conversion efficiency and mana output.

Damien stared, speechless. He'd never once heard of anything like a Legacy. The Gift's phrasing implied that they were a known factor, something that could be earned, and yet if anyone else had earned them there would surely have been records. They would have talked about it in class. Something.

Why hadn't he heard of this? Had he—had he somehow managed to find something new? Or maybe something old, buried so deep in the Gift that no one had yet discovered it, or all memory of it had been wiped...

The Scale chimed, and Damien jerked, startled, as they began to tip. He'd assumed he wouldn't have enough mana to tilt it by even a single degree, just like most of the other students. Instead, the ding echoed through the shrine.

Once. Twice. Three times.

Three degrees. Exactly as well as Myrlen Tealblossom had done. Not incredible, no, but so far beyond what he'd been expecting that he just stared at the Scale, wide-eyed and slack-jawed. He only moved when Cale came up to him and clapped him on the shoulder.

"Well done!" he said. "I knew you could do it. Although that did feel kinda weird. Did something happen?"

Damien swallowed. "Um... you could say that," he squeaked.

Part of him was scared, because, well, new things scared him. The significance of those new things scared him even more, in a way. But he couldn't deny now that there was a part of him deeper still, a part he didn't know he had, that wasn't scared at all—that was excited instead.

Because this, more than anything else so far, proved he could be the kind of mage he wanted to be.

Almost impulsively, he wrapped Cale in a hug. "Thank you," he mumbled.

Cale blinked at him, then patted him awkwardly on the back. "I don't know if I did anything, but sure! You're welcome," he said cheerfully.

Damien didn't quite have it in him to explain everything just yet. It wasn't like he could, anyway, while the Haelforge students were here.

This felt like the sort of thing he needed to keep a secret.
