In that first attempt, they learned two things about the pocket spaces. First, neither the monsters or Natural Treasures seemed to respawn. Second, if they retreated, they were brought to what they were calling the overworld, instead of having to backtrack over corpse-littered forest paths.

It took over an hour of carefully killing their way forward, expecting traps at every turn, but they managed to fight their way to the center of the forest. There, in a massive clearing, they found a Tier 30 boss wolf who was larger than the others, with a familiar gem implanted in its chest, waiting to fight them. It was also surrounded by around two dozen Tier 30 Natural Treasures ripe for the taking.

With the five of them, the fight could have been brief and decisive with Matt, Susanne, and Rah getting in close and occupying the monster's attention, while Aster and Allie focused on dealing as much damage as possible. Instead, they played it slowly, baiting out each and every attack, deliberately doing minimal damage in their counters.

They only killed the boss when they were sure they had seen everything it had to offer. Sadly, that wasn’t much. Below average strength, speed, spell power, spell variability, and suspected Talent. The strange realm was undoubtedly going to get harder in some way, and they wanted to have a good baseline.

Any one of them could have killed that boss on their own, even if it would have been a harder fight. From that, Matt extrapolated that the other teams wouldn’t have that much more difficulty than them.

Best of all, there was still the typical larger rush of essence only seen from rift bosses, which was useful to everyone except Rah, who diverted his essence to the rest of them.

Their entire group was nearing Tier 29, and this strange realm came at an opportune time.

With lots of weak Tier 30 monsters and bosses, combined with the amount of Natural Treasures they were finding, Matt couldn’t help but feel the strange realm was perfect for them. It would undoubtedly get harder in some way soon, but he appreciated the ease while it lasted.

His opinion was only improved when, as the creature lay dead, some of the ice from Aster's final fatal blow was pulled into the gem at the creature's heart.

The body started to change after a soft pulse of sliverly-blue light washed out of the gem.

Where the fur had been an earthy brown and deep gray, the ends of its fur uniformly turned whiter as the boss’ once-grievous wounds started to close. Matt also felt the air start to grow colder around them. It was a slow process, and nowhere near cold enough for snow to start falling throughout the forested space, but the trend was obvious.

Most eye-catching of all were the spots where the cold and nature energies collected. They were, in fact, the same places they had gathered the Natural Treasures from moments ago, indicating the best loot would also respawn. Best of all, they were a mix of the two elements, which implied they might be able to create their own custom Natural Treasures pocket spaces.

He suspected the challenge of the strange realm would come from the fact the added power was exactly that: additive. Matt was confident the boss as well as the monsters that came back to life would be stronger the second time they fought them.

Unless the strength gain was unprecedented, that shouldn’t be a problem for them for a few days. If they could Tier up to Tier 29, they could last quite a bit longer, but eventually even they would be overwhelmed.

None of that changed the marvelous nature of the strange realm, letting them direct their future Natural Treasures.

Aster giggled maniacally, not minding the more negative implications, slapping Allie with her tail in excitement. “I’m going to be rich! The richest of them all! I’m going to roll around in a pool of winter Natural Treasures!"

Putting together what was happening, Matt cursed softly at the fact Zack hadn’t been there to turn the area into an arcane Natural Treasure producer.

Given the power level, any two of them could safely clear a zone, letting them get more areas aspecting and Matt knew who he was grabbing first. Arcane Natural Treasures were obscenely rare. So rare that even Matt hadn't been able to get his hands on one that would let someone aspect their mana pool even with all of the resources in the Empire. The problem lay in that any Natural Treasure that could aspected mana pools were rarer than the typical Natural Treasures of that element.

They were so rare, even out of thousands of Natural Treasures, an exploration group would be happy to find one or two of the most common mana types. And oftentimes the items would never even end up on the open market being privately auctioned or traded.

Matt was undaunted. Even if they didn’t get one here, he was hopeful someone somewhere in the Breach would bring one back to settled space when things settled down.

The worst part was that he couldn’t even inspect the Natural Treasures beyond their general Tier and suspected he wouldn’t be able to do that until they successfully completed the strange realm.

Still, they could custom create rarely-seen Natural Treasure types, maximizing the value of this strange realm for both monetary reasons as well as personal growth, making this a fantastic strange realm.

Doing some quick calculations, Matt estimated with only nine extra bosses, they could give the members of the Unsparing’s crew at least one Natural Treasure directly useful to them in some way. If they found themselves around long enough, or the conversion faster than expected, they could double that to eighteen and guarantee Natural Treasures for even rarer mana types.

Everything would depend on how fast they could kill the pocket areas and if there were any other hidden oddities they needed to consider.

Realizing what it meant for Liz, Matt smiled, ready to see just how many times it took them killing a zone to get Ichor Natural Treasures.
