As for what the major reward was, what they were supposed to be fighting over, Matt couldn’t find any indication of it, so he asked the others. However, no one had figured anything more out either.

Matt’s attention then went to Allie, who indicated she wasn’t confident she could teleport out, but could probably manage it if the worst came to pass. He understood why, as he could also feel how the space they were in was strange. She didn’t want to risk it unless she had to, and he agreed.

Looking at the other teams, Matt was almost surprised when one of the other towers, the Republic Clandestine Clippers combat team included, vanished, their location being replaced by an empty forest like everything else around them.

In rapid-fire succession, the Federation’s combat team led by Marve, the Monster Collective team lead by their founder Ralph, a notable Bat bloodline according to Lila’s reports, vanished, leaving the two Empire teams with the secretive Corporations team.

The latter also vanished, and once they were ostensibly alone, Liz called out to Clare. “Good luck. Let's try to help each other where we can.”

Clare’s delving group gave reciprocal comments but didn’t linger, touching their tower and vanishing just like the others.

Allie sighed the moment they left, turning to Susanne, who had signaled to delay leaving the moment the first team left. “Finally. Can I touch it now?”

Susanne shook her head. “Not yet. I don’t like that Corporations team. They are giving me a bad feeling, but I can’t pinpoint why.”

Matt raised an eyebrow but Susanne didn’t say any more, leaving him and everyone else to ponder their thoughts.

He hadn’t gotten that bad of a feeling from the corporation team, but that meant little and he trusted Susanne’s intuition.

More serious, Allie nodded. “Good call out. Let’s keep an eye out and remember to watch our backs.”

Then she pressed her finger to the tower before anyone could stop her, pulling them all into a bird’s eye view of the strange realm. It looked like any typical world with the selectable area being a semi mountainous coastal region interspersed with some plains and forests. He couldn't tell if any of the areas they were looking at were special or advantageous beyond general terrain.

That was neither good nor bad, but being in a strange realm meant being on the lookout for oddities. No one knew which bit of information would be the one to save a life.

The view was still simplistic. In fact, beyond the landscape, the only things they could see were four other towers standing far too tall in the locations they had appeared.

“Final mover’s advantage. We can see they already took the good spots,” Aster quipped before gesturing to an area a decent distance from any of the other towers. “What if we went here by the plains? It's a good location, but not one I think anyone else would think another group would take.”

“Ya think?” Matt quipped back only to be ignored as everyone else started offering their own suggestions and alternatives.

Ultimately, they went with a nearby spot closer to a river in case they were returned to mortal bodies or other similar odd challenges.

The moment more than half of them agreed, they appeared in the location they selected: a low mountain valley near a substantial river next to a massive plains that extended beyond what they could see from above.

Matt wasn’t at all surprised to find himself gazing at a wall of a nigh-impenetrable fog. By putting all of his effort into his spiritual perception, he was able to bypass some of its restrictions, letting him see more boring plains, but its mere existence greatly hampered his spiritual range.

He was only able to look for a moment before the area around their tower started to shift as a fortress of stone materialized around it.

Zack, Matt, and Rah got to enchanting defensive layers and traps into the fortress walls while the others went into the mists together to see if they could find out what they were supposed to do to complete the strange realm.

The three of them didn’t dawdle and Matt was grateful for his sword giving him so much practice carving runes. It almost let him keep up with Rah and Zack without feeling entirely worthless.

Rah looked at little aghast at the mountain of mana stones Matt brought out of his mana stone ring to power the enchantments, but he wasn’t going to skimp. He had, in fact, managed to fill the ring during their last leg of travel, and had been forced to stop making mana stones a long time ago. He’d have any amount of mana stones used replaced in a few more months of travel anyway, so why not use them? Besides, until they were alone on a world where they were reasonably sure no one was watching, he couldn’t have Allie take the ring to the Empire and activate the teleportation function to empty it, as they didn’t want to publicize any additional limitations on her Talent if they didn’t have to.

Their defenses were three simple protective measures layered over top of each other. Most of their efforts went into warding the hell out of the fortress, ensuring no manner of stealth could pierce their defenses without them knowing about it.

Ultimately, they believed the greatest danger to them was a sneak attack from the other teams.

Any time there was a resource competition, there was a reason to fear the others attacking if they thought it would earn them more.

When Liz, Susanne, Aster, and Allie returned an hour later, they didn’t have any answers. Traveling at their best Tier 28 speeds, they weren’t able to find even a single monster, indicating there was some other trigger the strange realm was still waiting for.

After exchanging [AI] maps so they didn’t cover the same ground, Matt, Rah, and Zack went on their own test.

The fog made it nearly impossible to see beyond a mile with any clarity, even with Matt’s spiritual perception, but there also didn’t seem to be any monsters around them either. So all three of them slowed down slightly to do tests as they flew.

They found neither a way to bypass the fog nor anything interesting in the slightest. At their speeds, they crossed planetary distances every second, but beyond the scenery changing as they traveled, there was no indication of anything supernatural or out of place beyond the fog itself.

Just to be sure, they even walked on the ground, carefully inspecting their surroundings, but they found nothing.

Wanting to get back before any possible sunset, Matt, Zack, and Rah ended up waiting for the others through the night with nothing happening.

It was so anticlimactic, Matt was almost relieved when at dawn the next day, a Tier 30 wolf with horns stepped out of the fog, sniffing and snuffling.

As if smelling something foul, it started to growl. The wolf then howled and raced at their fortress, earthen energies forming between its horns.

All seven of them moved for the kill, but none of them beat Allie, who teleported next to the wolf, driving her dagger into its eye with casual ease before vanishing as the others arrived and attacked, not caring if they hit Allie.

Liz still ended up landing the final hit, slamming the wolf with her shield and spear, overpowering it and taking it off its feet, dropping on it mercilessly.

The wolf biting Liz ended up being its last action, as golden ichor crawled up the wolf's nose and attacked its brain.

Matt froze with everyone else as he felt a burst of essence rush into Liz.

Just plain old essence. Not some strange realm specific energy that was part of its mechanics or something precious like Genesis Energy.

Matt’s opinion immediately shifted as he considered the implications. Undoubtedly that discovery meant there was something else going on, and it wasn’t bad if they had a constant wave of monsters spawning to attack the base.

That just meant free advancement for anyone who defended the base.

Matt only hoped the time acceleration was much greater than the same-Tier rifts’ dilation.

If not, he wasn’t sure how long they could afford to linger even if they could stay forever.

Aster immediately stepped forward, volunteering while preening, "I'll go ahead, as I’m already Tier 29! No need to stay behind.”

Matt stepped next to her, having zero shame. “As her bond, I need her protection, so I’ll go with her.”

An extra Liz arm reached out of Liz and grabbed Susanne’s arm, pulling her closer. “Susanne and I are going out that way as well. That's roughly half. Let's go exploring for two hours before we reconvene back here. No excuses for the time. The second group will get more time out exploring in exchange for us getting the first run.”

Mollified, Zack, Rah, and Allie didn’t argue while Matt and Aster took off into the fog together.

Almost immediately, Matt noticed things were different than his last trek the day before. The forest he remembered just a few minutes flight away had thinned out substantially, and the river that led from their mountain had widened into a massive lake so deep, the fog returned, preventing Matt or Aster from seeing the bottom.

Standing next to him, Aster slapped Matt with her tail. “Pop on [Cracked Phantom Armor] and jump in there.”

Matt shook his head, “Not a chance. It could be acid water or something equally obscure and dangerous. I will however…”

He waved a hand as he cast [Water Manipulation], creating a hole down into the lake.

The lake was hyper massive, with way more water than their stream could have provided. It was noteworthy, but any strange realm ecological thoughts or concerns went out the window when they started finding water-based Natural Treasures. As they drew closer to inspect a Treasure, it was sucked into the gem immediately, explaining the competitive element of the strange realm.

Why bother hunting these areas if you can take someone else’s hard-won loot? Better yet, why not harvest the weird pocket spaces as well as the other competitors and indirectly their pocket spaces?

And the loot was so good, Matt found himself tempted to do exactly that.

The Natural Treasures started in a range between Tier 20 to Tier 25, but the deeper into the lake they went, the more common the Natural Treasures became, as well as slowly increasing in Tier.

Every dozen feet, another Natural Treasure floated or drifted past like some sort of legendary exploration wonderland talked about but never encountered.

They also encountered their first monster, but that didn’t change Matt’s opinion of the strange realm in the slightest.

The merfolk’s backfin did have a long whip-like strand that was sharper than it had any right to be, forcing Matt to use both layers of [Cracked Phantom Armor] to block the blow, but it failed to penetrate deeper and that turned lethal as he grabbed it, preventing the monster from running away.

Aster killed it with an [Icicle] through the heart, the ice detonating a moment later and shredding the merfolk further, the essence rushing into them.

As they descended deeper still, the monsters became far more numerous, but beyond their strangely-dangerous fins, they were very average Tier 30 monsters. Therefore, the two of them had little issues in collecting the now Tier 25 and to Tier 28 Natural Treasures floating around them.

If they had more time, they could have pushed deeper, but the lake’s pocket space could very well be truly endless and they had agreed to return on time. They were also sure Liz and Susanne had probably found something similar, and the safest thing to do would be to regroup and discuss who would push as deep as possible and who would protect their tower.

Matt and Aster at least didn’t have any reason to think there was a deeper purpose to the pocket spaces than an endless monster and Natural Treasures spawner. Not that they minded. In just their very limited two hours, they had already collected over a hundred Natural Treasures. Most were lower than Tier 25 at the start, but they had been steadily increasing and there was a chance the boss area had the maximum Tier Natural Treasures, likely at least Tier 30.

Matt and Aster spent the flight back through the impenetrable fog arguing about how to interpret what they had seen into concrete rules or restrictions, both exceptionally happy about this strange realm.

Zack, Allie, and Rah had zero issues protecting the base and hadn’t encountered anything strange or unusual, only having a single monster appear every few minutes.

Explaining what they had found, Matt and Aster’s results were only further confirmed when Liz and Susanne arrived. They had found an endless pocket space similar to theirs in the depths of the forest, where they encountered wolves as well as a steady stream of nature-based Natural Treasures.

Having a much better understanding of what they were going to encounter, Zack, Allie and Rah moved out in a third direction where a type of centaur had come to attack the tower, the three wanting to check it out and see if they could confirm a third strange space and origin of the attacking monsters. Not being in as much of a tight time crunch, they reported back after five hours, having found an endless plain of centaurs with air and movement-based Natural Treasures, making it a prime location to push deeper in as a group.

On their way back, they even stumbled onto a canyon of kobolds with fire-based Treasures.

Having several options of where to go and needing to have someone stay behind, the seven of them ended up drawing lots. Liz and Zack, having gotten the literal short straws, had to stay back and defend the tower, while the rest of them pushed into the nearby endless forest and deliberately started trying to learn as much as they could about the strange pocket dimensions. All the while they slaughtered wolves, leaving an ever-growing pile of corpses behind them as they pushed deeper.

