What did it matter if Rain was crippled? She still loved him nonetheless, still wanted to be by his side and hold him close, but every time she looked into his unfocused eyes or gazed upon his gaunt, wizened frame, all she felt was misery and anguish as her heart broke anew. Her sweet, radiant Rain had been brought so low, and she could do nothing to help him, not even able to hug him without risking injury. How could Yan and Lin bring themselves to smile in his presence?

Death would be a mercy.

No, where there was life, there was hope, and if anyone could recover from this plight, it would be Rain. It wouldn’t be easy, for nothing ever was, but the Mother always left a path to salvation. This was merely a setback, for he would endure and return stronger than ever before, because that’s the sort of man he was. At the age of nineteen, he had already set foot on the Martial Peak, so what did it matter if it took him decades to reach those lofty peaks once more? This was a man who wielded the raw Energy of the Heavens themselves to defeat the monstrous Gen or whatever foul minion of the Father inhabited his flesh. Given time, Rain might wield them again and forge his body anew to become the first ever Ancestral Human, a being who stood above all other Divinities as the true pinnacle of humanity.

So even though Mila believed all this and more, why did she still cry herself to sleep every night?

“Hey there, dour and gloomy,” Yan said, catching Mila by surprise with a comforting hug from behind. “Judging by your expression, one might think we lost the battle, dear Captain Sumila.” Pressing their cheeks together, Yan Sent, “Thinking of Rain?” Worried her inner thoughts had been exposed, Mila almost denied it, but the gorgeous half-deer didn’t wait for an answer and continued, “I miss him too, but we can’t let ourselves become empty-headed fools who think of nothing aside from their beloved. You’ll see him at week’s end when you head back for new year celebrations.” Scowling in mock anger, Yan dragged Mila away to her camp. “Not me though, I’ll be in the Central Citadel with Grandpa, but we’ll come north to visit during the second week since Rain can’t really travel. Tell him I love him and miss him, okay?”

“Sure.” Though she could easily break free from Yan’s grasp, Mila didn’t want to be left alone, so she went along willingly, but she still asked, “Where are you taking me?”

“To my camp. Remember how I ‘borrowed’ Rain’s bathtub? Well, it’s filled with steaming hot water and we’re both in dire need of a wash.” Grinning over her shoulder, Yan added, “Plus, Charok’s cooking dinner and I figured you should share your delicious meals.”

Yan knew Mila needed the company, and all this was to spare her pride. Comforted by her friend and future sister-wife’s goodwill, she squeezed Yan’s hand tight which elicited another look of mock anger. They’d grown closer than ever of late, supporting one another through these difficult times, and Mila only wished Song were here too so Yan could get to know her better. They didn’t get along much, though it wasn’t for Yan’s lack of trying, the first time Mila had ever seen Song be wilful and obstinate. Jealousy over Du Min Gyu no doubt, though why the two of them were so enamoured with the old man, Mila would never know. Mama was a thousand times better than a stinky geezer, and even Baatar would make for a better role model, but both Yan and Song gravitated towards ‘Great Teacher’ Du as if he had the answers to all the questions which plagued them.

Well, Mila would keep an open mind, for the sake of her friends. In truth, it wouldn’t come as a surprise to know Yan shared the same depressing thoughts about Rain, but the former orphan was much better at dealing with her dark moods than Mila was. Since there was nothing to be done, Yan simply carried on with her life as if nothing were wrong, writing letters to Rain almost every day while honing her skills in combat and command on the front lines. Her dream was to become a great general of the Empire, and she would stop at nothing to achieve it, a woman driven to succeed no matter the odds stacked against her. In this, Yan was much like Rain, while Mila was inferior to them both, for when had she ever known hardship before now?

Having identified her problem, Mila’s steps grew light as she made her way to Yan’s camp, looking forward to her first hot bath in weeks. While Colonel Hongji had loosened the constraints around fires in camp, in traditional Sentinel style, Mila’s retinue had no servants or camp followers, which meant that if she wanted a hot bath, she would have to prepare it herself. As for Yan, even though she was proud of her roots among the people, she adhered to Central’s customs and kept a full staff of servants around to keep her looking immaculate even after weeks in the field. Her short dark hair was perfectly styled and her indecently tight tunic and trousers were immaculate save for a few errant drops of Defiled blood, causing many an admirer to turn and watch her saunter pass. In comparison, Mila’s Sentinel leathers were ragged and torn while her hair was tangled and encrusted in blood, so the gazes which fell upon her were less appreciative and more cautious or even fearful, but she paid them no mind.

What did it matter how other men saw her? All Mila cared about was how Rain saw her, and it warmed her heart when his beautiful amber eyes lit up in appreciation or burned with longing. Granted, they did the same when he looked at many other women too, but it didn’t matter so much when his gaze was focused on her, and she found herself aching to see him again. “I won’t be coming back to the front lines,” Mila announced, and Yan raised her eyebrow in question. “After the new years celebrations. There’s plenty of work I could do around the forges, so I’m going to stay in the citadel with Rain.” As difficult as it would be to see him in pain, Mila could no longer stay away knowing he’d need her support.

“I’ll miss having you around,” Yan replied, taking Mila’s declaration in stride, “But I’ll feel better knowing you’re there to keep him company and answer his endless litany of questions.” Grinning, Yan pulled Mila closer and whispered, “You’ve always been best at keeping him grounded, which is what he needs now more than ever. Lin’s boundless optimism is sweet and all, but it might put too much pressure on him and make him expect too much too soon. You’ve always been the voice of reason, so make sure he can walk before he tries to run.”

“You could do the same, you know.”

Perhaps even better than Mila could, but Yan shook her head. “If I stayed by his side, he’d drive me away with all his incessant nagging. He won’t let me give up on my goals to look after him, and if I insisted on staying, he’d feel like he was letting me down, but you? He won’t think twice about relying on you, because in his eyes, you’ve already achieved all your goals, or will soon enough. Divine Blacksmith? Check. Brilliant tactician? Check. Peak Expert? Only a matter of time. All that’s left is loving wife and nurturing mother, and you’ll excel in those roles too.”

Cheeks blushing at the high praise, Mila felt compelled to reciprocate, and soon it became a battle of compliments, one Yan won handily thanks to her vulgar humour, so similar to Rain’s. It wouldn’t be a problem if they were in the privacy of their home, but Mila couldn’t bring herself to speak so brazenly while walking through camp. The explicit and salacious compliments only increased in obscenity and volume as they entered the bath, and soon Mila’s cheeks were redder than her hair as she begged Yan to stop describing her body in such lewd terms, but the infuriating woman merely grinned and raised her voice to continue. Soon enough, Alsantset and Tursinai strode in and added their voices to Yan’s, leaving Mila too mortified and embarrassed to step foot out of the bath.

Almost an hour later, Tursinai finally admitted she’d erected a sound barrier after Yan’s first joke, and Mila was so grateful, she couldn’t even muster the strength to be angry. Struggling not to join the three women in their laughter, she hid her smile and sighed with relief. Though Rain’s recovery would be long and arduous for everyone involved, none of them would have to face it alone. This, more than anything, gave Mila the courage to return to his side and help him through these trying times, because as tough as this was for her, she couldn’t even imagine how difficult it would be for him.

No matter. Soon, a new year would be upon them and they would do away with the old, a year which future historians would mark as the year of Falling Rain’s new beginning along the Martial Path.

Chapter Meme
