In short, I am once again, helpless to affect my own fate, and the fate of everyone I care about. This is almost worse than my time in the mines, because then, at least I could... not look forward to death, but romanticize it, rationalize that it’d be better to reincarnate into another life and start over fresh. Despite knowing it was possible, I never could actually go through with it, because at the end of the day, I clung to the hope of a better life, and it’s a good thing I did. Look at where I am now. Sure, the current situation is dire as I’m embroiled in a devastating war with no ability to fight and heavy responsibilities weighing me down, but putting that aside, life has never been better. I have two wives, Mila who inspires me to be better each and every day, and Yan who is my emotional rock, always fully confident in my abilities no matter the odds stacked against me. I have my sweet wifey Lin-Lin, who is always there to cheer me up and fills my heart with joy, and dutiful Luo-Luo, who I would be lost without and works day and night to support me in my financial and political endeavours, and even takes the time to try and understand my pseudo-science ramblings. Then there’s Song, who I feel understands me in ways the others never will on account of our similar experiences, and Alsantset and Charok who have been nothing but kind and understanding since the day we met.

I can’t forget Mom and Dad, who have given me more than even they themselves realize, which was already more than anyone should expect, and Akanai and Husolt, who not only supported and helped me along, also trusted me enough to let me marry their beloved daughter. A special mention also goes out to sweet Tali and Tate, who I still can’t believe are twelve years old and already learning their trades, when it feels like just yesterday when I was swaddling them in blankets and rocking them to sleep. Taduk believed in me from the start and put not only himself at risk, but his beloved daughter too, just so he could teach me how to read, write, and gather herbs. Grandpa Du is the newest addition, but I am no less thankful to have him around, because he and I are kindred spirits in a sense, driven to learn more about the Martial Path so that we might pass our knowledge down to later generations. At great risk to himself, he’s spent many an hour sitting by my side and discussing the Dao as we each see it, and while it has yet to bear fruit, I feel as if I am on the cusp of a grand discovery that could change everything in an instant.

On top of all that, I also have incredible friends who have stood by me through thick and thin, valued comrades who continue to fight in my name even when I can no longer be there to support them, and sweet, loving floofs who are just happy to be by my side. Honestly, things don’t get much better than this, and I have so much to be thankful for, not even ten lifetimes would be enough to repay what I owe, much less the single lifetime I have now. Thus, I cannot die just yet, which means I must not only survive, but also lead the Empire to victory against the Defiled, and secure the borders once again.

It’s a tall order, but if we don’t all die come tomorrow, I think I can manage it in time, even without repairing my shattered Core. In fact, fixing my Core should really be lower on my list of priorities considering I’ve done so much more as Minister of Finance and Legate of the outer provinces than I could have ever accomplished as Martial Warrior Falling Rain. There are a hundred-thousand commoners training to become professional Irregulars right now, and in a year’s time, I might have enough to sweep the Defiled back out of the Western Province and reclaim it for the Empire. Grand dreams indeed, but so long as we keep the Enemy contained, I believe it’s possible.

In spite of all the death and despair, I don’t really hate this world, not anymore. Sure, it’s a miserable rock filled with terrifying creatures trying to kill me or worse, but if I didn’t come here, I’d have never met my wonderful family, loving wives, adorable floofs, and incredible friends. It’s still a shit world, but it’s chock full of my favourite people, which means there’s nowhere else I’d rather be.

Unable to ignore my protesting bladder any longer, I carefully ease out from under Aurie and Ping Ping before slipping from Yan’s embrace, though Mama Bun clings tight with all four paws and leaves me no choice but to bring her along. Luckily, being Legate has its perks, such as this luxurious, castle suite I currently reside in, complete with bathhouse and lavatory facilities, even if it’s just a chamber pot in a box. One awkward visit later, I step out of the lavatory carrying a disgruntled Mama Bun, grumbling as she digs at my robes in search of lost warmth and comfort. Quietly soothing the sweet girl with a series of calming pats, I pick my way around the sleeping laughing birds scattered about the room and give thanks to my incredible night-vision which keeps me from tripping over myself in the dark. Throwing on a warm, outer robe as I step out of the bedroom, I acknowledge the Death Corps standing guard at my door and head over to the shuttered bay windows of the living area. Waving aside my guards’ concern regarding Concealed assassins, I open the shutters and take a seat with sleepy Mama Bun to watch the night’s battle unfold.

It’s the same thing every day. The Chosen attack sometime between sunrise and sunset, sometimes more than once on the same day, while the tribal Defiled assault the walls from sundown to sunrise. It’s a smart tactic, since it means it keeps us Imperials busy at all hours of the day, and the unarmoured Defiled attack when it’s too dark to pepper them with crossbow bolts without risking injury to allied Warriors. Unlike the Chosen, there is little coordination in these tribal attacks, only an all-out effort to clamber up the walls and kill as many Imperials as they can. There are no probing strikes or feinted attacks, no siege ladders or concentrated efforts, no, the Defiled live for the battle and care for nothing else. Despite their proven ineffectiveness and the bloody price they’ve paid in past days, I cannot for the life of me understand why the Enemy commander continues to try the same thing, night after night. Pound for pound, most Defiled tribesmen are no match for a trained Imperial soldier in a fair fight for one simple reason: most of them are crazed, rabid beasts with little to no regard for self-preservation, which makes it easy to bait them into showing an opening. Sure, you might freeze up the first time you come across a blood-maddened berserker on the battlefield, but that fear fades all too quickly after you’ve killed a few on your own.

That said, I don’t believe for a second that the only reason the Chosen attack during the day is so their allies don’t have to weather a storm of bolts, arrows, and stones. Personally, I think it’s because the Chosen still consider themselves Imperials as opposed to proper Defiled, which means they’re lacking the better night vision of Defiled. Dastan and I were unaware this was a thing, which was why it kicked in automatically, but I suppose the Chosen are better informed and know the Defiled have better night vision, which is somehow keeping them from attaining the same. It all goes back to my incomplete theory about teeth and Heavenly Energy, how believing something would naturally happen made it so through an unconscious use of magical fuckery. The Defiled believe they can see at night, and so they do, while the Chosen believe night-vision is a mark of true Defilement, and therefore, do not gain this benefit despite being Defiled themselves.

It’s similar to how animals use Heavenly Energy, intuitively as an extension of their natural abilities. Jimjam and Sarankho use Lightening to run faster and climb better, while quins use Honing to tear through flesh and bone, but it’s not exactly a versatile skill. The wildcats only lighten when they’re running or climbing, besides Aurie who picked up Banjo and Baloo’s trick of Lightening whenever he wants to be carried, and the quins only hone to fight or kill, but not to eat, as evidenced by the adorably strained faces they make when crunching through shellfish. Then there’s the oddity that is Kukku, a chicken so skilled at manipulating Chi, he can put people to sleep using his rooster’s crow. Usually, that’s the opposite of what happens, but I suppose in Kukku’s bird brain, it makes perfect sense that the sound he uses to wake people would also be able to do the opposite, not to mention how he still can’t fly despite having giant wings and the ability to Lighten himself to a near negligible weight.

Seriously, it’s hilarious watching a giant chicken perch on someone’s shoulder, especially a monk who has a bald head that looks like a big shiny egg.

I see what Gerel meant when they said I lacked faith. Though he was talking about faith in the Mother, by extension, he also meant faith in how Chi works. It just does, and in his mind, there’s nothing more to it, much like with the bears, wildcats, and various other animals of the world. On the other hand, Grandpa Du is more open to explore the mechanics behind Chi and Heavenly Energy, because he believes understanding how it works can help make him a better teacher and Martial Warrior. Both approaches are fine, but I lack faith, in that I believe things shouldn’t work this way, because I have memories of a world without Heavenly Energy and where teeth most definitely do not grow back the second time around.

So where does this leave me? Caught in a quandary of faith. I would love to believe there is a higher power watching humanity from above, protecting us from Her evil counterpart who seeks to destroy all creation, but it all reads like a myth or fairy tale, and not even a particularly original one at that. I also cannot believe in magic and expect it to work on unexplained rules, so I must reconcile my absence of faith with the Martial Path by understanding those rules and how they react with the physical world as I understand it. My theories don’t even need to be 100% right, they just have to be right enough so that I wholeheartedly believe in my conclusions. It’s a lot to ask for from someone who constantly second-guesses his every thought and decision, but it’s a goal at least.

However, instead of banging my head against the metaphorical brick wall which is the solution for my shattered Core, I’ve been really hung up on Spectres, souls, and the Defiled these past few days. It’s some fascinating stuff putting all the pieces together, and I think I have a working picture of how it all interacts. See, Spectres are created in the bleakest moments of our existence, when we’re so bummed we sever off a section of our souls in order to escape all our darkest emotions. As far as I can tell, the biggest problem is that this portion of severed soul, filled with doom and gloom as it is, still yearns to be whole and reside in a flesh and blood body once more, which is why they seek out a new host. However, one sliver of soul is not enough to inhabit a whole body, so they join together with other Spectres and attempt to combine together as one soul, but this is not possible, nor is what they’re doing enough. Since all Spectres are comprised of joyless emotions and are so fond of spreading their lacking cheer, I’m guessing that in order to take control of a host, they need to match their host’s type, sort of like how a blood donor’s antibodies must match with the recipient. However, rather than changing themselves, which may or may not be impossible for a mere sliver of soul, the Spectres instead set to work convincing their host to change his or her soul to match them instead, to... various degrees of success.

Which explains the dark, ominous whispers and speedy decline into impulsive behaviour once infested with Spectres, because an unreasoning host is a malleable one, and more easily convinced to surrender. Not just their bodies, but their very souls themselves. I’m reminded of my visit to Bei’s Natal Palace, a distant, guarded fortress from the outside, but inside was simply the humble hut she called home. There, she was subjected to what amounts to mental torture, forced to carve apart her father’s corpse and cook him as a part of a lavish meal, her torment no doubt repeating itself over and over again. This might well be the end result of all Demon hosts, but I suspect otherwise, given what I know from my encounter with the Demon formerly known as Vivek Daatei. Like Kukku, Demon Vivek could lock his foes within their Cores by convincing them to create a prison of their own design. Since they wanted to be there, they overlooked the flaws in their fantasies, just like I did until my subconscious came along in the form of Baledagh to snap me out of it.

Thus, my theory is that all Demon hosts are in similar straits, locked in a prison where they feel they belong. Poor Bei felt so guilty about killing her father, she decided she deserved to relive the horrors of her past time and time again. It wasn’t the Spectres who forced that horrific nightmare upon her, but her own guilty conscience.

