We spent a good hour on preparations. Ripping up tires for the steel wire inside, mattresses for springs, bicycles for their brake cables, and fiber optic cables for their Kevlar shielding.

Then we turned all that into our new arsenal. Sheets covered with long sections of Kevlar and steel cables for Liz to levitate over any approaching attacker. Big plastic bottles, cut open. Some filled with steel bolas, some with wrapped-up 'nesting' we created out of the tire wire. Those would be Ash's 't-shirt cannons,' as we called them.

And then there was Stephen's equipment. An inventory full of three-foot-long stretches of wire, covered in magical spider silk, with a bunch of Liz's bearing balls glued onto. Along with gloves completely covered in vegetable oil.

Jamie had not been too enthused when I transformed into the Giant Forest Spider. I didn't like inflicting this on Jamie, but it had exactly what we needed.

[Web Shot - Spell

Cost: 2 Mana

Cooldown: None

Effect: Shoot out a strand of spider silk. Silk dissipates after 180 minutes.]

"You okay?" I asked Jamie, using Queen's voice. He hadn't been much help with our preparations. At least not after I transformed.

"Oh, God," he said. "Your voice from that—that shape is making it so much more creepy."

I stood there awkwardly. Any social advice I'd ever gotten failed to account for situations in which you were an eight-legged monster. I had been practicing my targeting for the last 10 minutes. The spell had already risen to level 2.

Jamie looked over before he hastily looked away again. "Yes, I will be okay. I'll go first. I'll focus on the big guy. And I'll just forget all about you."

I knew he didn't forget about me. The oath shared all our threat awareness with each other. I had to admit, being recognized as a threat hurt—didn't matter that I was aware that it was an entirely irrational mental malfunction.

I poked Ash and gestured over to Jamie. Hopefully he could cheer him up a bit.

["Eve. Do you have a moment?"] Claire wrote.

I turned to face the mannequin. She'd been mostly passive during our preparations, resigned to pointing out possible nearby spots to loot.

"Now?"

["Yes."]

I stalked over to her. Not that I intended to move menacingly, but the shape really didn't come with non-hostile descriptors.

"What is it?"

["I want to ask for your assistance regarding something else. I'm currently delivering a laptop to Mammon Tower. There is a bug in the text-to-speech software you wrote, which I couldn't fix on my own. You know how it is; sometimes only the original author can spot those flaws."]

That was a whole pile of nonsense. We'd both been hackers. What we did was find and exploit bugs the initial authors of a piece of software had been blind to.

"That's—" Claire cut off my reply with a barely visible shake of her head. I didn't know if anyone without my enhanced perception would even have caught it.

Whatever. Her nonsensical request had another flaw.

"Why would I help you? Why would I want to give you a voice? You are a murderer, Claire."

["Because you do care about embodiment. Please do not disembody me."]

That fucking phrase. It was the first thing the Wyrm had said to us, back before it had made its request for our assistance. This wasn't about her, or her voice, or looking for a bug. This had something to do with the Wyrm. And she needed a pretense that no one present could decipher. Possibly not even any of our Guides.

"Fuck. Fine. If you use this voice to lure anyone into another fucking car bomb, I will disembody you. Violently."

["Thank you, Eve."]

Ugh. Why had everyone started talking in code? First, Gabriel and Lucy, regarding Jai. Now Claire was up to shenanigans with the Wyrm. Shenanigans that had to be dangerous as fuck. Did they all just get up today and decide that this would become a thriller?

Or had they all upped their game while I failed to rise to the occasion?

Didn't matter now. We had a dungeon to conquer and a solid plan for how to do it. I activated Exemplar Leader.

#

Jamie rushed ahead, with me close at his heels—which probably assisted the speed of his charge. The moment we crossed the threshold, I saw them. The entrance hall itself was a wide-open space, flanked by kiosks in the walls. Above us the ceiling opened to the second floor, leaving plenty of room for the big one.

They looked like those wooden poseable figures I'd seen a more artistically gifted friend use. Just that they were made of brass, and there were ten human-sized automatons and one that reached up all the way to the top of the second floor. They stood completely still in a semicircle at the other end of the room, with the big one in the middle.

There was also a notification about a Localized Task, as Claire had announced, but there was no time to inspect the details. I could already hear the servos whirring to life in the automatons.

While Jamie charged the central one, I managed to fire off three web shots against those to the right of the big one—those that'd come for his unshielded side. One slightly overshot and hit only a bit of the torso and shoulder. The other two hit the legs and hips of two others.

Behind me the rest of our party, joined by Claire, also charged in. Ash fired his blast spell through the first bottle, sending a nest of tire wire across the room, which hit the leftmost automaton right as its machinery sprang to life, causing it to stumble in a shower of sparks.

And then all the others sprang to life, too, and I understood that we were too slow. The two I had hit properly moved for a fraction of a second before the silk wrapped taut around their inner mechanisms, and they too stumbled. But we'd only taken out three, Liz's first 'entanglement sheet' was only now crossing the room, and the remaining eight all turned their heads toward Jamie.

"Jamie!" I fired another shot but completely whiffed it as the automaton fell into motion with inhuman speed.

Liz's sheet wrapped around one of them, but soon the others would all be on Jamie. So I ran in to meet them.

"Covering your right!" I called out.

While I was remarkably fast on eight legs, I wasn't as fast as those automatons. Two were already on Jamie, one to his left, one to his right. The left one he managed to block. The one on his right lunged straight for Jamie's chest. His armor took the brunt of it, but I saw his health drop.

I didn't go for any finesse. I just barreled into the automaton that'd hurt Jamie. Seemed like those things didn't know surprise. Even as we tumbled, it immediately turned its attention to me, its claws digging into my thorax.

I returned the favor and rammed both of my spear-like front legs into the exposed joints of its arms. The gears underneath shattered the tips of my legs, but I kept driving them in deeper, ignoring the pain as I overwhelmed the machinery with shattered pieces of myself. Eventually, the mechanism choked on me, and the gears controlling its right arm exploded beneath my body. I added the remains of my left arm to the attack on its left arm, and that too failed soon.

The entire affair hadn't taken more than a couple of seconds. I turned in time to spot another flaw in our plan.

Only when the giant automaton's fist descended onto Jamie's shield, divine energy blazing across its surface, did I remember how loud that shield had been.

There was nothing I could do.

The fist connected.

For one brief moment, I heard something like a bell the size of the moon. Then the shockwave hit me, and there was only immense pain and a piercing ring in my ears.

Through the haze, I saw a massive golden beam, as wide as Jamie's shield, erupt through the giant automaton. Spatters of molten brass sprayed across me.

A moment later, healing washed through my body. The bleeding from the gashes across my thorax stopped.

Stephen had reached Jamie's left side before the impact, far enough back to avoid the beam itself. He staggered from the sonic shockwave, but so did every automaton around him. He recovered first and lashed out with his silk-wrapped wire whip.

The healing hadn't been enough. I couldn't hear a thing, everything hurt, and my primary weapons had been ground down to useless stumps. We had survived the important part anyway.

Time to ape out.

Jamie dismissed his sword and shield and pulled a sledgehammer from his inventory. At the same time, I swapped into the Baldur-touched gorilla.

At once, the oath stopped flagging me as a threat.

And even though the automatons had been very fast and reacted quickly to obvious new threats, they failed to understand what had just happened: Jamie had defeated a giant automaton and thus gained a massive resistance to them for the day. He had ditched the shield because he no longer needed it.

Every automaton that fell beneath his hammer only increased that resistance. All I needed to do was to help Stephen finish off those that we had already disabled so the kills would top off Jamie's health. Any automaton that peeled away from Jamie got pinned down by Liz and Ash long enough for us to finish it off, too.

Which was surprisingly difficult, even with one fully disabled. I tried tearing their limbs off, but they were too sturdy for that, so I had to pull a wrench from my inventory and torque its joints apart.

Maybe our plan had been just right. Any less trickery, and the fight would have been far too close.

I watched Jamie finish off the last one, swinging that massive weapon with ease. At what point had I begun developing such an appreciation for people who jumped into the fray and held their ground? Had Claire so thoroughly ruined my preference for the smart ones?

Speaking of whom, I had previously only skimmed that Task and now checked it out properly.

[Witness the Performance (Localized Task)

Objective: Stay until the end of the performance. Any guest who leaves will fail the Task for the entire group.

Number of guests: 6

Hint: The performance ends when the performer is finished or terminally interrupted.

Reward: ???]

"So much for you leaving, Claire. You are stuck with us until this show is over."

The one-armed mannequin gave me a lopsided shrug.

There were two more things tugging at my senses that required attention. The ticking sound coming from some of the felled automatons. And the stench of rot and decay coming from deeper inside the building.