Uncle Stenman rested a friendly arm on the counter as more cousins came in, gossiping and talking. Doren was short with him.
“It’s the New Lands. Everyone’s either invested in that or the food shortages, and sickness has made prices rise too high to spend on trinkets. It’s still a good amount. Besides, gold’s losing a bit of value. Someone tried to pay me in new currency in Terandria, but I don’t know the rates.”
He was sorting gold pieces out, and Stenman’s eyes lingered on them before frowning.
“New currencies? If you can get a Terland Tithel, they’re all the rage, but I don’t want any…foreign coins. No Drake stuff or Terandrian. As for famines, what famines, Doren? I haven’t heard any of them.”
“They’re not in big cities. Towns and villages went under. As for plague…it’s mostly around middle Izril.”
“Dead gods. Well, take care not to catch anything! We can’t have that.”
“And don’t bring any back with you, Doren! Dead gods, I imagine you might catch something foreign from all those Drakes and Gnolls.”
Aunt Markine’s voice was a bit too loud, and Doren glanced up at the customers, who were Drakes, Gnolls, in equal proportion to the Humans—even a pair of Dullahans.
Must be Pallass or a port city. He could tell who was who by their attire sometimes. Markine turned back to Doren and scooped up the first amount of coins before he was done.
“Aunt—”
“I must go. Kisses, Doren! Oh, and I thought we’d move up the percentage to 400% on each item.”
“What? No! No one will buy that!”
Doren panicked a bit, and Markine turned, exasperated as the other cousins murmured.
“We’ll vote on it later.”
“No, no—I’m the one who has to adjust all the prices, Aunt. All of them. It’ll take me months!”
The family voted, another system which meant Doren sometimes had to do things like that. He tried to explain.
“Now is not the time to raise prices.”
“Doren, some of us need the coin. This is a very stressful start to the year, what with the Goblin King rumors and King of Destruction—please be reasonable.”
“Yes, listen to your aunt, Doren. We all voted to buy you that scrying orb.”
Another cousin put in, far too presumptuous, and Doren glanced at the scrying orb he stared at all day. He protested.
“But 400%—”
“Maybe a fee at the door? I really can’t stay; I have to meet with [Actors].”
“Oh, that’s fascinating! Markine, I’ll [Message] you about it! Wistram sells these long-use [Message] scrolls!”
Then everyone was grabbing their money and hounding Doren about profits or asking him how things were—without really expecting an answer because they were gone so fast. Just like every month. He sat there, picking up a few copper coins off the ground when it was done, and sagged back in his chair. His back hurt.
He hated his job. He’d told Erin that. Especially because a requirement of the job was to be as Cormeng had been: levelless.
Doren had no levels. He was a Rulebreaker, but as far as he’d been concerned, you didn’t get to break any more laws for having no levels. Fewer, actually. It was the requirement of Cormeng’s shop: to run it, you had to eschew classes as Cormeng himself had. But unlike that fantastic magic-user of the past, it was a curse upon everyone else. Being the only person without Skills in this world of them…
Slowly, Doren sat back in his chair, letting his feelings, those inconvenient things, wash away. He tried to smile as the door opened and another visitor strode in.
“Welcome!”
“Oh, hello. I, uh—I never noticed a shop here before.”
“We get around. Please, look at everything. But—if you break it, you buy it.”
The Drake nodded a few times, and Doren experienced the smallest pleasures he had, of watching the Drake put his hands in his pockets and edge away from some fragile glass gems near the door. He watched them trying to figure out why they’d never seen this shop before, and if he was screaming inside, it was such a long, weary voice that he’d tuned it out in his heart.
Then the door opened—and a pair of Drakes burst into his shop, one shoving the other.
“I didn’t mean to, Toren! I—”
Doren flinched as someone blew past the protection spells and an alarm began to ring in his head. He pushed away from them, reaching for a club under his desk.
Oh no. Nonono—an Incident, an unexpected moment in his routine, and a bad one. Cormeng’s shop was enchanted to let no one of ill intent in. No one—but Cormeng hadn’t been a spellcaster on par with an [Archmage]. He’d been levelless; the fact he’d made this shop at all had been a miracle. Cormeng’s shop had limits, and sometimes a high-level person could come in despite the wards. Like right now.
These two were clearly on the run from something. The Watch? Doren hid under the counter, his head sticking up as one of them lifted a sword.
He looked like a dangerous man, this Drake. They were both Drakes and seemed young—eighteen, nineteen? This Drake had dusky green scales, short neck spines, but what stuck out most was his sword, a glowing artifact—and his face.
He had an intense face and eyes that seemed to stare right through you, bright purple; his posture was tense, his body lithe, dangerous. A young man in his prime.
The female Drake, by contrast, was beautiful, even if Doren wasn’t an expert. Her scales were flame-red, and she stood poised and elegant, like a [Lady], which belied her childish expression of petulance. Blue eyes—and the odor of smoke around her. Smoke and danger.
They were both not breathing hard, oddly, but clearly stressed and watching the door for the pursuers—who never came charging in after them.
Shop must have moved. It did that in times of danger. Doren wondered if it’d spit them out in the same place or they’d actually go with it. Either way, the door was gone, and he flinched as the male Drake, silent, purple-eyed, stared around and saw him.
“I—I—this is a shop! We’re almost out of gold! I don’t want trouble here!”
His voice trembled, proof he was a coward, like the last time a [Thief] had managed to get in. The male Drake, ‘Toren’, lowered his sword, and the female one spoke.
“Oh, we’re not trouble. We’re not, are we, Toren? Or can I burn—”
He swatted her so fast Cormeng barely saw it. The female Drake covered her head.
“Toren! I said I was sorry! What now?”
He didn’t speak; instead, he nudged her a few times, and the Drake turned to Doren. He got the impression she was somehow speaking what he wanted.
“Sorry, sir! We came in by accident—why is the Watch not following us?”
Doren wasn’t fast enough to lie, so the stupid name popped out wholesale.
“Th-this is Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop. It’s a magical shop. It moves from city to city. Normally, you wouldn’t be allowed in—y-you should leave. Please.”
The Drake glanced at the door and sheathed his sword, to Doren’s relief, and the female Drake spoke.
“I’m Mavi—Mavi. This is Toren. We can’t leave, sir. The Watch was after us for a tiny mistake.”
He glared at her, and Doren didn’t want to know. He nodded a few times.
“If you’d like to leave…?”
They tried the door, and it was—locked. Maviola seemed worried, and Doren cursed.
“It—it must be locking you two out. Don’t force it! It’ll reset after an hour. Just—just look around, and please, no violence.”
“Fine! I like this place, Toren. I said I’m sorry, don’t be mad—”
To his utmost relief, they actually became normal visitors, and the male Drake just wandered around with Maviola, checking the place out. Doren was still sweating bullets, though.
If they cause violence, I’ll run out. Check the shop later. But there are people inside! Shout at them to leave and—
It was hard to get the Watch to enter because the shop wasn’t one they knew. In theory, he was protected by every Watch, but in practice, none. Doren had to wait for a visitor, you see, so convincing one to get to the Watch…
 
——
 
He was alert for the entire hour, so stressed he just sat there or got up and walked around adjusting things, peeking at the duo, but they just walked around—after an hour, they came back, and Maviola showed him a broken butterfly ornament.
“I’m sorry! I broke it!”
Toren had money, but Doren was so relieved, he waved it off.
“I’ll waive it. Good day! Thank you for not causing trouble!”
She was ready to go, but the male Drake was glancing around the antique store. He nudged Maviola a few times. She began to pout.
“No. I don’t want to!”
Nudge, nudge. Doren’s eyes swung between the two, and Maviola sighed gustily.
“Um—excuse me, mister? What’s your name?”
“Doren.”
“Mister Doren, Toren here wants to work for you. And me too. Wait, me?”
She grew even more upset, but Toren was looking around the shop, and Doren raised his hands.
“I, uh, I don’t need help.”
“We’re very cheap, sir. Toren says your shelves are a mess! And it’s all dusty!”
It was dusty, and things were unorganized because he couldn’t keep up; things got piled into rooms and left there. He tried to organize, but if he ran out of space in one area, for instance, he had to start another collection elsewhere. Doren’s back twinged just thinking of it, but he couldn’t hire these two dangerous people.
He was protesting when in his agitation he tried to push himself off his stool—and misjudged where he was sitting. His legs kicked out against the desk, not the floor, and Toren and Maviola saw him drop. Hard. Maviola beamed and Toren winced as Doren made a gasping sound and felt something crack.
Doren would have suspected they’d arranged for him to break his arm…but he really doubted they needed that coincidence. When he woke up from the shock, Toren had bundled him into his bed and set his arm, and Maviola was sitting at the counter, beaming at people.
He groaned…and his first new employees got to work for the low, low rate of four coppers a day. He’d thought they’d quit or argue, but neither one seemed to care.
And he soon realized—it was a bargain beyond his wildest dreams.
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
Toren, Employee #1 of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop.
 
Toren liked his new job. He hadn’t just taken it out of desperation; there was something compelling about this pawnshop, and not just the magic within. It had people from all over! It had things! And most of all, it had dire need of him.
The more you searched around, the more higgledy-piggledy the antique store really turned out to be. Oh, it appeared okay on the surface, but then you’d start finding objects in the wrong places, courtesy of shoppers who picked something up and stuffed it wherever. Missing price tags, dust—oh, the dust.
It was a mess, and Toren’s cleaning bones began to itch; he realized he missed this. He started in one far-off room and began to organize it. Take every item out, clean it from top to bottom, then begin to organize each item in there systematically, according to his personal system.
It was a real challenge too, because he realized not every room could fit every item, so some rooms needed to contain two sets of items, but he didn’t realize that so he had to move everything out of the room and re-assign the category…
This was the kind of thing an obsessive skeleton with nothing but time could get behind. Maviola liked it too, mostly because she could sit at her counter and ask whomever came in questions. They had plenty of time for an attractive Drake.
Healing Slime liked it because it could roll around the store and, aside from a few guests, they could claim it was a pet. If someone broke something, well, they paid for it.
It was unclear if Doren enjoyed any of it, at least at first. He was scared of them, but he quickly seemed to realize Toren was serious about cleaning this shop, and he began giving hesitant orders.
“No heavy goods in the back. They’ll never lug them out. And, uh—the light catches jewels right here. I want a display cabinet by the counter, okay? Most Drakes see fake gems and they’ll stay. Gnolls get overloaded by too many smells, so anything aromatic goes in the back—”
He knew a lot about his shop, but he was fascinating to Toren because he was a rare example of a Rulebreaker; a levelless man. Doren explained why the shop had its quirks, and soon, he was talking nonstop.
When you got him going, it turned out Doren would talk and talk—if he had someone to listen, and the two undead had nothing but time. Maviola got bored and hated work and would skive off, but Toren would listen as Doren spoke and complained and…well, got surprised.
Maviola setting fire to things whenever she wanted was shocking to him, more from a power sense than a flame-one. There were automatic extinguishing spells in the shop, so he let her burn some cheap candles or things she liked as her ‘pay’. Toren…
Toren knew that he unsettled Doren. It was the sword. Doren was no idiot. He knew Toren was dangerous, and the skeleton was a bit awkward around him. He levelled up twice as a [Barmaid]—no Skills sadly—before he decided to try and be more friendly.
…Toren didn’t know friendly. He’d never been a great Erin-employee in that sector, and while he had a voice, his personality was just—mean, sometimes. He had a long think about it.
 
——
 
The seventh day of work, Doren saw the two employees emerge from the rooms he’d let them convert into guest-rooms and greeted Maviola. Then the female Drake with breasts walked out and saluted him, and he spat his cup of coffee straight onto a wall.
“Wh—whb—what?”
 
——
 
Toren had forgotten she could pull this trick. All it took was a bit of cloth—or a helpful Healing Slime—and a shirt and her alternate personality appeared!
[Sword Dancer], adventurer—friendly, mysterious. Breasted. It was more of a mental switch, really. Arguably, it was even a downgrade because having breasts and mopping? Not easy, but after Doren had gotten over the shock, Toren thought he liked the change.
Back in the dungeon, he’d always resented the ‘other’ Toren coming out, and the two had fought over who was in charge. Part of that had probably been because Nekhret’s personality had come out more in female Toren…or so he’d thought.
But she was still here. The friendlier skeleton who liked masks, not killing people—had Nekhret’s ghost left her behind? Had he been changed by her presence? Toren didn’t think too hard about it.
Sometimes you just hated being who you were, because you were a miserable person, in a bad mood, or just tired. So why not just find some cloth, toss on a mask, and become someone nicer?
He, she.
She, he. Similar and different.
