However, the purpose of the room was for people to come in and write tidbits of gossip on pieces of paper and hang them up for people to get news from all over the world. Toren and Doren took one of his weekdays to get some cheap wood and paint and made a rather artistic grapevine you could hang things from, and when Cormeng’s opened on Beithday…
The trick was to prime the audience by making it seem like someone had already participated in whatever you wanted to do. Toren remembered Erin, and while it hurt, the female skeleton used Erin-style tactics.
Be in the room as someone walked past it, have a few pre-written gossip pieces hanging up, and…Toren peeked at a fascinated [Merchant] who strolled into the room, read a few pieces, chewed on a lip, and then wrote furtively on a piece of paper and hung it up.
 
Gaiil-Drome. 
Regarding the wedding, the bride, Marchioness Antesce, didn’t just quit the marriage out of love. She was already with child! 
—An Observant [Merchant].
 
Ooh. Oooh! Maviola leapt around excitedly when she read that, and within the hour, every Terandrian who had walked in and seen the note had left dozens of ‘replies’ to the message, disputing the allegations, adding their own proofs of salacious rumors—
Naturally, all this free paper and ink cost money, and unlike Toren’s newspaper scheme, there wasn’t any way to make money here. Doren pointed out his family would hate the initiative, so Toren did some thinking and came up with an obvious solution.
Scrying orb, every teapot, cup, and piece of silverware that wasn’t too gothic, and Maviola in an old maid uniform. She served tea.
A copper a cup. Cormeng had its own supply of water from an enchanted sink that ran into a reservoir that Doren thought ran on rainwater—though where the actual store got the rain was a mystery.
Add a cheap heating rune, courtesy of Wistram’s fancy new magical services at their guilds, and Maviola would pour you a cup of tea while you could sit, chat with other people, watch the scrying orb, or read a newspaper.
Toren rubbed her hands together as she saw Maviola perk up and ask questions of the guests who mixed and mingled in the room—which coincidentally was very close to the Slime Chess room. Another low-income, high-customer satisfaction room. A copper for a cup of tea?
Heh.
Heheheheheh.
There was evil like leading an undead horde on Esthelm to slaughter the innocents, and there was getting four coppers out of guests only too willing to come in from the cold and fork over a copper for an hour of conversation. Then Toren had the idea to sell snacks.
 
——
 
There was a limit to how much Doren wanted this to be a tea parlor, but with Maviola, they could accommodate the second room. Again, they weren’t always filled up, but each new attraction of Cormeng’s was like an island of respite from staring at the overwhelming number of items on sale, and someone selling an object to Doren might walk in and spend a bit of the money they’d just received.
Rather to Toren’s surprise, the [Goths] liked tea. They’d sit in full macabre outfits, having tea in those skull-cups, and they horrified the other guests, which Toren suspected was the point.
He soon got used to an outraged visitor pointing them out to him, but the skeleton wasn’t inclined to evict their loyal customers. Toren advised visitors to talk with the [Goths], and thus, he often heard variations on the same conversation.
“Excuse me, Noelictan or not, I must object to your attire, sirs and madams! Excuse me? What do you mean you’re not from the Kingdom of Shade? Then that’s even more horrific! Are you one of those necromancy-enjoying degenerates I’ve heard of, from Izril? [Goth]? What, pray tell, is a [Goth]? Oh my, your aura!”
Not that quick, of course, and any number of Terandrians left in a huff, but what Toren hadn’t realized was that the royal-loving continent of northerns had a thing about auras.
They were considered a mark of prestige; something only a noble, royal, or at the very least, a [Knight] would have. Rather like having a fancy cape. Thus, the Izrilian [Goths] got more than a few people asking how they had this rare ability—not that they wanted the class! They were just asking…
Rather like skeletons, it turned out there was a dark, gloom-loving person in a lot of people. Toren encouraged it, mostly because he enjoyed watching Gothica and her crew intimidating newcomers. So he’d offer them free cups of tea if he saw someone easily offended coming in, then direct them towards the Grapevine Trellis.
Doren found it almost as amusing; he and Toren were people-watchers, and every time they saw someone come in, they’d go and find each other. One time, they even had a young [Prince] come in—then a group of [Knights]. Watching Gothica trying to persuade a rather dumbstruck [Prince] to put on black lipstick was a sight.
And he thought Doren began to liven up and move around the shop. Then came the day Doren laughed.
 
——
 
“I don’t know what the family will say when they hear about it, but I think…it’s worth doing. It might be a pain, but I don’t mind it.”
That was Doren’s conclusion after one late day when the [Goths] had begged to stay past closing time, singing eerie tunes with some of the Singer of Terandria’s song crystals. Toren was nodding as he checked the shop’s prototype redesign plan he’d written up. He was halfway done—which frankly amazed Doren given how much Toren had shifted around.
Doren was chatting to Toren when they heard a scream—and a poof of black dust. The [Goths] came running out, yelling; one of them had made some powder so they could toss it down and create a smokescreen whenever they wanted.
It worked—a bit too well. They emerged, coughing and covered in dust.
“My room!”
Doren was horrified, but the stuff wasn’t permanent—it just meant the Goths were all nearly invisible shadows they were so coated. Toren was entirely amused and felt like laughing. He slapped his chest as his mouth clattered silently. Maviola was giggling; she’d gotten out of the way just in time. The Healing Slime was jiggling up and down, just as amused, and Doren—
Doren laughed. It was the first time Toren had heard him laugh, and he laughed—well, a bit like a mule. He did that hee-haw thing and seemed to rev up his laughter until it exploded out of him.
“Hee—heh—heheheheheh—hawhawhawhaw—”
It was such a funny way of laughing that the [Goths] started laughing as well, and then Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop echoed with it.
 
——
 
Doren kept laughing even when the [Goths] left to clean up. Toren was dusting the room down, and he heard the man chuckling.
“The dust—”
The shopkeeper laughed like a dam bursting, as if decades of it were spilling forth. He chuckled, chortled, and then—Toren heard a sob.
The skeleton poked his head back into the opening hallway and saw Doren sitting there, tears streaming down his face. His head was in his hands and tears were dropping into his hands. He pressed them to his eyes, but they would not cease.
The skeleton came out and didn’t know what to do. The Healing Slime rolled over, anxious, but there was nothing to heal it could find. It crawled up the counter, and Doren covered his face, sobbing until he was hiccuping.
Toren stood there until the shopkeeper gently pet the worried Healing Slime, which was squeaking at him.
“I’m sorry. I’m—gods. What a mess of my life. What a waste.”
That’s all he said. He was so upset he forgot to say ‘dead gods’. Toren stood there and felt like he saw something in Doren he didn’t like. But something that called to him.
 
[Carer Level 13!]
[Skill – Deflect Projectile (Ally) obtained!]
 
——
 
A month in the employ of Doren and Toren was tidying up the backrooms when he heard an altercation from the front of the shop. Maviola was sulking; she didn’t want to work. She was playing catch with the Healing Slime by throwing a ball of paper it was tossing back at her by undulating its body to shoot it back.
When Toren heard the female voice shouting, he realized it wasn’t an ordinary upset customer and came out, holding an ornamental skeleton head. He found a group of men and women, all upset, and Doren, who seemed more nervous than Toren had ever seen.
“Aunt Markine, I broke—well, I fractured my arm. They’ve been amazing. Have you seen the shop? Let me show you—”
“Two employees, Doren? You didn’t tell anyone! And what’s this about—[Goths]? What kind of a class is that? When one of my friends, a very highly-placed [Socialite] in First Landing, told me Cormeng’s was serving them, I told her to her face that there was no way we’d be involved in that kind of thing! And a monster in here?”
“They’re steady business. We don’t endorse them. We just—they’re buying all the macabre objects. The stuff that never sells.”
Doren caught Toren’s eye and motioned him back, but the woman swung around, and Doren had to introduce Toren.
“This is Toren, everyone. He doesn’t speak, but he’s excellent—”
Uncle Stenman gave Toren one look of clear distrust.
“A Drake. Are you serious, Doren? They caused havoc in the north last summer! If word gets around we’re employing one of them—”
“Half the continent’s Drakes! Don’t be stupid!”
Doren snapped, face red, and the family recoiled.
“Doren! How dare you speak to your uncle this way! You have—I don’t even know what’s come over you! With all we support and care for you, this is unacceptable.”
“The store’s never been better, Aunt. I needed help—and I’ll have it! I have your gold, right here. Isn’t that what matters?”
The shopkeeper furiously slapped some bags he’d pre-calculated with Toren’s help on the table, and some of the family wavered, seeing how much fatter they were. His aunt’s eyes lingered on the bag, but then she snapped.
“We will vote on this matter, like Cormeng’s heirs intended, Doren. And we may let these employees stay, but I think we shall have to censure you for these—these unauthorized uses of our funds! Everything you pay for in the store comes out of everyone’s income!”
“Take it out of mine. It’s my shop, and I stand by it.”
The shopkeeper set his jowls determinedly, and Toren’s imaginary heart rose—then drooped as Aunt Markine’s voice dropped.
“Excuse me? Your shop?”
“I just meant—”
“This is not your shop, Doren. This is the family’s business, and before you get any stupid thoughts in your head like your great-great Aunt, I remind you that nothing here is yours! The Issk family worked for everything you have! Without us, you wouldn’t have this job!”
Doren’s face was red, then white. His reply exploded out of him, and Toren knew just how he felt. The skeleton was shaking with indignation. And something else.
“Oh, really? In that case, why don’t you take it over, Aunt? Or you, Stenman? Golli? No? You can’t. I’m the only one who can even open this place because I have no class. None of you can run this place! Do you know how hard it is not to level? Don’t tell me it’s not my shop!”
They drew back in the face of Doren’s wrath, shocked, appalled, and ashamed, Toren thought. But he saw several of their expressions change, and he thought it wasn’t just indignation at Doren shouting at them. It was…
“They’re afraid.”
Maviola had appeared to see what was going on, and the Healing Slime jiggled in her arms. Toren gazed back.
Afraid? Oh, he saw it now. A trace of fear appeared on Markine’s face, and then it transmuted to fury. Doren was smiling as he shook with relief and satisfaction.
She backhanded him, and her hand had rings on them that cut his cheek open.
“How dare you.”
“Markine!”
Several of her relatives pulled her off him after she slapped him a few more times. Doren sat on the floor, hard, and stared up at her as she hissed at him.
“You think this is your store? How dare you. This is our place, not yours! You just run it, because—that’s all you’re good for! Yes, you.”
She pointed at him.
“We all knew it. You didn’t have the wits, the charm—do you think we just gave it to anyone? You’re the fool who had to run it, and you’re too ungrateful to even realize what a blessing it was! Do you think you could have levelled without running the store? You wouldn’t even be Level 20!”
“You chose me?”
He stared up at her, face pale, holding his bleeding cheek, and the rest of the family appeared terrified now. But Markine was overdosing on fury.
“Yes we did. And it’s all you’ll ever be good for, you useless fool. You think you’re essential? We’ll replace you! We’ve done it before and we can do it again! So go ahead! Try this little stunt, and we’ll show you just how worthless you’ll be without Cormeng’s Emporium! You are a talentless, selfish child, and you’ll never be good for anything.”
Toren waited for Doren to say something, anything, but the man just sat there. Blood was oozing down his cheek, and all the anger he’d had—
It went out. Much like Toren’s thirst for vengeance, it seemed to drain out of him. He sat, head bowed, staring at his aunt’s feet. Looking…lost.
He didn’t even have tears in his eyes. He could weep, and he didn’t. It was as if even tears wouldn’t fill the gap in his heart.
His aunt was still going. She was smiling, now. That half-smile of furious victory with which you rode the opposition down and took no prisoners, even if you had to execute them while they surrendered.
“And another thing—do you think it’s pleasant associating with you and your dreary—everything? My last husband detested you and all my efforts to involve you in my life! You are a drain on the family, but because you do fulfill this role, we involve you, try to give you all these things you’re so incapable of seizing for yourself! Without us, I daresay you’d have crawled under a table and passed away years ago.”
“…Just to spite you. But I couldn’t do that.”
He murmured, and she snapped.
“Aha! It’s that spiteful backtalk that—what are you doing?”
Doren thought she was talking to him until she swivelled, and he saw the familiar Drake, mouth open but voiceless, standing at Markine’s side. He had tapped her on the shoulder, and when she went to shove him away, he caught her hand.
“This filthy Drake—Doren, call off your employee! Call—”
Toren hit her with the skeleton mug. It didn’t shatter, but the woman slumped against the counter. She tried to speak.
“Wh—wh—”
A cousin reached out in horror, stupefied, eyes wide.
“What are you—”
Toren raised the mug and began hitting Aunt Markine with it. The third blow came away bloody—and then the rest of the Issk family tried to grab him. They reached out—but he was too strong.
