“Toren? Stop. Stop!”
Doren breathed, at first almost gleeful—but it turned to horror. Toren didn’t stop, even when the mug broke. He began punching at the weakly flailing woman, then the others. Swinging a bloody fist around as Maviola began laughing.
“Insane—call the W—”
“Doren! Doren, do something!”
His family were screaming at him, but even when he tried to stop the skeleton, Toren ignored him. Toren was kneeling over Markine, striking her face. Shaking her—her head was lolling, and her mouth was open. She was jerking—Doren seized his arm.
“Stop! Stop! Toren—”
The man’s purple eyes found him, and he saw something flicker across the Drake’s face.
Tears?
They seemed to burn down like purple wisps before vanishing. The strange employee was shaking worse than Doren. He raised a shaking fist, then peered down. Doren grabbed him.
“Stop. It’s not…worth it.”
That was all he could think to say. Toren glanced at him, then covered his face with his hands. He said nothing as Doren looked down at his Aunt.
“Someone get a [Healer]. Healing potion. I…”
When he came back with the last one in the shop, he saw only his aunt lying on the ground. The rest of the family had run—the shop was closed because of the lockdown protocol. And Toren…
A skeleton was kneeling on the ground, covering its face. Doren froze—his back hit the wall, and he almost dropped the healing potion. But Toren just looked up as purple flames burned down from his eye sockets.
“Toren?”
Maviola and the Healing Slime were touching his shoulder. The skeleton wept for the shopkeeper, who stood there, stunned. Tears for the man and his empty life in service of those who didn’t deserve him. His skull cracked, and he took it off his head as if wanting to remove his thoughts.
But he couldn’t die. He was too high-level. Doren stood there with the first employee he had ever had. A weeping skeleton.
The next day, Toren left his shop with Maviola and the Healing Slime.
 
——
 
Nearly murdering your boss’ family wasn’t how you stayed employed. Toren just sat all night; Doren was gone, probably having to check on his aunt or talking to his family.
When dawn came, Toren had packed the few things he owned, and Maviola was waiting at the door.
“Good! I was bored. Um, but I know you and Slimey liked it.”
She was trying not to smile. As far as she was concerned, the ending had been great. But Toren…didn’t feel better. He felt broken again. As if he had never healed from—from Erin.
It wasn’t that Markine looked like Erin or was in any way like her, but it had felt like he was watching Erin beat down Doren—him.
He’d never be better. This was the best job he’d had and—and—Toren’s hands were shaking.
They would have left without saying goodbye, but Doren walked in as they were going out. The shop’s bell jangled, and he stopped when he saw them.
The illusions were back, but he stared at Toren and Maviola as if picturing Toren’s face. Then he nodded to the Healing Slime.
“Is that…a slime? Or something else?”
Toren shook his head, and Doren relaxed. He seemed like he hadn’t slept, which he confirmed.
“Good. I was wondering if I was patting a head or something. I was—I had to send a lot of [Messages] since no one would come into the shop. My aunt’s at the [Healers]. She’s not dead. But they’re worried she’s been addled.”
He delivered that without much inflection. Then he eyed Toren, and the skeleton saw him glance at the empty rooms, beds neatly made up.
“They’d have forced me to make you quit. The Watch is going to sweep the shop. I…I’m sorry.”
Toren shook his head. He’d done this. But Doren just stood there.
“You’re…no. Hold on.”
He walked behind the counter, pulled a drawer open, and began putting coins on the counter. Gold ones.
“Here. I don’t know if it matters much. But that—you—where are you going? The shop will spit you out where you were.”
Toren knew that. They’d flee the city. They had illusions; it had been a month. The [Guards] would never notice. He didn’t know what came after that. He shrugged, and Doren regarded him.
“I’ll keep the Twilight Sanctuary open. And the chess…it won’t be the same.”
His eyes slid to Healing Slime, and after a moment, he spoke.
“I could keep it. No one will make me get rid of Slimey, and it will be safe here. If…”
The Healing Slime and Toren peered at each other, astounded. Maviola protested.
“Not Healy! We can’t!”
Here?
Toren looked around the shop and remembered how much Doren could make. Healing Slime wouldn’t be hungry here. It was already a bit fatter and far brighter. He put it down on the counter, and the Healing Slime instantly lunged at him and stuck to his ribs.
It didn’t want to go. Doren nodded. He leaned on the counter, face…blank? Not blank, just closed. He gazed at Toren as the skeleton held out a hand. Doren didn’t take it.
“I don’t know…what you are or why you came to my shop. As far as I’m concerned, you were two Drake drifters.”
He half-smiled.
“The Watch can ask me questions. Their Skills and magic won’t work in Cormeng’s shop. Not if I don’t want it to. I…”
He trailed off, then turned around.
“Goodbye.”
That was it. Nothing else. He kept his back to Toren, though the skeleton saw the shopkeeper was staring into the blank scrying orb which was a handy mirror. So Toren let his hand fall. He bowed once, deeply, and left the gold coins on the counter. Maviola called out.
“Oh, um, fare thee well. Until we meet again.”
The Healing Slime lifted a little part of its body and waved as Toren strode out the door. The skeleton stepped out into a bright street in a Drake city. When he turned his back—Cormeng’s was gone.
 
——
 
Doren waited until the door closed before he turned his face back and wiped at his eyes. He sat, tears dribbling down his cheeks, and then stood and looked around.
Half-organized, his shop was bright and clean and friendly, welcoming. The back halves messy. And he knew he’d never have Toren’s obsession for detail. Never have his…drive to fix this place up.
The man walked around the store for a while, waiting for the Watch to arrive. When they came, he answered their questions, explaining how difficult it was to find anyone, and how Toren and Mavi were gone. Then, when they left, he locked the store and stepped into his city.
His city.
It wasn’t like he knew it well. Doren aimlessly walked the streets he hadn’t truly lived in; he lived in his shop. His glimpses of the outside were of countless streets, so he barely knew the one he was on.
He tripped his way to the Driver’s Guild and waited in line. The [Receptionist] gave him an arch look, but when he put down gold pieces in stacks, the man scrambled over himself to help.
Doren was like a sleepwalker. He arranged a pickup in forty minutes, then went out and found a local [Trader]. Gold pieces—he had lots.
Then a [Merchant], who sent a City Runner storming towards a local [Farmer]’s. It took closer to fifty minutes for Doren to get in the carriage—but the [Driver] was surprised to see the man get in without any of the gigantic amount of crates or sacks he’d seen piled up.
He’d been cursing at having to load them all, but a well-paying client meant you did everything. The man was a driver who drove people and had a tuned carriage that moved fast. He was no famous roller like Termin, but…
“No Chest of Holding, sir?”
The man…didn’t have a bag of holding either. But Doren just spoke.
“I’m fine. I’ve stored everything.”
“Er, as you say, sir. And where are we heading?”
“Um. Anywhere will do. A city south of here.”
“…Any one, sir?”
“How about one that’s less-travelled? It doesn’t matter. Just not Reizmelt. I have family there.”
That made sense to the [Driver] in a weird sort of way. He offered Doren a map, and the shopkeeper aimlessly pointed at one.
“Is the population over, um, forty thousand?”
“Er—I could check.”
In the end, they settled on a place called ‘Ivolethe’s Landing’, which was some new city in the Unseen Empire. Far, but the [Driver] knew it, and it was actually renamed.
Fairly derivative, actually. First Landing, Ivolethe’s…whatever. Doren napped as the carriage began, snoring weirdly, but it wasn’t a bad ride. The [Driver] was going to be paid well, so he stuck to the main roads, no detours, no fuss.
No [Bandits] or monsters. Thank goodness for that.
 
——
 
The [Fast Travel Driver] got Doren to the new city, and the man realized he’d actually passed the [Guards] on duty as well thanks to his very expensive carriage ride; the [Driver] had done all the inspection stuff.
Doren walked around the city and saw a lot of weird things. A pole of wood with eyes on it, a message from an [Emperor] to arriving citizens—some very nice young women wanted to get him settled in.
“We could help you, sir, if you wish to give us your name, purpose, and—”
“Oh, I’m fine.”
“Do you need lodging?”
“No, I’m just…I have somewhere to be.”
“Are you sure, sir? Rooms are very hard to come by, but His Majesty is working to set this city up properly. You are under Lady Rie Valerund’s domain, and you’ll find it’s a very pleasant city thanks to her Skills!”
Indeed, for such a provincial city—or so the [Driver] had thought—everyone here looked rather sophisticated. High-class.
It was perhaps how they walked or the lift of their chins, a refinement to them that suggested any passersby might actually be aristocracy, even people who were clearly common folk. It surprised and unnerved Doren a bit.
“Is, ah, is this some custom here?”
“Oh, we play into it, but it’s all due to Lady Rie managing our city, sir! [The Changing Citizenry], courtesy of His Majesty, Emperor Godart. Everything is far more refined—and beautiful! You’ll like it far more than Margravine Mavika’s territory. You might grow feathers!”
“Though I do hear some can see in the dark or hop from branch to branch. I imagine they eat worms too.”
The two were shuddering, and Doren…had no clue what this meant. So each city had a theme and you got aristocratic manners here? He wasn’t sure he wanted that and frankly doubted he’d be here long enough for it to matter, but the two young women wanted to engage him in a lot of questions.
One of them had very pretty green eyelashes, and Doren was flustered as she smiled at him. He gestured ahead of him.
“I’m, uh—I appreciate the offer for lodging, but I have a place already. Just here, see? Thank you.”
To their astonishment, he pointed to a shop door, which he unlocked with a key he took out of his pockets. One of the [Greeters] whispered to the other as they frowned.
“I’ve never seen that shop. Have you?”
“No, I—”
When they turned back, both man and shop were gone. The [Greeters] exchanged looks, then went to report that to Lady Rie’s people. She was always on the lookout for high levels.
 
——
 
Doren sat down in his regular chair, passing by the wall of stacked crates and bags as he did. He fiddled with his fingers and nearly vomited.
But it felt like normal, didn’t it? He’d spent a huge amount of gold—but he was back in his shop. Same old Doren.
Just—in a different exit city. Not that it mattered. Unless you were trying to find him, in which case, suddenly, he was gone, and no one but the Driver’s Guild would even have a clue where he’d disappeared to, and he hadn’t given them a name and had paid for anonymity.
Plus…he didn’t have to leave the shop unless he was hungry. Doren stared at the crates and sacks of food. Supplies. Cooking oil—Cormeng’s had a kitchen that Toren had cleaned out. Actually, he’d bought way too much of everything. The [Merchant] had taken his gold and just loaded it all up.
Was he doing this? Doren sat in the shop, and fiddled with a gold coin. But—then he spoke.
“No visitors from Reizmelt, Calthigec, Illgorne…”
He rattled off a series of cities before he checked himself.
“Wait, what am I doing? Ignore all that. No family.”
That was all you had to say. Doren had never used the power of this shop before. Never like this, but he swore Cormeng’s seemed to constrict around him. Not in a painful way, but almost like an embrace.
Then—he gasped, blinked, and the door swung open. Someone halted in the opening, and Doren peeked up.
Toren?
Gothica Midnight walked in, peering at all the boxes.
“Hey, what all this? Morning, Doren. Where Toren and Mavi?”
“They, um, they quit.”
“Oh? That bad. I liked them. Okay, I go to Twilight Sanctuary. Thanks!”
—And there it was, the incurious caring of the customer. Doren almost relaxed. He still wasn’t happy. He still didn’t know how to answer the skeleton’s tears, but at least…he got up and sighed as he began to lug some of the boxes towards the kitchen. Then he had an idea.
“Excuse me?”
Doren opened the door, and one of the [Greeters] showing someone new around the Unseen Empire actually screamed. But he just waved her inside.
“Could I…hire a few [Laborers]? To move some stuff around. And a [Cleaner].”
It could get expensive, but then again, his working funds had just…what’s the word for six-times increased? Doren sat behind his counter then, breathing in and out.
Same old, same old.
But doing it just for him. He sat there and wondered where that skeleton had gone. Then Doren breathed in and out. In and out.
He was fifty-two. He felt old. He had just burned bridges with his family, and his aunt was lying in a [Healer]’s. His best employee had quit. He had no home.
He felt…alive.
 
——
 
Toren didn’t know what happened to Doren when the door closed. He stepped into the street, and his head was hanging low.
Someone grabbed him. Toren drew his sword fast—but a clawed hand shoved his hand down, keeping him from drawing the sword.
“Toren!”
Maviola cried out, and he expected flames—but when he pivoted, he saw two huge, intense eyes staring at him. He tried to move—but the woman, the Garuda, just stepped with him, keeping his sword sheathed.
And Maviola—wasn’t attacking. She held Healing Slime, who was shaking like a leaf, but the person standing next to her didn’t even hold onto Maviola. She was merely—inspecting the young undead.
Toren recognized her and froze. The Garuda holding his sword-arm stopped, and the woman turned her head, her brown chin tilting up. Her eyes flashed, and he almost knelt. The single look of regard from the Immortal Tyrant, Nerrhavia, was like a physical blow.
“Skeleton. You do amuse me. Of every venue in the world, this one was hardest to reach after making use of the owner once.”
