Her. Az’kerash’s greatest ghost that he’d ‘caught’. The most powerful woman that Toren had ever met, save perhaps Belavierr—and the two of them were friends.
The Immortal Tyrant who had founded an entire nation in her death, Nerrhavia, stood there. Ten levels lower than she had been in her final hours.
Merely…ten levels lower. She beckoned, and Toren hesitated.
The female Garuda, another former ghost, Falamizural, [She Who Summons Victory], was alert. A warrior without peer—much like the smiling, gaunt Stitch-man standing next to Nerrhavia. Astival. The [Puppetmaster Sadivictus] who had commanded her armies.
“The Necromancer let the most valuable being in his castle escape. And Belavierr’s second daughter.”
“Hey!”
Maviola protested, but even her usual spirit was a guttering candle when Nerrhavia glanced at her. The Tyrant inspected the Healing Slime, then addressed Toren.
“That I sought you out speaks for itself. I have ignored Djinni who prostrated themselves on the road where I walked. Come with me, and I shall be the master you desire. I recognize your worth.”
I recognize your worth. The skeleton gazed at the greatest woman of her era, a legend. She regarded him, denuded of his armor, trembling, him…and beckoned. So he went.
He had nothing else, and she looked at him, Toren who had not even a last name, and he second-guessed himself later. But truly, he had no purpose, and she…
The Immortal Tyrant sat down in a black carriage that pulled up for her, and a nervous woman spat to the side.
“This your guest? I’ve waited fucking long enough for—”
“Karsaeu-Dequoa. Take me south at all speed. Along the westernmost cities. We shall stop once at Manus; then towards the New Lands. I shall require transport to the region of the Bloodfields soon, so do not stray far.”
Karsaeu, the Djinni who drove the Unmarked Carriage, the fastest underworld transport in Izril, swallowed hard.
“I have clients, and my boss—”
“Shall wait. Or would thou care to enter my service as well?”
The head barely turned to give the Djinni the merest flick of Nerrhavia’s peripherals. Without a word, Karsy pulled her cap low and set the carriage to such speed they were away from the Drake city in moments. Toren sat with the other members of Nerrhavia’s entourage as Maviola bounced up and down in her seat, happy.
“Hooray! I missed you, Queen Nerrhavia! Are we going to kill something?”
“Be still, Maviola. It appears I must take your education in hand. You shall listen; you are both child and not. As for you, Toren…”
Nerrhavia’s lips quirked up as he sat there, Healing Slime shivering in his chest like a beating heart. Nerrhavia studied him and the slime, and her eyes seemed to pierce the veil of time and see past it. Nerrhavia, envisioning a future of this world, saw that it included him in some way.
“…you shall do nicely.”
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
Toren, Employee #1 of Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop.
In Service to the Immortal Tyrant: Toren.
