Was that a dream about—his past life? The skeleton was disturbed, and Maviola listened to him recounting the memory. She tossed her head airily.
“Oh, I have dreams like that all the time. The old me. She got so old. Yuck!”
He gaped at her, disbelieving. The feelings of bitter remorse and desperation—then resignation as he lay down—were still filling him up. So vibrantly painful that the skeleton couldn’t take it. Maviola was balancing on the boulder he’d fallen off of, arms outstretched.
“Well, they’re just living-people emotions. Who cares? They’re inferior, Toren.”
He hucked a stone at her, and she squealed and tossed flames back. He got up, then patted Healing Slime as it poured into his hands. Toren stared down at it, and it was worried. He was getting more upset the closer he got to Liscor.
Maybe this was a bad idea, but now it was a compulsion seizing him. He…he had to know. How had the inn done when he was gone? Surely it had fallen to pieces without Toren, who could shovel all the snow around it in a night. Who had gathered blue fruits tirelessly, pulled that damn sled, found firewood, guarded the inn—
She couldn’t replace him. Not him. Toren knew Erin had moved on, but she couldn’t do better without him. He’d made the inn; it should be worse in his absence. Because that meant he had mattered.
Surely, he had.
 
——
 
It was late spring when Toren and Maviola arrived. They had to leap from hill to hill before they found bridges that spanned the hills and used them to locate the inn. When they got there, Toren stared around.
Oh.
Oh…
It was gone. He knelt amidst the shattered foundation, the blackened stone and pieces of wood—and the terraformed hills and dirt fortifications now collapsed to form a huge valley around this spot.
He could tell people had died here; the death magic was so vivid that Maviola was twirling around, drinking it in. But the Healing Slime and Toren were just…lost.
Their home was gone.
Toren sat down hard. Suddenly, he was filled with remorse as the Healing Slime got out and rolled around, a prismatic slime mournfully trawling the ground.
So that was it. He knew she’d rebuilt after him, but in the end…without a Toren, the inn truly had fallen apart for the last time. Toren got up, covered his face, and then searched around.
Where was she now? Was she even alive? There weren’t even any—markers for this place. There should have been.
Flowers. Wasn’t that what you did? It was all so wet and dismal—he hunted around and realized he needed to put something here. A stone, flowers, something. So he found Maviola.
They needed to enter Liscor. She brightened up at once.
“Hurray! Can I buy clothing?”
 
——
 
They had to buy clothing; when they entered Liscor’s gates, the [Guards] were astonished by the duo. A Human [Knight] wearing artifacts and a disheveled [Lady]. That was their guise, but the illusion spell tried to avoid adding in superfluous details, so their attire was the same; Maviola’s dress was ashambles, and they pointed her to the nearest clothing store at once.
Toren helped Maviola pick out new clothing, sighing as he counted coins into the Drake’s clawed hand. He didn’t have much—coins were not Az’kerash’s priority, nor his. But Maviola was delighted, and it gave Toren time to inquire about flowers.
By which he meant, Maviola did that. He didn’t like speaking. But Maviola was charming, so the Drake pointed her towards a likely place that might have flowers.
“Though, honestly, you’re unlikely to get much fresh from anywhere here given the rains. Celum’s more likely to have plants.”
Yeah, I’ll just run down to Celum and back. Idiot. Toren rolled his eye-flames in his head, and Maviola retorted.
“Yeah, we’ll just run down to Celum and back, idiot.”
“Excuse me!”
The Drake was offended, and Toren slapped Maviola’s arm, which got him a reproving look. The [Shopkeeper] huffed.
“What I meant was, sir, miss, there’s a door. Everyone uses it—how have you not heard? I believe you came from the south, the state you two were in!”
“We walked.”
“Past the Bloodfields? Even with the road—dead gods! There’s a magical [Door of Portals] in the inn—use that!”
Toren…stopped as he ushered Maviola towards the door. The what?
“The Wandering Inn.”
When she saw Maviola’s jaw drop open, the [Shopkeeper] clarified.
“It’s not walkable from here, at least, you shouldn’t do it. The door’s in Shivertail Plaza—just use it and go to the inn from there. Though I warn you, it’s not a place to be right now. After the Goblin King and all that business—”
She glanced out the window, and Toren scratched at his head. His [Dangersense] had gone off on the route here, but he and Maviola hadn’t been looking at the moon or doing anything else, single-minded as they’d been.
“But we were at the inn! There was nothing there!”
“Oh, they moved it.”
They what? Then Toren’s tour of vengeance was back on. It only grew worse as he and Maviola began to ask people about the inn, and he realized it wasn’t just thriving—he bought some parchment and a quill.
He was making a list.
 
——
 
“Top employees at The Wandering Inn? Er—hm. Server Ishkr, definitely. He’s the only Gnoll there who works in the inn proper. I think the grumpy [Doorgnoll] is hired by the city? The rest of the staff are all Antinium or Goblins. No, wait, I hear they got a bunch of Humans now. I can’t keep up. Some other Gnolls used to work there, but they quit once it got weird.”
Ishkr. Toren had heard the name a dozen times when they’d asked about the inn, and he underlined it again. He was getting mad.
Who was this fellow? It offended Toren to hear some Gnoll [Server] was top of the inn. Lyonette? Half the people there claimed she’d inherited from Erin.
That spoiled [Princess] who couldn’t even clean a latrine without screaming? Unbelievable, they were running it into the ground. But he realized in a weird way his hatred was higher for this Ishkr than Lyonette. It was how they talked of him.
“I’ve seen him doing that floor-skating trick. He can zip anywhere he wants or even teleport. I think he levelled up; he was appearing in front of City Hall a dozen times. Fantastic. I wish I had that kind of employee.”
The [Shopkeepers] on Market Street loved to gossip, and Maviola piped up, fanning Toren’s flames of rage.
“He sounds amazing. But does he do security? Who protects the inn?”
“Er…I don’t know. There’s too many to count! Elia Arcsinger; that strange singing Antinium, Bird the Hunter; those [Knights]—”
Bird? Toren remembered Bird. He dismissed Bird, and whomever this ‘Elia’ was, but when he heard [Knights]…what [Knights]? He had been Erin’s Skeleton Knight. The [Shopkeeper] wasn’t too clear on the details, not being an actual guest of The Wandering Inn, and she hemmed and hawed.
“They wear shiny armor. I’ve seen them a few times. Their Order…it might be the Knights of Solstice? You’ve heard of them, surely, miss? A personal [Knight] order which defends the inn? Ser Normen would be their leader—now there’s another reason why the inn’s better existing than not. Did you see him fight Arcsinger’s Bows? Or when he stood up to the Bloodfeast—”
Another [Shopkeeper] joined the conversation, leaning out of his stall.
“Shh, that’s not a topic I want to hear of. But yes, certainly. The bravest [Knight] I’ve ever seen, and I wasn’t ever a fan of them until I saw that.”
Ser…who? Toren was twitching. So the inn had a [Knight] and a [Server]? He was the Skeleton Knight and original server! He nudged Maviola until she asked.
“Um—what about the skeleton that used to work there? Don’t you remember him?”
Toren half expected to be forgotten, but his head rose and he smiled as one of the Gnoll [Shopkeepers] snapped his fingers.
“Of course! Well, er, which skeleton? There are loads. I remember there only being one back when it was pulling that sled around, but these days—there’s a reason people don’t like visiting, miss. I daresay there are dozens working on rebuilding it, even in the rain. Mind you, I don’t have a problem with the [Necromancers]. Pisces, that Gold-rank adventurer, came from Liscor, you know.”
“Hah. There’s a nuisance—”
Maviola glanced at Toren, excited until she saw how still he’d gotten. Then it went from personal grievances to truly dark emotions.
They had…skeletons?
 
——
 
He didn’t use the magical door because he didn’t want to enter the inn. It kept setting his [Dangersense] off. So Toren made Maviola actually hike across the damn Floodplains to their destination.
It wasn’t hard to move as an undead. Water didn’t drown you. Most creatures avoided the hell out of you. You didn’t get tired. Toren stared at the huge mass of undead milling around the inn and felt betrayed. There were two piles of black marble outside the inn, and one was aglow with death magic, infused with it.
No wonder the undead were so active—though there were also at least two dozen [Necromancers] hanging out at any given moment.
[Necromancers]. Undead.
He’d thought she’d quit after him. But here they were. Toren sat down as Maviola patted his shoulder.
“Toren?”
He looked up as she wiped rain from her sympathetic, too-pale features. Maviola bent down and offered him a hand.
It had a knife. He stared at it, and the Healing Slime writhed against his chest. Toren got up slowly.
The inn might be dangerous to approach via the door—but he was a skeleton who’d clawed his way out of the Necromancer’s castle. He turned to Maviola, and his purple eye-flames narrowed.
Where were these employees? Everyone took breaks.
 
——
 
Target One: Ser Normen of the Order of Solstice.
 
Drassi Tewing was interviewing Ser Normen outside of Esthelm, and he was looking, well, nervous. The [Knight] who had faced down the Bloodfeast Raiders and Draugr without fear was terrified of the microphone in her hands.
He kept fidgeting with his helmet, despite her trying to reassure him. Drassi put the microphone to her mouth.
“Keep it together, Normen! Ancestors, you’ve had fistfights with Grimalkin! Pull your tail up and smile, you hatchling! Okay, in two, one—hey, everyone! I’m with Ser Normen, [Grandmaster] of the Order of Solstice, now! He’s walking me through candidacy into this new [Knight] Order—Ser Normen, what makes a [Knight] of Solstice?”
They’d rehearsed this three times, but when Ser Normen turned with a glassy smile and saw his reflection in the scrying mirror, he froze up.
“Ah. Hello.”
That was all he got out before turning into a piece of wood. Behind him, Jewel covered her face. She started forwards, but Antherr and Durene held her back.
“He’s gotta do it, Jewel! Don’t go in there, you’ll Jewel it up—you said so yourself!”
“Someone’s got to say something! Durene!”
“I don’t like publicity!”
“You were dating an [Emperor]! Antherr!”
“I am petrified with fear, despite my vow of determination. Vess?”
“I’m not doing it! I’m from Hectval! At least Ama’s not here.”
That was a benefit. Ama was not here; she was training her necromancy with Rheirgest. She was like…anti-charisma sometimes. She could be nice as could be, but she’d probably bring Sillias out and make some comment about humping undead, and there would go their reputation.
Drassi was trying, anyways. She nudged Normen with a smile.
“Look at that, the [Grandmaster]’s a bit camera-shy. A new term, that. Er—Normen. You and I go back to the founding of the inn. Relax. It can’t be worse than fighting people with nothing but a hat on. Tell me about fire.”
“Honor?”
The Drake covered her face with her hands, but this wasn’t going the worst, you know. There was something charming about the tongue-tied [Knight] appearing so shy. She was pestering him, and he was hyperventilating as the audience watched.
“Let’s walk through your origin, Normen. You were a [Thug]—a member of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings? No judgement, but I remember you being hired onto The Wandering Inn as security. Way back! Of course, I was the first [Bartender] for the inn and one of the original employees—”
She was bragging a bit, smiling as she spoke of the ‘good old days’, which were really just a year and a half ago. As if she’d been there at the start.
As if she were original. The first [Bartender]?
He’d served drinks right there.
Ser Normen was saved from his paralysis by someone marching past the camera crew, ignoring the duo of Drakes trying to shove him back.
“Hey! No autographs or—hey!”
They tried to stop him, but he shoved them aside so hard one tumbled across the ground. Normen glanced around, and instinct made him reach for his mace.
“Excuse m—”
Toren clocked him so hard the [Knight] hit the ground, Demas Metal armor or not. Toren stomped on Normen’s chestplate and was annoyed the metal didn’t bend. He drew a sword as Drassi exclaimed.
“What the—hey!”
“Normen!”
The Order of Solstice would have charged this strange [Knight] who came striding forward and hit their leader, but Normen waved them off. He saw Toren pointing a sword at him, a fantastic blade of black light, and holding a shield of prismatic glass—Toren’s armor was Truegold mixed with Adamantium and could negate spells, his helmet made of Wyvern scales, and his boots seemed to flicker—and he had more artifacts on. Normen coughed and stood.
“You, Ser, have a funny way of challenging me. Stand back, Drassi. I think I’ve received my first challenge to a duel.”
Toren smiled gleefully as Normen got up. Drassi backed up, casting around.
“Wh—is this normal? He just came in and hit Ser Normen! What about the Watch?”
It was Antherr who answered for the Order of Solstice.
“This is normal, Reporter Drassi.”
“It is?”
“Of course. Random [Knights] challenging one to duels is a hazard of our class. Normally, one slaps one with a glove, but I have studied my profession intensely.”
“…So you just get into fights randomly?”
“Naturally. I believe Archmage Valeterisa refers to it as ‘random encounters of adversity’. For instance, I, myself, am quite used to people throwing things at me during my time as a Soldier. It happened at least four times a week when I was in Liscor.”
Drassi opened her mouth to reply to numerous parts of Antherr’s logic train when the duel began. Normen swung at Toren, fast and heavy. The skeleton appraised the ‘new’ protector of Erin’s inn.
He sneered as he caught Normen’s wrist, and the [Knight] swore.
Weak.
 
——
 
