They were death-themed forks, knives, even plates. An entire cutlery set—in honor of the Archmage of Death. Toren felt like a lightning bolt of surprise had hit him as he saw a rare, complete Perril Chandler dining set.
The [Goths] loved it, though they got in trouble one time when Gothica showed them how to brew poisons and turned a cup black. And they were levelling.
It wasn’t obvious at first, but then the Drake boy, who called himself ‘Sawtail’ among his friends, announced he’d passed Level 10 in [Goth]. Toren was astounded. The kid was a kid! And it seemed the others levelled just as fast.
“Don’t listen if they shout at you. [Goth] is all about fucking off the man.”
“…Which man?”
Lady Isby grew nervous about that, but Gothica had to clarify her grammar.
“It means if someone says ‘you’re wrong’, you level. I’ve told many people to eat shit. Niers Astoragon, Erin Solstice, Watch Captain Zevara…”
She polished her black nails on her dress as they oohed and aahed. Gothica was a mix of mature and young; for all she acted like a child, she could somehow have that world-weariness that began to attract older people.
“Honestly. This is a disgrace, no? Someone should tell this Drake’s parents!”
An angry Gnoll from Oteslia was one of those regular clients that had observed the [Goths], and she liked to peer at them and try to talk a few of them out of this ‘bad path’. Toren and she were sitting in on a meeting—well, he was sorting a bunch of fake gemstones.
Maviola was with the [Goths] because she loved their talk about death and destruction. Gothica was fielding a question from some Humans who’d joined Isby—but not from her city. She’d gotten a few of her friends into the movement, but their parents were clamping down on it.
“It’s hard being a [Goth], Gothica. My parents say I’m wasting my potential. What’s…what the point of our class?”
“Ignore them, Shadowcat.”
“I’m trying. B-but my grandfather told me that he was going to die soon and I needed to be a good heir. My mother was crying and—”
A wide-eyed boy had cats drawn under each eye, and he was shaken. Toren gazed up. He didn’t know what it was like to have a concerned parent, and the Gnoll mother whispered at him.
“See? He’s snuck out to come here! Just to worry his parents?”
Gothica considered the statement seriously, and instead of a trite remark, she seemed troubled. She played with her claws, then regarded Shadowcat.
“The point? The point…ask your grandfather if he happy, Shadowcat. What’s the point of [Goth]? What’s the point of [Tailor]? When he dies, are you going to be sad?”
“Yes. Sorry, Gothica. But I will be.”
The voice was so quiet. Gothica stared up at something.
“That’s right. Being sad doesn’t make you not [Goth]. I’ve been sad. Very sad. Everyone I love died. Parents. Friends. Headscratcher. I was his…follower. The sky falls. Then, even if someone tries so hard—everyone dies. Now, in the future. She told me, my boss.”
Her eyes flashed.
“She’s seen it.”
They all sat silently as Gothica’s eyes lifted again.
“So I guess it doesn’t matter. Nothing matters. In the end, you die and worms eat you. But you can either be sad and hide from death, or love the reaper. Someone told me they’re very cool. And nice. So tomorrow, if someone comes to kill me—”
Her teeth flashed.
“—I won’t be afraid. If a hole opens up in the sky, I’ll say, ‘what took you so long?’ Because nothing can hurt me. The world’s misery, and I like it. When I’m gone, I’ll be a hole in the world and drag it with me. It’s a promise. Why [Goth]? Because I’m darkness and gloom and scary smiles in the dark, and I like it. And liking it makes me able to do this.”
She lifted a hand, and the lights in the room turned off. Two red eyes glowed in the night, and they gasped. Toren felt the girl’s aura whirl around him. He could see; he had no fear of the dark. But when it was done, Gothica had a room of respectful silence.
She was not, incidentally, the end-all-be-all definer of what her class was. Just a certain point of view, a forerunner in the space. A very good advocate, though, because her little speech not only worked, but convinced several other new members to join.
Not only did Shadowcat report happily that his grandfather had accepted a certain macabre when he combined his [Goth] and [Tailor] classes into [Shadow Weaver]—but one day, Toren saw a certain Gnoll mother with dyed fur sitting with the [Goths]. Mostly because she had a bunch of music she wanted them to try and listen to.
[Night Singer]. [Midnight Goth]. [Shadow Weaver]. [Fright Lady]—the classes were unlike anything that Doren or Toren had ever heard of, and they seemed to keep coming. All this to say that by the time a month had rolled around, the ‘Goth Corner’—or as they referred to it, the Twilight Sanctuary—was pulling in steady clients, even if their purchases were modest at times. Well, Gothica seemed to have a lot of money.
And there it might have ended. This was not to say that it would have been a small thing. The [Goth] class spreading had already had a small, but substantive effect on multiple places in Izril, but for the grace of Toren, it would have stayed there.
However, he, or rather, she, had observed that Doren’s shop wasn’t just a powerful, random shop much like Erin’s inn. She hated to admit it, but Cormeng’s Emporium…was more powerful than even Erin’s current inn.
After all. It could appear across Izril where Erin could barely reach five hundred miles. And more than that?
Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop served two continents. You had to wonder just who the man had been to do this all without levels.
 
——
 
Terandrians didn’t enter Cormeng’s shop often, despite the boast that Toren had read on one of the old flyers on the walls. She asked Doren about it, and the shopkeeper grimaced.
“I, uh…I don’t like Terandria, so I often turn it ‘off’. I can choose where the shop goes. They’re a bit of a pain.”
A pain? Toren was glancing at Maviola, who was reading a newspaper she’d bought from the Drake city they were in. The Pallassian Times, or whatever Pallass issued; there were newspapers in a lot of major cities and nations. Toren kept wanting to read them, but she’d grab all the gossip sections and hoard them.
It was a rare fight between the two employees, so Doren was only too happy to distract Toren as she polished some brass up to a shine.
“We actually sell better in Terandria since Cormeng’s doesn’t appear there. I can do…a third of the kingdoms? All on the lower half of the continent.”
Isn’t that impressive?
Toren held up a note—she was more talky than male Toren—and Doren sighed.
“Yes, very. And it does sell well…but it’s just less pleasant.”
Why?
“Have you ever met a [Princess]? Or a [Knight]?”
Female Toren admitted that she might have, once or twice, and Doren scowled hugely.
“They get peculiar in their nations. Most Izrilian cities don’t bother the shop except to have the Watch ask some questions. Drakes can get opinionated, but Cormeng’s is on their books most of the time, and if it’s not, I just don’t let it appear in that city again. But if you get the wrong noble or royal in the north? I’ve had [Knights] come in and try to confiscate my goods, like all the [Goth] stuff, for being ‘disruptive and conducive to sentiments of ill morality’. As for royals—they either buy up everything in the store, order everyone out so they can walk around in peace, or take offense to someone and try to have them arrested—or flogged—”
All that sounded unpleasant. Doren’s strategy for trouble was to usually just convince someone to leave the shop. Even if they called the Watch, they’d never find the door again, but his sixteen minute rant about Terandria got Toren thinking.
What if…they opened the shop to a few Terandrian kingdoms? Toren was a likable skeleton. Some [Knight] came in here and started trouble and she could either talk them down or stab them.
She didn’t say that other part to Doren, but their business had been good for half a month now, and he drummed his fingers on the counter.
“I could add a bunch of Terandrian cities to the list. But why, though?”
Toren glanced at the [Goths]. She…just thought it’d be really funny to see Gothica’s group run into some hoity-toity Terandrians. Plus, now she thought about it—wasn’t there a business opportunity here?
“It’s not like our antiques are that much more interesting across continents. Some Drake and Gnoll stuff, yes, but everyone’s got furniture.”
Yes, yes, but what about things that were just—interesting? Toren had worked with Erin, and she snatched an object up and presented it to Doren.
“Hey! Torena! I’ll set your butt on fire! Give it back! They have a funny story section now!”
He blinked at the newspaper as Toren waved it in front of him.
“Newspapers?”
 
——
 
Think on it. Everyone got the scrying orbs, but that was worldwide news. Now you were more aware of people in Baleros or Chandrar, there was a big interest in maps and travel. The New Lands especially added to that; Toren couldn’t keep the maps in the store from flying off the shelves, even the old ones.
However…no one could get a newspaper from another city and all the hot gossip or latest events easily. You could pay a Mage’s Guild to scribe it down for you, but that was the kind of thing only a very wealthy person could do, and it wasn’t…convenient.
You know what was? A little stand of newspapers, sorted by city, that cost a mere silver coin per newspaper! Which was a great margin because Toren could get newspapers from each city for a fraction of the price.
Doren objected, not to the little stand that Toren and Maviola had built, but to one crucial problem with the plan.
“Cormeng’s can’t let you hop into another city, Toren. He was big on not being a transportation mechanism, a way to let someone evade the law, or even to send soldiers around. I can’t bypass it.”
Damn. Well, could they…get someone to deliver newspapers to the shop? Doren’s face said he didn’t want to have to pay and manage a bunch of Street Runners, nor could he always guarantee his store showed up in the same place.
Toren had a big think on the matter as the first Terandrians began coming into the store. They were mostly like the Izrilians—you got more half-Elves, Dwarves, and they had a lot of funny reactions to seeing a Drake or Gnoll walk about, but they were surprisingly normal. In fact, they had less of a reaction to the [Goths] than Toren (and the [Goths]) had hoped.
“Oh, Noelictans. Dead gods, this truly is a magical store. What’s this?”
A Calanferian woman observed and inspected the single newspaper from Pallass on the freshly-painted rack. She was so interested she bought it for a silver coin.
“This might win me some points in the courts! I say, you don’t have more of these, do you?”
Doren apologized that it was a work-in-progress and he didn’t have more, and the woman pursed her lips.
“Calanfer has a Royal Press that announces events of note, you see. They’re quite cheap! You should have some stocked here. In fact…I had a copy on me about Princess Seraphel’s continued absence. The Cursed Princess, you know.”
She rather proudly talked up Seraphel as Toren peered at the news story detailing—in glowing terms—the 4th Princess and her history.
“Three marriages? And she curses her husbands to death? Can I read it?”
Toren had an idea as Maviola excitedly saw more of the news. He snapped his fingers, and the woman jumped, then the skeleton waved his arms around. Maviola had to translate, and the woman blinked.
“Sell you the newspaper?”
That was it. Doren saw the idea as Toren began to write on a board. With a few brushstrokes, he had converted his idea.
The newspaper stand wasn’t just ‘buy a newspaper from another city’. If you came into Cormeng’s, he’d buy your local newspaper at twice what it was worth!
Then turn around and sell it for four times what it was worth, of course. But it was a novel idea, and Toren began pointing out the stand to every person who came into the shop. Most people were only too willing to walk out, buy a dozen newspapers, and earn a small sum, and within the week, Toren began finding visitors who knew the store coming in with several newspapers, then judiciously browsing the rack to pull out other newspapers.
—In fact, he didn’t know it, but he’d started something far more than a mere newspaper exchange.
 
——
 
Female Toren had good ideas about the service industry. Toren was experimenting, putting on the mask, taking it off, and Maviola was complaining.
“Toren! You’re not actually changing personalities!”
She was getting into the character of it. See? Female Toren traced a smile on a simple clay mask she’d found in the store.
Happy and nice Toren. She took the mask off and checked Maviola’s king.
Mean and cool Toren. Maviola overturned the board, and Healing Slime raced around collecting the chess pieces and spitting them out in the right order. Female Toren leaned back and steepled her fingers.
Now, with her genius and sociable mind…! She drummed her fingers on the table. Both she and Maviola gazed around. It was quiet in the store at the moment, a lull around lunchtime. Doren was watching the scrying orb, and Toren saw the newspaper rack was pretty full.
Everyone was talking about some royal who’d walked away from their wedding with the groom waiting to be married. All the Izrilians hadn’t heard of it. The newspapers weren’t covering it; Toren expected to see the article next week at the soonest, or, if it was that big a story, a rush release, but she and Maviola were disappointed to realize it wasn’t ‘big’ news, so no one was covering it on the channels Doren had available.
It’s too bad no one else knows about this wedding fiasco. Aside from anyone who talked to the customers, of course, but they didn’t mingle as much. Toren drummed her fingers on the table, then snapped her fingers.
Slime chess room. The Twilight Sanctuary. Why not…?
She leapt up, and Maviola leapt up too. They waved their arms around, and Doren glanced up from the scrying orb.
“Um. What is it this time?”
 
——
 
The Gossip Lounge. That was Toren’s name, and Maviola shot it down.
“That’s stupid, Toren.”
She couldn’t help it if she had inherited Erin’s bad naming sense! The skeleton glowered, and Doren and Maviola put their heads together.
“How about…the Grapevine Trellis?”
Toren didn’t get the name, and Maviola had to explain that gossip was like grapes on the vine, which she supposed made sense. If you were stupid.
