Toren sat with his head resting against a wall for a good hour after that failed interview. Maviola was busy offering bits of flowers to the Healing Slime, who ingested a few and spat out the ones it didn’t like.
“Can we go back home now, Toren?”
He gazed up at her.
No, we can’t. The Necromancer is bad news. The Chosen are evil.
Healing Slime clung to one leg, shaking. They loved to torment it, and they’d ripped Toren apart every day for…he passed a trembling hand across his face, like a mortal.
This was all some kind of retribution for his actions before. All the people he’d killed, all the trouble he’d caused—now he’d felt what it was like to be helpless around monsters. He didn’t know what the Healing Slime had done to deserve it, but Toren had suffered until he could get them out.
Maviola…he glanced at her. He just didn’t want Az’kerash or Belavierr to raise this young undead. Neither one had good parenting skills.
“My mother is a great mother! She had a daughter before me, and Wiskeria’s actually alive! I think. I want to meet my sister, though mother says we might kill each other. I think I’ll like her.”
Could be. Could be dicey.
“Why? Because I’m dead?”
Yep.
“Wiskeria will understand. She’s my mother’s daughter. Not like other living things.”
Toren didn’t respond to that. Maviola had that disdain for living creatures part and parcel to the undead. In fact—they all had that voice in the back of their heads, didn’t they?
Slay the living. Kill them all. Create more undead.
It was like—their purpose. Only a truly powerful undead could ignore the call, even for the sake of strategy. Az’kerash felt it, and Toren knew he did too. He supposed it wasn’t that crazy.
Didn’t living things have a desire to keep living and to, presumably, make more living things? Undead were in opposition to them, by and large. It just made job-hunting real hard.
 
——
 
Mostly, it was Crypt Lords who were smart enough to have any band worth following, but other undead could lead. The problem was, Toren was overqualified.
The Lich, the advanced version of a Skeleton Mage he interviewed with next, was delighted to have him. It had a warband of sixty-four mixed undead, even a few Bone Shamblers, which were like moving undead collections of parts. Toren felt the vibe was good.
This band moved across the mountains, killing animals and absorbing them. It was nice work that got you seeing the sights, and the Lich was very impressed with Toren.
Too impressed.
It gave him the job and wanted him to take the top position. All the undead wanted him to lead, and Toren tried to explain he wasn’t looking for a leadership role. He’d done it, tried it—he could do it again, but it wasn’t his style. He was sort of looking for temporary employment while he found his feet, you know? Roof over your head, three square meals for his friend?
The Lich didn’t know how to oblige Toren. It sent a hopeful picture of him razing a local Drake village, and he shook his head.
Been there, done that. He showed it Esthelm, and the Lich was very impressed. More of that! But Toren had to decline. He shook the Lich’s hand a few times, slapped a Skeleton Knight on the back since it was the only one in the party, and sighed.
Maviola sat on a rock, seeming bored.
“Toren…”
I know, I know. Toren rubbed at his skull with two gauntleted fingers. This economy…he patted the Healing Slime and noticed it was a bit thin again.
Nothing paid well in terms of what he needed. Which was less of death mana for Maviola and him, and more ingredients to feed Healing Slime. It had a very particular diet, and Toren turned to the Lich desperately. It thought for a while and directed him at a likely employer.
 
——
 
Swamp Undead didn’t like regular undead. Toren’s boot caved in yet another Mushroom Zombie’s head as he beat down a local group of undead in an overgrown marsh, but Healing Slime was zipping around, devouring plants.
It could use different effects in its body to activate powers. It had a Potion of Speed and a Potion of Healing inside of it and was actually faster than both undead when it wanted. It rolled about, eating different flowers as Maviola laughed, tripped, and went head-first into a swamp.
“Aaaah! Toreeeeen!”
Toren was busy squaring off with a bloated Swamp Lurker, whose long arms wanted to snatch him into the water. It was a grabby mass of undeath that liked to pull the unwary into the water and thus kill them.
I don’t breathe, buddy. Back off. 
The Swamp Lurker backed off, sensing this wasn’t going to go how it wanted. Toren sighed as the Healing Slime’s fading glow brightened again. He picked it up and cast around.
The marsh was a smaller one near the High Passes, full of insects and magical plants and such. He saw a giant slug oozing towards the water as Maviola poked it.
“Toren, this place is gross. I don’t want to stay here.”
He was thinking. There might not be any work, but Healing Slime was clearly feeding off the mana here. He lifted it up and eyed the slime critically.
You need to feed yourself permanently, buddy. You can’t just keep starving like this.
Healing Slime sort of understood him thanks to their [Bond: Telepathy] Skill he had as a [Carer]. It wobbled up and down in a kind of nod. It was hard being a Healing Slime. Regular slimes just existed on mana and whatever they were made of, but it was, well, a Potion Slime. It needed a lot of stuff Toren didn’t have.
Like Eir Gel. The Healing Slime sort of understood what it wanted, and it projected an image of some yellow goo in an [Alchemist]’s shop at Toren. He scratched his head.
Does any of this stuff work?
Healing Slime went around from plant to plant, showing Toren the ones it had liked, and he obligingly pulled more up, roots and all, for later and put them in his bag of holding. He reckoned this place might feed Healing Slime for a while and was about to tell Maviola this was where they were staying—when Healing Slime, zipping towards a funky-looking bush with nuts on it, was struck by a gigantic, screaming bird with six wings that tried to rip the mana stone out of it. Toren and Maviola charged at it, and Toren shoved the hawk-thing away. He stowed the trembling Healing Slime in his chest and sighed.
Maybe…maybe he wasn’t going to find easy employment among the dead. He sat with his head in his hand, and Maviola approached.
She lifted her dress, which was now so badly stained and tattered from two weeks on the move that it was holey—but then she sat without a word.
“Toren…”
He knew she was bored and lonely, but Maviola shook her head earnestly.
“I like you more than the other undead. Even Mother. You’re funny. And cool! Just—do you really want to work for a stinky Crypt King?”
A skeleton’s gotta work.
“…Why?”
It confused him. In truth—he didn’t know. He’d been created, his first real memory, and been given work instantly. He’d been made for Erin Solstice to have someone to help her. He supposed his entire life had been a job, so he didn’t have any idea what to do without that. He’d been so unfocused after leaving Erin. Free, happy for a while, but—ultimately, he’d gone back because he hadn’t known what to do.
Maviola sat with her head in her hands, thinking about this.
“Mother says a woman should have a purpose, great or small. Freedom is terrifying. I get what she means, I guess. If we could feed Slimey, what would you do, Toren?”
If they could do that? Toren sat back, staring up at the cloud of gnats trying to bite them and realizing they had nothing to really eat. His jaw opened.
What do I want in life? Well—if he was honest—his eyes flickered red for a second.
Vengeance would be nice.
“Revenge? I thought you didn’t want to fight Erin anymore.”
Oh, that was true. He and Erin were—done. But there was a part of the skeleton which still held a lot of resentment towards his previous place of work. Especially towards his former co-workers. And…him.
“Who?”
Pisces.
“Your dad?”
A weird thought. It made Toren uncomfortable, and he half-shook his head, but then he thought about his goals. Began making a list.
Yeah. Yeah! There had been a lot of people who made his life miserable, hadn’t there been? Lyonette, that stupid girl. Mrsha, who’d gotten him tumbling into the dungeon, the Redfangs, that silver [Knight]…Maviola clapped her hands, brightening up.
“Mother says revenge is always worth the time and effort! Just so long as you don’t die in the process. ‘Take it slow and make them suffer whenever is most painful’.”
Healing Slime wiggled out of one of Toren’s eye sockets and gave Maviola a look, then Toren. It was far less intelligent than either undead, but it was growing under Toren’s influence. Az’kerash had done some spellcasting to upgrade Toren’s abilities, including giving him that voice he refused to use and refining Pisces’ far more limited bindings. There was a limit to what Az’kerash could do with Toren without unmaking him, but the [Necromancer] had also expressed interest in the Healing Slime.
“Fascinating and potentially useful—if I were alive. I’m no slime expert, but I don’t think you can just make Potion Slimes. The [Innkeeper] must have had a powerful cooking Skill. If you, Toren, have a [Carer] class, it might well grow as intelligent as one could hope. A fascinating experiment. Do let me know the results.”
The Healing Slime had no idea what that meant, but it remembered the words and thought of them, like it thought of Mrsha and the Defenders of the Cave and of its short life and—everything else. It nudged Toren, feeling like this wasn’t the best of ideas, but the skeleton just patted it on the head.
I’ve got nothing else to do, and I do know Liscor. Doesn’t the inn have a shop with that stupid [Alchemist]? We pop in, pop out, stab a few ex-coworkers, and see where we are.
Maviola clapped her hands in delight, and Toren warmed to the idea. After all—when he thought of The Wandering Inn, he still got a bit mad.
He’d heard from Az’kerash it was more prosperous now, that it was thriving. That they had some [Head Server] and other employees and—and—
They’d replaced him. Replaced him, the original, the first.
Time for the prodigal son to return home and see how good these second-rate fill-ins were. Toren checked his sword and grinned.
Vengeance was a good drive, especially if he didn’t have anything to do. He only hesitated when the Healing Slime squeezed his ribs, but Toren patted it softly.
It had just as much reason to hate the inn as he. Maviola beamed.
“My first revenge. How lovely! Can I steal their clothing? Mine’s all nasty.”
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
Toren the Vengeful One.
 
It took a while to head north, especially since both undead couldn’t use the door. Then again, they could march hard without sleep or rest, and the High Passes meant they didn’t have to worry about being seen.
Just in case though, Toren prepared. He’d taken a number of artifacts from Az’kerash that the Necromancer had stockpiled, and the most handy were illusion spells such as his Chosen used to go around.
They were so adept—beyond [Greater Illusion]—that they’d pass through even most cities’ detection spells. Toren wasn’t stupid, though; he’d heard Az’kerash warning his Chosen not to try Pallass or any other Walled City.
So walking it was. He was good at walking. Maviola was not.
“Toren, wait for me! How do you—how do you do that?”
He was hopping from boulder to boulder with ease, teleporting from spot to spot where he couldn’t make the leap, so fast that even at a run and scrambling up boulders Maviola wasn’t even half as fast as he. Even when he lent her the Boots of Blinking, she couldn’t do it.
“They don’t recharge fast enough!”
Well, duh. He was a [Relic Guardian] now, an advanced form of undead, and he had [Artifact: Double Charging]. So functionally any artifact he had could be used twice as often.
Plus he was just…nimble. Maviola was quick, but Toren did a backflip off the boulder; she tried one and landed on her neck.
“My body’s not as nimble as yours!”
[Sword Dancer] and, well, he’d always just been good at most things he put his mind to. Toren had never thought about it, but Maviola sat up.
“I don’t think any undead can just master a sword or do backflips. Mother says that life informs death.”
Belavierr would know about undead, so Toren tilted his head. Maybe it meant he’d been nimble in his past life?
Past…life? He’d never thought about where he came from, actually. Maviola brushed at her dress.
“I come from Maviola El, who was a [Lady of Fire]. I suppose it’s why I can make so many flames. Who were you, Toren?”
Healing Slime poked its body out of his chestplate, and Toren stood there, bemused.
He…
He didn’t know. Did it even matter? He knew he had used to have four bones of Archmage Nekhret in his being, and she had been in his soul until Az’kerash had used the bones to make Nekhti, a new Chosen. Which was definitely not ominous and the reason why Toren wanted to get away from Az’kerash. However, most of his body had been…
…How had Pisces made him? Toren felt at his skull. Human.
He vaguely recalled Erin mentioning a skeleton? Toren didn’t know. But when he felt at his bones…
On the way to Liscor, he had a dream.
 
——
 
In his dream, the skeleton couldn’t breathe. He’d never had lungs before, but the stifling, agonizing sensation as they refused to work was torture.
He was stumbling around, knocking things over. Chairs and…fumbling against the walls, screaming without a voice.
Dying.
Everyone was dead, and that was a tragedy. Huge, blobby tears were running down his cheeks as his hands opened and closed. Big hands, covered with flesh, callused from work, fumbling with a cabinet he’d made himself.
Embossed Runes of Preservation on the edges, his best piece yet. Fingers traced down them, then he took a bottle of wine out, stoppered with gold leaf foil on the top. He uncorked it and poured himself a drink.
Barely tasted it, and when the bottle was done, he cast it aside and went upstairs to sleep. He lay down…and it was all so bitter as drums beat in the distance. A city going to war.
Necromancer. He lay down, lungs trying to work, and slept, tears on his cheeks.
In his inn, the [Innkeeper] slept for the last time.
 
——
 
Toren woke up. No, he hadn’t been sleeping, not really. He’d been marching along and—the memory had come across him like a wave. It broke, and he jerked, slipped off a wet boulder, and crashed down.
“Toren, you silly skeleton!”
Maviola thought it was a joke. Toren sat up, feeling at his face, his bony body. He was so shaken she stopped laughing.
“What?”
