Stronger than Toren had been. But weak compared to the [Relic Guardian] with all of Az’kerash’s artifacts. Toren didn’t even bother with a sword. He just began punching Normen so hard the [Knight]’s armor rang like a gong and began to bend in places.
He put up a good fight, but the green flames didn’t stop Toren’s punches from hitting their mark, and Toren had every advantage. He was nimbler in his enchanted armor than Normen and swayed out of several decent punches. Every time Normen got close to throw a counter—
Toren blinked behind him, waited for Normen to swing around, then clocked him with a full swing across his jaw. The [Knight] fell down.
Toren waited for him to get up. Then he kicked Normen as the [Knight] was rising. Drassi was shouting.
“Foul! That’s so foul—”
“That’s how the Order of Solstice fights. Don’t worry, if he tries to hurt Normen, we’ll get him. Normen, do you want a hand?”
Durene shouted, cupping her hands to her mouth, but Normen waved her off. He was bleeding from the mouth and nose and clearly in pain. Jewel was vibrating, wanting to jump in—but they held back.
Toren brushed at the green flames clinging to his armor, contemptuous. His eyes were burning in their helmet; to Normen, seeing the illusion, he just saw violet eyes staring out of the [Knight]’s helmet.
“I don’t know what I’ve done to offend you, sir. But—”
He rose, threw an uppercut that actually got in, and headbutted Toren. The skeleton barely felt it; he drew his head back and headbutted Normen. The [Knight] stumbled, and Toren advanced.
You weren’t there at the start. You’re nothing! Look at me! If she’d kept me, she would have—
He was going to beat the [Knight] down, and maybe then he’d feel better. Until Normen couldn’t even move—Toren’s next swing should have hit Normen and knocked him flat with the strength of a giant…but the [Grandmaster] moved back just in time. Toren swung again—and Normen moved around the fist and punched him back.
It didn’t hurt, but the skeleton was confused. He was slower? His arms…
Green flames were covering his arms, and he realized his armor was aflame. And the flame of honor was—heavy. Normen’s eyes blazed as he raised his fists, and Toren lifted one arm. Despite his gauntlets, he was so heavy—
The next punch caught him so hard his helmet spun slightly, and the audience cheered. Toren backed up, trying to fend off the damn flames. But he was suddenly losing this fist-fight. Punch, elbow, kick to the crotch—
Normen fought as dirty as he did! The [Knight] advanced as Toren fell back, stumbling now, and Normen reached for one arm, intending on throwing this mysterious [Knight] down and kneeling on his chest to punch his face in.
Then a hand caught Normen’s arm, and he felt that strength and cursed. He tried to pull away—but the hand yanked him forwards until he was face-to-face with that [Knight], two burning purple eyes behind the mask covering his face. And he heard a voice.
“WEAK.”
It echoed, a thunderous voice compressed into a whisper. The contemptuous gaze held Normen, then the hand flicked him back. Normen went stumbling back, and the [Knight] drew his sword. He advanced—and the Order of Solstice was there.
Vess pointed his wands at Toren as Durene and Jewel flanked him. Antherr was at Toren’s back—the skeleton glanced around as Normen rasped.
“I don’t intend on bleeding for your sense of odd honor, sir. Either identify yourself and tell me what your quarrel is or lower your blade.”
Each [Knight] was glowing with flames. Toren felt the weight of green fire on his arms and regarded it.
A pure, beautiful flame. It clung to him with an idea he had never had…he thought of Erin and gazed at her chosen [Knights]. His hand rose to his purple eye flames, and he whirled.
 
——
 
The mysterious [Knight] strode away, and Drassi’s mouth hung open as Normen wiped at his nose with a handkerchief. He snorted some blood out, then turned to her.
“So, as I was saying—a [Knight] may be called upon for any situation that arises. Much like that, the Order of Solstice is used to chaos.”
“Wh—wh—that just happens?”
He gave her an odd smile as his two good eyes twinkled at her.
“You and I were at the inn, Drassi. You have to be prepared for the strangest of things. So, my flame is honor…”
It was a great interview, you had to admit. Random [Knights] coming in and punching the heck out of you—several outraged Terandrian [Knights] wrote into Drassi’s show to say how unconventional that was and how dishonorably done it had been. But there were a lot of fans of this Izrilian style of knighthood.
 
——
 
Target Two: Ishkr the [Head Server].
 
Five on one was cheating, anyways. This ‘Ishkr’ wasn’t made of hot stuff. The moment he saw Toren coming at him, he ran for it.
Possibly he’d seen the scrying mirror altercation—or he just saw an armored figure pushing people out of the way in Liscor and had a good enough understanding of geometry to trace the line of approach. He started skating away, and Toren chased him.
…The Gnoll was fast. He skated down a street, ignoring the red traffic light and the wagons that halted, and Toren ran into one.
The wagon cracked as he blasted through the rear of it, and Ishkr peered over his shoulder.
“Hm. That’s not good. Help, Watch.”
He was so…casual that it annoyed Toren. Casual was Toren’s thing. But the Gnoll just skated into an alleyway and spread his arms.
“So why are you after me? Which group’s sent you?”
Toren balled up a fist, not dignifying this with an answer. Ishkr shrugged as Toren swung at his face.
Then he vanished. Toren looked around, then began swinging wildly around him—but it wasn’t an [Invisibility] spell. Ishkr was just—gone.
Toren spotted him two more times in Liscor, both times clearly shopping for goods. Each time, the Gnoll caught sight of him, warned everyone to get clear, and skated off. The second time, Toren came at him in disguise; the Watch was searching for him, so he adjusted the illusion spell, but the Gnoll noticed Toren making a beeline for him and fled.
“I don’t know who you are, but if you told me, I’d at least have a reason to stay about! You could visit the inn!”
That was bait. He hopped through the [Door of Portals] and waved at Toren; the skeleton eyed the doorway, felt his [Dangersense] go off, and backed away.
Damn…[Servers]. That teleportation trick wasn’t that impressive. But Maviola was annoyingly agog.
“He’s so fast, Toren! I like him. Maviola El liked him too. Do you have to beat him up?”
Yes, shut up. Toren’s fourth attempt was the most subtle. He changed his appearance again and then just loitered around. Shopping, checking displays…slowly getting closer to Ishkr.
 
——
 
The Gnoll was on alert today, but he didn’t see anyone coming at him, and he did have to shop. Frankly, he suspected it was some kind of Terandrian kingdom making a statement after the Goblin King. He hadn’t done more than tell Vaulont and Ser Dalimont because Lyonette didn’t need this kind of stress.
He was buying sugar for Calescent when someone caught his arm, swung him around, and kissed him. Ishkr almost teleported away—until he realized it was Onieva.
“Onieva, you scared the fur off of me! I thought you were—I thought we wouldn’t meet until the weekend!”
That was normally when she appeared, but the Drake wore an expression of guilt and pleasure and sadness. She laughed as she leaned against him.
“Hello, Ish. Sorry, I had to see you. Something’s come up. I…it’s been a hard month. Notice, um, anything different about me?”
She had on some of those new trousers that Magnolia Reinhart had made trendy with that shop of hers in Invrisil, a tank top—she smelled like alchemy, and she seemed nervous. Very nervous. Ishkr frowned at her.
“No…the clothing’s new.”
“Yes—nothing about me?”
“You look nervous. What, have you broken something in the inn or upset Lyonette?”
Onieva fidgeted and bit her lip.
“That’s good. I guess I’m not that different. I, uh—I—can we talk?”
They were talking, but the way she worded the question made Ishkr’s heart sink. Either this was a breakup or something was wrong. He glanced around, but the street was just busy, no avenging [Knights], so he nodded.
“Sure. What’s wrong?”
“Well…the [Palace of Fates] thing happened. I, uh—I heard about it from Saliss, and there was something that happened that affected me afterwards. Him and me…”
“Oh, the Faerie Flowers.”
Ishkr cursed, and Onieva’s claws tightened on his arm.
“Yeah. I—well, listen. I have a confession to make. A few. The easy one is…I have to go, Ishkr. I’m heading to the New Lands.”
“You what?”
He was astounded; she hadn’t mentioned this at all, and her face was agonized.
“I didn’t—know. That’s the easy part. The other part—I—I don’t know if you ever questioned anything about me, Ishkr. I…Ancestors, this is hard. Did you ever—did I ever strike you as off?”
She was, he realized, terrified. Her tail was curled in a knot, and he thought she was shaking. He tried to answer honestly.
“I…knew you were unique. High-level.”
“Nothing else?”
She gave him that piercing stare that was so knowing—someone he wanted to know. He frowned.
“I knew you had some secret. A high-level [Alchemist] who was Saliss’ cousin and Chaldion’s granddaughter too? No one liked to mention you. So I thought…you were a convicted criminal. That’s why no one sees you. You get out under Saliss’ parole deal. Which wouldn’t bother me.”
He hastened to assure her. Her face lit up, she laughed, and then her face fell.
“Hah! That’s good. Grimalkin should take notes from you. Close, but…I…I think I need a drink and to tell you in private. Please. And I’m sorry. If you don’t want to see me again, I’ll make it happen, but please don’t—give anything away. Please.”
Ishkr was feeling entirely apprehensive as she glanced around, and he nodded.
“Onieva, I like you. I’m surprised you like me when I know you’re—above Level 50. You have to be. What could—”
She swung around as a Gnoll walked past him, a Gnoll who smelled like nothing, and threw a punch. Onieva blocked it, kicked the Gnoll—and the [Knight] reappeared. Ishkr groaned.
“Oh, come on.”
 
——
 
Ishkr. Not a fighter. Unique abilities, but Toren could beat him down with one hand tied behind his back.
…He wasn’t expecting the girlfriend.
She was fast. And unlike Normen—Toren had always known he was a better fighter than anyone he met. Even the Rotfiend—there were only a few people who exceeded him in pure fighting talent.
Erin arguably being one of them. However, whomever this was—
The flying kick knocked his head back, and he swung a fist, but she ducked under it, and her second kick from below actually sent him off his feet. The skeleton was still in armor, but he checked that Healing Slime was okay.
“Hey, listen. Whatever’s up with you, I’m not in the mood right now. Back off or I’ll rip your helmet off and feed it to you.”
The Drake snapped, and Toren adjusted his head. He used the [Blink] spell to get around her—
She was facing him when he appeared. Toren’s mouth opened. She grabbed one of his legs, yanked up—dumped him on the ground, and began stomping on his face.
“Onieva! Calm down! Don’t hurt him!”
Ishkr tried to stop Onieva until flames blasted up from Toren’s helmet. He rose, annoyed, and this time, Maviola jumped in.
“I’ve got her! [Flame Wall]!”
Maviola could cast any number of fire spells. The two launched flames, trapping the Gnoll and Drake together. Onieva hissed.
“Ishkr? Teleport back. I’ll handle this.”
“You’re sure?”
“Teleport!”
He vanished. Toren and Maviola’s flames crossed the Drake, and Toren cursed. Time to get that damn Gnoll. The inn after a—
Onieva walked out of the flames, completely ignoring the fire. Her eyes were narrowed, and she grabbed Maviola by her throat and slammed her into the ground. Then the Drake turned to Toren. He drew his s—
Toren tried to cut the four vials, but he only got two. The enhanced vials of [Sticky Webs] covered him in such a cocoon of webs that Maviola had to burn him out, and it still took her five minutes. Then they had to escape the Watch—the [Alchemist] hadn’t even bothered to stick about.
Toren was beginning to get upset. The [Knight] was one thing. But the [Server] had a Named-rank level girlfriend? But he—
He—
He was still Toren. Still the greatest [Barmaid]—the greatest protect—
He was the best skeleton. Maviola was crying and trying to get him to give up, but the skeleton’s ego was wavering.
…Right?
 
——
 
Target Three: Some Random Skeletons.
 
It was night. The only things moving around The Wandering Inn were skeletons hard at work on the new foundations, working under a tarp canopy. A few Bush Shamblers patrolling the hill.
…And a skeleton who emerged, naked as he’d first been raised, out of the water. The other undead seemed to notice him from afar.
He wasn’t one of them. He was better than they were. And he was going to prove it.
Toren mimed cracking his knuckles and neck as he approached. Maviola and Healing Slime were watching from afar with his stuff. The plan was simple. Walk over, beat down some skeletons, walk back.
Pride proven. The problem was that Toren hadn’t accounted for the watchers of the inn, including some Thronebearers and a Vampire. Or the fact they were hypervigilant after the Goblin King incident.
He never even made it to the inn’s hill. He was walking up a hill a few away from the inn when someone spoke.
“That’s the damndest thing I’ve ever seen. Leithe, you reckon it’s natural? It doesn’t look natural, but with that death-scar near Liscor, I’d expect anything.”
A quartet of [Necromancers] was standing on the hill. Toren froze. They’d been invisible until now; he didn’t even know how until he realized they’d been hiding their death magic.
Elosaith, Leithe, and two other younger [Necromancers] were watching Toren with a cluster of undead, including a Skeleton Juggernaut, who was seven feet tall and thick. Toren saw Elosaith’s clear power and felt a moment of fear.
No, not again. [Necromancers] were a natural counter to the undead. They could control him—if he didn’t fight it.
But they didn’t try, not right away. The woman frowned as she peered at Toren.
“He’s somewhat well made. He seems like an amalgamation of work. Fine techniques and…all roughshod. As bad as your work, Ama.”
“Hey! Sillias is a masterpiece!”
One of the [Necromancers] had a bone cat. Leithe rolled her eyes.
