“Beautiful carving work doesn’t replace the fact that you had to hand-enchant each bone to be articulated how you wanted and pattern each movement you wanted. It’s obsessive, not efficient.”
“I thought we were beating down this random undead, not me.”
“Yes, yes. The Wandering Inn doesn’t need this right now. But I do want to investigate it after we’re done. I haven’t had a good undead matchup fight in a while. I’ll go first! Go—Skeleton Juggernaut!”
The [Necromancers] were having a grand old time. Elosaith pointed, and the Skeleton Juggernaut charged at Toren. It was a hobby of Rheirgest’s own to find random undead and, well, either capture them or see how their own undead stacked up.
The Earthers were fascinated by the concept, and none of Rheirgest’s people quite knew why.
 
——
 
Toren without his armor was weaker, far less durable, far more…
Pathetic. The Skeleton Juggernaut was everything he wasn’t. Taller by a foot, bones reinforced and made of Gargoyle femurs in places, even animated with more magical force.
It came punching hard, impervious to the fists Toren threw—but the Skeleton had two advantages.
One, he was faster. Two—
He had levels.
“Whoa! It is strong! Look at that!”
Toren’s [Lesser Strength] let him hold the Juggernaut back and force the undead behemoth off him. His [Daring Charge] slammed him into the other undead, and he tried to shove it over—but Elosaith was rooting for his undead.
“Skeleton Juggernaut! Use [Surge of Strength]!”
The damn undead grew stronger as Elosaith activated a Skill, and it threw Toren off. It charged, swinging wildly, and he caught a series of curses as he backed up. No sword, no shield—he did a flying dodge from a swing and thought tactically.
Skeletons were skeletons. Toren kicked a stone up and grabbed it. Then, as the behemoth raised its arms for a smash, he jumped.
[Hi-Jump]! Then—he used the stone and activated [Shield Bash]. His stone cracked the skeleton’s head, and Toren dug his fingers into the crack as he landed on the behemoth’s neck. It flailed, and Elosaith shouted in dismay.
“No, no! Get it off! Get it—no!”
His skeleton crumpled as Toren ripped enough of its skull free to destroy it. Elosaith hung his head as Leithe smiled.
“My turn!”
She wanted to send forwards a new Bone Horror, but Toren pointed, and the Bone Horror whirled, leapt at Leithe—
Two of the [Necromancers] blasted it instantly; Leithe ripped out a bone, and it collapsed. She blinked.
“That was a control ability. This is some kind of Skeleton Commander, Elosaith.”
“Pity. Those are too dangerous to keep. Alright, let’s—”
“Elosaith, let me, let me! I want to try beating it!”
Ama jumped from foot to foot as Toren, mentally panting, searched for a way out. The [Necromancers] were too casual; he signalled Maviola, hoping she could get close with his Relics. He could kill or escape this lot easily with his armor on…
His attention wavered as a third challenger appeared. Elosaith and Leithe took a second to ‘ward’ it against Toren’s authority, but the [Relic Guardian] wouldn’t have used his powers even if he could have.
Not on this.
Not on…
Scotty the Skeleton rose and gave Toren a jaunty wave, taking his head off, nodding it, then flipping it back onto his head. Ama’s second-best creation, the skeleton who had outrun even Facestealer, Scotty, the acrobatic skeleton, was reborn.
His eye-flames were yellow, and he did a jig before putting a hand out and beckoning. Ama was rapidly commentating.
“Do you see how cool he is? Look at all his moves!”
“He is rather well-made. Better than Sillias.”
“Hey!”
The skeleton, the myth, the legend—Toren’s eye-flames actually went out as his exact duplicate stood there, arms folded. Then the flames of [Terror] bloomed, and Toren’s desire for vengeance became true bloodlust.
“Watch out. It has an advanced [Fear] effect—”
Toren forgot Maviola, forgot Healing Slime, forgot everything else. He went for Scotty.
Diediediediedie—
Scotty swung out of Toren’s way, and the spinning backhand made Toren’s own head rotate. Scotty did a backflip as Toren caught himself and tried to swing again. Then Scotty cartwheeled away from Toren before doing a spring-kick that sent the skeleton tumbling head-over-scapula backwards.
Wh—wh—
Toren had never met a skeleton more acrobatic than he was. Scotty was doing a mocking walk back and forth, and he swayed at the hips, dodging a furious punch. He was so—
“Mobile. We should incorporate that into our undead, Elosaith.”
“Bah, he’s the work of over a decade of insane control spells. Ama has to control his every move.”
Indeed, Scotty was being manipulated by Ama as he threw counters, performed crazy dodges—even combination attacks that sent the mysterious other skeleton stumbling backwards. Ama was grinning as she twiddled her fingers.
“This other skeleton’s tough! I think it’s regenerating?”
Indeed, cracks that Scotty had given the other skeleton were slowly healing, and Elosaith was growing more excited.
“We have to capture it. Or deconstruct it. Ama, go for the kill.”
“Alright. Scotty, Attack Routine 6! Get him!”
Scotty’s fists rose, and he began punching like a [Boxer] from one of those movies that Ama had seen in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. He came in hot, doing a Dempsey roll—and the mysterious skeleton went still. Toren reached up—and caught Scotty’s fist.
 
——
 
Madness. It sank over Toren again. Madness—rage.
Is this all I am?
He was a levelling undead, praised by Az’kerash for being truly unique. A gateway to the future. He had empowered even the Chosen.
But was this all Toren was? Inferior to a single skeleton controlled by a [Necromancer]?
No.
No—his eye-flames burned as Scotty’s yellow ones glowed. Toren actually…felt Scotty’s presence. The undead was under Ama’s control, but they were still kinds of undead. Tamed…Scotty’s personality was as cheerful as his act. A loyal servant beloved by the [Knight-Artisan of Bones].
Loved and beloved. It burned Toren worse than the flames of honor. No one had ever loved him. Not like that Drake and Ishkr.
Everything I am, I made myself. You think you’re better than me? Scotty reeled back as Toren released him. Scotty paused—then leapt into a flying roundhouse kick, imitating Ryoka Griffin.
Toren leaned under the kick. Scotty whirled around, the yellow flames brightening in astonishment. He kicked sideways, instantly, and Toren—front-flipped over Scotty.
“Whoa.”
Ama caught herself as Scotty received a kick from the spinning skeleton in the air. Her skeleton caught himself as she reinforced his bindings, throwing a spinning backhand—
Toren parried the backhand, then twirled along Scotty’s arm, and his own backhand slapped the skeleton’s head so hard Scotty’s jaw cracked. He stepped back as Ama cried out.
“[Repair Undead]! Scotty—Attack Routine 18!”
The [Necromancers] had gone silent, and Scotty began to dance from foot to foot. Left-right, left right, faster—then he leapt at Toren, punching and swaying, poised to dodge any counteratt—
Toren’s hands flicked the punches aside. He held still, blocking, diverting each blow coming at him—for a second, immobile. Then, as if mocking Scotty, he took a step as the skeleton tried to leap back—
They were skull-to-skull, purple and yellow eye-flames blazing at each other. Scotty tried to evade, using the magic in his brain to pivot, leap left—Toren was with him, matching move for move.
“Scotty—”
He leapt, springing into the air, and Toren was on top of him. They hit the ground, and now their bones were jumbling up, trying to gain leverage as they grabbed at each other—Toren tossed Scotty off him as the skeleton tried to put him in a headlock. Toren did a handspring—and kicked Scotty as the skeleton was trying to do the exact same move to him.
Scotty hit the water and vanished into it, thrashing. Ama’s mouth was open. Now, Elosaith’s face was truly wary.
“…That’s no rogue undead. This one’s thinking. Who…is this one of your cabal, Ama? The bones have a similar style to yours.”
“It can’t be. Unless—”
Ama knew the failed coven she’d been leading, and no one had the ability to make a half-decent skeleton. The only other person who would have a similar style to hers would be—
Pisces? However, then Ama saw Toren turn, eyes glowing purple.
“Stop it!”
All four [Necromancers] put up their hands, and his neck cracked as they tried to rip his head off. The surest way to kill an undead—but the skeleton caught his head and refused to let it bend. Elosaith’s staff rose, and the tip glowed as a scythe of magic appeared—then Ama sensed something powerful in the waters.
“Watch out!”
Sillias, her bone-cat, threw itself forwards, a silent yowl of rage as something in the waters made of death magic, even stronger than the skeleton, spat flames at them. Steam boiled upwards, and the [Necromancers] cried out.
“[Bone Wall]! Where—?”
Leithe saw Elosaith whirling the steam away, and all their undead were rising. But when the steam cleared…they saw no skeleton. No enemy.
Just a cleared patch of wet soil, the rain—nothing. Leithe paled as Ama whirled, eyes wide.
“But they were just—!”
“They’re masking their death mana. Sweep for—”
Elosaith sent his undead into the water, but they didn’t find the skeleton nor the other mysterious undead.
They were gone.
 
——
 
They left. Not even a footnote in the annals of The Wandering Inn. No one really remembered him.
Not even Ser Normen, who was punched, but who had been punched many times and took it less like a personal week-ruiner and more like stubbing a toe. Forgotten, especially after Normen sat in a bar in Esthelm, having a drink to celebrate the good interview, and a man with a hat walked in, glowing with two flames…
The [Necromancers] kept their own counsel, and while they had suspicions, one had to admit that a single skeleton, even a hypothetical levelling one, wasn’t much of a threat on the ‘Goblin King and Mortemdefieir Titan’ scale of concern.
As for Ishkr, the most perspicacious member of the inn who could, arguably, put together all of the hints and knew the old lore of the original inn…well, even his usual flair for stories and events was incapacitated by being glued to Onieva in his room that evening during an apology—and goodbye.
So the skeleton left. Realizing…he had never been important, had he?
Had he.
 
——
 
They called the city…uh…Pilossan. Or something.
It was a Drake city down the road from Liscor, one of those ones in the same region as Hectval, where the war with Liscor dragged on. It was, doubtless, regionally important because it was a city, but it was not, in the broad scheme of things, like Liscor now was, which was ironic.
Maviola didn’t care. She hated it here. She sat, sulking, as Toren stood in a shop where an [Alchemist] was giving him the second degree.
“Listen, if you can’t talk and you’re some foreigner without even a passport to show me, why should I hire you? I don’t care if you think you can work, this is a delicate job.”
He was trying to get a job, and the skeleton’s head hung low as he stood there. He was sad, Maviola knew, and she played with Healing Slime, who kept wanting to go inside and eat tasty things. But she didn’t get it.
Why was he so sad? She’d been all set to go and fight the [Necromancers] or do something interesting, but he’d left.
It was like he…he…didn’t actually want vengeance. But her mother had said it was so important. Yet if things were like fire—and Maviola did believe they were—the skeleton’s thirst for it had guttered out, a flame with no fuel.
Sometimes, she thought like Maviola El had, and the memories got jumbled up. Belavierr, her mother, had said it came of inheriting a body so recently deceased and strong. Belavierr had only been sad she couldn’t use Maviola El’s actual soul. Because that would have been a fitting vengeance.
The two looked like Drakes at the moment, this being almost exclusively a Drake city. Maviola skimmed some rocks into the gutter as people eyed her, and the [Alchemist] paused for breath.
“Alright, alright. I can see you want the job. Let’s see you stock something. Do you actually know ingredients? Grinding isn’t hard, but you have to clean the mortar and pestle—I’ll give you half a day of work, and if I don’t like it, I’m not asking you to come back tomorrow. I’ll pay you eight coppers if you give me any work.”
Then he worked. Maviola grew so bored sitting there for two hours, watching people go by, that she got up and went around the city, asking questions and trying to entertain herself with Healing Slime.
But she didn’t really…care why the [Butcher] sliced bodies up, and she offended him by saying it was just like Drake bodies, only a different species. Why did a child cry? Maviola El would have cared.
Maviola the undead stood in a city of the living, and her only fascination was the flicker of flames in a [Baker]’s oven, or the graveyard of the sadly consecrated dead. She didn’t notice the watchers, nor care for the world of the living. In some ways, she was far more perfect an undead than Toren. In others, especially if you understood their instinctual drive to kill, their boredom with the living—so inferior, for all the Witch of Webs had made her.
Toren? Far more fascinating to watch the skeleton grind up ingredients and perfectly stock the store after hearing instructions once. He seemed almost…happy.
 
——
 
If he worked, he could stop thinking of the inn. If he worked, he could feel like he was doing something, especially since he could buy Healing Slime things it wanted to eat.
Working was good. Maviola hated it, she hated this city, and she was bored, but to Toren, there was something here he had missed.
Az’kerash’s castle filled with the undead was so dull. Even dust was more interesting, hence Toren sweeping it up. The thing about undead was that they never…changed.
Think about it. Until their levels, the Chosen had been master-crafted Golems in all but name. They fulfilled their functions, they had personality, but as Az’kerash had despaired—they had no real spark, like Toren.
It never occurred to them to take Relics to win a fight. They didn’t cheat or lie, save for their master’s directives. Toren, now…Toren realized he was a bit of a degenerate.
A bit of a living-phile. A…vitaphile?
He liked watching them. Not in any creepy way like the sex stuff, but just how they changed. Even the [Alchemist] at work was a bundle of contradictions. He worked, but he grew bored. He varied his routine, he experimented—and the poof of pink dust meant Toren had to clean everything off twice, but that was fine.
