Maviola thought it was strange and didn’t like female Toren as much, because she wasn’t as ‘cool’ as Toren. [Sword Dancer] vs [Relic Guardian]. But Toren just enjoyed the reaction Doren gave her, and he certainly appreciated her brighter personality.
Or maybe just staring at her. The skeleton alternated personalities every few days. When she was Toren, she’d be welcoming, if silent, holding up written notes to greet people, showing them around—
Male Toren was obsessive about the organization project and would grudgingly point out items before shooing people away so he could work. And both realized—they were enjoying life.
In fact, so was Doren. The first time he saw a fully empty room in Cormeng’s Grand Emporium, he just stood in it, breathing in and out, not coughing from the dust.
“It’s…beautiful.”
It was. Cormeng’s enchanted shop was, when you removed all the crud, the dust, the wall-to-wall objects, made of those rich, old boards of wood that didn’t squeak or show their age. Sunlight shone down from a window against the slanted roof, and Doren ran a hand across some shelves.
“It’s almost a crime to fill it up like this. We could leave some rooms open…more rooms appear as you need them, I just can’t keep track of them all. But what could we put in here?”
He gave Toren a helpless look, and the skeleton ran off, waving his arms wildly. When he came back, he had…a chessboard. He had to take the pieces off a second board since both were incomplete, but they weren’t going to sell them, anyways. And a bunch of chairs, all mismatched.
Add a table and suddenly, you had a games room. Doren saw Maviola appear with actual interest.
“Are you making a room? I want to help! Not that chair, Toren! This one is more fitting!”
They put some curtains in, a few of the plants that Doren hadn’t even known were still alive, and then you had a room to play chess in. Doren pulled up a seat and saw Toren sit himself down and move a pawn up. Doren blinked and tried to remember the game…
He and Maviola lost a combined 11-0 against Toren and gave up, but then Healing Slime crawled up onto the table, and Doren worried it would eat his pieces. But it clumsily moved a pawn piece forwards, and he stared as the world’s first chess game involving a slime ensued.
Healing Slime lost, obviously, but it seemed to enjoy playing, and that was how more than one visitor would walk in, see the Healing Slime rolling around the table, and sit down and play a slime in chess.
…They almost always won, but then Doren had the brilliant—and shopkeepery—idea to put a little bowl of alchemy reagents the Healing Slime liked out. Pay a few coppers to feed the slime and it would play you in chess all you wanted! He had to go to his local [Alchemist] for them, but Toren had a list, and it actually increased sales; people would see the little slime, win a game, and insist on leaving a note on the board about it, run to get a Mage Picture or someone to illustrate them playing, or find a friend.
And that was the first addition.
 
——
 
Money wasn’t something Toren actually cared about. He never had, except that Erin had wanted it. In the same way, he realized Doren was as close as you got to an undead’s ideals in many ways.
“Money’s never made the family happier. My aunt’s been remarried once, and that’s average for the family. Some are on their fourth marriage. At least I can avoid going to weddings because of work. If it made them happier…I think I’d see it. I used to think I could earn enough to make everyone like me more. Instead, they just expected me to keep it up. No one’s grateful when you work harder—not them. Only the customers, sometimes.”
That made sense to Toren. Erin was never grateful. But sometimes…a Goblin would be fed and look at him, and he’d be the person who’d given the pasta, and that mattered. But the money didn’t.
Still, how did one cater to every customer? Cormeng’s store being across Izril meant that you even got objects which were species-exclusive, like chairs.
Toren quickly grew sick of customers asking why the chairs looked funny. They meant some of the chairs had weird gaps on one side near the base—that was for a Drake’s tail. Humans never considered other species might have different needs and grew almost upset when they found chairs they wanted but were ‘made wrong’.
Also, Doren was absolutely right that the customers’ enjoyment was a benefit, but small and fleeting. If you went out of your way to show them something, they might smile and thank you, but they could be upset a minute later because they’d broken an item and it wasn’t their fault.
It was a thankless job. Maviola kept telling Toren she didn’t know why he did it. But he found them fascinating.
Doren told Toren not to get attached.
“I used to have regulars. I still do. They come in every month, some of them weekly. I think the store remembers or…I do. You get to know them. They’re like family, almost. I know so much about some—then they stop coming in. And I never know if they’re dead or moved away or…”
He rested his weight on the counter, appearing tired.
“Lady Bethal Walchaís loved to come here. I don’t know why she never came in from her city; she loved to come when she went to Invrisil. I haven’t seen her in months. Maybe it stopped mattering.”
Because he was the shopkeeper, and of the many things in other people’s lives…he would always be first to go. It was fair, but it hurt.
So! Toren’s takeaway from that was that if you did something, it had to be because you wanted it. Even if no one would ever thank you for it.
In a way, it was liberating. Because that meant he became a little god in this store. He’d greet you and do all the things he was supposed to. But unless he liked you—unless he valued you, Toren would let you be that little customer. When he saw you and you mattered—he would make the shop turn around you.
In a good way.
It was the [Goths] that did it. By now, the Healing Slime’s chess corner was a miniature attraction, and word must have been getting around, because one day, a pair of strangers entered the shop.
“Ah! It so cute! I’ll die. Stab me and put me in a coffin!”
A group of young people watching the Healing Slime play chess and trying to pose for a [Mage Picture] turned, and several older guests were horrified. But the girl wearing black makeup, eyeshadow, and a gothic maid’s uniform—and carrying a midnight umbrella filled with razors—didn’t care.
The tall, bookish young man nudged her instantly, embarrassed. He had spectacles and pushed them up as if they were odd on his face.
“Gothica, shut up.”
“You shut it, Inkpaper, or I’ll stab you. This is my vacation.”
“Chieft—the boss said to be good. Or you don’t get any more.”
“Yeah, yeah. Oooh! What’s that?”
Gothica instantly found some skull-themed ornaments that weren’t real bone—Toren knew bone—and grabbed them. It seemed there had been more…interesting clients in Cormeng’s store, because there were some rather ghoulish objects. Gothica wanted all of them.
“This is for my altar. This is for my coffin…Inkpaper, help me!”
She screeched at him, but the other visitor was studying all the books. They had a lot of money to throw around, and Toren watched, rubbing his hands and anticipating a sale. But the young people were more interested by the girl’s attire.
“Excuse me, what are you wearing, miss? And where are you from? We’re from First Landing.”
Thanks to the entry board, they were aware she wasn’t necessarily from First Landing, so Gothica spoke with a huge, sharp grin.
“Death’s clothing. You like?”
“It’s horrendous, miss. You look like a Noelictant tart! Ugh! Is that what they wear wherever you come from? You look like someone dumped ink all over your head.”
A young woman was trying to make fun of Gothica in that way you did to make yourself appear better, and Toren glowered. He hoped she broke something. He thought the strange girl had good style. And taste! Those were very well-proportioned skulls she was holding.
Several people laughed, but a gaggle of slightly younger children who might have been Drakes coming out of a Drake school fell silent. Sometimes, visitors clashed like this, especially if they recognized each other. About football, ironically, as well as politics.
However, Gothica’s smile only grew confused for a second.
“Oh, you’re trying to be mean. You so cute.”
She pinched the young woman’s cheek hard and got a squeal.
“She cut me! Mantel!”
She fled to her boyfriend, and the young man went to push Gothica. He put a hand out—and she moved her umbrella in the way. He yanked his hand back and stared at the cuts on his hand.
“Aah! She’s got blades on it!”
Gothica took a bow, and her eyes glittered with delight.
“My name is Gothica Midnight. How d’you do? Stab out your eyes for me, please, you rude fools. Don’t fight me; my blood is black, and my soul is shadowed. I’m a [Goth], and I’ll kill you if you annoy me.”
She was—something. Toren would have laughed, and certainly, some people did, but it looked like a fight. One of the people on the First Landing side heaved an object at her, and Toren caught it.
“No fighting in the store!”
Doren shouted, but before he could get close, one of the other young women—who turned out to be [Ladies]—snuck up behind Gothica.
“[Hefty Slap]! Take this, you little weasel!”
She slapped Gothica and broke her hand. Only Toren saw her hand strike the dark aura around the [Goth], which twisted it. To everyone else, it seemed as though there were shadows from under Gothica’s umbrella that formed a wall as hard as iron.
Well—getting the party out of the store became Toren’s task, which wasn’t fun, but when he came back, a bunch of people were asking what Gothica’s class was, and she was explaining.
“Being a [Goth] means you like gloomy things.”
“Like a [Necromancer]?”
“They sort of cool, but no. It means…you ever want to lie in a grave?”
“What? No!”
Gothica shrugged.
“Then it not for you. If you ever want to kiss a nightmare—that makes you [Goth]. And it gives you cool powers. Also, we have good music. Apparently.”
She hadn’t actually gotten any of the good music yet, but she winked at some of the Drakes and showed them her ears, which had piercings. By the time Inkpaper got her and led her away, there was a small buzz around her.
Toren thought little of it—until he saw Gothica come back another day because she liked all the ornamentation so much. At first, she just brought another person from ‘her group’ who also wore black and had facepaint on. But then he saw a girl standing in a corner of the shop, day after day, with a black umbrella, glancing around and asking if he’d seen another girl matching Gothica’s description.
 
——
 
“I—I’m Lady Isbeth Wellfar. I heard you broke Lady Tiri’s hand.”
“Oh. You want to fight too?”
“No! I, um—someone showed me a picture of you, and I thought you looked so interesting. I bought this umbrella. May I see yours?”
Gothica was very surprised to meet the tanned, barefoot [Lady] who was apparently nobility. But Wellfars were sea-farers and as far from Gothica’s style as you could get. However…Lady Isbeth had apparently seen Noelictus, and Gothica was all over her at that.
“The Kingdom of Shade is the best. You have pictures of them?”
“I—I could get a book. Have you heard of the Court of Dusks? It’s all midnight tiles, and the Hunter’s Guild—”
“You show me! You do that and I’ll, uh—I’ll give you my umbrella! No, wait! I’ll decorate yours. You do mine!”
Over the next week, Lady Isbeth, who became ‘Isby’, met with Gothica and a growing number of younger people who had decided the look Gothica was sporting was fascinating. Well, not just that. The first time a very nervous Drake with scales painted white and black walked in, Toren stared at the clumsy skeleton on one arm.
“I like [Necromancers]. I think Pisces is the coolest member of the Horns! No one else likes him, but he’s the best one!”
The two girls turned to the Drake boy, and Gothica grinned.
“[Necromancers] are pretty good. You want to sit with us? Maybe we get drinks? Inkpaper, can we have drinks?”
“No eating in the store!”
That came from Doren, but Toren took a look at the Drake boy’s clumsy illustration, and he heard that name.
Pisces.
Pisces. The name hurt—but Toren guessed he was glad his creator was doing well. It wasn’t Pisces’ fault, how it had turned out. No—it was. He’d been a bad creator, but Toren didn’t hold that against him as much as Erin.
Because he’d observed…or rather, failed to observe a single [Necromancer] or undead being who was happy. Maybe Rheirgest was an exception, but Toren had never met an undead happier than he was.
Maybe Scotty, but Toren was sure he had some kind of intrinsic trauma once you got to know him.
The Necromancer wept for the life he had. Pisces had been a starving [Necromancer] stealing around Liscor’s outskirts. The Mother of Graves was a coward hiding in her room.
And so on.
But these [Goths]? Toren hurried over and had a quiet conversation with Doren where he begged for a favor. That was how the trio of [Goths] saw Toren lugging over a table and chairs and making motions of entreaty.
He set them up in a side-room with no windows—which of course they liked—and they had a splendid time. The next time they came back, they found he’d put all-black and red decorations in the room and filled it with a profusion of more ghoulish items.
There were actually quite a few [Goth]-friendly items. You had to consider that things that were actually mundane became rather disturbing when isolated from their inciting reason of creation.
For instance…taxidermy.
Why? Well, some noble fancied that his particular dead Corusdeer deserved mounting, and then you had a horror staring down at you whenever someone decided they had too many deer heads.
Skull drinking mugs—some of them actual skulls of one’s foes—did not look good in the inheritance. And clearly, there were times when necromancy had been in vogue.
If they cleaned up after themselves, Doren allowed the [Goths] their space, and they were actually very good about it since they recognized the value of the area. In return, the shopkeeper caught Toren’s bug of enthusiasm and fetched something out from the back.
“I’ve been holding onto these because the family thinks they’re worth something, but they can’t be sold. It’s silverware—real silver—but see the theme?”
