Purple burned in the monster’s eyes. The color of terror and undeath. Jewel flames illuminating the eye sockets of a mortal, skeletal head of someone who had reached the end of their journey. Carrion dead, puppeted by a being who knew no pity nor honor, who had come to this world as base and useless as any other being.
—And never changed.
 
“Why are you so…evil?”
 
The skeleton had freed himself, but he hadn’t—not really. He’d gone on an adventure, fought, and grown stronger. He had gone wandering, but always, always come back.
A monster.
 
“You killed them. Why? Why did you do it?”
 
Then he had realized he was unloved, and an even bigger monster had taken him as a curiosity and spirited him away to a terrible castle, filled with bigger, crueler monsters who toyed with his life like he had done to others.
Alone, in misery, except for a little thing he had befriended, a slime. Then a strange child who also wore someone else’s flesh, Maviola, the second daughter of Belavierr the Stitch Witch.
—But then he’d seen an opening and run away. Run, because this wasn’t his place, taking the Healing Slime, Maviola, and treasures with him. The Necromancer had let him go, because he didn’t matter, and the skeleton’s eyes blazed purple.
A monster with eyes as beautiful as distant stars—the [Innkeeper]’s first employee. The first wayward son of The Wandering Inn.
But she didn’t love him. He was just the monster who had made every mistake.
She burned, now, that [Wandering Innkeeper], with the flames of memory, wondrous fire which blazed across a hat on her head.
There was no fire for him. No room in her heart for the skeleton she thought was dead and gone.
So the monster kept running. Running and running.
But now he knew he was running, a skeletal hamster in a wheel that spun so fast that if he stopped, he’d fly to pieces. Screaming as he searched for something he’d never really had.
At least this time—
He had a voice.
 
——
 
Toren, Job-Hunter.
 
He said nothing, which was the odd part. They both knew he could speak, but he refused to. It was sort of annoying, but one of them made up for it with chatter.
“Toren, my feet hurt. Where are we going? Are we there yet? I miss the castle. Are we lost? What do we do now? I’m hungry.”
The skeleton turned, and the Wyvern helmet he wore framed those glowing, purple eyes. He was garbed head to toe in Relics. Magical artifacts, from the gauntlets to his boots, and the [Relic Guardian] radiated so much magic that he made the slime draped around his shoulders like a cape glow twice as bright.
Toren said nothing, but he stared so pointedly at the young undead woman wearing the body of the late Maviola El that it was abundantly clear he was thinking, ‘you can’t feel your feet, and you don’t eat, shut up.’
She pouted at him, sticking her lower lip out in a fashion that had never fit the woman whose body she had taken. This was ‘Maviola’, but not her. It was her body, her power over flame, but the undead didn’t have her soul. She was a child, even more so than Toren.
“Well, I’d have sore feet if I wanted to feel them, but I don’t want to! And we don’t have any of that drink Az’kerash gave us. Can we get more? I like it. Why don’t you talk? I hate having to hear you think.”
Toren ignored that. He kept stumping through the dark cave, occasionally punching through narrowing walls of stone with pure force. Maviola followed him without making any flames. They could see in the dark, and they’d been walking for a long time.
How long, she didn’t know. First, they’d fled the Necromancer’s castle during the Solstice when he was distracted. Toren had said they had to go, so they’d run. She had come with him because she liked him better than other Chosen, this was exciting, and everyone said her mother, Belavierr, was bad, so Toren was better than Az’kerash, who was frightening.
Then they’d just…walked.
And walked.
And walked some more. Usually at night, because both of them would have alarmed any mortals. In the day, they’d dig a hole and sit in it or search for things for Healing Slime to eat.
Healing Slime, the third and only mortal member of their group, was so funny. It jiggled and wobbled and raced around sometimes, and it and Toren were friends. It liked Maviola too, and she’d find Sage’s Grass for it to nibble on. It was far bigger than when Toren had first found it, a starving slime kept by Ijvani in the castle.
It was still pretty small, still able to fit in the skeleton’s rib-cage. He liked to keep it there, for protection. Feeding Healing Slime was a lot of work, though. It needed to eat every day if it could. At least once a week!
This was why undead were superior beings. Maviola missed the castle. She didn’t get why they had to leave. Toren said—well, loudly thought—it was because the Chosen were insane, Az’kerash was losing his grip on sanity, and it was all going to go bad now that Nerrhavia had left. They used to bully him before he beat them up, and Maviola didn’t like most of them.
“But now what?”
It occurred to her, after about a week of following Toren around…that he had no idea. Thusly, Maviola the reborn [Flamesetter Deathchild] learned the lesson all children eventually learned. Adults had no clue either. They just did what they thought was best and stuck to things they believed were ‘right’ when there were no good answers.
So Toren did what the skeleton had always done, ever since he’d left Erin outside of Celum one day and become a drifter:
He searched for new employment. He was, after all, a Level 11 [Barmaid], a Level 9 [Carer], a Level 13 [Sword Dancer], a Level 6 [Tactician], a Level 14 [Undead Leader]…and a Level 33 [Relic Guardian].
He felt like he had good prospects. But the job market in this economy…putting your application in was hard. And the companies ready to employ you just weren’t ideal.
 
——
 
Three miles underground, down through a network of caves, the Champion of the Anguivess Host raised his mace with a howl, his rotted flesh stretching as his face—half a face, the other half was writhing ghastmaggots—contorted in an expression of rage.
The Rotfiend was fast, and the six Crypt Lords ringing the dueling arena kept the skeleton boxed in as he backed away from the swinging mace. It was all bone, covered with some foul flesh that seemed to grow from the undead weapon.
All of it was unknown to Toren. He had never known you could make a weapon out of…undead? It seemed to exude death mana, but he couldn’t focus on that because he was auditioning for the job.
The Rotfiend came at him, swinging hard with both hands, and Toren ducked, kicked the ground with his boots, and blinked left, out of the way. The Rotfiend missed, and his mace chewed a big piece of the stone floor away.
Strong—but not that smart. Toren beckoned with a hand as someone cheered.
“Go, Toren! You can do it! Ra, ra, raaah!”
Maviola’s voice was the only one in this deathly silent chamber. Some of the Crypt Lords turned to stare at her, and she fell silent.
“Do we not cheer here? Fine. Boo! Boo! You suck! Your stitching is terrible, and your face looks like horse poop!”
She shouted at the Rotfiend, which actually stared at her. It was a powerful undead, so much so that it was above Toren’s pay-grade by far. A [Skeleton Knight] like he’d been wouldn’t stand up against an advanced zombie-type undead like this. The Rotfiend was above a Draugr in sheer necromantic strength…but Maviola and Toren were above it in other ways.
They could think. They had levels and personalities, and in that sense, even the Crypt Lords, the bloated amalgamations of corpses who loomed over the two, were inferior. And knew it. That was the only reason they’d gotten the job interview.
Mind you…Toren shifted and raised his shield as the Rotfiend charged again. They were still getting a hard interview from the boss.
The boss being the bloated, gigantic mass of flesh watching from one side of this little arena. It was, oh, thirty feet high, comprised of swollen heads, lashing tails—Drake bodies mashed together. The biggest undead Toren had ever seen outside of Az’kerash’s Bone Giants.
A Crypt King.
The Anguivess Host were a rotten lot. Literally—they were on the zombie side of undead, as opposed to skeletons, and they had congregated deep down in these caves, building their strength. They didn’t roam about rampaging like your average undead, and they hadn’t appreciated the unsolicited callers. Lots of ghouls. Only a small number of zombies—most were upgraded, a deliberate choice by the Crypt King, who was slowly enhancing his forces. Death magic accumulated over time; with enough years, they’d refine themselves into a host so deadly they’d destroy the City of Crossroads and then sweep across Izril with their hordes.
—That was the plan Toren got from the Crypt King’s dark thoughts. It was quite intelligent, and he bet it could even speak, but it didn’t have Toren’s…personality. It was more like a [Strategist] mixed with a [King] grafted onto a Golem’s framework. It didn’t have any deep feelings, save for that constant hatred of the living. It did have a name for its group—the Anguivess Host. It had taken the name from somewhere…perhaps the company who’d died.
So you see, intelligent, but not a Revenant. Not a levelling undead, and the Crypt King watched as Toren raised his shield and blocked the Rotfiend’s mace-strike. Toren shifted, analyzing how the undead fought.
Toren’s shield splintered the air with each blow the Rotfiend landed. His arm didn’t buckle; the air took the damage, and reality fractured a bit, but his arm kept the shield high. Then he stabbed back.
He’d taken a sword made of anti-light, and together with Gauntlets of Giant’s Strength, he nearly cleaved straight through the Rotfiend’s right arm. It was outclassed by the weapons and backed up, glancing at the Crypt King for orders.
It thought—and the Rotfiend charged in, trying to rip the sword out of Toren’s grip. The skeleton’s helmet, made of Wyvern scales, seemed to writhe and twist—he exhaled flames over the Rotfiend.
“Yay, Toren! Get it!”
The Rotfiend charged at Toren, ablaze, howling—it had limited regenerative qualities, but its real abilities were all based on its decay. It could have the maggots spray liquid at Toren, erupt its flesh in noxious boils, even spew a miasma of pestilence at him.
…It didn’t really work on a skeleton, and Toren just used his boots to blink out of the Rotfiend’s way. He kicked it in the rear as it stumbled into a Crypt Lord. The undead shoved the Rotfiend back towards Toren, and it swung wildly at him.
Toren turned to the Crypt King of the Anguivess Host.
I’ve won. Are we doing this? Come on.
The Rotfiend was one of the better fighters the Crypt King had. But the Greater Undead just waited, so Toren sighed, adjusted his head, and swung his sword with one hand as he stepped backwards.
[Perfect Dodge], [Mirage Cut]—it looked like he vanished, then appeared through the Rotfiend, passing through the other side. The Rotfiend slid apart at the chest, eyes flickering. It tried to crawl towards Toren, and a Crypt Lord smashed its torso in. The mace slammed onto the floor as Maviola cheered, and Toren put his arms up.
The Ghouls and undead stared at him, then began to devour the Rotfiend’s flesh, trying to graft it onto their own bodies to enhance their strength. Toren lowered his arms, then felt his chest wiggling. The Healing Slime wiggled out of his mouth now that it was safe, making a faint squeaking sound of dismay. The Crypt King stared at the Healing Slime, then Toren. It thought in terms Toren vaguely translated as:
(Thou. Appointed unto the Anguivess Host. Champion of Rot. Serve. Serve and destroy. The hour of Imlerith’s end nears. Kneel and be grafted with rot. Pluck insignificant living thing’s mana core and offer. Grow. Rot. Kill. Kill the living. Kill the world. Kill it all.)
It made the skeleton pause and clatter his jaw a bit as Maviola sidled over, raising her skirts to avoid stepping in the Rotfiend’s goo.
“Every undead we meet just wants to kill the living. Mother did say they all wanted it, but they’re so…straightforwards. Are we working for him, Toren?”
Toren was trying to negotiate with the boss. No, not the Healing Slime. It was a friend. See? He tried to make Healing Slime wave a bit of itself, but it was shaking in fear.
(All that lives dies. Kill. Offer. Grow.)
It showed him an image of an undead imbibing mana and growing. That’s how it worked, and the Healing Slime was magical enough that the Crypt King wanted its mana for itself. Toren refused politely.
The Crypt King’s many heads opened their mouths, uttering spells. [Deathbolts] formed in the air and showered at Toren, who shielded Healing Slime with his back. They washed over his armor of Adamantium-Truegold, and Maviola smiled.
“Ooh, so refreshing!”
[Deathbolt] was like a healing spell for undead, but the Healing Slime squeaked and retreated into Toren’s armor. He flipped the Crypt King off as the Anguivess Host turned to the defiant skeleton. The Crypt King hesitated—then the mouths closed.
(Serve.)
It seemed to reconsider attacking the skeleton, but Toren had made up his mind. He clattered his jaw as he touched his chest, then gestured at Maviola.
Listen, I appreciate this is a good operation, but the vibes just don’t…work. I’m going to have to decline after all. Come on, Maviola, we’re going.
He took her hand as the Crypt King stared at him. The undead king gazed at the fallen Rotfiend and then the skeleton hurrying away. The Host were utterly confused. They’d never run into an undead who refused to join their endless cause—
The Crypt King visibly hesitated as Toren edged away, pulling Maviola, who was just as confused—then began to run. Then it started sending Ghouls after them. They bounded along, intent on dragging the two back and subsuming them into the horde—
“Oh, Toren, are we not working with them? Good. I never liked them. Can I do it? Thank you! [Fireball]! [Fireball]! Heeheehee—hahahaha—no, I’m not laughing crazy. Mother says you should do it when you’re unleashing your powers.”
The Crypt King saw flames blooming in the tunnels and sensed Ghouls dying by the dozen as the other undead unleashed her powers. It sat there, staring at one of its champions, now paste on the ground.
Sometimes you had a really good prospective employee, and it was all down to whether you, as the boss, could be accommodating too. That was the thing people forgot in this economy. It wasn’t a one-way street. Toren had lots of prospects. Tons.
 
——
 
