It was interesting. It was like him, in a way. Toren could do repetitive things, but he liked when challenges arose. His favorite memories were of having to beat down Shield Spiders when he was patrolling outside the inn or digging all the snow up and waiting for Erin to be so impressed…
But she never was.
Up and down. Every time his spirits rose, she appeared like a hammer and brought him down. His mopping of the counter slowed, and the [Alchemist] scolded him—then realized what time it was.
“Well—well. Well, I suppose you’ve earned this. Here. Come back tomorrow right when my store opens. Eight o’clock! Er, what’s your name again?”
He was handed a silver piece and six coppers instead of the eight, and the [Alchemist] ran a finger along the shelves and was amazed to find no dirt on them. Toren smiled as he nodded and held up his name on a little piece of wood.
He’d invented the idea all by himself: writing when he didn’t want to use his voice. He was very proud of it, and the [Alchemist] nodded. Toren went to find Maviola, who instantly began to complain.
“Toreeeen. I was so bored. Can we go now? All these Drakes keep trying to pick me up. Which mother says I’m too young for. Healing Slime was bored too!”
Healing Slime didn’t seem bored. It had been rolling around in Maviola’s arms, as fascinated as Toren by the city. He hugged it, and it seemed to realize he was feeling better.
I must work here. 
“Why?”
Because…because Toren had realized something during his retreat from Liscor. The Wandering Inn gave him nothing. There was no real vengeance to pursue; he didn’t care if Lyonette was alive or dead. Tormenting her had been fun, but what had it brought him?
Nothing. Only regrets, really. Killing—it was something Toren tried to explain to Maviola as they left the city and sat in a nearby forest to wait for dawn. It was dark and they didn’t have much to do, so he sat and polished his armor while staring at the moons. The green one had a bunch of cracks in it. He wondered when that had happened.
Maviola was entirely bored here too. She amused herself by burning a small anthill, ant by ant, digging them up and setting them aflame. Healing Slime found that semi-distressing, so it tried to climb a tree, first rolling up it, then streeeetching up to try to reach a branch. Toren felt like it was learning: it was trying to make suction cups to go up the tree as he spoke.
Killing wasn’t fun. No, wait, it was. But—and this was what he tried to get across to Maviola.
It didn’t give him anything, not really. Levels? Sure. But he’d killed and killed, and in the end, he’d gone back home because it was sort of pointless. Like the Crypt King down there. Say he managed to kill this City of Crossroads. Then what?
“Then you make a huge army and kill the next city.”
Then what?
“Then the next. Then an entire kingdom!”
Maviola spread her hands, smiling wide, and Toren just sat there.
It sounded sort of dull. It sounded like a lot of work. Even if you were working with undead, at some point, you’d have such a big army you needed someone to delegate it. Which meant you were then managing the managers, and you had to organize each horde and probably do supply lines—
“Supply lines? Toren, are you silly? We’re undead!”
Weapons, armor, ammunition—Toren got a mild headache just thinking of it all. Maviola flopped onto her back.
“Toren, you’re not being fun anymore. Leading is hard, but killing is fun!”
Was it? He remembered how terrified he’d been when Venitra was ripping bones off his body, piece by piece, or he was shielding Healing Slime from Ijvani. If something tried to hurt Healing Slime…
“I’d burn them to ash! Because we like Healy Slime. But other things, Toren.”
He didn’t know. Toren thought of it. He could have killed Ser Normen with his sword, but he just sat there and remembered strangling an [Innkeeper] with his hands, each second feeling wrong, watching her die…something irreplaceable. Something you couldn’t undo, not with a thousand zombie Erins, and he’d tried.
Maviola went back to burning ants. Toren articulated the second reason mentally, which she found as silly as the first.
“What do you mean, ‘you don’t own your Relics’?”
The [Relic Guardian] played with his sword. It was a beautiful, anti-light weapon that could cleave through a tree in a moment. Healing Slime squealed as its tree went over with it halfway up, and Toren slapped Maviola’s hand and grabbed it back.
It was his.
Yet he did not know who had made it. He didn’t know its name, all that it did—he had some sense as a [Relic Guardian], but he had taken it from Az’kerash. He hadn’t earned it.
“It’s yours now. Mother likes theft.”
Belavierr also believed in deals, fair deals, because stealing only got you so far. Maviola rolled her eyes as Toren pointed this out. She flounced off, and he sat there, unconcerned for her wellbeing. She was more powerful than he. With the Relics…
With the Relics, I am powerful, but without, I’m just a weak skeleton. 
Toren wanted more. He wanted something he had achieved.
Maviola didn’t understand. She was very unhappy with their current arrangement, but she hadn’t decided to split ways or overrule Toren. Just complained like a child, really.
It didn’t seem to occur to her that she could just go on her own path. Sometimes she whined and asked if they could go ‘back’ and find Az’kerash, but the idea of just heading off to find him didn’t occur to her. Toren almost imagined she’d grow afraid and nervous without support.
Belavierr had made Maviola as a daughter, and the young undead’s reliance and need to learn meant he was her caretaker. But she didn’t understand anything he valued.
Healing Slime seemed to know how Toren felt. It rolled over the anthill of burnt ants and sat a while. Toren thought it was digesting the ants until it saw Healing Slime spit a few out, completely healed. It saved dozens—then they flocked around it and began to bite pieces of it off!
Toren began stomping the ants as the Healing Slime fled, wailing slightly. He gathered it up and sat there. It was a good slime, but the world was not kind to innocent slimes. Evil skeletons…evil skeletons could survive.
He resolved to buy Healing Slime all the ingredients it liked and made a list of the things that the slime would eat, by taking it inside of him when he worked the next day. Maviola sulked in the forest, but brightened up when he bought her pieces of wood to burn and candles to melt.
 
[Barmaid Level 12!]
[Skill – Swift Cleaning obtained!]
 
——
 
For two whole days, Toren worked happily. Then, of course, it didn’t last. It never did. For he had forgotten that Maviola was a young undead, not a skeleton questioning his life choices.
Belavierr’s second daughter was exactly as she had been made to be. The Watch questioned her on the third day and pressed her about a Drake passport, which neither one had; they just jumped over the walls where no one was looking.
She grew angry. Toren glanced up as he heard screams. He raced outside, an apron on, and saw her laughing and setting flames to Drakes rolling around on the ground.
“Look, Toren! Look! I found something to do!”
She clapped her hands, twirling in delight, as he stood there. Then the Watch came for them, and Toren might be powerful, and she was Belavierr’s daughter, but there were far too many of them.
Again, he ran.
 
——
 
And now for something completely different.
Issk. No, it wasn’t a Drake name. At least…probably not. But yes, Issk.
Last name Issk. First name Doren.
But Issk was what was famous. Actually, ‘Issk’ wasn’t that famous aside from if you lived in a few cities in the upper north section of Izril.
Cormeng was the real name. And even that was a degree of famous, but it was the only important thing.
Cormeng, as in…Cormeng’s Grand Emporium of Antiques and Pawnshop, the mysterious building that could appear in your city! Many cities in Terandria, in fact, wherever you wanted! Come in and see all the wonders of a giant pawnshop! Marvel at all the useless trash people sold for copper pennies and buy it at a 350% markup!
Ignore the shopkeeper. He didn’t matter. Get bored, leave. The shop wouldn’t be there the next time you looked for it, but who cared? It truly, absolutely, made no difference in your life.
Except once—but that had been an Incident, one of six over Doren Issk’s entire life. He knew better than to think it meant anything.
Doren. Balding. Overweight from sitting at the counter all day. Unhandsome, which was not to imply he was too ugly, he hoped. Just…completely unattractive, and his demeanor did him no credit. He was dour, depressed? Oh, yes, but also just tired and worn down.
He had long jowls. Like one of those dogs that drooped at you. He could tell you the price of anything in the store because he’d had to label it, and he could point out any section in the sprawling, enchanted shop. But nothing here was fancy.
You’d think ‘magical pawnshop’ and expect the leavings of a desperate Archmage, dangerous objects piled next to malfunctioning wands. But that hadn’t really been the case since Cormeng had been alive, nine generations back.
It was all just…old maps. Quill sets no one wanted. Fake glass jewelry. Clothing—dead gods, so much clothing, some of it half-decent, but none of it brilliant for bargain-hunting if that made sense. Old signboards. Furniture—and again, you could find a decent set, but nothing magical.
Any of that stuff was snapped up because it was valuable or Doren had orders to set it aside for the family to check out. So the pawnshop was room after room, three floors of…of…crap. People wandered around inside, and when they left, the shop spat them out in the city they’d come from.
You couldn’t be cute and use it like Liscor’s [Door of Portals]. You entered, you left from where you came from. Even Doren couldn’t change that rule; he just popped out in his home city. He didn’t have time to travel; he had to mind the shop. He worked five days a week. He’d used to work eight, until he collapsed. Even then, those three days off left him so aimless he’d often work six or seven days a week. Not enough time to enjoy his decent pay. He’d forgotten how to do interesting things on his time off.
The shop made money, though. A surprising amount. On a bad day, he was pulling at least a dozen gold pieces. It was just sheer customer volume and the fact that his customers came from so many cities; he didn’t run out of people willing to toss down some silver or coppers on a trinket just for the novelty.
Now, if this all sounded dreadful, well, it was. Doren didn’t lie about the job, but no one really asked. No one paid attention to him, even if they realized the nature of the shop. He was the ninth generation of shopkeeper to do this job after Cormeng, the founder and the great magic-user who had made the store. Damn him.
Only one person had ever stopped and asked Doren about his job and she…well. He’d heard she was dead or in Baleros. An exciting woman, but she’d forgotten about him, and he couldn’t blame her.
Sometimes, he forgot about him.
 
——
 
Doren was hanging up a second cork billboard next to the first one, covered in notes from visitors. There was a big note at the top which read:
 
Leave a note of your city and class for other visitors to see! Cormeng’s shop has served over a hundred and twenty cities and counting!
 
It was—it was just a thing. The [Innkeeper] had begun it. Now, the board was covered in notes, and Doren sometimes made sure they weren’t overlapping or falling over each other, but he liked the look of it. The second cork board was because the first was running out of space.
He studied it, the shopkeeper, not smiling…but he glanced over at some visitors who slowed as they came into the door and the bell chimed. They glanced at it, and he watched out of the corner of his eye as he turned on a scrying mirror, waiting to see if they got it.
He was a shopkeeper, by the way. Not a [Shopkeeper]. He didn’t have the class; he wasn’t allowed to. He didn’t like this job. When he was sixty, he’d retire. Seven more years. Seven…dead gods. He’d done this job for forty years, ever since he was twelve. So long he’d become numb to how it felt until she’d come in and asked him if he wanted to change things.
Erin Solstice. He’d been so upset at her, but he’d kept the board she’d started. Sometimes, he’d read it before closing up, smiling at a comment left by someone interesting or just finding the city on a map.
Sometimes, the board was a curse and he’d read complaints about the shop, comments about how it was a let-down, about him, or just—boring comments and he’d feel the weight of apathy on him like one of those damn Grimalkin weights that someone had sold him that he had to lug into the store—like a bar pressing against his chest, squeezing the life out of him—
Thus, Doren.
—He had an interesting visitor today on the glorious day of Beithday, the first day of the week. He’d forgotten to check the calendar, but there she was.
“Doren! Collection time!”
His aunt swept in, all smiles, and he sighed.
“Oops. I forgot to count out the coins. One second, Aunt Markine. How’s things?”
Her smile twisted a bit as she wasn’t actually here to socialize, and she waited, sighing.
“Oh, very well. I’m hoping to make an investment in a local player’s guild—you know, theatre? Do hurry up, Doren. The rest of the family is w—Cousin Stenman!”
He came in, since the shop could be open to multiple cities at once, and he had a smart vest on.
“My favorite day of the month! Hello, Doren, how’s business?”
“I’m getting the coins. One second.”
He had to divide up the store’s profits among seven different groups. Cormeng’s shop made good money—enough so that seven groups of Cormeng’s prolific family could make a very, very healthy income off of the money. Some just lived off of it, others augmented their own jobs, but it made them wealthy. Hence Issk being a small name up north. Doren, incidentally, got the seventh portion; an equal ‘share’ given he was one man. But he did all the work. That’s how it worked in the Issk family. One person worked until they were sixty, then they were able to retire and get the same payout. Once he was sixty, he’d go travelling, maybe. Start a family.
Sixty…far too late to find someone. Markine had given up on telling him to ‘find someone’. Find someone with what days off, Aunt? Who wanted to marry into a seventh-share of this store?
“You know, Doren, the profits are down a bit these last few months. We’re not saying it’s low, but do you have any inkling why?”
