“Thank you, boss.” Teressa excused herself from the room, saying, “Have a good rest,” as she shut the door behind her.

Erick immediately went to bed and zonked right out.

- - - -

There was a forest.

Cool and rainy.

Growing tall, and deep.

Wind flowed through branches.

Water rushed through streams, brilliant red, the color of enchanted blood.

None of the celebrating people seemed to mind the red of the rivers.

- - - -

Erick woke to a panoramic view of a sunset sky. He stretched, cast a [Cleanse], checked on his various Ophiel (and found nothing untoward), and checked on the other people in the suite. Jane, Kiri, and Teressa were all out. Only Poi was left, sitting by his lonesome in the living room.

“Hey, Poi,” Erick called out, his voice reaching past his door and into the main room, “I’m gonna try something odd. Don’t mind me.”

“Sure thing!”

Erick said to whoever might be listening, but mostly to the mists in the mana all around him, “Some privacy, please.”

After a moment, the mists around him retreated. Erick smiled. He nodded to himself, and then, still in bed, cast a [Sealed Privacy Ward] around the room, cutting off most of the outside world. He still needed to unlock and then buy [Witness] so he could remake [Sealed Privacy Ward] able to completely block all forms of spying, but that might have been overkill for a simple Status conversation.

He sent off a small prayer to Rozeta.

A blue box appeared.

Welcome, Erick Flatt, Minor Entity of the Script!

This is your first time using your Minor Entity access, so there are some procedures to check before a full connection can be established.

Checking privacy...

Erick waited.

Another blue box appeared.

Success! Privacy meets bare minimum requirements.

Checking Status...

Erick waited.

Another blue box appeared.

Success!

You are now a registered member of the Minor Entities of the Script!

Choose your method of communication (This can be changed later):

1) Telepathic.

2) Summoned to Speak with Rozeta, with accompanying time dilation. (Better for more privacy)

“One.”

The blue boxes vanished.

Erick sat, waiting.

After several moments, a divine fire hovered in the air, and Rozeta’s voice came to him, ‘Oh! Erick! Hello. You’re in Treehome? That’s a nice place. What Status-thing can I do for you?’

‘Hello. Yes. Nice to talk to you like this.’ Erick laid back in bed, and sent, ‘I’m wondering which is better to drop for Quest Board? 10% Spell Cost Reductions, or Force Savant?’

‘Let me… You gonna wear those rings all the time?’

‘Yes.’

‘Spell Cost Reduction. You can drop that one. Force Savant has some nice interactions with the creation of Force Magic, so I’d keep that one if I were you.’

‘Then I will take that advice, please.’

‘Just one second…. There!’

Erick felt a shift in something far off, like a marker on an unseen horizon had changed without him realizing it till now. It was not an unpleasant feeling, but it was a feeling nonetheless.

‘You’re all set up for the Quest Board. That’s a complicated thing, but I’m sure you’ll figure it out.’

‘Thank you. Another question: Is my [Quick Spell] the good version?’

‘… I could answer the first one because it was a Class Ability question of numbers, and that was easy enough to crunch on my end, if only to save you some experimenting of your own. But this one; I cannot answer this.’

‘Fair enough.’ Erick went right along his questions, asking, ‘Sorry to be so fast about this, but are these New Stats real? What’s going on in there?’

‘I prefer fast. But...’ With a tired voice, Rozeta said, ‘They’re real for you. For now, there’s no telling how they’re going to affect other people.’ Slightly more serious, she said, ‘There’s no telling how they’re going to affect you, in the long term.’

Erick thought about that, then said, ‘This Converter Angel. Why don’t they just ‘Convert’ everyone? From my understanding, the Breach Demon the Halls of the Dead almost summoned was going to murder everyone they could and turn the rest, creating a tide of demons to wash across the Greensoil Republic… But this Angel is operating in the shadows and picking individual people for its purposes. So why the different modus operandi from the Breach Demon?’

‘Ahhh… I have to be neutral, Erick. I can’t answer this one.’

‘I didn’t think you could, but thank you anyway.’

‘I can say that there are Angel and Demon Entities on that Quest Board. You might be able to find some more answers there.’ Rozeta paused. She said, ‘I can’t say much, but Erick… Thin as it was, you were under Melemizargo’s protection for most of that Shadow’s Feast. Are you understanding what I’m saying?’

Caizoa had already spoken her objections to Erick’s involvement in the hunting and killing of the Converter Angel; he would try to talk to the damned thing first and then get Converted. Caizoa seemed to think the Converter Angel would fuck him over as soon as it could, and then fuck over everyone else in the process. It seemed that Rozeta thought this way too, though she was unwilling to voice that thought.

Erick said, ‘Yeah. I understand.’ He added, ‘Ah, I have one more question, then: Got any suggestions for a Soul Magic teacher?’

‘There might be something for that on the Quest Board. I know there are more than a few people who are looking for apprentices to pass their knowledge.’ Rozeta said, ‘I can’t help you more than this.’

Erick had another question, but he was not prepared for it, on his end. He almost smacked himself. He should have grabbed a grand rad from home before he started this communion. He asked anyway, ‘[Language Acquisition]?’

‘Sure.’ Rozeta added, ‘Just hold a grand rad sometime in the near future and will it to me, and that’s fine. You owe me a grand rad for switching out your Class Ability, too. So that’s two you owe me. Maybe don’t get in the habit of this. It’s not a good look.’

Shit. He needed one for his Class Ability switch, too? ‘Uh. Sorry about that.’

‘It’s fine, Erick. I know you’re good for it. I’m not able to interact with your bank account like Irogh was, though. So you do need to get me those grand rads yourself. Preferably sooner rather than later.’

‘Why do you need grand rads, anyway?’

‘I won’t answer that.’

Erick let that go and asked, ‘What’s the fallout of Shadow’s Feast looking like? Anything I need to be worried about?’

‘It’s all still happening, and yes, you likely do have a lot to worry about, but I can’t say more than that. Neutrality, and all.’ With a sad smile coming through her voice, Rozeta said, ‘Good luck out there, Erick.’

The connection broke. Rozeta’s divine fire vanished from the air.

Erick laid in bed for a moment longer, contemplating Rozeta’s ‘It’s all still happening’. Then he canceled the [Sealed Privacy Ward] and got up. Opening the door to his room and stepping out into the living room, Erick paused to take in the beauty of the room, draped in the oranges, golds, and purples of sunset.

Then he asked Poi, “Where is everyone else?”

“Jane went to find a Celebration House to sign up for a Hunt. Teressa and Kiri went to watch.”

Erick frowned, disappointed. “I guess it’s just you and me for dinner with Syllea, then.”

“But.” Poi smiled. “All the Hunts are full. Jane signed up for tomorrow’s Hunt. They’re wandering around town right now, and they won’t be back for dinner with the archmage.”

“Ah…” Erick frowned for an entirely different reason. “Why don’t they want to come get a free dinner with an archmage? That’s not right.”

Poi shrugged. “I’m looking forward to it. Gonna get me some fish, for sure.”

That brought a little smile back into Erick’s life.

He turned around, went back into his room, and went to his bags. What to wear for dinner with Syllea? He could wear this white thing… but he wore that to Shadow’s Feast, and wouldn’t that be a bit tacky?

To take his mind off of fashion, Erick briefly checked his Quest Board...

And then he sat down.

He read, and read, and read, and only stopped because Poi called out that it was half an hour to go-time. Erick rapidly put on the white robes, and didn’t bother to think too much about how he had gotten them from Violet, who was now certainly dead, with her body lying in the rubble down in the Brightwater.

Ahh…

He needed a drink.
