“… They are.” Teressa’s face scrunched, as though fighting off a great embarrassment, as she said, “When I spoke of marriages before, to find a partner through the Arbors of Treehome is considered a great gift. They give this gift through the Red Dream.” She rapidly tried to diffuse the situation, saying, “And of course the Arbors are watching! That’s what they do. It’s not a big deal. You’re never safer than when you have an Arbor watching over you.”

Erick yawned, saying, “That’s why I’m pretty sure this [Sleep] they’re trying to cast on me isn’t a big deal.”

Teressa frowned. “It’s not! That’s— They wouldn’t do that.”

Jane set down what she was doing and focused on her father.

“Teressa is right about it not being a [Sleep].” Poi said, “It’s not a [Sleep], you’re just exhausted, sir. You stressed yourself out when you stepped us here.”

“Oh? You’re sure?”

“Yes.”

Teressa said, “See! It’s fine! The Arbors are good people.”

Jane and Kiri shot Teressa a look.

Teressa shot them a look right back.

“That’s all well and good, then.” Erick said, “I was worried when I couldn’t see the spell effect.” He lazily trailed a hand through the air, saying, “The magic in this place is subtly messed up. It’s under someone’s control, and I have no doubt that it’s controlled by the Holy O’kabil. Take note of the weird intent in the air. It looks like a barely-there mist. It’s a Domain; it has to be. Jane. Kiri. You two need Domains going forward, unless you want to get squashed by one of the higher powers out there.”

Teressa lost a little bit of her surety.

Jane kept her voice even, her anger barely heard, as she said, “And we just walked in here?”

“It would be insulting not to accept the invitation. And Teressa is right.” Erick glanced over to Teressa, instead of just looking at her through the light, to make sure that she saw that he had seen her. “You did nothing wrong.”

Teressa currently didn’t look like she had done nothing wrong. She looked positively crushed, as though someone had told her they accidentally killed her dog.

“Don’t worry, everyone,” Erick said, “Treehome is a rather nice place, by all accounts. I doubt anything would happen to any of us besides some rough questions, which I expected no matter how any of this happened. That we’re in a nice, popular hotel right next to the Arbor herself, leads me to believe that nothing will happen.”

A knock came from the door.

Everyone tensed.

Through the light, Erick saw the person at the closed front door, though he didn’t know who she was. She was just some orcol woman of indeterminate, possibly old age, with white hair and bright green eyes. She wore a fancy, Mist Rabbit coat, like some rich fashionista. Erick had no idea who she was. She was something of an enigma, so Erick flicked on his mana sense and [Soul Sight].

His spells proved the identity of the mystery woman more than any introductions could.

Her soul did not exist as a normal soul existed, in the body, but rather it existed outside of her body, like a diffuse indentation in the misty, Domain-laden air. In some strange way, Erick couldn’t help but compare the woman’s somewhat-soul to the color, density, and the misty feeling that exuded from the trunk of the Holy O’kabil, just a dozen meters behind the woman.

The woman glanced toward Erick’s sight, then turned her eyes back toward the door. She waited. Erick sat up in his chair, tried not to yawn again, then opened the door with a light touch. The woman on the other side glanced through the room, and stepped into the dense air of the room like she had been invited.

She had not been invited, though.

Jane, Kiri, and Teressa did not need to know that quite yet, though.

“Hello, Holy O’kabil.” Erick said, “Pardon me. I haven’t prepared any gifts for this sudden meeting.”

With a curt attitude, the woman said, “I gain much prestige in hosting you while all the other miscreants of Our Home fail time and again to get a nice enough hotel up and running.” She smirked. “We all wanted you here, but I’m the one that got you! But though you have not prepared, there will be an exchange of gifts. On the part of Our Home: We want some light rain this evening, and every evening, as long as you can make it last with one cast. On my part: I want a nice overview of what happened at that Shadow’s Feast. Omit whatever you want, but I will have my full accounting.” She said, “For yourself: what do you want? I’ll make it happen. Don’t get too greedy.”

Erick smiled. “I want a nice, bed-sized Mist Rabbit comforter.”

“I see you being modest, and I don’t like it. You will have your comforter by tomorrow, but ask for something more at a later date.” Holy O’kabil asked, “My rain? My overview?”

“A [Telepathic] overview? I am not in the mood to talk to someone about all of that right now.”

“Acceptable.”

Erick looked to Poi. “Can you make that happen? Or should I give her a copy?”

Poi turned toward the representative of the tree, and said, “One moment. A Mind Mage verified copy will be—”

“Partially acceptable. I will take that, but that is not enough. I also want one directly from you.”

‘Okay.’ Erick opened a connection to the Holy O’kabil, sending, ‘Ready?’

‘Yes,’ sent the person/tree standing just inside the room, just inside his [Prismatic Ward].

Erick sent off a 5000 mana accounting of Shadow’s Feast. It wasn’t the most organized thing he had ever done, but it was close. With some emotional and otherwise distance from the events of three days ago, he had managed to condense and understand much of what had happened to him, and around him, into a cohesive narrative. Hopefully that would be enough to appease his host.

After a moment, the Holy O’kabil said, “Acceptable.” She looked toward Poi. After another moment, she said, “Also acceptable.”

Before she could say anything else, Erick had an Ophiel lightstep through the panoramic windows, into the sky, to gain an uninterrupted view of the target, so he could properly cast a [Control Weather]. The sky was mostly clear, with a few nascent clouds drifting through the air, and through the canopies of the Arbors of Treehome, but at Erick’s touch, the heavens shifted. Nothing happened right away, but by the time night rolled around, rain would surely fall. With another thought, Erick recalled Ophiel to the room, to sit upon his shoulder.

The Holy O’kabil declared, “Excellent. If you are wondering what foods to order from the service, I suggest anything that is made of monster meat. I pride myself in growing strong people, and that meat helps to make you strong. Only the best for our guests here at My Hotel.” She nodded, then, not waiting for any confirmation, or otherwise, she stepped out of the room. The door shut behind her.

No one else saw, but Erick certainly did, as the woman’s existence melted away into the mists once she was out of sight.

Kiri asked, “Did you give her permissions, Erick?”

He wondered who was going to ask that, first. He answered honestly. “Nope. She just walked on into my [Prismatic Ward]. This is why you need Domains if you want to run in the big leagues, or not get squashed by some passing power.”

Jane asked, “But you have a Domain?”

“Just of Light, and of Withering.” Erick said, “[Prismatic Ward] is partially Light based; I doubt my empowerment works with that spell because that spell is also Shadow based, along with all the other elements. But besides that, this place is thick with mist. It’s been under the Holy O’kabil’s power for a long, long time. And besides all that: This [Prismatic Ward] is Ophiel’s. My Solid Ward is still around the house, back in Spur. But enough about that.” He changed subjects, “Order some room service, Jane. Get some of that monster meat. I could eat some fried chicken.” When worry still clouded the penthouse suite in a way almost more tangible than the faint fog in the surrounding mana, Erick said, “Come on now! Less worries! More vacation! Pop those bottles, Jane. Let’s get it started.”

Jane frowned a little, but she picked up the menus again. Teressa picked up Erick’s bags and moved them into a room. Poi went to his own room. Kiri frowned a little, too, but eventually she went to the kitchen, to see the menus.

Soon enough, Erick relaxed back into the couch, and waited for the other shoe to drop.

The Mist Rabbit blanket was rather perfectly comfortable though, so that was nice.

- - - -

Jane looked to a set of tubes, set into the wall, and a small container that fit that wall. Right beside those tubes, next to the menus on the counter, was a pad of paper and a pen. With the supplied bit of paper, she wrote down the orders she had taken from the group, then slipped that paper into the container. The container went into the tube with the down-arrow.

She pressed the down-arrow button.

Suddenly, suction pulled that container out of Jane’s hands, eliciting a surprised, happy giggle from Jane.

She declared, “Pneumatic tubes! I wouldn’t have guessed.”

Teressa said, “Pretty popular in some places.”

Kiri said, “Not that popular. People gotta work them all the time, constantly.”

“If you got an Arbor though?” Jane asked Teressa, “That does most of the lifting for you?”

“Well…” Teressa said, “The Arbors help us, and we help them. It’s a mutual arrangement.” She strongly added, “The Arbors are good people.”

“Sure sure sure,” Jane said. “I, too, like someone watching me all the time.”

Teressa threw up her hands, saying, “Bloody damn! You say it like they’re afflicted by some perversion! Like they’re peeping on people in the bath!”

Kiri asked, “Do they? Is that something I should be worried about?”

Teressa glared.

Kiri and Jane giggled.

A minute later, the container came back, smacking into the top of the up-arrow tube with a pleasant ‘ding’. Jane rushed over to retrieve the message. She happily declared, “Lunch will be here in twenty minutes!” She flopped the paper in her hands, adding, “I expected there to be another note here. Something spooky, perhaps. Very disappointed.”

With a spooky voice, Kiri said, “Weeerrreee waaatchiiing youuuu pooooo.”

Jane laughed loud. Teressa frowned.

- - - -

Lunch was great.

There was chicken that was too spicy for Erick to even be near, but which Jane practically inhaled, sweating all the while. Drinks made of fruit and ice. A charcuterie board sized for an orcol family, with crackers and cheeses and preserved meats and fresh fruit.

It was a good meal, but it was also a meal that Erick could not properly appreciate. The meat tasted off, somehow. The drinks felt thin. The cheeses were gooey, and not much more than that. Everyone else seemed to enjoy them, so he knew the problem was with himself. This was just a spat of bad health, is all. Nothing to really worry about, considering Erick knew the source of the problem, and it was a problem that was all his fault. He was the one who actually went and used [Death’s Approach] to something to the tune of 3 million mana, after all. Maybe more? It was a powerful spell, with a downside that would take at least another full week to recover from. Being inside the Restful air of his [Prismatic Ward] helped, though.

Poi had probably been right. Erick did feel tired after he moved the five of them several thousand kilometers to Treehome in the space of five seconds. That exhaustion just didn’t hit right away. It took a while.

Erick glanced at his own soul, through the eyes of Ophiel, sitting off to the side.

His inner core of white light was a ripped thing, with edges like cheesecloth. It was better today than it had been yesterday.

Comparatively, Jane’s soul was a dark blue thing as solid as a stone. Kiri’s was a little disturbed, but even her green soul was nice and solid. Poi was fine; solid blue there. Teressa… The orcol’s soul was in decent shape, but she was more disturbed than anyone else in the room, save for Erick himself. She was hiding her own hurt well, but Erick could tell, when Teressa glanced out of the windows or looked down for a moment too long or sighed, that she was ready for some private communion with her own ghosts of the past. If the others noticed Teressa’s inner plight, they did not give themselves away.

Jane ate the last spicy chicken strip, enjoying the sweat, as Kiri watched, disbelieving, and a little bit disgusted.

Erick smiled. Then he pushed his plate away from his seat, and said, “I’m going to lay down for a while.” He got up. “Teressa? Can I talk to you, first?”

Teressa whipped her head around to look at Erick. “Sure, boss.”

- - -

Inside Erick’s room, he stood to one side, while Teressa stood to the other. Erick shut the door behind them. Before the large woman could get any more worried, either about him or about herself, Erick said, “I’m not feeling great, but I want to be there for you. Whatever you need. I know you want to do something special and likely private during this Triumph, but you don’t have to suffer in silence. I want to be there for you, but if you don’t want me to, let me know before you decide to do whatever you need to do.”

Teressa listened, then she said, “Thank you, boss. I’m…” She looked ready to deny him. But then she shifted. She said, “If it’s just you, then yeah. I would like you to come with me.”

“I can do that.” He stepped closer to her, craning his head up, to ask, “I’ll be here for you.”

Teressa’s soul shifted. Solidified. She smiled as she held back tears. Her voice was a whisper, “Thank you.”

Erick took her hand, and she let him. He said, “You’re alive. The Witch is dead. Her curses and her traps are nothing more than bad memories, but bad memories still hurt.”

Teressa sobbed, once.

Erick continued, “They still hurt, and that’s okay.”

Teressa gripped Erick’s hand, then let go. She put on a smile, laughed once, and said, “I thought I was over this, years and years ago. I will get over it; I promise.”

“No need to push yourself like that. You’re doing great.” Erick said, “You should know: I used what you told me about [Witness] and your own mana sense to gain a mana sense for myself during Shadow’s Feast. It was very helpful. It has been very helpful. You’ve been a great help, Teressa.” He added, “I’m still working on [Witness], though.”

With a faint smile that suited her well, Teressa said, “I’m sure you’ll get it soon enough, boss.”

“Just gotta find some time.”

As though talking to herself, and Erick, Teressa said, “We have lots of time, now.”

Erick nodded. “We do.”

