Except, soon enough, among the wide stone streets and increasingly larger buildings, they left the normal forest behind. Maybe the Holy O’kabil didn’t like her smaller neighbors?

The tree herself was magnificent. Though her trunk was surrounded by silver stone buildings that rose a good hundred meters into the air, the Holy O’kabil herself rose much higher. A kilometer, maybe, if Erick had to guess. Her trunk was silver, matching the buildings all around, and rising high into flat-bottom branches that stretched underneath her canopy like arteries in the air, supporting bright-green greenery above, but not below.

Erick kinda liked the silver-and-green theme.

He also enjoyed looking at the people and the city all around him. As they got closer to the Arbor herself, the roads were almost as crowded as the Adventurer District of Spur, but everyone here wore normal clothes; there wasn’t a single person with [Conjure Armor] in sight. With a blink of mana sense, Erick saw that barely anyone had any temporary spells, like [Personal Ward]s, or otherwise, active on their person. More than a few people around him might have some nice magical items on their person, but Erick’s rings were still brighter than most. Even the former ‘All-Stat’ rings around the fingers of all of his own people were only half as bright as his own true All-Stat rings.

Erick spotted another problem. He could have prepared for this one, if he gave it half a thought, but he had not. Many street signs and storefronts had smaller labels written in Ecks, but the larger signs were written in the language of the Orcols, Gargantual. He could have gotten [Language Acquisition] cast on him before he left. Ah! Whatever. He’d get that when he checked in with his ‘Minor Entity’ Status, later. Probably.

“What ya thinking about, dad?” Jane asked.

“I’m thinking I want to eat there.” Erick gestured toward a steakhouse that smelled absolutely wonderful. He asked, “What are you thinking about?”

“I want to see what a Celebration Hunt is.”

Teressa said, “There’s one every night of Triumph. We can sign you up for one. There’s always some mixed-Hunts going on, somewhere.”

“That sounds much better than dinner with Syllea.” Jane said, “No offense, dad.”

“Ha! No offense taken.”

- - - -

A main street eventually brought Erick and his party to the base of Holy O’kabil. The silver tree was herself surrounded by tall, multi-layered stone buildings with full-glass exteriors, looking like silver crystal, a circular road that encircled those buildings, with even more glass structures outside of that circle. Through Ophiel, Erick saw the whole area. The land around this Arbor was all silver spike buildings, built in concentric rings around the tree herself. She was just part of Treehome, though.

Most of the city lay to the south, where over a dozen other trees each held sway over their own parts of Treehome, each as varied as the Holy O’kabil, from lands under the boughs of trees that looked to be on fire, to places where steel and wood were joined in civilization, to where an Arbor made of ice held court over a land of heavy stone.

To the north lay the Forest, along with scattered campgrounds, residential areas, and other such places.

As far as Erick looked, he saw the same scenes play out everywhere. People in Treehome were just going about their business, either in campgrounds or in more permanent structures, where festive cheer and bright lights gave a sort of joy to the very air.

- - - -

“Welcome to the Holy O’kabil,” said a professional young man behind the counter. “Do you have a reservation?”

While the outside was a layer of reflective glass and strong stone, the inside of the hotel reminded Erick of the ‘wilderness lodge’ theme of the Adventurer’s Guild back in Spur. But with stone. And glass. And maybe it didn’t look very ‘wilderness lodge’ at all. It was certainly high-class. Erick almost felt out of place. Everyone wore nice suits, almost like Al wore, though these people were not sultan-mobsters, but just normal mobsters in cream-colored attire. Erick felt slightly out of place in his magey-robes.

Oh! Wait! There’s some orcols wearing robes over there.

Erick didn’t feel so odd, anymore.

Teressa stepped forward, saying, “Yes. Reservation under Rednail.”

The man nodded, then flipped through papers on his side of the desk—

He froze. He looked up. He set a small truthstone onto the counter between them, then asked, “Your reservation is for Rednail, correct?”

“My reservation is under Rednail. That is correct.”

The stone glowed blue.

In a way which Erick would have called impossible had it not happened right in front of him, the man turned even more professional than before. He snapped his fingers to the side. A bellhop rushed forward from out of sight. The man replaced the truthstone with five red cards with holes in them, then said to Teressa, “Your room has been prepared for you and your guests. Our guide will show you the way to the suite. These cards will open the room. The Holy O’Kabil hopes you enjoy your stay, Miss Rednail.”

Teressa took the cards, and followed the bellhop.

Erick followed along, as well, past a grand fountain and a restaurant, past a tea house, to a cleared square of land, right next to a wall of silver bark that extended far to the left and right, where the orcol-made building had tunnels extending into their neighboring buildings, and the silver ‘wall’ was not a wall at all, but the Holy O’kabil, herself. Erick looked up, to the other floors above, and to multiple [Force Platform]s, some coming down, and some going up.

Erick briefly wondered at the construction materials used to keep the building upright, as he thought back to a conversation he had with Al about the maximum size of buildings based on stone construction. This place was much more airy than the buildings of Spur. Perhaps there were buildings regulations in Spur that kept the buildings built a certain way. Or perhaps, this place was supported partially by magic.

Ever since Erick had passed the first concentric circle of silver buildings on their approach to this location, the manasphere had slowly but surely changed from random phantom images of spells and eyes and teeth and otherwise, into something calmer. Something almost like mist. Being this close to the Holy O’kabil, and seeing that mist pour off of the tree herself, he named the phenomenon as a Domain; it had to be. Or perhaps it was a spell?

It was something to investigate, for sure. But later.

The bellhop conjured a silver [Force Platform] with railings, and then stepped on.

Teressa followed, and soon, everyone was on the floating magic.

They went up, and up, and up. Past ten floors, with rooms all in front of them and the Holy O’Kabil behind them, to the eleventh floor, the very top, where the bellhop guided the platform onto the landing zone of the only room. This side of the suite was not that impressive, since it was up against the Arbor and that was a rather plain view of silver bark, though there was a nice seating area directly next to the tree, on the right. Erick did like the skylight above, though. It showed off the underside of the branches of the Holy O’Kabil, high above.

Teressa handed the bellhop the red punch card. The man slipped it into a slot on the double doors, then swung them open, saying, “Welcome to the Suite.”

It was a space of wood and marble and bright lights, with an absolutely fantastic view of the uninterrupted north. Erick walked in after Teressa, and found himself staring at the gem-like skylight and fully-glass wall of the main room. Someone had lit some incense; it smoked in a small bowl in the center of the rich-person’s room, giving off an inviting smell of cookies, sugar, and gentle spices.

The bellhop said, “If you wish for a guide to bring you up and down, you may ring this bell beside the door and one will be up within a minute. Is there anything else I can answer, before I leave?”

Erick didn’t have any questions; he walked further into the room. Poi followed. Teressa was already all the way in, and headed toward one of the rooms.

Jane squealed a little with happiness as she tossed her bags to the side and jumped onto a plush couch, positioned to view the northern Forest. The couch easily caught her weight, but an artfully arranged throw flopped into the air. Jane caught it, and gasped. She exclaimed, “Oh my gods! This is so soft!” She rubbed it on her face then wrapped it around her body. “What is this?”

Kiri had been asking the bellhop some small questions, but she stopped and turned to Jane, and rolled her eyes.

The bellhop answered, “Mist Rabbit fur.” He went back to answering Kiri.

“I’ve never heard of that before!” Jane laughed a little. “Oh. I think I need a coat made of Mist Rabbit.”

Teressa giggled. “Good luck. That little thing you have is probably a grand-rad just by itself.”

Somewhat concerned, but only because one should know how much money they’re spending, Erick asked a question he hadn’t asked yet, “How much is this place per night?”

The bellhop spoke up, “It’s free. Everything is free, for you, as guests of Archmage Syllea Wyrmrest.” He continued, “We dearly appreciate her, for it is only with people like her and our Arbors that we can live like this in the Forest.”

Teressa smiled, “I got a good deal, don’t you think.”

“Nice going, Teressa!” Jane threw the thousand-gold throw onto the couch as she got up and rushed toward the fully-stocked kitchen, saying, “Oh! Man! This is amazing! It’s all oversized and somehow that makes it even more fun. Ha! I feel like a kid.”

Teressa snorted a laugh.

Kiri spoke to the bellhop, but her question was for everyone to know, “Can you tell us the rules regarding magic, please?”

“Of course.” The bellhop gave a practiced speech, “The Holy O’kabil will not interfere with Spatial Magics, except at night, when all Spatial Magics are denied due to her empowerment of the runes hidden in all the walls. Until nightfall, you may come and go from your suite as much as you wish. Do not attempt to enter anyone else’s room except from the front entrance, as this is a gross violation and will be dealt with accordingly. Aside from those Spatial Magic warnings: Anti-Shaping runes are always active. Other types of magic are also denied, based on the needs of our Arbor. The Arbors of Treehome are all very powerful beings, with control over much of the ambient mana all around us. You might have noticed the mist in the manasphere; this is her. We urge you not to test the limits of our Arbors, for while they are benevolent, they are not easily coerced, and will take such attempts as an affront to their freedom and their choice to support the life around them.”

Erick asked, “What about if I want to put up a [Prismatic Ward] in this space?”

The bellhop blanked for a second, as though he did not expect such a question. He recovered, and said, “Solid Wards are allowed in your room— In your suite, only. Though the Holy O’kabil does her utmost to protect everyone around her, and likes it when people depend on her, she recognizes that not everyone is ready to accept her protection that easily. Please keep your Solid Ward within the confines of your suite.”

“Okay.” Erick nodded, “Sounds good. Thank you. Is that everything?”

Kiri nodded. “That’s all I wanted.”

The bellhop glanced from Erick, to Kiri, then not seeing Teressa because the woman had already picked a room, he bowed. He stood straight, and said, “We hope you enjoy your stay. Please don’t hesitate to hit the bell for any and all of your needs. We are here to ensure you enjoy your stay. The menus are on the kitchen counter.”

Erick said, “Thank you for the escort.”

The bellhop bowed. He righted, then said, “Good day.” He turned and left, shutting the doors behind him.

Erick instantly flooded the room with his light and his [Lodestar], and seeing nothing untoward, he scouted the edges of the suite. With the edges defined, he had an Ophiel cast a 50,000 point [Prismatic Ward]. 300,000 defensive points of dense air flooded through the space…

And Erick felt better. A bit safer. A bit more restful.

He kicked off his shoes and sat down on the same viewing couch Jane had vacated, whereupon he wrapped himself in the fluffy blanket— “Wow. This is soft!”

“I know!” Jane had finished combing through the kitchen and was now fixated on the menus for room service. “I want one of those blankets, and also!” She pointed to the menu, saying, “This. I want this. ‘Aunt Firemaw’s Blazing Beef’. Supposed to be ten out of ten stars on the heat index! It’s time for lunch anyway, right?”

Teressa came out of her room, saying, “This place is great.”

Kiri got into her own room, on the second floor of the suite, and happily said, “Look at that bed!”

Erick heard his apprentice flop onto a large, soft surface, followed by a luxurious groan, and a mumble that she needed to get a new bed when they got back to Spur. Erick agreed. More luxury in life would be nice. He wrapped himself in the soft blanket, and told everyone, “Go ahead and do whatever you want. I have some stuff I need to do without going anywhere.” He added, “And I also need room service! Let’s order a cake.”

“Beer, please,” Teressa said.

“We got beer!” Jane opened up a cold box behind her and yanked out a mini-keg, saying, “Beer!” She pulled out a smaller keg, saying, “And liquor!”

“That’s not going to be enough,” Erick said. “Order some more. But, before we do that, I must tell you that I don’t think you need to be alarmed, but we’re being watched. Heavily.”

All mirth left the common room. Kiri stepped out of her private room. Teressa frowned a little, but Jane went from happy, to happily ready to cut someone. It was a subtle difference that most people would miss when it came to his daughter, but Erick readily recognized the shift.

Poi, who was already on high-alert, confirmed Erick’s words with, “The Arbors are watching. Every single one of them is focused on us.”

Erick said, “I’m pretty sure they’re waiting for you all to slip off, or something. Or for me to fall asleep. I don’t mean to air orcol secrets, but you all already know of the Red Dream. It would surprise me if the Arbors of Treehome weren’t already a part of that Dream.”

Everyone but Erick looked to Teressa.

