Without further delay, Helios lifted his hand and generated a portal with ease. On the other side of the entrance, a futuristic, metallic paneling lined the walls of a large room. It was the inside of a ship, likely a dreadnought class by the look of it. After crushing many of them, I kind of got a feel for their inner architecture, and this fit the bill.

Helios peered around while raising his voice,

"On the other side of this portal is a landing bay for an imperial dreadnought. Here, any gialgathens who are rested may join us."

Helios turned to me, awaiting further orders. I walked up to the portal, waving everyone to come inside,

"Follow me."

Stepping into the steeled inner sanctum, the greenish hue of orichalcum imbued the air. Lines of light traced throughout the compound's walls and floors, some kind of fuel source doubling as a consistent kind of lighting. The pulsing, oozing shine was dampened by thickened plates of tinted glass, but it was so bright it still kept the place well lit despite that.

Beyond the walls, elegant ships made way for enormous battle drones. They used smoother linework for the silhouettes of the vessels when compared to the Adair's ships. From a feel perspective, they seemed less militant and more aesthetically inclined. Whether that translated to effectiveness on the battle, time would tell.

Piloting these ships, albony of all kinds strutted around in various mask colors. Most wore wooden masks without any stain on them, and any member with this kind of cover focused on grunt work. The next tier up where the orange masks, the same as John Mcsmitty's mask. These guys were welders, calibrators, or managers. They handled the technical work that required a bit more skill.

The soldiers that actually piloted the ships themselves were mostly wooden maskers like the grunt workers. A rare few of these soldiers wore red masks like what Caprika wore when we first met. The red maskers rode the best ships, commanded respect from others, and they got the majority of the attention from the calibrators.

As we stepped out, many of those working on the bay level gawked at us. They lunged to one knee, bowing as if their life depended upon it. Helios raised a hand,

"As you were."

The workers jumped back to work, the mass of movement reviving in an instant. Helios pointed at a wider walkway along the back of the bay,

"If you would follow me, I can show you all where the other commanders are situated."

After a brusque nod of approval from yours truly, we walked toward the other members. Following us, Kessiah, Althea, Hod, Florence, and Torix kept pace, and we walked through many corridors with dozens of rooms situated in them. I noted the layout as we made our way, ensuring I wouldn't need help navigating the area again.

We found ourselves on a large, wall-less elevator. Stylish yet functional, it zoomed upwards fast enough that we experienced a G or two of force. Rings of plasma fuel zoomed past our eyes before we rose into a grand entryway. Some craftsmen meticulously carved, etched, and molded the metal into the shape of two albony, their individual hairs made to a lifelike level of realism. They lined a doorway covered in symbols, likely patriotic symbols for the Empire.

Helios stepped up towards a scanner that pulled out a large needle. It took a sample of his blood as Florence turned to us,

"We'll be meeting several other members of royalty here. Alastair is the big one, but he's a gentle giant. Ophelia is a completely ruthless schemer. If you want to know which one she is, just look for the ugly one. We'll also be meeting Victoria. She and Helios have a sort of rivalry for who would be the next successor of Obolis. Recently, she's pulled ahead of my brother in that regard."

Helios glowered at Florence, "As if either of us would ever succeed an immortal."

Florence nudged his brother with an elbow, "You didn't say that when we were cubs. You always dreamed of being the real ruler one day."

Helios stepped through the opening doorway,

"Children's dreams die where the adult world begins."

As we stepped into a fancy control room, Florence mouthed,

"In other words, here's where dreams go to die. Fun."

Peering around, I disagreed. Maybe daydreamers lost spirit here, but for a logistician, this was complete reverie. Monitors detailed many situations across Blegara, showing underwater scenes of chaos. Several obelisks floated near these monitors, interacting with virtualized statuses to organize troops and data. These machines funneled information towards data feeds that scrolled over the faces of a few orange masked technicians.

These orange masks then funneled footnotes of various situations to three albony standing on an elevated platform. These albony wore red masks, each of them standing in front of an expansive glimpse of the world below. My eyes gawked at the planetary view exposing itself in all its splendor.

Blegara was an oceanic world, one with a few sparse islands littering its surface. Along the endless seas, a gradient of shadow drew a line between night and day. In the nightsided half, lights from beneath the ocean lit up in entrancing clusters of glowing radiance. They reminded me of views of Earth's cities during night time, at least before the culling and our Schematization.

My eyes drifted from Blegara to the unsullied view of the stars surrounding the planet. No atmosphere dampened the spectacle here, nebulas splashing like colorful clouds. The stars shined with the radiance of reflective drops, galaxies drifting in colorful spirals. I was left awestruck just as I was when Obolis showed us his own vision when we first met.

Breaking my admiration of nature, a curt, high pitched voice spoke out,

"Are these the mercenaries Obolis contracted?"

Helios stepped forward, his cape flowing over him,

"No. They are our allies. It would be wise to refer to them as such, Ophelia."

A thin albony looked over us, unimpressed by our group. She wore a dress of all things, earrings and jewelry worn to match. A mage's staff hovered along her back, sheathed by a telekinetic force. Her red mask bore black lines on it, maybe some kind of transitionary status between her mask's colors.

She propped her weight onto her hip and jeered,

"And why are you still wearing your black mask? Surely you were demoted to the status of us mere reds."

Helios grinned under his mask, "It is not an action that Obolis deemed necessary. Think of Florence and my new positions as learning experiences. It is more a hard lesson than an outright punishment."

Florence leaned over to me,

"Told you. Ophelia's awful."

Ophelia pointed at Florence, "Don't think I didn't hear that."

Beside them, a monolithic, red masked figure stood upright. Though he lacked Obolis's or my height, he stood wider than either of us, and his armor cast a shadow resembling more a wall than a person. He twiddled his clawed fingers, peering between the two albony,

"Uhm, could we please avoid a fight? We'll have plenty of that once we land."

The last of the three albony stepped forward, her armor shining and imposing on everyone around her. It was ebony with golden trim, a red cape standing out behind her. She wore a black mask like Helios and Florence, and her chest stood upright and tall. Though she looked small when compared to the living wall beside her, somehow, she commanded more presence than the other two albony combined.

She met my eye,

"This is the Harbinger?"

Helios nodded. The heroic-looking albony walked over, pressing her hand against her palm, "May this conversation be fruitful for Schema."

She followed the rules despite her position. That said a lot about her as I raised my brow, "More like may it be fruitful for us. You already know me. Who are you?"

She clanked her heels together while putting a fist on her chest plate, "I am Victoria Novas, the current ruler of Menhir. It is an honor to meet you." She gave me a bow, "Obolis has told me you are to be respected. Ignore Ophelia's entrance. She simply cannot control herself when Florence is around."

Ophelia, the one in a dress, pranced over in heels, "I can speak for myself."

Althea stared at her in disbelief, "Are you actually fighting with us?"

Ophelia kept her chin high, "Of course I am."

Althea furrowed her brow, "Then why are you wearing heels of all things? They're so hard to move around in, and we're about to, you know, fight."

Ophelia put her hands on her hips, "Because I make it a priority to actually look good at all times."

Damn, she was shallow. Althea scoffed, "So you prioritize that over actually surviving, huh?"

Though Ophelia wore a mask and carefully manicured fur over her skin, an intense blush radiated from her. She calmed herself, showing a measure of restraint as she glared down at Althea,

"Ah, so this is the kind of people we'll be working with. Great. Just great."

I spoke up,

"You're not working with us. You're fighting with us. Change into armor. We don't want you to die out there, or worse, have people die trying to protect you all because you chose not to wear armor."

Ophelia peered at Helios and Victoria, waiting for their backup. Victoria gave Ophelia a quick glare,

"Do as he says. Now."

Ophelia swallowed her pride, stepping towards the elevator we just walked out of. As it went down the floors, Florence spoke between cracks of laughter,

"I...I've never seen her get put in her place like that...this is priceless...I can tell, this has already been worth the demotion."

Helios murmured, "For once, we agree."

Florence gave me a pat on the back, "By Schema, I've never seen someone call her out like that. Well done, well done."

I spread my arms, "Wait a minute, you all just let that kind of behavior fly?"

An awkward moment passed over the group, and Victoria stood upright once more, "I...we're sorry."

I pointed down on the planet, "Remember what we're doing here. Letting Ophelia walk down there without protection could end in her death. The Hybrids, if they so much as touch you, you'll need me to dig around under your bones to pull them out."

I glanced at the broad albony, "Whether you're big or not, they'll worm their way in you and parade around in your skin like your just a flesh puppet. Don't forget that. I'm not saying this because I want to be an asshole. If that was the case, I'd let you all walk down there unprepared."

Victoria and the big guy peered down, both of them flushing with shame. I lifted a hand,

"Come on, heads up. We don't have time for pity parties."

Victoria met my eye, restraining her emotions, "Yes. Of course."

I pointed at Blegara, "What's the situation down there? Also, record this and send the talk to Ophelia. We don't want her to miss the conversation."

Taken off guard, Victoria coughed into her hand,

"Ahem, well, the situation is dire. Many of the cities have rebelled, with few choosing to continue servitude under the Empire. This has resulted in guerilla warfare, where it is difficult to re-establish order. Because of that, some areas are being purged while uninfected territories are being secured."

I frowned, "Alright, what does 'purge' mean?"

Alastair stepped forward, his large frame contrasting his gentle voice,

"So, it means we're having to, uhm, wipe the area out. Saving those areas...it costs more lives than it saves. It's a...l-logistical thing."

I sighed, "Fine. We're not participating in that. We're here to wipe Hybrids out, not murder people."

Victoria nodded, "Sir, yes, sir. I'll send what you said over to Obolis."

Helios turned up to me, "Excellent work relaying the gravity of this situation. You shut down their idiocy better than I could have. However, you may have made an enemy of Ophelia. What she lacks in common sense, she makes up for in her ability to control the Empire's courts."

Florence scratched the back of his head, "It might be a good idea to talk to her. You know, make sure she isn't mad."

I frowned, "Is that really necessary? She isn't a child anymore, right."

Florence weighed his hands back and forth, "Well, yeah, it's not absolutely necessary, but it will help you out in the long run. Think of it as insurance from rumors and bad first impressions."

I shrugged, "Eh, I'll take my chances."

Florence nodded, "Suit yourself."

I turned towards Althea, "Hey, thanks for mentioning the heels situation. I didn't even think about it until you brought it up."

She grinned, "Thanks. I just noticed it is all. You're the one that followed through."

I grinned back before turning towards my group members, "You all ready to kick some ass?"

I got several nods, though Kessia seemed chaffed. I raised an eyebrow, "Hey Kessiah, what's going on? Why do you look so down?"

She shook her head, "It just sucks that my friends were spying like that. I thought they were some alright guys. I really did. Turns out their just spineless dicksuckers for Schema. It really leaves a bad taste in my mouth."

She scowled, "And it makes you wonder...if they were spying, there's got to be other people spying in our guild too. Like some of these royals here, maybe."

I frowned, "It's something I never considered, but yeah, you're right. They likely are spying. For now, I don't know what to do about it. I'll try to brainstorm a solution with Torix, hopefully, one that doesn't involve mind magic."

Kessiah sighed, "Yeah. Sounds good."

Victoria walked over towards one of the personnel running the ships data streams,

"Send us down to Saphigia. We'll meet Obolis there." Victoria stepped over, and she put her hands on her hips,

"It's Blegara's capital and where we'll be establishing our beachhead with Obolis."

I crossed my arms, "So I didn't read the briefs you guys sent us. They were over a hundred pages long, and it was more like a textbook than something useful. What kind of planet is Blegara, and what kind of people live there?"

