From outside the coral cavern, a massive wave of force shot through the water. It created tidal waves around us and rain above us from displaced water. Walking up to a glass panel, I peered outside to see what all the ruckus was about. In the distance, Obolis Novas held a blighted in his hand.

From his fingers, lines of primordial mana oozed like streams of concentrated sapphire. His gray armor carried runic lines of the cipher across it, the primordial mana drenching the inscriptions. That mana radiated from him, creating a sphere of blue mana that created temporal dilation, hastening his movements.

Obolis's energy infected the blighted sea creature in his hands, purifying it from the inside out. An ethereal creature spawned from its insides, made of pure, blue energy. The majestic monster of mana swam through the ocean, culling dozens of Hybrids in its wake, swallowing and liquifying them into water as it passed.

Obolis let the intangible beast do its thing as he darted through the water with absurd speed. Immune to liquid around him, he anchored himself with a gravitational sphere while jerking himself into different positions across the oceanic horizon. Finding a new batch of Hybrids, he lifted a hand, channeling mana.

My hair stood on end as he converted the mana of multiple elemental furnaces, the crackling somewhat muted but still heard through the water. Concentrating the burst, Obolis shot out a red torrent of ascendant mana, and it branched through the water in jagged lines. The geometric strands sought out Hybrids, piercing their chests. Once punctured, the energy expanded in all directions from within, pointed branches of red growing from the insides of the Hybrids.

Leaving the forest of bodies behind, Obolis darted once more towards another group of Hybrids. He channeled his personal mana this time, using quintessence to generate growing trails of ice. The pale, jagged border of ice raced across our entire range of sight, trapping the Hybrids within the ice. Wielding ascendant mana, Obolis drained the energy from the ice, darkening its coloration.

As if stopping the atoms within entirely, it turned into the same void ice Helios used. The negative energy resonated across the expanse, cracking the metal hulls and ravaging the Hybrid's innards. They bloomed into orange, expanding bursts, their deaths all but beautiful.

The carnage was mesmerizing.

In yet another quick burst, Obolis jolted towards us. He launched like a bullet, racing towards our confine. Right before crashing into the wall, he generated a portal fluidly. It teleported him into our space. He used gravity wells of his own to dampen his descent, landing without decimating our room.

Water splashed from his side of the portal, however, but only a small amount. With the puddle spreading out, he turned towards those present,

"It is good to see that my family is well, and my allies safe. You shall need to be, for here lies the ravages of war and the onslaught of battle. Here, each of you will earn your keep and your privilege. Prove your worth, and your actions will echo into eternity, a shout everlasting. That roar grows with every drop of blood we spill."

He spread his arms,

"Who here wishes to roar with me?"
