Victoria tilted her head, wrapping her head around what I just told her. She frowned under her black mask, "If you had read the briefs, you would already know."

I waved my hand, "A summary, people. That's all I'm asking for."

"Blegara is an oceanic world with shallow waters throughout. This has left enormous portions of the world covered in coral reefs. We'll be clearing Hybrids out of those reefs with the help of the intelligence units spread across the world."

I pointed at her, "That's what the brief should have said."

She furrowed her brow, "But then...Yeah, maybe so."

The dreadnought class cruiser we rode in drifted down towards Blegara, the planet growing in our sight. I pointed at the world,

"What are the people like?"

Helios waved a hand, "Impudent, ungrateful, and rebellious."

Florence raised his palms, "I've seen the most of Blegara, so I think I can weigh in here." He turned to me,

"The people here are relatively primitive, and I don't mean that in a derogatory kind of way. They have developed simple language systems, and they have traditions, rituals, and even religions. That being said, they're in a pre-technology era. The Empire came onto the world right after they reached fringe world status."

Florence stared down at Blegara, "It's a difficult world to handle because the populace is so...impossible to communicate with. Even with Schema's nifty translations, the Vagni speak in disjointed, jagged sentences. Their species that isn't suited for typical language. To many people in the Empire, they're closer to eldritch than a sentient species."

Torix raised a hand, "If I may interject, why would the Empire choose to establish a world here?"

Florence let out a sigh, "Hm...There are several reasons. The world is rich in certain resources, especially biological ones. Pearls, rare corals, and delicious food could fuel luxury for the albony across the entire Empire. That's not even mentioning the beach resorts or the mining operations in dungeons or under the oceans here. Blegara is a veritable gold mine of high end resources."

I raised an eyebrow, "You seem skeptical though."

Florence winced, "The thing is...they, hm, how to put this...The first colonizers didn't actually think things through in my opinion. This world is in the middle of a dark age. The Vagni had empires and established countries before the eldritch began pouring out of underwater caverns."

He shook his head, "Now the monsters have become entrenched in the Vagni's culture. They've destroyed their civilizations, and being somewhat primitive, they've decided to worship the eldritch as gods. They offer sacrifices, they do blood worship, and they even raise eldritch younglings. It's fascinating, I tell you."

Helios glared at his brother, "It's a destructive cycle. One that must be eliminated from the roots."

Florence raised a hand, his voice rising, "See, that's what everyone seems convinced of. I disagree. The Vagni have actually established a relative balance with the eldritch. Despite having the eldritch infesting their waters, they haven't actually had any world-ending incidents."

I grimaced, "It's only a matter of time before that happens. Besides, they drifted into fringe world status. That means the situation was worsening."

Helios turned to me, "Exactly."

Florence shook his head, "No, no, no, that's a misconception. Schema changed his classifications for fringe worlds, and that's why Blegara fell into that category. I've done my research on the world's history as well, and the Vagni have stories of the eldritch predating Schema's involvement. They're ingrained in the mythos of the planet. Even if the tales of eldritch are oral or primitive, that doesn't mean the events didn't happen."

Florence turned towards the group, "Schema would like us to all believe that the eldritch go from nonexistent to pouring out of the ground like monster geysers, all overnight. I don't think that's the case, and I have a theory that on worlds where the eldritch naturally manifest, they are actually a natural existence that slowly leaks in."

I tilted my head, considering what he said. If I thought about it, humans had all kinds of stories about mythic figures and supernatural beings. Overactive imaginations seemed like the culprit to me. That being said, it wasn't like Zeus or dragons would be any stranger than Schema and the eldritch. If anything, they were far more benign by comparison.

Helios facepalmed before looking up at the sky, "Why do you entertain such thoughts? You have such a gifted mind, yet you waste it away on useless meanderings."

Florence scoffed, "My mind is my own. I dictate whether it's being wasted or not."

Victoria clapped her hands, "That's very interesting and all, but we're piercing through Blegara's atmosphere. Be ready for some turbulence."

I lifted my hand, manipulating gravity without a struggle. Pinning everyone's feet to the floor, I turned to Victoria,

"That will keep everyone grounded while we land."

Victoria looked down at her feet. She pointed her hands at them,

"This...Helios, you said he was fluid with his gravitational magic. To this extent, however, well, I never would've imagined it."

Helios shrugged, "He exceeds even Obolis with it. What else can I say to convey his mastery?"

Victoria listened while leaned backward, so far, in fact, that without her feet being anchored, she'd fall backward. Pulling from her feet, wobbled back and forth, laughing a bit,

"Hah, I can't believe it. This is quite fun."

Remembering where she was, she stiffened back up, "Ahem, as I was saying, good use of your gravity magic and all that."

Althea giggled a bit before grinning at Victoria, "Don't worry, you'll get used to it."

Victoria took the situation in stride, "I would hope so. I wouldn't want to be surprised at all turns. I'd seem even more like a fool than I already do at times."

Hod leaned forward, pulling himself into an awkward position to reach Victoria. The humble birdman patted her shoulder while nodding,

"Hod understand Victoria concern. Victoria not super smart like Hod. Not all people be like Hod. Only Hod be like Hod."

The group laughed besides Torix and Helios, who both grimaced at Hod. That's the kind of person Hod was; you either hated him or loved him. As the group died down, the main elevator rose back up with Ophelia. She changed her wares, garbed in a robe etched with runes. It was by no means shoddy workmanship either, many of the configurations designed for both form and function. They accentuated her curves, and they carried a beautiful gold and red color that conveyed a sense of grandeur.

Caught staring, Althea elbowed me, "Hey, stop that."

I pointed at the robe, "But that robe is put together real well. I can't help but admire the work put into it."

Althea shrunk back, "Oh...I...okay."

I grinned down at her, "Wait a minute, did you think-"

She pushed me, the metal beneath me groaning from the force of her shove,

"Hey, stop that."

I laughed before Ophelia walked up to us. She gave me a subtle glare from under her robe, so Florence leaned over, "Hey, let me be that whole peacemaker thing you mentioned before. I can smooth things over." He pointed at his feet, "And don't worry about the turbulence. I'll be fine."

I didn't like pandering to a brat, but this was Florence's new job. I didn't want to get in the way of his work, so I unlatched his feet. Florence jogged over towards her and wrapped his arm around her shoulders. He waved a hand, "Hey, it's been a while since we had a chat. Mind having a talk?"

"I do. You're awful."

Florence nodded, "True, but so are you. Let's catchup."

They walked off as we pierced through the atmosphere. Waves of heated air streamed past the orichalcum hull, magical runes buzzing to stop the ship from collapsing at the force. I stared at the approaching planet, remembering all the times I'd done this before. I never did this with a ship's protection, however, so it was all very new and fresh.

We reached near the surface after a minute of descending. Passing over a few miles of deep blue ocean, we hovered over a cyan, shallow bay, one at the edge of a crescent moon shaped island. It was a bright and colorful expanse, the fauna brimming with life and fighting for light. No creatures walked or buzzed on the island's surface. Instead, plants warred with one another, their battles stretched out over years instead of seconds.

This island's shores carried moving life in spades, contrasting the barren inland. Fish, crabs, krill, clams, and coral brimmed over one another. These creatures flourished near the underwater city built from the same coral composing the reef. Waves washed over these organic buildings, a sort of harmony with nature established.

Well, harmony outside of the Hybrids whipping the waters.

As my eyes peered into the deeper spots of ocean, battles raged under murky waters. Blood fogged the water along with bits of meat and metal. The spires that covered Giess also spawned here, rising out of the ocean's floor. A variant of Hybrid swam in the waters, more aerodynamic with finlike structure's attached.

These mechanical monstrosities darted through the water at high speeds, biting at albony. The Empire's forces used a variety of gear to assist in the fight, literal propeller packs resting on their backs to assist with movement. Their scaled swimsuits let them glide through the water with ease, and they owned massive lighting structures to help see through the water.

It was losing battle, however.

Their technology didn't outweigh the benefits of evolution, and the Hybrids were faster overall. The water slowed down the average soldier considerably. Snagging one of the breathing tubes also gave them a short-timer before they drowned in the sea. The Hybrids adopted a hit and run tactic because of this. They darted through the water, waiting for munitions to deplete. After doing so, they dashed in, tore the breathing tubes, and zoned the albony so they couldn't reach the surface.

These drowned bodies floated towards the surface after the Hybrid was satisfied with their demise. The sheer number of floating bodies took me by surprise, making the once clear ocean seem more like a swamp of corpses. The giant, writhing spires rose from the depths, picking these bodies up before pulling them back into the deep. They'd be hybridized in an orange soup of nanomachines later.

That is, unless we stopped them of course. I rolled my shoulders as Florence stepped back from the sideline with Ophelia, the last inklings of his conversation bleeding into earshot,

"And that's why he is the way he is. You have to understand, we had every advantage. Our first dungeon was chosen to give us the best chance of going forward. We were granted particular trees that few have access to. Even with leveling support and experience gaining tactics, he still outleveled us."

Florence grabbed Ophelia by her shoulders, looking her in the eye,

"We had equipment. We had support. We had a vast network of people and skills helping us. Daniel, he had none of that, yet he succeeded. Even if he's gruff and a bit too intense sometimes, he's going to keep us safe out there. We just have to trust the guy."

Ophelia gave him a reluctant nod, "No, you're right, you're right. I just need to...adjust. I should've been more prepared. That's all."

Florence gave Ophelia a nudge, "He nearly knocked me onto the ground when we first met too. Literally. I'm sure he does that to all kinds of people too."

"Oh, most definitely."

They stepped up to the group, both of them seeing the carnage through the open paneling. Ophelia's heart rate spiked, and she gulped under her red mask,

"It...It really is different seeing it in person."

I stared out, "We're not in person. Not yet at least. Helios, warp us down."

Helios waved his hand, creating another portal towards an underwater coral cavern. Glass spanned over a few of the organic gaps in the coral's coverage, the jagged encapsulation giving a raw feel for the whole area. A few steel cables lined the inner structure, reinforcing the pocket of air.

Helios stepped into the air pocket, along with Althea and I. Turning towards her, I raised an eyebrow,

"You can breathe underwater, right?"

She lifted her neck, showcasing gills, "Of course. You forgot I'm a shapeshifter?"

"Just making sure."

As I mentioned the water, Kessiah pulled out a ring powered by mana. Putting it on, I recognized Torix's signature carving from the corner of my eye. Torix carried a meticulous precision that reflected itself in his runic work, and I'd notice his style anywhere. The insignia let Kessiah hold her breath. Peering over, I didn't see one for Hod.

I pointed at his chest, "You can't breathe underwater, though, can you?"

"Hod not do it. Other Hod not need air though."

Victoria leaned over towards us, "I'm assuming you've handled the situation as well?"

I pointed at my chest, "What, me?"

"Yes. Of course."

I shook my head, "Air isn't an issue anymore. I'll leave it at that."

Torix cackled, "Hah, he could walk on the surface of stars if he so chose. Water is nothing before him now."

Her eyes widened while she raised her eyebrows, disbelief spread across her face. I didn't pursue the issue further since I had nothing to prove. As we entered the coral capsule, I walked up to a wall and touched it. It was a fragile stone, nothing too sturdy. Turning to the others walking in, I pointed at it,

"This doesn't seem like the most secure place to land for the Hybrids."

Her chest filled with pride, Victoria stepped out with her hands on her hips,

"I can promise you this, there is nowhere safer on this planet."

"Why?"

"Because we have the ultimate guardian. Observe."

