Assuming the tunnel didn’t collapse further.  Edmund had no idea how much soil sat above him, and digging through the collapsed section seemed like an easy way to trigger more cave-ins.  He cursed.  Unless he wanted to join his sword under a column of earth, Scorpion’s Sting was gone for good.

The poisoned blade had served him well, but Edmund had long learned not to grow too attached to his gear.  The dungeon would give him another close range weapon soon enough.

With a sigh, Edmund stretched away the worst of the stiffness and set off once more.  He kept his spear drawn and his shield up as he moved, modulating his stride to maintain his footing without stepping on any of the tunnel’s reinforcements.  He’d walked for some five minutes before the passage forked.  Then it forked again.  And again.

The further he delved the more paths presented themselves.  They varied in size and direction, ranging from a dozen feet wide to no more than three.  Edmund kept out of the tighter tunnels as best he could, unwilling to risk an encounter with an ant in a space where he couldn’t move his arms let alone maneuver a weapon, yet still he found himself crawling prone from time to time.

The smoke led him true.

At every junction he followed where it pointed, taking whichever path through which it hung the thickest.  He found himself doubling back, taking long circuitous routes through the maze of tunnels, squeezing through holes that barely accommodated the width of his shoulders, yet still he followed.  He trusted the smoke far more than any comprehensive search, far more than any system of exploration, far more than his own judgment.

In all his time in the Eternal Depths, it was the only thing he’d come to trust.

Six times as he progressed through the warren did Edmund encounter another group of ants—kryax drones according to the smoke—and six times he employed the same technique to deal with them.  Break Through got him past the gathered drones, and Magma Fissure collapsed the tunnel behind him.  Any that survived the cave-in fell to his spear before they could escape their earthen tomb.

The hours dragged on as Edmund crawled through the labyrinthian hive, a level he grew more and more confident had been designed to be confusing above all else.  He wondered if Liam’s intent had been for delvers to get so lost they starved to death.  Even without the smoke, Edmund’s rootmother’s sigil eliminated that particular risk.

He’d traversed miles of tunnel by the time he came across the level’s next challenge: a vertical shaft.

It came about slowly, the passage ahead curving more and more downward until it gave way to a sheer drop.  Smoke and darkness shrouded its depths, leaving Edmund to wonder just how far a fall it might’ve been.  Certainly a lethal one.

He pulled the second of his six torches from his satchel and lit it against the last one the dungeon offered before the dark shaft.  Loathe as he was to burn through a limited resource, the stick with oil-soaked cloth on top hadn’t exactly been expensive.

Stabilizing himself against the left wall, Edmund peered down and tossed the crackling torch into the shaft.  It fell and it fell and it fell, its flames fading away behind the shadows and smoke before a soft thump finally reached Edmund’s sigil-enhanced ears.

He exhaled, missing, for a moment, the strethian lash he’d left behind on the fifth floor.  Perhaps he should’ve asked for a new one back on the burning tree.  It would’ve been three hells of a lot more useful than the idol and the sap that both only worked on plants.

Resigned to do it the hard way, Edmund pulled the two pointed segments of his hyper-magnetic spear from his arms.  He tested them on the wall first, slamming one in over a foot deep and trying his weight on it.  It slid out.  He tried again, angling his strike so downward force would only drive the stake in deeper.  It worked like a charm.

He repeated the test a dozen times before securing enough confidence in the method to trust it with his life.  While a windstep or two would cancel out a single slip-up, he’d have few options for recharging them as he descended, especially if he had to be careful about one wrong step breaking a support and collapsing the tunnel.

Nevertheless, the smoke led him down, so down he’d go.

Hand over hand he made his descent, digging his feet into the clay and soil for what little traction he could get as he drove in and yanked out his makeshift climbing spikes.  The air grew dark around him, smoke washing out the light from above and below.  Liam had left the shaft itself curiously absent any torches, telling Edmund one of two things.

Either Liam didn’t want him knowing how deep it went, or Liam wanted to hide something in the shaft itself.

For the second time that day, the sigil of the slumbering deep proved its worth.  It wasn’t perfect, but the lesser dark vision offered just enough of an outline to see how deep he’d driven each stake and how close he kicked to each reinforcement ring.  Only by this limited sight did Edmund notice the strange shift in the smoke two thirds of the way down.

A passage opened up in the side of the shaft.  It was flat, perpendicular to Edmund’s descent, unlit, and only four feet in diameter.  It hid so well in the darkness of the tunnel that without the trails of smoke wafting into it, Edmund would’ve climbed right past it.  It even sat opposite him, so any delver who climbed down the side of the shaft that’d once been the floor would’ve had his back to the opening.  Wherever it led, Liam didn’t want people finding.

Wherever it led, the smoke wanted Edmund to go.

Maneuvering along the edge of the vertical shaft was easy enough, though Edmund had to climb down a bit then back up to safely enter the hidden passage.  He kept his climbing spikes out in underhanded grips as he crawled on his elbows through the tight space, ready to lash out if necessary.  Of course, any ant could block such a strike with its longer-ranged mandibles, but it was better than nothing.

He saw the light before anything else.  Orange torchlight flickered through a small opening in the distance, offering some glimmer of possibility at the end of the dark and claustrophobic tunnel.  He approached it cautiously, wary of alerting whatever may’ve lurked on the other side.

For good reason.

As he reached the tunnel’s end, Edmund carefully peeked his head into view of the room beyond, revealing a scene that left him both sick to his stomach and giddy with excitement.

He’d found the throne room.

The passage opened up high on the wall of a massive cavern.  Edmund counted several dozen such openings scattered throughout the vast space, into and out of which ants flowed by the hundreds.  The cavern’s floor sat hidden below untold layers of them, a writhing, creeping, crawling sea of kryax drones.

Immediately Edmund suppressed his instinct to cast a Firestorm.  While the mass of what must’ve been thousands of giant ants made for an appealing target, if more than a few survived he’d be a dead man.  Indeed, if any of the ants decided to chase him, his odds of survival plummeted.  There was no way he could traverse the tight passage on his hands and knees as fast as a drone could run it.

That left two options.  He could slink away, content that the smoke would keep his presence hidden if he didn’t call attention to himself, or he could take an incredible risk.

At the center of the chamber, atop the highest point of the mound of ants, sat their queen.  Edmund didn’t need to read the smoke drifting off her to recognize her importance—her size and position were more than enough.

The kryax queen stretched some thirty feet long, with long, jagged mandibles and stiletto-sharp barbed feet to match.  Venom dripped down her mouth, and while she lacked the sack of hardening resin that’d posed such problems for Edmund in the past, she made up for it with the set of translucent wings that stretched down her back.

Besides, the drones atop which she sat had more than enough resin between them to drown an elephant, let alone stop Edmund.

The ants would leave him alone if he eliminated their queen, right?  Or would they attack him in a blind rage?  It seemed like a dangerous risk to take, even assuming he actually could kill the queen.  It wasn’t much of an assumption.  He knew he could.  What mattered was whether or not he should, both in terms of the potential fallout and of what it would cost.

Luck solved the former problem.

As if by providence, a procession of ants emerged from one of the lower, larger tunnels, carrying overhead the corpse of a fallen drone.  Before the hive could devour its former worker, Edmund caught a glimpse of the smoke drifting off the dead insect.

Kryax Drone

One of a vast network of workers in service to a kryax queen.  These drones aren’t capable of independent thought, simply following orders and basic instructions from their shared mind.  They dig, build, and reinforce their nests with a chemical compound that solidifies upon contact with oxygen.

Edmund blinked.  The resin worked on exposure to oxygen?  But melting it away had worked.

He shook the thought from his head to focus on what mattered.  The drones functioned off a single, shared mind.  If he destroyed that mind, theoretically they would stop functioning.  It seemed like a stretch, but Edmund couldn’t think of any other way.  The fairness accords put strict limits on the power of even optional bosses, and if this one required fighting off every single one of the thousands of drones, it would be impossible.

Even getting to the queen without fighting through the drones was a tall order, nigh impossible for any delving group that lacked the particular ace up Edmund’s sleeve.

He raised his hand, marked his target, and fired his Blood Bolt.

The force of the spell launched him up and back into the ceiling of his tunnel as the entire life-force of the leviathan beneath the lake exploded from his armored ring finger.  He caught himself on his hands, jerking his head up to watch his attack in action.

Thousands of individual spears of blood wove into a pillar of uncountable needle-points.  Empowered by Focus, by The Warmonger, by The Tactician, and by The Target it flew, plowing through the wall of drones that arose to block the attack and striking their queen behind them.

The word ‘kill’ understates the Blood Bolt’s impact.  ‘Destroy’ falls short.  Indeed, nothing shy of ‘complete obliteration’ fully encapsulates the extent of the damage.  One moment there was a queen.  The next, there wasn’t.

The hive descended into chaos.  Some drones froze in place, others wandered aimlessly into the tunnels, others turned to violence, tearing into each other in some primal attempt at reestablishing hierarchy.  None seemed to pay Edmund any mind.

He shuffled back out of immediate view of the cavern and envisioned his constellation to check for the sigil he half expected he’d have to turn down.  Instead, he found a title.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense.  Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Edmund scowled, wondering if that right applied retroactively.  Could he take control of this hive now that its queen was dead?  He doubted a god could take control of the chaos down there.  He noted the title’s description didn’t specify kryax hives.

He blinked away his constellation and moved to continue on when a pair of mandibles peeked over the lip of Edmund’s tunnel.  A single drone followed, approaching Edmund far faster than he’d ever be able to retreat.  He readied himself for a fight before an idea struck.

“Stop!” he ordered the ant, keeping his tone as assertive as possible.

The drone obeyed.

Edmund let out a breath.  The ant visibly exhaled.  Edmund scowled and tilted his head to the side.  The drone mirrored his movement.  “Huh,” he breathed.  “With me, then.  Don’t let any more drones follow.”

The ant nodded its assent, enough for Edmund to trust the thing.  Considering it lacked the capacity for independent thought, he sincerely doubted it capable of betrayal.

It came as a surprise, then, when rather than watching his back as he’d expected, the drone collapsed the tunnel behind them, sealing off their method of egress from the mayhem of the throne room.

Edmund led the drone all the way back to the shaft, where he drove a spike into the wall and hung over the darkness below to clear a path for the obedient ant.  It walked right out of the side passage, standing comfortable on the vertical wall of the shaft.

Edmund raised an eyebrow at it.  “Can you give me a ride to the bottom?”

It bent its legs and lowered itself to the dirt, signaling to Edmund that he should climb on.

He did.

He’d barely managed to wrap his arms around its neck and legs around its thorax before it took off, skittering down passage at a pace just short of an actual fall.  In far, far less time and effort than it would’ve taken Edmund to climb down on his own, both he and the ant emerged into a small room with an open door, an emerald chest, and a boyish man with an amused smirk.

“Oh look, you made a friend,” Liam greeted him.  “Too bad you can’t take him with you.”

“No,” Edmund muttered as he dismounted the drone.  “Instead I’m stuck with you.”

Liam snapped his fingers.  “That’s true.  You can take me to the next floor.”

Edmund ignored him, letting the drone run off to do whatever it was mindless drones did with their time as he set his sights on the loot chest.  “What do the different types of chest actually mean?”

“Nothing at all,” Liam answered with surprising honesty.  “I’ve found you delvers tend to appreciate your loot more if it comes in a fancy box.”

“Of course you have,” Edmund grumbled.  He knelt over the chest and swung open its glimmering emerald lid to reveal a wooden slingshot and a burlap sack.  He scowled.  “Fancy box, huh?”

“Works wonders.”  Liam smirked.

With a sigh, Edmund picked up the slingshot and eyed the wisps of smoke trailing off it.

Basic Slingshot

The words offered no description, presumably because the bent wood and springy strap had no interesting properties beyond their ability to launch small objects.  The burlap sack, basic as it seemed, displayed its purpose.

Inside he found fifteen transparent orbs, each about the size of his fist.  Tiny air bubbles within them shifted around as he turned the spheres in his hand, implying that their rigid exteriors didn’t extend all the way through.  Edmund knew what they were even before the smoky letters drifted into the air.

Kryax Balloon

A glob of kryax resin wrapped in a thin protective film.  Will burst and coat anything it strikes at sufficient velocity before solidifying.

