Edmund liked the sound of that.  He’d have to spend some time with the slingshot to practice on his aim, but the ability to emulate the drones’ joint-freezing attacks seemed useful.  A surplus of non-combat uses for the resin—slingshot notwithstanding—came to mind as well.  Quickly and easily binding two things together had a lot of utility.

He emptied the burlap sack into his satchel, leaving the kryax balloons loose for ease of access.  The slingshot followed before, on a whim, Edmund rolled up the sack itself and stored it too.  Loot was loot.

Before he could mutter another snarky comment, Edmund shut Liam out and envisioned his constellation.  At long last, the time had come for another base Aspect.  Though the list he’d received from the tenth-floor scholar had already narrowed down his options, he took the moment to review the complete list.

Aspects

Already he’d taken the two Aspects directly adjacent to Madness, barring, of course, the much more limited Eldritch.  For the time being, Edmund had his eye on Chaos and Wrath, both of which he felt rather suited him, even if neither resonated above a dull gray with a few flecks of red.  Of the two, Wrath seemed to make the most—

“Before you get ahead of yourself picking your next Aspect,” Liam interrupted his train of thought, “you might want to ask why I’m here.”

Edmund dismissed his constellation with a groan.  “Why are you here?”

“To annoy you.”

Edmund glared at him.

“Oh, also to give you this,” Liam held out an open palm, upon which sat a humanoid wooden figure made of bound twigs.

Edmund scowled at it.

“It’s not a great offer,” Liam said, “but your value is plummeting.  People think you’re unstable, and don’t want to invest resources in a pact with a suicidal lunatic, especially a suicidal lunatic who’ll probably turn them down.”

“Making the tough sell, aren’t we?”

“You should take it,” Liam insisted.  “It’s the best you’re gonna get.  It’s the last you’re gonna get.  I had to call in a favor just to get you this.  The unbound effigy is a friend of mine, and he’s only sent you an offer because I asked him to.  Understand?”

“Yeah, you want me to sign a pact with your friend.  Got it.”  Despite his protest, Edmund reached out and touched the idol.  There was no harm in reading the offer, even if its circumstances already repulsed him.

The unbound effigy felt… different than the other icons with which Edmund had communed.  The world didn’t go silent or disappear entirely or otherwise change at a fundamental level.  Edmund simply blinked and he found himself in a clearing surrounded by trees.

Dead leaves crackled beneath his feet.  A cloudy sky cast him in shadowless gray.  At the center of the clearing, held upright by a stake driven deep into the earth, was the effigy itself, crafted of twigs and branches tied together in the shape of a man with arms outstretched.

It didn’t move.  It made no sound.  It simply was, seemingly inanimate yet projecting a sense of uncanny significance that belied its basic appearance.

Edmund didn’t approach.  He didn’t beseech the mysterious icon.  He didn’t pray.  “Alright,” he said with no excess of reverence in his tone, “let’s get this over with.  What’ve you got for me?”

A sharp wind swept through the clearing, its chill biting at Edmund’s skin as fallen leaves danced to its tune.  Moments later, the offer faded into view.

Offer Received - Pact of The Unbound Effigy

Receive access to the Eldritch base Aspect, with abilities tied to the power of The Unbound Effigy and resonance determined by your personal affinity with The Unbound Effigy.  In exchange for this portion of his strength, The Unbound Effigy asks no tithe on coin earned, a bi-monthly holy task, and three holy quests at The Unbound Effigy’s discretion.

Edmund almost laughed.  Liam hadn’t exaggerated when he’d said the offer wasn’t great.  No tithe was nice enough, but the effigy wanted way more holy tasks and multiple year-long quests.  A holy task he could handle, but taking a year away from the Eternal Depths to go chase some icon’s bidding would cost him his Obsession bonuses at best and his chance at vengeance at worst.

There was no way Eldritch was so much better than any other base Aspect that it justified putting Obsession at risk.  Edmund didn’t waste any time.

“No.”

The wind swept once more, filling the air with a flurry of dead leaves that seemed to wipe the clearing away.  When the leaves finally fell, they fell to the floor of the dungeon at Liam’s feet.

Liam let out a sigh.  “Don’t say I didn’t try.”

“Try what?” Edmund asked.  “Try to trick me into signing my soul over to one of your friends?”

“I don’t know, maybe try to keep you alive?” Liam countered.  “There’s a reason delvers take pacts.”

“And I’ll happily take one that guarantees it won’t drag me away before I get my chance to finish you,” Edmund snapped.  “Better yet, I’ll take one if it isn’t brokered by you.  Don’t think I didn’t notice the way you phrased that to avoid outright saying you’re trying to keep me alive, because we both know you’re not.”

“Fine.  If delvers refuse pacts, it hurts my ability to sell shrine placements.  It’s in my own best interests that delvers take pacts and that they’re happy with them.  So what?  It turns out, sometimes people want the same thing.”

“It’s not that simple.  It’s never that simple, but guess what?  I’m onto you, and I’m not gonna let you manipulate me.”

Liam raised an eyebrow.  “Are you allergic to happiness or something?  Why is it that whenever anything remotely good comes your way, you assume it’s some plot to get you killed?”

“Because everything’s a plot with you.  That’s all you know.  For fuck’s sake, Liam, you didn’t drop me with Amelia on a sandy beach to be nice, and you certainly didn’t ‘call in a favor’ to help me survive.  Whatever your game is, I’m not playing.”

“Yeah, maybe I thought if you were happy for once, you’d stop being so angry all the time.  Silly me.  But what’s worse, Edmund?  Getting tricked into being happy, or pushing everyone and everything away in case it’s some ploy?  I’ve noticed you’ve yet to use that ring of yours.”

Edmund froze.  He absentmindedly spun the ring of twinned souls around his finger.  Liam was right.  He hadn’t contacted Amelia.  He wondered what that meant for approximately three seconds before he realized what’d happened.

“You’re using her against me.  You set us up, and now you’re using her against me.”  Edmund shook his head.  “You can shove that pact offer up your ass.  I’m not interested.”  He stepped around the obnoxious avatar.

“You really should reconsider!” Liam called after him.  “You’re not going to get any other—”

He was too late.  Before Liam could even finish his sentence, Edmund pulled up his constellation, took the Aspect of Wrath, and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 22

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 9 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 9 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 10 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 16

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense.  Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.
