A tunnel damp and dark and full of smoke met Edmund’s entrance.  He coughed a single time, a sharp and abrasive thing, before the last of the fresh seaside air had left his lungs and he re-acclimated to the haze.  His vacation was over.

The passage ahead tilted downwards at a treacherous forty degrees, shallow enough to walk yet too steep to do so comfortably.  He’d have the high ground against anything that came at him head on, but retreating back up the incline would prove difficult.  Similarly, the slope could theoretically impart a great deal of power into any potential charge he made, but he’d have a hard time stopping should something go wrong.

Edmund wasn’t sure what any of that meant for the monsters he’d encounter.  Obviously Liam wouldn’t give him favorable terrain, which meant the incline had to benefit whatever was about to try to kill him.

Immediately his mind went to invertebrates and insects, in part due to the depth of the slope before him, but primarily because of its shape.

The tunnel was perfectly circular.

It stretched a consistent seven feet in diameter, leaving Edmund an uncomfortably narrow section in which he could stand fully upright.  Maneuvering a spear would be tricky but doable.  Maneuvering a Firestorm less so.

Only the infrequent torches spitting their orange light and plumes of smoke decorated the soft dirt and clay, the former of which glimmered upon an odd sheen that coated the earth.  Edmund knelt for a better look.

Every few feet, a six-inch-wide ring encircled the tunnel in strangely shiny soil.  The rings sat perfectly flush with the rest of the wall, and were indeed nigh unnoticeable without the torchlight reflecting against them.  Given the regularity in their spacing, Edmund gathered some idea of their purpose, but his theory warranted testing.

He tapped the pointed tip of his armor-clad right middle finger against the reflective earth.  Unlike the soft dirt on which he stood, it didn’t budge.  He rapped a knuckle against it.  A muffled knocking rang through the air, the shimmering soil solid against his skin.

It had to be some sort of resin or chemical binder, Edmund reasoned, something that had seeped into the ground and solidified.  The third and final act of testing his theory was the simplest.

He stepped on it.

Edmund simultaneously heard and felt it crunch beneath his boot, his focused bodyweight too much for the compound to handle.  The ring’s sides both slid down and in towards where he’d broken it.  Clumps of rock and earth rained down from above.

Edmund dove forward, catching himself on his hands.

For a moment, nothing happened.  He lay there, face mere inches from the dirt, wondering if he’d misevaluated the situation.  What if the rings were actually a trap, or some sort of complicated alarm system and he’d just alerted the monsters and lied prone for them to freely atta—

The tunnel behind him collapsed.

Edmund scrambled to his feet, turning back to confirm the scope of the cave-in.  Sure enough, the ceiling had come down at exactly the spot of the ring he’d broken.  A wall of earth now blockaded him from the floor’s entrance, but Edmund didn’t care.  He had no intention of leaving.

Fortunately, the rings he’d dived onto hadn’t snapped, implying it took his bodyweight concentrated into a relatively small area to break them.  He’d have to avoid stepping on them or hitting them with any errant attacks, but otherwise they shouldn’t prove a problem.  With how consistently the reinforcements were spaced, his sigil of the azure journeyman practically tracked them for him.

Comfortably reassured he’d found the floor’s most immediate dangers, Edmund set off.  He kept his shield up and his spear whole as he moved, yet forewent his normal poking and prodding for secret passages.  The strategy had yet to actually work, and he dared not interfere with the tunnel’s dubious stability.

He was just wondering if Liam’s rules against digging applied to escaping a cave-in when he first heard them.

A series of faint, inhuman clicks echoed down from the tunnel ahead.  They rang deep and fast, in bursts of dozens at a time interspersed with periods of silence.  Edmund stilled.

The clicks grew louder.

He kicked his heels into the ground, compacting the earth as best he could into some semblance of a landing on the steep slope.  The incline behind him forced him to hold his spear at a weird angle, but there was nothing for it.  As long as it could point towards the monsters, it would do.

They appeared first as outlines in the smoke, four insectoid creatures that resembled army ants but for the bulging sacks of fluid beneath their mouths, and the fact they were each ten feet long.  Their chitin shone a dull red, declaring danger as if two-foot-long mandibles dripping venom weren’t enough.

To approach at once down the narrow tunnel, the massive bugs utilized the space’s entirety, running along the floor, walls, and ceiling as they charged Edmund’s position.  As they neared, his challenger’s mark burned with sensation.

The ants stopped.

Edmund raised his shield.

Four globules of viscous liquid launched through the air at him.  He dodged the first and caught the second on his shield, but one struck his right elbow and another his left ankle.

They didn’t hurt.  No acid chewed through his armor.  No toxin pushed through his blood.

The substance solidified, locking his elbow and ankle in place.

The ants charged.

Edmund growled a curse and moved to meet them, maneuvering his spear with his wrist and shoulder as his elbow kept its angle.

The ants reared back to spit another barrage.

Edmund yelled his Challenge.

Three of the four ants hung back as his newest ability took effect.  The fourth ran in.

Edmund jammed his spear at it as best he could without straightening his arm, getting it in the eye but lacking the range to pierce through to its brain.  It recoiled.

Edmund stepped in, keeping his spear tip stuck in the ant’s eye, bashing at its mandibles with his shield as he spun.  He grabbed his spear with his off hand, holding it in place as he drew his right shoulder back to adjust his petrified arm’s grip.

Venom dripped down his side as the ant’s left mandible cut a score down his crystal cuirass but failed to reach flesh.

At last Edmund completed his follow-through, driving his spear through the beast’s eye and into its brain.  The ant collapsed.  One down, three to go.

His Challenge expired, its day-long cooldown uselessly ticking away.

The momentum of his lunge carried him three more steps down the treacherous slope, driving him closer to his foes and past the point he could easily reclaim his spear.  He drew his sword, dropping the spear and watching as it slid down the slope a ways.  He’d worry about finding it later.

The good news was that its shorter length made maneuvering Scorpion’s Sting a fair bit easier in the confined space.  The bad news was that the mandibles now outranged him.  He’d have to charge in aggressively, a tall ask with only one functional ankle.

Edmund half ran half stumbled for the ant to his right, keeping his shield up to defend from attacks above and to his left.  It caught the first glob of the hardening resin, but failed to block the second.  Moments later, Edmund lost motion in his left shoulder.

The rightward lashed out.  On instinct Edmund tried to lower his shield to block, but his shoulder refused to budge.

A pair of mandibles wrapped around Edmund’s midsection.  They dragged him in, yanking his weight off his feet and onto his knees, then they began to squeeze.

His cuirass held up admirably, its resistance to crushing damage slowing the ant’s attempt to bite him in two.  Edmund swung, but his awkward, constrained motions led the edge of his blade to bounce off the creature’s chitin.

It jerked its head to the side, slamming Edmund into the wall.  His sword fell to the floor.

A great and horrible crack rang out as his cuirass finally began to buckle.  Pain shot up Edmund’s side as his ribs snapped.

He jerked himself forward, swinging his entire upper body to make up for the lost range of his petrified elbow.  His ring finger made it into the joint at the base of the beast’s right mandible.

The ant’s grip slackened as its life force left it.  Edmund groaned.  He’d have preferred the healing from the gauntlet-piece on his middle finger.  The ring finger’s blood bolt was still absurdly over-charged from the leviathan a few floors back.

He coughed.  Flecks of blood splattered against the dead ant.  The broken rib had pierced his lung.

He couldn’t stop now.

Another globule struck and solidified around his right hand, coating his fragments of the Dread Gauntlet of Koa’Ilinesh.  He could still move his fingers, but until he rid himself of the resin, he’d be draining no more.

But Edmund had no shortage of weapons.

He leapt to the left, ducking his head to slip under the ant on that side.  His frozen joints kept him from reaching for the mundane knife at his side, so Edmund simply allowed himself to land hard on his side against the bare dirt.  He jammed his left elbow into the ground, forcing his right shoulder up and into the base of the ant’s thorax.

Using the pointed tip of his rockjaw pauldron, Edmund activated Rend.

Yellow hemolymph and viscera rained down on him as the ant split in two, but Edmund didn’t have time to be disgusted.  The ant on the ceiling yet remained, and he was still bleeding into his lungs.

Edmund pushed the ant’s corpse aside and allowed the tunnel’s slope to pull him into a roll.  He traveled some dozen paces down the passage, rhythmically slamming his shield into the earth to keep his roll going until it came time to do the opposite.

He gathered himself and glanced up to find the final ant still in the process of turning around to chase after him, the tight quarters finally working in Edmund’s favor.  Even luckier, once it turned, rather than charging immediately, it reared back to spit another burst of fluid from the sac beneath its mouth.

World still spinning as he recovered from his roll, Edmund didn’t even bother trying to evade the globule.  Instead, he took aim and cast one last spell.

A Magma Fissure cracked open beneath the ant.  Red light and shimmering heat waves spread through the tunnel at the exposed magma.

The ant clung safely to the ceiling, in no danger or stepping even close to the magma, let alone into it.

Until, bisected by the fissure, three individual rings of resin all gave in at once.

The tunnel collapsed.

The ant fell back-first into the Magma Fissure, screeching and writhing in agony for the paltry moments before a column of earth slammed on top of it.  Edmund watched with smug satisfaction as its one exposed leg quivered once and then stilled forever.

Edmund sat up, coughing and sputtering as blood ran down his chin.  He could survive a punctured lung, especially if he let unconsciousness take him so the slumbering deep could do its work, but he didn’t trust his regeneration’s ability to properly set his broken rib.

With his forcibly bent right arm, he reached back and unclasped the crystal cuirass that’d saved his life.  It refused to separate from the hardened resin at his left shoulder, but he managed to weave his arm under it to reach the skin below.

Edmund grit his teeth.  He inhaled sharply, fighting off the coughing fit as he filled his damaged lungs with as much air and smoke as he could manage.  Through the skin and muscle of his abdomen, Edmund grabbed the broken rib.

He yanked it back, freeing it from its spot in his lungs even as it tore through new flesh.

Ideally, he’d have set it in its proper place.  Ideally he’d have wrapped it in bandage or splint or even some of that resin the ants wielded so well.

Ideally, Edmund would’ve remained conscious.

None of that happened.  As the pain of shifting around his own broken bone exploded through his midsection, Edmund managed one last desperate, sputtering breath before his head hit the dirt and darkness took him.

Edmund awoke to sore muscles and stiff joints.  His throat burned with irritation from the smoke in the air, but that was it.  He breathed as freely as he ever did alone.

Muttering a quiet thanks to his sigil of the slumbering deep, Edmund sat up and set about dealing with his next major dilemma.

The resin still bound his hand, elbow, shoulder, and ankle.  He tried slamming his coated fingers against the dome of his shield, but the force of the impact traveled right through the hardened goop into his hand.  Edmund grunted as his fingers throbbed.

The substance had to have some mechanism for breaking apart.  It’d come from a single sac at the ants’ throats, implying that it wasn’t a mixture with some other compound that triggered the solidification.  The fact the same substance reinforced the tunnel meant water couldn’t dissolve it either—the moisture in the ground would’ve collapsed the supports.

That left exposure to air and loss of heat.  If access to air had caused the stuff to solidify, there was nothing Edmund could do about it, but if it’d only stayed liquid in the ants’ bodies because they’d heated it up, he had an easy fix.

Edmund raised his hand to the torch on the wall and watched with glee as the resin dripped off.  For a brief moment he considered donning his swelter ring to melt off the rest, before realizing that the reinforcement rings were made of the same stuff.  He preferred not to liquify the things holding the ceiling up.

He repeated the process to free his elbow and shoulder, but had to light one of his own torches to finish off.  The dungeon’s torches didn’t freely separate from the wall, and raising his ankle above his head precisely enough to melt the resin without burning himself would’ve been hard enough on stable footing let alone the soft soil and steep slope of the tunnel.

His first step was to fix his cuirass, a task as simple as bleeding on it a bit to fuel its self-repair function.  Already it had drank of the blood he’d coughed up, so all it took was a cut along his left arm to return it to perfect condition.

Fortunately, his hyper-magnetic spear had stopped its slide as it hit a bend in the tunnel.  Thrax knew how far it could’ve fallen otherwise.  Edmund didn’t like the idea of having to clear the entire floor before he could reclaim his main weapon.

Scorpion’s Sting wasn’t so lucky.

The short sword hadn’t slid or rolled or otherwise traveled from the spot Edmund had dropped it, a spot that now sat comfortably beneath a few tons of fallen earth.  He sighed and scratched the back of his head as he gazed at the wall or dirt and clay that blocked his retreat.  He supposed Liam wouldn’t be too upset if he excavated his lost weapon.  It’d take forever, but it seemed possible.

