He still couldn’t decide. Duration sounded incredibly busted for the five seconds of use time past expiry on a manifested object, but Increase sounded like it could enable some fucking insane combos with its instantaneous doubling of the size and weight of a manifested object. Not to mention the fact that it was the only Legendary path option he’d seen so far.

…he couldn’t make his mind up. He was gonna hold off on this until something else came up that made one of these options stand out more, or until he felt he needed to pick a path before he fucking died. He couldn’t be premature with decisions like this. Hindsight didn’t do much to placate a dead body, and Markus wasn’t gonna be sat there wishing he took something else when he found himself in an untenable situation.

Markus was scrolling through his menus when he found he’d unlocked a new skill around the time he’d fought Cyrus. This one was called Counter Strike.

[Counter Strike: 1.]

[Counter Strike measures the user’s ability to block, parry, or redirect their opponent’s attack in a manner which leaves the aggressor open to a counterattack. Mastery available at 10.]

Well, shit. Time to learn Perfect Parry, I guess.

“You know you mumble to yourself when you’re doing that, don’t you?”

Markus felt as if he’d been knocked from a trance. “Huh?”

Rika snickered. “When you’re spending points, or whatever you’re doing. I just hear you mumbling little things, like you’re locked in super intense thought. It’s hilarious.”

“...well, thanks. Now I can hear it too.”

Rika laughed. “Don’t be mad! Look. Look. Listen to me, I can’t even do that alphabet song you taught me. A, B, E, D, E, F… E?”

Markus felt the frown being pulled from his lips. “Pfft. Guess we need to work on that some more.”

“Funny, huh?” Rika snarled, smirking impetuously. “Not as funny as your fa—aaa!”

She leapt back in an incredible display of agility, yowling, clearing the entire bed and landing on the far side of the room.

Why? Ember had gotten up and started moving.

“Rika, how many times do we have to go over that—”

“Don’t care!” Rika yelled from the far corner of the room, curled in a massive ball. “Hellhound scary!”

Well, that was that. Markus watched as Ember padded her way to the far side of the room, near the chest, then turned back towards him, stopping only a few inches away and staring up at him.

“Don’t you listen to her,” Markus whispered to Ember, before realising that something was glinting in her teeth.

“Hey, whatcha got there?”

Markus fished the small red gem out of her mouth, the one with the strange markings he didn’t recognise. Ember barked.

“That’s not a chew toy. Do you need a chew toy?”

Ember barked again, this time louder.

“No, Rika isn’t a chew toy either.”

Markus snickered at his own joke. Truthfully, though, he wished he could understand Ember, and precisely why she’d brought this specific gem over to him.

She was clearly trying to tell him something. She’d demonstrated more than once already that she was intelligent enough to do so.

But what?

***

Markus fell asleep after a short session of maneouvreing the Spirit Mana within his body, while Rika fell asleep with a book over her face. He was eager to get his Mana Manipulation to level 5 and unlock whatever an Evolution was, and he felt that practice could only bring him there that much faster.

Still, no luck, at least for now. Nothing ticked over, and he wasn’t sure how much progress he had left to make.

When Markus awoke the next morning, it was to Lexi calling his name. Time to fight, apparently.

Ember was gone once more, while the red crystal at Markus’ side seemed to glow with a faint intensity.

Cyrus, for the first time, was also missing from his cell, something Markus noticed as soon as Lexi prompted him out of bed.

Fight time, it looked like.

Markus pocketed the glowing crystal after a moment’s thought. He wasn’t sure what it was for, but it might come in handy. He grabbed his glaive, splashed some cold water on his face after downing a cup or two, then began his march in the direction of the arena, attempting to detach himself from the worries of his suddenly missing comrade and focus on what mattered most: winning his next fight.

When Markus found his way into the arena, when he saw his opponent, the colour drained from his face.
