As the swordsman lowers his dark blue blade and deactivates his magic skills, I watch in awe. He looks at me with a satisfied smirk as the clearly summoned water around his feet seeps into the recently upturned soil.

He throws the blade in his hand to the ground and stretches both of his arms out wide.

"Come on, I'll give you one more shot. I won't even use a single skill to block you this time around."

His dark eyes pierce the thick air between us, making direct contact with my own. His white teeth peek out from the crooked grin across his face, and he remains unguarded in the middle of the empty field.

I activate my skills and charge my blades again, glowing golden red, filled with an odd sense of rage.

"Get ready."

Plundering the MP from even more of my leftover MP crystals, I begin to eat away at my supply just to show off. So much for my plans of staying low-key. Teaching this so-called "Elite" a lesson is more important right now.

It takes just under 30 seconds for me to charge both of my blades nearly to full power. There's over 10k MP in both of them combined. Letting out another reality-tearing attack, the white and black crescents of mana-imbued elemental mana rocket toward the defenseless Elite C-Class.

Another explosion of wind and fire throws rock and dirt in all directions. I watch the red-haired hunter, Rylan, run behind the back wall of the Inn to escape the blast. This time the destructive fireball is close to double the size of my last attack.

That cocky blue-haired hunter thought that was the best I could do and lowered his guard. Let's see how well he faired against this one.

I smirk, letting the dust cloud clear.

As it does, I hear the familiar slow clapping sound coming from within the dispersing sediments.

"Well done, well done. I am definitely going to have some fun with you. The Director picked out an interesting brat for me to train after all."

My eyes open wide, seeing the Elite C-Class hunter standing untouched on the same small patch of grass in the middle of the field.

Blinking a few times, then swallowing hard, I think back to the moment before impact....

Both of my attacks definitely hit him straight on, right across his chest in fact. There was no water magic blocking my attacks, it's like It hit an invisible shield...

I couldn't get a close enough look before the explosion of red and white light to see what happened at the exact moment of impact.

The blue-haired man walks over to me while placing his sword back into his item box.

"I was going back to sleep, but now that there's some excitement I'll stay up a little bit longer. Let's grab some lunch and talk over a few more details before our training starts tomorrow. Conway's cooking ain't half bad, just don't order the fish..."

I awkwardly stare straight ahead, still puzzled at his ability to completely nullify my attack. Plus, this easygoing attitude he's put on after I basically just tried to kill him over nothing....

Is he really that much stronger than me...?

I reply in a low tone.

"I'd rather not wait for tomorrow, I was planning on climbing today..."

I gulp while putting my blades away into item storage.

"...and what's wrong this the fish?"

He throws his arm around my shoulder with a chuckle.

"You really are an ambitious one aren't ya? Who said we'll be climbing tomorrow? I've got a lot to teach you, young one."

I let out a sigh, wriggling out from his arms grasp as we walk closer to the backside of the Inn.

"Don't call me young one, you're not even that much older than me... and I'm climbing tomorrow whether you like it or not! I didn't come here-"

Fisher cuts me off, turning his head, giving me a stern look.

"Trust me. You must have been climbing for at least 20 hours straight, some sleep will do you well."

I grit my teeth, starting to respond but a weak voice sounds from around the corner of the grey brick structure, then a red head of hair slowly peeks out.

"A-Are you guys done...?"

Rylan walks over to us with a pale face and a blank expression. He gulps, then lets out another sentence in an excited tone.

"J-Jay you didn't tell me you were in line to become an Elite! At your age, that's some major news. Your face will be plastered all over the Region any day now. Congrats!"

My mind continues to race as the redhead stares at me with a goofy grin. The blue-haired swordsman keeps walking toward the Inn's entrance as I reply

"I didn't exactly know about this either... "

Both of us follow Fisher inside as my mental turmoil grows more and more. Today was supposed to be a fun Labyrinth farming adventure with Ember, why'd it have to take a turn like this?

The 3 of us sit down at one of the circular tables in the back of the room. Rylan keeps asking Fisher questions about new missions he's been on as I continue to zone out in my own little world.

Finally, our food and drinks come out. I ask the first nagging question that comes to mind.

"Hey, how do you two know each other so well? It's not like-"

Rylan cuts me off as Fisher takes a swig of his newly arrived cold drink.

"I used to be his personal trainer, back in the Association! That is... until he surpassed me within the first year."

After a long gulp, the Elite chimes in.

"Yeah, yeah. He taught me the basics, I owe him for that, but it's all about your natural born talent and-"

"Money. It's about money."

I grin as the Redhead cuts off his former student's inspirational speech. Fisher rolls his eyes as Rylan continues, staring at me.

"The Association must want to back you for one of the skills you have. If I'm not mistaken... That attack you threw earlier was both wind and fire, right?"

I swallow the food in my mouth and reply.

"It... was..."

I pause, thinking about my next words carefully as the two of them eye me up and down.

"I- have element stone imbued weapons. You saw my sword and dagger right?"

Fisher jumps in.

"Enough, enough. It doesn't really matter. Clearly, the Director likes this kid, and I get a full 25 credits for the week if I can get him past floor 20."

He turns to me.

"You'll be resting up today, no questions asked. If you can't manage to make a scratch on me unguarded in an empty field, you're on a one-way suicide mission if you face the behemoth now. You may not even be able to make it to the 20th floor at your current strength..."

I stare at him with a cold glare, then take another bite, and reply with my mouth full.

"Fine. We'll do it your way."

He smirks.

"Good, finally I've broken through that hard head of yours. I'll do some proper tests on you tomorrow and our training will start once we both wake up. How about we meet back here in 10 hours."

Taking another bite, half-listening to his words I respond again.

"Sure, sure."

The 3 of us finish up our meals and Fisher insists we head up to our rooms. He may be tough, but I can see it in his eyes, this Elite is sleep deprived from climbing the labyrinth. This 10 hours of rest is more for him than for me.

The small staircase in the back creaks as I walk up it. The wooden door of my room opens easily and I walk inside.

The dusty scent of old wood and upsweeped floors fills my senses as I peer into the underwhelming living quarters. A single small bed close to the ground with white sheets, a small sink and mirror near the back wall and a small dirty window.

I let out a sigh, closing the door, and sitting on the bed. It creaks as I mentally compare this 5m by 3m room to the luxury apartment I just started renting...

Fisher believes I've been grinding my way up the dungeon for the last day just like him. It makes sense why he'd tell me to get some rest, but it's been less than 6 hours since I even woke up.

My day is just getting started.

I activate enemy detection and scan my surroundings to confirm there's no one behind the Inn. Everyone is trading in the town, or hanging out at the bar downstairs.

Double-checking to make sure my door is locked, I activate Dungeon Walker and teleport myself into the massive dirt pit created earlier by my attack against the water-wielding swordsman.

I grit my teeth as his arrogant face flashes into my head.

"I'll get to the 20th floor and beat the boss before he even wakes up...."

Without a moment's hesitation, I activate stealth and begin air-stepping away toward the back of the 10th-floor Dungeon.
