Ren stepped up into the air to put his face right in front of hers and they stared at each other. He let her arm go and she carefully pulled it back into the carriage as they held each other's gaze.

“Ren, they're waiting.” Artemis said, and he sighed.

“Maybe we can continue this at dinner.” Ren said and moved his face away without blinking, and that turned her on even more.

“I would like that.” She said and leaned her head out the window to follow his movements.

Ren gave her a little wave and walked backwards through the air towards Tatya's carriage and kept staring at her, and he felt her desire spike that he thought she was too dangerous to avert his gaze from. Artemis opened the door of the carriage when he was close enough and he stepped inside, then she and Jirqym climbed inside as well and closed the door.

*

“Oh, my god.” The woman whispered when Ren's eyes could no longer be seen and she leaned back into the carriage.

“He's just going to use you and toss you aside.” The man across from her said, and she felt how disgruntled he was.

“It's your fault for provoking him.” The woman said, and she tucked her hands into her tunic and touched her now very sensitive breasts through her thin armor bodysuit.

“You've never reacted that strongly before.” He said.

“Did you feel his emotions?” The woman asked and rubbed herself. “They run deeper than any I've ever felt before. Even yours.”

The man didn't say anything, and she chuckled. She took her hands out of her tunic and folded them on her lap.

“If he does go through with it and pleasures me, perhaps even beyond all of my unreasonable expectations...” She untied her tunic to show him how excited she was. “...would you still want me as much as you do?”

He didn't say anything in response; but, she could feel his emotions just as much as he could feel hers.

“You shouldn't have spurned my advances or denied me my rightful place.” She said and played with her breasts to tease him. “You ostracized me from your family and from some of my friends, because of how you described my wanton and wicked ways.”

The man sighed and looked at her, because he couldn't help himself. “Yes, I'll still desire you.” He admitted. “We still can't be together.”

“Thanks to you and your completely unfair bias towards me.”

“It's not unfair... or unwarranted.” The man said and became excited watching her. “We aren't even...”

“No one cared about that when we were together, not even your family.” She said and tied up her tunic, because her goal of giving him an erection was complete. “You brought this situation on yourself and you even took another for your wife.”

The man sighed. “Yes, so why don't you berate me some more over that.”

“I don't have to.” She countered. “You do that to yourself every time you go to bed with her and not with me.”

The man closed his mouth and kept his response to himself, because she was right and they both knew it.
