He concentrated, placing his hand on the crucible’s drainage spout. He needed to close it off for what came next. He pressed on the tin with his palm, forcing the metal to telescope up into the body of the crucible. He pressed it flat from the other side, shaping the metal like soft clay while preserving its internal structure.

Planarity.

The metal between his palms flattened, becoming uniform in thickness. He used his fingers to shape it back to match the curve of the bottom of the crucible, then removed his hands. The iron was already starting to melt again.

“Tallheart…what the actual fuck?” Rain said.

“Pure metal is easy to work with, especially when it is hot,” Tallheart said, watching the iron closely as it melted.

“If you can do that, what do you even need the hammer for?” Rain asked.

“For stronger metals, and for alloys,” Tallheart replied simply. He placed his hands back in the crucible, touching the partly molten metal.

Order of Metal.

Working quickly, he isolated the iron from the other trace metals. The remaining non-metallic impurities resisted, but with the metal nearly molten he was able to work around them. He pressed them out of the metal’s matrix as he fed more and more mana into the skill. He smiled as the iron became easier and easier to work, his rate of purification increasing as the impurities fell away. He withdrew his hands, holding a liquid sphere of molten iron, held in place by his skills.

Wonderful.

He smoothed the sphere as it started to solidify, stepping back from the fire. “Rain, Refrigeration,” he said. The human obeyed, and Tallheart carefully flattened the sphere down into an ingot as the metal rapidly cooled. Finishing it with Planarity, he walked over to where he had left his anvil and set the perfectly rectangular brick of metal upon it. He would shape it into a filter for pure iron later.

The purified metal would hold the enchantment better, lasting for at least a few days. He would take the time to add the capacitance runes to allow the enchantment to be recharged. Having a permanent filter would be worth the effort. Order of Metal took far too much mana to be practical for the quantity of metal he required.

Humm. Rain could help with that too. He could restore my mana, and his Purification aura might actually work if the metal were molten and he used it for long enough.

…

No, making filters will be better in the long run.

He walked back over to Rain and removed the crucible from the fire. Rain was watching him with a disbelieving expression.

“Magic is fucking insane.”

Tallheart smiled. “Come. I am hungry. Are there any potatoes left?”
