The third decimal mattered.

Callum knelt on packed earth at the edge of the Overgrowth, his Engineer's Multitool jammed into the anchor socket of a Gathering Construct he was relocating for the fourth time in twenty minutes. Morning light filtered through the bioluminescent canopy in shifting curtains of blue-green, and the air was warm and thick with spores that tickled the back of his throat. Behind him, Mira leaned against a tree with her saber across her knees, watching him with the expression of a woman deciding whether to be patient or annoyed.

She chose annoyed.

"You could do this faster if you weren't measuring angles to the third decimal."

Callum did not look up. The Multitool's interface projected a translucent overlay of the regeneration zone -- two Overgrowth sectors whose moss cycles overlapped in a narrow band exactly 4.7 meters wide. The Gathering Construct needed to sit inside that band, oriented so its collector arms could sweep both sectors without dead travel. The difference between optimal and merely good placement was 2.4 degrees of rotation.

"The third decimal is the difference between 91% and 94% collection efficiency."

"I hate you a little bit."

"Noted." He made a fractional adjustment, checked the overlay, and locked the anchor. "That's the parallel path. Jin's second optimization. The pre-sorting was easier."

He stood and brushed soil from his coveralls. The Gathering Construct hummed to life, its collector arms extending into the overlap zone with a smooth rotational sweep. In his Loop Sight, the construct's operational radius appeared as a green circle edged in gold where it intersected the regeneration bands -- both north and south cycles feeding into a single collection point, output routing through a temporary relay back to the Refinery.

Three optimizations. One morning.

The Substrate Moss timing offset had been straightforward -- a nineteen-minute correction Jin had identified from his own observations, applied to the north quadrant collector in under ten minutes. The material pre-sorting had required Callum's first multi-line Script Engine edit: five lines of conditional logic that routed different material types to separate processing queues before they hit the Refinery, eliminating twelve percent of the bottleneck at the conversion stage. He had written those five lines in forty minutes, tested them against four hours of simulated input, and deployed them with the quiet satisfaction of a man placing the last piece in a jigsaw puzzle he'd been staring at for weeks.

The parallel collection path was the hardest. It required physically moving the construct, which meant being out here, in a Tier 2 zone, at Level 14, with spore wolves and vine constrictors and things with too many legs rustling in the undergrowth.

That was what Mira was for.

She pushed off the tree and fell into step beside him as they headed back toward the warehouse. Her eyes moved constantly -- scanning canopy, undergrowth, the middle distance where shadows pooled between the bioluminescent trunks. She had killed two vine constrictors on the way in without breaking stride, the kind of casual violence that made Callum's combat construct look like what it was: a filing cabinet with aspirations.

"How much does this actually gain you?" she asked.

"The three optimizations together? Roughly twenty-five percent improvement in base resource throughput."

"In human words."

"I make a quarter more stuff, a quarter faster."

"Was that so hard?"

They walked in comfortable silence for a few paces. The Overgrowth thinned as they approached the Rustbelt Flats boundary, the canopy breaking apart into gray sky and the skeletal remains of Detroit's southern suburbs.

"Jin's waiting," Mira said. "He's been talking to his rock since you left."

"Chunk is an earth elemental."

"It's a waist-high pile of concrete that doesn't talk back. It's a rock."

---

The Shardfield opened before them like a wound in the earth.

The ruins of Toledo spread across the horizon in a landscape of shattered glass and crystallized Substrate energy. Every surface caught the light and broke it -- buildings reduced to angular frameworks of fused silica, streets paved in fracture lines that glowed faintly violet, the air itself carrying a mineral sharpness that stung the sinuses. The outer ring, where the crystal growth was thinnest and the mobs were lowest-tier, shimmered with a beauty that was difficult to reconcile with how dangerous it was.

Jin stood at the entry point, his gutted TI-84 talisman clutched in one hand, the other gesturing in the air as he talked to -- or at -- his summons. Chunk sat at his feet like a loyal boulder, its compacted-rubble body motionless except for the faint grind of stone on stone as it tracked Jin's movements. Zephyr circled overhead in lazy spirals, a swirling mass of visible wind currents roughly shaped like a large bird. Pixel perched on Jin's shoulder, its fox-shaped blue light flickering as it chirped at intervals that might have been communication or might have been system noise.

"Okay, okay, okay," Jin said as they approached. He had not slept, judging by the dark circles that had deepened from their usual bruise-purple to something approaching black. His U of M hoodie was inside out. He did not appear to have noticed. "I mapped the outer ring spawn patterns from the Exchange's public kill logs. Crystal constructs respawn on a ninety-minute cycle in sectors one through three. Resonance wraiths are on a two-hour cycle but they patrol between sectors, so the timing depends on -- are you listening?"

"I'm listening," Callum said.

"Great. So the plan is: Chunk tanks the crystal constructs, Zephyr handles DPS, Pixel scouts and pulls one at a time, and your Gathering Constructs collect the drops via the relay. I've got Chunk's rotation set for Ground Slam on engage, Stone Skin when HP drops below sixty percent, and --"

"Jin."

Jin stopped talking. It took visible effort, like capping a pressure valve.

"Breathe," Callum said.

Jin breathed. "Right. Yeah. Okay. I'm excited. This is exciting. Nobody's run a joint summon-construct farming operation in the Shardfield before. Nobody's even *theorized* it because the Summoner and Loopweaver interaction space is -- I mean, technically nobody even knows Loopweaver exists except --"

"Jin."

"Breathing. I'm breathing."

Mira crossed her arms. "Is he always like this?"

"I've known him for three days," Callum said. "So far, yes."

Jin shot them both a wounded look, then turned to face the Shardfield with the expression of a general surveying a battlefield he'd only seen on maps. "First run. Four hours. Let's see what the data says."

The first run was rough.

Chunk engaged a crystal construct -- a humanoid figure of fused glass standing seven feet tall, its limbs refracting light into blinding splinters -- and took a hit that cracked its left shoulder. The construct's HP bar dropped by a third in a single strike. Jin flinched visibly.

"Stone Skin! Stone Skin now!"

The earth elemental's body hardened, a shell of compacted stone forming over the crack, and it weathered the second blow with a grinding shudder. Zephyr swept in from above, wind blades slicing at the crystal construct's joints. The blades bit, but shallowly -- the resonance in the crystal's structure dampened the wind damage, absorbing the kinetic energy and dispersing it as harmonic vibration.

"Partial resistance," Callum noted, watching through Loop Sight. Jin's summons appeared in his vision as amber threads -- simpler than his construct threads, more organic, but readable. "The resonance wraiths will be worse. Wind damage and resonance are on the same Substrate frequency band."

"I know," Jin muttered. "I *know*. I ran the numbers. I just hoped the numbers were wrong."

They were not wrong. The resonance wraith they encountered thirty minutes later -- a translucent, vaguely humanoid shimmer that moved through the crystallized ruins like heat haze -- was nearly immune to Zephyr's wind blades. Chunk had to tank it alone while Jin redirected Zephyr to a support role, buffeting the wraith with gusts that slowed its movement without dealing meaningful damage. The fight took four minutes. Chunk's integrity dropped to forty-one percent.

Pixel's scouting range was barely adequate. The familiar's blue-light form flickered at the edges of the crystal formations, its perception struggling with the refractive environment. Twice it pulled a mob that was already in proximity to a second group, forcing Jin to manage two engagements simultaneously while Callum watched the relay constructs scramble to collect drops from scattered kill zones.

But it worked.

Over four hours, Jin's summons killed twenty-three crystal constructs and six resonance wraiths. Callum's Gathering Constructs, routed through a temporary relay he'd established at the Shardfield's entry point, collected everything that dropped.

```stat-screen
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│  SHARDFIELD RUN REPORT              │
│  Duration: 4h 12m                   │
│  Joint Operation: Summons + Relayed │
│  Gathering Constructs               │
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Kills: 29 (23 crystal constructs, │
│          6 resonance wraiths)       │
│  Echo Stones: 12                    │
│  Residuum Fragments (trace): 3      │
│  Crystal Shards (assorted): 47      │
│  Glass Shards: 31                   │
│                                     │
│  Summon Integrity:                  │
│    Chunk:  41% (critical)           │
│    Zephyr: 78% (stable)            │
│    Pixel:  92% (nominal)           │
│                                     │
│  Relay Efficiency: 71.3%           │
│  (Low — relay distance exceeds     │
│   optimal range)                    │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Callum studied the report in the late afternoon light, standing at the Shardfield's edge while Jin healed Chunk with repeated casts that drained his MP pool to a sliver. The numbers were uneven. The relay efficiency was poor -- too much distance between the kill zones and the collection point. Zephyr's wind damage needed a solution for resonance-type enemies. Pixel's scouting would need range upgrades before they pushed deeper.

But twelve Echo Stones sat in his inventory, warm with stored Substrate energy. Three Residuum fragments. Enough glass shards to supply the Enhancement Construct's final crafting stage.

The bottleneck was broken.

Jin looked up from healing Chunk, MP at single digits, sweat plastering his hair to his forehead. "So? How'd we do?"

Callum allowed himself a small nod. The kind that came and went quickly, that most people would miss.

"We have what we need."

Jin's face split into a grin that was too wide for his exhaustion. "I *told* you the synergy would work. The summon-construct interaction space is --"

"You told me. You were right."

"Say that again. Slower."

Mira, who had spent the four hours perched on a crystallized overpass watching for threats with the barely restrained energy of a guard dog at a chess tournament, dropped to the ground beside them. "Are we done? Because I killed three crystal crawlers that wandered too close to the relay, and I didn't even get to count those."

"You did not set up auto-loot," Callum said.

"I refuse to set up auto-loot on principle."

"The principle is costing you materials."

"The principle is that I pick up my own kills with my own hands like a person."

Jin looked between them. "You two are like this all the time, aren't you?"

"We've known each other for a week and a half," Callum said.

"That's not a no," Jin observed.

---

The Enhancement Construct took six hours to assemble, and Callum felt every minute of it in his hands.

The warehouse was quiet except for the hum of his three running constructs and the intermittent chirp of Pixel, who had curled up in a corner and was making sounds that Jin insisted were "dreaming." Mira had claimed a perch on the catwalk above the workshop floor, sharpening her saber with long, even strokes of the whetstone that provided a rhythmic counterpoint to Callum's work. Jin sat cross-legged on the concrete beside the workbench, his TI-84 talisman in his lap, interfacing with the construct's internal logic framework through a shared scripting session.

The Enhancement Construct began as components spread across the workbench in organized rows. Echo Stones, sorted by resonance frequency. Flux Capacitor casings, pre-charged and humming faintly. Glass shards, ground to specifications Callum had calculated from three thousand iterations of gathering loop data. And at the center, the Flux core he had been growing for weeks -- a crystalline lattice the size of a closed fist, dense with stored energy, pulsing with patterns that his Loop Sight rendered as a slowly rotating helix of gold light.

He worked with the Engineer's Multitool in one hand and his field notebook in the other, cross-referencing each step against diagrams he had drawn months ago, when the Enhancement Construct was still a theory scribbled on graph paper. The theory had been simple. The execution was not.

The first stage was the resonance framework. Callum fused four Echo Stones into a lattice of crystallized feedback channels, each one aligned to a specific construct in his array -- Grinder, Collector, Refinery, and a fourth channel left open for future expansion. The stones resisted fusion at first, their resonance frequencies clashing in ways that manifested as a high-pitched whine and a shower of pale sparks. He adjusted. Recalibrated. Tried again. The whine became a hum. The hum became a tone.

"You need to offset the third stone by point-seven degrees," Jin said, not looking up from the script interface. "The resonance pattern is drifting."

Callum checked. Jin was right. He made the correction, and the four Echo Stones locked into alignment with a crystalline *click* that he felt in his teeth.

Second stage: the feedback conduit. This was the heart of it -- the piece that made the Enhancement Construct different from every other construct he had built. Every other construct in his array produced output. The Grinder produced kills and Essence. The Collector produced materials. The Refinery produced components. Output flowed one direction: forward. The feedback conduit reversed that flow. It would take a portion of the Refinery's output -- the refined data from thousands of processing cycles, the accumulated optimization insights from three months of continuous operation -- and route it *backward*, into the Gathering and Combat constructs, as micro-upgrades. Each cycle of improvement would increase their output. The increased output would feed back through the Refinery, generating more improvement data. The improvement data would flow back through the conduit again.

The loop would close.

Callum inscribed Substrate patterns into the conduit housing with hands that were steady through sheer force of will. The patterns were learned, not designed -- drawn from the accumulated data of three thousand gathering iterations, each one subtly different, each one carrying information about what worked and what could work better. He had spent weeks studying those patterns. They formed a language he was only beginning to read.

"Script complexity on the internal logic is at twenty-four instructions," Jin said. "Your Script Engine caps at five lines, but if I route the overflow through my talisman's buffer --"

"Do it."

Jin's Script Complexity of twenty-six filled in where Callum's Script Engine Level 1 fell short. Jin's fingers moved across the talisman's interface, writing conditional logic that Callum dictated and Jin optimized in real time. It was the first time Callum had collaborated on a construct build, and the efficiency of it -- two minds covering each other's gaps -- made something warm and unfamiliar bloom in his chest.

He filed it away for later analysis.

Third stage: integration. The Flux core slotted into the resonance framework like a key into a lock. The feedback conduit connected to the core through four channels, one for each Echo Stone. Callum wired the glass shards into a casing that served as a heat sink, diffusing the excess Flux energy that would build up during rapid cycling. The casing was rough, functional, ugly. It did not matter. What mattered was the flow.

The final component was the Residuum fragment.

Callum held it up to the light. The fragment was barely the size of his thumbnail -- a sliver of compressed Substrate energy so dense it warped the air around it, bending light into a faint rainbow halo. Three of these fragments had come from the Shardfield run. He needed only one. The other two went into storage, earmarked for future upgrades.

He placed the Residuum fragment into the Flux core's central chamber and felt the construct *wake*.

The Enhancement Construct activated with a sound that was not quite a hum and not quite a chord -- something between music and mathematics, a tone that resonated in a frequency his ears could not quite resolve but his Loopweaver senses could feel as a vibration in the threads of his automation array. The crystalline lattice pulsed once, twice, three times, and then settled into a steady rhythm. It was the size of a small table. It glowed with visible Flux patterns that shifted and reorganized with each pulse, like watching a mind think.

Mira stopped sharpening her saber.

Jin stopped breathing.

Pip -- on Callum's shoulder since dawn -- pulsed so brightly that for a moment the familiar was not a cursor but a point of light that cast shadows.

```stat-screen
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│  CONSTRUCT ACTIVATED                 │
│  Enhancement Construct (Tier 1)     │
│  Type: Feedback | Slot: 4 of 4     │
│  Status: INITIALIZING               │
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Feedback Channels: 4               │
│    Ch 1 → Mk.IV Grinder (Combat)   │
│    Ch 2 → Scrap Collector (Gather)  │
│    Ch 3 → The Refinery (Process)    │
│    Ch 4 → [OPEN]                    │
│                                      │
│  Cycle Time: 58 min (est.)          │
│  Optimization per Cycle: Variable   │
│  Flux Drain: 40 Flux/hr            │
│                                      │
│  NOTE: Mk.V Sentinel moved to      │
│  manual oversight (no active slot)  │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

"The Sentinel?" Mira said from the catwalk. She had been listening more carefully than Callum realized.

"Manual oversight. I lose the automated patrol, but the Enhancement Construct needs the slot." He looked up at her. "I'll re-slot the Sentinel when I hit Construct Affinity Rank 8. Fifth slot."

"When is that?"

"Soon." *If this works the way I think it will. Sooner than anyone expects.*

---

The first cycle took fifty-three minutes.

Callum sat on his cot with his field notebook open, Loop Sight active, and watched the Enhancement Construct work. In his augmented vision, the warehouse transformed into a cathedral of light and data.

The three running constructs -- Grinder, Collector, Refinery -- appeared as they always did: threads of luminous color spinning between nodes, gold and green and blue, the cat's cradle of his compound loop. But now a fourth thread emerged from the Enhancement Construct, silver-white and brighter than the others. It reached out to the Grinder's thread first, wrapped around it like a vine around a trellis, and *read*.

Callum could see it happening. The silver thread pulsed as it analyzed the Grinder's combat pattern -- the same three-hit combo that had been running for months, thousands of iterations of the same loop. The Enhancement Construct parsed the data with a speed that made Callum's own Loop Analysis look like reading by candlelight. Inefficiencies he had never detected lit up in amber: a 0.3-second timing gap between the second and third strikes. A 2% energy loss in the overhead swing arc. A target-switching delay that cost 0.8 seconds per engagement.

The Enhancement Construct did not just identify these problems. It fixed them.

A micro-optimization flowed back through the silver thread -- a tiny adjustment to the Grinder's combat pattern, tightening the timing gap, smoothing the swing arc, reducing the target-switch delay. The changes were fractional. Individually, invisible.

Together, they added up to seven percent.

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  ENHANCEMENT CYCLE 1 COMPLETE
  Target: Mk.IV Grinder
  Optimizations Applied: 3
  Net Efficiency Gain: +7.1%

  Grinder Efficiency: 94.2% → 101.3%
  (Exceeds nominal — recalibrating
   baseline)

  Next Cycle: Scrap Collector
  Estimated Time: 55 min
──────────────────────────────────
```

"Seven percent," Jin whispered. He was reading the notification over Callum's shoulder, having abandoned any pretense of not hovering. "In one cycle. One. Cycle."

Callum said nothing. He was already running the math.

Seven percent improvement on the Grinder's combat efficiency meant seven percent more kills, which meant seven percent more Essence and materials. Those materials flowed to the Refinery, which would process them seven percent faster once the Enhancement Construct optimized it in the next cycle. The increased Refinery output would generate better optimization data, which would feed back to the Enhancement Construct, which would use it to find the *next* set of improvements.

Each cycle built on the last. Each improvement enabled the next improvement. The output was not additive. It was multiplicative.

He watched the second cycle begin. The silver thread reached for the Scrap Collector, and the reading-and-writing process started again.

Fifty-five minutes later:

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  ENHANCEMENT CYCLE 2 COMPLETE
  Target: Scrap Collector
  Optimizations Applied: 2
  Net Efficiency Gain: +4.3%

  Next Cycle: The Refinery
  Estimated Time: 51 min
──────────────────────────────────
```

The Refinery:

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  ENHANCEMENT CYCLE 3 COMPLETE
  Target: The Refinery
  Optimizations Applied: 4
  Net Efficiency Gain: +5.8%

  COMPOUND LOOP STATUS: ACTIVE
  Feedback cycle complete.
  Beginning recursive optimization.

  Next Cycle: Mk.IV Grinder
  (Second pass — projected gain:
   +3.2% additional)
  Estimated Time: 47 min
──────────────────────────────────
```

*Compound loop status: active.*

Callum read those three words and felt the air leave his lungs.

He had been waiting four months for this. Four months of invisible work, of being the guy in the warehouse, of watching his constructs grind Level 8 mobs while guild fighters cleared Fracture surges and Sword Saints killed spore wolves with eleven-second precision. Four months of a curve that bent so slowly nobody could see it bending. Four months of believing -- *knowing*, the way an engineer knows that stress tolerances are real even when the bridge hasn't been built yet -- that the moment would come when linear growth stopped and exponential growth began.

This was the moment.

He activated Loop Sight at full resolution and the warehouse became a web of light.

Four constructs. Three threads and a fourth -- the silver-white feedback thread -- completing a circuit between them. The Enhancement Construct sat at the center like a heart, pumping optimization data through the system in rhythmic pulses. Each pulse went out, improved something, and came back carrying better data than what it had sent. The gold thread of the Grinder brightened. The green thread of the Collector thickened. The blue thread of the Refinery accelerated. And the silver thread grew brighter with each cycle, because the better the other constructs performed, the more data the Enhancement Construct had to work with, which made its optimizations sharper, which made the other constructs perform even better --

The loop was closed.

The feedback was cycling.

The curve was bending.

Callum sat on his cot in a converted stamping plant on the edge of the Detroit Barrier Zone, surrounded by humming constructs and shifting light, and he felt something rise in his chest that his optimization mindset could not categorize and his systems-thinking brain could not reduce to variables. It was hot and bright and it made his vision blur at the edges and his breath come short and his hands shake where they gripped his field notebook.

He blinked. Swallowed. Took a breath.

On the workbench, the Enhancement Construct pulsed its slow, beautiful rhythm. In his Loop Sight, the compound loop spun like a wheel that was learning to spin faster every time it came around.

Jin was talking. Callum realized he had missed the first several sentences.

"-- the recursive improvement rate, Callum, do you see it? It's not linear. The gain per cycle is *decreasing* in absolute terms but the *compound effect* is accelerating because each optimization enables higher-order optimizations in the downstream constructs which feed back into --" Jin stopped. He looked at Callum's face. "Are you okay?"

"Yes."

"You're shaking."

Callum looked at his hands. They were, in fact, shaking. He pressed them flat against the notebook.

"I have been working toward this for four months," he said. His voice came out quieter than he intended.

Jin was silent for a moment. Then he said, with uncharacteristic softness: "It's working."

"It is working."

"The compound loop is *closed*."

"Yes."

"Callum. You built a self-reinforcing feedback loop inside a System that wasn't designed for one. Do you understand what that means? Nobody -- *nobody* -- has done this. The guilds don't even think in these terms. They're playing --"

"Checkers on a chess board," Callum finished.

"On a Go board. On a -- okay, I lost the metaphor again." Jin's grin returned, but his eyes were bright in a way that was not entirely about excitement. "You did it, man."

From the catwalk, Mira said nothing. She watched. Her expression was unreadable.

---

The level-up notification hit at 11:47 PM.

Callum had been tracking his Essence accumulation for six hours, watching the numbers climb with the focused attention of a man who had been reading production charts for a decade and had never seen one do this. The Enhancement Construct had completed nine cycles. Each cycle was faster than the last. Each cycle's compound effect was larger than the last. The Grinder's kill rate had increased by nineteen percent since the loop closed. The Collector's output had jumped by fourteen percent. The Refinery's throughput was up twenty-two percent, because it benefited from both its own optimization and the increased input from the other two.

The daily Essence projection had been recalculated three times. Each recalculation was higher than the last.

Then the notification arrived, and the math stopped mattering because his body was busy being rebuilt from the inside.

```stat-screen
══════════════════════════════════════
  LEVEL UP! 14 → 15

  +5 Stat Points Available
  +3 Skill Points Available

  NEW ABILITY UNLOCKED:
  Optimization Aura (Party)
  [Loopweaver Innate — Level 15]
══════════════════════════════════════
```

The warmth hit him like a wave. Not gentle -- never gentle, at Level 15, with the accumulated Essence of a closed compound loop flooding his system. His vision whited out for a full second. When it came back, the world was sharper. The threads of Loop Sight were crisper, more detailed, their data-streams carrying information he could not have parsed an hour ago. His muscles hummed with reorganized potential. The headache he had been ignoring for two days was gone, replaced by a clarity that felt almost dangerous -- like thinking too fast for his own good.

He allocated stats before the rush fully faded, his fingers moving through the interface with practiced precision.

*+2 INT. Fifty-five. Script Complexity rises to 32.5. That extra complexity is the difference between conditional logic and adaptive logic -- scripts that can learn from their own output.*

*+2 WIS. Fifty-eight. Idle Yield Multiplier to 2.16x. Every fraction of that multiplier propagates through the compound loop and gets amplified by the feedback cycle. At current rates, the difference between 2.12x and 2.16x is approximately forty-seven additional Essence per day. Compounded over a week, that is --*

He stopped himself. The number was large enough to make his heart rate spike, and he was already shaking.

*+1 WIL. Thirty. Session Duration to 10 hours. Marginal, but the compound growth stacking from longer sessions is where the real value hides.*

```stat-screen
╔══════════════════════════════════════╗
║  CALLUM VOSS                         ║
║  Class: Loopweaver    | Level: 15    ║
║  Prestige: 0 (Awakened)              ║
║  Automation Tier: 3                  ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════╣
║  STR:  14          AGI:  15          ║
║  VIT:  19          INT:  55  (+2)    ║
║  WIS:  58  (+2)    PER:  16          ║
║  WIL:  30  (+1)    LCK:  13         ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════╣
║  HP:  353/353      MP:  760/760      ║
║  Stamina: 187/187                    ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════╣
║  Script Complexity: 32.5             ║
║  Idle Yield Mult: 2.16x             ║
║  Session Duration: 10.0 hrs          ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════╣
║  Unallocated Stat Points: 0         ║
║  Unallocated Skill Points: 11       ║
╚══════════════════════════════════════╝
```

Eleven skill points. Eight from before, three new. A strategic reserve growing heavier in his interface with each level. He spent three of them immediately.

```stat-screen
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│  SKILL UPGRADED                      │
│  Script Engine: Level 1 → Level 2   │
│  Cost: 3 Skill Points               │
│                                      │
│  New Capabilities:                   │
│    Max Script Length: 5 → 10 lines  │
│    Variables: ENABLED                │
│    Nested Conditions: ENABLED        │
│                                      │
│  Remaining Skill Points: 8          │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Ten-line scripts. Variables. Nested conditions. His constructs could now run logic that adapted based on stored values -- tracking patterns across cycles, adjusting behavior based on accumulated data, making decisions that were not just reactive but *predictive*. Combined with the Enhancement Construct's feedback loop, this meant his automation scripts could improve themselves based on the optimization data flowing through the system.

Scripts that learned. Constructs that grew. A loop that fed itself.

But none of that was the real prize. The real prize was the notification still blinking at the edge of his vision, waiting to be opened.

He opened it.

```stat-screen
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│  NEW ABILITY UNLOCKED                │
│  Optimization Aura (Party)          │
│  Loopweaver Innate — Level 15       │
│  Type: Passive Aura                 │
│                                      │
│  All party members within 30m       │
│  receive +15% Idle Efficiency.      │
│                                      │
│  This effect applies to all idle    │
│  processes: automation scripts,     │
│  summon behavior, construct         │
│  operations, passive skill rates,   │
│  and resource generation.           │
│                                      │
│  Replaces: Optimization Aura (Self) │
│  Note: Self-effect now stacks with  │
│  party effect (+15% self, +15%      │
│  party, non-overlapping)            │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Callum read the description twice. Then a third time.

*All party members within 30m receive +15% Idle Efficiency.*

He looked up. Jin sat three meters away, scrolling through his own interface. Mira was on the catwalk, her cot set up in the corner she had claimed a week ago, reading by the light of a Flux lamp.

Both of them were within thirty meters.

He activated the aura.

The effect was immediate and visible -- not to his eyes, but to his Loop Sight. A circle of soft golden light expanded from his position, passing through the warehouse walls (the aura was not a physical phenomenon; it was a System effect, propagating through the Substrate layer that underlay reality). The circle reached Jin first. Then Mira.

Jin went rigid.

His eyes unfocused. His mouth opened. His TI-84 talisman pulsed once in his hands, its Flux conduits flaring with a sudden spike of throughput.

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  SYSTEM NOTIFICATION (Jin Park)

  You are within an Optimization
  Aura.

  Idle Efficiency: +15%
  Source: Party Member (Callum Voss)
  Duration: While in range (30m)
──────────────────────────────────
```

"What," Jin said. "What. *What.*"

He pulled up his summon status. Callum watched the realization travel across his face in stages: confusion, comprehension, shock, and then a joy so naked and unguarded that Callum had to look away.

"Chunk's idle yield just jumped. Zephyr's attack pattern tightened. Pixel's perception range -- Callum. Callum, what did you *do*?"

"Level 15 unlock," Callum said. "Optimization Aura. Party version."

"Fifteen percent. Fifteen percent idle efficiency on my *summons*." Jin's hands were shaking now -- he and Callum matched, two men with trembling fingers and racing hearts, undone by numbers going up. "Do you know what that means for the Shardfield rotation? Chunk's kill speed was already borderline for Tier 2 content, but with fifteen percent more efficiency on his combat script --"

"His idle DPS crosses the sustainability threshold for crystal constructs," Callum said. "You can farm the outer ring indefinitely."

"Indefinitely." Jin said the word like it tasted of something impossible. "Indefinitely. Callum. Callum, I could --"

"You could."

Jin let out a sound that was halfway between a laugh and a whoop and entirely too loud for midnight in the Foundry District. Pixel, startled, leaped off its corner perch and chirped in alarm. Chunk did not react. Chunk never reacted.

On the catwalk, Mira was quiet.

Callum looked up at her. She sat on the edge of her cot, the Flux lamp casting warm light across her face. Her saber lay across her knees. Her expression was still.

She had received the notification too. He could see it in the slight tension in her jaw, the way her eyes were tracking something in her interface that she had not expected to see.

"Mira?"

She did not answer immediately. When she did, her voice was careful. Measured in a way that was unlike her.

"My Auto-Target just got better." She paused. "And my Auto-Loot. And my Auto-Retreat, which I have literally never triggered." Another pause. "My idle skills. The ones I refuse to invest in. They just got fifteen percent more effective."

"Yes."

"Because of you."

"Because of the aura."

"Which is you."

Silence. Jin had stopped celebrating. Pixel had stopped chirping. The warehouse hummed with construct-noise and the soft pulse of the Enhancement Construct, but the human sounds had stilled.

Mira looked at him from the catwalk with an expression that was not contempt and was not admiration. It was something in between. Something that recognized a shift in the world and was deciding how to feel about it.

"You just made me better," she said. "Without me doing anything."

The words landed in the quiet warehouse like a stone in still water. Callum heard what she was really saying. *You just made me better without me earning it. And I don't know if that's a gift or an insult.*

"The aura is a tool," he said carefully. "It does not replace what you do. It amplifies what is already there."

"You sound like a motivational poster."

"I sound like someone stating a mechanical fact. The aura increases idle efficiency. Your active combat -- your Riposte, your Read Opponent, your Blade Communion -- none of that is affected. The things that make you *you* are outside the aura's scope. What it touches are the margins. The background processes. The parts of your interface that you have been too proud to invest in."

She stared at him. Her jaw worked.

Then she laughed. Short, sharp, surprised -- the same laugh he had heard in the Overgrowth clearing, the one that made her face younger and less guarded for half a second before she locked it back down.

"Too proud," she repeated. "You said that to my face."

"It is accurate."

"It is accurate. God." She ran a hand over her braid and shook her head. "Fine. Fine. Your magic aura makes my garbage idle skills slightly less garbage. I'll take it." She pointed at him with the hand that held the whetstone. "But if you ever call me proud again, I will throw this at your head."

"I will allocate for the dodge."

Jin, from the floor, said quietly: "This is the best team I've ever been on."

Nobody responded to that directly. But Callum saw Mira's expression soften by a fraction, and he felt something in his own chest that was warm and complicated and did not have an efficiency rating.

---

It was past midnight. Jin had fallen asleep on the warehouse floor, his beanie pulled over his eyes, Pixel curled against his chest like a fox-shaped nightlight. Chunk stood motionless near the eastern wall, its stone body slowly self-repairing in the ambient Flux. Mira had retreated to her cot on the catwalk, her breathing steady, her saber within arm's reach even in sleep.

Callum sat at his workbench, alone with his constructs and his numbers.

The Enhancement Construct had completed its fourteenth cycle. The compound loop was running at a pace that would have seemed fictional twelve hours ago. He pulled up the daily projection and let the numbers speak.

```stat-screen
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│  COMPOUND LOOP STATUS               │
│  Cycle: 14 (active)                │
│  Loop State: RECURSIVE              │
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Current Output (daily):            │
│    Essence:    4,847/day            │
│    Materials:  +34% over baseline   │
│    Flux Caps:  +28% over baseline   │
│                                      │
│  Growth Rate:                        │
│    Projected doubling time: ~72 hrs │
│                                      │
│  Previous daily (pre-loop):         │
│    Essence:    2,670/day            │
│                                      │
│  Change:       +81.5%              │
│                                      │
│  Projected at 7 days:               │
│    Essence:    ~19,400/day          │
│    (If compound rate sustains)      │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Callum stared at the seven-day projection. Nineteen thousand Essence per day. He was currently generating less than five thousand.

In a week, if the compound rate held, his daily output would quadruple.

In two weeks, it would be sixteen times what it was today.

In a month --

He stopped the calculation. Not because the math was wrong, but because the number it produced was large enough to be frightening. The kind of number that attracted attention. The kind of attention that came from guilds, and guild leaders, and people like Drake Morrison who controlled the Barrier and defined who had the right to accumulate power inside it.

He wrote the projection in his notebook. Then he wrote the date. Then he wrote, underneath, in block capitals:

**THE LOOP IS CLOSED.**

He underlined it three times.

On his shoulder, Pip pulsed. Not the quick flicker of a system process cycling. A slow, warm glow that held for two full seconds before fading. It was the longest sustained light Callum had ever seen from the familiar. As if Pip -- nascent, nonverbal, barely functional Pip -- understood that something important had happened and was responding the only way it could.

"Yeah," Callum said. His voice was rough. "I know."

He looked around the warehouse. His warehouse. The converted stamping plant that he had chosen because it sat on a minor Essence Ley and nobody else wanted it. The cot he slept on. The constructs he had built from scrap metal and Bloom Crystals and four months of obsessive, invisible work. The Enhancement Construct at the center, glowing with the steady pulse of a closed feedback loop.

And the two people sleeping in his space. Jin on the floor, dreaming about optimization curves. Mira on the catwalk, her saber within reach, trusting his constructs and his walls to keep the night at bay.

For four months, Callum's power had been his alone. Self-targeted. Self-contained. A man and his machines in a warehouse, accumulating in the dark.

The Optimization Aura changed that. Not just mechanically -- fifteen percent idle efficiency was significant, but it was a number, and numbers could be contextualized and filed away. What could not be filed away was the look on Jin's face when his summons got faster. The grudging nod from Mira when she realized her neglected idle skills were suddenly worth something. The fact that for the first time since the Emergence, Callum Voss had made someone else's life measurably better not by fighting for them, not by protecting them, but by being *near* them.

His optimization mindset tried to categorize the feeling. *Satisfaction. Return on investment. Network effect. The value of human capital in a compound system.*

None of those were right.

He tried again.

*Pride. And belonging.*

He did not write that in his notebook. Some things were not data.

Callum lay back on his cot and closed his eyes. The Enhancement Construct pulsed. The compound loop cycled. The curve bent upward, accelerating, doubling every seventy-two hours, climbing toward a number that would change everything.

Outside, the Detroit Barrier Zone slept. The Iron Vanguard kept its watch. Drake Morrison, somewhere in the Barrier Hall, made plans built on the assumption that power was linear and the strong stayed strong by fighting harder than everyone else.

He did not know that in a warehouse on the edge of the Foundry District, the math had just changed.

The loop was closed. The aura was lit. Two people slept within its radius, their idle processes humming fifteen percent faster because a skinny engineer with dark circles under his eyes had spent four months building a machine that made other machines better.

The curve was bending. And it would not stop.

Pip pulsed once more -- slow, warm, steady -- and Callum let the hum of his constructs carry him to sleep.

The numbers climbed.
