Second stage: the feedback conduit. This was the heart of it -- the piece that made the Enhancement Construct different from every other construct he had built. Every other construct in his array produced output. The Grinder produced kills and Essence. The Collector produced materials. The Refinery produced components. Output flowed one direction: forward. The feedback conduit reversed that flow. It would take a portion of the Refinery's output -- the refined data from thousands of processing cycles, the accumulated optimization insights from three months of continuous operation -- and route it *backward*, into the Gathering and Combat constructs, as micro-upgrades. Each cycle of improvement would increase their output. The increased output would feed back through the Refinery, generating more improvement data. The improvement data would flow back through the conduit again.

The loop would close.

Callum inscribed Substrate patterns into the conduit housing with hands that were steady through sheer force of will. The patterns were learned, not designed -- drawn from the accumulated data of three thousand gathering iterations, each one subtly different, each one carrying information about what worked and what could work better. He had spent weeks studying those patterns. They formed a language he was only beginning to read.

"Script complexity on the internal logic is at twenty-four instructions," Jin said. "Your Script Engine caps at five lines, but if I route the overflow through my talisman's buffer --"

"Do it."

Jin's Script Complexity of twenty-six filled in where Callum's Script Engine Level 1 fell short. Jin's fingers moved across the talisman's interface, writing conditional logic that Callum dictated and Jin optimized in real time. It was the first time Callum had collaborated on a construct build, and the efficiency of it -- two minds covering each other's gaps -- made something warm and unfamiliar bloom in his chest.

He filed it away for later analysis.

Third stage: integration. The Flux core slotted into the resonance framework like a key into a lock. The feedback conduit connected to the core through four channels, one for each Echo Stone. Callum wired the glass shards into a casing that served as a heat sink, diffusing the excess Flux energy that would build up during rapid cycling. The casing was rough, functional, ugly. It did not matter. What mattered was the flow.

The final component was the Residuum fragment.

Callum held it up to the light. The fragment was barely the size of his thumbnail -- a sliver of compressed Substrate energy so dense it warped the air around it, bending light into a faint rainbow halo. Three of these fragments had come from the Shardfield run. He needed only one. The other two went into storage, earmarked for future upgrades.

He placed the Residuum fragment into the Flux core's central chamber and felt the construct *wake*.

The Enhancement Construct activated with a sound that was not quite a hum and not quite a chord -- something between music and mathematics, a tone that resonated in a frequency his ears could not quite resolve but his Loopweaver senses could feel as a vibration in the threads of his automation array. The crystalline lattice pulsed once, twice, three times, and then settled into a steady rhythm. It was the size of a small table. It glowed with visible Flux patterns that shifted and reorganized with each pulse, like watching a mind think.

Mira stopped sharpening her saber.

Jin stopped breathing.

Pip -- on Callum's shoulder since dawn -- pulsed so brightly that for a moment the familiar was not a cursor but a point of light that cast shadows.

```stat-screen
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│  CONSTRUCT ACTIVATED                 │
│  Enhancement Construct (Tier 1)     │
│  Type: Feedback | Slot: 4 of 4     │
│  Status: INITIALIZING               │
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│  Feedback Channels: 4               │
│    Ch 1 → Mk.IV Grinder (Combat)   │
│    Ch 2 → Scrap Collector (Gather)  │
│    Ch 3 → The Refinery (Process)    │
│    Ch 4 → [OPEN]                    │
│                                      │
│  Cycle Time: 58 min (est.)          │
│  Optimization per Cycle: Variable   │
│  Flux Drain: 40 Flux/hr            │
│                                      │
│  NOTE: Mk.V Sentinel moved to      │
│  manual oversight (no active slot)  │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
```

"The Sentinel?" Mira said from the catwalk. She had been listening more carefully than Callum realized.

"Manual oversight. I lose the automated patrol, but the Enhancement Construct needs the slot." He looked up at her. "I'll re-slot the Sentinel when I hit Construct Affinity Rank 8. Fifth slot."

"When is that?"

"Soon." *If this works the way I think it will. Sooner than anyone expects.*

---

The first cycle took fifty-three minutes.

Callum sat on his cot with his field notebook open, Loop Sight active, and watched the Enhancement Construct work. In his augmented vision, the warehouse transformed into a cathedral of light and data.

The three running constructs -- Grinder, Collector, Refinery -- appeared as they always did: threads of luminous color spinning between nodes, gold and green and blue, the cat's cradle of his compound loop. But now a fourth thread emerged from the Enhancement Construct, silver-white and brighter than the others. It reached out to the Grinder's thread first, wrapped around it like a vine around a trellis, and *read*.

Callum could see it happening. The silver thread pulsed as it analyzed the Grinder's combat pattern -- the same three-hit combo that had been running for months, thousands of iterations of the same loop. The Enhancement Construct parsed the data with a speed that made Callum's own Loop Analysis look like reading by candlelight. Inefficiencies he had never detected lit up in amber: a 0.3-second timing gap between the second and third strikes. A 2% energy loss in the overhead swing arc. A target-switching delay that cost 0.8 seconds per engagement.

The Enhancement Construct did not just identify these problems. It fixed them.

A micro-optimization flowed back through the silver thread -- a tiny adjustment to the Grinder's combat pattern, tightening the timing gap, smoothing the swing arc, reducing the target-switch delay. The changes were fractional. Individually, invisible.

Together, they added up to seven percent.

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  ENHANCEMENT CYCLE 1 COMPLETE
  Target: Mk.IV Grinder
  Optimizations Applied: 3
  Net Efficiency Gain: +7.1%

  Grinder Efficiency: 94.2% → 101.3%
  (Exceeds nominal — recalibrating
   baseline)

  Next Cycle: Scrap Collector
  Estimated Time: 55 min
──────────────────────────────────
```

"Seven percent," Jin whispered. He was reading the notification over Callum's shoulder, having abandoned any pretense of not hovering. "In one cycle. One. Cycle."

Callum said nothing. He was already running the math.

Seven percent improvement on the Grinder's combat efficiency meant seven percent more kills, which meant seven percent more Essence and materials. Those materials flowed to the Refinery, which would process them seven percent faster once the Enhancement Construct optimized it in the next cycle. The increased Refinery output would generate better optimization data, which would feed back to the Enhancement Construct, which would use it to find the *next* set of improvements.

Each cycle built on the last. Each improvement enabled the next improvement. The output was not additive. It was multiplicative.

He watched the second cycle begin. The silver thread reached for the Scrap Collector, and the reading-and-writing process started again.

Fifty-five minutes later:

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  ENHANCEMENT CYCLE 2 COMPLETE
  Target: Scrap Collector
  Optimizations Applied: 2
  Net Efficiency Gain: +4.3%

  Next Cycle: The Refinery
  Estimated Time: 51 min
──────────────────────────────────
```

The Refinery:

```stat-screen
──────────────────────────────────
  ENHANCEMENT CYCLE 3 COMPLETE
  Target: The Refinery
  Optimizations Applied: 4
  Net Efficiency Gain: +5.8%

  COMPOUND LOOP STATUS: ACTIVE
  Feedback cycle complete.
  Beginning recursive optimization.

  Next Cycle: Mk.IV Grinder
  (Second pass — projected gain:
   +3.2% additional)
  Estimated Time: 47 min
──────────────────────────────────
```

*Compound loop status: active.*

Callum read those three words and felt the air leave his lungs.

He had been waiting four months for this. Four months of invisible work, of being the guy in the warehouse, of watching his constructs grind Level 8 mobs while guild fighters cleared Fracture surges and Sword Saints killed spore wolves with eleven-second precision. Four months of a curve that bent so slowly nobody could see it bending. Four months of believing -- *knowing*, the way an engineer knows that stress tolerances are real even when the bridge hasn't been built yet -- that the moment would come when linear growth stopped and exponential growth began.

This was the moment.

He activated Loop Sight at full resolution and the warehouse became a web of light.

Four constructs. Three threads and a fourth -- the silver-white feedback thread -- completing a circuit between them. The Enhancement Construct sat at the center like a heart, pumping optimization data through the system in rhythmic pulses. Each pulse went out, improved something, and came back carrying better data than what it had sent. The gold thread of the Grinder brightened. The green thread of the Collector thickened. The blue thread of the Refinery accelerated. And the silver thread grew brighter with each cycle, because the better the other constructs performed, the more data the Enhancement Construct had to work with, which made its optimizations sharper, which made the other constructs perform even better --

The loop was closed.

The feedback was cycling.

The curve was bending.

Callum sat on his cot in a converted stamping plant on the edge of the Detroit Barrier Zone, surrounded by humming constructs and shifting light, and he felt something rise in his chest that his optimization mindset could not categorize and his systems-thinking brain could not reduce to variables. It was hot and bright and it made his vision blur at the edges and his breath come short and his hands shake where they gripped his field notebook.

He blinked. Swallowed. Took a breath.

On the workbench, the Enhancement Construct pulsed its slow, beautiful rhythm. In his Loop Sight, the compound loop spun like a wheel that was learning to spin faster every time it came around.

Jin was talking. Callum realized he had missed the first several sentences.

"-- the recursive improvement rate, Callum, do you see it? It's not linear. The gain per cycle is *decreasing* in absolute terms but the *compound effect* is accelerating because each optimization enables higher-order optimizations in the downstream constructs which feed back into --" Jin stopped. He looked at Callum's face. "Are you okay?"

"Yes."

"You're shaking."

Callum looked at his hands. They were, in fact, shaking. He pressed them flat against the notebook.

"I have been working toward this for four months," he said. His voice came out quieter than he intended.

Jin was silent for a moment. Then he said, with uncharacteristic softness: "It's working."

"It is working."

"The compound loop is *closed*."

"Yes."

"Callum. You built a self-reinforcing feedback loop inside a System that wasn't designed for one. Do you understand what that means? Nobody -- *nobody* -- has done this. The guilds don't even think in these terms. They're playing --"

"Checkers on a chess board," Callum finished.

"On a Go board. On a -- okay, I lost the metaphor again." Jin's grin returned, but his eyes were bright in a way that was not entirely about excitement. "You did it, man."

From the catwalk, Mira said nothing. She watched. Her expression was unreadable.

---

The level-up notification hit at 11:47 PM.

Callum had been tracking his Essence accumulation for six hours, watching the numbers climb with the focused attention of a man who had been reading production charts for a decade and had never seen one do this. The Enhancement Construct had completed nine cycles. Each cycle was faster than the last. Each cycle's compound effect was larger than the last. The Grinder's kill rate had increased by nineteen percent since the loop closed. The Collector's output had jumped by fourteen percent. The Refinery's throughput was up twenty-two percent, because it benefited from both its own optimization and the increased input from the other two.

The daily Essence projection had been recalculated three times. Each recalculation was higher than the last.

Then the notification arrived, and the math stopped mattering because his body was busy being rebuilt from the inside.

```stat-screen
══════════════════════════════════════
  LEVEL UP! 14 → 15

  +5 Stat Points Available
  +3 Skill Points Available

  NEW ABILITY UNLOCKED:
  Optimization Aura (Party)
  [Loopweaver Innate — Level 15]
══════════════════════════════════════
```

The warmth hit him like a wave. Not gentle -- never gentle, at Level 15, with the accumulated Essence of a closed compound loop flooding his system. His vision whited out for a full second. When it came back, the world was sharper. The threads of Loop Sight were crisper, more detailed, their data-streams carrying information he could not have parsed an hour ago. His muscles hummed with reorganized potential. The headache he had been ignoring for two days was gone, replaced by a clarity that felt almost dangerous -- like thinking too fast for his own good.

He allocated stats before the rush fully faded, his fingers moving through the interface with practiced precision.

*+2 INT. Fifty-five. Script Complexity rises to 32.5. That extra complexity is the difference between conditional logic and adaptive logic -- scripts that can learn from their own output.*

