“Yeah, we had a good make-out session, and things could have progressed... and I honestly can't say if I would have pursued a relationship with her afterwards or not.” Ren said. “What matters is that we didn't and I don't have to worry about it now.” He smiled. “Things seemed to have worked out a lot better in the long run, don't you think?”

“Oh, yes.” Dilseffa said and wrapped her arms around his neck. “Yes, I do.” She said and kissed him. It was a little awkward with her mouth slightly distorted by her animal features; but, they managed to kiss each other quite effectively.

Ren broke the kiss and turned his head to look at Drikon. “Is there a good camping spot nearby for us to stay for the night?”

“Don't answer that, Drikon.” Duyu said and glared at Ren. “You're staying right here.”

“I couldn't impose on your hospitality any more than I already have, Duyu.” Ren said.

“We have plenty of room in the Warren, and I won't have my daughter spending her first night at home in a tent!”

Dilseffa let Ren go to face Duyu. “Mom, we didn't stay in a...”

“Quiet.” Duyu said and Dilseffa closed her mouth. She knew better than to argue with her mother, too. “You stay in your room for tonight. We can discuss other sleeping arrangements for Ren and his Mistresses.”

“Ren's staying with me.” Dilseffa said defiantly, and her mother raised her eyebrows. “You're right. It's my first night back home, so I want to spend it cuddling with my Inamorato.”

Duyu exchanged glances with her husband, who nodded slightly.

“Thank you!” Dilseffa exclaimed and hugged her father. “We'll go and get Yuwen, Tiyaphi, and Artemis right now!” She said and took Ren's hand. “Let's go before they change their minds!”

Duyu and Drikon watched as their ecstatic daughter left the dining room at a run and practically dragged a surprised Ren behind her.

“Who's Artemis?” Drikon asked.

“I guess we'll find out soon enough.” Duyu said with a chuckle.

“You should probably put your dress back on.” Drikon said with a smile. “For decency's sake.”

Duyu caught her breath. “I totally forgot to do that!” She said and equipped the now clean dress and she could no longer feel the cake she used to have stuck between her pad-like fingers and her whiskers.

“I'll help you clean up.” Drikon offered.

“No, you did enough by getting those foxes.” Duyu said. “You should skin and clean them so we can have them for supper tomorrow.”

“All right.” Drikon said and leaned down to kiss her.

Duyu could feel his emotions and how turned on he was, and she didn't try to hide that she was just as turned on. Neither of them had had any kind of experience like what had just happened, and they both couldn't wait until they were alone and they could deal with those feelings.

“I'll hurry.” Duyu whispered to her husband.

“Me, too.” Drikon said and quickly left the dining room to finish his task as soon as possible.
