“It’s a little more complex than that. I’ll show you, if you like, but I want to discuss Asano Village first. I’m willing to put aside old grievances, but that one isn’t old. My family built Asano Village. Our money, our toil, and your government handed it over to…”

He sighed.

“We know what you did, so there’s little point rehashing it. But those people are still there, right now. It’s a slap in the face. My first instinct was to go over there and kill everyone I find, but I’m trying to be better than that. My next instinct was to turn on all the old mana accumulators that aren’t necessary now that the magic level has risen. Take off the safeties and let them run; overload the magical infrastructure until things started exploding. Burn it all down, as Mr Hillier suggested. The people there would sense it in time to evacuate, even with their mediocre magical senses. No casualties, which is why I’m still quite partial to that idea.”

He plucked a drink out of the air and sipped at it before setting it down on the table.

“My local political advisor suggested a different approach” he continued. “Have you met Anna Tilden, Mr Dreyfus?”

“We’ve had dealings, during her time with the United Nations,” Solomon said.

“She suggested that I look at Asano Village as a chance for the Australian government to show some goodwill.”

“You want it back?”

“It’s tainted ground, Mr Dreyfus. Too-long inhabited by unwelcome interlopers. The infrastructure we built was designed to fend off monster waves at a time where the magic levels were different. We’d have to rebuild from scratch, and there are better places for that. What I’m looking for is a gesture. An apology for taking my uncle’s land, and an open acknowledgement of why it happened.”

“It happened because you’re rude and Truffett doesn’t like it when people imply he’s not important. Even if the Prime Minister was willing to acknowledge that, which he won’t be, do you genuinely believe it would help anything?”

Jason shook his head sadly.

“I do not. Your point is well made, Mr Dreyfus.”

He took his plate and beverage and shoved them into the air, where they vanished. He then got to his feet.

“Let’s just say an apology, then. Public. I’m not fool enough to insist it be sincere, but none of this ‘I’m sorry you feel offended’ crap. And I’m not going to push you for any promises today, Mr Dreyfus. I recognise political decisions take time and deliberation. The good decisions, at least.”

At a gesture from Asano, a white archway rose from the floor. It was filled with gold, silver and blue energy.

“So, who wants to see my kingdom?”
