“Probably.” Ren said out loud and rubbed his chest. “I'm glad I let the healer heal me last night.”

“Me, too.” Teepo said. “I couldn't wake you up to warn you she was rolling over.”

Princess stirred at the sound of Ren's voice and opened her eyes. My Lord! I found you!

“Yes, you did.” Ren said and pat her neck. “What did you think you were doing last night?”

She hurt you. Princess thought to him. I wanted to hurt her back.

“Did you?” Ren asked.

No. Princess huffed. She is with child.

“So, she wasn't lying or misleading me.” Ren said. “I was a little worried it might have been a ruse.”

I scared her. Princess thought with satisfaction. The soldiers were weak against me.

“Princess, how many giants have we fought now?” Ren asked and laughed. “You are so far above fighting normal soldiers.”

I am. Princess thought in amusement. Because of you.

Ren pat her neck again. “Rest here for a while. I've got some work to do.”

Princess huffed and Ren left the room with Teepo on his shoulder.

*

Princess looked at the two dogs. You missed a good fight.

They barked at her, and she huffed.

Very well. I'll tell you about it.

The dogs wagged their metal tails as Princess told them about the destruction she had unleashed.

*

Ren went to his cabin door and knocked.

“You don't have to knock on your own cabin door.” Frikara said as she pulled the door open. She was wearing the dress he'd make for her, and Ren was relieved that she didn't answer it topless. “We're kind of angry at you.”

“No, you're angry at him.” One of the others said. Ren hadn't been around them long enough to distinguish who was speaking. “He was gone before you woke up.”

“Yes.” Frikara said. “I wanted to play a little, and you can't imagine my disappointment.”

“I don't have to.” Ren said. “You just told me about it.”

Frikara smiled. “So, what can we do for you?”

“I'm going outside and wondered if you wanted to come with me.”

Frikara turned to the other maids. “Do any of you want to go out?”

“No.”

“Not me.”

“I'll pass.”

“I'd go if you held me the whole time.”

Frikara laughed. “You took my line!”

“Sorry.” Navruth said and smiled. “It's a good line.”

“I think we're all saying no.” Frikara said and looked back at Ren.

“I'll be back later to see if you change your minds.” Ren said and walked away down the hall towards the main cabin doors.

“Bye.” Frikara said and shut the door.

Ren went outside and looked towards the docks. “I wonder when... there they are.”

There wasn't a lot of activity on the docks so early in the morning, so it wasn't hard to see several large carts come down the road to the docks.

“We should wait to open the side of the ship.” The short captain said. “At least until they're almost here with all of that stuff.”

“Have you ordered extra provisions?” Ren asked him.

“Of course.” The short captain asked. “Just in case the trip takes longer, or you bring more people along.”

“I'm not expecting more people.” Ren said. “But, my mount eats a lot.”

“I've got feed coming.”

Ren shook his head. “She eats normal food.”

“She sleeps in a normal bed and she eats normal food.” The captain shook his head. “I wouldn't be surprised if you told me she could talk next.”

Ren gave him a knowing smile, and he laughed.

“Supplies coming aboard!” The short captain said and walked off. Several dwarves ran around and made it look like they were doing something important; but, Ren thought it was just something the game designers decided they needed players to see, just to make it look like something was happening.

It didn't take long for the carts of supplies to get to the water, and Ren watched the work crew as they assembled several large pieces of wood and slid the completed item into the water. He wasn't sure what it was, and then the carts started to unload their contents onto it.

“It's a big barge.” Ren said. Tee-one used my idea. He smiled. “It shouldn't take long to transfer things back and forth now.”

The barge was quickly filled to overflowing with Ren's things, and then Tee-one stepped onto it. The work crew climbed back onto the dock, and the barge started to move. Ren smiled at the surprised faces of the dwarves on the dock when they noticed no one was rowing on the barge.

He couldn't have used full enchantments on the steel squares. Ren thought. It should be going a lot faster.

“Maybe he's going slow so nothing falls off.” Teepo said.

Probably. Ren thought. There's a lot of stuff.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “You had it all in inventory, too.”

I did. Ren thought in amusement. I've had to change the things I've done without access to all of it, too.

“Are you going to store it all again?”

I don't know. Ren sighed. I kind of like having all this space available to carry things, but... I miss carrying the things I've always carried.

“Maybe you should make another backpack.” Teepo said. “An actual one, not a familiar or anything.”

I probably could use more portable storage space. Ren thought. I've even got a rune for inventory spaces.

“The extra weight won't slow you down, either.” Teepo said, and Ren nodded slightly. He waved to Tee-one when he was close enough to the ship, then ran for the closest stairway to the cargo hold. He arrived as the cargo hatch was opened and lowered, and he walked over to the edge of it.

*

“He walks like he's already got his sea legs, and he's only been on the boat since last night.” One of the deck hands whispered.

“They told you what he did last night, didn't they?” The dwarf he was talking to whispered back. “It was a sight, let me tell you.”

*

Tee-one brought the barge to a stop right beside the open cargo hatch, and Ren stepped over.

“Thanks for this.” Ren said and started storing the things he thought were absolutely necessary. “I can start the rest of the stained glass windows now.”

“I've got the top of the Keep finished.” Tee-one said. “I'll be taking the wood mold down when I go back.”

“That's great!” Ren said. “It's such a relief to have that done.”

Tee-one nodded. “Are you filling the dirt back in, or leaving a deep moat?”

“Moat.” Ren said, then told the waiting deckhands to move what he didn't store in inventory into the hold. Stone bricks, wood planks, paving stones, and several other things like tables, workbenches, and cement bags. While they did that, Ren absorbed his Water Spray enchantment from one of his raised platform rings and thought about the 5 rune glyph for Water. Since he could now combine 3 glyphs of 5 runes each into a single enchantment, he used 2 Water glyphs and 1 Wind glyph to enchant the ring.

Ren pointed the ring out towards the bay and activated it. A huge gush of water and air burst out and flew through the air for a good 40 feet, then it arced down and hit the water. He took out 2 steel squares, enchanted them with the new glyph, and gave them to Tee-one.

“Use those to fill it, once you square off the sides.”

“You want it in cement.” Tee-one said.

“We won't have to worry about it collapsing later if we do.”

“It'll be done by tonight.”

“Thanks, Tee-one.” Ren said. “Can you pick the windows up tonight?”

“If you want me to.” Tee-one said.

“It would be a nice surprise if the Church opened the day after my banishment.” Ren said and smiled.

Tee-one nodded slightly. “I'll be back with the next load of equipment and supplies.”

“Can you bring the fire elemental on the next trip?”

“You want the fire elemental brought to the ship.” Tee-one said, and Ren nodded slightly.

“I'll have the room modified by the time you get back.” Ren said. “Send the things stored on the second floor of the Main House, too.” He said. “It's all the stone carving supplies I ordered from Barnar's shop.”

“No problem.” Tee-one said. “I'll be back in a little while.”

Ren stepped off the barge and back onto the ship and stored piles of paving stones and stone bricks. The barge threw out gushes of water and air as it moved away from the ship, then went towards the shore. Ren left the cargo hold and went back up the stairs to the deck, then went through the main cabin doors and down the hallway. He went into Princess' room and cleared out the corner. He built a large stone box that filled nearly half of the room.

“You're going to have a hot roommate.” Ren said to Princess, and she huffed in amusement at him. He enchanted part of the walls of the box with Wind and Fire runes to reproduce the conditions of the pen the fire elemental was currently in. “I think that's it.” He said. “Now I really have to get to work.”

Have fun. Princess thought to him as he left the room.

Ren ran down the hallway, outside, and back into the hold. He picked up the large workbench that he had previously used for making the stained glass windows, walked over to a part of the hold not being used, then put the workbench down and thought about the next picture he wanted to make.

Earth is an easy one. Ren thought, and dyed three panes of glass. One brown, one green, and one blue. I'll use an image of a large rock formation, with a bit of grass and some blue sky behind it. He smiled as he took out his scoring tool and started to work on the brown pane of glass.
