Frankly, he probably knew a lot less than most people, considering what his parents did.

“Pathless Omenborn,” Shiv deadpanned, keeping the sourness out of his voice. “That’s what you call me?”

Tran had the decency to look embarrassed. “I don’t call you that. But…”

“Yeah. I know. Slayers and Pathbearers like gossip. Just like everyone else. Now. Can you let me go? I can’t feel my back anymore and I’m pretty sure most of my ribs are cracked.”

The Adept-Tier Pathbearer did as Shiv asked. As the hand was pulled away, Shiv took a step forward and barely stopped himself from toppling over. His vision spun. His abdomen was a nest of agony. His skin felt like it was still on fire—

“Damn, kid, you’re a mess,” Tran said. “Alice. Healing.”“What? On him?” the rookie said, sounding uncertain.

Tran narrowed his eyes. “Did that sound like a statement or a request?”

The rookie on Tran’s team—Alice—sighed. She reached into a satchel hanging by her hip and pulled out a Lesser Healing Potion that seemed a bit too big for the bag’s size. “Hey. What’s your Physicality, kid?”

“At the limit,” Shiv muttered, trying to hide just how much pain he was in.

“Twenty? Taint me, that’s high for a Pathless. Well. You probably won’t get cancer from this, but it’s best to check in with a real Biomancer back in town.” She paused. “If you got the gleam for it. The Bio isn’t cheap. Neither is my potion.” She turned to glare at Tran, but he just ignored her.Her reminding him that he was still just a shitty mortal somehow hurt worse than the burns and the broken bones. He took a swig from the Lesser Healing Potion, forcing it down in one gulp. Immediately, he felt it spreading out from his insides, washing through his veins and supercharging his natural regeneration.

He was going to be ravenously hungry soon as a consequence. This was going to be a pain on his spending. But that was the point of harvesting the lesser vampires for parts. Well. Usually. Now that the actual Slayers were here, he couldn’t do that because of “Guild rules and regulations about unlicensed sales of organs.” All excuses for the Pathbearers to hoard the good stuff, really.

As the automaton of the team emerged out of the hole in the ground like a feather, it greeted him. “Omenborn.”

“Glide,” Shiv replied. “Catch any new birds recently?” He stared through the massive section of the wall they tore out as he gazed out into the ruins of the old city. Half-toppled rows of massive skyscrapers and dense complexes carpeted a rising growth of vegetation.

A few kilometers away, the rest of the dead kingdom of Lost Angeles vanished downward in a sheer drop, leading into the Abyss. A bit off to the periphery, an uprooted tectonic plate loomed, blocking Shiv’s sight to the sea, the sky, and casting everything in shadow. He could also hear it blunting the crashing waves hammering against the land.

Just another problem to deal with on modern-day Earth.

Across the street, he spotted a woman staring at him from a window and recognized her from the floating dimensional entities dancing around her. And there was the most important member of this Slayer Team: the group’s Jump Mage—the one that allowed teams of people to travel into and out of the ruins of the old world without sneaking aboard a transport lift or illegally paragliding off the side like Shiv often did.

High above, his town looked like a blade hanging in the air, looming over the darkness of the abyss and held aloft by layers and rings of complicated spellcraft. Jagged clumps of mithril lined its base, conducting the many spells keeping it afloat while hovering dimensional entities, guards, and automata patrolled its perimeter. Cords carrying massive transport platforms moved resources harvested from the deep Abyss back up to the town.

Shiv stared at Blackedge as his stomach churned. Back home, then. Back home as a failure. Back home as the Omenborn. Still trapped in that flying cage. Trapped by the deeds of his parents. Trapped like the Pathless he was.

Trapped.

All that killing over three years. For nothing.

Nothing at all.

***

“Tran,” Shiv asked. “Do you think the System might notice if I kill a thousand lesser vampires?”

“No. No, I really don’t. And I don’t know what you can do to change that. You’ve gone further than any other Pathless I know to earn something for yourself. And if it were up to me, I’d bestow a proper combat Path on you. I know you’re good for it. But the Town Lord and the capital… I don’t think they’ll take that risk with you. You know how it is. The world doesn’t give a shit about what we want. And most of us aren’t powerful enough to disagree.”

And that was just it: Pathless weren’t powerful. They couldn’t go where they wanted. They couldn’t live how they wanted. They couldn’t be their own masters. If this didn’t work—if he couldn’t earn a proper Path for himself from the System itself—then his only other choices were to find a Pathbearer that might bestow a combat-oriented Path on him without forcing a Curse of Indenturement on him. And that wasn’t likely in Blackedge.

“I think you should go talk to your chef, kid,” Tran said. “He told me you have the talent. He told me—I think you should consider just… Being a cook isn’t so bad, you know? It could give you options.”

Shiv chuckled. “Georges is indentured to the Town Lord. My father and mother killed a lot of people with their ritual during my birth. You know that includes the Town Lord’s wife. There’s no life where I get a clean Path from anyone here without some nice little shackles fitted for my soul.”

And that was the problem with bestowed Paths: They were modified to serve the benefits of the one offering rather than the one receiving.

There was no such thing as free power.

“We all got shackles, Shiv. But I think your road here is run. And I think you know it too.”

Shiv sighed. A beat followed. “So. Since I cleared out the nest—”

“Ha! No. We’re collecting that contract. It was our contract to begin with, anyway. You just decided to be a quest-thief. Come on, kid, I’m not giving you a cut of the mithril. What are you thinking?”

“What about—”

“I already harvested the ones below,” Glide said, speaking in their airy tones. “The one on this floor is burned.”

Shiv sighed more deeply. “I really came down here just to burn myself for nothing, didn’t I?”

“Life’s funny that way,” Alice deadpanned. “So. Hey, boss, since we’re done with the nest, and we got our hands on the little psycho, can we get out of here before the Abyss spawns something strong enough to eat us all? This place is giving me the creeps.”

“Alice, you know that thing you’re doing right now?” Tran asked.

“Talking?”

“Whining. Knock it off. We barely did any work. Broken Moon, you rookies get worse every goddamn year.” Tran looked to the Jump Mage and made a quick gesture. A pocket of space opened around them, expanding outward in waves of pressure before folding inward, dragging them in. At the last moment, Tran turned and took a final look at the lesser vampire. He frowned. “Hey, Shiv?”

“Yeah?”“What the hell did you do to that thing’s neck?”

“I bit it.”

Tran nodded. Then his eyes widened. “You did wh—”

The teleportation spell triggered and drew them in. In seconds, they were across, zipping up through a narrow spatial tunnel back up to Blackedge.
