Two months later, war broke out and a draft was called, but because of his injuries, the son was not called upon to serve in battle. When the war came to an end, many families had lost their sons, but the man’s son was still alive and well. So who could really say what luck was good and what luck was bad?

That was the parable as Akupara’s Mentor told it, and even now after so many lifetimes apart, he could still hear the Abbot’s soothing tone and relaxing cadence as he narrated the lesson to his young Disciple. The lesson was one of discretion and humility, for one could never know the future until it came to pass. Predictions were one thing, outcomes another, and though Akupara’s decisions had always been made with the Right View in mind, he feared he might well have led the Brotherhood down a path of no redemption. Unable to plot a course that would cause no harm, he decided it would be best to do nothing at all, withdrawing from the world at large to tend to his own pursuits instead. It was what the Brotherhood did before his Mentor’s passing, and he believed that this was what his Mentor wanted him to do, else why choose Akupara as his successor? Senior Brother Mahakala was far more suited to the role of leader and guide, for Akupara lacked the strength and will necessary to overcome his trials and tribulations.

Which was why he, a cultivator whose talents shone brighter than any other in the last thousand years, was unable to ascend to Divinity before running afoul of the limits of mortality. Without his Mentor and Senior Brother around to help guide his steps, Akupara lacked the courage to even make an attempt, not that he would have succeeded if he tried, for he’d long since realized that he’d meandered down a dead-end Path with not enough time or determination to make his way back. In truth, after being forced out of the mountains and into the Arid Wastes, Akupara had lost all hope of ascension and was merely waiting for death to come claim him, and as he lay upon his deathbed, he was both grateful and ashamed to see his Senior Brother one last time before he passed.

And in his fear, Akupara made yet another mistake in accepting the gift of life from his Senior Brother. The dried flesh of an Ancestral Beast, and a powerful one at that, else the Energy of the Heavens would not have been so ingrained into its physical form to linger even after the soul had passed. He ate it knowing what it was, knowing his Senior Brother had killed to obtain this, and Akupara did so because he was too afraid to die. A human failing, the fear of death, and you would think that the knowledge of reincarnation would alleviate it somewhat, but even after more than century of life and wholly believing that death was merely a new beginning, he had not been ready to take the next step. Instead of accepting his fate, he gave into the desire for existence and became a grievous sinner by choice, a choice which might well have doomed the Brotherhood in the end. If he’d died then and there, Mahakala might well have taken up the mantle of Abbot, or perhaps someone else altogether, someone who could have done a better job of guiding the Brotherhood to their ultimate goals. Whoever it was, surely they could not have done worse than Akupara, for it was his leadership which caused Vyakhya to fall out with the Brotherhood and seek answers elsewhere, false answers which led Akupara’s old friend and rival so far astray that Vyakhya ultimately might well have surrendered his chance at reincarnation by succumbing to the lies of the Spectres.

Then again, one could continue even further back in history and claim the Brotherhood was doomed the moment Akupara’s Mentor chose him over Mahakala as his successor. Who could say for certain?

In the end, Brother SanDukkha’s persistent efforts and convincing arguments saved Akupara’s life, for he found the will to live once more, but despite having returned to the land of the living, the turmoil of his mind and heart left him utterly incapable of acting. As a Divinity who ascended through less than natural methods, his control over the Energy of the Heavens was delicate and tenuous at best, and might as well be non-existent in his current state. Even centuries of practice had done little to improve his control, and a moment of anger or weakness was all it would take to bring disaster down on them all, for the Heavens did not accept him as one of its most blessed of subjects. Not like with young Brother Dama who ascended by his own means after decades of abstaining from everything aside from the bare necessities of life. Though previously gaunt and sickly in appearance to the point where the young Legate referred to him as Monk Bones, Brother Dama had grown more youthful and vigorous over the last few weeks as he slowly but steadily brought his metaphysical presence into reality to merge with his physical body and improve himself by every metric imaginable. Now, he stood at Akupara’s side looking like a robust, well-built man in his sixties, a man unrecognizable to all including those who watched the transformation take place.

In contrast, Akupara still looked the same as he did on the day he gave in to sin, and he would remain this way forevermore unless he discovered how to amend his past mistakes.

Appearance was the least of it, but the most obvious difference between them. By coming to terms with the error of his ways, Brother Dama ascended to Divinity just in time to keep Vyakhya from outright killing Akupara without resistance, but the stubborn man refused to take on the mantle of Abbot. “You still live and breathe yet,” he declared, uttering a snort that seemed so out of place across his increasingly youthful expression. “So what need is there for this monk to succeed you?”

Such was the obstinance of youth, though to be fair, the elderly were not known to be any more adaptable. Either way, Akupara was once again at a loss on how to proceed as he watched the battle of Shi Bei unfold. Mahakala would have argued that the time for non-violence was past, since their inaction would cause more harm than any action ever could, while Vyakhya would claim that inaction was the only choice left to them, for any other choice would be actively opting to cause harm and therefore run counter to the Right View. What would Brother SanDukkha say? Something along the lines of ‘kill them all and let the Mother sort them out’, no doubt, for he was a youth still stained in the red dust of the mortal world and unwilling to cleanse himself of these ties.

Which of them held the Right View, if any? How could Akupara know for sure, when he himself was no longer able to reconcile his decisions with the Right View? He was a failure who was unable to live up to his potential, an abomination of nature who seized power that did not belong to him, and a frightened, indecisive old man who was too scared to fight yet too emotional to simply walk away. These were all truths he recognized now after denying them for so long, because in his heart of hearts, he wished he’d never left the mountains bordering Central and East, never abandoned his plants to rot alongside the dreams he’d long since left behind.

As a child, Akupara found his way to the Brotherhood because it meant he would have at least one meal every two days, an utterly laughable rationale which he was too ashamed to admit to even after a few years of study, but to that starving, orphaned boy? A warm meal was everything. It was life. It was sustenance. It was safety, satiety, and comfort. Joining the Brotherhood meant he would survive, and that, more than anything, was reason enough for a child who knew nothing of the Dao, and yet had found his all the same. This was why Akupara initially pursued the Dao, so that children like the boy he used to be, would no longer have to suffer the pain of an empty stomach.

That was his dream, his purpose, his goal in this life, yet circumstances had forced him to abandon them. It was a simple dream that was infinitely complex, and one Akupara had long since forgotten out of heartbreak and misery until he came across a young Warrant Officer who found the courage to speak out against the Purge. Falling Rain was the boy’s name, and in his actions, Akupara saw a reflection of what might have been if he’d had the courage to stand firm in his convictions and speak out against the Emperor all those years ago. Perhaps nothing would have changed and the Brotherhood would have been forced out regardless, or possibly even wiped out in their entirety for daring to go against the Emperor’s wishes, but better to die as a monk of principle than live on as a sinner full of regrets.

These were his thoughts as he watched Brother SanDukkha stand firm against the Enemy on this day, first in Meng Sha then again here in Shi Bei. That was all Akupara could do, watch and see how matters unfolded, unable to act even to Heal the wounded or comfort the dying and lacking the confidence to offer any advice or encouragement whatsoever. When Brother SanDukkha struck down Vyakhya in a single blow, Akupara had almost been overcome with grief at his old friend’s passing, then horror when the Demonification took root. Surprise and wonderment came next as he watched Brother SanDukkha Manifest his Domain in order to counter the Demonic Divinity’s unchecked rampage and maintain the fabric of reality in the face of complete and utter destruction. There was no longer any point in keeping track of the young Dragon’s miracles, for they were too numerous to count, including his very existence itself which was unlike anything Akupara had ever seen or heard of. Falling Rain was walking a Path wholly unique to himself, and against all odds, was somehow making it work.

He made it seem so simple, adhering to his noble ideals even in the face of such overwhelming adversity and holding firm beneath the oppressive weight of Heaven’s Wrath focused upon him. No struggle, no surrender, a concept that sounded simple in practice yet was anything but, for humans were by their very nature creatures of emotion, and young Rain more emotional than most. Yet in spite of this, he was able to not only Shatter the Void and bring his body, mind, and soul together in perfect harmony, he also found some way to maintain control of his emotions and hold fast against the raw Energy of the Heavens without being swept away by the sheer power behind it.

Somehow, Falling Rain had transcended the limits of mortality without touching upon the limits of Divinity to become something that was neither more or less, but entirely different and so full of untapped potential.

Potential which he used to slaughter his enemies without remorse. Such anger, such sin.

Not directly, in most cases, save for a select few cases, but that hardly made a difference in the end. Brother SanDukkha was a mystery wrapped in an enigma, a puzzling contrast of conflicting traits that made him appear merciful, compassionate, cruel, and callous all at the same time. Though to the human eye, it would appear as if he was waving his sword at nothing at all, Akupara’s senses detected a subtle working around the young Legate that whispered of secrets which were far beyond anything he’d ever seen before. It had something to do with his Aura, but entirely different from the Emotional Aura which he used so often in lieu of expressing them in a more natural and healthy manner. Whatever he was doing, it was clear Brother SanDukkha was using it to affect the battlefield on a large scale and indirectly slaughter the Enemy Peak Experts, an outcome which left Akupara conflicted and confused. Though the young Legate’s actions were clearly at odds with the Right View as Akupara’s Mentor taught them, he was unable to wholly disagree with the young Legate’s actions.

Their arguments had all been made in months past, and Brother SanDukkha would claim that he was simply acting in defense. It was human nature to strive to survive, so he had no qualms about killing anyone who attacked him. Why should he run or yield in the face of aggression? If they should bring violence to his doorstep, then he would answer them with violence in turn, an outlook which would only perpetuate the endless cycle of violence and suffering, yet was still reasonable in terms of human nature. Even Akupara was not yet free of his darker nature and desires, for he was only human after all, but as Vyakhya and Sayan once argued to great effect, how could one understand the value of sacrificing something they had never experienced in the first place? Giving up honey was easy for a commoner who’d never tasted it, and the vast majority of humanity could swear off murder given how most would never kill another human being throughout their entire lifespan. One thing Akupara understood however was losing his home, and if he could go back and do it all again, he wasn’t sure if he’d walk away from his mountain garden a second time, so he could empathize with the Imperial citizens fighting to reclaim the city from the Enemy who seized it.

