As for Brother SanDukkha’s actions here, if he planned to kill the Enemy combatants regardless, would it have been better to massacre them all with the tidal wave he sailed in on and offer them all a clean death without the cruelty of false hope? Or was this the more acceptable method, targeting only the Enemy Elites and giving the rest a fair chance to rethink their choices? Then again, his Runic Cannons were slaughtering the Defiled in droves, so how did he reconcile the horror he wrought with his own empathy and compassion? It wasn’t that he didn’t care if the Defiled lived or died, and given how much he sacrificed to keep his sister alive, he quite clearly understood the value of love and family, so how could he have no mercy for these men and women who might well be fathers, mothers, brothers, or sisters themselves?

Whatever his justification, Akupara was certain Brother SanDukkha would hold fast to it, for he was nothing if not stubborn and willful. Were he anything less, then he would never have made it so far in life, for where there is life, there is hope, a mantra Falling Rain lived and breathed by.

And with this singular realization, the knot in Akupara’s heart came undone. Though he had failed in every endeavour he’d tried his hand at just yet, he was still alive and well, and where there was life, there was hope. Hope for redemption, for atonement, for improvement and for the future. Hope, a beautiful, magical thing which he had been denied for so long, for without his Mentor and Senior Brother, he never had any hopes of success, for he had long since accepted that no matter what he discovered or accomplished, his findings would never see the light of day, for the Emperor would never allow it. Thus, in striving to live a life without sin, Akupara had been left with no recourse against sinners who pushed against him except to capitulate and give up on his own aspirations.

How could he be expected to reach the pinnacle of the Dao if he lacked even the courage to pursue it? That was why he failed, because every time he faced a trial or tribulation which might compromise his ideals, his response was to adhere to the Right View no matter the cost, yet he never took into account the cost of inaction. Centuries ago, he developed the means to enable farmers to produce anywhere between four to ten times their natural yield each season, mundane methods that any mortal could apply to any field in any province that would only require more helping hands during harvest. The Emperor did not so much demand as imply Akupara ought to keep those secrets to himself, and he complied because coming into conflict with the Imperial Clan would have resulted in death and bloodshed aplenty, for the Emperor was willing to go to great lengths to maintain his stranglehold over the provinces. Keeping quiet would save lives, that was the rationale Akupara had made his decision by, except he failed to account for all the lives lost to starvation since then, an issue which should have long since been solved yet still children and parents went hungry, day after day, week after week, month after month, and year after year.

But if Falling Rain were privy to these methods, he would release them to all in a heartbeat. He’d already done so once with his book of inventions, and would do so again even if warned not to, because he was a man who clearly empathized with the plight of commoners and wanted to do everything he could to help them, even at the cost of bloody revolution. Anything worth having was worth fighting for in his eyes, an aggressive and combative take on life, but one which even he knew was neither wholly right nor entirely wrong, yet one he clung firmly to all the same. This was what it meant to be One with the Self, to live in service to one’s desires without being beholden to them. If Akupara had but one tenth of Falling Rain’s courage and resolve, then the Brotherhood might never have fallen into the unsightly straits that they found themselves in today.

A realization which arrived just as Brother SanDukkha called upon the Energy of the Heavens to Manifest his Domain, congealing it into an invisible blade that materialized out of nowhere to strike down the Half-Demon Demi-Human Junta. The colossal working set the world to surging like waves within a stormy ocean as turbulent currents crashed in and around one another in a metaphysical upheaval which every Divinity within the region could sense, and many Peak Experts too. This wasn’t merely utilizing the Energy of the Heavens, but commanding it, a forceful and domineering display of proficiency that few could truly match. For a Divinity, this meant being wholly One with the Heavens and in tune with one’s Will, which sounded simple in theory but was a state only a handful had ever reached. Peak Experts were more capable of finding themselves in this state, for most who ascended to Divinity would touch upon this sublime condition before Shattering the Void, yet Brother SanDukkha had done so without warning in the middle of a chaotic battlefield, where even a single moment of distraction could mean the difference between life and death.

A fact the Enemy took full advantage of as they dispatched the Phantom to strike Brother SanDukkha down.

It all happened in the blink of an eye, so fast even Akupara almost missed it entirely, but the sequence of events would forever be burned into memory. The Phantom attacked, then froze before his twin daggers connected, only to die to a single blow from the Old Wolf of the Mountains. Calamity was the name the Empire gave him, but he growled every time someone used it and merely grimaced when they called him Old Wolf, so that was the name the wise and foolhardy alike used within earshot. That was all Akupara knew about the Divinity aside from the fact that the Old Wolf was suspected to be one of the strongest living Divinities in existence, but he kept to himself so few cared to bother him, so most of his exploits had faded into legend.

Which he proceeded to prove true by killing another Divinity with the most casual of attacks, not even a proper punch but merely a haphazard swing of his hand.

Even more interesting was Brother SanDukkha’s ability to counteract the untold destruction that the Old Wolf almost unleashed, though Akupara suspected the canny old Divinity had done so on purpose, for the stories claimed that he was so beloved by the Heavens themselves that he was almost unrestrained by them. The Old Wolf proved as much only seconds later, as he unleashed a second strike which he contained all on his own, and Akupara’s heart skipped a beat in time with the hearts of the other Divinities who witnessed it. Only then did the Old Wolf Conceal himself completely, proving that old ginger was indeed spicier as he warned friend and foe alike that he too had mastered the boy’s ability, heralding in a new age of warfare in which Divinities might well remain unchecked.

A terrifying prospect had just been set into motion by Brother SanDukkha’s actions, leading Akupara to rethink his previous decisions, but regardless of the consequences, he still felt that the Right View as he knew it was flawed, and it was high time he tried something different. Casting his senses across Shi Bei, he pinpointed the Divinity he was after, not Mataram YuGan who was the de-facto leader of the Enemy, or Ba Khe Zhu, the Ancestral Stag whose strength was feared by all, though his reputation was not quite a match for the Old Wolf’s. Nor did Akupara contact the Ancestral Badger Shih Yang, the most diplomatic of the bunch who was the most likely to see eye to eye and make allowances on the Empire’s behalf.

No, instead, Akupara sought out the Bristleboar Divinity, Zhu Chanzui. Though far from the weakest of gathered Divinities, he was far from the strongest too, meaning he ranked slightly above average in Akupara’s estimation, one which was confirmed by their exchange following their confrontation in Sinuji. Were it not for his clandestine use of Anathema and Runic items aplenty, the Bristleboar Divinity would have died at Guan Suo’s hands even without unleashing the wrath of the Heavens. For some reason, Zhu Chanzui’s weakness gravely offended Akupara, for this gluttonous, lecherous, covetous pig had killed his Senior Brother, a Divinity far more powerful and noble than he would ever be.

“Know this,” Akupara Sent, and he sensed Zhu Chanzui’s surprise at being discovered. There was not a single creature on this battlefield capable of escaping his detection, not even the Divine Turtle Pong Pong hidden inside Brother SanDukkha’s hair now that Akupara knew what to look for. “Should another Enemy Divinity make a move on this battlefield, this monk will end your life first and foremost. This is your one and only warning, one you should heed well, for there will not be another.”

Even without seeing him, the Bristleboar Divinity’s sneer was easily heard in his tone. “Oh? What’re ye gonna do, huh? Beat yer little fish drum and bore me to death? If yer gonna make threats, then ye need the strength to back it up, holy man.”

Rather than argue, Akupara steadied his thoughts and focused on Zhu Chanzui’s presence at the expense of all else. Aside from the bandit he killed in order to avenge his father, Akupara had never once raised his hand in anger at another living creature, not even at the formidable illusion-casting carrion worms which Kukku so loved to eat. He was wholly unfamiliar with the Forms, and had never utilized Chi skills in combat, and thus threatening Zhu Chanzui with physical violence was clearly a fool’s errand, especially in light of his formidable defenses. In truth, Akupara wasn’t sure if his greatest attack was even a match for the force of Colonel General Nian Zu’s Shooting Star, not without losing control, and though he was finally ready to fight for what he believed in, he was unwilling to consign millions of Imperial and Defiled to death with his first act of aggression.

That being said, while Akupara’s focus had never been on combat, this did not mean he was entirely without his own means. As a young man, he studied agriculture and horticultural methods to improve crop yield, with an added focus on speed of growth and hardiness of the crop itself. When the Brotherhood settled into the Arid Wastes, he switched focus to the study of beasts instead, largely due to Vyakhya’s influence and the lack of anything better to do. His Mentor had long since taught him how to Heal, because saving a life was better than building a seven-story pagoda, and he refined those skills along the way in order to better apply the lessons he learned from his studies of beasts to improving his own physical constitution. Not so he could fight, but so he could endure the weight of the Heavens bearing down upon him once he Shattered the Void in truth.

All in all, Akupara’s skills were sorely limited when it came to combat. Though Healing could be used to stop a man’s heart from a distance, doing so would be pitting his Will against the target’s, and the will to survive would undoubtedly be stronger than his Intent to kill. Instead, his confidence in killing Zhu Chanzui came from his familiarity in a subject few even knew existed, one which he uncovered after a lifetime spent studying agriculture, animal husbandry, and Healing. It was the study of life itself, and how a tiny seed transformed into a towering tree, or how an egg full of yolk could give rise to a chicken, or how some Human Divinities would experience a renewal of youth while others remained old as they day they ascended. His studies revealed the existence another energy, one adjacent to the Energy of the Heavens and incomparable in every way, neither better nor worse, but different all the same. Every living creature possessed this energy within them, which Akupara had taken to calling lifeforce, and he devoted centuries to its study after uncovering its existence. It was different from Healing, in that it was less about the physical health and more about the quality of the soul, and an area of study he thought wholly unusable in combat until only a minute ago, when he saw Brother SanDukkha Materialize his Domain and carve clean through the Half-Demon Demi-Human Junta’s life force, among other things.

A moment of focused Will and directed killing Intent, that was all it took for Akupara to single out Zhu Chanzui’s lifeforce and threaten to sever it with his own Manifested Domain, which he imagined would be none too pleasant for the Bristleboar Divinity. If Akupara were to describe it, he would guess it was something akin to a cold chill followed by a sense of primal terror and grievous foreboding as one’s life source roiled and writhed from the pressure of his Domain. A moment was all it took for Zhu Chanzui to get the message and attempt to Cloud-Step away to avoid certain death, proof he had no earthly idea how to defend against an attack directed at his soul. A good thing too, but Akupara locked on and threatened his foe thrice more before he decided his point was well made. “You have been warned. I suggest you convince your allies to hold back as best you can, for no matter who makes the first move, this monk will kill you first.”

A petty act of vengeance, targeting the killer of his Senior Brother so, but one that left Akupara feeling better than he had in years. The Balance of the Noble Eight-Fold Path was no true Balance at all, this much was clear, for in abstaining from so much, he had forgotten what it meant to be human. Though his end goal would forever and always be True Divinity, to transcend mortal limits into nirvana beyond, he was still mortal yet, and thus could never be free of the red dust of the mortal world.

