Such heroism, such brutality, such virtue, such sin.

Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.

The siege of Shi Bei laid bare the duality of humanity, and Akupara struggled to reconcile what he observed here today with the precepts he’d adhered to for most his life. This much was demanded of him by the first facet of the Noble Eight-Fold Path, to adhere to the Right View, which required constant contemplation and analysis of the world around them in order to understand that which they could not perceive. Many of his brothers had previously made the argument to call it the Right Understanding instead, if only to better convey the meaning behind what was arguably the most critical aspect of the Eight-Fold Path, for without the proper understanding of the Dao in all its forms, one’s perspective of the Path’s subsequent aspects would be flawed if not outright erroneous. The Right View did not refer to a single, unequivocally correct viewpoint that each and every person should accede to, but rather the process of amending one’s perspective when presented with new and contradicting information that conflicted or contrasted with prior understanding of the Dao.

Thus, in theory, the Right View should always be in constant flux as new concepts were discovered to amend established ones which were flawed or incomplete, yet even after so many years of life, Akupara still clung to the same view that his Mentor passed down unto him, that our actions have consequences and death is not the end, and thus we must all endeavour to do no harm. Words he lived by since the day the Abbot took him in, a thought which brought a smile to his face, for no matter how many years he bore this mantle, his Mentor would forever and always be the Abbot in his mind. Akupara was merely a pretender to the title, one who fell far short of his Mentor’s expectations, for he who was named for ‘potential without limit’ had utterly failed in his lifelong efforts to see the Brotherhood reclaim their past prominence to become the spiritual advisors of the Empire once more.

Such was their role in the time before his time, to guide the wayward souls of the Mother’s children so that they might find their way back to Her warm embrace, and Akupara had longed to see them restored to it. Under his authority however, the Brotherhood had become little more than a joke, penitent monks who scourged themselves in misguided repentance for sins they themselves did not commit. Where the Brotherhood once had monasteries scattered all across the Empire and were respected and valued by all, they were now seen as deranged vagrants who were best avoided. Every few decades, Akupara would set out into the Empire to see the changes for himself, and every time he did, he made it a point to preach about the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eight-Fold Path the same way he’d seen his Mentor do in the past. In the last five-hundred years, he’d been treated as a pariah best avoided by all. Mothers held their children close while fathers guarded their purses against him, and the more polite folk would wait until he turned away to roll their eyes and shake their heads, assuming he wasn’t out-right ignored or chased out as soon as he spoke.

Then again, were things really so different now when compared to his Mentor’s time? Most crowds only gathered to partake in the free meals which were distributed after the sermon, since few would care to stay and listen if they were fed first. Such was human nature however, as even Akupara himself had joined the Brotherhood not out of any sense of purpose or belonging, but rather because it was the only way to ensure he would be fed with any regularity. It was the same with Brother SanDukkha’s schools and orphanages, which provided food and education to those in need. While there were some parents who no doubt hoped that the lessons would help improve their children’s prospects, most were sent to school because it kept them out from underfoot before they were of any use, and no longer attended once they were old enough to help out at home, though a select few might well benefit from the young Legate’s grand ambitions to educate and empower the masses.

Thereby setting them on a crash course with the nobles in power which could only end in bloody conflict, but such was life, suffering without end.

Therein lay the greatest hurdle to Akupara’s Dao, determining the Right View to uphold and how to go about doing so. All actions have consequences, yet he was sworn to do no harm, so how could he dare act without knowing the consequences in advance? This made it outright impossible to follow in Brother SanDukkha’s footsteps, wherein he chose to cause immediate harm in the hopes of establishing a better future, like excising a tumour or amputating a limb to prevent it from killing the patient. While the logic was sound, the core premise went against the Right View, in that killing even to save a life was violence which in turn would be reflected on oneself.

Perhaps the Right View as Akupara understood it was wrong to begin with, for who was to say his Mentor had all the right answers himself? Even a Divinity such as he had been helpless to feed everyone who came to their monastery doors, and while the young Legate was having far more success feeding the denizens of the Northern Wall, it was hardly a sustainable model much less one capable of expansion. A vast fortune went into keeping so many people fed, a fortune earned through not entirely scrupulous means. Compound interest for example, a most devious and insidious concept which calculated balance owed based not only on principle alone, but also the interest itself. A mathematical tool which could hardly be considered evil, except it was all too easy to see how easily the concept lent itself to malicious intent. By offering large loans with small periodic payments, it was all too easy for one’s debt to double or triple in size within a handful of years. This sort of predatory lending could easily be used to encumber the recipient of said loan to a debt which could not be repaid in any reasonable fashion, thereby enabling the lender to hold significant power over them. It was slavery by a different name, enforced by a debt rather than the Oaths and every bit as heinous. Add in the Legate’s Treasury Notes enabling the Imperial Clan to lend coin without limits, and Akupara suspected that if the young Legate should ever fulfill his dream of outlawing slavery, he would be shocked to discover the crows coming home to roost in the form of the very economic tools he’d unleashed.

And this was merely a single possible facet of the harm Brother SanDukkha had unleashed upon the world in his haste to provide relief, but even then, he still accomplished more good than Akupara himself ever wrought.

A most unpleasant truth, but one he had no choice but to accept, for despite all his lofty ambitions and centuries of life, Akupara had done nothing worthy of note. As a young monk, he followed the Brotherhood into exile from the Eastern Province and helped rebuild their monasteries in the mountains bordering upon Central. Then as Abbot, he uprooted them again when the Emperor indicated that their new home was still too close for his liking, leaving behind decades of progress with regards to his studies to start anew in the Arid Wastes. The first move had been terrifying, for the unknown was never pleasant, but he had his Senior Brother and Mentor to help him through those toughest of times. The second move was infinitely more difficult however, not just because his Mentor and Senior Brother were both absent. Akupara spent the entirety of his adult lifespan turning those sparse mountain landscapes into a lush, verdant garden in order to help feed his brothers and perhaps even one day benefit the people of the Empire as well. Every tree and blade of grass had been planted because of him, and he’d hoped to be buried there where his mortal shell would fuel future growth, but the Heavens had other plans. Thus, he was forced to leave it all behind because without his Divinity of a Mentor to hold up the Heavens, the Emperor’s displeasure was not something the Brotherhood could withstand.

He'd been but a young boy during that first move, younger even than Brother SanDukkha, but he’d been close to a hundred when he moved a second time, a man of means and education. Though not yet a Divinity, it was widely accepted that he would one day join their ranks, for the scope of his wisdom and comprehension was known to all. After Mentor’s passing, but before the Brotherhood was uprooted a second time, many an Imperial Scion sought to discredit their teachings and left with their tails between their legs, for Akupara had a way with words and was well-versed in the Sutras which contained all the accumulated teachings of the Brotherhood from time immemorial. What’s more, even if their discussion should turn to violence, he was more than capable of holding his own without resorting to causing harm unless his opponent stood at the Peak of Martial Strength or was a Divinity themselves. That was his claim to fame, personal strength which he always saw as a waste and thus never took pride in, yet only now after so many centuries of life did he truly understand the age-old adage of ‘might makes right’.

Even if you never lifted a finger in anger, so long as you had strength enough, your words would hold weight. If you were the strongest man in the world, then the world would have no choice but to cater to your whims, which was why the Emperor cared nothing for Akupara’s talents or his advancements in agriculture and food production. In his mind, with better yields to their farms, the farmers could afford to invest in animals and workers to help speed things along, further increasing yields even more, until only a fraction of the population needed to farm for a living. A winning play for everyone involved, except the ruling elites did not see things the same way. No matter how dire the circumstances, the nobles would always have enough to eat, meaning scarcity was an issue for peasants and commoners. Thus, they cared not if they would earn more from the labour of fewer peasants and have the ability to employ the rest in other areas, because the goal was not to maximize wealth and profit, but to profit at the expense of the common man. Someone with just barely enough to survive lacked the energy needed to harbour resentment over his or her circumstances, and thus would have no ability to rebel. This was the logic by which the Empire operated with, and why the Brotherhood was forced out of the mountains soon after Akupara tried sharing his bounty and methods with the masses, because the Imperial Clan benefitted greatly from the current state of affairs and would stop at nothing to keep them in place.

In contrast, Brother SanDukkha sought to do exactly the same except with a vastly differing approach, because he believed it was easier to ask for forgiveness than permission.

Despite being aware of the conflict his actions would bring and the people he would upset, the young Legate threw caution to the wind and was happy to let it all play out. No, happy was not the correct word here, for Brother SanDukkha was a kind and compassionate man who cared deeply for his fellow man. Instead, he wholeheartedly believed that at the end of all the strife and chaos, humanity would emerge better for it, a difficult stance to argue against without knowing how all this would end. He cared not for all the possible outcomes which ended in disaster, and instead clung grimly onto the faint hope that his actions would benefit the people of the Empire more than they would harm them. A naïve approach full of youthful bluster, or a cynical gambit from which no winners would emerge, Akupara knew not how the young Legate saw it.

Was it wrong to hope for the best and strive for a better tomorrow at the cost of today? Was it wrong to take a stand even if it would cost you your life? Akupara’s Mentor chose to back down before the Emperor’s demands, and he himself made the same choice, yet what benefit did their concessions bring them?

None whatsoever, an undeniable truth which left Akupara utterly and completely lost.

Ever since his Mentor’s death, Akupara had been plagued with indecision and uncertainty, for what was he to do without proper guidance? The Right View demanded he do no harm, but every decision he made had the potential for catastrophic harm, and what was life but a series of decisions and actions? To live is to suffer, but it could also be said that to live is to choose, with each choice more complex than anyone could imagine. Even the wisest among them could only see less than a tenth of the truth, so how could anyone dare claim they understood all the variables of every decision they ever made? A single wrong decision could destroy a lifetime of effort, yet that destruction might well be years, decades, or even centuries in the making, and impossible to trace back to the root cause.

There was a parable Akupara’s Mentor once shared that seemed pertinent to all this, the story of a man, his son, and their bull. One day, the bull wandered away and became lost. Upon learning this, the man’s neighbours offered their condolences for his bad luck, and the man asked, “How do you know it’s bad luck?”

Two days later, the bull returned with a herd of wild cattle in tow, and this time, his neighbours stopped by to congratulate him on his good fortune. To this, the man asked, “How do you know it’s good luck?”

A week later, the wild cattle were spooked and broke out of their enclosure before trampling over the son’s legs, leaving him crippled for life. Once again, the neighbours expressed their sorrow for his misfortune, and the man asked, “How do you know it’s bad luck?”

