“You’re all now free to do whatever you’d like,” said Sucri. “I’ll be returning, but you can go further, if you’d like.”

“I’m good,” said Frank immediately. “Congrats and all, but I wanna get back home.”

Elise didn’t disagree, but she shot him a quick glare for his attitude.

“I’d like to return as well,” said Hannah. “I have an assessment coming up in one of my classes that I want to study for.”

“I have no preference, but it seems that we will be returning,” said Telvir. “And Sophie, I offer you my sincere congratulations.”

“Th– Thanks,” said Sophie, blushing.

Wait, him too? thought Elise.

“Then it seems that’s settled as well,” said Sucri. “Let’s all go together.”

It wasn’t long before they emerged from the Dungeon, and Elise and Sophie said their goodbyes to the others. The whole way up, though, Elise had felt Telvir’s attention on her. He was in front of her, so he couldn’t look at her, but she had gotten somewhat of a sense of reading aether to gauge where a person’s attention was focused, and his was most definitely focused on her. It had been for most of their time in the Dungeon as well.

Telvir confused Elise. He was clearly competent, and he had typical elven confidence, but when it came to her, he was borderline subservient. He was more stressed about Sophie’s success than Sophie herself was, and now that Sophie had succeeded, he was extremely relieved, and oddly enough, hopeful. As if he wanted something from Elise, now that Sophie had succeeded.

She knew that he had some kind of strange misconception about her, and since he never brought it up, she had not had an opportunity to clear it, but now that she saw it affecting his feelings toward Sophie, she wondered if she should take the initiative to clear the air.

…Nah.

So far, the misunderstanding had been strange but beneficial to her, and if it made him invested in Sophie’s success, then it was beneficial for Sophie too. If he wanted the truth, he would approach her on his own. But he hadn’t, meaning he was comfortable with his assumptions.

Shortly after returning home, Elise went back to her room, flopped onto her bed, and soon began soul meditation. As she worked on crafting her soul clothes, her mind drifted to her upcoming trip back to visit the dwarves. She had already sent them word that she was coming, and break started at the end of the week, so it was all settled, but she was nervous about what she would find there. Titania herself had wanted her to visit, and she still didn’t know why.

While she thought of the possibilities, her mind wandered further until she was thinking about Maggie. It was not too much of a tangent, since she suspected everything was all tied to her rune of Fate, and Maggie was quite closely related to that, but there was another reason that Maggie was on her mind at the moment: Maggie was missing.

She wasn’t completely missing, but according to Jessie, no one knew where she was. She had apparently left more than a month ago, saying she didn’t know when she would be back, and no one had heard anything since. She wasn’t dead, since the church had some way of knowing if she was, but it was as though she had completely vanished. Elise had wanted to ask about what happened before her reincarnation before she went to visit the dwarves, just so she would have as much information as possible, but it was looking like that wouldn’t happen, unfortunately.

I wonder where she went…

Deep below Jelor City, in the lowest reaches of the Dungeon, an enormous spider emerged from a nest of webs. It had lived in these caverns for decades now, killing anything that got too close, and carving out a territory that nearly every other monster in the vicinity had learned to avoid. It had just finished nursing its wounds from its recent battle, and was hungry and ready to hunt. And lucky for it, it could feel the vibrations through the earth of something approaching. It slipped into the shadows, its enormous body vanishing without a trace as it waited to ambush its unlucky meal.

Soon, the figure rounded a corner, coming into view. It was a human, or at least it looked like one. The spider had only ever seen a couple others in its many years. The humans did not like to come this far down. But this one did, apparently, and it had come alone. It only had enough meat for a small snack, but the spider was more than happy to chance across a rare delicacy.

The human continued to walk, seemingly oblivious to the danger around it, and when it passed by the enormous shadow on the wall, the spider burst out, moving faster than the eye could see, ready to bring its fangs down on its prey. Then, the human vanished, reappearing a few steps further down the tunnel, and the spider fell to the ground in two pieces, dead. Calmly, the human continued through the tunnel, cutting through thick webs with ease, barely even registering the monster that had created them.

Soon, the human reached a large chamber on the opposite side of the spider’s territory, and it smiled. There were still signs of a great battle from not long ago, and on the far wall, she spotted a section of exposed bricks behind a piece of broken stone.

“There you are,” it said.

Just as calmly as it had killed the spider. It walked up toward the bricks, drawing its sword. Three impossibly quick slashes later, there was an entrance into the brick chamber, and the human’s smile widened as it saw what lay inside. A pitch black box, three feet across in every dimension, with a thin seam near the top where the lid was located. Then, it looked to the side, where it saw something unexpected. Another human.

This one was wearing silver armor, and was polishing a greatsword that was already so smooth and clean that it shone like a mirror.

“A guardian?” asked the first. “A paladin of light?”

“No, and yes,” said the one on the ground, standing up. “I am a paladin of light, but I am not a guardian. You are more than free to take this, if you want it.”

“Then why are you here?” asked the first, tilting its head to the side.

“I was waiting for you,” replied the other. “I’d like to propose a deal.”

“I usually don’t make deals with the pawns of the gods, but you’ve intrigued me. What kind of deal did you have in mind?”
