I slammed the breaks, and watched the wheel erupt into life all around me. When I turned to face the Marmots, all three currently peeking out of their holes, I wanted to see fear. I wanted to see the realization of just how much they’d messed up. Instead, I got glassy-eyed gopher-y looks that, to me, translated to ‘Wow. Such pretty colours.’

I began my hunt. It was simplistic. It was straightforward. It was effective. And, by gods, was it ever satisfying.

I ran. That was my entire plan. I stayed in movement, kept my eyes on my surroundings, and, every chance I got, steered toward the Marmots, making sure I was as close to them as could be.

The Wheel of Magic took care of the rest.

It glowed like the halo of a fallen angel. Blue, green, red, and a brighter blue, the spokes spewed their payloads at the nearest enemy in a cascade of constant attacks. The attacks differed in size. They weren’t always perfectly accurate. Yet they were constant, with just the stutter from the single missing spoke outstanding, and I had the stamina to keep them up for half an hour and more, if need be.

They were perfect.

The first Marmot died with a curious, glassy-eyed stare on its face, as it stopped to take in the fireworks instead of diving back down to safety. The second one was hit mid-air by an errant blast of bottled lightning, and died instantly. The final one seemed to realize that the odds had tilted against it, but it clearly didn’t have the presence of mind to actually call it quits. It backed off, keeping a healthier distance, drawing out the engagement for nearly fifteen minutes more, before it finally took a glancing red blast to the face and froze for long enough for two more missiles to hit it in quick succession.

I fell to my knees, revelling in the victory. I was elated. I was relieved. And I was so fucking frustrated with having spent every single talent point on a talent I didn’t want right now. They were low-levelled, too. The trio combined didn’t even give me more than half a level!

That evening, I fried and ate three Marmots, even though they tasted like ass. The following morning, I went on a rampage against their brethren with a vindictive fury that would’ve made PETA run for the hills.
