He led the young man up the stairs and to the top floor. Ren could clearly see everyone there was sweating profusely and that the opened windows didn't help at all. Ren took out 8 stone bricks and enchanted 4 with double wind glyphs, and 4 with double ice glyphs, placing the ice glyph bricks in front and facing up, and the wind glyphs behind and facing the room.

“I'm sorry. I forgot that with the forge working, and the front wall and door not finished, some of the heat was bound to come up here.”

“Some of the heat!” One girl said. She was only slightly taller than Ren and had similar hair, except it was red in color. She stood there defiantly, while flapping her unbuttoned work shirt open and closed with her hands, giving the surrounding boys a nice and clear view of her sweat dampened undershirt.

Ren smiled. “Please accept my apology.” Activate. Ice formed on the bricks and the wind bricks kicked in at the same time. A cool breeze filled the loft and everyone sighed in relief.

“Thanks, Mister Ren.” The girl said and a moment later buttoned the bottom few buttons on her shirt. “I thought I was dying.”

Ren raised an eyebrow. “Someone could have told me a little sooner.” Ren looked around, and most of the boys were quite busy not looking at him, and he chuckled. “This should be enough, but if it's not, come and get me right away.”

The girl nodded. “Yes, sir. Thank you.”

Ren smiled. She called me 'sir'. The workers went back to their tasks, and Ren went downstairs to the pile of wood that had been delivered. It was a large pile; a lot more than what Ren had thought it would be. They've been wasting a lot of wood, I guess.

Ren sorted out what could be used for what pieces. Legs, braces, decorations, supports, handles, Ren sorted it all. When he was done, someone arrived and delivered his parchment paper. Ren only tipped 3 copper this time, since it was only paper, but the boy nearly shook Ren's hand off trying to thank him. Ren laughed as the boy ran down the street and then took the parchment paper to the other bench by the forge and placed the roll of paper on it, and then stopped. I forgot to order stuff to write with. Ren thought, then turned around and went outside to find Jen. Luckily, she had some charcoal that she used to mark wood with, and Ren asked to borrow it. She handed it over and Ren went inside to do some drawing.

There was still a lot of banging and hammering, sawing and moving around, so Ren entered Serene State of Mind and let all the noise drift away. He opened the pattern he had for a basic table and modified it. Remembering his research on the plans for the bed, he shortened the table legs to the right height and extended them up about 8 feet, added the sides (to hold a kind of mattress he would sew later) and joining rods for the tall posts, then made it double wide. When he was done, a big 4 poster bed was on the parchment with all the measurements and directions on how to make it.

Ren moved the parchment aside and then altered the chair recipe he had. He made them plush and twice as big, then modified that recipe to extend it to make a couch. The table recipe was altered again and stood up on it's end and doors were added. That pattern was altered to make a dresser and drawers. The table pattern was shrunk down and shortened to make an end table. Ren had used up a good portion of the charcoal he'd gotten from Jen, and almost all of the parchment paper he had. When he put down the charcoal, a smattering of applause greeted him. Ren deactivated Serene State of Mind and turned around. A dozen or so young adults, not much older than Ren was in real life, were standing there and clapping. For him.

“That was great, Mister Ren!” The girl with red hair that he'd met up stairs said. “I've never seen anyone draw like that before!”

Ren's face flushed a little red. “Um... how long have you...”

Jen stepped forward a little. “Quite a while, but I was here for the whole thing.” She said and laughed. “I tried to get your attention a few times, but it looked like you were in some kind of trance.”

Ren nodded. “I get lost in my work sometimes.”

“It was amazing!” One voice said.

“He made those plans so fast!” Another replied.

“I couldn't follow his hands, could you?” One guy asked.

“I can't wait to tell my friends about this!” The red-haired girl said.

“Hey, that's a good idea.” A few of them said.

Notice!

Your skills have touched the youth of the area. Your name will be spread to the next generation.

Fame: +100

Ren dismissed the popup and tried to hand the charcoal back to Jen. “Thanks for loaning that to me. I'll buy you another when I buy some for myself.”

Jen waved it away and told Ren to keep it, as it was being put to good use.

“That was your charcoal, Ms. Nacide?” The girl asked, and Jen nodded. “Now I really can't wait to tell my friends!”

Jen rubbed her hair and the girl ducked away. “Not the hair, Ms. Nacide! You know how hard I work on it.”

Jen chuckled. “Go on. Get on home. I'll see you all back at the lumberyard tomorrow.”

“Just a minute.” Ren said and they all stopped. “Jen, can I talk to you for a second?”

Ren led her across the floor. “Is it okay to give them tips? I don't know how much you pay them, so if I'm allowed, what do you suggest?”

“You're asking me if I should let you tip my students?”

Ren nodded.

“They're here to learn a trade, not to make money.” Jen said.

“They all worked so hard to get this place done so fast.” Ren looked around and saw the freestanding supports and the cross members that Jen had installed to make putting in the second floor easier.

Jen smiled and put a hand on Ren's arm. “I'm sure they'd appreciate a little spending money, but don't overdo it.”

They discussed what to do and then Jen turned around and told the workers to line up in single file. Ren went to the head of the line and palmed a coin in his hand.

“Prepare hands for shaking!” Jen said. “And... march!”

Ren shook each of their hands as they passed and gave each of them a coin during each handshake.

The girl with red hair was the last in line. “It was nice meeting you, Mister Ren!” She said and shook his hand. Ren had the coin in his palm and when they shook hands, she felt it there and her eyes widened.

“It was nice meeting you, too.” Ren said and let her hand go.

Unlike everyone else, who had just closed their fists and kept walking, she looked at her hand and the silver coin there. “Mister Ren!” She shouted. “Thank you!” She gave Ren a big hug and a kiss on the cheek.

Ren blushed. “You're welcome.”

The girl danced away down the street and passed the other workers who had heard her shout and had stopped walking. As she passed each of them and showed then her silver coin, they looked down at their own hands and saw the silver coin they held. They were a bit too far away to walk back and thank Ren, so they just shouted and waved. Ren waved back and they all disappeared from sight.

“What part of 'don't overdo it' didn't you understand?” Jen said and laughed. “Most of them probably won't even show up tomorrow.”

“Sorry.” Ren said and laughed. “They really did work hard, though.”

Jen nodded. “They had a good client.”

He pulled out 5 gold coins and handed them to Jen.

“What's this for?” Jen asked.

“They had a good teacher, too.” Ren said.

Jen shook her head and gave Ren a pat on the shoulder. “If you need any lumber, you know where to find me.”

“If you need... well, I don't have anything to provide yet... but if you need that, I'm right here.”

Jen laughed again, waved goodbye, and walked down the street to follow her students.

Ren went into his building and shut the door. If his guess was right, he only had about 4 hours of game time left in the day and went over to the forge. Ren skimmed off some of the impurities from the simmering molten metal and noticed there was no where to put it. He was so used to having everything right there within his reach that he had forgotten he wasn't in Donan's shop anymore.

Ren sighed and balanced the skimming tool on the edge of the smelting apparatus. Once he was sure it wasn't going to tip over or spill, Ren got out several stone bricks and made what was essentially a stone trash can to put the scrap metal in. Ren dumped the impure metal into the makeshift trash and stirred up the molten metal. It was a nice even color and Ren smiled. Soon he'd be able to hammer this into the shape of a new holder for the smelter and then... Oh, crap.

“What is it, Ren?” Teepo said from the ceiling.

I just remembered that I need to hammer things out... on an anvil that I don't have.

“Yeah, that would be hard.”

Ren chuckled. I've had so much going on that it slipped my mind. Ren opened the Order menu and ordered a medium-sized anvil (50 G), 10 more paving stones (1 G), 10 more parchment (30 C), and 10 drawing charcoal (10 C). Ren knew he was forgetting something , but couldn't remember what it was, so he hit order and looked at the delivery times. Everything would be there tomorrow except for the anvil... which would take about a week to arrive.

A week! I can't wait a week. Ren thought. I guess I'll be taking Donan up on his offer of always having access to a forge in his shop.

Ren went over to Donan's shop and asked to borrow an old anvil after revealing he'd have to wait a week for the new one. He gave Ren one to use until the new one came and asked if there was anything else Ren needed. Ren told Donan he was sure that there was, but couldn't remember what. Donan laughed and said he'd be there if Ren needed anything else.

Ren went back to his building and the anvil was placed in the middle of the open space that was left for it. I knew I left this spot open for a reason. Ren thought and then used the metal in the forge to make a larger smelting apparatus. There was still quite a bit of molten metal left, so Ren tried to think of what else he could make... and then smiled.

Ren went back to the bench with the parchment on it and moved the furniture plans aside to reveal a fresh piece of parchment. Ren looked up the plans for the Quick Shot Bow Bracer and opened them. Ren only recently learned the final process he needed to know about how to make the parts. Ren studed the plans and looked at the design. The original maker, whoever it was, definitely had the right idea. Making it a cartridge system with 6 shots each helped with load times, but it still gave the user a large window where they had to change them out and could easily be attacked.

Ren modified the bracers to extend to the elbow, covering the whole forearm. The bow part was extended only slightly, and then thickened. Ren made new clips that held 14 shots each, that ran all the way around the bracer, so it ended up being a little thicker than the old ones. He left the bolt feed mechanism alone, because it worked and didn't jam, but he did reinforce the draw pull lever as it would have to take 5 or even 10 times the strain once the spider silk string on the bow was added. Ren finished the plans, added them to inventory, and went back to the forge.

Clint is going to love these. Ren thought and started to pour the molten steel into the big blank mold.
