“Wow, that was...” Ren started to say.

“A bit overwhelming?” Elise offered, and Ren nodded. “Janice is definitely a handful when she gets going.”

“I believe my grandmother would have described her as 'a bag full of cats'.” Stella said, and everyone laughed. Elise and Stella helped Ren climb into the Hummer H2, stored the wheelchair in the back, and climbed in themselves.

“Okay, where to?” Elise asked as she looked at them.

“Back to the hospital.” Ren said.

“Come on, Ren.” Elise said. “You just put an absurd amount of money into the bank. There's got to be something you want to buy with it.”

“Well... there is something...” Ren said.

After going to the big mall at the edge of town, not far from the bank, Stella wheeled Ren into a clothing store.

“You have got to be kidding me.” Elise said, as she saw what he wanted. “Pajamas. With all the money you have to spend, you want new pajamas.”

Ren grinned. “I'm a little old for the cookie monster ones I was wearing.” He looked through a rack of men's pajamas, and Elise leaned close to Stella.

“I thought he looked kinda cute in them, though.” She whispered to Stella, who smiled and nodded slightly.

“At first, I got him to wear them to tease him about it; but, yeah.” Stella whispered back. “It definitely added to his cute factor.”

Ren picked out several sets and Stella brought him to the checkout.

“Will that be all for today?” The sales lady said.

“Yes.” Ren said. “If I like how they feel, I might be back to get a few more.”

“These are a men's size.” She said, and glanced at Ren's body. “Are you sure these are what you want?”

Ren nodded. “I'll try them on, and either fix them myself, or have someone do it for me.”

“We can do it right here, if you want.”

“You can?” Ren asked, surprised.

“Of course.” The sales lady said and walked over to a door behind the counter. “Lily, we have a few alterations today.”

“Awesome!” Lily said, and came out of the back room. “I've been itching to do something with my hands all day!”

The sales lady chuckled. “Stocking the shelves is doing something with your hands.”

Lily rolled her eyes. “Anyone can do that.” She said and grinned as she waggled her fingers. “Gimmie some cloth to play with!”

“Oh, you!” The sales lady said, and handed her the 3 sets of pajamas.

“Nice.” Lily said, as she looked at the trio of people, then down at Ren. “You've got a good eye for fabric.”

“Thanks.” Ren said. “I'll be spending a lot of time in them, so I want to be comfortable.”

“No problem.” Lily said. “Right this way.”

She walked out from behind the counter, and Stella pushed Ren to follow her. They went to the back of the store behind a large shelf, and there was a small room with 5 mirrors.

“Okay. Can you put a set on so I can get the right dimensions?” Lily asked, then looked at Stella. “I assume you'll need to help.”

Stella nodded. “I don't normally have to, but his elbow was dislocated recently and he needs some assistance once in a while.”

Lily opened the back mirror to reveal a changing room.

“That's so cool.” Ren said, and Lily smiled.

“I know, right?” She said. “It's like a secret room or something.”

Lily handed Ren one of the sets, Stella wheeled him inside and shut the door. Ren got out of the wheelchair and started to change. Stella helped when it was needed, but she didn't crowd him, or try to do more than was necessary. Ren put on the pajamas, and nodded to Stella. She opened the door and Ren stepped out into the mirror area.

Elise held in the gasp she almost let out, and Lily grinned.

“Yeah, I knew that was the best one to start with.” She said, as Stella closed the changing room door, and Ren turned around in the mirrors.

“It's definitely eye-catching.” Stella said. Ren was wearing a pajama set that was almost like silk. Bright red silk. It slid across his body as he moved, and he grinned at how handsome he looked.

“I really like these!” He said, and turned to Lily. “I might have to close my eyes when you start pinning everything.”

“Pin?” Lily asked, surprised. “No way, mister.” She said and pulled out a roll of double-sided tape from a pocket. “I've got just the thing for you.”

Lily proceeded to fold the fabric up and used the double-sided tape to secure it at the proper height.

“Okay, shift around a bit.” Lily said. “See how much it pulls. We can't hem it too much, or you won't be comfortable when you move.”

Ren did as she said, and nodded. “It feels great!”

“Awesome!” Lily said. “Now slip out of those and I'll take them out back with the others.”

“You don't have to do each set?” Ren asked. “It's different cloth. They won't fit the same, will they?”

Lily opened her mouth to respond, and Elise spoke up and interrupted her.

“Maybe you should try on one of the others, just to make sure.” Elise said.

Lily shrugged. “It's no skin off my nose.” She said. “Pass out the red ones before you change, though. I'll have them altered and back in a jiffy.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and he and Stella went back into the changing room. Stella opened the door and passed out the pajamas a minute later, and Elise caught a glimpse of Ren in his underwear.

Oh, my. Elise thought as she turned her head away, so she wouldn't be caught staring. The door to the changing room closed and Lily disappeared around the shelf. Elise closed her eyes and took several deep breaths to calm down.

I will not geek out. I will not geek out. I will not geek out. Elise repeated in her head and relaxed. How can someone so thin have such well defined muscles?

Ren and Stella came out a few minutes later, and Ren wore a cotton set of pajamas, with blue and white stripes.

“You don't like them?” Ren asked, as he saw Elise's expression.

“You looked so much cuter in the red ones.” She said, and put a hand over her mouth. “I did not say that out loud.” Elise shook her head. “Nope, I did not.”

Ren and Stella laughed.

“It's okay to say I'm cute.” Ren said. “It's not like I don't hear it a lot.”

Elise dropped her hand. “Well then, if that's the case...” She smiled at him. “...I think I saw a matching blue pair to go with the red.”

“Where?” Ren said. “I must have missed them.”

Lily came back with the altered pajamas and put them on a chair. “Missed what?”

“A matching blue pair of those.” Ren said, and pointed to the red ones she had just altered.

“Sure.” Lily said. “We've got them in a few different colors.”

“Can you get a few sets of them, please?” Elise's eyes lit up. “We've got to see how he looks in them.”

“I'll be right back!” Lily said, with a huge smile on her face. She practically ran from the changing area, and Ren grinned.

“I think I just saw what a good commission does to someone.” He said, and they all had a good chuckle. Lily was back a couple of minutes later, with an arm full of clothing.

“Here you go.” She said, and put the pile down on another chair. “I picked out some underwear for you, too.”

“I never thought about that.” Ren said, then rubbed his hips. “I guess I should get new underwear.”

“You might as well.” Stella said. “Since we're here anyways.”

Ren nodded, and Lily handed him several different pairs to try on, and the blue set of pajamas. Ren and Stella went into the changing room, and Lily turned to Elise.

“He should really like them.” She said, and picked up one of the other pairs of underwear to show her. “It's the same soft fabric, and they match the pajamas.”

Elise nodded as she took it, and clamped her mouth shut so she wouldn't sigh in pleasure. Not only do I get to dress him up, now I can picture him in matching underwear! She thought and fought her urge to rub the fabric on her cheek. Oh, what the hell. She rubbed the fabric on her face, then sighed in pleasure.

“Yeah, they're great!” Lily said. “My boyfriend loves them.”

“He does?” Elise asked, and handed the underwear back.

“Uh huh.” Lily said and grinned. “That, and my employee discount.”

Elise chuckled, and Ren came out in the blue pair.

“How do I look?” Ren asked Elise.

“Dashing.” She said. “You look quite fashionable.”

“Really?” Ren asked, and turned around. “Not cute and cuddly?”

Stella snorted a laugh and shook her head. “Ren.”

“What?”

“Don't tease the poor woman.”

“You really do look dashing.” Elise said. “I didn't want to say 'cute and cuddly', in case you might get insulted.” She grinned. “I'm thinking it, though.”

Ren chuckled. “Thanks.” He looked at Lily. “I'll take 7 pairs of underwear, and the matching pajama sets.”

“Which colors?” Lily asked, her eyes bright.

“The red and blue, a green, a purple, yellow, gray, and...” He looked through the pile. “...this one.” He held up a sky blue/silver one that matched his eyes almost perfectly.

“Wonderful!” Lily said. “Take that one off and I can get it done up right away.”

Ren and Stella went back into the changing room, and Stella handed out the pajamas and underwear a minute later. Lily gathered up the pajama sets Ren wanted altered, and disappeared again. Elise stared at the pair of underwear that Ren had just worn, and she started to sweat a little. She closed her eyes and took several deep breaths.

I will not take them. I will not take them. I will not take them. Elise repeated in her head, then sighed and opened her eyes as she heard the changing room door open. They would have caught me with his underwear if I'd picked them up. She thought in relief as they came out, with Ren in the wheelchair. They walked out to the front desk and waited for Lily to finish her work. Surprisingly, 7 sets of alterations didn't take that long, and Ren commented about that to Lily.

“We've got the best sewing machine in the world!” Lily said. “You do one pattern, set it, and then hit repeat.” She smiled. “Then you just run another bit of cloth through, and bam. Same alteration.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “No wonder you like your work.”

Lily grinned. “The commissions help make that possible, too.”

Ren grinned back at her, then paid with his new debit card. The clerk bagged everything up for Ren, and the unlikely trio left the store.

“Now that you've had a taste of custom clothing, what do you think?” Elise asked.

“That was kind of fun.” Ren said. “I've never tried on clothes like that before.”

“I'm glad I was there to experience your first time.” Elise said, then grinned as Stella laughed.

“I could make several jokes about that statement.” Stella said.

“Me, too.” Ren said, and his stomach rumbled. “Is anyone else hungry?” He asked and looked at the two women. “My treat.”

“I don't know.” Stella said. “I'd planned on making you your favorite can of soup.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “Okay, now I have to insist on eating out.” He said. “Ladies choice... as long as they serve hamburgers and gravy fries.”

It was Stella's turn to snort a laugh, and they piled back into Elise's Hummer H2.

“Thank you so much for this.” Ren said, and turned to face Elise as they pulled out of the parking lot of the mall. “You weren't even supposed to bring over the checks, and here you are, driving us all around town on my whims.”

Elise smiled at him. “That's only fair, as this all started on my own whim to visit you.”

“You're taking a lot of time away from work, though.” Ren countered.

“Don't worry about that.” Elise said and grinned. “I booked in a replacement for today when I got the package from the television station last night.”

“So, you'd planned to stay a little longer than the half hour or so for the 'update' to the system?” Ren asked, with a sly smile on his face.

“Guilty.” Elise said. “I was going to offer to take you out to lunch, actually.” She looked at Stella in the rear view mirror. “Once I quietly asked permission of the appropriate authority, of course.”

Stella nodded to her, and she put her eyes back to the road.

“So, where are we headed?” Ren asked. “I haven't been to a lot of places.”

“Amazon Jim's.” Elise said. “They've got the best burgers in town.”

“What about the french fries?”

“I believe it's called 'Endless Fries'.” Elise said, then laughed at Ren's joyous expression.

“Well, don't just drive there, Elise! Step on it!” Ren exclaimed. “Endless Fries hasn't met my Endless Stomach yet!”
