“I'm going to be a television star.” Ren said, blinked his eyes a few times, and stared at Stella.

“That's right.” Stella said. “Even though it's all computer generated, it still looks just like you.”

“Wow.” Ren said, then looked at Elise. “What do I have to do?”

Elise came over to him and sat by the bed. “You don't have to do anything, except cash the check.” She said. “Both checks, actually.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and she fought her urge to giggle out loud.

“The first is yours regardless, because it's for the pilot; but, when you cash the second one... you agree to the purchase of your likeness, and the rights to the footage for 1 year.”

“What about consulting?” Ren asked. “There's a few things in there that... ah... people shouldn't see.”

“Don't worry. They're buying the rights, but it's still your show.” Elise grinned. “It's for network television, so anything questionable will be cut, and any cursing will either be dubbed or bleeped.” She looked at Ren. “You might have to visit the studio for dubbing some of the lines. During some of the action scenes, it's hard to make out what you're saying.”

Ren chuckled. “I think for first few months I played, most of it was, 'aaaaahhhhhHH!!'.”

Stella and Elise laughed.

“Well, I guess you better get dressed.” Stella said. “These checks aren't going to cash themselves.”

“What?” Ren asked. “How can I...”

“You don't think I sit at home and do nothing when I'm not here, do you?” Stella asked, and smiled. “I got certified by the hospital board yesterday.”

“That's great!” Ren said, and started to slide out of the bed.

Stella helped him, and led him over to the bathroom instead of to the dresser. He looked at her, and she glanced down between his legs and raised her eyebrows.

“Can you bring me my clothes?” Ren asked, taking the hint. “I'll use the bathroom first and then get changed.”

“Sure, Ren.” Stella smiled. He went into the bathroom to clean himself up as she went to the dresser to get him a good outfit to wear. She knocked on the bathroom door a couple of minutes later, then went in when Ren said he was ready. She helped him put on a nice shirt and a pair of pants, then they went back out into the room.

“You look very handsome.” Elise said to him, then her briefcase beeped. She got up and checked her info pad, and nodded. “The update is done.” She said, and took the thumb drive out of the micro-server. “That went a lot faster than I thought it would.” She said, a little disappointed. “It took nearly half an hour back at the company.”

Ren sat down in the wheelchair that Stella had left by the door after therapy. “You wanted an excuse to stick around.” He said, and smiled at Elise. She looked at him in surprise for a moment, then smiled back as she closed her briefcase.

“Was it that obvious?” She asked.

“If I was blind, I think it would still have been obvious.” Ren said and laughed.

Elise shook her head in resignation. “I shouldn't be trying so hard to spend time with you, should I?”

Ren shook his head. “You don't have to try so hard.” He said. “And you don't need to make up excuses to visit, either.”

Elise blinked her eyes at him a couple of times. “You're right.” She said, then sighed. “I can't expect you to put up with-”

“You can just come over.” Ren said. “I don't mind having visitors.”

“Are... are you serious?” Elise asked, surprised.

“Sure.” Ren said. “You kind of scared me a little when we first met, and then there was that incident.” He smiled at her, as she blushed. “But, you seemed genuinely sorry that it happened.” He said. “I'm all about giving people second chances.” He looked down at himself. “I'm prime example number one that second chances are good to have.”

Elise nodded, and was filled with both relief and joy. He actually wants me to come and visit him!

“Or better yet, pop online in a month.” Ren said. “I'll be back in Aurora by then.”

“A month?” Elise asked. “Why after so long?”

“I have to serve hard labor in the mines for 3 months.” Ren chuckled. “Then I have to leave the Dwarven Kingdom a month after that.”

Elise's mouth dropped open. “You... you have to serve... hard labor in the MINES?!?”

Ren laughed. “It's okay. I tricked the Council by telling them I'll be working in my own mines, rather than the perpetual slave mines for House Lodur.”

“Good god, Ren.” Elise shook her head. “What happened?”

“I'd be happy to explain, assuming you have a vehicle with a large trunk.”

“Ren, we can't impose ourselves on her like that.” Stella said as she gathered up the two checks and gave them to him.

“No, it's quite all right.” Elise said, then smiled. “I've got something better than a large trunk, though.”

After Stella filled out the day release form and Ren signed it, they went out to the parking lot to Elise's vehicle.

“You have a Hummer H2!” Ren said in surprise. “And it's yellow!”

Elise laughed and went around to the back. “It was either this, or drive one of those big transfer trucks.”

Stella pushed Ren in the wheelchair to follow her to the back as well, and Elise opened the storage area.

“Why's that?” Ren asked curiously, as he stood up and Stella and Elise lifted the wheelchair into the back. It didn't even have to be collapsed, as there was tons of room. Once the available straps were attached to it, Elise shut the door.

“I'm 6 feet, 2 inches tall, not counting the heels.” Elise said, and did a little back kick to show the 3 inch heels. “I got tired of having to take my shoes off and slide the seat all the way back, just so I could fit into a car.” She walked around to the passenger side and opened the door. “I was even getting tennis elbow from having my arms bent so much as I gripped the steering wheel.”

“Yeah, that would suck.” Ren said. “Stella? A hand, please.”

Stella helped Ren climb up the couple of feet into the front seat. She buckled him in, and he relaxed in the giant seat. Elise waited for Stella to move out of the way, then shut the door. They walked around to the driver's side, and Elise climbed into the driver's seat as Stella got into the seat behind her.

“This is great!” Ren said excitedly, as he looked around at the interior. “I've never been in one of these!”

Stella grinned. “You haven't been in anything else except taxis since you've been at the hospital.”

“I know.” Ren said as he turned to look at her. “That's why this is great!” He said, then turned to look at Elise. “I kind of expected a convertible.”

“A convertible?” Elise chuckled. “If I wanted to steer the car with my knees, maybe.”

Ren grinned. “That would be a sight!” He said. “Your flowing red hair blowing in the wind, your hands holding onto the top of the windshield, and you trying your best to take a turn using only your knees.” He laughed. “I can imagine you'd look like a teenager riding in one of those kid's pedal cars.”

Elise started the H2 to the sound of general laughter, then pulled out of the parking lot. “Okay, where am I headed?”

Stella told her the address of the bank, and Elise drove across the city to get to it. On the way there, Ren filled her in on what his current situation had been like, and what he'd done. She was quiet until he finished the story, and she reached a hand across the seat and took his.

“I'm so sorry you had to go though that.” Elise said. “Seeing your dogs being used like that, and feeling their pain...” She shook her head. “...I'd have killed him without a second thought.”

“That's what I said.” Stella commented.

“Great minds think alike, it seems.” Elise said and grinned at Stella's bark of laughter.

“So, you're not outraged that I crushed his hands and ruined his career?”

“What career?” Elise asked, and didn't let his hand go when she took a corner. “How old was he? A hundred and ten you said?”

Ren nodded.

“Then he only had about 10 years left.” Elise said, and sped up on a straight street. “The game's not too kind about letting NPCs live their full lifetimes.”

“Really?” Ren asked, and Elise nodded.

“It's the best way to stop the game from being stagnant.” She said. “It's also why NPCs don't respawn.”

Ren looked at her. “How long does it take to generate a replacement NPC?”

“It depends on what it's for.” Elise said. “I could go into all the mumbo jumbo with formulas and things; but, if it's an essential service, the system will replace them right away. If it's not, then... it might take a while.”

“It's definitely been a while since Mitchell, the guy that ran the Archery shop, was killed.”

Elise nodded. “Yes, it's not an essential service, since bows can be bought from the general store.”

“I see.” Ren said. “So if I open my business and sell bows, the system won't bother generating another archery shop owner.”

“Right.” Elise said. “More than likely, another shop will be generated to replace it, assuming the system can come up with something that the general population can use.”

“That's pretty cool.” Ren said.

Elise pulled into the parking lot of the bank and stopped the vehicle so that the back faced the bank. She took her hand from holding Ren's, to put the H2 into park. She turned off the Hummer and looked at Ren, then at Stella behind her.

“You're going to be depositing a lot of money.” Elise said. “Are you going to open another account?”

Ren looked at her, then at Stella. “I think that would be best.” He said. “That way, it's not mixed in with the other things we've got going.”

“I know one of the account managers here.” Elise said. “Do you want me to come in?” She offered. “I might be able to get you a good interest rate, and probably have the taxes handled right away.”

“You can do that?” Ren asked, surprised. “I was kind of worried about how to handle it.”

“You shouldn't have to worry about it at all.” Elise smiled. “All you should do is worry about how you're going to spend it all.”

Stella snorted a laugh. “You are NOT buying a Hummer H2, Ren.”

“Okay, fine!” Ren laughed as he unbuckled the seat belt. “I can't climb in without help anyways.”

“Hold on, we'll come around.” Elise said as she got out, and Stella went with her. Elise opened the door and held it, while Stella put both hands out to Ren.

“Boy, this is high.” Ren said, then carefully stepped down as Stella took his weight. He made it to the ground without incident, and they went to the back to get his wheelchair. Ren sat in it, and the three of them went inside.

“Janice!” Elise said as she entered the door, and Ren heard a girly squeal from across the lobby. A short brown-haired woman in her mid-twenties, who wore a business suit similar to the one Elise wore, ran across the lobby to greet her.

“Elise!” Janice said, and gave her a quick hug. “I haven't seen you in a month!”

Elise smiled. “I've had a few things going on, and haven't had the chance to go out.”

Janice grinned. “Uh, huh.” She said, then looked at Stella and then Ren. “Can I assume that this is one of the things?”

Elise laughed. “Actually, yes.” She said. “This is Ren Haddon, one of the contest winners I was telling you about.” She motioned to Ren, then to Stella. “And this is his nurse, Stella.”

“It's nice to meet you both.” Janice said. “What can we do for you?”

“We don't have an appointment.” Elise said, and leaned in close to her. “But we do have a significant amount to deposit into a new account.”

Janice's eyes sparkled, and she smiled. “I'm free at the moment, so why don't I deal with you personally?”

“That would be great.” Elise said, and they followed Janice across the lobby and into her office. She shut the door and sat down behind her desk. Elise and Stella moved the two chairs on their side of the desk, parked Ren between them, and sat down themselves.

“Now, did you have anything in mind?” Janice asked. “High interest with low movement, high movement that comes with low interest, middle of the line, savings, checking, savings and checking combined...”

Elise started to laugh. “Easy, girl.” She said to Janice. “They already have an account here, but want another account for this money to keep it separate.” Elise looked at Ren. “I'm going to assume you want to spend some of it, and not just let it sit there.”

Ren nodded. “I've actually got 2 accounts here.” He said. “One is from my settlement, and the other one is a joint account with Stella for the medical research project.” Ren took out the two checks and handed them over. “Now I'd like one for this.”

Janice opened the envelopes, and her eyes widened. “Oh... oh, my.” She put the checks down, and waved a hand in front of her face.

“Relax.” Ren said. “Look at me. Breathe in. Out. In. Out.”

Stella put a hand on his arm, and smiled.

Janice calmed down and took a deep breath. “I thought I was having a good day when I saw Elise.” She said, then grinned. “Now I'm having an excellent day!”

It only took half an hour to get the new account set up, several canceled checks to be used for account depositing services, transferring and paying the taxes on such a large income, and a new debit card. Janice handed all the paperwork and everything over to Ren, as she told him the restrictions.

“Now, I raised the limit as much as I could for the amount you can get out in cash each day.” She said. “If you need more than the set limit, just come back in person and we'll get you sorted out as quickly as we can.”

“That's great.” Ren said. “What about the debit limit?”

“There isn't one.” Janice said. “The limit is only on the cash you can get out. You can spend as much of your own money in the account as you want to, through debit.”

“Oh.” Ren said, a little surprised. “Um, thank you for all of your help.”

“It was my pleasure.” Janice said and stood up. “Thank you for using us for all of your banking needs.”

Stella and Elise stood up, and Elise reached a hand over the desk. Janice shook it and came around the desk.

“Thanks for doing all of this, Janice.” Elise said.

Janice chuckled. “Besides it being my job, I'm glad I could help.”

Elise smiled and gave her a hug. “I'll try and get some spare time next week, assuming I'm not swamped at work again.”

“So, you're telling me I shouldn't hold my breath in anticipation.” Janice said, and Elise laughed.

“See you later, Janice.”

“Bye, Elise. Ren. Stella.” Janice said, and nodded to each of them. They left Janice's office, then walked out of the bank to the parking lot.

