The creature was compact. Ugly. Misshapen in a way that I found surprisingly hard to internalize. The four arm-like limbs were ape-like, muscular and clawed, while the too-small, bloated torso barely looked like it was large enough to accommodate the larger limbs. It would have looked almost spider-like, if it weren’t for the small, brutish head on top. The beast dropped from the tree, slammed into the ground and started waddling awkwardly in my direction.

I kicked off an Identify.

Linked Drop-Claw

Level 16

Health: 115/115

Path: Strength

I barely had time to link the name to the inevitable conclusion about their behaviour before I realized. I turned, and instantly froze, as my mind glazed over. The beast dropped from the trees. The trees we’d just passed. That’s where we left Somsak! I turned in horror.

Somsak lay on the ground right beside a tree. His torso was horribly contorted, face nearly meeting his feet. His body was horribly mangled, deep grooves carved into his torso. A gore-covered Drop-Claw had forgotten him entirely, and awkwardly loped in my direction. Farther behind, another Drop-Claw emerged, as if from nothing, as it hit the ground with a heavy impact.

I choked back a strangled cry. Then I looked at his health bar, reduced to nothing in a split second and came to an ugly realization. “Somsak’s dead.” I shouted. “We’re pulling back to the centre of the clearing immediately!”

“What are those? Where did they-“

Victoria interrupted Samuel, panting as she caught up to me. “Cállate! They’ll be hitting the poison trap soon. Liam. You need to get this idiot freed, so he can move.”

“On it.” I realized the wisdom of her words immediately and launched myself forward. Seconds later, I found the dip in the ground where the Lurker hid, see-through blue-white tendrils stretched out, moving through the ground to get to Samuel.

There was no doubt the Lurkers were smarter than we’d given them credit for. The fact that they’d retreated in order to catch Samuel out alone was proof of that. This specimen hiding inside a pre-prepared pit to avoid his arrows, not to speak of whatever unholy partnership they had with those Drop-Claws, both exposed that they had hidden depths.

Yet, the beast wasn’t immune to my Mirror of All. Half-out of the hole, it went straight for me, serrated mandibles stretching out, spittle flying everywhere as it attempted to tear me apart. That proved to be a bad idea.

The mandibles closed on either side of my shield, they were that wide. Yet, I pushed back instantly, and it took less than a second before the effects of Deflect flung its head back with a sharp crock, followed instantly by the surging dark energy of Wave of Reflection.

It was dead before it hit the ground. The blue lines faded into nothingness, releasing Samuel.

Less than ten seconds later, I was back near the others, watching as the forest came alive with monsters.

“So many.” Victoria breathed. Then she shouted. “They all look slow. I’m using Agility debuffs first, then poison.”

“Worry not. I will deliver the damage.” Samuel intoned. I wanted to tear into the prick. But at least he didn’t let himself be faced by overwhelming numbers or impending doom. Rather, now that he’d been released it felt like he took it as a challenge, arrow after arrow flying at the Drop-Claws and Lurkers closing in on us from all sides.

“Try to kill those from behind.” I shouted. “Let me deal with the front.”

I located a spot with good footing and gritted my teeth as I watched the monsters ambling in my direction from all sides.

The good news was that Mirror of All had truly taken hold. Neither Drop-Claws nor Lurkers made any attempts at the others. The bad news was… the exact same. More than twenty beasts currently had me as the foremost choice of dinner, and that was just those ahead of me. I hoped they could keep my back free.

The first Lurker, tip-toeing up and down the unsteady, broken landscape on its comically thin pincer legs, ambled within ten meters of me and made its move. A thin blue line punched through the air, aimed straight for my torso.

Knowing that it was coming, dodging was effortless. Without a target, the effect fizzled and disappeared. I waited, but the Lurker didn’t fire off a new one immediately. “Like that, is it?” I smirked and activated my Dodge skill. “Can’t hold me down if you can’t hit me!”

That didn’t stop them trying. Before the first Lurker even got within melee range, two additional ethereal limbs tried to catch me and failed.

Judging from the shouts behind me and the sensation of a buff fading away, Steve had joined the fight to keep my back clear, leaving me able to to focus on my front.

The foremost Lurker snapped at me and died immediately to a Wave of Reflection. Unfortunately, that moment of staying in place was enough for a blue tendril to latch onto me. I immediately felt the effect as a freezing sensation tried to sap me of energy and fought against my every movement.

Growling under my breath, I bared my teeth at the Lurker, feeling my lips quirk up as the beast still moved in my direction. “Can’t fight that attraction, can you? Well, come at me then, you Koopa bitch!”

I dodged one more tendril, almost got myself chomped on by another Lurker who committed hara-kiri by shield, and then I found myself swarmed as the first two Drop-Claws joined the fight simultaneously.

Their movements were weird. Stilted and unnatural. I’d first compared them to an ape. Only, now, as I watched the weird, uncoordinated movements of their limbs, did I realize that wasn’t the truth. They flung themselves forward in ineffectual leaps, every limb stretched out, claw-first to get at me. These weren’t simians. These were ambush predators out of their natural environment. Beasts whose sole efficient attack was that first violent drop.

As the half-circle of enemies closed in, any chance at coherent thought left me, to be replaced with an ever-encroaching mob of claws and teeth. One tendril, then another, latched on to me, tying me down, sapping me of movement and energy.

I responded as best I could. Realizing there was a damaging element to the freezing tendrils, I activated Wheel of Magic. The spokes of the wheel came alive in brilliant colors and started slinging damaging effects everywhere. Taking in just how outnumbered I was, I activated every single temporary ability I had available, strengthening me as push came to shove. I used Resilience for toughness, Running for movement, even fired off my Shield ability that allowed me to ignore one physical attack.

Good thing too. One of the Drop-Claws managed to tag my leg with it’s claws while another one hung off of my shield, momentarily tying it down. My Shield ability shrugged off the physical damage of the attack, and as the beast rose to charge me again, my Wave of Reflection punished it for its temerity.

Almost too late, I realized that those Drop-Claws weren’t one-trick ponies as I’d assumed. When I changed positions to avoid a Lurker coming in from the side, I could barely move my leg, and it nearly locked up, like a full-leg cramp, only bereft of the pain. I took a few quick steps, testing out my manoeuvrability and started cursing. The leg the Drop-Claw hit was sluggish and unresponsive, way beyond what the Lurker tendrils could’ve managed.

I activated my Self-Heal ability without even looking, clearing myself of any one debuff, and sighed in relief as my leg stopped acting up. Then I went back to fighting for my life.

For a while, time lost its meaning. I doubted it was long. Yet that didn’t matter when any missed dodge or defense had the risk of locking up my body, making me easy prey for the rest.

One Lurker managed to take a chunk out of my arm, as I had to choose between defending from that and a Drop-Claw attack. In response, it got a full barrage from my Wheel of Magic and a comment about its mother. Another Lurker I’d taken for dead managed to pierce my ankle with four filthy claws.

Yet I had two advantages. Every single time I managed the concentration needed to fling a Wake of Reflection in response to an attack? They died. Even though the Lurkers looked horrifying and were on the path of Fortitude, they were scrawny enough for my talent to nail them in one go. Also, these weren’t endless numbers, and my Wheel of Magic was not about to stop any time soon.

I hissed in displeasure and pain, as the final Drop-Claw fell senseless to the ground before me. That final attack managed to connect, tagging me on the opposite leg from what the damn Lurker pierced. I nearly fell, but managed to keep my balance. Then I took in the situation.

Corpses surrounded me on all sides. Nearly twenty of them, evenly divided between the two monster races. Gritting my teeth, I forced my body to move, to turn, even as it felt like a hostile force was struggling against the movement.

Behind me was… control. Steve on one side was fending off a single heavily injured Drop-Claw, while a trio of Lurkers had slowed to a crawl, nearly a dozen meters from any of them. They literally clawed their way forward, stabbing their pincers into the soil and dragging. Two were foaming at the mouth, clearly hit by the effect of Victoria’s poison.

Beyond lay dead beasts. At least as many as had attacked me. Almost all of them sported one or more arrows.

“Stop. Now!” Steve shouted at Samuel.

Samuel knocked and released another arrow before responding. “No reason? I am in control, brother!” He bellowed with laughter.

“Because we’re in control. Let Victoria have the experience. She needs it more.”

“Pfah.” Samuel scoffed, releasing another arrow. “Brother. Let me explain something to you. This world yeargh-“

That final sound was me finally reaching Samuel, grabbing hold of the collar of his soft leather armor and forcibly pulling him back and down. He hit the ground with a whooshing sound.

Samuel’s arm moved, lightning-quick. He grabbed an arrow and flailed wildly behind him.

With a curse, I wrenched my body around, interposing my shield in time.

His flailing arrow struck the edge of the shield and was flung away, hard, propelled by my Deflect talent. The tall man unleashed a high-pitched scream and cradled his arm. “Why?”

I ignored him. “Victoria. Those are yours. Go ahead and finish them.”

“They were mine by right of strength.” Samuel bellowed, teeth clenched with pain.

I pulled him roughly to his feet and got right up in his face. “There’s only one thing that’s yours.” My arm shot out, pointing back at Ever Steady. “A trip back home.”

“Why-“

“I told you. One rule. If you join the team, you act like it. You got Somsak killed, you wanker!”

He scoffed. “How was I supposed to know-“

I cut him off, my voice a low hiss. “I don’t care about your excuses. You decided that you didn’t have to wait for the rest of us. You ignored our warnings and charged right ahead. And now Somsak’s dead. Piss off right back where you came from.”

Samuel snarled, face contorted with pain and rage. “You – You think you’re better than me?” He started laughing, a high-pitched keening sound bereft of actual mirth. “You do! You actually do. Why do you even think Major Pain asked me to join you on this outing? It-” He shook his head violently and cut himself off. When he continued, his voice was low, practically vibrating with rage. “I’m going to tell the world just how insane you are. Blaming this all on me.”

“No. You will not.” Steve walked over to join us. His breath was deep, but controlled. The tip of his spear was covered in gore, but it looked like he’d made it through the battle unharmed. He stabbed the spear into the soil and smiled sadly. “When you leave – Because I agree with Liam. I do not trust you, and I do not care to have you at my back. – you are going to go back to the Ever Steady. There, you’re going to give Nix a note, which we’ll write in a moment, explaining her the entire situation. Do that, and nothing further will come from this situation.”

“You’re touched in the head. You really believe that I’ll play along with this?” He asked, incredulity written all over him.

I planted one hand on either of his shoulders and moved right into his comfort zone. I spoke harshly, without a hint of warmth. “Yeah. I do believe so. If you don’t agree to do that, we’ll have to escort you back and waste our time, when we really can’t afford to. That will put you in an even worse situation.” I tapped his forehead. “Of course, you could just toss the note, and lie about what happened. Only, that would make you an enemy, mate. Take a wild guess what happens to my enemies. Look at what happened to the Kadren. Look around you.”

For the first time since I’d met him, Samuel looked shaken. “You can’t do that!”

“Listen up, Buttercup. Here on Ademia, there are no laws. That means nothing’s stopping you from going back there, lying about what happened and trying to turn everybody against us. Only, there’s nothing stopping Steve here from ventilating you in public either.”

“Except for me not being a complete barbarian.” Steve interspersed, affronted.

“Except for that.” I granted him. “So. What’ll it be? Want to test us? Or are you going to be clever about it?”

Samuel’s eyes, haunted and filled with hurt, shot from me to Steve, continuing toward where Victoria was watching the final Lurked heave a final sigh and die. “You are going to regret this!” He snapped. But in the end, he caved.