Erick spoke of a dozen topics that mattered. From seeing the hole in his soul that led to the Script, to seeing the resonances between spells, to the creation myth of the Old Cosmology. He did not speak of Wizardry, except to wonder what it actually was. And then he spoke of Silverite, and Spur, and how happy he was that Teressa was healing from her own tragedy, and how he didn’t help Rats because he didn’t even know there was a problem until after the fact. Partway through the healing, Ari repeated her swear to secrecy; likely because Poi and Teressa were staring at her.

Erick didn’t care, though. Ari seemed like good people, and he wanted to share some of the burden of what he knew about the world, and what he suspected about how it worked.

Erick had enemies, for sure, but those enemies were not Ari or Clan Star Song.

Erick spoke of how Terror Peaks had used an open dialogue to espouse caustic ideas that went against the very nature of open and honest discourse. He elaborated on shutting down the lies, after he looked to be winning his argument with Shendeng, but then they sacrificed that woman— They had that woman sacrifice herself in order to paint Erick as the Evil Wizard. Her death had been a ploy to gain a reason for war, and for a reason to kill him. To do this to him, and to harm even more people in their terrorist campaign.

When he had gotten through most of his anger, and the time came for Ari to tell him to switch, instead, Ari said, “Terror Peaks does this. They have gone decades since the last war, and though the specific reasons have changed, this is how it started back then, too; a cause for war that any sane person could see was a lie.” She glared at nothing in particular, then said, “Switch.”

Erick spoke of vegetables he grew in his garden, back home.

It took an hour, but eventually Ari took her hands off of Erick and leaned back, drenched in sweat.

She declared, “Healed!”

Teressa said, “Mostly.”

“It’s the best I can do. The rest has to heal naturally.” Ari cast a [Cleanse], ridding herself of normal sweat, and Erick of sweat that was more bloody than it should have been. “Cast something, Erick. Turn on a mana sense. And reestablish whatever protocols you had going to negate soul damage. You’re going to be weak to soul attacks for a while, but if Hangzi can heal himself in a single night, then you can, too.”

Erick laid there for a moment, then blinked on his mana sense.

… His range had gone down. He was at about 25 meters through the clear air, and 20 through the dirt below. It had taken him months to train himself up to 70— Ah. He focused. And he relaxed. His range expanded out with each breath. And then the expansion slowed. 30 meters. It might take a week to get back up to range. Maybe a month. Why did his range go down?

He sat up—

He couldn’t sit up.

Ari noticed, and with a wave of her hand, Erick felt a pressure on his back; Ari’s spellwork. Ari’s assistance allowed him to move, but he was weakened. She said, “Your soul is unsettled, but it will settle soon enough. You gotta get up and move around. Help your soul recognize your body. Can you move?”

Erick lifted his arm, and felt as though he was lifting a thousand kilos. He struggled to sit up, and he managed it after a minute of trying.

Ari focused on him. “Tell me how you’re feeling.”

“Like shit.”

Rage came on like a growing headache. Rage at Terror Peaks. Rage at his own weakness. Rage at being laid low when he tried to do good. As that rage filtered through his muscles, he felt a connection relink. He breathed out, and in, full and deep. His heart pumped hard, and his hands became fists. He checked his Status.

Everything looked fine.

His Mana and Health were low, but they were climbing. He had more than enough resources to cast a few spells. First, he summoned an Ophiel, for the little guy wasn’t nearby. Did they leave him behind?

Ophiel appeared in a bright flash of white light, already crying out in painful flute sounds. The three-meter wide [Familiar] of wings and eyes instantly focused on Erick, and swamped him with those wings. Erick vanished under a pile of happy flute sounds and white feathers.

“Okay, okay,” Erick said, happier than he was before. “You’re too big.”

Ophiel instantly became small; lapcat-sized. Erick hugged him. He was much easier to hug this way. While he did that, he summoned the other nine.

Teressa said, “Ophiel did good, healing you while you were down. I think he’s learning.”

Ophiel tweeted in bright violin sounds, confirming Teressa’s story.

Erick felt a surge of pride as he said, “Oh!! Who’s a good boy! You are! You are!”

Ophiel responded with happier sounds.

“Good boy,” Erick said, still hugging one Ophiel, while all ten of them tried to hug him. “Good boy.” He had nine of them move away, as he turned to his people. “Thank you, Poi. Thank you, Teressa. I saw some of the fighting around me, but… Not at all, really.”

Teressa waved him off, saying, “I’m just…” She said, “I’m glad you’re okay. Now I don’t have to Rage on anyone.”

Ari whipped her head around to face the towering orcol in the group, looking worried, briefly, and then she discarded that unguarded emotion.

Poi said, “It’s a miracle you’re alive. I’m glad you’re alive.”

“I am too, Poi.” Erick said, “Seriously, thank you all for pulling my ass out of the fire.” He flicked on [Greater Lightwalk]. The air around him became luminescent, and then deepened to sunlight bright, as [Lodestar] took hold around him. He stood up under his own power, but it was difficult. After he finally managed to get fully upright, he turned to Ari, saying, “Thank you for the healing. I didn’t know you were a Soul Mage.”

“Thanks are unnecessary.” And then Ari raced ahead, saying, “But if you wish to assist in the defense of Songli, the battle is happening right now. Caution, though: That soul spear, or whatever it was, was specifically made to kill you, and everything attached to you. If it weren’t for the solidity of Yggdrasil, I doubt you would still be alive. In fact, I believe you are a weak point for that future World Tree.” She looked to Ophiel, sadly adding, “And Ophiel is a weak point for all of you, unless you take certain precautions.”

Ophiel twittered in unhappy, yet understanding flutes. All of them became smaller, then conjured their own [Animadversion]s. Each silver shield was three times the size of each Ophiel.

Oh? Was that how one of them survived the soul spear?

It must have been.

Ari looked at the transformed [Familiar]s, and said, “That should work.” She turned back to Erick, saying, “But you will not survive another one of those soul spears. Please take care, but please help save Eralis.”

“I will.” As Erick had his Ophiel empower themselves with their usual layers of spellwork, he asked, “How common are weapons like that spear?”

“They’re legendary weapons. I don’t know how to make them. I don’t know how Terror Peaks got their hands on those, either. It has to be some sort of [Soul Burn] linked to [Scry] along with a host of other spellworks, and then multiplied by the materials of the item and—” Ari collected herself. She was beyond stressed, and barely keeping it together. Erick was, too, but he had the capability to find and end the source of his stressors; it was the only reason he wasn’t screaming out obscenities at the moment. Ari was counting on him to end her stressors, too, but she was still worried that Erick wouldn’t actually pull that final trigger. Ari continued, softer, “Terror Peaks prepares for war. I have no doubt they have at least three more, and since they never got experience for killing you, they know you lived.”

“I’m done talking to them, Ari.” Erick said, “This war ends today. Please inform whoever you need to inform: I’m joining the defense, right now. We’re not letting those madmen slaughter Eralis.”

Ari stood straighter. She nodded, saying, “Then I will take my leave, archmage.”

She blipped away in a flash of red light.

Erick turned to his people. “Where is my daughter?”

“She was here, and then she left.” Teressa said, “You were out for that part.”

Poi said, “She’s currently locked in combat in the Noble District.”

Teressa rapidly added, “We tried to stop her—”

At that, Erick had to laugh. It was a good joke!

“Thanks; I needed that.” Erick sighed out, then happily said, “I could never stop her either. Thanks for trying, though.”

- - - -

Ophiel lightstepped back into battle, entering the skies above the mountains of Eralis’s nobility. Yesterday, from this angle, the Alluvial District would have looked like forested mountains with sparse housing. But those illusions had been broken. The truth of the land stood revealed.

The sight reminded Erick of when Bulgan let those ballooning spiders into Candlepoint, and then he unleashed those summoned guardians upon the populace, multiplying the problem. Here in the Alluvial District, people fought back, and while that was good for the people, it made the destruction worse.

Fires, everywhere, and in every color imaginable. Broken houses. Shattered roads. Mountain slides, revealing the interior of clan mansions. Students in grey robes fighting and losing against men and women in red armor. Red armor soldiers were everywhere. People in white pushing back the red. Blood and gore on the enchanted white road, which had lost its sheen and become grey.

And varied spells exploded, or burned, or froze, or Decayed, everywhere, constantly.

Domains, of every kind, wrapped mountains like defensive blankets, but some mountains had no defense. Those broken locations were where fighting was heaviest, where clansmen in white fought back against enemy clansmen in red. Swords clashed with shields clashed with spears and chains and more. Erick saw more of Eralis’s capabilities in that one moment than he had in all his previous time in this land.

He saw much of Terror Peaks’ capabilities, too; organization, coordination, complete control of the battlefield, and the fervor to win and fight to the last warrior standing, even if it looked hopeless. Their spellwork was more controlled; regimented, even. [Fireball]s cast by a dozen people at once. Hard front lines that did not fall. Movement, as though they knew this place like they lived here. There were also illusions, but they were used sparingly.

Both sides used illusions to attack and to defend, but Erick could see through those feints and fakes, for every Ophiel ran [True Sight]. Despite their brave showing, and illusions to fake attacks and defense and to split up the enemies, Eralis was in retreat, for they fought as individual clans, defending their individual mountains, while Terror Peaks fought as a war machine.

Erick glanced over to the main city, and saw explosions and spellwork happening near the Void Temple.

And over in Redflood across the Wanzhi Delta.

And everywhere, here and there.

The Void Song was down; the Void Wall was broken. The eastern Void Gate; that massive arch of white stone that stretched into the sky, lay in pieces upon the waters of the river below.

Erick pulled back from individual horrors, and understood the whole of what he was seeing.

The lines of Terror Peaks’ offensive were sweeping through the Alluvial District, focusing on open areas, while assassins, probably, snuck into Domain-defended areas and found the caster, and then killed them. Bringing down the now-defenseless Domain was as easy as pressing another Domain against it, cracking the mountain’s main defense and tearing it down.

In the main city, the Songstresses were occupied with defense, or maybe they were already dead.

There were surely a lot of assassins out there right now.

Erick couldn’t deal with the assassins, but he could deal with the main offense.

He spared a brief thought to the fact that these soldiers had all been raised in ‘tanks’; indoctrinated since birth to be zealots and worse. They likely all believed that Eralis had fallen to Darkness, and since the Darkness was weak right now, it should be purged. It didn’t matter that the Shades had been Blessed into becoming better people, and that the truth of that had been confirmed by Koyabez. Erick doubted he was the only one to hear that particular revelation. That was probably why Koyabez had been included in Patriarch Xangu’s proclamation.

All that Terror Peaks saw was that the enemies of the world were in the middle of another plot to take over and corrupt the world; a plot that would succeed if Terror Peaks didn’t end them while they could.

… Ah.

Erick almost talked himself out of what had to be done.

Targeting was easy; just hit the guys in red. There were few variations of that theme, for there were illusions down there, but those illusions didn’t matter to Erick.

Ophiels moved across the sky, nearly invisible but also as tiny as [Scry] eyes. Maybe that’s why no one attacked them, as each one got into position above different enemy clumps. By then, it was too late for the red warriors below.

[Luminous Beam]’s text had changed a little, since Particle Magic became a part of the Script.

Luminous Beam X, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Conjure a coruscating, tightly controlled plume of severing light that deals extraordinarily massive physical damage and lasts for 5 seconds. Anti-magic properties. Anti-life properties.

Particle Mage Only.

Bright white physical light, empowered by [Lodestar], exploded from ten points in the sky, lancing down like beams of erasing power, carving through red soldiers.

- - - -

Shuu Grey Cloud and her Clan had come in from the Eastern Border hours ago, responding to the main family’s call to arms. They had fought valiantly on the front lines of the defense of Eralis. She had survived a single hour of fighting, but she did not expect to survive a second hour. Her team had been wiped out in the last push. She was alone, fighting on a white road, outside of land that was neither Grey Cloud’s, nor Star Song’s.

Blood dripped down her forehead, fouling her vision in one eye. Her wound had opened up again, and she doubted it would ever close. Her Healer was dead; the Young Master was dead.

The corpse of the Young Master of Grey Cloud burned on the right side of the road, alongside the red warrior who had killed him. She had failed to protect her charge. Oh well.

