Pinching Lin-Lin’s soft cheeks as she chimed in, Yan smiled and said, “You most definitely do. Like a reed whistling in the wind, adorable, but evident.”

“Li-Li, I’m being bullied.” Eyes wide in mock sadness, Lin-Lin asked, “Do I really snore?”

“...Very daintily.”

Lin-Lin’s mock woeful expression of betrayal had the rest of them laughing, and even Li-Li cracked a faint smile, no doubt utilizing her miraculous Aura to show Lin-Lin her love. Despite having known as much, it still surprised Mila to learn just how emotive Li-Li could really be. In fact, this was the reason why she was ‘Li-Li’ now, as opposed to ‘Song’, because Mila realized her sister preferred the girlish appellation after she kept using her Aura to express it. There was so much hidden behind Li-Li’s stony expression, and now the Mother Above had enabled her to share how she felt in a way she was familiar with. A small miracle to be sure, compared to everything else that took place during that fateful battle, but a miracle nonetheless, and Mila was thankful for this blessing.

Despite being a woman grown with her own household to maintain, Mila was still her mother’s daughter and not yet a competent adult, but also wise enough to know that she couldn’t always rely on her parents to handle everything. As such, she cherished Mama’s efforts all the more as she helped her pack and prepare for their day trip out, just a quick jaunt through the city market before heading out to the bamboo grove. According to Luo-Luo, it was imperative Rain show his face in public, even if it was while wearing a slack, empty expression. Better the people of the Empire think him tired and moody than unhealthy and unresponsive, the latter of which they could easily hide by limiting the ability for anyone to speak with him. Eventually though, he would have to meet with the other Colonel Generals lest they grow irate about Nian Zu’s monopoly over his time, but Luo-Luo was more than able to keep all of them in line with flattery and excuses.

Linking arms with her sister and the formidable Imperial Servant, Mila brought Guai-Guai out as she followed Rain, Lin-Lin, and Yan through the market and marvelled at how well the half-hare drew attention away from him. It was amazing how well she was holding up in the face of adversity, especially now that the new year had come and gone, which was when she and Rain were supposed to be wed. Poor Lin-Lin, and poor Luo-Luo too, who knew when they would say their vows with Rain? No matter. In Mila’s eyes, they were Rain’s wives in almost every way that mattered, as they’d both shown their determination to stand by his side, through thick and through thin.

They’re the lucky ones, in love with but not married to a cripple. They’re still free to seek other options, as she should, since there was no knowing if or when Rain would ever recover...

Spotting two racks of jewelled veils and sheer shawls at a merchant’s stall, Mila’s cheeks coloured as she stopped to admire them. “During his first visit to Shen Huo,” she said, narrating for Li-Li and Luo-Luo’s sake, “Lin-Lin dragged me and Rain off to go shopping. I thought he was just a big nuisance back then, a silly boy who asked too many questions, one Lin-Lin was all too enamoured with. I got annoyed for some reason or another and started doing my best to ignore them, while also wanting them to notice me ignoring them. I ended up staring a little too hard at an outfit just like these, and Rain made the mistake of suggesting it would look lovely on me.”

“Oh dear.” Luo-Luo immediately caught on, and explained for Li-Li’s sake. “These are southern dancing shawls, worn by wives dancing for their husbands, a dance in which the woman... loses her veil and shawl as it progresses. The more elaborate outfits can have as many as twenty-seven articles of clothing, but for most, two is more than enough.”

Nodding in comprehension, Li-Li cocked her head and asked, “What happened next?”

“I punched him in the face and stormed off in a huff.” Cheeks colouring as she shot Rain a sheepish glance, Mila explained, “When I was a little girl, I found one of these outfits in Mama’s closet and she said it was special clothes mommies wore for daddies, and I didn’t figure it out until I was older. When Rain suggested I would look lovely in one, he didn’t know what they were for, and thought it was just something to wear out in public over regular clothes.” While Luo-Luo hid her smile behind shock and Li-Li shared her amusement through Aura, Mila bit her lip and stared fondly at Rain’s back, remembering how when she finally got around to apologizing, he’d already forgiven and forgotten all about it. There were times when she wondered how in the Heavens he put up with her foul temper and fiery moods, especially with Yan, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo so deeply in love with him. When Mila told him about Mama’s intention to betroth them, Mila even had the gall to tell Rain she wasn’t all that interested in marrying him and handing him a list of qualities she expected her future husband to adhere to.

And Rain stuck to every single one, aside from the whole ‘no more love interests’, but in his defence, he was a fool who fell in love all too easily. Why else would he have fallen in love with Mila herself?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The hateful phone lights up and before I know it, I’m already checking its contents, having set it up to only alert me for the most important messages, including anything that had to do with my behaviour. The problem with leaving a Natal Soul to pilot my fleshly remains is that I have no idea if or when said Natal Soul will become self-aware and ruin everything I’ve worked so hard to achieve. Oblivion awaits, but my goal seems further than ever as I once again delve deep into the red dust of the mortal world, and for what? Snoot selfies and a false positive.

But one worthy of attention. Mila, my sweet, strong, confident wife, reminiscing on times long past and succumbing to grief and melancholy, wishing I would look her in the eyes the way I used to, with a gaze full of warmth, love, and affection. I always knew she had her fair share of doubts and insecurities, but I never knew just how deep they ran. How can she wonder if I even love her, or love her as much as I love the others? If this is a test or a trick, then I have to hand it to Zhen Shi, because he’s learned how to push my buttons to inflict maximum pain. This hurts almost as much as seeing her die, because I love Mila more than words could ever describe, and now I know my actions failed to convey the depths of my affection. I knew my absence would hurt the people I left behind, but this is too much. I thought Mila knew how much I love and cherish her, but what words could I type here to tell her as much? None. I cannot imagine a life without her, because she is the sun in my sky, fiery and temperamental, yet warm and nurturing at the same time. The red string of fate ties us together, and has from the first breath we took as husband and wife, to when she breathed her last on the fields of Central. I am nothing without her, nothing without Yan, Lin-Lin, and so many others, an abject failure who cannot stand alone. Easier to believe it was all a lie and that I never left the mines than to risk discovering my loved ones alive only to lose them again.

After what I experienced, how can I ever be sure enough to differentiate between reality and illusion? Did I even live the life of Falling Rain? Or was that another dream shown to me by Zhen Shi, the great life he allows me to remember so that he might later use to lure me out of hiding and back to my life in the mines? Did I really marry Mila and Yan? Was I really the Number One Talent of the Empire? Did I even escape the slave mines, or was it all a wonderful, blissful dream, one concocted by an exhausted mind between bouts of backbreaking labour? I’ve been here in the void so long with nothing but memories, memories I’ve long since shed all emotion of, so how am I supposed to know if the love I feel is real or the product of imagination?

Does it matter? Whether my memories are real or imagined, whether the people out there are alive or dead, the pain I feel here and now is real enough, and I desperately wish for an end to my suffering.

So what do I do? Mila is hurting and doubting the depths of my love. Is she wrong to? Here I sit in the void, while she and everyone else I love wait for my return. Yan works hard to put on a brave and happy face, but inside, she’s hurting just as much as Mila is, worried she’ll lose all that she holds dear. Not just me, but also the warm and loving family she only just married into, and the sisters she picked up along the way. Luo-Luo is stressing about public perception, wondering if anyone else can tell I’m not all there or if they just think I’m bored of shopping, all while corresponding with MuYang through Sending to manage the affairs of the outer provinces. Song’s concerns are fixed on her sister’s well being, wondering if there is anything she can do to raise Mila’s poor mood, one she’s been trapped in since I fell into a coma.

And then there’s Lin-Lin, bright, cheery, optimistic Lin-Lin, who is having a grand old time with everyone in the market. There are no regrets weighing heavily on her mind, no internalized worries gnawing away from within, no doubts for her to wrestle with, or concerns for her to dwell on. There is nothing there but the here and now, and she is happy as can be, hanging on my arm with most of her favourite people and animals gathered round. Despite knowing my condition, she speaks as if I am wholly in control of my faculties and not at all completely out of it, a ruse which works well since the merchants are too busy bowing their heads to ever look me in the dead eyes. “These smell so yummy hubby,” she says, as we stop at a grilled meat stall. “Twenty-four pork skewers please, with peanut and satay sauce.”

It’s just like her to buy one for everyone, even the Concealed guards whose presence she just gave away, but this doesn’t concern her. To Mei Lin, my sweet, straightforward wifey, this is just a regular day in the market with her beloved hubby, and that’s all it takes to make this a wonderful day. Food, clothing, trinkets for the pets, and more, she buys up anything and everything that catches her eye, all without forgetting to share. Not just with her family and loved ones either, but also with those less fortunate than she. Word spreads and soon enough, we have a trail of hungry children following in our wake, so Lin-Lin pays an entire street of food vendors to feed them while innocently wondering why people would rather let food go to waste than share with those in need. Unlike me, she doesn’t dwell on the expense, or try and come up with a better way to fix things, because she’s done her part, and she expects others will do the same.

This is just how my sweet wifey sees things, always focused on what’s in front of her at any given moment. Her upbeat and carefree attitude is what I love most about her, and I envy her for it at the same time. The world would be a much better place if we were all a little more like Lin-Lin, so why can’t I be more like her and less like me? How come I can’t just put aside my worries and enjoy life as much as she does? She’s never bothered to consider what she’ll do if I never come back, because in her eyes, I’m still right there by her side. Brimming with love and jealousy, I watch as she skips about from stall to stall with Blackjack nestled between her ears and Mama Bun in her arms, all the while clutching my hand tight and dragging me and Yan along on today’s adventure. Keeping an eye on the proceedings, I browse through the messages on my phone and catch up with everything I’ve wilfully ignored. Mom’s hopes are slowly eroding away despite her best efforts to cling to them, and Dad has long since come to terms with my possible death. It’s not that he doesn’t care, but he knows it is a part of life, and even if I remain as I am for another hundred years, he will love and care for me the whole while. Akanai is much the same, wondering how she will ever broach the subject with Mila about finding another husband and whether ten, twenty, or even thirty years would be too soon, while Husolt aches for his precious daughter and wishes he could do something, anything to make her pain go away. This is the effect my cowardice has on the people I love most. All I’ve done is cause them heartache, worry, and misery, all of which will linger and fester for as long as I exist. Perhaps it would’ve been better if I’d just died, but even with all my fear and regret, I cannot bring myself to end my life, because...

Because where there is life, there is hope, and it is this poisonous, treasonous hope which is the root of all misery.

