Stirring awake in the early morning light, Mila basked in the warmth and comfort of her husband’s embrace. Nuzzling closer to kiss his collarbone, she gave a soft sigh and ran her fingers down his chest, admiring how much he’d filled out in recent weeks. On their wedding night, he’d been a sight to behold, a slim, yet taut figure with a chiselled body resulting from months of gruelling physical training, a peak human physique which he strove hard to maintain. That said, it was clear his body had been stretched to its limits, like an overloaded rucksack bursting at the seams. His muscles were rock hard and had little give even when relaxed, and there were often drastic changes in his day to day condition depending on how much food and water he took in. He’d also had almost no body fat whatsoever, which was likely why he was always cold, and his mood shifted greatly whenever he grew hungry or tired.

Such were the costs associated with maintaining a body at the peak of human efficiency, but Martial Warriors were more than human, and Rain had once again joined their ranks. Ten weeks after the battle for the second line and fifty-seven medicinal baths later, his physique had much improved, though the changes were subtle and difficult to notice without an intimate grasp of his body from before and after. At first glance, almost nothing had changed, but she could feel the supple give in his muscles again, denoting his limits had risen and he once again had room to improve. His skin was healthier too, soft and smooth after having lost the faint sheen of oil and grime which adhered to him as a commoner, his pores shrunken and sealed away once more. Why Martial Warriors would be naturally cleaner, Mila couldn’t say, but there was a marked difference between commoners and Martial Warriors, one Rain had bridged once more. Also absent was the faint musk of a night’s sweat and soured morning breath, two things she was glad to do without as she snuggled in and breathed deep, savouring the feel of his body pressed against hers and the soothing herbal scent of his soft, kissable skin.

“Careful now.” Yan’s teasing tone ripped away the last vestiges of slumber from Mila’s mind as the devilish woman perched her chin atop Rain’s chest. “You sound hungry enough to devour him whole, but I’d much rather you shared.” Cheeks colouring at the insinuation, Mila’s mind raced backwards through time to catalogue all the embarrassing, appreciative noises she’d made before remembering Yan was there too, but there were far too many to keep track of. Grinning from ear to ear, Mila’s sister-wife turned her gaze to drink in Rain’s slumbering form, and Mila wondered if she herself had worn such a voracious expression. “I can’t blame you though,” Yan murmured, kissing his chest with a simpering sigh. “He looks delicious enough to eat.”

That he did. It wasn’t that Rain was ever ugly, just that his flaws had all but disappeared save for one, the minor yet significant fact that he wasn’t all there, mentally speaking. Awakened by Yan and Mila’s discussion, Rain laid in bed and stared at the ceiling with half-lidded eyes, utterly motionless save for the rise and fall of his chest. Propping herself up on one elbow, Mila studied his expression alongside Yan and prayed for a miracle, hoping against all hopes that his eyes would focus and he’d smile at them both before making some lewd comment or suggestion. She was so desperate for his recovery she might even go along with it, so long as his requests remained within reason, and for a brief moment, she thought she saw him stir beneath the covers. Alas, it was only her imagination, so she kissed him on the cheek and slid out of bed to get ready for the day.

In contrast, Yan shamelessly stayed in bed and even slid over to straddle Rain, but judging by her disappointed huff, it was clear he didn’t rise to the occasion. Mila’s sister wife had adapted to their new sleeping arrangements much faster than she had, especially considering Mama was back from training her Stormguards and staying in a room across the courtyard, not to mention how Papa and all of Mila’s in-laws had been here all the while. It wasn’t that she was doing anything to be ashamed of, seeing as Rain was her husband and wasn’t responding to any stimulation, but she still found it difficult to look anyone in the eyes after coming out of Rain’s room every morning. Not so with Yan however, who was more than happy to make lewd jokes while stripping his clothes and testing the limits of his self-awareness, all before striding out bold as can be with a twinkle in her eye. It was her idea to have them both stay with him overnight after she noticed him wake up and use the bathroom unprompted, but unfortunately, even laying in bed naked with both his wives did nothing to bring his mind back from wherever it’d gone off to.

Nor did any of the other imaginative tests Yan had them try.

It wouldn’t be so bad if his lack of response didn’t make Mila feel like she lacked appeal, or how her expectations left her frustrated to no end. This was a strange affliction which beset him now, his body in fine health and Core seemingly repaired once more, but he had yet to regain all his mental faculties. There were odd, arbitrary limits to what he could and could not do, like his ability to use the bathroom without making a mess, while remaining wholly oblivious to his wives’ advances. If someone sat him down at a table and placed a bowl and chopsticks in his hands, he would eat without need for supervision, but only so long as there was food in his bowl. Even if they stacked a plate to the rafters with all his favourite foods, his chopsticks would continue grasping at nothing in his bowl instead of taking something off the plate. What’s more, if they were to place an apple in his hand, he would hold it until it turned brown and rotted, even if he starved to death in the process, which was perplexing to say the least. He could drink from a bowl and cup on his own, but not from any other receptacle without assistance, and Mother knows they’d tried. At least this meant they could easily keep track of how much water he drank and prompt him to visit the bathroom at regular intervals, lest he randomly relieve himself in the courtyard or somewhere else equally embarrassing.

That was about the extent of his cognizance, eating, urinating, and defecating, which left much to be desired. What’s more, these arbitrary limits had no rhyme or reason to them, for it was not solely base instincts he responded to, but a select subdivision of them. It would’ve made more sense if he responded to all stimuli in an instinctive manner, like he had on the battlefield in Sinuji, but this was even less than that. It was as if his mind had decided to handle only that which was absolutely necessary for continued survival, but only accounted for a select few scenarios which he might encounter, and forgot about everything else. A strange affliction to say the least, but any progress was good progress.

Hope is poisonous. Accept the facts. He might never recover, leaving you to tend to a cripple husband until his death frees you from your marriage vows...

By the time Mila was dressed and ready in her light silk shift, Yan had finally slipped out from under the covers, utterly unabashed of her nudity as she threw on the outfit Eun left out for her last night. Aside from splashing water on her face and running her fingers through her hair, that was about the sole extent of her morning preparations, and Mila mildly resented her sister wife for looking so good with such minimal effort while struggling with her hairbrush in front of the mirror. Noticing her chagrin, Yan grinned and wrapped Mila in a warm embrace. “That’s the price you pay for looking gorgeous,” she said, gesturing at the hairbrush with her chin. “Though I think you still have plenty of charm even with your hair all tangled and mussed. You could drive everyone wild with your natural, messy, ‘just-woke-up’ look matched with your tired scowl.” Tugging at Mila’s shift to expose a pale, freckled shoulder, Yan added, “And you should’ve seen the way Rain’s eyes bulged whenever he caught a glimpse of your bared skin. Unconscionable is what it is. How am I supposed to compete?”

Warmed by the incorrigible woman’s attempt to cheer her up, Mila pressed her temple to Yan’s and feigned a scowl. “As if you don’t know the effect your swaying hips have on him. I don’t know how you manage to walk like that without tripping over your own feet.”

Eyes lighting up in devilish delight, Yan replied, “I could teach you. Now wouldn’t that be a sight to see, Rain toppling over as all the blood drains from his head and rushes down to his - ”

“Yan!”

“Don’t ‘Yan’ me, Mila, you’re a married woman now, not some fair maiden without an inkling of what happens between the bed sheets.”

“That doesn’t mean we need to talk about it like drunken sailors on shore leave.”

“Even the most hard-bitten sea-dog would blush hearing about your exploits.”

“And they’d go running back to their ships after hearing of yours.”

Their good-natured banter came to an abrupt end as the bed-sheets stirred, raising both their hopes to unrealistic heights only for them to come crashing down as Ping Ping, Mama Bun, and Guai-Guai emerged from under the covers at the foot of the bed. Usually, Mama Bun slept splayed across Rain’s chest, but according to Yan, Mila kept jostling the poor rabbit in her sleep and Mama Bun had since retreated to nuzzle with the turtle and red panda. While Yan helped Ping Ping off the bed so as not to damage the floorboards, Mila caught Guai-Guai after he launched himself into her arms. The sullen red-panda’s mood had much improved in recent weeks, which was ironic considering his name was a homonym for ‘surly’, though Song, who chose the name, insisted it was meant to be the ‘guai’ from ‘well-behaved’. Mila was still torn about how to treat this beast of mysterious origins, but his adorable antics were beginning to grow on her. Perhaps Guai-Guai was Guan Suo reborn, but the way she saw it, this rebirth was akin to taking a rusted sword, melting it down, and reforging a new sword in its place. Though created from the same materials, enough work had gone into the process to consider it a new sword, just as Guai-Guai was a newborn red panda, and not her reincarnated progenitor.

It helped that Guai-Guai was just so darned cute, rubbing his eyes and yawning while cuddled in her arms, and looking grumpy all the while.

As for Mama Bun, she resumed her post atop Rain’s chest and stared at his face, her nose almost touching his as she watched and waited for a sign. At first, everyone thought it was because she was so distraught, but now, they weren’t so sure anymore. There was a purpose to Mama Bun’s vigilant scrutiny, one beyond mere mourning, and not just because she didn’t seem all that sad, only confused and frustrated, emotions Mila understood well. Meeting her sister wife’s gaze, they came to a silent agreement as Mila threw on a wool coat, lifted Mama Bun off the bed, and led Ping Ping outside while Yan got Rain ready for the day and no doubt teased him some more. Well, perhaps tease was the wrong word, and it was better to say she was attempting to elicit a response instead, but either way, her bold actions made Mila’s cheeks colour with embarrassment even as her heart yearned to try the same. The tests never got very far despite Yan’s obvious willingness to do so, but she refused to go ahead without an obvious response, and thus far, Rain had failed to even bat an eye, much less demonstrate enthusiasm for any of Yan’s shameless propositions.

In fact, that was the whole reason she suggested they share Rain’s bed together, and it took Mila three days of discussion to convince her that adding Luo-Luo into the mix wouldn’t change a thing, much less Sorya, Anrhi, Song, Lin-Lin, or anyone else Yan could think of. She was much more open about sharing Rain than Mila was, but desperate times called for desperate measures.

If there were a silver lining to Rain’s extended coma, it was that it allowed Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo to bond over shared hardships and become closer than ever. A great benefit to ensure a lasting, multi-partner marriage, one made all the easier since they weren’t competing for their husband’s affections. As evidence of their strengthened bonds, Mila stopped in to gently wake Luo-Luo and remind her of their plans for the day, and even helped the fussy woman with her hair and clothing without growling or snapping. A good thing Luo-Luo eschewed makeup for the day, else Mila might well have starved to death before she was ready to leave the room.

Okay, so there was still work to be done to strengthen their relationship, and not at all because Mila was afraid Rain would fall head over heels in love with the beautiful and charming Luo-Luo and forget all about his other wives...

Outside, they met up with Yan, Li-Li, and a half-asleep Lin-Lin clinging fast to her hubby’s arm, while Blackjack softly snored from between her ears. Dressed in a warm wool overcoat, Rain cut a dashing figure in the courtyard while the animals took turns trying to gain his attention, but alas, they had no more success than Mila did. A good thing too, because if he woke up to pet the animals after ignoring the great lengths she and Yan had gone to, she might well beat him bloody until he lapsed back into another coma.

Beset by a fit of giggles, Lin-Lin offered a sleepy smile and said, “Mi-Mi and Guai-Guai have both matching tails and scowls.”

“Well, you and Blackjack have matching snores.”

“Liar.” Holding her head up high, the half-hare declared, “I don’t snore.”

