Hope and regret prevent me from putting the phone down, because even if this life was a blissful illusion, I cannot leave my loved ones like this, but I also don’t know what else to do. I don’t get it, they should all be fine without me, so how come everyone is handling this so poorly? Why haven’t my Natal Souls been taking care of all this? They should've been telling Mila how much I love her, reassuring Yan that everything will be okay, helping Luo-Luo bear her burdens, and slowly encouraging Song to come out of her shell. Then there’s the rest of my family, who are still holding out, but not as well as they should be, which means something is wrong. Powering on the PC, I sit and wait as everything loads so I can see what’s going on out there in the real world, only to be greeted with a small icon in the bottom right of the screen, a tiny white globe with a red x across it. No connection detected, is what it says when I mouse over to check it, and the Energy of the Heavens refuse to answer my questions for me. What happened to my limited omniscience? Something’s changed since I secluded myself in the void, but what?

It’s not important. I didn’t need all that power anyways, because my Natal Souls are still connected internally. Sort of. I don’t know. They’re a part of me, and I can still track them down if need be, using the PC as my interface. Natal Soul 8,945,486 is the closest to my physical body, stuck close to Yan and explaining why she should give up hope. “Look at him,” the Natal Soul says, directing her gaze to my empty expression. “This is your husband, an empty shell of a man, one who draws breath yet is dead inside. What sort of life will you have with him? You once worried about sharing him, but now you should be happy to have others to help share this troublesome burden.”

All true, yet the guilt my Natal Soul’s words wrench up inside Yan pains me to the core, and I Devour it whole in a fit of rage, only realizing what I’ve done after the fact. More importantly, I also figure out what went wrong. This Natal Soul was not made with hope, love, and affection like my earlier creations, because after severing almost nine million souls worth of emotions while languishing in the void over the past ten weeks, it would appear I’ve run out of positive emotions to divest. Remorse and regret make up the bulk of what remains, of which 8,945,486 was chock full of and slowly poisoning Yan with the same. A mistake, and a grave one at that, as once again I have almost brought destruction down upon my family, for in my quest for nihility and oblivion, I have unleashed a host of Spectres upon the people I love most.

There are more of my Spectres hanging about Yan, Luo-Luo, Song, Mila, and the rest of my family, Spectres which I Devour without a second thought. Without my connection to the Energy of the Heavens, I am anchored to my physical body and unable to go too far beyond, but thanks to my many medicinal baths, my Core is whole once again and wholly in tune with my Soul. Seizing authority from the Heavens, I unleash my Domain and Devour every Spectre in the area, whether they be success or failure. Guard Leader is the first to notice, followed by Akanai, Grandpa Du, and the rest, and all of a sudden, our little jaunt through the market comes to a crashing halt as they all scramble to get me into my carriage and out of sight.

My phone buzzes as a flood of hope and optimism swells up from within my gathered loved ones, but I am not yet ready to answer them. Instead, I continue working to fix the errors of my ways and try to figure out what went wrong. Obviously in trying to divest myself of all emotions, I skewed too far over to the negative side, with my subconscious deciding it was best to convince everyone else to give up on me so I could move on in peace. All without noticing, I might add, mostly because I was so engrossed in escaping from pain and suffering. Problem is, I can’t sever ties with this life, real or imagined, if I leave it worse off without me, because that would be irresponsible. I just don’t have it in me, so what should I do next? Do I persevere with my efforts to achieve nihility and stay here in the void, seeking oblivion while knowing everyone I love and hold dear might be suffering from my efforts to leave them all behind, or do I abandon my Path, return to the world of the living, and risk more pain and suffering when I discover it was all another lie?

Or better phrased, do I risk myself for the people I love, or remain a selfish coward hiding from all my problems?

Bereft of Heavenly Energy to guide me, the answer does not come so easily this time. I could split my Natal Soul again, infuse a singular portion with all the best parts of me and leave the worst behind here in the void, but how would this be any different from Baledagh and Brother? Well... actually, it would be worse, because they were still both basically me, just with differing levels of knowledge and neuroses. In this instance, however, neither Natal Soul would truly be me, because there is no person in the world who is comprised solely of positive emotions, or negative ones. Ignoring how annoying ‘good’ me would be, the Natal Soul left behind would be fundamentally no different from a Spectre, divested negative emotion kept prisoner within a severed portion of soul. Without the best parts of me to keep my darker nature in check, what’s to keep this negative Spectre on this path to oblivion? If its entire existence is misery, why would it care to wallow in this all on its own?

Is that why Spectres crave existence and a return to the world of the living? Because they also yearn to be happy, to be whole and feel love and affection once more. Isn’t that what we all want? To be happy?

I don’t know what I’ll do next, but one thing is for sure. Lin-Lin has the secret to happiness all worked out, while the rest of us mere mortals are still struggling to find our path.

Chapter Meme
