There were four Archmages in Wistram at this moment. Not three. Aaron knew it because he was in Naili’s personal circle in a sense. A guest in another, but privy to knowledge. He understood the significance of this knowledge, even if what he understood was how much he didn’t understand. But he knew Archmage Amerys was present.
He’d met her just once. And she was no Cognita, no ageless Golem who guarded the secrets of magic with death as the consequence of failure. She was just a Human woman. But he had met her.
She scared him greatly. He wondered if a magictech gauntlet, the technology he was developing, would work in the cell where she was being kept. It was just a thought. But Blackmage, Aaron Vanwell, knew he was a prisoner.
Him and all the others. There were eighteen so far. And nine more found and on the way. They were prisoners. Or guests. Well-treated. But he hadn’t been allowed to leave the island. In truth, he wasn’t sure if Naili and her faction were friends. Or if he agreed with everything Wistram was doing; he and the other Earthers were guests. There had been talk of letting them try to be adventurers or visit other places—with supervision.
He wondered about the King of Destruction. And whether lightning worked on Cognita. Naili said it didn’t. But she was also asking him to build a lot more than a lightning orb. A projector, for one, so everyone could watch movies. She was addicted to the movies on the Earthers’ devices. But she also wanted more. So did Feor, Viltach—all the factions that had ‘claimed’ an Earther.
What was one person to do amid it all? Wait. Learn. And listen. Slowly, Aaron bent over the glove and inserted the battery. He stared at it. And for a moment, all the thoughts that weighed on him vanished. The glove was ready. Contained in one palm was harnessed lightning. Enough to fuel at least one or two spells.
Aaron stared at the bright metal. The power emanating from the magical battery. Then he put it on. He flexed the glove, lifted it up, and lightning crackled, arcing through the air where he’d created a magical path for it to follow. He took a deep breath. Intrigue, danger. But this world was still so cool. He gazed around, but no one was there.
And you had to say it once.
“I am Iron M—”
 
——
 
The actions in one location rippled to the next. In a way few could ever understand, small actions in one place could affect grand narratives in others. Sometimes, a grain of sand could change the course of history.
Other times, it couldn’t. It was just a grain of sand. Actually, in most cases, grains of sand didn’t affect much, unless they flew into the eye of conquerors at just the right moment to make them blink and fail to parry a blow or stumble off the edge of a cliff. You couldn’t tell. That was the point. Who knew what grand schemes or petty conflicts would change everything? That was the Butterfly Effect, the terrible truth of causality and the whims of fate.
While running, Ryoka ate a bug. It had nothing to do with anything except that she’d been asking the wind to blow in her face to cool her down and it had included a bug.
It was a bad bug, though. Ryoka knew the moment it hit her throat that it was alive, big, and wanted out. She paused, gagging, and felt it squirming, fluttering its wings as the moisture in her throat caught it. It scratched at her as she clawed at her mouth and then her waist for water.
By her side, Ryoka’s companion looked at her, worried, as the City Runner danced about, half-screaming. The first mouthful of water nearly washed the bug further down Ryoka’s throat and only pissed it off. Ryoka spat, gagging. And swallowed it.
“Oh god.”
She clutched her stomach. But it was too late. The bug went down, and it went down hard. Ryoka debated putting her finger down her throat and making it come back up, but she decided to drink the bug down.
It felt like it fought the entire way to her stomach. Ryoka gulped and gulped as her travel buddy watched her worriedly. At last, Ryoka exhaled and spat so the awful taste came out of her mouth. It came out with a wing. Ryoka stared at it. Her friend licked her lips and opened her mouth.
“Don’t say a word.”
Ryoka glared at her companion. She got no response, which relieved her. She began running again. After a moment, her companion followed.
“Damn bugs.”
That was the most eventful thing that had happened today. Ryoka’s pace slowed as she reached a town, or maybe a city, in the distance. She’d come far. And been running for days. She peered ahead and pointed to the gates.
“Looks like this might be a good place for the night. What do you think?”
Her running partner regarded the town. Ryoka waited for a response.
“Fine. I guess it’s good enough.”
She ran towards the gates. Silently, her companion followed. It was an amiable silence, though, and Ryoka had gotten used to it.
It had been a week since Riverfarm. Since Belavierr. Since…everything. Ryoka Griffin still felt like she’d walked out of a fairytale. And why not?
A week ago, she’d met [Witches]. She’d seen a monster. Or perhaps the most Human woman she’d ever met. She’d seen tragedy, met an old friend. Outrun fire.
And made some friends. Given that she’d nearly died several times, been burned terribly, and also added to her list of regrets that would haunt her until her death, Ryoka considered it was a pretty fair trade.
Friends were nice. And perhaps one ran with her now. Ryoka wasn’t decided. It wasn’t that she was biased about other species, but…well…some people could be annoying.
The first inn Ryoka came to was called Salubrious Sleephome. Tickled by either the word or the terrible name, Ryoka went in. To her surprise, she found it was a nice inn, and the [Innkeeper] was on the floor with his staff, who actually had a decent crowd.
Travellers, mainly. The town she’d come to lay to the north of Invrisil and a bit west—it was a good trading route for some trips and so adventurers, [Traders], and so on were stopping here for the night. The [Innkeeper] was a tall man who greeted the runner girl and her friend warily.
“Miss Runner! I’m delighted to have a City Runner as a guest. But your friend…”
“She’ll mind her manners. I can tie her up if you want.”
Ryoka kept a straight face as her companion expressed pure disdain for the idea. The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“Well, I think it’ll be fine. If she behaves herself. You two want to eat together? And a room for the night, or are you still running?”
The young Asian woman grimaced.
“I’m done for the day. And I’ll take one room; we’ll share it. What’s on the menu, can I ask? And, uh—can I also ask about the name of this inn? The ‘Salubrious Sleephome’? I haven’t seen someone use the word ‘salubrious’…ever.”
The man beamed at her.
“You know the meaning? Pride and fortune, I thought I’d never meet anyone who was so well-read!”
Ryoka ducked her head. She would have deflected or maybe not even engaged a few months ago, but now she smiled.
“I like books.”
“As do I. I’m actually something of a [Reader]. Between you and me, it’s my passion.”
“Really? There’s a [Reader] class?”
The man winked at her, and suddenly, they were friends. He escorted Ryoka and her friend to a table near a roaring fire; she was glad of it, despite the heat.
“Only naturally! [Writers] can’t exist without [Readers]. And before you ask, yes, there are benefits to the class! Mainly centered around reading, but the knowledge of books can be surprisingly powerful! I have one Skill that allows me to translate things I’ve read into semi-competent actions!”
“What? You have to be kidding!”
The man’s eyes danced.
“I became an [Innkeeper] after reading a book on cooking. Thirty-one, actually! I can’t copy the techniques perfectly, but I can create…oh, a quarter’s worth of the actual thing? And with practice, that’s enough to allow me to cook a great deal! And that’s not all! Fencing, magic—it’s all more accessible thanks to my class! But I will own, it’s not as useful a class as, say, a pure [Warrior] or [Mage]. But I can live in the pages. They come to life! Have you ever wanted to stand on a battlefield?”
Ryoka paused.
“I did once. But I’ve seen the real thing, and I can’t say I want to now.”
The [Innkeeper], who was named Quin, paused for a moment and grew serious.
“Ah, that is true. But a battlefield in stories is different. Incredible to behold! Or—sometimes—a terrible mess. Confused and as impressive as watching children flailing around with sticks. It all depends on the quality of the [Writer], you see. Good writers make the story come to life. Bad ones…but look at me drone on! If you’d like to take a book, I offer them to my guests so long as you treat them with respect.”
“That’s amazing.”
Ryoka smiled at Quin. He nodded and opened his mouth to continue. But at that moment, Ryoka’s companion whined loudly. Runner and [Innkeeper] looked down.
“Sorry about my friend. Shush, you!”
“No, no. I’m being a poor host. Miss…Ryoka, was it? My kitchen is open to you! And I have a large menu! I may be a poorer [Cook], but I can make any dish I’ve read about, and I’ve taught my [Cook] all the good recipes. Will you have a menu?”
“I will. Oh—”
Ryoka blinked at the vast menu and the carefully hand-written words. She noted only some of the guests were bothering with the menu; reading might be somewhat universal to an extent, but few took to it like Quin. She eyed the page and pointed.
“What’s the Eldishfish and glossberry sauce taste like?”
“Served with some potatoes and a bit of whatever greens we have on hand this time of year. Eldishfish is rather tough, but flavorful. Glossberries? Vibrant, tart—decently sweet. A good combination.”
“I’ll have that then.”
“And your companion, Miss Runner?”
Quin might have been the [Innkeeper], but he had a [Cook] and a staff, although he was waiting on Ryoka himself.
“She’s fine. Just give her water and food. Some dried meat? Don’t be worried about her biting.”
Ryoka glanced down at her companion. Said companion looked up at her and whoofed. Quin nodded.
“One moment! I simply must come back and talk to you about books!”
He bustled off, and Ryoka stared down at her companion. It was not Charlay. Although her friend did have four legs. And a tail. And she was as fast as Charlay, probably. But Ryoka had to admit, there were some differences. For one, Charlay was a Centaur. And her travel buddy was…
A dog. She was panting and sitting up. Well-trained too; despite the smells in the air, she only sniffed a few times. The wary [Servers] and other guests eyed her, but they were reassured when the dog made no move towards them after a few minutes.
Which was good too, because the dog was huge. Ryoka had seen big dogs before, the ones that looked like they hadn’t forgotten their wolf ancestors. This dog was a match for any one of them. Her tail thwapping the floor and her happy panting on Ryoka’s leg made the runner girl smile despite herself.
“Stop drooling. I’ll feed you. Do you need to go to the bathroom? Toilet? Hm, Mousey?”
Mousey the dog looked up at her. Ryoka realized the [Server] bringing a bowl of water and cup was staring and sat upright, blushing hard. She’d grown used to talking to Mousey on the road.
How Ryoka Griffin had come to be running with a dog was a long story. Or a short one. It wasn’t that long, but context dictated that anyone Ryoka Griffin told the story to was also told about her hatred for dogs.
Well, not hatred. She didn’t want them killed, but she didn’t like dogs. Dogs were fast. They bit. And she had used to hate any owner who kept their dog off a leash like anyone who ever ran, let alone ran barefoot, did. Dogs could be dangerous.
Ryoka didn’t like dogs. She’d never wanted one. Cats, now cats Ryoka liked. She’d had cats. But, well…
In the days since leaving Riverfarm, Ryoka had run back. Back towards Reizmelt. Away from Laken and the [Witches]. She had seen Belavierr for who she was. She had talked to Laken, gotten some assurances about the Goblin prisoners. She would return, if only to see what he continued to do, but in truth, she couldn’t stay.
She had spent too long in Riverfarm, in a world that wasn’t hers. She didn’t belong there. She liked parts of Riverfarm. She liked Wiskeria, Durene, and the [Witches]. Her heart still ached for Nanette. The young [Witch] had said nothing to Ryoka when the girl left. She sat, staring at nothing. And the Goblins—
But Ryoka didn’t know if they knew Erin’s name. She did not know them. And—she had agreed with Laken. Wrong though it was, if they fled, they would die. She would let the [Emperor] try his plan. As for the rest?
She was simply tired. Laken’s world was filled with dangers worthy of an [Emperor]. He had a [Lord]—Yitton Byres—as a travelling buddy! It wasn’t the world for a City Runner. Ryoka had left.
“I forgot to talk to Lord Byres. Well, what would I say? I punched your daughter once, and she nearly died in Liscor because…he knows she’s alright. I think.”
Ryoka remarked to Mousey. The dog licked her leg. Ryoka yelped.
“Stop that, you!”
She tried not to smile. She didn’t like Mousey. But the dog had been with her nearly a week. Ryoka had thought it would be such a trial, but the two year-old dog had been a perfect companion. Far better than a Centaur. But Ryoka already missed Charlay.
Charlay had bid Ryoka farewell days earlier. The Centauress had to go too; she’d stayed with Ryoka through fire and fury, but now she was restless.
“Plus, I’m faster than you. I could take Mousey, but Ryoka’s too slow. Isn’t she? Yes she is!”
“Stop talking to me like that. And if you pet my head, I’ll bite you.”
The Centauress laughed. She trotted down the crossroads, pointing ahead and circling. She regarded Ryoka with a smile, cocksure and impetuous. Not arrogant so much.
“I’ve gotta go, Ryoka. My city misses me! Who’ll be the top runner without me? Besides, it was fun, but I need a break! You attract trouble. I’ll go do some regular deliveries and find you again in a bit. Or we’ll see each other on the road! Count on it, Pukey!”
“Sure, Dusty.”
The Centauress glared at Ryoka and flipped her off. The young woman waved a dismissive hand. Charlay trotted away. Then she galloped back and gave Ryoka a hug.
“I’ll see you soon. You were pretty brave.”
“You too. I’ll look for you on the road.”
Despite herself, Ryoka felt her eyes sting. Which was silly. But Charlay was…it was so odd, but Ryoka remembered to hug back. The Centauress sniffed.
“You jerk! You have to cry too! It’s what friends do!”
Friends. The word made Ryoka smile. Strange, but true. She glanced up as the [Server] hurried out.
