“I doubt it, Ylawes. But it frustrates me. Perhaps I should go back. Six years is a short time for so much to change in the academy, but…well, perhaps it would be a worthwhile trip. If you plan on going to Terandria, that is.”
“Aha! I knew you were listening in!”
Falene flicked her fingers and shot a bit of colored smoke into Dawil’s face. He swore and waved it away. Ylawes watched his two friends.
“Maybe. But it’s my sister I’m worried about, Falene. Ceria contacted you.”
“Yes. By Mage’s Guild, so I cannot even send her a [Message] back directly. She really must learn that spell. But then, she is only a third-year student. Something else Wistram did not tell me the first time!”
Falene gritted her teeth. Then she sighed again.
“I’m afraid I cannot help you, Ylawes. Or her. The faction backing Montressa du Valeross’ team is the Revivalists, and they’re at odds with my faction, the Centrists. I put in a few strongly-worded remarks, but I’m afraid that won’t change anything.”
She seemed frustrated, and not even Dawil made a crack this time. Ylawes clenched his jaw, helpless. Falene paused. And a slight smile played over her lips. Dawil frowned.
“What?”
“If it’s any consolation, I might have been unable to help, but apparently there is someone in Wistram who took objection to the treatment of Ceria and Pisces. Amusingly—it had little to do with them being hunted and all with the terminology of the bounty on Pisces.”
“Really? Why?”
Ylawes tried to recall the bounty Yvlon had recited. It had certainly cast Pisces in a bad light, but he couldn’t think what had upset this [Mage] in Wistram. Falene tapped her lips, smiling.
“Have I ever mentioned the…keeper of Wistram? You know that we employ Golems for many menial tasks.”
“Sure. You kept mentioning how one of them would be better than me.”
Dawil grunted. Falene nodded.
“Well, the leader of these Golems is…sentient. And disturbing as she may be, she is invaluable to Wistram. A very troubling figure, but one even the Archmages must treat against. Her name is Cognita.”
“A Golem has a name? And it thinks?”
Ylawes had heard of that, vaguely. Falene nodded. She hesitated, then smiled.
“The nuance is hard to grasp as I was not there for the incident, but I gather that while Pisces Jealnet and Ceria Springwalker were exiled, Cognita granted them the authority to call themselves graduates. However, the bounty on the two claims both are not, as did Wistram’s team.”
Dawil and Ylawes gazed blankly at Falene. Neither one understood the half-Elf’s amusement.
“So?”
The half-Elf glanced from face to face and sighed at her companions.
“So. She apparently objected to the inaccuracy.”
“So? Aren’t the Revivalists led by an Archmage? One of the lizards, right?”
“Archmage Nailihuaile. Yes. And I understand Cognita objected to her. Personally.”
Ylawes began to catch onto Falene’s smile. He peered at the half-Elf.
“What, exactly, did this Golem—this Cognita’s objection entail?”
“Well—”
 
——
 
Aaron Vanwell, known to some as Blackmage, guest of Wistram Academy—first guest, that was, since other Earthers had been found and returned to the academy—was working on a new construction. A battery fueled by both magic and the science of his world.
Magitech. He was using crystals formed of magicore exposed to almost pure mana, worth a fortune, while trying to combine it with the principles of a lead-acid battery, which he’d engineered with some of the other Earthers’ help. The breakthrough was one that surpassed both individual technologies.
With the ingenious magic of Wistram’s [Mages] and the superior—vastly superior—energy-hoarding qualities of materials from this world, they’d combined it with the technology of batteries, the understanding of electrical polarity to create something that could charge lightning spells.
They’d created an artifact, in fact. Something so powerful even the Archmage who’d helped Aaron make the orb, the Lamia Archmage Nailihuaile, had been impressed. Even given the expensive costs of making so many prototypes!
And that wasn’t all. With more people from Earth, Aaron’s world had opened up. He was no longer a single captive, but one of many. He was working on a plan. An idea to combine more Earth-technology with this world’s resources. He carefully, carefully began to insert the new battery he’d made—miniaturized from the orb that Montressa had taken for field testing—into the armored glove painted red and gold, of course—
The door slammed open. Aaron jumped, and the battery went flying. Archmage Nailihuaile, also known as Naili, caught the sealed battery in the air with a wave of her staff. Then she looked at Aaron.
“Hey! I’m gonna borrow your bed, alright?”
“What? Archmage Naili? Is everything ok—”
Aaron blinked as the Lamia, her scales translucent in places, glowing with accumulated magic, slithered over to his bed. In one hand, she carried the Serkonian Lance, treasure of the Lizardfolk, which could create a magical field where she could effortlessly link spells, change the very nature of mana in the air, and also fire devastating lances of magic, hence the name. He’d also seen her use it as a backscratcher.
Now Naili tossed the staff under the bed and bent over, wriggling under Aaron’s bed. He stared at her tail.
“Um, Naili—”
“I’m not here! Shh! If she knocks, I’m not here!”
The Lamia waved frantically at Aaron. Bemused, Aaron tried not to laugh. The Lamia Archmage was by far the most relaxed of the four Archmages in Wistram. Feor and Viltach were older and far more…stately. Naili, by contrast, was lighthearted, joking that just because she’d grown older and become an Archmage, it didn’t mean she had to be stuck-up and crotchety. It made her popular. By contrast, the fourth Archmage, Amerys—
Someone knocked hard on the door. Aaron jumped and saw the bed jump. He looked at the door and heard a voice.
Deep, smooth. Without hesitation or flaw, like the owner.
“Archmage Nailihuaile. I would speak to you. Aaron Vanwell, will you open the door please?”
Cognita. Aaron glanced at his bed. He hesitated. The Truestone Golem, warden or perhaps caretaker of Wistram, one of the most powerful constructs ever built, was standing outside his door. He was fascinated by her. And a little frightened.
He knew what the final test of Zelkyr was. And he had beheld the four guardian Golems, of which Cognita was fifth and most deadly. Even so, he raised his voice.
“Um…she’s not here, Cognita—”
“Aaron Vanwell. Open this door.”
The young man paused. He slowly got up. From under the bed, Naili shouted.
“I’m busy, Cognita! I told you—”
“This matter will not wait. Open the door, Aaron Vanwell. I would dislike damaging it.”
The [Mage]/[Engineer] hesitated. Naili shouted.
“I’m really busy! I’m, uh, having sex!”
Aaron stared at the bed. There was silence from outside. And then Cognita punched a hole through the door.
It wasn’t like a movie, where the door would explode outwards. Cognita hit the door so fast and hard her fist went through the wood, sending only a small pocket of wood flying across the room. Aaron jumped—and Cognita’s arm twisted. It gently unlocked the door and pulled it open.
“I didn’t even lock the door!”
Aaron protested. Cognita slowly moved the door open.
“It was enchanted to stay closed unless the lock was turned, Aaron Vanwell. It will be replaced. Please step aside.”
She walked into the room. Aaron did exactly what Cognita said; she had a way with words. Or perhaps it was simply her presence.
To behold Cognita was to see art come to life. Eight feet tall, carved of pure white stone, finer than even marble, Cognita looked like the height of perfection, a statue of a woman made beautiful beyond belief. And yet, she had a quality that went beyond even statues, for she was alive. The folds of her dress and the sculpted stone of her body moved like flesh and cloth.
She was perfection, made by an [Archmage] thought dead to the world. Archmage Zelkyr, who had ordered her to protect Wistram and test every [Mage] who might ascend to the higher floors where he had once gone and never come back from. Cognita had held Wistram thusly for over a century. She was beautiful.
And terrifying. Especially to the [Mages] who knew her test that no one had ever undertaken and lived. She walked towards Aaron’s bed without hesitation.
“Archmage Nailihuaile. We must speak. Now.”
Reluctantly, a scaled hand poked out of the bed. Aaron saw Naili drag herself out, grumbling. She slithered upright, staff in hand, and studied Cognita warily.
“I was busy.”
“This will not wait. As I stated when you fled—”
“I had to go to the bathroom?”
“—when you fled, Pisces and Ceria Springwalker are graduates of Wistram. [Mages] of Wistram. To claim otherwise goes against the authority placed in me. I gave them that right.”
Naili twisted her staff in her hands. She glanced at Aaron, and he knew he should leave. He backed towards the door, but slowly. He wanted to watch. Secrets were currency in Wistram, and this was probably big.
“Montressa and her team made a mistake.”
“Her team attacked the two [Mages] on the pretext that they were not [Mages] of Wistram. That is an error, as is the bounty placed on Pisces. It must be rectified.”
The Lamia seemed restless, glancing towards the door and curling up her long, serpentine lower half.
“Really? But that’s so much work. You know, we’d have to send a correction, make a tiny update, and after Tiqr, that’s really not—”
“Archmage Nailihuaile. That was not a request.”
Aaron froze. Cognita’s voice was almost always perfectly level, without the variance in tone that came to people with lungs or mortality. But the calm threat that appeared in her tone was anything but soothing.
He saw Naili peer up. Aaron expected the Archmage to…well, he didn’t know. Protest or deflect. But he saw Naili’s expression change as Cognita loomed over her. The Lamia’s carefree smile vanished, and she stood a bit taller, though she was far shorter than Cognita.
“It was an accident, Cognita. Do you want me to pull Montressa’s team as well?”
“Their pretense is false.”
The Star Lamia shook her head.
“Only the part about them not being Wistram’s [Mages]. They were expelled, after all. And Pisces committed a serious crime.”
“Is Wistram now accustomed to changing sentences passed?”
Cognita’s voice was ominous. Naili bared her teeth.
“No. But Pisces Jealnet committed more crimes since leaving Wistram. Which gives us every right to apprehend him.”
The Truestone Golem gazed down at Naili, and Aaron swore he saw Cognita raise an eyebrow a fraction. She did not seem pleased, but her tone was neutral again.
“That is your reasoning. Which you are entitled to, Archmage. However, Mage Pisces and Mage Ceria are graduates of Wistram. So I have named them. I would request that detail be changed.”
“You want me to make a correction and send it to every Mage’s Guild in Izril? Over something so trivial?”
Cognita nodded once.
“Wistram’s Archmages are within their rights to act how they please in almost any situation. This is not one of them. I am a servant of the academy. And its keeper.”
Archmage Nailihuaile paused. She gazed up at Cognita for a long moment. Aaron had seen Naili annoyed, laughing—petty and childish too. But in this moment, she reminded him of Feor, whose faction Aaron had managed to evade. They had custody of some of the Earthers. It wasn’t that Aaron couldn’t talk with them, but it was…complicated.
Naili’s voice grew softer. She slowly tightened her grip on her staff.
“Out of curiosity, what would happen if I refused to honor your request?”
Aaron saw her eyes narrow. The serpentine pupils contracted, and Naili’s posture sunk, as if she was coiling up to strike. Not like a Drake with fury and rage from their distant ancestors. This was cold and calculating. Dangerous.
Cognita stared down at Naili. She did not react, but her tone grew a touch deeper.
“I would be forced to insist. If you wish to voice your objections, Archmage, please do so.”
For a second, the air in the room pressurized. Aaron, sensitive to magic, felt a wave coming off Naili that turned his knees to jelly. For a moment, the Archmage didn’t look playful or afraid at all. She looked up at Cognita, and the Truestone Golem stared back. Waiting.
Then—Naili threw up her arms, laughing.
“Kidding!”
The magical presence vanished. Aaron stared as she slithered past Cognita, sighing.
“So scary! Jeeze, if I have to do it, I have to do it. Alright, fine. Feor’s going to be so mad at me. Viltach too…but I guess we all know who’s really in charge of Wistram, huh?”
She glanced over her shoulder at Cognita. The Truestone Golem ignored the jibe. She walked after Naili.
“The [Mages] of Wistram control the academy’s will, Archmage Nailihuaile. I am simply the academy’s protector and test. I object to one issue. The right of Wistram to imprison its own [Mages] is their prerogative. I only ask for consistency in Wistram’s rulings. And acknowledgement of truth.”
Aaron heard a light laugh from Naili as she waved her staff at his door. The wood flew back into place, resealing the door. She turned to Cognita with a big smile.
“You say that, Cognita, but sometimes I wonder if you don’t have those fingers on the scales. All our scales. Admit it, don’t you change what happens sometimes? Why are you working so hard for Pisces? Aren’t you a teensy bit biased?”
This time, Aaron saw Cognita react. The barb must have landed or something else displeased the Golem. Because Cognita’s marble eyes narrowed just a fraction.
“I would appreciate my neutrality remaining unquestioned, Archmage Nailihuaile. That the Golems of Wistram take no sides beyond the covenant we have been given by our creator is to all factions’ advantage. Insinuations to the contrary are troubling.”
“Oh yeah? But how could you prove that I’m wrong?”
Cognita peered down at Naili. After a moment, she spoke.
“If I truly wished to change Wistram as I pleased, I would listen to Archmage Amerys’ requests to free her. I respect the will of the academy. Archmage, please do not test my respect.”
Naili froze. She glanced back up at Cognita. Then she silently opened the door and slithered out. Aaron let out a huge breath as he watched Naili go. Cognita turned and nodded to him.
“Aaron Vanwell. I apologize for the disruption.”
“Uh—no problem, Cognita.”
The young man watched Cognita go. Breathless, he stared at her back. Then, slowly, he glanced down at the unfinished gauntlet on the table and the battery. He hesitated.
