“Tell me something, Ylawes. You’re a [Knight], right? In that case, don’t you have an order or society or whatever? They’re all over Terandria, but you’ve never talked about one.”
Dawil twisted on his saddle to address Ylawes. The Dwarf peered at his friend, leader, and junior in years. Ylawes looked up, caught with a mouthful of sandwich.
He was eating a local delicacy. That was to say, toasted, baguette-like bread packed with all manner of vegetables—succulents, like roasted butternut squash lathered with actual butter, finely chopped green onions, carrots—all of which were generally roasted or fried in fats. This was because at no point had anyone seen fit to add meat to the bagel, instead trusting to the natural goodness of the warming meal.
It was more like eating a pocket-dinner than your typical sandwich. Dawil watched Ylawes chew and swallow. After a moment, the [Knight] wiped at his mouth; he’d taken off his gauntlets to eat. Then he peered at Dawil.
“What?”
“Your order, lad! Where’s your knighthood order?”
Ylawes gave Dawil a long and blank look as he fumbled with his water flask. He uncorked it, took a swig, and wiped at his clean shaven jaw.
“I don’t have one. It’s not mandatory, you know.”
“Really? I thought it was.”
The [Knight] gave Dawil a pained look. The two were riding horses. Ylawes rode a proud charger, a properly-trained stallion suited to combat. It wasn’t his personal mount; he’d purchased it at the last town they’d been through from one of the ubiquitous stables that crossed Izril. It was a lucky find; some other [Rider] must have been forced to sell their horse, and Ylawes had paid in gold at once to have it.
Dawil was riding a pony. It was a good pony, suited to long-distance travel. Plus, ponies were good for their endurance, intelligence, and they needed less expensive feed than some horses. Also, they were short, which was good because Dawil, as a Dwarf, was short. Not that short; he was still over five feet tall, but it did cut a comical sight, him riding next to the much higher up Ylawes.
The [Knight] frowned down at Dawil. Dawil frowned at Ylawes’ lunch. The [Knight] paused.
“Dawil, you’ve known me for, what, six years?”
The Dwarf scratched his beard.
“Yeah.”
“And not once have I ever mentioned my order. Or returned there. And you’ve been to my home. You’ve met my family. And insulted my parents.”
“That was an accident. It could have been a compliment.”
“Asking if my father was taking a new wife is not…”
“Your mother was pleased.”
Ylawes shook his head.
“My point is that not once have I ever mentioned an order.”
“Yeah.”
“So doesn’t that answer the question already?”
Dawil gave Ylawes a long look. At last, the Dwarf shrugged.
“Okay, why don’t you have an order?”
The [Knight] sighed. But it was a clear day, the road was long and slightly overgrown, and they were done with their latest mission. Ylawes still had a bit of rust on his armor, and he frowned at it. He took another bite of his sandwich as he absently tried to find a cloth with his other hand.
They’d been fighting Metalbite Slimes. Not good for adventurers wearing armor, but the slimes had been multiplying in an iron ore mine, and the nearby village was desperate to have them gone so their [Miners] could get back to work. And the Silver Swords championed causes like that, even at a cost.
Ylawes was tired from fighting with a quarterstaff—he wasn’t about to risk his sword against Metalbite Slimes, enchanted or not! He rubbed at his armor with the cloth, praying the enchanted metal hadn’t lost too much of either enchantment or metal.
“It’s just not necessary, Dawil. I’ll grant you that I could have joined an order, but I never needed to.”
“What, they let you become a [Knight] just cause you walked up with fancy armor and a shield?”
The Dwarf laughed. He was hunting for his lunch. His pony looked up as he fished a carrot from his saddlebags. The Dwarf stared at the carrot and fed it to the pony. Ylawes shook his head.
“I’m a [Lord]’s son. I practiced with weapons growing up, I have my own vow to defend people where I can—I fulfilled the spirit of my class. I never needed an order. With that said, I’ve had offers.”
“I don’t doubt it. Knight orders were always recruiting back in Terandria. Send your child to become a [Knight]! If they’re talented. And noble. Or just rich.”
Dawil snorted. He came up with a sandwich loaded with bacon. Ylawes eyed it. The Dwarf saw the look.
“My sandwich. You can eat your plants.”
“I don’t want it. But did you have to badger the poor village to kill a pig for you?”
“I paid. And they were only happy to do it! We rid their mines of slimes, Ylawes.”
“They had perfectly good sandwiches. This is delicious.”
Dawil shook his head.
“It’s all vegetables. That’s not a sandwich. That’s bread on a salad. This is a sandwich, like those ones Erin used to make. Truegold and sparksilver, I miss that inn! Those hamburgers and steaks whenever I wanted it?”
He sighed longingly and took a huge bite of his sandwich. Ylawes shook his head.
“We’ll visit again. Maybe if our road takes us towards Celum.”
“Yeah. So you can bother your sister again.”
The armored man frowned at his friend.
“I like to think we did more than that, Dawil. We fought monsters, nearly saw a war—and helped Yvlon and her team.”
“And ate like [Kings]!”
The Dwarf sighed. He nudged his pony back towards the road.
“So, about orders…you’ve never thought of joining one?”
Ylawes raised his brows.
“Should I? The downsides largely outweigh the benefits to me. There are a few in Izril, but you’d know more, coming from Terandria.”
“True! I guess they do tie you down, mostly. How many’re in Izril worth talking about?”
“The Knights of the Petal, the Order of Clairei Fields, the Durengal—not many.”
“Huh. We’ve got like…a hundred.”
Ylawes nearly choked on his sandwich. He coughed and took a drink of water.
“That many?”
“What? It’s a big continent. Why does Izril have so few?”
“Because we don’t live in the era of [Kings] and castles. Izril doesn’t have kingdoms either. Humans may have come to Izril thousands of years ago, but we’re still new to the continent. Well, a bit. Besides, we trust to adventurers and the local nobility to keep the peace. In that sense, they’re probably better here than on Terandria.”
“True. That’s why I moved to Izril. Terandria, you have to compete with the Hunter’s Guild and those idiots wearing armor.”
“[Knights].”
“Yeah.”
“Of which I’m one.”
“That’s what I said. Anyways, you should give it a thought, Ylawes. Some of the orders have benefits.”
The [Knight] paused.
“Such as?”
“Well, have you heard of the Irriven Redbloods?”
“No. Why are they called Redbloods? Wouldn’t it be ‘Bluebloods’?”
The Dwarf grinned as he slurped up some bacon.
“Nope. Redbloods. It’s because they’re made totally of non-noble applicants. In fact, that’s why they formed. A knighthood that provides arms and armor for their members and holds themselves to the highest standard of excellence. Lots of orders have perks. Ancient weapons, support in battle, even men-at-arms to fight with you. If you were with one of the big orders like the Redbloods, you could sleep some places free, earn items from your order for completing grand deeds—”
“Except that I’m not in Terandria, I’m actually noble, and knighthood orders demand loyalty and don’t usually let their members roam around freely.”
Dawil paused.
“True. But some let their members go on crusades. I’m just asking! Ever fancy taking a bit of paint to that armor and joining the Rose Knights?”
Ylawes kept eating.
“No. What’s brought this on, Dawil?”
The Dwarf scratched his head. He’d taken his helmet off, and his hair was still a bit damp from the sweat of combat.
“Nostalgia, I guess. It’s been a long time since I went home. I was wondering if you’d ever want to visit Terandria.”
The young man blinked, caught off-guard by the suggestion.
“Me?”
The Dwarf nodded complacently.
“Well, we’re a team, aren’t we? I can’t just run off for a few months and leave you with that half-wit. And Terandria’s safer, but there’s always work for Gold-rank teams. We could visit the mountains, maybe buy some new weapons, even visit said half-wit’s home while we’re at it…”
Ylawes winced and glanced ahead. After a moment, he paused.
“I’d never thought of it. Certainly, it’s an option…”
“Think on it. I like Izril, but I want to be back on Terandria in the next, oh, five years.”
Ylawes smiled faintly.
“You have my word on that. But that’s still a roundabout way of asking me, with knighthood orders as the premise.”
The Dwarf shrugged.
“Oh, I just like talking about them. They’re like nose hairs, you know? Each one different and in a different place.”
“That’s disgusting!”
“Well, some are interesting! They all do different things, and while some are for one kingdom, a lot are autonomous. [Knights], they have their own culture. They duel each other, get into fights—totally different from Izril! For you, it’s a class, but over there it’s culture.”
Ylawes finished his sandwich and looked at Dawil.
“Really? I’ve met other [Knights], including some of the Order of the Petal, but as you say, it’s just a class here. What happens in Terandria?”
“All kinds of things! Some knighthood orders start wars or go on grand quests! Surely you’ve heard about the time the Order of the Thirsting Veil quested for thirty years to retrieve the Scepter of Krakens? Or—how about the Order of Seasons participating in Daquin’s game with the Titan of Baleros?”
“I heard about that last one. But as I’ve observed, you only hear some stories from other continents. Not even the most impressive ones. What’s this about the—”
Ylawes and Dawil were chatting animatedly now and, as a consequence, riding a bit faster. Their horse and pony caught up to the rider ahead. The third member of the Silver Swords, who had been listening to their chatter with half a pointed ear, turned her delicate features at last and glared.
“Would you two mind? I’m on a call right now!”
The two other Gold-rank adventurers slowed and gave Falene abashed looks. Well, Ylawes did. Dawil just rolled his eyes.
“You’ve been talking for the last half-hour, Falene Pointyears. Why can’t we talk?”
“Be silent I’m…no, Bashea, I do apologize. My teammates are speaking. Males. And adventurers. Quite ill-mannered. Do forgive me.”
The half-Elf [Battlemage] flicked her fingers at the [Axe Champion] and [Knight]. Ylawes sensed the silence engulf Falene and her horse. He glanced at Dawil. The Dwarf cupped his hands to his mouth.
“If you could do that before, why didn’t you, half-Elf? I’ll tell you. It’s because you’re nosy!”
His shout startled several grouse nesting ahead of them. It was so loud, in fact, that it must have been audible even through Falene’s weak silence spell. She turned back and glared at him. Dawil settled back happily. Ylawes gave him a look.
“Do you have to bother Falene at every opportunity, Dawil?”
“Yes. Because she’ll keep her nose so high in the air she’ll end up smacking her head against her horse’s arse if I don’t.”
Ylawes had to snort and glanced away quickly. Dawil nodded. But then Ylawes turned back.
“Still. She’s on an important call.”
Dawil peered at Ylawes sidelong. After a moment, he reached out and patted Ylawes’ knee.
“There’s nothing my words can do to ruin whatever Falene’s asking about, lad.”
“Don’t call me lad. You’re thirty. By Dwarf standards, you’re younger than me.”
The Dwarf ignored that.
“The trouble’s dealt with. Miss Springwalker informed us after they got rid of those Wistram [Mages]. Plus, she’s not the one they’re after. Your sister, I mean. She’s fine.”
Ylawes clenched one fist.
“It seems like the Horns can’t catch a break. I understand going after Pisces for…his [Necromancy], but attacking an adventuring team in Liscor? That’s criminal! And my sister? If we weren’t so far away—”
“That’s Wistram for you. Don’t worry about it. Yvlon’s fine.”
“Her arms are still damaged. Ceria didn’t say anything about them.”
“They’re fine.”
Dawil was a good liar. Ylawes made his horse trot a bit faster, restless. The Dwarf opened his mouth, then closed it.
For a while, the Silver Swords rode in silence. The Human and Dwarf watched Falene speaking in her bubble of silence until at last she finished. They knew she was done because she took a finger from her temple and straightened; beyond that, there was no flicker of visible magic. The sound of Falene’s mare walking abruptly returned to the world as the half-Elf released her spell.
Falene was scowling, a rare open expression of displeasure when she finished speaking with her contact in Wistram. She looked at her companions and shook her head.
“I’ve just completed my discussion with my fellow [Mages] in Wistram, Ylawes.”
“And? Can you reverse this bounty on Pisces? Or do something about this team stalking the Horns of Hammerad?”
The [Knight] leaned over his saddle. Falene just pursed her lips.
“No. And, apparently, my influence isn’t even enough to merit a conversation with someone higher-placed in the Revivalist faction, let alone an Archmage!”
Dawil and Ylawes exchanged a glance. The Revivalist name was foreign to them, but they did know the basics about Wistram.
“What’s the issue?”
“Aside from the fact that Wistram was very reticent to give me any details about Ceria and Pisces until now? Oh, simply a blanket ban on any information regarding this Wistram team! Bashea—my friend—assured me that they were acting in Wistram’s best interests, but she wouldn’t tell me why Wistram had sent five full [Mages] all the way to Liscor! In fact, she kept hinting that I should return to the academy to learn more!”
The half-Elf, always dignified, or at least invested in keeping up that bit of half-Elven myth, flicked her hands angrily. If it was Ceria, she would have spat or cursed. Dawil raised his brows.
“This Bashea doesn’t trust your spell, Falene?”
“She should! It’s our personal [Message] variant. She and I studied together! We were roommates! She’d tell me anything—but something has her silent. I asked about recent events in Wistram and she kept telling me to come back. Something’s happened in Wistram.”
“Does it involve my sister and her team?”
Ylawes was worried. Falene sighed, turning to him.
