The dinner with Quin was mostly filled with talk of books—most of which Ryoka had never heard of—and Mousey. The dog attracted attention. And she was trained. Gralton had assured Ryoka she wouldn’t spook or disobey commands, but Ryoka was impressed. If anything, Ryoka had been the one who needed coaching when he let Mousey go with her.
“I’m going north still. Towards Reizmelt.”
“Really? You wouldn’t happen to be willing to carry a delivery north, would you? I have a letter I’ve been meaning to send up towards First Landing…”
Quin looked sideways at Ryoka. It was a common question, so the City Runner just smiled.
“I can drop it off at the Runner’s Guild in Reizmelt if you have it by morning. If anyone else has a delivery north, I can run it that way.”
She slept that night in the Salubrious Sleephome. Mousey curled up on the floor, and after a moment, Ryoka opened one eye.
“You can climb up if you want. Up, Mousey?”
The dog glanced up and then leapt onto Ryoka’s bed. The City Runner peered around, embarrassed. It was odd having an animal with you.
“Don’t get used to it. You’re a delivery. I’m not keeping a pet.”
Then she closed her eyes. She still didn’t like—
Mousey sneezed on Ryoka’s face. The City Runner opened her eyes, and the dog licked her face once.
“Don’t push it.”
 
——
 
Reizmelt looked like Ryoka had remembered it. But it was strangely inviting after all this time. The City Runner slowed her pace as she ran through the gates. It had been a long run. She inhaled as Mousey, panting happily, wagged her tail. What neither runner nor dog were prepared for were the shouts from atop the gates.
“Oi! Wind Runner!”
Ryoka glanced up, startled. Some of the [Guards] on duty were waving down at her. She blinked and then raised a hand. They usually never stopped her.
“Something wrong?”
“Nothing wrong! But where’ve you been blowing off to? Haven’t had a breeze like this in a while! And where’d you get the dog?”
The woman on the gates shouted down at Ryoka. The young Runner blinked, then grinned.
“From Lord Gralton! Say, are the Pithfire Hounds in Reizmelt?”
“I saw them just today! Mind blowing us a breeze? It’s getting hotter around here! Summer’s beginning!”
A gust of fresh air hit the battlements of the wall, and the [Guard] laughed. Ryoka waved as she ran into the city, bemused, but feeling—good. But that wasn’t the first time people called out to her. Let alone the last!
“Wind Runner! Wind Runner!”
Children who spotted Ryoka went shooting after her, begging for a breeze to go surfing down the streets. A few people Ryoka recognized waved at her and asked about the dog. Ryoka found herself slowing, explaining. So many people seemed to remember her. Mousey panted, letting people pat her or offer her treats.
It took a while for Ryoka to get to the Huntress’ Haven. When she did, she found Mad Madain sitting in his inn. It was empty, as usual. The man was removing meat from the bones of a deer he’d killed on a table. He looked up as Ryoka came in and blinked.
“Well, if it isn’t Miss Windy and—a dog?”
He stared at Mousey. The dog stared back and opened her mouth. Her eyes locked on Madain’s bones and the blood and meat. Ryoka blinked.
“Hi, Madain. I’m back. Don’t worry about the dog. She’s not staying long. Is Fierre here? Alber still around?”
“Yeah, they’re somewhere. What’s with the dog?”
“She’s a delivery.”
“Huh.”
Madain stared at Mousey. He looked at the dead deer.
“Is it hungry? Want a bone?”
Ryoka smiled as he picked up a large thigh bone and tossed it at Mousey. It hit the floorboards, and the dog stared at it, then at Ryoka.
“Kalde, Mousey. Go on.”
The dog leapt on the bone. Madain blinked. He stared at Ryoka.
“I heard you went on a big delivery. Bunch of crap down south. You alive? Missing any more fingers?”
Good old Madain. Ryoka waggled her right hand at him and then lifted one of her remaining digits. The [Innkeeper]-adventurer stared at her and then laughed.
“Your room’s upstairs. Piss off!”
One of his good days, then. Ryoka nodded and headed upstairs. Mousey followed her with the bone. Ryoka shucked off some of her gear and stared about her room. It was untouched. Madain hadn’t even bothered to change her sheets. She sighed. But then she smiled.
“I’m back.”
Mousey wagged her tail for emphasis. Ryoka paused and glanced down at her. Then she smiled.
“Time to complete my delivery, huh, Mousey? Don’t worry, you’ll like them. Come on!”
 
——
 
“Ryoka Griffin?”
Levil, Captain of the Pithfire Hounds and [Pyromancer], gazed up and gasped when the door to the Adventurer’s Guild in Reizmelt swung open. A few other teams glanced up. They stared at Ryoka. And then at the dog. Then Lamont, the [Warrior] for the Pithfire Hounds, freshly healed, shot to his feet.
“Miss Griffin! Hey, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt’s back!”
The rest of Pithfire Hounds shot to their feet. They came over, Lamont first. The [Warrior] reached out and clasped Ryoka’s hand. She blinked at him.
“Lamont, right?”
“That’s right. I still haven’t thanked you for saving my life. Miss Griffin, I owe you everything.”
“You’re back on your feet? But your ribs—”
The last time she had seen him, Lamont’s ribcage had been smashed, courtesy of the Wailer Frogs. The [Warrior] thumped his chest.
“I’m freshly healed—my chest is good as new! If there’s anything I can do—”
He was shoved aside by another adventurer, Bram. The [Beast Tamer] was accompanied by the remaining dog of the Pithfire Hounds.
“Miss Griffin, it’s good to see you back! We’d thought you’d switched towns you’ve been gone so long! We heard all about your run to Walta. And who is this gorgeous creature?”
He squatted down, looking at Mousey. She sniffed him, but warily. Ryoka bent down.
“Mousey, seddigore. Seddigore.”
That meant ‘friend’. Ally. It was what Gralton had used to introduce Mousey to Ryoka.
The dog wagged her tail as the Pithfire Hounds approached, reassured by the word. Makki, the wolfhound belonging to the adventuring team, went still at the sight of the bigger dog. Levil whistled.
“Dead gods, but it’s good to see you, Ryoka! And that dog’s a beauty!”
“I’ll say. And a proper giant too! Makki’s small compared to her!”
Ullica, Keima, and Tally, the three other members of the group, all came over. Ryoka shook hands as the rest of the adventurers squatted down. They were all dog-people. Makki held back as Bram gently introduced the two. Makki sniffed Mousey warily; the larger dog looked to Ryoka and got another seddigore before she sniffed back.
“What’s her breed, do you know? Oh, and where’ve you been, Ryoka?”
Levil couldn’t take his eyes off Mousey. Ryoka smiled.
“She’s an Aldasian-breed mixed with a Izrilian bulldog. Apparently.”
“Aldasians? Dead gods, those are Mothbear killers! Where’d you buy her, Ryoka? Is she your bodyguard on runs now? Mind you, she’d be good at it. Mousey, you said her name was?”
Keima exclaimed. She was feeling heavy muscle under Mousey’s fur. The dog happily flopped over as the other adventurers gave her a good scratching. She still looked up, panting, at Ryoka as the City Runner inhaled. She looked at Levil and his team.
“She’s from Lord Gralton Radivaek. His personal kennels. She’s not mine, actually. I’m just delivering her. Actually, Levil…everyone. She’s for you.”
The Pithfire Hounds froze. They stared up at Ryoka. Levil blinked.
“For us?”
Ryoka nodded. She glanced from face to face, feeling a coil of anxiety in her stomach.
“I know your team was missing a dog after the frogs. And I thought…well, I mentioned it since I was running through Radivaek lands. And I was thinking—”
Too late, Ryoka realized that she hadn’t asked Levil and the others if they wanted another dog. She should have, but it had slipped her mind when Gralton made her the offer! She began to panic.
“Look, I knew that Dassa was really special to you. And I don’t want to replace her! I just wanted to—Lord Gralton heard about your team and—I’m sorry, I should have asked. It was—”
Levil smiled. He stood up and hugged Ryoka. She blinked and relaxed. The [Pyromancer] was beaming.
“Dead gods, Ryoka! Don’t apologize! It’s a wonderful gift. We’ll treasure her. From Lord Gralton’s own kennels? We talked about adding a hound to our team like that!”
His team was nodding. Tally looked stunned. The [Ranger] stared at Mousey.
“From Lord Gralton? But he trains the best dogs in the world! The continent, at least! Hey, everyone! Did you hear that?”
Some more adventurers were coming over. They exclaimed as they heard from Tally about Mousey. Ryoka was blushing, but relieved. Bram was beaming.
“An Aldasian warhound? She’s worth a fortune! And she’s smart! Lord Gralton sent her to us?”
Everyone looked at Ryoka. She flushed.
“He’s a big dog lover. Keep her safe, alright?”
Levil nodded solemnly with the rest of his team.
“We’ll do that. Don’t worry, Ryoka. Dassa was the only dog we ever lost. And it was only because we were on the verge of getting wiped that she was in a position like that.”
Bram nodded as well.
“It’s a dangerous life, like being a hunting dog, Miss Ryoka, but its like being an adventurer. Dogs aren’t large enough to fight monsters, most breeds. I hear Carn Wolves can be trained, but those are wolves, with fur like steel. But dogs fight smart. They go for the flanks, and they can even dodge spells. Yes, it’s risky for them. But if they get hurt, it’s because we were all in danger of dying. I promise you.”
“I know. And I know she’ll love it.”
“You got Lord Gralton to give us a dog just like that? And you brought her all the way here?”
“It—yes?”
Ryoka blinked as Keima hugged her fiercely. Levil grabbed Ryoka around the shoulders. Embarrassed, the City Runner tried to flee.
“It was just—well, just something I thought I’d do—”
Tally objected.
“We have to buy you a drink! And we’re in your favor again, Miss Wind Runner! Tell us where you’ve been? You can stop, can’t you? You haven’t been in Reizmelt for ages!”
“I’d love to. But I need to make one more stop. Tonight. Why don’t we all go to the Huntress’ Haven? I have to check in at the Runner’s Guild and let them know I’m back for emergency deliveries…”
Ryoka couldn’t handle all the genuine affection being thrown her way. She retreated towards the door. Levil’s team protested, but Levil held them back.
“Tonight, then!”
Ryoka nodded. She was about to leave when she noticed something. Mousey was trotting after her, head held high, looking expectant. Ryoka paused.
“Oh. Right. Mousey?”
She squatted down and looked at the dog. Mousey wagged her tail, ready for action. Ryoka hesitated. Gralton had shown her how to do this too.
“Mousey, seddigore. Krakka. Seddigore. Understand?”
She gestured, and Levil came over. The adventurer knelt, and Ryoka showed Mousey his fist. The dog sniffed it.
“Krakka. Seddigore.”
But Mousey kept staring at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitated. She looked at Levil.
“She’s yours. Keep her safe. She’s a really…good dog.”
The [Pyromancer] nodded. He watched as Ryoka got up and backed away towards the door. Mousey looked up.
She followed Ryoka. The City Runner froze. She pointed back at the Pithfire Hounds. They were all watching Ryoka with mixed expressions. Ryoka bent down again and scratched under Mousey’s chin.
“No, Mousey. Sit. Turt. Turt. This is your team, now. Seddigore, see?”
She got up slowly. The dog whined. She followed Ryoka a half-step and then looked at the Pithfire hounds. Ryoka felt a pain in her chest. She turned her back.
“I have to go. They’ll take good care of you.”
She began to walk towards the door and heard a bark. Mousey was never supposed to bark; it was part of her training. She looked back, and the dog stared at her. Ryoka pointed.
“Turt. Goodbye.”
She kept walking. Mousey stared at her back, then up at Levil. The [Pyromancer] smiled, and the dog stared at him, reassured. But then she turned back to Ryoka.
“I have to go. I can’t keep a dog. I don’t even like them.”
The City Runner muttered, avoiding everyone’s gazes. She made her way towards the door. She’d never thought this would be the hard part. But Gralton had warned her not to get attached. And she wasn’t. Slowly, Ryoka walked out of the Adventurer’s Guild and leaned against the door.
“I hate dogs.”
 
——
 
That night, Ryoka Griffin saw Mousey again. The dog looked up at her, and then came over to be petted. But there was separation, of sorts. The Pithfire Hounds were already familiar with her, and Makki and Mousey, the two dogs, were both roaming around the inn.
Mad Madain wasn’t used to the crowd. But he tolerated the people and entertained himself by throwing bones for the dogs to catch. Ryoka Griffin smiled a bit as she saw Mousey’s head go up, watching the bones fly. Levil had to remember to give her the kalde command to eat.
“She’s better-trained than Makki. I hear those dog-commands are so they don’t take wrong orders in the field. We’re going to have to practice with her, but she’s going to be a welcome member of the team. We owe you greatly, Ryoka. And we’ll stop by with Mousey as much as we can.”
Ryoka nodded. She turned away from Mousey for a moment. Alber was eating at one table. She’d seen him plying his [Fistfighter] trade this evening. He looked up and nodded to her.
“Ryoka.”
“Hey, Alber. Anything new happen?”
The young man paused. He shook his head, picked up his fork, then glanced up a second.
“Nice to see you.”
He went back to eating. Ryoka smiled. Some things didn’t change, and after all the greetings she’d gotten, this was almost a relief.
But some things had changed. Ryoka looked around. She still hadn’t seen one person in Reizmelt, the person she’d been most eager to meet.
“Is Fierre in the city? Or has she gone home, does anyone know?”
“She’s here. Saw her this morning and she paid for the week. Probably working in her secret job.”
Madain grunted. Ryoka looked at him. Fierre’s status as an opener and broker of secrets was known in the inn—the Pithfire Hounds looked confused.
“Is she still working there, do you think?”
“Probably. Girl has more customers. Should charge her more rent.”
“Maybe I’ll go visit her. Levil, it was great catching up, but…”
The [Pyromancer] was nodding.
“Anytime, Ryoka. You’ve got Runner business?”
“And Fierre’s a—friend.”
Ryoka smiled at him. She nodded towards the door, only a bit unsteady after the three drinks she’d had.
“I’ll just duck out. I’ll come back if she’s done for the day. See you—”
