“Hold on, she’s not in her old spot.”
Madain interrupted. The [Innkeeper] looked at Ryoka as she paused. He grinned and looked at Alber. The [Fistfighter] glanced up, not as amused by the secret knowledge they shared.
“What?”
“It got blown up. Her last spot. Fierre’s in a new place. Don’t know where it is myself. You’ll have to ask around.”
“What? Her spot got—by what? Who?”
The former adventurer shrugged.
“Heard it was a bunch of sewing needles. Girl must have pissed off someone. Maybe that [Witch] she was talking about.”
Ryoka stared at Madain, open-mouthed with horror. Then she turned and sprinted out of the inn. Levil looked at Madain.
“But she’s okay. Fierre, I mean?”
“Oh, sure. Right as rain. Probably had some good healing potions. Way I heard it, she has some high-level defensive Skill. But she’s totally fine.”
“You could have told Ryoka that.”
Mad Madain grinned at Levil.
“So?”
 
——
 
Fierre was working in her new office when there was a pounding at the door. The Vampire girl froze and stared around her room.
It was larger than the previous cubby that had been large enough only for her desk and a cabinet. This new place was located in a less…upstanding part of town, but it was made up for by the thick stone walls, all warded, and the new door.
Twice as thick as the last one and enchanted with more than just protection spells. Even the hail of needles that had gone through the first one would have trouble with this one. Fierre had been organizing her expanded file cabinets. Now she sank back in her chair.
The pounding wasn’t any of her code knocks. Fierre doubted whoever was on the other side could get in, but just in case, she reached for one of her emergency tools. It wasn’t for her; she’d rather get arrested or deal with whoever was on the other side herself. But she had a bag of holding she’d shove her files into and then toss under a concealment charm to keep hidden.
It was a last resort. But for now, Fierre kept silent. She waited, as whomever was pounding on the other side shouted something.
“Fierre? Fierre? It’s me! Ryoka!”
The voice jerked the Vampire girl upright. Ryoka? She stared at the door and rose. But then she hesitated.
It could be a trick. Warily, Fierre stalked over to the door and murmured a word. A porthole appeared in the metal, allowing her to see through the metal. She saw a familiar face, anxiously hammering on the door. Fierre hesitated.
“Ryoka?”
“Yes!”
“What’s the password?”
Ryoka paused. Fierre saw her hesitate.
“Uh—”
The Vampire girl grinned. She threw open the door.
“Come in! Ryoka!”
The City Runner entered Fierre’s new office and stared about. The Vampire girl hadn’t decorated, so her new office was like the last one—a room to conduct secret business in. Even so, there were some trappings of Fierre’s success.
For one thing, a tiny scrying mirror, secured in a soundproof box when Fierre wasn’t using it. And another—a list of bounties on the wall, for information, items, people. Unofficial and official. But what was most impressive was Fierre’s information network.
She had three huge cabinets and several maps now, showing everything from the influence of the underworld to trade routes. She had a copy of the Adventurer’s Guild bestiary, a list of every [Mage]’s Guild across Izril—and a bunch of unofficial contacts—and a list of favors owed, to her or to others.
“It’s amazing what gold can get you. I spent over half of it, but this is the result! It’s put me on a new level. Now I have a network and I can actually leverage some influence! I’m a name, Ryoka. And I—”
Fierre caught herself. She was babbling as Ryoka sat in front of her desk, staring at all the papers Fierre had pulled out. The Vampire girl stopped and looked at Ryoka. And her exuberance faded.
“I’m sorry.”
“For what? I should be apologizing to you, Fierre. I should never have asked about Belavierr. You nearly died!”
Ryoka looked up. She was still stunned by everything that was new. She hadn’t known about Belavierr’s curse on Fierre. The Vampire girl shook her head.
“No. It was my fault for being careless. Ryoka—the Order of Seasons came because of me.”
The City Runner nodded. She’d worked that out as the two caught up. She inhaled and bowed her head.
“I know. I wish you hadn’t said anything.”
“I was angry. After I got hit by that curse, I lost my temper and—I’m so sorry.”
Fierre bit her lip. Her pointed teeth dug into her pale flesh. In her room she was more uncovered than anywhere else, so Ryoka could see her pale, bloodless skin. But she had blood; Ryoka had heard at the Runner’s Guild how bad the devastation had been at her office. People were of the opinion that Fierre had barely survived the needles thanks to her door and healing potions and some lucky Skills, but Ryoka knew better.
“I’m sorry. Belavierr was—I’ve seen those needle storms she conjures. Did it—did it hurt?”
The Vampire girl’s pause told Ryoka enough.
“Not much. You know I’m tough. If the needles had been silver, I would have died. But regular metal and wood?”
She tried to shrug casually. It didn’t fool Ryoka. Fierre stared at her friend.
“What about you? You met her. I know the Order of Seasons…failed. And the Drakes! Did you see any of it?”
“All of it. Yeah, I met Belavierr. She was…”
Ryoka hesitated. She searched for words to describe the ringed gaze, the [Witch] who had forgotten how to be Human. In the end she shook her head.
“…A monster. I thought she wasn’t. But she was a monster. The Order of Seasons was right to go after her. I think. I don’t know. If she was anything, it was true to herself. And she did love someone. Her daughter. It’s just that she cares for nothing else. She was—a monster. Not like you or me. In the end, I wanted to like her. But I couldn’t accept what she did.”
Ryoka bowed her head. She looked at Fierre. The Vampire hesitated. You or me. She sat down at her desk.
“I’m still sorry. I wish I’d caught more, quicker. The Drakes. I never expected that. I should have! It came from Manus, the attacks. Retaliation for Liscor.”
“I figured. You know what’ll happen next?”
“Retaliation from the Humans. In time. At the very least, they’ll be sending a bigger army next year to the Bloodfields. They might be too busy with Magnolia Reinhart’s trade war and infighting, but they’re not going to forget this. Then again, the Drakes did a lot of damage economically. It’ll take time to recover.”
“Well, I don’t think Gralton will forget. Or anyone else.”
Fierre nodded. She wanted to ask Ryoka why the girl smelled like dog. And if she really was partners with Dustrider Charlay, like the report coming from Walta claimed. And so much more.
Ryoka wanted to ask too. But she had come a long way. So she sat a moment, sighing. Here, in this office, she could relax. She looked up, and saw two red eyes. Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle waited. And Ryoka eventually sat up and smiled.
“Some run, huh?”
“Yeah. You know, your ratings have shot up since that run to Walta. Going to Riverfarm didn’t hurt you either, although it’s mostly reputation-based.”
“I have good ratings?”
“Oh yes. You’re getting some attention because you know the fabled [Emperor]. And doing a run for Lord Gralton didn’t hurt either, let alone Lady Bethal. You made your way back here quickly too. Have you…gotten better at using the wind?”
Fierre glanced up at Ryoka. The Wind Runner rested her arms on her knees.
“A bit. How do you know?”
“I have a report claiming you stopped a tornado. Made out of fire.”
Ryoka smiled briefly. Her left foot twitched unconsciously.
“I didn’t stop it. I turned it. I knew I could. Or at least, I thought I could.”
“But if you could do that—did you level up? I mean, I know you don’t. But did you…gain more power?”
The broker watched Ryoka carefully. The City Runner paused.
“Maybe. I don’t level up. But I think I can ask the wind to do more. That’s all. It was a tornado made out of fire, Fierre. I thought it was like hell. There were flames everywhere. And I knew I had to do something. I thought I’d burn up. But I had to try.”
Fierre shuddered. Fire was one of the ways Vampires died. She watched as Ryoka went on. The Asian girl’s face was faraway.
“The wind was different than I’ve ever seen it. Than I could have ever imagined. That’s why I can control it better. Because of what I saw. [Mages] study and try to understand. I guess the secret with me is going out into the world. Witnessing. Experiencing.”
She looked up abruptly and forced a smile. And then—abruptly—stopped forcing it. She leaned back and let out a genuine expletive.
“Fuck. I’ve seen some insane stuff, Fierre!”
The Vampire girl laughed. Because that was Ryoka. Unguarded, the young woman grinned at the Vampire girl. Fierre raised an eyebrow.
“Tell me about it, already! I want to know how bad it was. I visited home and even my father said Belavierr was way too dangerous to mess with. We know about her, you know.”
“Vampires? Why doesn’t that surprise me? Dead gods, Fierre. She was insane. I can’t even describe—”
Ryoka sat forwards, trying to explain what it was like meeting Belavierr the first time. The way she stood so unnaturally and spoke. Fierre listened, jotting down some notes, but mainly hearing Ryoka speak. Talking in her own turn.
“Nothing much’s happened around Reizmelt since you’ve been gone. But you remember those Ogre raids a while back? A band of them coming out of the hills, to the east? Southeast, that is, a good eighty miles. Well, it’s gotten worse. There are multiple bands of them. The bounty’s been upped, but it’s a dangerous area at the moment. I really don’t recommend running there, but there’s gold to be made.”
“Damn. I’ve never seen Ogres. Is it bad?”
“Well, they’re crossing over into Lady Pryde’s domain. Magnolia Reinhart has interests in the region, but the Ogres were hitting unclaimed territory up until now. Some groups got wiped out by adventurers, but there’s two bands you do not want to mess with. Speaking of which—the trade war is biting the lands opposed to Magnolia Reinhart hard. You could earn big money if you can break the Skill she’s got going on.”
“I don’t mess with her, thanks.”
Ryoka spread her arms. Fierre eyed the City Runner for a moment, but she held onto that tidbit and went on, consulting her notes.
“Well, if you don’t like that, I have news from Liscor. A team of Wistram [Mages] got spanked hard. I’ll tell you all about it when I have more solid information—you’re always asking about Liscor, right?”
“I have friends down there. Anyone hurt?”
“No one died. It’s just funny to hear about. Oh, and there’s a bounty, but it’s small sheep, honestly. Wistram had to correct it, which is weird—they sent out a mass-correction. I’ll grab a copy. Let’s see. Some adventurer is killing Goblins too, in the same area as the Ogres. No, wait, a [Knight]. Not just a few; he’s taken out multiple tribes. They call him the Goblin Slayer.”
Ryoka blinked.
“The what?”
“Goblin Slayer. Anyways, it’s just a rumor.”
For a second, the young woman appeared unhappy. But then she shook her head.
“Anything else?”
“Big? No. I mean, I could go on all day, but that’s all the really interesting stuff. Oh, and one more thing.”
Fierre grinned slightly as she pulled out a piece of paper from the bottom of her file. She presented it to Ryoka with a flourish; she’d been holding onto it.
“I found what you were looking for. I put some money into it.”
Ryoka froze. She stared down at the paper.
“You found them?”
“It wasn’t easy. But they are working as adventurers. And you’re right—they’ve got Magnolia Reinhart backing them. Or some of her staff, I think. I had to tiptoe carefully to get their location but this is it. Semi-permanent; they’ve been seen there the last month.”
Fierre tapped the address she’d written down and all the other notes. She watched Ryoka’s face change. The young woman inhaled.
“You never said why you wanted them.”
“I—need to meet them. I’d explain, Fierre, but it’s really personal. They’re there?”
“I’d be careful, Ryoka. They’re Magnolia Reinhart’s staff. You said you didn’t mess with her.”
“Yeah. But this is different. I’ll be careful. But…”
Ryoka was staring down at the names. Fierre didn’t understand what her fascination was with a group of Bronze-rank Humans. But then…she waited, watching Ryoka’s face. Hearing her blood flow accelerate. Fierre licked her lips and then caught herself.
At last, Ryoka Griffin put down the paper. She studied it again, but then slid it over to Fierre.
“Later. I’ll deal with it later. You know, the Pithfire Hounds are at Madain’s inn. And I said I’d try to be back. Fierre, it’s good to see you.”
“You too, Ryoka.”
The Vampire girl grinned. Ryoka smiled and then hesitated. She gleaned sidelong at Fierre.
“Do you want to go back and have a drink? Talk some more? Can Vampires even get drunk?”
The Vampire girl grinned wickedly.
“Want to find out?”
Then her face fell. She hesitated, and Fierre peered towards the door.
“Oh, but I don’t like drinking in crowds. I mean, I would, but with the teeth…”
Ryoka paused. She listened to how Fierre—who was older than her, in fact—sighed. Longingly. Fierre had a wistful look in her eyes. And Ryoka thought of her friends.
Erin. Mrsha. Ceria. Yvlon? Fals. Garia. She had left them all behind. But now, here, she had more friends.
Wiskeria. Alevica? But surely, Charlay. And Levil and his team. Lupp. But her first friend, the person she’d found herself missing because they understood each other sat right here.
Fierre. Ryoka had missed her friend. And she hadn’t known until recently what it was like to miss someone like that. You couldn’t miss what you’d never had. Now, though, she sat back down and put her bare feet up on Fierre’s desk. The Vampire girl stared at them.
“Your feet are incredibly dirty, Ryoka.”
“Sorry.”
Ryoka didn’t take them down. She grinned at Fierre and gestured around the sealed and warded room.
“You don’t like drinking in public? Let’s drink in your new office, then. That’s got to be the most private place in the world.”
Fierre blinked.
“But I work here!”
“So? You own this place now, right? Why not? Unless Vampires can’t get drunk?”
The broker blinked. But then she grinned wickedly with all her teeth. It was a smile like a Drake’s, but this one was reassuring.
“Oh, we can. It’s just a bit harder. And I know a good spot. Want to grab a bottle?”
