“I’ve got some meat scraps here. Mostly gristle, but we have a few bones. Chicken bones, mainly…”
“Raw? I can’t give her cooked bones. They’ll splinter.”
Ryoka had been told that along with a lot of other information for the trip. The [Server] nodded confirmation, and Ryoka gestured at the table.
“Sure, put it there. She’ll eat them. Thanks.”
The [Server] nervously put the bowl on the table, and Ryoka put it on the floor. Mousey stood up, practically drooling over the bowl, but she looked to Ryoka first. The young woman gave her a nod.
“Eat, Mousey. Kalde.”
The dog dug her face into the bowl and began devouring the food. Quin came out as the [Server] exclaimed.
“She’s so big. Where did you get her?”
Quin gave Ryoka a knowing look.
“She’s from Radivaek kennels, isn’t she? There’s no finer place for dogs on the continent. But she’s a mighty specimen even so. Was that a special command you gave her?”
The City Runner nodded.
“Her name’s Mousey. That’s a signal that means she’s allowed to eat. She won’t eat without.”
Mousey perked up her ears and licked her chops as she stared up. She looked at Ryoka, Quin, and the entranced [Server] and went back down to her bowl. Her tail thumpthumpthumped the ground.
“Can I touch her?”
“Scratch her belly.”
Ryoka smiled as the [Server] bent. Quin made a sound—clearly thinking of hygiene or his customers—but the [Server] was already scratching, and Mousey tried to roll over and eat at the same time. She panted, and Ryoka tried not to smile.
Ryoka didn’t like dogs. But she’d found a small place in her heart for her companion. Especially after she’d seen Lord Gralton and the Radivaek lands the Oldblood Drakes had attacked.
 
——
 
Lord Gralton Radivaek had been called more beast than man. Wild, savage, a barbarian compared to many [Lords]. And that he was a [Dog Lord] only added to his image of some neanderthal of a man, rabid, unpredictable. That was what Ryoka had heard of him.
But it was unfair. Rumor had twisted fact and exaggerated truth. For when Ryoka Griffin visited Gralton’s lands after three days of travelling north from Riverfarm with Charlay, she found him in his kennels.
He was kneeling, his head bowed, as he tended to his dogs. She saw his bare shoulders, the rougher, stained clothing. She could smell him as she paused in the kennels and the [Servants] announced her. Charlay was staying away; she’d borne Eloise here when the [Witches] had flown to Gralton’s aide. She didn’t want to return.
She said it was too sad.
Lord Gralton raised his head as he held a dog, a puppy barely a few months old. It was wheezing, coughing as he fed it. Goat’s milk, letting it lap up the liquid a bit at a time and cough.
The [Dog Lord]’s eyes were red. He had been weeping. His voice was rough as he stared at Ryoka.
“You? What do you want?”
“His Majesty sends his regards.”
Ryoka stopped, hesitating. She bowed slightly. She had not bowed to Bethal. Or Magnolia. But it wasn’t Gralton who demanded it. It was the silent dogs. The half-empty kennels.
Lord Radivaek’s grief.
Riverfarm had been ravaged by fire. Though the village itself had been spared, the Oldblood Drakes who had infiltrated the area had sown discord, pitted the [Witches] against [Knights] from Terandria, and let loose a firestorm that had destroyed villages, farms, and so much more. It would be years before the area began to recover, but perhaps with Laken it might recover sooner. But those Drakes had been but a few of many.
They had targeted the nobility’s lands. And while Ryoka and Riverfarm had thwarted the Drake attacking their lands, other areas had not been so lucky. A Drake had come to Lord Gralton’s lands while he had been absent. But it had not spread fire. Instead, the weapon had been plague.
And poison.
The puppy wheezed again as Lord Gralton stood. He was a big man, and Ryoka saw a bit of that wildness in his eyes. Fury too; no wonder the [Servants] had announced her and fled. But mostly grief. He stared at her.
“You’re that City Runner that Laken said he could trust. Griffin.”
“Ryoka Griffin, Lord Gralton. That’s right. Laken sends his regards. Riverfarm is secure. They have the Drake’s body. He—asks if you need assistance.”
“No. The [Witches] already left. Said there was nothing more they could do. You—you’re not much for someone an [Emperor] trusts. What do you want? Just coming to deliver a message? If so, get—”
Gralton growled, but the puppy in his arms coughed again. Ryoka heard it, deep, wheezing. She saw Gralton lower his head. Instantly, his growing anger changed.
“Does it hurt? Here. More milk?”
He cradled the puppy, offering it more to drink. The puppy whined, a soft sound. Gralton bent his head. Ryoka looked at him as the little dog buried its head into the crook of his arm. Coughing. He rocked it until it began to breathe slower. Sleeping. Only then did Gralton look up, and his fury was extinguished. Wordlessly, he walked over to a little bed and laid the puppy there.
The kennels were like no animal rescue or even shelter Ryoka had ever met. No rows of cages, obviously, but Gralton had built a paradise for dogs. Some sections were neatly divided to allow breeds to be cordoned off or allow aggressive or troubled dogs space, but there was also space for dogs to run, toys like leather balls, beds, brushes of all kinds for fur, even an area for training equipped with well-worn, padded armguards and dummies made of straw to be attacked.
The kennel was massive, and it could have housed hundreds of dogs without even crowding them. It had a massive staff too, trained to handle the canines from raising them to caring for their medical needs and teaching them, whether as shepherds, companions, or for battle.
But while Ryoka was certain the kennel was usually full of life and probably barking dogs playing or running about, it was deathly silent here. Only a few attendants were present, tending to quiet dogs. And the animals were silent, huddled together.
Death had swept through this place. Gralton turned to Ryoka, wiping roughly at his eyes. Ryoka looked at the puppy, still laboring to breathe.
“Poison?”
“That damned Drake. It got the wells. It got the water—put poison in the air—no one noticed. Damn idiots! The dogs knew. But the Drake must’ve flown about. Lost the scent. I got it after Laken told me it was there. But it was too late. Lots of people died. But the dogs. They had no part in this! Those bastard Drakes. I’ll kill them. All of them!”
Gralton’s hands clenched and unclenched. He would have roared, but the dogs in the kennel were watching their master. A few came up, and Ryoka uneasily backed away. Gralton gave her a sharp look, noting her unease. Then he bent, smiling, and scratched a dog who came up panting.
“You don’t like dogs.”
It wasn’t a question. Ryoka shuffled her bare feet.
“I have a history with them. Some have tried to bite me.”
“That’s because they’re poorly trained. Or their owners are worthless. These ones won’t bite unless they think you’re a threat. And they deserve more. I should never have left. Damn Godart and Byres. If I’d rode north without them—!”
One of the dogs flinched back from Gralton’s voice. The [Lord] instantly lowered it.
“I’m sorry. Here. Come here, Mousey.”
The dog leapt into his arms, panting, licking his face. Ryoka stared at Gralton. He was a different man with animals. Her, he stared at with a lot more intelligence than she’d been led to expect.
“Then again, I’d never have known it was Drakes. Damn thing was invisible.”
“You…got the Drake?”
“My dogs did. Shame I didn’t have a head. But we know. The Drakes will pay.”
Gralton’s eyes narrowed. Ryoka paused. He was patting the dogs, letting them circle around him. Lean in. It was strange. But Ryoka felt like she was at a wake, like the one Riverfarm had held for their dead. The dogs knew what had happened. Just like the people. They were mourning.
“I’m sorry.”
“For what? You bring the Drakes? I heard you helped with the [Witches]. And if they hadn’t been here—that Centauress, she outside?”
“Charlay? Yes.”
“Huh. In that case, stay if you want. Those damn [Witches]—helped. The old one, with the medicines and tea? Lots of the little ones wouldn’t have lived if not for her. They might even last longer thanks to her brews.”
Some wouldn’t. Ryoka saw that too. Some of the dogs had lived, but barely. Poison and plague had cut lifespans, damaged lungs. But if Gralton was half-beast, the man part of him could be grateful. Or the dog part. And she felt for him. How could you not? After a moment, Ryoka felt a head on her knee and jumped.
One of the dogs—Mousey—was staring up at her. The dog was panting, and she looked interested in Ryoka, but her tail wasn’t wagging. After a moment, the young woman bent. She held a hand out and gingerly reached for the dog’s head to pat it. Mousey stepped back, and Gralton snapped.
“Don’t do that!”
Ryoka froze. Gralton glared at her.
“Greet her first. Mousey, seddigore. Let the dog get to know you. She’s battle-trained; don’t scratch her head first off! That’s asserting dominance, and warhounds don’t like that. Dead gods, woman, don’t you know anything about dogs?”
“Sorry. What do I do?”
“Hold your hand out. A fist, not an open palm. Hold still. Let her sniff you. There—keep low, don’t stare her in the eyes. If she lets you, pet her belly. And don’t raise your voice.”
“Like you?”
The young woman glanced up. Gralton snorted.
“They’re used to me. They understand me. They don’t know you. And you smell like a bunch of things they don’t know about. [Witches], for one.”
Ryoka Griffin glanced up, startled. Gralton just stared at her. Not a dog trapped in a man’s body, oh no. But a man who’d learned something of dogs. She wondered just how good his nose was. She wondered what Skills a [Dog Lord] gained.
“So Laken’s rebuilding?”
“That’s right. Yitton Byres is still there, but he’ll ride towards his estates within the week. Laken is organizing his village. There are a lot of refugees.”
Hundreds already. Possibly thousands. More people were coming to Riverfarm, which had survived the fires. Also because they’d heard there was work. Safety. Despite the [Witches]. Gralton grunted.
“Fine. What about the Goblins?”
He looked sideways at Ryoka, fishing in a belt pouch for a treat. The young woman paused.
“They’re separated from Riverfarm. Laken is having them watched, but they have their own area. They haven’t all run away.”
“So there’s a point to how long we took getting back. Fine.”
The [Dog Lord] sat, scratching a huge—Ryoka had to think it was a wolf, although the dog looked more like a bulldog. But it was massive. It came over, and Gralton laughed as it walked right up to him. He looked up after a while and saw Mousey was rolled over as Ryoka scratched her belly.
“You staying? It’s late.”
“If you’ll have us, we’d take a bed. We wouldn’t want to—”
“Stay, then.”
Gralton snorted. Ryoka shut up. After a while, Charlay trotted in. She looked around.
“Oh. They’re better now. Hey, Gralton.”
“Centaur. Watch your hooves.”
Ryoka found herself sitting with Charlay and Gralton as more dogs came over. They were warier of Ryoka than Charlay. There was a bright intelligence in their eyes, more so than even dogs in Ryoka’s world. Gralton just snorted when he saw Ryoka’s surprise.
“I’m a [Dog Lord], woman. You think that’s a pretty name? [Beast Trainers] turn their animals smart. Strong. My hounds think. They remember a friend, and they aren’t idiots. See?”
He nodded at Charlay. A bunch of dogs were mobbing her for attention, licking her. The Centauress was giggling.
“Stop that! Stop that! I feel like I’m going to be eaten! Hey, wait—that’s my tail! Back off or I’ll kick!”
Ryoka found herself smiling. Gralton almost smiled back. She looked at him amid his half-empty kennels and the dogs and ducked her head.
“If we’re imposing—”
“Stay. I owe Laken for the [Witches]. You uncomfortable around dogs?”
He jerked his head at her, a challenge. Ryoka hesitated.
“These ones are alright. And I do know a team of adventurers who own dogs.”
“Really? Which ones?”
A light appeared in Gralton’s eyes. Ryoka shrugged.
“The Pithfire Hounds.”
“Never heard of ‘em. Silver-ranks? Bronze?”
“Silver. I ran a delivery for them once. They…lost a dog fighting monsters. Their entire team got hurt. It was just—”
The [Dog Lord] raised his head.
“Did the dogs do the fighting while the adventurers stayed back? Or did they run and let the dogs stay back?”
He stared at Ryoka. Her mouth went dry.
“No. All of them were fighting. And another dog survived. They like dogs. They’ve been grieving their friend. It was an emergency. Wailer Frogs.”
It occurred to Ryoka that whenever she talked, she tended to have a big mouth. Charlay had said as much. Gralton relaxed slightly, listening to the explanation of the battle. He studied Ryoka again.
“You run emergency deliveries to adventurers. Makes sense why Laken called for you. Here—feed Mousey this. And tell her—kalde. That means she can eat.”
Ryoka did. Much to her surprise, she found herself sitting for an hour, playing with dogs and then throwing a ball. They didn’t live in the kennels; in fact, they often ran outside, hunting or playing. Gralton allowed them to do just that, and after a while, Ryoka realized she was staying the night with Charlay.
Lord Gralton ate there, in the kennels, sharing his meal with any of the dogs who wandered over. He’d barely left it since returning home, apparently. He relished the company of the animals. Not exactly as equals—Ryoka saw him calmly stop an overeager husky who kept trying to jump up on her. He led them as naturally as breathing. And he was kind to them.
Humans not so much. Gralton gave orders like a [Lord], and he ruled—Ryoka heard him snapping about redigging wells that night—but he clearly loved animals more than people. Still, he had a soft spot if you looked.
“You’re still the worst person with dogs I’ve ever seen. You have to be dominant. My hounds will walk all over you.”
He informed Ryoka as he reprimanded another over-aggressive dog. She flushed, but Gralton was looking at her speculatively. And when she left the next day, he gave her a gift.
 
——
 
“So the dog’s yours?”
“I’m just delivering her. Her name’s Mousey, by the way.”
“Mousey? She’s so adorable!”
