War was a study in economy—but the value of specific assets had a multiplicative and exponential effect on one another when operating in concert. Shiv was a Legend; he was Unique; death fueled him with greater power with every return. None of that mattered if he faced the enemy alone. It was a simple problem of arithmetic: when Shiv had a hundred Shapeless Tides gliding across his body, he could survive an average of five minutes while being bombarded by forty or so Heroic Magi if he didn’t use his Physicality for anything else.

The thing was, the Heroic Magi filling the invaders’ ranks numbered a thousand times more than forty at all times. Then, their collective potency was force-multiplied by their Diviners and Scouts who tracked and designated Shiv—by their Vanguards, Riders, and chaff who spent themselves keeping him pinned and overwhelmed. The side that held the superior metric always ate their lesser with no other factors in play.

But there were always other factors in play.

Factors like counter-intelligence and decoys; like other Legends aside from Shiv, and other lesser Pathbearers. And then there was he himself again, able to exist in multiple places at the same time, and capable of slipping out of context for a few moments to gain an absolute advantage, as well as forging a small army from the substance of his soul to apply even greater pressure on the battlefield.

He was carried off along with the salvo in more ways than one, in more bodies than one. The few hundred shells fired in the first five seconds carried in them twenty Vitaeforged golems as disposable decoys and four True-Clones masked among the following barrages. All of them were stained with his soulstuff, and so the enemy Diviners would suffer the vaguest of truths.

The Deathless is on the battlefield, the System might whisper to them. He descends among the shells.

Then would come the vision, but since his golems were molded from his legend and there were thirteen bodies in total, what they received was less intelligence and more chaos. And with that came an impossible dilemma.

The battle in the Umbral Wilderness stretched on for ten thousand kilometers. Everything in the proximity of Gate Piety’s Abyssal gateway, once Compact territory, had been rebuilt by Uva’s Dreaming Storm. The forest was gone for as far as the eye could see. The great ravine a few kilometers away that once separated Compact and First Blood territory, the one Shiv, Uva, Adam, Ikki and other companions had once fled through while riding on the Jealousy, had been filled up weeks ago. Around the gateway itself, Psychosomatic walls and trenches went up in layers, but worse yet were the ever-regenerating fortifications that kept erupting up along the front. Uva’s Legendary-Unique Skill gave Gate Piety an undisputed advantage when it came to battlefield control and geography—for there was nothing material she couldn’t usurp with her mind.

“First salvo on approach!” John Gunhead called out to Shiv. He felt the Ranger adjust the projectile trajectories of the shells, jerking up and left erratically as bolts of lightning carrying payloads of Geomancy detonated as flak. Though Gunhead was just a Hero, his Artillery Shepherd Skill was a ridiculous boon to possess amidst carnage, as not a single piece of shrapnel was allowed to graze the impending barrage. “Fucking amateur hour up here. Grayskins would have never let that shit through—grav-nets would've been cast in layers.”

“Don’t think they have that option with us,” Shiv grunted with a chuckle of amusement, watching the battlefield from on high through Adam’s perspective.

***

Near the cavern ceiling of the local Umbral Wilderness, Adam Arrow glared down at the unfolding battle. His Immolating Omniscience cleaved across the horizon, incinerating thousands of dimensionals, golems, blood horrors, and lesser Pathbearers with each second—but their lives were worthless. Instead, he sought to designate the Burned Ones to help alleviate Shiv’s navigational impairments.

The divine light he inflicted upon the night cast twin struggling armies as dancing shadows.

Every offensive came in waves and took weeks to recover. On this third and newest offensive, the enemy fielded an estimated twenty-five million combatants and maybe a tenth of that in logistics. Gate Piety worked in the inverse, and for good reason. The Court of the First Blood and the Vultegs were mass-based forces that used similar strategies—the Gloved Hammer. The weaker Vultegs and blood horrors were mixed together and flung forward with little regard for their lives. They were simply meant to overrun or overwhelm.

The Compact of Babel, meanwhile, was too damaged and demoralized to join the battle proper, as Piety had struck them in a pre-invasion of their own before they ever had a chance to enter the fray. The “alliance” against Piety began this travesty without coordination, without cooperation, with every side rushing to claim Gate Piety for their own. As though they were united when it came to capturing the Gate, they were divided in all other aspects. During this period, the invaders were not allies. Not nearly. Instead, it was more accurate to describe them as a commiseration, for they refused to move in tandem with each other, instead assembling their own forces in desperate pushes to reach and claim the offending gate before their rival-allies did.

This proved to be a calamitous mistake.

The first to pay in blood was Compact, for they had the wealth, they had the manpower, and they had the contracts, both literal and metaphysical, to summon forth unending armies of dimensionals and demons, calling enslaved populations from other worlds long conquered and bound by the will of the Lords of Law and stranger creatures still, plied and persuaded through offerings of esoteric magic and more degenerate gifts in supplement.

Lord Belalu’s fifth son, a young and glorious Hero who dubbed himself the Griffin of the Golden Blade, had this force fashioned in his image. He had their armor bedecked in layered enamels of gilded brightness and forced them to assume the name Belalu's Gilded, in honor of his father, in competition against his brother. As above, so below; the microcosm of man was represented, reflecting the macrocosm of his nation against their allies as well.

Microcosm and macrocosm suffered a blow at once, then, when before Belalu's Gilded could even march forth—a force eight hundred thousand strong, made up of all races and Tiers, sourced from many of the dimensions they'd conquered and compelled onto the battlefield—they were struck by a brutal offensive and invaded themselves.

Gate Piety had cast the first stone, and that stone's name was Shiv. A Necromantic arrow followed that stone, detonating him within their dimensional staging grounds with the same payload Adam and Shiv had used to send a divine entity in the form of the Educator running, back when Piety was still called Theborn and under Lesser Marshal Confriga’s rule.

In a flash of flame and ruin, Belalu’s Gilded, once eight hundred thousand strong, were reduced down to two thousand Heroes and a scant few Legends. The Masters were left with charred corpses and partly salvageable equipment. The rest joined the ash in the air and the dust draped across the ground. And like everything Shiv did, he never just hit someone once. A chain of Vitae explosions tore across Compact’s nearest territories, targeting critical supply depots and dimensional strongholds.

The mass casualties sustained shifted their battle strategy from an ostentatious march of victory to a desperate, passive slog where they drew back their other central forces and started stationing their High-Tier Pathbearers among slaves and other non-combatants to stop Gate Piety from executing the same strategy. Unbeknownst to them, this was Roland's desired outcome, for Compact might have been rich in resources and connections, but they lacked a proper unifying mythology for their people, and when they started sustaining pain of their own, they immediately took on a shield of unethicality to preserve their own lives. A shield that they continued maintaining for well over two months as the others fought on.

Gate Piety struck them time and again, reminding them to stay passive, to stay out, inflaming their loss aversion to the extreme.

A similar pre-emptive offensive was carried out against all the other invaders as well—but those had all learned their lesson from prior engagements. The First Blood and the Vultegs conscripted elite Diviners for a single duty: to monitor Shiv's position at all times. When he approached, they would scramble their magi to drive him back. Costly though this strategy was, it kept them from being struck down from the first moment.

And that left the orcs—who were still absent on the battlefield, even now.

Even a full month after the Challenger’s unwilling fast came to a close.

“Is it arrogance or education that compels them to stay their hand?” Adam asked his first faithful.

The Culturist tilted his head and considered the question. “Sport, I would say. Sport and preparation. The Challenger is in no hurry—and this Quest comes second to the Holy War he has declared. A new Orchestra must be formed to solve Gate Piety, and that needs a High Maestro as well. Though my former kindred are not discouraged by death, they do not seek to reincarnate until they have squeezed every drop of thrill and sustenance from the battle.” A shrieking chorus of artillery signaled Shiv’s approach to the frontlines. The shells zipped across the air in an instant, slipping through the burst flak without a single interception. A grin split the Culturist’s brutish face, displaying his full wealth of sharp fangs. “Rangers are remarkable soldiers, are they not?”

On this, Adam did not disagree. The Terminal Opus alone had proved invaluable in the offensives prior, and he had little doubt it would cement its worth in mithril once more this day. But if the Rangers were strategic silver, Uva was operational gold. Her Terrorspawn were the lesser assets in play, though the thousands of eldritch monsters that constantly spilled out of Gate Piety’s Skein of Hollow Dreams Skill blunted the overwhelming odds Adam's forces found themselves faced with. It wasn’t just their constant supply either—though the blood horrors could smash through certain Terrorspawn with sheer weight, they mostly just died when they ran into a creature born from a fear of heights or got lost in an eldritch pit that digested them.

This divided the focus of the invaders’ magi even more—and that was already a problem since they needed to solve the supreme problem of Legend Uva Mettabon herself. In the early days of battle, they tried to tear through her storm directly—as even if she was a Legendary-Unique Psychomancer, the collective power of their magi overshadowed her presence alone.

This assumption resulted in a series of mass casualty events as the enemy magi ended up tainting their own mana fields with Outsider corruption, which caused their spells to fizzle and their wards to collapse. A butchery followed, as without any functioning magi, Shiv entered the fray as the other half to Uva’s supreme problem—with the two of them forming a singular dilemma.

If the invaders wanted to assault Gate Piety, they needed to overcome the Dreaming Storm that kept reshaping the battlefield—as it was doing right now. With Uva's thoughts, cities rose from nowhere, turning open-field charges into desperate close-quarter affairs. Though shattering the structures was easy, more often than not, Vanguards would find themselves charging down psychic bridges and placed within killboxes—or worse, directly in front of Shiv or, not much preferably, Sir Marikos. And if enemy magic wished to tear her magics down, they needed to partially rupture their own fields afterward to stop themselves from being consumed by an eldritch infection and the swarm of fractured spiderlings it carried.

But if they focused purely on her to push the offense, then they would be shattered defensively, for they needed magic to put the Deathless down. There had been one attempt to eliminate him via a team of Low Legends assembled from the finest pure Martials among the First Blood, Compact, and the Vultegs.

To their credit, they managed to overburden Shiv’s Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable enough that he was left rooted in place. The cost was eight dead Low Legends and the final collapse of their first offensive as the rest of Gate Piety’s elites pushed forward in an uncontested rampage that was only held back when an entire Court of Second-Generation Elder vampires allowed Lord Scorn to use one of them as an Avatar, as all seven million Vultegs of the second wave had perished in battle.

With that, things began to change. The First Blood and the Vultegs drew closer—cutting Compact out of the arrangement entirely for their impotence while restructuring their own battle plans. Instead of fighting like a numerically superior force willing to rely on raw attrition, they were forced to conduct strategy—and named a central Field Marshal to guide the conflict: the mysterious Legend-Assassin Maria Corcusa of the First Blood—Second-Generation Elder of Bloodline Ophereus.

For two weeks, nothing happened. For two weeks, there was relative peace as the invading alliance threw up dimensional barriers to delay Adam’s Omniscience while recouping their forces. Then, in the third week, a series of assassinations shredded Gate Piety’s scouts as a new offensive took form in two parts.

