Instead of rushing Gate Piety en masse from the First Blood territories, they sacrificed thousands of Masters and Heroes to give their chaff a chance to close in. The first wave of Masters and Heroes were not Vanguards, but dedicated infiltration teams—their deaths came fast, yet not fast enough. Adam found himself taxed of time as he turned his gaze away from the frontline to burn the hidden out of the dark while the rest of Piety did the same. But it was also a massacre in two parts, as Gate Piety’s lesser Pathbearers and dimensionals were the first ones hit before their attackers joined them in death.

New volunteers recruited from across Yellowstone took the worst of the losses—being too lax when it came to their personal security on patrol. Observation posts went dark across the frontline. Border wards were disassembled by the intruders; a series of bombs nearly went off within the Gate; and a particularly bold Thief got within ten meters of Adam—before he combusted before the presence of his Domain of Heroism. Chaos unfolded across Gate Piety; their strategy had been turned against them. And while that chaos was active, the true hammer fell while Uva was locking down the Gate.

The second wave came from all sides as the blood horrors were teleported forth in an attempted encirclement—which promptly failed as they were too thin in the north and were breached in seconds when the local Dragon-Knight garrison rode out. From there, Gate Piety began teleporting their own orc renegades across the backline, resulting in a counter-encirclement of the enemy along the north and western sectors.

And now, they were once again responding to another grand offensive—except this time, the frontline was uncomfortably close as Uva was unable to focus on holding their first three lines of defenses. As such, the fighting was happening right on the borders of Gate Piety, with the invaders driving the unsupported Terrorspawn back—causing the near-gateway turrets to come alive and spit arcing flame and acid for the first time.

“We’re too top-heavy, aren’t we?” Adam asked the Culturist. That felt like a question his father might ask—and with Roland’s absence and the near catastrophe that followed it, the younger Arrow couldn’t help but cringe. This would have never transpired under Roland. It had barely been a few days into his Delve, and the Gate was intruded upon half a dozen times over. For all Adam’s Omniscience, he wasn’t omnipresent. And though his first reaction was always to blame himself for coming short of perfection, he couldn’t afford to play prideful games while his home was at stake. “We need more Mid-Tiers. A lot more. A lot more that aren’t orcs. I’m tired of doing loyalty purges. We need mass, Culturist. A collection of Legends is power, but not true mass. We have no core.”

“Building a reliable middle class takes time,” the Culturist noted.

“Time we do not have,” Adam growled, gesturing at the battlefield.

The Culturist smacked his lips. “I disagree. The enemy surprised us indeed—but only because they thought recklessness to be their ally instead of ours. Even if they reached the gateway, that wouldn’t be the end, but more of a start, for then they would have to contend with the mana core directly, and the Ascendants besides.”

“And Gate Piety would be humiliated. Our mythology as an impregnable city would turn to dust, and—”

“Then you will learn how short people’s memories are—and the worth of propaganda thereafter.” But before the Culturist could elaborate, a thunderous impact interrupted their conversation. The incandescent mists of the Divinity lurking within Adam and surrounding them froze a beam of corrosive mana projected at them from kilometers away. With a flick of his fingers, the Culturist disassembled the offending Necromancy. “Hm. Necrotech spell. A hired Sell-Skill, I suspect.”

Adam glared in the direction of the spell, but he stayed the course and scythed his Immolating Omniscience across the battlefield. Flashes of sickly green magic blinked over the horizon as more attacks came. All of them jerked to unnatural stillness within the fifty meters occupied by Adam’s Zone of Absolute Dominion. “Fools.”

“No.” The Culturist sighed. “Just ignorant. After all, Necromancy withers almost anything. Just let them struggle against the absoluteness of your Divinity so they don’t turn their magic on someone they can actually hurt.”

At that, a series of inertial discharges disintegrated tens of thousands of Pathbearers. The complex weave of spell patterns amongst the enemy suddenly twisted away from wrestling against the Yellowstone-loaned Poly-Magi formations to desperately trying to eliminate the Deathless before he collapsed their offensive all by himself.

“Shiv,” Adam said, a faint smirk spreading across his face. “Do you know what I’m seeing from up here?”

Across their mental link, the Deathless moved forward—all twenty-four of his bodies—as he splattered through the blood horrors and Adepts like a hurricane might rip through a city of brittle glass and rotted wood. “Too many survivors?” Shiv asked innocently.

Adam barked a laugh. “Remarkable! You got it in one! Now change that. And bring me the head of their Burned Ones. The fact they still have any Legends at all offends me.”

“Yes, Demisaint Asshole! Your words! My will! Mass death and horrific violence for peace!” Being the prick he was, Shiv threw a unified salute across all his bodies to mock Adam as he set about doing just that.

“Bastard,” Adam grunted, though a chuckle escaped him.

“Children. Focus.” Such were Uva’s only remarks—but they were all that was needed. The banter had gone on long enough. Now was the time for blood and trauma to flow in the direction of the enemy; today was the day that the third offensive on Gate Piety savored a miserable death at the hands of an Endhound in human flesh.

The Culturist and Paragon watched as an eruption of plagueflies and darkness crashed over the invaders, and a once desperate stalemate began tilting toward another genocide. Screams of despair and acts of desperation exploded across the battlefield as the march on Gate Piety turned into a series of last stands against He Who Rises From Ash Eternal.

“Our Deathless is turning into quite the little apocalypse, isn’t he?” the Culturist mused.

“Quite,” Adam agreed as he shaped a Shard of Exalted Flame along his Spellstring to start picking off the distracted magi. “Now, let’s see if we can finally push his Legion of Self to the next tier and remove that ‘little’ in front of apocalypse.”

My Mind Shaped By Total War 201 > 202
