For once, Lyonette didn’t smile when she greeted Pawn. In fact, she hadn’t come over when she’d spotted him sitting by himself at lunch time. She’d kept serving tables though the Worker was sure she’d seen him. But it was a good ten minutes before she walked over.
It was almost as if she’d been avoiding him. But after he had sat and waited patiently, refusing to let Drassi get him a drink or food, Lyonette had walked over. Now she stood, looking somewhat tired as Pawn sat. He waited for her to take a seat. She did not.
“Would you like to sit and talk with me?”
“Not today, Pawn.”
Lyonette glanced tiredly around. So did Pawn. The inn was not busy at this time of day, which pleased him. He would have more time to chat.
“Do you want to tell me about the inn? Or would you like to chat about the Hive first? There are a few interesting developments that may intrigue you.”
He had been buying new objects left and right to put in the Hive. Knitting needles, yarn, little balls to play catching games, and so on. Pawn hadn’t seen the Antinium playing with some of the objects, but he was sure they would begin using them soon. After all, the Soldiers used to not read any of the picture books and now the books were the most sought-after object in the barracks. But to his surprise, Lyonette shook her head.
“Not today, Pawn. I’m a bit—busy. Look, why don’t I get you a drink and we can talk later? Next week, maybe?”
That was strange. Pawn hesitated.
“Of course, if you are busy I will come back another time. Tomorrow, perhaps?”
“Um…sure.”
Lyonette looked distracted. And a bit upset. She kept glancing over her shoulder and looking at Pawn. He nodded.
“I will not take up any of your time. But before you go—”
Lyonette was already turning away. Pawn called after her.
“And you are feeling well?”
She stopped, mid-step. Pawn saw Lyonette’s shoulder’s tense, and then she whirled.
“Why are you asking me that?”
Her voice was loud. Too loud. Pawn saw a few of the Drakes and Gnolls eating lunch look up and heard conversations cease across the inn. Erin poked her head out of the kitchen. Pawn hesitated.
“No reason. I am just interested in your wellbeing.”
“Really?”
Lyonette stared at him. Pawn shuffled his legs and looked away.
“Yes?”
“Then why do I get the feeling that you’re still thinking about my missing class?”
Pawn’s heart skipped a beat. He tried to keep his voice smooth.
“I never mentioned it. I never said a word about it.”
“Yes. And you’re not saying it so loudly that I can hear it! You keep asking if I’m well. You keep coming here, day after day, telling me about the smallest things. I wouldn’t care. I’d enjoy it, but you ask me the same question each time. Why?”
Lyonette advanced on Pawn, angry. He tried to scoot back in his chair, but the [Barmaid] stood right in front of him. Now everyone was looking at him. Pawn debated lying. He could say—
Lie? To Lyonette? He caught himself as he was about to utter an untruth. Pawn looked up at Lyonette, and unwillingly, he answered her honestly.
“…I have been praying every day that your class will return.”
The shock that ran over Lyonette’s face was like a living thing. It drained the blood from her face, made her eyes go wide, and then, quick as a flash, ignited anger once more. Lyonette stared down at Pawn. Her voice trembled.
“Why?”
The Worker shrank. But he replied defiantly.
“I believe you need it back. Your class.”
“You think I need it?”
“Yes.”
Pawn saw Lyonette’s mouth open angrily. He rushed forwards before she could speak.
“I think you need it. I think you should have it back. I think you shouldn’t be content not to have it. So I have prayed for it.”
“I told you I was better off without it! What about what I want?”
Incensed, Lyonette put her hands on the table. Pawn leaned back and then stopped. He spoke, his mandibles quivering slightly.
“I think you are wrong.”
For a moment, Lyonette gaped at him. Then she glared.
“Stop it. Just stop it! Don’t pray and don’t tell me what I need!”
She stood up and turned away. Pawn scrambled out of his chair.
“Lyonette, please. I am trying to help—”
“Maybe I don’t want your help!”
She whirled and snapped at Pawn. He felt like he’d been struck. Lyonette glared.
“Why does it matter to you? Why do you care? It’s my class! It’s my life! Why does this matter to you?”
“I just want to—”
She spoke over him, her voice growing louder and louder.
“You want? What about what I want? I liked talking to you, I really did! You and I are friends! But this isn’t right! This isn’t fair to me! Don’t pray for me! Don’t try to change me! Don’t try to give me back what I don’t need!”
She stared at Pawn, and to his horror, he saw her eyes were shimmering. Lyonette rubbed at them, and her voice caught.
“Please, just leave me alone! Let me move on! Let me—”
She moved as if to walk away and noticed her audience. She had been shouting near the end. Everyone was staring. Erin looked flabbergasted. Lyonette turned red. Her eyes welled up with tears, and she turned.
“I—”
She didn’t finish her sentence. Lyonette ran up the stairs. Pawn watched her go. He felt like something had ripped out his chest, spilling his insides across the floor. Slowly, dizzily, he looked around. Pawn stared at the others, stared at Erin, and then slowly walked towards the door. He opened it and turned his head as rain poured through.
“I am sorry. Please tell her I am sorry.”
Then he stumbled out into the rain.
 
——
 
He had never felt so worthless. He had never felt so small. Pawn sat in the barracks and wished to disappear. He was a failure. He was useless. He sat and he sat and he knew everything was wrong. He wished he was dreaming. He knew he was not. That was worse than a nightmare. If things were a nightmare, he could wake up. But he couldn’t. And everything kept getting worse.
Silence. It was horrible. It weighed down the barracks. No one moved. The Soldiers and Workers stood around Pawn as he sat on the floor, curled up into a ball. He didn’t move. He didn’t eat. He didn’t respond when Yellow Splatters approached him or when Purple Smile poked him. He didn’t move when Anand called his name.
“Pawn. Pawn. What is wrong?”
The Worker didn’t respond. Anand stood over him, anxious.
“Yellow Splatters came to get me. I did not understand why. What is the matter? Are you hurt? Pawn?”
Pawn wished Anand would go away. He didn’t want to talk. He didn’t want to live. He sat still, ignoring Anand’s words until the Worker left. He was the worst. He had made Lyonette cry again.
He had been sure. So sure! He had known that if he prayed hard enough, Lyonette’s class would come back. Then she would be happier. So he had prayed every day. He had gone to see her. But all he had done was anger her. She did not want his help. She did not want to talk to him.
She hated him. Pawn remained still, feeling the hard ground beneath him. He did not respond as Yellow Splatters tried to tug his arms apart. The Soldier was strong, but Pawn held on with all his might and there was nothing that the [Sergeant] could do short of breaking Pawn’s arms. Pawn stayed where he was. Until someone kicked him in the side.
“Get up.”
Klbkch’s kick knocked Pawn sideways. The Antinium landed on his left side, but he did not uncurl. Klbkch made a harsh clicking sound and kicked him again.
“I said, get up.”
Pawn did not respond. The kick had cracked the carapace on his side, but he did not move. Klbkch grabbed him and dragged him up. Pawn didn’t move. He was a ball of misery.
“You have abandoned your duties. Anand tells me you have not moved for over half a day now. Why are the Soldiers and Workers here unattended to?”
No reply. Klbkch uttered another sound that Pawn had never heard an Antinium make. The Soldiers and Workers around him shrank. Then Pawn heard a rasping sound. Klbkch had drawn his swords.
“I see useless goods, bought with the Hive’s money. I see Workers and Soldiers, listless and lifeless. I see you, unmoving. Respond.”
Pawn did not reply. He waited as he sensed Klbkch move around him. The Revalantor placed the sharp tip of his sword on the back of Pawn’s neck. The Worker did nothing. Klbkch raised his sword and paused. Yellow Splatters and Purple Smile were staring at him. Their hands were not clenched, but the other Soldiers and Workers were…watching. Klbkch waited. In the silence, Pawn felt the cold sting and did nothing.
After a lifetime, a second, Klbkch withdrew the point of his sword. He turned away.
“You are a disgrace.”
He turned and stalked out of the barracks. Pawn did not move. If he felt anything, it was bad that Klbkch had not ended it all then and there. He stayed where he was as time passed on. Despairing. Hating.
There was no point to any of it. He had made a terrible mistake. He would never uncurl. He would sit here and starve, like he had once seen another Worker do. He was not Pawn anymore. He did not want to be Pawn. He just wanted to disappear.
And perhaps he would have. Pawn sat and sat until something changed in the Hive. He felt it. At first, it was distant movement. The stepping of many feet. He did not care. But then he heard a voice. Not the staccato click-speech of the Antinium, but a softer voice. A kind voice. It spoke at a distance, and then Pawn heard words.
“…how long?”
He heard a distant reply, crisp and precise, and then another one, quieter, more subdued. Klbkch and Anand. The voice grew louder.
“Wow. Really? And he’s just…okay, let me see.”
The footsteps approached. Pawn heard more shuffling. Soldiers and Workers standing and sitting around him drew back. He heard the voice clearly now. A kind voice. A loving voice.
“Oh no. I think I see the problem.”
He knew her. He wanted her to go away. But he didn’t move. Pawn shook as the voice, the person approached. He feared her. More than he hated himself. He feared what she might do. What she might say. The young woman knelt next to Pawn as he curled up into a ball. She looked around and sighed.
“What a mess. Okay Klbkch, Anand. Give me some room. I’ll try and sort this out, okay? I should have asked Lyonette what was really wrong earlier. As for Pawn…give me a few minutes.”
He heard an answering voice and then the footsteps retreated. Pawn stayed where he was. He felt the softest of touches on his shoulder and quaked.
“Pawn?”
Here she was. The one who would lay out his sins. The one who could move his heart. His creator in some ways. His savior in others. Terrifying, wonderful, magical, and peaceful. Pawn wished she would leave. He feared what she would do. And part of him, a tiny part of him hoped she could make it all better. Because if there was anyone who could, it was her.
Erin.
