Lyonette hurried into the kitchen as the five Hobs sitting at their table gave Pawn the fisheye. He ignored them. As soon as Lyonette returned with a fresh towel, Pawn thanked her. He sat at a table near the fire and spoke.
“Are you well, Lyonette? Are you feeling better? I was worried that you might still be in distress.”
“You were? Well, I’m better. I feel fine now. I’m embarrassed about yesterday.”
“You’re…alright?”
Pawn stared at Lyonette hard. She gave him a cheery smile.
“I am! I think yesterday was just shock.”
“I see.”
Pawn was confused. Lyonette seemed so much better today. It was completely at odds with how she’d seemed yesterday. She hovered around his table, waving at one of the Goblins who was raising a hesitant mug.
“Sorry, Ishkr’s not in yet. We’re training new staff, but I’m the only person for breakfast. Do you mind?”
“Not at all.”
The Antinium watched Lyonette take the mug that one of the Hobgoblins offered her. She refilled it, and when she returned, he scrutinized her again.
“So you don’t mind losing your class? Truly?”
“Not at all. I’m glad, actually.”
Briskly, Lyonette mopped down the table.
“But you are royalty still, aren’t you?”
The [Barmaid] shrugged.
“You mean my name? Lyonette du Marquin? Forget about it. It’s just Lyonette now. I’m a [Barmaid]. Not a [Princess]. And that’s alright. That’s perfect, really.”
“Really?”
At last, Lyonette looked up with a frown.
“Really, Pawn.”
He met her gaze. She looked annoyed now. Pawn hadn’t intended that. He looked away meekly.
“Okay then. I was simply worried.”
Lyonette smiled.
“And I appreciate it. Thank you, again, Pawn. But I really should get back to work. Can I get you anything? Or did you want to talk to Erin again?”
Of course. He had his duties. Pawn shifted in his chair. He should really talk to Erin. But he couldn’t help but feel like his conversation with Lyonette had gone all wrong. She said she was okay. But was she really? He couldn’t imagine it. She was a [Princess]. She had been. She’d taken pride in it. And now it was gone. That couldn’t be okay.
And yet, if she said so, what could he do? Pawn watched Lyonette turn away. He opened his mandibles before he could stop himself.
“Wait. Can we not talk further?”
She turned back, surprised.
“Talk?”
Pawn hesitated. That had slipped out.
“I do not mean to take you from your duties. But it has been a long time since we have chatted together. Too long.”
“It has been a while. We used to talk back when Erin was gone and I was in my inn. Starving.”
A rueful smile stole over Lyonette’s face. She tossed the dust rag onto another table.
“I have missed it. You’re always busy. And I have a moment.”
“Then you do not mind talking with me?”
Hopefully, Pawn looked up at her. Lyonette smiled.
“Whatever gave you that idea? My problems are one thing, but I always have time to talk with you. Is something happening in the Hive? I heard you talking about more Workers joining your group. Is there a problem?”
She took a seat across from Pawn. He sat up a bit straighter.
“Not a problem, but we lack entertainment. You see, I was going to speak with Erin about the issue of—of boredom. Revalantor Klbkch has given us scheduled downtime, but we lack activities to perform in the rain. I was hoping Erin could help. Unless you have some ideas?”
“Well, why not teach them something? Or read them books?”
Pawn nodded. He relaxed a bit as Lyonette sat across from him, smiling. This felt better. She looked like normal.
“I could do that. But I was hoping for activities they could perform when I am not around?”
“Ah, I see the problem. And your people need activities? Well, have you tried giving them normal activities? Like needlework? Or pottery?”
“Needlework? Pottery? As in making trade crafts? The Antinium are not proficient in such areas.”
Lyonette laughed.
“No! For their own enjoyment! What about games? Surely you have something. Like—tag. Even I played that game growing up.”
“Let me write this down.”
Pawn looked around, patting his side. He had forgotten his belt pouch! Lyonette smiled.
“Erin probably has some parchment and a quill. Hold on, let me find it.”
She got up and went into the kitchen. Pawn waited until she came back. Then he gratefully accepted the quill and ink and began scribbling down notes. He was glad she was well. Only—was she? Lyonette smiled and offered him silly suggestions and good ones, laughing as she asked him whether the Antinium might enjoy learning to embroider. But he couldn’t help but think it was partly an illusion. Pawn sat and talked with Lyonette until Ishkr came in with two of his Gnoll friends and the inn began to fill with guests. Then Lyonette had to go.
“Good luck with your Antinium, Pawn. Let me know how it turns out, alright?”
“I will. Thank you, Lyonette.”
Pawn bade her farewell at the door. He hesitated, opening his mandibles. But Lyonette was already busy giving Ishkr orders. He turned away, still feeling like something was wrong. But he couldn’t put his finger on it.
 
——
 
The next day, Pawn surprised Erin by opening the door right as she was passing by. She jumped.
“Pawn?”
“Hello Erin. I am sorry to come so early. But I was hoping to speak with Lyonette. Is she here?”
Erin blinked at Pawn. It was very early. She rubbed her eyes.
“Lyonette? Yeah, she should be down shortly. Um. Is something the matter, Pawn?”
The Worker paused guiltily.
“The matter? No. I was just…wondering if we could speak more about her proposals.”
“Her what?”
“She gave me some advice as to how I could entertain my Workers and Soldiers yesterday.”
“She did? Good for her! I was going to suggest playing baseball inside the Hive or something stupid like that. Uh, so what did she say?”
“She suggested expanding the barracks to create a communal living space. And introducing a variety of crafts into the Hive. I have done so and wished to apprise her of the progress.”
Erin nodded, smiling and covering a yawn.
“Hey, that’s great, Pawn. I’m sure Lyon would love to hear about it. Why don’t you sit and wait for her?”
Pawn nodded obediently. He sat, and soon enough, Lyonette came downstairs. She was surprised to see him.
“Pawn! You’re back. Again?”
Pawn nodded. He waved at Mrsha who blinked at him and waved back. He nodded to Lyonette.
“I am. I took your advice yesterday.”
“Oh. Good.”
“I wanted to tell you about my results. And perhaps talk more if we had the chance?”
Lyonette glanced at Erin who shrugged.
“Of course I have time. I just need to feed Mrsha. Have you had breakfast yet?”
“No. I would gladly pay for a meal.”
“Hold on, then.”
Lyonette left and came back with some hot eggs which Pawn gladly ate. She ate with Mrsha, awkwardly telling the Gnoll not to gobble her food while she half-watched Pawn. When Mrsha was done, Lyonette came to sit with Pawn.
“Okay, tell me about it.”
Pawn nodded and sat up eagerly. He had just finished telling Lyonette about how the Workers were attempting to learn how to crochet when he heard footsteps. He turned around and saw the Horns of Hammerad stumbling downstairs. Lyonette immediately got up.
“It’s already that time? Sorry Pawn, but I have work to do.”
“I understand. I am sorry to have taken your time.”
“No, it’s no problem. I enjoy hearing about the Hive. Really. It’s just…”
Lyonette gestured towards the adventurers. Pisces was yawning, and only Ksmvr looked anywhere near awake. They all made a beeline for the nearest table, sitting and staring expectantly at the table in front of them as if willing food to appear. Pawn nodded.
“Please go about your work. I will leave.”
“You could stay. Once I finish, I could talk more.”
The young woman’s smile made Pawn glad. He shook his head.
“No, I simply wanted to talk for a while. I have my own duties as well.”
He stood up and looked at Lyonette. He took a short breath and spoke as Lyonette was turning.
“And you are well?”
She froze. Pawn stared at her back.
“You felt better yesterday. Are you feeling as well today?”
Lyonette half-turned and smiled at Pawn.
“I’m fine.”
“Good. Good. In that case I will…”
Pawn backed away. Lyonette nodded.
“Come again, any time!”
She took his plate. Pawn watched her head into the kitchen. She was good. That was excellent. He turned and walked towards the door. He had duties in his Hive now. The fact that Lyonette was well was all he’d come to confirm. He left as Lyonette hurried out of the kitchen with plates and Ceria and Pisces squabbled over who’d get the larger portion. He went back to his Hive and performed his duties distractedly.
The next day he went back. And the day after that. And the day after that.
 
——
 
Yellow Splatters thought that there was a problem. It was Pawn. He didn’t like to think it, but three days had gone by and it was growing clearer to him that something was amiss.
Pawn. The Worker was present in the barracks every day of course. He ate with the Painted Soldiers and Individual Workers, gave orders, and left each morning for an hour or two before returning. That was all right. What wasn’t all right was what he was doing.
He came back each day with new things. Objects. Leather balls made to be tossed around or chewed on, custom chess sets, knitting needles, yarn…every day he would arrive with more strange paraphernalia, bought with the budget allocated to him by Klbkch. And that was fine too. Normally. Yellow Splatters understood that new things could be wonderful. Like books. He loved books with bright pictures. But this?
“Have a group of Workers try knitting, Yellow Splatters. It is a useful occupation they may enjoy.”
“I have purchased a set of balls for playful fun. You can toss them and catch them. Like so. If anyone is interested, please, let them try.”
“Here is some clay. I think you can make pottery with it. If any Soldier creates something, I will inquire about firing it in a kiln.”
The last time Pawn had come into the Hive, he’d brought a mass of wet clay in a wheelbarrow. Now Purple Smile and Yellow Splatters stared at it. The [Sergeant] poked a hand into the wet clay. It squished.
Pottery? It was a word Yellow Splatters had no notion of. He stared at Pawn as the Worker hurried over to his sleeping spot. Yellow Splatters had many questions. What exactly was he supposed to do? What was a kiln? How did one fire clay? With a crossbow?
He looked at Purple Smile. The other Soldier was not smiling today. Nor had he been for the last few days. He sensed it too. Something was wrong.
It wasn’t the new objects. It wasn’t Pawn buying things. All of that was good, in theory. It was that when Pawn went out and came back with new things for the Antinium to try, when he brought wonderful ideas into the Hive or encouraged the Soldiers and Workers to try this, it was always him telling. Not showing.
He…had not paid attention to the Antinium in the barracks for the last few days. That was what was wrong. Before, Pawn had had few items to share. He had saved up copper coins and petitioned Klbkch repeatedly for even a few books, a can of paint. But always, he had shown the Soldiers exactly what to do, experimented with them. Cared and praised them for their accomplishments and failures. But he was distracted now. He did not care.
And that hurt deeply. Yellow Splatters turned his attention to the chess board that the Soldiers and Workers had played at. It was unused. The Soldiers and Workers stood about or sat, not playing again. The board was where it had been left—checkmated. Rabbitears had won a fourth game. And stopped. Because Pawn had not noticed.
He had not noticed. In any other moment, in any other time, Pawn would have instantly shown this to Klbkch. He would have congratulated Rabbitears, spoken to the others. Told Yellow Splatters…something about what it meant. But he had not noticed, and the Soldiers and Workers had noticed that. So now they did nothing. They waited, listlessly, not bothering to touch the interesting things Pawn had brought. They stared at him.
And he did not notice. He sat in his special cubicle, sitting as if he was sleeping. But his four hands were clasped together. Pawn was praying. He had prayed day and night when he was not out. Prayed for hours on end, late into the night, before dawn. And that too was good in theory. Yellow Splatters had seen Pawn praying over the wounded. He had heard Pawn lead them in prayer. It was a wondrous thing. Only now…the [Sergeant] stared at Pawn. The Worker was deep in prayer. It was a good thing. But Yellow Splatters was sure, absolutely sure, that Pawn was not praying for them.
He wondered who Pawn was thinking of. And when Pawn would finally remember his people. Yellow Splatters waited, his chest hurting. Now he was certain. It wasn’t just a problem. Something was terribly, terribly wrong.
 
——
 
Over the next week, it became customary to see Pawn in the inn before breakfast or in the early morning. He would always come in early unless the door to Liscor was closed. He would greet Erin every morning with a different line.
“Hello, is Lyonette here? I was hoping to get her input on possible embroidery designs.”
“I was passing by the inn and could not help but stop for lunch. Is Lyonette free to talk?”
“I wanted to consult with Ksmvr. Is Lyonette around?”
“It is rainy. I wanted to share that fact with Lyonette.”
The excuses seemed to amuse Erin. She started grinning every time she saw Pawn for reasons unknown to him. Each day he waited for Lyonette, sometimes while eating breakfast or a snack, other times sitting meditatively in silence or whispering a quick prayer. Each time Lyonette greeted him, asked how his Hive was doing and caught up on the latest Antinium gossip, such as it was.
In turn she offered him news about the inn. The Players of Celum were gaining more attention and had nearly finished their run of Othello and The Triumph of Liscor. They were about to switch plays now that they had a new audience of Drakes and Gnolls coming in each night. Training the new staff was going well. The adventurers were busy preparing for the dungeon or arguing with each other and fighting over food. And so on. Pawn listened dutifully, nodding along and enjoying the conversation. And each time she finished or had to go back to work he asked her the same question.
“Is everything well?”
The answer was always yes. With a smile or a nod. Pawn accepted that. He came back day after day until the day when Lyonette’s patience finally ran out.
 
——
 
“Good morning, Lyonette.”
“Oh. Hello, Pawn.”
