“Oh. Thank you Drassi, but I am not hungry or thirsty. I came here to see Erin. Or Lyonette. Where is she?”
The female Drake’s face fell slightly.
“Lyonette? Um…she’s in her room. Taking a day off. She wasn’t feeling well. I dunno what was wrong, but Erin says she’s upset and so she won’t be down. But Erin’s in the kitchen. You want me to grab her?”
“Please.”
“Alright. Sure you don’t want a drink?”
“I am sure. Please get Erin for me.”
Pawn sat anxiously at a table, willing Drassi to walk faster as she entered the kitchen. Moments later, Erin stepped out, wiping her hands which were covered with flour.
“Pawn! Oh no, I’m so sorry!”
“What?”
His heart beat faster as Erin looked distraught. She sat down as he half-rose and he sat with her.
“I completely forgot about your problem. We had plays all of yesterday, and this morning there was this thing with Lyonette—look, I’m really sorry, but I can brainstorm with you now if you’d like.”
“Oh.”
Pawn stared at Erin as she gave him a guilty look. The problems with the Workers and Soldiers. He’d forgotten all about that. It was why he was here of course. Pawn shook his head.
“That is unimportant at the moment. I was told by Ksmvr that Lyonette was upset. And Drassi. Is she well? Has something happened?”
“Lyonette? She’s…upstairs. She’s not doing so good. I don’t know why exactly, but I think something happened last night. Or it could be stress. She wouldn’t tell me.”
Erin frowned in worry. Pawn leaned forwards.
“She would not tell you? Why?”
“She didn’t tell me that either. Look, she might just be having a bad day, Pawn. Why? Did you need her?”
“No. I am concerned. May I see her?”
“See her?”
Erin chewed her lip, frowning. She glanced at Pawn.
“Well…I think she’d be happier to be by herself. But you two are friends. We can ask.”
“Please.”
Pawn stood up at once. Erin got to her feet with a sigh. She pointed up the stairs, and Pawn led the way. All the while he wondered what was wrong. Why was Lyonette crying? Erin didn’t know. Why didn’t she know? She knew almost everything. Pawn had to ask. Lyonette was his friend. She was more than just a [Barmaid] that fed him and the other Antinium.
She was a [Princess]. Lyonette had told him. It was her secret, one she’d shared with Pawn. Pawn had kept that knowledge tucked in his chest. He didn’t know if she’d told Erin or anyone else. But he valued the trust all the same. He had gotten to know her when Erin was gone from the inn. If there was anything he could do—
“This door.”
Erin came to the first door in the hallway and rapped softly on the door. Pawn listened. He couldn’t hear much from inside, but at Erin’s knock he heard a quiet shuffling. It wasn’t Lyonette who opened the door, but Mrsha. The Gnoll cub stood clumsily on two legs as she pulled the door open.
“Hey Mrsha. Hey Lyonette. Sorry to bug you.”
The [Innkeeper] called cautiously into the room as Pawn tried to look over her shoulder. He couldn’t see past her. Erin stepped into the room as Mrsha stared up at Pawn. He stared back and waved one of his hands at her. The Gnoll didn’t wave back.
“No, don’t get up Lyonette. I didn’t want to bug you but Pawn’s here and he’s worried. You don’t have to—it’s okay? Okay, Pawn? Come on in.”
Hesitantly, Pawn stepped into the room as Mrsha dropped onto all fours and padded back inside. She crept up next to a young woman sitting with a blanket around her shoulders. Lyonette’s eyes were red, and she was holding a wet handkerchief. She looked up at Pawn and tried to smile.
“Hi Pawn.”
“Good morning, Lyonette. I am terribly sorry to bother you. I was worried when I heard you were upset.”
“Thank you, Pawn.”
Erin stood up. She looked at Pawn and Lyonette, wavering.
“I have to get back to work. Lyonette, are you okay?”
The younger girl gave Erin a watery smile.
“I’m fine, Erin. Don’t worry about me, please. I know you have a lot to do.”
“Okay. Pawn? If you want to talk, I’ll be in the kitchen later.”
Pawn nodded distractedly as Erin left. He kept staring at Lyonette. She was still crying. Tears ran from the sides of her eyes, and she kept dabbing at them. Mrsha curled up next to her. Pawn had no idea what to say. At last, he tried to speak.
“I am sorry to bother you, Lyonette. I could come back later if you do not wish to talk.”
“It’s fine, Pawn. I didn’t want to make you worry. I’m just—having a bad day, that’s all.”
“Oh.”
What a wholly unsatisfactory response. Pawn searched for good words and found none. He almost regretted coming upstairs, to be honest. What could he say? He shouldn’t have bothered her. And yet—it was Lyonette. His friend. Was she his friend? He thought she must be.
She had been there when he first started to lead the Soldiers. She had taught him how to act, how to stand tall. She had fed them. And now she was crying, and he had no idea why. He hadn’t known. That made Pawn’s chest hurt.
“May I ask why you are upset?”
Lyonette sniffed. She looked away.
“It’s…personal.”
“Oh. I see.”
Crestfallen, the Worker looked down at his feet. He was still wet. He should go. But he didn’t move. After a moment, Lyonette looked up at him and sniffed again.
“It’s not that I don’t want to say. It’s just—it shouldn’t matter but it does. I lost it, Pawn.”
“Lost? What?”
“My class.”
Tears trickled down Lyonette’s cheeks. Pawn stared at her. She couldn’t mean her [Barmaid] class. If she was crying, then—
“You lost your [Princess] class?”
Lyonette nodded. Pawn was stunned.
“How?”
The young woman shook her head.
“I must have stopped being a princess. At last. I should have known it would happen. I work at an inn as a [Barmaid]. I’m far from my kingdom. I—I should have known. And it shouldn’t matter.”
She sniffed, and Mrsha reached up to pat her leg. Lyonette gently stroked Mrsha’s head. Pawn felt like an outsider. He should not be here. And he had no idea what to say. She had lost her class.
“You should have it back. I will pray for your class to return.”
Lyonette blinked. She stared at Pawn and then laughed. It was a weak sound, and there was nothing funny in the way she laughed.
“What? No. Don’t do that. It’s fine, Pawn.”
“But your class—”
Pawn didn’t know what to say. Lyonette was a [Princess]. She was…royalty. As close to his Queen as anything in this world. He knew that was not the same, but it was how he understood her class. It made Lyonette important. How could she not be sad? But Lyonette didn’t seem to see it that way. She cast around.
“You should sit. There’s a chair over there.”
“I will take it. Thank you.”
Awkwardly, Pawn pulled the chair over and sat. He was still higher up than Lyonette, and he found himself looking down at her. She sat up, and he waited.
“It’s not a big deal, Pawn. I shouldn’t be crying. I shouldn’t. I lost my class because I wasn’t doing [Princess]-like things. That’s all. But I don’t need the class. I was only—only Level 6 anyways.”
“But it was your class.”
“I know. But I haven’t been feeling like a princess in a while. I think I knew it. That’s why I lost my class. And it’s not like I need it.”
“But—”
Pawn didn’t know what to say. He trailed off, staring at Lyonette. Tears flowed down her face, and her nose was wet. She wiped it, looking embarrassed, and Pawn looked away.
“Surely it was important, though. You are a [Princess]. Were. Was that class not important to you?”
“It was. But I lost it, Pawn.”
Lyonette whispered. She shook her head. Pawn realized he was repeating himself. After a while, he spoke.
“What was it like?”
“What?”
“Living as a princess.”
Lyonette looked up at him. Pawn saw Mrsha raise her head. She smiled sadly.
“What was it like? Being a [Princess] was—well, it was nice at times. I loved the balls and dancing and exciting things that came to court. And travelling wherever I wanted in the kingdom. Having money to buy whatever clothing I wanted. But I wasn’t happy. I never leveled. And when I came here, I gave all that up. So I traded being a [Princess] for actually leveling. That’s why—”
She broke off and sniffed, then blew her nose wetly into the handkerchief. Pawn waited. He was confused.
“Balls? Dancing? Why can you not do any of that here?”
“There aren’t any. No one knows I’m a [Princess].”
“But Mrsha has a ball.”
Pawn pointed at it. Lyonette stared and then laughed abruptly.
“Pawn, that’s not the same! A ball is a formal occasion. It’s where we dress up in fancy clothing and dance in a big open space. It’s not like anything Liscor has. It’s another world. A different world. I left it behind.”
“Which is why you lost your class.”
“Yes. Do you understand?”
He thought he did. It was just that he didn’t understand why Lyonette didn’t want her class back. Pawn mulled it over before he decided he had to ask.
“Why don’t you want it back?”
“Why? Because it’s gone. Because it doesn’t matter.”
“But it was your class. Surely you had Skills—”
“Two. Two, Pawn. And they weren’t that useful. They were—useless. Like my class. It’s gone, and I’ll be better. I just need to cry. I don’t know why I’m crying. I should be okay. I just need a day. Then I’ll be better.”
“I see.”
Was that it? Pawn fumbled, searching for something else to say. There had to be something he could say that would make Lyonette feel better. Or—or help her.
“You’re sure you don’t want your class back? I could pray. I could.”
Lyonette laughed weakly.
“I’m sure! Pawn, I appreciate it, but all I want is to be alone for a while. I’m glad you came by, I really am. But I just need to be alone.”
“I understand. I will excuse myself. Please forgive me for interrupting you.”
Pawn stood up at once. He felt embarrassed and bad. Lyonette looked up, worried.
“No, I’m not angry! Thank you for coming. It’s just—”
She waved a helpless hand. Pawn nodded.
“I will pray you feel better.”
“Thanks.”
Lyonette smiled at him. Pawn raised his mandibles and turned towards the door. He walked out, feeling helpless. Upset. Lyonette had lost her class. But she didn’t want it back. That seemed wrong.
Downstairs, Erin asked if Lyonette was okay. When Pawn told her she wanted to be alone, Erin nodded and offered to talk with Pawn about his problems. He declined. He wandered back to the Hive, feeling out of sorts. When he got back, he tried to pray. But he couldn’t. Lyonette’s tears kept falling in his mind. She had lost her class. That was terrible. What could he do about it? Pray?
It didn’t feel like enough. And that was strange too. Pawn paced anxiously. He felt helpless and upset and worried. What could he do? After a while, he stopped and clasped his hands in prayer.
 
——
 
Pawn had gone. Pawn had come back. He had promised to come back with ideas. He had returned with nothing. And now he was pacing. This indicated something was wrong, but neither Yellow Splatters nor Purple Smile knew what the problem was.
Purple Smile and Yellow Splatters were both [Sergeants]. It was a new concept to both Antinium, and Yellow Splatters was keenly aware of the cost of failure. He had failed once, and his Soldiers had suffered for it. He was anxious not to make another mistake, which was why he listened to everything Pawn said.
Only today, Pawn was saying nothing. Not to him at any rate. He had left the Hive and come back earlier than he had said. Now, rather than tell Yellow Splatters and the others about all the new ideas he had promised he was pacing back and forth. Muttering to himself.
“Surely the class is important. It must be! She was crying. She was upset. But is she better off without it? Surely not. But she says she does not want help.”
Yellow Splatters stared at Pawn as he paced back and forth. Other Antinium were staring too. Pawn’s behavior was not normal, and the Workers and Soldiers were all paying attention. Pawn usually went to each of them and talked to them. But today he hadn’t. He hadn’t even noticed the biggest thing ever.
The Soldiers and Workers were still standing around the chessboard. They hadn’t moved since the last game. Ever since Pawn had brought the bigger chessboard, the Soldiers had played games against the Workers constantly. They had lost every game. The current tally was four hundred and eighteen wins by the Workers…and now, just now, one win by one of the Soldiers.
That was huge. Yellow Splatters had been waiting for Pawn to come back and see and congratulate the Soldier—a new Painted Soldier named Rabbitears—on the victory. A Soldier had won a game. Won a game of chess!
The losses didn’t matter. But the one win? It changed everything. It meant—it meant Soldiers could be—the possibilities were endless! But Pawn didn’t pay attention to this earth-shattering fact. On any other day, he would have been asking questions, perhaps ordering a celebration. Today, the [Sergeants] watched as he paced back and forth and muttered.
“What can I do? Can I do anything? No, I should let her grieve. Grieving is a natural thing. Erin told me she will be looked after. But she was crying.”
It occurred to Purple Smile that Pawn would not notice the chess game. He signaled, and the Soldiers slowly reset the board. The Soldiers did not feel many emotions. Grief, sadness, happiness…nothing much affected them. But now they felt something like disappointment. Nevertheless, they reset the board, and Rabbitears began to play another game with a Worker. Pawn paid no attention.
Yellow Splatters looked sideways at Purple Smile. He pointed with one big hand. Purple Smile shrugged. He had no idea what was happening either. The [Sergeants] watched as Pawn kept pacing. They watched him stop and put his hands together. Was he praying? Why? The Soldiers didn’t know what was wrong, but they didn’t take their eyes off Pawn. They were observing. Listening. Learning.
And Pawn made up his mind. He had to go back tomorrow. To check on Lyonette.
 
——
 
The next day, Pawn waited at dawn in front of the door to The Wandering Inn. As soon as the sun rose high enough for it to be actually daytime and not night still he opened the door. To his relief, the door was connected to Liscor. Pawn stepped in and immediately saw Lyonette.
“Pawn?”
She was setting food out for the Redfang Goblins. Lyonette turned, surprised to see Pawn so early. He stepped into the inn, conscious of the rain on his carapace.
“I am sorry to come so early. Am I interrupting?”
“No, come in. And please close the door. I keep telling Erin we need a doormat—let me get you a towel.”
