Flia hesitated for a moment, then nodded. "I'm guessing you want to find the other two students?"

"And then get out of here without breaking the size charm, yep," Cale said. "Ready?"

The other two nodded at him. Flia looked worried, but determined, and Orguk... well, Orguk mostly looked excited. "Orguk knew working with mana man was a good idea," the orc said, puffing out his chest.

Cale snorted, but let himself grin just a bit. Then, without further ado—and with perhaps a little more flair than strictly needed—he punched the ward around them with a burst of prismatic mana.

You have learned [Wardbreaker Punch]!

Well... he couldn't complain about that, he supposed.

It was evident pretty quickly what at least part of the problem was. The moment they left the safety of the ward, the magic around them felt remarkably and distinctly wrong; it took Cale a moment to place it, but when he did, he frowned and glanced at Flia. "Corruption?" he guessed.

The water elemental's face was pale. She nodded tersely. "Not in the whole potion," she said. "I can sense it. It's mixing in from over there."

A single glance was enough to show them what she was talking about. From within a cracked and failing safety ward, inky tendrils were oozing out into the surrounding potion, tainting it with whatever corrupted magic they contained. It looked rather a lot like a hatching egg, Cale reflected.

Which probably wasn't a great sign.

The two students they'd been looking for were both unconscious at the base of the ward. Tendrils of their corrupted potion had wrapped around them both, and Cale saw for the first time exactly what Flia meant when she said that corrupted potions attempted to eat everything around them.

Those tendrils were sucking the life out of those students.

One was a crystal elemental, the other an elf; both had plenty of life to spare, technically, which was perhaps the only reason they were still alive. Even immortal beings didn't have infinite life force, however. Many simply regenerated it faster than they expended it. The corrupted potion tipped that balance, causing the crystal elemental's body to dim and the elf to age.

Cale cursed. "Take us there, please," he said. "Quickly."

You have learned [Create Current]!

The liquid around them accelerated, and all three of them torpedoed their way to the failing barrier and the still-spreading potion. Cale was careful not to think about what it was, because if this was anything like what he suspected, then the worst thing he could do now was to name it.

No. The best thing to do now was to retrieve those students and pull them out of the cauldron.

Then he could act.

Grand Warden Sidyrnus was already bored with this task.

Why had he been sent here, of all places? Surely there were other places that could use his talents? He was a Grand Warden, for crying out loud. One did not earn the title of Grand Warden without being able to craft wards that even the Great Divines could not pierce. He could have been deployed for literally anything else. To trap a god, perhaps. Sidyrnus had never trapped a god before, but that might at least prove an interesting challenge.

Instead, the Red Hunters had sent him to Kazix Brightscale's Academy of the Attuned Arts to set a trap for their alchemy professor. Their alchemy professor! What threat did an alchemy professor pose? If they wanted her kidnapped to work on that potion, then they could have hired some simpletons to do it. Why in the world would they need a Grand Warden to capture an alchemy professor?

Bah.

Still, he was a consummate professional, so he set his trap slowly. First, he smuggled in items that were ostensibly potion ingredients but would also function to anchor the bifurcated ward he would need to establish. Despite his disdain, Professor Rinkle was a competent mage, and not someone a Warden like himself could confront in direct battle. Wardens thrived on preparation, not on live spellwork.

And so, as his title demanded, he prepared. He could split Rinkle's attention by undermining her wards; she wouldn't notice, absorbed in her potions as she was. Threatening her students was a guaranteed way to get her cooperation. Because her spellwork mostly relied on communicating with her students through her wards, he could hijack that, too.

Now he had Professor Rinkle and every student of this class trapped within a highly specialized, unbreakable ward-prison, fueled not only by his magic and expert wardcraft but also by sacrificing the life force of one immortal and one near-immortal. The corrupted potion would leak through the sabotaged ward soon enough, and eat through all evidence of his actions. The Brightscale Academy would no doubt have to conclude that this was a tragic and terrible accident, and he would get his pay from the Red Hunters, and perhaps relax in a nice spa for a day or two.

A job well done, as far as he was concerned. Now he just needed to wait to confirm that the potion was well and thoroughly corrupted before he left.

He was a professional, after all.
