I walk up to the Mossbear and pat him affectionately. He snuffles my shirt, and Frostwing shrieks, perhaps sensing my mood. I stroke Frostwing’s head and let some of my tension go with the two animals. Before I know it, a good while has passed. Reluctantly, I pull myself back and check on Sir Kerrig’s progress.
“Damn. He’ll be gone for hours yet! And those Goblins are still taking down my totems!”
A marker behind Sir Kerrig and another a few miles west vanish. The Goblins keep destroying my totems, and they take a long time to replace! I should have sent Sir Kerrig back into the city and demanded this Chieftain stop while he came here. Argh. But the city’s still surrounded. I think of that and then frown.
“Nesor?”
I stride back into Riverfarm’s main street and find Lady Rie overseeing a group of arguing adults. They’re fighting over who gets a house next—a minor dispute fueled by their anxiety. I interrupt them and grab Rie.
“Your [Mage] is with the nobility. Come with me.”
I leave the villagers behind and head to the newest houses that we converted into temporary homes for the nobility when it became clear their stay would be longer than most. The nobles’ personal escorts guard the houses, sounding as bored as they seem in my mind. They stand straighter as I approach, and instantly, one of them goes to announce me. I walk into one of the houses and find Lady Bevia Veniford and a small collection of nobles sitting and having tea. That’s not what I mind. What I mind is Nesor, practically sandwiched between two of the younger [Ladies], teacup in hand.
“Why, Your Majesty! What a pleasant surprise!”
Lady Bevia rises instantly to greet me. I nod slightly to her as Lady Rie greets Bevia.
“Lady Bevia, it is as always a pleasure to speak with you. I trust you are not too starved of entertainment? I understand your current situation leaves much to be desired.”
She laughs, sounding two decades younger than Lady Rie tells me she is.
“This is far more than I would hope for given a Goblin army is marauding about the landscape, Your Majesty! I am quite content for the moment, as are my peers. We are somewhat starved for information, but we do try to keep up.”
“So I note. I see Nesor has been quite stolen away by the company here.”
The older [Lady] twinkles merrily at me.
“Yes, well, I’m afraid we are simply dying to know what is going on. Do forgive an old lady’s curiosity.”
“Of course. But I’m afraid I’m in need of Nesor’s services once again. Nesor?”
“Yes, Your Majesty! P-pardon me, miladies.”
He stands up, sounding relieved, guilty, and regretful at once. I excuse myself quickly from Lady Bevia and get out of the house as fast as I can. Lady Rie is mortified once we have a chance to speak in private.
“I am deeply ashamed, Emperor Laken. I had no notion that Nesor was being sought out like this. This is unacceptable. Please excuse him. Any man—and most women—would be hard-pressed to resist Lady Bevia’s charm.”
“I understand. But that cannot happen again. Nesor knows everything that’s been going on.”
“I will keep an eye on him. Please let me assure you—”
I listen to Rie’s apology, hear Nesor’s stammered plea for forgiveness, and let them go. It’s nothing more than I should have expected, honestly. The nobles have been playing their own game, sending [Message] spells of their own. I sigh and rub at my temples.
“I need a rest.”
“Would you like me to prepare a bed…?”
“No. I’ll nap in Wiskeria’s cottage. Just for an hour or two.”
So saying, I leave Rie and Nesor and lie down in Wiskeria’s bed, which is really my bed since I don’t think she’s used it as much as I have. War cottage indeed. I close my eyes and drift off, hoping that Sir Kerrig will get here by the time I wake. Only, it’s not that which wakes me. At first, I think I’m dreaming. But too late, I realize it’s reality and shoot out of bed.
“What the hell is going on now?”
Far, far north of Sir Kerrig who is yet an hour away from Riverfarm at the fastest gallop, I can sense something happening in Wiskeria’s camp. Soldiers are moving. I can sense horses being saddled, see someone blowing a horn. They begin moving as I sense the entire army moving. Horrified, I shout out loud.
“What’s happening?”
 
——
 
Wiskeria looked down at the map of the landscape and cursed. She looked up at the [Mage] who’d just interrupted her in her tent and stared at him.
“You’re serious. That’s what he said?”
“I received the [Message] not a minute ago, General.”
The [Mage] rubbed at the shadows around his eyes. Wiskeria wished she could believe he had misinterpreted the [Message], but she had sent two follow-up spells and received the same reply, each time more impatient. Her knuckles went white as she gripped the edge of her table.
“What does he mean, the ‘situation has changed’?”
The mage yawned and then rubbed his eyes again before standing straighter.
“I do not know, General. But the order is immediate. No delays. If you wish, I can query a third time—”
“No. He must know something. Okay, now. Now.”
Wiskeria’s heart leapt in her chest. She stared at the map of the city and the Goblins. Attack. The last three messages had been explicit. She looked around desperately.
“Shit, shit, shit—sound the horns! Get me Beniar, and prepare to advance on the city! I want to hit it from the east and north and keep the Goblins off my back. Tell Tessia I want her firing throughout the battle! Hit those battlements now—”
 
——
 
They’re attacking. I run out of my cottage and shout for Lady Rie. She approaches as I dash over to her, and I sense the people watching. But that doesn’t matter right now.
“Rie! The army is attacking the city!”
“What? But Your Majesty, you wished to wait—”
I’m already shaking my head. My mind is spinning.
“I didn’t order that. I sent no [Message].”
Lady Rie paled. I grab her shoulder and shake her roughly.
“Where the hell is Nesor? Get him. Now. And find the [Mage] the nobles have been using and stop them from casting any spells!”
“There may be other [Mages] or even members of the nobility capable of casting the spell, Emperor—”
“I don’t care! Get me Nesor!”
I whirl, searching for him. Where the hell is he? Only, he’s gone. I turn in place, but I’m scanning with my mind the entire time, and I sense no Nesor anywhere in the village. Anywhere in Riverfarm.
“Nesor? Where the hell has he gone? Where the hell is Nesor?”
Lady Rie has no idea. Nesor’s gone. Where she thought he was sitting in her cottage she finds no one. Only signs of a scuffle. And when I finally locate Nesor, unconscious, a lump on one head, dumped behind a stand of trees far outside the village, it’s too late. By the time I grab the other [Mage], order Wiskeria to pull back at once, the army is already advancing on the city. They’re already fighting. And all I can do is watch.
 
——
 
It was Pyrite who saw the Humans coming. He didn’t expect it. He was rather surprised, to be honest. But when he saw the army coming, he didn’t hesitate. He stood and shouted an order. The Goblins looked up, surprised. An attack? But they’d done the peace thing!
It made no sense. But perhaps that was a lesson in itself. Pyrite hefted the battleaxe and stared at the wall of Humans coming at him. He pointed and bellowed orders. Goblins raced to grab pikes, and Redscar, Poisonbite, and the other Hobs ran to their units. Pyrite stared at the Humans.
They were shouting as they marched towards the city. Soon, they’d be in bow range. Behind them, the trebuchets were still firing. He saw a boulder crash into the wall of the city. He felt the stones shake. He stared at the Humans and felt his blood pumping.
So it would be a battle after all. This is what the Humans thought of Goblin peace? Very well. He lifted the battleaxe, and his eyes burned crimson. They had not seen a true battle yet. If they wanted to fight, fine. It was time to show them a Goblin’s war.
