“Great Chieftain! Can’t!”
Enraged, Tremborag strode forwards off his dais and snatched the smaller Goblin up. He glared at the Hob as every Goblin around him held their breath and backed away.
“Why not?”
The Hob gasped as Tremborag’s massive clawed hand squeezed him. He looked into Tremborag’s furious face and spoke weakly.
“Undead go boom.”
 
——
 
They walked into the tunnels. Shambling forms. Pallid bodies. All were rotting. The unholy, damned light of undeath shone in their eyes. They moved forwards. Zombies, mainly. A few skeletons. Ghouls in small packs, and a handful of the deadly Draug. The Goblin Lord’s living forces moved aside to let them pass. The undead moved into the kill spots and grappled with the Goblins there. They threw themselves relentlessly towards the defenders, ignoring all but the most debilitating of injuries.
If that were all, they would have been held back. At cost, but with no more difficulty than the regular soldiers. But mixed among the undead Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, and regular Goblins were…children. Undead Goblins who moved a bit faster than the rest. They snuck closer amid the fighting, directed by far-off [Necromancers] and [Shamans].
And when they were amid the struggling lines of the Goblin defenders or worse, among a group of Tremborag’s Goblins, they would bite at an ankle or strike weakly with their small bodies. Of course, they would be instantly crushed or speared or hacked apart. And that was when they would explode.
The first few detonations killed dozens of defenders each. Shock and confusion allowed the undead to push forwards. The Mountain City tribe fell back in disarray, not understanding what the sudden explosions had been caused by. They suspected [Mages] and looked for invisible Goblins or ones armed with scrolls or magical items. By the time they realized the small Goblins were the source of the detonations, they had taken heavy losses.
Tremborag stared in disbelief at the stream of wounded Goblins fleeing from the forward tunnels. He saw many were wounded and far more were terrified. Tremborag roared, and the Goblins rushing towards him froze. He swung a claw and sent the closest Goblins to him flying with broken bones.
“Cowards! Get back to fighting!”
The Goblins looked at their Great Chieftain and wavered. They weighed the odds of dying with incurring their Chieftain’s wrath and slowly turned. Tremborag growled furiously as he heard more detonations echo distantly back into the mountain.
“Exploding undead? This Goblin Lord has a second army. An army of tricks! Cowardly little tricks!”
“Good tricks.”
Tremborag turned, his eyes narrowed. Garen stood behind him. The Hob stared past Tremborag with a frown.
“The entrances are lost. Too small. Too narrow.”
Tremborag knew he was right. The Great Chieftain roared in anger and stomped about, but he had figured out the same thing Garen had. In the narrow tunnels, the exploding undead would utterly destroy the defenders as they bunched up. Tremborag snarled but growled an order to one of his Hobs.
“Pull back! We will slaughter them in the open!”
The Hob raced off shouting to do Tremborag’s bidding. Garen looked up at the huge Hobgoblin.
“More fighting. On bridges, in open. Means fighting in tunnels. Harder to hold. More deaths.”
Tremborag was close to lashing out. He held himself back from striking Garen with effort. His voice deepened with fury.
“We will slaughter them in great numbers, then! You will fight, Redfang. You and your Goblins. And I will hunt down the Goblin Lord’s officers. Tomorrow we will go hunting.”
Garen nodded. Tremborag strode back into his throne room and resumed eating with such fury that no Goblin dared to disturb him. In the mountain, the Goblins pulled back. They abandoned the narrow entrances to the mountain and ran into larger tunnels. They were the last stopgap before the center of the mountain, which was crisscrossed with bridges and wood scaffolding. The invading Goblins and undead followed them and clashed against the solid barricades that had been set up, screaming as oil and boiling water was poured on them from above.
 
——
 
Osthia listened to the garbled reports coming into the Goblin Lord’s tent, trying to make sense of it all. The crude language of the Goblins and their partial mastery of the common tongue as well as multiple reports being delivered at once made understanding anything hellishly difficult, but she had learned that part of Goblin communication was body language. Too, she thought she almost understood some of the Goblin’s speech. A few words that were repeated, a phrase here and there—useless, of course, but it helped knowing what was going on.
“They’re fighting in wider spaces. Looks like they’re trapped. Your exploding undead will do less good there.”
“Yes. But they can go through other tunnels. Now the Great Chieftain must defend from me.”
Reiss turned and grinned. Osthia looked at him and tried to find the disgust and hatred in her heart. All she felt was a bit of anger. She’d been his captive too long. She had hated him, tried to kill him after Zel Shivertail had fallen. But she had known it was the Necromancer who had killed him. And Reiss had left his body for the Humans, wept. She wanted to hate him. That would make things simple. Easy. But she couldn’t. So Osthia glanced up at the mountain, aglow with torches.
“What now? Any Drake commander would dig in and find the most advantageous spots to keep slaughtering your troops. How will Goblins fight?”
“Not dig in. Mountain too much stone.”
The Goblin Lord grinned, and Osthia realized he’d made a joke. She stared at him stonily. He gave her another shrug.
“Goblin Chieftain cannot ward all tunnels from undead and my soldiers. Now there are spots. I will send in Hobs, strong warriors. Try to find ways towards him.”
“Kill teams.”
“Yes. And he will hunt my officers. Now it is a battle to kill each other’s best warriors. Mages. Special Goblins.”
Osthia nodded. That was another way of fighting. Take out the head of an army, the [Strategists], high-level warriors and so on, and all you had left were fodder. She looked at Reiss and wondered again if she wanted him to win or lose this battle. If he won, he would be even stronger. But a Goblin nation—if he conquered a city in Human lands, would that really be the worst? He had promised to set her free if he made his kingdom a reality.
On the other hand, if this Great Chieftain won, what then? The Goblin Lord’s forces would retreat, be forced to raid and build up. And he was the Necromancer’s enemy, or so he claimed. The sooner Osthia could escape and warn her people…
“Will your master join the battle? Or will he reserve his help for when you’re cornered?”
Reiss’ smile twisted into a scowl. He looked at Osthia with his black eyes and then shook his head.
“The further we are from him, the harder it is for him to cast magic. He will not help. And if I go further still—”
Reiss’ eyes travelled back towards the mountain. Osthia stared at it and shivered. An old Dwarven home. It was a powerful refuge. If Reiss occupied it, would this be his Goblin kingdom? Or an outpost? Or would he abandon it? She didn’t know. And as Reiss turned back to issue more orders, Osthia wondered what the Humans were doing. They had to know the battle was going on. Would they wait until both sides were exhausted before moving in? She was afraid that would be a mistake. The Goblins might hate each other, but a common enemy could unite them. Or would they fight each other to the end despite the new threat, like her people?
Overhead, the moon rose. As the first day of fighting drew to an end, the siege continued with the undead besieging the mountain while the Goblin Lord’s forces rested. Parts of the army would awaken to night raids and quiet assassinations in the dark. The siege would heat up the next day. Both sides would throw everything into the conflict, and it would take only a few lucky strokes for one group to gain a decisive edge over the other.
Coincidentally, less than a hundred miles away on the exact same day, another siege would be playing out quite differently.
 
——
 
The stones fell from the sky. Like birds falling from the sky. Only, they weren’t birds. Massive chunks of stone fell on the city filled with Goblins, smashing through the rooftops of buildings, sending the cobblestone street fountaining up in explosions of dirt and shrapnel. The two trebuchets fired a stone every ten minutes at most—the Humans swarming over the trebuchet had to pull back the arm, drag over a boulder, and adjust the aim each time. Nevertheless, the stones falling on the city were a terrifying thing for any besieged army to contemplate. The Goblins stood on the battlements and stared.
In wonder. It was less fear and more awe that had children and adult Goblins alike sitting on the battlements, watching the trebuchets reload. Of course, when the stones flew the Goblins scattered out of the likely flight path, calling warnings. But until that brief moment, they were more impressed than anything else. Where any other species might have felt fear, Goblins were surprisingly resilient.
The sky had begun throwing stones at them. Okay. It wasn’t pleasant, but to the Goblins, it was just another way to die. They were more concerned with whether they’d have to stay in the city while the rocks kept falling. It was easy to dodge the boulders if you had sentries on the walls, but what about if you were asleep? And soon, the city walls would be full of holes.
Rags had grasped all of that the instant she’d seen the trebuchets. Her vision of a secure city melted in the face of the Humans’ strange devices. But her anguish over her ruined plans had been replaced by an idea. A plan.
“Noears!”
The small Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe screamed a word as Goblins ran about the city. Pyrite was making his way up the steps of the walls, looking worried. Rags could see Sir Kerrig below as well. The [Knight] was making the smallest Goblins hide in the shadow of the walls. She understood. Of course—taking shelter in the lee of the walls would be the safest spot since the boulders would either hit the wall or go past it. She called out an order and pointed. Goblins began running to reposition themselves.
“Chieftain?”
Pyrite panted a bit as he crested the stairs. He took one look at the trebuchets and said a bad Human word. Rags nodded absently.
“Human thing. Far-crushing death.”
The big Hob said the bad word again. He stared at the trebuchet as it was slowly reloaded. The arm bent back.
“What now, Chieftain? Leave city? Walls will have many holes soon.”
“Mm. Not too soon. Humans have bad aim.”
They had two massive trebuchets. They must have taken ages to drag across the landscape. And for all that they could hurl huge stones, their aim was fairly bad. Rags’ keen eyes picked out the operators on both trebuchets. It looked like a Human female was aiming one of them. That trebuchet seemed more on target. Two of the three stones it had hurled had hit the walls. The other trebuchet had hit a different spot each time. Yes, give them time and the city would slowly be demolished. However—
“Chieftain, you called me?”
A voice made Rags turn. She saw Noears panting harder than Pyrite. He looked warily at the trebuchets. Rags pointed.
“Big falling stone.”
“I saw.”
Noears grimaced, his face expressing a whole host of emotions. Rags nodded. She could see her lieutenants making their way towards her, keeping an eye on the sky. Yes, the trebuchets could do a lot of damage by accident, but it would be hard to hit a specific target. She could work with that.
“Noears, how much mana? How many potions?”
He blinked at her and scrubbed a hand across his bald head.
“Can cast lots of spells, Chieftain. Got four potions.”
He patted his belt where one of them hung. Noears warily eyed the trebuchets in the distance. He shook his head.
“Too far. Get close is dangerous. Use fire and arrows instead?”
He looked hopefully at Rags, assuming she wanted him to get close and zap the trebuchets. Rags shook her head. She pointed up.
“Good aim? Can hit stones?”
Noears blinked. He looked up and then grinned.
“Can try.”
The next boulder flew as Rags was calling for more Goblins. It had a good arc and would have plummeted into the city center. Only, as it neared the walls of the city, Noears pointed up and shouted.
“[Lightning Bolt]!”
A flash of lightning and a boom made every Goblin look up. Stone shards rained down from above, making the Goblins on the walls shield their eyes. The boulder tumbled and fell—not on the city center, but hitting one of the walls. Rags shook her head as she heard a scream and saw Goblins fleeing the impact site.
“Shoot better!”
She shouted at Noears. The Goblin [Mage] grunted.
“Hard!”
He took a position on the walls. His lightning bolt spell was powerful, but it could only crack or change the boulder’s trajectory. Rags thought he could protect the city for an hour at best. She nodded to herself.
“Chieftain?”
More Goblins approached. Quietstab, Redscar, a few Hobs, and Poisonbite. The female raid leader coughed a bit, but her breathing sounded much better. Rags looked at her.
“Good breathe?”
“Can fight, Chieftain! Want to destroy big wood thing?”
Poisonbite grabbed one of her daggers and pointed at the trebuchet. Rags shook her head. The Human army was camped all around it, and they outnumbered her tribe a good bit.
“No.”
“What then, Chieftain? Sit here not good. Slow crush death.”
Quietstab looked apprehensive, but Rags just sneered at him. She struck an arrogant pose, aware that below, Sir Kerrig was watching her.
“Sit here very good! Sit here all we need! Flooded Waters tribe not afraid of rocks, right?”
“Right.”
The other Goblins chorused uncertainly. Rags pointed at Redscar.
“You get nails.”
She pointed at Quietstab.
“Get wood. Break houses!”
She pointed at Poisonbite.
“Got stones! Big stones. Like boulder.”
Finally, she pointed at Pyrite.
“You get lots of Goblins. Wait for signal.”
They nodded hesitantly. Rags turned to the second group of Goblins she’d called. They weren’t Hobs, save for one. Over two thirds of the Goblins didn’t even carry weapons! But they all had a specific class.
[Tinkerer]. [Builder]. [Hammerer], [Armorer], [Scavenger]. They were a group unique to her tribe. Every Goblin tribe had someone good at repairing armor or making crude spears, but Rags’ tribe had learned to create crossbows. They had built their crude armor thanks to her [Scavenger Armor] Skill. And she had acquired a level or three in the [Tinkerer] class too. Rags pointed at the trebuchet.
“Human thing. Throw big rocks. Want.”
