“I’m not stopping anyone from making money. But are you going to afford a twelve hundred-gold-coin house? And that’s cheap by today’s damn standards!”
“Well…”
The two Drakes were so busy talking that a panting [Aide] had to call twice to get their attention.
“Councilmember! The yearly contribution from Liscor’s army has arrived! They’ve sent Chests of Holding filled with gold and spoils from battle!”
Lism and Geillsten half-turned, and Lism saw eighteen large Chests of Holding being dragged in. Each one was filled with gold; he hadn’t been in charge last year, but he knew what it was. Liscor’s army had been the main source of income for Liscor for most of its existence. Today?
He waved a claw.
“Yes, splendid. Can you put it over there? We’ll get it into the treasury soon.”
The [Aide] faltered. She was rather goggle-eyed at the amounts, but she hadn’t seen the budgets.
“B—um, Wing Commanders Narkr and Xith are also ready for a meeting about procedure in Liscor, Councilmember. They’re waiting downstairs. General Axter is also prepared to address the Council.”
This time, Lism did turn with a frown on his face.
“They’re not scheduled in for today. We’re busy with the sewers. We’ll have a convivial chat with the army—later. Can you get them squeezed in sometime this week?”
“But the army—”
Ah, the copper coin dropped. Lism remembered the old Council and imagined that if he didn’t have any coins in the treasury, he’d be scraping and bowing over the army and taking all their suggestions at face value.
In his opinion, the army hadn’t been here for the Solstice or the moths or the damn siege. And it had sent gold, which was all very well and good. He cleared his throat.
“If the two Wing Commanders object, tell them that we can send the gold back. You know, support the [Soldiers] on the front and all that? I know healing potions are dire right now.”
The [Aide]’s mouth opened. Lism went back to talking to Geillsten.
“We’ll hear their requests later. No, wait!”
He called the Drake back, then handed her something. She stared down at the bright piece of paper with a grinning Lism on it. She stared at Lism, and he brushed at his neck-spines.
“…It’ll probably be Sserys on there. This is just a prototype. How does it look? How much do you think this is worth? Do you think you could go down to the market and try to buy something with it?”
 
——
 
Krshia elbowed Lism a fourth time in the side, hard, and Watch Captain Zevara stopped turning the Liscorian Mark over in her claws.
“Oh, so that’s what you were doing. Alright, get her out of the lockup. I thought it sounded too stupid to be a forgery attempt or a scam. But when I asked The Wandering Inn, I was told…”
She cleared her throat, embarrassed, and Lism avoided staring at the [Aide] who was holding onto the bars in the Watch’s barracks off the main street.
“Er, very good of you, Watch Captain, terribly sorry about the misunderstanding.”
Krshia’s elbow caught him in the ribs this time, and he winced.
 
——
 
They had a fight outside the barracks as they walked at random through their city, avoiding puddles and arguing loudly as citizens looked their way. Half wanted something done, be it sewers, this issue or that, or to ask about the damn election, but when they saw Lism and Krshia half-shouting at each other, they backed off.
That was Lism and Krshia. Like a cat and dog fighting. In this case, it was a genuine argument.
“—my fault I’m trying to do something for the city! You’re the one not looking at the big picture!”
“The big picture does not have your face on it, Lism! You heard Alonna and Geillsten. Making money is not as simple as hiring a [Scribe], no! Do you think I don’t know anything about currencies? Silverfangs trade city-to-city all our lives! You can’t fix the rising prices by inventing a new currency!”
She tossed his Liscorian Mark in the sewer grate, and Lism nearly dove in after it. He got up, covered in water, and stormed after her.
“You hairbrained idiot! That was a beautiful piece of work! I should have known Krshia Silverfang wouldn’t be able to see beyond her own nose when it comes to economic realities. You couldn’t buy a half-eaten salmon on discount! It’s a wonder you even managed to keep your store open, you fur-brained hyena, no, you thick-headed Raskghar—”
He saw Krshia’s shoulders hunch, and she stopped dead in the street. When she turned, Lism took a few steps back.
“Ah—that Raskghar comment might have been too far. Krshia, let’s discuss this like Councilmembers. We are in public. Krshia? Krshia, my unprecedented discount—”
He decided to run for it.
 
——
 
They made up with a covert kiss, though Lism was still smarting. It was indeed a love-hate relationship sometimes, and when he got Krshia really mad…well, that could be exciting.
Other times, you got a kick right to your economic realities, and it still hurt. However, once Krshia had calmed down, she apologized for throwing Lism’s currency in the sewers, and he apologized for a lot more.
They were almost about to hurry back to their apartment when someone coughed. Loudly.
“Excuse me. This is perhaps not a public area as it is behind my shop, but I feel as though I have witnessed an extremely upsetting event and would like it to end and not continue.”
Krshia and Lism leapt apart, babbling excuses. They turned and saw an Antinium with a bag of something in his hand.
Garry the [Baker] had a huge, white baker’s hat on his head, getting wet, and an apron on. But despite the downpour, he was putting a few objects on a ledge for a bunch of…cats?
A small herd of cats had appeared, meowing, and Lism saw Garry was putting meatballs out for them. It was such an odd sight that Lism and Krshia stared.
They had entered the southeastern area of Liscor, which had used to be a poorer, rougher area—until the Antinium had given the area a facelift. Instead of the mostly abandoned streets around the Free Hive, an entire economy based around Antinium had appeared.
There were Antinium-friendly restaurants, shops run by Antinium and catering towards them with special chairs, Silveran’s Cleaners…it wasn’t a bad place at all. Especially with the Antinium patrols around; crime had decided it had better places to be.
“Are those stale meatballs?”
That was Lism’s question as Krshia smiled at Garry. The [Baker] tilted his head.
“Why would I feed stale meatballs to cats?”
“…Why would you feed fresh meatballs to cats?”
“Because cats deserve fresh meatballs, of course. Hello, cattos. Hello, Stripes, hello, Orangeball, hello, Violeteye, hello…”
Garry was petting cats with multiple hands as he handed the meatballs out. Now, Lism wasn’t the most friendly with Antinium. He didn’t hate them, and he’d come around to them like Gnolls, but he didn’t know many that well.
But Garry…Lism had a lot of time for Garry. Of all the Antinium, he was, in Lism’s opinion, one of the best. He didn’t go off to war or do the praying thing like Pawn—he ran a business. A charitable business.
All stuff Lism approved of. Lism had run sort of a similar practice where a neighborhood association took care of elderly people or those who’d lost family members, but Garry had gone a step further and just started handing out bread at his bakery for free. Quality food too, not stale bread.
Every [Baker] might give away a loaf or two of old bread to someone looking hungry, but Garry baked his bread to be given away at a loss. It wasn’t Drake-like, but it was hard to fault. His generosity even seemed to extend to cats.
“How’s the baking business, eh, Garry? Lots of, ah, customers of late? Very good on you for keeping your prices so low. I imagine you’re levelling a storm, what with all your custom.”
Lism went for a jovial tone, but to his surprise, Garry heaved a huge sigh.
“Business has been exceedingly bad, Councilmember Lism. Thank you for asking. It has been a rough month. I had hopes that Tax Collector Geillsten would take it easy upon me, but I owed nearly six silver coins to the city.”
“…Six?”
“Yes. A considerable expense. I suppose my copper-coin rates have attracted too much income, but it is hard to cut copper coins in half, so I have had to fix my prices at one copper coin per meal. I don’t know how I will make ends meet next month.”
A few cats meowed mournfully as Krshia and Lism exchanged glances. Lism’s mouth worked.
“You’re…in danger of closing down?”
That was bad. People depended on Garry’s shop. Over a hundred. Garry clacked his mandibles together as he took off his hat and squeezed it to get the water out of it.
“No. The Free Queen is quite happy to allocate me my budget. However, I can no longer take on new clients. I have been calculating, but even with Miss Lyonette’s donations and the profits I earn from my regular baking…I have been forced to refuse more clients. It was very hard today. Very hard.”
Ah. Lism felt the weight on his heart lift a moment. Liscor needed people like Garry. If he were hurt or forced to close tomorrow…
The city shouldn’t need people like Garry. It should be fine on its own. Damn costs of Yellats. Nine coppers per bag! And if it’s that costly for Yellats, how much for salt or butter?
The same urge that had bugged him all day made Lism feel for another of the Liscorian Marks. He stared at it glumly as Krshia gave him a warning stare, and then she smiled at Garry.
“I am sure that your clients understand, Garry. It is a very generous thing you do for people, yes?”
The [Baker] shrugged as he passed out the last of his meatball to the cats.
“Oh, yes, Councilwoman Krshia. I help Comrei and Miss Biscale and Lemloux, who lost his wife this winter—it is very sad—and so many more. They understand that I am cutting down on expensive ingredients so more people can be fed, and they are all very grateful. And the people who come to me that I must refuse will go hungry. Perhaps they will only be hungry. Perhaps they will die.”
Krshia hesitated.
“Er…but you cannot feed all of Liscor.”
Garry nodded, his face unreadable, his voice steady.
“They cry and beg me to change my mind. Some have little babies. The prices are very, very high. So I do feel good when I give out food to my regular clients. Then I turn down hungry babies. On the whole, I am emotionally unwell. I wish Miss Erin were here. I do not feel like a [Baker of Presents] today, Miss Krshia, though I thank you for your statements to the contrary. I could be doing more. I should be.”
At this point, Lism sort of wanted to go back to Krshia hitting him in his fiscal uncertainties. Hearing Garry talk was worse. He dug around in his pockets.
“Hold on, my shop’s been doing just fine. You said Miss Lyonette donates to you?”
“Yes, quite a lot, Councilmember Lism. But I have only a few assistants, and I cannot buy all the grain in the city, let alone bake it. I have considered adding more workers and expanding my shop, but I must be discreet with the money she gives me for reasons.”
What reasons? Lism brushed that aside as he proffered some gold coins.
“If it helps you add more clients to your list, Garry, I could give you a good amount per month.”
Garry accepted the coins with a slight bow, and Krshia gave some too with an approving look at Lism. That was probably why she still stayed around his apartment. Every time she got annoyed or angry, well, he got that approving look like that, sometimes surprised or gratified, but it made up for the rest.
That was the Lism way.
The Drake and Gnoll stood around awkwardly with Garry as they tried to raise his spirits. The cats hopped away after eating their fill, and Garry shook his head.
“It is not just money, though I thank you for your donations, Councilmembers. Even with more money, I can only run a shop so large on my own. My two assistants do help me bake, but I was thinking I’d need dozens of workers and so much food that it would become financially untenable to operate at such a loss. Miss Lyonette might fix that, but…I cannot feed a city.”
“True. It’s damn true. You know the price of Yellats today, Garry?”
“Nine copper coins? It is a very upsetting number, Lism.”
The two nodded at each other, and to Lism’s surprise, Krshia chimed in.
“It is simply a multitude of costs, yes? If people are hungry, I would suggest wheat or another grain…but baking it into bread requires an oven and time. So Yellats become the staple, or fish. It would be easier if bread prices were lowered, but they have all risen because of our visitors. A great concern, and it is why I have told Gnolls to go to your shop. Both if they cannot afford anything else and to patronize your wares.”
“You care about the Yellat prices after all, Silverfang?”
Lism was astonished. Here he thought she’d been ignoring his struggles all day! She glowered at him and sniffed.
“I do, Lism, but I do not think your fake money is the solution, no! If I could solve it, I would, but sewers are something I can fix, so I focus on that.”
Garry tilted his head.
“I only know about the realities of prices of food. What is this new currency, please?”
“Oh, it’s just this idea here…”
Embarrassed all of a sudden, Lism showed Garry a Liscorian Mark. Garry felt at it, admiring how it was waterproof and shiny.
“It is a very lovely piece of paper, Councilmember Lism. I understand it is worthless to most, but Antinium who have nothing would love it because it is colorful. I would give you a loaf of bread for it.”
“Well, then, it’s useful only to Garry’s Antinium Edibles.”
Lism joked weakly, and Garry nodded. Lism’s mouth kept running, processing it for his brain.
“…The houses are just too damn expensive. We can build as many as we want, but if they go on the open market, no one can afford them. It’s a damn shame. The same as someone going hungry in Liscor. And here you are, Garry, and I have this…”
He stared down at the Liscorian Mark. He stared at Garry. And an idea popped into Lism’s head.
“Krshia. How much money does that damn door to Invrisil, Pallass, and Celum generate each day?”
“Hrr. Hundreds of gold pieces, sometimes? We have a chart.”
The door could fund a huge amount of things in the city over time. Not all of the Watch, obviously, or the entire sewer cleaning bill, but it was a not insubstantial amount of money. Lism was peering at Garry, who felt at his face in case he had something on it.
“Gold. And the prices are going up.”
Garry nodded cautiously.
“This is a factual statement we have all made. If we are repeating things, my name is Garry. I make the meatballs for the cats out of fish, sometimes.”
