Lism was snapping his claws. An idea was sprouting in his head, completely original. Insane, actually, but all the pieces were there. Garry, Liscorian Marks, rising prices…
“Why not? We’re the Council. We can do whatever the hell we want. We have tons of buildings we own…not a giveaway. That’s not Drakeish. Raffles are. Lotteries. Dead gods, like a lottery in Market Street! Krshia, remember when we had those prizes and we were giving tickets to all our customers?”
Krshia was eying Lism warily and feeling at his forehead.
“I remember it caused a huge fight. We had so many people trying to win the prizes—”
“Yes, yes! But city-wide! Every eligible Liscorian citizen! For each house some Wall Lord buys, we can build two and give them away! And Garry! Garry’s Antinium Edibles isn’t enough! Don’t you see?”
Lism shook Garry, and the baker’s voice wobbled out of his mouth.
“I do not see. I believe I am getting alarmed.”
A few Soldiers appeared down the alleyway, and Lism let go hurriedly.
“Sorry, sorry. Baker Garry, do you have an hour? We need to get back to City Hall. Krshia, with me! Come on!”
“Lism, what are you talking about?”
Krshia was exasperated, but Lism was already running. He managed a few words as Garry, Krshia, and the cats all looked at each other.
“Free house lottery! Liscorian Marks! Bakery! A Garry Bakery!”
Garry’s antennae twitched. He uncrumpled his chef’s hat and put the soggy piece of fabric back on his head. Krshia opened her mouth, then started jogging after Lism.
 
——
 
“The plan is simple. We have a food and housing crisis in Liscor. So what we do is we lower the price of both.”
“If we cap rent any lower, the [Landlords] will riot, Lism.”
In the front row, Alonna raised her hand. She and the rest of the Council were all sitting there, along with Garry and half a dozen cats. Lism had a bunch of drawings and budgets he’d pinned to a cork board, and he was nodding at her.
“We can’t keep forcing the prices lower, it’s true, Alonna. But people don’t want to keep renting. They’d like a home, it’s just that no one can afford a house. Except for our investors…or Liscor itself. We’ve been paying for all this construction. Why not have Hexel build apartments, houses, and then hold a lottery? Winner gets a house—for free.”
“Free?”
Every Drake in the room recoiled, and Lism’s own tongue tried to exit his mouth and strangle him for this nonsense. But Krshia’s ears perked up, and Lism pointed at her.
“Why not? Gnolls don’t have houses. They have those yurts, and Krshia says every member in a tribe wouldn’t pay for one.”
Everyone looked at Krshia, and she grinned faintly.
“Why would they? We’re part of a tribe. If someone lost theirs, we’d give them an old one, perhaps, or make a new one. If they’re without a place to sleep, how could they do any work?”
“Exactly. Start giving away houses and suddenly land gets less valuable. We still get money in the end; houses have property taxes, people will want more furniture, but it gives all our citizens a leg up. And then, at the same time, we fix the food issue.”
“…Okay, he’s mad, but I’ll hear him out. Go on.”
Hexel the [Architect] looked amused by the entire concept. He hadn’t balked at the idea of designing homes on the city’s coin, and Elirr was stroking his chin.
“You cannot fix the issue of Yellat prices with new currencies, Lism. Food costs more; this is a fact, yes? Someone has to pay for it.”
“Someone does. If your average citizen is surviving on Yellats, they’re not happy. Food has to be coming out, or people will riot. I’d riot if I were eating raw Yellats for a month. So what’s the solution? What’s the solution?”
Lism slapped the board and stared at Garry, at the Council. No one said anything; Raekea was scratching her head and making a twirling motion with her finger at Alonna, and Lism shouted.
“Let them eat bread!”
No one applauded. Garry raised a hand.
“Bread is more expensive than Yellats, Councilmember Lism. Also, if I am here, does that mean I am now part of the Council?”
Lism shook his head.
“No, no, don’t you see? If it costs too much to buy basic food—then Liscor should be paying for that food. I’m saying we take the money from the door, the money that lets visitors come in and raise prices—and we pay for wheat, grain, and sell it cheap!”
“You want to buy grain and sell it at a loss? You’ll have every [Trader] in Liscor coming around to buy it all up and resell it somewhere else.”
Alonna shook her head, and Lism pointed at her.
“Ah. Aaaaah. I thought of that. I’m not saying we’re selling grain. We’re selling bread.”
Raekea sounded exasperated; she’d been wading through flooded sewers all morning.
“You bake grain into bread, Lism. Who’s doing th—”
She broke off. Everyone stared at Garry. He held up a mirror to stare at himself. Krshia’s eyes lit up.
“Oh.”
They had it in a second. Lism pointed at Garry.
“Everyone knows [Baker] Garry. Name me a better [Baker] in the city. You can’t! He’s known for giving food away, but he has limits. But what if he had…a hundred employees? Paid for by the city? Grain that we pay for, and he bakes bread and gives it out—”
“For free?”
“For a Liscorian Mark! One mark, one piece of bread! There’s your damn value, Alonna! We’ll have to have a cap on who can buy it to prevent idiots from walking away with it, but who cares if someone comes here and buys some bread from Garry’s Antinium Edibles? The cost of the door pays for that bread and then some!”
Lism threw up some of the Liscorian Marks into the air, and Garry caught one. Now, Elirr was thinking.
“I know several people who would be delighted to have bread at cheap rates. There has to be a catch. We are paying for it; that is the catch.”
Alonna was scribbling on a balance sheet, trying to work out if it was feasible.
“We’re talking multiple costs here, Lism. Employees, Garry’s salary, the costs of grain, the building itself. Well, we do have a lot of buildings we can give him. If we fund it purely off the door…can we fund it off the door?”
Raekea snorted.
“Have you seen how many people use it per day? The treasury’s so damn full that we need more space for the army’s contribution.”
The final voice came from Krshia, who sat there, chin in her paws.
“People will object.”
Everyone looked to her, and she shrugged.
“They will. [Bakers] will say we are stealing their business. They are not wrong, no? [Grocers] will complain. Citizens who do not need that bread will ask why the city is paying for what will not benefit them. We will fight over grain with [Merchants]. What do you say to that, Lism?”
She gave him a challenging look, and Lism went pacing around the room, speaking to himself.
“Tismel and Zalaiss can object. I’ll throw a table at them. But regular [Bakers]…that’s true. Damn. But if someone needs Garry bread, why shouldn’t he offer a cheap solution? He could make it worse bread?”
Garry sat up, outraged, and snapped back at Lism.
“My bread is a superior quality, excuse you. It is edible by Antinium! I have made many good breads. Breads out of beans, bread out of rice. Even bread out of Yellats.”
Lism stopped. The [Shopkeeper] had an idea at the same time as the [Councilmember].
“…Yellat bread? You can do that?”
The Antinium looked around as if it were obvious.
“If you take dried Yellats, yes. It is similar to how corn bread is made. Flour is flour. You can make it out of wheat or rice or beans or Yellats or most of anything you want. Not stone. Well…you can make stone bread, but it is not very tasty. Nor easy to poop.”
Lism leaned against the drawing board and thought. Yellat bread. Who made Yellat bread? It was cheap…dirt cheap, but it wouldn’t be tasteless, not with Garry.
“A city-run bakery. Garry’s Yellat Bread for a single Liscorian Mark. Come to Liscor and win a free house. We have to do it.”
The rest of the Council looked at him, with approval from Elirr, wariness from Raekea, concern from Alonna, or one of Krshia’s smiles that he could never quite read. But Lism felt it.
If I do this, then maybe Garry and I won’t hear of someone dying of hunger or getting kicked out of their apartment onto the street. It won’t solve it. It won’t ever solve it. But it’d make all that so much better.
And if he could go a month, a year, and hear less stories like that—then Ancestors, he could be even prouder of his city. Lism turned, and Alonna was picking up one of the laminated pieces of paper.
“It’s not a bad look after all. We’ll have to get your face off of it, Lism.”
“Put General S…put Zel Shivertail’s face on it.”
The [Guildmistress]’ head rose, and she smiled. Lism picked up a Liscorian Mark and stared at it.
“Sserys on one side, Zel on the other. That’s something to be proud of. You can take it to any city-run bakery and get a loaf of bread from it, fresh.”
He handed Garry the mark, and Garry handed Lism a cat since he didn’t actually have any bread on him. Lism patted the cat as it bit one of his claws, and Raekea murmured.
“What happens when you get entire towns coming here for the free bread, Lism?”
He turned as he stared at the rainy city beyond.
“If we run out of money, we’ll have to change how we’re doing things. But if Liscor doubles in population? It just means we’re the best damn city in Izril.”
He pointed a finger at Alonna, and she grinned. Garry began to rub all four of his hands together.
“This was like my idea, only more official. Bread. Bread for everyone. But I do have a question about the Liscorian Mark. I could just sell the bread for one copper coin, Councilmember Lism. Why do we need our own currency?”
Lism scratched at his neck spines awkwardly.
“I just felt like it was the thing to do. For the city of Liscor to be unique. All this gold coming in sort of devalues it, you know?”
He was no expert, but he had seen how much gold was being tossed around by Lyonette, and it had crystalized the thoughts in his head. Garry nodded, understanding.
“I can accept that. Gold is indeed worthless in The Wandering Inn…”
He hesitated.
“…Because everything is so cheap. Yes.”
Cheap? Garry must really have lost touch with the fiscal truths of this world because The Wandering Inn was priced quite competitively these days. Lism let it go.
“Yes, yes. But we’re allowed to make our own currencies. We’d make gold coins if we had any, but that’s not an option.”
Garry understood and nodded in relief as he wiped his brow with a cat.
“Yes, I understand. Although, if you want to mint gold coins, perhaps you could simply ask the Silent Queen? Or the Grand Queen, maybe. She is very peculiar about being asked first.”
“Hm? Why’s that?”
Lism was distracted with his vision of things to do, but the rest of the Council sat up a bit. Garry answered calmly.
“Oh, because the Silent Queen has unearthed a gold mine. The Grand Queen ordered her to make gold coins.”
He stopped as everyone drew in a breath.
“…That is not another secret is it? I bake bread. That is what I am good at. Bake bread, Garry, stop talking…excuse me.”
He got up and hurried out of the room. Lism blinked at Garry and didn’t think much of it with all the other news coming out, such as the huge fight with The Wandering Inn after a certain [Tax Collector] visited it. But the Garry Bakery was on the way.
As were the consequences. But what they forgot, from Lism to the rest, was that Garry was a student of Erin Solstice. Not the finest, not a warrior. But the [Innkeeper] had never said he was her worst disciple.
Garry was the consequences.
 
——
 
Some days, Garry got overwhelmed with all his fears about the future, his sadness, and his grief. It scared him terribly, like the rain falling from the sky.
Garry hated the rain. Belgrade was terrified of water, but Garry wasn’t exactly happy about it either. He had nightmares of waking up in his bed to hear water rushing—then a black wave of it would sweep into his rooms, and he’d drown in a vast sea.
Those were bad nightmares. But they were just nightmares, if that made sense.
They had nothing on true dreams where Garry was standing outside an inn with Antinium he recognized. Magnus, Knight, Bishop…watching them vanish and wondering what they would have done if only Garry had been in their place.
Bird. Belgrade. Garry. Pawn had been first, but he’d been special from the start.
There were only four of them left now.
Anand was dead. Some nights, Garry wondered who’d be next. Belgrade or Bird? Because it wouldn’t be Garry. Bird had already died, technically, and Belgrade was a [Strategist] in Liscor’s army. But no one killed Garry; no one had Garry on their lists, or so Garry imagined.
He was just a [Baker]. He felt terribly guilty as though he were leaving his two friends and comrades to die. He could have picked up a sword or turned his [Strategist] classes to war. But he didn’t. His baking was more important in its way. It would not stop armies, but it would feed an army’s worth of people. So Garry baked food and fed cats, like the ones following him in a wet line, meowing. And that was the lesson that none of Erin’s other guests and students and followers had ever learned.
Not Lyonette, who was very Erin-like in her use of the box, not Mrsha, not Pawn or anyone else.
Garry had mastered Erin’s greatest trick: seeming unimportant. And sometimes Garry thought even Erin had forgotten how to do it.
Lism was full of ideas. Garry remembered a time when everyone hated Lism. Well, he’d changed like this city. Now he wanted to let Garry open a bakery? For people to eat for free? It was an excellent idea. It was the idea Garry had had—but better. However, the [Baker] didn’t quite trust Lism wholesale.
Garry had bought bad flour filled with sawdust from nice [Traders]. Garry had paid for meat at the [Butchers] and gotten bad cuts or less meat than he deserved and been accused of being unable to count. So Garry did what he always did: he checked.
Lism said people were having trouble getting good food. This was in-line with Garry’s observations, but he headed straight to one of the main streets, down the city, that crossed from one gate to another, right through Shivertail Plaza. And he listened.
“Hamburger! Fresh hamburgers on sale! Four coppers a burger!”
Four coppers sounded expensive for a hamburger. Even with meat in it…Garry’s first stop was a street vendor. Liscor had them all over these days. Mostly, they did hamburgers, one of the Earth foods introduced here.
