Answer: It’s not if you get the job. It’s not if you’re the [Shopkeeper] who finds someone with seven gold coins burning a hole in their pocket. It’s not if you’re the thousands of people coming to Liscor for jobs. It is if other construction companies want to hire competitively. It is if [Shopkeepers] selling produce realize they can raise prices a copper and still sell out all their produce. It is if you’re a Liscorian living in a city with gold pouring in but you’re not seeing anything come out of the faucet.
 
That was what Lism saw, and it had warred in his head these last few months. This time, the reverse argument. The [Shopkeeper] thought it was a good thing. The [Councilmember] realized people were having trouble feeding themselves. And both Lisms had never been keen on watching anyone lose their home or starve.
“I thought I fixed it with the rent. Now it’s food. Garry’s Antinium Edibles has nearly two hundred regular clients this week. He used to have less than twenty. Some of them probably stay for his food, but many are trying to save on bread. Gold comes in here, but it doesn’t fill people’s pockets. Why?”
Probably because the gold was moving among certain markets. It might, in theory…run downwards from the top like a waterfall and make everyone richer. In time. But Lism doubted that theory for two reasons.
Reason the first: it was nobility and visitors from Pallass, Invrisil, and elsewhere who came to Liscor and spent big. They were already rich, and their incomes had no real ties to Liscor; they might own a property here, but that would only add to their pools of wealth. It put Liscorians in a permanent state of catering towards richer and, therefore, more influential visitors, and that annoyed Lism.
He’d seen Pallassians come through, buy up every sweet in existence, and head back to their Walled City and leave [Bakeries] empty for the day. The Baker’s Guild that had stolen Erin’s cookie and cake designs was, ironically, having a damn war to keep the food recipes safe from Invrisil and Pallass. But it meant that Pallassians still had five times or more the buying power of a Liscorian—hence price increases.
Reason the second: Lyonette. She had offered to buy up every lot left in 3rd District. Just like that. There were a number of Walled Nobility offering the same, and Humans. Lism had been fine with the concept initially. You wanted to pay through the nose to buy property? Go ahead! More money to improve Liscor, right?
Only now, he was facing a world in which the richest person in the world might own Liscor despite not living in it. And then, how were people supposed to have houses? All those Humans coming in to buy property in Liscor on Lism’s word had found prices beyond their ability to pay.
Homes were being made in 3rd District by Humans, Antinium, Drakes, and Gnolls, but not going to the people that built them. They were going for hundreds or even thousands of gold coins, beyond any regular person’s ability to buy them.
“Something is wrong. It’s too much gold.”
Lism stared out the window as the sky brightened, signaling a dark dawn over rainy Liscor. He listened to his own words.
“Too much gold?”
Shopkeeper Lism slapped himself for this heresy coming out of his own mouth. Krshia made a snrk? sound and rolled over in their bed.
Councilmember Lism rubbed his cheek.
“It is. The gold’s the problem. It’s not just rent or food. Too much gold. Too much…”
Tell a Pallassian that Yellats were nine copper coins and they wouldn’t say ‘how much? How outrageous!’ They’d say ‘what a deal!’ and come running to buy all the Yellats they wanted, then head back to Pallass. They could afford the door fee; regular Liscorians couldn’t.
Do we solve that by asking Lyonette to make the door free for Liscorians? She’ll never accept that; it makes no sense, either. She’s a businesswoman too. There has to be a solution, though.
Liscor was being crowded out by the other cities in close proximity instead of it being a mutual relationship. They might win at football, but they were losing the war of economics…and all because the other cities were like multi-caravan [Merchants] having a trade war with a [Trader] who had a single cart and a donkey.
Lism thought, as he stood in the rain, that Liscor was at an inflection point. Again. The change didn’t bother him; it had scared him at first, but then he’d seen his city grow and look better and be important, and that had mattered more. But this time, he feared it could get worse. Not collapse; Liscor could never die so easily, but it could get worse for people. Unless he did something.
What?
He stood there for a while, smoking his cigar down to ash, brushing at a silver pendant with Liscor’s sigil stamped on it that Krshia had gotten him for his birthday. Wondering why he was so damn certain…and what he should do.
“Gold.”
It was always about the gold in the end.
 
——
 
Ramone Terland was not a brave man, and he wished Xitegen were here because the Terland family needed him. Not for defense or anything as prosaic as that; no one attacked Terlands save for the insane or monsters like the Kraken Eater tribe. Nor for Xitegen’s, uh, demeanor either. Or even his status.
True, Xitegen was a Lord of Hearts, an internal Terland status as one of the highest-ranking members of the family. He could command the oldest Golems, claiming which ones he intended to use from the Terlands’ stock, even Sentience-class Golems like his helpers, Primera and Seconda.
Primera and Seconda, what names. Another reason why, until now, Ramone had stayed away from Xitegen.
Oh, Lord Xitegen was a quite capable combat-based [Lord] with his [Covering Fire] Skill; the poor man had survived the 2nd Antinium Wars and seen his entire family perish.
The thing was…House Terland didn’t need him. That wasn’t an insult. But please, one of the Five Families of Izril didn’t need a Named Rank adventurer. He wasn’t essential as a bodyguard, a champion, or anything else. They had Golems.
There was a Golem Lighthouse on one of their coasts that directed ships into their ports. It could also fire on [Pirate] ships. True, some of the old lenses were inaccurate, and the Golem Heart had been cracked so it could only fire once per day—but not many [Pirates] wanted to take the risk, even so.
They had an invisible Golem, Sicladiun, which hunted down criminals in their land; it was an urban legend among the common folk. Save for a truly terrible event like another Goblin King, Xitegen was unneeded, and Ramone had, in fact, applauded his decision to go and uplift the city of Celum.
Good riddance! Goodbye! Don’t come back except for the yearly reunion! Xitegen was not a pleasant man to be around.
He was argumentative, pushy, would bite your nose off if you brought up issues he thought you were on the wrong side of, and worst of all…he was just too athletic, frankly.
The Terlands had a central mini-city in their capital, Velsgreth, where a lot of the family lived. It had Golem servants dating back thousands of years, beautiful rooms; the entire mansion had literally been transported from Terandria when they’d moved, and you would want for nothing there. Only a few members even bothered to commute to First Landing to play politics.
So there Ramone would be in the morning, having an elegant cup of tea after it had been poison-tested—he’d had a…poisoning incident in his youth and wore illusion spells because of the scars—and be about to ring for breakfast.
Then he’d turn his head and a half-naked, sweating Xitegen would stride past him, throw himself into one of the chairs, and remark on how good the morning’s run had been. The man loved to run. Like a common Runner! And he’d comment that Ramone should get out and smell the ‘fresh air’.
The air-purifying spells were as fresh as Ramone wanted, thank you. Xitegen would tromp off with his dirty shoes, and you’d see a poor cleaning Golem following him around all day. No, good riddance to Xitegen, Ramone had thought.
…Then he’d realized Xitegen occupied a vital role in House Terland. That House Terland needed a busybody, an opinionated fellow like him. Why? Because he was a lightning rod. Without him to be annoying, to argue with the matriarch or to talk her down out of her moods…
Ulva Terland got tetchy.
 
——
 
“Ramone! Great Aunt Ulva is on the warpath. It’s about Taulus again.”
“Who?”
“The…one of the cousins who went off to kill the Kraken Eaters.”
“Oh, the distant family. What of it, Alorelle?”
If Ramone sounded disparaging as he and Alorelle hid behind a balustrade and listened to Ulva Terland’s furious voice, well, the Terlands were a large family.
Some Lord of Stones getting killed was egregious and demanded vengeance, but he, Ramone, wasn’t going to get worked up over it. Indeed, Lady Alorelle barely gave the deceased fellow a second comment.
“It’s a disgrace, and that damn tribe of Goblins should be destroyed tomorrow, but even Lord Tyrion couldn’t eradicate them. But you know how Great Aunt Ulva gets over…them.”
The G-word. Goblins. Not to be said around Ulva Terland, Xitegen, or anyone else who’d been at the Sacrifice of Roses. Terrible thing, of course, that war. So many deaths. Ramone had been here when the entire war went down, but he’d voted all of his Golems to join the front.
It sounded like Aunt Ulva was tearing a hole into everyone in earshot. She might have been an old woman who rode on a magical dais and was afraid to go anywhere without her bodyguards, but she was as fierce as a lion. Ramone adjusted his collar.
“Does she want to send out a second force…?”
“Some of the Originals. What if they’re destroyed?”
“That’s heresy in itself, Alorelle. The Originals weren’t made to lose to even Named-ranks. They could send Sicladiun out, and I’ll wager he could destroy the entire Goblin tribe. Don’t they slip away every time an Original gets sent?”
The two nobles whispered together in the corridor. Ramone was tall and somewhat long-legged, though he tended to hunch over, and had been accused of looking ‘bat-like’. He liked to have a rather handsome face; the scars he’d gotten from his youth had warped his right cheek and stretched the skin.
Alorelle, on the other hand, didn’t go for illusions. She had bright-blue hair, which Ramone wished he could prove was the product of dyes, and a heart-shaped face that had once made her one of Izril’s most beloved [Ladies].
Then she’d gotten old, and unlike Lady Wuvren, she hadn’t kept her title as the most beautiful. Even so…she’d been, what, thirty when House Terland had arranged her marriage with Eldertuin the Fortress?
Ramone still didn’t quite get why the fellow was so important he’d been allowed elevation to Lord of Function. Named-rank or not, the Terlands were one of the Five Families! Alorelle had gone through with the marriage gracefully, though, even if she liked to lord her knowledge of monsters over everyone else.
“The Kraken Eaters have beaten Named-ranks, Ramone. They might even damage or destroy old Sicladiun. Great Aunt Ulva knows that. She wants someone to take charge and hunt down the Goblins themselves.”
“Ah. And Xitegen’s not here to spend two months turning rocks over, is he?”
Ramone’s heart sank. No wonder he’d seen so many of his peers fleeing the area. The Lords and Ladies of Function, and even the Lords of Heart, didn’t want to have to chase a damn Goblin tribe around, even if they got to play with some of the Terlands’ finest Golems.
“Better run. Or she’ll make you do it. If Eldertuin was here, he’d volunteer, of course…but he’s in the New Lands.”
“Making a name for you.”
Ramone muttered snidely, and Alorelle shot him a glower.
“I sent him off with all my best wishes and full of provisions. He’s an adventurer. You know how they are.”
Eldertuin the Fortress wasn’t nearly as interesting as Ramone had hoped. The man was reserved, quiet, even if he was as large as a house, and not very interesting. Then again, marry Alorelle and you weren’t much for speaking in the first place. Probably why he went on adventures all the time.
Regardless, the update from his cousin meant Ramone was fifty paces down the corridor and wishing he could run like Xitegen when Ulva Terland floated upwards on her Dais of Greater Health and called out.
“Ramone! Alorelle! One of you two had better have a reason why you won’t avenge one of our own! And if I hear one comment about Eldertuin adventuring, I shall have his wife do a tenth of the work he does! Lord Ramone, do you have anything to occupy your attention in the name of House Terland?”
Uh oh. Avenging Terland’s own meant Ulva was in a very nasty state of mind. She might well order either one of them to go out and hunt the Kraken Eaters down, and Ramone was no fighter.
Alorelle tried to run, and Ulva pointed a finger. A Golem with Truegold skin and wearing a maid’s outfit sprang forwards and dragged her back—Ramone knew better than to run and spun around.
“Great Aunt Ulva! I was just about my business for House Terland. But if you need me, I’m delighted to be of service!”
His desperate smile didn’t make Ulva’s scowl change. She floated forwards as Ramone glanced around.
“Oh? And what would that be, Lord Ramone?”
He was already sweating. A Terland could well live life without having any onerous duties; if you were a Lord of Function like Ramone, your allocation of funds from the family was very handsome, and you had Golems under your control. True, he often schemed to find ways to increase that amount of money or gain more power within the family, but he didn’t like work.
However, the Lord or Lady of Creation—the matriarch or patriarch of the family—could give any other Terland marching orders. So Ramone grasped for the only straw he had as he stuttered an excuse to avoid being sent on Goblin-killing duty.
“Er—er—I was just going to ensure all our finances were in order. I am one of the Treasurers after all.”
He was nominally in charge of overseeing the Terlands’ mercantile affairs. In practice, it meant letting the [Scribes] and [Merchants] and whatnot under Terland control do their job. Terlands operated several Merchant’s Guilds in the north, and they did a lot of trade. Golems could load and unload cargo, process items, and make a lot of goods themselves.
Ulva looked Ramone up and down, and her tone dripped sarcasm and incredulity for his excuse, but she seemed to realize Ramone wasn’t much of a war leader in any case.
“Hm. How admirable. Then I shall hear Alorelle’s excuse. Don’t let me keep you from your work, Ramone.”
