On a wet, cold day like today, standing under a cloth awning and chewing down on a hamburger was a tempting proposition. But four copper? It could be worse; prices were double or quadruple that in a big city.
Therefore, was Lism wrong? Garry waited in line as a pair of Gnolls in front of him bickered.
“I want a hamburger, Vok. You said you’d buy one for me, not share one.”
“But it’s eight coppers…”
“You got paid two gold coins!”
“A gold coin and a half. I’m a trainee. Two hamburgers is like…uh…one…fortieth of my salary! Sort of!”
Vok and Hickery, two Gnolls from Cellidel, were arguing as the burger maker took orders. Hickery sniffed as Vok glumly held up two fingers. She nudged him, and he hesitated and sniffed too.
“Wait a second—what kind of meat is this?”
The [Stall Cook] hesitated as the two Gnolls stared at the meat sizzling on the simple grill over a small brazier. Garry had been trying to work that out himself. The [Stall Cook] was a Drake, and his customers were Gnolls. The only two in line, in fact.
“Meat. What? It’s good.”
“Smells awful.”
“What? Your nose must be broken, Miss. Is that two or one? Give it a better sniff.”
The Drake wafted more fumes with a fan at them, and Garry saw a bunch of condiments; cheap chives, watery ketchup, no mayonnaise—in a little bin. Tight margins.
Hickery clarified.
“No, I meant it smells like offal. That’s not a proper burger! And you’re using rabbit meat.”
Every head swung towards the Drake, who made a loud, and suddenly worried, psshing sound.
“What? There’s beef in there! Somewhere. Listen, Miss, you find me a burger for three copper coins anywhere in this city and I’ll give one of these to you free. It’s tasty! And hy-ge-nic-ly prepared. Trust me, I went to a course with Chef Imani!”
“I’ll be the judge of that. One burger, please. If it’s bad, I’ll have to report you to the Watch for selling bad products. Trainee Guardsman Vok.”
Vok slapped four copper coins on the counter. Garry watched with a bunch of hawk-eyed potential customers as the Drake, sweating now, worked furiously on the burger. As far as Garry could tell, it was just a ground meat patty using the cheapest ingredients the Drake could get.
So—some beef, probably parts like liver that weren’t always in high demand, rabbit, venison—he was probably buying a bunch of scraps that a [Butcher] sold and having it processed or doing the grinding himself.
However, the rest of the food area was clean. And the grill looked good; the Drake had clearly seasoned the iron surface with a lot of spices, and the bread was cheap, but he’d again used a little trick; he fried the buns on the fat from the burgers to give them a bit of a crunch and hot crispness. True, he probably added more condiments than usual, but when Vok took his first suspicious bite, his face lit up.
“Okay, let me try. Vok! Let me try!”
Hickery took a huge bite of the burger, and the two began to fight over whether it was predominantly rabbit or what. The relieved burger seller beckoned Garry forwards, and the Antinium paid for two burgers as people got in line. A victory for small business and proper spicing.
“Hello, Guardsman Vok, Miss Hickery. Here is a burger, on me.”
Garry ate a third of his burger, then bent down and gave most of the meat to the meowing cats. Hickery and Vok turned, surprised, and Hickery’s eyes lit up.
“You’re Baker Garry, right? You gave me a pie to welcome my family to Liscor! Thanks for the burger!”
“I can pay for that.”
Vok looked uncomfortable, but Garry assured them his task was to investigate food quality today. When he offered to feed the two, the young Gnolls licked their lips and assured Garry their noses and tongues were at his disposal if he was paying.
Four coppers a burger was good pricing. Hot dogs were on sale for six—though you got a pound of condiments—and another burger-seller was moving his cart because he couldn’t beat the four-copper burger; his were five. Garry found the burgers good, even if the bread was weak, and the cats meowed happily about the meal.
A few flavor Skills, the right tricks, and you could make a living, as the stall owner clearly proved. It wasn’t the worst meal, even if it wasn’t exactly cheap, and Garry wasn’t sure it proved Lism’s point about prices until Hickery snapped her fingers.
“Wait, I figured out what he’s putting in it that makes it so cheap. You can’t even buy rabbit or cow parts that cheap from the [Hunters]. It’s skunk. I knew I smelled it.”
Garry and Vok turned to her. Then looked at the stall. It was so faint only a young Gnoll’s nose would detect it, but…Garry rubbed his chin.
“Hm. Let us investigate the meats, shall we? This way.”
He knew almost all the [Butchers] in the southwestern district and many more across the city.
 
——
 
The prices of meat were high during Liscor’s rainy season. Of course they were—but triple? Garry wasn’t a meat-baking expert, but he had noticed the prices were high. However, the Antinium bought in bulk, so seeing the prices at one [Butcher]’s made the discrepancy clear.
“Is it just because [Hunters] cannot work while it rains, Miss Pattelscale?”
The [Butcher] was making silkap with a special knife, slicing and re-slicing the meat before she ground it together in a bowl with the right spices.
“Nope. Meat prices are lower because all the fish just hit the market. It was five times as high as normal last month. Winter hit hard. If someone’s scavenging skunk kills, he must be buying via Esthelm or Celum. Probably got a deal with a young [Hunter]. Or he’s hunting himself. So long as he’s not selling intestines, it sounds fine.”
That was Garry’s conclusion, and Hickery licked her lips as she dipped some bread in some fresh silkap. She and Vok were sampling the finished product, and the Drake would have chased the two out of the shop, but she had time for Garry.
“I’m surprised you didn’t notice the prices. Then again, you buy entire deer off me, Baker Garry.”
Miss Pattelscale was a Drake, but she had a Gnoll husband and therefore catered to Gnolls with her silkap, which was very popular, and to Garry.
“I confess, Miss Pattelscale, I buy meat in bulk. For the Free Queen. So prices often escape me. May I have fifteen pounds of silkap, please?”
She grunted as Vok nearly spat out his mouthful and stared at Garry; he didn’t understand how much the Free Queen ate. Pattelscale rubbed at her shoulders.
“I’ll have it tomorrow if that’s alright. Lot of processing…”
“She quite enjoys your food, Miss Pattelscale. So, your opinion is that there is a food crisis?”
The Drake gave Garry a long nod.
“If it gets worse, I might come by and buy a pie or two off you. It’s bad in Liscor not because we’re always short on food, what with all the doors, but because you have desperate sorts coming via the door to buy what they can. Or they go to Invrisil, but since it’s cheaper to go to Liscor…I ran into some Drake from over three hundred miles away. Said his entire town saw their Prelon fields go up in smoke. Someone burnt it down, and they were rationing food so badly they needed to go to Pallass for food—then to Liscor since it’s cheaper.”
“Cellidel?”
“No…Amwral?”
Vok and Hickery looked at each other and shrugged. It must have been a small town. Garry nodded.
“I, too, have heard of the very tough winter and seen prices go up. I have met Humans who came to my stall because they were informed of the prices, despite their fear of Antinium.”
“Lot of arsons over the winter. Throw in people getting sick—you didn’t hear this from me, but entire villages have come down with the Ravening Glut. That’s where you eat and eat and it passes through you. In the middle of winter? Bad stuff.”
“We haven’t seen that many people coming here for food.”
Hickery’s voice was uncertain. Garry tilted his head and thought of the answer before Pattelscale gave it.
“Well, young Miss. If it’s really bad…they don’t show up. Small wonder the Order of Solstice and that Unseen Empire get treated like heroes. The Order of Haegris too.”
“And The Wandering Inn. I see, Miss Pattelscale. Thank you for the snack.”
Garry paid in advance for the silkap and led a somewhat subdued Vok and Hickery out of the shop. But he was seeing it now.
 
——
 
Wealth was flowing into Liscor, for all Lism’s grievances about housing and food specifically. It was not in those two sectors, true. Liscor had never been an agricultural breadbasket, though it did very well on fishing.
But the other things? Garry visited Scuttle Street next, which was down an eight-way intersection in the southeastern part of Liscor that had lively business of a non food-related kind.
“Shieldresin! Hardens in minutes! Got a leak? Shieldresin!”
“Does anyone have marglemaggot intestines? I’m buying the entire lot—”
“Watch out! Eyeballs!”
Of all the things you’d hear, well…seeing a barrel overturn and a bunch of eyeballs of various kinds rush towards you was an experience.
An adventuring experience, really. Which was what this street was; it had a lot of monster parts from the dungeon being sold after processing from the adventurer’s guild. Including monster eyeballs.
Garry watched as a small fortune in eyes washed down a sewer and a Human worker stared at the spinning orbs and instantly lost their job. Hickery gagged; the smell was of some kind of preservative.
No one wanted to help pick up the fallen eyeballs, and while the street was cleared, Garry saw most of the business was in practical monster parts.
Marglemaggots were the disgusting giant maggots that morphed into very dangerous predators; it had only value to some arguing [Alchemists] from Pallass and Invrisil. But the shieldresin in small bottles of liquid was getting a brisk trade.
“Once it leaves the liquid, it starts hardening fast, so spread it, get it off your hands, and don’t touch your eyes. It’s damn good stuff too. Works on armor and leaks. I’d build my house out of it.”
That might have been hyperbole, but the person selling the stuff was being watched approvingly by an older Drake.
“Got some Shield Spider armor coming up. Now we’re back with the shieldresin, we might as well sell it. When I was a hatchling, that’s what we sold. Light, better’n iron and leather—we’ll be making houses out of it soon enough.”
“So adventuring’s bringing in money?”
Vok stared at a spinning eyeball someone was gingerly picking up, and the Drake laughed.
“‘Course it is! Even brings in food, though you have to cook everything from the dungeon twice as long. We’re getting plenty of customers from all kinds of cities with the magic door. I’ve seen people changing where they’re bringing goods to market just to trade here, even with the door tax. We’d be swimming in gold and enough wheat and whatever we need if it wasn’t for…Celum.”
The Drake’s brow darkened, and he spat. Another shopkeeper kicked an eyeball, and it hit a passerby in the cheek. Garry leaned forwards as a screaming match began.
“Excuse me? Celum? I was unaware Celum was objectionable. Are we not inherently superior to Celum in every way?”
It had been going through a bad patch after the Bloodfeast Raider attack, enough to need donations and help. However, the Drake just gave Garry a long, meaningful look.
“It was. We had Celumites here, like that [Innkeeper], Timbor. Poor city—I was ready to buy anyone still living there a drink. Then came that Human Wall Lord, Xitegen, and—have you been to Celum recently? Save your pity.”
Garry looked at Vok. Hickery held up a dripping eyeball, then turned to them as Garry realized he needed to expand his field trip.
 
——
 
Celum had Golems. Hickery, Garry, and Vok stopped as a ten-foot-tall Golem made out of clay plodded past them, pulling a huge wagon. A Golem with a shovel on the back of it was flicking bricks off.
Onetwothree, onetwothree—a third Golem was catching them, inches before they hit the ground, and slotting them into place. These two were both humanoid; they had metal ‘faces’, like brass cylinders, and simple, tubular arms and joints. But they moved with alarming quickness, and glowing glass circles in their chests showed their Golem Hearts.
The construction team was building the road so fast that they cleared a dozen feet before Garry finished processing what was going on. It wasn’t just the group on the cart; they were following another Golem team, who were laying down the mortar for the bricks in neat rows. And they were preceding another Golem smashing up the cobblestone street so it could be repaved.
Each Golem was different. You had huge, plodding ones like Elementals, variants of Humans, made out of brass or metal or, the final Golem that passed by, a rolling Golem on a sphere.
It had no face, nothing that looked Human-like at all; its rolling sphere was probably the Golem Heart, four feet in every direction, atop which floated what Garry could only describe as the world’s most menacing streetlamp. A long, thin body waving metal arms—arms which shot flames that instantly dried the mortar and bricks, despite the rain.
“Golems on parade. Is it like this every day?”
Garry turned to a hamburger-seller, who gave the Antinium a superior look as he pressed his sizzling Corusdeer hamburger against the grill.
“Near to it, Mister Antinium. Lord Xitegen’s Golems repaved my street yesterday. They work day and night, save for the loud ones. That one there? That’s Solfeim. You go up to it if it’s not working, and you can get free fire.”
“What, you mean it’ll light a torch or something?”
Hickery was hiding behind Vok as the Golem passed, but everyone native to Celum seemed to be fine around the Golems. They walked past the big plodding one, which stopped to let anyone pass by, and Garry actually saw a boy dart up with a pewter bowl in his hands.
“Not just flame—like that. See, Miss?”
Solfeim stopped and delicately spat a tiny bit of molten flame into the bowl. The boy nodded, dashed off—then turned to bow. A voice shouted after him.
“Don’t disrupt the Golems at work, please! And keep clear of the Golems if possible!”
Vok, with his trainee Guardsman’s spear, considered himself a fine and proud member of Liscor’s Watch, which was one of the best Watches he’d seen in his two-city experience. The Gnoll defender of his city…looked up and stepped back as a woman wearing a Golem stomped down the street.
Controller Lectara piloted her war Golem suit as it magnified her voice, striding ahead with a patrol of armed Golems marching in lock-step behind her. Garry saw people turning and bowing deeply to her as she passed and spoke.
“Ah. This would be the city stealing Liscor’s thunder.”
