But today, Yelroan watched the gold falling from the box. Watched it—and the [Princess], who stood, back against one of the trees in the desert section of the garden, chest rising and falling.
Lyonette looked like someone had backed her against a wall. She was staring up at the box, panting for air, as if it were weighing on her. Each time that coin fell and the sound echoed, she flinched.
How things changed.
In the first days, she’d celebrated the gold coins.
After two weeks, she was used to them and had stopped rolling around on the hard piles of gold.
After a month and fifteen days, she had stared at the gold coins dropping, then stared at a newspaper.
After a month and two weeks, Lyonette held a Liscorian Mark in her hand and read another newspaper. The article was not what Yelroan had expected.
He’d expected to read—Antinium Hives Minting Gold! or something less congratulatory. Instead, today’s news made his stomach writhe. It reminded him of Nanette’s significant gaze and Mrsha’s slow nod. The children weren’t surprised. They were adjusting to the…rules faster than Yelroan.
The [Mathematician] knew economics. He understood gold circulation and inflation. He knew how the world should work given how much gold the [Box of Incontinuity] had produced. But he had a new set of rules in his mind that had nothing to do with…math.
This is what he read in today’s news:
 
Gold Mine Uncovered in New Lands! 
 
Ding. Lyonette flinched. Yelroan’s ears twitched. He stared up at the box. Another coin fell.
Ding.
She stared at the gold coins in her hands that the Merchant’s Guild was suddenly less keen on.
 
——
 
The next day, Yelroan stood in the same place. This time, Lyonette flinched from the sound. But they watched, transfixed. Neither one had taken the gold coin out of the box. They could have, but they were watching, now. Like people seeing an avalanche happen in slow motion.
Yelroan had to see.
Ding.
The [Princess] was cowering away from the box. Yelroan stood there, reading a newspaper.
“Wistram. Zeres. Salazsar…”
They were all coming out with currencies. The Merchant’s Guild was still accepting gold coins, but the value that Yelroan was deriving from them was…he looked at Lyonette, then the box. Another gold coin materialized and fell into the pile.
Ding.
Prices locally were in flux thanks to Garry’s Bakery. People were grabbing Liscorian Marks for the novelty of them. Visitors kept changing gold coins for the paper money.
Ding. 
It was so many small things. 
An [Heiress] died—not Selys—and they found a vault full of gold coins in her estate. More gold.
The Terlands were warning other nations and merchants to get off gold, and everyone was listening.
The Antinium-minted gold had prompted an emergency meeting by the Walled Cities to identify and ban Antinium-made gold coins from hitting their economies. The transcript had leaked onto Wistram News Network and been read out loud.
A group of [Counterfeiters] in southern Izril had been exposed, and hundreds of thousands of fakes were pouring in.
Ding.
Yelroan slowly wrote on a piece of paper as he walked up the pile of gold towards the box. No one stopped him; Peggy watched warily as Lyonette looked up. He stopped in front of the [Box of Incontinuity], opened it, and pulled the tiny gold coin out.
It would not fit back in when he tried, and he held it in his paw, the original, the regular Shameface that had caused all this. Because it had. Slowly, Yelroan stuck something to the side of the box. These were the rules he understood.
 
1. Nothing put in the box can be put in a second time. There is only one chance.
2. Whatever is put in the box is replicated, and it is real, genuine in every way; an identical clone.
3. (Theoretical) Whatever is put in the box…loses its value in some way. The effect increases with time.
 
It was the only thing that made sense to Yelroan. The acceleration of this pivot from gold, these literal events like goldmines being discovered—it chilled him to the core. This was not the world he belonged to, of numbers and logic.
This…was a [Witch]’s chaos. An [Innkeeper]’s cavalier attitude towards the pillars of the world. It was the stuff of the Winter Fae, The Wandering Inn.
It was a Level 50 Skill, and this box scared him. 
The sound stopped. Yelroan walked down the final gold pile, holding the coin in his hand. Lyonette stood at last, pale-faced, Dame Ushar helping her, and Yelroan met her eyes. He asked the truly scary question, then, and was relieved he had no answer.
“What would have happened…if we’d put a healing potion in there?”
No one responded, so Yelroan turned, then tossed the original coin into the pile. The Gnoll’s sunglasses flashed as he watched a single object sparkle in the light. It fell, tumbling through the air, glittering with all its value and worthlessness. A tiny consequence falling down from a box of infinite possibilities and danger.
Ding.
