The burger seller gave Garry a strange look as he flipped the Celum Burger onto a bit of wax paper and handed it to Garry.
“Whaddya mean, sir? You’ve got your magical innkeeper, don’t you. All that fancy fire and whatnot?”
“She’s on…vacation. We do have some magical flames, but it is not for sale.”
The man developed an incredibly smug smile.
“Well then—over here, you can get magical fire for free. And Golems who repair streets, till fields—they’re even digging sewers! Just you wait. In three month’s time, Liscor won’t have anything on Celum. Invrisil won’t!”
Hickery grabbed her burger and took a big bite out of it. She called at the man as they walked away.
“Except the magic door! You don’t have that!”
However, it was true that Celum…looked good. It wasn’t just the extreme infrastructure upgrade the Golems were bringing. It was in a three-copper burger.
“I think all the [Hunters] are selling their kills here. No wonder it’s more expensive in Liscor. Hey! They are stealing our goods! Can I buy some venison for my parents when I get back?”
Vok had realized the problem too; trade did come through to Liscor from other cities, but Celum had suddenly developed a hankering for everything from goods to food to raw materials. And if anyone came overland to Liscor via the north, they might as well sell what they could in Celum, right? Then come to Liscor for any better deals.
“I foresee strife between Liscor’s Council and Celum. Does Lord Xitegen rule Celum, or the [Mayor]?”
“Definitely Lord Xitegen. He’s got all the Golems.”
That was a prescient comment from Hickery. Garry checked the price of grain and got another ugly surprise.
“Oh. It is still higher than likable. Hmm.”
Celum wasn’t immune to the issue of food crisis during the winter. When Garry asked, he was directed to a [Grocer], who told Garry in no uncertain terms that the food supply issue wasn’t even a factor of mouths.
“Grain? If you want grain, you can get pretty much the same price in Invrisil, Celum, Liscor, Pallass, you name it. If it’s Yellats—they used to be cheap, but with everyone buying, prices are up. But grain, corn, and a few vegetables’ll stay consistent, if higher than anyone wants.”
“And why is that, please?”
For answer, a finger pointing straight back the way Garry had come.
“Riverfarm, obviously. Only, they can charge what they want.”
The [Baker] rubbed at his chin, thoughtful, as an idea occurred to him.
“Hmm.”
 
——
 
Garry was coming up with a mental map of the city-triangle that the [Door of Portals] allowed. You had Liscor, flush with monster parts and fish. Celum, backed by Golems and Lord Xitegen and northern goods, and Riverfarm, poorer in other areas for now, but rapidly expanding and rich in food, which everyone wanted.
However, it wasn’t really a triangle; there was Esthelm, which was smaller than the other cities, but produced a lot of valuable metals thanks to Pelt. And then there were Invrisil and Pallass, who were more like giants on their own deigning to interact with the triangle of cities.
The result, though, was that you got both the ability to rely on other cities for food, goods, and services, but didn’t get the effect of overabundance, if that made sense. If it had just been Riverfarm and Liscor, Garry imagined food prices would be wonderfully low all the time.
However, Riverfarm was feeding itself, all the lands it was connected to, and Invrisil, Celum, Esthelm, and Pallass’ appetites. It was a seller’s market if you had enough supply, which also raised prices.
Of course, that was just Garry’s basic understanding of the Lismnomics that had prompted the Councilmember to do all this in the beginning. Garry was not a genius like Anand had been. Poor, brave Anand.
He could not make bread out of nothing like Pawn. He was not brave like Belgrade. Garry was just the [Baker].
He said goodbye to Vok and Hickery, thanking them for their help, and walked back to his bakery, which was being manned by one of his assistants, in deep thought.
Pisca was a Flying Antinium and a somewhat intimidating assistant, but she would scuttle around the shop on all six legs and pull out the wrapped packages for Garry’s clients, no problem. She was also preparing something for later.
One of Garry’s new Skills, which he had told no one about except for Erin and Lyonette, was [Infused Dough] and a new type of bread—scaethen dough. It was…hard to make.
What you had to do to make scaethen dough was what you did for any dough: take yeast or baking soda, combine with flour, salt, water, and stir. Let the dough rise—and then you had a dough you baked.
That was the simple way Erin had once shown Garry how to make bread. And in the past, it had been just that for simple breads.
Then Garry had learned about different kinds of yeast that each [Baker] might have access to or sell you. Then he’d learned flour was not always wheat. You could have rice flour. Bean flour. Flour was, in fact, of variable qualities. You could add other elements to your dough like oil or eggs, and when you baked bread, were you going to braid your dough or let it rise with more yeast or infuse it with cheese or bugs or…?
Baking was a fine art. One Erin had little interest in, which was okay. Garry was the master of baking, and he had experimented with rye bread, pretzels, baguettes, and brioche; he had painted eggs onto bread before it turned golden brown in the oven and experimented with different kinds of salt for the best taste. Water too.
He had discovered scaethen dough. What was scaethen dough?
Well.
It looked red.
 
——
 
The first step in making scaethen dough was to get enough base ingredients to even make it. Pisca and Runel had probably been opening huge bags of beans in their kitchen in the Hive and smashing it up to make bean flour. Which was one component of scaethen dough.
It wasn’t so much a singular recipe, Garry had found, but a combination. It required at least four flour types, six optimally. You took bean flour, grain flour, rice flour, and he’d also been using Yellat flour for the first prototypes.
Each flour had a different way it liked to combine and optimal water quotient. But once you made it dough—you’d failed to make scaethen dough, you see?
So, what you had to do was combine all the flours in a spiral pattern. A beautiful one with subtly different-colored flours as Pisca was doing now on a huge baking board. Then the Flying Antinium carefully took a jug of water with her pincers and poured a strip along one spiral of flour, in a groove that let the water sit there. Swiftly, she took another jug and repeated the process.
The four-spiral scaethen dough of flour and water sat there, and then the Flying Antinium began running her feelers through the dough, mixing it together like Garry had shown her. Slowly, deliberately, in small circular motions so that the center combined together and the dough ball slowly rolled around, absorbing the other flours in equal parts.
Also very important. Garry watched approvingly as one of his clients stopped and stared at the process. If Pisca rolled the dough ball too much in any one flour, it would fail to work.
You knew it was working when the dough ceased to look like four different flours mixed together and took on a uniform, faintly red coloration. Just the teensiest bit red, right now. Barely noticeable. But it was done, and after a moment, Pisca scurried away from the dough to grab an order.
“Thank you, Miss Pisca.”
The Flying Antinium pushed Comrei Silverfang’s order over the counter and accepted a single copper coin. Then she produced a rolling pin and got to work.
Scaethen dough. The redder it was, the better it got. The little Gnoll girl watched as Pisca began rolling the dough, back and forth, flattening it out, rolling it together, smoothing it so thin it covered the board, peeling it back, tossing it up—
Knead the dough. Now, Garry was well aware that over-kneading dough was possible; it didn’t often happen, but you got too-chewy dough as a result. It got tough and flatter too. Scaethen dough didn’t.
It turned redder the longer you worked. And yes, progressively tougher. By the end of twenty minutes, when Comrei reluctantly had to hurry off, Pisca was noticeably putting more force into the dough, which had acquired a faintly red sheen. After an hour of kneading, it would be hard enough that Garry would have to lean on the biggest rolling pin he had to get it to move.
He, Pisca, and Runel would have to hang it from a hook, one long strand of scaethen dough, and beat it with a baseball bat to keep kneading it—and he had a feeling he hadn’t even gotten close to the end of how red it could be.
When Pisca noticed Garry, he waved a hand.
“May I take a piece, Pisca? Good work.”
She nodded rapidly, and he broke off a piece of the dough and squished it between his fingers.
“Hmm. Very good. You are working very hard, Pisca. Good job.”
She fanned her wings at him happily, adjusting her baker’s hat. Garry nibbled the dough; it was certainly tough. But when you baked it, all that toughness seemed to melt into the bread, and the loaf would rise, like the color of dawn itself, and emit a strange aroma that he had only smelled a few times before…
Magic. That was what Garry thought scaethen dough contained. Literal magic you were kneading into it. It was like dough infused with Sage’s Grass, only that was merely full of mana. Scaethen didn’t get old or stale; it just waited, soaking in your hard work, and it took days to get it properly red.
Garry had eight batches of scaethen dough sitting under cloths in his fridge room underground. The success rate on scaethen dough was less than one in thirty; Pisca had gotten lucky this time, but her movements were refined.
He had made scaethen bread twice. If you thought the dough was bad, making sure it didn’t burn and establishing the cooking temperatures was—
Ah. Right.
What did it do? Garry wasn’t actually that clear on that part, yet. He knew what he thought it did, but it was just a hypothesis. Conjecture. Anecdotal evidence based on—
Well, he put the dough back so Pisca could keep kneading it and went to check on Runel and Deferred Sustenance.
They’d eaten his first batch of bread. Runel because Garry had asked for a volunteer for the first bread. Deferred Sustenance had eaten the Free Queen’s portion.
 
——
 
Flying Antinium looked like, well, flies. They had six legs, scurried around in a quadrupedal fashion, like the Silent Antinium, and could leap incredibly high and had two sets of wings they used to glide.
They were based on Antinium from Rhir, both sets, and neither one was perfect, but Pisca and Runel had been gifted to the Free Queen by the Flying Queen, before the Flying Queen had betrayed the Free Antinium.
Garry didn’t hold anything the Flying Antinium had done against the two Workers. They had been ready to be dissected for the Queen’s experiences and, like him, had been nothing.
Pisca and Runel were female. Apparently, the Silent Antinium and Flying Antinium were made with different templates in mind. They scuttled around with the poofy baking hats on their heads, and Garry paid them and gave them time off, but they loved baking and eating food. In their spare time, they’d scuttle up to the surface and stare at the sky; they loved to hop around the Free Queen’s chambers when she wasn’t there.
Flying Antinium loved the outdoors and had more exposure to it in the Hivelands, but they couldn’t fly. They were, as the Flying Queen always remarked, incomplete. Not failures, because she hadn’t failed. Just imperfect.
Garry wondered what the Flying Queen would say if she could see Runel today. Flying Antinium had green wings and yellow to brown or black carapaces. More variation due to their more experimental design.
Runel’s wings were as emerald-green as Bird’s, and they fanned in the air with a surprisingly soft buzzing sound as she slowly hovered across the room. Twenty feet, thirty, forty…the Soldiers stared up at her, then snapped to attention as Garry walked past them. At the other side of the room, Runel clung to the wall, visibly exhausted, the bright-red tips of her legs digging into the dirt.
She could fly.
Not fast. Not far, but the scaethen dough hadn’t worn off after four days. The Free Queen herself made a note on a gigantic clipboard.
“Sixteen seconds hovering time. An improvement. Well done, Runel. Once we achieve a third ‘scaethen loaf’, we may either feed you or see if the same effect is replicated in Pisca. Perhaps we sh—oh look! He is doing it! Deferred Sustenance! Look!”
She lowered her clipboard as the dark room illuminated and something glowed. Like a creature in the deep ocean, a Rock Crab with a cute decorated shell clacked its pincers together…and produced a ball of light.
Instantly, Deferred Sustenance, the tiny Rock Crab, tried to eat the ball of light it had produced. The Free Queen picked up the Rock Crab, which looked like any other with reddish-brown shell, many little legs, two big claws, and long stalk-eyes.
Identical to the others.
…Except for the bright-yellow claws that it had developed after eating the scaethen bread. The Rock Crab made another bubble of light appear as the Free Queen patted it on the head.
“This is a splendid day. Once Runel achieves a hundred feet of independent flight, I will record an image of her flying. And send it to the Flying Queen so the traitorous xevkch may see and lament her wretchedness for the rest of her existence. Oh, hello, Garry.”
“Hello, Free Queen. Hello, Runel.”
She fanned her wings at him, tired. The [Assistant Cook] scuttled down the wall as Garry nodded to himself.
It was just a hypothesis, unproved, and he had little evidence to go on, but scaethen bread might give you magical powers. Anyways, he had bigger fish to fry.
 
——
 
The Free Queen’s lunch was the largest tuna caught on the market so far, filled with creamy potatoes and topped with a bunch of gravy. The Free Queen and Deferred Sustenance ate as Garry updated her on the bakery project.
“If you…mm…continue to level and provide me with your recipes, I shall allow it, Garry. Especially if it is financially paid for by the city.”
“I may need to hire more Workers, Free Queen.”
“Granted. The number?”
“I was thinking two hundred, all of whom must have a satisfactory salary and working conditions, my Queen. Four hundred optimally.”
“Grant—hmm. How many?”
She peered down at Garry suddenly, and the [Baker] took off his poofy hat.
“It would be helpful.”
“Two hundred? Paid? The Free Hive is supplying both the 7th Hive and Liscor’s 2nd Army with reinforcements and tending to its own affairs. Those armored beings are escalating attacks from the dungeon.”
