“It shouldn’t be. Moltin understands the economies of nations. He runs Terland’s finances. We have not, statistically, produced enough to affect House Terland, even if we funneled it all into their region.”
They were ludicrously wealthy. Yelroan knew how many gold coins were in circulation globally. This…the box had not produced enough to affect the economy enough to justify inventing a new currency.
And yet—his eyes strayed back to the Garden of Sanctuary. Factors other than pure math, the empirical evidence of his eyes, and his own personal instincts were driving a conclusion home. Yelroan’s paw-tapping on the table grew stronger as he searched around.
Lyonette was reading her own copy of the newspaper, looking as relaxed as could be. She only betrayed her feelings by making Mrsha hold her spoon in perfect form as if the girl were at the [King]’s table in a banquet. She glanced at Yelroan, and he scratched under one armpit for reply.
It couldn’t be…and yet Yelroan felt it. A new conclusion was drawing itself down his spine, prickling his fur, and he muttered to Nanette.
“There is no mathematical reason for any box to have this level of effect, Nanette.”
—And her reply made that uneasy prickling a hundred times worse.
“No mathematical reason. But Erin isn’t that good at math, is she? She’s a [Witch]. Everything she does has consequences.”
Yelroan stared at Nanette. Then he rose swiftly.
“I’m going to redo some calculations. If you see anything on the news…I just had a stupid math thought.”
He turned at the stairs as Nanette twisted in her chair. Yelroan spoke, loudly enough for Lyonette to hear.
“It’s been one month and two weeks since we began using the box. I’m charting a list of events to a timeline, and they’re appearing more frequently. The rate is increasing exponentially.”
She dropped her spoon as Yelroan hurried upstairs. While the Gnoll rechecked his equations—
 
——
 
“There, you see? Who was right?”
“Hmph.”
“Whoooo was right, Krshia, my dear?”
“Smugness doesn’t fit your face, Lism.”
“I think someone means ‘I’m sorry; you were right, Lism. And you’re very handsome. And I think some humility is called for.’”
“I will kick you.”
The threat from Krshia made Lism stop thrusting the newspaper in her face, but his ebullience didn’t fade. If anything, it just felt…so perfect, really. Didn’t she see it?
He hurried over to a drawer in their apartment and opened it. Stacks of neatly arranged, shiny Liscorian Marks were there in various denominations.
One, two, five, ten. That was all Lism had paid for thus far; the Council had been all over the sewers and the Garry Bakery initiative. But today, Lism just swept the notes into his bag of holding. They felt like they glittered in his claws.
“It’s a sign. We’re announcing the bakery project today. And the damn elections.”
If they had to do them, you might as well pair it with Lism’s greatest triumph. And Garry’s, of course. The Antinium had been busy. He’d volunteered to set the Antinium farmers to producing grain for the harvests, and Lism had added onto the project by suggesting Antinium raise cattle and other animals as well.
You couldn’t do wrong with a lot of eggs, right? The idea of Antinium ranching had been funny, and watching an Antinium carefully leading a line of ducks to their new home was oddly adorable.
But today was the day Lism pioneered his Liscorian Marks. And it was like magic; he walked out the door, and everyone was with him.
“Councilmember Lism—did you see the news? The Terlands are inventing their own currency? Can they do that? Is it even valuable?”
An old friend, Rocher, a fellow [Shopkeeper], caught Lism not a block from his home as Krshia pretended to meet up with him. Lism affected a nonchalant attitude.
“If they’re taking that instead of gold in the north, why not? Then again, I’m sure any savvy merchant would just use gold pieces as well as whatever nonsense the Humans get up to.”
The Drake [Thrift Shopkeeper] sucked at his teeth as he gave Krshia a surreptitious glance and then leaned over the counter.
“Funny you should say that. I’m not saying it’s wrong, mind you. Humans and their stupid ideas. But…it’s worth a shot. I mean, Liscor’s getting more important. What if we made our own money? Think it’d fly in the Council?”
Nothing gave Lism more satisfaction than rifling a stack of bills into his clawed hand. He pointed at a breath tonic, then handed something to Rocher.
“Rocher, old friend, I was ahead of you before you were born. Liscorian Mark. What do you think it’s worth?”
He gave Krshia a significant look, and she was too tired to even roll her eyes. Rocher snatched the bill and held it up.
“What the—Ancestors, it’s sharp, Lism! That’s the city on the back, and on the front…oh.”
He stared at the little image on the piece of laminated paper. It flexed quite well, but with shieldresin coating, it was waterproof—highly important—and glossy. A little ‘1’ was drawn in the corner, and Lism had asked for a few details so it’d be hard to copy.
But mostly…he’d thought for a long time about who should be on the bill. At first, he’d fancied the Councilmembers on rotation, or Olesm or selfish choices. He’d thought about that darn [Innkeeper], and Krshia had rolled her eyes when he had said the Gnoll should be on the coin. She thought he’d been joking when he meant it…
Well. The person he’d come up with just fit. She was baring her teeth in a grimaced smile. The [Scribes] had worked off a portrait Lism had found, and then they’d come up with a template after dozens of revisions.
He’d made them keep the spear. Lism blinked suddenly slightly watery eyes as Rocher stared at the tiny portrait of Tekshia Shivertail. The Drake held the bill up, then brushed at some water dripping down the awning overhead.
“Damn rain. That’s…a good person to put on it. Not who I’d have chosen, but it fits.”
“She’s just on the smaller denomination. Here. The ten-value mark has General Sserys and Zel Shivertail. The two-value’s just the city and Free Hive. And five is…”
The dungeon of Liscor on one side. And on the back, a building on a hill. Rocher peered at Lism, and the Drake spread the bills on the table.
“Feels wrong to have both our [Generals] on one bill. Maybe? Then again, it fits.”
“That’s what I said. Anyways, it was just landmarks and…what do you think? I’ve got tons. You want to, uh, maybe trade me for regular coin and see how it values on the open market?”
It was a little test of Lism’s. Confident as he was, Rocher was a great friend of his…and a notorious scaleflint. He’d eat his own tail before losing money, even for Lism. Rocher stared at the bills on the table and then, to Lism’s amazement and gratification, began to count out gold and silver coins onto the table.
“They’re not worth a gold coin each. Let’s call one a silver. I’ll throw in a tiny bit if you give me a hundred. No, two hundred. They’ll be worth something, maybe, even if they don’t take off. Are you going to just use them instead of gold coins?”
That had been the plan from the start, but Lism just leaned over the table.
“Oh, they’ll have a value. One mark will be worth a piece of bread from certain bakeries.”
“What? You’d better have a lot of bread.”
Lism glanced over his shoulder and saw a bunch of Antinium marching down the street, all of them wearing poofy white hats and carrying rolling pins.
“That’s the plan, Rocher. That’s the plan.”
 
——
 
After an hour of greeting people and getting to the Council, Lism was wet, almost out of bills he’d been handing out, and slightly…worried.
Everything was coming up Lism, that was true, but it was almost too good to be true. Even at the Council meeting, the first thing Alonna said was—
“Alright, Lism. Go ahead and gloat. But if you have those marks, I’ll take as many as you’ve got for my Guild. Everyone’s buzzing about the Terland Tithel.”
“As a matter of fact, I had hundreds…I’m going to have to get more printed.”
“We’ll need each [Scribe] to swear not to work for anyone other than the city.”
Elirr commented as he put out a paw. Lism handed him a few bills of each.
“Got a stack of tens?‘
“What? Sure…”
Elirr made the entire stack disappear into his belt pouch after splitting it with Raekea. Both Gnolls ignored Lism’s pointed stare.
“Well, well, well. Look who suddenly isn’t laughing at my hard work.”
Lism folded his arms. But the rest of the Council just muttered that a busted wand cast a spell once in a hundred times and other platitudes to that effect. In truth, Lism didn’t gloat because people were literally coming up to him and asking for Liscorian Marks—they were rapidly gaining a value in silver coins, far more than he’d thought they were frankly worth.
It was the Terland Tithel thing. Capitalize on excitement in the market. And…Lism realized…
Something else.
 
——
 
The entire Council went to Garry’s Bakery, the city-backed store, to see it open and customers warily line up and receive bread for a Liscorian Mark. You could either get a big loaf or a more customized tart or specialty pastry for a Liscorian Mark. For now, the selection was modest, and Lism expected the specialty breads to run out in favor of the Yellat-flour bread, but Garry was passing out bread like there was no tomorrow.
“Dead gods. And all this is based off of the stuff the Antinium grew?”
Rice bread, bean bread…Lism was shocked anyone was growing anything in the farms before he noticed Antinium in the crowd. Some were farmers with wet wicker hats. They had overalls on and—Lism realized—oddly bright brown hands.
A new kind of Antinium? He hadn’t heard about it, but there was something odd about several of their limbs. They were also eating bright-red pies that looked frankly delicious.
—At any rate, Lism got a rather substantial loaf of Yellat-bread and made a show of eating it with Krshia, Elirr, and the other members of the Council. It was heavier than regular bread, and he was afraid it’d sit bad in his stomach, but it tasted great, and if he’d had a bit of butter—
Needless to say, when people heard about the cheap prices, there was a line around the block, rain or not. The Council would have lingered to answer questions and talk about the election—they were going to need to run again, and win, which Lism wasn’t concerned about…mostly…
But then an [Aide] tugged on Lism’s arm and told him that someone was calling an emergency meeting in the city hall. When he asked who had the authority to do that, he was told—Watch Commander Venim.
 
——
 
The Watch Commander played with several of the new Liscorian Marks and seemed mightily tempted to pocket them, but refused Lism’s offer of some samples. He coughed as he passed around documents stamped with seals marking them confidential.
“This is coming in directly from Pallass, Councilmembers. Given our proximity to the Walled City, I think we’re receiving this report hours before other cities—it’s an act of friendship to get it.”
“Fine, I’ll bite, Watch Commander. What are the Walled Cities gracing us with this time?”
Raekea’s voice was somewhat caustic; Lism opened the packet and wondered how much paper the Walled Cities wasted on the ‘for your eyes only’ markings and all the classifications and security clearances littering the first few pages. It made things look special, but you ended up just skipping five pages in.
Venim cleared his throat uneasily.
“I just reviewed it before running it here—the short explanation is it’s Antinium-related. Not the Free Hive! But it makes the Liscorian Mark genuinely important. I think a news report might go out as early as tomorrow. The Antinium aren’t making an effort to hide—well, this.”
He slid something across the table with the packet. Lism felt his neck spines really start to stir.
Wow, it’s like everything in the world is trying to make the Liscorian Mark happen. Elirr sniffed the coin suspiciously, then felt at it.
“A forgery? It smells very real if it is, and heavy. Heavier than normal coins, maybe?”
Krshia lowered the document and shook her head.
“No. It’s heavy because it’s pure gold, Elirr. It’ll rub off on your paws. That’s an Antinium-made coin. They’re minting their own gold coins.”
Elirr fumbled the coin and riffled through the pages of the briefing as Lism picked it up. The coin had, of all things, a Drake face stamped on one side and a Gnoll on the other.
“Oh, that’s clever. Why, though?”
“They found a gold mine, or so the Walled Cities think. Now, it’s not an immediate risk to the economy or a security risk; it’s just…real gold. But the Walled Cities are obviously not happy about these Antinium-made coins on the market. For one thing, depending on how deep the gold mine is, they might be able to produce millions of coins per year. It won’t harm Liscor’s economy badly, but they want to ban these coins—”
Lism tossed the coin down.
“Good luck. If they’re purer than regular gold, you’ll get people filing down the faces and passing them off—if they even bother. Or…”
“You make your own currencies.”
Every head turned to Lism, and the Liscorian Mark shone next to the gold coin. Then the [Shopkeeper] sat back and wondered what the hell was happening. He had no evidence, no proof.
But his Lism-instincts were right on the money, because he blamed The Wandering Inn. He just didn’t know why.
 
——
 
Ding.
It was just a small sound, but like the unassuming tapping of a hammer hitting a piece of wood, Yelroan was associating it with a different feeling of late.
Not dread…okay, a bit of dread. A bit of fear. The [Mathematician] was reading the newspaper.
Today’s newspaper. The Terland Tithel had been yesterday. Today’s news? Well, he had the Liscorian Gazette open, and it featured a very happy Garry, news of the election, and the Liscorian Mark.
Yelroan had already gotten a Liscorian Mark and calculated that the value was currently sitting at a silver piece and five copper; people weren’t just using it to buy bread, and Garry’s bakery had actually started taking in copper coins until the value of the Liscorian Mark fell.
New currencies. Liscor and the Terlands were just the first. Today, the news seemed pointed at him. Yelroan read again as his ears twitched with each sound echoing around him.
Ding. 
Ding. 
Ding.
A gold coin was dropping into a pile in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The [Box of Incontinuity] kept producing them. Everything was fine. It was real gold; it was still all authentic.
