He scurried away as Alorelle began to babble excuses about having to take care of the children, who were probably being raised by their Golem and Human nursemaids anyways. Ramone was just glad to be out of danger, but he realized, with a groan, it meant he’d have to at least show his face around and work today.
He slunk off to the part of the mansion where the actual hired help worked—at least, the senior [Merchants] and the very best…money people…that the Terlands employed. He’d just stand there and ask a few questions so Ulva didn’t bite his head off or reassign him.
“Er, excuse me? Which way is the Mercantile Wing?”
Ramone had to stop a Golem servant rolling past him. The Golem had a ball-like base and a humanoid-ish upper half. The crystalline parts in the Golem moved as magic flashed, and she spoke.
“The Mercantile Wing is two floors down and to your right, Lord Ramone Terland.”
“…Can you show me where it is?”
“Certainly, Lord Ramone Terland.”
 
——
 
The most important man in the world sat at a small desk in the Mansion of Golems, in the city of Velsgreth, in the Golem Lands—otherwise known as the lands of House Terland—in the northmost part of the continent of Izril. He had a tiny office; any non-[Lord] did, even the most important [Merchants].
They might go back to their own Merchant’s Guilds where they were [Kings] and [Queens] unto themselves with hundreds of people under them, but with the Terlands, they bowed and spoke softly. Gold was influence. Goods were incentives.
But Golems were the ultimate power here.
His name was Moltin Grousehawk. He was a [Financier of Fortunes]. His office was full of cabinets that contained files, but also often little baggies. Samples of gemstones or coins or valuable items like pieces of rare magical wood or Adamantium dust in small vials. He had scales, magnifying glasses, a vast assortment of tools, and right now, he had a desk full of tools in front of him.
He could have quit his job tomorrow and found work in any Merchant’s Guild anywhere in the world. As its Guildmaster. Moltin had one of those resumes that meant most nations would interview him for a position managing their economies.
He didn’t want to quit his job. He loved his job. The Terlands paid him well, but they also paid him in Golems. He had a servant Golem—low class, multi-purpose, not made of the most expensive materials—
Still above the quality of almost every other Golem in the world, beyond anything you could buy on the market. She—Terlands always assigned them names and personalities—could cook, clean, give him massages, even tidy his rooms and arrange things with her mechanical mind. Golems made by Terlands had other functions too, often inappropriate.
Moltin hadn’t ever pursued those functions, mostly because he felt like that would be the moment when he never came back from being a Terland-minded person. But he’d heard stories; oh my, you heard stories here about Terland love for Golems…
Ahem. He considered everything about his job splendid. House Terland operated a significant portion of Izril’s fortunes, and he, as one of their top people, had hundreds of thousands of gold pieces running across his desk each day. The Terlands were the richest of the Five Families, accept no substitutes. Golem-backed economies like theirs could grow nigh-unlimited crops. Golems could dig wells, build houses, chop wood—their only weakness was that there wasn’t ever enough of them.
So it was an odd thing, then, that Moltin Grousehawk was having a bad day. It was an odd thing that, in this moment, he considered himself to be the most important man in the world. He normally didn’t think that way, but today…he felt it was true.
He laid eight coins on the desk in front of him and put his hands on the table and watched them until they stopped trembling. Each coin was rather messed up. He’d carved a huge gouge out of each one with a puncher, taken multiple slivers out of each…a scale showed where he’d weighed them against other coins, and he had fifteen different [Blacksmiths]’ reports, each somewhat irate about being triple-checked. [Mage] reports as well.
“There is no doubt. Steady, Moltin, old boy, steady…”
He wasn’t that old, but Moltin liked to talk about himself like that and even dyed his hair grey to make himself look more impressive. Everyone loved an old [Financier].
What did he do? This wasn’t like the Golden Triangle thing. He’d called that one the day he’d noticed it and spent a month talking the Terlands out of investing heavily. This…this was different.
This is real. It’s real, and it’s going to—I don’t even know. How? A Relic? The Death of Magic? 
It could be anything, and that was where Moltin was starting as culprits went. He was working up his nerve to approach Lady Ulva herself when there was a rap at the door.
“Ah. Hello? Hello? This is Lord Ramone inspecting the office for…efficiency! Don’t say anything if you’re not there. All good? Splendid!”
A rather put-upon voice came from outside, and Moltin jumped in his chair. A Terland? Now? He knew Lord Ramone; he’d met the man when he was hired, oh, eleven years back. The [Lord] had visited this area of the Golem Mansion. Twice.
“Lord Ramone? Please—come in! You arrived just in time!”
“I did? Oh. Well then…”
A reluctant figure shuffled into the room. He had a handsome face with his illusion spells, but they didn’t quite conceal his bad posture. He stared at Moltin. Then checked the nameplate on the door.
“Financier Moltin! How are things with our trade? Doing well? If this is some internal matter, I’m sure you have it covered.”
Moltin took a deep breath. He well knew how interested Lord Ramone was in Terland affairs, but this was important.
“As a matter of fact, Lord Ramone, I was about to come looking for you. I am sure your class sent you to me. This is a matter that may imperil House Terland’s fortunes, and if I am not overstating the issue—potentially be worse for Izril than the Golden Triangle. By an order of magnitude!”
Ramone hesitated. His disinterested, bored face turned to a look of skepticism, then alarm.
“I say, that sounds bad. What is it? Something about the New Lands? More Reinhart tricks? They’re back, you know. We should keep our business away from them.”
His right cheek twitched involuntarily until he put a hand to it, and Moltin half-rose. He gestured at the coins in front of him.
“Not either, Lord Ramone. I’m well aware of the issues of the caravans in the New Lands, and I believe our expeditions are…this is far more insidious. Please sit, sir. I’ll ring a Golem for a drink. Do you know much about my work?”
“No…but shouldn’t you bring this up with someone if it’s that dire, er, Financier?”
Lord Ramone was sensing Moltin’s mood and hinting hard, but Moltin faced him and spread his hands.
“It would be either you as one of the Treasurers of House Terland, Lord Ramone, or I was thinking of approaching Lady Ulva for an immediate, emergency audience.”
Lord Ramone froze…then sat up. Some of his reluctance faded away, and he glanced at the door.
“Great Aunt Ulva’s on the warpath. If she hears I didn’t pay attention—explain this to me. Then I shall take it to Lady Ulva. If it’s important enough.”
Moltin nodded tightly. He might as well figure out how to explain it to the Terlands anyways. He took a breath, then lifted a coin.
“I shall attempt to be succinct, sir. As you know, I am a [Financier]. My job is to oversee the prosperity of House Terland. Trade, investments, the running of our Merchant’s Guilds…and fraud and forgery. We have lower-ranking members who investigate such issues, of course, but they forward fakes to me, and I try to identify new [Forgers] or fakes on the market.”
“Oh my. A lot of that, I assume?”
“It’s not as rampant as it could be, but faking gold coins is a common practice. Our Merchant’s Guilds catch it when others do not, I’m pleased to say. However, occasionally something crosses my desk that warrants my attention. I am a Level 46 [Financier of Fortunes], Lord Ramone. And I nearly missed this.”
Moltin emphasized his levels, and Ramone sat up even further. Both men accepted a cup of tea as it was brought in by a tea-making Golem, and Moltin held up two of the eight coins in front of him.
“These coins both come from different routes, but they entered House Terland’s coffers this week. One from all the way in southern Izril—the other from a local supplier in the north. They are both authentic gold coins, Shamefaces, which means they have no insignia like House Terland uses on its coins.”
“They are? Hold on…you’re right. They’re a bit mangled.”
“Tests, sir. Here’s a Terland coin for comparison. Note how it’s heavier and far more ornate?”
Terland coins were worth more than your average coin—except for a Salazsarian Showoff. Damn Drakes. Ramone was perhaps not the most engaged [Lord] in the world, but he wasn’t an idiot; Ulva Terland might foist her family off on tasks where they’d do little damage, but Ramone nodded with a frown.
“So? These two Shamefaces are cunning forgeries, is that it? Bypassed our Guilds and now we have a lot of lead in our coffers instead?”
That was the sensible answer, and Moltin gave him a faint smile bordering on the hysterical.
“No, Lord Ramone. Both these Shamefaces are authentic, real gold. Highly pure. The [Smiths] and [Mages] estimate around 88% purity. They’re real gold, not shaved for weight, not counterfeit, no oils to add to their density, nothing. I have run every test on them from water displacement to full mineral analysis spells, and they are real as can be.”
“…Then I don’t follow.”
Ramone tossed the coins back on the desk. Moltin pulled open a drawer and dumped a bag on the table.
“This is a rather substantive payment that entered the Merchant’s Guild’s coffers. All gold. Rather odd, but it happens. I had it sent to me. Inspect the coins, please, Lord Ramone. Tell me what you see.”
The man fumbled with the coins and muttered.
“…Feel the same. They’re smooth, polished…I don’t see anything wrong with them. I assume you’re going to tell me they’re all good. So what’s the problem?”
That was why Moltin was so alarmed. He couldn’t even blame the people who’d taken the coins; they would have triggered no detection or fraud Skills, and the Terlands had legion. He pointed at the coins.
“[Comprehensive Value Analysis] is one of my Skills, Lord Ramone. I can calculate the relative value of objects. It’s ever-fluctuating according to market pressures, and I will not bore you except to say this: each coin you see there, and each coin in that bag, are exactly the same. Exactly. In weight, composition of gold-to-silver, in size…there is only minute rubbing from their passage. But look at this.”
He pulled one of the good coins over, and then a magnifying array. It let him ‘see’ at a level far beyond even a bird. He pulled the coin over, turned it onto its side, and motioned Lord Ramone around.
“There’s a hairline cut running nearly horizontal along this coin, do you see? You won’t be able to pick it up with the eye, sir. It’s very faint; you’d expect to see just as many marks after a month of transit in any money pouch.”
Ramone craned his neck warily.
“I see it. If it’s that normal, why does it matter?”
“Now look at this one.”
Moltin dropped the coin. Picked up another. He rotated it with his fingers, and Ramone made a sound as it was brought under the magnifying spell.
“I don’t see the problem. You dinged that other coin worse than this little scratch. What, is this some manufacturing thing?”
“At this level of detail? No, Lord Ramone. It is such a fine mark that I doubt any foundry would even cast the cut. However, it is one commonality. I have been…poring over these coins for days, now. It is small, but it is the same across all of them. Now, observe. Here is another.”
Moltin had a knife that could cut through gold like butter. He kept it well clear of his fingers and sliced through the coin at an angle. He knew what he was looking for and showed Ramone the smallest bubble within the coin, caught in the smelting process. Then he cut another coin open in the same spot, and it had the same bubble. Then another. Then another.
Now, Lord Ramone was beginning to catch Moltin’s alarm. He returned to his seat and rubbed a finger along one temple.
“So they’re real gold?”
“Absolutely real, sir. I had some smelted into a gold bar. It was then used by an [Alchemist] with no ill effects in the resultant potion. This isn’t magically faked gold or an illusion spell. No one can fake this coin, unless it’s the Death of Magic or Archmage Eldavin. Though I suggest any investigation be left to experts.”
“Investigation? Why would this be a problem, Moltin?”
The [Financier of Fortune] removed some magical eyeglasses and saw them shaking. He gave Ramone a weak smile as he sat down and realized his poor heart was beating far, far too fast.
“Because, Lord Ramone—I think someone is not just paying for coins with real gold, but somehow…producing it. I have Skills that appraise the rarity of objects as well. Do you know Seith? Someone found…nevermind. I tried it on gold today. Gold. Rare. Not the rarest, but we make gold coins out of it because it’s valuable. Metals should be valuable, Lord Ramone. Do you know what I found?”
He was babbling, now, and the [Lord] was on his feet, standing there with a disturbed expression as Moltin laughed.
“No…?”
“I can’t find the value of gold, Lord Ramone. It’s as if there’s no value to it. As if it’s common as dirt. Tell me, Lord Ramone. What happens if every peasant has a handful of gold coins? What happens to the Terlands’ fortunes then?”
Diversify. We have to diversify our assets like the Reinharts. We have assets. No, we have to find who’s doing this and call every [Assassin] in the world on them. How long have they been doing this? How—
Moltin sat there, shaking, until he realized Ramone was leaving the room. At a brisk walk. Terlands were noble, after all. They were good at, well, presenting a calm front under pressure.
 
——
 
In short order, Ramone had another Treasurer, a rather harried Lady Merlotte, here. Her ire at being summoned to her job was high, but it faded as Moltin gave her the same explanation. She demanded more tests; he was collating all of his when they found the third Treasurer and he repeated the explanation.
By the end of the day, Moltin had told all of his fellow [Financiers] what he’d found, and Lady Ulva had been informed. He didn’t receive an audience with her; he was busy making plans.
