Something was wrong. If you couldn’t feel that…well, maybe it wasn’t obvious. But something was wrong.
It kept the purple-scaled Drake up late at night, pacing, until he got growled at and reluctantly slunk into bed. Then he’d wake up, despite being tired, and stand on his balcony and listen to the sounds of his beloved, changing city, feeling it in his bones. Not the insight of a [Councilmember]—not quite. It was his basest instincts, the ancient reptile-brain that Drakes didn’t like to admit they had.
It was his other class that whispered to him, the [Shopkeeper]’s paranoia. And Councilmember Lism listened to it when it told him something in Liscor was wrong.
Lism. Profile of himself: purple-scaled Drake in his early forties. Very early! Just forty-three! No saggy scales, not much grey at all, just a few patches. Craggy purple, nothing royal, but he fancied he looked decent with the right clothing on. Not fit or handsome as he had been in his youth—you should see Olesm, now there was a Swifttail in his prime; Lism loved his nephew—but Lism still had it.
By ‘it’, he meant his self-confidence, a certain pluckiness that had seen him build up his shop from scratch and become a Councilmember of Liscor of all things. He could cook—fish were his specialty—and in the rainy season, he’d be frying up a storm, just you wait. He’d been a [Handyman], had fixed up his apartment more times than he could count, and he’d aspired to be a [Trader] before he realized he hated the road and settled down to [Shopkeeper] instead.
Nevermind the hard times; he’d raised Olesm properly, and look at the boy now. Lism. Confident? Overconfident? Bah, he deserved his swagger. He had an oversized ballista between his legs and an even larger ego for his nephew and his city. Those were Lism-facts.
…Lism hadn’t been allowed to put one of those details in his personal biography, despite him feeling like it was a salient, nay, complimentary fact about him. Why was he writing a biography? Not purely vanity. Krshia and the other Councilmembers were doing it too. One of the [Scribes] kept bugging him about it for Liscor’s election this year, which they were not having, except maybe they were.
It was complicated. He should have been in office at least another year. Liscor’s Council worked like that. Yet, somehow, some way, everyone was saying there’d be an election this year.
Why? Well, you had a lot of citizens saying it ‘made sense’. Or stating someone in a pub had said that. Dig down a bit deeper and you’d realize every Senior Carpenter in the Carpenter’s Guild had been repeating the same line to their assistants, apprentices, and customers. Why?
Well, the Guildmaster of the Carpenter’s Guild, Noxsham, was a former Councilmember and didn’t appreciate how the current Council was running things. But they couldn’t force an election. That was against the law. It was illegal.
Right? Right, said Lism’s [Councilmember] brain.
Wrong, said the [Shopkeeper]. Anything you can force through is allowed. Maybe it’s illegal, but who’s going to arrest Noxsham? Zevara? Venim? Was it a crime if he just states his opinion and maybe bribes people to say the right thing or hires people to agitate for it? Not one you can arrest him for.
Now, if he told the Senior Carpenters to fall in line and say what he wants, maybe. But Lism had checked, and coercing your Guildmembers to do something you wanted wasn’t strictly a crime. Zevara or Venim might have a case, but then it looked like the Watch was going after people on the current Council’s say-so. Bad look, so Lism hadn’t pushed for it.
“Someone should make a law about that kind of thing.”
Lism muttered to himself. He was smoking on the balcony, a big puffer courtesy of Palt’s Emporium glowing cherry-red as it rained, and the water drowned out his voice and the pre-dawn activities of the city. He couldn’t see anything down Cosmel Street; someone hurrying through the rain at best, maybe some wagon movement?
Just rain. Pouring down, flooding the sewers, but not the street, thank the Ancestors. If you had a clogged drain, any Liscorian would instantly call for someone to unclog it or do it themself. Liscor was built with exceptional sewers, but it could still flood. Why, Lism remembered one bad clog that had led to every building in five blocks being flooded halfway up to the second story…
His city. Dead gods, he loved it. Lism flicked some cigar ash over the balcony and watched it vanish in a whirlpool in one of the drains. He swore he saw something scurrying out of it and grimaced.
“Wetrats. I thought we were doing well on the damn sewers.”
It was probably because they’d expanded. Wetrats swam like fish. They didn’t get big, they didn’t mutate; they were just rats that multiplied by the hundreds. Adventurers hated killing them in the sewers; they’d swim off, and the sewers would be precarious and flooding with water. One wrong step and you’d be washed away.
As a boy, Lism had tried being an adventurer. Every boy had. He saw the rat vanish and sighed. Liscor in the rainy season could have problems if the Wetrats came out of the sewers. You couldn’t travel, it rained constantly, a single leak in your apartments would flood your rooms unless you were on it like a shot—he loved it. You could walk down off the walls and just fish for a living. The world became a giant lake; he’d grown up with this, and it was as natural to him as the snow come winter.
Krshia, now…Lism paused, and a snore like someone running a rasp down a log of wood cut the air. Krshia had said the rains had freaked her out the first year she and all the Silverfangs had come to the city. She’d lain awake, apparently, waiting to have to swim for her life when the walls imploded.
Krshia. Furry Gnoll, tall as most were, over any normal Drake woman’s height, permanently fixed in Lism’s mind as a glowering, snide Gnoll behind her own stall. Currently…cohabitating Lism’s apartment as well as filling another seat on the Council.
Why? How? More like—did anyone know? The Council definitely did—at least, the Gnolls. Damn noses. Since it wasn’t anyone else’s business, Lism and Krshia told no one, and only other Gnolls like that Mrsha child had figured it out.
Why? Ask Lism the [Shopkeeper] two years ago and he’d have said he’d rather lay with a watersnake than Krshia. Ask Lism the [Councilmember] today? He’d say…
“She’s a good [Shopkeeper]. A better [Councilmember]. I might have rather lain with a watersnake than her—but I’d embrace a Hollowstone Deceiver before I let those asses from the old Council ruin Liscor.”
That was where it had all started, Lism reckoned. Sitting down in the Council room, ready to fight Krshia tooth and nail, before having a bunch of people tell him that rent wasn’t too high, that Liscor was doing just fine as it was, and that nothing should change. Realizing the real enemy was someone he’d partner up with anyone, even Krshia, to defeat.
But the enemy was coming. Lism was no [Soldier]. He’d taken the mandatory class, of course, Level 1, but he wasn’t a [Soldier]. Not really. He kept his voice low as he muttered to himself, thinking out loud. Krshia would hear him speaking to himself but for the rain.
“They’re going to get another election. Why? Because it’s a popular idea. Are we unpopular? No…but is the Council popular? Yes. Everyone realizes the Council is doing things, so they bug all of us constantly to have their problems pushed forwards. All these Humans coming in compound the issue. ‘Liscor’s changing, let’s let the Humans vote’, hah! It’s the old Council. They want their people in and us out.”
It was down to the rent. Liscor’s Council had put a cap on how much anyone could charge for rent and expanded the city by a third. That meant prices were low, rock bottom, and you had a lot of [Landlords] angry. You had angry people who didn’t like Humans, and fair enough, Lism didn’t like them either. Hadn’t he proven that? But the city needed to grow. Don’t like them all you want, but if there’s a job opening, first come, first serve.
There were eggheaded idiots who still didn’t like the Gnolls who’d been here a decade and had children. They were Liscorians. Give the Humans ten years and they’d be Liscorians too, watching the Floodplains fill up like it was normal.
But Lism thought it was mostly the groups that owned land who didn’t want a fix on rent caps. The ones who saw Liscor changing too much, too fast, who looked at Antinium marching in their cute patrols on the street and asked the Council to ban them, as if the Antinium hadn’t been here for ten years. An election was coming in Lism’s opinion, legal or not. What he didn’t like were the other factors.
“How much does it take to bribe someone to talk up an election? Ten copper? Too low. A gold coin’s too high; they’ll think it matters. Five, six silver, maybe? How many people are saying it? Who’s paying for hundreds of people to do that?”
It was a lot of money, even for a Councilmember. Not much for a Walled City.
Manus? Pallass? Salazsar? Lism had rubbed his earholes when one of the [Tacticians] who’d replaced Olesm had delivered that as a hypothesis. But you had Wall Lords and Ladies who’d bought land in Liscor. Manus, for instance, was not happy about Liscor’s involvement in the Hectval war. Liscor had told them to shove their tails back up where they came from; Manus hadn’t done them any good turns of late, and respect for a Walled City only went so far.
But then Manus maybe, perhaps, paid for a snap election? Concerning.
“There should be laws about that too.”
Lism thought as he spoke. The election was the thing. And the other thing was gold. Liscor had too much of it. Not enough in the right places.
Price of Yellats was a staple. Yellats were one of the most common damn items in the world. Any farm could grow them. They grew in horrible soil conditions with minimal water. Bugs didn’t gnaw on them as often. ‘Only an idiot can’t grow a Yellat’; that’s what [Farmers] said.
The price of Yellats was usually low. Five coppers got you a bag of Yellats, several pounds’ worth, enough for a week of straight meals. Usually even [Widows] and families down on their luck could eat Yellats on that. Not happily; you had to prepare Yellats right to get them to taste good, though a bit of salt and butter might work in a pinch. But it was affordable.
These days? The price of Yellats was eight coppers. Eight coppers.
How? It wasn’t just the hard winter or the New Lands. Liscor was insulated from the effects of the famines that Lism had heard about elsewhere because of the door. In a hard winter, before the door, when Liscor was isolated from other cities, prices rose by a copper or two at most. The last time prices had hit eight coppers, you know what Liscor had been facing? Starvation after Az’kerash had sieged the city and wiped out the local villages with plagues and undead.
“[Check Market Price]. It’s nine today. What is going on?”
The [Shopkeeper] drummed his claws on the balcony. He knew what was going on, or he had a guess. Gold. Gold flooding Liscor’s markets in ways he hadn’t dreamed could be bad, but here they were.
Last year, Liscor had been blessed by huge donations from interested parties, from the Antinium, from Pallass, and gotten even more gold from people buying into the 3rd District. Lism had heard he had a certain [Innkeeper] to thank at least in part; Wall Lord Ilvriss, among others, had started the trend of buying land in Liscor for increasingly insane prices.
That had been good, right? Money for the Adventurer’s Guild to expand, for [Builders], for new roads, for Hexel and his expensive prices, though he was good at his job. Money came in…and then more money came in…and then came the visitors.
Lism pictured the issue like one of those ‘homework’ assignments Olesm used to have. Not in the schools like they were doing now, but the mailed assignments from Manus. The lad had gotten splendid marks before going to [Strategist] school.
 
Example 1. A [Lady] comes from Invrisil. She dines at a local restaurant, gawks at the Antinium, has a parfait from Barehoof Kitchens, buys a huge cake for home. She enjoys herself and the things in Liscor so much that she leaves a tip in one of the restaurants because she’s never had Drake cooking before.
Question: How much is the tip?
Answer: Five gold coins. To the server, the cook, the entire staff probably, and the owner of the restaurant probably takes a cut.
 
But that wasn’t the real question, was it? The real question was…why was this a bad thing?
 
Question: How much does the average worker in Liscor make per week?
Answer: One gold coin.
 
One gold coin. A very neat answer. In other cities, it was different; Lism had heard it was nearly five gold, sixteen silver in Manus, for instance, and that wasn’t even the richest Walled City. Liscor had probably been below a lot of southern Drake cities just because they had been more connected and had more trade and whatnot.
However, in Liscor, prices were low. Five copper coins had gotten you a lot of Yellats. In other cities, it wasn’t nearly as cheap just because their economies were different, which was a strange idea unless you’d been a [Trader] and realized that relative value of goods was the entire point.
Silver was cheap in House Byres, but take it a thousand miles somewhere else, and it was good stuff. Then it was just whether the trip was worth the profits and figuring out your best route, keeping your goods safe, paying for horse feed, security…bah.
Lism got it. Liscor worked because one gold coin was worth a lot. So what happened when a [Server] or restaurant pulled in five gold coins on a tip from a single [Lady]? They decided that [Lady] or her type was their favorite customer.
Not a problem. Here was problem two, though:
 
Example 2. A construction company has come to Liscor to work for Hexel the [Architect]. The Dullahan in charge is paying his workers at a weekly rate of seven gold pieces a week, which is apparently the Pallassian standard for experienced [Builders]. Not even [Masons], mind you. He has high standards, but it means every Drake, Gnoll, and Human with a level in [Laborer] or any class wants his job.
Question: Why is this a problem?
