Internal plans. Lord Ramone had been firm on that, and the other experts agreed. No one was to panic until they got a handle on the scope of this…whatever it was. They were all going to reach out to Guilds and [Merchants] and try to cycle coins as fast as they could.
No one was going to ask for Shameface coins; that gave the game away. Just make some big transfers of money so gold from outside came into their vaults. Then…
Moltin was up late, going over coins in the city’s Merchant Guild and investigating the vault. He confirmed these coins were recent. And perhaps it was a one-off Skill. The others were speculating that was it; some kind of fortune Skill like that [Emperor] fellow was rumored to have. That was a good explanation.
 
——
 
The next day, Moltin sat in his office, not really doing much as [Couriers] delivered the gold he was waiting for. Lord Ramone checked in twice, and Moltin had to explain the process and was told Lady Ulva wanted updates but that they would have things well in hand.
Moltin wanted to know what ‘well in hand’ meant, but he decided he didn’t in the end. Some Golems had begun analyzing the coins, and a few more…interesting people had come by to do their own appraisals, looking for fingerprints or ways to trace the origin of the coins.
The problem was, Moltin had already tried that. Whomever it was had the same Skills as the Golden Triangle person. Perhaps it was the same one? Anyways, running the backtrace wasn’t his specialty.
When the first Courier did arrive, Moltin spent an hour sorting coins before Ramone came by and ordered a Golem to do the job. It took a bit of doing to find a Golem with the right insight and abilities, but then there was a team of twenty sorting coins like lightning with lesser Golems hauling the coins away.
Moltin went to sleep that night reassured. He’d found only a hundred and twenty-two Shamefaces that were even close to his criteria as fakes. Ramone accepted Moltin’s report with an air of visible relaxation, and the [Financier] was relieved he hadn’t gone to Lady Ulva to begin with. He’d been right to be concerned, but House Terland was cycling all the coins it could, and several of its [Financiers] had taken Golem Horses to local Merchant’s Guilds to check. If he didn’t find any more coins, or only a few hundred, it would be clear there was no issue.
Only one thing kept Moltin tossing and turning until his serving Golem checked on him to see if he needed anything. His Skill. He couldn’t tell the value of gold.
He couldn’t tell what it was at all.
 
——
 
On the third day, Moltin found more Shameface coins. First—they came from Invrisil.
Thousands of them. The Golems began piling them up so fast that Moltin had gone for a sandwich when he came back and saw a pile of identical coins. He grabbed every servant and lesser [Accountant] and [Scribe] he could and got to work.
Shamefaces. Identical. Moltin was about to call into the Merchant’s Guild in Invrisil and put them on alert when he got a [Message].
 
To Moltin: found a bunch of your coins—First Landing. Overseas connection. It’s Terandria.
 
“Terandria?”
Moltin blinked. He had to wait for a Courier to run everything here—a very put-upon Hawk the Hare dumped a huge Chest of Holding on the ground, and Moltin tipped him in good coins, not the Shamefaces.
“What’s this all about?”
“Oh, you know, just moving coins around, Master Courier. Can I offer you some refreshments?”
The Courier hopped off; he’d dropped the chest on his foot. Moltin opened the chest, and his heart sank and lifted at the same time because they’d figured it out after all.
 
——
 
“Calanfer.”
Ramone slapped his knee as Moltin nodded.
“It makes sense, Lord Ramone. Calanfer has been spending largely this last week. Suspiciously so. Now, they could have received funds or just be about some project, but their coins are Shamefaces, at least, some of the ones that came from them directly. I’ve asked all our Merchant’s Guilds to send coins to us—we’re keeping the issue secret, of course—but all the port ones and our experts overseas. We’ll know tomorrow if it’s them.”
“Then what do we do? I need to report to Great Aunt Ulva. Tell people? Cut them off?”
“Some…punitive actions either overtly or secretly would be important, Lord Ramone. But I expect Lady Ulva will know what is best.”
The [Lord] rose and even clapped Moltin on the shoulder as he told the [Financier] he’d done well. Moltin stayed up that night confirming the Shamefaces were indeed all the same…and around midnight, he got another [Message].
 
To Moltin from Veedra: check the latest from Empire of Sands. It is widespread. Widespread. Now investigating multiple continents.
 
His heart skipped a beat. The [Financier] snapped awake suddenly as he began to hear something in his head. A rattling, tumbling sound. Like gold coins hitting the floor.
 
——
 
The Empire of Sands had Shamefaces. So did the King of Destruction, Nerrhavia’s Fallen…Ailendamus…
They’re everywhere. The confidence in the Calanferian link vanished overnight. With each passing hour, more Shamefaces poured in from transactions from nations around the world. Identical damn gold coins.
Every time someone brought in a new batch with a Golem, Moltin’s stomach hurt worse. He requested and got a tonic for it, but when he presented himself to Lady Ulva for his first meeting with her, he knew he was a wreck.
“Coffee, Financier Moltin? You look…distressed. Appropriately, I gather.”
The [Lady] was surrounded by her bodyguard Golems, and they’d checked him for weapons or any objects multiple times, even made him change into spare clothes for the audience. Which was just as well; Moltin’s outfit had been stained by tea and gold dust.
“I…believe House Terland is in something of a crisis, Lady Ulva. But I would be delighted, of course, to be proven wrong.”
Ulva Terland’s eyes narrowed as Moltin summarized the events. She demanded to see proof, of course, but turned to him as coins and reports were produced.
“Say this is true and there are thousands—”
“Hundreds of thousands perhaps, Lady Ulva.”
He made the mistake of interrupting her, and her aura pinned him like a bug with a needle through it.
“You’ve tested hundreds of thousands?”
“No, Lady Terland. I meant…we must extrapolate from the coins that go through our coffers. If a fraction of the coins are these Shamefaces, then the portion running through the world—”
She flicked her fingers.
“Ah, I see. Assume this is a growing problem and will not stop. What happens?”
“Gold becomes worthless.”
A long, ugly silence followed that statement. So unnerving that Moltin filled it with the desperate, half-jokey conversations he and the other experts had been trying to wrap their head around late at night with lots of drinks to steady themselves.
“S-so what we would do is put all our money into objects that will not lose value when gold coins collapse, Lady Ulva! House Terland has many such resources, I’m relieved to say.”
“Such as…?”
“Golems! Golems, food, steel, magic items…it is this—this concept I have come up with, Lady Ulva. Forgive me if it’s imprecise, but the theory goes that the value of an object is relative. If one has an ocean’s worth of water, water is not valuable.”
“Unless it is seawater, in which case, drinkable water is valuable.”
Moltin bobbed on his feet and nearly fell forwards.
“But in Chandrar’s Great Desert, or at sea, water is a precious commodity. Likewise…if the value of the gold coin is overwhelmed by too many gold coins, then another value must be found. Bartering, for instance, works.”
Ulva’s face was a mask of severity.
“One assumes that would mean the Merchant’s Guild would no longer do business. At least, not nearly as easily. Can one barter across Izril?”
“Not easily, Lady Terland. This is all to insulate us from the damage. I suggest…if word of this becomes wider-spread, that House Terland must find an alternative kind of value to establish a way to do transactions. But we must first change as much gold into value as we can.”
“While gold is still valuable. Assuming this is widespread.”
Her tone was uncertain about that last point, and Moltin dearly hoped he was wrong. But his head was spinning with odd concepts.
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
“I see. Then who else is aware of this issue?”
“Perhaps no one. Soon, I expect the most canny experts will figure it out. Salii the Secretary would have—maybe Yelroan the Flasher?”
“…The what?”
“Er, a name for a Gnollish expert, Lady Terland. Only a select few have the Skills, no, the insight to realize the issue. But it may spread if the Shamefaces continue appearing—people will notice the excess!”
“I see. Continue to update me. And create plans for this divestment of value, Moltin. You have House Terland’s faith in you.”
She lifted a hand that trembled with age more than fear; she had seen a Goblin King and didn’t quail that easily. Moltin was relieved and bowed and turned to go. He stopped at the doorway with a thought.
“Lady Terland?”
She turned, and one of her bodyguard Golems put a shield in front of her in an instant. Moltin flinched, and she spoke.
“What?”
“I…levelled last night. Conceptualizing the plans or discovering the Shamefaces. I cannot say which.”
You didn’t just level like that out of nowhere. Ulva Terland’s face was blocked by the shield, and her tone was unreadable.
“I see. You will report to me daily, and sooner if you discover anything else, Financier Moltin.”
“Yes, Your Ladyship.”
 
——
 
Two days later, Moltin got wind of a massive expenditure of gold from the Empire of Sands to House Wellfar. For ships. With Lady Ulva’s help, he begged, wheedled, and bullied his way into House Wellfar’s headquarters in First Landing and managed to snag a few coins from a very suspicious [Ship Treasurer].
When he tested them, he relaxed. They were visibly different, and even wear and tear at sea couldn’t hide the fact that they were all different kinds and alloys of gold.
“Looking for fakes, are you? We’re not so blind as to need Terland help, though I suppose I appreciate the concern.”
The [Ship’s Treasurer] gave Moltin a sardonic look. He executed a relieved bow.
“We have had a few, and I merely wished to test…ah, nevermind.”
Light as a feather, he turned, and the [Treasurer] snorted.
“Never you fear, House Wellfar checked the gold in person, Mister Moltin. This is just the advance payment. The real stuff’s coming in a treasure barge—well, multiple since every [Pirate] in the world would come after us. Higher quality than the Pirate’s Lucre coins there. Nearly ninety percent pure.”
Moltin froze. He kept his back turned as the tumbling grew louder in his head. Pirate’s Lucre was a term like Shameface for the mismatched bag of coins that you got from seafaring groups. They were never standardized. But if she had noticed it…
“Ninety percent, you say? The entire lot?”
“Newly minted from the Empire of Sands, I think. Just Shamefaces. But gold’s gold, and they’re a power to watch. Mister Moltin? Are you well? Mister Moltin…?”
 
——
 
A day later.
 
Lady Ulva made a call to someone in House Wellfar. A single gold coin was passed to Moltin by a scowling Lord of House Wellfar as the treasure barge disembarked. Moltin tested it. Then he ran an appraisal Skill on the treasure barge.
They arrested him instantly and nearly gutted him on the spot as a [Thief], but his Golem bodyguards protected him. Moltin was still thrown in jail for a full day until House Terland got him out. When they did, Lord Ramone accused the Wellfars of torture, which they denied.
—He’d found Moltin in his rather nice cell giggling hysterically and white as a sheet.
They were all Shamefaces.
 
——
 
One week later.
 
He was hiding in his rooms when the serving Golem dragged him out, and he clawed at her hand. But she carried him out and showed him another bag of gold. Another!
He hid his face from it. Bright gold. Bright and beautiful and all wrong. He could tell in a glance. Just a glance now!
Shamefaces! Shamefaces! 
“Someone call a [Healer]. He’s having another fit—”
Everywhere. Everywhere! Moltin ran to a map and put in another red pin and stared at the map covered in dots. Then he tore it off his walls. Laughed hysterically—before screaming at a [Guildmaster] who asked why they were buying so many goods.
Lord Ramone was sitting in a chair at a desk he’d had brought to the Mercantile Wing, and he poured over ledgers with ink-stained fingers. The sound grew louder and louder until Moltin began hitting his head against the wall to make it stop.
The coins kept falling. Kept falling and falling and f—
 
——
 
Two and a half weeks since his first encounter with Lord Ramone.
 
“Financier Moltin? I am pleased to see you in good health.”
[Financier of Fortunes] Moltin Grousehawk adjusted his collar in the reflection of one of Lady Ulva Terland’s mirror-polished Golem bodyguards. He bowed.
“I do regret my…indisposition, Lady Ulva.”
“I have little patience for failure, Financier Moltin, or incompetence. As you are neither, I shall merely content myself with the [Healer]’s bill of health. It shall be Lord Moltin, if you serve House Terland well.”
He bowed again, deeper. The pronouncement changed not a single muscle on Moltin’s face.
“It is an honor, Lady Terland, to be considered for a noble class. I, selfishly, hope that my services will not be so direly needed.”
She nodded, coughing as she drank something that smelled like a thousand herbalist remedies combined into one.
“Then you shall speak before this council of the Lords of the Heart. Lord Xitegen is the only member not present, and he shall be informed…covertly…on the matters discussed. It may be mere happenstance. I do not believe it is. As leader of House Terland, I am prepared to hear Financier Moltin’s opinions on the future actions we must take to ensure our descendants continue to prosper.”
A small group of [Lords] and [Ladies] susurrated and looked at him as Moltin stood in the middle of the room, surrounded by a circle of the Terlands’ highest-ranking nobles. He was calm. Deliberately, artificially…magically, definitely.
But more than that? He knew what had to be done. Moltin stared at his serving Golem, who had his files and papers all in order, and in her he saw the romance of Terlands.
