—Clinging to his caretaker Golem as she held him like a baby, craving the surety of a being who seemed calm, mysterious, and subservient—oh yes, Moltin had understood what Archmage Zelkyr had loved about his creations. The madness of Terlands was in him. You could marry a Golem under Terland law. Upgrade them, leave them something behind that endured long after you were dead.
Perhaps that was what Ulva had seen; Golems endured. More than money. So it was with a razor that Moltin began to speak, walking over to a map and having files passed around. This would hurt…but it dearly needed to be done.
“We must act swiftly and in secrecy, first, Lady Ulva. I do not recommend informing the other members of the Five Families before our affairs are well underway. When the shift happens, if it does…it would behoove us all if the event were as mild as possible. But by the end of this meeting, I hope you will approve the following message to be sent to every Terland-aligned [Guildmaster] regarding the following actions. The second wave shall be the Five Families, [Merchants], and all allies in good regard.”
“…And what are we to do, Financier Moltin?”
An old Terland [Lord] was playing with a gold coin, not a Shameface, but a Terland-minted coin, staring at it as if it were somehow different from the thing he had known all his life. Disturbed, all of them, except for Ulva, whose gaze was sharp and intent. Moltin bowed.
“Redefine value, Lord Nouzcrat. It has been done before. The foundries are already in motion, and I have put a number of samples in the cloth bags before you. Each material and object has its values and disadvantages, and I must inform you that the overall…style of each unit of monetary value may change. We have an, ah, a [Fashionista] and similar classes, but the base composition of each new unit should be our first pick.”
“You mean coin?”
Moltin saw Ulva smile slightly and felt his own lips twitch.
“Coin, Lord Nouzcrat…a coin is an option. But a coin is an idea. It could be a mark on a piece of wood. Beautiful paper. It could be—anything.”
They listened, and so did he. Until that tumbling sound faded from his mind and he heard a new voice instead. A welcome one.
 
[Financier of Fortunes Level 50!]
[Class Change: Financier of Fortunes → Mint-Lord of the New Era obtained!]
 
——
 
“I think Liscor needs its own currency.”
Krshia stopped chewing on her fish porridge breakfast and gave Lism the kind of stare that suggested it was too early for this and also he was an idiot.
Undeterred, he forged ahead in that Lism way.
“It makes sense. Doesn’t it?”
“You’ve been talking to yourself at night again. Council meeting is in twenty. We’ll have to run through the rain. Hrr. Smells like the sewers have flooded, no? Damn wetrats.”
Lism detected the familiar odor of sewers backing up.
“They’re making nests again? I swear we fixed it last year.”
“If we did, it’s unfixed. Pass me the sauce.”
Lism passed some of the fish sauce and persisted.
“I was thinking we could make it out of paper.”
“Paper?”
Krshia didn’t immediately dismiss the idea, but gave Lism a long look.
“Have you been talking to…Joseph? Miss Imani?”
“Them? No. Why?”
“Nevermind. I thought…why do we need a new currency?”
“Rising costs of food.”
Krshia passed a paw over her face and tilted her head back. She neither moved nor said anything. Lism took another bite of fish porridge.
“You see, if we issue all Liscorians, say, a hundred units, then they’re suddenly able to use that money in the city. No gold issue of paying nine coppers for a bag of Yellats.”
He waited. Krshia stared at the ceiling. Lism slyly wound his tail around the table.
“Someone’s grumpy. Maybe you need some buttering—”
“Pass the water.”
He passed the water pitcher. Krshia took a long drink. Lism waited.
“Well?”
 
——
 
“You see, it’s all about making a…a currency that costs less to make than a gold coin. The value of a gold coin’s a gold coin. It’s in the gold. But if we had a piece of paper—a Liscorian Mark—I just came up with that—we can use that inside the city.”
Councilwoman Alonna was eating a yogurt and fruit breakfast at the table. Tismel had yet to arrive, and Elirr and Raekea usually came in together. Jeiss was dead…
Krshia gave Alonna some kind of signal over Lism’s shoulder, then looked innocent when his head snapped around. Alonna massaged her temples.
“Okay. Currency. Why, Lism?”
“Why not? Other groups issue their own gold coins.”
“But you’re talking a unique kind of money, like the old mithril coinage or…this is about the cost of food, isn’t it? I’m all for that, Lism, but there’s the snap elections everyone’s talking about. We have to either put the idea to rest or go for it.”
“And the sewers are backing up.”
Krshia added. Lism glowered at her.
“And if we put the money on paper, we could hire a [Scribe] and make a thousand Liscorian Marks for a fraction of the cost!”
Alonna was the Mage’s Guild’s Guildmistress. She frowned as she pulled a piece of paper out and began writing things down.
“So how does that solve rising costs of money?”
“Well…Liscorians pay for goods and services with the Liscorian Mark. That way, you have to have a mark to buy Yellats. The price of Yellats isn’t influenced by rich spenders coming into Liscor. In fact, we could make it so houses can only be bought with Liscorian Marks! Citizens only! How about that?”
“Unless they buy the Liscorian Mark with gold. You’d have to exchange it. So if you had a lot of gold, you’d buy a lot of Liscorian Marks. That’s the same situation we’re in with extra steps, Lism.”
“Yes, but it’d be currency each citizen has—”
The female Drake raised one eyebrow.
“Lism, what’s a Liscorian Mark worth?”
“What?”
“You’re a [Shopkeeper]. What’s the value of a Liscorian Mark?”
“One gold piece? Er—less?”
“Prove it.”
Lism faltered.
“What do you mean? If we make it—”
“A Liscorian Mark isn’t worth anything, Lism. It’s a piece of paper. A gold coin’s worth a gold coin’s amount of gold. Some gold coins are worth more, like a Salazsarian coin. If you hand me a hundred thousand Liscorian Marks and tell me it’s worth a hundred thousand gold coins, I’d tell you to get bent. The money is worthless unless it means something. What can you buy with a Liscorian Mark?”
“Anything. It’s money, Alonna.”
Lism snapped. Alonna raised her brows. She scribbled on her notes, then tore off a piece of paper with the words ‘Liscorian Mark’ written on it.
“That’s for a bag of sugar from your shop. Give it to me.”
“That’s not a real Liscorian Mark.”
“It’s about as real as what you’re proposing, Lism. If it’s a piece of paper, it doesn’t matter how fancy it is.”
“If people start using it—”
“They need a reason to use it, Lism. You’re not Erin Solstice. What is a Liscorian Mark worth?”
He opened his mouth. Alonna waited and took a sip of her coffee. She went back to eating as Krshia combed her fur. Lism sat, arms folded, glaring at the ground.
“I swear we had a solution for the sewers last year, though.”
“Hrr. That’s what I said, Alonna. About the marks. The sewers are the real thing. We should get someone to figure out what’s happening. Who used to sort that out?”
“Olesm?”
“Damn. Shall we ask him if he knows? Let me find someone to check the records…”
 
——
 
“Okay, new idea. Each citizen gets ten Liscorian Marks. But a hundred Liscorian Marks…buys you a house. No more foreign investors buying them up. Liscorian Mark is now worth a hundredth of a house.”
The rest of the Council looked up, and Strategos Olesm paused in the middle of his report. He was reflected in a scrying orb, sitting in his tent, looking—well, like a military Drake. Lism was so proud of him.
“…What?”
Krshia sighed loudly.
“Ignore him, Olesm. He’s been on this all day. So you’re saying we have an undead rat-killer in our sewers? Made by Pisces? And it’s…gone rogue?”
Olesm shrugged as Lism began whispering in Elirr’s ear. The Gnoll tried to edge away from him, so Lism switched to Tismel, who was too cowardly to run. Tismel and Zalaiss didn’t even bother showing up to the Council all the time since they were always ignored or outvoted, but the backed up sewers were increasing in frequency.
“That’s correct, Councilwoman Krshia. Pisces did put his rat-killer in the sewers, and it was so effective both he and I forgot about it. I suspect, rather than rogue, it just broke down from fighting a bigger monster. Or the rains swept it away. It could even just be overwhelmed; the rainy season makes things worse.”
Krshia drummed her paws on the table.
“Then we need to hire adventurers again.”
Alonna grimaced.
“Or get some [Necromancers] to make more rat-killers.”
Raekea snorted loudly as the [Armorer] rotated an injured shoulder.
“Necromancers? You mean the ones from Rheirgest that got chased away? I’m sure they’ll love to help. If word gets out we’re using their services, we’ll have more riots.”
Elirr sighed loudly.
“It’s that or backed up sewers. Adventurers never do the job right.”
Everyone turned, waiting for Tismel and Zalaiss to say something, but the Cobbler Guild’s Guildmaster had a thousand-yard stare.
“My toilet’s overflowing. How much do [Necromancers] cost?”
Lism interrupted loudly.
“The real question is: will they even work with us? It’s another visit to The Wandering Inn. Let’s appeal to Miss Lyonette. It’s time for taxes.”
“Isn’t she too far from the city?”
Lism waved a claw over this minor feature.
“She still works with the Watch and the door and various services. The point is, we could tax her again, but we’re obviously going to cut her a break for being such a good friend to the city. Maybe we offer her a discount? Now, about houses. No one but a Liscorian buys a house. Problem solved. A hundred Liscorian Marks buys a house. Doubly solved. Thoughts?”
Tismel looked at Zalaiss. Zalaiss stared at Alonna, and the Guildmistress shrugged as Elirr scratched his head. Raekea lifted a paw.
“…Who pays for the house?”
“The builders, the architects, and so on.”
“So a Liscorian Mark is worth a hundredth of a house?”
“Yes. Value achieved!”
Lism gave Alonna and Krshia a triumphant look. Raekea rubbed at her chin.
“And only Liscorians can buy houses or apartments?”
“Yep.”
“Okay, then I’m a rich Gnoll from Salazsar. I’ll pay you, Tismel, to buy an apartment for me. You manage it, run it, and give me all the money. There.”
Raekea sat back as Lism’s mouth opened. Tismel added in a pedantic, annoying tone.
“And restricting purchasing to only Liscorians will ruin our profits! It’s like these rent limits, Lism. You may have been right that expanding Liscor added jobs and income, but if you don’t let [Landlords] charge more—”
Lism threw his shoe at Tismel’s head, and the Drake ducked. Olesm covered a smile.
“Councilmembers, I have a job to get to. I’ll leave you to it. But, ah, Uncle?”
The Drake got a smile from Lism, and Olesm went on.
“…Giving every Liscorian a hundred Liscorian Marks or whatever you’re planning sounds like a good way to cause chaos. In the best case scenario, everyone gets a lot of money in their pockets. It doesn’t solve people not earning enough to keep up with prices. If the cost of Yellats is high, I’d focus on that.”
Lism’s face fell as Krshia gave Olesm an affectionate smile. Tismel handed Lism’s shoe back to him with an air of smugness. Lism raised the shoe again.
 
——
 
The Council didn’t always have meetings. Lism was talking with Geillsten, the [Tax Collector], and the Drake looked very, very happy.
“I’ve been waiting for this day.”
“So you think it’s a good idea? Look at the varnishing. You know that Shield Spider glue that someone came up with? It creates this lovely glossy effect.”
Lism flexed the Liscorian Mark he’d had prototyped, and Geillsten blinked.
“What? No. Councilmember, that piece of paper is useless. I don’t think restricting buyers to Liscorians will solve the housing issue. Frankly, what’s the problem? The treasury is overfull with all the housing sales. We could build as many houses as we want and, well, give them away.”
He and Lism eyed the treasury doors on the far wall. Lism had seen their budget for this year, and it was one of the reasons he was backing away from gold coins. They had so much damn gold…
“What, build houses and give them away?”
“I mean, we could. Not that I’m a [Councilmember], ha-ha! But if the election’s coming up, do you think I might have a chance?”
The Drake smoothed his neck-spines and stood a bit straighter. Lism gave him a thin smile.
“There’s no legal reason for an election, Geillsten.”
“No…but everyone’s saying it’s a good idea.”
“Everyone or someone speaking loudly at the pub?”
When the [Tax Collector] hesitated, Lism sped forwards.
“Why is today a good day?”
The [Tax Collector]’s eyes shone.
“The Wandering Inn. Every instinct in my head is telling me that taxing that spot is worth more than the Mage’s Guild, Runner’s Guild, and Merchant’s Guild combined.”
Lism whistled.
“Erin can’t have made that much money, can she?”
“I don’t know, but I’ll nip on over and see how much they owe soon enough.”
Geillsten rubbed his claws together, and Lism noted that down for their conversation with Lyonette. The rest of the Council was putting together a budget for the undead rat-killers and a backup involving a bounty with the Adventurer’s Guild; they’d made Lism come down here to ask what an acceptable tax break for Lyonette would be. Geillsten glanced at Lism and lowered his voice.
“Frankly, Councilmember, we have so much damn gold in the vaults that I’m nervous about thieves, even with Watch Commander Venim upgrading security. We may wish to transfer some of the gold to Merchant’s Guilds in Pallass, say? If you had more projects to spend our money on, I’d be more relieved. An odd thing to say, of course, but…”
Lism nodded. Liscor had pulled in so much money on the sales of land that he frankly didn’t know what to do with it. Even with Hexel’s fees and all the construction work, Liscor was rich. The door tax on Invrisil, Pallass, and Celum didn’t hurt either.
“Build houses…I sort of like that idea.”
“What? That’s a joke, Councilmember, a joke. It’s not very Drake-like to give anything away for free, is it?”
“It’s not very Drake-like to live in a city where an honest citizen can’t afford a house either. Or to let your neighbors get kicked out of their homes.”
“Ah, well, yes, but everyone has to make money.”
