“Think of the children, my Queen?”
“…Which ones? What species? The ones in the dungeon? Do we have another infestation?”
“Um…think of all the foods we could make with two hundred [Chefs], my Queen?”
The Free Queen thought about that. She hmmed loudly, then bent over.
“Are you sure you need two hundred?”
“Yes, my Queen. Four hundred.”
“…Is it the fondues? Melting all that cheese seems very difficult. Pawn often asks for more Painted Antinium, and I refuse him because I am in charge of the Free Antinium and his group is but one faction. He is no Klbkchhezeim.”
Garry nodded earnestly, recognizing the irritation in her voice.
“Yes, Free Queen. But I am not Pawn.”
“Hmm. This is a good point. I assume you will need a bigger kitchen too.”
Modestly, the [Baker] crinkled his hat in his hands.
“Only slightly bigger. Most of them will be—elsewhere.”
She was so busy sorting out the reorganization of funds and Antinium the Free Queen didn’t even ask where. Because he was Garry.
No one paid attention to Garry.
Shortly after that, Garry paid a visit to the Antinium farm.
 
——
 
In the Free Antinium’s Hive, there were many jobs. Enviable jobs like being a Painted Antinium, hated jobs like Furfur the Dreadful’s. Hard jobs like fighting monsters from the dungeon, even with all the traps and improvements.
All Antinium, though, would have told you there was only one job that earned you the most respect and took the most courage: farming.
Oh, it was easy, or so Antinium had thought. Go out each day, punch dirt, pour water over said dirt, eat free bugs.
Then they’d remembered the spring rains.
It took a special Antinium to get up each morning, cross a swaying bridge over the water to a large hill, and till the earth while the sky belched water at you. The bravest of Antinium.
Mind you, Farmer Twelve didn’t feel that accomplished some days. He had grown snowmelons in the winter, beets in the fall, and corn in the summer—but the spring was mostly a wash.
Literally—the rain was drowning all the seeds the Antinium kept planting in the soil no matter how much they tried to put up canopies to mitigate the rain, or even dredge more land up. It was still terrifying; he’d stare at the roiling water and their little hill where Liscor had allowed Antinium to begin their farming projects and imagine the wooden bridge snapping or a great water monster pulling an Antinium down.
But he was a farmer, and dead gods, he was going to farm.
The Level 16 [Crop Farmer] was determined about that. There was something special about eating things you’d made from the ground. He just didn’t quite understand what to do and had been standing around, staring at the drenched potatoes, which were a spring crop, fearing Klbkch might come back and cut his head off for being useless.
Then had come Garry.
“Hello, hello. I am mortally terrified for my life. Do you always cross the bridges to come here? Every day? I have a pie for all your hard work.”
He had six pies, in fact, which he cut up for the Antinium as they stood in the little shed they’d erected. A proper Acid Fly pie, crunchy and delicious.
“The red is from the beets you all grew. It is very delicious, if I do say so myself. May I ask who is in charge here?”
The Antinium [Farmers] looked up and shuffled, then made way for Farmer Twelve. He hesitated, but he was the highest-level [Farmer]—alive—and he stood there, nervous.
Funny thing. The Antinium farming project had begun last year as one of the Antinium outreach projects under Pawn and Klbkch. But Klbkch had insisted on overseeing the project, and then—
Well, no one was going to say he forgot about them. It was more like he’d gotten the farm working and then had other things to do. Then he’d left, and they’d, well, kept farming.
It was honest, hard work. They grew things; they brought them to the Hive. They ran out of space to farm? They tried to make the hill bigger. They combed the soil for bugs to eat, beat up Shield Spiders and pests…stared at the setting sun…
Aside from right now, they were as happy as any Antinium could be. But one look at their fields and Garry came to a simple conclusion.
“I do not believe you can farm anything in this wetness, can you?”
Farmer Twelve hung his head. It was true. He’d been hoping for a Skill; one of the Antinium had [Waterlogged Crops], but even then, he barely had a few sprouts. Not much levelling to do in the rain.
Maybe they’d be made to fish. That was a life, maybe. Or they’d be put into the Hive until the rains stopped. Farmer Twelve kicked at a clump of dirt, and Garry rubbed at his chin.
“You grew many beets last year. And corn. I remember that. Did anyone teach you how to grow crops, Farmer Twelve?”
Surprised, the Antinium shook his head. Klbkch had bought a book for them and inquired with some local farmers, but it had all been experimental. The [Baker] thoughtfully paced around the fields. There were over one hundred and sixty thousand square feet of hand-tilled land. They’d started with a plot barely four hundred feet by four hundred feet and built the hill out. Farmer Twelve was just a bit proud about that.
“And you did all this. Without tools. This must change.”
Farmer Twelve drooped. He knew the farm wasn’t optimal. He just hadn’t thought Garry would be the one to deliver the news. Farmer Twelve had wondered if he’d one day be met by Pawn to become a Painted Antinium, blessed and burdened, or called upon to be a Crusader or something else.
He was following Garry to the bridge, head bowed, when Garry turned and sensed Farmer Twelve’s resignation. To Farmer Twelve’s shock, Garry laughed, putting all four hands on the [Farmer]’s shoulders.
“I did not mean you should stop farming, Farmer Twelve. I meant…you shall come with me. We shall see if you can farm in the rain. And if not? I shall find another place for you to farm.”
…Say what now? Farmer Twelve stared at Garry. Then Garry took his hand—and did normal Garry things.
 
——
 
Garry knew Shassa Weaverweb, the [Teacher] and [Druid] of Oteslia. She knew him, of course, vaguely. He was Garry. Like a Kevin, but more edible. He interrupted her prepping for class tomorrow, and she was busy—
—A big bag of chocolate chip cookies made Shassa decide she wasn’t that busy. She stared at Farmer Twelve a bit warily as Garry explained his problem.
“Growing crops in the rain? Ancestors, that sounds miserable. No way you’d grow potatoes like this. I think if you had to grow anything…well, it’s got to be rice, right? Rice, pulses, sugarcane…”
Farmer Twelve’s antennae twitched. Garry scratched at his head.
“That is a fascinating reply, Druid Shassa. I confess, I do not know how all these things are grown. Could you grow rice in Liscor’s climate?”
She laughed as she ate another cookie.
“You’d have a better shot than potatoes, that’s for certain! Listen, I may be a [Druid], but I’m not plant-focused. I could ask someone from Oteslia what they thought. Liscor’s weather is certainly unusual.”
“If you would not mind, I would be very grateful, Miss Weaverweb. Do you like chocolate?”
“Love it. How do you even get any?”
Garry clasped his hands behind his back modestly.
“I have a supply. Growing more would be very nice…but I could also make you some Spider Succulents. That is chocolate with little legs. Do you like peanut butter?”
Her eyes lit up as Garry gave Farmer Twelve a significant look. Garry promised to check back in an hour as Shassa dashed off to the Mage’s Guild. Then he turned.
“While we wait, we might as well speak to other experts.”
There were more? Farmer Twelve stared at Garry, but all they had to do was splash down a few streets, reach The Wandering Inn—
And then—
 
——
 
Farmer Twelve was feeling the hot mug of soup warm his hands as he sipped from a straw. Greedily. He had a blanket on his shoulders, and the nice little witch had even gotten him a bunch of snacks. Farmer Twelve was afraid to eat them since Garry deserved half, but the Antinium had told him to eat them all.
And Garry was speaking to a woman who’d come through the door at his request.
“Dead gods, they were trying to grow potatoes in the rain? Yes, I can draw up plans for a rice paddy. Or at least look at that hill! No offense to Antinium, but I’d be terrified of falling off it and tumbling into the water.”
“That is a slight fear of theirs, Miss Strongheart. But what could be done?”
“[Raise Earth Wall]! I’ll just make a safety cordon around the hill. And if they make paddies of some kind, they might want to terrace them—hold on, I’m going to have to recall my visit to Oteslia and other places that do it.”
Viceria Strongheart, the [Green Mage], shook her head as she introduced herself to Farmer Twelve. She accepted a pumpernickel loaf from Garry as well as two huge, roasted fish.
“Wailant will love this; he’s pestering me for seafood nightly, and I can’t deal with him and the farm. Give me ten minutes to refresh my memory and I can walk over. We might as well have him take a look at those bridges too. I’m sure the Antinium pay attention since it’s their lives on the line, but Wailant does know everything that floats.”
—And then there was a [Green Mage] and Shassa, who had found a book on crops that grew in monsoon seasons! She found Garry as they were heading through Liscor, and he vanished as Viceria was reinforcing the Antinium’s hill.
When he came back, he had news.
“I hired Hawk to get me seeds from Oteslia. They should arrive in the next few days at most. He will get as many carrot foods as he wants when he returns. Farmer Twelve, I will appoint you to oversee these rice paddies, because rice is good and can be flour and Antinium can eat it. I wonder how many more hills we can convert.”
Thoughtfully, Garry studied the Floodplains, and Farmer Twelve stood there, mandibles open. Then, Garry glanced around and leaned over.
“Tonight, you will pick up as many Soldiers and Workers as you think could start another farm. I can only hire about three hundred and twenty [Farmers] at this moment…but I would like you to feed as much of Liscor as you can, soon.”
All of Liscor? There weren’t enough hills to…Farmer Twelve looked around desperately, wishing he had his own hat to crumple in his hands. But Garry just gave him a reassuring pat on the shoulders.
“Not here, Farmer Twelve. Just select the Workers.”
But where will we farm? Farmer Twelve gestured around, and Garry pointed towards the mountains looming over them and, Farmer Twelve realized, beyond.
“I believe more Armored Antinium will arrive to become Knights of the Solstice. And, of course, the Order of Solstice will return here for food and because it is Erin’s inn. The next time they come back, I will speak to some of the Armored Antinium. They are setting up a keep near the High Passes. So long as the [Knights] are there, and the 7th Hive, I think it will be very safe. But I will speak to Pawn about Painted Antinium going with you. Enough wheat, corn, beans, Yellats, for all of Liscor, Farmer Twelve. Do not worry; I shall help you. A loaf of bread for every citizen in Liscor and beyond.”
He said it so quietly no one heard it. No one saw it—except for Farmer Twelve and Runel and Pisca. The [Baker] patted Farmer Twelve on the shoulder. Then he handed Farmer Twelve a huge cooked chicken of all things. When Farmer Twelve tried to protest, Garry just pointed to the shed.
“Eat it. If you work for me, you will always eat good foods, Farmer Twelve. Do not worry about the cost or supplies. [My Pantry Overflows With My Deeds]. They are small. For now. I shall work harder.”
He looked at his first new employee, and Garry thought of his other Skill.
[Rested, Fed, Appreciated and Paid, My Workers Surpassed Mundanity]. But he said nothing of his plans; he just went off to try making another scaethen loaf.
And Farmer Twelve?
Farmer Twelve knew other Antinium. Pawn who worked miracles, the brave [Crusaders], wondrous Xrn, the almighty Free Queen, Bird, who was free…and Klbkch. He had never really feared Klbkch; the Slayer was just the Slayer who took lives and gave orders.
But Garry? Just for a moment, Farmer Twelve feared the soft-spoken [Baker], and it gave the [Farmer] a thrill in his chest. It was a good thing to have an Antinium that should be feared. Then Farmer Twelve hurried to get the roast chicken inside before it was completely wet.
The next day—he began to farm like he’d never farmed before.
 
——
 
Liscor, nay, Izril was continuing to change. So fast, too. So…
Unprecedentedly.
It was strange. No, it was wrong. The speed at which things were changing was all off. Yelroan knew this. And he reasoned that he was the only person in the entire world who could analyze and understand that something was dearly wrong.
He knew Moltin. Not personally, of course. It was like Bastion General Quiteil or Salii the Secretary: you heard of people in various sectors that no one paid attention to, but who were names and faces in your domains.
Like how the common citizen had never known nor heard of Xesci, much less given thought to her profession, but how the Sisters of Chell acknowledged she was important enough to listen to.
Anyways. The headline of today’s newspaper was:
 
Terlands Unveil the ‘Terland Tithel’. New Coin Currency? 
 
Yelroan read it three times as he poured cereal and milk into his lap. Then he furiously read the article.
“Lord Moltin of Stone. What? Personal Golem…what. He’s having sex with a Golem?”
Nanette spat out her own cereal and stared at Yelroan.
“What? It just said personal—”
“That’s how they denote such things. Wait, wait, nevermind. New coin currency? This is wrong. This is all—”
Yelroan’s head turned to the door leading to the Garden of Sanctuary, and he drummed his paws on the table. It was all moving way too fast. Way too fast.
You see, two nights ago, he’d gotten a warning from an old friend. One Pohgre Feltpurse; a Gnoll who’d made his way through the Merchant Guild’s hierarchy into a lesser posting at one of the Terland-run Guilds. Still a cushy job you could retire at.
The seventy-year-old Gnoll was very Human-like in his mannerisms, condescending, and yes, kind to younger Gnolls he took under his wing. It had been a brief letter delivered by City Runner, all very casual…warning Yelroan off gold. It was hard to read the letter any other way.
Then came today’s news, and it had Yelroan drumming his paws on the table. Why? Because it was wrong.
“Do you think it has anything to do with…the box, Yelroan?”
Nanette hissed at him after a glance around. Yelroan half shook his head, but uncertainly.
