It was all going wrong.
Admiral Rosech lost his first fight that night against Titanguard Etrogaer. The two fought across the ship of the Golaen giantfolk, and he drove his blade into the man’s side, tearing apart mithril chainmail, huge links of metal.
But Etrogaer was too large—and his roar of pain was followed by a hand that captured gravity itself, enough to crush skulls with a simple grasp.
Rosech’s face bled, and his skin contorted, but the [Bloodtear Admiral] wouldn’t die. He fell limply, though, and Etrogaer drove down a maul and snapped ribs—Rosech’s crew dragged the [Admiral] away as they broke from the ship.
Irrel poured a potion over Rosech, and the [Admiral] got up. He had killed his way out of a nest of Crelers and survived everything. He saw a warrior of Golaen, seven feet tall, charging him and grabbed their sword barehanded—drove his sword into the guts of the screaming warrior until he was punching a bloody pulp.
“It’s not working! Why isn’t it working?”
The [Pirates] backed away from him as he slashed around the deck, hacking at his ship, screaming as they turned, still pursuing that [Prince]. It had to be the [Prince]. Or the sword—his Skill? One of Rosech’s crew cried out.
“He’s gone mad. Admiral! They’re all turning on us. The Iron Vanguard and Terandrians are murdering each other—what’s not working?”
Rosech could see his blade, covered in blood and the lives of Terandria’s nobility. He had killed them. A member of the Thousand Lances. Brave folk, bastards—yet his crazed eyes rose, and the only person who didn’t flinch away from the bloodsoaked man was a scared, slightly hunched boy.
His boy. Irrel, Dorhmin-born, holding a spear. He hadn’t rushed into the fighting. For him—there was nothing but sorrow today. His eyes leaked yellow tears, and he had no pupils, just a coat and hat to protect his head against the cold.
To make the enemy not realize he wasn’t like the other species. Irrel stared at his father as Rosech howled.
“It’s not his! It’s worthless—all of it!”
He slashed his sword, and his closest crewmates and friends, who knew why he had done this, stole a look at Irrel.
“It was for him. What’s the point of it if I can’t give it to Irrel?”
His Skill. The Bloodtear Pirates looked at the Dorhmin, a species incapable of levelling, and someone made a sound. A laugh—pained and understanding.
“Rosech. Irrel’s a Dorhmin. He can’t…”
“I. Know.”
The sword pointed at a throat, and a half-Elf froze, but they were past words or fear. The half-Elf had lost an eye and stayed even when he had his own stolen destiny and fate.
“Too late for regrets, Rosech. Your boy…if I’d have known this was why you went for it, I’d have told you to let Maxy die here alone. She’s feasting. Didn’t you ever think Irrel’d rather have a father?”
Rosech looked at Irrel. The lad had seen his friends, ships, and crews he’d known for years vanishing in a night. He had always known this life, but—Rosech turned his eyes to the storm. It was ending. Fire was raining down, and he saw a desperate light piercing the skies.
Captain Lidera was dying.
A maw was dragging the sea down in the distance, and the pull was dragging even the ships behind and ahead of him back, slowing their pursuit. She was not on board her ship; she’d let them flee.
A single glowing figure was standing on a staircase of light as spells fell towards her, shining a beam of light straight down to blind a Kraken itself. It rose, a mangled maw, engulfing the light, and she burned so bright her power lit its flesh itself and tore a hole through the screaming Kraken.
Then—
Gone. Captain Lidera had been a mother to her own adopted son, in her own way. He’d always wondered if she was jealous of the young would-be Luminary. He had an answer. An ending.
Irrel’s eyes were locked on his father as Admiral Rosech leaned on a railing. He could not sit. If he sat…the [Admiral]’s voice rasped as he stared ahead at that [Prince of Men]. That ship…maybe that ship and that one.
He had the strength for it, but he felt someone coming up from behind. A woman he’d never met, but they knew each other. The madness of the [Admiral]’s eyes turned to a bleak smile, and he faced his crew and friends.
“He’d rather have a father? Inseine. Friends. You’re my family almost as much as Irrel. We’re all dead men and women, enjoying our fun. This?”
He lifted his sword and stared at the worthless fates he’d stolen. [Each Door a Destiny]. A way to choose…but only for him. He thought he saw one door now, opening in the distance. He could just sail off and perhaps escape.
But his son. Rosech met Irrel’s eyes, and the lad knew it most of all.
“Father.”
“For one of the Dorhmin; no port on land nor sea will take him save that I am there. What happens when I’m gone? Eh, Inseine? What happens when you’re gone? Should I let Irrel alone? Like the Goblins? Let him have just one. One way out of this—this—”
Rosech was staring at his reflection in the steel of his sword, shouting at it. Desperately. He had thought it would work.
“I didn’t take the Skill for myself. I knew exactly why I wanted it. Why won’t it let me give it to him? Just one. Every almighty triumph and failure I’ve ever writ upon my story has been rewarded and punished in my levels. Just once. Let me give something to him. Please.”
He did not know who he begged, only that he saw the blood running down his blade, the destiny bleeding onto his deck. Then those wild eyes, that man who had lived only for himself and his deeds until the day he hadn’t—
Rosech saw his reflection in the length of his blade lift its lips in a strange smile. A smile that had never graced the [Bloodtear Admiral]’s face.
It had no joy that he knew, for he laughed loudly. No rage in the way he screamed and let blood flow. The smile was calm, and he had never been calm. It filled the face of Admiral Rosech, and those eyes contained a multitude.
The figure spoke with his voice and a flat tone that he had heard since the day he was a boy. The voice of levels and the will of the world looked him in the eye and said:
“[Agreed].”
Then—Rosech looked up at his crew, who stood in awe, and at his boy, who looked at him wide-eyed and reached out for him.
“Please…”
Rosech hugged Irrel with all his strength, then his eyes lifted for one final purpose. Hate me. Love me.
“He’d rather have a father? I killed his parents.”
His crew had heard him speak it a hundred times as the boy lay sleeping. Rosech stared ahead at the clearing skies, then behind him.
“Faster. Catch those ships. Be it the Throne or Legend, I don’t care. We’re followed by a beast of her own—and she’s got no destiny I want.”
Then he drew his sword and went searching for a gift for his boy.
 
——
 
The Naga’s Den was under attack as it cut the waters ever closer to Wistram. The [Pirates], enemy ships from Terandria, and even the Iron Vanguard tried to bring down the ship now, for it held a Goblin Lord, enemy of all.
—However, those that wished to stop Erin Solstice were forced to board. They had to. At first, the ships attempted to stop The Naga’s Den at range.
It was an art unto itself. Sunder the masts with bolts of lightning. Set the sails aflame. Even shoot lead weights into the hull and drag the ship down; flood its deck with water.
Alas, The Naga’s Den was more than a magical ship. A synergy had developed that was undefeatable.
Admiral Dakelos, the [Intractable Admiral of Sacrifice], had a death-grip upon the wheel. His crew were [Devils of Slaughter]—his ship ran at [Double Speed, By Wind and Oar]. And as water rushed into the shattered belowdecks, the vessel refused to sink.
[My Ship Shall Not Sink Before I Do]. 
Yet even so, they might have crippled her—and she was already in tatters—run her down until she was a floating wreck. However, the [Bloodtear Pirates] who knocked down one of the four masts saw the piece of wreckage float back upright.
Sails ripped into shreds reknit with green magic, and The Naga’s Den might die—but the [Necromancer of Reclaimed Glory] brought her back.
While the two lived, the ship could not be stopped. Nor could any force simply split The Naga’s Den apart or murder the two at range.
Greydath of Blades cut magic and weapons apart like Zeladona, and his sword changed the currents themselves. Bloodtear ships trying to loose a hail of arrows over the decks saw a half-Elf standing on the prow, raising her arms.
A downpour of icy shards fell like sleet. Daggers that struck flesh and ship, shards of ice. [Rain of Frozen Tears], the spell of the Siren of Tides.
Cast by a half-Elf with the aid of the world’s greatest [Supporter], who gave the spell the quality of glass, turning each shard fragile, the shards shattering and spraying into the air wherever they landed.
Magic and might.
Newblood Ships drew alongside The Naga’s Den, and Captain Zoler and her ragged crew were ordered to storm the ship first by Captain Dovom to make up for their failure. They saw six figures standing at the railing.
A woman with silver arms, an Antinium holding four crossbows, a Satyr whirling a sling. The half-Elf and grinning [Supporter]—and the cold eyes of the [Necromancer] standing next to Admiral Dakelos.
The Horns of Hammerad never moved. Only waited for their foe to try and board. Their eyes stared down the Newbloods, and the ship slowed in its advance…fell behind, ignoring the furious orders. Then turned and fled.
Who in their right mind would board that ship? The Hundredfriends Courier was waiting with sword drawn for the first foe, fearless.
—And some ships were refusing to attack, despite the universal condemnation.
Pisces Jealnet heard the arguments as a ship that Admiral Dakelos was preparing to fire upon moved in front of a flotilla, giving furious orders.
“—Kaaz will not engage! Protect the fleet!”
“The Goblin Lord—”
“We have enough enemies!”
Dakelos had said less than twenty words since he and Pisces had met. But somehow, Pisces and the [Admiral] glanced at each other, and their brows both raised simultaneously.
“Ah. That is the Kaazian [Lord] I met.”
Strategist Anand said that, and both men turned to him. Dakelos glanced at Pisces, blinking at the faintest ghost of a smile the [Necromancer] wore.
It reminded Pisces, like a dark reflection, of his ride on Sand at Sea with Fetohep and the other strangers. Only, here, he had already found the person he wanted to protect.
If only he were sure he could keep her safe.
Erin Solstice was talking with Greydath. She didn’t sway, but he thought she was so exhausted that she might collapse but for determination keeping her up.
“—plan for now. Just get me to Rabbiteater.”
The Goblin Lord was eying Erin as he grudgingly nodded. She had not asked him one question beyond her plans to save Rabbiteater.
Goblin Lord. Pisces barely knew Greydath’s deeds; he was supposed to be dead, but [Duelists] of Ailendamus had whispered tales about one of the few beings to ever swing a sword and cleave the world asunder.
Another monster like Az’kerash that the Antinium Wars should have ended. Greydath of Blades. Here.
Whatever he was to her, Erin didn’t seem to care. She stood there, the deck rocking, until she noticed Pisces. She had spoken almost as little as Dakelos. When she turned her head, she met his eyes.
There were many things they could have said. Asked why the other was here. Scolded each other. Hugged. Wept or blamed themselves…
“I levelled up.”
It was the worst thing to say, but Pisces followed it with a weak smile.
“—And I still can’t protect you yet, it seems.”
“I know the feeling. I’m going after Rabbiteater. I knew you’d find me. I wish you’d gotten lost a bit longer. I can’t turn back, Pisces.”
He didn’t expect her to. It was so banal that Pisces hesitated as he stood on the deck with her, but he noticed Greydath had not moved off. Ulvama was sitting there, patching up Badarrow’s arms. The two Goblins nodded at him, and Pisces met Ulvama’s gaze. Prisoner of Roshal.
She smiled at him, he thought, for his sake. The [Necromancer] looked around as the Horns came over. Most of the people not busy defending the deck were here, in fact.
But what did you say to the [Innkeeper]? Pisces knew it was the question so many had asked, but he had to say it for once.
“Erin. Can nothing turn you back? I’m sure everyone has asked…but I…”
I have to ask. Erin blinked blank eyes at Pisces and focused on him. Then she chuckled.
“No one’s asked. Told me to, but…no. This is where I have to be, Pisces. I wasn’t sure I would end up here. It’s a lesson I’m learning.”
“…Of what?”
The [Innkeeper] looked past Pisces, into the distance, and turned. When she stood there, she looked like the young woman who had survived Skinner. Only, this one had endured worse than even he. But she remembered it.
“I have learned many things since the day I arrived here, Pisces. I tried, at the beginning, to pretend there were happy endings. But then I discovered monsters.”
She brushed at her wild, tangled hair and went on, glancing at Badarrow.
“Then I did my best, but I could never make a place that could protect people. That would not break or be destroyed. I saw how much I could hurt people without thinking—”
Her eyes flicked to one of his Skeleton Champions silently standing guard at the railings. Then she touched her chest, and he remembered her frozen bier.
“I realized how much I hadn’t done and how much I’d taken for granted. And now?”
She glanced at him, then ahead at something and someone only she could see, then, for the first time, behind her at the wreckage and death. Her eyes met Anand’s and counted the handful of Antinium, then she turned again to Pisces.
“I’ve learned how far I’d go, today.”
It was such a ridiculous statement he wanted to guffaw in Erin’s face. Pisces’ chest burned as he forced a few words out, incredulous.
“Erin. You’ve always—ever since you came here—the day Relc and Klbkch first met me—”
He was trying to say it, but the [Innkeeper] held up a hand. She did not smile.
“That was then, Pisces. I have always been afraid that next time, I won’t have the courage. Next time, I won’t do what’s right.”
Then there was a hoarse, over-loud laugh, and Pisces was glad it came from Ceria. The half-Elf threw her head back, as if it were the funniest thing in the world to hear it from Erin. The [Innkeeper] just looked at Ceria, then around at the others, and her words were for them. Herself.
