The waters were black now. Black, and the waves were breaking against the ship’s hull. The silver gleam had already vanished. If she was alive—
The Antinium whispered louder than his thoughts.
“She’s alive.”
“Ksmvr.”
Pisces looked at the Antinium’s bare hand. Ksmvr stood and drew his swords. He turned to face the decks and saw shadows racing after Erin. When he looked at Pisces, the [Necromancer] turned and saw a Gnoll prowling across the decks, two swords in hand.
“Come. They will not die before us. Goodbye, Yvlon.”
 
——
 
They got in his way.
They were in her way. Now, there were giant-folk on the ship, Golaen’s warriors, trying to stop her. Trying to help that [Prince of Men], even if they didn’t know why.
Titanguard Etrogaer was in her way. Seve-Alrelious was fighting Rosech, and they were all trying to get to Rabbiteater. The giant warrior of Golaen pointed at Erin, eyes wide with fury as he made for the allies of Greydath.
“Traitors.”
Erek raised his sword, and Etrogaer’s own gigantic maul crushed the Orangutan. Erek’s form vanished, and his tattoo glowed across Seve’s body as his sword hit the deck. The massive man turned to Erin, and gravity itself became a weapon that smashed Colth out of the air.
The [Innkeeper] threw black flames onto the Titanguard, and he recoiled, roaring. That howl of wrath as he tried to brush gauntleted hands over his flaming armor became a cry of pain. Then a shriek.
Gravity and his strength could not extinguish the flames. He rolled, burning, as she stumbled again.
The [Prince] was cutting down everyone in his way as men and women tried to shield a figure lying on the deck. Rabbiteater, unable to move, staring up at Iradoren. A [Princess] tried to tackle him, and the half-Elf consort dragged her back. The [Prince] was speaking something, face locked with wrath and bitter triumph.
Ryoka called out to Erin as the [Innkeeper] raced forward, alone, but she was so close now, she could not stop.
“Erin! Erin!”
Greydath was fighting Iradoren’s entire bodyguard, crimson eyes locked onto the [Prince]’s back as his own blood finally hit the decks. Erin took another step, and someone shoved her.
“Sorry.”
Anand sounded relieved. Erin fell forwards, twisting, and a blade pierced her shoulder. But it missed her heart.
Poison and agony. She hit the ground, turning—and Anand looked down at the sword Iert had plunged through his chest. The Gnoll howled.
The Naga’s servant. Fur had burnt black off half his body, and his armor was in ruins. He shoved the [Strategist] aside, and Erin saw Anand collapse.
“Anand?”
 
——
 
Wrymvr was locked in the depths of the water when he felt Anand die.
The Centenium was trying to swim, but the Archmage of Memory and a Dragon churned the waters, flame and magic battering him.
They hated him.
Wrymvr had no time for them. The Centenium was trying to rise when he froze.
“Anand?”
The Worker’s life flickered out high above. A soul untethered. The Centenium caught it. Caught it and…spoke. His mind reaching out far as he could.
“Someone. Catch.”
 
——
 
The Queens of Izril were in uproar. They were watching like everyone else.
Six thrones. Six Hives.
Even the Flying Queen. Even the Grand Queen.
Watching a [Prince] attacking the [Knight] and Calanfer for reasons only he knew, trying to unmask Ser Solstice.
Watching an [Innkeeper] and Goblin Lord. They saw an Antinium fall and heard Wrymvr’s voice, but so faintly that even together—
“Link. Do not let his soul vanish.”
The Free Queen cried out. She was furthest, but reached out, mind straining to do the impossible.
“I cannot…”
The Silent Queen whispered. The Armored Queen was rising, limbs beseeching the invisible sky.
“First Queen, grant us the strength to do what we must—!”
The Flying Queen was speaking rapidly, antennae twitching.
“No response. We are too far. Xrn is dead. Klbkch is too far. I hear nothing. Impossible.”
The Grand Queen hesitated, then raised her voice.
“Do it. Combine your efforts! I command you!”
As if her will could…then the Queens felt another set of minds reaching out. Hundreds, thousands of linked Antinium.
A Unitasis Network. It came from Liscor, reaching out for Wrymvr. Over the seas, trying to bridge thousands of miles by will and faith alone. Each Queen added their will to it, desperately trying to touch Wrymvr’s mind.
All save one.
“It is. Impossible.”
The Twisted Queen did nothing. She sat still, silent. Thinking. Watching. Waiting.
The Antinium of Izril reached out across the sea, and Wrymvr shrieked—and they touched nothing at all.
Then a silence fell over the Hives. The Free Queen’s despairing gaze lifted, and she saw the [Innkeeper] look up.
 
——
 
Ulvama and Badarrow threw themselves at Iert, and the Gnoll backed away, slashing, sending Ulvama falling to the deck. He leapt a spell Nerry shot at him, dodged a sword made of flashes swung by a screaming Ryoka—
Erin looked down at that smiling Worker’s face.
“Anand?”
He didn’t move. Erin saw Pisces attacking Iert, and the Gnoll severed one of Ksmvr’s arms and ran the Antinium through the side.
“Boss. Boss.”
Someone picked her up as Iert spun towards Erin. The Gnoll barrelled forwards, ignoring Pisces’ blade in his side. He leapt—and Colth met him in the air.
The Ultimate Supporter, Colthei, and the Naga’s first servant. They stabbed at each other, their swords moving in identical patterns.
Iert had taught Colth how to use his blades like that. The [Supporter] had lost his smile. They crashed to the deck, and the Gnoll whispered.
“The Naga wants you dead too.”
No more captives. No more—Colth tried to run his blade through Iert’s throat as Badarrow shot an arrow straight down. Iert whispered.
“[Die For Me].”
Two [Slave]-[Assassins] jerked and fell. Iert vanished, reappeared with a slash across Badarrow’s chest. Colth flickered up into a d—
“[Djinni’s Body].”
Iert passed through Colth, turning to lightning. The [Supporter]’s charred body and armor crashed down as Iert backed away from Dakelos’ ghosts. Rivel leapt on him, no sword, just clawing, biting, helm torn away, ignoring the swords slashing him.
Iert still had the arrow sticking out of his chest. His throat was torn open, but the arrow was slowly moving out of his flesh, and his wound was closing. Colth lay there a second, then grabbed a leg.
“Boss.”
Erin was striding towards the Gnoll. She kicked off Colth’s hand, and he rose.
“Leave him to me. I just need—”
His lungs were filled with soot, and his arms were shaking. He was almost out of Skills. She looked at him, and the [Supporter] smiled. A desperate baring of his teeth.
Rain was falling, but there were no tears in her eyes. Nor his. They had to die before she would weep. Rosech had buried his sword in Seve’s neck, and the Sea Courier was laughing, refusing to die as the desperate [Admiral] cursed at him.
“Can you kill him?”
That was all she asked. Colth looked at Iert. The Gnoll was coming at them again.
“I’ve never beaten him. I can do it, but I need—give me a hard job, boss. Please. Larracel is too soft.”
Her eyes were aglow as Pisces turned and saw Colth straighten and face Iert. Erin Solstice’s eyes fixed on the man, and she nodded.
The skies were prepared to unleash more fury, but they were waiting to see who triumphed or died on these swaying ships. Colth stared up at the sky, looking for a miracle. But the night was dark.
It was just him. And her.
The [Magical Innkeeper] pointed at Colthei, and he felt his weary body fill with energy as she spoke. Just words. That was all she had, but they were all Colth needed. He saw the promise in her eyes as she spoke.
“Go.”
The [Supporter] charged across the deck and slammed into Iert. The Gnoll’s blades kissed his armor, but slid off of Stalker’s hide. Then Colth had Iert lifted, was carrying him, ignoring the blows, hurtling towards the railing—
He passed by Pisces, laughing, and Erin Solstice’s voice filled his ears as they fell from the deck. Iert was howling, fearless—until he looked in Colth’s eyes and Erin’s voice filled his mind.
“<Mythical Quest – Don’t Come Back Up Until He’s Dead>.”
Then the Gnoll was trying to get away, and Colth was laughing, laughing until they hit the water and vanished into the deep.
 
——
 
Colthei vanished into the waters, struggling with Iert in a frenzy of blades and limbs. Pisces stared into the water, and Erin met his eyes.
Colth can’t do it alone. The [Necromancer] looked around for Ksmvr, Vofea. Ceria and Yvlon were gone—
Pisces didn’t know what to do. Until she pointed at him.
“Go!”
He looked at her and then at Ksmvr, then the young man whirled. He leapt from the ship, after Colth, into the freezing water, eyes locked on the two living shapes sinking deeper. Somewhere, a Naga was screaming, but Pisces dove as the servant of the Naga struggled. Then two of them were on him and refused to let him go, dragging him down—
Let all those who hold chains beware.
 
——
 
The decks were clearing of voices. The crowd thinned, and he knew she was right behind him. But—he was almost done.
The Hundredfriends Courier would not die. His heart was cleft in twain, yet it reknit. Rosech ripped out an eye, and still that mouth laughed.
Rosech…was bleeding. Seve’s sword kept digging for his heart. Admiral Rosech stumbled, and Seve drove the point of his blade into Rosech’s skull, hammering it until Rosech’s vision went blurry.
Immortal. Fearless. The light of a Shield Kingdom in his gaze.
I do not want your destiny for my son.
Admiral Rosech straightened as a bolt of lightning came down and sent the Goblin Lord sprawling for a second. Light illuminated Seve-Alrelious’ face, his wounds regrowing, flesh unnaturally vibrant, sword swinging down like the executioner’s axe.
It bit into Rosech’s neck, and the enchanted blade snapped and stayed there, embedded in the [Admiral]’s bone.
Rosech beheaded Seve-Alrelious.
A look of surprise crossed Seve’s face as the Courier’s body staggered. Yet it still remained upright. His head landed on the deck as blood poured from the stump of his neck, and for a second—his insanity, the madness of Tombhome ceased.
Seve spoke, though he had no lungs or throat. A voice that echoed suddenly, in quietus.
“Alas.”
Rosech stared down at the head as the body slowly collapsed. Then—began to mutate. Something began to crawl towards him, and those of the mortal world started to attack it, Golaen, Erribathe, [Pirates]—
But Seve’s head just watched the [Admiral] step away. Seve’s tattoos flared—and Erek appeared on his hands and knees.
Rainwater drenched the Orangutan’s fur, and he caught a cat who landed on the deck. A Nelgaunt screamed as it appeared in the ocean.
Real bodies.
Erek looked around and saw Rosech. He reached out, but Seve whispered.
“Don’t, Erek. I’m sorry.”
The [Admiral] was wandering away. A vacant look in his eyes. Erek stopped and looked down. The Hundredfriends Courier whispered.
“Now, no one will stop the flesh of A’ctelios Salash. My home is beset by madness.”
Then he closed his eyes, and Erek picked up his friend’s head and howled.
The Hundredfriends Courier was dead.
 
——
 
Admiral Rosech saw the [Prince] finally reach Rabbiteater. The [Princess] tore free of the chokehold Aradien had on her, and the [Prince] kicked her away as she tried to grab his legs.
“No more. Your corruption is the doom of Terandria.”
He laid it all at the Goblin’s feet as Rabbiteater’s steel helm rose silently, paralyzed, limbs jerking as he tried to raise a sword. Iradoren lifted his sword high and stopped.
The [Prince of Men] looked surprised. His ancient mail armor, the Kingdom of Myth’s heraldry, was gleaming even in the fading red rain.
His blood was redder still. A blossom of crimson, running from the tip of the kitchen knife sticking out of his chest.
Pelt’s knife snapped as Erin Solstice twisted the blade. Rabbiteater looked up at Iradoren as the [Prince] staggered—and Erin tore the blade sideways through his chest.
The handle and the broken fragment of metal were still in her hand as Iradoren’s wife, Aradien, looked at the [Prince] of Erribathe.
“Iradoren?”
He crumpled without a word, head twisted to look back at the [Innkeeper], utter confusion in his eyes. His hand touched his chest, mystified to find the gash through his body.
“Rabbiteater. Are you alright?”
The [Innkeeper] ignored Aradien’s cry. She did not hear the lamentations of Erribathe’s folk or care that they saw her. She took a step, and the [Princess] of Calanfer flinched.
Soot was baked into Erin’s skin and faded Goblin paint smeared on her soaked face. Blood was running down one cheek and covered her hand holding the knife. Erin was panting for air, but her other hand gently reached out.
Rabbiteater felt the magic around him dying as a half-Elf sank to her knees and screamed. He took that hand, and it was real and pulled him up.
“Why?”
He knew the answer, but she beamed at him as if it were a silly, funny, slightly stupid question. A smile full of loss and madness and regrets—but not for him.
“There you are.”
Behind her, the [Prince] fell, and she didn’t even know his name. The [Innkeeper] didn’t look at him. She just held Rabbiteater’s arm—then slowly hugged him.
He didn’t feel it. His armor was battered, and he was bleeding, and the world was ending—he was just shocked and horrified.
What had she done?
Then—he looked down at her and felt his armor vanish. Then the Goblin was in the [Innkeeper]’s inn, and she was looking up at him, and he felt safe again.
“But why?”
The violence was continuing around them. Erribathe was fleeing, broken by the sight of Iradoren’s death. Now, the [Innkeeper]’s people were sweeping forwards, and the Calanferians, Golaen, the [Pirates], had no more will to fight them.
Not the ones who walked forwards without fear of dying, nor the Goblin Lord. Greydath of Blades had not halted with Rosech’s crew or the [Slavers] of Roshal.
He killed a fourth Djinni in a flash of light, headless bodies of [Assassins] falling to the decks, and hundreds of dead [Pirates] in his wake. A humming Goblin. When he leapt, a warrior of Golaen looked up, and the Goblin swung a sword straight down. Then he straightened and found his next quarry.
A gigantic man was running behind his [Soldiers], and Greydath’s smile took in another foe from an old nation.
Titanguard Etrogaer was burned, face a mess, and his will broke before the Goblin Lord’s delighted smile. Greydath hopped forwards, sword poking out like a child with a stick—
Rabbiteater’s fist met Greydath’s face, and the [Champion] punched the Goblin Lord into the deck. He owed Greydath that.
