Iradoren ignored the worried voices. He only had eyes for the [Knight] in front of him.
“Focus the scrying spells on me. All of them. Now.”
The [Prince]’s face was set. His eyes burned bright, like an adventurer Rabbiteater had once met, torch in hand, sword raised to rid the world of monsters. The [Knight] wondered what there was left to make Iradoren look this way. There was no point to killing anymore. Just surviving.
Then he saw the sword come up and swing across his vision. The Goblin blinked at it.
“Uh?”
He didn’t understand, at first. He was so focused on the fighting, looking for her, that he only saw the sword swinging and realized who it was aimed at—
“No!”
Seraphel screamed. She jumped forwards, trying to shield Rabbiteater, and a sword struck down Iradoren’s blade.
Cortese jerked as Iradoren’s blade was flung wide. Menrise’s helmeted head turned away from Tourvecall’s end.
Prince Iradoren stumbled and for a second looked like a fool. As one did when something they couldn’t predict happened, when he was sure the world would be one way, then it was not.
He caught himself, and his [Soldiers] raised their blades as Ser Thilowen, head of the Thronebearers on Throne’s Will, lowered his sword.
Seraphel caught herself and looked at the [Knight]. Ser Thilowen’s voice rose as the gaunt, pedantic man shouted, and the Thronebearers around him jerked and stared at Erribathe’s warriors.
“[I Sense Treachery]. Defend Her Highness! To arms! To arms!”
“Seraphel! Back away from that thing.”
Iradoren lifted his sword up with two hands, snarling, and the [Princess]’ hand found Rabbiteater’s and pulled at him. He looked down at her, up at the sword, and exhaled.
“Oh. Really? Right now?”
“Prince Iradoren. What are—”
Cortese’s sword cut an arrow and bow a half-Elf raised before the [Marksman] could loose. A [Knight] aimed a sword at Rabbiteater, and a glowing ball of light sent the figure flying backwards, chestplate dented.
Menrise. Cortese. Iradoren looked at them with contempt, for they knew not what he did. But Seraphel? His eyes locked onto hers and widened in recognition, then disbelief, then outrage.
Then?
He forgave her. The [Prince of Men] pointed at Rabbiteater as the Terandrian ships storming towards them faltered incredulously, and the eyes of the world began to focus on the three—no, four ships locked together. The Naga’s Den latched onto the trio joined to the death.
The [Admiral] was right there, but Rabbiteater tore his eyes away from Rosech and looked grudgingly into those familiar eyes.
“Make sure its face is visible. Do not harm my royal sister. Kill it.”
Rabbiteater felt the [Princess] pulling him back. Thronebearers charged into the Kingdom of Myth’s soldiers, and Iradoren strode towards him. Even now—even now.
The Goblin had never understood those eyes.
There they were, three ships locked together, Throne’s Will, Legend’s Wake, Unsettled King—the Bloodtear Pirates and Admiral Rosech virtually on top of them, and suddenly, Rabbiteater was raising his axe and trying to block the Sword of Humanity as it swung towards him.
His golden axe, edged with jade, a weapon from the dungeon of Liscor, his brother’s blade—
The sword bit into the jade edge, and the axe’s magic dulled. Rabbiteater was too shocked to feel the loss as he pivoted, and the sword glanced away from his helmet.
“What are you doing?”
The Goblin did not roar or scream. Prince Iradoren surged forwards, sword in both hands, chopping down across the deck, and the Hobgoblin backed away. Again, he tried to parry the relic-blade, and his axe lost another fragment of metal. What saved him was the fact he neither charged nor fled; he just pivoted, and the surprised [Prince] swung his sword up, point-first, and the [Knight] stared at him.
Scrying spells showed the confusing battle to an audience. A [Knight], one hand held up, reaching for a shield, backing away from the enraged [Prince of Men].
“Iradoren. Are you serious?”
“Monster. Hold him still, Aradien.”
Iradoren’s consort lifted a wand, her other hand holding an elegant blade, and pointed.
“[Soften Ground]. [Wood to Stone].”
Rabbiteater jumped as his boots began to sink into the deck—a moment later, the melting wood froze and turned to stone. Iradoren slashed for his chest, trying to bisect the Hobgoblin.
He missed as Rabbiteater hopped again, and the [Prince]’s sword sheared through a glowing fragment of magic.
[Bound Spell: Steps of Light]. Rabbiteater backed up, looking around for somewhere to flee. An arrow pierced his Cloak of Plenty and struck him in the back.
“Ow.”
He twisted as more [Archers] of Erribathe fired, and he hit the deck hard. The [Prince]’s bodyguard rushed towards the fallen [Knight], but Cortese shouted, his voice tearing with fury.
“[Challenge!]. Face me! Iradoren, Kaaz will never allow—”
He shouted as a trio of bodyguards swerved towards him, but the [Prince of Men]’s gaze silenced the Hundredlord.
“I do this for Terandria itself. [My Will is Yours]—out of my way!”
Thronebearers and Ser Thilowen were trying to push the [Soldiers] back, but they moved aside instantly, and the [Prince] strode past them. Rabbiteater got to his feet and saw Iradoren and his wife coming straight at him.
Rabbiteater wasn’t even sure Aradien was a [Princess]. No one had ever really called her that.
Everything Iradoren was made Rabbiteater mad. But—the Goblin was walking backwards, using the railings of the ship to screen his left side, ducking back, retreating from the [Prince]. His shield came up and blocked a spell that made his feet skid back.
“I don’t want to do this. I never attacked you.”
“Do you think I am blind?”
There was no stopping the [Prince]. Those eyes were burning with a hatred—Rabbiteater feinted backwards, then rushed forward, axe swinging down.
[Grand Slash]! The [Prince] pivoted, deflected the Skill, and kicked.
—Rabbiteater landed ten feet away. His chestplate was dented. It hadn’t even been a good kick.
Either the [Prince] was stronger than Etrogaer or…he had been born to kill all his kingdom’s enemies. Rabbiteater rose shakily and saw Iradoren coming at him. And he still didn’t have the strength he needed.
I don’t want to kill him. But—Rabbiteater tried to block the sword, and it sheared through his shield, cut down his arm, and he screamed.
The agony. He had never felt a sword cut that hurt that badly! The Sword of Humanity felt like a living brand on his flesh, and it pulsed agony. Rabbiteater jerked, and Iradoren pointed the sword down to spear him to the ground.
Seraphel slapped Iradoren.
Her [Ghost’s Hand] passed straight through his protective spells, and his head cracked around. Aradien cried out, swinging her sword’s flat edge towards Seraphel.
“[Royal Rebuke]!”
It kicked the half-Elven woman like a mule to the chest, and she doubled over. Seraphel tried to shove Iradoren off his feet. He caught one arm, tossed the [Princess] across the deck, and stared at Rabbiteater.
“Look how you corrupt them.”
“Corrupt them? What am I, poisonous? You—aren’t going to stop, are you?”
Menrise was throwing spells as she backed up—a [Warrior] of Erribathe threw a javelin, and it struck her across the helmet. She fell back, and Rabbiteater looked at Iradoren.
“You’re going to kill them. Stop.”
The [Prince] just charged, boots clinging to the deck, sword raised. Rabbiteater exhaled, and a wave of flames burst from his visor.
The [Boon of the Guest] vanished—but his last breath of Dragonfire roared across the deck, and the mortals flinched and screamed. The [Prince of Men] saw the flames, pointed at them as he tore a hand from his sword, and spoke.
“[Returned Against the Foe].”
The flames reversed. Rabbiteater rolled, crunching his shoulder across the deck, and his armor was hot and flames clung to it as he got up. Then he lifted his axe, and Iradoren’s blade severed it.
The beautiful artifact that Headscratcher and his brothers had nearly died for fell, broken, and the [Prince of Men] raised his sword he had been born to wield. They weren’t matched at all.
“[Split the Earth].”
“[Giant’s Parr—]”
This time, Rabbiteater didn’t get to fly. A shockwave just drove him across the deck, trying to crush his flesh and armor, throwing him and everyone behind him around like ragdolls. Rabbiteater heaved with all the strength of a [Champion] and finally deflected the shockwave.
Then he lay there, arms shaking. Axe and shield gone. When his head rose—the [Prince] was coming.
It would be so easy to lie there. Easy to give in and let it happen. But she was almost here. And…he couldn’t stop seeing it, even now, with the wrath of Erribathe upon him.
The light was so bright. 
The storm overhead was red and grim, dark winter skies and oppressive, crimson rain, the waves reflecting the flashes of magic like distorted flashes of violence.
Yet Rabbiteater did see brilliance. It was coming from the side. From him as well, and it seemed to pulse brighter in response to the [Prince]’s presence.
Rabbiteater stood, feeling as if two clawed hands were pulling him up from afar, and he saw their owners.
Three of them.
Goblins.
They were making towards him, battling [Pirates]—even a damn Djinni flying overhead. Just three Goblins, all of them Hobs.
One leapt, sword in hand, with a grey beard, a faded, gigantic sun long set. Hiding.
Greydath. It shocked Rabbiteater to see the Goblin Lord and realize he had always looked like that. Maybe Rabbiteater had never noticed, but it was so obvious.
He had a beautiful light. He was a story Rabbiteater didn’t know—but for all his radiance, he seemed lesser compared to the other two.
Ulvama and Badarrow were bright. Brighter than any [Chieftain] that Rabbiteater had ever met. It was more than just light; it was a desire to follow and listen to them. Ulvama looked like a door that linked him back to a great gathering of every Goblin that had ever been, wise, petty, but brave.
And Badarrow? He was a bow, a nocked arrow, eyes on his brother. A line of concentration, two narrowed crimson eyes. Still not ready yet—but someday, he would draw back on a bow, any bow, and hit any target he desired.
It was their potential he saw. Potential, and what they might give the world if only—
“Rabbiteater!”
Cortese’s howl made Rabbiteater realize he’d just been staring at the other Goblins. He turned, saw Iradoren swing, and backstepped.
[Long Backstep]. He was running out of Skills. By contrast, the [Prince] just halted his swing, pointed his sword, and leaves fluttered down around him. Beautiful maple ones from a tree Rabbiteater saw—before they became flying projectiles that cut across the deck.
It’s just not fair. Rabbiteater understood the [Pirates]. Here was a [Prince], and the Goblin was supposed to fight that? He raised one arm to block, and one of the ‘leaves’ passed straight through half his arm.
Rabbiteater stared at the hole in his arm, a slice that went through bone and flesh. He threw himself left, but the leaves kept flying.
I can’t do this.
He faltered, boots slipping on the deck, and someone caught him. A hand steadied Rabbiteater’s back; he looked back, and there they were.
A pair of grinning Goblins.
—They were hundreds of feet away, on Rosech’s ship, but they were also, simultaneously, right there. Ulvama and Badarrow’s eyes were locked on Rabbiteater, and…what did they see?
Greydath’s gaze was on the [Knight] as he straightened. A hidden face turned, and the presence any Goblin would feel and be drawn to grew stronger. Was it an aura? Not exactly. It was like a vivid soul shining past all the flesh and armor.
The [Knight] turned and didn’t dodge as the leaves cut through the air towards him. The [Shaman]’s eyes glowed as she threw out a clawed hand—
Glowing fishes swam out of the air and drove towards the leaves, intercepting each one in flashes of magic. Iradoren snarled at the ridiculous display. He was sick of chasing Rabbiteater, so the [Prince] pointed, and one of his [Marksmen] lifted a bow. They loosed—Badarrow’s arrow hit their bow before their fingers had fully let go of their arrow.
[Sniper]. The arrow meant for Rabbiteater’s heart went wide, and one of Iradoren’s followers lifted a javelin to throw. They hurled it, and Ulvama crooked a claw. Flowers burst over the javelin, and it fell. Another [Archer]’s arrow exploded in midair as Badarrow’s arrow hit it mid-flight. Not even Badarrow knew how he’d made that shot. Only that he had to, so he had.
Goblins. 
Rabbiteater saw Iradoren hesitate one moment, then come across the decks at him. But this time uncertainly.
Perhaps he felt it too. Rabbiteater was tapping into something in his chest. His own resplendent well of something, and it was not magic or the precision of bows, nor even the mastery of swords he called upon.
It was something else. He had no sword—so he looked around, and Princess Seraphel held out her hand.
“Sword!”
She was dozens of feet away from Rabbiteater, and one of the Thronebearers didn’t hesitate. They slapped a hilt into her grip, and the 4th Princess tossed the blade through the air.
She was lucky—the Hobgoblin saw it flying at him, ran, jumped to catch the blade—and when he landed and his sword met the Blade of Humanity, he lost a chunk of it. But he was still fighting, backing away from the [Prince] of Men—
 
——
 
There was something wrong with him.
“To the aid of Prince Iradoren!”
Golaen had joined the fighting, or begun to. But Titanguard Etrogaer hesitated as he strode towards Rabbiteater and Prince Iradoren, a maul in his hands.
He was of Golaen, ally to the Kingdom of Myths, one of the Restful Three, and yet he didn’t know why Iradoren was attacking Calanfer and Ser Solstice.
Etrogaer felt, instinctively, the need to aid Iradoren, but the two were fighting so swiftly, Rabbiteater dodging back, trying to evade the [Prince]’s slashes that he couldn’t block, that Etrogaer had to judge his attack.
“Etrogaer! To me! Unmask this enemy of humanity!”
Iradoren called out, and Etrogaer saw the helm swing towards him. He did not know what lay behind Rabbiteater’s helm, but Ser Solstice halted as Etrogaer lifted his maul with uncertainty.
“I’m not your enemy. Look.”
His hand pointed, and Etrogaer saw the Bloodtear Pirates. The [Champion] edged backwards from Iradoren as the [Prince] raged.
“Titanguard. Kill him.”
And Etrogaer took a step forwards. Rabbiteater’s hand rose, and he said:
“No.”
Two wills clashed around Etrogaer. The Titanguard’s unthinking obedience halted, and he drew back. Blinking. Staring at—
