Acid. The [Hero] reached for a potion, desperately tearing it from his belt, skin melting away to expose red flesh as a scream tore from his lips—but he was alive. He raised the potion, and Erin Solstice fired a [Shatterbolt] spell through his open mouth.
Vincent dropped as she turned, and Richard stared as his friend fell over. Emily screamed, and he stared at that familiar woman.
“Erin?”
Her eyes turned to him, and he rasped.
“We’re from Earth. We’re [Heroes]. What are you doing?”
A moment of puzzlement as she heard him. The two stared at each other, the [Knight] and [Hero] and the [Innkeeper]. Vincent didn’t move as acid and flesh ran onto the deck. Emily was pointing her wand at something. Richard saw the [Innkeeper]’s eyes rise and saw Emily was trying to finish off the Hobgoblin, who was trying to pick up his bow.
Erin threw the knife she’d picked up, and Richard leapt for it. It spun past his fingertips, and he heard a soft thunk.
“Emily?”
He landed. Looked up—saw the [Hydromancer] grasping at a red blade that had gone straight through the robes Hayvon had gifted her that were supposed to be as good as armor. Erin Solstice strode across the deck towards the figure who swayed there, legs failing her.
Erin plucked the knife from Emily’s chest and pushed—
Round eyes. A hand reaching for him. Hair flying. Then Emily vanished over the railing into the waves.
Then it was just him, and Rhir’s [Soldiers] were pulling back, screaming at him one of their ships was gone, and the Blighted Kingdom was launching more spells. He lifted a shaking sword, and she pointed that dagger at him, and he fled.
 
——
 
“Ceria’s gone. She might be alive.”
Pisces was spitting blood after Rhir fell back. He stared into the waters, but if the half-Elf was alive…
“Who were they?”
Ksmvr was being bandaged up by Vofea. Colth threw a potion he’d looted off one of the dead Rhirians.
“The Blighted Kingdom’s [Soldiers]. That lot fought like adventurers. Lots of Skills—less experience.”
“They were from Earth. Let’s go.”
Erin looked once after the ship, and Tulm the Mithril’s ship locked against more Terandrians as Greydath pulled himself up from the side of The Naga’s Den, panting. She pointed ahead, and now they could see their quarry.
Terandrian ships making for Wistram, yet in the distance. One of them was the Throne’s Will, but it was being pursued by the last of the Bloodtear Pirates. Behind them, Earl Altestiel was salvaging the fleet, and Admiral Maxy, the Iron Vanguard, and everyone else were fighting, dying—and it didn’t matter.
Admiral Rosech and the Unsettled King lay ahead. Erin counted the survivors. More Lucifen were dead.
“Can you stop them?”
She looked at Greydath, and he counted, shrugging.
“Seven ships. I will try. I can’t kill all of them.”
“Then let’s g—”
The air turned dark. Erin looked up and sighed as the sky, which had been clearing of the magical hurricane, turned black again. A hand made out of ashy lines in the air twisted downwards, and Colth spoke as it reached down and made the mast…vanish.
“The Naga wants you dead.”
Greydath swung his sword and cut a dozen lines, but more kept forming. Pisces grabbed Erin—then the ship rocked, and a flash of light sent him tumbling…
 
——
 
The Masters of Roshal had seen enough.
The Blighted Kingdom and the other nations had seen enough. Not all of them had the will or the magic.
Two at least did. They activated spells to kill the [Innkeeper]. Kill Greydath. Kill Colthei. Kill them all and damn the consequences and cut their losses.
Yazdil could not have her; thus, the Naga would see her dead. The first spells began to destroy the ship—until a shrieking Centenium threw itself between the [Hand of Quiet Closure] and fell, writhing, into the sea.
It was always something or someone between her. The Goblin Lord was powerful. It didn’t matter.
“Unleash a Tier 7 spell this time.”
The Naga whispered as he sat in his tower, waiting for her to die. The Blighted Kingdom was taking aim as well.
Then.
The King of Khelt opened one of his two scrolls in Khelt’s vaults and rained down armageddon from the age of Khelta the First upon Lailight Scintillation and the capital city of the Blighted Kingdom, Paranfer.
It silenced the spell being unrolled in the ritual grounds in the midst of Lailight Scintillation’s harbors. The streets of [Slavers] and [Slaves], of innocent folk and Roshal’s monsters, looked up, and the winds that had rolled across the harbor from the deep sea and the distant magical hurricane became silent.
The sky lightened despite the dark night—but not the light of dawn.
The blue sky hidden behind dark clouds like ash, tinged red by the blood and destruction and Third Tide in the far horizon, turned grey. A weary grey of age and dust—and it was dust which filled the air.
It fell, motes of it, then columns, then pillars from the sky as magical sirens wailed and Djinni took to the air. Yet there was nothing to fight. They looked up and whispered her name—and fled as a breath of air and magic from the Necromancer of Khelt herself, the first Queen, and her last spell activated in the air.
Dust.
The Naga saw it pour down and cover the harbor as his claws shook. He heard the other Masters of Roshal cry out—heard the wailing sirens grow silent—and cowered behind his protections of magic and glass and metal.
Dust fell and fell—then a wind blew. It was as if a somber-eyed woman, with gold painted across her tanned skin and her glittering eyes, bent over Lailight Scintillation for a moment and the dust were stirred by a single breath.
Dust and death fell over Djinni. And buildings. And folk alike, and they froze—and fell.
Then Khelta’s magic blew, and they vanished.
People.
Streets.
Buildings.
Such that only the greatest edifices and protections remained. When the Naga, shaking, looked out again, the harbor was gone. The colors faded and ashy. The Bazaar of Fables, Lailight Scintillation, the great port of Roshal in ruins.
The King of Khelt sat down and mourned nothing.
Everything.
 
——
 
They were all going away, and her only hope was that somehow, in some way, she’d see them again.
She could not cry. There was a hole in her heart, and there wasn’t even sadness there. The Lucifen’s pact had not done that to her.
The hole had been there before the Solstice even began. Had she even wept for her friends?
She wasn’t sad. It was there somewhere. Erin hoped it was. Or she would stop, after this was all over, and throw herself into the sea. She never wanted to feel like this again.
Empty.
The only thing that kept her moving was the one last task before her.
Just one.
She wished they had never cared about her. She wished death were a lie.
“I’m tired.”
The skies were glowing, and Erin Solstice reached up for them.
“That’s right. I’m right here. It was my fault.”
She saw an eye open in the sky, as if they had shown themselves. The people watching and judging her.
A spark travelled down towards her and picked her up, and Erin landed after a while. She crawled forwards, and someone reached down. She smiled vacantly at a Hobgoblin with braided hair, holding a glowing staff into the sky. A little Antinium Worker picked her up, and red blood was running down the side of her head.
Then Erin was dreaming. She dreamed a weeping man with horns lifted his hands full of ashes. A flying woman was setting fire to everything she saw, and a snarling little lamb with a soul as fierce as anyone else’s was the only one of them who did not grow sick of the bodies falling into the water.
She stumbled, and a man filled with ghosts caught her, and she saw him smile. Erin grabbed something…a wheel of spokes, and looked around.
The world was roaring, and though her eyes were open, she stopped seeing for a while—but she knew where she was going.
The horned man held a piece of her heart in his hands and sank to one knee. He said this as a handful of men and women like him looked at her.
“The cost is too high. Please.”
Erin Solstice met Viscount Visophecin’s eyes and smiled. The smile every devil who made pacts with mortals would, someday, inevitably see.
“Not for me.”
His head bowed, and he gave something back to her.
A pact forged in the fires of Hellste broke, and the Devils bowed their heads and turned away. They left the ship, fleeing, and the last of them held something out to the [Innkeeper] who cost too much.
Erin took a piece of herself back and saw Visophecin leave. It did not mend her. She placed that piece of her own being back inside herself, and there was a crack, a scar—and a connection between them.
A memory. The Lucifen turned and fled.
Then it was just her and all the pieces of her. A pointing finger and the young man who had always been better than he pretended to be.
The brother who had never spoken as much as the others, looking at her and nodding. A little sheep who looked at her with the first bit of respect anyone taller than the sheep had ever earned.
The smile of an ape from her species’ distant past, closer to a person than half her kind. A warrior with the heart of a Demon, raising his sword to the glowing skies…
Erin stumbled, and her dream changed. She forgot where she was. Suddenly, she was back home.
On Earth.
In some great city, alone. Her parents weren’t there. She didn’t know where she was, only that the street had passing cars and buses, stopwalks filled with people walking swiftly to and fro—so many that she was lost.
And short. Erin stood on her tiptoes, and people bumped into her, afraid—a girl again, not wanting to cause a fuss.
—She was looking for someone. Someone very important to her. The most important? She didn’t think of it like that, only that she had to find him.
“Rabbiteater? Rabbiteater?”
He was ahead of her, but the people were in her way. Erin hesitated—then someone shoved her ungently. A scowling man with torn, burnt clothing and a wild-eyed stare.
She stumbled and shrank away, then saw him vanishing. So the young woman tried to move faster and pushed the other man aside.
But Lord Firrus Kallinad shoved her, and Erin faltered as bodies pressed around her. She saw a desperate father, Admiral Rosech, reaching for someone. A haughty [Prince] whose eyes were locked on the distant horizon.
Behind her, a half-Elf stepping slowly around a kneeling Dullahan, eyes locked on Erin—and the young woman didn’t care. She got up and began to run.
They jostled her. A distant, terrified old man, ancient of centuries, pointing at her and trying to force her to stop. A Fraerling as tall as cities trying to hold her back.
She ran into Firrus again and tried to elbow him away. He refused to move, and he was pushing with every scrap of his strength. So she drew upon her entire being and shoved.
Stumbling, he vanished into the crowd. Then she was almost upon that father with desperate eyes, and when they looked at each other, they thought they understood each other—but each they wanted things that the other could never have.
Rosech and Erin shoved each other down the crowded street. She put an arm out and held him back. Knocked another giant of a man, Etrogaer, sprawling.
“Rabbiteater!”
Only him. She saw him wearily walking forwards, hand raised as if to shelter three of his friends from the rain. Then his head turned, and she reached out for him.
There you are. She almost touched him, but Rosech grabbed her hand. They looked at each other as Iradoren stopped Rabbiteater and met each other’s eyes. So Erin sighed as the others came up behind.
 
——
 
The Bastion of Contempt was listing. Rabbiteater saw the ship tilting, trying to recover its momentum. He looked back again, and the Bloodtear Pirates had stopped.
Prince Iradoren’s ship, Legend’s Wake, and Throne’s Will were at the heart of the Terandrian fleet, and the 1st Admiral of the Bloodtear Pirates had driven towards them like a promise in scarlet.
His ship had locked with Iradoren’s vessel, and [Pirates] were attacking the Thronebearers. The [Prince of Men] himself was striding over the deck, his bodyguard pointing towards Seraphel, Cortese, Menrise, and Rabbiteater.
It was the end. Lady Menrise was screaming as Seraphel held her back.
“Ficombe! Ostevar! Run—”
There was only one ship from the Kingdom of Incantations. All of Tourvecall’s magic and nobility, save for one, on a vessel aglow with magic. The Goblin looked up as [Pirates] wearing crimson armbands crossed the decks.
[Lords] and [Ladies] with hidden faces gently tugged their helmets and disguises off. One raised a hand towards Menrise, and their vessel ignited with magic even Rabbiteater could see.
It bloomed like a terrible flower in the night, and Menrise fell like someone had cut her strings.
There was no more sense to it. Dullahans, Humans, everyone was dying. Rabbiteater’s eyes were on that [Admiral] coming towards him. Then—he sensed a second pair of eyes on him and him alone.
“Your Highness.”
Prince Iradoren stopped, ash and blood marring his complexion. His half-Elven wife, whose name Rabbiteater had never learned, who had never spoken in his hearing, lifted a sword and her veil.
Erribathe’s champions spread out as Ser Thilowen bowed. The Thronebearers surrounded the four wards.
“Prince Iradoren. We will put our lives between yours and Her Highness’. It is our honor to stand with Erribathe at the end. The [Admiral] of Bloodtear shall stop here.”
Ser Thilowen bowed, and when he heard no response, his eyes flicked up towards Iradoren. The [Prince of Men] said nothing. He was just regarding Rabbiteater, his eyes searching the weary [Knight] up and down.
Blood had marred the armor of a [Champion]. There was no brilliant victory that Rabbiteater had won. He had just survived, and his shield still rose, covering the only people he could protect within arm’s reach.
The Hobgoblin was looking back at the [Admiral] making towards them. Another ship had reached his, and his advance had slowed.
She was right there. He began to walk forwards.
“Seraphel, Cortese, Menrise. Stay there.”
The Ivory Three turned to him and tried to stop him, and if Altestiel were here, Rabbiteater knew he’d understand why. The Goblin shook off an arm. He only stopped when a blade cut into his armor.
Prince Iradoren’s sword, the Blade of Humanity, cut into Rabbiteater’s armor as if it were not there and drew blood. The [Knight] pointed.
“My [Innkeeper]’s right there. Don’t stop me.”
“Magus Letfies. Are the [Scrying] spells focused on my position?”
“The—not all of them, Your Highness. Sire, please reconsider. The Bloodtear Admiral is almost upon us, and the Goblin Lord is closing! Golaen will be here in minutes, and the Earl of Rains and the battle with Tulm the Mithril—there’s a ship of Roshal behind—”
