Do you see it? They could have done something, but they reserved this only for their enemies. 
The Blighted Kingdom had judged Erin Solstice their enemy. Look at her.
—She glanced up, hair whipping in the storm, her flames extinguished, the ruin behind her, and her eyes met the half-Elf’s a second. The Death of Magic saw the young woman’s friends around her, not even paying attention to the Islandbreaker, the Death of Magic, the Traitor of Elves—eyes focused on Erin.
It reminded Silvenia of who she’d been. And why she had come. She gazed down and wondered how this story might change the world.
So she swore it would not end, and she lifted her arms and held up that falling sky. Below her, a Goblin was shouting at the [Innkeeper].
“Erin! It’s—”
Ulvama was shielding her face as flames whipped around her. Greydath raised one arm and stared at the golden light that illuminated his skin. He vanished as a pinpoint of light flickered down, and he tried to cut—
The wind was hurling Ulvama into the air. Erin reached for her—grabbed her hand—and the [Shaman] tried to hold on.
The Death of Magic brought down a mountain of stone, hurling it into the pillar of flames—whirled—arrows were striking down by the thousands, each one exploding into an orb of blackness that weighed down the ship.
The colors of the world inverted, and Erin found herself in an alternate dimension that began to fracture apart. The Hobgoblin’s hand tore from her grip, and the [Shaman] vanished, flickering into the sea, still reaching for her as a vortex opened.
“Innkeeper! You cannot die here. The world needs no more Deaths.”
Then it was the Death of Magic diving towards her, hands aglow with power. Silvenia twisted and gazed up—
A bolt of black lightning, corruption incarnate, the doom of Pomle, flashed down, and she caught it. Erin saw someone crawling towards her and took one step—
Her body turned to salt—Silvenia undid the curse, and parts of the ship cracked away. Erin saw Nerry look at her and gazed upwards.
“Oh.”
A shadow over the sea. They did let the sky fall, then. A cloud overhead slowly fell, no longer vapor, but lead raining down, and the little lamb gazed up at Erin curiously as Erin picked her up and hugged her. Then the [Innkeeper] turned to the sky.
“I have run out of regrets. The world will give before I do.”
Erin took a shuddering breath, and the ship tilted—the sea fountained upwards, and she was flying, and gravity was screaming with the rest of reality breaking at the seams.
The [Innkeeper] felt Nerry vanish, and she was flying, falling—and destruction was one single sound louder than anything else. A roar of blackness. A shadow engulfing everything.
—A falling [Mage], her finger pointing down at Erin, a final spell on her lips.
“[Fantastic Polymorph—]”
Then Erin Solstice vanished.
 
——
 
The world kept rocking for almost an hour after the Unsettled King was destroyed utterly. The magic still tore entire seas apart, shockwaves sending waves crashing down on every coast, even spawning lesser magical storms as a result.
The Blighted Kingdom unleashed no more magic after that. Not even upon the Death of Magic, who few thought had perished.
Of Erin Solstice? Ulvama? Greydath or anyone else?
There was no trace. The Bloodtear Pirates, what few there were left, attempted to flee to the four corners, aided by the shockwaves of magic that buried everything in chaos.
A vast storm of dust blew from Chandrar’s coast and Roshal’s harbors. The bloody rains of the Third Tide ended, but the red in the waters washed across the corpse of a vast Kraken, which bobbed to the surface until millions of birds and sea life began to feast on its remains.
Navies set forth not to do more battle, but to hunt for survivors. The ships that had survived the Terandrian Fleet’s destruction scattered, blown across the sea by the final oblivion. Around Wistram, magic itself refused to function properly, and the rest of the world was left in silence, piecing together news for a long time to come.
The Throne’s Will survived. A ship blown in the ensuing storms far, far from its harbor. A Hobgoblin lived.
A single presence was the only thing that could count the scope of what had been done fully. Not even the gods nor the fae knew what might happen next.
Fate had been stolen. Destiny usurped.
The voice spoke, briefly, and watched souls flow from the realms of the living to the new land of the dead. It counted the victories of mortals with the defeat of gods and the cost.
It spoke and spoke until even the voice of the world might go hoarse.
Then, the Grand Design of Isthekenous said one final thing:
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 55!]
[Conditions Met: Magical Innkeeper → The Wandering Innkeeper class!]
[The Wandering Innkeeper Level 55!]
[Skill – The—
[Skill – A…
[Sk—
 
Silence. The world paused, and the voice halted, stuttered.
Grew quiet.
At last, the voice spoke.
 
[Capstone Skill deferred. Other level ups deferred. Processing appropriate Skills.]
[Processing…]
 
Then, somewhere…
Erin Solstice woke up.
