The storm of the Third Tide had ended. The battle was over. The Iron Vanguard and whatever was left of the Terandrian fleet were separating. The last survivors being cut down as someone won…or lost…
If there were any winners or losers beyond death.
Erin had done it. A single Hobgoblin was sailing away, shouting her name. The Throne’s Will refused to turn back, let alone pick her up.
After all, the sky was gazing down at only one woman. Friend of a Goblin Lord. Murderer of Prince Iradoren of Erribathe.
Erin Solstice. Irrel took one look at the sky, bent to pick up Iradoren’s sword, and looked at Erin. She didn’t glance at him, and he waddle-ran over to the deck’s railing and dove into the sea, vanishing into the water he had been born to.
“You did it.”
“Run, Ulvama. Ryoka—take Nerry and fly.”
The Wind Runner looked at Erin as the [Innkeeper] calmly found the ship’s broken wheel and tried to turn it a few times. The Unsettled King was moving, more from momentum than anything else, but Erin had nowhere to go. Not Wistram. Not after Rabbiteater, so she took them away from everything.
Her hands moved the wheel, though the ship was so broken and empty that it was likely nothing she did mattered. Erin pretended, anyways, for the sake of it, turning the wheel as her eyes rose to scan the sky.
“Erin! I’ll carry—”
Ryoka was setting up her glider, but it was built for one person. She tried to grab Nerry, but the Sariant Lamb bit her.
“Fly away, Ryoka. They want me.”
Somewhere, the Blighted Kingdom had made a ruling. The Blighted King stood up from his throne and gave an order.
For the ally of Goblin Lords.
To the murderer of Rhir’s first [Heroes].
In the name of Prince Iradoren.
The Blighted Kingdom unleashed its wrath. Lesser nations hesitated and held their fire as the King of Khelt raged and warned them.
The five walls of Rhir’s Blighted Kingdom lit up, and magic poured across the world. Erin Solstice tried the wheel again and checked the sky. She swiveled the wheel as the first spell landed in the water, and the world rocked. The Wind Runner screamed as she reached out, arm shaking, eyes filled with fear.
“Erin!”
“Take Ulvama and go!”
Ryoka was slipping on the deck, and Nerry ran towards Erin as a figure hauled himself onto the deck and lay there, panting. Ryoka ran towards Ulvama, but the [Shaman] shook her head. She was standing there, and a voice rasped.
“I will try to keep her safe. That stupid flying thing can’t carry two. Get lost.”
Greydath of Blades was wounded. Arrows stood out in his skin, and it was baked black. Erin glanced down at the Goblin Lord as he sat up.
“You’re alive.”
“Good job. Now you see?”
The [Innkeeper] stared up at the sky as the Blighted Kingdom’s wrath poured down.
“I see.”
 
——
 
Erribathe, the Kingdom of Myths, was shaking with grief. The descendants of the Hundred Families of Terandria cried out in horror and loss—but the nations hesitated.
The Blighted Kingdom poured its death into the sea as a single ship sailed on alone, heedless of the warnings. The proud nations of Terandria, the Walled Cities and Five Families of Izril, the ancient kingdoms and empires of Chandrar, and mercenary companies of Baleros hesitated.
From the grim Minotaur King of the House of Minos to the Emperor of Drath—they halted and saw hellfire of Rhir raining down. But they did not join in.
King Fetohep’s second spell of cataclysm struck Paranfer, the great magics of the Blighted Kingdom and First Wall or not—and the wrath of even the Blighted Kingdom fell silent a moment.
But then the damnation continued to fall.
 
——
 
“Dead gods. Kingdoms fall. Tree…rot.”
Admiral Maxy of the 2nd Bloodtear Fleet had no curses or oaths that fit. She looked into the horizon and saw that ship sailing under a storm of magic.
Not her ship. Not her surviving six ships, the remnants of the Bloodtear Fleet.
The [Innkeeper].
Rosech was dead.
The [Prince of Men] was dead.
Xol of Ingrilt, the Spring’s Warden—
Names she well knew, including Captain Jiupe and—
They were all gone.
Admiral Maxy was alive, though. She looked around and saw the Iron Vanguard were regrouping. Pulling back. Their sudden assault on Terandria and the Bloodtear Pirates had cost them, and they had no stomach to continue. Did anyone?
A Kraken’s corpse was rising, scorched and ruined. Admiral Seagrass’ serpents were in the water; she’d seen at least one of them beheaded, blood staining the sea.
“Bloodtear’s over. I guess Bloodfeast gets to be the only one left after all. Bastards.”
Of all the things, one of her people griped about that. Shipbreaker Ereiyne was dead pale, Selphid or not, and still shaking. She’d lost her entire ship and all but two of her crew to the Goblin Lord.
Was it worth it? Even Maxy wondered as she counted faces. How many ships and [Pirates] had made it out with a new destiny or name or fate?
How many would be hunted down in the coming weeks or years?
“—We’ve left our mark upon a new era. It’ll never be the same. The New Lands, the Iron Vanguard…wars’ve begun over this, and it’ll make this battle look like drops of blood in the sand when all’s said and done.”
For some reason, the words didn’t give Admiral Maxy the satisfaction she craved. Her eyes found that doomed ship, and she scowled.
That woman had done it as much as Bloodtear. She wondered if she had the chance to ask what Erin Solstice might say.
Was it worth it? One of the [Lookouts] continued a report, voice soft, each word a quiet fact Maxy didn’t bother to check or dispute.
“—Admiral. The Throne’s Will’s got Golaen with it, and it’s almost at Wistram. Even if we were to all turn and race after it with all our Skills, I doubt we’d get her. Even if we did, we’d be within Wistram’s range, and those [Mages] would rip our ships up.”
“Fine.”
The half-Elf scowled. She let the idea of getting that [Princess] go, or Titanguard Etrogaer. She’d realized it sometime halfway through the battle.
In the frenzy and chaos of it all, it hadn’t been obvious…but the more obvious thing was the Lord of the Dance.
“Where’s Nadel?”
“—Griffindance’s got them. Doubt we can catch up.”
“Yeah, thought so.”
Maxy surveyed the only ships in range. Most were escaping, and she could run down a few, but the really valuable prizes had all but escaped her fleet.
Even from the start, though. The Throne’s Will was at the outside of the battle, and but for that crazy [Prince] and Rosech going after it, it might’ve escaped.
Her fleet had never even gotten close. Why? How?
That took some doing, but the answer was obvious in hindsight. You’d have to have a good head at strategy—to save a ship or two in all this chaos. But more than that…you’d have to be in command of the fleet.
Earl Altestiel of the Rains must’ve had a soft spot for some of them. Lord Bel made sense. Maxy grunted softly.
“Well, we took the bait. How many [Captains] we got left, including me?”
“—six, Maxy.”
Six. Ereiyne, lined up next to four other battle-worn figures, and Maxy stopped watching the disappearing prizes and focused on the only ship not fleeing for the hills.
Rainbringer, Altestiel’s flagship, wouldn’t have been able to get far even if the [Earl] wanted to run, but he’d dragged her away from the other ships.
“Looks like he’s sent everyone on board off of it.”
Lifeboats were carrying [Soldiers], civilians—one of her [Lookouts] was eying them.
“There’s a few high-level ones on board, Maxy. No nobles, but there’s even a [Strategist]. Should we pick ‘em off?”
“He’s got his whirlpool Skill, and he’s not using it. I reckon he’ll hit us with it if we go after his people. It’s just one man on that ship.”
“Is it a trap, Maxy?”
Captain Ereiyne wasn’t happy about it, but Maxy turned and spat.
“Probably is, but it’s more like a deal. Take us in. The other ships? Stay wide, near those liferafts. [Captains] boarding only.”
She waited as the rain cleared, like something out of a book. The storm was over. The Third Tide had come and passed and swept away those who owned it. She might never use that shared Skill again.
Maxy had too much integrity to ask the man leaning against one of the shattered masts of his ship whether it was worth it. He had style. He hadn’t changed clothes, but she bet he had combed that stupid hair.
And he had a sword, and the [Captains] and Maxy paused a second before they boarded his ship. [Dangersense] hummed in Maxy’s ear.
“Earl Altestiel of Rains. Battle’s over. You can make this fast or painful, but you know me. I’m a bastard of the seas, so if it goes painful, I’ll have to cut down your entire crew.”
“You’d ransom them off anyways, Admiral Maxy. How many ships are you going to sink? Are you sated?”
The half-Elf gave Altestiel a rueful salute with her sword as her hand grasped the wand hidden in her coat jacket.
“This might be my last voyage. So you’re going to make this hard, eh?”
The [Earl] looked at her briefly, then past Maxy at that lone ship still somehow surviving on the waves. As if she were an afterthought. It made her angry.
“If you give it up—”
“Let’s cut a deal, [Admiral]. I don’t intend…to lie down and die. But you will let my people go, and when you leave this ship, you will go. And I’ll have you and each [Captain] here swear an oath by your class and levels and in blood.”
The Bloodtear Admiral’s eyes bulged—then she laughed in outrage.
“Will you tender me that at the point of a sword after you beat us all?”
Five Bloodtear Captains were spreading out as Altestiel looked around. The [Earl of Rains] calmly met Maxy’s eyes, and she snarled.
“You’re not as romantic as Rosech. But you’re still Bloodtear Pirates to the last. Hear me out as one, or what was the point of it all?”
She listened, and her eyes flickered to Altestiel—then to the [Captains]—then to the lifeboats and the other ships and the wreckage of navies and everything else. Maxy thought a second, then ruefully drew a sword across her palm and let blood run onto the deck.
“I swear on my class, on my blood, my ship, the Bloodtear Pirates, and my soul itself. Honor your part of the deal and let’s finish this.”
The Earl of Rains laughed in her face a while. He brushed his hair out of his eyes as the half-Elf stared at him until he wheezed and coughed and panted for air.
“You don’t have a soul, Admiral. I’ll believe the rest. Write this down because I won’t say it twice. Then let’s finish this.”
 
——
 
Five [Pirates] returned to Longshot Gamble, not six. Admiral Maxy was limping and called for a healing potion, but the deck was silent.
Captain Ereiyne kept looking back, but even some of the [Pirates] seemed like they’d had enough. Cowards. Maxy was panting, and she rasped.
“Take us about. We’re leaving.”
Rainbringer was sinking. Maxy heard, now, more horns wailing in the distance. Terandrians. She spat blood again. They must have been watching.
“Maxy. What was that? Did we get bought off?”
Ereiyne was mad. She grabbed Maxy as the [Admiral] limped towards her cabin, and the half-Elf shook her off.
“Of course we did. He had one last piece to move. Himself. Hey. Let the survivors go! No one fires as much as a single arrow or I’ll kill them myself!”
The [Pirates] nodded, and Ereiyne pursued Maxy.
“I could’ve stolen what he gave us myself. He could have lied about the wording of that <Quest> he got from the [Innkeeper] anyways. Even if it is a magical keep—”
“Ereiyne. Shut up.”
Maxy spun and grabbed the Selphid’s jaw hard. Maxy was tired.
Altestiel was dead. He’d sold his life and the location of a treasure—and the life of a Bloodtear Captain, and the Selphid didn’t get it.
Even Maxy understood. She hissed it slowly.
“You idiot. He sold me more’n just a keep. He sold a story. A stupid love story, a sacrifice—”
Her eyes scanned the waters, the people she’d agreed to let go free, the ships and the ruins of Terandria’s ambitions. Maxy turned away.
“You were never a good Bloodtear Pirate. Neither was I. Both of us are good at piracy—but leave it be. One last story for the Bloodtear Pirates.”
She opened the door to her cabin, looked back out across the empty waters, and spoke to them all.
“Farewell.”
 
——
 
Then a silence fell. Not the calm before the storm, the calm after the storm.
Ships sailed away, passing through bodies and the broken dreams of kingdoms. The air was filled with wailing horns, and the horizon was lightening, but it was another bloody dawn.
There was only one last place where the sky kept falling. A figure burst out of the clouds and saw the Unsettled King.
It was rocking, pieces falling from the ship, as the Blighted Kingdom unleashed all its wrath on the vessel. A single figure fled the ship, screaming.
“Erin! Erin!”
Ryoka Griffin was flying, holes burned in her glider, but the wind itself was forcing her away, a typhoon blasting down, razor shards of magic piercing the deck—
A Hobgoblin [Shaman].
Greydath of Blades.
A Sariant Lamb.
And Erin Solstice. She was steering her ship ahead, but it was futile. The sea around her was churning, and a wave rose, hundreds of feet tall, and began to break over the ship.
The Blighted Kingdom wanted her dead. Therefore, Silvenia, the Death of Magic, wanted her to live.
She was too late.
“Too late.”
The Death of Magic’s voice rasped. Her magically repaired flesh hurt. She was weary from battle and a long journey through the turbulent sea. They had hunted her across the ocean, and it had taken her every second since Colth’s message had reached her to get here.
Czautha and Serinpotva did not follow. Only she had come. Why?
For the lark of it? No.
For Colth alone? No, not even for her broken and brave agent.
To thumb her nose at the Blighted Kingdom? To protect a Goblin Lord, an enemy of her enemies?
None of these were good enough reasons. Not for this. The destruction just got worse as she descended and they saw her.
She made the world worse, for all of her magic and might. The Death of Magic was woe, no shining star for the world to follow. Silvenia had become the consequences of ill deeds and lies and a war that had taken too much with no meaning.
Just like the young woman she was streaking downwards towards.
That was why Silvenia flew. She was dodging more magic, and she split the tidal wave with a sword as thin as a ray of light—erased a wave of magic overhead with a flick of her hand, like a [Magician]. The torrent of hatred kept coming.
“I cannot perform miracles, Colth!”
Was he even alive? Down the Death of Magic dove. Now, she saw a pillar of fire touch down on the water, pulling everything around it up into an inferno that could have destroyed so many Bloodtear Pirates.
