The kick to the Goblin Lord’s groin was extra. Greydath was on his feet so fast Rabbiteater felt a hand on his helmet and a blade halfway through his chestplate before the Goblin Lord recognized him and stopped.
“What are you—”
“Enough killing.”
That moment of hesitation was all Rabbiteater needed. He seized one of Greydath’s arms and headbutted the Goblin Lord, twisting so the greatsword fell to the deck with a clatter.
Then the two were struggling, but for once, Rabbiteater had the advantage. Greydath was overwhelmingly strong—and fast—but he wasn’t holding a sword. Grimacing, the Goblin Lord tried to kick Rabbiteater off him, then blinked and grinned.
“So that was why she helped me. Clever—”
Rabbiteater didn’t know what Greydath meant. The Goblin Lord pivoted—tossed Rabbiteater across the deck, and had his sword again. He charged at Etrogaer’s back, making to kill the Titanguard—
“Stop.”
The Goblin Lord turned and slashed across Ser Solstice’s chest, but his blade bounced off the armor. He was laughing now, grinning, as Etrogaer looked back and saw Rabbiteater seize Greydath’s arms—pivot—
He tossed Greydath over the side of the ship, and the laughing Goblin Lord vanished into the waves. Rabbiteater thought Greydath let him do it. Then he staggered—and Erin caught him.
“Good job.”
Once more, he stopped, and this time, he actually had a chance to look at her and breathe in and out. It was no less surreal.
She looked completely different. Her clothing was…she was burned across her wrists. Her face was covered with faded, smeared paint and blood. Her eyes had been huge and empty, her hair blown wild—the broken edge of Pelt’s knife was in her hands, and the dead she had walked through to get here had no end.
Erin looked like war. And death. Some kind of dark stranger, a mockery of the cheerful [Innkeeper] to so many.
—He had seen this side of her, and when she looked up at him, for a moment, he saw that relief in her eyes. Then he hugged her tightly.
“Why me?”
She looked up at him wordlessly, as if Rabbiteater were the biggest fool in all the worlds for needing to ask. Every time. No matter where he was…
“I wanted to hear your stories. I had to make sure of it. Even if…”
She turned and looked back at the decks still rife with fighting. Anand was back there. Seve. Erin gazed back, then up at Rabbiteater, and then began to walk away.
As if she had done all she’d come here for, said all that mattered, and it was time to go. Erin turned, and he saw those huge, empty eyes blink at him.
“They’ll never forgive me for that, Rabbiteater. Now they’re not sure who you are thanks to Greydath. He did his job. Now…”
She stared up at the sky and didn’t finish the sentence.
“What? What are you talking about?”
Erin forced a smile.
“Don’t worry. I did it. You’ll be okay. I did it.”
The [Innkeeper] said it again, and he still didn’t understand. He was slow and stupid.
“You’re…you killed him. Iradoren. He wasn’t a good person, but he wasn’t evil. He was a man. A [Prince]. Someone loved him.”
“Who?”
That blank look. Then Erin looked around, but she didn’t see Iradoren. Neither did Rabbiteater. Had they recovered his body? He put his hands on Erin’s shoulders as her head turned again.
“There’s one last person who might hurt you. Then I’ll go.”
“Erin. Why? It wasn’t worth it. I’m not worth it.”
He shook her until she blinked at him and scowled. They were alone for a moment, save for a gasping [Princess], who just looked at the most terrifying woman she had ever met, even worse in some ways than Belavierr.
The Witch of Webs had been a monster and legend. This…was a person who had done this all. At least, Seraphel thought she was a person.
Why this? The [Innkeeper]’s eyes fixed on the [Knight], and she saw he really didn’t understand. So she stopped a moment, and when she blinked and looked around, then wiped at her cheeks and raised her gaze—
Then Erin Solstice was there. An [Innkeeper] far from her inn, but her again, not the person who’d come this far at any cost.
They were the same woman. The laughing, silly young woman who used to serve him pancakes and shout at a silly Goblin trying to creep around naked and look for pants, and the [Witch] who’d slain a [Prince] and burnt her own chains—one person.
“Because, Rabbiteater, it matters. I had to know. Know you’d be alright after so many have died. I didn’t think of what it would cost. I had to come. Just like everyone else—but there was another reason. A selfish one.”
“What’s that?”
For an answer, the [Innkeeper] pointed up at the sky overhead. She had no eyes for the [Knights] of Calanfer, and she did not know Markus, even if she remembered his name. The Lucifen, the Humans of Terandria—they were just people to her, and the [Innkeeper] had put aside her soul to move them out of her way.
Rabbiteater saw only the storm until he realized, surely, the horrified peoples of countless nations were watching. The [Innkeeper] didn’t flinch at their judgment nor care what came next. She was aware of it, but that was not who she meant.
Her finger found Rabbiteater’s chest. A Goblin. She had known Goblins since the day she came to this world, but he didn’t see it. She did.
“I had to know it was possible, Rabbiteater. Once. Just once. With the entire world in my way and every single person trying to stop me. No matter what they tried, I still managed to find you. No matter what that [Prince] tried or anyone else—this is what I had to have. A happy ending. For you, at least. The Goblin lives.”
“The Goblin…”
Chieftain Rags. The five Redfangs. No, before that. Garen’s tribe. The Goblin Lord, Reiss.
She had beheld each and every one’s tragic tale. She had seen them die at Liscor. The one who was alive was Rabbiteater when Headscratcher and Shorthilt and Pyrite and all the others had deserved a chance as much as him. Grunter and Garen and all the rest.
That was what she meant. Erin prodded Rabbiteater in the chest and looked up again.
“I have never saved any Goblin. Not really. Today, I think I helped, at least. They see it. You see it.”
He looked up, then around, and then realized she meant Goblins. How many of them could see…a distant torch, a figure like a lighthouse amidst a storm?
Him?
“Me?”
Erin gave Rabbiteater a faint smile and nodded.
“Maybe then they’ll believe it can happen again. No matter what it takes—the Goblin lived. You see, Rabbiteater, it always ended wrong. Each time—it’s a dark night I’ve lived through. It’s not the first time.”
She brushed at the blood on her face and stared at it. Her voice went on, steady.
“I have lived through other bad nights. And each time…I woke with tears. Cursing the unfairness. It always ends so: and then the Goblin dies. Even if he was brave or good or happy.”
He stumbled, as if struck, and Erin’s gaze lifted, and she offered him a half-smile now.
“This time? Other people died. Was it worth it? Was there anything fair? Either way, the Goblin lived. And the [Innkeeper] had too many regrets and failures, and she would pay for it. But she did not regret that. Now, I know it’s not impossible. Anything I need to do can be done. That’s why I did it. Selfishly. And because it was you. So they could see I meant it.”
She lifted a finger, pointing straight up at the watching little Goblins who looked at their champion who lived, at the [Innkeeper]. At a reason to believe it might not end the way they had always known.
“But what did it cost you?”
Erin Solstice saw the [Knight], the Hobgoblin, the [Champion], her wounded, weary guy, a traveller with a story to tell, her eternal guest, her family, looking at her. In response, the [Innkeeper] glanced to the side. She didn’t answer, but sighed.
“…Time to go. You—can you keep Rabbiteater safe?”
She looked past him and pointed, and Seraphel froze.
“Y-yes.”
The 4th Princess of Calanfer stuttered. Seraphel heard the [Innkeeper] inhale, let out her breath, and then the Goblin reached for her. But she was walking back the way she’d come.
“Keep going, Rabbiteater. I just have to finish this.”
An [Admiral] stood in the rain, a look of surprise on his face. The [Innkeeper] walked towards him as someone began to shout.
“There are spells coming down on us! Sever the ropes! Take us away! Now, now!”
Hundredlord Cortese was screaming, and the Thronebearers were trying to take Throne’s Will away. Erin saw Admiral Rosech striding towards them across the gangplank from his ship. The [Innkeeper] pointed at him, arm shaking with weariness.
“Step back.”
“I need it. For my boy. Just one fate worthy of him. He’s cursed. Not by his blood or who he is, but how they all look at him. I need something to spit in their eyes. Keep him safe or let him beat the entire damn world.”
He pleaded with her. Admiral Rosech was staring at Rabbiteater, but the [Innkeeper] barred his way.
“You can’t have him. Come on.”
A sword was buried in his neck. His body had more holes in it than intact flesh. Rosech had stopped bleeding, and he stumbled towards her as she charged.
Pelt’s broken knife dug into Rosech’s chest, and he swung a fist, trying to knock her down. They both stumbled—the strength of a Bloodtear Admiral against an innkeeper.
She pushed, and he flew. Pushed with all the weight of an inn, hurling him back onto his ship.
“Erin!”
Rabbiteater ran for the gangplank as she charged across it. But Seraphel grabbed him, and he saw Erin leap onto Rosech as the howling man got to his feet.
Flames licked over the deck as the two struggled. It was burning him and her, and then she was just punching him, all the weight of a Minotaur behind the blows as he struck her back.
A dead man and a damned woman until she found her broken knife and drove it into one of his eyes. He was running out of strength—but he kicked her off him.
The [Innkeeper] might have shattered her bones—she got up, and she could kill him.
He did not fear that. Rosech rose, eyes empty, and then saw someone get between him and the [Innkeeper]. Then put out a hand with fear and terror.
Irrel.
The Dorhmin boy had fled the slaughter aboard the deck. The Bloodtear Pirates were dead or running. Erin Solstice’s friends—likewise.
The boy still had his spear in his hands, and he was shaking, backing away from the woman who turned to him, a burning, broken knife in hand. Rosech reached out, pleading. He’d watched his crew die, his friends, without blinking. But not that one.
“Not him.”
Her eyes flicked up to Rosech. Erin Solstice looked at Irrel, seeing a monster wearing a knitted beanie hat. Fishy eyes without pupils or irises, faintly aglow in the dark. Big lips, a mouth full of teeth, a squat body compared to a Human.
A monster.
A boy.
She looked up at Admiral Rosech, and he held out a hand, slipping in his life’s blood. Then they recognized each other, and the [Innkeeper] passed Irrel. Rosech got up and smiled in relief.
This time, Pelt’s knife shattered entirely, and she left the piece of metal in his chest. The sword cut her twice, and her blood spattered onto the decks, but neither one cared. Rosech tried to lift an arm, and it wouldn’t move for the first time in his life.
He looked up and saw the black flames had disintegrated his arm. Rosech tried to move. Still alive.
No longer breathing. He grabbed her head in his one hand, and she had picked up his blade. Now, she knelt over Rosech, plunging his own sword into the man’s chest.
A desperate look of concentration on his face, and despair in his pupils, held back only by will.
Her hazel eyes were glowing, heedless of the pain as his grip tightened. Almost relaxed—almost.
One last thing to do before the end. 
She drove that sword of his down and down, and the grip closed to end her life—and she saw the will of the [Bloodtear Admiral] holding death at bay. Fearing nothing but failure.
Then—suddenly?
Rosech smiled. His twisted grimace relaxed. And his grip on her skull stopped crushing her bones. He let go and relaxed.
Her blade touched his heart, and he had no more blood to give. The [Admiral] lay back, smiling upwards at the sky.
—She didn’t understand why. The [Innkeeper] looked into Rosech’s dead eyes that had not quit until the last. And she realized, it was the end.
“Sorry.”
It was not she who said that. The voice was deep and sad and grieving and warbling with tears that leaked from the boy’s eyes.
Dorhmin could cry. Yellow tears. His father was dead.
Irrel stood with his back to Erin, feet braced, and when he looked down at his father—Rosech was already gone. He had watched the [Admiral]’s end till the last.
His spear. Erin turned slowly, and the Dorhmin said it again.
“Sorry.”
The spear had gone straight through Iradoren’s neck. The [Prince] stood there, eyes emptying of a dead man’s rage. His blade fell from his hands, and she realized he had come after her, to avenge his own death.
His blood was running down Irrel’s spear. The [Prince of Men] collapsed and hung there from the tip of the spear until Irrel let go, a grim puppet, and Rosech smiled up at the sky, his mouth open, letting out a sigh of relief.
All promises kept. The boy turned to his father and knelt there as Erin looked around.
“Erin!”
A voice was screaming her name. She saw an armored figure struggling on the railing of a ship. Rabbiteater. She waved at him and saw he’d made it.
He had nice friends. They were keeping him from jumping overboard. Erin looked around and saw…the decks were cleared.
 
——
 
An [Admiral] had fought his way onto Throne’s Will only to realize Erin had returned to Rosech’s ship. Dakelos whirled—and saw her standing on the Bloodtear Admiral’s ship.
The surviving five Antinium. Badarrow. Ksmvr, Vofea, Revi—looking around, not sure why she was alive—Rivel, Erek—
They had crossed onto Throne’s Will where the last of Erribathe’s soldiers were retreating towards their own ship with the half-Elven princess. Golaen was retreating, blowing wild horns mourning Iradoren’s death.
But Erin.
Erin was on Rosech’s ship, which she had fought across, with a handful of people. Ryoka Griffin, pulling bodies off of Nerry, the Sariant Lamb twitching and bleeding.
Ulvama, limping across the decks to Erin.
And that was it. The [Innkeeper] looked around and almost sat down as Irrel closed his father’s eyes. Then he pointed up at the sky as Ulvama halted.
“It’s coming.”
The [Innkeeper] looked at him, raised her head, and exhaled.
“Run away.”
The Dorhmin looked at her, confused, and she pointed. The sky was swirling overhead.
