Damien patted him on the back sympathetically. "You do kind of make it easy," he said. "I kind of think you like it?"

"Don't you start," Cale said with a groan. He flopped back onto the ceiling.

Now he was going to need to wait for the rest of the class to get here. He was starting to understand why Professor Graystalk wanted everyone to be punctual.

Thankfully, it didn't take long for the rest of the class to start filtering in, although the process was... chaotic, to say the least. It was the first class of the new schedule, so some students didn't even know why they were here. Nor were many of them used to sharing a class with the rather eclectic group of Astral Wing students that joined them. To say that people were uncomfortable was an understatement, but to his credit, Graystalk did an admirable job of calming down the class.

"I will not be tolerating any harassment in this class," the professor said, his tone severe. "You will make the effort to understand one another, or you will be removed from this class, and I will ensure you cannot attend again for the next two terms. I trust you understand the importance of fire resonance?

"If you do not, perhaps this reminder will help." Professor Graystalk's gaze swept the class. Cale was impressed by how cold it was, considering the warmth he'd been displaying only moments ago. "Fire resonance is by far the easiest and fastest route to becoming an archmage, and is required for full recognition by the Orstrahl Kingdom. A two-term ban will prevent you from acquiring your mage license for at least a year. Is that understood?"

Several students subsided immediately, though not without muttering to one another and glancing at Graystalk in confusion. Cale was willing to bet they were the ones that were used to the professor doing nothing about their taunting, and was once again glad that Graystalk had changed his mind. He could admire someone that committed to their words so thoroughly.

Likewise, many of the Astral Wing students—while thoroughly confused by this sudden change—looked relieved.

"Good," Graystalk said after a moment. He strode back to his desk. "As many of you are attending this class for the first time, I will begin with a brief introduction of resonance and what it does for your magic. You will take notes. The average mage requires several months to acquire their first resonance rank, and that time only goes up as your rank grows.

"Even the best of the best takes weeks. Resonance acquisition is not a simple process. Some of your texts may suggest it is. If you remember which texts those are, I suggest you burn them. Any mage that suggests resonance is trivial is a fool, and you would sooner benefit from listening to the words of a liarfly than whatever nonsense they spout." Here, Graystalk paused, looking out over the class again. "Any questions before I begin?"

An orc seated near the back of the class raised his hand.

"Yes, Mr. Fangtruth?"

"Orguk Fangtruth wishes to know why two students are on ceiling," the orc grunted, pointing at Cale, who waved. Several students murmured in agreement, having been sneaking glances at the ceiling the entire time. Professor Graystalk sighed.

"That is irrelevant, but if you must know, it is because of a misfired spell," the professor said patiently. "Any questions about what I said about resonance?"

Silence. Cale did see an elf—also seated near the back of the class, near the orc named Orguk Fangtruth—quietly taking out one of his textbooks and shredding it with magic.

"Very well," Graystalk said. "Then let us begin."

He launched into an explanation that Cale listened to with great interest. He'd managed to figure some of this out already based on the resonance vision he'd had, but Graystalk's explanation filled out a lot of the gaps and clarified what gaining a resonance rank was like for a more typical mana aspect.

Apparently, the process was very similar for most of the basic elements. Throughout the four continents of Utelia were regions of high elemental magic known as Elemental Shrines. These shrines were natural accumulators of specific mana aspects to the point that they were able to manifest a connection to the very elemental plane that fueled that aspect.

Utelian mages could essentially create an imprint of that connection within their mana cores, improving both their ability to cast related spells and the Gift's ability to create related spells for them. It was fascinating stuff, though the process of creating that imprint was itself rather complicated. Something to do with some sort of resonance artifact within each Elemental Shrine and earning the approval of an associated essence god...

Cale sort of tuned out by that point, and he was pretty sure Graystalk noticed, because the professor shot him a smirk. He knew exactly when he began losing his students, it seemed.

"In my defense," Cale whispered to Damien, "I just learn a lot better by doing."

Damien gave him a perplexed look. "Doing... the essence god?"

"What?" Cale blinked. Was that what Graystalk had been talking about? Could Graystalk hear them? He was pretty sure the professor's smirk had grown—

The effects of [Lesser Planar Reorientation] abruptly faded, leading both Cale and Damien to collapse in a pile by the door. At almost the exact same moment, the door began to open, stopping only fractions before it would have smacked into Cale's face.

"Ah, perfect timing," Professor Graystalk said with a grin, moving to help Damien get to his feet. "Professor Sternkessel will be providing transportation to the Elemental Shrine of Fire."

"Indeed," Sternkessel said dryly. He reached up to flick one of the smaller rings on his head, and Cale blinked as he found himself suddenly upright and standing. He still needed to figure out how Sternkessel was doing that. He was pretty sure he knew how to block it now, at least...

Oh well. He didn't really need to. Maybe if he sparred with the professor at some point. "Thanks," he said, beaming.

Sternkessel inclined his head. "Is the class ready?"

"They are," Graystalk said smoothly.

"Very well. Best of luck to all of you, then." Sternkessel reached up, spun his rings once—

—and then the class was elsewhere, surrounded by heated rock and glowing pools of lava. Cale noted with some relief that the pools were warded to avoid incinerating them, probably because this place was so frequently in use by mages.

He also noticed two more things.

First, there was another class here, and judging by the fact they all wore neatly-pressed uniforms, they were from a different academy. Their professor looked... displeased by their presence, to say the least.

Second, the Elemental Shrine of Fire's resonance artifact was an enormous, golden balancing scale, with a roaring tempest of fire mana on one side of it.

Cale grimaced. Hopefully he wouldn't be expected to put his mana on that.
