With one lie exposed, Hideo’s mind was opened to the possibility of others, and as he immersed himself in study of the Defiled tribes, he came to realize that Gen was right. Hideo had been lied to all his life, by his father, his family, his teachers, and his peers, but now his eyes were open and he saw those lies for what they were: shackles to bind and restrain him. The Defiled were not the polar opposite of Imperial citizens, but rather another side of the same coin, uninhibited expression of emotion, as opposed to the Imperial practice of iron-clad control over one’s self and actions.

Despite his smug superiority and sanctimonious preaching, it was not Gen who convinced Hideo of this Truth, but the wayward monks of the Penitent Brotherhood. They offered no names and would not respond to any he gave them, but Hideo found their company more tolerable than most, especially his self-appointed ‘sponsor’, a tall, gangly fellow with eyebrows so thick and bushy Hideo could only think of him as ‘Eyebrows’. The tribal Defiled were not accustomed to exercises of thought, and the so-called Chosen were a bunch of arrogant, deluded, fanatics who believed their leader Gen could do no wrong, but the former monks were a more grounded group, willing to challenge and question any and all ‘truths’ laid out before them. By day, they explored every corner of the conquered city and observed the various tribes moving through the city, and by night, they discussed their findings and debated on what those findings meant. In time, Hideo grew so comfortable around them, he even confided all his deepest, darkest secrets. He told them things he never cared to dwell upon, of dark thoughts and horrific nightmares he sometimes experienced, and even confessed his horrific crimes wherein he murdered and ate sweet Eri-Hime, mentally broke down, and caused his father’s death, all after experiencing the shame of losing to a stronger warrior.

Unburdening himself was rather cathartic, and in solidarity, the Brotherhood revealed two truths. First, many amongst their number were much like Hideo, men who’d succumbed to their darker impulses but pulled back before it was too late. Secondly, the Empire, or at least the highest powers of the Empire, knew this and suffered the Brotherhood’s continued existence.

So much for the much-touted Imperial absolutes of good and evil, Imperial and Defiled, or Mother and Father. The world was not black and white as the Imperial Clan would have everyone believe, but varied shades of grey, and while Hideo’s soul had been stained by his sins, he was not so far gone as to never recover. Father hadn’t known that, had believed those Imperial lies about Defilement and absolutes, which was why he tried to kill Hideo. Had he known otherwise, he would’ve done everything he could to bring Hideo back from the edge, but now, it was too late. Mitsue Hiroshi was dead, having moved on to his next life believing his son was a monster, and now, all Hideo could do was prove his deceased father wrong.

To this end, he shaved his head and took vows as an initiate of the new Brotherhood, whereupon he set out to learn how to control the darkness inside. This evil was present in all men, Defiled or otherwise, but the Empire would rather have everyone believe it was the foul mark of the Father, and that only ‘Balance’ could keep it away. Lies and deceit embedded with a single grain of truth, for the Balance of the Empire was an impossible standard to live up to, a fool’s gambit designed to obscure the Truth laying before their eyes. Balance was not about rejecting emotions and maintaining an equilibrium, for humans were creatures of emotion, and it was all but impossible to divest oneself of emotion, yet the Empire claimed this was the sole Path to Martial Might.

No, the true Path to strength was to feel the full breadth of human emotion while simultaneously retaining control of one’s self. The razor’s edge, Gen called it, emotion and logic in perfect harmony, this was the True Balance Hideo had come to recognize, to experience, yet not indulge, to restrain, but not repress. Gen had this much right at least, and his near daily sermons on the matter were somewhat enlightening. Combined with his constant spars against various monks and Defiled tribesman, Hideo was now stronger than ever.

Thus, when Gen suggested they exchange pointers in place of their Mentor’s personal instruction, Hideo was more than happy to oblige. In accordance with his newfangled beliefs, he readied to deliver his strongest attack to the arrogant little shit, who so loved to talk down to everyone despite being nothing more than a trumped up village boy from the sticks.

The Mountain Collapsing Stomp was Mitsue Juichi’s signature move, one Hideo had suffered to master on his own, and doing so had earned him no smiles or praises. He had long since held a grudge over this, one his alter-ego ‘Eri-Hime’ had wrenched up from the depths of his subconscious, but after coming to Shi Bei, he discovered that Juichi had been right to scold him. Each must forge their own path, and by doggedly following in his idiot Mentor’s footsteps, Hideo was sorely limiting his potential.

Mountain Collapsing Stomp. What foolishness, to confine such a powerful attack to a singular movement, and not even one easily used. How was Hideo supposed to stomp his opponents to death in combat? Leap over them to stomp on their heads? Aim for their feet which would do nothing but inconvenience them? Knock them down and aim for their chests? A stomp was hardly the most versatile of attacks, so once he set to unravelling Truth from falsehood, Hideo’s first order of business had been to turn this stomp into a proper ultimate attack.

Having seen the Defiled and how they lived, as well as the Brotherhood’s ascetic habits, Hideo came to appreciate the beauty in simplicity, and he funnelled this newfound appreciation into his new and improved attack. At first glance, it was but a simple swing of his mace, not a ham-fisted overhead strike like chopping lumber, but more of a hammering motion one would use to knock on a door. Hardly the most demanding or comprehensive of movements. Were he to attribute it to one of the Forms, he would grudgingly settle upon Bear Form – Pluck the Honeycomb, but that just didn’t feel right. This Movement went beyond the Forms, for he was no bear, but a man, and the closest analogy was not ‘Bear Plucks the Honeycomb’, but perhaps ‘Man Knocks On Door’.

Yet another Imperial lie he uncovered, the fallacy of the Forms, but Hideo had yet to make much headway with this discovery. The monks he discussed the matter with assured him he wasn’t wrong, but not entirely right either, and that understanding would come in time, so Hideo put it aside and focused on his Mountain Collapsing Stomp instead. Except now, it was no longer a stomp, but a strike. The channelled combination of Chi skills surged down Hideo’s arm and out of his mace as it connected with Gen’s metallic forearm, whereupon it exploded on contact and –

Dissipated into nothingness. His mace simply stopped, as if sinking into dense mass of solid air, with neither Hideo nor Gen feeling the impact.

“Good, good,” Gen said, nodding in appreciation as if he were the teacher and Hideo his student. “What a clever usage of Reverberation and Amplification. Like making waves in the bathtub with gentle back and forth motion, you slowly build up a shock-wave inside the confines of your Spiritual Weapon using carefully timed applications of Chi. Maximum destructive force with minimal effort and expenditure, though I wager if someone were to strike your weapon before you are ready, your shock-wave would be prematurely released. Perhaps that’s why your Mentor restricted its use to his feet, a target which is difficult to strike at without leaving an opening in return.”

Unable to conceal his anger or surprise, Hideo ran a hand over his bald head and asked, “How did you block it?”

Smiling his smug, hateful smile, Gen brushed Hideo’s mace aside and said, “Just as a wave can be built up using proper timing and application of force, so too can it be deconstructed. Think of it as ripples in a pond. Throw two rocks with equal force into the water, and where their ripples meet, only still water is left behind. I simply matched your shock-wave with one of my own, and like two hands pressed against one another with equal strength, the forces simply cancel each other out, with no ground gained or lost.”

“Impossible.” Not the part about forces cancelling out, which Hideo learned first-hand using wooden water troughs and Reverberating strikes, but rather the part where Gen claimed to have cancelled out Hideo’s attack using a Mountain Collapsing Strike of his own. A perfectly cancelled wave had been rarely seen when Hideo was merely playing with water and matched himself against others, yet Gen had matched Hideo’s force so perfectly his sleeves didn’t even stir from the impact. “How is it possible we have the same Talent?” And how could Gen have such perfect control over it?

“Hmph.” Flashing his pompous, self-righteous sneer, Gen sarcastically asked, “Talent? What is a Talent? A name given to any process those blind fools do not understand. Does the chameleon have the Talent of camouflage? Does a dog have the Talent to track a scent over land? Does the pigeon have the Talent to find its way back home from hundreds of kilometres away? No, these are normal, everyday skills they possess due to an innate understanding even they cannot wholly explain, and the same goes for Talents.” His derisive smile returning in full force, Gen set his unsettling gaze upon Hideo and said, “You of all people should understand the absurdity of Talents. There are no Insights, no Talents, no Blessings or what have you, for they are all different names for simple comprehension of the Dao, names given by foolish people looking to separate themselves from the chaff through the use of meaningless labels. Such is the Truth the Imperial Clan keeps for themselves, so that they might stall humanity’s progress and rule over the ignorant masses in relative security.”

“Ridiculous.” Scoffing despite his curiosity, Hideo said, “Talents being universally achievable I might understand and accept, but Blessings? You mean to say anyone can call forth the power of the Elements? Then why is the ability so rare?”

“Because our comprehension is lacking,” Gen replied, putting on what Hideo supposed the idiot thought was a humble expression. “Those who succeed stumble upon the key to power by pure accident, like lightning striking someone in the middle of an empty field.”

“If there are no Blessings and comprehension is the key,” Hideo argued, simply because he couldn’t stand Gen in the least and needed the farmer boy to be wrong, “Then why can’t Awakened Martial Warriors teach others to do the same? Surely someone could pass along their knowledge and prove your claims correct.”

“Comprehension is not the same as understanding. Even this Sovereign’s understanding of Earth’s Fire is woefully inadequate to explain it to someone else, to say nothing of the other Elements.” Waving a metallic hand at Hideo, Gen explained, “Everyone is born knowing how to breathe, but how many individuals understand the process behind it? Or the reasoning behind the necessity? Talents and Blessings are merely labels humans place upon unexplained comprehension, because we are blind men attempting to identify colours with the tools at our disposal, but taste, texture, sound, and scent have little to do with appearance, so we are doing a poor job of it. We muddle our way forward through trial and error, but there has yet to be a single Martial Warrior who truly understands the Martial Dao.

An impossible feat for one person, of course, so humanity must work together to gather the knowledge of their predecessors and pass this along to their descendants, so that they might build upon what we already know. This is how we unravel the mysteries of Chi and Heavenly Energy, through the collective efforts of generations upon generations of humanity, but the Imperial Clan would have each individual work everything out for themselves.” Many words to say nothing of note, and it left Hideo in a foul mood, but Gen simply smiled and shrugged. “For now, all this Sovereign can do is muddle along on his own, but such is life. Perhaps one day, this Sovereign will have all the answers you seek, but for now, think on this: what is heat?”

Taken aback by the question, Hideo stopped to think it over, and then realized he didn’t actually have an answer. “Heat could be the quality of being hot, but that is not the entire truth. You can feel heat without it being hot, and you can be cold yet still emanate heat.”

“Indeed.” Nodding sagely, Gen explained, “One explanation is that heat is how human’s perceive changing temperatures. Another is that heat itself is energy, and what we are perceiving is the transfer of said energy. When you rub your hands together, are you generating heat, or are you using friction to raise the temperature of your palms? Both statements might be true, but other truths change depending on which one you pursue.” Spreading his hands in a shrug, Gen concluded, “And heat is but one, minuscule portion of Fire which we have yet to wholly understand, so how am I to explain how one turns Chi into Fire? Comprehension is rare, but understanding? No human mind wholly understands the mysteries of the world we can perceive, much less the mysteries of Chi, so do not concern yourself with understanding just yet. Comprehension is less than ideal, but better than nothing.”

