Suitably cowed by Gen’s knowledge, Hideo nodded and left to ruminate on these findings. He spent weeks engrossed in meditation and debate with his brothers, and uncovered many new Truths to study, but even consumed by the Martial Path as he was, he still took the time to investigate his new allies. The monks of the Brotherhood were more or less an open scroll, utterly incapable of deception or deceit, but the others were much harder to read. The Chosen were a bunch of worthless toadies, unable to come up with a single original thought that hadn’t been told to them by Gen, who himself was a slippery bastard who could talk circles around Hideo even when drunk to the point of idiocy. As for Vithar, he toed the line laid down by Gen and never spoke a word more than required. If the Defiled chieftain didn’t want to answer one of Hideo’s questions, he would simply shrug and say nothing, or snarl and leave if Hideo was being overly persistent.

Then there was the seldom seen Confessor, who spent all his time locked away in his room save for those rare occasions when desire overcame reason. Hideo was shocked to see a man of his reputation give in to excesses of lust, gluttony, and worse, but considering the results, he had to assume old Goujian was onto something. The Confessor was once described as an aged, angular man of unremarkable physique, but this Confessor seemed a God given flesh. So powerful he accidentally destroyed a brick wall while trying to open the door, Goujian was a force to be reckoned with and a Peak Expert who survived ten deadly exchanges with Nian Zu, which was nine more than most Peak Experts could claim.

Last, but not least, was the mysterious traitor Guard Captain Mao Jianghong, who single-handedly managed the Western Province’s resources. Though never formally educated on the subject, Hideo had some understanding of economics and supply lines, and he also knew the Western Province was the poorest province of all, utterly lacking in most natural resources besides sand and lamp oil. Yet somehow, Mao Jianghong was able to conjure up food, lumber, stone, and cloth, all seemingly out of thin air. Shipment after shipment arrived in Shi Bei like mechanical clockwork, delivered to these staging grounds by Defiled Warriors and Chosen Soldiers. Their numbers continued to swell with each passing week, and Hideo envied those fresh faced Martial Warriors being kitted with brand new Runic Armour and Spiritual Weapons. How was Mao Jianghong able to arrange all this? He had to be smuggling most of this in from the North and South, but if he was in possession of secure routes into the other provinces, then why wasn’t he dispatching soldiers to harass Imperial cities and draw forces away from the Western Border?

The answer arrived during an impromptu meeting at the tail end of summer, when Mao Jianghong stormed in on a particularly enlightening bout between Gen and Hideo. “You assured me he would be dealt with,” Jianghong began, offering Gen a folded piece of parchment with one hand. A minor slip in decorum at best, but Gen was a stickler for formality and Jianghong’s deliberate ‘contempt’ had him chomping at the bit. “The latest shipment was intercepted, and many of our people captured alive. We can only assume our methods have been compromised, so I’ve suspended all upcoming projects until we can guarantee delivery.”

Baited by Jianghong’s casual tone and mild disrespect, Gen’s facade slipped to reveal the crazed madman behind it. “Rang Min will live to regret this,” he growled, the statement punctuated by a grinding metallic screech emitting from his clenched fist. Silence ensued as Gen’s mind went elsewhere, ostensibly to converse with the mysterious Uniter, but in Hideo’s eyes, the ‘Emissary’ was merely a puppet echoing the words of his Master and wholly undeserving of his lofty status, as proven by his next statement. “But not today.” Trembling with barely restrained violence, Gen paced about the stage while Hideo moved off to the side. Not out of respect or deference, but simple prudence, as Gen had an unpleasant habit of flying into a rage with little or no warning.

One shattered arm and three broken ribs taught Hideo to keep well clear of the temperamental fool in times like this, but Jianghong held his ground. “You said you had information which would destroy him if leaked out,” the de facto Marshal of the West proclaimed, with more than a mild hint of reproach. “You said he would stand down and turn a blind eye to our actions, or you would unleash a storm of retribution upon his head.”

“Mentor said all that,” Gen corrected, smug and smarmy once again. “I merely passed the message along. Unfortunately, Rang Min is a most impressive foe who responded poorly to our threats. Since then, he’s taken actions which rendered my information useless.”

“Manufactured facts to the contrary?”

“No, he removed anyone who might corroborate our story and any evidence which might remain behind, including one of his closest allies within the Clan. He’s also taken measures to not only defend against any aggrieved parties, but also pre-emptively strike at anyone he deemed a threat should Mentor’s information were to come to light. An effective and resolute man, he has plucked the fangs from our threat and now we have no choice but to try something different.”

“Assassination, perhaps?”

“Impossible to accomplish without revealing our hand.”

“Have him deposed?”

“Only for Nian Zu to take his place as Clan Patriarch? Ha. We would be doing Falling Rain’s work for him, and this Sovereign is not so kind. A shame Rang Min is so resolute, else he would make for a most formidable ally...”

“Then we are at an impasse.” Spreading his hands in helpless surrender while maintaining a carefully neutral and almost bored expression, Jianghong explained, “With Falling Rain and his bitch Yuzhen watching the Azure Sea like hawks, and Quyen Huong’s iron grip on the merchants of the South, we have precious little cargo coming in from Central and South. Add in Rang Min’s dedication and effectiveness in hunting down our contacts, and we can no longer rely on smuggled supplies coming from the North by way Shen Jin. By my calculations, starvation and scarcity will have the Western province tearing itself apart in four months, just in time for year’s end.”

“Then we must advance the timeline,” Gen replied, before rattling off a set of instructions which Jianghong easily followed, but left Hideo reeling in shock. Combat was one thing, but Gen made it sound like he’d been managing a province for a lifetime, and even responded well to Jianghong’s suggestions, either accepting or refuting them with good reason. How did this backwater peasant rise to such grand heights in less than two years? Had he not seen the reports himself, Hideo might have mistaken Gen for the talented heir to a powerful Imperial faction, one classically trained and educated from birth. From this one conversation alone, Hideo could tell Gen knew far more about everything than anyone had any right to, but in the following days, he tested Gen’s knowledge and was unpleasantly surprised. The peasant turned Emissary had something to contribute no matter the topic of conversation, whether it be horsemanship, military procedure, calligraphy, construction, or economics, and his knowledge often surpassed Hideo’s by no small margin.

There was more. Not only was Gen strong and smart, he was also focused and hardworking as well, sometimes meditating for days without interruption before opening his eyes and looking none the worse for wear. During those rare moments of vulnerability, his cadre of Demons guarded him closely, an eclectic group of Elementally Blessed killing machines which he studied at great length. There was a pale, bulky Water Blessed Demon, a slender, caped Shadow Blessed Demon, an armoured behemoth of an Earth Blessed Demon, a tiny, fairy-like Air Blessed Demon, and many, many more, all of which obeyed him without question.

Which made it difficult for Hideo if he wanted to kill Gen and seize his role as the leader of the Chosen and the Uniter’s favoured Disciple. As the weeks and months wore by, Hideo’s strength increased by leaps and bounds, but still he had yet to personally speak with his new Mentor or find the upper limit of Gen’s strength. It wasn’t fair, how could Falling Rain have ever been Gen’s match? There was no way that runt was so much stronger than Hideo, but the facts said otherwise, and he was quickly losing hope of ever surpassing Gen in this lifetime, not without earning the Uniter’s favour. However, while Mao Jianghong only emerged from his office once this entire time, Hideo wasn’t even sure if the Uniter was in the Western Province, so without a direct line to the Enemy overlord like Gen had, Hideo was in no position to usurp his rival.

And then, one autumn evening, Gen summoned Hideo in the middle of the night to receive orders from the Uniter, and he was taken completely by surprise. For months, the Defiled savages, Imperial slaves, and Chosen soldiers had toiled day and night making preparations to march, but now they were setting out without warning. When he voiced his confusion, Hideo was rewarded with a personal conversation with the Uniter, one which soon had him screaming on his knees.

Foolish Worm. Ours Is the Place To Command, Yours To Obey.

That was it, a single sentence delivered through agonizing Sending, with each word rending apart a small piece of his sanity. Smug as always, Gen patted Hideo on the shoulder and said, “Mentor does not like to be questioned, but this Sovereign is a much more forgiving soul. In short, a few hours ago, our Divine allies have returned victorious, albeit short one woman. A small price to pay, for a little while after, we received confirmation of the Smiling Slaughterer’s death. The other two Divinities are incapacitated, and the death of one of their strongest will leave the others reluctant to take sides. Thus, we must now strike whilst the iron is hot and march out at first light, so that my Chosen of Heaven can prove once and for all that my –”

Stopping mid-sentence to wrench his head east, Gen stood there in wide-eyed confusion with a distant stare. “Oh?” he whispered, a smile stretching slowly across his face. “How fortuitous. One of ours dies, and now another rises to take her place? No, no, sadly not quite a Divinity, but close, so very close. Even the Heavens favour this Sovereign now, or perhaps this is merely a pleasant coincidence, but with luck, our new ally’s arrival will cause chaos within the Citadel before it escapes to –” A strangled gasp escaped Gen’s mouth and shock settled over his features, which Hideo took as a sign to back away. “No,” Gen exclaimed, his surprise giving way to predictable anger. “No, that’s not possible! How can this be? I must go, I must stop this. Get out.” Turning to Hideo in a rage, he charged forward and shoved him so hard he crashed through the door on his way out of the room. “GET. OUT!”

Bristling at such harsh treatment while brushing splinters off his body, Hideo had a mind to march back in and put the peasant in his place, but Gen was no longer rational. Throwing himself at his entourage of pretty serving girls, he lost himself in a haze of lust and hunger and Hideo lacked the stomach to watch. Gen was becoming unhinged, for these were not the actions of man walking the razor’s edge, but one who’d fallen off and was indulging his deepest, darkest desires. Scornfully leaving the fool to his perverse carnality, Hideo left to make ready to march. Gen was unravelling and would soon become his own undoing, so there was no need to concern himself with the peasant. Instead, he turned his mind to his imminent return to Central. Finally, they would bring this fight to the Empire, and with the Brotherhood, the Defiled, and the Chosen at his side, he would tear apart those Imperial lies and show everyone the Truth.

Father died defending a lie, so Hideo would devote his life to righting this wrong. Besides, he was long past due for a visit with his in-laws, as he was sure Eri-Hime would much appreciate it if Hideo reunited her with her parents. Poor aunty and uncle, they were probably still mourning the loss of their lovely daughter, and he couldn’t wait to see the look on their faces when he told them Eri-Hime had been with him all along...

Chapter Meme
