Faith.

Honour.

Reputation.

All names given to human concepts meant to obscure the Truth. Were someone to ask Hideo the colour of the sky, he would always default to the answer ‘blue’, despite knowing the sky was not always blue. At sunrise, the sky was tinted in blazing yellow-gold, and at sunset, a fiery orange-red. Rain clouds darkened skies to overcast grey, and night-time plunged it into inky darkness, while he’d heard tales of purplish pink skies to the distant south, and of verdant streaks lighting up the Northern night skies, yet despite knowing all of this, he still always answered ‘blue’ without questioning the matter.

Why? Because many years ago, when Hideo was learning how to speak, his mother and nursemaids would point at the sky and tell him it was blue, and he accepted this ‘truth’ as immutable fact.

So much of his reality was grounded in similar baseless truths, yet even after being made aware of these fallacies and falsehoods, Hideo found it difficult to do away with his preconceived notions as he moved away from Imperial dominion and into Enemy territory. Catching his mistake even as he made it, Hideo shook his head in amused regret, for he still thought of these foreigners as the ‘Enemy’. Why? Because a lifetime of Imperial propaganda had conditioned him to do so, the same way he still unconsciously envisioned the sky as perpetually blue, despite knowing better. Such was the way of truth and veracity, for so much of what Hideo ‘knew’ came from untrustworthy sources. All his life, he was told the Enemy was here to destroy humanity and that the Defiled were unclean savages driven by violence and blood lust, but he now knew all this to be untrue.

It all started days after the battle of Sinuji, which found Hideo travelling alongside Gen and his Chosen, as well as a complement of malcontent monks formerly from the Penitent Brotherhood. Traitors, rebels, and outcasts the lot of them, but still of Imperial origin and familiar enough to fit into Hideo’s flawed understanding of the world around him. There were also Defiled survivors of course, but he kept well away from them and spent most of his time in a state of wilful ignorance, rejecting any and all efforts from anyone who tried to approach him. Mitsue Hiroshi, his Peak Expert of a father, had been lying to him all his life, but the death of his father still weighed heavily on his heart. A death caused by him, no less, for Father would be alive and well if Hideo had not succumbed to weakness and turned to the hated Enemy for support. Better if Hideo had died alongside his father, or if he had the strength to kill himself and end this waking nightmare...

Then, he arrived in the border city of Shi Bei, where everything he knew about the Defiled was proven wrong within the span of a single day.

All his life, Hideo had been fed nothing but lies and deceits. Everyone told him that the Empire was the last bastion of humanity, and the Defiled were nothing but mindless killers who’d fallen into the thrall of the Father. They were the Enemy, a vengeful, murderous lot who couldn’t even be considered human anymore, and Hideo accepted this without question, so when he encountered the Defiled upon the battlefield, he took them for the tribal savages they appeared to be. Thus, when he heard they were headed for a captured Imperial city, Hideo expected to find bands of Defiled heathens squatting over the ruins of civilization after razing the city and salting the earth in their wake.

Instead, he found Shi Bei more or less intact, with Defiled tribesmen and captive Imperial citizens living in relative harmony. Granted, there were many noticeable differences, such as crude markers proclaiming tribal territory, grisly cairns and macabre altars decorating every corner and alleyway, and a general contempt for sanitation, but it was a far cry from the chaos and anarchy he’d been expecting. The more he looked, the more discrepancies he uncovered, and he soon came to realize that the Defiled were not so different from Imperials after all. They were a strange, barbaric group, but hardly inhuman, so while he wouldn’t go so far as to call them civilized, Hideo recognized their ability to learn and adapt.

Take their fashions for example, which upon the battlefield, were limited to armour and ghoulish trophies, like human skin head-wraps and strings of ears, tongues, hands, and whatnot. Some even kept entire human heads, shrunken and shrivelled to the point where Hideo had almost mistaken them for intricate crafts at first. Yet here in Shi Bei, he saw Defiled tribesmen adopting Western fashions, which were no less foreign to his eyes than Southern or Northern garb, and only a little less foreign than the Defiled variety. There were pale Northern Defiled wrapped in light cottons and silk robes, Southern Defiled garbed in colourful tunics and turbans, and of course, the Western Defiled who were all too happy to go about shirtless and slathered in some foul-smelling gunk.

It seemed like such a minor detail at first, until Hideo considered the implications. The Western Defiled were well used to the constant glare of the harsh desert sun, and had even concocted an unguent to protect themselves, albeit at the cost of giving their skin a greyish, withered texture. The other Defiled were less used to the oppressive sun and heat, yet they quickly learned to cover themselves in Imperial fabrics to combat the unpleasant clime, and even incorporated their own tribal markings into the local fashions. Crude, hand-painted symbols for the most part, displayed on clothes, skin, walls, banners, and anything else which might hold them, with no rhyme or reason to the symbols themselves. Foreign animals, primitive weapons, or just a distinct pattern of markings, aside from a clear lack of refinement, Hideo found them no different from the various sigils and family names used by nobles of the Empire.

This discovery was merely scratching the surface, and soon, his keen eye picked up on a wealth of details and distinctions. Whether it be North, West, or South, those tribal markings were indicative of a strict hierarchy amongst them, one Hideo was unable to unravel since they changed from group to group, but one strictly adhered to. The city had been neatly divided into separate territories, based on tribes, clans, warbands, or whatnot, and most kept to their clearly marked areas without fail while wearing garish displays to proclaim their loyalties for all to see. Stepping out of one’s territory was seen as a challenge, one taken up by any and all members of the defending tribe. Fights broke out every hour of every day, but to Hideo’s great surprise, not many of these altercations resulted in outright death. Bloodied bodies and broken bones aplenty, but death was rare and only when the challenger remained unconvinced of his defeat, sort of an option of last resort.

The Defiled were not what he’d expected. True, they were barbaric savages lacking in refinement and education, but their culture was as rich and nuanced as any, with unspoken rules of honour and decorum. They fought and they killed, because theirs was a harsh world without law or order to depend upon outside the Azure Empire. It was kill or be killed out there, eat or be eaten, yet they were still human as any peasant or noble born within the borders. They were not incapable of learning or higher thought, they simply lacked the tools and resources to overcome their native biases, and now, all that was changing.

One startling revelation was of how the Defiled treated their captured Imperial slaves. According to his guide, Vithar, a northern savage who spoke the Imperial tongue with a harsh, guttural accent, Imperial slaves were unexpectedly weak and feeble, which led to them dying in droves during the first few weeks of the Defiled invasion. One had to be tough to survive in the wastes beyond the borders, where weakness was equivalent to death, but here in the safety of the Empire, the citizens had grown soft and spineless. The Defiled treated them no better or worse than they treated conquered tribesman, a practice born not out of ingrained cruelty, but necessity, and as soon as they realized the fragile Imperial workforce could not survive in such harsh conditions, they erected shelters, provided clean food and water, reduced work hours, and set Imperial taskmasters to work with startling efficiency. Though enslaved, the Imperial workforce soon came to enjoy better conditions than most Imperial nobles would provide, including reduced working hours during the hot summer months, and unrestricted access to food and water.

To the Defiled, a strong slave was a good slave, and a weak slave was fodder, but if a slave should grow strong enough to become a warrior, then they would be welcomed into the tribe with open arms, a practice which was all but unheard of in the Empire. Warrior or commoner, if you were made a slave, you would die a slave, and that was that. Even freed slaves were viewed as something less than peasants, and though Falling Rain and Du Min Gyu played at raising slaves above their station, this was a practice others humoured and overlooked, rather than anything anyone supported or celebrated. However, as much as Hideo hated to admit it, they had a point. Dastan Zhandos was a talented Warrior, so why did it matter if he was a slave who defeated Hideo, as opposed to a free man?

The Defiled were true believers in ‘might makes right’, unlike those Imperial pretenders with all their laws, politics, and half measures. Were strength truly of the utmost importance, Hideo would never have been shamed by his defeat, and his father would never have had to sacrifice fame, fortune, and family just to spare the ego of an incompetent old man like Mitsue Juichi.

In time, Hideo even came to respect the Defiled, or at least certain tribes and individuals amongst them. Vithar, for example, was a fine specimen of Defiled strength, a towering chieftain of perhaps thirty-odd years and a powerhouse to be reckoned with. Every day, Hideo toured the city with Vithar at his side, who played the part of guide, guard, and chaperone with superlative ease. Though unable to read or write and barely able to speak complete sentences in the Imperial tongue, Vithar navigated through the winding neutral territory without a care in the world while explaining the differences between the tribes and factions. Territory changed hands daily as Defiled tribes set out for the front lines and new groups moved in to take their place, but somehow Vithar always knew who held the various areas clearly marked throughout the city. Not all tribes had proper names, and sometimes Hideo felt like Vithar was making some of those names up on the spot, but to be fair, calling a tribe whose markings were black, bloodied feathers the ‘Carrion Crows’, or another tribe who drew tusks on their faces and wore tusked headdresses the ‘Tusk Tribe’ hardly seemed out of place.

Primitives? Certainly. Savages? Undoubtedly. Yet this was hardly enough to describe the Defiled in full. They were a collective of various ethnic groups with little in common save for their ability to survive outside the Empire and their desire to move beyond mere survival. Here in the Western Province, these Defiled tribesmen were finally learning to thrive, and it was fascinating to watch them develop, fascinating enough to distract Hideo from his woes. When they first met, Vithar wore almost nothing under a light blanket he kept draped over his head to shield himself from the harsh Western sun, not because he disdained clothing, but because he had little to no experience in dealing with extreme heat after growing up in the frozen northern wastes. With Hideo there to guide him, by the end of summer, Vithar was the very picture of a Western merchant, wearing a colourful, low-cut long-shirt which left his hairy chest exposed and a headscarf held in place with a simple cord to cover his head and neck. If not for his collection of rugged scars, the asymmetrical cant of his face, and crooked, half-rotting teeth, he might have even passed for an exceedingly ugly commoner, though his burly build all but screamed ‘Warrior’.

The Defiled were certainly different from Imperial citizens, but having finally seen them up close and away from a battlefield, it was clear they were far from the irreconcilable Enemies the Empire would have its citizens believe. The Defiled fought amongst themselves often, but it was no different from the political struggles between factions back home, and quite often far less deadly. Not because they were more restrained, but because everyone was more durable, women and children included. As a group, they had no concept of thievery, because possessing something valuable without adequate strength to defend yourself was the same as painting a target on your own back, and objects of value could sometimes change hands multiple times a day. What’s more, regardless of their background, Defiled children were sacrosanct, meaning so long as they did not take up arms against opposing warriors, they would be left unharmed and untouched. Spars between children were carefully monitored to keep things from going to far, and several times, Hideo saw entire tribes slaughtered save for the children, who were summarily brought back to the victorious tribes’ territory. There, those children were welcomed into the new tribe and found new families, families which cherished their children in a way which went against the grain of everything Hideo once knew about the Defiled.

