“What do you want us to do now?” The British special forces driver asked, coming out of the vehicle to ask Captain Johnston her opinion on what to do next. For all intents and purposes, the driver’s mission was clear, drive the Captain and her team to wherever they ask, and provide them with anything necessary within reason.

“Us?” Johnston said, as a slight smile filled her lips. “Nothing, we are to sit back here and watch the show.”

“The show?” The driver asked, suddenly sounding distraught.

“Oh, you have never seen our girl at work before, have you?” Johnston asked.

The question was not a bad one, she was after all a yank, and a relatively new one at that. One who had been billed up only as a Healer, which is how she gained media attention, by healing the British Prime Minister’s daughter of a Necromantic scourge. That was how she first appeared on the radar of the British, then seeing her and the way she took down a similar dragon in the states, one that had appeared at roughly the same time as these twin dragons did, that was when they began asking for her by name.

Of course, this only meant she was important to pop culture, and other media outlets. The idea that a foreign soldier had no idea who she was, or why he had been ordered to drive foreign elements to a strategic military site never truly crossed his mind. In his mind she was a Super, as was evident by the fancy costume she wore. England had plenty of Supers of their own, unfortunately all of them had been thwarted by the twin dragons who first teamed up, until they both leveled up enough to survive independently of each other. Now, here was a yank who thought they were the one who was going to save the day.

“No, honestly I don’t know who you all are.” The driver said, as mentally he was preparing to fill out the casualty report that was likely going to come next. A lone Super going up against a dragon, while this was England, a land famous for tales of dragon slayers, he knew those were only dreams of writers who never saw the beasts in actions.

“Don’t worry, you don’t need to know who I am. But her, you should pay attention to my girl, she’s about to show you something.” Captain Johnston said, as she stared off into the distance watching Alexa charge forward seeming to move faster than the vehicle had been able to move in the pouring rain.

“And just who was she?”

“She is Aru’ka, and she is about to do what all Americans do best.”

“What is that?”

“Be loud and get into one helluva fight.”

The driver looked at Captain Johnston for a moment, before turning back to face Alexa. Then off in the distance, he saw something that he couldn’t quite believe with his eyes. “Did she just split into four copies?”

“Technically, I believe there would only be three copies, since there are four of them.” Bullford said, butting into the conversation.

At that both Johnston and the driver turned to look at the large brute of a man, but rather than saying anything they just turned back and watched as the four versions of Aru’ka charged forward and finally entered the protective bubble that surrounded the dragon and their odd blood ritual on the alter of Stonehenge.
