“That I am,” the man replied, with what looked like the ghost of a smile. Not to say his lips were smiling, but rather than he looked like he would be if he were capable of showing human emotion, as the Khishigs were a strange lot. “You have need of my assistance, Old Bulat, son of Maira and Dagen?”

A jokester of a Khishig, a miracle of Heaven as it were. Dei An explained it to him, that the traditional greetings between Bekkies included parents and spouses to emphasize how one had roots in the mountains, and that there was no need for Bulat to mention anyone’s relatives when they met again, but he couldn’t help it. If a man was gonna introduce his parents to him, the least Bulat could do was show he remembered their names, though it always came out as a question. “That I do. Ye mind taking a few Khishigs and gettin’ a tally of the dead and wounded?” Not like knowing would change things, but it seemed like the right thing to do. “And err... could ye find someone to scribe fer me?”

“That I can and will, Old Bulat.” Again, that ghost of a smile appeared as Yorhu offered a martial salute, and Bulat couldn’t make heads or tails of the man. No matter though, so he went back to work and when the scribe arrived, a fresh-faced Bekkie too young to grow a beard, Bulat narrated a few thoughts regarding concerns to bring to Cixi, Consort Luo, and maybe even the bossman regarding the district defences. A second district wall for example, or raised platforms for dedicated crossbowmen, and training for javelins and throwing axes. Wouldn’t take much to improve the odds in their favour, and maybe it’ll save a few lives in the process. This wasn’t the first district to come under attack in recent days, nor would it be the last, and he shuddered to think how many poor commoners had already died to Defiled blades.

Which is why when the young Bekkie scribe, who turned out to be Amal, son of Yorhu and Cirinas, read the casualty report out loud to Bulat, he could scarcely believe his ears. “What was that, now? Say those numbers again?”

“Seven hundred forty three dead, three-hundred ninety eight critically injured, one-thousand eight-hundred thirty four wounded but mobile.” Blinking in confusion, Amal held out the sheet and pointed at the numbers as if to prove he was reading it right. “See?”

“I was surprised as well.” Yorhu’s ghost of a smile was gone now as he regarded Bulat with a critical eye. “The boy has yet to tell you the best part. Go on now.”

“Yes sir.” Nodding like chicken pecking grains, Amal smiled and said, “Of the four-hundred odd Defiled who attacked, one-hundred eighty-five were killed.” No wounded or prisoners there, as any Defiled left behind would have been killed on sight.

Having always had a gift for numbers, Bulat did the calculations in his head and came up with surprising results. Four militia died for every Defiled killed, though that number could shift up to six if every single critically wounded combatant were to die. Making it five militia to one Defiled would be realistic, and while it seemed like a terrible trade at first glance, this was coming from the perspective of a trained soldier. When Bulat joined the army, he was told to fight the Enemy with one concept in mind, that the life of an Imperial soldier was worth ten Defiled. This assumed of course that the Enemy was attacking a fortified Imperial position, just like they were now, so five to one odds against the Defiled was akin to a slaughter in his eyes, except now, the roles were reversed. If it cost five commoners to kill one Defiled, and ten Defiled to kill one soldier, then fifty commoners could ostensibly overpower one Martial Warrior.

Had someone asked him yesterday, Bulat would have wagered good coin that one Martial Warrior was worth significantly more, but the important thing to note was that there was only one Martial Warrior for every ninety-nine commoners, as they made up one percent of the population. However, most of these Warriors belonged to noble families, and most weren’t anything special either, not necessarily stronger than your average Defiled, just able to take advantage of things like static defences, disciplined coordination, and forged steel equipment. Knowing this, Bulat was forced to re-evaluate the disparity between Martial Warriors and commoners, because unlike the Defiled, your average commoner could also make use of tactics, fortifications, and equipment, like the spears, crossbows, and catapults the bossman taught them to craft and use.

So really, one Martial Warrior was worth far less than fifty commoners, as even a Peak Expert like Nian Zu would die from a bolt to the neck, and this was without taking into account the sheer economic power the commoners held if they all rose up as one...

“Indeed,” Yorhu Sent, nodding in unspoken agreement. “As you told those valiant souls outside, they can indeed stand tall with pride, for they hold far more power than anyone ever imagined. They will no longer bow so easily to others, not while Warriors like Old Bulat stand on their side.” The ghost of a smile returned, and Yorhu shook his head. “I sometimes wonder if young Rain understands the implications of his actions, realizes the change and bloodshed his efforts will bring. I believe he does not, that he is naive and foolish yet blessed by the Mother Above. What do you believe?”

“He knows,” Bulat answered, knowing it without even having to think. “He’s always been one to champion the downtrodden, and I think he’s been planning this all along.” The schools, the training, the equipment, even paper money, all of it was geared towards putting more power into the hands of the common people. What’s more, Bulat believed the Mother Above agreed with his plans, for the balance of power was shifting away from the Imperial Clan. Even the nobles of the outer provinces were beginning to grumble about the Imperial Clan’s complete absence from the war effort, with their only contribution being cold hard coin, coin which the outer provinces paid them in taxes. Perhaps the Imperial Clan was banking on the fact that the Defiled would forever be a threat, but if two-thousand commoners could fend off four-hundred Defiled, ten million could certainly fend off one million, and a hundred million commoners might even be enough to drive the Defiled back out of the Western Province.

The logistics of feeding that many people on the move could get tricky, but sharper minds than Bulat’s could probably figure it out, right?

The bossman had known this all along, he must have. He was never one to boast much, so why else would he dare to make that very claim? He announced as much to the whole army before riding out to reinforce Castle JiangHu with ten-thousand irregulars at his side, because he believed he was about to prove what armed commoners could accomplish. A good thing his results were overshadowed by the miracles that took place and his injuries that followed, but even now, the bossman was still stepping up efforts with training and recruitment using the Imperial Scion Liu Xuande as his mouthpiece, and when his plans finally came to fruition, he would have a million strong army of Irregulars at his beck and call, which was a lot less laughable than it was yesterday.

One million could easily grow into ten, and ten into twenty, and Bulat shuddered to think what it would be like to fight against a numerically superior force of commoners using Imperial equipment and tactics. The bossman had already proven he had the technology needed to raise fortifications quickly, and now he’d proven that commoners could be turned into an effective fighting force with only a modicum of training. Were these trained Irregulars manning the walls, Bulat would daresay they might even get away with three or two to one odds against the Defiled, a ratio that would shift sharply if they were supported by more than twenty-four Martial Warriors, like say the three-thousand commoners turned Martial Warriors who were now calling themselves the Legate’s Stormguard.

Add in the Bekkies with Lieutenant General Akanai to command them, and Falling Rain might have enough power to overthrow the Emperor himself, and damned if Bulat would not stand with him. Whether he wanted to or not, the bossman was going places, because if old Bulat could put all this together, the Emperor certainly could too, and few despots cared to leave threats to their power unanswered.

“Mother in Heaven,” Bulat prayed, “Watch over your son, Falling Rain, for these trials and tribulations may be too much, even for someone as blessed as he.”

Chapter Meme
