The tolling bell warned of approaching Defiled invaders, but Bulat was already ready and waiting on the battlements with the full strength of District Twenty-Three’s militia behind him.

The sun shone overhead as they watched the approaching clouds of dust, and Bulat hoped that the stubborn families who ignored the warnings to gather in the district were at least smart enough to hide in their homes. The plan was simple enough, for warnings to go out whenever the Defiled broke through the Western Wall, as this left the commoners anywhere between an hour to thirty minutes to get to relative safety inside the districts, but some people were just plain daft and valued cold possessions over living relatives. As if staying behind to guard their homes would keep the Defiled from robbing, raping, and pillaging to their black hearts’ content, but there was nothing Bulat could do for them now except pray.

“Ready crossbows!”

Though he only took a moment to make sure his bolt was secured in place, Bulat cursed beneath his breath when he raised his eyes again and saw just how much ground the Defiled had covered. Mounted atop garos, gajashias, ursadons, and all manner of other horrific beasts, these Enemy outriders were here for blood and closing fast. They were still off in the distance and moving in loose formation, but while he had word that the Imperial Army was hot on their heels and ready to contain this outbreak, Bulat and the good people of the district were on their own for now. A shame this wasn’t the Bekhai district, where even their commoners were well-versed in the use of spear and longbow, or one of the other three districts under Bulat’s mayorship which he was familiar with, because he had a hand in their training and knew their militias could hold their own. Alas, this was a district further south in what the higher-ups had taken to calling the ‘contested zone’. Not contested by the Defiled, but by North and Central, as neither side wanted to take sole responsibility for guarding these ‘outlying’ districts which sat smack dab in the middle of both Citadels.

The soldier in Bulat understood why. Though the bossman’s people designed the districts as walled settlements to be defended, the Imperial Army could hardly spare enough soldiers to guard every last one. The army barely had enough bodies to man the entire Western Wall, and some might argue they didn’t even have that, seeing how the Defiled were able to find weak points to overrun with nothing but sheer speed and power. While the army could respond quickly enough to retake the walls from Defiled control, the Enemy wasn’t interested in holding their ground, not when so many easy targets lay within an hour’s ride of the Wall, with the promise of more bloodshed and slaughter further east.

Even if there were enough bodies to go around, the districts lacked the requisite supplies and infrastructure to support the number of soldiers needed to man the walls, which was why the bossman had planned on building independent garrison camps all along the border as well. Those were still under construction, having taken a backseat to rebuilding the vital harbour in SuiHua which had been burned to a crisp by Huanhuzi’s raiding fleet. The new harbour was a technological marvel made of reinforced concrete just like the district walls, but it’s sturdiness made little difference now that the harbour was under blockade again by the same half-badger bastard, whose pirate fleet sailed in and out of the Azure Sea without a care for all the fishy beasties lurking within their dark and unwelcoming depths. This meant most ships were too busy chasing pirates or escorting supplies to ferry soldiers up and down the Western Wall, which in itself was a risky proposition seeing how the river doubled as a moat and left transport ships vulnerable to attack by land.

A good thing the Defiled weren’t here in full force then, with only a raiding party a few hundred strong, but even with some eight-thousand militia at his back, twenty four soldiers under his command, and four strong, sturdy walls to defend, Bulat did not like his odds. The catapults were worthless here, as this small number of riders could avoid anything he lobbed at them, so the fate of this District lay solely on spear and crossbow, as well as the terrified commoners wielding them.

“Hold!” he snapped, seeing so many of his militia already aiming down their sights. Idiots one and all, with weak, commoner arms that struggled to lift their heavy crossbows even on the best of days, yet still they were dumb enough to hold them high before the Enemy came into range. “If I see one bolt fly before I give the word, I’ll toss ye over the side and send ye out to fuckin’ fetch it back.” The threat earned him a few nervous chuckles, but Bulat’s glare promised them that he damn well meant what he said, and the nervous laughs gave way to focused clarity. Remembering their training, a few sheepish stand-outs lowered their weapons and the rest followed suit, as they had yet to receive their orders to aim.

An order he should give right about now. “First Rank, Steady!”

The front row raised their weapons and picked their targets, and as the Enemy cavalry passed the marker, Bulat bellowed, “First Rank! Loose!” Five hundred crossbows hissed in fury as they released their deadly payloads, but the Enemy was not so naive as to rush headlong into the storm. Scattering across the fields, they split off in multiple directions to surround and converge upon the district, causing far too many of those bolts to sink into empty ground, but if the Enemy could adapt their tactics, Bulat could as well. “Second Rank, steady!”

Thanks to Bulat’s gruelling drills, the second rank was already in place, but it still took precious seconds more than it should have before they were fully ready. “Loose!”

Another five-hundred bolts flew out to greet the Enemy, and this time, a good portion of them even connected, but Bulat had no time to appreciate the view. Instead, he snarled and snapped at his people until they remembered their training while reloading his crossbow. The third rank moved faster than the second, with some even giving their slower second rank comrades a helping hand, dragging them back from the front if they were too slow to move themselves. For good reason too, because by now, the Enemy was so close even their commoner eyes could make out the Defiled grins stretched across ugly Defiled faces, and nothing moves a man like fear and purpose. The training helped, but it was mostly fear and desperation driving them now, and while they might have cut and run if they were out on a battlefield, these men and women of the Empire had their homes and families behind them, two things they could not so easily abandon.

The bossman was brilliant and generous, but he could also be a real bastard sometimes. He sold these commoners a dream of land-ownership and prosperity so that they’d bring their children along to inherit their wealth. Now, these dumb schmucks had no choice but to fight, and fight they would, because to do otherwise would be to see all their dreams and loved ones go up in fire and smoke.

“Third Rank, steady and loose!” The bolts were off even as the words left his lips, but there was no time to check their handiwork. The first rank was still reloading their crossbows, cranking away at their levers with the utmost effort to slowly draw the strings back. Bulat could load his crossbow with one hand if need be, but these commoners were not blessed with Martial strength, and as such could only rely on gears and levers to make up for what the Heavens denied them. Were these the militia Bulat had personally trained, he had no doubt the first and second ranks would already be ready and waiting, but as Ma liked to say, if wishes were fishes then no one would ever go hungry again.

There were less powerful variants of the crossbows for commoners to use, but those were only good for hunting small game. You needed a lot more power to stand any chance of killing a Defiled tribesman, and even more to kill the mounts they rode upon, so the bossman made sure the militia were equipped for the task. Even then, the cunning Enemy had let their ursadon riders head in first, the lumbering, bearish creatures leading the charge and all but ignoring the shower of bolts which glanced off their thick skulls or got stuck in their blubbery hides. A few were down and out thanks to some well-placed or lucky shots, but there were still far too many Defiled riders converging on the walls for Bulat’s tastes.

“All ranks, wait for your targets and loose at will!”

Some militia were faster loaders than others, so the first Defiled tribesman to draw close to the wall was greeted by seven crossbow bolts to the chest, and maybe two dozen were gifted to his snarling, lizard-like mount. Eight more riders died on approach, because while the garos were more than capable of jumping the walls, they couldn’t make that vertical height without slowing down to jump, which made them prime targets even for commoners who couldn’t move or think as fast as Martial Warriors. Putting his crossbow aside, Bulat aimed his axe-gun at a leaping garo through the built in murder holes and pulled the trigger. His shot took the beast clean through the chest just before its talons left the ground, and its corpse crashed headlong into the wall. The rider snarled a guttural curse before the militia turned him into a pincushion, and a small cheer rang out as the militia celebrated their minor victory.

“First and Second ranks!” he shouted, wishing these idiots would shut up and listen for his orders. “Spears! To arms!”

Enough of them were lucky enough to have their weapons in hand when the first wave of garo riders landed on the wall, all fangs and fury as they set upon the defenders with merciless rage. Thankfully more than half the attackers just barely made the jump, not because the garos weren’t up to the challenge, but because they didn’t have enough room on the battlements to find footing. Many chose to land on the jutting crenellations, which then crumbled under their weight just like Cixi’s team of construction wizards designed them to. Though the fall wouldn’t kill many of the attackers, it forced the Defiled raiders to attack in staggered groups lest more come up short and fall back down, an advantage Bulat was happy to have. If left unchecked, even a dozen garo riders could clear this wall of its fifteen-hundred defenders, but with so many targets to choose from, Bulat and his Warriors had free rein to engage on their own terms. Hurling himself at the closest rider, he buried his axe in the garo’s neck while it was snapping at someone else, and he tried very hard not to see if the beast’s jaws came away bloody. The bossman wasn’t the only one who could be a real bastard, because Bulat might’ve saved a life if he’d acted a second sooner, but he didn’t. He waited for his chance and killed the beast cleanly before driving his fist into the rider’s temple with an audible crack. An easy victory, but he had no time to bask in satisfaction as he was already moving towards his next target with deadly intent.

“Pick your targets and work together! Drive them back!”

Pran got there first, bellowing as his hammer sent beast and rider tumbling to the stone battlements. The nearby militia reacted too slowly to kill the rider where he lay, but the beast was not so lucky. Though several spears glanced off its thick hide, three bit deep into its flank, throat, and spine, but despite its mortal wounds, the garo was not yet finished. Writhing and snapping as it struggled to its last breath and took two unfortunate bastards to the grave with it, men too stubborn to let go of their weapons to let the creature die out. A year ago, Bulat would have thought this enough to send any commoner screaming for the hills, but the good people of this District held fast, for they were fighting not just for their own lives, but the lives of everyone they held dear, which gave them the fortitude to advance upon the rider without so much as a prayer for their fallen friends.

The Defiled tribesman gave a good account, all things considered, leaping forward to chop one commoner with his sword and skewer another, but it was a mistake to think his ferocity would cause his foes to hesitate. In spear training, the militia spent most of their time learning one, single attack, and that was how to put the full weight of their bodies behind a two-handed thrust. No less than eight such attacks drove towards the tribesman from a myriad of angles, with more readied to follow up from behind. Cutting down three of those spears and the men holding them bought the tribesman a half-second to breathe, but then the remaining spears arrived and he had all the time in the world as one drove clean through his back and into his heart.

