Even in death, the tribesman took a life, for the weight of his corpse broke three of the shafts protruding from him and allowed a second rider to fight his way free and drive deeper into the Imperial lines, but there was no room for the garo to maneuver. As the beast reared up to stop before barrelling over the edge, Bulat took his time aiming before flinging his axe. Round and round his weapon went, travelling not even five metres before striking blade first in the back of the rider’s skull, but Bulat was not far behind. Slamming into the garo’s hindquarters shoulder first, he sent the beast skittering towards the edge, but not over it, which was perfectly fine with him as it gave him enough time to wrench his axe out of the dead rider’s head and slam it home into the garo’s instead. The snapping fangs fell short of drawing blood, but its flailing legs clawed up his left leg good, so he took a full second to Heal his wounds and reload his gun.

“Fight, ye bastards,” he screamed. “Fight and live! Victory or Death!”

“VICTORY OR DEATH!”

It didn’t seem like much, but in a battle of Defiled against commoners, a single second meant a lot. Pran was drawing most of the attention, waving his massive hammer about, which wasn’t the worst thing so long as he survived. The militia were weak commoners, but there were plenty of them, and they were all armed with sharpened steel. Even if most thrusts failed to connect and the majority that did were merely glancing hits, even ants could bring down an elephant if there were enough of them, and for once, the Defiled were sorely outnumbered. Despite dying in droves to the attackers, the militia held firm on the wall, though it might be because the doors to the stairs were shut and barred. More of the bossman’s bastardly ways, but again, Bulat understood why. The Defiled were wolves and the commoners sheep, so if the sheep ran, the wolves would be upon them like a fox in the henhouse, only bigger, bloodier, and more vicious.

As if to prove his point, a hulking Defiled Champion howled as his snarling garo landed atop the wall, his bone axe pointed at Pran in open challenge. A vicious Aura swept out from the savage invader, and like the fool he was, Pran bellowed and raised his hammer overhead as his own Aura billowed up to meet his foe’s, even though Bulat’s Aura was already holding firm against it. Hammer crashed into axe and both combatants were sent reeling, their strength equally matched, but only because the Champion was still seated atop his mount. Before either one could recover, Bulat snapped a shot off into the garo’s open mouth, killing the beast and sending its rider toppling off its back. Never one to stand on chivalry, Pran brought his hammer down on his fallen foe’s torso, which smashed into the raised axe haft before powering through to cave in the Champion’s chest.

This was only the beginning, as Bulat was already back in the fray with his axe in hand, engaging yet another rider upon the walls. The battle dragged on as Defiled and commoner alike fought and died. Bulat kept throwing himself into the thick of things, but there were more militia than Defiled and he kept getting bogged down in their ranks. Pran didn’t have the same issue as the militia were quick to move out of the hulking half-bull’s way, but Bulat lacked his friend’s towering physique and powerful presence. Not the worst thing in the world, as it allowed him to blend in with the militia and keep killing Defiled before they noticed him approaching, but every kill cost him the lives of more commoners. Difficult to watch so many good people die, and soon Bulat’s courage began to falter and fade, but he held strong and stood fast because how could he, a Martial Warrior Blessed by the Mother Above, falter where lesser men stood and fought?

No, lesser men was a disservice to these fine people, for the militia fought with the courage of lions despite possessing a mouse’s physique. He saw more than one commoner toss aside his broken spear shaft and throw themselves into the fray with dagger or fist, so crazed and frenzied it made it seem like they were the madmen, and the Defiled sane in comparison. Most of those brave fools predictably died, but their valiant efforts bought time for their comrades to load their crossbows or drive their spears home, the deaths of the Defiled bought and paid for with the blood of farmers, teamsters, coolies, and other members who made their living on the lowest rungs of society.

The blood of heroes is what it was, and Bulat would fight anyone who dared suggest otherwise.

Stepping back to check on the gates, he was just in time to watch the first Defiled rider break through the cast-iron grid-work barring their path. The ursadons and gajashias were unable to leap over the walls, so they could only break through the walls or gates, and despite the prevalence of Defiled Weapons, hacking through solid stone was not easy even with a Honed blade. Sure they could carve up a section with relative ease, but carving an entryway would take patience only a select few Defiled might possess. Thus the gates were their preferred targets, as they were easier to hack through, and while the breach in their defences was troublesome, Bulat was more irritated than worried, as replacing those gates would be costly now that the bossman had sold off his cast-iron ventures. The gates were never meant to stop the Defiled from getting in, just slow them down on their approach, so maybe they didn’t even need to be cast-iron to begin with. Either way, he took a moment to enjoy the show as the first wave of gajashia’s crashed into the steel tripwire on their way out of the gatehouse. Though it failed to kill anyone and was easily cut, it did the job it was meant to and kept the Enemy in place long enough for the militia to find their marks.

A hundred bolts flew across the plaza and sent the attackers charging forward to engage, but a second trip wire foiled their attempt. Riding over the still-living bodies of their fallen comrades, the Defiled rushed to close the distance even as a second wave of bolts crashed into them. It would be a while before the next volley arrived, as the district gate only had two-hundred defenders, with the remaining eighteen-hundred militia waiting in reserve, but two-hundred was more than enough thanks to the bossman’s best laid plans. The districts defences were not built with the intention of keeping attackers out, but to draw them into killboxes by ones and twos so as to bleed them to death by a thousand cuts. The Defiled would soon learn that the districts were no easy pickings, as the militia went about their work with reckless abandon. The Defiled would soon lose their stomach for this and pass the word along to their brethren, and hopefully turn to razing empty homes or pillage growing fields; the damage done would be minuscule compared to the havoc they could wreak if the commoners didn’t have the districts to hide in, and Bulat was once again impressed with just how farseeing the bossman could be.

After the tripwires came the sections of false floors laid over deadly pitfalls underneath, followed by a stretch of caltrops scattered across the ground and hidden by a thin layer of oil soaked hay. Once the Defiled were well within the fire-zone, flint met steel and set the ground ablaze, panicking the stupid gajashias who then crippled themselves by stomping through the caltrops to get away from the flames. Those few Defiled who made it all the way through were met with spiked iron barricades defended by spear wielding commoners, assuming they weren’t picked off by errant fire from crossbows first, resulting in a hardy defence that Bulat believed could hold for as long as they had bolts and caltrops.

After catching his breath, he turned to rejoin the battle only to find the Enemy already in full retreat. At first, he thought it strange that they had so little stomach for battle, until he received word of incoming reinforcements approaching from the west. There was no time to relax however as he set his militia to helping the wounded and ending the misery of those too far gone to save, an unpleasant task that few dramas or operas ever cared to delve into. That’s how the reinforcements found him a few minutes later, with his hands caked in blood as he stitched up a puncture wound and hollered at some fool to hurry it up with those damned bandages.

“Well done holding out against the Defiled,” the Khishig said, sounding surprised to find anyone still alive. “Our riders will pursue them and finish the job, but Senior Captain Sumila has instructed us to lend aid where we can.”

“Healers?” The Khishig shook his head, and Bulat wasn’t sure if his grimace was one of regret or scorn. It was a long shot, as few Healers would care to waste their precious Chi saving the lives of commoners when they could be saving Martial Warriors instead, especially considering how commoners were more fragile and therefore required more effort to save. Still, it left a bad taste in Bulat’s mouth to know that not only would many of these wounded die in the coming hours, a good number of the survivors might have already lost their livelihoods too. How was an uneducated coolie supposed to go back to work after losing an arm or a leg? How could a blind farmer till the land or see if his crops were grown? Even those who remained whole might have taken wounds that would pain them for the rest of their lives, but there was nothing anyone could do for them, not so long as they remained commoners.

The bossman could take in Martial Warriors and teach them to use Panacea, but what was he supposed to do with thousands of crippled commoners?

Heaving a sigh as he tightened the bandages, Bulat called for a stretcher to carry his patient away and looked around to see where else he might be of use. Instead, he found a small crowd of militiamen standing around and looking like they had something to say. Stifling the urge to snap, as these brave souls had been through enough tonight without subjecting them to his ire, he counted backwards from three in his head and asked, “Well?

“Thank you, great one.” Bowing her head in gratitude as her shoulders shook with sobs, a woman towards the front of the crowd said, “Thank you for saving us.”

A chorus of echos followed as the other members of the militia followed suit, but Bulat put a stop to this right away. “Don’t thank me,” he growled, his anger slipping out despite his best efforts. “You saved yerselves, you and the people who stood with ye. Me, I just helped, but ain’t no way I could’ve done this on me own. Stand tall with pride, because you fought off the Defiled today, and ain’t nobody can ever take that away from ye.” Even as they registered what he said, Bulat worried that it wouldn’t take, that they’d all go back to bowing their backs and knuckling their foreheads for every ponce who came through, but he’d said his piece and didn’t care to do any more. “Where’s yer mayor? I’ve a need to talk to him.” To find out how many militia died defending these walls and get to work repairing the damage the Defiled had done.

The militia all looked at one another in confusion, until one finally chimed in with, “The mayor left with his family as soon as the first warning came in.”

No wonder that ponce of a fop didn’t get in the way while Bulat was arranging the defences, but he vowed to loosen that dumb bastard’s teeth if they should ever crossed paths again. If he left with his family, that meant he went out through the gates and did so without letting Bulat know. Dumb move, opening the gates with a Defiled attack on the way, and while he didn’t wish death upon the dumb fop, Bulat wouldn’t lose sleep if the Enemy caught up to his carriage either.

No wait. The idiot fop had two sons, insufferable, snotty nosed brats who took after their father, but even then, Bulat would mourn the loss. Children were a treasure, or at least that’s how he felt now that he was going to be a father soon.

Dei An was safe and sound back in their home, with plenty of Khishigs to keep her safe throughout her pregnancy, which still had many months to go before the baby was due. Besides, these Defiled raiders were targeting the less defended stretches of the Western Wall, while the Bekhai district Bulat and Dei An called home was located directly east of the Northern Citadel. For it to come under attack, the Citadel would already have to be overrun, at which point the district walls and Khishig defenders might as well be a paper hat in a rain-storm. She’d come out fine though, he knew this in his bones, because the Mother made precious few people as tough as Dei An. Were it not for her pregnancy and his firm insistence, she would have probably made up some excuse to come along with him, even knowing there were too many districts with too few Warriors to go around. She’d have been on him to do something too, since these brave people had been abandoned by their mayor, because for all her disdain for how the Empire treated their own, she was as kind and generous to outsiders as she was to the people of her home village.

Course, this made things tricky when people sought to take advantage of her kindness, but they stopped coming around as often after she had the last one run out of town by the Khishigs. A grand woman, his Dei An, that she was, sweet as sugar and tough as nails, and Bulat missed her dearly, but pining over her wouldn’t bring her here and there was work still yet to be done. Finding the Khishig leader again, he studied the man’s face until a name finally came to mind. “Yorhu, right? Son of Gasu and Yindi?”

