She worked so hard to protect them, and took her limited and precious time to help their insignificant selves. She had helped them recover from being cruelly operated on by the other Powers, who thought they could do whatever they wanted in Federation land and to their people.

Alpha team would be the tip of Mother Virgil’s spear, and they were determined to keep the lead position firmly in their grasp.

Their runes were the most temperamental, but it also gave them the greatest power. They worked hard to keep ahead of the evil that had been put into their bones, but they knew the only way to truly succeed was to reach Tier 35, where they could reign supreme at the top of the mundane wars.

It was more than perfect, since at that Tier, they could turn their weapons on the Evil Empire, who Mother Virgil believed were the ones to do this to them.

Not content with their false monster of Duke Waters, who they propped up with lies and propaganda, they had entered the Federation’s lands and tried to create strong people using wicked methods to fill the void.

Alexi clenched her hand at the thought as she watched Aaron, Ajay, and April checking over everyone's weapons and gear.

They were their specialists in enchantments and crafting. Each member of the team knew their own gear, but after the initial checks, the specialists always looked it over.

Adam, their healer, was moving through each of them and inspected them before stopping at her.

“Hey, boss. How are you holding up?” He flashed a smile and pressed two fingers to her neck, sending a wave of magic into her.

Alexi didn’t lie. Mother Virgil had explained that lying to seem stronger than they were was counterproductive. The power in their bones was growing each day, and if it grew too much, they needed to speak up and tell the official healers or herself, so they could cast a spell to slow their growth.

The spells were painful in a different way, but at least they didn’t threaten to tear their skin apart.

Alexi, as the core focus of the runes that the Evil Empire had implanted in her squad, had it the worst.

A trickle of the rest of the squad's power always seeped into her, and threatened to rip her apart.

Still, right now, it was under control. While the power had built up to an almost uncontrollable limit that had threatened to kill all of them in the last few months, the head enchanter, Jecker, had come to them with a new bracelet that was better at suppressing the power of the runes.

It was good timing, and she was sure that Mother Virgil, in her benevolence, had helped the man come up with it before their all-important delve into Minkalla.

Alexi didn’t know what she would have done if she still had to endure the power levels that the runes had been outputting in the last year for the Minkalla run.

The pain had pushed them all to their limits, but now that it was gone, she and everyone felt light as a feather with their power under control.

Adam gave her a clean bill of health and moved on to helping Ashton, and going over their provisions for the Minkalla run, as was his secondary role. They would need enough food and water for the entire run, and none of them wanted to risk running low on food again.

During one of their training missions, the ration ship had exploded, and they had been forced to eat bugs to survive. It would have been ok, but the bugs had an acidic blood that made each one painful to eat.

None of them wanted to go through that again.

Receiving a message from Mother Virgil, Alexi popped to her feet and called out, “Last checks. Mother Virgil is going to send us off in ten minutes.”

That sent everyone into overdrive, and they were ready and in formation in under three minutes. None of them were willing to make Mother Virgil wait around for them.

While she never said so, they understood that she was busy, and every minute she spent with them was a minute she wasn't holding back the Evil Empire. Even though they wished they could spend every moment in Mother Virgil's gentle presence, they knew that her guiding hand couldn't be everywhere.

All the squads, A through I, vibrated as they stood in formation and waited.

Their anticipation made the seven minutes feel more like seven hours, but Mother Virgil was perfectly on time, and they felt her warm and comforting aura seep into their bones and repress the runes inside of them.

Mother Virgil smiled at them, and Alexi was grateful for her position as the squad leader. It had been forced on her by the Evil Empire, as well as her role as the core of the formation, but it let her stand closer to Mother Virgil than the others in her squad.

That made it all worth it.

“How are you all doing? Feeling ok? Do we need Jecker to look you over again before you go?”

Mother Virgil looked so concerned that Alexi’s heart twisted, but she put on her best smile and shook her head. Pain meant nothing when compared to the weight Mother Virgil shouldered.

Seeing they were okay, she continued. “We are sending a number of other youths into Minkalla with you. You don't need to protect them, as your mission is more important. Reach the core of Minkalla and reap the best rewards.”

Her face hardened, and Alexi grew angry that someone had upset Mother Virgil. “As much as I don't want to encourage you to violence, you will all need to do your best to kill the Empire scum and their doggish allies, the Guilders, to bring them to justice for their evil ways. If you see any of them, remove them.”

Alexi and the others all cried out that they would, and Mother Virgil smiled back at them. “Violence is never the best option, but sometimes it's the only option. Look at us. We, the Federation, have two allies because we are kind and don't commit acts of evil. The Sects and Republic are our friends and allies, while the other Evil Places are content to inflict suffering on us for the slightest provocation.”

Brett, leader of the Bravo team, cried out, “We must kill the filthy beasts and half-bloods as well, Mother Virgil! They can't be allowed to exist after how they treated our kindness. Please let us put them down as well.”

Mother Virgil smiled sadly and sighed. It felt like a weight landed on her shoulder as she let out that breath. “Very true. The beasts who think they are as good as us humans are scum. Right now, they are still wounded and obviously weaker than us. Eventually, they will be put back in their place, but not now. There is no need for you to sully your hands with their unworthy blood at this time. No, we need to bring the Empire to its knees, and cut its head off. Killing their demonic youths who go to Minkalla is just the first step. Everything in its due time, children.”

Alexi wished she could help Mother Virgil more directly, but knew they needed to do their own small part.

For the third time since they started training for Minkalla, Mother Virgil asked, “Are you sure that you want to go to Minkalla? It’s very dangerous. I can’t be sure that you will all come back if you go, and it would break my heart if that happens. They used different types of runes on each of you. Jecker hasn't figured out how to turn them off, but he has deduced that they are activating at different rates, and at different power levels, making it hard to know what will happen next. It will be dangerous for all of you.”

Alexi felt an overwhelming drive wash over her to go to Minkalla. It had been explained that Minkalla was the place to reforge the body and mind.

The Evil Empire had already stolen their past, and the ninety of them had collectively agreed to become strong enough to take their futures away from the Empire.

But to do that, they needed power.

The best place for them to get stronger right now was Minkalla. That made the decision easy. Mother Virgil wanted them to be safe, but they needed to be strong to protect her and the glorious Federation.

Mother Virgil spent a few minutes going amongst each of them and speaking a few words, and giving each of them a small touch.

Alexi earned herself a cheek caress, and she promised herself not to wash that check for the next month at least. A touch from Mother Virgil was too precious to wash away.

To their dismay, they had to leave on a ship to Minkalla, but the squads knew that Mother Virgil was waving them away, sad to see them go.

Minkalla was where they would make Mother Virgil proud.

And they would do it with their enemy's blood.

***

Virgil watched the first batch of rune soldiers leave for Minkalla and wondered if half of them would return.

Probably not.

The first iteration of runed soldiers were good, but there were too many instabilities with the massive power they had given the kids. It was too early to see if they were truly Slayer quality this early into the testing.

The brainwashing had worked wonders, however, and when combined with her Talent, the kids were unshakably loyal. Now was a good time to test how the kids reacted while away from her Talent.

Would any of them start to have their own independent, pesky thoughts? That data would be helpful for later batches.

Lester and Jecker had already created another few iterations of the runes to make a second batch of kids. A more stable batch, which could see a more widespread usage in the special forces. She was quite happy with her decision to not kill Jecker, after all. Lester had been quite right when he decided to save the man. He was more than happy to slice open kids and do horrible things to them in the name of science.

And she had more than enough bodies to throw at the tests. Ninety pre-awakened kids were easy to source after all.

She went back to her office and hoped at least one of the teams would get their power under control in Minkalla, so they might be useful.

An expanded version of the rune soldier program had its uses for special elite troops in the army, but she needed someone to counter Duke Waters. Her gut told her that the answer wasn’t in stable troops, but strong ones.

The bright candle burned the fastest. And she only needed the candle to burn down one house.

Who ever expected the candle to survive the inferno?
