He had been forced to kill Ren Manni to protect his own life, but Shining Lilac didn’t see it that way, and both of them knew it.

As he stood to the side, waiting for her to acknowledge him, he remembered his own time with Elder Han. The man was Tier 18, and not a particularly strong cultivator, but he had a knack for knowing exactly how hard to push the pre-awakened ten-year-olds, and extract the best out of them without breaking them.

Elder Han had ensured Long Zhiyuan’s own time in the outer Sect was productive, and even a little fun.

Half of the games that the children played were cleverly disguised training games which would prepare them for later battles training their small unit teamwork and tactics.

Finally, as the children were ushered into a run to the stream two miles away, Shining Lilac spoke, “Young Master Blood Hand, are you prepared to go to Minkalla?”

Long Zhiyuan nodded to her back. “I am. Do we have a final list of the disciples who are coming with me?”

Shining Lilac gestured with a finger, and a memory crystal flew to him. He had his [Spiritual Self] analyze it.

More cultivators than he had expected had applied to accompany him on this trip. Too many, honestly. Some of them were clearly unsuited to brave such dangers. Pushing yourself was always a good thing, but pushing yourself off a cliff when you had no chance of surviving was stupid. Some cultivators peaked later in life, and that was a perfectly valid path to advancement.

“Minkalla is a charnel house. Prepare your fellow disciples well, as I expect you to ensure some of them return.” Long Zhiyuan resisted the urge to narrow his eyes. The Sect Master’s tone suggested that he would be held responsible if not enough survived the trip, but she continued before he could think too deeply on the implication. “Your fates will be tested in Minkalla, and not only against the other Sects, but also against the Foreign Powers. If you are not careful, even your prodigious powers will mean little. I wish you the best of luck in reaching the core.”

While her words were those of encouragement, Long Zhiyuan knew that she hoped he dove too deep and killed himself. No matter. He intended to reach the bottom no matter what. Though he knew not what awaited him, as the Sects believed that entering Minkalla blind made for better cultivators from those who exited, the journey would certainly not be in vain. Be it a heavens-shattering technique or earth-rendering weapon, the gains would be his.

Any and everything was possible in Minkalla. The stories told of dozens of legends who were common before testing their luck in its ruinous depths.

Still her words about hoping some of her disciples returned was a fair assessment, though worrying. He had seen the numbers before. If one contender from a group of ten returned from Minkalla, it would be a bountiful year.

Long Zhiyuan waited for another few minutes, but when Shining Lilac said nothing else he dipped his head in a bow before he turned and left.

Technically, as a Young Master, he was of equal social standing to the Sect Master and could do away with formalities, but it was a privilege he rarely exercised. He expected others to follow the formalities, so he followed them himself.

Reviewing the list of names, he walked with purpose to seek out a few of the disciples that he knew were unsuitable.

Talking with the weaker disciples, he convinced all but one of them to reconsider and stay in the Sect to grow their skills before venturing out.

Han De refused, saying he had made up his mind to use Minkalla to transform himself.

Death or glory.

Long Zhiyuan disagreed, but said nothing. It wasn’t his place to do more than advise them.

A short two days later, his group boarded the Sect's cloudship and flew to the regional capital of the planet.

They were greeted by Provincial Governor Adam, who was an outer disciple of the Smithing Hands Sect. The Tier 47 Sect was responsible for overseeing this weak planet and all of the on-planet Sects reported to them.

Once all thirty-seven local Sects gathered, he asked, “Are each of you prepared, body and spirit, for Minkalla?”

As the Young Master, Long Zhiyuan reported for his Sect and listened as each of the other Young Masters, or eldest disciples, did the same.

Despite there being thirty-seven Sects represented, there were only nine Young Masters on this voyage.

Five were Tier 13, three were Tier 14, and he was the sole one at Tier 12.

The other Young Masters had all been killed during the Cullings, and their Sects hadn’t raised up a Young Master in time to the proper Tier for Minkalla.

Deep Sky Ravagers Sect was the only one with two Young Masters; two years ago it would have been three, but Long Zhiyuan had personally killed Shen Fung in the last culling, returning a Young Master position to Flowing Grass Sect.

Their two Sects had an incredible enmity already, and he knew that he had to watch his back in Minkalla’s halls. For their blades, and the other Great Powers’.

Still he had practiced fighting both of them with his Talent many times, and was confident in his victory against both sides. Killing them would be harder, but he could defeat them without issue.

Provincial Governor Adam was a charming host, and once they arrived on the large, chaotic ship, he gathered the Young Masters for an elegant dinner. Long Zhiyuan thought the event was a waste of time, but maintained a polite mask during the meal, as was expected of one of his position.

Provincial Governor Adam had a strong backing, and despite their statuses as Young Masters, he had more power than them. However, status was a fickle thing, and the man was sucking up to them in case one of them made it past Tier 20 in the program. Though, they were guilty of the same in hopes of using him as a recommendation to join the higher ranking Sects.

As Long Zhiyuan played the game, the Servants who stood along the far wall never left his mind.

All the men were exactly 5’11, and the women were 5’8. Each of them wore the same robes in the same way, and stood in the same position, hands clasped in front of them. The only way to tell them apart was their facial features. But even then, that was muted, as they all had one of four hair cuts.

Long and unbound, except for a single tail to keep hair off of the face, long and twisted into a bun at the nape of the neck, short and tidy with the hair combed and styled to precision, or cleanly shaven with not a hair in sight.

That was it. No Servant had anything except those four styles.

Most of them had their hair long, either in a bun or loose, but one of the women had a shaved head, and two of the men had the closer cut.

It was unnerving to see so many people look so similar, but with small differences.

His own Servant was the only one who never stopped smiling, but somehow, even that did not seem out of place with the other Servants.

It was uncanny.

After the appropriate amount of time chatting, Long Zhiyuan made his excuses and rose to leave.

Young Mistress Caring Jade joined him, and they silently walked through the ship's spacious interiors until the paths to their destinations split apart.

He thought she wouldn't say anything, but she turned just as they were to separate and asked, “Young Master Blood Hand, can I rely on you and your people to watch my own in Minkalla?”

Long Zhiyuan paused as he thought it over.

Her Sect, Sleek Blades Sect, wasn’t an ally of Soaring Clouds Sect, but it was neutral enough that he didn’t suspect foul play in her suggestion.

A full alliance was out of the question, but nonaggression was possible.

“On behalf of the Soaring Clouds Sect,” he replied, “I can agree on a pact of nonaggression within Minkalla.”

He noticed an almost imperceptible frown flit across Caring Jade’s face before she nodded back, accepting his word. She turned without saying anything more, with her own Servant a silent shadow trailing behind her as they made their way to the Sleek Blades Sect’s quarters.

Returning to his cabin, Long Zhiyuan started his own martial practices. His Talent let him practice at all times but doing it himself in conjunction with his idle clone sped up the progress, and he needed to be at his best for what was coming up.

When they were halfway to Minkalla, he started bringing each disciple of the Soaring Clouds Sect to his cabin and offering his experience to help them with any issues. It was expected of a Young Master to be both a strong fighter and a leader.

Long Zhiyuan didn't care for that expectation, but he would do his job. Anything he did, he would do to the best of his abilities, so he didn’t slack off, and offered whatever he could to his juniors. It wasn't like any of them were a threat. If they were, they would have challenged him when he was Tier 5.

None had.

Few of the disciples had anything large to ask of him, and with those, he simply conversed and ensured that they knew what they were getting into. Those with larger hurdles, he spent more time with and helped them work through whatever individual obstacles they had in front of them.

Most were simple, but Han De was having trouble with his [First Dawn’s Spiritual Might] technique, and the modifications towards close combat necessary for stronger punches according to the Sect’s manuscript.

He had messed something up in the technique’s structure, and instead of strengthening his chest and core, it now focused most of its power into his legs. Han De wanted to discard the technique and try again, not wanting to be thought a coward only trying to run away. Instead of that, Long Zhiyuan convinced him to not be so hasty, and taught him a few new kicking techniques to take advantage of the technique’s modification.

If Han De got a kicking shin guard, he could turn that mistake into a devastating surprise attack.

And if all else failed, it would make for a good escape technique.

There was nothing wrong with running away from a fight you couldn’t win. The Great Sects preached differently, but the Clash of Fates taught him better.

He didn't say it, but he could see in Han De’s eyes that he understood.

The trip itself was mostly uneventful, though he was still unable to get [Heavenly All Seeing Eye] to peer past the surface and find out what techniques people were hiding. Long Zhiyuan believed he was close, but there was a bottleneck that he couldn’t yet overcome. After his continued failures, he suspected that he couldn't do it without a refinement sphere, and intended to buy one before they entered Minkalla proper.

The only eventful thing to happen was when the Titans Fist Sect and Deep Miners Sect came to blows, and eleven of their disciples were slain before they were reigned in by the other Sects.

Those two Sects hated each other to the bone, so it wasn’t surprising. The Sect Masters had a longstanding feud, and that had seeped into the younger generation.

Long Zhiyuan just found it a waste of good bodies ready to enter Minkalla.

They could have killed each other there, and at least served some purpose, after all.

When they arrived at the Minkalla system, Long Zhiyuan knew his time to shine had come.

***

Alexi watched as her team got ready.

Their barracks room was clean and neat.

Alpha team had been preparing for their Minkalla run for the last year, and each of them was at the peak of Tier 12.

They were strong, and would dominate once inside.

When they had been designated Alpha team in recognition of their exceptional advancement, everyone on the team had decided to take new names that started with A’s to honor Mother Virgil.

She had saved them from a life of torment and given them power.

They hadn’t had names, and she had encouraged them to choose their own.

Ashton, Arnold, Aaron, Ajay, Adam, April, Alyssa, Alana, Aurora, and herself, Alexi. It had been fun for the ten of them to come up with names, and their choices were mirrored by the other nine squads.

She was still mad at them for stealing their idea to take names that started with the first letter of the squad designation, but each team claimed to have had the idea first.

Alexi knew that as a lie, as they had come up with the idea on their own, but each team had gone through their own naming scheme.

‘A’ through ‘I’, each had kept the convention.

Still, Alexi knew her team was the best. The friendly rivalry between the teams had turned heated in the last year as they prepared for Minkalla, but Mother Virgil had cautioned them against truly fighting each other, which kept tempers down to a reasonable degree.

She still wanted her team to do the best.

Mother Virgil had promised them great rewards if they managed to reach the core and reap the best prizes.

That was all her team needed to hear to set that as their only acceptable goal.

If Mother Virgil wanted it, she would get it. She had saved them from a life worse than death, and had given them hope.

Even as the runes carved into their very bones increased in power, and pushed their bodies to the limit with their corrupting presence, Mother Virgil always made sure to come and soothe them with her power.

Alexi hadn’t even needed to cajole her team into practicing harder after hearing Mother Virgil's request.

They had already been working hard, of course, but going at one hundred percent at all times was nearly impossible. Still, they had managed it with that goal. That was the power that Mother Virgil gave them.

All of the teams took strength from their savior, and wanted to get strong enough to help protect her.

They had all learned about the other Evil Places that had once ripped the glorious Federation apart in a jealous fit, and Mother Virgil had the arduous task of protecting the survivors of the Federation.

