Tala cleared her throat. “As much fun as this topic is, I need to keep moving forward.”

Lea turned and looked at the remaining red clouds. “Yeah, I was going to ask after that. What is it?”

“A crazy solution to an insane problem.” Tala stepped around Lea, giving her a little tap to indicate she wanted her to follow along. “Let me complete the solution, and then we can figure out what comes next.”

Even though Rane and Lea fell into silence—and Terry was simply comfortably settled on her shoulder—they stayed with her, offering comfort and support.

It took nearly half an hour more to progress back to where her path had started, driving and compacting the roiling, glowing cloud the whole way, leaving absolutely none of the almost-living, crystalized reality in their wake. This was only possible because—thankfully—some mix of the iron, the highly reactive state Tala had placed it in, her will, and her authoritative power did indeed allow for the crystalized reality to be swept up and absorbed, contained and rendered… if not inert, no longer able to grow outward.

Tala began to have trouble compacting and unifying what remained with will and authority alone when what remained was the size of a large house.

As such, she conceptualized what she was working with and began layering on gravity magics, altering the coefficient of gravity of the substance to itself, compacting it further and further just as she did with the siege orbs.

That utterly failed, because of course it did. She was dealing with reality and iron… She frowned at that. Reality iron can be affected by magic, though…

So, it wasn’t quite fully combined yet? That was… interesting.

Still, she had the template from her magic, and was able to form her will and authority into the working in place of magical power, and that took effect, even if far slower.

As she’d started with quite a lot of iron, she did the compaction in distinct chunks, working with Alat to enact the two dozen workings at once, keeping them distinct even as she ramped up the power.

That took another hour, but when she was done, twenty-four blood red spheres smoldered on the ground, perfectly smooth, but seeming to contain roiling clouds of auric intensity.

As they looked down at the results of their work, surrounded by a ring of Archons—who’d each helped keep the substance or reaction contained since the beginning of the process—Mistress Holly walked up. “Mistress Tala, you are needed in the healer’s tent.”

That drew Tala’s attention, but the Inscriptionist’s countenance was such that Tala did not delay. Instead, she willed the spheres into a new small space for later study, bowed in thanks to those who had aided her, and turned to follow the older woman. “Of course, Mistress Holly. Lead the way.”
