Three officers sat in a circle near a large bonfire. The adventurer, Rain, sat a little distance away, guarded by one of his followers. The area outside the bathhouse was fully illuminated, with barricades sectioning it off from the rest of the city. Thousands of citizens had gathered, working tirelessly to light the area and block off all of the streets that they could. Now, their work done, they sheltered in the bathhouse and the surrounding buildings.

Fifteen officers, two adventurers, and one crazy merchant. That was all they had to keep the terrified masses safe, not including a handful of merchant’s guards and volunteers. All of those were unawakened, and thus, useless in a real fight. No nobles had come, the baths being in the wrong section of the city for their kind.

Other than the omnipresent torches, there were also three large bonfires to the north, east, and south. Those were set up near the main barricades where they’d been having the most trouble. The wandering Stumpers seemed to prefer open spaces, and the three bonfires corresponded to the three largest avenues into this section of the city. They’d stationed four awakened at each, but they’d since been forced to drop that number to two as the mages started reaching their limits. Even with seemingly unlimited mana from the Night Cleaner, soulstrain could not be ignored.

“Do you think he’s asleep?” asked Officer Sarl, nodding to the immobile adventurer.

“Lord Rain would only rest if the danger had passed,” said the annoying worker, who was standing ‘guard’ next to his ‘lord.’

Sarl glared at the man. “Didn’t ask you. Mind your own business.”

“Be nice, Sarl,” said Wolf, the female officer giving him a reproachful look. She drew a card from her hand and tossed it down onto the pile. “That’s six.”

“What?” said Sarl, staring at the card. “Hey! You can’t do that!”

“I just did,” said Wolf, grinning at him. “Are you going to do something about it?”

Sarl flinched and looked away from her bared teeth. They were perfectly normal human teeth, of course. But there was a reason that they called her Wolf. Sarl didn’t even remember the woman’s real name.

“He isn’t sleeping,” said Officer Moston, playing a card. “And I’d appreciate it if you would speak quietly. Four.” He set his cards down, rubbing at his temples.

“How can you tell?” asked Sarl, looking at Moston. The Fire Mage was surrounded by glowing blue rings, the visual effect of whatever spell the adventurer was using.

“You can’t cast when you’re asleep,” said Moston.

“He can, though,” said Wolf, pointing at the adventurer. “You know that better than anyone, Moston. You were there at the stronghold when—”

She cut off as Moston held up a hand. “Sorry, I should clarify.” He grunted, rubbing at his eyes. “Damn this headache. You’re right that he can keep something going in his sleep, as crazy as that is on its own. What I meant was, he can’t cast, you know? As in, actively select and use a spell. Watch, it will just be a few more seconds…”

The group of three card-players waited. After a moment, the blue rings surrounding Moston flickered out and vanished. Four seconds later, the magic reappeared as if it had never left.

“See?” Moston said. “He just did something.”

“Detection,” said the adventurer’s voice.

“Shit!” Sarl swore, almost dropping his cards. “I thought he couldn’t hear us?”

Wolf laughed, slapping him on the back. Sarl flinched away from her touch, then tried to play it off as mere startlement. He wasn’t afraid of Wolf, of course, but there was something about what she was that just cut through his rationality and made him react like a fool. Wolf just grinned at him, showing more of her teeth than she needed to, a mischievous glimmer in her eyes. “That’s just when he’s freezing our asses off,” she said. “I would have thought you’d have picked up on that by now.”

Sarl looked back at the silent adventurer, considering. Wolf was right; he should have already noticed that. In his defense, the outlandish aura skills that the adventurer used were entirely new to him. He wasn’t familiar with their unique quirks, and he had no other examples to compare them to.

The reason for this was obvious. The Watch assigned premade builds for their members, leading to a compartmentalization of their individual capabilities. A Fire Mage was a Fire Mage, and a Swordsman was a Swordsman. There were different variants of the archetypes, of course, but everyone followed one of the well-known progressions that had been laid out by generations of past Watch pioneers. Only very rarely were new builds tried, and never anything as outlandish as what the Night Cleaner seemed to be going for. Even Warden Vatreece had based her build on an archetype, though who knew how it had diverged once she passed beyond the realm of humans and into the territory of legends. It and the builds of the other former Watch heroes were recorded somewhere in Vigilance, but a lowly officer like him would never be told the details.

The Guild, he knew, took a hands-off approach when it came to builds. The freedom sounded nice, but the uncertainty of whether a misplaced skill point would jeopardize your entire future was something that he was glad he didn’t have to deal with. It made sense to him, therefore, that the well known builds still dominated amongst Guilders. There was danger in going outside of the norm, so the tried-and-true appeal of something like Fire Mage won out. There was just too much risk of ruining your life when it came to going off the beaten path.

The Night Cleaner, though, was something else entirely. The man laughed in the face of such wisdom and didn’t appear to have a single skill that Sarl had ever heard of, other than Winter. Sarl had once thought that the man was an escaped Beacon or something—one of the aura slaves used by the Empire—but that clearly was not the case. He hadn’t spoken to the man at length, but every time the adventurer opened his mouth, the possibility that he’d been born in the Empire seemed more and more remote.

It was a mystery, and not one that stemmed just from the adventurer’s curious choice in skills. The Night Cleaner’s armor was better-crafted than anything Sarl had ever seen, but from the way he treated the unawakened, he clearly came from a common background. That made the fact that he had such expensive equipment all the more confounding. And that wasn’t even touching on the issue with the man’s soul.

Having never been the best at Reading, Sarl couldn’t make out any fine detail, but even he could see that there was something seriously, seriously wrong. A normal paling was calm and opaque, like frosted glass, or perhaps ice. Rain’s, however, shined brightly with an angry red light, and its surface was spiderwebbed with cracks. That wasn’t even the worst part; it was the flickering energy that was leaking from within that would haunt his dreams.

Sarl wasn’t a religious man, but that light had him thinking of Hell Rekzakurax. Rekzakurax was a dark god, and his hell was synonymous with rage and destruction. The contrast with the adventurer’s personality couldn’t have been more jarring. How such chaos and evil could lurk within the soul of such an unassuming man, he couldn’t fathom. Unless it is all an act, a tiny voice whispered in the corner of his mind. Unless demons are real.

Sarl shook his head. Such superstition was unbecoming of an officer of the Watch. The man was injured and had melodramatic fashion sense, nothing more. Whatever was wrong with the man’s soul was something new; it hadn’t been there the last time he’d encountered the adventurer, which had been before Westbridge’s attack.

He’d discussed the issue with the other officers outside of the adventurer’s hearing, and they’d decided as a group to discuss it with Officer Marghee once they made it back to the eastern stronghold. Until then, they would keep their lips sealed. Reading was not to be discussed with outsiders, not without permission.

“Rain,” a new voice said. Sarl turned to see the other adventurer, Val, approaching from the east. As he crossed the chalk circle that had been drawn on the ground surrounding Rain, blue rings formed around his feet.

“What is it?” Rain asked.

“Nothing,” Val said. “I’m just out of mana again. You, Fire Mage, you’re up.”

Moston groaned, pushing himself to his feet. “Fine. I think I can handle one more shift. Where’s Elm?”

Val sniffed. “He couldn’t take it any longer. He’s on his way to go rest with the other children.”

“Hey!” Sarl shouted. “Fuck you, Elm is one of our best—”

“Quiet,” Rain said, his armored head pivoting to look at him. “Sarl, Val, I’m too tired for your shit. If you start another argument, so help me I’ll cram both of you so full of mana your heads will explode.”

“Can you actually do that?” said Moston. “With the way my head feels right now, I almost believe it.”

Rain shrugged, gesturing to Val. “Made him puke once. I’ve been meaning to test it on slimes, but animal testing is unethical.”

“You’re so weird,” Wolf said, laughing as she grinned at the adventurer. “Slimes aren’t animals, everyone knows that.”

Rain shrugged. “Val, how are the guards holding up? And why the hell did you leave them alone?”

“Oh, relax, they’re fine,” said Val, waving him away. “There’s nothing out there right now. Besides, you met Carten’s aunt, right?” He laughed. “I see where he gets it from.”

The seated adventurer nodded. “Yes, I met her.” His voice didn’t sound amused, only tired. He turned to face Moston. “Are you ready?”

Moston nodded, looking like he immediately regretted the motion.

Sarl grimaced. Just the look on Moston’s face was painful enough. He couldn’t even imagine how bad the headache must be. Hells, I’m glad I’m not a mage. He looked at the seated adventurer. The amount of mana that this guy puts out is insane. How isn’t he bleeding from his eyes after giving away that much? What is he?

“Alright then,” Wolf said with a sigh, tossing down her cards. “Damn it, and I was winning too.” She got to her feet, looking at the seated adventurer. “Well, if you’re going, I might as well get back on patrol. I’m gonna shift. Top me up once I’m done, would you?”

“Of course,” Rain said, nodding to her.

Sarl looked away as a series of sickening cracks and pops came from Wolf’s direction. He’d watched her change once, and he’d regretted it ever since. The worst part was the knees. They literally bent backward, the bones breaking and reforming as the joints reversed themselves into ankles rather than just sliding to where they were supposed to be.

“Aw, that is just wrong,” Val said. Clearly, he hadn’t been around when Wolf had changed earlier.

“I know,” said Rain. “What the hell happens to her clothes when she does that? And where does all the extra mass—”

“Not that,” said Val. “Well, I suppose there’s that too, but did you see her legs? The way that they just—”

“Stop!” Sarl said, getting to his feet. “I’m going too. My legs are feeling better, and I don’t want to think about kneecaps, ankles, shattered bones, or anything like that.”

“Wait,” Rain said, raising a hand suddenly. He pointed off to his left without looking. “One of you go relieve Officer Tilson on the north side and send him back here to rest. We can’t afford anyone else burning out like Elm. Hurry, there’s a pack of Lurkers coming toward the barrier.”

Sarl hesitated. He didn’t do well with spiders. Moston, however, had already started moving. Sarl frowned as he realized what Moston taking the north side meant. That means I’m going east to replace Val. Now that Elm’s had it, I’ll be alone.

Seemingly reading his mind, the adventurer’s head turned to him. “If you run into trouble, send one of the guards to get me. I’ll deal with it. We’ve only got an hour until sunup.”

“Lord Rain, we would gladly guard the barriers again!” said the annoying worker. “You don’t need to trouble yourself. I will go wake Vanna and—”

“Tarny, enough,” Rain said. “Let Vanna rest. She earned it. All of you earned it. I am here now, and I won’t let you or any of the other workers endanger yourselves. Not when we have actual fighters here to hold the line. You’re already doing enough just patrolling the streets inside.”

Sarl yelped as an enormous wet tongue licked the side of his face unexpectedly. “Ah! Damn it, Wolf!” he shouted, jumping back and glaring at the bulky monster towering over him. The entire right side of his head was drenched with slobber.

Larger even than a normal specimen from the Badlands, the Musk Wolf transformation was terrifying, especially to anyone who hadn’t seen it before. The blue rings of Rain’s spell looked out of place surrounding the transformed officer, scaled up to match the ridiculous size of her body.

Wolf let her mouth hang open in a lupine grin, settling back onto her haunches and staring down at him with her shining yellow eyes.

Sarl gritted his teeth as Moston and Val laughed at his futile attempts to wipe the slobber from his face. She’s not even that strong, she just looks impressive. Damn it all. Stupid longsword archetype. I don’t even get anything good until tier three.

Suddenly, the laughter was cut off as the Night Cleaner shouted. “Quiet!” He pointed to the south, still seated on the ground. “Stumper just spawned near Mlem and Dani. Wolf, go.”

Wolf sprung to her feet and dashed away, moving far faster than a creature of her size should have been able to.

“Get to the east barricade, Sarl,” Rain said. “Just hang in there one more hour until dawn. I’ll send Val back over to you as soon as I can. It shouldn’t be long; maybe ten minutes.”

Sarl hesitated, then nodded. How did I end up following his orders? There is something seriously wrong here. He shook his head. “You’d better get off your ass and come help me if something comes.”

“I will try,” Rain said, then hesitated. “But I can’t be everywhere, and I’m not much of a fighter.”

Sarl nodded. He understood, though he had his doubts. He didn’t like Guilders as a rule; they were a bunch of selfish assholes. Rain was different, however. The damage to the man’s soul made reading his intent trivial. The adventurer had never lied to him, not even once.

