Somehow, it’s even less regal than it sounds.

Special

Can be Purified?

Crystal Mucus King?

Fungiform Stumper

Class

Fungiform

Level

11

Aspect

Chemical

Bounty

1650 exp

3-15 Tel

0-2 chem-crysts

Health

~12,000

Physical (Force?) Resistance

Considerable

Does blunt/slashing matter?

Cold Resistance

~80

Heat Resistance

~25

Physical Attack

Blunt. Slow.

Extremely powerful.

Don’t get hit!

Spore Cloud

Effect unknown

Purify mitigates

Description

Three-meter tall mushroom guy.

In Soviet Fel Sadanis, Goomba stomps you!

Sitting in Aura Focus with Winter running at full blast, the plot that he’d drawn in his notebook came to mind easily, the memory shockingly clear. The problem was that he didn’t have enough hard data. The officers had tried to answer his questions, but the numbers that they’d given him were often confusing or contradictory.

From the spread of the stats, there seemed to be a few different types of monsters; swarms, guardians, bruisers, reapers, etc. Each type probably had its own progression, or there could be some sort of point-buy system, or hell, full-blown builds, stats, and skill trees for everything. Talking to Wolf was no use—the woman was infuriatingly cagey about her build, even when it was clear that he already knew most of the skills involved. All of the officers were, in fact. His best bet would be Rina. As a fledgling tamer, the young noblewoman might have some insights about monsters she’d be willing to share.

If she’s still alive…

Rain shook his head, pushing away such dark thoughts. He pinged again with Detection, conscious that it had only been a few seconds since his last scan. It cost mana to check so often, but it helped him feel better. It seemed safe for the moment, but the danger was all around him, and it could strike at any time. He couldn’t afford to get complacent, especially with what the numbers were telling him.

It wasn’t clear if the progression for monster strength was linear, quadratic, or exponential. Exponential looked like the best fit, but honestly, that might have just been his pessimism influencing him. Running a proper fit without a computer was hard, and picking and choosing which points to include for which classes of monsters was fraught with uncertainty.

An exponential curve looked like it lined up with the average, but there were a few pretty glaring outliers. It also agreed with what everyone said about the strength of monsters compared to humans. Rain’s opinion was that the reason humans fell off had more to do with lack of optimization, rather than any real difference in inherent power. Looking at his own numbers, and those of some of the other builds he’d been toying with, it wasn’t even that unbelievable for monsters to have an exponential progression. They’d need it, just to keep up. With proper skill selection, exponential power was easily in reach, though he was unsure where the limit truly lay.

Still, some of the health numbers that he’d calculated with his preliminary fit of 40*1.5level were terrifying. A perfect example of this was what had happened when he’d used it to estimate the stats of the Razorspine Dissolver that Vanna had encountered, and of the Musk Wolf that had tried to eat his face.

Razorspine Dissolver

Class

Razorspine

Level

15

Aspect

Chemical

Bounty

?

Health

18,000???

Resistances

100??

Razorspine Blades

? Force Damage

Very Fast

Acid Crescent

? Chemical Damage

Medium range.

Acid Spray

? Chemical DOT

Short-Range AOE

Description

According to the Watch, Razorspines are giant bugs with slashing blades and quills. Some of the smaller ones are supposedly like porcupines or sea-urchins, though nobody seems to have heard of either of those animals.

The Dissolver is a bit different, and it has a reputation as being particularly deadly for its level. It is a giant praying-mantis thing that spits acid.

Its “razorspines” come in the form of a pair of distinctive blades that can slice an unawakened in half. As if that wasn’t bad enough, it spits acid that can eat through steel, and it launches bolts of chemical magic that dissolve whatever they hit.

Oh, and it’s smart. Yay!

Special

Reaper Classification

Unclear what this means in terms of stats

Musk Wolf

Class

Wolf?

Level

18

Aspect

Force?

Bounty

Awakening

Pelt (worth >100 Tel)

?

Health

59k????

Resistances

350???

Attack Damage

?????

Description

A wolf the size of a refrigerator. Yeah.

This is the essence monster version.

Base monster is level 5 and is common in the Badlands.

Very bite.

Much shaggy.

Wow.

Special

Essence Monster

Encountered outside Fel Sadanis.

Weakened (how much?) by low-rank zone.

Rain shook his head. I was definitely in a silly mood when I was writing that description for the Musk Wolf. I really should go back and update it to be more descriptive. Also, I can’t believe I spent twenty minutes just trying to get it to make the text blue on the name.

With a sigh, he dismissed all of the cards. Tilson was getting close, and he could play with the numbers some more later. After he’d slept, preferably. Interrogating more people for monster information would also go a long way, short of finding a proper bestiary.

Rain dropped Aura Focus and flipped up his visor so he could rub at his eyes. Fifty-nine THOUSAND health, and that’s not even accounting for the fact that it was a blue. The projection is just using the data I have from normal monsters. For all I know, an essence monster’s stats might be twice that. Fucking insane. It can’t keep going exponentially; it just can’t. Otherwise, something would have cracked the planet in half by now…

Then again, the stones are supposed to be stronger in the depths, so maybe not. Damn it, reliable information is so hard to come by.

A sudden flash of memory struck him, unbidden, then he started laughing aloud to himself. I want to get online! I need a computer!

“Guilder,” said Officer Tilson, interrupting his outburst.

Rain winced. Oops. I’ve officially been awake too long, and drinking all that coffee was a mistake. “Officer Tilson,” he said, looking up to see the old officer standing there, carrying his massive bow slung over his shoulder with the string tight across his chest. Rain gestured to the ground next to the slumbering Val. “Sorry, don’t mind me. Have a seat. I’m recovering my own mana, and I’ll be ready to give you some in a few minutes.”

Tilson nodded, making no comment about Rain’s apparent insanity. The man just looked tired as he unslung his bow and slumped to the ground beside the fire. Rain closed his eyes again and reactivated Aura Focus.

Tilson was the leader of the group of ten officers from the eastern stronghold. He was an Elemental Archer by his own admission, though Rain hadn’t been able to get any details out of him about the class. From the skills Rain had seen the man using, it appeared to be reasonably balanced in terms of mana and stamina usage. The fact that the man was still standing was proof of that.

In general terms, stamina-users had better endurance—no pun intended—than mana-users did. With Rain around to replenish the mages, they’d kept up with the fighters admirably, but there was obviously a limit. Hybrid fighters like Tilson, Wolf, and, surprisingly, Mlem, were more resilient, able to lean on Rain’s mana replenishment to preserve their stamina.

Rain pulled up his own status to watch his mana pool as it refilled, the number rapidly climbing before his eyes.

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

Dynamo

18

18

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

22,749

22,750

454,832

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

HP

940

940

250/d

SP

177

520

340/d

MP

4,167

6,157

1.4/s

Dark Revenant’s Armor

CUR

MAX

RGN

DUR

12,721

13,338

0

SAT

0

13,202

-92/s

CHG

174

14,209

-65/d

Attributes

139/139

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

BUFF

SYN

STR

13.2

47

10

37/37

28%

RCV

10.5

25

10

15/15

42%

END

8.06

26

10

16/16

31%

VGR

15.3

34

10

24/24

45%

FCS

10

10

10

0/49

100%

CLR

247

247

200

47/61

100%

Resistances

50/?

FLAT

PERCENT

HEAT

2.6

0%

COLD

2.6

0%

LIGHT

2.6

0%

DARK

52.6

0%

FORCE

2.6

0%

ARCANE

2.6

0%

CHEMICAL

2.6

0%

MENTAL

2.6

0%

Idly, he triggered his training overview as well.

Training Overview

It was blank, as he’d expected. He was already sitting at the experience cap, and he was still holding off on purchasing any more skill trees. He’d begun summoning the dialog regularly, starting several hours ago, concerned about how much Essence Well he’d been using. Spreading out the strain would be better than letting it pile up. Even though the dialog was blank, he knew that every time he summoned it, it did something to his soul. He could tell that just from the reaction of the officers the first time he’d done it, though they refused to tell him what they’d seen. Most of them still treated him with distrust, Sarl being the only one he’d ever met prior to today.

The first summoning of the dialog had been the most difficult mentally, though it had ended up being painless. Prior to biting the bullet, he had briefly considered the insane idea of just pushing off his training overview indefinitely, but that had been the sleep deprivation talking. He was now confident—reasonably confident—that he had chosen the correct course of action.

Thirty seconds passed, and Rain paused Winter to do his customary 4-second scan with Detection. It went: Humans, Monsters, Stumpers, Unidentified Monsters. The last category used IFF to screen out anything that he’d personally fought.

It was a signal from the final pulse that made him shoot to his feet, an icy spike of dread piercing his heart.

“What is it?” Tarny said, the worker’s voice fading in as Rain’s senses returned.

“Unknown monster,” Rain said. He kicked Val lightly in the side. “Val, get up.”

Val’s groggy protests were interrupted by Tilson, who spoke right over him. “Where is it?”

Rain didn’t answer; instead, he took off at a run, headed west, toward the bathhouse and away from the barricades.

“Shit, inside?” Tilson said.

“Follow!” Rain shouted, not looking back. “You too, Tarny, Val.” He activated Velocity, keeping the intensity down to avoid disorienting the others. He pumped his arms, sprinting as quickly as he could.

His footsteps sounded loud against the cobblestones, though he barely felt the impacts thanks to the layer of Forceweave between his feet and the ground. The material wasn’t enchanted, but its base magical properties distributed force in a way that he still hadn’t quite gotten used to. He’d taken the time to change into the bodysuit he’d commissioned, and the difference between it and the lumpy padding he’d been using before was striking. It barely felt like he was wearing armor at all, not with the incredibly soft fabric covering him from head to toe beneath it.

He pinged again with Detection, homing in on the signal. To his immense relief, it was coming from a dark alley near the river, not the bathhouse itself. A torch must have gone out, allowing monsters to spawn. Indeed, he could already see a few Lurkers milling about at the entrance to the alley, though they weren’t what he was concerned about.

A blood-curdling screech echoed from the darkness as he charged toward it. He dropped Velocity, fighting for traction on the cobblestones as he arrested his momentum.

“Fuck!” Officer Tilson swore, coming to a stop beside him and unslinging his heavy longbow from his back. “I know that cry. That’s a Razorspine.”

Rain’s blood ran cold. Val, on the other hand, looked excited as he caught up, skidding to a halt on Rain’s other side.

“This should be fun!” he said, summoning a Lunar Orb over his hand.

“Tarny!” Rain shouted, glancing over his shoulder. “Run to the barricades. Get the other awakened to meet us here, and tell everyone else to stay away!”

Mercifully, Tarny didn’t argue. Rain looked back at the alley, and he barely had time to register what he was seeing before the sickle of green magic struck him.

“Argh!” he gasped, stumbling back, less from the impact, and more from surprise. Val also shouted in alarm. The crescent-moon blade of energy had been flying straight for his head before it had curved at the last second to hit Rain in the shoulder. Acid Crescent, the Watch had called the attack. From the shape, it was clear why.

Rain’s HUD had a bar for his armor beneath his one for his health. When the magic had struck, a blue transparent overlay had appeared, indicating the armor’s saturation, or the amount of magical damage that the metal could absorb before it reached its limit. The single blast of Chemical energy had filled the bar by around a tenth, which meant approximately one-and-a-half thousand damage from the single strike. The armor would purge that mana over time at the rate of ninety-two points per second, which was nice, but hardly a comfort, given that a second crescent of green magic was already flying toward him from the alley.

This time, the projectile was headed for him directly. Rain threw himself to the side in a frantic attempt to dodge but was still struck directly in the torso as the spell homed in on him. It’s the metal. It’s attracting the magic!

Officer Tilson didn’t seem fazed by the close call. He’d drawn an arrow and planted his bow in the ground, the massive weapon almost taller than he was. Both the arrow shaft and the bowstring started crackling with lightning as he prepared to use what was probably Shock Arrow, unless Rain missed his guess. There was a crash of thunder as he released, and the arrow shot toward the alley, bending around the corner unnaturally.

There was a flash followed by an inhuman scream of outrage, then the monster rushed out of the alley, headed directly for them.

Rain’s eyes widened as the torchlight glinted off the wicked, scythe-like blades of the massive insect. The monster was green, with an angular, horse-sized body covered with numerous deadly-looking spikes. Its six legs ended in barbed hooks that shattered the cobblestones as it charged toward them. Its two longer bladed arms sprouted from a torso bearing a triangular head with massive, dripping mandibles. It was like a centaur crossed with a spider and a praying mantis, but with a healthy dose of eldritch abomination thrown in for spice. Its name and level were displayed along with its health above its head.

Razorspine Dissolver – Level 15

Oh, fuck me!
