“No Alwyna, we are not refusing. We simply have some conditions,” the man spoke. “For starters, I must see with my own eyes the enrolment letters and her attending classes at Oxhead. And these journeys you intend to take her on… I must demand an artifact which allows me to communicate with my daughter at all times. You seem wealthy and powerful, this is the least I ask for.”

“Done. You shall have all of that,” Orodan immediately agreed.

If anything, her father was being rather permissive. Growing up, he’d seen some of the normal children have some very overprotective parents. Like mother bears guarding their cubs. By those standards, Aliya’s father was downright carefree.

“Hold on! I never agreed! What are you doing Gythmar? Do you want her to end up like Aldin?!”

“Or alternately… she simply runs off and continues doing what she likes, or gets drafted into the Burgher’s personal retinue and molded into that life regardless,” her father, Gythmar spoke. “And while I do not think our little girl would raise her hand to us… we could not stop her if she truly wished it. One word to the Burgher, one moment of recognition of her abilities, and she’d be discovered and moved along that path whether we like it or not. Look at the conversation we are having now. Someone has already seen what our daughter is capable of.”

“I’m not a little girl anymore mother!” Aliya herself piped up. “I’ve slain wolves and slimes aplenty! I’ve fought many monsters!”

Orodan ruffled the kid’s hair.

“And you’re still yet to reach my belt,” Orodan jested, putting out a hand to compare her diminutive height against his own.

“That’s not fair! You’re a giant! I don’t know anyone bigger than you! What do you even eat?!” she angrily squeaked out. “And stop dodging my point. I’m not a child anymore no matter how big you are compared to me.”

“Perhaps, but go easy on your father and mother, will you? They mean well and care for you, even if it might be stifling,” Orodan said and then turned to her parents. “I will not lie to you. Though Aliya is a child, she is not a normal one. Even grown adults would struggle to enter an infestation site and kill a single monster, let alone many. I understand the desire to protect her… but is it not better that she learn under my supervision rather than go off by herself and get killed? Sitting idle during these years will only harm her when she’s already spilled monster blood.”

“That is…!”

“A fair and reasonable argument,” her father finished. “Dear, we cannot hold her back forever. If she’s so committed to fighting that she’s willing to sneak off to dungeons, then we would only be doing more harm than good.”

“That’s right, I just want to improve our lot in life like brother did!” Aliya declared.

Which was the wrong thing to say as that began a whole new series of arguments that Orodan wanted no part of. Thankfully, Aliya’s father seemed more than accepting of the arrangement, given how he pocketed the letter and gave Orodan a nod.

He wasn’t looking forward to this conversation every time. Perhaps he could outsource the talking to someone else?

Certainly, there was an old Grandmaster he knew that could help. Just so happened that Orodan needed to return the man’s memories to him too.

#

Orodan shouldn’t have been surprised that Adeltaj took to the orb with almost no downtime or discomfort. It made sense, after all the old Simarji was over seven-hundred years old and the memories which he willingly accepted from Fenton’s device were but a tiny fraction of that total lifespan.

Furthermore, the main strain in using the orb came from the fact that it forced one to have a conversation with the orb’s set of memories in a very compressed period of time. Cramming a thirty-minute conversation into the span of a singular second was bound to be uncomfortable for those unused to it. But for Grandmasters like Adeltaj Simarji who regularly fought at speeds exceeding that of sound, it was nothing of concern.

What was of concern though, was how well the two old fogeys standing before one another were getting along. Why, Orodan hadn’t even introduced them yet!

“Old Man Hannegan, meet Old Man Adeltaj.”

“Oh? So this is the reliable and steadfast Gregory Hannegan you spoke of? A pleasure to make your acquaintance. I shudder to think of how barbaric this brute would be if he did not have you guiding him.”

“My honor, to meet the fabled Grandmaster Adeltaj Simarji. I’ve got to profess my gratitude for you showing this bullheaded fool some direction when he had none.”

“You almost might not have, given that this idiot erased me from existence,” Adeltaj said, a happy smile on his face.

“Yes, he is quite the rockhead is he not?” Old Man Hannegan agreed with a serene smile of his own. “The worst possible person to put into a time loop.”

“Or the best,” Orodan defended.

Which caused two sets of doubtful eyebrows to be arched in his direction as though neither of them believed a word of what he’d said.

Maybe this meeting was a bad idea…

“A bad idea? I’m quite enjoying their accurate summation of you, please, do tell them to go on further. Shall I perhaps add some observations of my own?” Zaessythra jabbed.

“I didn’t have you two meet so that I could be relentlessly bullied by two old codgers instead of one,” Orodan retorted. “And I’ll admit, I messed up. I got you erased.”

“That’s an understatement, but I’ll accept your apology,” Adeltaj spoke. “Still, one bright side to this is that you’ve now touched upon a third concept. This is… unfamiliar territory, far outside either of our areas of expertise.”

“I can see that. I didn’t come by in order to explain what concepts are or what to do regarding them,” Orodan said.

“Right, but you did come here for something. While neither of us lowly old men can help with the high and mighty things the mighty time looper deals with,” the old Simarji sarcastically said, prompting an eye roll from Orodan. “What we can help with is shoring up your foundations for when the time comes to work with that concept directly.”

“Work with it directly?” Orodan asked. “Am I not already doing that?”

“Think Orodan, from everything you told me and what I recall of these memories of the last loop, you have two Celestial-rarity skills, correct?” old Adeltaj asked and he nodded. “And both of these skills, in their name, bear something of the concept you touch upon. Infinity and Cleanliness.”

“And I have yet to make one for violence…”

“Correct, now you see the point. While we cannot help with such absurd notions of concepts directly… what I do know is that you told me in-detail how you created the Domain of Perfect Cleaning and how you created the Incipience of Infinity,” Adeltaj said. “It was through the combination of many skills. Now that, that I might be able to help you with. Your foundations require diversification. We must create the base upon which you can reach up and seize this new concept.”

“Which will involve more training… excellent!”

Adeltaj could only look at Old Man Hannegan.

“Don’t look at me, he’s always been this sort of nut.”

“Hmm, I suppose him being a training maniac is only to our advantage. Certainly, I have a number of regimens for you to follow.”

“I’ve got a number of tricks and trades for him to learn too,” Old Man Hannegan said, hefting his pack.

And Orodan? He had two more disciples to collect.

Perhaps it was time for a trip to the depths alongside all his arrayed students and teachers.

#

One couldn’t be a good teacher without also being a student in turn.

This lesson was remained firm in Orodan’s mind as he and his group moved down the tunnels of the depths at Ranmere’s Folly.

Ranmere’s Folly—named so for a reckless Novarrian expedition leader who’d gotten all two-hundred of his troops killed by venturing too deep here—was an entrance to the depths that Orodan had been to before. Not all entrances to the depths led all the way down to the deep and then the abyssal levels. But this one did, and the way was relatively straightforward too, which could prove a bit deceptive as the travel time needed to reach the civilized, wild and then deep depths was deceptively short. Hence, Ranmere’s Folly, as the doomed expedition had descended too quickly without even realizing.

Still, convenience of access wasn’t the only reason why Orodan had come, and the depths weren’t his direct target. The tribe within them was.

That, and training.

[Mining 32 → Mining 33]

“You’re practically shattering the vein Orodan, focus! More… well… not delicate, but better mindfulness of the goal!” Old Man Hannegan instructed.

Indeed, having strength capable of shattering worlds was of no use when mining certain veins of ore required a careful touch. And while Orodan’s Apprentice-level Mining skill meant he shouldn’t be this unrefined… attempting to weave the feeling of violence into each swing of the pickaxe while maintaining quality was a different matter.

Ideally, he’d be collecting chunks and lumps of ore. Unfortunately for him, each swing of the pickaxe promised doom and brutality, and so he was left shoveling ore dust and smaller fragments into his dimensional ring. Which, technically he could smelt just fine, he had the Smelting skill and a passable understanding of its theoretical foundations after all. But it was the principle of the matter.

“You are coloring the skill with your violence, which is fine, but you must not forget the aim of your actions. What use is violence if it is mindless and unaimed? Your pickaxe would be better off without it, and you overall, weaker,” Adeltaj wisely spoke.

Orodan took the words seriously. In fact, this concept of violence he was touching upon was powerful, exceedingly so. He had somehow given both Cleanliness and Infinity a bit of a beating in an odd conceptual battle. Could he extend this to more things? Could he wrestle time? Space?

He recalled Agathor doing such a thing when he’d met the wicked war God’s Avatar for the first time. And Orodan had to begrudgingly admit that the enemy who he’d long since surpassed was somewhat talented. He had to be in order to wrestle time into freezing. If Agathor wasn’t such a coward… would even Transcendence have been possible for the prince of old Hasmathor?

A question for another time.

As the group walked down the tunnels, Orodan targeted every ore vein, gem cluster and resource he could find. Furthermore, he was under strict orders not to activate the synergistic ability of Combat Mastery which would allow multiple skills to be brought together.

It was in fact Old Man Hannegan who strictly insisted on mastering the very basics and doing things piece-by-piece first. The combined product would only be better once the individual parts were honed to perfection. A sentiment Orodan wholeheartedly agreed with.

Not only did Mining improve, but so did Pathfinding and Gathering. And besides the insistence that he target every material resource he could see…

…there was also the matter of his students.

In particular, the newest one upon his shoulder.

“As you can see, I can afford to be a bit rougher with ore veins. Even if the ore’s dust or fragmented, it can still be smelted into useable metal,” Orodan said, brutally swinging at a Dothril vein and managing to carve out solid, usable chunks this time instead of reducing it to rubble. Directing the terrifying violence within him in an efficient manner was more of a challenge than he thought. “Can’t do the same with gem veins or the crystals break and are useless.”

Wainroach simply wiggled her forelegs in agreement, paying rapt attention.

Her transference of memories had been the most worrisome and stress-inducing of the lot. If Edrosic had screamed, Wainroach had practically flipped over and writhed in agony as though she was seizing up. Orodan had to forcibly connect and grant her his Blessing for her relatively juvenile insect mind to draw power from him and survive.

Still, Fenton’s brilliance had accounted for even this. And the orb had a failsafe filter which Orodan hadn’t known of until it activated and slowed the flow of memories to a safer pace for her. All in all, she’d recovered perfectly well and was happy to be tagging along now.

Though the matter of breaking into Bluefire and kidnapping what was technically one of their laboratory roaches was something best swept under the rug.

“Orodan… do we really have to go any further? These are the depths, the depths! This is the scary place mentioned in all the fables and children’s stories my mother used to tell me!” Edrosic complained, looking quite uneasy and anxious. The man’s sword and shield were drawn and held at the ready, as though expecting an attack at any point.

“While it’s good to be ready, you’re looking too stiff Parthus. We’re in the wild depths, not even the deep,” Orodan replied, picking a particularly pungent mushroom good for brewing potions of strength. Not that such a concoction would have any effect on his body. But it was good for Alchemy training. “This is a good spot for you to get some practice in.”

“Y-you hurled me towards that blood-sucking bat earlier!”

“And? You beat it, didn’t you? Tell me Edrosic, how’d your first day at Oxhead go yesterday?” Orodan asked.

“Erm… well… I may have proven myself to be within the top three in class…” the man muttered.

