Indeed, Bluefire required either a solid resume and references from people of power, or the passing of a standardized test. Orodan had gotten in after Burgher Ignatius Firesword had recognized his ability. Hells, even Orodan before the loops could have passed the entrance exam provided he had the coin for administrative fees, and following that, tuition fees.

And although Orodan wasn’t the sort to gloat, it was simple fact that he was a vicious fighter with excellent combat instincts who was rather hardened by the age of seventeen. He had lacked perspective in the past, but knowing all he did now, he knew that the pre-loop him could have qualified for Bluefire, even if barely. Even without the advantages and upbringing that many of his same-age peers had, Orodan had been naturally talented enough that catching up was certain.

All this was to say that while Orodan before the loops could have met the qualifications for Bluefire, Edrosic could not. Not yet. Bluefire’s entrance examination required the applicant to display at least near-Apprentice combat ability, which was beyond Edrosic’s reach at the moment. And given the look the man gave at the suggestion of crafting, that avenue of action was unpalatable.

Perhaps there was a reason Edrosic joined the militia and wasn’t helping his mother or father with their crafts.

“Right, I actually agree. I’m not keen on getting bullied and beaten about by all the blue-blooded bastards at Bluefire.”

“For now, Parthus. For now,” Orodan reassured. “Whichever academy you attend, you shall earn entrance through your own merit. That sounds reasonable, yes?”

Edrosic nodded in agreement.

“Well the Oxhead Martial Academy of Volarbury County has just started their academic year. I could certainly get your disciple admitted there. Won’t even need any bribes!” Esgarius confirmed. “Hells, this county’s academies are so starved for quality students that they’ll take anyone who can pay the fee and pass the tests.”

Which, given Edrosic’s basic militia training, should be doable.

“Are… are you really sending me off to school Orodan?” Edrosic asked, bewildered. “Why?”

“Why not? Do I look as though giving lectures on each and every topic encompassing the breadth of a necessary education is my specialty?” Orodan asked. “I might have the Teaching skill, but I’m not qualified to give you sermons on history, economics and politics. Nor do I care to.”

“So you’re just going to drop me off at school and forget about me?”

Orodan rapped him atop the head with the flat of his blade.

“And let you slack off? We’ll be going on plenty of trips to the depths, be ready, pack supplies and keep your gear in good order,” Orodan instructed.

“The depths?! Do I look like I have a death wish Orodan? Why in the hells would we need to go to the depths?!”

“I have another student to recruit down there. One in Scarmorrow too, but not much for you to fight around there,” he calmly explained. “And it will be good training. For you and I both.”

“…I’ve made a terrible mistake in agreeing to come with you, haven’t I?”

“You haven’t even seen the start of it.”

#

“I must strongly object to this sir! I cannot have an unlicensed healer simply come in and treat my patients!”

“Given that I have cured a terminally ill woman and helped two patients you didn’t even know were cursed, I’ll have to argue that my unlicensed healing has some merit,” Orodan retorted. “I didn’t even tie you to a chair this time…”

Indeed, healer Casterton of Scarmorrow was standing on his own two feet looking quite nervous and disapproving. Which was a step up from being tied to a chair at least.

“This time?” the man muttered.

“I’m in a time loop, but never mind that. You,” Orodan said, looking at the little girl sitting anxiously upon one of the patient beds. “Your leg is healed now, I’d advise against sneaking into areas infested by monsters without adequate preparation.”

Aliya paled, looking as though someone had caught her stealing pastries from the bakery. And the healer turned to her sharply, a rebuke upon his lips.

“Aliya! Is that where you got your wound from?! Is that why you come by so often?!” the healer scolded, shocked. He then looked to Orodan. “How can you be so certain of this, Mister…?”

“Wainwright. Orodan Wainwright,” he introduced. “And sword wounds are quite distinct. Given that I’ve dealt out enough of them myself, it would be more concerning if I hadn’t noticed.”

“But for me to have not realized…” the man muttered.

“This is a healing house for the poor and civilians. Given that adventurers, militia and soldiers will seek healing at the temple or the barracks from their own healers, it’s understandable that you might not see and recognize combat injuries,” Orodan defended. “Being unable to recognize something not under your purview isn’t a failure on your part.”

“You are… fairer to me than I am with myself, Mister Wainwright. But the matter of this child’s unsafe extracurricular activities still remains. I must inform her parents at once!”

“You can’t! I’ll never be let out of their sight again! I-”

“Running into dungeons by yourself and challenging raised undead will simply end with you as dead as your brother. While possibly joining that necromancers’ horde.”

“W-what?! Brother? How-”

“I’ve already told him I’m in a time loop did I not? Come with me, we shall speak to your parents,” Orodan said. While he didn’t understand it, having grown up an orphan, he recognized the fact that children required the permission of their mother and father to do such things. “You’ll be enrolled in an academy and set to get a proper education. While I respect your willingness to venture into monster infestations and try your hand at combat, it’s sub-optimal to do so without the underlying theoretical foundations and concepts of combat and monster hunting taught to you.”

“W-wait! Wait! You can’t tell my parents! They’ll never let me go out by myself again…” Aliya muttered, fright and anxiety evident. “And I’m too young for an academy, I’m still in early school. My parents couldn’t afford the fees either, we’re too poor…”

Early school, which was where children learned their letters, engaged in play meant to hone skills and were closely monitored for signs of burgeoning talent. Frankly, he had little doubt that Aliya was already being watched at early school if not elsewhere for her talents, even if she tried hiding them. Orodan had never experienced such a thing himself, but the orphanage’s matrons did do a well enough approximation of it.

“Fees? I’ll have an associate of mine handle the arrangements, you need not worry about it,” Orodan spoke. “Now come, off we go to see your parents.”

Aliya seemed quite unwilling, and Casterton looked as though the man had plenty of questions now that his brain had caught up with the fact that Orodan claimed to be in a time loop just now.

Orodan’s solution was a simple one. Carry Aliya under his arm like an unruly cat while bidding Casterton goodbye.

If the man thought to protest the matter, he was rendered far too speechless by the Teleportation which followed.

And as space rippled and Orodan appeared in the town square of Scarmorrow, Aliya was rather frightened and many of the passersby were startled by his sudden appearance.

“Alright, now lead me to your house so your parents and I can have a word,” Orodan said.

Aliya, far too unsettled over being hauled along by spatial magic—and likely just having seen spatial magic for the first time in her life—quietly complied. She looked more than a little terrified at the prospect of the upcoming conversation too.

Scarmorrow was a better off town than Ogdenborough, and it showed in how much cleaner the roads were, and that the wells were actually magical and not manual like the one outside his hovel. Aliya’s home was a street down from the nearest well, which Orodan thought was a little inconvenient if he’d been living around these parts.

Yes, his hovel was dilapidated, but at least the well was right outside!

“Back so soon from the temple? Did they let you out early today?” a woman, hanging clothes out to dry on the front yard of a modest but nice home spoke. She then narrowed her eyes at Orodan, taking in his uniform. “Greetings… private? Can I help you? Has… has my daughter done anything to get into trouble with the militia?”

“I’m not here on militia business, and no, your daughter has certainly caused no trouble with me. But that might not be the case with the local monsters in the nearby infestation site,” Orodan revealed. “And I doubt the Republic’s Department of Monster Management will be too pleased

“Monsters in an… infestation site?”

“Mother I can explain…”

But from the look on her face, Orodan didn’t think the explanation was one that would please her mother. Or the man who now stepped out of the house, stone dust on his hands.

And so Orodan explained, and Aliya did too. Though her words often made the situation worse rather than better.

“So this entire time you’ve been skipping out on remedial lessons at the temple in order to go delving into ruins and fight monsters?” her mother asked, the woman’s tone sharp as a dagger.

“I can handle it! I killed a bunch of the slimes and even some wolves already!” Aliya argued back.

Her father though, looked calmer.

“And how many times did you get hurt?” he asked.

“…not too many.”

“Aliya…” he warned, voice low.

“Only a dozen times… nothing bad! Minor stuff!” she defended desperately.

“This is… this is outrageous! It’s exactly how we lost Aldin! I won’t lose another one of my babies!” the woman angrily declared, eyes brimming with tears as her husband put a hand upon her shoulder.

If anything, he had a level of respect for Vespidia and the Novarrian Intelligence Service who’d managed to convince these folk the first time around many loops ago. Orodan didn’t have a way with words like they did.

“An understandable sentiment,” Orodan replied. “Which is why it’d be better if she receives a formal education and training at an Academy.”

“…what? Does it look like we can afford that? Even with tuition covered, our late son had to pay a decent amount out of his own pocket. And she’s far too-”

“Young? That won’t be an issue. Neither will the matter of her having to cover costs,” Orodan said, pulling out a letter from his shrewd merchant associate and handing it to them. “Inside, the details of this arrangement should be self-explanatory. And if you’re still concerned… my associate has well-paying employment for the both of you.”

The mother read the letter and frowned, but the father’s brows arched upwards.

“Esgarius? He’s willing to do such a thing?” Aliya’s father asked. “I cannot accept the offer of employment for I already work at the quarry where my path is set. But darling, for you this could really help.”

“Absolutely not! No more academies, no more adventures! I’ve lost one, and I will not lose another. And I do not trust you, whoever you are. What am I to make of some strange man accompanying my child and then asking if he could mentor her?” the woman sharply asked.

“A man who sees much of himself in her. She has potential. Do you know that her Combat Mastery is level three already? That’s quite advanced for an eight year old child,” Orodan explained, not mentioning the fact that his had been more than double that at her age. “Most grown men and women will not even have the skill; hells some militia members despite the training don’t have it either. If she hasn’t been noticed in early school by now, then she’ll certainly be scouted out when somebody sees. The Burgher is likely to take interest in her talent as well.”

“That… can be discussed when the time comes. She is far too young, not prepared for that sort of violent life,” the woman sharply argued.

“She’s certainly more prepared for violence than either of you are. You two are civilians, yes? Tell me, do either of you have the Combat Mastery skill?” Orodan asked, and neither of them nodded. “Then, in all likelihood, she could give the both of you a good walloping without breaking much of a sweat if she so wanted. How can you claim your daughter unready for such a life when she could best many grown men and women already?”

Orodan had grown up fighting and consequently lacked perspective. But his education at Bluefire had taught him that Combat Mastery was a harder skill to acquire and level than he realized. Most people were not so fond of violence as he was. Pain and conflict were things the average person shied away from, and even among soldier types it was difficult to truly cultivate the mindset of liking pain. Even as a child, Aliya’s level 3 Combat Mastery would allow her to best most untrained adults in a fight.

And that wasn’t even mentioning the near-Apprentice level Staff Mastery the girl possessed. She was a prodigy, plain and simple.

“Stranger, stop. You need not explain any further…” the man spoke, frowning but having made up his mind. “You must understand our position, having lost one child to the adventurer lifestyle already. The boy thought he would change our fortunes in life by going on a delve into the depths. He did not return. So if you intend to take our little girl into such dangerous places, naturally, we will be quite averse to this. Furthermore, we don’t even know who you are.”

“That’s answer enough is it not? We’re saying no and that’s-”

The man cut his wife off.

