Which… wasn’t wrong? He did essentially teleport or warp space to a grotesque degree for most interstellar travel. And even if he didn’t, there wasn’t much surface to run on in the vast expanse of the void. And all other physical travel was otherwise done via powerful blasts off of the ground, where his physical might meant he was more leaping than running.

Putting one foot after the other to properly sprint? When was the last time he’d done that and not simply leapt off the ground like a cannon?

“See? The look on your face tells me you realize it now too. And I can’t even blame you lad. Who in your position has the time to train Walking? Hells, even I’m only level twenty-two in the skill,” Old Man Hannegan said. Was that why he walked with such vigor despite his advanced age? “But that’s no excuse for not polishing the basics and diversifying your lowest rarity skills. You told me how you learned Weaving and tried your hand at Calligraphy? Good. From now on, we’ll be adding a focus on these seemingly basic skills to your regimen.”

“You mean…?”

“Aye. You’ve dragged me into this nonsensical time loop haven’t you? It’s like something straight out of the garbage fiction section of a town library, but it’s very real and it seems I’m here for the journey with you. And if I’m going to be tagging along, then I intend to shape up your basics and give you a proper education in common skills.”

In other words, a trainer… but for the everyday skills which were found all over Alastaia. It sounded silly, but a quick look at how far Weaving and Recycling had gotten him squashed that idiotic thought right away. And Orodan had grown up too poor and impoverished to look down upon the skills which the common folk used to eke out a living.

Everything had a benefit. Even the most innocuous skill could give him a critical leg up against his overwhelming adversaries. He had been fighting uphill battles against superior opponents for too long to disregard the humble benefits of seemingly mundane knowledge.

“Old man… you…” Orodan muttered, touched. This was the man who’d given him an opportunity for work when nowhere else in Ogdenborough would. “Alright, I approve of this training regimen. Let’s do it.”

“Good. Now loosen old Lug’s harness and grab that cart.”

Orodan did as asked, but he wondered how such a light cart was meant to challenge him when he could shatter planets with his fists.

#

[Towing 3 → Towing 4]

“Another level too… this training is working out better than expected.”

“And yet you still haven’t gained the Walking skill you oaf. Your steps are too brutish! Too violent! Like the waves of a roaring tidal flood.”

“That’s the point old man.”

Learning the skill for Towing certainly hadn’t been in his plans for the day. It was odd how the weight of the cart could remain the same and yet his technique in pulling it along the dirt road could get easier. Not that the weight was a challenge at all, but if this skill was applied to other things? The possibilities were endless.

Old Man Hannegan also insisted that he continue walking in a slow and measured pace during the journey. Of course, Orodan was anything but slow, although he could certainly be measured if needed. Still, the Walking skill had eluded him thus far, but he was confident in eventually attaining it.

“You aren’t getting it. When you walk the aim is to have your strides take you from one point to another, the goal is to reach a destination. But when you walk it’s like you’re a beast stalking its prey! Who walks like that? You’ve always been a bit of a goon but seeing you walk makes even me a little nervous.”

It wasn’t as though Orodan had suddenly learned how to walk. But rather, it was his first time truly and consciously putting effort into performing the activity. And as with everything he now did since reaching the latest epiphany regarding himself… the burgeoning violence within himself colored his efforts.

Orodan’s physicality meant that—even when greatly holding back and slowed to let the old man and donkey keep pace—he still pulled the cart faster than old Lug did. Where the old man usually arrived just before the first rays of dawn, Orodan had arrived barely two hours past midnight while Ogdenborough was still dark.

But there were a scant few people on the street, mainly those folks beginning their trek to other towns for work. And these folk were wary of the strolling juggernaut, whose footsteps heralded brutality.

His attempts at walking weren’t normal. Each of his steps, a doom-saying omen of his arrival as the strides caused violence to suffuse the air.

And nearby people were terribly frightened at the sight of it.

“W-what the hells…? Who’s that with old Gregory?”

“Is it… that delinquent? Why is he walking so… menacingly?”

“I knew it! Once a thug always a thug. Militia uniform can’t cover that up, look how he’s walking! Like he’s headed to kill someone on the spot!”

One man even fell right on his rear during the attempt to frantically step backwards and was frozen in fear as Orodan’s vehement gait carried him towards the warehouse.

“You’re terrifying everyone in town Orodan! They’ll all come questioning me!” the old man grumbled and then hummed inquisitively. “Though it’s not like they’ll remember any of it when the next time loop rolls around…”

“Now you’re getting into the spirit of it, old man. While I’m not about to go butchering innocents, the opinions of others on trivial matters are not worth wasting thought upon. I had little patience for inconsequential things even before the loops, but now I have none,” Orodan said as they finally reached the warehouse. “Walking will come to me eventually. By the look on your face I can see that you think me a fool, and most times you wouldn’t be wrong. But in this case…”

“You’re trying to influence the development of the skill somehow, aren’t you?”

Old Man Hannegan was far more perceptive than he got credit for.

“You’ve noticed then.” It was a statement and not a question.

“I didn’t get so old by having my eyes closed. I’ve seen this sort of thing before—knew a bard who tried coloring everything he did with music—but… not with walking of all skills,” the old man muttered in disbelief. “But this is good; as a matter of fact, this is great. I wonder how many other skills you can learn. And if what you say about being able to utilize insights from them in battle is true…”

“Then that would make you one of my most important teachers,” Orodan said with a smile. “Just like old times, eh?”

Indeed, Old Man Hannegan might prove to be the most important teacher of them all. Particularly if—like Weaving and Recycling—Orodan could somehow synergize all the new skills the man planned on teaching into his combat style.

“Ah yes, just like the old times where you’d show up to work all black and blue from the beatings you received the evening prior,” the old man scoffed, but the fond smile on his face didn’t go unseen. “You have what? Two weeks? Before these cosmic horrors come by to end your life?”

“That’s the rough estimate. Unless I go around causing a ruckus like I did last loop.”

Which would cause them to take notice even earlier. But if he kept the concepts under control, that wouldn’t occur this time.

“I’ll thank you to not go around erasing any Goddesses Orodan. I can’t say I like Ilyatana much after hearing what she did to you, but a lot of good things wouldn’t have happened without her either,” Old Man Hannegan cautioned, and Orodan agreed. “Now then, you say you have two weeks? I say that’s plenty of time to have you learn some things and visit some places. Places and teachers that might be of benefit to your training.”

And as he dropped the cart near the unloading zone of the work site, Orodan paid rapt attention. After all, even the Lieutenant-General on Anthus had recognized the old man’s uncanny ability to know the optimal people to meet and the best places to search. It was as though Old Man Hannegan was a font of wisdom and practical advice.

“First, Greenvale. That town’s a good place for you. You met Gerace last loop before you threw the timeline into a tangled mess of dung, didn’t you? His house and merchant association can help you pick up a number of the skills I’ll recommend,” the man advised. “And once you’ve done a few loops of that… we can look into having you meet someone who taught me when I was a young man.”

“You were a young man once?”

Orodan deserved the pebble thrown at his head for that one, even if it harmlessly bounced off.

“Of course I was young once! Didn’t you tell me about how you rewound my body back to my youth during one of your earlier loops?!” he barked. “And I’ll thank you not to do that ever again. I can only imagine how odd it must have seemed for everyone who knew me.”

The old man then looked around the work site a bit and frowned.

“On one hand, we’re here. But on the other hand I started my journey when I did under the assumption that old Lug would be pulling the cart, not you. Now we’re here two hours ahead of schedule. Just what am I to do this early? My crew isn’t even here yet.”

But Orodan simply picked up a saw and began unloading the wood. Sometimes, a return to the basic routine was called for. And his time on Lonvoron and dealing with the problems of his last loop had made him miss this familiarity

“What else? We have a warehouse to build.”

And after that, for him, an ancient machine to destroy.

And perhaps a return to his actual job if only so he could meet a certain lazy colleague of his.

#

At the end of the day, Orodan found himself rather uncaring of the Republic’s Master-level individuals in the control chamber of the ancient machine. Yes, in past loops he’d saved them from death at the hands of Ovuru, Baron Viglas and Duke Arestos of Novarria. But his sympathies had run dry many loops ago upon learning that the Republic had also planned on using the machine against innocent Novarrian towns on the other side of the mountain.

Orodan wasn’t exactly a patriotic Adenian. And even if he were, the killing of Novarrian civilians was unacceptable. Innocent non-combatants were just that, non-combatants. Thus, in his eyes the Republican Masters were just as murderous and uncaring of uninvolved folk as the Novarrian side was. So letting them kill each other was no horrible thing in his eyes.

Swooping in afterwards to kill Ovuru and the Novarrian while ‘helping’ Baron Viglas turn a new leaf was par for the course as usual, though he left the ancient machine untouched for now as he wanted to gather as many people as possible before he took a shot at it this loop.

Mainly so they could tell him where he was screwing up.

Having done all that and finished the warehouse, Orodan was now somewhere familiar he hadn’t been to in a while. His workplace, the county militia barracks of Ogdenborough.

And although it was little over an hour before the shift change between night and day… the building looked a lot livelier than it normally did.

“What do you mean the warehouse sprung up?” the night shift lead corporal asked. “That thing’s been under construction for a two months now.”

Sergeant Woodgard was the barracks’ only sergeant and default shift commander for the days. But the man didn’t work nights. So the shift commander after hours was the senior-most corporal on-duty.

“We were doing a patrol near Ale Road and I could’ve swore there wasn’t any towering warehouse there yesterday. My eyes must be playing tricks on me sir,” the junior corporal replied. “One of my privates agreed with me too. I’m not seeing things.”

“Enough of that, forget the warehouse. Tell me about the plaza. Kelmar’s troop say House Argon’s soldiers have been running in and out all night like headless chickens as of an hour ago. And then we got multiple reports of quakes at the same time. Do we know anything? What the hells is going on?” the shift commander asked. “I don’t need the sergeant coming in and getting all red-faced when we leave him a whole bunch of problems to start the day with. Ugh… and it’s Liberation Day too. Fantastic… Woodgard’s going to turn redder than a tomato.”

“We don’t know corporal. Sent a troop to talk with them but they shooed us away… shall we contact Trumbetton and kick it up the command chain?”

“Do that. I can’t be arsed to deal with this today, and the Burgher can step in to figure out what a noble house is doing…” the shift commander spoke. He then noticed Orodan walking up. “Wainwright? Bit early for you isn’t it? Aren’t you normally running laps around this time still? Say… want some early overtime pay? We’ve got our hands full and-”

“The tremors will no longer occur,” Orodan interrupted. “No need for the overtime.”

“Eh? You know something?”

“Yes. The ancient machine’s ownership is no longer something to be concerned of, and both the Republicans and the Novarrians under the mountain have been dealt with. The Guzuharan raiders too,” Orodan spoke.

Of course, to the senior corporal, he might as well have been spouting gibberish. Without clarification and context, the man had no idea what the hells Orodan was talking about.

“Ancient what now? And what’s this about Novarrians and Guzuharans? Hey, Wainwright where you-”

Orodan had given answer enough. His feet took him towards the man he did come here for.

