[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 170 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 172]

Orodan wasn’t sure what this strange space was but calling it a cosmic battleground wouldn’t have been inaccurate. This was his second time facing off against the competing Embodiers, but the contest was entirely one-sided. In a real fight things would have gone far differently of course. But in this odd space where the only metric used was one’s abilities in Cleaning?

Orodan reigned supreme.

The mental representation of a familiar Arch-Devil, the Custodian, recoiled in shock. Broom clashed against orb and Orodan came out on top with disturbing ease; his talent and insights proving too great.

The other rival Embodiers had fared no better either. Orodan had battered the fusion slime and the goat woman aside with even more casual ease than he’d managed the first time around. And the levels gained from establishing conceptual dominance against the Custodian were slim. A sign that the cosmic battleground for the concept of Cleanliness was swiftly running its course. Soon, there would be no more gains to be wrung from even this.

He was certain that the Custodian, and many of these rival Embodiers, had a higher skill level. But each of Orodan’s levels counted for more. The difference in raw talent being quite evident.

It couldn’t be helped. Of all the skills he had, none came as natural to him as cleaning did. With just the second conceptual clash in that strange Embodiment-space he was beginning to outpace even the most monstrous existences in System space. Further skill levels in Domain of Perfect Cleaning would have to come through practical application and self-study.

Now, as his eyes opened in the real world, it was dark, and the moon’s pale beams barely lit up his familiar hometown. Barely ten seconds had passed in the loop. Orodan began every loop in the middle of the night. Why the time loop mechanism set the start point to this moment, he didn’t know. His best guess was that it had something to do with that being the earliest ‘rousing’ or ‘wake up’ point for his soul on the day of his death. Without extended study of the mechanism he could only postulate.

“I still don’t understand how your mind reaches out someplace I cannot see.”

“I don’t think I’m reaching out someplace as much as I am wrestling with everyone else who’s trying to conquer the concept I use,” Orodan clarified.

It wasn’t as though Orodan’s mind was being yanked anywhere, which would have been akin to an attack. Rather… he was reaching out to and touching upon something that others also sought to lay claim to. Something which was now solely his. It was understandable that Zaessythra wouldn’t be able to tag along or see anything, for she had no connection to the concept of Cleanliness like he did.

Still, time was short, and he had no concrete answer for how long any pursuers would take to find him. Far as Orodan was concerned, every second counted. There was training to be done and gains to be made. And people to rap across the head with a certain orb.

And his first target was an old man likely in the midst of transporting lumber to Ogdenborough.

Space shifted as Orodan cast the Teleportation spell. In between towns, Volarbury County consisted of coniferous forests. Not quite as dense as the Aenechean near Velestok, but enough that visibility was poor at night; the canopy made it difficult for moonlight to illuminate the ground. That being said, his eyes were more than sharp enough to notice the familiar old man holding the reins for a mule-driven cart full of lumber.

Orodan had always respected the old man, but this simply proved the old codger’s work ethic. After all, to reach the halfway point between Scarmorrow and Ogdenborough by this time meant that Old Man Hannegan must have begun the journey far earlier. Traveling at night—even along the main roads between towns—wasn’t exactly safe either. A point proven by the two snarling wolves who were hungrily eying the mule.

“Away with you! Hungry mutts! This mule makes way for an important task! You won’t be taking a bite of his rump tonight!” Old Man Hannegan yelled, angrily waving his torch in a threatening manner.

Orodan hadn’t ever seen the man fight, but he always figured that the greybeard could handle himself to an extent. Nobody with a life like the old man had got this far without a trick or two. Old Man Hannegan’s continual presence at the warehouse without fail in each loop implied that he managed to deal with the wolves just fine too.

The beasts were snarling and ready to pounce when they finally caught sight of the figure behind Old Man Hannegan. The predatory animals fled upon noticing the existential threat wielding sword and board, and only then did the old man turn around

Just in time to see a cheerful grin on Orodan’s face as an orb smacked Gregory Hannegan’s forehead.

“Orodan?! Since when— argh!”

A satisfying clink of enchanted glass on forehead rang out, and the old foreman nearly fell out the driver’s seat if not for Orodan catching him. He groaned and let out a few strained cries of pain as Orodan closely monitored the process, ready to step in at any point.

It was incredible no matter how many times he saw it. The process through which the orb transferred memories that was.

Mana and specially coded information from the orb seamlessly flowed towards and interacted with the mind of the recipient. In fact, now that he looked closer, Orodan realized that he needed not have worried in the first place about Edrosic’s alternate timeline memories overwhelming that of this one. His brilliant student Fenton had accounted for even the fact that the orb’s memory transferal might be considered a mental attack.

Instead, Vision of Purity told him a different story, showing him the particulars. It was as though the stored memories had a long and extended conversation with the recipient over a short period of time. And over the course of that talk the recipient agreed to understand what was being said to them and then truly accept the orb’s contents from their alternate self.

Which put to rest his concern of what would occur if someone received memories from the wrong person. Simply, the recipient’s mind would naturally reject them as not their own. And even if they were memories the recipient found utterly abhorrent those too could be denied or at least greatly filtered down to reduce the trauma.

Truly, Fenton had thought of it all. That genius lad.

Of course, this mechanism of extended conversation between memory and recipient was what led to the pain and disorientation. The mind of an untrained individual was unused to having a very hasty conversation and exchange of ideas within an incredibly compressed period of time. If anything, the old man would have faced less discomfort if a mind mage had simply smashed the memories into his head.

Eventually the cries of pain downgraded to groans of discomfort, enough for the man to finally speak.

“What on… where even am-”

“You’re in the next loop,” Orodan said with a smile, helping him to his feet. “How do you feel? Have your thoughts melded together properly yet?”

“How do I feel? My thoughts? Wait… wait a moment…” the old man said, looking around. He looked at the cart, the mule and his surroundings. He also took in the distant forms of the two fleeing wolves whose forms were illuminated by moonlight. “How can this be?”

“Believe me now? Yes, you’re back on the road to Ogdenborough and it’s the middle of the night. Must be hard to believe, but your memories really have come back in time,” he informed with a smile. “Though, I am curious… how do you normally drive these wolves off? The one other time I came to see you here; they ran at the sight of me as they did just now.”

“…a simple mana bolt. At least… that’s what my memories are telling me, even though I cannot recall fighting these wolves in this time. Like a memory of something which never occurred… how eerie!”

Orodan chose not to comment on the old man’s natural bewilderment with having two sets of memories in his head. Who knew how much harder it would get as he continued stacking loops upon loops of memories into the orb? It bore looking into lest he cause damage to someone’s mind past a certain number of memory transfers.

“Mana bolt? I know you can cast a Candleflame, but a mana bolt too? Since when are you a mage?” Orodan asked.

“I’m no mage. I was never good enough at connecting to my mana pool and learning to cast spells with it consistently. But a mana bolt isn’t too complicated… anyone can use it with some practice, Orodan,” the old man explained. “But these memories, I… by the Gods this other world is a terrible place. Orodan you…”

“Yes. I messed up… badly.”

“Either that or you’re a demon wearing the skin of Orodan Wainwright who’s implanted memories into my head,” Old Man Hannegan said, palming his head from the still lingering headache.

“Technically, the device only forces a subconscious conversation in a very brief span of time between you and the stored memories,” Orodan corrected. “If you have new memories, it’s only because you subconsciously accepted them.”

“I would have said you’re speaking nonsense before but… this is most strange. It’s as though I’ve lived two lives. One in a time and place which no longer exist,” the Old Man Hannegan mumbled. “And the other one, here.”

“Here. The correct timeline. Where you supposedly have a family,” Orodan spoke, eyeing him out the side of his eye. The old man turned to him with a sharp frown but Orodan simply shook his head and put a hand up to stop the outburst. “I will not pry. That’s simply what you—or the you of this other time where Ilyatana never existed—told me. If you do not wish to say anything, I will not inquire.”

The man’s frown lessened and his stance became less guarded.

“It’s nothing so conspiratorial you blockhead…” he muttered. “A daughter. She’s the only family I have left, not much else to say about. But I will admit, my mood is already befouled by the memories of this other life I’ve lived where she never existed. Damn… why did this other version of me think it a good idea to merge our memories together? Worst of all, I agree with this other Gregory’s rationale for it too. I have several new skills I never had before. Although I’m going to be following directions which don’t exist for a good while.”

But Orodan had a smug smile on his face.

“Well, I don’t think too many things are out of place in our time. And I certainly have no plans on playing around with erasing someone from existence moving forward,” Orodan said and then a devious grin appeared on his face. “But really, who knew that Ilyatana’s existence was necessary for an old codger like you to finally find love?”

He deserved the piece of lumber chucked at his head in recompense.

“Damn brat! My love life is none of your business!” the old man grumbled, though his eyes softened a moment later. “You dumb rockhead… it really is you isn’t it, Orodan?”

“In the flesh. Who else will keep you young by annoying you? You can rest easy knowing that I’m no demon or figment of your imagination. I’ll take that as confirmation that your memories have settled in,” he spoke, pleased with the success. “I’ll have to let Fenton know that his device exceeds expectations… as expected of my student of course.”

The pangs of grief flared for a brief moment before Orodan suppressed them.

He would get Fenton back, but not yet. He needed to fend off the Embodiers hells bent on confronting him first. The Last thing Orodan wanted was to give Fenton his memories back only to drag the boy into a fight for a planet that wasn’t even his, against Embodiers that weren’t even after him.

“Alright, off we go,” Orodan said, patting the dutiful mule on the head as the rippling of a spatiomantic spell surrounded his finger.

“Where are you going?”

“Where else? We have a warehouse to build, don’t we?”

“That we do. But now that you’ve conditionally proven this time loop nonsense—assuming I’m not mad or locked in some demonic illusion—you have a lot to learn,” the old man declared.

“A lot… to learn?” Orodan questioned back, confused.

“Of course! All this time in these loops and how many basic crafting skills don’t you have? You say you’ve been building the warehouse for so long, but you never once mentioned having the Stonecutting or Masonry skills. And where’s your Walking skill? And what level is your Sprinting skill at?”

Old Man Hannegan’s questions came in a flurry which took Orodan aback for an instant. He had truly never seen the old foreman this interested in his development and skillset.

“I have neither Stonecutting, Masonry or Walking,” Orodan factually stated. “And my Sprinting is at level thirty-nine. Why?”

“That’s… pitiful!”

“…!”

“What? Did you expect me to kneel down and kiss the feet of the mighty time looper?” the man chastised. “Seems you’re still the same stone headed fool I’ve always known. Pressing on with the grit of a hundred workers when you’re set on something, but refusing to open your mind and truly experiment. You, Orodan, run ahead too fast. Metaphorically and literally.”

“Explain,” Orodan said.

“Can you imagine why your Sprinting hasn’t increased in level at all past thirty-nine? It’s likely because you haven’t properly ran anywhere in ages. It’s the same reason why you don’t have the Walking skill either,” the old man explained. “You’re simply running everywhere. But in your case, you don’t do even that.”

