If anything, Orodan fully intended on training Edrosic up to be the strongest warrior at Oxhead. Bluefire aside, the county martial academy wasn’t anything too special. Even other counties were known to have warrior academies which were superior. So for Edrosic to only be among the top three? Unacceptable in the long run.

“And how did you achieve that?” Orodan asked.

“By getting used to fighting monsters far stronger than me…” Edrosic muttered in reply, saying no more.

That was the crux of how he’d been forcing Edrosic to get stronger. For all intents and purposes, Parthus was a man of average martial talent. But through pressing battles against superior foes, even the average could be elevated into something extraordinary.

And for Aliya who he’d been throwing towards rats and cockroaches all throughout the trip? Even better.

“I’m getting close to Apprentice-level Staff Mastery teacher!” she declared, excited as she furiously smashed her staff down upon a large beetle the size of Orodan’s foot.

Even in the wild depths, the density of world energy was a lot higher than it was on the surface. This naturally caused even the fodder insects here to become rather strong, and potentially dangerous. Aliya had a modest chunk taken out of her leg while fighting the last foot-sized beetle and wasn’t keen on repeating that experience.

Her introduction to Oxhead had gone a lot more awkwardly than Edrosic’s had, but that was to be expected when she was an eight year old at an institution where the first-year students were seventeen. Of course, her classes weren’t standard, and she had to attend early school, then have private tutoring at Oxhead. Afterwards, she would train with Orodan or go on ventures such as they were doing now.

Still, while a student or two had tried questioning her, from what he’d heard, it had been Edrosic who stood up and threatened them to scram. Who knew the normally carefree and conflict-avoidant man had it in him?

Hours passed as the group traversed the tunnels of the wild depths. Orodan gained two more levels in Mining and one in Gathering. Additionally, Old Man Hannegan insisted he read the material he had on Stonecutting while walking. And once he had a ring full of ores, gems, crystals and a plethora of alchemical ingredients not found on the surface, Orodan realized they were quite near the settlement of the depths moles. Which consequently meant being near his real destination, the Rising Spear clan, a tribe of goblins who lived under the protection of the moles.

“Been a long time since I’ve been to the depths…” Old Man Hannegan muttered.

“You’ve been to the depths? It’s as though every loop I learn something new about you,” Orodan replied, surprised. “What’s an old foreman doing in the depths?”

“Bah! I wasn’t always old. And expeditions often need support workers who know a thing or two about construction, logistics and manual labor.”

Any further information on that front was cut off as the ground began to tremble.

Long overdue in his opinion. Orodan wondered when the moles would be alarmed at the fact that he was heading directly towards their supposedly hidden settlement.

“T-the ground’s quaking! We’re doomed!”

“No Edrosic, a depths mole is simply making an appearance,” Orodan calmly replied. A Grandmaster from the feel of it. “Took them long enough.”

And predictably, a gigantic depths mole emerged from the ground ahead of them. It was cautious, and Orodan recognized it as one he had met before, long ago when he’d traversed the depths and met his student.

“Humans… you are far from your settlements and taking a path which is suspiciously direct. Might I know your intentions?” the mole asked. “I am Istilvaras the Ceaseless Burrower, Grandmaster of the Bladed Crystal clan. You tread upon our lands. We bid you peace, though hope you come with the same.”

“Indeed. I do come in peace. I simply wish to meet Zukelmux of the Rising Spear clan. And following that, my mentor here,” Orodan said, gesturing towards Adeltaj before continuing. “Intends to help them relocate to a safe place within the Republic.”

The Grandmaster mole went through a range of emotions before settling upon a singular one.

Anger.

Which was fine, truly. After all, Orodan had marked this one down for death long ago, after hearing that it was responsible for keeping Zukelmux and his tribe mired in a cycle of servitude and dependence upon it.

Orodan’s blade left its sheathe.

Once they were done here, it would be back to Volarbury County. His students needed training, he needed to get to seriously studying Almyra’s tome and the secrets behind replicating Action Increases and bringing Zaessythra back, and of course, he needed to focus on his own development.

Development which consisted of diversifying the basics.
