The barracks had an indoor practice yard with plenty of ranged targets, training dummies and open areas for spars. His troop’s corporal, Bistrid, was already there and practicing. But a particular man, little on the lazy side, was just coming in.

Parthus Edrosic’s gait was carefree, and while trained, the man seemed unready for sudden combat. Something which was immediately exposed when a training sword tore through the air towards the lazy militia man’s head. Edrosic panicked and overcompensated by rolling for the ground.

A rolling dodge. Good for avoiding something right away, at the cost of remaining horribly exposed and out of position during and after. A lesson Edrosic swiftly learned. Even while moderating himself to the Apprentice-level in attributes, Orodan’s boot sent his fellow private tumbling along the ground mid-roll.

“Don’t panic. Rolling can work in some situations but is a rather suboptimal move otherwise,” Orodan instructed, sending another swing of the wooden training sword.

“Orodan?! Wait—argh!” Edrosic cried as the wooden blade rapped the side of his face with a solid thwack. “I wasn’t ready for a spar! I didn’t even ask for-”

Another rap of wood hit the man’s knee and a follow up jab with the rim of his shield had Edrosic stumbling backwards like a drunk seeing stars, eyes watering from the bruised nose.

“Focus Parthus. I know you slacked during basic, but we were trained to fight. Remember that training, embrace it, and then advance beyond it,” Orodan said as he advanced. “Do you want to remain a private in the Ogdenborough barracks forever?”

The unplanned brutality of the sudden and unannounced spar shocked a few nearby militia. Bistrid looked ready to step in and try breaking it up if not for Orodan’s instructional tone.

To his credit, Edrosic wasn’t entirely useless and did begin swinging back. The man’s eyes were watery from having his nose stung by a blow, which meant the return swings were wild and quite haphazard.

“Hey! Clear out! We got real steel in the yard!” a nearby corporal called out.

“What are you two doing?!” Bistrid demanded. “Wainwright, stop this at once!”

“It’s fine. Edrosic needs this and I’m not concerned with being hit by steel,” Orodan replied as he parried two of Parthus’s wild strokes and stepped into very close range where the sword wasn’t as optimal unless position was readjusted. A swift knee to the gut had the man bent over and on his knees within moments. “Your blows lack conviction Parthus. And your fighting lacks the edge of violence. Training matters little if the mentality of fighting is not present within you. Get up, we go again.”

“D-damn it Orodan! Where’d this come from? You just walk up and attack me? Is that how you greet people?” he nasally said, his nose still red from the rim strike. “What’s gotten into you? Not all of us are battle maniacs. I know you’re better than me, I accept that. No need to go around rubbing it in.”

“I’ve no interest in flaunting my strength. But I see that the other Edrosic was right. You do need him…” Orodan muttered, producing the orb in his hand.

“Other… what? And what’s that Orodan? Hey, wait don’t-”

The man’s complaints were cut off as the clack of glass hitting his forehead resounded. And unlike Old Man Hannegan… Edrosic began screaming.

Orodan was about to end the orb’s transference then and there… only to stop himself as Vision of Purity and his reflexes let him see the anguished conversation occurring between the real Edrosic and the memories and pain of the alternate timeline’s one.

If not for the filtration mechanism on Fenton’s device, Orodan would have used chronomancy or even Domain of Perfect Cleaning then and there to end the matter. But what he saw put him at ease. At a speed far faster than even an Adept could see, Edrosic’s mind was connecting to and parsing the memories.

The scream came from the fact that the man’s mind was a lot weaker than Old Man Hannegan’s. Whether that meant Edrosic was weak-willed or the old codger quite steadfast, remained to be seen—though Orodan was inclined to bet on the latter.

Screaming turned to groaning, and then grunts of discomfort near the end. Unlike his favorite foreman, Edrosic took a full minute to get through the process, which seemed at least somewhat dependent upon the recipient’s mental acuity and fortitude. And from the looks of it, all the memories had been absorbed willingly, even the ones full of anguish near the end.

“D-damn… damn! Where, where are-”

The wooden training sword came at the man’s head again. But this time… Edrosic’s body moved with a level of desperation and survival instinct it had lacked moments before.

“Good. You’re learning. Quickest way to get those memories to sync is to combat test them,” Orodan explained, pressing forward with a series of blows which were beyond what Edrosic should have been able to handle.

And indeed, the man began to take a beating. A good one too.

A punishing rap of wood across the jaw, a relatively gentle but still painful shield rim to the throat, and a low kick to the calf. Edrosic was getting pummeled and Bistrid was on the verge of interfering. But then…

[Teaching 86 → Teaching 87]

…the man began reacting and fighting back appropriately. Basic training of the county militia tempered by the edge of desperation and survival instincts honed after the death of his parents in another time.

Orodan’s subsequent attack was parried and Parthus responded with a respectable thrust which was both efficient and carried with it the killer instinct of a hardened fighter. And he began letting up just a bit so that Edrosic could now let loose and begin pressing forward.

Orodan was no sadist. His ‘beating’ had been a careful and calculated thing. Just enough to get the man’s adrenaline flowing and pressure him in the right ways in order to draw out an optimal combat state. It was also a good way of getting the acquired memories to assimilate correctly.

Edrosic’s sword clashed against Orodan’s borrowed training blunt and the two held a deadlock. At least, until Orodan casually swept the foot and sent his student tumbling away with a kick to the midsection while mid fall.

“Don’t let the bad habits of your other self seep through. Basic taught us that deadlocks aren’t a muscle contest of pride, but a position to transition out of as soon as possible,” Orodan instructed, a smile on his face. “Now then, we’ll start every loop with a spar like this. Agreed?”

Edrosic got to his feet, his adrenaline fading and the gravity of his other life’s memories finally hitting him.

“My family! They’re-!”

“Alive and well. Unlike this other time you came from,” Orodan assuaged. “I see you willingly absorbed even those painful memories.”

Which meant the memories had either been convincing, or Edrosic saw something which convinced him that he needed them for his advancement.

“I don’t… I don’t know why I did exactly. But I just got the feeling that if I didn’t, I’d be stuck in Ogdenborough forever,” the man explained. “Orodan… you’re really a time looper then? This is real? I’m not hallucinating or caught in some mad dream?”

Around them, the other members of the militia—night shift troops and the early birds coming in for pre-shift training—were confused at the conversation. But neither Orodan nor Edrosic paid them any heed.

“You can slap yourself as many times as you’d like to confirm it, but you’d just be left sore afterwards. There are better ways to gain a resistance skill too,” Orodan quipped.

“I can’t believe this… this is madness! How can a time loop which even the Gods are unaware of be real? Yet these memories are so authentic. It’s as though I lived two lives. One here, and another where… where…”

“At ease Parthus. You’re free to go see your mother and father if you wish, I certainly won’t stop you,” Orodan said.

“No. My head’s in turmoil and I’d probably scare them if I went in all red-eyed and crying right now. I think for now, Orodan, I’ll tag along with you. If I recall… I’m your student now, right?” Edrosic asked with an amused smile. “Can’t believe you’re some almighty time looper who can shatter worlds. I still think it’s ridiculous and you’re pulling my leg. And why’d you decide to take me of all people on? Lazy Parthus. Carefree Edrosic who you always look at as though he’s wasting his time?”

“Because ‘lazy Parthus’ wasn’t the man I met in this other timeline—one of my making. No, I met an Edrosic who’d lost a lot. And I felt responsible for that,” Orodan said. “But you’re a free man, not bound to me. It’s up to you whether you intend to continue on with his wishes. You’re you, not him. The orb does not allow for any takeover of your soul or personality. If you want, you can walk away and I shan’t bother you again. But if you still wish it… you can learn.”

“So what? You just go around taking on students? From what you told this other me, I’m not the first and definitely not the smartest or strongest student you’ve had. Why bother? Pity?” Edrosic asked.

“Curiosity,” Orodan frankly answered. “And it’s good for my Teaching skill. You gain, and I gain too. It’s good training.”

Edrosic couldn’t help it. The man laughed.

“You know what? Somehow, hearing that reassures me more than anything that you’re still the same maniac I work with. Alright you crazy bastard… I’ll do it. I’ll learn under you. And in the process hopefully help you gain something too.”

“Great. Now let’s verify that all your skill levels have carried over correctly,” Orodan said, kicking open Sergeant Woodgard’s office door, rummaging behind the desk and grabbing the observer orb. “I don’t think the Sergeant will mind overly much if I borrow this.”

Overly much by Woodgard’s standards anyways; the man wouldn’t be happy about his door though. Not that Orodan cared about the opinion of a man willing to beat his intimate partner. Out of curiosity, he used the orb himself, noting that everything showed up just fine. And also noted the brief mana pulse heading off towards Trumbetton from each usage of the orb.

Well, that bridge would be crossed when it decided to come knocking.

“O-Orodan! We can’t just break down the Sergeant’s office door!”

“Why not? Just fight him if he gets angry, what’s the worst he can do?” Orodan calmly asked, removing the display of his own titles and skills and handing Edrosic the orb. “Go ahead. Tell me if anything’s changed. I didn’t get the chance to do this with the old man.”

Edrosic did as asked, channeling a bit of mana into the object and getting a reading back which Orodan could also see.

Name: Parthus Edrosic

Title 1: Drawing Apprentice

Skills:

Drawing 38 (Apprentice)Weaving 25 (Initiate)Woodworking 24 (Initiate)Singing 23 (Initiate)Shield Mastery 14 (Initiate)Sword Mastery 13 (Initiate)Club Mastery 11 (Initiate)Physical Fitness 11 (Initiate)Pathfinding 9 (Initiate)Sprinting 6 (Initiate)Combat Mastery 6 (Initiate)Unarmed Combat Mastery 5 (Initiate)

“The Pathfinding, I think that’s from my other memories. I used to patrol the woods of the county looking for wolves and slimes to fight,” Edrosic explained. “The Combat Mastery too… I gained two levels which I didn’t have before. Though I don’t think my other self had the weapon skills I have.”

“Gladdens me to see the orb retains skill level gains,” Orodan said. The standard System everyone else used involved increasing knowledge being rewarded by a greater connection to the System’s repository of overall knowledge. It only made sense that linking up with one’s alternate self memories would cause skill levels to sync up as well. “Drawing’s an interesting skill to have.”

“H-hey now, that’s a personal-”

“I was not judging, Parthus. I focus on Cleaning myself, remember?” Orodan reassured.

“That and your maniacal love for fighting…” the man muttered. “Records aren’t known to anyone besides the Sergeant and Trumbetton, but be honest… how pitiful are my skills look compared to yours? You’re a monster for being a Sword Apprentice by the age of seventeen.”

“And despite that, I had not a single level in any craft. Drawing, Weaving and Woodworking, I had no such skills besides those meant for manual labor,” he replied. “Though I’ll say, I wasn’t expecting you to be a bard.”

“I-I’m not a bard! I just sing… sometimes…”

Further conversation was interrupted as a pair of boots stomped up towards the office, their owner, red beyond measure.

“What the ever-loving-”

“Sergeant. Parthus here intends on giving you a beating today,” Orodan calmly interrupted.

“What?!” Woodgard barked, furious.

“W-what?!” Edrosic exclaimed, aghast. And before his student could protest the excellent training, Orodan simply shoved him towards the man. “W-wait! Wait!”

In time, Parthus Edrosic would regret taking up Orodan on his offer of training.

#

[New Skill → Walking 2]

He felt the connection form between his mind and the central rune of knowledge, that coiled ouroboros, in his soul. And his steps became, surer, easier.

“You still walk like a damn earthquake in the flesh, but unless I’m seeing things… your steps have gotten lighter,” Old Man Hannegan said. How he walked like an earthquake without causing the ground to tremor, Orodan didn’t know. But he chalked it up to the strange and burgeoning concept of violence he was beginning to form around Combat Mastery.

