“Took me long enough. This has been… nice,” Orodan said, tucking away the book on Masonry as they neared Trumbetton. He had yet to acquire Masonry or Stonecutting from building the warehouse this loop, but eventually he intended to acquire them. And what better way to multitask than by reading about the subject’s theoretical foundations while walking? “I don’t take the time to walk from place to place all that often.”

“Might do you some good to slow down sometimes,” the old man muttered.

“Slow down? Him? He practically threw me to the wolves earlier! Quite literally might I add!” Edrosic protested, still bruised from the beating Woodgard had given him until Orodan intervened and gave the sergeant a beating of his own. “Who throws someone at things they want killed?!”

“Someone with a vested interest in seeing you get stronger. You cannot hesitate in seeking out opportunities for conflict and growth if you intend to gain strength.”

Orodan felt Parthus was being dramatic. He had only thrown the man towards the pack of Initiate-level wolves—which was a manageable fight—and not towards the Apprentice-level forest troll hiding under a ridge off the beaten path. Now that had been a good fight for his student, forced to fight an uphill battle against a more powerful foe.

Naturally, after suffering a beating at the hands of Sergeant Woodgard, Edrosic had needed a morale boost. And while the man had gone home to see his parents, Orodan had picked up Old Man Hannegan and together the trio met up once more for foot travel to Trumbetton. With the warehouse built, the old foreman’s schedule was open for the next week, and rather than take a job he decided teaching and advising Orodan was a better use of his time.

Something Orodan was quite grateful for.

Technically, Edrosic and himself were in dereliction of duty after beating up Woodgard and deserting. But in the spirit of the uniform he always wore, Orodan insisted that the wilds of the county remain clear of dangerous predators and monsters. Which involved forcing Parthus to attack each and every monster within five miles of the road as they traveled.

“Having me fight an Apprentice-level troll was just madness!” Edrosic complained.

“No, that was just good training. You wounded it decently before I had to step in. You won’t always have the luxury of fighting enemies on the same level of strength as you. Your other self fought wolves and slimes one-on-one, but those are weaker than you. Insufficient for pushing your bounds,” Orodan explained. Compared to him, who’d grown up fighting House Argon guards and getting beaten to a pulp even before the time loops, Edrosic lacked the familiarity with true desperation and uphill fights for his life. Something Orodan was working on shoring up in his student. “Anyhow, there’s an Apprentice-level wolf behind that grove of trees. Would you like to charge it or would you prefer I aid your travels?”

Which essentially meant Orodan throwing him again. Perhaps the man would acquire Impact Resistance if he did it enough times? Something to ponder.

“I’m going, I’m going!”

The man still retained the lazy and carefree attitude of his actual self, which was natural since Fenton’s orb didn’t allow for personality takeovers. But that lackadaisical demeanor was now tempered by memories of a life where he’d suffered great loss. In other words, Edrosic’s work ethic had improved.

“Even your style of teaching is brutal…” the old man tsked beside him. “Isn’t it a bit excessive to send him out for that when Trumbetton is right there?”

“Every fight avoided is a potential skill level unearned. You don’t think I got to where I am by cowering away from work and battle did you?” Orodan replied and the old foreman sighed but accepted the logic with a grunt. “Say, want to teach me to use that mana bolt of yours?”

“Any wandering mage could give you a better display of it and you chose me? I suppose I can display my lack of magical talent for you,” the old man said and Orodan paid close attention as mana began flowing out Old Man Hannegan’s soul and towards the body’s natural mana pathways.

Orodan was, on a cellular level, still human. But his body’s composition was anything but. He had no real organs anymore thanks to Absolute Body Composition. Each of his cells was capable of sight, hearing, taste and touch. In and of itself, they could function without anything else besides the power of his soul.

Which meant that he wasn’t the same as a normal human like Gregory Hannegan, who had to circulate mana through the pathways in his body before directing it towards a spell. Everyone had mana, and all souls were capable of producing it. But unlike most, Orodan didn’t need to channel it through pathways, and he could simply generate it from the cells of his fingertips rather than need to generate at the soul and then flow the energy outwards.

And as the Mana Bolt formed in the palm of Old Man Hannegan’s hand, ready to zoom outwards at a thought, so too did energy materialize upon Orodan’s own palm.

[Mana Manipulation 68 → Mana Manipulation 69]

[New Skill → Mana Bolt 4]

“Y-you! On the first try…!”

While Orodan would have liked to revel in the knowledge that he was some prodigy, the truth couldn’t be more to the contrary.

The bolt in his hand was steady enough, but the stability of it and his immediate success was due to the fact that his Mana Manipulation was near the Elite-level. And he frequently used mana when Enchanting anyhow. If anything, although this was his very first spell which used nothing but raw mana, the results were almost disappointing.

Still, at least he didn’t have to struggle with attuning to his mana pool and going through multiple mental exercises to attempt connecting with it like most beginner mages did. Orodan’s first true magic had been Draconic Fireball, a long time ago, and he’d brute forced some of the drudgery by halfway absorbing dragon blood to acquire insights before forcibly reverting through willpower in order to preserve his humanity. If he’d had to learn magic in his early loops the standard way… who knew how long it would have taken? Especially with what he suspected was Agathor’s Blessing stifling his development of magic at the time.

With a thought, he decided to empower the bolt as much as he could, and as expected… it began to crackle with instability as the bolt grew larger and more radiant; fed by his endless energy.

[Mana Bolt 4 → Mana Bolt 7]

The bolt of raw mana flew outwards and vaporized the wolf which had Edrosic on shaky legs. The man had fought a good fight but would have lost if not for the intervention. But progress was progress, and it was apparent that Edrosic had gained a level in Combat Mastery from the encounter.

“Disappointing… I’ll have to train under Destartes some more,” Orodan chided himself. “This is the first pure mana based offensive spell I’ve used.”

“And yet you got the hang of it in a single cast on the first try… monstrous.”

Orodan didn’t agree with that descriptor, not with the existing skills he had when it came to magic.

Edrosic was also limping over, clearly bruised and quite possibly wounded but with a look of satisfaction in his eyes.

“Orodan…! I nearly died!”

“Good.”

“Good?! What manner of training is this?!”

“The sort that gets you more levels in Combat Mastery in a few hours than you’ve gained all your life,” Orodan calmly replied. And that seemed to shut the man up as he noticed his skill level gains. “The numbers speak for themselves, don’t they? Feel like complaining some more?”

“I… er…” he stammered and then crossed his arms. “Well I’ll still complain of course! Would I be the Parthus Edrosic you know if I didn’t? Now… could I get some healing?”

“Healing? Your injuries aren’t even bad. Just a sprain and some bruises. Healing you would ruin your development. Focus on gritting your teeth and working to develop a passive recovery or regeneration skill,” Orodan instructed.

The man did not look happy about that set of instructions, but swallowed his complaints and simply kept walking, though with a bit of a limp.

Whiny as Edrosic seemed, when it came to it, it seemed as though the militia man could shut up and put the work in. Something Orodan could respect.

The group entered Trumbetton, making way for the commercial district. As usual, despite the county not being as prosperous as some others, the largest town was doing well for itself and trade was booming. Edrosic too looked as though he’d been around these parts, which was more than could be said for Orodan before the time loops.

“Esgarius’s Oddities! Come have a look at the fascinating things which adventurers have found in their forays into infestation sites!” the man proclaimed. “Weapons, jewelry, materials, sourced directly from monsters, vermin and criminals! We have it all! Support your local adventurers! Buy now and help support their efforts to keep us safe!”

“Oh? That merchant’s affiliated with Esgarius. Rather slimy-seeming man, but my ma and pa say he always pays good money for whatever they sell,” Edrosic piped up, still limping but bearing with it.

“Oh? Is that Mister Hannegan? The boss is at the main shop as always. Anything I can get you here?” the merchant asked.

“No need Felric. Just accompanying my rockheaded protege here,” the old man spoke, ushering Orodan and Edrosic towards their destination.

“Why am I not surprised that you and Esgarius know one another. Can’t get as gray as you are without knowing half of Volarbury County,” Orodan muttered, much to the displeasure of the old foreman.

“Been working jobs and getting things done around these parts well before you were born, boy. Don’t let some time loop get to your head,” the old man shot back. And honestly? Orodan was inclined to agree. Even throughout the loops, he still didn’t know nearly as much about the small details of the county and its people like Old Man Hannegan did. “I’ve known that greedy coin-sniffer since he was a boy. Seems like a shark, and he really is, but he’ll never scam anyone and always pays a fair price.”

Since Esgarius was a boy? Just how old was the old foreman then?

“I agree. I’ve yet to see him break any agreements or not give a fair share,” Orodan said and then barged through the front doors of the main shop.

“Oy! Watch the door! I’ve had to get it replaced twice this month already!” Esgarius barked and then his face changed. “Why if it isn’t old Hannegan! Come by to pay me a visit have you? Want something nice for your-”

“No. She’s doing just fine and will not require anything else,” the old man firmly interrupted. “My protege here has something to show you.”

“Your protege?” the greedy merchant asked and then looked at Orodan. Immediately, Esgarius sized him up. Not in a threatened manner, but with the standard awareness one might have when in an enclosed room with a dragon. “Hells you geezer… since when you do you take on adventuring types? He’s got a dangerous look about him too. Well my good sir… you have something for me?”

Esgarius caught the dimensional ring he threw.

“A dimensional ring. I can make as many as you want provided you have jewelry,” Orodan explained. “I want a forty percent cut.”

“Deal. You work with me and only with me,” Esgarius almost immediately said before Orodan had even finished his last word. The man might have been greedy but let it not be said that he wasn’t competent or didn’t know when to recognize something valuable. “When can you start? How many can you deliver per week?”

“I’ll be exclusive to you for this product alone. I fully intend to work with House Stenguard and potentially other groups depending on what my aims are,” Orodan said, taking some of the wind out of the man’s sails. Yet despite this he still seemed willing to deal. “I can start now and can deliver as many as you have items to enchant. Dozens, hundreds, thousands, it matters not to me. Energy is not a concern, merely time.”

Not when he had endless energy, something which utterly bottlenecked most crafters and enchanters of high-end gear. It was either train themselves and their mana pools at the cost of a great deal of time and expense, or acquire mana crystals, enchanted workshops and other magical aids which not only had an upfront cost but also a sizeable upkeep cost.

The merchant’s eyes were practically glowing with coin-lust as Old Man Hannegan sighed at the sight.

“You’re getting him far too excited Orodan… did I tell you that he ran a gambling ring as a nine-year old runt? Give him this much potential profit and he might upend the Republic itself.” And though it sounded like the old man was joking, Orodan felt that Esgarius was competent enough to potentially do even that.

“Deal! I agree to all your terms!”

“Well, there’s one more,” Orodan spoke and then nudged the limping Edrosic forward. “This is my student, Parthus Edrosic. I need him entered into an academy. There will be other students as well. Hence the forty percent split.”

“Why I’ll get him into Bluefire itself! On my name as Esgarius I’ll see it done!”

““B-bluefire?” Edrosic stuttered. “Me?”

“Let’s not get ahead of ourselves. While I appreciate the offer Esgarius, there’s no need to bribe half-a-dozen officials to get him in there without testing. As Parthus is now, he’ll fail the entrance examination miserably and be laughed out the door,” Orodan explained. “You aren’t ready for that yet Edrosic. In time, mayhap. Now? No. Unless you want to enroll down the crafters’ track path?”

