Master Del turns the cart around, so he can push it back up the tunnel later. Once the cart is positioned, he takes his stance facing one of the walls.

“Boom!!!”

With one swing of his pickaxe, he sends a small explosion into the rock. The rocks, surrounding the area where he struck, fracture and tumble to the ground. In one swing, he ripped out hundreds of pounds of rock.

“Did you see my stance?” Master turns to see if I’m paying attention.

I start coughing, because my mouth was wide open after his swing, so I got some dirt in it. Nodding my head rapidly, Del returns to his work, with a smile on his face.

We won’t be here long so while Master Del is mining, I sink into some quick meditation. Feeling my mana stream, I notice minute brown strands slowly mixing with my mana stream. Turning away from an inward perspective I check my surroundings. I almost startle myself awake, I’m in a sea of brown. Instead of the many colors I normally see around my house, I can only see different shades of brown flowing through the air. The mana is so thick I can’t even see the mana in the walls around me.

Deactivating my Meditation skill, I walk across the room and stand next to a wall; lets see what a mana vein looks like.

Focusing on my meditation again, with one hand on the wall, I try to feel the mana vein.

“Bam”

I fell on my backside. I can’t breathe, and I’m sweating more than I should be in this hot cave.

“You ok?” Del appeared over me. He bends over and easily lifts me up.

“Yeah, just tripped over a loose rock.”

“Ok, be careful. I’m loading up what I need now and then we'll go mine some iron.”

Watching him sort the rocks, I wipe the sweat from my face. Looking back at the wall, I discard any idea of trying that again. The force I felt in the wall was massive. The only thing I could compare it to is if a person tried to watch a nuclear explosion without glasses… and they were holding the bomb.

Trying to get a hold of myself I walk over to the cart. Del is loading chunks of pure magicite into the cart. It looks like the waste material fell off completely.

After the cart is loaded, we make our way back up the mine shaft. Once the mana starts to weaken, I feel good enough to ask Del about the magicite.

“Is that a skill you used to mine the magicite so perfectly?”

Pushing the cart like it weighs nothing, Del answers. “No, magicite is just like that. After you break through the stone around it, it separates naturally. The stone around magicite requires at least a strength of 100 to chip away at it; but once you break it, gathering it is easy.”

We arrive back at the iron tunnel Del told me about earlier. Looking down the tunnel I see a smaller wheelbarrow waiting on the side of the tunnel entrance that I missed the first time.

“Grab the wheel locks out of the little wheelbarrow.”

Looking inside the little wheelbarrow there are two metal triangles. Picking them up, they must each weight around twenty pounds. Even with my strength, it’s hard to pin them under the large cart's front wheel.

“Good job, now throw your pickaxe in the little wheelbarrow and push it down the shaft.”…“Don’t look at me like that, you need to work on your muscles and practice pushing the cart when it is empty.”

Reluctantly, I push the smaller metal cart down the rocky path. It's only the size of a regular wheelbarrow from Earth but it’s made from thick metal and without a rubber wheel in front, pushing it while empty is still a chore.

Trying to distract myself, I ask Dal something that has been bugging me; “Where’s all the bugs, Del?”

“You might want to improve your Senses, we’ve past loads of bugs and animals coming down. Most of them stay away from people, so unless you look for them in the dark, they’re really hard to see.”

“What about the gem snails I’m supposed to be looking for?”

“Ha-Ha, ha-ha”

Laughing, Del walks up to me while I’m trying to get the cart unstuck from a rocky divot.

“I told you they look like rocks; so, look at the rocks.”

Reaching past my head, he grabs a small pebble from the wall. Holding the pebble up to my eye, I watch as a snail pops out of the bottom. The gem snail is black and dripping yellow mucus underneath it. After holding it for a minute, Del places the small snail back against the rock. Instead of moving off, it retracts back into its shell and blends so well into the wall, that after I blink, I can’t find it again.

I wonder if I could keep one as a pet? Can their acid eat through glass? Maybe I can get Del to teach me how to work with glass.

With Del's help, I managed to get the cart moving again. After a few twists and turns we reach another dead end.

Looking around, this room is shaped like a triangle. The walls are made from a black stone that absorbed the light of our helmets making the cavern even harder to see.

“We're finally here. See this black stone, that’s what we're here for!”

“Master Del, I thought iron ore was red in color?”

“It is, usually. This is called “Lovers” iron ore. This ore naturally draws other metals to it like an expert lover, he-he. When it's melted down, it produces some of the richest iron you can get.”

Bending over, Del picks up a small chunk of ore from the ground and tosses it to me. Examining the rock closely reminds me that I’ve seen this before in Stanley’s collection. This is called…what was it?…Magnetite, that’s what it was! It was one of the most common iron ores back on Earth.

Holding the chunk of metal over the cart, it jumps out of my hand and slams into the carts railing. It shouldn’t be that magnetic.

“Master Del, why is it sticking so much?”

“I told you, it loves other metals; the more mana in the ore, the stronger it reacts. Don’t worry about it right now, come take a few swings at the wall.”

I watched his swing earlier and I already know how to swing a pickaxe from my past life. Lining up next to a fissure already in the wall, I place one leg behind me, keep my back straight, and let my arms guide my swing so that gravity can do its thing.

…

I missed.

By a lot.

“This time, do it again; but this time, actually try.”

I was trying, you monster dwarf!

“Let me show you again.”

Del takes his stance and brings his pickaxe down right where I was previously aiming.

“Bang”

Another explosion of dust, and this time the section cleared is three times larger than the hole he created in the magicite.

“Do it like that, ok?”

Looking at his smiling face really pisses me off.

“How am I supposed to copy your swing when you move too fast?”

“Just keep trying and remember, with feeling.”

You are so getting water-boarded again tomorrow!

Maybe I won’t water-board him.

Right now, I’m sitting on the back of the large cart, I can’t move right now, I’m too tired. I spent hours listening to Del criticize my swing, posture, stamina, you name it. Then, we had to load the ore into the small wheelbarrow and take it to the large one.

Swinging the pickaxe; up and down, up and down.

Hauling stone; side to side, side to side.

I can barely hold on to the side of the cart. Master Del, the nicest, sweetest, most generous man ever, told me to ride on the cart for the trip back. Even now, Master Del is pulling the whole cart up the mine shaft. And I thought dad was strong, hauling thousands of pounds of stone makes Del a true monster. That’s what happens when you invest so heavily in physical skills, I want to be that strong one day.

Opening my eyes, I feel groggy. Did I fall asleep on the wheelbarrow?

Why am I staring at the ground?

Why am I staring at the ground and at a dwarf’s ass?

Looking over my shoulder, I realize Del is carrying me over his shoulder like a sack of potatoes.

Before I can say anything, I hear the familiar crack of a door.

Now the ground has turned to a stone floor and a familiar door shuts in front of me.

“Orry late’s, ell aseep out da mie.” (Sorry she’s late, she fell asleep on our way out of the mine.)

Before I can proclaim my innocence, I feel weightless. In one motion, Del flings me over his head and catches me in a princess carry.

Looking around my house, I see mother and father looking dumfounded at me. Richard is on the floor laughing and looks like he is going to die soon.

Trying to hide behind my hands, I know my whole face is red right now. Richard is laughing even harder.

“Creeek”

Before the door closes again I hear Master Del say “g-nite”(good night) before leaving me alone with my family.

I take back my “take back” from earlier.

The village will hear tomorrow, about how a dwarf drowned in his sleep.
