Ali put the problem of the dungeon mana aside for now and searched for a suitable spot to experiment. I guess this is as good a spot as any, she thought, picking a nearby stretch of dirt. She stood at the edge of her moss studying the domain mana as it extended a little beyond, reaching towards the bank of a murky stream of sluggishly flowing greenish-black water trickling by. She wrinkled her nose – it smelled none too fresh. She was certain it was all that remained of the beautiful lake that had once rippled beside the Grove.

She turned to her floating Grimoire and paged quickly to the last chapter, finding her newest imprint. She trickled her mana into the chapter, causing the runes to begin to glow and float off the pages in a swirl. Increasing her mana, she began to pour it in non-stop, accelerating to a torrent. The runes exploded out in glowing streamers of magic, swirling and binding together as they cascaded down into the area she had chosen, building and colliding in an ever-increasing storm of magical energy.

She pressed her lips together and doubled down on her focus, concentrating on what was suddenly the largest magical work she had ever attempted. Her energy drained, but she held on, determined to see what her new imprint could do. Flowing up from the circle of magic projected onto the ground, the shape of a tree began to take form made from millions of tiny glowing runic symbols. As the magic flowed the symbols began to interlock, forming branches, bark, and leaves but her mundane vision was completely oblivious to the intricate construction taking place. After several minutes, and almost her entire remaining mana pool, the spell suddenly completed with an audible thump.

Ali stared up in awe at the gigantic white oak that had suddenly materialized – her recorded imprint made real by the power of her mana. It had to be over twenty-five meters tall, with wide branches extending outward from a broad trunk, and thick gnarled roots strongly embedded into the ground.

“Woah, Ali, that’s impressive!” Malika had stopped her drills and come over to see. “Do you think it will grow down here?” She reached out to touch the trunk as if to check it was real.

“I… hope so,” Ali whispered. The enormous tree appeared dark to her mana vision, in stark contrast to her domain and the moss that helped create it.

She waited, hoping against hope.

There! Seen against the darkness of the trunk, the change was blindingly clear to her augmented sight. The roots of the tree drew in mana from the surroundings, long, thin green and golden streamers could be seen shooting up from the ground inside the trunk of the tree. Slowly, the streamers were joined by more and more of the same, creating thicker upward-pouring mana flows.

It’s the mana of my domain. As she stared in rapt fascination, the mana streamed up and out through the branches and, as it reached the leaves, the entire tree was suddenly outlined in a glow of fresh mana as they all lit with magical energy and began to emit it as a glowing cloud that slowly fell back to the ground.

“I wish you could see this,” Ali breathed, awestruck. “It’s like the entire tree lit up with mana.”

“Sounds incredible.”

She simply stood and watched for ages while the mana flows deepened and thickened. Ali was certain she wouldn’t have been able to even see the top of the tree in the darkness if it wasn’t for the enormous flow of mana rising through the trunk and gently pouring out from the leaves to surround the entire tree with a brilliant glow.

I need to make more of these. The thought appeared and instantly it felt right. Ali looked around and risked stepping out of her domain for a moment. Even though she had not fully recovered from her domain withdrawal yet, she needed mana to summon another tree. And so, she deconstructed an entire pile of bones.

Imprint: Bone completed.

Ali dismissed the imprint, deciding she didn’t want to make piles of bone for any reason. But she did take note of the mana. Her deconstruction of the pile of bones caused a dramatic ripple in the pervasive dark mana around her. A large area of dark gray mana slowly began to recede, causing a gap to appear in the wall of mana in front of her exactly as if a bite had been taken out of it.

The bone piles seem to support the dark mana. It seemed much clearer now that she could see what was going on. As soon as she had deconstructed the pile, the mana began to withdraw. Ali returned to her domain, welcoming the refreshing sensation of her domain withdrawal being slowly healed once again. With her newly filled mana pool, she decided to grow a few more trees. Her memories of the Grove were crystal clear – she could see the shrine standing proudly in its center, the beautiful lake, and the trees surrounding the clearing.

I’m going to restore it all, she thought with a determination that spurred her to action. My parents’ memory will live on here. She spent the better part of the next couple of hours patiently growing trees around the perimeter of her moss. Her Grimoire made black or white oaks, or sugar maples at random, and each time her spell finished, and a giant tree appeared, she experienced anew the same sense of awe and excitement rushing through her.

It was the scent of delicious cooking that finally broke her concentration, making her stomach rumble with the anticipation of food. Ali glanced back toward the shrine, and to her surprise, she found a small camp had been pitched beside it – three tents and a cookfire with a small spiral of smoke rising from it. Mato was busy with a pot at the fire, and Calen seemed to be examining his bow, talking with Malika.

Oh, they’re back. She had been so focused on her trees and her magic that she hadn’t even noticed Mato and Calen returning from town.

“Hi, Ali,” Mato greeted her when she rejoined the group, picking up a bowl and filling it with a ladle full of what looked like a stew. “Your trees look great.”

“Thanks. I didn’t expect them to be so huge.”

“Well, you must be pleased. Here.” He handed her the small wooden bowl.

“I am.” Ali licked her lips. The spicy aromas made her mouth water, and she suddenly realized just how hungry she was. All that mana use must have taken a lot of energy. She blew on it quickly to cool it and then took a bite, filling her mouth with an explosion of flavor.

“This is amazing, Mato, I didn’t know you could cook so well.” Her voice came out muffled as she tried to talk and eat at the same time.

“I always enjoyed cooking at home,” Mato said, acting embarrassed by her praise.

Ali didn’t care how embarrassed she made him; it was delicious! “What’s in here? It’s divine.”

“Well, the butcher had a good cut of Bristletusk Boar today, and I threw in some onions, potatoes, carrots, assorted mushrooms – you know, the usual stuff,” he said. “And a dash of red wine and spices to bring out the flavor of the meat.”

“No there’s something more in here,” Ali said, waving her spoon at him.

“Hah, you got me,” he said. “I got a fantastic deal on dungeon-harvested shallots. Dungeon-grown ingredients always have incredible flavors – it’s something to do with the mana – but they’re usually far too expensive for mere mortals like us.”

“I think you should give up this fighting business and open a restaurant.” Before she knew it, Ali was scraping the remains of her dinner from the bowl with her fingers and licking them in a way that would have made her mother scold her when she was younger. “Is there any more?”

Mato gave her a teasing once-over, clearly intended to measure her height. “Where’d all that appetite come from?”

Turning pink as the others chuckled, Ali said, “Watch out, Mato, with your cooking I’m sure I’ll be at least a quarter-inch taller by tomorrow.”

After dinner, the conversation ranged widely as they chatted about the day; the guild and its intense Guildmaster, and the impending invasion of Goblins. As the conversation touched on the trip to the blacksmith, and Malika gave a colorful description of some of their trials, Ali remembered she still hadn’t learned to make the new daggers. She had simply been too distracted with her domain, recovery, and making trees.

“Come here”, she instructed, pushing the mental command to the connection she had with her Kobold rogue, and he instantly appeared at her side, making her heart race just a little once again.

“Give me the daggers, please,” she said. The Kobold was pretty obviously unhappy with her request, but he gave up the two steel daggers promptly. Ali retrieved the other two from her storage ring and deconstructed all four.

Imprint: Crude Dagger updated to Imprint: Dagger.Variant: Steel Dagger added to Imprint: Dagger.

“You learned Thuli’s daggers?” Malika asked, glancing her way curiously as the Grimoire shone.

“Yes – the variants seem to come easier than the original imprints, I feel. I’m going to refer to him as the grump-smith from now on.” Ali had been rather annoyed with his behavior, but that had mostly passed now, leaving only curiosity about the strange book, but she felt she couldn’t just let him off so easily.

At least Thuli’s work was excellent and the upgrade to her imprint was going to make all her rogues far stronger – even the one she had left back in the forest, at least when he returned. She could tell he was still alive because she could still sense his mana reservation – and Martial Insight told her roughly where he was, but it wasn’t close.

Sitting by the warm fire and her friends, she summoned daggers using her Grimoire. It produced three crude daggers before she finally completed the pair of steel daggers she wanted. She set the poor-quality ones to the side, picking up the two shining steel daggers and examining them carefully, turning them over in her hands.

It would be nice if I could remove the crude dagger part of the imprint. Well, it’s still a step forward.

“Here you go,” she said, turning to her waiting Kobold and handing him the daggers. She was rewarded with his disturbing, toothy grin once more before he vanished into the shadows to keep guard.

Then, she retrieved her tent and sleeping bag from her storage.

“Calen, can you show me how to set this up?” she asked.

“Sure,” he said. “See this rune? Just channel a little mana into that.”

She did as he suggested, and she was rewarded with the tent suddenly inflating on its own and clamping itself down into the moss with anchor pins.

“Wow, that’s convenient!”

“Only for the glamorous adventurer,” he grinned. “It’s a time-saver for sure.”

As she laid her sleeping bag out inside her new tent, she decided her friends had been onto something good – it looked vastly more comfortable than sleeping on the ground – even ground covered in springy moss.

“Hey, Ali, I … can I ask you a favor?” Calen seemed a little hesitant.

“Sure, what do you need?”

“Someone has been buying up all the arrows in town. I was only able to buy one quiver – at four times the normal price, would you believe? And that was cheap, some merchants were trying to get a gold for twenty arrows!”

Nearby, Malika whistled through her teeth. “Nice racket.”

“Do you think it’s Kieran Mori?” Ali asked, recalling the story Calen had shared about seeing them and their nefarious plans for the town.

“I’m certain it is,” he answered. “Thing is, I will be useless in a fight without arrows. And, well… I saw you learned to make those daggers… can you make arrows, too?”

“I don’t have a free imprint,” she said, seeing disappointment on his face. I wonder, though…

She pulled out her Grimoire again, a little surprised at how big it had grown, and she opened it, paging through the chapters and the imprints she had learned.

“I have this one for wood that I’ve never used,” she said after a few moments. “It should be easy enough to relearn something like that after I level my skill up. How many arrows do you have?”

“I have twenty, but are you sure this is ok?”

“Yes,” she answered with a smile and sat down next to him, beginning to deconstruct his arrows one by one. His chagrin was priceless as he watched her systematically destroy all the arrows he had spent so much of his money on.

Imprint: Arrow completed.

“Step one completed,” she murmured.

Ali paged through her Grimoire to the imprint for wood and selected it. She had never used the imprint, except for basic testing. And wood is plentiful. Ali watched her Grimoire replace the imprint and update to read ‘Imprint: Arrow’.

“How many do you think you’ll need?”

“A couple of hundred for a long battle,” he answered. He was still looking anxiously at the five arrows that were all that remained in his quiver.

Ali channeled her mana into the imprint, which, of all the ones she had learned so far, was one of the simpler ones. And with little fuss, she created an arrow.

Calen’s face broke into a joyful smile as she handed it to him and began to make another, happy to discover they were pretty quick to make, at least compared to Kobolds or trees. And, with just a little experimentation, she discovered she was able to even make two or three at a time.

“How much gold for all those, Ali?” Mato chortled.

Calen held up his hand. “No tattling, or the Town Watch will have her making arrows for the rest of her life. Nice work, Ali. How’s about you learn gold coins next?”

“Eek?”
