“This is Instructor Marion. He’ll be here on Tuesday mornings from six to eight. If you’re struggling with something, send him a message to set up an appointment for that time slot to sort it out. You’ll only have access to a small portion of the gym, and he’ll only be tutoring six people during the Tuesday sessions. It’s first come, first serve until everyone has had their chance.”


He scanned them all.


“This class period is one hundred and twenty minutes long. You will be using your powers and your bodies a lot while you’re here, usually until they are exhausted. If you show up too tired to move, or with your main skills and spells already depleted, we will be extremely disappointed in you.”


Jeffy gasped.


Alden didn’t know what talents the Aqua Brute had other than high strength stats but he wouldn’t be at all surprised to find that he’d been showing off all day without considering what that would mean for class.


“The regular course structure will be four, thirty-minute-long sessions. The idea is to get you all used to the gym and used to thinking about your bodies and your magic in new ways. We will be giving you the opportunity to experiment with your powers. The sessions will loosely mimic different types of hero work. You only became Avowed in the past few months. Most of you are at least seven years away from the start of your careers. At this point in your lives, it’s more important for you to discover what you’re capable of than it is to perform with perfect realism.”


He pointed at himself. “I will be teaching you offense, single-target only for now. Instructor Waker will be running the self-defense session. Instructor Marion will be teaching maneuvering and positioning. Instructor Fragment will be giving you rescue problems to solve.”


Alden examined Instructor Fragment. He hadn’t recognized the stocky woman until her hero name was used. He knew from reading the faculty list on the school website that she was a Ground Shaper who specialized in saving people from building collapses. A rare, emergency-work-only hero.


It’s a totally different lifestyle than most people here seem to want. She lived on Anesidora and got called when she was needed, a bit like Haoyu’s parents but without the collective backing and with zero expectation of showmanship when she arrived. The downside, of course, was no fame, less fortune, and no off-island address.


Alden was inclined to respect her without even having spoken to her.


“You’ll rotate between each of us in small groups. Don’t dawdle when it’s time to move to the next thing. Learn to shift gears quickly. Instructors Wu, Ivanova, and Foxbolt will be our floating faculty. If they pull you out to work with you on something, give them your full attention. Don’t complain if they take up a great deal of your time. They know what they’re doing far better than you do.”


He frowned at them all as if he were already anticipating complaints.


“We have gym etiquette. Your interfaces will always provide you with a floor status notification in this space. Additionally, when you are in here with the floor off and you see a new person enter the room, shout, ‘Floor off!’ It’s a critical piece of information to be aware of at all times, so we like to have the backup call. At the moment, you’re new to this, so you’re naturally checking floor status all the time to make sure you’re doing the right thing. Within a few months, the gym will feel like a second home, and you’ll get laxer.”


He cleared his throat.


“From now on, do not use any powers or any degree of superhuman strength on the gym floor while it’s off. If you want to play with a harmless talent while the floor’s off, do it to the sides or up here on the bleachers. The white floor is where we do things that would be fatal elsewhere. Get it in your head that anyone visibly doing any kind of magic there when it’s not on is making a potentially deadly mistake, and scream ‘Floor off!’ at the top of your lungs the second you notice them. Maybe it’s nothing, or maybe they’re about to accidentally rip off a friend’s limbs. Don’t wait to find out.


“Finally, don’t agonize over leveling. Students inevitably panic as soon as the first of their classmates gains a level. We will tell you when you need to worry, and we won’t even think of telling you to worry for at least six more months. The System’s management of any given Avowed can be somewhat…eccentric. Principal Saleh has been known to pop into classes on occasion and offer her unique perspective as someone who has ranked up. But the general consensus among some of the best levelers on Earth—the ones who’ve seen fit to share insights with the rest of us anyway—is that hard work at the edge of your abilities always pays off. So that’s what we’ll be having you do. We can talk about more creative, personal endeavors to push your limits when that hard work has become a matter of course for you all.


“Now let’s get started.”


******


The instructors didn’t explain how they were breaking people into groups; everyone just got an assignment and went. But there was obviously some thought process to it instead of random selection. One group of ten was entirely Brutes, minus the class’s two speedsters. Haoyu was over there, looking laser focused as Big Snake explained something to them all.


Another group was mostly Shapers and ranged weapon Meisters. Lexi was in that one. More than half of the group was S-rank. It included Maricel, Vandy, Tuyet, and Jupiter.


A third group was more of a mixed bag, but they’d stuck both Finlay and Winston in it together.


Alden was pretty sure the group he’d been put in was the struggles-to-deal-damage group. He, Max, Kon, Everly, and Astrid were in it with five other students he hadn’t properly met. One was actually the Shaper of Light who Alden had seen in the “odd birds” crowd on assessment day.


I didn’t realize he got in. He wasn’t at the party. The Light Shaper hadn’t actually been good at anything, but he’d been on his way to one day being good at multiple impressive things—invisibility, creating high temperature areas. But he’d have to avoid a breakdown first. His forehead was beaded with sweat, and when Alden and Kon both said hi to him, he stared at them like a deer caught in headlights.


If it’s this bad now, what’s it going to be like when we hit the other teachers?


Their group was starting with Instructor Fragment in the rescue work section. In Alden’s opinion, it was the least intimidating.


He tuned out the Light Shaper’s heavy breathing and listened with interest while Fragment talk about how important problem solving and creative skill use was for her job. She explained that they would be exploring ways to use their powers to protect other people from assault and to excavate them from dangerous areas.


“This is really just the most basics of the basics and your first introduction to thinking about possible uses for your magic in these scenarios. You will make mistakes, and those mistakes will teach you even more than your successes.”


They would be climbing a towering jungle gym of a scaffold and bringing down “victims” that were really hundred and twenty kilo sandbags. They were starting to talk about approaches to the problem for everyone, when Instructor Foxbolt tapped Alden on the shoulder.


“Let me steal you for a minute.” She winked at Fragment, revealing that she had a magical effect applied to her winged eyeliner of all things. It flashed from orange to electric blue.


But this was going to be my favorite part of the whole class period, Alden thought as he stared over his shoulder to where Astrid was climbing up the scaffolding.


She was moving easily, and he wanted to watch her attempt the rescue. Naturally, she had more stats than him, but Morph was one of those Brute subclasses that didn’t necessarily come out on top in terms superstrength. They got a lot of choices for how to develop their shapeshifting, which was one of the reasons it was such a desirable subclass. Big’nLittleSnake was one of the most powerful superheroes around, and he showed off Morph combat abilities at the absolute maximum. A lot of morphers were more into impersonation or esoteric body mods that gave them utility in specific situations.


Alden followed the instructor over to the bleachers and sat down when she patted the bench invitingly. “All right!” she said, picking up a tablet. “I’m Foxbolt. Adjuster. Lovely to meet you, Alden. We agreed that I would be the one to talk to you about your equipage for this course. Is there some particular object you’re absolutely dying to use as a main tool?”


He shook his head. Right now, he was preserving a long length of paracord, with carabiners on either end. He’d wrapped it around his left arm and wrist like a homemade bracer. He’d also brought the duffel bag full of supplies he’d just bought, since he didn’t know if the faculty was expecting him to show up with things or not. “I have lots of different ideas I want to try. I don’t have a favorite yet.”


She nodded. “The versatility of items you can use with your skill is one of your strengths, so experimenting with objects is good. But it presents some problems. If you use a different tool each day we meet, you’ll never gain a decent understanding of how to work with any of them. And the instructors’ advice will no longer be as useful from one class to the next because if they give you tips for defending yourself with something like an umbrella today and you show up with a sheet-shaped shield tomorrow—”


Just bought potential sheet shields. And an umbrella.


“—they’ll have different opinions on how it should be used,” she continued. “So let me tell you what we suggest.”


She read some notes on her tablet and nodded to herself.


“For offense, defense, and maneuvering, we suggest you pick a single tool or a homemade combotool that’s not much more complex than the thing you rigged for combat assessment. Take this week to figure it out if you need to, but we think you should commit to using it for the rest of term by next Monday. Feel free to ask us for advice. Even if you later discover that what you’ve chosen is wildly flawed, learning to work around those flaws has benefits, and it will give you ideas about what you might want to try in future courses.


“As for your rescue sessions, Instructor Fragment actually encourages you to bring anything you like. The more the better. She points out that in a disaster relief effort, the ability to use any everyday object at hand would be invaluable. And in such a situation, you’d likely have many people to entrust you with them.”


“That all sounds good to me,” said Alden. “About offense—”


Foxbolt flashed her eyeliner at him before he could finish the thought.


“Realistically, if we were sending you out to fight bad guys next week, we’d tell you to cover up as much of yourself with a shield as you can, and we’d hand you a solid Wrightmade gun. However, this is a magic development program, and firearms training would do nothing to develop your magic. We’d rather have you practice with your skill. You’ll also find that you can acquire excellent marksmanship quite easily as an Avowed. Your current vision and stat allocations are fine already. If you don’t gain an offensive skill of some kind over the next few years, someone will shoo you off to the targeting range. It won’t take you long to be more proficient with a gun than any ordinary human.”


Alden blinked. “Okay. Yeah. That makes sense.”


He’d been planning to ask if he could go grab a weight from the storage room so that he could tie his paracord around it and whack people in the offense portion of the class. But finding out he had a future as a sharpshooter was interesting, too.


“Last thing!” she said. “Instructor Klein wanted me to ask if you were wearing any magical equipment today.”


“No? I thought we weren’t supposed to bring things like that.”


He’d left Joe’s ring in his messenger bag with his books in System storage, and the auriad around his neck didn’t count because it was more like a piece of him than a piece of equipment.


She looked over toward Klein with a raised eyebrow. He was beside Jupiter, trying to explain something about ankles if the direction his finger was pointing was any indication. The Life Shaper had draped herself in fresh kudzu vines for class today.


“He says he thought you were moving differently than you were during combat assessment.”


Alden glanced at the instructor. How much is he staring at me? I’ve barely moved at all in front of him yet.


“It’s a wordchain. They’re allowed, right?”


“Yes,” Foxbolt said. “They are. A wordchain you’ve mastered will always be there for you to use as you see fit, so we consider it to be another talent in your repertoire.”


“Well, I haven’t mastered this one myself yet,” Alden admitted. “My roommate’s teaching it to me, so he cast it on me earlier to make sure I wanted to keep studying it. He said he could take it off. I can call him if you want.”


The instructor looked bewildered for several seconds, then she said, “The Velra boy in the arts program!” She laughed. “I was trying my best to figure out how another student had done a wordchain for you. I’d forgotten we had a Chainer on campus!”


She lowered her voice. “I think it’s practical to try it out first. They can be tedious to learn. Just let me know before you get any more free ones from your roommate so that I can pre-approve them and nobody can complain.”


