Everly reached the top of the platform and stared at one of the bags with a resigned look on her face. “You can do it, Ev,” Kon said encouragingly.


She looked like she weighed about a hundred pounds herself—less than half of what the bag she was supposed to rescue did. As an A-rank Adjuster who was just starting out, her stats wouldn’t be high. She could lift the bag, but she couldn’t carry it easily. Much less climb with it. She’d tried with a rope, harness, and pulley the first time, but now what was she going to do?


She’s got ice spells, thought Alden. Adjusters had extensive spell lists, so it wasn’t like he knew everything on them. But he had at least skimmed over all the well-known ones for high ranks, and he couldn’t think of any freezing spells off the top of his head that would help much with this task.


He hoisted his own, physically weightless bag onto his back and started his climb down.


When he’d made it about half way, a length of rope fell down beside him. He looked up to see Everly aiming a spell at the top of it.


So she is freezing it after all?


He didn’t see how that was going to help, but at least she had a plan.


His feet hit the floor.


“That’s a rescue, Alden!” called Instructor Fragment. “Get back up there. Get one more.”


On the opposite side of the scaffolding, he saw someone else’s victim being lowered in a harness. It was a really obvious rescue method that didn’t utilize powers at all. He hated to do the same thing, but it was hard to come up with fresh ideas in a hurry.


He started climbing again.


If I had a long enough tarp I could make a ramp? Like a sliding board. Though the victim might have a rough roll down it, which was less than ideal.


Actually what would a tarp or sheet that big weigh? And could I get it into the right shape without it flying all over the place?


Also it would be humongous. Size did matter with his skill. And now he was thinking that the distance he extended his protective magic from his body did, too. He’d noticed it a couple of times before, and the first sandbag rescue confirmed it in his mind. He was fatiguing himself a lot faster when the paracord was extended a long way than when it was coiled around his arm in a tidy bundle. Even if he could preserve a really massive sheet ramp, he probably couldn’t do it for long.


And massive objects are more likely to take impacts. So much surface area for things to smash into. At some point I’m going to have to start doing math…that sucks.


He was interrupted from his thoughts and his climb by the appearance of Everly.


Even though he knew he was short on time, he couldn’t help but stare. What the hell?


She was a couple of yards above him on his right. Her rope was stiff and completely covered in a thick, glossy sheet of ice. And she was walking down it. Sideways.


Sort of walking anyway. It was more like her feet—completely bare and flashing pale blue toenail polish—were adhered to it and gravity was giving the rest of her a really hard time. She was in a half-squat, and she had the sandbag deathgripped to her side, opposite the floor far below them. It was being held more by her body than her arm.


But her body isn’t being held by anything, is it? Except her feet.


Alden recognized the spell she was using now. Glaze Object. It completely coated objects in a layer of ice, which was why Everly had decided to use a rope rather than the scaffolding itself. The scaffold was probably too large for the spell to encase, and if it couldn’t encase the thing she’d targeted, it wouldn’t work.


Her skill must have been that one that gave you traction control on ice. He couldn’t think of the name right now, and he hadn’t ever imagined it being used this way.


Everly, purple faced and breathing hard, carefully slid one foot down the iced rope, a little closer to the floor. She shifted her weight, bent her knee, and slid the other.


Isn’t that brutal on your ankles and knees? And your abs? And everything?


The gym suits didn’t prevent muscle fatigue or soreness. Alden knew from experience.


“All right, everyone! Stop focusing on your classmate’s magic, and start focusing on your own!”


Fragment’s call made Alden realize he’d forgotten about his rescue mission to stare. At least I’m not the only one, he thought as he hastily resumed his ascent. He spotted at least three other people who had paused to watch the girl’s progress.


Just as his hands grasped the edge of the platform, a pair of sneakers stepped beside them. Max was staring down at the floor below. Alden had noticed him laying rope down in a rectangle beside the scaffolding earlier. He assumed the other boy was outlining a zone.


“What are you going to do?” Alden asked, as he pulled himself up.


Still staring down instead of at him, Max said, “I was going to throw the victim down, but that won’t really tell me anything. I know it will slow the fall, but it might still be lethal.”


Then he wrinkled his nose, sighed, and jumped.


A few people yelled. They had whenever someone had fallen from up high. It was an unnatural thing to see. Alden’s own stomach clenched.


Max slowed before he hit the floor.


The pool zone, Alden thought. Max was using it like a diving tank. It looks like he still hit pretty hard.


“Two minutes left!” shouted Instructor Fragment.


Another sandbag landed beside him.


A new rescue method in two minutes? He was curious about what would happen if he tried to preserve the bag and jump with it, but he felt like if he could get that right, it was going to take more than a single attempt.


I mean I guess I can just try and lower it.


“Oh god,” Kon groaned, flinging himself up onto the platform and then looking down at his girlfriend. “She didn’t have the upper body strength to get the bag down, so she went with magically gluing herself to an ice pole so that she couldn’t fall. My whole body hurts just watching her. Or maybe my whole body really hurts.”


“You saved two bags with zero spells. You can be proud.” Alden started wrapping up victim number three.


“Preserve me and time skip me to the end of class.”


“You’re always asking me to carry you.”


“Instructor Plim made it sound fun. Also, whoa. Your skill is way more useful than you made it look previously.”


“Thanks. It’s only because I figured out the weight thing…oh! I could try something like a zip line? Crap, I should have brought up more supplies.”


“We’re doing this again on Wednesday. I heard her telling our Glow Boy that he’d have a chance to re-try. It seems like heights are his nemesis.” Kon was harnessing another bag. “I’m glad to have another chance, but I don’t know how much more creative I can be. I climbed with it on my back down the bars. I slid with it on my back down a rope, which I don’t recommend; I think I wouldn’t have hands anymore if I really tried that without magical protective gear. Now I’m lowering it on a rope.”


“Rope lowering does seem like the easiest solution.”


“I guess for Wednesday I can learn how to properly abseil?”


“If we’re in the same group again, we can try teamwork.”


“Teamwork?”


“She didn’t say we couldn’t help each other after the first round,” Alden pointed out. “You can ride my zip line holding a victim.”


Kon sighed. “That’s you working and me being at a carnival.”


“You’re assuming I actually know how to make a good zip line. I don’t think I can get the length I’d need to give anyone a gentle landing.”
