She finally let him go, and after collecting a sandbag for later, he hurried over to take his turn on the scaffolding. In the minutes he’d been away, Astrid had failed her first rescue attempt. She’d tried to climb down with the bag gripped between her thighs.


“I squeezed the victim until his ribs cracked, and then my hand slipped and I dropped him and fell on top of him,” she reported to Alden when he walked up. “I think I’ll try a rope next time.”


She gestured at the pile of supplies Fragment had given them to work with. There were things there that would obviously help. Ropes and straps. A pulley. A sandbag-fitted harness. And they’d been given video links to watch that would show them how to use any of it if they wanted. But they were supposed to be using their powers as much as possible, and they had to change tactics after they rescued the heavy bag once. No repeat rescue methods.


A couple of people had already gone after Astrid. Now the Light Shaper was going up.


“That is a nervous person,” said Astrid, watching him climb. “Is he scared of heights?”


Before Alden could consider the question, the Light Shaper froze. He clung to the scaffold three-quarters of the way up and trembled there.


“Maybe the pressure got to him?” someone whispered.


“That’s sixty seconds!” Instructor Fragment called. “You’ll want to get a move on.”


They weren’t allowed to take more than three minutes, and they were supposed to be trying for faster. A few people started calling out encouragements.


Kon had just come over to stand beside Alden. He shook his head. “He’s not moving.”


At the three minute mark, their teacher sighed. “I guess we’re leaving him up there. Everyone has their troubles with different assignments. Let’s see if he gets a handle on himself when people start climbing up past him.”


She gestured, and another 120 kilo bag that had been waiting off to the side flew up to land on top of the platform.


“Alden, you’re heading up next. If your classmate is standing in your preferred climbing route, then adapt and adjust, all right?”


Alden hurried over to the scaffolding, more eager than nervous for this particular assignment. He wanted to try something new, he had a plan, and he thought it would work.


They hadn’t been given a convenient ladder; the scaffolding was made to be more demanding than that, with certain bars arranged at difficult distances and angles. But it was nothing ridiculous. He would have climbed it easily enough even on a bad day, and with the wordchain making him beautifully sure of his grips and his balance, he almost felt like he was flowing up it.


It definitely made up for the period of suffering the chain had caused him in Intro to Other Worlds. He pulled himself onto the metal grating that formed the platform at the top, unpreserved his paracord bracer, and started unraveling it as he stepped over to his assigned bag. The sausage shape made it harder to rescue, in his opinion, than an actual human would have been.


I need to learn how to tie a good harness, he thought as he hastily wrapped cord around the bag in X shapes that he imagined would be slightly more forgiving than a simple belt if his passenger had actually possessed nerve endings. But this is probably faster.


Alden was pretty good with string. And he was wordchain-blessed at the moment. His bag wrapping knowledge might not be up to snuff, but it didn’t actually have to be. He’d soon made a tight, secure-looking net of rope around the bag, and if his knot tying was shoddy, it would be irrelevant as long as he kept his skill active.


He lifted and preserved his cord in the same motion, and the sandbag came with it. It weighed two hundred and sixty pounds. His arm said it weighed almost nothing. Instead, the authority bound within his skill strained under the weight as the bag rested on top of his shielded cord.


He gave himself a few extra seconds to feel it. Acknowledging the weight is important.


While watching the fireworks last night and telling the girls and Lute about his suitcase cannonball, he’d suddenly had the thought that this weight-lifting trick he’d found could be more remarkable than he’d realized. He thought it might be something a normal Avowed with the skill at this level shouldn’t be able to manage as easily as he himself did.


The Bearer of All Burdens was older magic that had “roots in sacrifice and symbolism.” As he understood it, it derived part of its power from the fact that Alden was at least peripherally aware of himself laboring while he used it.


Any Avowed’s authority was laboring while they used their talents, of course. But they couldn’t feel it. Like it or not, Bearer was a little different. Because an Avowed couldn’t detect their own struggle, it made them struggle more than they should’ve had to. So that it could power itself. Or maybe even so that it could truly be itself—a very wizardy sounding idea Alden had come up with, though he wasn’t enough of a wizard to fully understand what he even meant by it.


So…an Avowed who received Bearer got the carriage restriction to start. From an ancient alien perspective, that was a helpful flashing signpost instead of a mysterious inconvenience. Move your feet. For this skill, you need to be burdened. And it wouldn’t let Alden feel like he was floating preserved objects around telekinetically, even though he technically was. You have to hold it. Because you have to be burdened. And even though he had managed to mentally gymnastics his way to hitting people with his preserved items, it was clearly an inferior way to use the skill.


What he was using the skill for mattered. If he preserved an umbrella and swung it at a concrete block with all his might, he’d hurt his arm. If he preserved his umbrella, and Heloísa tried to crush it with a concrete block, his power broke the concrete.


The Bearer of All Burdens protected things, transported them, and bore their weight. He was sure he’d find more.


And he also suspected he’d collect more evidence that although Bearer was vast, complex, and versatile…it wasn’t a skill designed for cheaters.


He stared at the sandbag. It weighed more than he did, and he could hold it here one-handed. He could toss it over his head by flicking his arm.


This would feel like cheating for sure. If I wasn’t aware I was carrying it with my authority, too.


What he was wondering was if a normal Avowed could have used a preserved item as a heavy-stuff carrier without some kind of physical repercussion or weakening of the magic. It was more in line with the skill’s theme than attacking was, for sure. The Let Me Take Your Luggage name the System had given the skill could even be considered a hint about this use. But would it have worked this well?


Alden could now fling two hundred pounds around like it was a basketball. As a B-rank. Would he be able to if he couldn’t feel what it cost?


If I didn’t have my authority sense, would I be consciously sacrificing enough to make the skill strong enough to do what I’m about to?


He tilted the sandbag on the back and forth by moving the rope attached to his wrist, checking that it wasn’t going slide out of its quickly rigged carrier, then he set it back down on the platform near the edge and unpreserved his rope. There were a few different ways to do this rescue, but he was choosing the one that he thought would test his powers the best. He climbed swiftly down the scaffolding. He enjoyed the wordchain just as much on the way down as he had on the way up.


“Hey,” he said encouragingly to the Light Shaper as he sped past. “You’ve got this. The realism setting is ten percent today. I’ve felt it before. Even if you fall, it’s not going to hurt much at all.”


He didn’t have time to see how the words landed, but he hoped they helped the other boy out.


“Alden! You forgot the victim!” Astrid said brightly when he reached the bottom.


She probably thought he’d had trouble and had to bow out. She was trying to lighten the mood. The guy who snickered when she said it was being a dick, though.


“Nah,” said Alden, smiling. “I’m bringing him down right now.”


Their instructor was staring up at the platform intently.


This is totally going to work. There’s no reason it shouldn’t. Alden preserved the paracord, and as soon as it stiffened, he lifted it over his head. The snickerer looked startled. Astrid stared from Alden up the frozen paracord line to the bag held at the top.


“It looks like a giant balloon!” Everly Kim exclaimed, sweeping a strand of silver hair out of her eyes as she looked up. “That’s so neat!”


It’s harder on my skill than I thought it would be now that I’m down here, Alden noted.


He carried his preserved string and its high-altitude burden to the edge of the area that had been set aside for the rescue group’s use. Working with an inflexible straight line of this length did present some problems, and he was sure Instructor Fragment wouldn’t approve of him setting the victim in the middle of another pack of students who were practicing their powers.


The rest of his rescue classmates had jogged after him. He started to lower his arm carefully.


“You’ll need to go even slower, Alden,” Instructor Fragment said with a touch of amusement in her voice. “And be careful of how you move your wrists. We want to place the victim gently on the floor, and with this method, it will be quite easy to drop him like the head of a hammer instead.”


“Yes, ma’am.”


“And you’re rotating him now,” Kon said, shaking his head in mock disappointment. “The poor man’s getting further traumatized.”


“He’s unconscious!” Alden protested. “We already established that.”


“Maybe he woke back up when you turned him into the world’s largest sausage on a stick.”


Instructor Fragment chuckled. She seemed to have a good sense of humor, and it was making most of the group loosen up.


Alden had to admit there was some resemblance to a giant cocktail wiener stuck on the end of an even more giant toothpick. But it was still awesome. He stared at the bag the whole time he lowered it, trying to be considerate about momentum and still meet his three minute deadline.


It touched the floor. Gently-ish.


“I think that counts as a rescue,” Instructor Fragment announced.


Astrid punched Alden in the shoulder. Everly clapped. Max gave him a thoughtful look…because he was Max, and staring thoughtfully at everything was what he did.


The teacher waved another bag up onto the scaffold. “Kon, this one’s for you.”


Alden grinned at Kon, who cracked his knuckles dramatically. “Yup. Here I go. Off to use my awesome Adjuster powers to carry that heavy guy on my back and hope I do not fall.”


**********


The last few minutes of rescue class was a free-for-all. Alden hadn’t been expecting that, but Instructor Fragment said she couldn’t send them off to their next teacher looking like she hadn’t given them a workout. “Many of you were trying to be careful and sensible the first time up,” she called from where she was riding a sandbag up to pry the Light Shaper off the scaffold. “Now it’s time for you to try more ideas out. Speed run through as many as you can in the next…six and a half minutes! Come on, young man. Let go now. We all have bad days.”


As soon as Fragment hit the floor, she lifted her arms, and the bags started soaring up to land on the platform. She draped a couple of them across bars, too.


“Go!” she said. “Find out what you can and can’t do when you’re really rushing!”


They all raced toward the scaffolding.


Alden was right behind Astrid and Kon. Both of them had thrown caution to the winds. They were forcing their way up more than climbing. Astrid was jumping from precarious perch to precarious perch, barely pausing to finish pulling herself up before she flung herself higher.


Damn she’s fast when she wants to be. He felt sure she would die more often than not climbing this way, but it was still something to see. Kon was being more moderate than her, but he was taking a lot of risks, too.


Guess I should push it as well.


Leaping and swinging as fast as he could from one angled metal bar to another instead of choosing his hand and footholds would be stupid under normal circumstances, but Fragment had said to find out what rushing was like.


Alden crouched on a bar that was connected to the corner of their scaffold jungle gym at a forty-five degree angle, holding himself steady by gripping the vertical corner pole. He eyed the route ahead of him. If he jumped there, then there, then swung himself over…


He tried it.


His body flew almost exactly the way he expected it to. His hands landed in almost the perfect spots. He’d worn his parkour shoes today, and he felt light on his kick-offs and glued on his landings.


“Are you part monkey?” Kon called as Alden caught up with him and then passed him.


“Rocking a new wordchain,” Alden said between breaths. “It makes me better at controlling my body.”


“Which one is that?”


“One Lute’s teaching me.”


Kon grunted.


The scaffold shook beneath them. Alden heard someone yell. He didn’t pause to see who it was.


He pulled himself up onto the platform. Kon popped up right behind him. Astrid and a couple of others were already there working on their bags.


“I’m going to rescue you this time, my man!” Astrid told hers cheerfully as she tied a rope around it with strangling force.


Alden was working hastily with his cord again. He was going to strap it to himself and carry it down this time instead of going for the sausage-on-a-stick route.


