“Let’s hope that D-grade can offer some more insight,” Eversmile said, his smile growing wider as he clearly found the situation incredibly perplexing. While the Viper wasn’t a big fan of a mystery like this, he knew the Primordial of Karma lived for it, and a scenario like this, one he didn’t at all understand, was the biggest treat of all.

“Yeah... let’s,” the Viper muttered as he teleported into his divine realm to see if their dear captured D-grade would indeed be a better source of information.

--

“You brought more?” Miranda asked in a tired, resigned voice.

Lillian nodded as she took out the bag containing a spatial storage within. The kind that wasn’t Soulbound but was specifically made to deliver goods like this.

“How many this time around?” the poor witch continued asking despite not really wanting to know the answer.

“More than last time,” Lillian shook her head. “Should we just put these in storage for now? With the complaints we’ve already gotten, distributing these...”

“Let’s just throw him under the bus if anyone complains,” Miranda waved it off. “Hand them out to explorers and adventurers working for the Council who are still charting the unexplored parts of the planet. We’ll get complaints, sure, but if they know the source, will they really dare make too much of a fuss?”

“They’re merchants,” Lillian said with a deadpan expression.

“You’re right, they’re totally still gonna make a fuss,” Miranda resigned herself to dealing with the incoming complaints about market manipulation and distorting competition.

Lillian had gone by Jake’s place earlier and taken his latest batch of potions, which amounted to over a thousand bottles total. It wasn’t the first time she’d done this either, and quite frankly, Jake’s level of production was frightening and indeed capable of distorting the market.

Not only were his potions better than what others could craft, but he also provided them entirely for free. Alchemical goods were a massive market across the multiverse, and one of the reasons why the Order of the Malefic Viper could remain a neutral faction and maintain cordial relationships with most organizations in the multiverse was due to its alchemical prowess.

On Earth, the Noboru Clan was the foremost producer of potions and other alchemical ingredients, in part due to the alchemists Jake had taken with him to the Order of the Malefic Viper. Reika, the great-granddaughter of the Sword Saint, led their alchemy efforts and was quite skilled, as far as Miranda could tell, but compared to Jake, she unsurprisingly still fell behind.

All the merchants handled the actual trade of these potions, and with there always being a high demand as no one wanted to walk around without at least a few good potions in their pockets, it was a reliable market. That’s why the merchants were more than a little miffed when many of their high-end customers suddenly stopped buying as Jake personally flooded the market with potions as he gained those last few levels to evolve to B-grade.

It had struck Miranda as odd that a single person could have such an impact on the market, but after doing some research, she learned why: Jake was simply too consistent and efficient with his alchemy.

Regular alchemists failed quite often, even with crafts they had done many times before. It wasn’t odd for even the most skilled alchemists to fail even something as simple as a batch of health potions, as any minor mistake could mess up the entire brew.

Moreover, the quantity produced in every batch varied widely. Alchemists could theoretically create massive batches of potions and poisons, but the more content was involved in the crafting process, the more likely one was to fail. As a further reason, failure meant all the ingredients would go to waste, which was why alchemists tended to stick to their relatively small pots.

Jake... broke convention as was almost customary by now.

“I want to confirm he’s still using that big thing?” Miranda asked, just to make sure.

“Without it, could he do this?” Lillian asked, shaking her head.

“No... no, he couldn’t,” Miranda sighed yet again while looking at the potions Jake had just generously dropped on her desk. There were thousands, and worse yet, she knew he was going to drop off a similar batch – if not an even larger one – next week. At least he would, based on how his production had only increased over the last year or so he’d spent pumping out potions.

In the first four months, his output had been good, but not market-distorting. However...

Miranda leaned back in her chair and looked toward the ceiling. “It all started when he got that damn Soulflame...”
