For the Greensoil Republic, they used archmages who had spent points in order to purchase the spell [Weaken Monsters], to then use that spell across that entire country. When used properly, [Weaken Monsters] inhibited all monsters from gaining levels past 10, meaning most people in the Greensoil Republic only gained levels to the natural maximum of around 13-16, depending on spell and skill choices. But the problem with [Weaken Monsters] was that if the gridwork casting of that spell somehow missed a monster, and the month-long spell duration lapsed, those missed monsters would enter a Rage-like state and rapidly begin to gain levels, and tear through a countryside full of low level people.

The Wasteland Kingdoms had a different way to control their population. They shackled mages with regulations and used routine checks where people displayed their Statuses and accumulated fines or soul debts with demons if they were caught having a restricted spell without having the corresponding paperwork and clearances from the Magisterium or a kingdom.

Treehome didn’t have any regulations at all, which is one of the reasons Erick liked them more than most other places. But Treehome was also filled with orcols who healed from almost all damage through simple Health-restoration spells, and they had Arbors to look over everyone. The Arbors were a pretty big part of why Treehome was such a good place to live.

People couldn’t use Spatial Magic in the Underworld because of Melemizargo’s influence. While that restriction cut down on a lot of utility magic down there, and had cost many, many people their lives as monster hordes overflowed their defenses, the absence of Spatial Magic made it easy to defend locations. Across almost the entire Surface world, places used anti-[Teleport] enchantments in order to protect their more vulnerable locations. There was no need to do that in the Underworld.

And the Sovereign Cities just prevented all Registrars from entering their lands without working under a local lord. No one was allowed to Matriculate outside of the control of the governments, or without a soldiering contract with the local lords. That lack of magical power and Script-enabled people was why that whole part of the world was a shithole, in Erick’s opinion. If that nobility ever gave Erick too much of a reason to turn their world upside down, then he might just do that. But for now, taking in the Dicers and ending that civil war over there seemed like a decent thing to do, which is why Erick was considering this Dicer request for asylum.

Erick still wasn’t sure exactly how he was going to distribute the Denial Spheres around Candlepoint in order to achieve the same effects as the Void Song, or [Weaken Monsters], or all the other various magic control spellwork that existed here and there in most of the world, but he knew where to start.

“Burhendurur,” Erick asked, “Where would you place Denial Spheres, to enable easier trusting of neighbor and neighbor, here in Candlepoint? What would you put in them? Each sphere has about a kilometer radius and can be imbued with any sort of Denial magics.”

Burhendurur frowned a little, but he didn’t have to think long to have an answer, “Put them everywhere that there are people, and with a [Zone of Peace] inside, if you can do that. Maybe [Spatial Denial], too, but that is rather itchy, and people would need to quickly evacuate if something terrible should happen, so blocking Spatial Magic is a bad idea. Maybe smaller [Spatial Denial] spheres in certain locations, to be decided.”

Zolan, Mox, Aisha, and Raingorl were surprised by that answer. Volaro was not surprised. He and Burhendurur had probably discussed this exact question before, because it was open knowledge what Erick wanted to do with these Denial Spheres, but here the dragons were, talking about inhibiting their own planned city beside the lake.

Erick was only a little bit surprised, but not because of Burhendurur and Volaro making a concession before they had to. He was surprised at their actual suggestion. Erick said, “I had considered [Zone of Peace], but [Zone of Peace] is not very smart when imbued inside a runic web.”

Volaro narrowed his eyes a little. “It still transforms harmful magic into a [Cleanse]s, yes?”

“The definition of ‘harmful’ is less nuanced when the spell is inside a sphere.” Erick said, “Inside a normal [Zone of Peace], if I cast a [Fireball] at you, it would turn into nothing. Inside a runic web [Zone of Peace], the same [Fireball] will become a gust of weak Force and Fire and a lot of a [Cleanse], but the [Cleanse] will be as weak as [Cleanse] inside Ar’Cosmos; only able to really clean up water and surface dirt. The Fire and Force might brush your hair or set small papers on fire. But what is worse, is that a [Fireball] cast near someone, without the intent to harm a person standing beside the impact, will retain full power. [Zone of Peace] in a sphere is not smart at all.”

Burhendurur frowned a little.

Volaro said, “Add in a Stone Denial, and put them absolutely everywhere that there are people, and include an Undertow drain to power them, same as you have the Gates. This will be more than enough general security. Even the Void Songs of Songli are not perfect.”

“Perfection is the enemy of good,” Burhendurur said, nodding.

Erick sat a bit straighter. “Ah. We have that saying back on Earth, too.”

“Not surprising. It is a good saying.” Burhendurur said, “And I agree with Volaro’s suggestion. Excising the ability for the populace to do direct damage toward each other will be a great boon for our rapidly growing population.” He added, “For Ar’Cosmos does need to ‘vent’ 100,000 people. We were originally going to request a grant for 150,000 people, but that would have met with too much skepticism.”

Zolan scoffed, “Like 100,000 is any more reasonable.”

Mox said, “I would like to return to this Dicer request...”

They spoke for a few hours.

- - - -

In a Private space, in House Benevolence, Erick sat across from someone he hadn’t seen in a while; Illustrious Moon. The Head of House Fae looked exactly as he remembered; tall, almost incani, with amethyst-like horns done in deep purple and all the rest of her a study in violet. She had taken a day to get here after the meeting with the Overseers about new cities yesterday, but here she was, ready to talk turkey.

She smiled softly, saying, “It’s good to see you again, Erick. I love the House.”

… They were still in the pleasantries part of the meeting, apparently. Erick wanted to get right down to it, though, for he had even more meetings and magic to make after this. He couldn’t just blow off Illustrious’s attempts at pleasantries, though. This meeting would determine the entire future of Ar’Cosmos’ direct presence here at Candlepoint.

Erick decided to go with, “It’s good to see you, too, Illustrious, now that I’m not under mental restraints and able to make my own decisions about life.”

Illustrious pulled back her joy, letting her true draconic self appear in the deep purple of her eyes. “How long will it take for you to get over that? Realistically?”

“As soon as I can no longer be worried of such hostile actions.”

Illustrious smiled brightly this time. “Then I will ignore the hostility of your words and trust the truth of your benevolence that this meeting will be productive for all of Ar’Cosmos. Who are your allies, I might add.”

“You are my allies,” Erick agreed. “And so are the wrought, and Oceanside. I hope the wrought now living in Ar’Cosmos are working out for everyone involved. No one has been ensorcelled yet, nor have they given you cause to do so, correct?”

“Correct!” Illustrious Moon asked, “Now, shall we talk of the ensorcellments you plan to place upon the future cityspaces of our land around your lake?”

“The Denial Spheres will happen to Candlepoint, too, and for now those Spheres will just have [Zone of Peace]. No anti-[Stoneshape] or [Spatial Denial]s, or anything like that; just [Zone of Peace]. It’s not a full-block on all magic, but it will prevent the most egregious and directly harmful uses of magic; mostly targeted spells and other things made with the intention of harming. There will be a lot of nuances for people to work out, but a Denial Sphere will likely be a hard counter to magics like the Red Dot that almost struck Spur, for I have done some testing with the spheres and [Fireball] and my words to Burhendurur and Volaro yesterday were mistaken.

“Very large spells are always subject to a runic [Zone of Peace], apparently.

“It does very well against smaller, more insidious magics, like those from mental monsters and [Force Trap]s placed where people can trigger them.” Erick said, “That Denial of Red Dots and the inhibition of monsters using esoteric and directly harmful magics is the most important thing.”

Illustrious Moon’s shoulders relaxed as she sat there, violet eyes widening a little like she was listening to a miracle. Perhaps that was exactly how she thought of Erick’s words. After Erick finished, it took Illustrious a moment to gather her thoughts.

“I understand that this [Zone of Peace] comes from Koyabez and it is used widely in peace talks the world over, but it is rather new, because it originally came from you. The Script stripped it from you.” Illustrious asked, “Will the fact that this is not actually your magic be a problem? I understand you have working prototypes, but godly-given spells usually have a hard time being stuffed into any sort of mortal working.”

Erick had had a conversation about all of that with Koyabez yesterday, after that meeting with the Overseers. Apparently, just like the divine [Gate] which people bought into when they were on the Worldly Path, paying 10 points instead of walking the Path, [Zone of Peace] was the same sort of situation. Godly magic did not fit into most mortal machines. You couldn’t enchant a Gate without having made your own Gate Space, and you couldn’t enchant [Zone of Peace] into a working because it was also a godly magic, and not really your own.

But Erick was still the creator of [Zone of Peace].

That spell had been ripped from his soul by the Script, but it was still a Benevolence-based spell, and Erick was, and continued to be, Elemental Benevolence itself. So the lines got a bit blurry there.

Par for the course for a Wizard.

“I did originally make this magic, and you are right that it is not strictly mine. I can only say that I have leave from Koyabez to imbue this spell into any workings I choose, it is Benevolence-based, and apparently it is still a part of me. And [Renew] helps bridge gaps like that rather well; that’s what [Renew] was made to do.” Erick said, “The only problem will be when a sphere breaks, for I will be the only one able to make more of them. This is not a perfect long-term solution, but it is a good solution for now, and I’m sure Koyabez himself will be able to help others to make much more permanent artifact-level Denial Spheres with [Zone of Peace] if he desires, or if someone asks him properly.”

Illustrious hmm’d in slight disappointment, then asked, “Will [Zone of Peace] inhibit the peaceful enforcement of the law?”

“They’ll have to adjust how they capture people; [Force Wall]s to trap, and that sort of thing. Nothing targeted at all, and not even any spellwork that gets too big.”

“A difficult set of restrictions. But doable. We would ask you to include [Spatial Denial] in the spheres on our lands.”

“… That is a surprise.”

“How so?” Illustrious Moon said, “Ar’Cosmos has always been anti-[Teleport], for if one used Spatial Magics in there then they might end up bisected in a wall. The lack of Spatial Magic in the common person does wonders for security. It will stop people from [Teleport]ing in and committing genocide, which is a fear of ours, Erick.”

“… Ah. Okay.” Erick said, “I can include [Spatial Denial] in the working.”

“Appreciated.” Illustrious Moon said, “I would also ask for you to allow the full number of requested residents to live upon your shores. 100,000. I could ask for a real number of 145,000 and bargain you down to 100,000, but I and my fellow Heads felt that was disingenuous. Our necessary evacuations number 98,500, but rounding up will account for stragglers.”

Her tone was even, but her worry was real. She wasn’t lying about her numbers at all.

Erick focused. “What’s going on in Ar’Cosmos, Illustrious?”

Illustrious smiled softly, and set off a bomb, “All the dragons of Veird are required to move to Ar’Cosmos by the end of the year in order to fulfill the pact made between Rozeta and Fairy Moon. Dragons are being evicted from Veird. All across the world. Right now.”

Ah.

Holy shit.

Incredulous, Erick began, “She’s evicting all of the—”

Fairy Moon stepped into the private space, looking around like she needed to attack something. But then a half second passed and she saw where she was. She calmed, going from battle-ready to something more relaxed. The vibrancy of her pink and green eyes died down with her thoughts of threats needing to be killed— And then lit up with joy as she spotted Erick. She happily said, “Erick! So good to greet you! We should see each other some time soon, but not right now.” She turned to Illustrious. “I am needed not-here. Is this important?”

Erick narrowed his eyes at the fairy, saying, “Hello, Fairy Moon.”

Fairy Moon nodded to him—

She paused and recognized that Erick was mad, but Fairy Moon would not dwell on that; she was too busy. She focused on Illustrious.

Illustrious said, “I am discussing the nature of our homes on the lake with Erick, and of the eviction of the dragons.”

“Ah! I see.” Fairy Moon stepped away, vanishing into the manasphere, her voice trailing her, “I am not needed now. Talk to you another time!”

Erick frowned at the empty air. Then he turned to Illustrious. “That’s how she’s taking her agreement with Rozeta?” Erick recalled Rozeta’s words perfectly, “ ‘Here now is an offer: You and your people both living and never-dead, keep the danger posed by dragon fights, on Veird and in your own lands, to at least the current level it is now, or lower, while accepting competent wrought and otherwise oversight inside Ar’Cosmos and other fae lands.’ That was the majority of it.” Erick said, “There was nothing in there about ‘remove all dragons from Veird’. And what about you?” A bit of anger crept into his voice. “What about my Overseers Burhendurur and Volaro?”

Erick suddenly had a lot more anger than just that, but he let that simmer.

