Illustrious said, “All dragons directly subject to the Curse, or those subject to Fairy Moon’s whims, are required to move to Ar’Cosmos. Which is almost all of them. The only ones being allowed to remain on Veird are those who are Paradox’ed. Everyone else is coming to Ar’Cosmos— Them and all their families who want to join those dragons. We were rather stocked with dragons during your visit, but even that was not the height of our possible population. Considering all the families following… We’re getting stuffed, Erick.”

“Even with [Renew] making that land bigger?”

“Even with! You would think that with more space, there would be less of a fight for all of it, right? You would be wrong.” Illustrious Moon added, “Just like I was wrong.”

Erick frowned. “How come I haven’t heard of this before now?”

“It’s apparently been in the planning stages for months, but a lot of things suddenly happened in the last few days and now the plan is unfolding. I was not fully made aware of this until three days ago, when Fairy Moon dumped this plan onto the desks of every power of Ar’Cosmos. A few people have responded quickly to capture land and kick people out—” Illustrious Moon frowned, as she got into the meat of the story, “About half of the 100,000 people we marked for this new city aren’t aware that they are being kicked out, but heads of smaller houses and families are informing their people right now, as we speak, while Fairy Moon is moving across the entire world and informing those who will be evicted from Veird. Burhendurur and Volaro did not tell you the truth because no one out here knew the full truth. Honestly, we haven’t told them the whole truth, either, so that is no fault of their own. But I am telling you the full truth right now.” Illustrious said, “In a week all the world will know, but by that time Fairy Moon will have gotten to every holdout and given them her ultimatum. Before the end of the year, every dragon on Veird will either be in Ar’Cosmos… Or not.”

It was all monumental news.

Terrifying and new, and yet not wholly unexpected. Fairy Moon was expected to keep dragon fights from happening here on this side of reality, and what was the best way to do that? Move all the dragons to Ar’Cosmos, of course.

But something wasn’t adding up.

“I still don’t understand,” Erick asked, “Ar’Cosmos is expanding? You’re taking in a lot of new people, yes. But the land itself is larger. It should be large enough to hold everyone?”

Like she was speaking a truth that everyone already knew, Illustrious said, “Dragons are selfish, Erick. More selfish than I thought I knew. More selfish than you will likely ever know— at least in this world. We’ve already had several fights over new lands, and a lot of dragons throwing their power around in dangerous ways.” Illustrious digressed, “This evacuation of non-dragons from Ar’Cosmos is necessary, and not just to get them out of the way of those fights, but to prevent them from starting fights of their own. There are a lot of half-dragon families that are almost dragons in their own power, but not quite, and that is not good for all the incomers.

“After a stabilizing period, I pray that many of the people we relinquish into your care will be able to come back to Ar’Cosmos, but I also hope that they are finally able to live their lives free, and under the real sun.” She looked to him, saying, “I hope that you keep the secret of dragons leaving Veird to yourself, Erick, for at least a few days. More, if you can. We don’t want to start— Well. There are about a million problems that could happen. For instance, we had a smuggler from Quintlan; mostly food and material goods, as most of our smugglers are. He’s a free dragon, and everyone in his organization knows he is a free dragon. He is the base of power for that smuggling ring. With this news, his entire organization has erupted in a civil war. Hundred people dead, at least.”

Ah…

This was going to get bad, eh?

But since Erick had to know the information that Illustrious didn’t want to speak of, he directly asked, “What happens when a dragon doesn’t go to Ar’Cosmos by the end of the year?”

Erick guessed what would happen already. An ‘ultimatum’ from Fairy Moon usually only ended one of two ways; either the person decided to do what Fairy Moon wanted, or…

“She kills them,” Illustrious Moon said, flatly. “If Melemizargo chooses to have a calm Shadow’s Feast this year, know that Fairy Moon already has all the chaos covered.” And then she set off another bomb, “If you haven’t already, you should expect some dragons to come your way soon. Within the day. Perhaps you already have a meeting with a dragon, and you just don’t know it yet? Those dragons will ask that you Paradox them into Benevolence, so that they might stay on Veird. Since you came upon your Wizardry naturally, you should be able to do this twisting of Dragon Essence without any damage to your self. This was how every House of Ar’Cosmos got its start.”

“… Right. Let’s… Let’s talk about that later.”

Illustrious tried to bring the conversation to a nicer place as she asked, “Can we discuss the nature of our refugees’ city on the lake? I was thinking we’d call it ‘Axiom’, as a way to establish it as a city and wish for it to always exist, but Inferno Maw wants to call it ‘Faefall’, for he is quite angry with Fairy Moon’s direction. Bright Smile has the middle-path suggestion of ‘Springkind’, as a place where our kind will always spring from.”

It was kind of surreal listening to Illustrious Moon talk of city names when Fairy Moon was changing how the entire world worked. The fallout of this decision will be immeasurable, but… Perhaps this was exactly what Rozeta had in mind when she gave her offer to Fairy Moon? In the end, the removal of dragons from Veird would be good for the average citizen.

… Maybe? Dragons might get into fights all the time with each other if they knew each other as a dragon, but when they were allowed to live, and not become tyrants, dragons were a force that readily took their hidden claws and spells to the monsters of Veird.

… The Dragon Stalkers were probably happy about this. Surely, they knew already?

Well whatever. Erick wasn’t going to tell them—

What about Al? Back at Spur?

Ah…

Al was going away, then?

That thought came upon Erick like a crashing wave out of nowhere, followed fast by several more waves. Worry and sorrow. Loss and failure to launch. Al was going to leave Spur and go to Ar’Cosmos. While Erick never got full confirmation that the Sewermaster of Spur was a dragon, he was 99% sure that Al was a dragon; the same black dragon who had crashed into that Flare Couatl and who took away Jane’s Dragon Essence so she could start healing from that poison. Would Savral be going with Al?

Erick found himself suddenly missing Al. That giant man was the first person who had taught Erick about magic, and who housed and protected him and Jane when they were new to this world. Sure, Al was rather bad at magic, but Erick certainly wasn’t a normal student.

Erick hadn’t checked up on Al or Savral at all since the end of the Worldly Path. He had seen Al, Savral… And Mog, the Guildmaster of Spur’s Adventurer’s Guild, and Sirocco Zago, the Guildmaster of Spur’s Mage Guild, and most everyone else who Erick had once called neighbor, and friend. But those sightings had been through Ophiel, and from far away. He hadn’t actually talked to any of them.

Suddenly, Erick knew he needed to talk to the people of Spur. He needed to talk to Al.

But he was here with Illustrious Moon, and they were talking about Ar’Cosmos’ city by the lake. He was here, for now. Later, he would see what was happening at Spur.

Erick looked to Illustrious, saying, “They are all fine names, but I would like to talk more about having some of your people move into Candlepoint, and not into your city. I would also like to talk more about the nature of the government you wish to build in this land… And what it means to Paradox Dragon Essence into something similar yet different. I might actually be doing some of that soon.”

Illustrious showed obvious relief when Erick spoke of Paradoxing Dragon Essence, but she chose to talk of city planning, first.

They spoke for two hours about the nature of Ar’Cosmos’ refugee city, how much Illustrious expected the city to remain a ‘refugee city’ when the population could freely return to Ar’Cosmos after the dragons settled in, and how well the refugee city was going to adhere to Erick’s and House Benevolence’s decrees which would be, of course, the actual law of the land. Erick had expected Illustrious to balk at that, and for the Houses of Ar’Cosmos to desire to be treated as equals to House Benevolence, but that wasn’t even a concern.

Illustrious put it best when she said, “The Houses remain in Ar’Cosmos, but we will open branch offices in this new city, and since this is your land, they are under your jurisdiction. I’ll even make sure they’re under the refugee city’s jurisdiction first, if that would make it easier on you.”

“It would. I have enough on my plate already so I won’t be looking over your branch offices at all. I want your new city to adhere to the structure we’re setting up already in Candlepoint, too. One mayor, like Mephistopheles, a law deciding branch, like Volaro, a law enforcing branch, like Slip, a sewermaster, like Ava, and however many organizers of the market you wish. Candlepoint has Zaraanka and Valok, for instance.”

“Then consider it done.” Illustrious said, “Now as for the laws of the lands, I approve of the systems you have smashed together under Volaro, but...”

They spoke of laws, and defenses, and all manner of minutiae that went into a city. They spoke of Gates linking the new city to the Gate District, like Erick had done with Candlepoint. Eventually, that conversation wound down, and they moved on to talk of Paradoxing dragons.

That explanation only took ten minutes, for that whole process was rather easy, according to Illustrious Moon. Erick simply needed to gain Dragon Essence until he was a full dragon, then Paradox himself into a Benevolence Dragon, and then match his own new nature to everyone he chose to change. There were complications, of course, for he could not do such a thing here on Veird; he would have to do this in Ar’Cosmos or else the Dragon Curse would grab him by the soul and not let go until he killed all the dragons he knew. That would likely go very, very poorly for all the world, but mostly for Erick, because Erick would go looking for Kirginatharp and the Second to Rozeta would slap him down hard.

“Other than all the possible problems, making a Benevolence Dragon is all rather straight-forward,” Illustrious said. “And Fairy Moon can finish off the process for you, perfectly.”

Erick was not comfortable with any of her words, and for multiple reasons.

Illustrious noticed Erick’s discomfort. “You can try alone if you wish, but I would not recommend it for a number of reasons. Dragons have tried this Paradoxing before, outside of Fairy Moon’s assistance, coming at the same problem from the other side; from being a dragon first and then collecting enough of their own mana to work that particular Wizardry. Usually this ends very poorly. I know of a few cases where they actually succeeded and become an existence that is not bound by the Curse, nor by the power of the Houses of Ar’Cosmos… But it’s not a real Paradoxing, and it fails without a great deal of upkeep. Upkeep which most cannot maintain, because those dragons who have succeeded were not Wizards. They were just very good at their specific types of magic and they had help of a different sort.”

“… Well that’s still rather unexpected. I was under the impression that the only ways out of the Curse were through your Houses?”

“You could have spent a decade with us in Ar’Cosmos if you had to, and you still would not have uncovered all of the secrets of our homeland. This failure would not have been because we were keeping those secrets from you, but just the simple fact that we have a lot of secrets.” Illustrious waved a hand. “And those minor successes a few dragons have managed to create, to escape the Curse, have never transferred well. And, as I said, they require upkeep, because they’re all unstable. If that upkeep fails then those few successes still out there in the world will have to come crawling back to Ar’Cosmos before the Curse reasserts itself and they destroy everyone they know. That’s not speculation, by the way; that has happened before, too.

“For as many years as the Curse has existed, people have been trying to escape it. Sometimes they half-succeed. And then they fail, and they come to Ar’Cosmos and get in line with everyone else for a chance at truly escaping the Curse through a House; through a Paradox of Death, Carnage, or Fae.

“I admit, though, that the only stable form of this Paradoxing magic is when you start with a Wizard and then add Dragon Essence, and then the Wizard Paradoxes themselves into being both at the same time. Every one of our Houses started this way. You might be able to do it on your own, but you do have to do it inside Ar’Cosmos. Submitting to Fairy Moon is simple easy, though.”

Erick managed to control his visceral, hateful, and destructive impulses into something smaller; a quiet breath, a stare, and, unexpectedly, a twitch of his left eye. And also an arm-thick zap of Benevolent lightning that arced off of his right hand and struck the floor, spreading black char where it lingered.

“Simple, eh?” Erick asked, his voice straining.

“Yes. It is simple.” Illustrious ignored the char on the ground, saying, “I know the facts of it are terrible for you, but—”

“I don’t want to talk about Paradoxing Benevolence dragons anymore.”

If someone came to Erick requesting to become a Benevolence Dragon, then he would [Reincarnation] them into not-a-dragon. He was never putting himself under Fairy Moon’s power ever again.

Illustrious moved on, saying, “Then let us speak of something I just remembered you wish to do: the integration of a portion of our fleeing citizens with the current structure of Candlepoint. How about 5,000 people from Ar’Cosmos going to Candlepoint? And they get a seat on Candlepoint’s council structure.”

“25%, and no seat; 25,000 people. They’ll have more than enough power by virtue of their population. No one will be allowed to move into your new city until Candlepoint is larger than yours, either, so any secondary evacuations will move into Candlepoint completely.”

