“Last night, nearly four dozen Arterian soldiers made it past our patrols and into the forest before Warrant Officers Crimson and Norbert dealt with them,” the lieutenant colonel starts the meeting out with, drawing a couple gazes towards me at the mention of my family name. A rather famous family for having nothing but Special Class Ability Holders born within it, even if the populace doesn’t know the rest of my family is dead. Except me. The one person who can’t die. “Through our interrogations, we have concluded that the Arterians have a new ability holder stationed at the Northern Pass who is capable of illusion magic. Furthermore, we have obtained word from HQ that the Emperor’s seers have foreseen something that will affect the entire Empire’s future. So be on the lookout for anything out of the ordinary.”

Not long after the lieutenant colonel finishes speaking, questions begin being asked by the gathered officers. Things like what type of vision was it, how would it affect the empire, and how powerful the new ability holder is. And after everything’s asked and answered for me, I don’t need to ask anything myself. Which is always a plus.

In the end it sounds like the seers don’t know anything about the thing they foresaw other than the fact that it’s not good, and that it’ll affect the entire Empire. A rather dark vision if you ask me.

And the new ability holder seems to be a Category Three in terms of combat prowess and military potential. A little bit above the average, which is a Two. Nowhere near the top where I am at. A Five.

Considering how the Category system isn’t perfect or based off of pure offensive power though, I’ll have to keep an eye out for this illusion magic user.

“Last up for this meeting is a word from the base commander,” the lieutenant colonel finishes after answering the last of the questions.

I redirect my attention forward as the colonel walks up to the front of the room with his hands held behind his back. The man is in his mid-forties if I remember correctly, with black hair and brown eyes wearing a black and gray officer uniform like mine, except with a lot more bands on his shoulder and the entire set of armor instead of just part of it. And if I remember correctly, his name was Raiden Hawk.

“Today we will be welcoming a new ability holder to our midst,” the colonel says, making me narrow my eyes slightly as another man walks up next to him. One that looks suspiciously like the colonel. “Pay your greetings to Second Lieutenant Carston Hawk. He is a Category Four Special Class Ability Holder with a logistics focused ability.”

An SC? Don’t see those very often.

Then again, considering that I’m a Special Class myself, I guess I can’t talk much on that. But I’ve only seen a few other SC Ability Holders before. Aside from my family that is.

The colonel speaks a bit more before sending his son – whose rank is higher than my own – down to mingle with us officers as he ends the meeting. And without a moment’s hesitation, I sneak my way out of the meeting room and head down to the cafeteria.

I hope they have some of that well-aged wine. The alcohol doesn’t affect me in the slightest since it’s technically poison, and poisons don’t exactly hurt an immortal, but it tastes extremely good to me regardless.

This coming from someone who doesn’t tend to like eating much, especially since my immortality makes it so I don’t actually have to.

Not really sure how that works though.

Not complaining either.

I smile slightly as I walk down the hall of the base, briefly pondering over how that new SC will do at the base. But in the end I decide that I don’t really care.

Time to see what the cafeteria has for me.

Note: If you are reading this on a website that is not Royal Road or on my Patreon, you are reading a pirated version and that website does not have the permission of the author to host the story. Please instead read the story on Royal Road, here, as it is completely free to read on Royal Road. And the only Amazon Author that I will be posting this story as is the one that I posted all of my other stories through, as Shane Purdy. If this story is found published on Amazon by someone other than me, and you see that the story is not from the following Author page, it was stolen and posted without my permission on Amazon.https://www.amazon.com/stores/Shane-Purdy/author/B09NRTM1J6
