Create a mobile, hovering platform of hardened mana that moves with you. Absorbs 100 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes per level.

The mana display from his hand was very similar to [Stone Travel], if a bit more solid.

Three Ophiel around Erick, each 3 meters tall and fully feathered, each took up one of the sounds, becoming a chorus. Together, they created a song of travel, of vast distances covered, and heavy loads supported.

If that was all that happened, Erick would have felt good about the spell. But one of the spells was not like the other. [Stone Travel] was too solid. It was a methodical, singular sound; a walk from one point to the next, while the other two were airy enough to go anywhere.

Erick quieted the [Teleport] Ophiel, for now; it was the most odd of the two airy travel sounds. The music between [Stone Travel] and [Force Platform] joined into a beat, and a rhythm. A perfect harmony. Erick smiled.

[Stone Travel]. [Force Platform].

For five meters in every direction, the yellow and brown sand under Erick’s feet turned to solid, flat stone. Ophiel trilled in violins as the three of him fluttered away, into the air. The ground shifted; Erick lurched to the side, but stayed upright, spreading his legs wide and throwing his hands around to catch his balance, as the flat land under his feet lifted, up, and up. Erick laughed as the platform moved through the air. He watched Poi, still on the sand, from his floating platform.

Stone Platform, instant, close range, 107 MP + Variable

Create a mobile, hovering platform of stone that moves quickly at your discretion. Supports a medium amount of weight. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick smiled as he flew around in the sky like a man on a giant, stone surfboard. Wind ripped at his clothes as the ground became a distant thing. The sun beat down, warm and bright, but Erick felt cold; the [Airshape] in his Handy Aura usually kept the wind off of him, but this spell had no such protections.

Still, Erick laughed as he flew. Ophiel trilled out violins, happy to join in the flight, the three of him flying around Erick like an honor guard, flanking him and flying ahead.

Erick called out to Poi, still on the ground, “I don’t know which is better! [Cleanse], or [Flight]!”

Poi smiled, all the way down on the ground, giving no reply but a small nod of his head; Erick could tell with [Ultrasight].

When Erick was done experiencing his new spell, and spending another hundred mana on the Variable portion of the spell, flying around, Erick set back down near the ground, near Poi. He channeled mana through [Teleport] and [Stone Platform], and with Ophiel, he found a song of travel.

Erick cast, and magic combined. The stone under his feet crumbled and remade itself as Erick and the platform reappeared twenty meters to the right, but the platform looked different. A blue box appeared.

Teleporting Platform, instant, 197 MP + Variable, 204 MP per person + Variable

Create a mobile, hovering platform of stone that moves quickly at your discretion. Supports a large amount of weight. Lasts 1 hour.

You and the people or objects on your Teleporting Platform appear in a known location, max 1000km distance.

Erick read over the spell, then dismissed the box and looked to his feet. The platform was different than before. Where it had been sand turned into solid stone, now it was stone with white words carved into the surface, like a hundred slashes all jumbled up in a circular runic pattern. The words were Ancient Script. [Teleport] had been inscribed upon the platform, in deep, white lines of Force, in that same circular writing that Kiri showed him that formed the basis for modern mage training.

With a push at the spell, the platform moved through the air the same as before.

With a deeper push, Erick and the platform [Teleport]ed down to the ground, next to Poi.

Poi yelped, then complained, “Sir!”

Erick laughed, saying, “I got our ride to Oceanside. You ready to go?”

Poi breathed in, calming himself as he looked down at Erick’s [Teleporting Platform]. He asked, “It… can [Teleport] all of us?”

“Yup!” Erick said, “All at once, too. Might have to take a break halfway through, but I got a delivery to make to Odaali anyway.”

Poi frowned. “You’re really going to give them unwanted… artifacts? Sir?”

“I will not be seen as someone who reneges on their bargains.” Erick said, “I’m still mad at Tenebrae for failing to show up to kill the second Queen Daydropper.”

Poi said, “Very well, sir.” He looked over the platform. “So… We just stand on it?”

The platform was only a foot off the ground, but Erick dropped it all the way to the sand, saying, “Yup! Hop on up.”

Poi read the writing, but said nothing as he stepped onto the platform. Erick dismissed all but one Ophiel, and turned that last one small enough to sit on his shoulder. Poi set his feet a bit wider, then nodded.

With a crash of white, the platform, Erick, Poi, and Ophiel, all [Teleport]ed, back to Spur, directly in front of the house.

- - - -

In the front yard, Kiri stood upon Erick’s [Teleporting Platform] and read over the Ancient Script for the third time, while Erick continued to step out of the way so she could read.

Kiri spoke as she read, saying, “This is… As far as I can tell, it’s a perfect diagram of the [Teleport] rune.” She stood up, waving a hand saying, “The last time I didn’t know, but I looked it up.” She gestured at the [Teleporting Platform], saying, “This is how we know of Ancient Script and of the Runes; sometimes they appear on uncommonly good spellwork. Higher tier [Teleport] spells almost always get the Ancient Script inscribed upon them.”

Teressa stepped onto the platform and set down two huge bags, right where Kiri was pointing, saying, “Done inspecting the spellwork?”

Kiri frowned at the disrespect of the magic, moving aside for Teressa, saying, “You all really should respect this level of magic more.”

Rats followed Teressa onto the platform, plopping more bags where Kiri was reading, saying, “Time to get this show on the road.”

Kiri pouted, narrowing her eyes at Rats, as she continued to read the platform. Rats just smiled, as he sat down where she was reading. Kiri harrumphed. She folded her arms together and ignored the floor at her feet.

Erick asked, “Don’t you have bags to get, Kiri?”

Kiri sighed, then hopped off the platform to walk past Poi, into the house.

Poi set his bag on the platform, saying, “Odaali has been informed, and they’re not happy.”

Erick frowned. “Yetta, Wilhelmina, and Cyril? None of them want what they bargained for?”

“That is correct,” Poi said.

Teressa said, “That’s disappointing.”

“They’re missing out!” Rats said. He looked at the platform, saying, “Doesn’t the Wayfarer’s Guild have one of these?”

Poi said, “Yes. Two of them. The Farmer’s Council has both of those mages contracted out for the foreseeable future, though. The Wayfarer’s Guild of Spur is happy. Usually this spell goes unused.”

Kiri came out of the door of the house, carrying a bag, saying, “Ready!” She hopped up onto the platform, saying, “All good.” She turned to Poi, saying, “No important documents left.”

“Good.” Poi said, “Then I’m ready, too.”

Teressa stood tall on the platform, her grey armor glinting in the afternoon sun, saying, “Ready.”

“Good to go!” Rats looked up at the sun, shading his eyes as he said, “It’s going to be dark by the time we arrive if we leave any later than this.”

“Quite right.” Erick looked around at the flat, orange stone of the Human District, and his garden out front. Lemon trees swayed in the breeze, while the house stood tall, and firm. It was a good house; two towers, three floors. Plenty of space. Erick breathed in the desert air, and said, “Okay.”

Ophiel hovered over the platform, singing in soft violins in his tiny, tiny form, as he set down on Erick’s shoulder. He settled in with tiny, hidden talons gripping into Erick’s shirt, as his eyes winked open and shut, taking in the sights.

Erick said, “Okay!”

Blip.

They reappeared a thousand kilometers to the east, a hundred meters up from the ground, exactly on track to where Erick had pathed earlier in the day. Wind blew, and Rats laughed as he looked out across the land. Teressa smiled. Kiri stared, while Poi was as calm as ever. Rats, Teressa, and Kiri each sat down, each with their own expressions of sudden surprise on their faces; Poi and Erick remained standing.

Rats said, “I don’t actually have a flight spell.” He looked out across the land, saying, “But I can see the appeal.”

Erick said, “We should get you one! I can help, you know.”

Rats smiled, saying, “No thanks. This isn’t for me.”

Poi said, “You should get one. I foresee us traveling like this quite a lot.”

Rats chuckled as he edged toward the edge, looking down, “Maybe I should.”

Erick glanced at his mana. [Teleport]ing 5 beings and their stuff seemed to cost 600-ish mana, meaning he could do seven [Teleport]s until he needed a rest. Good to know. He said, “Here we go.”

Blip. Blip. Blip.

The Temporary White Palace laid in front of Erick and his people. Odaali-in-Exile had retaken the Kingdom City a while ago; almost everyone who had been here was back in Odaali by now. This place was only left as a monolith to the lives lost.

It was a solitary building, now that the battle was over and the battlefield cleaned up. It was also empty, save for one person who stood at the entrance to the White Palace; Yetta.

- - - -

Yetta stood tall in the doorway to the Temporary White Palace. Yellow leather-like [Conjure Armor] protected her dark skin, and held back her curly hair. Bright brown eyes watched as Erick’s [Teleporting Platform] descended to ground level.

Erick hauled out an orange stone box from a bag at his feet, as Poi stepped down onto the grasses next to the platform. Kiri, Teressa, and Rats remained behind as Erick stepped down to the ground, carrying his stone box under an arm. Ophiel lifted up from Erick’s shoulder and took, gently, to the air, as Erick walked to Yetta.

Erick called out, “Hello, Yetta!”

Yetta said, “You should keep those gems with you, and leave.”

Erick paused. He was ten meters away from the Champion. He frowned. He kept walking to her.

Yetta stressed, “Odaali rescinds their bargain struck with you. We need no further support. Please leave.”

Erick paused, again. He asked, “What’s going on here, Yetta?” He asked, “You are Yetta, right?”

Yetta flared a twinge of Divine Fire, flickering the manasphere with an unseen heat. She said, “Of course I am.”

“Then why?” Erick stood three meters from her, now, holding the stone box of gems out to her, saying, “These are artifacts. You can sell them or use them, or what have you. I want to help your nation repair itself.”

Yetta’s eyes flickered from dark brown, to wheat-yellow. She spoke, “I want to accept your help. Odaali wants your help. But we cannot.”

Erick relaxed his arms, holding the box to his side.

Yetta continued, “We have struck deeper bargains with stronger organizations than one singular archmage. A major part of those bargains is to cut ties with you.” She said, “If I were to accept those... artifacts… I would imperil my nation. I cannot do this.”

Erick held the stone box, frowning. He asked, “Who is doing this?”

“The rest of the Republic. From there, I think the true foe lies in wait, in Portal.” Yetta said, “Portal is not just the gateway to Spur and the Crystal Forest, but to almost every nation everywhere with a border on the Letri Ocean.”

Erick frowned deeper, saying, “Caradogh Pogi, the Lower-Trademaster of Portal. He’s a really big deal, isn’t he?”

Yetta's facade cracked. She gusted, “Yes.”

“What the fu—” Erick looked over Yetta, his words cutting out when his eyes saw her waist. Yetta was missing the belt Erick had made her. The artifact belt, worth 60 Strength. At another look, her ring for 30 Vitality was also gone. Disgusted, Erick demanded, “Where’s your belt! I made that for you. What about the other stuff?”

Yetta sighed, saying, “I destroyed them; it was part of the deal.” She added, “All of that which you gave us we destroyed.”

Erick breathed deep. He exhaled, then he said, “Fuck that fucker!”

Yetta chuckled, then frowned again, saying, “Sorry, Erick.”

“I’m sorry, Yetta. I pissed off that asshole and now he’s denying you the ability to accept my help.” Erick said, “The plan to create a [Gate] network is going forward.” He asked, “Does Odaali want a permanent [Gate] to the Crystal Forest? To Spur? That’s what I’m going to work on, now.”

Yetta smiled, softly, and a little sad. She said, “Maybe.” She tilted her head. She looked at Erick then held out her hand, saying, “I’m being told to do this...”

Divine yellow light flowed from her brown hand, like [Teleport], but wider. She moved her hand through the air. There was no dual light, but a flow, a path; a tunnel, somehow. Erick stood straighter. And then the light cut, but the sound did not vanish. Ophiel hummed the tune as he floated beside Erick. His song was a reflection and recreation of Yetta’s —or rather Atunir’s— [Gate].

Erick bowed, saying, “Thank you. Yetta. Atunir.”

Yetta nodded, silently.

Erick briefly looked back to the platform, before turning back to Yetta, asking, “If this box were to fall off the back of the [Teleporting Platform], would that be a problem?”

Yetta said, “We would have to throw such a thing into a grinder and then heavily [Dispel] and [Cleanse] the remains, so that no stray magical corruption was allowed to flourish.”

Erick sighed, saying, “Sorry this couldn’t work out.”

“It is what it is, and nothing more.” Yetta said, “We are rebuilding. We are culling the growing banditry from our wounded nation and bringing scattered people back to their homes. Odaali is coming back. We will be fine without your assistance, though we will always appreciate your help in getting to this point.” Yetta said, “Atunir appreciates your contributions to the world, as well, but she would like to know when you’re going to try making that ‘chocolate’ you talked about.”

Erick smiled, a touch of mirth returning to the day. “Soon. Chocolate is not an easy thing to make.”

Yetta said, “Atunir wishes you to know that there is a tree that produces beanfruit in the jungles of eastern Nergal. You can likely find of this red and white striped fist-sized fruit in Eidolon. It is called ‘Tarip’, and every part of the fruit, seeds and all, are used to make a complicated, sweet and savory, oily jam. This might be a good start.”

