“Welcome back.” Kiri asked, “Did you find the path?”

“I did!” He exclaimed, “Magic is fucking amazing! I could go there right now, if I wanted. Back on Earth a trip like this would take planning and organization, and I’d have to pack myself into a tin can that flies and sit there with my legs cramping up for hours. But no! Not on Veird!” Erick gusted, “Wonderful.”

Kiri smiled, saying, “It boggles me how your people managed to live without magic.”

Erick switched gears. “It boggles me how a few bad apples in your societies don’t use the Script to just kill everyone they want.” Erick said, “Sure, you got killers on Veird, too, but if the average person on Earth had access to this level of weaponry we’d have had an apocalypse on our hands.”

Kiri paused. She scrunched her face at Erick, asking, “Really?”

“Yes,” he said. “Undoubtedly.”

“But wouldn’t people like that tend to die early, and quickly? That’s what happened to the people like that back in Tower Town.” Kiri said, “We call people like that waywards; those who cannot maintain the politeness that city life demands. They usually become hunters living outside the walls, if they can live long enough to not get executed by the Guard.”

Erick said, “We just didn’t have access to this level of power, Kiri. Not on the individual level. Earth and Veird’s circumstances are vastly different, in almost every way. We didn’t live in walled cities. We didn’t have monsters outside those non-existent walls.”

“… Surely you still had violence?”

“Physical violence was a very small part of life.” Erick thought for a second, and said, “My life, anyway.” He thought for another second, then said, “Mostly.”

“Oh. Emotional violence, then? That’s pretty common.” Kiri seemed to speak from experience, “Very common.”

Erick nodded. “The first time I ever killed anything was when I came here. Back on Earth, I was just a guy in the system, trying to get by and help others in the process.” Erick said, “Most people were like that.” He added, “But actual violence was rare; the State was supremely powerful. You couldn’t act against them; not really.”

“That sounds almost exactly the same as here, though.”

“Imagine only the state having the Script.”

“… Oh.” Kiri said, “Well. They’re the only ones that use their power inside city limits. So it doesn’t really sound all that much different.”

Erick smirked, saying, “Maybe so.”

Kiri nodded, then said, “I found my spell.”

“Ah!” Erick smiled wide. “Fantastic! So? What is it?”

Kiri conjured three sheets of paper onto the coffee table between them, saying, “I’ve had to pop seven [Scry] eyes today. I can see why you don’t write anything down.”

Erick chuckled, picking up the papers, saying, “Only seven? That’s pretty low.” He started reading. There was a lot of information here, and a lot of it was extrapolations from Erick’s own magics. “I don’t think [Crystallize Diamond] would be useful in this way. But I can see where you would get that idea.”

Kiri said, “Maybe not something like [Crystallize Diamond], specifically, but the idea of a solid matrix is an old standby. An extrapolation from [Crystallize Diamond] is only one possible way for this spell to work.”

Erick set down the papers and asked, “[Harden Wall], though? Surely someone has made this before.”

“It is true that [Harden Wall] is already a spell along the [Stoneshape] line, but I want a Particle version that makes [Unbreakable Wall] and is usable with any medium; even air. The name is a placeholder, mainly because it’s easy to rhyme with ‘wall’.” Kiri said, “I don’t actually have a [Solid Ward] yet, but I want to know if this is possible. If this works, it could trivialize [Force Wall].”

“This seems like an application of all the other Shaping spells, too.”

Kiri said, “Well… More like [Force Wall], and an Altering or a Shaping, and sometimes both. But: yes.”

“I almost had it right.”

Kiri smiled. “Almost.”

Erick read over what he was looking at, and threw a hundred mana at the air, asking for Particular Insight into Kiri’s particular spell. No response came. Erick looked to the ceiling of the sunroom and saw orange stone lit by wardlights, and a normal enough manasphere; like soupyness to the air.

He frowned.

He threw another hundred mana through Particular Insight.

A voice came to Erick, along with a divine twist of the manasphere; Phagar spoke, ‘Oh hello there. Busy busy! Uh. This spell… It should work if you made it. Not sure if it will work if she makes it. There’s obvious problems.’ A pause. ‘Already been made, though. Well… Mostly. I’m looking through the registry now, and it looks like… Oh. Over a thousand new spells.’ Another pause. ‘Looks like Rozeta is going to do some culling, soon. Go ahead and make this spell. If it’s different enough, or even better, this spell might replace the one already out there.’

‘Thank you.’

A whisper of divine light left the room. Erick looked down to Kiri. Her emerald eyes were wide and unblinking. At Erick’s glance she looked down to stare, with her entire being, at her papers.

Erick said, “Looks like a spell similar to this one has already been made, but a culling of excess magic will take place soon. If this one is better than the one already out there, this one will remain.”

Kiri’s eyes traced around the room, eventually coming back to Erick. She whispered, “How do you know that?” She instantly said, “Nevermind!” She stood, slightly frantic. “Let’s go make it?”

Erick smiled, remaining seated. “First, I want to talk about this part here...”

“Uh!” Kiri sat back down. “Sure!”

For almost twenty minutes, Erick worked with Kiri to perfect her spell.

- - - -

The sun held high in the sky, in a semi-random part of the Crystal Forest. Agave and mimics, and all that; it was still kinda beautiful to see, but after witnessing the tall trees of Oceanside, Erick wanted to spend some time in an actual green place for a while. Not just green farmland that only existed because of his own daily magics.

… When he got back, he was going to find some way to turn some part of the Crystal Forest back to green, without the mimics coming back to ruin the whole thing.

Erick stood beside Kiri on a stone platform. “Go ahead and get in touch with the magic.”

Kiri frowned a little but she schooled her face, and stared out into the sky. The air flowed across her body, ruffling her clothes—

“This is really stupid.” Kiri said, “I don’t understand this— this singing thing.”

“Okay okay.” Erick asked, “But? Do you really have to understand? Not everything has to be understood to work. I don’t know why electricity and gravity exist, but I know they work. Besides, there’s already a well established heritage of rhyming in enchanting. And this is what you’re doing: Enchanting a spell out of the manasphere.”

“… Enchanting and… this, are completely different.”

“They’re really not.”

Kiri breathed deep, the dry air. She said, “You… might be correct.”

Erick smiled. “Maybe I am. Maybe I’m not. But what worked for me, was communicating with the mana, and working with it to create what I want. In this way, this process is exactly like enchanting. Only instead of communicating with the Script along predetermined lines, you’re communicating with the Mana.”

Kiri latched onto that, saying, “That is the difference, and it is huge.”

“If you’re scared of an Error, both Poi and I each have—”

“I’m not!—” Kiri spoke calmly, “I’m not scared of an Error.”

Erick nodded, then silently stepped back.

Kiri said, “I’m just… never mind.”

Erick watched as Kiri breathed deep.

Kiri stared north, at the blue sky. She held her head high, her green scales sparkling in the sunlight like dew on leaves. Her shoulders relaxed. Her arms opened up. She said a few quiet words; a prayer of some sort. She sang,

“Objects object to solid stable, where time seems froze as though a fable

“but here be once where naught is moved; a picture snapped, a myth is proved.

“But time’s not froze, it’s simply stabile; space can’t change, it is not able!

“A domain fast struck with heavy zeal, lock down this lot: [Hermetic Seal]!

Erick mostly noticed Kiri falling to the ground. He rushed to her, rod of [Treat Wounds] already out and glowing. He caught her before she struck the sand, his free arm catching her by her back, lowering her to the ground, as he knelt behind her to support her weight and tap the rod to her stomach. Magic flowed into her, as she sank to the ground. Her eyes fluttered. Erick held her upright, and tapped her again with the rod of [Treat Wounds].

She sighed out, “Fuck. Literally all my mana.”

Erick chuckled, supporting Kiri on the sand. Both of them looked up at the air.

There was no wind. There was no visible wall. With Meditation, though, the air was solid green. For about ten meters to the left and the right, and maybe five meters up, a blob wall of green laid upon the sands of the Crystal Forest, like an unmoving slime. Erick flipped Meditation on and off a few times, and was amazed at the difference, and at the pure invisibility of the spell outside of Meditation.

A blue box hovering to Erick’s side was a small distraction from the sight in front of him. Erick almost read the spell Kiri had made, but he wanted Kiri to see it first, to understand what she had done, as soon as she stopped blinking and was able to actually look at the land in front of her.

Kiri sat up and away from Erick, wonder in her eyes.

Kiri reached out, forward. She touched the invisible green air. She stood up, giggling, touching her spell with both hands now. She leapt to her feet and traced the invisible magic. She laughed loud, then said, “It’s not cold!” Kiri turned to Erick, one hand still touching the solid air, saying, “I thought it would be cold! Cold is zero molecular movement, right?”

Erick smiled as he stood and slipped the rod of [Treat Wounds] back into his pocket. “Heat and cold are more differentials than solid ideas. If something is able to warm itself by stealing your heat, that is cold. If something loses heat to you, when you touch it, that is warm.” Erick paused. “But I guess that’s all a little confusing. Anywho—” Erick stepped to the solid, invisible green air beside Kiri, and touched it; it was not hot, it was not cold. It was unchanging. Frozen in the moment, but not really frozen at all. Erick said, “This won’t impart or take away heat, therefore it is not cold, or hot. What it is, is probably the perfect insulator, though.”

Kiri exclaimed, “Oh! Insulators don’t allow changes to pass through them. You said that.”

Her eyes trailed to the air; she was reading. Erick decided to read the spell, too.

Hermetic Seal 1, instant, medium range, <250 MP>

A <medium sized area> becomes unchanging, for 1 hour per spell level. <Damage dispels Hermetic Seal.> <Hermetic Seal fails when cast on living creatures.>

Kiri laughed again, happy to say, “Medium area! That’s the top of what’s possible!” She quickly added, “For me, for now.” She read the spell, saying, “That last bit is somewhat true of [Force Wall], too, but when [Force Wall] is cast upon a living thing it just fails to reach where the living creature had been; the spell doesn’t fail completely.” She read the air, then tapped the [Hermetic Seal]. Her eyes went wide as she pointed into the spell, saying, “[Hermetic Seal] doesn't completely fail either! Glowbugs did not make it fail, they just carved a minor-sized hole in the working.”

Erick looked where she was pointing. “You’re right.”

Tiny glowbugs were trapped by the spell, but as they moved, the spell disintegrated around them. One particularly industrious bug trapped near the edge had poked at enough of the air around it to crack a path outside of the spell. As Erick watched, that crack widened.

Kiri said, “They’re making it fail, though.”

“Cast it again; trap nothing. See if you can shape it to expand from the center, and push out living things.” Erick said, “Though that would likely be an expensive shaping.”

“… I have no mana.” Kiri said, “I really need to pick a Scion.”

Erick chuckled. “I like Scion of Focus. No mana exhaustion! Endless mana. Class skills can double your mana, anyway, if you’re into that sort of thing.”

Kiri said, “Valid points.”

Erick tapped the solid air again. The tapping made no sound, except the sound of his own bones and flesh vibrating from the hit. He said, “You know, this line of thinking could be used in a hundred different ways.” He added, “It’s completely invisible except through Meditation, too. You could shape this into rather deadly traps.” He considered, then said, “Or use this same methodology to create other spells. Like [Hermetic Whip], and [Hermetic Slicer]. Maybe even a [Hermetic Death Spiral Cutter], or whatever you want to call it. The word ‘Hermetic’ has some heavy religious overtones back on Earth, but it also means a space protected from outside influences, and that sort of insular protection can make a very fine knife.”

Kiri’s eyes lit up, sparkling green in the sunlight. And then great big drops of tears began to roll out, sliding down her face as she laughed and cried at the same time. She said, “Thank you.”

Erick sniffled, smiling as he looked away, then he exaggerated a previous joke, “With great power, comes great responsibility!”

Kiri laughed, happy tears rolling down her greenscale face.

- - - -

Erick stood alone in the Crystal Forest, with Poi several meters away. Kiri would have stayed to play around with her spell, and to watch Erick work on his, but her eyes were heavy; she needed to sleep off her spellwork. They would be going to Oceanside in hours, if Erick got this next spell right.

… They’d be going in a few hours anyway, but the trip would be a lot more complicated if he failed.

He channeled mana through [Teleport], producing a sound of travel and an afterimage of light, as he moved his hand through the air. Next came [Stone Travel].

Stone Travel, instant, medium range, 50 MP + Variable

A large area of stone stabilizes around you, then quickly moves at your discretion across or through other stone. Lasts 1 hour.

A solid, horizontal light flowed from Erick’s hand. The top was solid, like a disk, but the bottom trailed off into nothing, like stalactites or moss dissipating into the ambient mana. It was a sound of travel. Almost exactly the same as [Teleport], but different.

[Force Platform] came next.

Force Platform X, instant, close range, 50 MP

