Plus! Very few things could deal with [Luminous Beam] when paired with [Lodestar], and the Deepnight Crawler, as its Kill Notification said, was not much of an exception. It had been level 91, though. Erick’s Experience increased for the first time in months.

And the waves of monsters from the next cavern over kept coming.

Erick began methodically killing every single monster that came into the cavern—

Well. Ophiel did that. Sometimes a Domain monster would come along and Erick would have to help, but ‘kill every single monster coming this way’ was a very simple and easily executed instruction for Ophiel to follow, especially when every single living thing nearby was a monster.

Chimeras. Stone things. Crabs. Another tentacle maw worm, or perhaps the same worm as before; this one got away, too. Everything that didn’t flee, died.

When the larger monsters stopped coming, but before Erick had time to think about the deeper questions of ‘where was here’ and ‘how to get back home’, it was time to secure his person. The first order of business was not figuring out his missing left foot, or even healing it. Erick could live with a missing foot for a little while since there was no pain, since he was in sunform. The first thing to figure out was his backpack and his supplies…

But returning to physical form would mean a return to pain.

Erick ripped off the bandaid and transformed back into a person, cushioned in a sphere of Domain-controlled light. He winced hard as everything hurt, from his missing foot to his full-body scrapes and wounds. He spared a moment to look at his Status.

Full on Health, and full on Mana. Good. But the numbers were wrong. They were low.

This was because his rings were gone. Both hands were bloody and both rings were gone; lost to the flowing mana stream, or whatever. He still had his Crystal Star upon his chest, securely stuck to his inner set of clothes; thank the gods, or perhaps just Koyabez, for that. Erick spared a glance at the rainbow flow of thick air in the center of the cavern. He was still trying to understand what had happened when he was inside that, but there were other concerns at the moment. Besides, he still had a bit over 40,000 Regeneration for both Health and Mana, even without his rings granting +61 to every Stat.

Defending himself was more important than items at the moment. And speaking of defense.

Erick had an Ophiel expend himself to cast a [Prismatic Ward] around him, and around his immediate space. The effect of that dense air flowing across his body was like stepping into a comfortable home. The gentle rainbow glows of the cavern seemed less dangerous. The shadows all around seemed less dark. Erick dropped his own Meditation, and relaxed for a moment, because he finally could—

Some new monster came down the intake part of the cavern, looking like a mess of red ooze.

Ophiels turned it into evaporated ooze and [Cleanse]d away the shit that remained. The kill notification was for a ‘Crimson Blood Ooze’, and the thing was level 85, or something.

No true time to rest.

Probably wouldn’t be able to rest for a while.

Erick returned to sussing out his current predicament, dreading what he would find when he actually bothered to look inside his backpack. Of course, as soon as he had this thought, he was already looking with his mana sense.

The adamantium knife was still there, but this was likely only because it was strapped in tight so it didn’t accidentally cut anything. A spare copy of his rings was strapped into a small, very secured pouch right next to the knife. Erick breathed a sigh of relief at that; he could enchant a new pair of rings without much trouble. He even had some beans tucked in with the ring. Both were very nice to have. He didn’t want to even try making it [Exalted Rain] down here, so he was glad he did not have to do that to remake a ring from scratch, or to get food after 24 hours of rain.

Everything else was gone. No papers. No pens. No food. No canteen. Erick still had the backpack itself, though, and he could fill that with more stuff, so this was fine. The backpack was very messed up, though, so he cast a [Mend]—

The backpack did not change, at all.

… Erick tried to mend his clothes, but they remained torn, too.

Erick frowned. Time in the mana stream must have fucked up everything on his person…

His person had seen better days, too. Erick thanked the gods that Healing Magic worked off of something greater than the natural shape of the soul. The lacerations down his arms and across his face, and the ones that twisted around his left thigh all the way down to the… void where his foot should be…

It didn’t hurt that much, actually. Not as much as Erick thought it should. Perhaps Constitution dulled the pain to a manageable level. Poi did seem to think that Constitution made the world a softer place, and seeing this, Erick could agree with that statement. He wasn’t even bleeding that much, at all. Rozeta’s Recovery probably had something to do with his resilience, too. Having his Mana Regeneration apply to his Health Regeneration gave him over 40,000 Health Regen, which was supposedly comparable to a low-grade [Treat Wounds] active at all times. He had never needed to test that theory until now, so Erick was glad to self-report that this theory was likely true. As he floated there, he even watched as some of his larger wounds became slightly smaller wounds. Glancing into the manasphere of the past—

Ah. Another problem. The manasphere in here was seriously borked. Gazing even half a minute into the past or future showed more static than anything. That static all flowed toward the mana stream in the center of the room, so that neatly explained that. Erick ignored that part of his mana sense, for now.

His wounds were healing. But not fast enough. And there was another problem.

Erick looked at his foot, and barely recalled the injury which caused the missing limb. He had been inside the mana stream… or something. Yes; he had been inside the mana stream and it had moved like a rushing river, but… there had been a twist in the river, or maybe a turn, or maybe he had caught himself on a sudden rock that jutted out into the river...

He wasn’t quite sure what had happened there, actually. The result was obvious, though. Erick stared down at the twisted bone of his leg and saw the raw, wrapped and warped flesh around that bone. It was like his body had been turned to putty, or something, and then someone had grabbed the foot and twisted… Trying to pull…

Trying to pull him out of the stream? They grabbed him by the foot and pulled—

Erick shook his head as a minor headache threatened. His memories of the flow were shot to shit. Well. Whatever. The missing foot was a problem. Problems required solutions. He had [Regeneration] due to his time in Star Song, but this was a strange, magically induced injury. He didn’t want to simply [Regeneration] it.

So Erick cast a [Cleanse] over the broken lim—

Almost his entire leg, but mostly starting halfway down his thigh, turned into a mess of raw, twisted flesh and pitted bone and so much blood and—

Erick’s thoughts flared for a solution, and not a temporary fix like turning fully sunform would accomplish. He found a solution in what his daughter had once told him. With a cast and a twist, Erick [Polymorph]ed into a light slime, falling into his own shirt. He let his clothes fall away in his sudden relief as the pain of his twisted, wounded leg instantly vanished. After a moment of quietude Erick realized that he was now a plopping dollop of light with a shimmering white core, hovering in the center of his own sunform and [Prismatic Ward].

He looked a bit dim, though.

So he did as his daughter had suggested. He cast [Greater Treat Wounds] on himself, and just like how Jane had told him his slimy body expanded. He became brighter; more whole. Suddenly, everything felt better. All he wanted to do was hover right there in the middle of a battlefield of dead things and broken land—

Some monster came over the lip of the outflow part of the cavern. It had a Domain. Erick came back to himself and instantly helped Ophiel kill the offending crab/rock thing, which was apparently called a Greater Rockslide Crab according to the Kill Notification. It had been level 89.

Erick luxuriated in the glow of the—

He frowned, and not just because his single moment of peace was broken by more war, but because there was a much more serious problem happening. There were rads condensing inside his light slime form.

With this many clues, Erick realized why all the monsters were here, next to the mana stream. This area had not been ‘primed by the Worldly Path to fuck him over’. The monsters were here to ‘feed’ off of the thick air, or something. It wasn’t really ‘feeding’, but it was certainly ‘allowing themselves to be exposed to the thick, glowing mana, in order to grow their own cores to a large and powerful size’, or something.

Erick ripped the rad droplets out of his slimy body, feeling like utter shit as he did so. With another cast of [Polymorph] Erick transformed back into a person. His foot was still missing and the wound looked like he had stuck his leg in a grinder, but at least it didn’t look like it had been twisted off and the rest of his body wasn’t bleeding; healing himself as a slime had done wonders, but some of the injuries from before remained. Erick cast a [Greater Treat Wounds] on himself, hoping that that would be enough—

The foot remained gone, and now he had a clean stump.

“Well, shit.”

Erick prepared himself mentally, then he cut off the stump with a slice of light. He breathed deep, exhaling his pain, and then he cast [Regeneration] on himself. Slowly, surely, the flesh of his lower leg began to grow outward, and then he felt hungry. This was the upside and the downside to [Regeneration]; it could repair deeper damage, but it ate up the body’s natural resources by quite a bit. Not normally a problem, but Erick didn’t have any extra resources at the moment.

He looked to his bag, still shredded, and his clothes, also shredded, as they floated underneath him, nearer to the wall. He was naked and nothing was okay. Erick sighed. Then he glanced back up at the mana stream above, and finished having another thought that had bugged him for the last four minutes, since he fell into this place.

“So you’re where all the thick air goes in a [Cleanse], eh.” Erick said to himself, “Kinda pretty.” He stared inward with his mana sense, then looked outward again, saying, “But I’m gonna turn into a monster if I’m exposed to you. Odd that it didn’t happen when I was actually inside of you, though.”

On a whim, he had an Ophiel grab the body of a dead crab and chuck it at the mana stream.

The body broke apart like a mana construct breaks, but with blood and viscera turning into motes of light and thick air, to flow along with the stream. Yup; that was the same.

Erick looked around. Some of the bodies were floating in the air, toward the stream, but there appeared to be a maximum rate of conversion, and Erick had hit that maximum in his very first minute of Beaming everything.

Time for a bigger break! Erick turned to the ground and cast an [Obscuring Redoubt]. The land shifted and twisted then deepened, before a door appeared, and then opened, creating the home like an automatically-deepening well. Erick took his stuff and went down inside the hole to get away from the light of the mana stream, bringing his own, purer light with him.

The very first thing he noticed, after he saw the darkness take a moment to leave the hole in the ground, was that gravity was funky. Every solid wall had some gravity to it, but not a whole lot. The gravity in the tunnel, toward the cavern wall was more than it was here, in this oddly cramped-feeling space. Here, Erick could give a tiny hop on the floor and slump toward the ceiling, which was a new floor.

Erick left the Redoubt, hopping back out into the cavern. He recast the Redoubt.

This time, the inside was better suited for the crazy gravity. Erick alighted on the floor, while the ceiling was a good five meters away. He hopped on his good leg, and came back down to the ‘ground’. The gravity here was weaker, for sure, but it was somewhat normal. A cast of [Prismatic Ward] from Ophiel made the place feel more like home, but Erick was sure not to use too many of those. Jane or Poi or Teressa, or any of them, really, might be staying in the [Prismatic Ward]s that he had left behind in Enduring Forge, and he wouldn’t want to strip them of their defenses. Maybe in a few days he would cast a few more [Prismatic Ward]s and those up there would automatically pop. That way they’d know he was alive. But. Eh. For now…

With a tug of light, Erick grabbed his stuff, then he got to fixing everything that was broken. Food came first, though, for he had passed ‘hungry’ a few minutes ago. He wasn’t starving yet, but he would be, and soon.

With a controlled application of [Duplication Aura] from Ophiel, three Erick Beans rapidly multiplied into a thousand, and then more. A rush of air rapidly flowed outward, alongside the outpour of white-striped lima-like beans. Erick caught the beans in his light.

Erick set them aside in a bowl of stone.

Water came next.

Finding water wasn’t all that hard. Ophiel went out and found a monster, and then cast [Purge Water] on the thing, killing it as well as harvesting its water. [Cleanse] removed half of that water —of course, this land was poisonous!— but this was fine. Ophiel brought the water back and [Duplication Aura] solved the water issue.

While simultaneously on high alert, and with Ophiel mana sensing the world around him and helping to cook with [Incandescent Aura], Erick killed a few monsters inside the walls before they got near him, and he made soup as fast as he possibly could. It was bland, but it was passable; it was safe calories. As he ate his second bowl the pangs in his stomach stopped being so insistent. As he ate his fourth, the stomach finally stopped. He could already tell he was going to get tired of beans.

He got out the spare ring and copied it. It looked good; the clear diamond interior was fully covered by the metallic shell. An All Stat lightmask came next. Erick scratched the surface of the rings to expose the clear diamond, shoved them into the lightmask, imbued the rings with manalight from all of his Stats, and then he [Mend]ed the rings back to whole. Good as new! Slipping those rings back on his fingers felt like casting off a weighted blanket.

Erick tried telling a joke to Ophiel, “The world seems about 62 points easier to understand.”

Ophiel chirped happily; he loved being included in conversations.

