Erick walked on, only now, he had a temporary goal: the search for water.

He fulfilled that goal in thirty seconds upon finding a plant monster and having Ophiel purge it of all water. Repairing and cleaning out the canteen was easy enough, too. The water wouldn’t last forever without turning into a slime, but that was fine.

- - - -

“I’m rather sure I’m walking at a speed of 25 kilometers per hour, what with the light letting me move faster, and all.” Erick added, “But I’m definitely walking.”

Ophiel chirped.

“Maybe more like flying; you’re right.” Erick nodded. “And you can’t fly too fast, either, or you get sucked into the mana stream. So both of us are just going a bit faster than normal.” He continued, “I’m no perfect judge of distance, but I think we’ve gone 250 kilometers. Maybe a bit more. Maybe less.”

Ophiel chirped; agreeing.

“And the tunnel is the same since that junction back there.” Erick said, “No side routes, all this time, either. Only forward, or back.”

Ophiel chirp-chirped. Time for a break?

Erick said, “I haven’t seen any good places to stop.”

Ophiel mournfully chirped. He hadn’t seen any, either.

“Not your fault, but if this continues on much longer then I’m going to have to make a space to rest.” Erick said, “Probably going to have to do that anyway—”

Yet another monster roared in the distance, charging over a crest in a distant bend in the tunnel, like the bend was a wave, moving half in the wall and half out like a stadium-sized shark in an ocean of stone. Ophiel moved to intercept before it got too close, lighting up the beast with [Luminous Beam]s and [Fulmination Aura]s, and then requesting, and receiving Erick’s help when the landshark proved to have a Domain of its own.

Fried landshark soon began to dissipate into the thick air, while the crater it left behind began to flow back together.

Erick told Ophiel, “We’ll walk for a full day, then stop to rest.”

- - - -

The cavern joined to another cavern, and the two continued on together heading down.

The two mana streams also joined, forming a river in the sky of thick air and flowing glows. Referring to that space above as ‘in the sky’ was very much incorrect, but the diameter of the cavern was nearly 10 kilometers across —or maybe even eleven at its widest points— while the diameter of the stream was at least a kilometer wide. This meant there was about four kilometers of open air between the wall and the flow above. Erick remained near the wall, of course. He did manage to increase his pace a bit from an estimated 25 kilometers per hour, to 35, though. He could have gone faster, but then he ran into another problem.

There were still monsters down here, Erick was still the brightest thing this land had seen in a very long time, and thus, they all wanted a piece of him. But one and all, every monster ended up with facefulls of light, or lightning. They joined all the rest who thought to test his power.

After a particularly tough vine-like monster blossomed out of the walls and tried to eat him, Erick killed it instead, and reached level 93. He also decided that he was far enough out of the manastream to attempt the creation of a new spell, which turned out exactly as he wanted.

Aura of Unmoving Stone, instant, super large area, 1 mana per second

Lull the land to slumber!

Nothing came out of the walls after an Ophiel started running that nifty little massive spell, and with that taken care of, Erick now had time to send his sight further outward, to see the other battles taking place everywhere out there in the deeper, rainbow-lit shadows.

Erick wasn’t the only one fighting for dominance all around, but he was certainly one of the brightest. Spells sparked here and there in the prismatic dark, while Erick’s light lit up his small portion of the world, and not much more. A lot of those distant battles stopped when Erick came close enough, though, with many of the monsters who had been trying to kill each other both going after him, instead.

Lizards the size of apartment buildings, covered in blackened, craggy lava scales.

Wolves made of glass and cutting shadows, or ooze and mist, each one the size of a semi truck, working in small packs, or pairs. Not too many pack-animals out there, but there were certainly some.

A massive stone elemental made of silver metal—

That one caught Erick’s eye.

The metal elemental shimmered like a polished thing of flowing silver light, brighter than anything down here had any right to be (or maybe the thing was simply reflecting Erick’s own light), but at 20 meters tall and moving like an animated tumbleweed, it certainly fit with all the other monsters Erick saw. A problem occurred, though, when Erick engaged the elemental. [Luminous Beam] did not solve the problem of this encroaching, now-screaming monster. Erick supposed that Particle Light didn’t work too well against the pure metallic construct, but he had eleven possible sources of [Luminous Beam], and he had only tried one.

It took seven [Luminous Beam]s and four seconds of concentrated fire to kill the thing.

As they say, if violence doesn’t solve the problem, then you’re not using enough.

… Which was a rather abhorrent thing to think about, but Erick recognized where he was, and what was required of him to survive this mess. Different times require different solutions, after all.

Anyway.

The Kill Notification declared the monster an Abyssal Steel Elemental, but Erick wanted to know if it was steel, or actually platinum, since there was some Shenanigans going on with that particular naming scheme; thank you, Headmaster, for that. Erick had time to check, too, for the scattered, dead monster was not vanishing into the manastream. The various melted and splattered pieces of the elemental were flowing back into the cavern walls. Maybe in centuries they would become a vein of metal for some intrepid miner to find.

Erick grabbed some of the rapidly disappearing body, though, before it got too far.

A quick series of Particle spells sussed out that the ‘steel’ monster was actually platinum, and of an odd variety, but [Incandescent Aura] killed the Elemental Abyssal inside the metal. Well. Whatever! Erick could imbue his own magic, later, if necessary, and he was starting to think that it would be necessary. He had plans for runework and [Renew], perhaps after he found a place to plant Yggdrasil, so a bit of platinum would come in handy. Thank you, Worldly Path.

Erick stuffed some platinum pieces into his backpack.

And he continued walking.

The fighting only got worse.

- - - -

Erick occasionally stopped for twenty minutes here or there, to open up a hole in the side of the cavern to protect himself while he made some food and gathered some water. Occasionally, he found a particularly healthy, meaty monster specimen, but a quick check with [Cleanse] always erased the whole monster, revealing that the whole thing was poison to him, or something.

Oh well.

Beans were fine.

- - - -

White light flashed across Erick’s skin.

He paused. He stared at his arm—

“Oh. My [Personal Ward] is gone.” Erick glanced around, and since he was mostly safe at the moment he recast the spell, draining almost all of his mana in the process. With a half shrug using the shoulder Ophiel was not occupying, he said, “That’s 24 hours.”

Ophiel chirped. He was doing fine.

“I’m doing fine, too.”

Erick kept walking.
