Repairing his pants and backpack took a bit more time, but he had the raw materials necessary to repair everything present, even if those fabrics and threads and leathers and clasps weren’t in the right places or in the right amounts. [Duplicate] solved resource problems and then [Fabricate] put everything back together.

Pants acquired! Erick shoved himself back into them and finally stopped being naked. His shoes were both gone, though, and his outer dress robe that he had worn to the party was similarly missing. Constitution made his feet rather tough, so maybe he didn’t need shoes? He could do without the dress robe, too, but he should have a shirt, at least, so Erick made himself a shirt.

“I’m probably going to lose them, anyway, Ophiel. The wrought live down here and they don’t wear clothes.”

Ophiel nodded. Those wrought certainly were exhibitionists, weren’t they.

“They are.” Erick nodded back, saying, “I could let it all hang out, too, but what if I meet someone I know?”

Ophiel chirped as though that would never happen.

“There’s Melemizargo, but he’s already seen everything.” Erick said, “And he’s everywhere, so he doesn’t count.”

Ophiel did not respond, except to form a few more eyes and look everywhere. Erick also waited for the Dragon God of Magic to appear, but nothing happened for a full 20 seconds, which was as long as Erick was willing to wait. The Dragon God of Magic must have been a bit shy, so Erick decided to let that dragon lie.

He saw at least one good thing about his surroundings, though. He said, “The mana stream is blocked by even a bit of rock, isn’t it? This is good. Means I can raise an umbrella of stone and walk out there… Or something. I’ll figure it out.”

Ophiel chirped in a scoffing sort of manner; it was dangerous out there! The mana stream was barely a worry compared to the monsters.

“It’s all dangerous, Ophiel.” Erick smiled at his [Familiar], saying, “Listen: I’m sorry about the sudden unsummon. I’m not sure how deep we are, but I left all of you behind, didn’t I? I should have accounted for that.”

Ophiel hopped over and plopped at Erick’s chest, hugging him tight. Erick laughed a little in small joys as he hugged Ophiel back, while Ophiel chirped and chirped. And then Ophiel turned small, and alighted on Erick’s shoulder.

Erick let him stay there while he [Fabricate]d himself a nice shirt and fixed up the backpack. Ophiel briefly fluttered away as Erick put on his clothes, but he rapidly fluttered back onto his designated spot when it was once again available.

“I wonder where Yggdrasil is,” Erick asked, not expecting an answer.

Ophiel chirped, not supplying an answer, either.

A thought occurred.

Erick said, “Well… We’re down here anyway. And I’ve never seen these mana streams, but if the mana streams were more prevalent then I would have heard of them before now… And the monsters here are level 90 at the highest. We might be near the Core, Ophiel.”

Ophiel chirped in agreement; he thought so, too.

“And if we’re near the Core, perhaps I can find a nice spot to plant Yggdrasil. And if I can do that, then perhaps that’s all there is to [Gate]; I just have to make the damned thing.” Erick said, “I’ve been meaning to practice Spatial Magic with him, anyway, so this is the perfect opportunity—”

In the rocks below, a quick-moving rat the size of a subway car rapidly rushed in Erick’s direction. Erick had an Ophiel in the walls, in small tunnels he had made all throughout the space, meet the rat head on and [Fulmination Aura] it to death. The rat’s body stopped moving. Stone crushed it down, and it joined all the others that Erick had killed in the last half hour.

He had briefly lost his focus on the danger while he was talking to Ophiel and fixing himself up.

That was bad.

“I can see how Darabella’s husband died— Ah.” Erick frowned. He looked to Ophiel. “Is it ten days later? Or did Goliro survive for a while down here? You don’t know the date, do you?”

Ophiel chirped a sad sound; he did not know the date and he was ashamed for his lack of knowledge.

“It’s okay, Ophiel. I didn’t think you did. Don’t worry about it, okay?”

Ophiel chirped; he wouldn’t worry.

Erick looked around his temporary room and decided it was time to go—

He decided, “It’s not time to go, yet.”

He put his backpack on the ground and went through everything he had. He fixed up some bean reserves by putting them in a small pocket to have for more copying later, while he also cooked up some more beans both to have a fifth bowl, and to have some later. To have some bean soup for later required a longer term solution than ‘holding the soup in his light’, though. First, Erick copied some rustless steel buttons from his pants, enough to make a hundred thousand of the little things. Then he used [Incandescent Aura] alongside [Metalshape] and [Cleanse] to burn away all impurities, as he Shaped the metal into a canteen that would comfortably fit into his backpack. [Duplicate] made a second canteen. One was for water. The other was for bean soup. After filling those containers and strapping them in he was mostly ready.

His regrowing foot looked like a baby’s foot stuck at the end of his full grown man’s leg, and it probably wasn’t going to get much better than that for a few hours. But that would have to do. There was one more thing to do, and then he was gone; back into the cavern.

Erick waited till the latest encroaching monster was dead, then he cast his daily [Personal Ward], using almost all of his mana. White light flickered across his skin, briefly flowing over the edges of his clothes. With over 150,000 defense in his [Personal Ward], this would have to be enough. Ten minutes later, his mana was filled. This was enough.

He was strong, and he was mostly healed, so it was time to go.

Erick exited his [Obscuring Redoubt], and heade—

“Ah.” Erick had an idea. “I could have used [Unmoving Stone] to protect my space from stone swimmers. Ah. Well. Next time.”

Erick briefly hated how fast things were moving, but this was the Underworld. And then he focused on the new thing that caught his attention. He glanced up at the mana stream, and also at himself.

He couldn’t quite tell what was happening, but his [Personal Ward] was obviously taking tiny bits of damage under the light of the mana stream. It flickered here and there with glowing glimmers every so often, and most of those glimmers were decidedly not the white of Erick’s own mana color. They were reds and greens and yellows and blues. Magenta and cyan. The colors of the prismatic mana stream.

And, it seemed, there were no more rads forming inside of him, as they did before. Perhaps having a monster form sped up the process, but it would make sense for the process to still occur if he was a person.

… Whatever! He’d keep an eye on himself for the presence of rads.

Glancing upward, the river flowed from right to left…

Erick said to Ophiel, “I wasn’t sure before, but that thing is 100% the [Cleanse]s of everyone up above, which might mean that this tunnel has to be one of millions of such tunnels. What do you think?”

Ophiel agreed with a happy chirp.

Erick nodded, and began heading left, following under the stream. “So let’s go see the Core, wherever it might be—”

A crab burst out of the wall ahead. It was twenty meters tall and bloody red.

Erick killed it with a [Luminous Beam].

And then he walked on, his feet not touching the ground as his sunform glowed all around him. He did not lightstep, but he did walk upon his own light, above the stone below. Maybe later he would attempt a lightstep, but...

Hunks and masses of dead crab began to float away from the cavern wall, into the mana stream, to become one with the glows therein. Flesh and filth seemed drawn to the stream, to become mana. But the broken rock kicked up in the fights had the exact opposite reaction; they sank away from the stream, back to the cavern wall, where they melded with the cavern.

All around, the dead became thick, glowing air, and stone returned to the cavern wall. Back behind him, after Erick stripped the spellwork holding together his [Obscuring Redoubt] the stone began to fold in on itself, as the dead monsters inside the walls were pulled out of the walls, into the cavern as the stone expanded, filling in like it was made of rising dough—

“Ah. Not good, Ophiel.” Erick said, “I’m starting to want bread! Maybe some of these monsters are tasty, but… Whatever happens, this isn’t going to be comfortable…” He stared at the glowing lights above, while he simultaneously watched from the eyes of four different Ophiel as they killed another four monsters.

He leveled to 91.

Erick shrugged. “This is fine.”

Ophiel twittered in happy agreement.

He walked down the cavern, stepping on the light he made, but not lightstepping; not yet.

- - - -

It was time to try lightstepping; this walk was going to take way too long otherwise.

Erick took a tiny lightstep forward, planning to go only half a meter. He ended up doing that, but he also ended up a meter closer to the mana stream.

All experiments with lightstepping to make this journey shorter suddenly ended; just like that. Erick was not going to fall into that stream a second time.

So he simply walked as a normal person would, upon the air.

He did a few experiments as he walked, just to see what he could get away with if he needed to do something drastic.

Gravity pointed toward the cavern wall. Large expenditures of magic pulled him toward the stream. An Ophiel extended their [Domain of the Withering Slime] into the cavern, easily reaching the mana stream only kilometers away, and was promptly sucked into the mana stream. Good news: Ophiel lasted 20 seconds in the stream. Bad news: he was not able to get out before the thick, glowing air tore him apart.

“Gravity pulls us to the stone,” Erick said, “But magic pulls us into the stream. Good to know.”

Ophiel chirped in recognition of these wise words.

“I was going to try for an aura of [Unmoving Stone] so that these monsters couldn’t crawl out at us all the time, but I can save that for later.” Erick said, “Maybe this cavern expands further down. Veins are like that, after all, and this seems like a vein to me.”

And so, he walked, with the stream of glowing, thick air leading the way overhead, flowing forward and down,

down,

down,

down….

- - - -

The 5 kilometer wide cavern joined to another cavern of roughly the same size, both heading in the same-ish direction, connecting to a third cavern that was the combined size of the other two. The new cavern might have only been 7 kilometers wide, while the kilometer-wide stream of glowing, thick air was only marginally bigger, but this place was bigger, for sure.

“The [Cleanse] streams operate like veins, then,” Erick decided.

Ophiel agreed with a chirp.

Erick gazed upward at the joining of two ethereal rivers, his own [Personal Ward] glittering with reflected rainbows, as Ophiels murdered every single attacking thing all around. The murdering of local wildlife had not stopped, all this time, on the entire walk to get here. Erick gained a lot of experience in crushing opposing Domains, while also gaining a lot of Experience, too.

He was now level 92. Most of the monsters didn’t budge his Status at all, but some of them did, and when they did, it was noticeable.

Erick took a little while to clear the monsters of this juncture of the mana stream, murdering absolutely everything while he enjoyed the sight of the flowing, glowing thick air above. He wondered what the locals called it, and then wondered if there were locals, and where they might be, if they existed at all. There had to be wrought locals, right?

Right.

His foot was fully healed now; it had been hours, after all. Erick experimentally stepped down onto the stone, directly, testing the foot out. It felt fine. It flexed fine, too. It was probably good to go.

Erick stepped back into the air and resumed his walk.

This time, with the mana stream being an extra kilometer away, Erick could actually lightstep a bit. It wasn’t what he was used to, but it was something. It was an increase in speed if nothing else.

- - - -

Erick pulled his canteen of bean water out of his bag and frowned before he even opened the cap. Something had happened while he was walking and now—

Yup.

Erick held open the container and watched with both his eyes and his mana sense as the green bean water began to rapidly solidify all at once, supersaturated ice forming out of the soup. The metal container popped a seam, spurting green crystals out of the crack, while a cylinder of green solids rose out of the opening.

And then the whole thing sludged over in muck and goo.

Erick had to check the history of the manasphere to understand what he had seen. In one flickering second, thick air had gathered around the whole container, and then became something thicker than air. Back in the present, Erick held a baby slime with a bean water canteen as its core.

The slime slapped at Erick’s arm like a crawling puppy, trying to get away, or to eat him, Erick wasn’t sure. Probably both.

Erick used his sunform and broke the core out of the canteen while also breaking the slime in the process. As fast as the monster had been born, it was now dead, and transforming back into thick air along with the fragments of its ‘core’.

He grabbed his water canteen and this time he didn’t let the slime fully form, ripping the nascent core out of the metal container before it could get too large. This one, Erick set it down on the ground, near the remnants of its beany cousin. That slime finished being born, but Erick doubted it would survive for very long once he left this cavern behind. There was no need to kill it, whatever the case.

Erick gazed out at the shadowy, rainbow landscape, and at the Ophiels flying all around in their sunforms, killing every monster they saw.

“… It is an awful lot of killing,” Erick said. “I can see why Goliro died. He would have tried to run, though, right? Not many people are strong enough to survive down here.”

Ophiel chirped; running is always an option.

“Ah. Well. He might have been able to get away. Doubt that, though. A Spatial Mage down here? Where Spatial Magic doesn’t work? Hmm.”

Another chirp; maybe he was killed instantly, then.

“Then that would mean we were stuck in that mana stream for ten days, and I really don’t think we were under there for that long.”

Chirp chirp; no way to know!

“You’re right; we don’t know. Can’t know until we get out of here, either.” Erick said, “We were at least in that stream for a day, though. My [Personal Ward] was gone.”

Ophiel chirped.

