Erick saw the monsters, and the monsters saw him.

Half disoriented from finally returning to the world, Erick wondered if this was the end, and then he tried not to make any mistakes. The first monster to come after him was a giant thing of stone and shale, nearly four meters tall, almost all of it buried under a meter of stone and broken rocks. Claws and legs stretched out revealing the beast as something similar to a decorator crab, but large and hungry and already directly above Erick, ready to drag him into a maw made of venomous fangs.

As one moment almost became two, Erick reorganized some of his thoughts, and realized the monster was more like a tunneling spider, and less like a decorator crab. He also flooded more power into his thankfully-running [Greater Lightwalk] and rolled away, avoiding the first monster’s chompers and almost running right into the grabbing tentacles of another.

With a directed slap to divert the tentacle away, Erick struck the tentacled beast, but he was moved instead of the monster. The monster’s tentacles kept coming. A spike of worry invaded Erick’s mind, but it was only one more bit of panic and he was already at full saturation. So he moved as he should have in the first place.

There was no light here to step upon, though, and he certainly wasn’t getting anywhere near that flowing river of gentle glows ever again, so he made his own light by flooding power into his [Greater Lightwalk]. The only reason he didn’t turn fully to light and actually float away was because he was worried about [Lightshape]; the only true counter to an Elemental Body.

The cavern glowed brilliantly as Erick made his escape from tentacle and maw. He saw even more monsters in the revealed shadows, but luckily, the monsters also saw each other.

Erick couldn’t fight for shit in melee, but his second Script Second had arrived, so he turned on [Lodestar], and solidified his defenses as best he could. Now he turned fully to his sunform, since [Lightshape] was not a concern like this. This stopped the bleeding, and also made much of his pain go away. He was just in time to avoid three wrapping tentacles that tried to curl around his legs. Erick carved up that monster with manually cast blades of Light.

And then some massive shale-covered crab whipped a ten-meter arm out of its hiding hole, aiming for Erick from behind, only for Erick to slip around the grabbing claws. The attack struck the bleeding tendrils that Erick had cut, grabbing at the anemone-like thing buried in the ground and ripping it out. The arm folded back, drawing the morsel into a deathtrap mouth full of chitinous, shearing plates.

Screaming, roaring. Clashing and cracking. Monsters ate each other as fast as they could.

Erick had a surreal moment of wondering how in the heck these things lived so close to each other while they were always at war. There had obviously been an equilibrium before now, but then Erick showed up, and broke that equilibrium. How had such a ‘peace’ been able to happen at all? Did some unnatural force collect these monsters together?

But then again, this was the Worldly Path, so maybe some unnatural force was exactly responsible for this gathering of beasts.

After thinking that thought, everything made a bit more sense, except that, as his wherewithal came to him, Erick realized he had more important things to consider than ‘how did this happen’. He was in the middle of a massive melee of monsters, and he was very glad that his initial instinct not to fully lightform up had held, for the monsters were now throwing around invisible magics. A shadow wolf of bright red darkness grabbed a worm with [Stoneshape] and ripped it apart. Crabs threw clouds of shadow at beasts that attempted to be shadow, killing them instantly. Other magics here and there were less obvious. Anemones radiated fields of thorns that stuck into whatever was stupid enough to approach, making wounds and drawing blood. Lions of stone hunted in a pack, walking upon the wall like it was a floor, to rip through false-walls to gorge upon a fleshy toad/bat/blob hiding inside. Something made of rocks struck something made of water, and the water won, turning the rocks to mud and then spitting that mud out the side.

And then a shift came into the tunnel. Something moved deeper inside the walls. Erick watched as the stone walls buckled up here and there like a wyrm moving under desert sands, knocking loose boulders and bodies into the air. The boulders hovered out, stopping before they got too far, but the bodies and the monsters eating those bodies continued onward, into the mana stream. The corpses didn’t care about their new trajectory, but the living still did.

Some of the suddenly-frantic monsters were able to stop themselves from touching the stream, but the bodies continued onward to strike the thick, glowing air, and turn into more thick air themselves. Erick was glad he instinctively knew not to seek shelter in the mana stream.

—Something tried to eat him; suddenly everything was darkness and fangs pressing inward against his light. Erick turned the light to razorblades and shredded the monster, whatever it was. The fresh corpse painted the cavern floor—

The frantic, floating monsters knocked into the air by the worm managed to make it back to the tunnel walls, but the worm-thing was right under that part of the cavern wall, waving thin tendrils through the stone, into the air. The smaller monsters struck the invisible tentacles and the cavern walls opened, revealing rows upon rows of meter-long teeth. The vulnerable monsters ripped apart under the tentacles long before they entered that dark maw.

Except for the eating part, the sight strangely reminded Erick of when Jane popped the heads and legs off of her dolls. At least the worm-thing cleaned up after itself.

—The nearby 40 meter crab tried to swipe at Erick again, but this time the attack came with an oily sheen to it; magic, of some sort. Erick let the attack strike, for two reasons. First, Erick was finally fully present in the moment, and second, he needed to know how strong these monsters were against his standard defense.

The clawing crab arm struck Erick’s sunform, center mass, hitting his stabilized sphere of light like a hammer hitting an anvil. Light splashed away; sparks from a forge. Iridescent magic splashed away, too, like so much denied promise. The sound that entered the cavern from that attack was that of a spreading gong, but it was but one massive noise among many.

And now, another second had passed, and Erick was able to cast his next spell.

Ophiel rejoined Erick, and as the little guy suddenly screamed for joy, Erick had him cast [Greater Lightwalk], to prepare himself against the rest of the fight. As another [Strike] from the massive crab bounced away again, sending a splash of brilliance into the cavern that lit up everything in deep shadows, Erick allowed himself to briefly return to physicality to hug his [Familiar]. Renewed pain assaulted him, but the warmth from Ophiel was more than enough to make that go away. The little guy puttered against Erick’s bloody chest with happy chirps and welcoming trills.

Erick’s third through twelfth Script Seconds were spent summoning the rest of Ophiel, while Ophiel’s Script Seconds were spent getting him up to power. Erick returned to sunform and endured 32 attacks of various nature in that time. [Strike]s from crabs. A series of [Stone Javelin]s from the lion pack. A [Field of Blood Drinking Thorns] spread out from a nearby anemone that lived upon the giant crab’s right claw; apparently the thing didn’t eat every single anemone it came across, and this one worked together with the crab for some reason. The massive worm continued to undulate through the cavern, moving right along, interrupting fights, deciding the winners and losers of the various conflicts in a way that many combatants did not see coming.

The worm was directly on its way toward Erick, though; everything else was a target of opportunity.

Many of the larger beasts eventually noticed the worm’s obvious movements. Even the ineffective giant stone crab had stopped attacking Erick, for it saw the massive worm poking up closer and closer. Suddenly, the giant crab lifted up from the side of the cavern, displacing an area the size of the statue of liberty, and buried itself deeper, moving down, down through the stone like it was water, vanishing from the cavern and leaving trash to stick out of the wall it had vacated. The crab escaped with bare seconds to spare before the worm got there.

Erick sent out Ophiels left and right, each under their own sunform, toward the worm. The largest threat in the cavern looked to be much larger than it originally appeared, for as moments passed, more and more of the cavern walls bulked out with cutting tendrils and maws. It had to be ten kilometers long, or more, for almost half the cavern was filled with the exposed worm.

It had only taken 15 seconds from waking in this place to this happening. Life happened fast down here in the Underworld.

Erick sent an experimental sunform Ophiel out at one of the maws of the worm—

The tendrils went right through the sunform cutting with what had to be a Domain-empowered slice, carving Ophiel into eight misshapen pieces, breaking the [Familiar] like a sword would break a particularly soft feather.

Ah.

So it was like that.

Erick thought he felt a Domain from the worm; now he was sure.

Erick rapidly floated away from the encroaching monster, pushing his mana sense wide open. He raced down the cavern, trying to lightstep but feeling some awful sort of tug in the middle of the step, so he stopped that right away and simply moved through the light like a floating ghost—

He dodged left, and moved faster. The worm’s tentacled maw opened up where he would have been. Erick wasn’t trying to escape though; who knew what the fuck laid in wait down the way, or in the next cavern. He wasn’t trying to escape. He just needed time to understand.

Much more carefully this time, a sunform Ophiel stepped out of Erick’s light, into a nearby maw that held less tendrils than the others. Dodging like a pro, Ophiel turned off [Greater Lightwalk] and turned on [Fulmination Aura] at the same moment. Lightning ringed Ophiel like a great mandala, catching upon every nearby tentacle and illuminating the cavern with a splash of white lightning—

The attack did nothing as lightning danced away from Ophiel.

Less than a fraction of a second after the lightning show started, it ended, as Domain-tendrils sunk into the Ophiel and broke him, scattering white light across the air. There was a reflection going on, or maybe Erick fucked up using his Domain. Maybe both. Good thing his next Ophiel had [Animadversion] active.

While Erick spent his next Script Second summoning another Ophiel, to bring him back up to ten, he had the [Animadversion]-protected Ophiel flicker into a different maw, and try again. This time lightning flashed and reflected and flashed again. Erick focused on pushing his Domain against the worm’s—

It was like pushing against the surface of a pond that was fully frozen through, but the very act of pushing began to boil the frozen lake on the other side of the surface. One second. Two. Erick evaded an opening maw and worm’s resolve weakened—

In a single instant, the battle swung the other way. The worm’s Domain fractured and broke altogether.

Lightning sunk into the worm. Tentacles flash fried. The worm bucked under the cavern wall, shaking and breaking, sending boulders and otherwise lifting into the air as the worm tried to crack the stone world apart to get away. It succeeded in breaking the lightning-riddled portion of itself in half, instead. Erick had effectively cut the thing into two pieces, one side kilometers long, and the other only a few hundred meters long. Both sides fled into the depths of the cavern, moving away from the surface as rapidly as they could. Erick thought that they might be moving in two directions, but he had no idea. The thing rapidly left his mana sense range.

The danger wasn’t over.

Erick took a moment to cast his own [Animadversion]. The silver shield hovered around the holographic representation of his body, inside his own sunform. It wasn’t much use right now, but it might be useful later and the thing didn’t go away as long as he ‘held’ it.

The cavern rumbled and broke as it settled back into its new position.

Monsters came back out, and some of them were dumb enough to go after Erick.

He let loose a [Withering] into the cavern, Shaping it to exclude the manastream in the center of the space, layering the power into the surrounding land. Monster notifications did not start appearing. Instead, most everything either turned to stone and flowed through the ground to get away the very second they realized they were in danger, or they ignored the [Withering], because they were not made of water in the first place. The stone lions were in this second category.

The stone lions rushed toward Erick, aiming to eat the bright enemy who was good enough to mark himself as a target. The lions would have been cute if they weren’t each ten meters tall at the shoulder, with three meter wide heads and mouths to match.

Fuck this.

[Luminous Beam].

Solid light carved through stone lions and crabs and everything that couldn’t get away fast enough. Almost every monster here was over level 75, but a few of the larger ones, like the lions, were level 86. The worm that got away was likely very high level, but Erick had no hope of killing that thing unless he chased after it, and that wasn’t going to happen; he had very few spells that would work well underground, and he had no [Stone Body], either. No Stone Domain, anyway, so he wouldn’t want to put himself underground even if he had the capability to do so.

Erick let loose, killing absolutely everything that moved, eliminating every possible threat that he saw.

Clearing out the cavern only took a few minutes. But there wasn’t just one cavern! Oh no!

Some giant bat/lizard/darkness thing tried to enter into the cavern from the next one over, once it saw all the light, or maybe it heard all the noise, but Erick sliced that thing into pieces and set those pieces on fire. Such a monster would have had Erick shitting his pants two years ago, but now? It was just another bump in the road. He encountered some Domain resistance, but it was a weak Domain compared to the worm, and Erick had gained a lot of experience since Fallopolis so easily broke his Domain back at Last Shadow’s Feast.

