With another flick of her fingers, Ali shot off a disruption, shredding another teleport spell. We don’t need any more monsters at this party, thanks. She took a second to mop her brow – wishing she had a skill like Malika’s Clarity to instantly restore her presence of mind. She smiled wryly to herself. I guess survival has a way of focusing one’s priorities, right? Dad… he used to say that.

She puffed out her cheeks. Right, what have I missed here?

Slowly, the battle began to stabilize as Ali recovered her mana with Inspiration and a mana potion. The Devouring Consumption had effectively eaten anything she might have deconstructed to recover her mana – one unforeseen downside of bringing the monstrous ooze – but she took the opportunity to deconstruct all the black, burning plants growing off the walls and any abyssal bloodstone she could reach. Her remaining acolytes recovered, taking turns to use their Prayer skill and healing her minions back up to full. Her witch doctor returned from her spirit walk and resumed decursing the explosive conflagration, and, to her relief, had enough room to begin to remove the Interrupted Casting from her acolytes. Huge waves of black, sulfurous fire billowed from the higher eye while the six continuous arcing streams of arcane bolts flew from the Eye of Agnor, but her minions still stood.

If that’s the worst it can do, I think I got this, Ali thought, flying up and deconstructing another bloodstone to bring her mana back up to full.

A teleport formation flickered through the Eye, and Ali immediately fired her Disruption darts at it, but the spell fizzled instantly, coming out as a pathetic puff of golden glitter that hovered briefly in the air before dissipating. Fuck. “Get rid of this curse on…” Ali began, but suddenly, something massive appeared in the pool of blood near the center of the room, and an overpowering aura of presence rolled out from it, filling the room and causing every hostile demon to accelerate in frenzied movement.

Ali’s blood curdled as she recognized what the boss had summoned.

You have been afflicted with the Pit Lord’s Corrupted Blood.+30 damage per second bleed.Demonic energy infuses your blood, causing progressively worsening disorientation, perception distortion, nausea, and dizziness.After 30 minutes, your race gains the demonic trait, and you become a thrall of the Pit Lord. Contagious. Range: 25 meters.Corruption – Duration: 30 minutes.

A wave of dizziness slammed into Ali as the giant demon slowly stomped up out of the pool, surveying the battle as glistening red blood dripped from his dark purple, leathery hide. He licked his lips with a long, crimson tongue, clearly enjoying the prospect of sowing carnage amongst the dismayed foes.

Xammath [Desecrator] – Pit Lord – level ??? (Blood / Hellfire)

“You will all submit yourselves as offerings for the Demon God!” he roared, shaking the cavern with his powerful booming voice, but he wasted no time waiting for their surrender. He lowered his gigantic war glaive and charged, impaling one of the Carnage Berserkers clean through the chest and unleashing an explosion of blood blades and burning hellfire. Then he reared up and brought his two huge front taloned feet down on the ground with a rock-shattering crash, blasting everything around him with a wave of hellfire that knocked most of Ali’s remaining minions flying.

Already monitoring her Devouring Consumption closely, Ali used it to Identify Xammath again from a far higher level. Her eyes widened as she saw the Pit Lord’s level was one sixty!

Ali reacted in an instant. There was no way her current forces were up for this; she had only one chance. The battle froze as she halted time, slipping into the gray tones of the spirit realm, but she did not need to think or consider her actions. She opened her Grimoire and summoned her dragon, and as the spirit realm faded, she hurriedly pulled up the status and skills, so she had at least some idea of how to use its abilities.

Scion of Azryet – Abyssal Dragon – level 130 (Void).

Your reserved mana has increased by +975.

You’d better be as strong as I remember. Ali did not even need to tell her massive, black-scaled dragon what to attack. It thundered in fury at the mere sight of the Pit Lord and unleashed a beam of disintegration from its mouth in the form of dense void magic that sizzled as it tore through flesh and bone.

The Pit Lord roared in pain, but its retaliation was instantaneous, an act of stunning violence and power; one moment it was standing in the shallows of the blood pool, and the next its enormous bulk was somehow in the air above the Scion of Azryet, war glaive cleaving downward, shattering void barriers and scales as the blade tore through the dragon’s hide. Blades of blood and hellfire exploded from the point of impact as the two giant monsters tore into each other, filling the cavern with furious roars and crashes as they fell heavily to the ground. Huge chunks of the war glaive’s blade were already missing, disintegrated by the void barriers, but the bloodsteel seemed to be regenerating rapidly.

“You too,” Ali said, directing her command to the Devouring Consumption. A giant dark green pseudopod lanced upward, coiling around the Pit Lord’s neck as the three giant monsters began a deafening brawl in the center of the chamber. Rock split and shards flew as their titanic bodies struggled against one another. Blood, hellfire, and void all mingled to create a cacophony of noise and magic.

Conventional wisdom would have her kill the Eye of Agnor first with her most powerful monsters, but this was a Pit Lord. She turned and threw up in the corner as the aura of corruption twisted its way deeper inside her, making the world shift and blur as it began to warp her perceptions. She tried to ignore the blood she had just thrown up and focused, rallying her minions to attack once more.

Fuck, it’s also healing. The Pit Lord’s great wounds from the dragon’s talons and void magic were rapidly closing as the three of them brawled in the Eye of Agnor’s hellfire Immolation and the breaths and fireballs of the hellfire demons crawling around the cavern. “Pull it away!” she shouted, imbuing her intent into her Martial Insight. But moving the stubborn Pit Lord proved to be much harder than she hoped. With a massive stomp of his feet, hellfire blasted outward, knocking the Dragon and Ooze back away from him, and he raised his war glaive to the ceiling, summoning a vast, towering pyre of magic.

Ali scrambled to summon barriers as giant black flaming gobs of hellfire and lances of blood rained down upon everything in the cavern like a hellish hailstorm of destruction.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
