Whether it was the gargantuan Divine Turtle, the boss himself, his armed retinue, or his ferocious-looking yet harmless pets sitting in their wagon, the guards all scrambled to obey. In their haste, they even forgot to leave someone behind to hold the gate. Sighing in satisfaction, Rustram sat a little taller atop his quin. When he’d first visited a few days ago with Chey, they’d waited almost a full hour before a representative deigned to meet with them, whose first words had been to inquire if Rustram had enough coin to make this deal worthwhile.

This time, a representative scurried out, though not the one Rustram dealt with. A portly, older gentleman, his hastily painted-face and crooked jewelled headdress marked him as a man of importance, possibly even the head of the company himself, but the boss paid him no mind. Without even dismounting, the boss tossed the written contract to the gentleman and said, “The terms within, fulfill them. Now.”

No need to threaten violence. Even with the Legate’s Decree to keep the peace, everyone knew Falling Rain had secured Imperial favour, not to mention Divine.

Head bobbing like a chicken pecking grains, the gentleman stammered his assurances while unfurling the contract. Cheeks going red with rage, he ran back inside bellowing orders and returned shortly thereafter, dragging the representative Rustram had met with, a gaunt, hollow-cheeked young man. “I apologize for the delay Divine Attendant, but my man here overcharged you for the shipment by double and marked the order as twice as large in my own ledgers. He intended to sell the excess food and pocket the extra coin for himself, hence why we were unable to fill the order before today. He is yours to do with as you please.”

A fine story, but Rustram would eat his boots if the owner wasn’t in on it, and the boss was equally perceptive. “Why should I dirty my hands dealing with your mess? Handle it yourself, away from the eyes of children. More importantly, you say you’re prepared to deliver twice the amount? I’ll take whatever you have on hand now, deliver the rest as soon as possible. Rustram, Ravil, Bulat, take some soldiers and help this kind sir load our wagons.”

Stifling a chuckle, Rustram committed the gentleman’s look of consternation to memory as the boss led his family and the Divine Turtle down the street. This was the boss’s style, domineering and refusing to give face as he handled business in the streets for all to see. Unfortunately, Rustram’s amusement was short-lived as he considered his actions. He’d used this first deal to gauge the local market, which means if he paid double the market price here, then he did the same at the other merchant houses. Burning with shame, he set his people to task checking each sack of rice for weevils before personally weighing them, glaring at the merchant and his doomed representative all the while.

By the time he finished and they arrived at the next merchant house a half-hour later, their supplies were ready and waiting, already loaded into wagons sitting in the streets. After a cursory inspection, they moved on to the next house, with each merchant company either providing double what Rustram had contracted them for, or accepting half the payment promised. Meanwhile, the boss was inundated with messengers bearing invitations from the larger merchant houses, places Rustram had been too afraid to approach. Economic giants like the Ru and Yo families had heard of the boss’s plight and were offering to procure whatever the boss needed for his retinue. This was the power of fame and reputation, and proud as he was to be a part of it, Rustram spirits were low and with good reason.

As Falling Rain’s second in command, he’d failed completely.

“Don’t worry so much,” the boss said, clapping Rustram on the back. “I expected to suffer setbacks here in Nan Ping, and things are only going so well because of the Divine Turtle. You did good, I figured we’d need to ask Akanai or Yuzhen for help.” Blind to his own accomplishments as always, the boss failed to mention his twenty eight duels fought in the first two days. Now with Situ Jia Zian, Han BoShui, and Tong Da Fung attracting all of Central’s hatred, few still had the courage to continue challenging the boss. “Anyways, let’s visit one more merchant house, then we can break for lunch. Who’s our next target?”

Appreciating the boss’s attempt to cheer him up, Rustram unfurled the next contract. “Next up is the Canston Trading Group, just two streets-”

Grabbing him by the collar, the boss’s eyes went wide with anger as he hissed, “You signed a deal with the Canston Trading Group?”

Taken aback by the boss’s palpable fury, Rustram recoiled in fear. What happened to the cheerful, good-natured young hero who’d just been offering encouragement? He’d never laid hands on his people, not in anger and not like this. Worried he'd be beaten to a pulp, Rustram babbled out an explanation. “Yes boss, for several shipments of grains, cause everyone else I visited said they were out of stock and it’d be weeks before more arrived, but it’d be too late by then so I had no choice but to buy it from them, and they said they’d need a day before shipping us the grains because their wagons were being used, but I guess it was a mistake to trust them because when I went back, they gave me a run around and -”

Thankfully, Major Alsantset came to his rescue, approaching the boss from the other side and holding him back. “Little Rain, let go. He didn’t know.”

Visibly trembling in anger, the boss let go of Rustram’s collar and closed his eyes, struggling for calm and Balance. After a long minute spent in silence, the boss opened his eyes and said, “Sorry about that. It’s... nothing. Forget about it. Come, let’s go pay a visit to the Canston. Trading. Group.”

Releasing a breath he didn’t know he’d been holding, Rustram nodded and led the way. This time, he’d made a huge mistake, even though he could argue it wasn’t his fault, since he’d never heard of the Canston Trading Group before arriving in Nan Ping. Whatever, on the bright side, maybe this time the boss would finally find someone else to take Rustram's place. Being second in command to Falling Rain was both physically and mentally exhausting.

It was high time Rustram took a break. Maybe he’d finally have time to find a wife.

Chapter Meme
