The contest in the Society should have been through its first phase by now. She speculated over which method was used to filter out all the chaff this year, removing the unworthy from competing. Best if they had single combat elimination, but it was a method rarely chosen in the past, as it simply took too much time. When she had competed so many years ago, it was a mass skirmish, eliminating other contestants through group combat, a collecting of tokens after beating their opponents senseless. Those with the most tokens, moved on. That had been a grave mistake on the planners part, as the young often lose control of their inhibitions. The People had been the only ones left after five days, and with no other contestants, the Society had no choice but to declare the People the winners. She grinned at the memories of the scoldings and their hurried flight home, fleeing from would be robbers and assassins. They had made few friends on that trip. It had been decades before they returned to participate again.

She snapped out of her thoughts as she sighted movement up ahead. One of her forward scouts, Tanaraq, was returning at a breakneck pace, waving them back. Without hesitation, Akanai turned to a southwestern bearing, everyone quickly following suit. Tanaraq gave her report, hand signals, rather than broadcasting through her chi. Defiled, several thousands, Demons, at least two, approaching on a south-east bearing. How had the Enemy managed to slip so far away from Shen Huo without anyone reporting it? A chill went down her spine as she realized their goal. They were moving for the outposts, meaning to cut the road in half, stopping the supplies and reinforcements to the Bridge. If they were successful, it would delay the Empire's responding armies, perhaps long enough that the Defiled could launch a successful attack at the bridge. She could not allow that to happen, not while the pup was there. She would save him, or she would die trying.

Turning her party back towards the outpost, a grim, resigned smile set on her face, she rode hard in order to rescue that scum of a man, Kai. The province depended upon it. The pup depended on it. They quickly reached the field, the camp gates closing as she rode up, flashing her token at the gate guards, demanding they let them in. “Belay that order men.” Thumping up the stairs, a familiar hated face appeared, sneering down at them. Brigadier Kai. “We can't risk opening the gates for a few savages, not with the enemy so close and about to attack.” He peered over the wall at her, smug as can be. “Who knows, they might even be Defiled themselves, with how uncivilized they are.”

Suppressing the urge to kill the man with an arrow to the throat, Akanai wasted no time, leading her people around the eastern camp wall. Hopefully the enemy was only coming from the west. They could not be caught out in the open but her luck did not hold true. The camp was large and before even halfway around, the Enemy was charging towards them, screaming their war cries atop their bipedal mounts, furred lizards with their teeth gnashing, drums beating, the dried fetishes of human remains hanging about their bodies. Arrows flew through the air, from her Sentinels, from the soldiers, from the Defiled, a back and forth of hissing death. Her weapon twirling to block what she could, she continued to ride in an attempt to lead her people to safety, cursing Kai's idiocy, swearing vengeance upon him should she survive.

Bellowing orders and organizing her people into formation, she led the way, killing her enemies with every sweep of her ax-lance. Her husband's roaring could be heard behind her, the crash of metal on bone as he crushed his enemies, the whistling of his staff moving through the air, music to her ears. It had been some time since they had fought alongside each other and she had missed it, in some odd, twisted sense of nostalgia. She watched as the enemy leaped over the short walls, barely 6 meters tall, the Garos jumping that height easily, the sounds of slaughter and death following shortly after. Kai was a foolish commander, to turtle atop the wooden walls. He should have gathered in the campground, an open field of death before him, setting fire to the buildings to block their path.

A number of the Defiled veered off, charging directly at her, beasts ready to lunge forward. With a grin and a squeeze of her calves, Atir launched forward faster than the lizards could react, leaping across the distance in a single bound, her weapon tearing Defiled and beast alike, coating her in blood as she tore through her enemies. More approached, and they died by the handful, her weapon taking heads, Atir tearing through flesh and scale, and still the enemy came on, a lightning fast raid upon the camp.

“Half Moon Formation!” Akanai halted her forward process, swinging her weapon about, unable to push forward any further. Her Sentinels fought behind her, their small group arranged in a shifting semi-circle, the camp wall at their backs, weapons flashing like silvered death, as the screams of the dead and dying surrounded them. A cool stream of energy enveloped her, closing her wounds, and she continued to fight, her strength surging. Taduk's work, keeping her people alive and strong. She fought beside her husband, holding a swath of land, killing all who tried to push through her territory, her blood singing in her veins. Screams of rage and defiance, mercy and pain, the tempestuous song of battle drove her into a frenzy of motion.

This was her battle and she was the Herald, of storms, of victory, and none could stop her. She would hold this camp, because if she failed, if the Defiled succeeded, then the pup would die. She fought for minutes on a single breath, no time to even exhale as she held the line, knowing the consequences if she stopped. The dirt around her was littered with the dead as she fought, the energy of the Mother surging through her, with no end to the enemy in sight. Her husband at her side, the two of them were invincible, untouchable as they danced together to the song of battle.

Finally, a lull in the fighting occurred, the Defiled lining up around her and her warriors, staring at them with hatred and apprehension. Gasping for air, she grinned at her enemies, shoulders heaving with exertion, taking stock of her people. Even Taduk could not heal death, with four of her own laying in the dirt, never to stand again. Good soldiers. Tanaraq and Orgaal, Taduk, and her husband were all that still stood. The camp still held, but she could not aid them anymore than she already had.

Two hulking behemoths approached, Demons, one a four-legged lumbering creature, armored and black, like a dragon headed turtle, spikes protruding from every surface. The other was a bull like monstrosity, standing upon legs that bent backwards, massive spiked horns atop his head, goring tusks protruding from his mouth, four arms each carrying a different weapon. Good, good, it had been decades since she had killed a true Demon. Hefting her weapon, feeling the pull of her freshly healed wounds, she guided Atir forward slowly, ready to meet her foe. The bull would be hers, she decided, a more worthy looking opponent. It was no fun just killing a mere beast.
