[Congratulations! Rising Emperor's Domain Milestone Reached!]

[1,031,092/1,000,000 Worlds Claimed]

[New Perk Unlocked: A Light in the Darkness]

Info:

The [World Wide Connectivity System][i] for the Rising Emperor has now been updated! The [World Locator Perk][i] is now accessible.

The Rising Emperor may now borrow an additional 5% of all Base Stat Points and Mana Control efficiency from all subordinates under the allegiance of the Rising Emperor.

Members affected by this perk are not required to be within range of the Rising Emperor's Domain.

This buff stacks with the [Path to Domination] perk, [Authority among Worlds] perk, [Ruler of Worlds] perk, [World Collector] perk, [World Domination] perk, [Imperial Reach] perk, [Expansion] perk, [Dominance] perk, [Authority] perk, [Power Holder] perk, and [Ruler's Gaze] perk if used simultaneously.

–

I feel the crystal clear elixir flow into my Noble body. It washes in like hot waves through every cell of it almost instantly.

Filling me up to my fingertips, toes, and even through my sword. Yet, just as fast as it flows in, it then disappears from sight, seeping deep into my consciousness, and warming up the low-quality ether pool powering all my movements.

I take in a breath of fresh air, and let out a wave of High Noble Vibrations strong enough to push the cold, impeding aura away from my body enough to get my grip on reality back.

Below me, I sense Ember disappearing into the bottom of the Citadel, and around me, I see thousands of thick, multi-kilometer-wide tendrils of corruption all coiling my way out from Miriel's body.

The ether deep in my body is getting hotter and hotter, and I feel it hitting a natural limit...

It feels like small portions of it are reaching a point where it can no longer be refined any further, and the pockets of this incredibly hot and smooth ether are expanding in my pools.

It gives me enough mental clarity to move faster, and slam my blade into about 300 incoming tendrils of black corruption in the next few milliseconds.

Some break apart, but the liquid forms back together faster than I can break it. Every one coiling tendril that is broken, ten more attack me from the opposite side.

"This is the end, human! In fact, this is the final straw. After your stunt today, the Great Families will vote to seal the Upper Realm even faster. You've only sped up your inevitable doom! Run all you want! Try all the tricks you have! You have lost!"

The tendrils of darkness get thicker, faster, and far better positioned the longer I continue waiting for my ether to fully refine.

Not only has the mental clarity and speed boost kept my mind from falling to this demon's suppression, but the steady rise in stats allows me to get faster and faster as well. Over two hundred thousand more worlds have been linked to my system since I heard the dings.

Though, my mind is elsewhere.

The more my ether is refined, the more intense my High Noble Vibrations become.

All of the repetitive training I did beneath the sea of corruption with Seraphel comes flowing back into my subconscious, and the final breakthrough that I achieved while breaking the seals on the Blue Wyvern's Celestial body rekindles its intensity as well.

My path.

It is all built on my unique skill, Absorption.

The ability to take from my enemies, and turn that power into my own.

Below the sea, I practiced using the old structures of the Wyvern's Sanctuary Citadel, reforming them at massive scale for days on end. Creating masterpieces and rebuilding massive structures from scratch.

Afterward, I embraced the art of deconstructing and manipulating the ancient Celestial Grade Seals to free Seraphel, while refining my ether below the sea, trying not to die myself, and becoming totally in tune with my High Noble Vibrations for the first time.

My path is one with creation and destruction as its distinctive characteristics.

I activate the new perk of my soul sword's evolution after reaching level 3, and simultaneously let the true nature of my path take over while this ether-refining elixir is stimulating it so much.

—

I can feel every ether command in the Grand Citadel, but over the last few milliseconds, the ones closest to me have become increasingly more malleable and clear on how to manipulate to my wishes.

With all of the suppression commands and shielding broken from the Arena Dome, the entire 250-thousand-kilometer-wide Inner City is now at my fingertips.

All of the towers and streets are in shambles, many crushed to dust, divine energy and broken ether commands.

Yet, to me, as my High Noble Vibrations ripple through them, they feel like building blocks.

The most malleable and high-potency buildings nearby all start floating in the air, attracted to both my body and my sword.

"You use corruption as your armor? Two can play at that game!" I yell out, leaving streaks of red and white behind me in enormous paths.

Controlling a 120-kilometer-tall energy form is both exhilarating and exhausting, as in a single-digit number of strides, I can move tens of thousands of kilometers. It takes absurd amounts of energy to keep running.

My Plunderer True Core ability is draining massive amounts of mana and divine threads from the atmosphere to burn through, while simultaneously collecting massive fragments of buildings and still fighting for my life as thousands of tendrils of corruption fly off the Demon in the center of the ring.

Miriel does not move at all from his position; he only turns his body and directs attacks my way as I zip above.

Enormous building structures collapse and consolidate as I fly by them. Many turn bright white, more dense with ether; others darker green, mostly made of pure mana and divine threads. I do not take less or more of any structure—I pull everything I can toward me.

A thin layer of armor starts to form around my massive energy form, like a truly humongous avatar made of compacted Citadel structures, while my soul sword absorbs an equal amount.

It does not grow in size—it only glows brighter white, and the flames deep within it become more hungry and darker red.

"Almost there..." I whisper through gritted teeth, feeling the sword's perk activation growing near.

At the same time, Miriel has caught onto what I'm doing—not just running away in fear, but manipulating large amounts of the Citadel and using it to grow stronger.

About 10% of the Inner City is consumed and turned to armor before he yells out in rage again.

"Now you're making a mess! It was fun while it lasted... That's it... no more!"

Then he takes his first step forward toward me with impossible speed and summons over triple the tendrils of corruption to block me in from all sides.

He is attempting to use the same move he did with his energy form—to trap me in a cage impossible to get out of.

I only smirk back, as linked worlds have surpassed 2 million now, and my blade is hot enough to activate its new ability with the mass I've gathered... not to its full potential, but it should be enough.

"Not this time!" I yell out, and shove my blade up in the air to block one of the incoming coiling tornadoes of corruption.

A massive white flash of light fills the battlefield, and all around me, as tens of thousands of black tendrils of corruption try to engulf me from every side, tens of thousands of soul swords push outward.

I'm surrounded by an incredible symmetric array of white blades, all flickering with hot red flames—either holding back strands of black energy or slicing through them and disrupting their flow.

Each sword feels like a part of me. I only have my hands tightly grasped around one, but as I move it back and forth to slash, all of the others follow with their own instinct-driven patterns to protect their wielder from all sides.

An explosion of energy erupts outward at this release, as waves of corruption are neutralized and destroyed en masse before my eyes.

Simultaneously, many of my copied swords shatter, and some even lose their connection to me as they have to handle multiple tendrils of energy at once and lose in the end—but it seems as though it is an equal energy exchange.

I really held back one of Miriel's true attacks that was meant to kill me.

I let out a loud mocking laugh while bursting through waves of corruption that are being destroyed in front of me, over a fresh part of the Inner City, like a massive magnet over a junkyard—pulling up enormous building fragments and pulling them into my body.

—

More and more of the pillar separating this Inner City from the wilderness shatters away from the chaos, and even the layers of shielding commands high above—where the citizens of the Grand Citadel stay—are starting to crack and deteriorate.

The entire 1-million-kilometer-wide structure shudders, making Ember's flight down the narrow tunnel a daunting one.

The crimson-eyed dragon's true body and astral form expand to massive lengths, just as the Rising Emperor's.

Every single borrowed stat gained is mirrored to his true strength as well.

His wings stretch out wide, and he gains more and more speed with every flap.

The enormous creature grows to over 1000 kilometers from nose to tail by the time he is halfway to his target, and his amused, constantly grinning, and playful expression has completely left his face.

The only thing left in this dragon's eyes is determination and killing intent.

Ember's eyes shimmer silver, and so do his front claws and teeth.

Without even saying hello, a horrendous roar echoes out from far below the Citadel, and a wave of translucent white flames bursts from his mouth, tethered together with silver divine shimmering light.

Ember attacks with his most powerful technique, down at the still sleepy and curious purple eyes that look up at him from the deepest depths of darkness down on the bottom of the Realm.
