I began to transform once again. It was so awkward to do this while actively running, as I had to drop down to all fours again.

This time, she slid up to my side and delivered a kick to my stomach that sent me rolling as my bones began to pop and morph. But as she came down for what I think was supposed to be the final, fatal blow, my puppy paws finished forming and I got them under me as I zipped off, running away again.

After getting a little distance at the end of an alleyway, I looked back at her. She strolled casually in my direction, the crack of her skeletal jaw seeming like a smile as she calmly tossed a spinning dagger up into the air and caught it over and over again.

It seemed like she was taunting me, and that made me furious.

I’m back in my Hell Hound form. I’m only so helpless against her because I have no idea how to properly fight with weapons!

I lowered down, baring my fangs and growling, hackles raised.

That confident stride of hers as she came towards me just pissed me off! I didn’t need magic or anything else! I just needed my doggy body!

But… I was already badly wounded. I might not survive another losing exchange with her.

If I died here, everything I’d worked for would be for nothing, and again I remembered when Fox pinned me down and shocked me. If I died here, that day when I was strong enough to beat Fox would never come. I wouldn’t be able to save the rest of my family, and I’d just be another corpse in this shitty collapsed city.

But Skeleton Lady was a real problem. I couldn’t just ignore her either. What was I supposed to do? Could I even risk sleeping tonight while she was out there on the hunt? Maybe that’s why she seemed so casual about this?

Yes, as that thought struck me I realized the truth of it. From her perspective, I wasn’t a match for her, and not only that, there was truly no escape. All she had to do is bide her time, and wait for another chance to ambush me. I would keep getting weaker and weaker and more tired and hungry.

Not for the first time in my life, I felt the disquieting feeling of being prey. And I truly hated it.

But I’d be a fool to deny reality and charge towards my death. I needed a plan.

I would beat her, but for now I needed to retreat.

So I turned and ran, catching one last look at her as she caught her spinning dagger a final time, and planting her free hand on a popped hip as she stared at me and watched me go. A smug look in her hollow eyes promised that the hunt would continue.
