Dismounting from their horses, Senior Captain Chu XinYue and his soldiers creep to the edge of the tree line and close their eyes, silently searching for someone to speak with. Sending isn’t like texting, not only do you need to be familiar with the recipient, they also need to be in range. The whole point is to reach whoever is guarding the outermost gate, overlooking the area where they inspect the wagons before entering the city. In order for this to be successful, not only does the person on duty have to be close enough, it needs to be someone known to XinYue and his men.

I’m not exactly optimistic about our chances.

“I made contact!” XinYue’s hushed whisper immediately refutes my pessimism. “Such luck, Uncle Mao is in the gatehouse.”

“Uncle Mao?” Oh all the missed opportunities, I should have named one of the cats Mao. Ooo, Chairman Mao. Purrfect. I should have some hats made for the cats, it'll be adorable...

With a sheepish smile, the large man shakes his head. “Sorry, I mean Mao Jianghong, Guard Captain of Sanshu. Not my uncle by blood, but a family friend.” The smile slips from his face, replaced by an angry scowl. “He says the Defiled are already inside Sanshu. Treachery from a staff sergeant, a woman named Sovanna. She led a rebellion and took the western gate through stealth and surprise, allowing the Enemy to stroll right in.” Placing both hands on my shoulder, he pleads, “Inform Major Yuzhen she must hurry. The city is in danger of falling.”

“Done. We ride back now, no delay.” Somethings off, but that’s for someone else to deal with. At top speed, it'll only take two hours to get there and back.

Shaking his head, XinYue glances at the gates. “You go, this is my home, I must be there to defend it. Uncle Mao will let me in. I won’t order any of my men to follow or beg for aid, but I will not forget any help that is offered.” His pointed glance towards Tenjin and Tursinai doesn’t escape my notice, but I’m hesitant to volunteer them. They won’t go anywhere without Mila, and I’m not sending my bloodthirsty betrothed in, no matter how adorable she looks while silently pleading.

I give my orders, buying time to think. “Rustram, take ten of our fastest riders back to Major Yuzhen. If they’re already inside the city, then it’s unlikely we’ll need the horses to fight, so she might as well come now.” Not exactly room to maneuver cavalry charges, lots of winding roads and bottlenecks. Turning to XinYue, I find him mounting his horse, ready to ride out into the field. Grabbing his reins, I hold his horse in place. “Wait. Somethings not right. You said Mao Jianghong is the Guard Captain right?” He nods, impatient to be off. “Then what is he doing sitting around the outer gatehouse?”

Opening his mouth to respond, he snaps it shut with an audible click, confusion etched across his brow. After a long pause, he answers, “I don’t know. By all rights, he should be with Uncle Tongzu, coordinating the defenses.”

Huh... Tongzu? Chu Tongzu. Chu XinYue. “You’re Magistrate Chu Tongzu’s nephew?”

“Err, not exactly.” Scratching his nose in obvious embarrassment, he shrugs. “My grandfather is the Magistrate’s cousin, though they rarely met due to a difference in age. After Uncle Tongzu rose to the office, I was sent to... learn from him. Because my uncle lacks an Heir, you see.” Shaking his head, he moves on. “It’s not important. Even though I’m no great hero, I cannot sit idle while Sanshu is in danger.”

Guess I know where XinYue heard all those unflattering details. The Magistrate is not my biggest fan, though to be fair, I left a lot of corpses in his streets. Then again, it wasn’t entirely my fault, so he shouldn’t blame me either. “Look, send word to Mao, tell him you’re leaving to bring word to Major Yuzhen. Meanwhile, we go check the western gate. If everything is as he says, then we’ll swing back around and ask him to let all of us in, no harm no foul. A half-hour at most, if Sanshu falls in that time, then there’s little we could have done regardless. If you insist on going now, then I cannot join you in good conscience.”

XinYue reluctantly agrees to my plan, Tenjin and Tursinai too strong to turn away. Leading the way, I ride through the forest towards the western gate, ears and eyes open for danger. Gripped by pre-battle jitters, my body surges with adrenaline in preparation of glorious combat, the Spectres alternating between whispers of impending doom and spectacular glory, depending on whether I cooperate with them, of course.

Calm down. Do it like you used to, before Baledagh woke up. You fought plenty back then, against bandits, Society grunts and Defiled warriors. You can do this. You practised day in and day out, trained under Baatar and Akanai for this very purpose. Don’t shame them. Make them proud.

Above all else, survive.

A rustle in the trees captures my attention and I glance up to see glimmering metal pointed in my direction.

Fuck my life. Caught off-guard twice in one day.

I wholeheartedly regret not telling Akanai to shove her stupid offer up her ass.

Chapter Meme
