Before exiting the woods, she came across the remnants of Falling Rain’s retinue and two of Chu XinYue’s officers, and their report left her shaking with fright. Stay outside and guard the South-West gate? This was madness. What’s more, the possible betrayal of a Staff Sergeant was disturbing enough, but for a bleeding Guard Captain turned Defiled... This was a position that required verification of Purity once every decade. Suddenly, the Shrike’s insistence that Purity was no longer proof seemed less crazy than before. Did Mao Jianghong turn Defiled after taking his last test or did he turn before? If the Shrike was to be believed, then no one could be trusted. What if Falling Rain was Defiled and lying about Mao Jianghong? What if he was feeding her the truth, but luring her into a trap by instructing her to remain here? What if he was tricked by the guards at the East gate and slaughtered upon entry? Who could she trust to verify these orders? If Falling Rain was Defiled, it’s possible Gerel is also Defiled...

No. Stop being silly woman. Work with what you know to be true, not what might be.

Setting her soldiers to dig in and scout the area, she sent a few experts out to contact Sanshu in both directions, ready to act accordingly to any new information as it arrived. On Jukai’s advice, she made a circuit around the camp, stopping to chat with the soldiers and check for flaws in their defences. Weary and worn, her soldiers required more supervision than expected, this army of elites used to having menial chores done for them. What she wouldn’t give to have the five-thousand soldiers she’d brought from the Bridge, a well-disciplined army of solid infantry. Unfortunately, she’d been forced to leave most of them behind, her infantry unable to keep up. It’d still be a handful of days before they arrived and until then, she was stuck with these pampered elites who couldn’t be bothered to set up a line of stakes.

Not all were pampered elites, some were literally children. Stationed with young magistrate Fung at the edge of the southern flank, the Bekhai rested their weary mounts while Rain’s rabbit-eared betrothed played. Dragging a string with a rock and three feathers tied to it, Mei Lin skipped and laughed around in circles. A wildcat followed closely behind, batting at the string like a common kitten. What was Rain even thinking, bringing an untrained civilian and his pets with him on this operation? The Bekhai were a tenacious people; Yuzhen expected the poor girl to be terrified, but Mei Lin seemed lively and carefree despite their perilous circumstances.

Inwardly sighing, she idly wondered if Gerel expected to take multiple wives. Most likely, a talented, handsome man like him would have women throwing themselves at him, wide-eyed girls like little Lin. So adorable, with her charming round cheeks and soft, brown skin, though she was betrothed to Rain, how was Yuzhen to compete with hundreds just like her, all vying to win Demon Reaper Gerel’s affection? Not only did Yuzhen lack their youthful vigour, as a half-beast, she was cursed by the Mother and unable to bear children.

All great men wished to see their descendants prosper, it was only basic instinct. How long before Gerel succumbed to his?

“Hi Yu-, ah, sorry. Major Yuzhen.” Beaming cutely, Mei Lin skipped over to Yuzhen, while the cat’s body language went from playful to guarded in the blink of an eye, teeth bared and back arched. Gently stroking the cat’s nose, Mei Lin said, “No teefies Jimjam. Be nice, ya?”

Jimjam’s transformation was instantaneous, the ferocious wildcat almost appearing remorseful as it sat down and rubbed against Mei Lin’s palm. Blinking in surprise, Yuzhen smiled at the sweet sight, though still wary of the ferocious predator. “You and Rain are well suited for one another.” The compliment made Mei Lin smile so hard her eyes almost disappeared, the sweet girl standing taller at the praise. “I was thinking, perhaps you’d be more comfortable in the centre of camp? You can set your tent up next to mine, instead of out here with all these soldiers.”

“Tent?” For the first time, Mei Lin showed concern. “We’re not going into the city?”

“Not today.” Unless something changes. “Come, you’ll be safer with me, leave the soldiering to the warriors like Mister Rustram and young magistrate Fung.”

Vehemently shaking her head, Mei Lin answered, “No thanks.” Turning to the side, the adorable girl spoke to empty air. “Can you bring me inside? And the pets too, I wanna go stay with Rainy.” So brave, marching into danger for love. No answer came, but Mei Lin scrunched her nose, pouted, and stamped her foot. “Why not?” Again, no answer, but Mei Lin responded to her unseen companion, pleading to go into the city.

Straining her eyes and ears, Yuzhen still couldn’t spot Mei Lin’s companion. How many experts did the Bekhai have? Shaking her head, she left without another word, leaving Mei Lin still trying to convince the shadows. Wandering into Dastan’s camp, she was delighted to see a unit of elites who carried out their duties without nagging, a trench dug out and stakes set, ready to defend against any garo raids. Officer Zhandos dug alongside his men, a warrior with a magnificent work ethic. A good seed, he showed promising leadership qualities. The army needed men like him, an empathetic young hero of common origin, though sadly he was locked in service to the Golden Highland Coalition.

Leaving him be to work, she continued her circuit around the camp, waiting for news from inside Sanshu. Hours later, her scouts returned with a scroll sealed by the Magistrate himself, reaffirming Rain’s instructions to dig in and cut off the Defiled retreat, and an accounting of everything that transpired inside Sanshu, just in case the city should fall. A second letter came shortly after, a succinct message from Gerel that read, “Working on my promise. Wait a few days more.”

Clutching the letter to her chest, Yuzhen stared out at Sanshu, trying to will her eyes to see past its walls. Foolish man, what did she care of fame or glory? He was an idiot to try and assassinate Yo Ling by himself, how was she to marry a corpse? Just like that, her decision was made. So long as Gerel would have her, then Yuzhen would be his bride.

All he needed to do was survive.

Chapter Meme
