Chrona rolled her eyes at the grumpy gialgathen, "Stop acting as if his gifts have had no effect on you. His comrade even restored your wings."

Krog glanced down while flapping his regenerated limbs, "Though they're stiffer than my old wings, I am grateful for them. I suppose we can offer you a favor."

"I want to use you both as advertising for Schema's system and my guild. If we can get other gialgathens to join us, we'll be able to warp them off Giess should it be glassed."

Chrona raised an eyebrow, "If it's glassed? You mean destroyed?"

"Yes. I think Kessiah mentioned it earlier. Point is, this planet's on a time limit. I'll do my best to save it, but my best might not be good enough. If that happens, I'll hire several black market magicians to put some gialgathens on Earth. That being said, my resources aren't unlimited."

Krog crossed his front paws and leaned his chin onto them, "How does being a part of this system assist with that?"

"It allows you to warp off-world, and in particular, you can go to Earth, my home planet. I can offer you guys food and shelter there until you decide what you guys want to do."

Krog raised an eyebrow, "You would do that for us? Why?"

"I'm no saint, but I don't enjoy watching genocides. I'm also a guild owner. I can get experience and credits from you guys after you join. Any gialgathen that joins me will get a boost in base stats after they join. It's a win-win situation."

Chrona nodded her head, "So we will help convince others to join this system so they may warp away if the worst occurs? The guild is more so for your own aims it seems..."

I frowned while crossing my arms, "You expect me to work my ass off to save you all for free then?"

Chrona looked at Krog, "Ahem, of course not. Perhaps we may strengthen our cause and yours at the same time. What do you think of it, Krog?"

"Self-interested or not, we need this help. We will be glad to help you if it helps us." Krog said. "What does it entail?"

I rubbed my hands together with an evil grin,

"An example...and a bit of showing off."
