The music slowed as someone up above said something to the group of players, speaking louder than their music. A violin string snapped. A drum’s thrum lingered, but the instrument beat no more. Something clattered as someone ran and the singers sang no more words.

Fallopolis stepped forward, cleared her throat, then, as though she was offering a perfectly reasonable solution, rapidly said, “Let’s kill Binjara and Torika and uplift a few Erick-approved Shades!”

“We’re not doing this.” Tania Webwalker stepped out into the open. Her tarantula was missing. Erick found the white spider by querying his Ophiel. It was sitting atop the wall, three meters from an Ophiel. Other spiders, black ones, were in the shadows all around the party. She was watching everything, too, just like Erick was. And then her voice brought Erick back to the moment, “We are doing this.” With a flick of her fingers, a twist of deep shadows burst against Fallopolis, the orcol, and the harpy.

Fallopolis went splattering up and out of the party. Bones tore. Legs broke. Skull smashed. The white core of her chest was exposed, for less than a moment.

The orcol and the harpy just burst, the orcol managing to step half of her body out of the way, but a disintegration effect spread through the rest of her, like instantaneous gnawing shadows, turning her to ash. The harpy was nothing more than scattered, disintegrating feathers, by the time Erick looked to her remains.

Erick almost dropped his drink, and for a crazy moment, he almost said, ‘That would have been a party foul.’ But he did not. He did watch as Fallopolis’s burst corpse sailed away...

Nope. Not a corpse.

Fallopolis laughed, wild and free and disembodied, as her body pulled herself together, to stand in the air. Blood covered her broken form, but her face came back together, and eyes appeared out of the gore. Her arms righted, as bones snapped into place and legs flew up from where they had fallen below. Those legs attached to their appropriate locations, under her dress. She laughed with her body this time, as she did a little twisting motion, to reset the limbs and suck in the guts currently hanging out of her exploded stomach…

… She was dancing. It was a small jig, and it was a bit disgusting as blood and gore fell from her, or sucked into her flesh. But in seconds, she was whole. She called out, “Is that the best you got, Tania! You should die too!”

Tania ignored the crazy woman and turned toward Queen. “I want that music back on.”

Queen stepped away, in a flash.

Tania spoke to everyone, “We will not be tied down to one world, full of impostor gods and magic that hides the truth of Darkness. We will spread to the stars. We will drag civilization along with us, kicking and screaming if we have to, and killing half of them if necessary to cow the other half. SOME OF YOU will have your long-waited revenges and killings and humiliations, but all of you will cooperate with the greater goals, or you will perish.” She paused, as the music resumed. It was a softer sound, this time. Tania breathed in, then out, then she turned back to Fallopilis, who was just now stepping back onto party grounds. She looked to the aged Shade, but she spoke to everyone, “When you step out of line, you will receive Melemizargo’s Judgment, and if you survive, then good for you. But try to keep in mind the new goal we all have, and that I will be as liberal with my Judgments as necessary to ensure the proper outcomes.”

“Well said!” Fallopolis called out.

Shades went back to talking like nothing special had happened.

Fallopolis strode over to Erick, saying, “Can I get a [Cleanse], my man?”

Erick blinked for a moment, then obliged. Gore turned to thick air as it burst from Fallopolis. The Shade flexed her hands out, creating streams in the mirage air. She smiled wide, and started to do a little dance in place. A little cha-cha-cha to the left. A little step-turn-step to the right. The music upstairs turned into something deeper, happier, dancier.

Fallopolis sang a little to the sky, and then to Erick, “Five dead Shades! Doo-dee-doo-dee-doo!” She asked, “Care to dance, our Untouchable Fire of the Age?”

“Five dead Shades?” Erick found himself asking.

“Yup! Got some of them before the party started!” Fallopolis did a little jig toward Erick. She leaned in. “Want to replace them?”

“Nope!” Erick held up his drink, which was only half drunk, and said, “I’ve got this to finish.”

Fallopolis stopped dancing and said, “Oh! I need one, too.” She stepped to the bar, asking Farix, “I’d take a Ridilous, pretty please! If you don’t have kioberries, I’d take a Well Laid Plan.”

Farix grabbed some bottles, saying, “One Ridiculous coming right up.”

“Ri-di-lous. Ridilous.” Fallopolis waved a hand, saying, “I’m not partial to Ridiculouses.” She turned to Erick. “Well Laid Plans are about one of the hardest drinks to make, but they’re oh-so-good when you can get them.”

Farix sighed and scowled just a bit, as he pulped red berries and mixed rums, and said, “I’ve been making Well Laid Plans since I was a mortal. They’re not that difficult.”

Erick had to laugh at that, for any other emotion would have been the wrong one to have in this tense situation. And then he looked around, and realized something. “Oh. This party is in the middle of an open field because you expect to fight someone and everything is expected to blow up at some point in time.” He said to no one in particular, “I really should have gotten that sooner. I kinda thought y’all’d’ve been above murder for a single day, especially when it came to your own party, and holiday, and people. But that was obviously expecting too much.”

“Exactly right, Erick!” Fallopolis said, as she took her drink from Farix. The crowd was ignoring her, and Erick, but some people flinched when Fallopolis spoke for everyone’s benefit, “Which is why they all gotta die! Buncha backstabbing lowlives, up in here. With all the new commandments from Melemizargo, I’m aiming for a slew of benevolent dictators, or silent investors in the world, but there’s no room for narcissistic megalomaniacs who only think of their own power and prestige.” She turned to Erick. “What are your thoughts?”

Erick downed the last of his drink. He felt the colors of the world turn a little more vibrant, as he wondered at his response.

These people before him considered themselves the rulers of this world of Veird. If everything continued as they wished, they would be the rulers of multiple worlds. These people would have control over so many others. There would be Ar’Kendrithysts on every world out there, in this solar system of Veird.

If Erick had a say in that… If he couldn’t just kill them all… What kinds of Shades did he want for the future?

Erick decided, “Missing investors.”

Fallopolis laughed at the sky, then said, “Possible! Possible!”

Erick turned to Farix, and with an empty drink in hand, asked, “Can I get this, but stronger?”

Farix began gathering ingredients again, saying, “Slippery Slopes sneak up on you.”

“I’m well aware.”

- - - -

Erick sat on a bench, overlooking the Brightwater, while he sipped his Slippery Slope. It was a good drink that reminded Erick of a mojito; a little minty, and heavily alcoholic, but smooth. It made gazing upon the Brightwater a lot easier. Sure, the Brightwater was dimmer, now, while the sky was filled with auroras, but it was still bright.

And the psychedelics were finally kicking in, so that was great.

He asked his current companion, “What are some example Wizard powers?”

His current companion, sitting on the bench next to him, but still a meter away, was Queen. The regal incani had switched her dress out for something easier to walk around in; a nice, flouncy blouse, and a ruffled skirt. All of it was white, but also iridescent on the edges.

She sipped her own drink, which was a green thing served in a glass cube, and said, “Take any spell of the Script and make it better, and have it cost nothing. That’s the most basic example of Wizardry there is. Destruction is annihilation. Easy enough to understand that one. Paradox is harder. That’s all about influencing fate and time and possibility. You won’t find those spells in the Script, unless they’re given to you by a god.” She glanced over to the left, saying, “Your chocolate has been a hit.”

Erick laughed. “I should hope so!” He glanced backward at the table of chocolate. There were cakes and bars and powders and all of that which Erick had brought, and more. Queen, or someone, had even used Erick’s instruction booklet to make some chocolate themselves, and then work it into a meter-tall sculpture of a tree, with about a hundred smaller animals sitting around that tree. Erick approved. He said, “Chocolate was a career back on Earth. Chocolatiers, they were. Like specialized candy makers. Did you try all of it?” He suddenly asked, “No one poisoned it, did they!”

Queen smirked. “Yes, I tried it, and yes, it was poisoned. The harpy, Binjara, poisoned it, and she never came forth, even when I called out that various traps were to be removed from the foods. Some people got the message, and removed those traps. Binjara did not. Luckily, she only managed to get to a false set-up, though. We replaced it when no one was looking.” She sighed, as though sad. “I don’t think she even knew that we had replaced it, either.” She frowned. “And then we even gave her another opportunity to come clean. But then she went on that rant.”

“Sounds like her death was planned.”

“Not directly. We don’t take the murder of our own lightly, despite what you might have seen today. The Shades of the Spire set certain societal traps she had to trip, first, to ensure that she was truly too far gone to save. But then, like the idiot crazy person she had become, she went and tripped them all, and then she had the gall to rant at us. Binjara was gone. She had probably been gone for a long time.”

Erick didn’t know about that. To him, Binjara deserved what she got, especially if she liked to plunge people into famine for funsies. But he didn’t say anything about any of that.

Queen asked, “Are you going to try and make this Mana Generation spell that they’re talking about?”

“I need to, right?” Erick said, “But I’m going to get some concessions, first.”

Queen smiled. “What sort of concessions?”

“An end to the widespread destruction. An end to controlling from the shadows, though, now that I say that out loud, it seems to be an antithesis of what Shades are and do.” Erick added, “Whatever the case: no more killing. At all. Or mutating. Or any of that horribleness.”

Queen took a long moment, then spoke, “Long ago, we used to be teachers and guiders. We were the wandering archmages in the woods, who miraculously saved the rookie adventurers who were in over their heads against whatever monster-of-the-month they were facing. We were the viziers for the kings and queens, who taught the children of royalty and helped generations upon generations of family lines of good people, who only sought to make their own little fiefdoms a bit better every day.” She said, “I already do that, here, but I have had to be rather ruthless occasionally. A lot more than I imagine I would have to be, if this new world order comes to fruition.”

Erick, wisely, didn’t say anything against that, either. All rulers were more ruthless than Erick was comfortable with. Even if Queen was telling the truth, she was probably worse than any other ruler on Veird.

- - - -

Erick stood to the side of the singers and the orchestra, where a few Shades had gathered to listen more closely. The musicians were all rather well dressed, and only a few of them were shadelings. They sang a song of uplifting news, and traveling the world. It was a good song.

- - - -

Goldie, the Shade of Assassination, held a bar of dark chocolate in one hand, and a hot cocoa in the other. The cocoa had rum in it, or some other liquor, for sure, because Goldie slurred her words, saying, “Now— owh. I mean. Now here’s da shting. Mana reneration is rate and wall. Ut. But! But. You can get furror with soul shundering. Dere are doe many chriminalse, ERICK! Youse can make yoursh Wishardly corhe ow evvar you whant! Jhust kill shome chriminales in dah futuer! Theysh don’t need thar lifes! Eashy!”

Erick nodded, and left Goldie to her own devices. As the party wore on, he caught sight of her more and more, sitting around corners, peering through crowds, looking over the edge of her glass, staring at him, but never approaching.

- - - -

“Do you know any Wizards?” Erick asked the group in front of him.

“None living,” said a woman, who walked away.

“Nope,” said a man who followed the woman.

The third just walked away, silently averting their glowing white eyes from Erick.

This interaction repeated itself a few times. Erick didn’t always ask the same question, but the result was always the same. The Shades walked away from him. Why did he even approach these Shades for a talk? Well. He was on a slippery slope, for sure. Might as well fully experience the ride, to ensure that his decision to kill them all was the right one.

Erick didn’t know whether to be happy, or—

Erick was happy; he decided. This was a good outcome.

Let them flee from him in terror of their own mortality! Bwa ha ha ha!

… He looked to the drink in his hands. He needed another.

- - - -

“There you are!” Erick said to Quilatalap, after he eventually got another drink and found the man up another level, past the music level.

The orcol sat in a quiet stone amphitheater, by himself, sipping on an empty drink. This place was probably a place for private concerts; it was not a large area. Quilatalap said, “Hey, there.”

Erick held forward a Well Laid Plan, and offered, “Want a copy of my own drink? I switched to a Well Laid Plan when the walls started melting.”

“Sure.” Quilatalap smiled as Erick handed him a Well Laid Plan. “Got tired of being shunned?”

Erick’s eyes went wide, as he laughed, and said, “Never! That was awesome. They—” He stopped himself; he was still sober enough to have that much self control. Best not to say that he would never get tired of scaring Shades into hiding. Saying that out loud would risk those Shades trying to prove him wrong. Instead, he sat down next to Quilatalap, and asked, “Know any Wizards?”

“I have. Many, many. You looking to make that mana generating spell, or something?” He sipped his drink.

Erick gave no answer for that, instead, he said, “I’m thinking about it, but now I’m also thinking of the rad-around-the-heart problem.”

