once.“Let us enjoy jolly senseless hand to hand combat,” he said and Vas bowed as well. Vas lashed out and his leg was stopped by a double arm guard from Numb. The goblin’s eyes lighting up as he saw Vas wasn’t boasting.They exchanged testing blows, a fist here, a sweep of a leg there, before Vas began to pick up speed. He leaned in, splitting the goblin’s guard as he leapt over his briefly stunned form. Kemy stayed back, thankfully.Numb spun and Vas winced as he was sent staggering back from a roundhouse kick. He caught the goblin’s next punch and pulled, yanking the goblin into a raised knee.That was when Deo appeared, his sword swing on target. Numb was forced to use one arm to block the tusk and another to catch Vas’ foot.“FEEL THE TUSK OF JUSTICE!” Deo proclaimed. A wave of fire and ice filled the room and Vas wasn’t sure whether to shiver or cook.“FEEL THE GLORY OF FLEEING!” Deo added and Vas felt himself being dragged into the hall along with Kemy as Numb and Deo pulled them to safety.“Looks like Cois lost his temper,” Numb sighed.“POPPY JUST LOST HER… WELL, EVERYTHING. SHE’S A GIANT ICE LIZARD!” Deo pointed.“I would have lost, so you three can go rest if you want?” Numb offered kindly and Vas shook his head.“You were holding back, a lot,” he pointed out as Grim, Billy, and Amenster rushed into the hall next to avoid being flash cooked or frozen. Numb’s smile was bright.“I lost for what I was allowed to really do. That’s the point,” Numb said as Grim shook snow out of his hair.“Poppy needs to be told she doesn’t have to lose it and let it go all the time. I swear she gets so into these things she just loses her cool,” he complained and Vas giggled at his joke.Since the Fort Room was just a steam room now, they decided to go for their rest.The lady Goblin, Lady Fera didn’t look impressed but fed them all stew, mushroom slices, various fruits and even a selection of drinks!When the steam began to slowly enter the bar, Fera stormed out and returned with a frostbitten Cois and a soot covered Poppy in each hand.“Enough rabble rousing,” she warned the two. The two didn’t seem angry. In fact, Vas thought they looked friendly to each other.“So, if we instill fire into the ice ball,” Cois went on as if they hadn’t just been chastised. Poppy nodded.“A much bigger boom. I liked the rune thing you did. I turned it inside out on my ice and it made more ice, did you know it could do that?” Poppy asked. Tom the book was silently adding notes as they talked.It seemed the book was catatonic from the new information he was learning.Vas guessed when one knew almost everything, anything new would be pretty awesome!He sipped a drink and Vas went still as his hair turned leafy and he grew branches.“Delta’s Surprise,” Numb told Vas between bites of chicken. Vas just…Tree’d.Vas tree’d so hard.
