“Had to be the one that stuck,” Zac muttered as he took out a stack of notes from Everit’s backpack.

Zac rifled through the notes until he found a sketch of the leader. Even the tattoo on his cheek was faithfully replicated. Zac stowed the bounty notices and got to his knees with a grunt. He used the commandeered machete to sever the leader’s head and stashed it in a burlap sack. The others were only grunts without bounties of their own.

After some hesitation, Zac dragged the corpses into the edge of the woods. It drained his already faltering reserves, but Zac didn’t know if some local tyrant owned the fields. He was too tired to dig graves, so he left the bodies behind a bush for the wildlife to handle. The scene cleaned, he set off on the road. The burlap sack in his hand left a trail of blood.

The nearest city was nearly twenty miles away, and there was no good place to stay. He reeked of blood, making him a magnet for the forest’s nocturnal hunters. The fields with their toxic pollen were no better, so he needed to reach the city.

The sun had already set when Zac stumbled into Whitfall. There’d thankfully been a creak on the way where Zac could wash off the worst of the grime, but his wretched appearance still gave the night guards a scare. Thankfully, Whitfall was built on the edge of the Whitmont Forest, where many hunters made a living. Not only was the main gate open and manned around the clock, but Zac was also able to collect the bandit’s bounty after explaining the situation.

He used the payment to order a hearty meal and book a simple room in a rough inn near the gate. It catered almost solely to hunters, and his gristly appearance only drew a few additional looks. The stench in the tavern was overwhelming, but Zac barely noticed. He robotically scarfed down his hearty meal before retreating to his room. Zac fell dead asleep the second he lay his head on the hard straw pillow.

Uncovering why he’d been brought to this world would have to wait until tomorrow. If lucky, he might even wake up on the gondola.
