Leaving his Aura to suppress BoShui, Zian reached for his teacup and drank slowly, placing it down with an audible clink before releasing his Aura. “So, we are in agreement, the matter of Yuzhen and her indiscretions will be left untouched.” His tone left no room for argument. “What else?”

Collecting herself, ZhiLan answered hurriedly. “This must stay secret under threat of summary execution.” Peering around the table for agreement, she took a deep breath before continuing, her voice a bare whisper. “There's been a Demon sighting along with a band of Defiled. Our purpose in coming here is to aid in the Purge.”

Breaking out in a cold sweat, Zian’s stomach flopped as his mouth dried up. “How reliable is your report?”

“Beyond reproach. I received a sealed missive from my Sect Leader informing me the Purge has already been called and the Society has deployed the Shrike. We must all tread lightly.”

The Shrike, the Sanguinary Priestess, the Painted Inquisitor, the Mad Dog of the Society, whatever name she went by, it brought to mind tales of brutal bloodshed and appalling atrocities. Responsible for overseeing three Purges in the last decade, once set on the trail of the Defiled she never stopped until the deaths numbered in the thousands, ranting all the while of carrying out the will of the Mother. Her rallying cry, ‘Better Dead than Defiled’, was often followed by a massacre, caring little for nuances like her victims backing and allegiances. Hiding his shaking hands, Zian calmed his nerves as best he could, clearing his throat before speaking. “Might I impose on Sister ZhiLan for a drink? Something stronger than tea perhaps.”

Ready for the request, ZhiLan poured out four measured cups herself, the harsh smell filling the pavilion and stinging his eyes. Raising the glass briefly, he tossed back the drink in one gulp before refilling it, saying a brief prayer for the citizens of Western Treasures Lake.

Poor souls, bear no grudges for you have nothing to blame but fate. May you find joy and riches in your next life.

Chapter Meme
