Using his Truth to distance himself from his Truth’s effect should have been a contradiction, but instead, it hummed with resonance as he embodied his Truth.

With that messing with his mind, he decided to keep to his original plan and he was glad he did.

First, being in the Capital put him at the center of the Empire's reaction to the news.

Unlike the Aura potions, which were still Tier-gated, the skills were declared unTiered news, meaning even the unawakened mortals could learn about them.

There had been some debate about making it Tier 1 restricted, but it wasn’t harmful for children to learn about, as the unawakened simply didn’t have an active spirit to interact with.

The news exploded. In less than two months, practically the entire Empire knew about it, and reports that made their way back to him stated that almost a full thirty percent of the news articles and time slots were dedicated to the skills’ information in that first week. Even in the first month, it remained at almost five percent and held steady there as more and more revelations about the skills came forward.

That was what Matt enjoyed watching.

Yes, the skills were impressive, but with quintillions of people eyeing the skills and trillions working on them, miracles started to happen.

In the first month, products started to drop trying to capture market share.

Eyria kept to her threat and released a product; he felt she had to have used some degree of time manipulation, probably via Tier 47 rift, to get it out in such a short time.

It was admittedly clean. Almost too clean, but that was just his lingering irritation at her rearing its head.

Compared to Titan’s Torch’s trainers, De Solis Instruments was showing almost a three percent increase in effectiveness in the trainees’ retaining the information, leading to fewer mistakes and less spiritual damage.

Matt, when asked to comment given their public spat at the ball, gave credit where it was due.

He did point out that the cost of the new trainer was almost a quarter cheaper than their typical new products, which could be attributed to them needing to remain competitive with his free product and the eventual copycats that would spring up.

However, he didn’t expect one of De Solis Instruments’ ‘competitors’ to come out with a line of cheap equipment that could simulate the effects of the skills, which they started selling to anyone who was setting up programs to teach the skill creation method or schools who were preparing their students for such eventualities.

That was interesting in and of itself and he watched as they were reviewed and tested.

The items themselves weren't too dissimilar to the practice wands he had used at his orphanage, but the unawakened or recently awakened seemed to find them helpful when choosing the skill they wanted to make.

Only time would tell if the physical testers or the digital variants the various gaming companies had put out would win but either way, the kids seemed to enjoy the taste of potential power.

The Royals all spoke out in favor of the development and encouraged everyone to embrace the new power, but didn’t mandate any specific implementation, which matched the Imperial government’s reaction. The only official order from the Imperial government was that no one was allowed to outlaw the skills but beyond that, there was no mandate or even guidance on the situation.

Not that Matt expected there to be, but it led to variations which were interesting to watch start unfolding.

A few dukes jumped in with both feet and authorized, or even mandated, their subjects create post-awakening pseudo-guilds to teach the information at-cost to whoever wanted to learn. Others, sadly more than those who went all in, didn’t care and either pushed projects in their own direct holdings or did nothing at all, which allowed guilds and corporations to fill in the gap.

Each seemed to take their own variation on the training. Some treated it as a simple academic lesson with sit down lectures and examples followed by careful attempts. Others took a Sect-like approach and incorporated more self-exploration and discovery along with guided physical exercise. It led to more accidents, but all things considered, the very small carvings people were making in a single session were no more dangerous than a broken arm or a strong cold.

Spiritual damage wasn’t fun, but the small amounts the guides suggested working on at a time were deliberately far from lethal.

Not that nobody died.

Matt was ready for it, but despite all of their warnings and safeguards, it did happen. Too-arrogant people of all ages decided to disregard the best practices given by everyone and tried to create too much of the skill structure all at once. Then, when they failed, the damage was unrecoverable and killed them.

It was unfortunate, but ultimately beyond his control.

Some people, mainly grieving families, tried to shift some amount of blame onto him or anyone else involved; but there were always risks with cultivation and anyone who disregarded every warning only had themselves to blame.

The other Great Powers, however, reacted with skepticism.

At first, none of them seemed to believe that the information was correct or that what was publicly shared was truthful, but after the first month and their skepticism wore off, they slowly started to move.

The Corporations were the first, as they simply let businesses take what Matt had made and run with it however they wanted. Their official stance was to take no stance either way, but they were the only ones to do so.

The other Great Powers were far slower to officially react, as they seemed to be deciding what to do as a single entity, even if Matt thought any attempt to stop the information was doomed to fail. Which was exactly why he had made it entirely free and shared all of the documentation in the first place.

Most eyes were on the Sects, wanting to see how they would react given their history with extensive skill modification. If anyone was going to go all in on this new information, it would be them.

And oh how right they were.

From his inside woman, Sien, he learned the Sects leadership were in a buzz about the new invention, and from everything she saw and was willing to share, it was looking like they were going to embrace the idea in a way that even the Empire hadn’t. According to her, there were even high-Tier Sect leaders pushing the idea of outright making absorbing skills before Tier 5 fully illegal going forward. That was a fairly unpopular proposal, but it highlighted the Sect leadership's mindset about the method that some were even considering such a drastic step.

Sien was personally baffled he hadn’t used the information as a betting card at least once in the intervening years, considering it a wasted opportunity. She, along with everyone else, however wanted to come and meet Rah, and they had all pledged to head to the Empire sometime in the next dozen years or when things settled down given the disturbances the skill creation method had kicked up.

They at least promised to keep Rah’s personal involvement out of the decision with their Great Powers, which was all that really mattered to Matt.

Still, all of that got pushed to the back of Matt’s mind at the end of the second month, just as things were just starting to develop in interesting directions.

Through everything, Matt and his guild had been waiting for a retaliatory strike from their hidden enemies, and sure enough, it came. Just not how or where they expected.

Matt and Liz were lounging in their suite and watching a news report about a new school popping up focusing on his skill creation method when the broadcast was interrupted by breaking news. Instead of anything positive, the station showed a video of what looked like Liz, who appeared to be torturing a prisoner. More than that, the recording showed Liz practicing the worst aspects of blood magic on them, mainly curses and plagues.

Shooting to her feet, Liz growled, “Oh, someone’s gonna pay.”
