That was a not-so-veiled threat Matt didn’t take lightly. Eyria and all of the higher Tiers hadn’t gotten to where they were today by being pushovers. They were as ruthless to themselves as they were to their enemies.

He might not be as old as them, but he was Endless. He was Dauntless.

“So because of your past you… what? Deserve to keep a monopoly over the trainer business? Are here to threaten me for the rights to distribute the skill creation method? Want to win me over by sharing your tragic history?”

Eyria shook her head. “Nothing so droll. I simply wanted to make sure you understand why. But you're also not wrong. I do want to take over the distribution of this marvel. And marvel it is. I say this with no deceit or false motives. This is amazing and has the potential to change the Empire or even the Realm itself. That said, like all things, it's in the execution. Not just marketing, but in the ability to pass on information. Don't think I’m disparaging your guild's efforts. The trainers you put together are mechanically impressive, but they are lacking in the execution. It reminds me of what I was putting out tens of thousands of years ago. A partnership between us can ensure only the very best gets out there.”

Having gotten to the meat of the conversation, Matt waited until Eyria looked back at him physically.

“No.”

That seemed to catch her off guard and Matt smiled, having succeeded. “The trainer works and that is the extent of my guild’s involvement. If there are new skills created with new effects, we will release them. Meaning a skill structure, a guide on how to make it, and a basic trainer meant to assist in the teaching. That is all. To that end, the trainer is entirely sufficient for our purposes. We used best practices and iterated on the design a dozen times. It might not be perfect, but it's good enough. Still, if you wish to make a superior product, feel free to do so. All of the information will be available for repackaging and reselling, so long as it's appropriately transformed or improved. I set the floor with my free product. Anyone can access it and it works but I do hope you or someone else swoops in and improves it. I just won’t sell it to anyone and let them take the market hostage.”

Eyria opened her mouth before closing it. After a long moment, she barked a laugh. “I think you are making a mistake, but that's on a personal level. On a business one, I know you are. Still, I'll accept your challenge and make a better, easier to learn product. I’ll still make a fortune with it even if I can’t charge what it deserves.”

That last comment irked Matt, especially after hearing what Aster was dealing with on their trip, and he didn’t censor himself. “And that's what I don’t understand. What it deserves. You had no hand in developing the product, you had no hand in it at all, but you seem so entitled to a pound of flesh from people who you should be sympathizing with. You gave me that spiel about your past, but did you forget it all in the intervening years? Just because you have a stranglehold on the trainer market doesn't mean you deserve a cut of any information that benefits from a trainer.”

“I was trying to benefit both of us, Ascender Indomitable Titan. I—”

“At the expense of everyone else. Eyria, I must excuse myself. Goodbye.”

Matt turned on a heel and didn’t care that she was glaring daggers at his back; he was tired of the entitlement of the established players and tiptoeing around their interests.

Everyone seemed to have established interests, and doing anything inadvertently stepped on their toes. While they had been delving, Titan's Torch’s intelligence officers had been digging through the attacks and everything he had learned from the Dobrescus, and had started to highlight the people Titan’s Torch had pissed off who were possible suspects.

This new development just meant a new possible enemy, but that seemed inevitable.

In fact, a part of him was hoping she was bad enough to join the coalition arrayed against him, as it would give his team an easier point of infiltration.

Matt wasn't about to let himself just become a mana battery for anyone, but he was also determined to make the Empire, and therefore the Realm, a better place.

It was his responsibility. He was the forerunner, the vanguard. In a fight, his place was at the very front, taking the hits and clearing the way for his team. He and his guild simply did that outside of a fight, taking the hits and forging a path for those behind him.

That was where he belonged, the place he wanted to be. Not because others expected it of him, certainly not because he owed them anything, because he didn’t. He did it because it was his goal, his purpose, because he would use his mana the way he felt was right. It was because…

Matt felt his spirit start to fluctuate, and immediately went into danger mode. If he was right about what was going on, and did anything incorrectly, he would cripple or kill himself. He could stop now and be safe, or carry on for the potential of greater rewards.

It was barely even a choice. With incredible deliberateness, he took careful steps, not allowing his mind to deviate as his consciousness pursued a singular idea.

He…

Why did he do what he did? Why bother? Why why why why.

Matt almost lost his train of thought but chased it down, refusing even the slightest misstep.

He chose how he gave out his mana. He did it because he wanted to. He did it because…

Because it was his life, his choice, his destiny. Not anyone else.

I am the Master of my Own Destiny.

Matt’s spirit pulsed deeply, a faint star opening deep within his Domain, and he felt the Realm settle in around him in a new way. It felt a bit like an Inspiration, yet nothing like one whatsoever. It felt like he had caught a glimpse of something deep, something profound, and the words were attempting to express the majesty of a supernova with mere charades. His Aspect had begun budding, and if he wasn’t mistaken, he’d just found a potential Truth.

That same feeling told him it was his Truth and he just needed to build it out fully to realize it.

It felt good. It felt right.

The sudden restructuring of his spirit nearly sent Matt sprawling, but he took control of his limbs with [Flight] and didn’t so much as stumble, grateful that his veil was so good no one could notice the change. It would be inadvisable to give away his Domain development, or to make anyone think that the pressure was getting to him.

He couldn’t turn his attention away from his Domain, though, and simply allowed his body to run on a fraction of his conscious mind as he continued his rounds, greeting people. He avoided anything too intensive, because he was far too obsessed with the fragment of an Aspect he’d suddenly found himself confronted with.

Until recently, Aspects were the highest stage of Domain in the Realm, and as such a lot of the literature on the subject tended to treat them as a lot more… absolute than Aiden and Sword Saint Hastor had demonstrated in the last few centuries.

But the basic facts remained the same. A Concept involved a Phrase and an Image, an Intent a Phrase, Image, and Anchor, and an Aspect required a Phrase, Image, Anchor, and Truth. Each stage added a new piece, a new means of actualizing your Self. Why the Concept required two parts was an ongoing subject of debate and research, with some people hypothesizing the Phrase was technically redundant and unnecessary, but the general idea was that the Phrase connected the Spirit to the mind, the Image connected the Spirit to the body, the Anchor connected the spirit to reality, and the Truth connected the spirit to the Realm.

While an Image could be internal or external, and an Anchor could be claimed or created, a Truth could be enforced or enlightened.

Scholars debated the right dichotomies constantly, with others debated whether the variations even truly existed, but the divisions were still useful. And in general, an enforced Truth was one which required action, while an enlightened Truth was one that simply existed.

A Truth of “The Sun Always Rises” was enlightened, and reflected the cultivator’s nature and overall outlook of the Realm, with incredible backlash if ever confronted with an instance of that Truth being incorrect. Meanwhile, a Truth of “I Am Strong” was going to be enforced, and drove the cultivator towards actions that would make that Truth into reality, with backlash if ignored.

Mitigations for disproven enlightened Truths and neglected enforced Truths both existed, but even in the best-case scenario, they were unpleasant and damaged the Domain. It also wasn’t the case that all enlightened Truths were about the world, and enforced Truths were about the self, but it was frequently that way. “They Bow Before My Might” was an enforced Truth a tyrant might have, and “I Am At Peace” was an enlightened Truth that a philosopher may have.

Regardless, Truths were generally accepted to help the cultivator connect to the Realm in a less physical sense than an Anchor did. Yes, it created a bit of a weak point, but so too did it create a point of incredible strength while the Truth remained unbroken. Enforced Truths were self-fulfilling, and enlightened Truths provided power simply by existing. Even still, it was important to be smart about what to take as a Truth, because while a bad choice of Image or Anchor would just harm your Domain’s power, a bad choice of Truth could straight-up kill you.

A famous parable taught to them when they learned about Aspects was of a cultivator who had ‘I Will Not Kill’ as their enforced Truth. The cultivator in question had never delved and lived a life of peace taking care to only eat plants, so it seemed like an easy and fitting Truth.

When he created his Aspect and made his Truth, all was fine until one day someone else pointed out that his eating of plants, even if just fruits that were designed to be eaten, was still killing as it prevented the seeds from taking root. His Truth then forced him to stop eating altogether.

As the story went, once the idea was planted it opened up his mind, then went to the fact he was breathing, which pulled microscopic amounts of life into his body and then destroyed it, was in fact killing.

Things finally came to a head when, driven by his Truth, the cultivator in question chose to dissipate his spirit and end his own life because it seemed that everything he did ended the life of something else and it was his only way out.

Except he couldn’t, as his Truth was not to kill and therefore prevented him from killing himself or even allowing himself to be killed. That left the man trapped in a nightmare where his own Truth prevented him from living life because anything he did might be interpreted by his mind as killing something.

The story was probably apocryphal, for many reasons not least of which being one could always break their Aspect, but the story still illustrated the dangers inherent to one’s Truth. Even in less spiritual ways, while Concepts and Intents still impacted your identity, an Aspect’s Truth foundationally changed your perspective. It became the lens through which you viewed everything else, the cornerstone of who you were.

It was dangerous, but Matt carefully examined the limited perspective he had on what hesitantly seemed to be an almost perfect nascent Truth.

I am the Master of my Own Destiny.

Resonating with the Truth felt good. Fantastic even, and that worried Matt.

Mere minutes ago, he knew he wouldn’t have felt that way, but now he felt that his Truth was self-evident and perfect exactly how it was.

Of course, he was the master of his own destiny. It was something he had always strived for. It was why he had pushed himself to complete the Path of Ascension and become one of the strongest people in the realm.

What better Truth could there be than something that had been true since the day he took the train to the PlayPen?

But it was that certainty that worried him.

Was his Truth already affecting him? Was it driving him to do things that he couldn’t even feel?

It shouldn't be that effective until he fully formed his Truth, let alone his Aspect, but it was still there resonating its rightness and he worried at the feeling like a loose tooth.

Even with that danger, Matt knew he was unlikely to change his mind on this Truth.

An enforced Truth about his keeping control over his destiny might not be a bad thing, as it hit one of the best use cases for a Truth. It could ensure he didn’t do something he didn’t want to do. In this case, his Truth would ensure that he never surrendered to the box, whether it be metaphorical or literal.

It fundamentally felt right. It was both who he was and who he wanted to be.

He wished that Aster were available because he wanted to talk to her just as much as he did Liz. Maybe more so with their spiritual connection allowing for more than words to be communicated. Though, at the moment he would have settled for anyone he was familiar with. But sadly no one, not even the Emperor, was at the Capital at the moment, which he found out when he requested a meeting and was directed to Carissa.

Resigned to his fate, Matt forced himself back into the present.

It was good he had Liz there to talk to for a few stolen minutes during the event, or he would have been left truly adrift, but he wanted more.

Originally, the plan had been to stay in the Capital for a month of PR, and only then return to Palustris. Now, he wanted to rush back and discuss things with Aster, Luna, or even Ciceron or Rah, but he also didn’t want his Aspect’s Truth to start messing with his life.

He was the Master of his Destiny. Him, not his Aspect.

