Ali chuckled. She wasn’t particularly worried – she knew just how eager her favorite crafters would be to get their hands on these high-quality, novel reagents. As the group broke into smaller cliques discussing loot and strategy, she brought up the details of the Sand Vortex she had just inscribed – knowledge, after all, was how she grew fastest.

Name: Sand VortexRace: ElementalClass: Sand Vortex – level 90Abrasive Vortex – level 63Requires: Sandy or similar environment.You project a gravity well that continuously draws sand into your vortex. Larger rock fragments may be drawn in and pulverized to create your vortex.Mana: Create a continuous whirling vortex of sand. Your gravity magic adds weight and speed to the sand particles drawn into your vortex. The vortex does continuous Earth and Physical damage to everything caught within it. Range: 14.45 meters. Reserve: 100%Earth, Gravity, Area, WisdomGravity Implosion – level 47Mana, Stamina: Create a dense gravity well that violently draws in all your matter and anything around you. All your remaining mana and stamina are consumed in a big explosion, dealing Gravity and Earth magic damage to everything around you. Range: 19.28 meters. Trigger: Death.Earth, Gravity, Area, Trigger, WisdomGravity's Pull – level 59You are attuned to the gravity field; you can feel the slight fluctuations in gravity caused by nearby mass.Gravity, PerceptionAptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Earth, Gravity. - Incorporeal (Racial): Immune to physical damage, attacks ignore armor. - Amorphous (Racial): Immune to attacks that change your shape. - Unstable: Dies after 1 minute. - Flying (Racial): You can fly. - Swarm Spawn (Racial): Spawns in groups of 3.Attributes- Vitality: 152- Strength: 97- Endurance: 36- Dexterity: 155- Perception: 161- Intelligence: 40- Wisdom: 259Health: 1520/1520Stamina: 360/360Mana: 0/0 (+2590 Reserved)

Hmm, an unstable elemental that explodes after one minute, she thought, examining the runic inscriptions on the pages of her Grimoire.

“Is it any good?” Calen asked, intuiting what she was looking at.

“Not too bad,” Ali said, sharing it with him and the others.

“So, a self-guided, delayed fireball, but with gravity and earth?” Calen said.

“Also does damage just flying around,” Ali said. It had definitely behaved like a swarm monster, and it reminded her of Seth’s Volatile Wraith – but while his summon was instant, hers would take time, and require a domain biome with gravity and earth-affinity mana, neither of which she could make yet.

“That perception skill looks amazing,” Calen said.

“Yes, I just have to figure out how to summon them,” Ali nodded. Maybe I can figure something out with a couple of those gravity cores? Sensing mass directly via the effect it had on the gravitational field; how hard would that be to avoid? Solving the limitations of this strange summon would most certainly gain her a powerful tool for detecting stealth intruders.

Out in the freshly conjured sandy desert, treants and other plants continued to spill forth from the hole, and the adventurers began readying their weapons and spells now that the massive Sandwyrm was no longer gobbling them up by the forestful. A broad patch of otherwise white sand began to smoke and blacken, and the tentacles of the raid lava ooze hauled itself out from where it had been buried.

There was just one thing missing.

“Naia?” Ali called. “Has anyone seen Naia? She’s a little blue ooze, about this high.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
