Arthur easily handed the card over. He had no fear that Horatio would try to take it for his own. His friend would never steal, but also he and Sams were a linked pair, and Horatio could never ascend ranks without leaving his dragon behind.

Horatio read over the card and screwed up his face. “This is worse than I thought, even from the stories I heard about the eruption. Good thing Chester and Blooddrop didn’t use it on you two.”

“I don’t think we gave them the time,” Arthur said. “Maybe if the battle had been more drawn out.” Though after using the thing, he had his doubts. After all, Arthur could spend the time to recover after using the card because he had his friends around him to watch his back. But Chester had ruled through fear, and if there were someone desperate enough not to pay the blood price…

Arthur shook his head, banishing those dark thoughts, and reluctantly took the card back. He stuck it in his Personal Space for now, though the magical weight of the thing practically filled the space all by itself.

“Horatio, call the rest of the retinue. We need to talk.”

“Leave the useless Legendaries out of this?” Horatio asked with a crooked grin.

“It’s not like they can contribute anything anyway,” Arthur agreed, then went in search of the hive’s seers.

****

He and the human portion of the retinue met in Chester’s old office. It had been one of the first times Arthur had been in there, and he found it to be a generously sized room, decorated with dark oak wall paneling, lush furniture, and oil paintings.

Chester had an awful taste in art. Each scene portrayed a battle with scourglings against men, with dragons flying in the sky. Terrible deaths littered each canvas, highlighted by bright red splashes of blood.

Arthur made a face and started taking down the paintings. He didn’t know what his taste in art was, but it certainly wasn’t that.

He’d just about finished when everyone else trooped in. Cressida was first, looking slightly alarmed until she saw that Arthur was upright and moving well. She was followed by Marion, who looked annoyed that he was upright. Horatio was next, grinning as if he knew Arthur was about to be in trouble with the healer. Soledad came a step after and was the only one not paying attention to him. Instead, all her focus seemed to be on Horatio. And now that Arthur was looking, he noticed his friend was sneaking glances back at her.

“Thanks for coming,” Arthur said. “I’ll make this quick: We’re going back to the eruption to see what, if anything, we can salvage. There might be lingering mind magic, though, so you will need this.”

He pulled out small, thin metal sheets from his Personal Space. Each sheet had been inscribed with card anchors and attached by a simple chain to be used as a necklace.

“Oh, gifts?” Soledad asked, then made a face when she received one. “Not very pretty, though.”

“But useful,” Arthur said. “I got the card anchors from the seer, and Brix was able to bash these out. They should provide enough protection.”

“From what, though?” Cressida asked. “We all heard about the firestorm. The butterflies are dead.”

“I’m not sure the demi-scourgling is dead,” Arthur said. “Brixaby and I intend to make sure of it and then harvest whatever card it has.” He paused. “Then, I want to harvest the heart of the eruption itself.”
