Two months ago, four months in Earth time, (Parallel to Chapter 19)

The group of twenty-something freelancers were walking home from the spider mission, following the long road from Weavershall back toward the Rift Gate. From there, they would cross from the Bloodline Realm into the Contested Realm, returning to Hano.

Kan was confused.

She walked with Alice on one side and Ja’a on the other, while Vena followed nearby in her usual silence. The three of them had been discussing the uses of silk and what exactly the disturbances in the farming operation would do to the local economy.

Kan still wasn't used to being included in discussions like this.

Even when she had joined Yon’s Misfits on missions, she had always felt tolerated at best. Mostly, she suspected that she had been allowed to stay because Yon had a policy of accepting everyone who wanted to join, and not because she was welcomed.

The first time she had gone on a mission with them, Yon had checked in on her, discovered that she was a competent fighter, and then left her to her own devices. His attention had been focused on teaching people who barely knew which end of the spear to hold.

Kan had been perfectly happy with that arrangement. She was used to solitude. Whether she was doing solo hunts, clearing vermin from fields and sewers, or participating in monster migration cullings, she generally worked alone.

Those jobs paid little, but they paid enough to cover her guild dues, put food in her stomach, and keep a roof over her head.

That had been enough.

But now she was walking in the center of the group, with Alice and Ja’a talking to her as if they had been friends for years.

It was strange.

"I heard that, weight for weight, a strand of silk is four times stronger than steel," Alice said. "They must use it for armor production."

"Hey, Kan," Ja’a said. "Do you know if there are any shops in Hano that make armor from Weavershall silk?"

"Yes. My current jumpsuit is made from spider silk."

"That's awesome."

Ja’a casually reached over and pinched Kan's sleeve, feeling the material between her fingers.

Kan glanced down at her hand.

"It is silk, though it's magically modified, I think."

Ja’a released the sleeve.

"How much did it cost?"

"I don't know."

"You don't know?"

"It was given to me by my sister."

"Is your sister wealthy?" Ja’a asked, her eyes gleaming.

"I wouldn’t say wealthy, but she is doing fine for herself."

Ja’a stared at her for a moment.

Then she looked at Alice.

"Alice."

"Hm?"

"Do you have a wealthy sister?"

Alice laughed.

"Nope, I am an only child, but I know you have one. A wealthy sister, I mean."

"One," said Katar, who was walking overhead. "Try 16."

"Hey!" protested Ja’a.

Kan was surprised at how well Alice was integrated with the group. It was as if she had purposefully set up that line for Katar to make that retort. They had only met two days ago.

At first, when Alice had asked her to join a rat extermination hunt, Kan had been very suspicious of her. To be honest, she had been especially suspicious because Calr Hickmanen was with her.

Calr was technically part of the Misfits, just like Kan, and similarly to her, he barely interacted with anyone except Shingo. Yet, there was something about him that made Kan uncomfortable.

He seemed as incompetent as Vals.

No, that wasn’t fair. No one was as bad as Vals.

Instead, it would be more accurate to call him lazy. But somehow, Kan had the feeling he was sandbagging. Even Yon seemed to think the same thing, as he wasn’t giving him as much grief as he did with Vals.

The only reason someone would deliberately appear less capable than they actually were was if they didn't want people to discover what they could really do.

Like a spy, or an infiltrator... Something along those lines.

So when Alice and Calr took her to a site with a mana disturbance, Kan became even more suspicious.

Then, when they found traces of cult activity, her heart sank.

That was it... This was a trap all along. They had brought her there to blame it on her.

They would accuse her of being part of the cult. They would bring up her father. Then they would testify against her, leaving her to take the blame for something she didn’t commit.

Except none of that happened.

To her surprise, she was treated like a normal teammate.

Alice led the discussion with the guild officials and even made certain that Kan would remain part of the investigation.

She hadn't treated her like a suspect at all.

And then, two days ago, when the spider matriarch charged, Alice had actually stepped between her and the monster. As if protecting a teammate was the most natural thing in the world. It was as if Alice either knew nothing about Kan's history or simply didn't care.

Ja’a seemed to be doing the same. Although, in Ja’a's case, Kan suspected she genuinely knew nothing. They had only met two days ago, after all.

As they kept walking, her eyes shifted ahead.

Katar, Yon, and Raik were walking together farther up the road. Close enough that she could hear them if she focused on what they were saying; they seemed to be talking about elite freelancers and what they were like.

Her gaze lingered on the fiery-haired boy.

Raik Agame. Not just any Agame.

The Agame. Son of Taka Agame, the hero of Hano. The man who had died protecting the city after the cult hijacked the revolution her own father had started.

Kan's chest tightened. Had Raik helped her because he didn't know who she was? Would he hate her once he found out?

She still remembered the feeling of being carried in his arms...

She quickly looked away.

"Kan, I might need your help once we make it to Hano."

Ja’a's voice pulled her out of her thoughts.

"I need a local to guide me throughout the city. It's my first time in Hano, you know." She paused before grinning. "I will even pay for your time."

Kan nodded.

"Sure."

"Really? Great!"

Ja’a immediately launched into an explanation of how Raik had apparently been to Hano multiple times, but had only ever taken Katar with him, and how unfair that was because she had her own reasons for wanting to visit the city. Then she somehow transitioned into talking about her sister, who apparently was a very big deal in Hano, before jumping to something else entirely.

Kan stopped trying to follow the conversation.

The girl could talk. Actually, it would be more accurate to say that the girl couldn't shut up.

Kan didn't mind it as much as she expected.

Alice was there to carry most of the conversation, while Kan could contribute with the occasional nod or shake of her head.

Being this social was exhausting, but deep down, Kan was happy.

For once, she wasn't walking beside the group. She was walking with them.

Kan was confused again.

She was carrying four bags of what she could only call random junk.

Even now, Ja’a was looking over a street vendor's stall. The weird thing was that Kan had warned her about him. He was known to be a scammer who sold “magical” trinkets that actually did nothing.

There were even rumors that he sold “love potions,” which were just inhibition-lowering drugs that creepy men used to assault women, though Kan wasn’t sure that she believed those rumors. There was a crusader in town who hunted down rapists, after all.

“Are those really Mythic mermaid scales?” she asked, narrowing her eyes. “They look Dreamer to me.”

“I swear those are Mythic scales.”

“What do they do? The necklaces, I mean.”

“They slow your aging, miss. If you wear one, you get to live up to 120 years old.”

Kan looked at his neck. He wasn’t wearing a necklace.

“Really?” said Ja’a, her voice oozing amazement.

“Of course.”

“How did you get them?”

“I traveled personally to their cove and traded in a fist-sized water-affinity monster core.”

“Are the mermaid as pretty as described?”

“Oh yeah,” he said. “So beautiful.”

The discussion was interrupted by Alice, who seemed to want some company to travel to the Sunless Reach to do some magical research. They ended up rejecting her request because Ja’a seemed to genuinely believe she was doing something important, while Kan was being paid in silver.

But Kan couldn’t, for the life of her, understand what Ja’a was actually doing, especially when she actually purchased a purple necklace.

After they left the stall, Ja’a casually slipped the necklace into her bag of holding, which was another point that confused Kan. If she had a bag of holding, why was she making Kan carry all those bags?

Was that simply a power play? An “I am paying you in silver, earn it” type of deal?

If that was it, Ja’a was thoroughly confused about Kan’s character. She had cleaned shit-stained stables for copper. She was not above doing servant work for silver.

“You know that necklace was a scam, right?” Kan hesitantly said.

“Of course, those were definitely Dreamer scales,” laughed Ja’a. “And he was selling it for one silver. Can you believe it? A necklace of slow aging going for anything less than ten gold coins?”

“Plus, his story was full of holes,” she said, shaking her head. “Nymphs are the ones that trade for water cores. Mythic mermaids mostly trade for honey. They can’t transform their legs into feet like Dreamers can, so they love to taste our food.”

“If you knew, why did you buy the necklace?”

“Because I could sell it for a gold coin at the very least.”

“Are you going to scam people?” Kan asked with a frown.

“Me? Never!” Ja’a denied. “I am an honest woman.”

“The idiot didn't know what he was sitting on,” she added. “With the right ingredients, it takes five years for the Dreamer mermaid scale to petrify like this.”

She got the necklace out once again from her bag of holding and showed it to Kan.

“Notice that I only bought the purple one. Dreamers were rare in Hano, and most of the ones here looked like normal humans or were Valkyren.” Ja’a smiled triumphantly. “Dreamer Mermaids were almost nonexistent.”

“And?” Kan frowned further.

“Which mermaid, with purple scales, used to live in Hano five years ago?”

Kan blinked.

“I am talking about Riri the Songstress, of course.” Ja’a smiled even wider. “Look at the scales. I have seen her sing a few times back home. They are definitely hers.”

“Is she a big deal?” asked Kan. “I only know famous freelancers.”

“Is she a big deal? Are you serious? I am going to make a killing selling this to one of her fans.”

Kan started examining Ja’a with different eyes.

If what she said was true, then she wasn’t an idiot buying random junk. Maybe every item in the bags was worth a fortune.

Kan started examining the threadbare clothing Ja’a had bought three streets over from a second-hand shop. Was the material magically enhanced?

Was this hairbrush, with a few loose teeth, once owned by Lady Laurel the Fair?

Ja’a laughed when she noticed Kan examining the junk she was carrying.

“Nope, those are just junk.”

“But... but why?” Kan raised her hand, shaking the items inside the bag. “Why did you buy a chipped sword?”

“I will sell it as scrap metal for a few coppers.”

“But you bought it for a full bronze. You are losing at least 30 copper on the deal.”

“It’s only 30 coppers. Who cares?”

“Only... What is wrong with you?”

“This week isn’t about money.” Ja’a just grinned. “It’s about making friends.”

“This is why I am having you carry this stuff rather than hide it in the bag of holding. People must associate me with spending money, with generosity, with someone who gives fair prices...”

She paused mid-conversation, then ran into another stall.

“Hey, what is this armor made of?”

“I don’t know, miss,” said the old woman. “I bought it off a freelancer who looted it from an undead in Ectamal.”

“How much did you pay for it?”

“I took it in exchange for a healing potion.”

“So, three silver?” wondered Ja’a, “Even if there is a hole in the armor?”

“He said it was magical and it would slowly repair itself. He even swore the hole was bigger a day ago.”

“And has it?” Ja’a asked. “Repaired itself, I mean.”

“Nope,” sighed the woman. “I tested it, and it’s magical, but it’s not repairing itself.”

“Still, I know someone who would buy it off me for at least four silver. He works in the Soul Emporium, and he often buys Ectamal artifacts from me to study.”

“What’s your name, ma’am?” asked Ja’a.

“I am Izi.”

“Nice to meet you, Izi. My name is Ja’a.”

Izi nodded in acknowledgment.

“Hmm, let’s see,” said Ja’a, putting her hand to her chin. “I also know someone who might want to study it. How about this? I buy it off you for three and a half silver, and it would save you the hassle of bartering with your Soul Emporium contact. Those money-hungry Soulits are always out to get you.”

“Aren’t you a Soulit too, Miss Ja’a?” asked Izi, the merchant, looking at Ja’a’s cyan hair.

“Me? Nah. Born and raised in the Bloodline Realm.”

“Oh, well, you can have it for three silver and forty bronze. Deal?”

“Deal!”

For the next hour, Ja’a spent 30 bronze coins paying off street informants just to get the name of Izi’s contact in the Soul Emporium, a Soulit enchanter named Bo’a. Once she found him, he only agreed to buy it from her for four silver, meaning that, after factoring in the price of finding him, she had actually lost 10 bronze on the deal.

That was a week’s stay in a roadside inn.

Still, by the end of the interaction, he and Ja’a were laughing like old friends.

One month ago, two months in Earth time, (Parallel to the First Book Epilogue)

Kan couldn’t believe that she had kissed Raik.

While Commander Kichi had flown back on Lieutenant Hanakodo’s back to reunite with Captain Karissa, the team that had been part of the Pikar Steppe mission was heading back to Hano the long way.

She was walking next to Nakera, who, for some reason, abruptly left her side to walk between Vena and Yon.

Alice was also there, talking to Ki’a, while Raik was talking to his cousin, Takur.

Kan diverted her eyes away from Raik.

She couldn’t believe she had kissed Raik Agame.

Last night, they had been talking about the fight against Todor and how they definitely would have died if Alice hadn’t shown up with his brother, Kichi.

Then one thing led to another, and she found herself entwined in his arms.

If anyone learned about this, it would be a huge scandal: the daughter of Yanka Karda, the Adamantine Warrior, dating the son of Taka Agame, the Hero of Hano.

Bloodline nobles would call him a traitor and claim he had tarnished his father’s legacy.

That was a mistake. Their relationship couldn’t continue.

Even now, he was avoiding her.

Her stream of thought was interrupted by Ja’a, who, for some reason, decided to call the group to a halt and ask everyone to hand over the nightmare parts, including the leather, cores, and souls.

An argument erupted, since as part of the mission cover-up parameters, Alice was to be handed all the loot.

But Alice wanted all the souls to remain with Ki’a so he could feed them to her spear, while agreeing to hand over the leather and cores to Ja’a.

Ki’a asked for one soul so he could gift it to his brother, while Ja’a insisted that some of the souls be given to her. She was even ready to pay for them.

During the confusion, Raik dragged Kan behind a tree.

Kan was about to protest when he started kissing her.

Kan tried to think of a reason why she shouldn’t kiss him back.

But if she was honest with herself, reason was the furthest thing from her mind.

She could barely remember her name.

One hour ago (Parallel to Chapter 94)

Kan woke up and yawned. She had barely had any sleep last night. She stretched her body beneath the covers, feeling her spine crack. She tried to sit up, but before she could stand fully, muscular arms dragged her back beneath the sheets.

“Where do you think you are going?”

The fingers turned icy cold as they started tickling her sides.

“Unhand me, you brute!”

She laughed hard enough that tears fell from her eyes.

The playful teasing barely lasted a minute, but it left her wide awake. She rubbed at her eyes, then opened them to find Raik’s face directly above hers.

“Running away from me?”

“I promised Ja’a that I would escort her when she sells the loot.”

“But I am not done with you,” said Raik before stealing a kiss.

“Haven’t you had enough last night?”

“Of you? Never.”

“I will be back tonight.”

“Promise?”

“Promise!

Present Day (Parallel to Chapter 95)

“You smell like ciderwood,” said Ja’a, smirking.

“Do I?” Kan hesitated.

“Raik uses ciderwood body wash,” remarked Ja’a nonchalantly.

“I don’t know what you are talking about.”

“Congratulations.” Her smile grew wider.

“Cut it out, Ja’a!”

“All right, all right. Let’s offload the bone steel first.”

“Where are we going?”

“To the Satori estate, of course.”

Kan was confused again.

Ja’a had somehow talked her way all the way inside Lady Petal’s bedroom, the magical smith who created the team’s armor sets.

“Lady Petal, I have come to offer my congratulations,” smiled Ja’a.

The woman looked like she had barely slept, but the smile on her face was radiant as the small baby nursed eagerly.

Ja’a reached into her bag of holding and extracted a small blanket made of soft mammoth fur.

“A gift to keep the baby warm.”

Kan remembered Alice buying one for Lady Camille, then Ja’a copying her.

“Thank you.”

Ja’a stood up and made as if she was leaving before stopping herself.

“Forgive me, but...” she said in a hesitant tone. “I know it’s not time for business, but I am afraid that if I don’t tell you and you find out from someone else, you would get mad at me.”

Lady Petal narrowed her eyes at Ja’a.

“Speak.”

“We may have stumbled upon a cache of magical metals.”

“What metal?”

“224 ingots of bone steel, though it is extra rich in death mana.”

Lady Petal frowned.

“I will need to stop nursing before I start to handle death-mana-infused metal.”

“I figured as much. Sorry for the inconvenience.”

Ja’a stood fully, and Kan followed suit.

“Not so fast. If I can’t use it, it doesn’t mean I want the Soul Emporium to have it either.”

“This is why I came to you first.”

“What’s your asking price?”

“The current market value in the Merchant Guild is one silver per two standard ingots.”

“I am not going to haggle with you while my baby is nursing. One silver per ingot, as long as it’s truly richer than normal.”

“You have my word as a SoulSeer.”

“Deal?”

“Deal!”

“We also found some cobalt. Do you want it?”

“Of course I want the cobalt. What stupid question is this?”

They left the mansion seven gold richer after offloading the steel ingots, as well as ten cobalt and the three highest-quality cores, in a vault. Lady Petal sent them with a servant and didn’t even verify the quality of the metal, trusting Ja’a’s word alone.

“Alice got the same deal,” said Kan.

“Alice offloaded twenty times the weight in ores and cheaper metals.”

“Why did you sell her only the high-quality cores?”

“Cheap cores go better in the Soul Emporium since they can refine them.”

The next stop was Bo’a, the Soul Emporium enchanter who had been Izi’s contact. Ja’a sold him an intact armor set, a few other items oozing death mana, and pieces of bone that still had a soul fragment attached to it. But what fetched the highest price was the double door Calr decided to loot in the undead mine.

Their conversation was jovial with Ja’a teasing him about his habit of paying too much for anything that came out of the Dead Zone. She finished the deal by offloading the rest of the death-mana cores, leaving them fourteen gold richer.

The next stop was the Green Hand Guild quarter, where she sold them a strand of the death-mana-rich wheat they had found in the ghost village, as well as tons of bones for fertilizer.

Kan was surprised when they bought the wheat alone for one gold coin. As for the bones, they fetched another gold. The supply was still arriving regularly, meaning bones were never in high demand.

Then, to Kan’s surprise, she started going through the small shops and stalls.

She knew each merchant by name.

Everywhere they went, she sold them a small trinket. The tarnished silver bells the team had used to ward off ghosts went to the scammer merchant. Izi got a dagger found in one of the ruined villages in the Dead Zone. The second-hand store where they had bought the threadbare clothes got belts they had looted from skeletons.

Two dozen smaller deals followed.

By the end of it, those deals had earned her another three gold coins.

Not a single merchant haggled much with her.

They listened as she stated her price and logically explained why it was worth that much. Most of them lowered it by five or ten percent, then accepted the deal.

Ja’a had lost a few silver on her first day in Hano, and it had led to her making gold later on.

By the end of it, Kan was a believer. Especially when they counted the final tally back in Ja’a’s room:

Making the total expectation 64 gold, without factoring in the harvester machine that was still waiting for auction.

Kan had never seen that much gold in one place, and to think that eight of those coins belonged to her.

Two months ago, she had been struggling to kill moles and rats for coppers. Now she had enough money to buy a house.

Ja’a grinned and dropped the bounty back into her bag of holding. Kan was almost disappointed to see it disappear, but no, it was safer inside Ja'a’s Soulbound bag

“Come on, let’s grab a bite,” said the merchant. “We could go see if Louis got some pizza. It’ll be our last chance to have her to ourselves before her shop opens and she gets swamped.”