I live a blessed life.

I have a powerful and respected grandmother, a wealthy and ferocious grandfather, a famous and influential father, an earnest and indulgent mother, a doting and devoted sister, and a supportive and encouraging brother. I have three blushing, affectionate women who love me, multiple loyal and trustworthy friends, hundreds of staunch, dependable comrades, and the most adorable niece and nephew in the world. Throw in the sweetest giant turtle around, a whole legion of adorable floofs, and my significant personal fame and wealth, it’s clear I am better off than most miserable inhabitants unlucky enough to have been born in this death world.

Yet even with all this and more, I manage to be utterly miserable.

It’s too bad I can’t blame my gloom and doom on occult factors anymore. The Spectres went silent after I figured out how to Devour Heavenly Energy and turn it into Chi, and I haven’t heard a peep from them ever since, which means this latest bout of depression is all one-hundred percent all natural with no ghostly or occult additives. This means there’s no easy fix because I can’t just Devour and Cleanse all phantasmal party poopers before moving on with my life. Sadly, that’s just how depression is, a pervasive burden which clings to your metaphysical self and refuses to let go despite your best efforts to free yourself.

People who don’t understand might say things like ‘what do you have to be depressed about’ or ‘do something that makes you happy and cheer up’, because they’ve never been depressed and make no distinction between depression and sadness. Depression isn’t just feeling a little down in the dumps or needing to cry. Depression is waking up in the morning and still feeling tired, not because you didn’t sleep well or long enough, but because the mere thought of getting out of bed is exhausting. Depression is having an empty stomach and plenty of food, yet lacking the will to walk into the kitchen to grab something to eat. Depression is seeing all the great things you have going on in your life and feeling guilty because you truly believe you don’t deserve any of it.

Depression isn’t sadness. It’s indifference. It’s apathy. It’s crippling numbness. I’d love to cheer up, I really would, except I can’t, and I’d love to know why, even if only so I can explain it to my loving family and future wives.

It sucks knowing I can use Chi and having no idea how I do it, but contending with my baffled but well-meaning loved ones might actually be worse. There was a time when I’d go through one of these depressive episodes with everyone remaining none the wiser, or at the very least keeping quiet about it. That’s how Alsantset and Charok handled it, largely leaving me to my own devices while keeping an eye on me so I don’t fall to pieces, and it worked. Mostly. Okay, it didn’t really work, but still. I liked it way better than what Yan, Mila, and Lin-Lin are trying, which can only be described as a concentrated effort to overwhelm me with affection and attention so I have no time to be depressed. Now, I’m not exactly complaining about their... enthusiastic distractions, except at the end of the day, that’s all it is. A distraction. My depression isn’t going to melt away due to love and affection, because if that was the cure, then I wouldn’t be depressed to begin with.

All this and more goes through my mind in response to Tali’s innocuous question as she sits atop sweet Nuno, her adolescent quin-in-training. Instead of unloading all my inner turmoil onto the poor kid just because she asked if I was okay, I just smile and say, “I’m fine sweetling. Sorry, I wasn’t paying attention and missed your turn. Could you please run through it again, just for me?”

“Okay Rainy, but you gotta watch carefully this time, ya?” All sugar and smiles, Tali brings Nuno around for another run at the obstacle course, and this time I make sure to pay attention and not let my mind wander off.

Smile Rain. Don’t ruin Tali’s fun or make her think you don’t care, because you do. You watched Tate do this without breaking down, so just do it again. Focus on the moment and nothing else. Tali looks cute as a button in her colourful riding clothes, her bright smile a balm for the soul as she frantically waves to make sure I’m watching. Then it’s off to the races, or rather the obstacle course, one Lin-Lin put together for the express purpose of playing with the animals. My sweet wifey never pulls her punches when it comes to fun, and this obstacle course is no different, though it does start off easy with a series of agility poles. These present no obstacle to lithe Nuno as she snakes in and out around them, winding about like the furry, bipedal snake she is. Next up are the hurdles, and while the quin can blow straight through them, she knows her rider needs her to slow down and so she does. Moving at a brisk walk, Nuno ambles forward as Tali comes to her feet, quin and rider working in tandem to get past this second obstacle. While Nuno slips underneath the hurdles, Tali hops over them, her arms stretched out to either side for balance as she wobbles precariously in place.

Though she’s no doubt Lightening for all she’s worth while Stabilizing to keep steady, truth be told, it’s mostly natural dexterity and Nuno’s steady gait allowing Tali to keep her balance, but it’s still impressive as hell. I still have trouble standing on quin-back sometimes and Tate passed this part on all fours, but give Tali a year or two to practice and she’ll be zipping through and hopping over these hurdles like my sweet wifey Lin-Lin.

Which is kinda concerning. Impressive as it is, some of this stuff is really dangerous, like the triangle jumping section which comes next. Nuno can’t even do them on her own, still not quite athletic or coordinated enough to jump from one near vertical wall to the next without tumbling off, so in the interest of safety, Tali isn’t even allowed to try, nor are any of the other kids. Truth be told, I doubt there are many Sentinels willing to try either. Although Lin-Lin makes it look easy, I know for a fact Mila can’t do it, mostly because she’s too heavy for Atir to pull it off, and every time the twins ask Dad to show them how it’s done, he always finds some excuse or another to slip away, and I can’t blame him.

After the triangle jumps is the balance beam, the pit vault, and the ring jumps, which Tali and Nuno navigate with ease before finally coming to the stairs. Oddly enough, this is usually the hardest part of this obstacle course, bar none. Give a quin a steep slope and they’ll run straight up without a care in the world, but stairs are a real challenge. It’s not that quins can’t walk up stairs, but they have trouble doing it quickly because of how they’re built, with their feet so far back and away from their eyes. It makes it difficult for them to tell how high they need to lift their feet, so quins tripping over a step is a more common sight than you’d think, but Tali and Nuno have run this course a hundred times before and have figured out the best way around it. Lowering her head and tucking her paws against her chest, Nuno launches herself over the final obstacle like a low-altitude missile, her round, furry belly a hand-span away from the stairs and eyes firmly locked on the horizon. Landing softly on the other side, Nuno stamps her feet and squeaks in victory while Tali beams with delight and guides her back over towards us, where I greet my sweet niece with a genuine smile and a hefty round of applause.

“Great job Tali, I’m so proud of you.” As I open my arms wide for a hug, Tali squeals and leaps into my embrace, all too happy to roughhouse with her healthy uncle Rainy again. Twirling her about with a smile, I toss her up into the air and cherish her screams of laughter before catching her on the way down, then toss her once more just for the hell of it. Beside us, Tate crosses his arms and scowls because he thinks he’s too grown up to be thrown about like a child but is still jealous of all the fun his sister is having, so after setting Tali down, I ignore his protests and lob him into the air as well. Ending the fun with a big kiss on Tate’s cheek, I laugh along with him while hugging him tight, wishing we could go back to the days when he was just a wide-eyed little scamp who liked to chew on my sleeves. “You both did great out there,” I say, dropping to one knee and giving them both one last hug for good measure. “I bet you guys worked hard, yea?”

“Ya! We were here every morning, with Daddy, or Grandma, or...” So excited to share his efforts, Tate launches into a long list of caretakers and babysitters who brought him to the obstacle course, while Tali chimes in with a few he misses, much to his annoyance. While Tali thinks nothing of it, Tate sees her as his biggest rival and is always trying to one up her, but the sweet girl has too much talent and Tate doesn’t work nearly hard enough to surpass her in most areas, whether it be riding quins and Demonstrating the Forms or mathematics and calligraphy. It’s not that Tate is bad at anything, but Tali is just too good, near top of the class in any subject she enjoys and better than most at everything else.

It’s alright little man. Inferiority is nothing to be ashamed of. Give it your all and do the best you can do, and that’s all anyone can ask for.

When Tate and Tali’s list comes to an end, I give them both another hug just because before sending them on their way. “All right now. You know what to do. Bring your quins to... over to be inspected, so you can make sure they’re not injured.”

“Okay Rainy.”

Running off with their quins in tow, the twins bring their animals to the new quin-trainer, a woman whose name I’ve yet to learn. It’s hard seeing the twins hand over their reins to an unfamiliar face, because before, they would’ve handed them over to cheery, red-faced Mengu who would’ve then taken them through the inspection with him. The portly quin-trainer isn’t around to take those reins or guide the twins today, because he died in Sinuji last week. He died fighting to protect me from Demons and Defiled even though I was perfectly capable of protecting myself.

Or, put another way, he died for nothing and I’m to blame.

That right there is the unvarnished truth. It’s not the Uniter’s fault, nor are the Spectres or Defiled to blame. Mengu, Khagati, and Kharnate were all veteran Bannermen who survived countless tours fighting at Dad’s side, but they fell the first time they rode out to defend me. My fault goes beyond this, because not only was I the sole reason they were in Sinuji at all, I’m also responsible for letting things escalate so far to begin with. It’s so stupid. All of this happened because I thought I was crippled, when I am in fact far from it. The cure was literally right in front of my face all along, those sealed gourds of Chi Water which sat for months on my wall beneath the crumbling remains of my broken Spiritual Weapons. All I had to do was drink one and all my problems would’ve been taken care of in one fell swoop.

Think about it. Say I drank a gourd of Water Chi a week after my Core shattered. What would’ve happened? Well, my body would’ve fixed itself and I’d be hale and healthy as I am now, unable to utilize Chi and weaker than most Martial Warriors, but still stronger than your average citizen, which isn’t bad for a guy who had his Spiritual Weapons destroyed. So long as I appeared vigorous and able bodied, then as the former Number One Talent in the Empire, people would be more willing to give me face, face the crippled, debilitated Falling Rain wasn’t afforded because that guy was an eyesore. Being strong enough to stand tall and walk around on my own would’ve made all the difference in the world, because to most, that would mean there was still hope. Your average citizen doesn’t understand the intricacies of the Martial Path or all the benefits Chi bring, they only know that Martial Warriors are strong and powerful, an image I no longer fit as a cripple. This, more than anything, is why I was so quickly cast aside and condemned, because in the eyes of the majority, there was no hope for my gaunt, feeble self, so why bother caring what happens to me?

Image matters. It sucks, but it’s true.

Everything would’ve turned out differently if I’d been this healthy five months ago. Jixing wouldn’t have been so bold as to directly act against me, not if I still had hope for recovery and the love and support of the people. Even if the Imperial bastard still tried to steal Luo-Luo away, the Legate would’ve been forced to step in and defend me lest he appear ungrateful. It’s one thing to abandon a lost cause like a cripple with a shattered Core, but another thing altogether to give up on a recovering ally with hope for the future, a minor distinction which would’ve made all the difference in the world. Jixing might have still turned the Justicars against me, but the Legate would’ve stepped in to fight it, maybe by securing me a non-combat position or doing something besides dangling me out like bait for his enemies. Hell, even if I was still sent to Sinuji, there’s a good chance the Iron Banner wouldn’t have come along, because I rode out to the front lines plenty of times without them before. They only came along this time to protect my crippled ass, so if I wasn’t crippled, there would’ve been no Bannermen guardians, which means Mengu, Khagati, and Kharnate wouldn’t have died and I wouldn’t hate myself for being an incompetent shit-head who can’t find his ass with both hands and a map.

