Well... you know. If my ass were Chi and the map was actually a unique state of Balance which affords me the means to use said Chi without a working Core. So... mildly more complicated than finding my ass with a map, but that’s no excuse. I’ve used Chi on at least three separate occasions after my Core was shattered, once immediately after, once while Orating the story of how I met Qing-Qing to all of Sinuji, and a third time when I went apeshit on Wraiths and Demons shortly after. Theoretically, I should be able to do the same whenever I please, except I’m too stupid to figure out how.

I swear to God, if this is all because of some more split-personality bullshit, I will ask Taduk to lobotomize me with a chopstick and turn me into a drooling vegetable.

Sensing my inner turmoil, Lin-Lin’s slender arms slip around my neck and squeeze tight in the warmest of hugs from behind. Still down on one knee, I lean back into the embrace and press my cheek against hers, savouring the soft sensation of her silken skin and the weight of her body pressed against mine. You’d think I’d be all tapped out after a morning of heavy petting with Mila and a bath-time lovemaking session with Yan, but you would be wrong. It’s not sex I’m craving, though sex is always nice, but rather physical warmth and intimacy which I need, if only to fill the void in my chest where my heart once sat.

“Hubby,” Lin-Lin begins, and I hold my breath in anticipation of whatever banal platitude she’s about to throw my way, but as always, my sweet wifey bucks the trend. “I’m hungry. Let’s go have tea and sweets, ya?”

Ugh. That means going out in public, but that’s fine, I guess. I don’t mind the stares or accusations so much, because no one can hate me more than I hate myself. “Sounds good to me. Where do you wanna go?”

“Nowhere. I don’t wanna eat at any stinky tea-house.” Leaning against me with her full weight, Lin-Lin buries her face in my shoulder and asks, “Can you make something instead?”

“Sure.” While I might lack motivation to make food for myself, I’m more than happy to whip something up for my beloved wifey. It’s been months since I cooked though, so I should pick something simple. Coming to my feet and lifting Lin-Lin with me, I stand up straight and piggy-back her over to the rest of our group. Might as well spoil her a bit while I’m still strong enough to do so. “How does steamed red-bean buns sound?”

“Yummy. Egg custard too? And lotus seed paste please, those are Tate’s favourite.”

“Mila’s too, so I’ll need to make a lot.”

“Shhh, don’t let her hear you or she’ll deny it and won’t eat any.”

“Then come back a few hours later to eat them all in secret.”

“Hmph.” Greeting us with hands on her hips combined with her best glare, Mila’s displeasure does nothing to diminish our grins. “I only did that once,” my freckled beloved huffs. “And it was barely a dozen buns. I told you, I was starving because I just finished training and there was nothing else ready to eat.”

“Of course, beloved,” I reply, while Lin-Lin giggles behind me. “I believe you. Don’t worry, I’ll be sure to make plenty, so you can eat as many buns as you want.” Turning to Lin-Lin, I lower my voice to a feigned whisper and ask, “Do you think three dozen is enough, or should I go for five?”

“Better safe than sorry, ya?” Lin-Lin replies, and while Mila continues to glower and glare, I notice she doesn’t try to stop me from making so many buns.

Honestly, when it comes to steaming buns, making one dozen isn’t all that much different from making ten dozen, so I might as well go big. Glancing around the group, I ask, “Any other filling requests?”

While Yan and Luo-Luo politely decline, Song is not shy at all about voicing her desires. “Beef and scallions,” she says, pausing only a brief second before adding, “Barbecue pork too. And sesame paste for dessert. Please.”

“Will do.” When Tali and Tate return, they add almond paste and roast duck to the mix, so I enlist them as helpers and we all go home to prepare. Making steamed buns is as simple as can be, with most of the time spent waiting for the dough to rise, but with so many varieties, our work is cut out for us. While I tend to the grill preparing meats and boiling cane sugar, Lin-Lin, Tali, and Tate grind away with their mortars and pestles turning beans and seeds into paste. All three wear similar adorable expressions of intense concentration while going about this most important work, and it is a sight which soothes the soul. As for everyone else, they keep the animals distracted with games and music so they don’t sneak in and steal the fruits of our labours. Blackjack is the sole exception as he lazes on my shoulder, giving me soft kisses whenever he feels he deserves a treat. Voracious though his appetite might be, that’s only in comparison to his size, so I let it slide and keep him around instead of chasing him away.

I know I shouldn’t play favourites, but I’m not. This is just pragmatism. I would love to spoil the cats, bears, and bunnies too, but they’re all bottomless pits of gluttony which can never be wholly sated, whereas Blackjack can only eat about a half-kilogram of meat before falling into a food coma. That’s still like half his body weight, so it’s pretty damn impressive to watch, but it’s not much in the grand scheme of things.

With so much to be done, there’s barely any time to think until the first batch goes into the steamer, and I use this much needed break to take in the surroundings. Out in the courtyard, Luo-Luo continues plucking away at her zither while Song and Aurie listen intently at her side, but the other animals are wholly uninterested in any music besides her original piece, Rise to Glory. Why that might be, I’m not entirely sure, but I’m 99% certain it’s because the animals don’t care for music in general. While I don’t feel a thing when hearing her play, I made Mila, Lang Yi, Bulat, and Rustram sit down and detail what they remember regarding their experience while Condensing their Auras. In the days after the battle, I even asked Luo-Luo to play a concert for the soldiers of Sinuji and made every literate soldier in my retinue write down what they felt during each movement of the musical piece. It didn’t help, so I made them do it again the next day, then again the day after. I would’ve kept trying, but the day after Luo-Luo’s third concert, we left Sinuji to head back to the citadel and our schedule was too packed for daily concerts.

My recent interest in Luo-Luo’s zither has nothing to do with enjoying her music and everything to do with trying to understand how it works, because I think it can help explain how I work, or at least part of me. I think what makes ‘Rise to Glory’ so special isn’t its scales, harmonies, or composition, but rather the emotions Luo-Luo feels when playing the piece, emotions she then conveys to the crowd through her music and Chi, which is pretty much Aura, only better. Like Dastan said, Heavenly Energy is bound through emotion and utilized through intent, and what better combination of emotion and intent than music?

Well... maybe better is the wrong word. I’m sure painting, poetry, calligraphy, and all that other artsy shit is just as good, but I’ll be damned if I understand any of it. Anyway, this is probably also how I accidentally Orated in Sinuji, and it seems like it’d be easier to figure out compared to reaching some instinctive state of Balance I have no frame of reference for. I have some other ideas, but I wanted to rest a few days before putting any of them to the test, and until then, I’ll ponder over the mysteries of the Musical Path. Luo-Luo’s not the only example I have to draw on either, because my quirky, Medical Saint slash Runic Craftsman of a teacher also uses music to convey intent, always humming and conducting when studying and crafting. I figured that if Runes are the written language of Heavenly Energy, then music is a shared experience of sorts, like how math is universal, in a fashion. Or not. I don’t really know. If emotion and intent are the driving forces behind understanding the Martial Path, then there really isn’t much room for logic and reasoning.

“Hubby, the next batch is ready to go in.” Slipping under my arm to steal a quick hug, Lin-Lin stares up at me with her limpid, autumnal eyes, so bright and beautiful I never want to look away. Right now though, they’re also tinged with worry, and she studies me closely before asking, “Are you tired? You go lie down and I’ll ask Char-Char to finish up.”

“I’m fine, sweet wifey of mine.” Stealing a quick kiss from her soft lips, I touch my forehead to hers and say, “Thanks for making me do this.”

“Silly hubby, I should be thanking you, ya?”

“Don’t pretend.” Pinching her rounded cheek ever so softly, I hold her close and reveal her devious plan. “You knew I needed something to do and a reason to do it, which is why you asked me to make something to eat. Bringing the twins in to help was a neat trick, means I’m more focused on getting things done right than fixated on my thoughts.”

“Maybe.” Sticking her tongue out in girlish provocation, she adds, “Or maybe I just wanted something to eat, ya? You think too much hubby.” Breaking free from my embrace, she shoos me back into the kitchen with a smile. “If you’re not tired, then get back to work before Mi-Mi gets hungry and stomps over to ask where her buns are.”

“I heard that,” Mila growls, ironically stomping across the courtyard. “I’ve been slandered by you enough today, and I won’t stand for it any longer!” Yelping in mock fright, Lin-Lin scurries off with a grin and leaps up onto the veranda roof where Mila can’t reach her, and the two set off on a merry chase while everyone else laughs along. Walking back into the kitchen with a smile, I shake my head and wonder how I could ever be so lucky to have not one, not two, but three beautiful women who love me.

Maybe four. Luo-Luo’s motives are still suspect, but let’s be real. Even if she doesn’t truly love me, she’s loyal, else she would’ve left with Jixing, and she’s stuck with me for the rest of her life, so at the very least, her interest in my affections are pragmatic. Relationships have been built on less, so I guess it’s time I stopped keeping her at arm’s length. Besides, all of Mila’s talk about shared wedding beds got me thinking, not to mention Yan’s constant innuendo about bringing someone else into the bedroom. I mean, if my good health is temporary, I might as well make the most out of it while I can, if only so I won’t have too many regrets when whatever is keeping the world’s pressure off my back runs out and I go back to being a cripple again.

Not that my only interest in Luo-Luo is sexual...

Yan either...

And I can’t help it if I’m attracted to Song. I haven’t acted on it, so doesn’t that count for something?

No, brain. Stahp. Leave me alone. I am not a horrible person for wanting sex with multiple people, including Mila and Lin-Lin.

Sigh... fine. You win brain. I’m a terrible person. Happy? No, you aren’t, because you’re me and I’m fucking depressed.

Honestly, a lobotomy doesn’t actually sound so bad anymore. Maybe it’ll teach my brain not to be retarded, but I doubt it. It’d be too easy, and nothing in life is ever easy.

Nothing.

Chapter Meme
