I pull out the wooden rack I made when I first started making arrows for the army. The 22-inch rack has two raised sides that you can rest an arrow on top of like you’re trying to display it. The stand works by holding a spinning arrow shaft. If you spin the shaft and one of the sides wobbles it means the shaft isn’t straight.

I study both ends and see a little bit of wobbling on the right side of the shaft, meaning it isn’t perfectly straight yet. When I make a bunch of arrows for the army, I can’t take the time to make sure each is perfectly aligned, but I can’t use that standard when the arrow I’m making is over a hundred times more expensive.

It’s a good thing I gave myself enough time to craft this arrow.

Del-Razen’s Point of View:

I can’t help but raise my hand to my chest, my heart is pounding like a war drum.

Watching Aaliyah working on the arrow brings a tear to my eye. I can’t contain the overwhelming sense of pride I’m feeling right now.

From the way she worked the metal to how she finds even the smallest flaw in the arrow shaft, I couldn’t be prodder of her. She’s completely engrossed herself in the project and I’m sure she wouldn’t notice if I left right now.

I’m sure the arrow Aaliyah is making will impress the general.

And once she does there will be no more hiding for her.

It’s only a matter of time before a noble walks into my clearing demanding her cooperation. A part of me wants to walk over and destroy the arrow before it can ever be finished but I could never do that to my student. She’s putting everything she has into this project.

She’s managed to incorporate her ridiculous magic skills into her forging, allowing her to craft well above her skill level. Crafting with both the inner and outer structure in mind, she forges just like master smiths do back in Truest.

Her technique is hers alone and it would take an equally monstrous talent to copy her. Any mage would sacrifice their entire family to poses her skill in magic.

Her talent will shine brightly to those who know what it looks like. Like a torch in the deepest caves people will be drawn in by what her light offers.

And it will be my job as her master to swat the insects her light will inevitably draw in as well.

But I can’t do it alone, I’ll need to work with her family. Her mother is extremely smart and calculating, I’m sure she’s already aware what this job for the general entails for Aaliyah’s future. It’s one thing to make weapons for the army, it’s another to make something personal for one of the strongest people in the kingdom.

I look up at the sky and watch the sun slowly move across the horizon. The sun will start to go down in a few hours. I’ll leave her to her work and only step in when dusk arrives, then I’ll send her home even if she wants to keep working.

I’m sure she would conjure a light to keep working if I let her.

No, she needs her sleep. When I saw her this morning, I could tell with a quick glance that she finally managed to get some decent sleep last night.

She’s strong for her age, stronger than most Stone Kin I used to know. Locked deep in their cities, without so much as seeing what lays outside their stone walls. I remember seeing young stone kin my own age in the army break down for weeks after their first kill, rambling about the blood.

She’ll need time but I’m positive Aaliyah will overcome it just like she’s done with every other challenge placed in front of her.

I sigh to myself and watch her work.

Ever so slowly the sun starts to dip out of sight and I’m forced to intervein just like I thought I would have to. I walk over to Aaliyah who’s still carefully shaping the arrow shaft, even to my enhanced senses I can’t spot a single flaw on it. “Hey,” I put my hand on her shoulder. She flinches and stares up at me like she doesn’t know where she is. “It’s getting late, go home.”

“What? No! I’m…” Aaliyah fumbles her speech and starts to look around. It takes a minute but it finally dawns on her why I’m stopping her. “The sun’s going down already,” Aaliyah sounds more like she’s trying to convince herself what’s happening rather than asking me a question.

“Yeah, you’ve been working all day.” I tell her in a levelheaded tone.

“But I’m not finished yet, I don’t have the time to stop now!” She says in a panic.

“Aaliyah!” I get her to stop talking by calling out her name. My apprentice looks me in the eyes. “Remember, a blacksmith needs to use their time wisely. You can spend the next two days fussing over the arrow shaft but you’ll never finish the arrow if you do. You need to rest and come back tomorrow to work on the rest of your project.”

“But, the forge?” She looks at the tools scattered about and the fire in the forge that’s still roaring.

“I’ll handle it,” I tell her.

“But?”

“I’ll handle it!” I leave her no opportunity to disagree. Aaliyah nods her head in understanding. “Good, now go home and have dinner with your family,” I tell her in a softer voice.

“Ok, have a good night, master,” I can tell how tired she is by her subdued tone. If only it was this easy to get her to listen to me all the time.

“Good night,” I tell her as she makes her way back home.

As soon as she leaves the clearing, I pick up the arrow shaft she put so much work into. I’m once more tempted to break it, but instead I hold the arrow shaft up and examine it closely. Perfection is a rare adjective to use in our business, but I can’t think of anything else to describe the kaglese shaft. The surface is smooth and doesn’t look like it was struck by a hammer even once.

I glance around the clearing, taking note of everything I need to clean.

At least I have something to do now.

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“Good morning, master,” I carefully call out to Del as I enter his clearing.

“It appears you had a good night,” master watches me stroll over to him.

“I did. Thanks for taking care of the cleaning last night, I wasn’t aware how tired I was until I almost fell asleep at the dinner table.”

“I figured as much,” master gives me a self-righteous look. “I watched how much effort you put into the arrow shaft. I knew if I didn’t send you home, I would have to carry you back and I have no desire to do that again.”

“Well thanks again,” I offer Del a little more praise for his foresight. “Did you perhaps get a chance to look at the arrow shaft after I left?” I ask while looking around for aforementioned piece.

“I did,” I hear master say behind me.

“And?” I ask, turning to face him.

“I put it in my house, I doubt the weather would have any effect on it but I put it there to be safe.” Master Del points over his shoulder with his thumb at his house.

“That’s nice to hear, but I was more curious if you could spot anything wrong with it? Do you think I should work on it a little more today?” I anxiously ask him.

Master gives me a disappointed head shake. Was it really that bad, do I need to redo it?

“I don’t suppose you remember what I told you last night, you’re focusing too much on the individual pieces. You’ll run out of time if you don’t start on the arrowhead today.” Master berates me.

“But what if there’s something I missed?” I ask.

Master gives me an exasperated look, “I examined your work last night and I couldn’t spot anything wrong with it. Even if you had a whole month to work on it I’d bet you’d probably keep second guessing yourself. You need to move on and accept you put enough time into it. Now go and start up the forge while I bring more fuel over. You’ll be working with the dellinium…” Master pauses after saying the name out loud. He shakes his head in dissatisfaction before continuing, “and you’ll probably need to use more of the spider carapace if you want to work it properly.”

Master doesn’t give me any more time to second guess myself and goes to grab everything I need for the day.

Master is probably right; my nerves are causing me to overthink every move I make. I need to make the arrowhead today and who knows how much time that will take.

I move over to the forge and quickly get it going for the fourth day in a row. I think about how I only have today and tomorrow to finish the arrow before Kervin will arrive to pick it up.

Master helps me add more material to the forge and works the bellows while I grab the dellinium ingot I infused with mithril yesterday and place it in the flames.

“Which type of arrowhead are you making?” Master asks me.

“I’m going with my helix design, or do you have a better idea?” I ask for master’s opinion.

“No, I think you picked the right one. This arrow is a combination of your skill, it only makes sense you use the design you came up with. I was merely curious. If you’re using the helix design are you going to make the tip detachable?” Master asks me another question.

“I don’t think that will be a good idea,” I explain to master. “This arrow already needs to deal with a tremendous amount of force and I don’t want to have any weak points in its structure. I’ll weld the two pieces together to insure it’s as structurally stable as possible.”

“Alright, I’ll stay off to the side keeping the forge hot, you focus on the dellinium… no chance you’ll change the name?”

I laugh as I pick up the tongs and my smaller hammer. “Not a chance,” I tell master as I retrieve the glowing ingot from the flames.

I don’t waste any time and quickly swing the hot metal over to my anvil.

I start hammering, trying to move it in the way I need it to, but after five rapid strikes the metal doesn’t so much as have a dent in it. The ingot is rapidly cooling and I’m forced to put it back in the forge.

I don’t let the first failure get me down and pull the dellinium out again after a few minutes and try again, working then same area I was before.

But again, the metal doesn’t budge. I’m forced to put the metal back into the forge.

Holly shit, this metal refuses to move, I complain in my head. I’ll need to use my skills and if that doesn’t work, I might need to ask Del to do this part.

I cast a sidelong glance at master and see him focusing solely on keeping the forge as hot as possible. I’m aware master wants me to be the one to forge this arrow and I won’t ask for his help unless I absolutely need to.

I won’t let a tier 4 metal stop me!

I grab the ingot out of the forge and raise my hammer above my head, Weighted Strike! My hammer comes crashing down onto the ingot and a crisp ringing reverberates through my ears. I pull my hammer back and am relieved when I see my strike finally moved the metal a little. It isn’t a big change but this means I can work the dellinium by myself.

I start the grueling task of forming the ingot into a working arrowhead.

Strike after strike.

Minute after minute.

I labor over the slowly forming arrowhead. More than once I’m forced to take a break due to the strain on my Stamina. Each time I swing my hammer I need to have Weighted Strike activated to have any effect on the metal.

The arrowhead is a fraction of the size and the weight of the arrow shaft but it’s multiple times harder to work with.

It takes me half the day just to get the general shape of the arrowhead hammered out.

I wipe away all the sweat accumulated on my face as I pull the dellinium out of the forge for the three hundredth time today.

Now that I have the general shape I want; I need to do the more precise work. I switch out to the smallest hammer we have and this time activate Weighted Strike and Precise Strike together. Activating two skills simultaneously will burn through my Stamina even faster but it’s the only way I can finish the arrowhead.

I spend the rest of the day making small changes to the arrowhead, trying to make it as perfect as I can for tomorrow.

As the sun starts to go down, I’m told once again to go home by master.

“Again, are you sure? I can help,” I offer to help master tidy up the mess I made.

“You’ve done all the work today; you need to go home and rest. If you want to be at your best tomorrow listen to your master.” Master shoos me towards the tree line with one of his hands.

I grudgingly agree with master, I’m way more tired today than yesterday. My arms are so sore I can barely lift them. I don’t think I could help master even if I wanted to.

Standing next to me, Master Del tells me, “Let’s go.”

I give him a blank look, not understanding what he means. Master walks past me heading towards the village.

Before he passes the tree line, he turns back to me. “Come on, I’m walking you back to the village.”

“Why?” I ask as I make my way over to Del.

“Could you even defend yourself against a goblin in the state that you are in now?” Master asks in a stern manner.

A shiver runs up my spine. What would happen if something actually did attack me on the way home?

Before I start panicking master puts his hand on my shoulder and gently guides me forward. That’s right, I have nothing to worry about with master at my side.

We don’t talk to each other as we slowly make our way down the forest path leading towards the village. It isn’t until I see the buildings in the distance past the tree line that master stops and wishes me a good night.

“Thanks for walking me to the village; I’ll see you tomorrow.” I smile and manage to give a small parting wave to master.

Master Del shows me a smile before turning around and heading back to his home to clean up my mess.

Walking towards my own home, I think about how helpful master has been ever since I got the general’s order. I should figure out something to do as a show of appreciation.

