“I’m glad to see you doing better, you had me worried yesterday.” Mom fuses over me as we stop running.

“I’m sorry I made you worry,” I apologize profusely. The last thing I want to do is give mother a reason to worry about me.

“You can tell me anything, you know that, right?” Mom looks me in the eye while trying to catch her breath.

“I know,” I tell her. “And I promise to tell you everything after I finish the arrow for the general.”

My reassuring tone helps alleviate some of the worry I see in mother’s eyes. “Alright, I can wait for a few days. But if you have another bad day like yesterday, you better come to me immediately,” mother demands, putting her foot down.

“Of course, mom.” I give her a smile. “Listen, I need to go to work; I’ll see you and dad tonight.” Leaning in, I give mother a big hug, hoping the gesture relives any worry she may still have.

“All right, be safe.” Mother tells me while letting go. She watches me walk down the path leading to Del’s clearing, I know she won’t move until she can no longer see me.

I run towards Del’s house with a smile on my face after talking to mother, but just because I’m happy doesn’t mean I don’t keep my senses trained on the woods around me. I might not have had to relive the bandit attack last night but I’m not to the point I’m no longer paranoid about my surroundings. Baby steps, I guess.

I quickly make it to master’s clearing and scan the surroundings before stepping past the tree line.

Master is sitting on his bench examining the kaglese ingot we made yesterday. He shoots me a quick glance before turning his attention back to the metal. When I get close enough to him master holds up the ingot for me to see. “Do you know how much this is worth?”

“I don’t, Mr. Grey only told me the price of the ore.” I inform Master Del.

“Kaglese is a well know magic metal, there’s a mine close to Olebert’s capital. It’s common to add it with steel to make a decent magical alloy. You only need 20% kaglese, some steel, and a little mithril to produce a decent sword. I’d say this is worth at least 15 gold coins,” Mater tells me while holding the tannish metal up to the sun.

“Well it’s a good thing I got the ore for 7 gold coins then.” I can’t help but brag a little, but I see what master is trying to get at. I grabbed the best ore samples I could, if I was purchasing a random assortment of ore it would have cost me three times as much to produce the same amount of refined kaglese.

“Are you sure you want to make the arrow shaft out of pure kaglese and mithril?” Master sends me a questioning glance.

“I think it needs to remain pure,” I explain to him. “Diluting the mixture with steel will take away most of its flexibility.”

“It’s good to see you with your head on straight today.” Master gives me an encouraging smile and gently tosses the ingot at me.

I catch the kaglese and tell master how my night went. “It was still hard for me to fall asleep but I didn’t have that dream again. I think our talk helped me a lot.” Maybe even more than I thought possible. Based off of the different times I’ve relived memories in my soul, I’m starting to think my emotions play a part in which memories I see.

Last night I was reminded how many people support me, and the memory I experienced in my soul was back when I was three and mother had me on her lap rocking me to sleep.

“That’s good to hear. It would be a shame if you ruined such fine materials because you weren’t rested enough.” Master’s eyes look me over head to toe in search of any weakness. I’m sure he wouldn’t let me touch the materials if he thought I had even a sliver of doubt.

“I’m ready,” I puff out my chest and stand tall, looking master in the eye.

“So you are,” Master nods his head in approval. “I’ll get the forge going while you prep the mithril.” Master is quick to leave the math portion of the work to me.

I run inside Del’s house and grab an old scale he keeps for just such an occasion. I could eyeball the amount of mithril I’ll need but I won’t take any chances concerning the arrow’s composition.

First, I weigh the kaglese ingot by shifting different weights to the other side of the scale. I have exactly 826 grams of kaglese. With 826 grams being 78.3% of my final alloy, I do some quick algebra to calculate how much mithril I need to add.

I’ll need to add 228.9 grams of mithril to the kaglese ingot for a total weight of 1,054.9 grams. I carefully shave off slivers of a mithril ingot and place the shavings on the scale until I match the weight I need. Setting the mithril shavings and the kaglese off to the side, I move onto the…

I still haven’t come up with a good name for the black ore yet. I should bite the bullet and just ask master for his suggestion.

I look over my shoulder at master who’s getting the forge ready. He already has a small fire going and is adding regular logs to the blaze with his bare hands. Master might be as tough as the ore.

A light bulb goes off above my head, that’s not a bad idea. I can name the rock after Master Del!

Delarite could work.

Maybe delium? No, that name sounds a little short, I sinker to myself.

Dellinium. Yeah, that sounds good; noble and strong, a perfect name if I say so myself.

I grab one of the nine dellinium ingots we smelted yesterday and bring it over to my work station. Moving the weights around on the scale, I find out the ingot of dellinium is 51 grams, slightly bigger than I thought it was.

“If the 51 grams of dellinium is 87% of the alloy, than that means,” I talk myself through the math. “The total weigh of the alloy will be 58.6 grams, meaning I’ll need 7.6 grams of mithril for the arrowhead.” I owe my high school math teacher an apology, you can use algebra in your everyday life, even if it’s your second life.

I shave off more mithril and set the pile next to the dellinium. I’m using 236.5 grams of mithril on this project which is a little over half a pound of mithril. When the whole project is said and done the arrow will weigh a massive two and a half pounds, thirty times the weight of a normal arrow.

I would be concerned about the weight if it wasn’t someone possibly stronger than master firing it. At what point does a bow and arrow tun into a ballista? I can only imagine the forces behind an arrow launched from a bow tailored to someone with over 300 in Strength and that isn’t even factoring in skills.

This arrow may be heavy but I’ll sleep better knowing it won’t disintegrate in the general’s hands when she fires it.

“Ready?” Master asks, walking over to me.

“Yep, yep, yep,” I quickly chant. “I have everything set up. I calculated the amount of mithril for both the Kaglese and the dellinium.”

I smile as I watch Master Del’s face scrunch up at hearing the name I decided on for the black rock. “The what?” He asks in mild shock.

“Dellinium,” I say again with a large smile. “That’s the name I decided to call the black rock,” I cheerfully tell him.

“No,” master instantly rejects the name.

“Too late, it was already decided,” I inform him.

“By who?” Master asks, taking a step closer to me, trying to look intimidating. Too bad I know he would never hurt me so his posturing is all for not.

“The naming committee,” I notify master.

“And who in Tarrow’s forge is that?” Master asks with a look of suspicion on his face.

“A group of your peers who you work with,” I tell him.

“You’re the only person I work with!” Master snaps at me.

“And it was decided with a majority vote. You should be quite proud, to have such a sample named after you.” I try to keep a straight face but I can only hold in my laughter for so long.

“Why does it need a name in the first place? You told me it was the only sample recovered; we’ll probably never encounter another like it.” Master huffs in annoyance.

“That may be true but we’ll be working with it for the next month or so, and I refused to spend the whole time referring to it as ‘that black rock’.” I raise my eyebrows giving master the chance to argue otherwise.

“Don’t you want to name it after your mother or father perhaps?” Master tries to get me to reconsider the name.

“Sorry, but it matches perfectly with master. An incredibly strong lump of ore that refuses to break unless you hit it really hard, withstands incredible temperatures and comes out of the fire more beautiful than it went in, I’d say this rock resembles master to a tee.” I proudly tell master.

Del turns around and stomps over to the forge, trying to hide the blush on his face.

If only dellinium was that easy to work with.

I give master a minute to collect himself before I join him at the forge. He’s already placed some blacksmithing logs and magicite inside and I can feel the heat rolling out of the forge and clashing with Mana Skin’s barrier.

We won’t need to add chameleon spider carapace to add the mithril to the mixture but who knows if we’ll be able to work the dellinium with the temperature the forge is at now.

I decide to start with the kaglese. Using tongs, I move the ingot into the forge’s flames. I don’t take my eyes or mana sense off of the metal while it’s in the forge but I notice master move off to the side from the corner of my vision. Usually master would lie down on his bench and let me work by myself but this time he stays close in case I need his help.

When the tannish metal heats up enough I pull it out of the forge and swing it over to the anvil. I pour half the mithril shavings onto one side of the ingot and use Double Strike to help the metals bond easier. While the metal is still hot, I flip the ingot over and sprinkle the other half of the shavings onto its glowing surface.

I move the kaglese back into the forge and let it heat up again. When it’s hot enough, I pull the kaglese out again and inspect every millimeter of the ingot to make sure the mithril bonded correctly and hasn’t messed up the internal mana structure.

I sigh in relief when I confirm everything bonded correctly. I only get one chance to make this arrow and I don’t what to imagine what would happen if I mess up at any point.

No, if I dwell on everything that could go wrong, then I’ll definantly screw something up.

I set the kaglese alloy off to the side and pick up the small dellinium ingot and place it into the forge. I poke at the logs and magicite in the forge and arrange then to create a hot spot around the dellinium.

I’ll need to be fast, this time.

When I notice the dellinium starts to slow down on its fire mana absorption, I pull the ingot out of the forge and quickly sprinkle one side of the ingot with mithril. I don’t have enough time to inspect the metal before I place it back into the furnace.

As soon as the metal is hot enough, I again remove it from the forge and use Weighted Strike on the side I applied the mithril. I get a better look at the metals structure as I put it back in the forge and I’m happy to see everything is bonding as it should.

I repeat the same steps with the other side of the dellinium and confirm the ingot’s internal structure took to the mithril as it should’ve.

“The materials are ready,” I tell master.

“Which do you want to start with, the arrow shaft, or the arrowhead?” Master asks, looking at the two completed ingots sitting on the anvil.

“I think I’ll start with the easy one first,” I pick up the kaglese which has cooled enough I can pick it up with my Mana Skin covered hands.

“Is there a third ingot I’m not aware of?” Master jokes. That small bit of humor was enough to make me laugh and release some of the tension I was holding. “Take your time and everything will be fine,” he tells me.

“Thanks, master.”

I move the kaglese ingot back to the forge and wait for it to heat up. I go over what I need to do to the ingot in my head. I need to turn this rectangle lump of metal into a thin circular rod. Ronald taught me the length of an arrow has to do with the length of an archer’s arm, and how far back they draw their bow.

Sadly, I don’t know General Pitz measurements, so I’ll have to improvise and make the arrow shaft 26 inches. I’ll have to ask Kervin to get more precise details from the army before I make the next one.

Here I’m planning for the next arrow and I haven’t finished the first one yet. I focus back on the work in front of me.

The kaglese’s tannish color starts to fade to a white luster as it reaches its desired temperature. I quickly shift the hot ingot over to the anvil and give it a few test strikes to see how it moves under my hammer. It might not be as hard as the dellinium but the kaglese is still an earth attuned magic material and I have to put my full force behind my swings to get it to move.

I follow the ingots internal magic structure and slowly start to shift the metal. It’s a juggling act as I constantly shift the metal back and forth between the forge and my anvil.

Time quickly becomes meaningless as I focus solely on my work in front of me. I work in a trance, trying to craft my best work to date.

I don’t stop until I have a basic arrow shaft in front of me.

Though it looks just like the hundreds of other arrow shafts I made before I plan to go over every millimeter of the metal before I decide to quench it.

I hold the shaft up to the sky and try to spot any bumps in its surface. It looks straight to the untrained eye but I notice several uneven surfaces. I switch out my heavy hammer to a smaller one for a series of Precise Strikes.

After I think I’ve hammered out all the flaws I grab the most important tool I use when testing my arrow shafts. I go over to the shed I keep the state-of-the-art devise in.

