Someone shook her shoulder urgently, but here, in the cosmos, where she was everything and nothing, the concerns of the outside seemed trivial. She could remain here forever, and no matter what happened to her physical body, her mind, would endure. Here, there were no limits to her mental and magical capabilities. Here her body would not tire because the physical meant nothing.

“Piety, he’s coming for us, please wake up.”

Her serenity was disrupted by a niggling of concern. She knew this voice, she recognized it as someone she cared about, and it was pulling her back, out of the cosmos, into her body. Piety was torn. Here, in this place, she felt a serenity she’d never felt before and she didn’t want to let it go, but back where she had come from, there were people, and she didn’t want to let them go either.

“Piety!”

She opened her eyes but she didn’t feel quite herself, she felt as though she’d left a bit of herself back in the cosmos, or perhaps that she’d brought a bit of the cosmos back with her.

General Vahramp, his perfect torso bare, his dark hair pulled away from his face, his eyes glowing crimson, stalked toward Piety and the small group huddled behind her. His grin was smug, his swagger confident, and he had at his back a pack of his minions. Piety could feel the hunger of the minions, emaciated and starving, it was all they thought about. She also knew the thoughts of Frederick Vahramp, she knew he kept his minions under tight mental control, purposely starved them for fear that if they drank enough blood they might become aware of themselves, they might disobey him, they might become as powerful as he was. And she knew he had come to Pinefort tonight specifically to find her. He had recognized her power a year ago and thought if he were to have her under his thrall, he might be able to control her power as well.

Behind her, the merchant’s son, Samuel, was consumed by his fear and curled on the ground, blocking out the world, trying to escape into his mind. The young couple, a man named Kenneth who was a part of Quartermaster Yarwood’s staff, and a woman named Wanda who worked in the healing ward, clung to each other. She knew they had met only yesterday evening and each thought they might be interested in the other, but neither was bold enough to say so just yet. Their thoughts were only for each other, each praying the other would survive. Temperance, too, was frightened, but Piety sensed in her a confidence; a confidence in Piety and her abilities. More than that, Piety felt Temperance’s love for her.

All of that, Piety knew in an instant.

She was one with all, the paving stones beneath her feet, the well-nurtured trees in the courtyard, the oil lamps placed throughout. She felt the stones and mortar of the keep and all the people within it, each fighting for their lives against the undead minions of General Vahramp.

But she focused on the man who had come for her.

Piety flexed her power and brought her hands together. From the bench where Temperance had worked, sat three clay spheres filled with exploding powder. At Piety’s thought, they streaked toward the undead. From a hook in the wall behind and to the left of the creatures, an oil lamp streaked to meet them. The resulting explosion was bigger and brighter and louder than Piety had expected.

She felt the death of four of Vahramp’s minions, felt their screams battering at her mental shield. Several were doused in the suddenly flaming liquid and burned to death in a flash. General Vahramp escaped much of the fiery explosion, but she could sense from his thoughts that he been frightened by the unexpected attack.

Piety smiled.

Armed and armored men burst into the courtyard and fell upon the burning undead, bearing torches instead of swords.

General Vahramp leapt from the melee to the wall of the far side of the courtyard, his hands digging into the stone and mortar like it was soft earth. He paused to sneer over his shoulder at Piety and Piety took the opportunity to thrust her hands forward, palm out, striking from afar. She felt the strength of her telekinesis surging through the air. General Vahramp’s sneer twisted into wide-eyed fear. He scrambled up the wall like a spider and onto the roof, just as the masonry crushed and buckled.

Piety took a moment to stretch her awareness throughout the keep. The fight, it seemed, was won. They had lost people and more had been poisoned by the undead’s venom, but the creatures fled where they weren’t burning to ash. The soldiers had done their work and the healers were doing theirs now. They didn’t need her here, and General Vahramp was getting away.

Without having to touch her, Piety sent her mind voice to Temperance. “I’m going after Vahramp. Stay here, stay safe.”

Piety didn’t give herself time to consider the danger of her decision, or allow herself to hear Temperance’s objection. She sprinted across the courtyard, skirting the knot of burning undead and leapt after the general. As she jumped, she pushed behind her with her telekinesis and her body shot up higher than she’d intended, giving her, for several exhilarating moments, a bird’s eye view of the rooftops of the keep below her. She expanded her telepathic senses and spotted General Vahramp, sprinting through the town of Pinefort, headed for the nearest gate.

Gravity took hold and, for a moment, Piety panicked, the calm of emptiness left her. She saw the flagstones of the town square just outside the front entrance of the keep rushing toward her and knew her fall would be fatal. Blindly, she again thrust her telekinesis at the ground. She heard the stone crack and tasted dry earth as she hit the ground and stumbled to her hands and knees, bruising her body as she fell. The calm awareness of the cosmos was gone, but she felt good, refreshed, refilled.

People shouted around her, but Piety ignored them, pulled herself upright, and sprinted after Vahramp. As she ran, she pulled healing energy into herself, easing the pain of her fall.

She could feel him at the gate now, slashing through the unfortunate guards who tried to stop him with stony glares and harsh words. There would be nothing for her to save so she put them out of her mind, focusing on the fleeing Vahramp.

With another, more carefully aimed thrust of telekinesis, she leapt into the air, soaring high over the houses of Pinefort, her hair whipping around her face, her once white dress flapping about her legs. Her telepathic sense stretching, she could feel Vahramp fleeing into the hills, his superior speed and strength carrying him away from her. With another thrust of telekinesis, she pushed herself through the air, even higher, flying like a spear from the hand of a trained warrior, and she aimed herself at General Frederick Vahramp, the undead menace who fled from her.
