Peering around, I let out a breath out full of annoyance. Containing 500 different rulers wasn't about to happen. I'd have to deal with it after getting back to Earth.

Schema continued, "The Harbinger's Legion defeated an S- tier bounty while still in its formative stages. It exposed Elysium's plot for a rebellion, and the legion offered further military assistance for a time against the rebels. Despite its short time on the galactic scene, the legion has left quite a mark. Given his age and humble origins, the Harbinger is deserving of respect."

Schema chimed, "Treat him well."

Before Schema's presence left the area, I reached out with Event Horizon.  My dimensional wake met Schema's dominion in an unspoken and unseen clash. We wrestled for a moment before I got control of my immediate vicinity. It required condensing my aura and its effects, but I established my own sanctity over myself. He couldn't mute me like everybody else.

Satisfied with that result, I let the aura fizzle, giving Schema its dominance back. The quiet victory was plenty for me. Having a better idea of my galactic position, I pulled myself back into the Rise of Eden. It suited meeting people better than the bloodthirsty Event Horizon.

I lowered myself back to the ground, returning to Shalahora's side. The misty aberration murmured,  "It would seem you wished to be the one most remembered."

I put my hands on my hips, "It's more like that Overseer had a problem, so I had to act. I'm just glad I turned my situation into an advantage this time."

Shalahora simmered, "That Overseer affected everyone that stood on that panel to assert its dominance. You earned friends by confronting it."

I peered up, "That's good to hear."

Shalahora murmured, "And yet...You made enemies as well."

I peered around, "As always, right? Let them come."

Schema's words erupted from all sides once more, "Now, let's attend to the source of this meeting."

I took a breath, expecting the worst. It arrived with force as Schema stated, "A galactic wide conscription will be taking place. Guilds will be assimilated into Schema's primary guild, the Force of Iron. This will be a temporary measure until Elysium's been taken care of."

Disgruntled rulers snapped out,

"What? That's ridiculous."

"You never defended any guild when they needed protection. Why should we offer the same to you?"

"I spent my life putting my people in a place where we could live without fear. You're tearing down everything we've built since the culling."

Schema silenced the space around the rulers as it had with the Overseer. The AI stated, "You built your empires on my shoulders. Never forget that. I gave you system advantages from leveling to perks, and I enabled your economies via mass warping. I have even given you all protection from galactic horrors you know nothing about."

Schema stated like stone, "And you will never know about them if I am successful in the future. I monitor trillions of lives. Septillions of sentients have been saved by me. I need to call on a few of your strengths for a time. That is all, and it shall not go without an award."

I winced, knowing the reward paled when compared to the risk. Schema announced, "We'll be offering doubled experience and quest completions."

People sprang up in a silent uproar, everyone outraged but unable to speak. Shalahora linked up to me and said telepathically, "You know that those conditions are a paltry compensation for going to a war...What one gains is far less than what one loses."

I gave Shalahora a tight grin, "It's like I said earlier. We never got doubled experience or quest awards. They didn't send us reinforcements either. We were on our own."

Shalahora froze in place before turning towards the center of the room. The Sovereign menaced, "It would seem Schema is more desperate than I first envisioned...To abuse a newcomer to the system for its own gain...It is beneath one of Schema's stature...It abused the most vulnerable among us."

I frowned, and Shalahora raised an umbral arm. It hummed, "Schema's actions speak more to its character than your own...There is no shame in being ignorant."

My eyes hardened as I mouthed, "I'm not as ignorant anymore. I'm not fighting someone else's war for free again."

Schema spoke over the throng of rulers, "There is still a method of allocation regarding this conscription. Certain members will receive higher drafts, while others receive less stringent ones. That is what the lottery is for."

Most of the rulers calmed down. Their anger still surged, but they listened close to the AI's announcement. Schema said, "You will all be placed onto a fringe world of an enormous caliber. The requirement is to collect a cipheric artifact hidden within the world's largest dungeon. Those that bring back artifacts of value will also not be conscripted as heavily. The ten highest placing members of the lottery will not be forced into participating within the conscription, and they will still receive the awards from the war."

The runic markings across my armor glowed as I simmered, "Ah...Then I can't lose."

Shalahora crowed, "Neither may I."

Schema radiated, "The period of this test will be three months within a gravitational sink. Minutes will pass here, and your guilds will be fine. However, the fate of your futures will be determined by your ranking."

Schema's presence left the area,

"So let the lottery...Begin."
