Ren's personal Aura of 50 feet was now at 200 feet because of his Awesomeness Aura, his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak gave him another 50 feet, his Important Bracelet of Unbelievable Magic gave him another 150 feet, Void Sense added 50 feet, Waterkin added 50 feet, and since everything was tainted with Fear, it added another 50 feet. That was a total of 550 feet without concentrating on anything, so he concentrated on his Command Aura and added another 50 feet, and he added his Reassurance Aura just because he could.

Since Ren and Princess were only about 300 feet above the ground, his Aura covered a lot of the High Elves; which included the ones in the tower. He felt their shock that someone could approach them like this, and he did feel the Mana building.

“I'm here to help, so stop attacking me.” Ren commanded, and he felt the Mana slow down and stop.

“Why should we believe you?” The High Elf with the largest headdress said. He wore a harness over his shoulder and had 6 scrolls tucked into it, long robes, and a very sour expression.

“You don't have to believe my words.” Ren said. “Believe my actions.”

“But you haven't done anything.” One of the other High Elves said, and Ren saw that she wore a harness with 3 scrolls on it and long robes.

“Exactly.” Ren said. “I haven't done anything to you.”

The High Elves exchanged glances.

“Tell your soldiers not to fire on me or my friends.” Ren said. “We're going to be too busy to fight you, too.”

“You are right in the path of our most powerful spell casters.” A High Elf that stood behind the robed figures said. “They need a clear line of sight to the enemy.”

“Not any more.” Ren said. “I'm here to stop this.”

The High Elf laughed. “What's a single halfling going to do to several million undead ghouls?”

“Me? I'm not going to do anything.” Ren said and smiled. “Zetaya's going to take care of them.”

“Zetaya?” One of the spell casters asked, and Zetaya moved on Ren's back and lifted it's head stub to look at the High Elf that spoke. “Great Vasalor, it's a fire elemental.”

“HA!” The High Elf in behind barked a laugh. “Do you honestly expect us to trust the security of our entire kingdom to a halfling and a half-grown fire elemental?”

“I honestly don't care about you or your kingdom's security.” Ren said as he felt the High Elf's derision. “I'm only asking you to stop attacking me and my friends while we clean up this mess.”

“Well, then.” The High Elf crossed his arms and his armor clanked. “Go ahead halfling. We'll halt our attack just long enough to watch you fail.”

“That's all that I asked for.” Ren said. “Oh, and by the way.” He used his hands to flip his blonde fluffy hair off of his ears and pointed to them. “For your information, I'm an elfling.”

“WHAAAAAAATT?!?”A very short raven-haired woman exclaimed as she stepped out of the shadows and stared at him.
