The answer came in the form of a jumbled mix of emotions conveyed with enough force to knock most unconscious. The only common thread in the barrage was a sense of satiety after a feast. Vilari smiled as she collected the seven figurines. Chanting the mantra, the Seven Emotions returned to her Soul Aperture. They simultaneously formed an impenetrable wall while releasing a steady stream of purified Mental Energy wrought from pure emotion.

Vilari spent the next twenty minutes stabilizing herself before emerging from her hideout. A vaguely familiar world waited outside, and she eventually pinpointed a landmark present in the vision. Seeing it allowed her to map out the next step on her journey, yet Vilari couldn’t help feeling disappointed at the slow progress in her dreams.

She’d had hoped to get to the bottom of the mystery of the visions when collecting the final idol, only to be sorely disappointed. When the seven combined, she’d still found herself on the gondola, this time sailing in the opposite direction with a box in her lap. Since then, the visions had become a near-nightly occurrence. Naturally, the massive amount of Imperial Merit and forming a halo echoing her goal of fusing the idols into a mysterious tool called [Seven Downfalls] was a decent consolation prize.

While Vilari never got to see the island, she had a decent idea of what it represented. It was the Mercurial Court, and the thing in her lap was the very item she’d come to collect. It was the [Pasho’Har Bell] that the Beseechment Pavilion brought away from the Mercurial Court in their ill-fated attempt to implore God’s salvation when the Dao collapsed.

The ominous guide’s identity was less clear. The obvious answer was that it represented Jalach, who even now guided her journey during her final approach to the Anima Court. However, the primal fear the guide elicited differed from Jalach’s twisted mind, making Vilari wonder if it hinted at something else.

The guide had shown her different vistas for reasons that eluded her, always from the vantage of one form of transportation or another. One time, she’d traveled aboard an airliner through a stormy mountain range. Out of better options, she’d studied the mysterious fluctuations coming from the bell to refine her cultivation method.

The concepts held within were far beyond Vilari’s comprehension, but she figured that the snippets of enlightenment would accumulate over time. It was only when her dreams and surroundings when awake began to overlap that she found another purpose for the visions. The journey in her mind was guiding her toward the Anima Court through the unpredictable world of the Daynight Dreamer.

It was still hard to believe the vast world outside her cave was actually the surface of a Soul Core, and a small corner at that. Vilari didn’t know what kind of being’s Soul Aperture had been turned into a hidden realm, but she doubted it was one of the empire’s own supremacies. Even in the memory domain, it emitted a sense of antiquity, and it felt decidedly foreign.

Most likely, it was one of the earliest Innate Existences born from the Cosmos. It was also impossible to say whether the being was still alive, or if the aperture had been repurposed from its corpse. The Daynight Dreamer might have gone from one state of existence to another, like Alea Azh’Rezak did to accompany Zac.

While curious, Vilari saw no reason to dwell on the matter. It was the same as the mysteries surrounding her dreams. Everything would be made clear when she reached the Anima Court. Until then, she only needed to focus on continuing to advance while staying alive.

Vilari resumed her journey, only briefly stopping upon hearing the rustle in the leaves of a bronze-tinted tree. Why did they sound so much like the rings of a pewter staff? And why had a streak of uncomfortable Life appeared on the road?
