His hands went to his midsection. His waist seemed encased in some sort of tight armor, but it was just a hard shell that was part of his body. Beneath it, he could feel his potent musculature shifting underneath his probing fingers. His thighs and calves were the most overly muscular portions of him, bearing some hints of the shell armor, while in other places covered in the swirling tattoos that Randidly sensed were based on Primordial Nether Juju.

Randidly’s eyes were still emerald, his gaze intense. His cheekbones remained sharp, yet as with his neck, looked increasingly gaunt. His hair was somewhat different. Most of it remained black, but somehow he had developed some random strands that were either pure gold or silver. Those strange hairs glittered as they mixed with his dark hair, making him seem quite like a mad scientist.

His headache gradually began to ease. His thoughts began to run more smoothly, piecing the things back together. If anything, the problem had been the speed at which they came. With a bit of experience, he could cope. For now, he set aside the issue of the weird dream he had about his mother. Instead, he considered the ramifications of evolving his last Stat.

Randidly had once remade his body to suit his powerful capabilities. It had been an effective transformation that allowed him to stand toe to toe with foes in the Nexus that had much more well-developed images. But if he understood the recent reward correctly, that transformation had been a human warped until he possessed impossible capability. With all-new stats, he now saw the version of himself without being based on the template of humanity at all.

A monster, from genesis to execution.

He wondered if that would help, in his fight against Elhume. To no longer be human.

Neveah hopped down the edge of the crater and made her way to stand next to Randidly. She smiled at him and reached up to toy with his hair. “Honestly, I like it. You look like a silver and gold fox. Very fetching.”

“A silver fox, really? Neveah, I’m only-” Randidly snorted in spite of himself, but then paused when he realized he really didn’t know how old he was anymore. Probably in his mid-thirties, but with all the time training, it was easy to lose track.

Randidly gave himself another long look in the mirror. “It’s just… well. I’ve had a lot of changes since the System arrived. It’s not like I could just pause things before, but now I’m building up momentum toward something I can’t avoid, you know?”

Neveah stood on her tiptoes and brushed her lips against his cheek. Then she wrapped her arms around him, despite the fact he was a foot taller and with his added thickness, she could barely reach all the way around. “Still, you’re still you. So long as you believe that, there is hope.”

Randidly nodded, staring at himself. But he couldn’t help but wonder what it meant to be him, these days. After all, his insides housed an entire solar system.
