Tagging twenty squares in three minutes wasn’t a problem; they were sometimes even arranged conveniently. Alden had already spotted the cluster he would end his first round on, assuming there was no interference from Max—four squares grouped in the corner that could all be tagged with a couple of steps.

But there would be interference.

Probably.

[START]

Alden lifted and preserved his burden in a single motion. His skill protected the webbing from the weight of the bags. He positioned it over his shoulder like a hobo’s bindle and dashed for Max’s side of the block.

From this point on, he knew it would mostly be action and reaction. Ideas would seem stupid or brilliant after the fact, but the only ones he could really take pride in were the ones he’d thought about and planned for before the start signal.

He was still trying to decide if he liked the way close matches went here in the gym. He thought maybe he did, or he would when he knew his own abilities and responses better. When he’d done it so many times that right decisions got baked into his bones and he wasn’t constantly being surprised in unfortunate ways, they would be fun.

Now, he crossed the midline onto Max’s half to see the Adjuster wasn’t running yet. Instead, he was casting the spell Alden had thought he would.

Treadmill Zone.

Satisfaction. Annoyance.

Alden’s foot tagged a square. He ran at Max, swung the bags toward him like a hammer turned sideways, and dropped preservation so that the bags flew, trailing a line of webbing behind them that was still connected to the supply in Alden’s hand.

Don’t stop, he told himself.

Another square got tagged as the bags thudded onto the floor and rolled toward the place Max had just vacated with a sideways lunge.

The coil of webbing unspooled rapidly. Alden almost didn’t adjust his grip in time to avoid losing it.

Preserve. Lift.

He ran at Max again.

Max’s hands hadn’t stopped moving. His mouth hadn’t stopped moving. Spell impressions helped you focus, and he might have been the best in the class at refusing to be interrupted no matter what.

I saw him casting while he was falling off the wall on the obstacle course that time.

And here he was now, casting and sprinting while Alden was levering the bags up again, over his own head again, down and forward toward Max again.

Don’t die, Max. Don’t fall apart, knots. Don’t snap, rope.

Max ducked, and the bags sailed over his head.

Alden re-preserved his webbing at once.

Heavy.

He had caught the sandbags before they hit the floor this time. They strained against the preserved webbing then settled, momentum spent.

Shouldn’t smash them around more than I have to.

He wasn’t completely confident in the knots he’d tied at the last minute to add the second bag to the first. He’d been in a hurry.

But throwing them around played into Max’s impression that they were primarily a weapon. If he thought that, then maybe he wouldn’t decide to change tactics. Alden managed to catch a territory square with the very edge of his shoe as he reached the spot where the Adjuster had ducked. It was empty. Max was two strides ahead of him, arms pumping instead of casting as he ran for the other side of the block so he could start tagging Alden’s squares.

He got the spell finished.

Just one zone, but it could be anywhere. Max often cast them directly in front of where he was standing, which made it tempting to imagine it there, but that was a trap too. He could put them where he wanted as long as it was in range.

Stop chasing him.

Alden stopped and swept the thing that wasn’t a weapon sideways hard for one last attack. The preserved line slapped into Max’s shoulder and stopped. He ducked under it and glanced back.

Can I drop the bags on him from here after all? That might be—

And before the thought could be completed, Max was one step farther ahead. Out of reach.

Squares!

Alden set the bags on the ground. Dropped preservation. He was closer to one side of the dueling block than he’d planned, but it didn’t matter. Speed was what he needed now. He ran around the sandbags in a circle, leashed to them by the end of the webbing still gripped tightly in his hand. When he’d hit every square in range, he grabbed one of the loops tied around the bags like a handle and re-preserved. Those four squares in the corner.

He ran toward them.

He ran toward them.

He ran toward them and went nowhere.

Found the trap.

He felt a rush of excitement. It was only a single trap, he had managed to keep his tool in one piece without loosing entrustment, and Max wasn’t nearby.

The treadmill was wild; he couldn’t travel more than a single step in any direction. Some people could jump or run out of it—not Alden.

He set the sandbags down again, outside the treadmill zone he was caught in. He looped the webbing hastily around his left arm, gripped it, and tugged against the weight, trying to use it to pull himself free.

Nope.

Unsurprising. He’d thought more force would be required. He just hoped he’d brought enough.

He preserved again, lifted the sandbags over his head, and flung them hard ahead of him before dropping preservation.

Two hundred and forty kilograms sailed forward beyond the limits of the trap, and as Alden’s breath caught, the weight yanked him off his feet, into the air, and free.

He hit the floor in a decent roll and stopped himself quickly.

My arm is super broken! Elated with his success, he slapped two squares with his unbroken arm and scrambled to his feet.

The suit was applying a movement restriction, but only to his arm and shoulder. The plan was to use his legs now, nothing else.

He tagged the last two squares, and a new one appeared only a step away. He sacrificed a fraction of a second to take a single look at Max—not to worry about how much progress his opponent had made, only to make sure he was still over there, running around, instead of heading back this way and casting spells.

As soon as he saw that was the case, Alden took off.

I’m not slower than him.

Max had speed zones, but he had to cast them. And he had to choose to cast them here, in this duel, instead of in another one.

He’ll think the trap was enough to stop me. I have to go all in.

Alden sprinted from square to square, running as hard as he could.

Fourteen. Fifteen.

Don’t look again. A fight will end in a draw at best. He won’t be satisfied with a draw against the only other B-rank. He’s not coming back over here.

The treadmill trap probably still had juice in it. If another square appeared inside it, the delay would be unlucky.

He dodged around the zone. Eighteen.

He went all the way to the opposite corner flat-out for nineteen. Then, spinning so hard he almost fell, he spotted the last one appearing.

Red. There.

Three strides to reach it.

Twenty!!!

In his mind, he screamed it victoriously. In reality, he doubled over, gasping as he took in the notice.

[Duel over.]

[Winner:  Alden]

******

******

[Tattoo gone!] Haoyu texted the second Alden stepped into the recovery sauna.

Which was just about the only thing that kept him from promptly turning around and leaving the recovery sauna. The benches were nearly filled. Instead of the usual two or three adults minding their own business, there were more than thirty of them. They were still minding their own business, but the crowd made it way less relaxing.

For me at least.

Haoyu looked comfy enough. [Where did it go?] he asked.

I was only going to spend twenty minutes anyway. He still preferred not to fly back to Matadero in the dark. He took a seat between Haoyu and a guy with his arms crossed over his chest and his eyes closed

[What do you mean?] Alden texted. [I never had a tattoo.]

Haoyu let out a tiny puff of amusement instead of a laugh.

[I’ve still got the triangle under my arm,] Alden said. [It’s permanent. I had the rest removed.]

[Where the new tattoo?]

Right. The secrecy tattoo for Matadero that I don’t have yet. He kept his face as straight as possible. [Got it right over my butt. A big M for Matadero. To cheer Lute up.]

Haoyu’s brown eyes went wide then fixed on Alden’s stomach like they could x-ray vision through him to see the spot in question. [He didn’t really. Did he? What to say?]

If they had been alone, Alden would have died laughing. Instead, he clenched his jaw…and still failed to bite back a grin.

Haoyu caught the expression. [Joke!]

[I got you. Finally.] He looked around again at the people filling the sauna. [Why is it so crowded tonight?]

With a series of only slightly confusing texts, Haoyu managed to explain that the spa facilities at North of North had been packed when he stopped by yesterday as well. Everyone with a membership was treating themselves after the week they’d had, and a lot of working superheroes and celebrities who were usually off the island had come back to help out and to be seen helping out.

[Like Cavemanly.] Haoyu subtly pointed at the man beside Alden.

Much less subtly, Alden turned his neck to stare. [That is Cavemanly!]

[You didn’t knowing?]

[I didn’t recognize him with his hair up. And clean.]

There were several other vaguely familiar people in here, now that he looked around.

[So what do you think of duels?] Haoyu asked.

Alden refocused. [I liked them more today than Wednesday. I learned a lot.]

A lot.

The high he’d gotten from the challenging but manageable fight with Max had been marred by a duel he’d had with Ignacio shortly after it. Just the memory made his shoulder blades draw together and his breath hitch. Unlike Marsha, who wanted to get her fights against boring low-ranks over with as fast as possible, Shrike wanted to make his more interesting for himself. So he’d decided not to use his flock of knives against several members of the class. He’d faced off against Alden with zero powers, relying instead on his significant stats and a single bowie knife.

Which was very sportsmanlike and all, but I wish he’d just pincushioned me from the front with his Meister weapons and overwhelming magical force.

Having someone knock him to the ground and then drive a sharp object toward his back hadn’t caused a panic attack, but Alden had frozen in the moment and felt almost sick to his stomach afterward.

It was way too similar to what the guy in the greenhouse had done to him while he was trying to rescue Zeridee.

Something else I need to deal with. Can’t let stabbing attacks from behind become a new phobia or trigger.

Tiresome. Maybe it was the kind of thing the mind healer could help with.

It’s going to be so awkward if I meet her and decide I can’t trust her not to go poking through memories I don’t want her to see.

He needed to take his mind off it for now.

[I’m going shopping tomorrow,] he told Haoyu. [With one of the Rabbit counselors from intake. For clothes that will help me blend a little more when I go to—]

The door to the sauna opened and one of the spa employees ran in.

They really must be busy if she’s delivering the recovery potion refill at that speed, thought Alden.

The spa people usually went for calm and quiet.

<<I apologize to you all for the interruption,>> she said. <<But we thought we should tell you that a wizard has arrived and asked to try this room. You’re welcome to stay, but…a wizard will be here in two or three minutes. Maybe five minutes. We’re stalling him by giving him smoothie samples.>>

Alden was surprised that a third of the people present immediately stood and headed for the door. Cavemanly ran off at a speed that made the employee shout.

The woman who Alden had seen here a couple of times before took her cucumber slices off her eyes. “They scampered away just like that? Good. More room for the rest of us. Bring me a fresh towel, please.”

She started to replace her slices.

<<It’s one of the generals.>> The employee whispered the news so quietly that Alden wouldn’t have been sure it was intended to be heard if not for the translation.

Alden exchanged a glance with Haoyu.

Is this my fault? he wondered. Maybe Drusi-otta told them I was in a room full of heat and healing magic fumes, and one of them thought that sounded like the best idea ever.

Cucumbers frowned.

A couple more people stood up and left.

The employee gave a small nod to everyone else in the room. <<I’ll be back in a moment with a new potion and more water bottles. We might send someone in to freshen up.>>

There was silence for half a minute or so after she left. And then a man Alden had once seen playing the villain in an action movie made a show of stretching before he stood up. <<I don’t mind a little visit from a wizard, but if people are going to be marching in and out to clean I might as well go try the thought-softening sauna.>>

“That’s a good point,” a woman said, standing up. “I’ve always been curious about that one.”

Over the next five minutes, the sauna slowly emptied. Some people made excuses. Others just left.

One older man with several tattoos, looking grumpy, was finally dragged away by a much younger looking man. It was just Haoyu, Alden, and Cucumbers left.

She sighed and rose to her feet. “The Sunday crowd is so much cooler. I don’t mind chatting with a knight, but I don’t want to be the only human representative in the room. It’s not very spa, right? You two had better get going, too. Don’t try thought-softening, though. Who knows what it’ll do to teenagers?”

When it was just the two of them, Alden, feeling very unsettled, looked over to tell Haoyu it was all right if he wanted to go.

“Now there’s room!” Haoyu said. “I’m going to lie on the top.”

And he did, planting himself dead center on the topmost bench.

Alden looked around at the large, empty room, then back at Haoyu, who was making himself comfortable.

