Warmed as I am by the sentiment, it’s a little frustrating when he puts it like that. There are many prices too high to pay, too many to list in one go. “To be fair, I think the Legate just wants me strong enough to put up a fight against Yang Jixing. I’d hardly make a decent chess-piece if any random child could overpower me, but that’s not worth the staggering cost of a miraculous restorative elixir. There’s more to it, because the Legate is playing games within games, and I haven’t even figured out the rules yet, much less where we go from here.”

“Then I fear your mother would scold you for a fool.” Ignoring Mom’s scowl and her knuckles rapping against his head, Dad’s wolfish grin is both reassuring and terrifying, to the point where I almost feel bad for his enemies. “No need for you to worry, boy. These matters are beyond you, but there are others to shoulder the burden. After we put you to bed last night, your Grand-Mentor and I called a meeting to discuss our next move.” Noticing my surprise, he winks and adds, “You think yourself the only one concerned? Now, we know why you were ordered to remain here, instead of sent away to safety. It is clear we are being used to deal with Yang Jixing, but the Yang Family presents a dire threat to the Bekhai, one we cannot take lightly or defeat without grave repercussions.”

Well... at least he’s confident about our chances of victory against a Supreme Family and only worried about the freaking Emperor supporting them from behind. “So what did everyone decide?” Also, who was at the meeting? I don’t know any of the Bekhai big-wigs besides Akanai and Guard Leader, but no one will tell me any more.

Dad chuckles and trades a glance with Mom, who rolls her eyes and waves him aside. “You are a clever boy, but there are times when you think too much.” Stroking my cheek to blunt the sting of her words, Mom smiles and asks, “You say the Legate plays games within games, and you have yet to learn the rules, but even if you could recite them forwards and backwards, do you think yourself a match for a master such as he?” Not expecting an answer, she shakes her head and continues. “Not only is your opponent more skilled in this game of politics, but he has also stacked the odds in his favour, placed the judges in his pocket, and rigged the game so you will always lose, yet you still think to play, much less win? My sweet child, you are far too naive.”

Well, when she says it like that, anything could sound naive... “So you’re saying we can’t win no matter what?” Seeing Mom nod, I ask, “Then what are we supposed to do?”

“The only thing we can do in our circumstances,” Mom replies, leaning back with a smirk. “You carry on learning the rules and playing as you please, and if matters continue in this manner and your position becomes unsalvageable, then your father and I will step in to overturn the board.”

An answer so ludicrous I can only laugh, until I realize she’s dead serious and everyone else is in total agreement. “Wait really? That’s...” Not a terrible decision considering the circumstances. Forget their rules and play by our own. We’re not here to delve into politics, we’re here to fight the Defiled, so as long as the Legate and Jixing don’t cross our bottom line, then the Bekhai are happy to let the Imperials play their games. Mom is literally saying we give zero fucks, which I knew all along, but I figured the son of the Prime Minister would warrant at least a modicum of concern. As things stand, he does not, so come one, kill one, come ten, kill ten, regardless of the consequences, so we showed off our strength and put the ball in their court. That’s the Bekhai way.

It’s almost inspiring.

I’m still holding out hope for a non-violent resolution to this mess, because when you break it down, the sole cause of conflict is that Jixing wants Luo-Luo but can’t have her. Hardly a noble motivation for insurrection in light of the ongoing Defiled hostilities, but I doubt Shen ZhenWu will let things escalate so far. He’s probably just using the Bekhai to bring the Yang family down a peg or two before he swoops in to save the day and negotiates a compromise we can all agree on, which makes a hell of a lot more sense than driving a powerful loyal faction to rebel against the Empire. Essentially, he’s creating problems so he can be the hero who fixes them, like a fire-fighter who starts giant blazes before clocking in to work. Not exactly honourable, but so long as you’re never caught and don’t care about innocent casualties, then effective, I suppose.

Wait... what if he wants the Bekhai to rebel so he can sacrifice our fifteen-thousand soldiers to unite millions of others behind him?

My parents and sister don’t seem too concerned about my latest theory, merely shrugging it off with almost careless indifference. Regardless of their enemies’ plans or motives, they’ll do what needs to be done. This is true arrogance, complete confidence in their own ability to survive whatever may come, and it’s almost alien to my way of thinking. Deciding it’s too early for this much contemplation, I look around for my floofs but only find Mama Bun munching away at fresh veggies in the corner. Where are my bears and wildcats? I wanna know if I can pet them without being impaled by their fur...

The answer soon reveals itself as Luo-Luo steps out of her room with Jimjam, Aurie, Banjo, and Baloo all hot on her heels. Sorya and Anhri also follow behind, but it’s my pets who I’m concerned with, because they’re all so focused on Luo-Luo they have yet to notice my presence. Seething with jealousy, I sit and count the seconds before my traitorous floofs finally realize I’m here, which is far too long for my liking. To make matters worse, not only does their fur still pierce through my skin if I pet them the wrong way, but Luo-Luo also has little to say regarding my theories on Yang Jixing and the Legate, and even less on the Five Supreme Families in general. She can go into great detail about the Prime Minister’s office, but ask her about the man himself, and she can’t give me anything, not even a name, nor will she offer a guess about why the Legate might want the man’s son humiliated. I think she’s holding out on me, but not because she means to betray us. Despite all her progress these past nine months, she’s still wearing her Imperial-tinted glasses and believes no Scion can ever do any wrong. If ordered to tie a noose around her neck, she’d do it without thinking twice and then ask which branch they want her to throw the line over.

Another alien mindset, but I can’t blame her since she was raised and indoctrinated to be the perfect Servant, which is pretty much a slave without the Oaths. Still, I’m gonna need my Aura back asap so my floofs will love me more than they love her again.

Well... at least food tastes good again, though meat is still a little hard to chew. Now that I have an appetite again, maybe I can do away with my Skeletor cosplay and bulk up again...

When breakfast is done and my belly full, I offer to tag along with Luo-Luo and help do paperwork. I feel too good to sit around doing nothing, but not good enough to run, jump, or Perform the Forms, so paperwork is a good middle-ground and lets me keep an eye on Luo-Luo and my floofs, who seem hellbent on following her around even though I’m sitting right here. As soon as we’re ready to head out, Red One arrives with a Death Corps entourage, which is strange because Orange One arrived earlier while I was eating breakfast to report for escort duty. Raising an eyebrow at Red One as he kneels before me, I ask, “Did one of you get your schedules mixed up?”

“This one has not come for guard duty, though he is happy to serve at Great One’s pleasure.” At least this time, Red One said it without extra emphasis or innuendo, something which I would never live down if Alsantset overheard him.

“So why are you here?”

“Red One reports, Imperial Legate Shen ZhenWu has dispatched reinforcements to replenish the ranks of Great One’s diminished Death Corps Honour Guard, so this one has brought them here for inspection.”

Ah. In my defence, not only do all Death Corps dress the same, but they’re also all kneeling with heads bowed, so not realizing they’re all new employees isn’t entirely my fault. “Please stand,” I say, trying not to sound too pompous while I do the introductions. “Thank you all for coming, and I... uh, I look forward to... Kuang Biao?”

Dressed in black Death Corps armour, the former Royal Guardian grimaces as I call his name, but the expression disappears as he straightens to full attention. “This slave once bore this name,” he says, his voice monotone and eyes betraying his bitter outrage, “But no more. For crimes unbefitting of an Imperial Scion, this slave was sentenced to serve in the Death Corps and has yet to receive his designation.”

A glance at Luo-Luo confirms my sinking suspicion and my stomach somersaults in response. This is my fault for calling him out in public, because it meant someone had to pay for Yang Jixing’s blunder. Kuang Biao was likely ordered or blackmailed to shoulder the blame, and the Legate thought it’d be funny to place him in my honour guard as a slap to Jixing’s face. This is how the Imperials play politics, using the blood and freedom of innocents. Even a warrior as talented as Kuang Biao, a thirty-seven year old Peak Expert who would be lauded as a genius amongst geniuses in the outer provinces, couldn’t escape his fate as a pawn of the nobility, so what chance do I have to do the same?

“I’m sorry,” I whisper, and though Kuang Biao stiffens in surprise, he makes no reply, nor do I expect one. My good mood gone, I inwardly rail at the injustice of this world and wish I had the strength to change it, but if wishes were horses then beggars would ride. Right now, I barely have the strength to stand unaided, so all I can do is swallow my pride and accept this ‘support’ from Shen ZhenWu.

I once asked Zian how strong he would have to be before he’d act to save innocents from the Purge, but he didn’t answer and just walked away. Now, I understand why. It’s not the Purge I’m fighting against, nor is it inequality, slavery, or any other hot button issue. If my goal is to change the world for the better, then my enemy becomes the Emperor and Imperial Clan themselves, the true ruling elite who propagate and enable all of the above and will undoubtedly resist any efforts to change. This means the only option left is bloody, violent rebellion, something I was hoping to leave to future generations after the balance of power naturally shifted, but I don’t think I can wait that long anymore. I don’t want to lead a revolution, become the new God Emperor of Mankind, and park my ass on a throne for the rest of eternity, but even if I live till a ripe hundred and twenty years old, Lin, Mila, Yan, and Song will still be around long after I’m gone, and the same with Tali and Tate, Dad and Alsantset, and so many others. My pets, my friends, my family, my future children... Is this the world I want to leave for them?

Something to think about, but probably not act on until I have my Domain back, or like... a working Gundam or some other overpowered MacGuffin. For now, I’ll play along and pray I don’t have to go running to Mom and Dad, because if I’m being honest, I don’t know what they’ll do, and I never want to find out.

...Huh. I never thought of it like this, but I have MacGuffins for parents. That’s kinda awesome.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme2 Ala Moe from Discord

- End of Volume 26 -
