Alden headed over to watch Lexi toast. His eyes lingered on Haoyu, who seemed much more relaxed and like his normal self than he had earlier today. Kon and Max were observing Lexi’s efforts, too.

“You’ve got this,” said Kon, as the glowing tip of the thin chain approached an abused cupcake on the floor.

Alden sometimes wondered if he was imagining it, but since the Here-to-There, he thought Kon was dialing back his brotherly irritations. Definitely not all the way, but there seemed to be fewer of them.

I hope…

He didn’t want to finish his own thought because it felt like such a pointless one.

I hope everything works out for Kon, and he has a great life.

Naturally he hoped that. But hoping for it would have no effect on the situation. He wasn’t sure if he was avoiding looking for a final, official answer about whether Kon would be assigned to the Branch because he didn’t want to have to tell Kon a few days before Christmas. Or if it just hadn’t happened yet because he hadn’t had a truly private meeting with Esh-erdi and Lind-otta. He thought they might tell him if he approached the question well.

Kon was grinning. Haoyu was chanting, “Golden brown, golden brown,” like he was trying to plant the correct idea in Lexi’s head.

Writher touched the cupcake gently. Coconut blackened, and smoke rose.

“That’s just extra toasted,” said Kon, laughing as Lexi flicked the whip away with a thought.

“I don’t know why I agreed to try. My focus isn’t good enough after two hours of gym,” said Lexi.

“Pretend this one is Alden’s rug,” said Haoyu, setting down his own half eaten cupcake. “And toast it less than that.”

Alden smiled with them all because it was funny.

Be here. On this layer. It’s been a good day.

There was a spaceship on Artona I that the boy beside him might be bound for.

And there was a boy on Artona I who got a countdown clock on Alden’s interface, but not enough truth.

Vandy was across the room, folding that blue and white scarf and putting it in her bag. Earlier today, Alden had received a reply to the message he’d sent to the scarf’s creator.

Of course Mrs. Nancy wasn’t rude. She also wasn’t warm.

She appreciated him letting her know he wouldn’t accept her invitation to come over this Christmas. But “all things considered” it was probably for the best.

Maybe, she said, some other year.

******

******

******

On Saturday morning, Haoyu Zhang-Demir woke up before sunrise, put on a Scorpius shirt, and left the apartment quietly so that he wouldn’t bother his roommates.

As he exited Garden Hall, the duffel bag he’d packed the night before was over his shoulder, and his heart was beating too fast for a Brute who was only walking around.

A car was scheduled to pick him up and take him to the ferry. On his way to the street where it would be waiting, he wished for his mother’s safe return forty times.

It was happening for sure at this point. Absolutely. One hundred percent. The call yesterday had been the important thing, and there was no reason to be worried now, just a couple of hours before she was due home.

But he walked slowly so that he could make the last wish before the car’s driver spotted him and interrupted.

All right, he thought as he approached the street, Molly’s text said it would be a green luxury vehicle. Car service cars are usually black.

He spotted his ride almost immediately and stopped, his mouth opening to shout, “You guys!” like it was an accusation. Even though there was nothing at all bad to accuse them of.

The nonagon was parked beside a street lamp. Lexi, Lute, and Alden were all sitting on it, bundled up in warm clothes for an early, windy flight.

Lute sprang off the platform’s edge and ran toward Haoyu. He flourished his arms as he bowed. “Good morning, sir. Good morning. Please allow me to take your luggage.”

“That should be my line,” Alden said to Lexi.

Haoyu gave Lute his bag.

“Very good, sir. Right this way. Don’t worry about the riffraff. If they disturb you, I’ll throw them into the sea.”

“Is this how your helicopter pilot used to talk to you when you flew to school in the mornings?” Haoyu asked.

Lute heaved the bag toward Lexi, who caught it and put it beside his own small suitcase and backpack.

“You all must have gotten up so early! When did you plan this? I thought a car was booked.”

“Lute thought of it, and Lexi called your dad to make sure it would all work out. I’m just the pilot who comes with the vehicle,” said Alden. “Welcome aboard. This is a direct flight to the TC. We have an in-flight beverage service thanks to Lute.”

Lute presented Haoyu with a thermos.

“It’s broth he made with ramen packets,” Lexi warned.

“And a splash of orange juice,” said Lute. “For the health benefits.”

Haoyu had never gone with friends to meet one of his parents after a trip. He hadn’t thought that he would appreciate the company. But this company, on this morning…

He settled between Lexi and Lute, facing Alden. All of them were huddled and making adjustments as Alden sent the nonagon skyward and they discovered which of the things they carried were most vulnerable to the whipping wind.

“I might cry, you guys.” Haoyu thought it was better to announce it in advance so that nobody would be worried if it happened. “At the TC. Sometimes I do. Sometimes I don’t. It can just hit out of nowhere.”

“Now you have to cry, or we’ll know you’re not really happy we did this,” said Lexi.

“I’m happy! This is way better than a car.”

“Drink the broth,” Alden suggested. “Give your tear ducts plenty of liquid and salt to work with.”

******

******

******

Despite the warning he’d given them, Haoyu didn’t cry when his mother came out of the arrivals hall at the Teleportation Center. All three Zhang-Demirs were beaming and talking over each other.

The details of their exuberant greeting struck Alden at least as hard as tears would have. He could feel the images of them together sticking in his mind, and he thought he’d be able to remember this, even years from now, with perfect clarity.

Their voices echoed in the large open space. Their hugs lifted each other’s feet off the floor. Haoyu didn’t realize his hands were greasy from the breakfast sandwiches they’d eaten while they waited with his father, and when he grabbed his mother and clutched the back of her shirt, his fingers left dark spots on the silk. If they noticed the smudges at all, none of them cared about them.

It was a beautiful scene. Alden fought not to let it become something more complicated in his head.

Were you on Goldbush? he wondered, watching Hale Zhang-Demir. She ran a hand through her husband’s hair and asked her son about his final grades. Or somewhere worse? What did you see there?

And how far away did you feel from home?

His interface clocks popped up, responding to an unwanted twitch of thought. He banished them with a more deliberate one.

He had a call scheduled with Yenu-pezth later today. He hoped it would settle his mind.

******

******

“I can tell I’m doing better in a lot of ways, but I’m starting to think I’m getting weird in new ways now that I finally have more room in my head and in my life.”

“How so?” asked Yenu-pezth.

Alden had chosen to come to Matadero to talk to the healer, to take advantage of the privacy of his hospital room. Sitting across from the life-sized image of her displayed on the wall, it was almost like they were in the same space.

She’d congratulated him on achieving the type of outcome he’d wanted in his bokabv dreams. They’d talked about how great it was to spend multiple days in a row with no shadow of doom hanging over him. He’d mentioned the doors he was trying to look through.

And now this.

“For the past couple of days, whenever I’m enjoying something, it’s like I make myself look for signs that the good around me is as thin as paper. It’s not as if I can’t appreciate it. But I’m much more aware of all the…smudges on the world than I want to be. I keep trying to look past them, so I can properly live my life for a while and find out how that feels. But there the smudges are.”

“Perhaps you should try looking at them instead of turning your eyes away.”

Alden grimaced.

Yenu-pezth wore a green and white robe today. She was sipping on something in a tall cup, and the jar of honey Alden had given her was on a tray beside her.

“Why do you want to look past these ‘smudges’ at this time when you are a person who chooses a nightmare full of demons for your healing?” she asked after she’d regarded him for a while. “And why can you not look away from them? Is there a reason you can find within the pattern of your thoughts?”

She took another sip. “If you walked the inward path today, what truths would you eventually tell me and yourself about this?”

“I could find out the next time I walked there for real.”

“Yes,” said Yenu-pezth. “But I don’t think the answers to these questions are beyond your natural reach. You’ve come a long distance already, and it sounds like whatever this is may be hard to ignore because it’s only a few steps away from you now.”

******

******

Alden walked for miles down hallways devoid of life, past signs warning of flood traps and doors that would become inoperable once they were closed during an emergency.

Despite Yenu’s belief in him, he didn’t feel any of the clarity he usually enjoyed on the inward path.

Stuart called a couple of hours into his directionless trek, and Alden sat in a stairwell that looked like it might not have been used since the facility was built while they talked. Of course Stuart wanted to talk about skills he might like.

“I don’t know if I would rather be a Healer than what I am,” he said to the Artonan who was sitting in a library full of possibilities most humans could barely imagine. “And I don’t know if I’d take the ability to fly or teleport or leap mountains over all the other options you must have there in front of you. I keep thinking about how good it is that Haoyu’s mother came home today without a single scratch, so maybe that’s an indication there’s something special to me about their Dura Brute build. Really, I’m all over the place right now. I know nothing about myself.”

“You have sent me an unusual number of messages since we last spoke,” Stuart noted. “And they do seem…less focused than usual. About the one from earlier today—just grapes are fine. The fruit itself, not all of those other things you mentioned. Maybe a couple of varieties of grapes?”

“I’ll get you the best grapes on Earth,” Alden said.

“That’s good. But if you are digging for lost focus, I’d rather you apply what you find to this,” said Stuart, patting one of the books in front of him. “Let me continue. When you protect something with your skill, do you think about nurturing more? Or stabilizing? Do you prefer one to the other in general? And are you usually more attentive to yourself, to what you preserve, or to the person who entrusts you with the thing you preserve?”

Alden couldn’t answer him.

“I have a timer that shows me when the next Welcome End is,” he said instead. “Would you tell me if the date I’ve set is right?”

That caught Stuart’s interest. “A timer? For me?”

“Yes. So I’ll know. It’s part of my interface now. I want to make sure it’s accurate.”

“It’s so encouraging to think someone has done something like that with hope for me in mind instead of negativity! What does the timer look like with your language’s numbers on it? May I see?”

Alden asked the System to send him a copy of it. Stuart was so delighted by the countdown clock that he started thinking up things to say about it in their shared study journal on the spot.

“I may go to first binding well before the time on this expires,” Stuart said. “But knowing you keep track of the days for me in this way means much.”

I’m glad such little gestures matter to him…oh. He’s just said something I didn’t know. Something big.

Alden placed a hand on the bottom of the stair rail. “You might go to first binding sooner? But…the promise to your parents…”

Stuart looked up as if he was imagining his family walking the floors of the house above him.

“They don’t know what Father said to me during our conversation, so don’t mention this in their presence. But we spoke of confidence. It was in my thoughts because of you, of course. He said he hoped I would find a confidence in my path stronger than what I had on that morning when I first told them all my decision for my choosing season and they reacted…as they have reacted. He said that if I have such a confidence within my grasp, I should act on it with my full strength and with the knowledge that he will not be disappointed. He asked me to promise him I would.”

Stuart sat very straight in his chair as he spoke those last words.

Alden felt like the walls were swaying, just a little. Perhaps Matadero had come loose from whatever magic held it in place, and it was now rocking in the ocean.

Or sinking.

“Don’t mention it to anyone,” Stuart said again.

Alden nodded. “I won’t.”

******

Alden continued to walk for nearly an hour after he finally got off the call. His countdown timer was now useless except for Stuart liking that it existed. He felt as though he’d been cheated.

Months or days or minutes left. Who knows? Not me.

“The Primary is trying to drive me insane from fifty dimensions away,” he said aloud. “This is all his fault. I should complain to his sister.”

