“Your head is too high to hit me there.” Ren said and she felt his amusement.

The woman growled in frustration as she leaned against him, and then she felt Ren react to the sound, both emotionally and physically. She was surprised for only a moment, then she held in her smile as she shimmied her back against him and growled a little more. Ren let her wrist go and stepped back from her, and she rolled forward to get farther away from him. When she turned back to look at him, she saw his reaction was profound and felt his confidence waver.

“I believe I have found the weakness in your fighting stance, King Ren.” She said and stood up, then quick as a flash, she took two steps and leaped across the space between them with her hands held up high in a clear grabbing technique. Ren reacted automatically and grabbed both of her wrists to catch her, and he felt how happy that made her. He stared at her face with wide eyes as she completed the move in an instant and swung down from his hold and wrapped her legs around his waist and pressed herself against his pronounced bulge.

She only wore a thin bodysuit, so she ground herself against him and wiggled her hips and stared back at him. She was sure of her win in this fight, since using everything at your disposal to win was a part of their philosophy, then she gasped as his desire burst out and flowed directly into her and then out.

The other representatives had enough composure not to gasp as they felt the flood of desire, and unlike Ren's opponent, they stopped moving. The magic user was glad that he didn't have to keep concentrating on the magical barrier, because all he could think about was the woman beside him. They had been fooling around in secret, and that really turned them on. Their heads turned at the same time and they stared at each other, and their desire joined with Ren's.

“Good god.” Kenkoth whispered as Ren's desire filled the room and wasn't held back by the magical barrier, since it was only intended to stop physical and magical attacks from reaching the crowd.

“Let... go.” The woman fighting Ren almost pleaded.

Ren felt her emotions about needing to get away, so he let her wrists go. She didn't hop away like he expected, though. She instead wrapped her arms around his shoulders and kept staring into his eyes as she kept moving and grinding against him.

“I... will... win.” She panted and ground harder.

Ren felt her determination to defeat him where she believed he was vulnerable, and he let a big grin spread across his face. “I enjoy being underestimated.”

She caught her breath as his confidence overwhelmed his desire and he reached down to grab her backside firmly and helped her move. Her eyes widened as he essentially took over her attack and then he used his other hand to expertly untie her complicated tunic. She gasped when he slid his hand inside to grip her breast and started to massage her, then did the same to her backside while still keeping her moving.

She couldn't stop her own emotions shifting from needing to win to needing to finish. Ren slid his hand from her breast to her back, while still inside her tunic, and he pulled her in close.

“I'm sorry that you were wrong.” Ren said. “I'm the one that's going to win this fight.”

“N-no, I... mhmm!” She moaned as Ren kissed her and poured all of his sexual desire into her. She tightened her arms around his neck and she moved her hips even faster than she thought she could. The people around them couldn't help but add their own desire at the sight, and then Ren felt her getting close. He moved his hand from her back and grabbed her hip, and slid his other hand from her backside and gripped her other hip.

She thought he was going to stop and she held on desperately, and he felt her emotions as they matched her movements this time. He broke the kiss and leaned back slightly and saw her red face, and he smiled as he pulled her gyrating hips away slightly.

“N-No!” She exclaimed at the denial of her satisfaction and tried to pull herself back in.

Ren grinned and pulled her back in to jam her against his bulge, which made her moan, then he did the same motion again several times to essentially dry-hump her, and that drove her over the edge. She finished spectacularly and her body shook as her emotions flooded out to fill the room and covered everyone.
