“Holstred, Lillian, Kindroth, William, and Tramon have also all entered the Central Domain by now. From your earlier description of how you appeared there, I suspect people are spread out unless they expressly enter together. Given that he entered alone, chances are Tramon is flying solo, which I wouldn’t necessarily consider a problem. Also, in case you’re wondering, our Behemoth Vassal has also entered.”

“That’s only to be expected,” Jake answered with a nod. He reckoned that most top factions had started sending their people into the Central Domain by now, as not going would quite frankly be silly.

“I guess there’s not much more to talk about. Just be careful, all right? It would be devastating if you ended up dead and were out of commission for thirty days. If you do die, though, please try to do it somewhere with no witnesses; that way, we can at least act as if you’re still around,” Miranda said, being nice and curt. “Oh, and do keep me updated with any notable discoveries.”

“Gonna do my best. To all those requests,” Jake said with a smile, not wanting to promise he was going to be overly careful, as that simply wasn’t in his nature.

“That’s all I can ask,” Miranda said. “Now I’ll leave you to it.”

With those words, she severed the connection, removing Jake’s distraction from the heat, making him instantly focus on the suffocating environment. Jake kept flying, wondering if he’d come across any other people any time soon, or if he was the only one stupid enough to venture into the desert.

That’s when he finally spotted something. In the distance, before it even entered the range of Jake’s Pulse, he saw faint greenery. At first, he questioned if he’d somehow reached the other side of the desert already, but as he got closer, he realized it was an oasis of sorts. It was small, with only a few dozen small trees, some underbrush, and a lake about ten meters across.

The desert clearly had fewer treasures than the jungle, but it was definitely about time Jake came across another one. Speeding up, he soon reached the oasis, and as he did, a wave of relief washed over him.

A safe zone.

Inside the oasis, the air was cool and normal; the sunlight didn’t feel overwhelming anymore, and Jake let out a loud sigh of relief. He walked through the oasis, taking deep breaths and enjoying the comfortable air. Looking towards the lake, Jake inspected it carefully, not finding anything amiss.

With no one else around, why not take a breather and take a little dip? With a smile, Jake unequipped all his gear and proceeded to step into the water of the lake... and the moment he did, he instantly found himself fully underwater, having been dragged into some other dimension once more.

He had been wrong. This was no safe zone. No lucky find. Instead, it was a far more vicious trap than what he’d come across earlier. A far more cruel one. Because as Jake looked around himself, seeing only water, he quickly realized that stepping into the lake had dragged him to the most evil place imaginable:

A water level.
