“… Fair enough.” Erick could see he had upset Yggdrasil, and that Yggdrasil was being pulled in a bunch of different directions right now, so Erick said, “I won’t poke holes.”

Yggdrasil stared for a moment, judging to see what Erick might be thinking, and then he nodded and stepped away.

Shadow said to Erick, “I’ll get started on those churches.”

Erick almost sighed, but then he put on a grin. “Sure.”

Shadow stepped away.

Erick spoke to the empty room, and a little bit to the sky, “So is that Good/Evil sun Balanced yet?”

The sky did not shift at his question.

The land was still in transition, it seemed, so Erick could not change the image of the sky overhead. Tir Geal was not fully House Benevolence’s and it wouldn’t be theirs for a year, due to rules and regulations. And probably Erick needed to establish his Authority somewhere. That’s what the manaminers were for, though.

Now that the Quarantine was over, they could actually get some of those manaminers. Erick went back to the main House and started getting things rolling on a whole bunch of projects, from talks with Powerminer Incorporated to the electrical grid, to more housing concerns. Mostly, he assigned people to tasks, though.

There was absolutely no way to be personally involved with a country of 39 million people, and so delegation was the order of the day.

- - - -

Four hectic days passed, with Erick running around like a never-ending bolt of lightning, passing from this side of the kingdom to that side of the kingdom.

The day found Erick hovering in the sky over city #104, fixing up the dungeon tower’s node network connections because someone had busted them and he was the only one who could fix them right now. And then the world shifted. He felt the shift before it actually happened. It was as though the foundations of the world had been shifting and something finally fell into place, and everything seemed more solid.

He looked up at the Margleknot sky.

The sky changed.

Gone were the layers of land, and the crisscross of Fae Enclave and Quantum Nexus Hub. Here now were the suns of Margleknot. They were colorful orbs in the sky, each spilling out a different color into the universe, while the black-and-white central sun held all the rest in orbit. That central sun was the source of the fundamental shift in the universe.

Because it was changing.

It still got Erick sometimes, even when he was now a 2.5-kilometer tall dragon, when big things moved fast. The scale of it all was still awe inspiring. Scary. Thrilling. Magical.

The black sun with its white ring became something that was less of both extremes, and yet more of both at the same time. The black sphere and white halo became one, and the end result was a larger sphere than before that was black in some places and white in others, like a real sun, but turned to a shade of grey, or static on an old cathode-ray television screen. It was easier to look at, mostly. That’s what really got Erick. The Balanced Sun was a lot more… Balanced—

Erick felt a surge within, and the lightning river that was his soul, mind, and body, surged with strength. The Darkness within turned absolute and the lightning that poured out of that Darkness was larger than ever before. Erick felt his draconic body growing again, his tail lengthening into the ground, casually brushing away hills and a small pond by the tower he was working on. His head poked up above the tower a lot more. His wings widened—

He hovered upward, careful not to make too much of a draft, but to at least get away from the casual damage he was doing with his mere presence on the field. Soon enough, he regained control. His body had grown a few hundred more meters long, but Erick stopped that continual growth, for now.

His Status was suddenly a lot more than it had been, though. He had been sitting at a large increase due to clearing out Slaver’s Den, but the sudden restoration of the Balanced Sun seemed to have… triggered something?

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 231.73m per day / 2,682.16 per second , [Darkness Level = 15.8x Ascension baseline]

Body: 891

Mind: 1086

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+2,440.76, -9] Basic upkeep

Mp: 594.7m/∞, ↑ [+831.46, -3] Basic upkeep

Hp: 581.1m/∞, ↑ [+840.64, -3] Basic upkeep

Pp: 582.8m/∞, ↑ [+840.64, -3] Basic upkeep

Resons: 33.4m [+241.39 = +26.82]

His Stats were about 20% higher than they had been an hour ago and his Darkness Level had jumped from 10x Ascension baseline to 15.8x… And he still needed to hook up some sort of time/layer-check with Yggdrasil. That need had been on the backburner for a while now.

And it would continue to be on the backburner until Erick could fix up Tir Geal to the point that he didn’t have an emergency every other minute.

Erick got back to work.

Nine days later, it had been two days since the list of emergencies had started coming in slower, and then dried up altogether.

Ten days after that, Erick actually managed to sleep a little inside a [Hasted Shelter].

- - - -

Erick woke and felt wonderful. He stepped out of his upper rooms in the mountain stronghold of House Benevolence, located off the edge of City #1, which was still called ‘City #1’ because no one could decide on a better name, and Erick had already named it #1, even if that was a temporary name. The name had stuck. It would probably be City #1 for the rest of Tir Geal’s existence.

The Wizard Dragon of Benevolence was a mere human-shaped person right now, as he rested his hands upon the railing of his balcony, feeling the warmth of the Margleknot sky upon his skin, as he stood there wearing some simple glowthread boxers. Wind tickled across his body, carrying with it the scents of little white flowers, like jasmine, that were growing upon the gardens outside of his room. It was a nice scent, and this place was rather wonderful.

People were probably watching him now that he was out of his [Hasted Shelter].

Let them watch.

Erick cast his sight wide, to the world beyond. The cities of Tir Geal stretched out before him, all orderly and yet organic. Trees cropped up between houses and in the centers of wide roads. Farms were growing a lot of good grains and otherwise out there, in the distance, while some buildings had been torn down and replaced with more unique structures, according to what the people who lived there wanted them to be. That was good. Erick had never intended to dictate the architecture of Tir Geal; only a starting point.

In addition to the new buildings out there, it appeared that the Engineering Department was doing well with its rollout of electricity, which was great news for getting people reconnected to the rest of the universe. Erick saw quite a few screens out there in peoples’ hands and on room walls and in cafes and restaurants here and there. There were an uncountable number of interdimensional news stations and television stations and all sorts of tech-side-of-Margleknot people that broadcast in Margleknot. Erick didn’t bother to watch any of it except what he caught as he flew around here and there, solving problems.

It was all rather incredibly entertaining, which was kind of a problem, because Erick found himself pausing sometimes when some people nearby were watching something interesting. A few stations even advertised as ‘Margleknot Approved!’ which meant that even Yggdrasil was watching those stations.

Yggdrasil seemed to like the family dramas, which was kinda cute. Erick found himself liking them, too, and also toying with the idea of spending a lot of money to get people to make certain shows for him. He had no idea what kinda shows he wanted to watch, but the idea of it was interesting.

Some people watched some truly horrific shit, though, and Erick kinda wanted to censor some intakes to Tir Geal, but he had spoken with Lanzoil about that sort of stuff, and decided against it. Right now people were free to watch and do whatever they wanted, which was leading to some weird stuff out there, but it was fine. Lanzoil was keeping an eye on it.

Erick had been sleeping for a full 65 hours under the [Hasted Shelter], so only about an hour in real time. He had not known that he had needed all of that sleep, but he was glad he had taken it. The world had not burned down while he rested. It would not burn down later, either.

With a quick look, Erick turned back to his room and activated a tablet near his bed, marveling for a moment how he had gone for so long without technology assistance, and how much he missed having this sort of easy access to information feeds. Of course, with all this access to tech, the workload increased a lot. These lists of tasks were collated by a whole lot of people numbering in the tens of thousands, instead of how it had been on Veird where agents of the House and various networks moved at the speed of people-talking-to-people.

Lists of requests flashed open on the tablet, already organized into degrees of urgency. Erick scrolled for a little bit —feeling less than happy that he needed to scroll at all, and how paper-plus-mana-sense did better than tech sometimes— and found nothing too urgent. Sure, there were things to be done, but nothing too pressing. Everything was labeled as a ‘request’, not a ‘necessity’.

Erick had asked Lanzoil about printing out this list every morning for him instead of giving it to him on a tablet, but Lanzoil had looked at him like a crazy person, because the list was 10,000 pages long, and so Erick just flicked through fast, on a very fast tablet. It worked well enough. It certainly wasn’t instant, though.

There were some ‘high priority’ requests for him to make decisions about property rights for new buildings and resettlement requests for people to own land outside of the city, to make that new land their own. There were also a bunch of meeting requests from ‘other Good’ nations out there, even though Erick had definitively said that Tir Geal was not ‘Good’, not really. It was more Benevolent, which was better in his opinion. But places like the Celestial Observatory, and Astrologer Moonarcher in particular, had called Tir Geal a ‘Good nation’ in her letter to the House…

Erick wondered where, exactly, the Good lands differed from House Benevolence in regard to politics.

He smiled.

It was a ‘paperwork and decisions’ sort of day. A ‘meet some nice people’ sort of day. No one was at war. No one was threatening the realm. A lot of people wanted to move here, actually, which was great. That 39-million-person number was probably going to double in the following decades. Free housing, healthcare, and close to Margleknot? Yes please!

Erick adjusted his glowthread clothes to full coverage and went about meeting people.

It was one of the things he loved doing the most. Solving problems through words. Enacting positive change through the organization of people. Making people happy.

Lanzoil brought up the issue of the economy halfway through the day and Erick attended a Hasted meeting with tens of city governors, all of whom had great ideas and lots of people behind them who wanted to enact those ideas, from farming initiatives to warpdrive repair stations to entertainment sectors, all eager to get to work. Erick shook some hands and approved some things and even got a copy of 100 seasons of some show that Margleknot watched now and again, from the company that produced that show. Erick smiled as he held that ‘infocube’ in his hand, and then asked how he was supposed to watch it. That got him a good chuckle from the movie producer and a few others in the room.

Erick decided to figure out how to watch it later.

Querkooda spoke with Erick about security and wartime response, and the adjustment to smaller readiness levels, since Erick was the main force in the war and most of the valkyries —who remembered and liked being valkyries— were happy to turn to guard duty and city guard duty, in their normal, mortal forms. Most people didn’t even remember piloting a valkyrie at all.

Ta’Kamoil spoke of arcanaeums in every city, and how he had used prognostication to easily locate former teachers and professors and mages of all sorts, who had been listless and eager to open schools. He also spoke of how the vast, vast enlargement of governing structure was going rather well.

“Suspiciously well,” Ta’Kamoil eventually said. “Benevolence is acting like a partner-in-the-mana to a great many people. It’s great. It’s also concerning for a lot of people. What do I tell them, officially?”

Erick smiled, and said, “Those who find that the mana loves them are just experiencing what I experience all the time when I make magic. The mana is a great friend to have, but they speak in a bit of a different language than most people, so you have to adjust how you think and have some real empathy in order to communicate well.”

Ta’Kamoil raised an eyebrow. “I suppose that’s a good way to put it.”

The meeting with Shadow had Erick overseeing a prison full of infiltrators and assassins and otherwise that she had caught skulking around practically everywhere. From the main House to the lowest hovel out there in the parts of Tir Geal that were still wasteland, she had found assassins and saboteurs, and then she had put them into a prison where they slept on beds of soft shadows.

Shadow said, “I separated the ones that have Contracts with Wraithborne from the rest. They spoke of ‘just doing their jobs’ before I put them under.”

Erick frowned a little as he surveyed the hidden prison and sleeping prisoners. “Wraithborne did ask that we simply smack them around and send them back.” He asked Shadow, “Should we do that?”

Shadow shrugged. “I’ve got my Queen’s Guard everywhere, all of them empowered to see these sorts of malefactors long before they commit harm. They can’t do shit against us. If you want to work with Wraithborne then I suggest you accept their request and we can capture and contain problems as they appear.”

Erick nodded. “Yeah. I agree. So let’s wake some assassins up and slap some wrists. The other ones are getting reincarnated.” He asked, “You’re sure about the delineation of Wraithborne-versus-not?”

“Absolutely.”

Erick woke some people up, slapped some wrists, and then turned the rest of the prisoners into younger versions of themselves. From there, those people went into the reintegration programs that he had needed to institute for former slave owners, which occupied all of Cities 30 through 52.

