“They were asking when the valkyrie spell would end.”

Erick smiled, saying, “I came here to tell you that, actually. 3 days. I’m getting the word out now. Next to tell is Ta’Kamoil.”

Querkooda told his valkyries, “Then there you have it. 3 days.”

The valkyries bowed, and spoke as one, “Sir!”

The two actual-valkyries looked sad about that, but the two elves looked secure.

Erick departed.

Erick reappeared next to Ta’Kamoil, who was sitting in a lotus position on a nice purple pillow, in a quiet room. His eyes were closed, lightning flickering on his eyelids, as his hand and pointed finger hovered over a rapidly rolling list of names on a screen. He was doing some prognostication magic to figure out a person for a job, and probably some sort of sewermaster, based on the various diagrams around the room.

Erick wrote the man a note and set it on the ground next to him.

The next visit was to Shadow.

She was working with Holy Mother Caa and Witch Aragathara in a dark room filled with lights and diagrams that reminded Erick a lot of Lionshard’s universal-scry room, or the Benevolent Sky with its grand strings of white with black tangles. Lights and powers and diagrams floated here and there, but instead of on the scale of the universe, it was simply the scale of Margleknot.

Erick asked, “Deciding where to best put forth effort to ensure that Tir Geal’s return to Margleknot-space goes well?”

Caa turned slightly faster than Aragathara. Both of them had turned well before Erick finished his first word, and both of them had bowed fast.

Shadow continued to work on some lightning-stuck problem with what appeared to be… assassin lands? Also the Mortal Lands. Erick almost wanted to know what that was all about, but he saw enough, and Shadow spoke without turning, “We have three days to return, do we not? We will be prepared, Erick. Don’t worry about this stuff, unless you desire to worry about it. I’m taking care of it.”

Erick felt touched. He smiled softly. “Glad to hear it. I won’t worry.”

Shadow added, “When the bankers come to us demanding we pay off Slaver’s Den’s debts because we took their land, and paying debts on captured land is what they do around here in order to keep things civil and orderly…” She looked at Erick. “I’m going to politely tell them to fuck off, and then when they politely tell me that I am courting death, I am going to tell them that we’re going to out-banker them with your 9-1 reson conversion rate if they keep pressing the issue. Do I have your agreement in this stance?”

Erick chuckled. “That sounds like a fine plan. I don’t want to become a banker, though.”

Shadow nodded. “Think about it. Genuinely, too. You could make lots of money here. Or, you could at least make lots of influence through money here, which is much more important.”

Erick thought for a second. “I’ll... figure something out with regards to money. Lanzoil was talking about all of that stuff.”

“Aye. He was talking to me about all of that as well. If you don’t want to do any of that banking nonsense, then I’ll be taking that opportunity.”

Erick nodded, humming in thought, his mind going elsewhere… “Sure, Shadow. A separate bank, if you want. Keep it separate from the House.”

Shadow nodded. “Of course.”

And then he got back to work.

The red rust sky of Lord Dakka was gone, and had been gone for five days now, but the golden ‘QUARANTINE’ hexagons of Yggdrasil’s power still remained up there, completely blocking out everything beyond Tir Geal. If you didn’t look directly up, the land looked as though in a state of permanent sunset. Aside from the big, ominous letters, it was pretty.

Two days later, the housing was done.

People were in homes. Except for the architecture which was well done, everything else was quite plain right now, with almost everyone owning the same sort of bed and other furniture because Erick copied the same one over and over and over again. Everyone had the same sorts of foods in their kitchens, for much the same reason as the furniture. Every local grocery stocked the same stuff, and all of the houses had the same sort of cold box, kept enchanted and working due to Erick’s node networks.

Most people out there were elves, but there were a lot of other species, too, and so Erick had needed to do some special accommodations for centaurs and such.

The cities looked beautiful from the air, all white and rainbow, with each city with its own Benevolence tower in the center, and all of the different apartments and otherwise looking rather unique-yet-similar. The people were out and about, and communities were reforming, and life was moving on.

Mostly.

Money was an issue for some bizarre reason.

Like. Erick understood that it would be an issue later, when the Quarantine was gone and people could actually spend resons to make food from thin air, or, more realistically, to buy stuff from other places in Margleknot. But it was an issue now, because everyone wanted more money.

There was an economy even in a Quarantine, of course.

And so Erick installed some [Reson Gatherer]s in each of his 185 Benevolence towers for each of his 185 starter cities.

Those 200-story-tall dungeons, each a kilometer wide, were more coliseum-shaped than tower-shaped, and were absolutely filled with happy Benevolence slimes and trees and grasses and water plants and mushrooms and so, so much more, who were pumping out a lot of mana. [Terraforming]s spilled water out into rivers and into the sewers and all of that. Some of that mana was getting used by their respective cities in order to power those cities, but most of it was going unused. Erick funneled that excess into [Reson Gatherer]s at the top of each tower, to form the basis for those individual city budgets.

There was, at a rough estimate, maybe 1 slime per 10 square meters, and since a single slime made 1 mana every 3 days, Erick did some rough calculations at mana production and reson production, and came out with around 5.2 million mana made per day per tower, which meant about 570,000 resons per day, if all of that was converted to resons, which was not happening. The draw was actually pretty minimal right now, at only maybe 20,000 mana draw per day, but that would go up eventually, and fast.

But for now, with 185 cities, that meant over 100 million resons per day, for the entirety of Tir Geal. More, if Erick actually fixed up the towers for maximum production.

It was a lot.

It was way more than was necessary, too, because Erick still had his Benevolence Sun.

“If we can, I want to give more of that Sun mana to Yggdrasil, for universal problems,” Erick finished saying.

Shadow looked at the numbers with raised eyebrows. Then she looked to Lanzoil. “We could pay those banker debts. Or at least the ones we care to pay.”

Lanzoil hummed, looking down at the numbers.

Erick said, “These numbers are at max rate, though. Expect a tenth of this with the node network taking most of that mana to [Renew] appliance magics and such, once people learn those magics.” Erick added, “Though that sort of thinking is going off how it is at Veird. I don’t know if Margleknot would have the same numbers, or needs.”

Lanzoil said, “The Engineers think they can power all of Tir Geal with those [Battery] spells. Soon as the Quarantine ends, I want to go the electricity-route for basic household stuff. With these dungeons, with both options, that means we’ll be one of the richest lands in Margleknot. With this, I can hand out budgets to city leaders and ensure a good transition to great future wealth and prosperity.”

“… Huh,” Erick said, “Let’s do that, then.”

The mayors of those 185 individual cities were absolutely thrilled to be handed budgets of 100,000 resons per day. It was not as much as they could have been given, but Lanzoil said it was way more than enough.

Tir Geal was still poor, though. For now.

Despite all that Erick had done, this was such a bare-bones approach to life that many of the former slaves of Slaver’s Den were complaining about what they had lost, when Erick annihilated all the previous cities of the land. People talked like they could have stolen stuff from those mansions and otherwise and had a good start on a new life.

The thousandth time that Erick heard that sentiment, he put out a formal statement through Lanzoil, stating, ‘Some of you are unhappy that House Benevolence did not pillage the Den for their treasures. I say now, in no uncertain terms, that House Benevolence does not condone slavery, and is very much against slavery, and all the products of slavery. What was made by your hands can be made again, and this time you can benefit from all that labor yourself. So prepare for a new life and new financial freedom, because whatever you might have made for the slavers, this time you get to make for yourself, in houses that you own, and through walking wherever you want without anyone watching over your actions all the time. Slaver’s Den is gone, and it is never coming back.’

Most people were ecstatic that Erick had annihilated Slaver’s Den, so his message seemed well received, but only time would tell if that sentiment won out. It seemed like it would. Lanzoil was pushing that message well, even though there was pushback from some communities that were organizing themselves and calling themselves the ‘Valued Workers Collective’.

According to Shadow the Valued Workers Collective had a few former ‘good slave masters’ at its helm, but its intentions seemed ‘okay’, so Erick decided to leave them alone for now.

The night before Erick ended the valkyrie spell, and thus the Quarantine, Erick supplied millions of people with booze, made possible through ten thousand workers of House Benevolence who copied that booze within the copiers, for their local communities. It was a party. Everyone was invited.

There was absolutely nothing approaching true organization, but people had as good of a night as Erick could make for them.

Erick had 39 million people to look after, now.

Dawn rose on day 4 after Erick had told people that only 3 days were left on the Quarantine.

The last valkyrie turned out to be Shivraa, who turned out to be a very competent commander, and who would likely turn out to be Querkooda’s Third, behind Ruby. Shivraa walked through a reincarnator at dawn, and came out a young void flier elf, with gold-blue wings and pale violet skin. Her fellow valkyries lined up behind her, on the valkyrie training fields of the Valkyrie Command Center. There were 40,000 of them, and Erick would likely be taking 20,000 of them to Veird when he left Margleknot.

But right now, the time of the valkyries was over.

Their time would come again.

Erick gave a small speech about his further goals for Veird, and then dismissed the valkyries into Querkooda’s care.

And then Erick went to the map room. The last red weaver map held in front of Erick. There had been a roof, but Erick had removed the roof to expose the sky overhead. He was alone with the map, and the sky above was hexagonal gold.

With a twist of his hand, Erick crushed the phantom image in his hand, and simultaneously crushed the red [Spellsurge Weave]. The valkyrie magic ended, officially. The war was over. It took a minute, but the expected result happened soon enough.

The golden Quarantine sky began to fade. The letters went away first, and then the gold turned to mist, and what looked like roots pulled away, fading into Elsewhere, revealing…

The Margleknot Sky.

The spear of glitter crystal that was the Fae Enclave, like an icicle crossing the heavens. The cylinder of the Quantum Nexus Hub, piercing the center of the Fae Enclave. The Escher-esque layers of lands out there, all piled up on each other and facing the center, where several other lands floated like planets in the distance, orbiting unseen forces—

And over there, on the horizon known as upspireward, lay Yggdrasil. Erick’s son was as big as a world, with his flaming green canopy crowned in rainbows, and his trunk looking like it was made of white lightning. Erick felt his heart lift to see—

Yggdrasil, in his orcol guise, stepped to Erick’s side, smiling. “Welcome back to normal space.”

Erick smiled back, and then grabbed his son in a hug. “Glad to be back.”

Yggdrasil hugged Erick, and then let go, and turned a little serious, saying, “You’ve got another month, and then the time dilation has to go away. I’ve been too long helping you settle as is, and the complaints have gotten vicious after you killed Slaver’s Den. Now people are worried.”

Erick nodded. “Heard and understood. Thanks for the heads up. I’ll get my House in order as much as I can. I do want to ask you about putting up some Grand Unified Churches here, like the ones we have on Veird, though. Will that break Veird’s Quarantine? Will that call those gods here?”

Yggdrasil said, “They’re too far away for that to work and they’re under strict Quarantine, and that Quarantine I know works well, because that Quarantine is like a sieve. Small things like you can get out, but big things like gods and other larger-than-reality things can not.”

“… And that works?”

“Total security does not exist, so that Quarantine works well enough,” Yggdrasil said. “Nothanganathor is manually overseeing that particular Quarantine, too, so I doubt he would let Veird’s gods out anyway.”

“… Ah,” Erick said, “Right.”

… Erick could actually poke a hole in that Quarantine with [Infinite Imaging], though, if he really wanted to. Maybe the gods themselves could not get out, but Erick could certainly get their attention and maybe they could send avatars?

Shadow stepped into the meeting, saying, “Then we’re making those churches. When that Quarantine ends I will have those gods here where they can speak for themselves about what they saw in the Sundering and other events.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “As bountiful a path as any.” He said to Erick, “Father. Don’t break the Quarantine with an [Infinite Imaging].”

Erick scoffed. “Tell me exactly why I shouldn’t.”

“Because until Nothanganathor reveals himself in Court as something that must be eliminated, he still has a higher stance in this land than you.”

Erick was flabbergasted. “Really?”

“Yes, really, and I hate it.” Yggdrasil said, “He stole a piece of me, father. He was a friend, and he betrayed my trust. I’m furious at him and I’m already weighing in against him. You don’t need to add more fuel to the fire right now.” Yggdrasil took a moment. “Please. Just… build your lands. Make a space for the people you rescued. And prepare for Court.”

