If any part of this Tir Geal wasn’t working, it was Cities 30 through 52, and not just because the people there didn’t want to actually work, but because half of them truly wanted to climb the ladder in their new world order, half of them were too deep in depression to do much besides barely take care of themselves, almost all of them had well-honed instincts to wound others for their own gain even though they had been reborn in Benevolence, and almost all of them actually didn’t know how to do anything themselves, at all.

After checking on those cities again while he was putting the assassins down there, Erick went back to the house and spoke with Lanzoil about all of that.

Lanzoil said, “Reintegration is a problem that can only be solved with time. From what the governors of those cities tell me, things are going about as well as they could go. Of particular note: individual citizens and about 8 different citizen groups are asking about stipends in order to hire people to work for them. They ‘swear that they won’t treat them like slaves’. Other former slaves are asking for money to buy things that they’re missing, and blaming us for ruining what little money they had coming in. Some former slaves want to go back to their masters.”

So that was a heap of issues.

Erick asked, “And people donating mana through the systems to make resons for themselves isn’t enough to hire others?” Erick said, “Every single person out there is making at least 50 mana per day, if they took the time to go through Awakening here at the House’s manaminer. That’s 5 resons per day and a little bit of mana left over. That’s a fuck ton for a normal person. Five resons are groceries for a week. A cow-leg, a big bag of rice, and a lot of veggies. … Right?”

“Correct. But—” Lanzoil said, “People aren’t coming to the House to Awaken like we thought they would, and those that have come through Awakening appreciate using their mana in Ta’Kamoil’s small classrooms. I think we should allow them to learn to use their mana, and not spend it to make themselves money. That’s only in a general sense, though. Some people in those former slaver cities are doing very well learning magic and making resons and buying people’s work to make their lives easier.”

“… Well then...” Erick had a few ideas, but he decided, “Let’s do Basic Income. Three resons per day? Per citizen of Tir Geal? We can afford 10 per day per person, but I don’t want to do that. They can use it to buy stuff outside of Tir Geal, too.”

Lanzoil hummed, thinking. He offered, “Let’s start with 1 reson per day?”

“Sure.”

“You should know that this decision will make more people want to come live here. Our population will rise, and fast.” Lanzoil said, “We’ve already got people coming here seeking to abandon their Contracts for this or that reason, so we’re going to run afoul Wraithborne in a big way, but this will speed up that rate of population increase and conflict with Wraithborne.”

Erick nodded. “Yup.”

Lanzoil smiled, saying, “I really like that none of that is an actual concern, and that we can fight them if needed. I wasn’t able to do that back in my day.”

Erick smirked. “It’s a new world, with a whole lot of new possibilities, Lanzoil.”

Lanzoil grinned. “I knew you were practically a world emperor before you got here, but most of those types never make it as big here in Margleknot as they made it back home. But you... You do even better when you have even more people and problems to solve.”

Erick softly smiled. He changed topics, asking, “Are there any other Benevolence dragons that need raising?”

“Oh yes!” Lanzoil held out a hand and a filing cabinet on the other side of the room opened up. Papers flew to his fingers, whereupon the Book Magic ciphers decoded themselves, and Erick saw a bunch of names of people he did not know at all. “Another round. Some to be raised at Overseer discretion, some that we Overseers feel you should look at and make some decisions for yourself, and some that are iffy, because we only think they should be raised due to prognostication feelings. We haven’t actually interacted with that third group.”

Erick took the papers, saying, “See you later.”

- - - -

Several days later, and only 3 days till Margleknot’s time rejoined the universe’s time, Erick felt secure enough with Tir Geal to leave for a little while.

His first trip was back ‘home’, to the castle Yggdrasil had built for him upon one of his roots in the Old Dragon District.

The place was exactly as Erick had left it. Erick almost wanted to take another nap in the bed that Yggdrasil had installed in the place. It was a really nice bed. Erick did indulge in eating several scarlet kings in the waters below his house, though. Those giant red fish from Veird tasted delicious, and thanks to [Duplicate], Erick only had to kill one of them to make a feast worthy of his draconic body. It was pure gastronomic pleasure to eat several thousand tons of fish at once. Erick did make himself smaller so he could enjoy the crackle of the bones more, which was fine.

Erick was sure to save that memory for Poi, to give to him later.

And then Erick went to inspect the Nothor Beast, still stuck in the mage tower.

It looked the same as ever, stuck there under strong applications of the Authority that Yggdrasil had granted him in this space.

Authority wasn’t that tricky to understand anymore.

Thanks to Veird, Erick knew what it was like to live under the Authority of another. Thanks to Erick’s encounter with Shackle, he knew what it felt like to attack Authority with his own nascent Authority, which was kinda different from Wizardry, but not. Thanks to the manaminer from Powerminer Incorporated, Erick knew what Authority felt like from another borrowed perspective; a perspective that he got the chance to poke and play around with a little, but not much, because there wasn’t much to a basic manaminer except a bunch of Authority sinks. The Script was a whole lot more different. And finally, thanks to Yggdrasil’s application of Authority here in Erick’s home in the Old Dragon District, Erick felt what true Authority actually felt like.

All of life was an eternal disagreement between oneself and the rest of reality, where the speaker acted one way, and reality stated otherwise. Authority was the manifestation of one's own argument against reality that reality actually felt compelled to accept, at least in a local sort of way.

Thinking in terms of mana versus resons, though...

Domains were the enacting of magical authority upon reality; not one’s own Reality upon reality, as Erick had once thought. In the case of Domains, the one with the stronger Domain made the rules of mana-based-magic in a certain area. Before coming to Margleknot, Erick had conflated some terms improperly, but now he knew what ‘Reality versus reality’ really meant.

And so, here in the Fractal Cosmology, Authority was the enacting of personal Reality upon reality, where the one with the stronger Authority dictated what parts of Infinity were present in whatever given personal slice of reality.

Here in the Fractal Cosmology, Authority was the stronger force, superseding Domains.

Perhaps Domains were stronger than Authority in the Painted Cosmology.

Erick would probably never find out.

Erick looked at the red lightning beast in the other room, and considered Authority.

He could try to enact Authority upon this piece of Nothanganathor in front of him, like he had done with Shackle, in order to bring Nothanganathor forward for a chat and a kill. It would be tougher to do than what he had done with Shackle, because this Nothor Beast was a mindless construct of Nothanganathor. Such a draw-and-kill might even be impossible in this instance, because this thing wasn’t even connected to Nothanganathor at all.

This Nothor Beast was not like Ophiel or Yggdrasil, back when they were inside Erick’s soul, back during the Chelation War in the Songli Highlands, where Terror Peaks had used those Soul Spears against Ophiel to attack Erick. This red lightning magic was a set-and-forget magic…

Probably.

Erick stood in the rooms beyond the Nothor Beast, looking at the lightning thing with his mana sense and Authority. It was a monster of red lightning in the shape of a lion, sitting down on the stone, unmoving…

Erick almost wanted to appear in that room and start talking to the beast, to see if Nothanganathor would respond.

… That seemed like a bad idea, though. Erick doubted he would be able to draw Nothanganathor here, and even if he did, the guy was a solar-sized dragon. Not only that, but even if he brought Nothanganathor here, then the Fae Council would berate Erick for getting involved in this stuff so closely, especially when Yggdrasil told him to cool it for a while. And besides that, what was much more likely to happen is that Erick would get dragged to Nothanganathor instead, and Erick would experience what Shackle experienced, but worse.

Nothanganathor had already proven quite adept at pulling Wizards to trap locations, after all, and even if Nothanganathor wasn’t ascended, he was certainly powerful like one. Maybe he was ascended, and no one realized that, because his Malevolence kept them ignorant.

… Erick decided to let the Nothor Beast be.

Erick decided to fix a different problem. He spoke to the air, “Yggdrasil? I want to be able to measure where in infinity I am at any given time, so that I’m not lost. Is there a way to do that?”

The air felt tense for a moment.

And then Yggdrasil appeared to the side, his bright green eyes full of concern as he asked, “You’re not going to go break the Quarantine directly, are you?”

“Nope!” Erick said, “I have too much to do here to ensure that Tir Geal succeeds when I am absent, but I fully expect to be pushed around by Nothanganathor or others when they get the chance. So I need to be able to measure where I am in infinity.”

Yggdrasil went, “Ah. Okay.” He calmed and smiled a bit. “Then sure. Measuring where you are in reality is kinda simple. It’s that Universal Mapping ritual you did to ping the systems here to open a rescue door at your location outside of Veird’s space. You don’t want to do the full ritual, though, because then you’ll hit the Margleknot Emergency Response Communication Yorddle. You’re going to want to do a small, personal yorddle, and to do that…”

Erick listened to his son, and though they talked of magic and Erick figured out a personal yorddle magic, the conversation soon changed to other topics, like governments and banking and all of what Erick was doing with Tir Geal. From there, Erick spoke of having technology again, like tablets and the internet, and the conversation went on to shows and entertainment. Yggdrasil spoke of his favorite shows, like ‘My Three Slice Life’ and ‘Roots of our Dreams’, and then he laughed as he showed Erick how to watch an infocube. It was really quite simple once Yggdrasil showed him.

It was a wonderful conversation.

Erick felt like a person again, and he was so happy to talk with Yggdrasil again.

When they were talking over tea and types of fish, Erick smiled and chuckled, and said, “I still remember when you sent me million-word telepathy messages about fish. I loved those.”

Yggdrasil smiled softly, looking into his tea, and then off into the distance, saying, “I’m really glad you made it up here, father.”

Erick smiled wide. “I am, too.”

With a hint of small joys, Yggdrasil said, “You know that they’re putting together those [Battery]s in Tir Geal and thinking they’re the first to do the whole mana-to-energy thing, right?”

Erick laughed. “Some of them know they couldn’t be the first. But then a whole group of them went to the tech side of Margleknot and talked to some people and then they came back even more convinced that no one had ever done a [Battery] before. They brought some representatives of a few different consortiums, too, though I never talked to any of them. Just waved hello as I installed a few more [Battery]s. The way those jaws dropped as I flicked on the lightning…” Erick smiled. “It was kinda wonderful.”

“It’s all been done before a few times —most notably with mana production formations from the Garden Universe— but the problem usually lies in getting a decent conversion rate from base source of power into electricity, where the fragility of life isn’t killed by the lightning, or the fragility of lightning elementals aren’t consumed by the systems they power. You solved that with Benevolence’s natural life-and-lightning capabilities.”

“What about entropy, though?”

“What about it?” Yggdrasil asked, grinning.

Erick rolled his eyes.

Yggdrasil chuckled, then said, “Entropy is a thing to be overcome.” He continued, “There’s a few different systems like what you’ve set up that are rather jealously guarded out there, with people calling them ‘ancient magics’ and ‘too valuable to mess with’, like the Lightning Array of the Quantum-Tech Foundry and the whole general nature of the Electric Lands. There are whole societies that will try to come in and copy what you’re doing with Benevolence once they figure out they can actually do stuff like that.”

Erick smiled, saying, “I’d love to meet those people, but that’s for another day. Got any favorite foods around here? I haven’t actually eaten much of anything since Ascension except for snacks.”

“There’s lots of great places out there.” Yggdrasil said, “Want to go to some of my favorites?”

“I absolutely do.”

Erick ended up spending a good half a day with his son, touring Margleknot, both of them pretending to be normal people, with Erick making himself a little older and Yggdrasil turning back into that young, black-haired kid who first appeared to Erick after he separated, in that ritual of birth. Just a father and son out for a day on the town.

It was wonderful.

When the day was over, Erick went back to Tir Geal with Yggdrasil.

Floating high over the pastel-rainbow roofs of City #1, Yggdrasil said, “It’s a nice place.”

“I think so, too,” Erick said, smiling.

“The time dilation is ending in 2 days,” Yggdrasil said, his voice melancholic.

Erick simply nodded, saying, “That’s good, then. You probably can’t keep that up forever anyway, right?”

“I could, but politics.”

Erick chuckled. “Yup.” And then he hugged his son, saying, “Love you.”

Yggdrasil hugged him back, perhaps a little tightly, perhaps a little much, his voice a quiet thing, “I love you, too.”
