Erick started building and he only stopped building to check on his overseers and the House, to make sure things were running well.

Things ran well enough, considering there were a whole lot of people living in stone shacks. It would be temporary, but it was still rough. Some of the former slaves were absolutely joyful, though.

Lanzoil, the Overseer of Governance, rapidly adjusted to his new responsibilities over millions of people. He had done this before when he had been a grand administrator for Paradise Rises, which was sort of like an emperor, but more ‘voted for’ instead of ‘by right of power’. Maybe more like a ‘super president’.

Lanzoil focused on the people, and on mapping out the future. Erick had saved roughly 39 million people, and while Erick was providing bandaids for the problem of that many displaced people, Lanzoil was working on long term solutions and the groundwork to implement those long term solutions.

At the low estimate, maybe 18 million of those 39 million people would remain in Tir Geal, once the people were allowed to leave the Quarantine and venture out into their own worlds. And yet, the high estimate had all 39 million people remaining, and more coming in besides. Most of these people had nothing to return to back wherever they came from, because Slaver’s Den captured whole villages, and those who had been here for a while, as slaves, had nothing of their own to return to anyway, since their previous lives were way too far in the past to ever be called ‘home’. Still, some would leave, if only to find out if their worlds still survived, or for any of a thousand other reasons.

Querkooda, the Overseer of Enforcement, had his hands overfull, dealing with the same sort of issues that Lanzoil was dealing with but from a different angle. 39 million homeless people meant a whole lot of people sleeping wherever they could, eating whatever they could, and taking what they needed from others who had more than them. When the most anyone had was the bread and other things that Erick copied here and there, there wasn’t a whole lot to go around. There were a lot of small fights, and some very big ones. Erick did everything in his power to make sure that resources, like food and water and shelter, were in abundance, but simply setting out copiers and telling people to go at it had produced a problem similar to when he set out copiers at Da’luwe. Still though, Erick set out copiers and Querkooda set warriors on them to oversee the dissemination of resources.

Surprisingly, but not that surprising actually, Ta’Kamoil, the Overseer of Magic, had laid down a bunch of groundwork, just like the other two, in preparation to accept a grand number of new people into the House. Mostly through prognostication efforts. Thanks to him, Lanzoil and Querkooda had an easy time finding people who would be good fits for governance. Ta’Kamoil also found a whole bunch of people who were being dangerous with their new magics before they killed themselves, or others. People were experimenting with their valkyrie-given blueprints for magic, and doing a lot of Valkyrie Fire stuff.

That name was catching on; ‘Valkyrie Fire’.

Erick didn’t get to spend much time with the people playing with fire, both because those people didn’t need him to learn their own ways, and he was building. A lot. Previously he had used [Cityshape] to make temporary structures, but now he was making something more permanent. He did not use [Cityshape] this time, because this wasn’t Veird, where the Script supported [Cityshape]. This was Margleknot, where the very air was filled with competing powers and intents that nudged other magics out of alignment.

The valkyries seemed to be doing fine sustaining themselves, though, because of course they were. [Renew]-based magic was a part of their basic structure, part of their Siphon magic, ensuring that they didn’t break down at all. Erick would have ended that spell after the war, but as soon as he ended that spell, the Quarantine would drop, and who knew what would happen when that happened. And so, Erick kept the valkyries around, and left Querkooda in charge of them.

They were pretty good copier-guards.

They also helped to clear out people from where Erick was building, which was pretty far away from the main refugee camps. And so, to build properly this time, Erick went with a dense, yet nice, Parisian-sort of building plan, and then he repeated that plan a lot, over and over again. Paris only held about 2 million people, last Erick checked, but that was the entire city. Erick focused on making the center part, around the Arc de Triomphe, but big.

He started with 10-kilometer wide central parks, each with a Benevolence tower made of eternal stonewood at the center, and a whole bunch of magics making that tower a good source of mana for the surrounding lands. From there, Erick made roads that led in a variety of directions, each of those roads either leading off into the wasteland so that people could build more in those directions, or off to other central parks where other Benevolence towers held strong. Roads made of speedy directional magics held on those roads connecting towers to towers, making sure people could move around fast and safe, if they wanted.

In the areas between the central parks and the roads, Erick made apartment buildings that were like slightly shaped-to-fit blocks, each holding 5 stories of apartments on top of business spaces, each building with a variation of footprint, from 50 meters by 50 meters, to a whole lot larger. Each of those buildings had large open courtyards in the center, nice tile in every room, railings on balconies made with art in mind, brilliant white outer walls, big windows and nice living spaces, and pastel roofs of many different colors.

The cities of Tir Geal would be white and full of pastels, with white-and-black reserved for government buildings and other public spaces.

Every mansion was almost like a block, but they were a lot nicer than just ‘a block’. They were more like mansions wrapped in squarish shapes. Or L-shapes. Or U-shapes. They were nice, and they were made of normal stone that was simply magically reinforced, because Erick fully expected people to customize them at their leisure, and no one had shown the ability to manipulate eternal stonewood yet. Construction people could work magically-reinforced stone just fine, though, and since normal people couldn’t work stone that delineation was a good one, in Erick’s mind.

Erick made a few really nice designs of those buildings, from 25-family structures to 250-family structures, which were truly giant buildings. Those buildings then formed the basic building blocks for the entire rest of each city. Once he had an initial design, Erick wrapped his aura around whichever one he wanted to copy and [Duplicate]d it, gaining an entire new building, already magically strengthened with his own Benevolence aura.

From there, it was a game of Tetris to put everything together. Once the blocks were in place, people from Ta’Kamoil’s mage division came in behind Erick and started hooking up sewers and water mains, and then enacting magics to add trees and greenery to the cities.

It took Erick a full 9 days before he was done with housing and laying down basic sewer systems, main lines only. Erick moved on to business spaces next, but only farms and warehouses for farms, because he had put people into housing and that was enough, and he had needed to add a bunch more utilities to the area, anyway. After a trip by Lanzoil to hear of new developments, Erick heard that the engineers wanted electricity, and Erick had no idea how to do exactly what they wanted, so instead, Erick went to the engineers to have a talk.

In the new ‘Engineer’s School’ of House Benevolence, Erick stood before some self-appointed teachers and a few students, and also Tris from the actual House, and conjured some metal from the air. One bit of metal was only the size of an ingot. The other was three meters long and cylindrical. Both were bright copper colored.

Erick floated the rods in his aura, saying, “This small one is steel inside and copper outside. The larger one is the same. I don’t know how to give you the electricity that you want, so instead I will give you this.” Erick tapped both of the metals. The smaller one sparked some, conducting in the air where Erick allowed it to conduct. The larger one became the home of a lightning bolt that struggled valiantly —but futilely— to escape, white lightning lashing within Erick’s containment fields, making the whole thing look like a lightning-egg. “I have enchanted [Small Spark] onto the small ingot. The base spell lasts about 10 minutes, but it will last forever when properly contained and fed mana from the node network I’ve installed all over the place. The larger one is [Battery], which is a lightning bolt. That one also lasts 10 minutes. These particular items are also temporarily enchanted to be superconducting. That spell also lasts 10 minutes. The more you use them, the more power they draw from the node network, to keep those temporary magics running. And so...” Erick asked, “What can you do with this?”

The entire class was completely silent. Dumbfounded. Surprised beyond words, and also not surprised at all.

Tris said, “Of course. Why not? Sure. The magic I’ve been trying to make out of my new aura has already been made. Of course.”

And then someone started to giggle, either from nerves or from complete joy, and maybe it was a combination of both. Another person giggled. Someone laughed, completely happily. And then the questions started. No, Erick did not actually know the power output of any of these spells. Yes, you can learn this stuff if you want, at the arcanaeum. Yes, they’re rather easy to learn, but you’ll injure yourself a lot trying to learn this stuff. So why not learn this other spell, [Insulate], first?

Erick demonstrated [Insulate].

Oh sure, they understood everything Erick was doing and a whole lot more besides, but they couldn’t replicate his magic at all.

Erick ended up building them a testing center for the [Battery] rod, which was probably going to become a power station as soon as the Quarantine ended and they could go out and buy real supplies and remake their lives here, at Tir Geal. The general consensus with [Small Spark] was that it was nice for small-scale projects, but [Battery] was the big draw. Still, [Small Spark] was made to be learned by everyone, so [Small Spark] would see a lot of use, as soon as people learned how to make that magic and have it be a uniform output.

“When this is over, you can take a trip to Veird and learn that magic rather easily,” Erick said to Engineer Tris, as they stood outside of the power station and watched engineers all try to figure out what Erick’s magics actually did. “I imagine that there will be a lot of Skill and Magic tourism to Veird.”

Tris asked, “What about [Battery]?”

“You’ll have to reach level 50 and get Particle Mage for a Class,” Erick said, “I imagine that won’t be too difficult for many of you.”

Tris hummed in thought—

Lightning sparked and someone almost died, but Erick was there to prevent that, rapidly healing up the guy who had gotten too enthusiastically close to the [Battery] with his testing equipment. After adjusting the [Insulate] areas of the ‘power station’, Erick said to them all, “Don’t die. A lot of people are dying in a lot of preventable accidents out there right now, and I have yet to set up the full structure of House Benevolence, so hospitals and healing are kinda rare right now.”

Tris spoke up, “Lanzoil set up the Waiting Room already. We’re all tied with the Waiting Room under House Benevolence.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. And then he smiled. “Oh! Good! I thought that was coming down the line today or tomorrow.”

Tris said, “Everyone here is Waited, but we’ve been told that coming back to the House is impossible while we’re under quarantine.”

“What’s the Waiting time like? Did he tell you?”

Tris shrugged. “A year? That was the warning Lanzoil sent out; to discourage people from taking stupid risks. The problem is that a lot of people just don’t realize that the Waiting Room is horrible. They hear ‘Waiting Room’ and they think it’s just a boring room, and not a brutal soul-fucking—ah… Language, Sorry.”

The guy who had almost died had the decency to look ashamed.

Erick decided, “I’m ending the Quarantine in three days, and I’ve got too much shit to do. Good luck with the lightning.”

Erick left in a flicker of Benevolence.

He reappeared by Lanzoil, in a meeting with a bunch of newly-appointed governors. He was laying down the laws of the land in a casual tone, but he stopped when Erick appeared. Several of the 27 people in the meeting instantly got out of their chairs and bowed. A few people kowtowed.

Erick said to them all, “Don’t mind me. Just telling you all that I’m dropping the valkyrie spell in 3 days, thus ending the Quarantine.”

Lanzoil said, “That’s a fine time. Thanks for letting us know.”

Erick nodded, and then went to Querkooda. The man was with some of the big red valkyries, and with some non-valk-valkyries. Around .1% of people who got turned into a valkyrie got turned into a mindful valkyrie, able to control the power grafted onto them. Of those people, maybe 1 in 20 wanted to remain valkyries afterward. All of those people found order and power as valkyries under Querkooda’s wings, and they wanted to keep that power. Erick wasn’t allowing valkyries to just walk around fully powered all the time, but people who were valks were allowed to be valks at the moment, and Erick had promised that if he were to ever use the spell again that the people in the valkyrie squadron would be the ones he called on to be the captains of those armies.

As such, Querkooda was training a whole bunch of people in the arts of war, most of whom had only ever seen war from the perspective of an unstoppable killing machine. To say that these people had an incorrect idea of war and force was perhaps a Grand Understatement.

Almost all of them were trying to close that gap, though.

When Erick had appeared, Querkooda and some maybe-captains were speaking of war and plans to defend the land when the Quarantine fell.

Querkooda stopped talking as Erick appeared, to ask him, “Ah! Speak and he shall appear.”

The valkyries all turned toward Erick, like reverent priests meeting their god. It was, perhaps, an uncomfortable situation, but it was what it was. He said to them first, “Hello. You can relax around me.”

The valkyries all went, “No can do, sir!”

Erick moved along, “So what was being said? Something about ending the Quarantine?”

