“If I’m allowed to speak... and know this is simply my own opinion, as I cannot possibly represent my race or faction... I also believe it’s best that we do not start our journey beyond the Boundary by making enemies,” the Shaman said in a very nervous tone, and definitely not just because he was under the gaze of the Great Sea Serpent.

He had effectively just gone against what his superiors had done and openly voiced his disagreement. Something that at least made Jake feel a little better about all that had happened. He’d thought that he and the Shaman had gotten along pretty well, especially after their Arachnec-hunting journey, and he had felt betrayed when the Venusians turned on him. Fortunately, it seemed that the Shaman didn’t have any idea things would develop this way, and was personally not agreeing with how the elders of his race had acted.

The Great Sea Serpent didn’t directly acknowledge the words of the Shaman, but after a few seconds, did speak again.

“With the absence of protest, I assume we’re all in agreement.”

Yeah, definitely manipulative, because who the hell would dare protest against the peak A-grade with the Horned Slayer still trying to stabilize himself right in the middle of the group?

“Then this matter ends here. We shall all think. Consider. And only decide when the best choice can be made. Though for that, we need knowledge. I need knowledge. So I invite the human to accompany me and bestow his insights upon me.”

For the first time, it looked like some of the A-grades would actually dare speak up, but the Great Sea Serpent quickly silenced them with his next words.

“Temporarily, of course. One year. In one year, we shall reconvene, and during that time, I beseech the human not to enter the Boundary, but to stay under my watch. Under my... protection.”

And with that, it seemed like rather than Jake successfully escaping, he had instead simply switched jailors. Of course, seeing as he was dealing with a snake, things were certainly not that simple.
