A boycott. Of all the trials that The Wandering Inn had faced, Erin would have assumed that would be the least challenging. And she would be right, except that unlike every crisis she’d weathered so far, the boycott hadn’t ended after the first day. Unlike undead invasions, Goblin attacks, angry Rock Crabs or diarrhea, the boycott had dragged into the fifth day without signs of slowing.
And again, if anyone had asked Erin if she was afraid of boycotts, she would have laughed in their face while getting them another order of risotto pasta. After all, her inn had weathered far worse scandals, hadn’t it? She was employing Goblins for goodness sake! She’d endured scandal and outright hostility before.
But Erin had underestimated the difference in cultures. When Drakes boycotted a business or location, they didn’t just avoid it like the plague. No, they turned up each day to complain.
“Actually, I think Humans do that too. Why call it a boycott if you still show up?”
Erin slumped at a table, groaning and holding her head. It was late evening in her inn, and she had actors on stage, some Humans and Gnolls dining, adventurers sitting at their tables. And a large number of Drakes, sitting at tables and booing each time an actor spoke on stage.
“I’m afraid I do not understand your dilemma, Miss Solstice.”
Klbkch sat at a table across from Erin with Krshia on the other side. Both Antinium and Gnoll glanced up as a Drake hissed and booed Wesle as he tried to woo Jasi in her role of Juliet on stage. Klbkch nodded towards the Drake.
“If the Drake protest is undesirable, why not simply eject them from your inn?”
“Because if I do that, they stand outside my inn and throw rocks and dead fish at my windows. Or wait in Liscor and harass anyone who comes out of the magic door.”
“I see. That is a dilemma.”
“Right. I was sort of hoping you’d be able to help. You know, since you’re a [Guardsman] and all?”
Erin glanced sidelong at Klbkch. He hesitated, keeping one hand on his mug as he watched the stage. If you ignored the quiet booing, the play really wasn’t that bad. But that was if you could ignore the booing. The Antinium shook his head a fraction after a few seconds of thought.
“I am afraid that civil protest is a time-honored Drake tradition. True, I could caution and then arrest the Drakes here if they continued to interfere with your business in tangible ways, but Drakes have always honored the right to insult others in public forums.”
“What? That’s so—well, okay, we do that at home, but that’s not right!”
Krshia sniffed the air and grunted. She was enjoying a plate of fish flakes, dipping each in a fishy sauce filled with spices before chewing the food.
“It is a Drake thing, Miss Solstice, yes? Human too, from what you say. We Gnolls, we simply leave if something is undesirable. But Drakes must tell you over and over why it is not what they enjoy. Hrm.”
“What if I kicked them out? Could you arrest them for throwing stuff at my inn?”
Erin looked pleadingly at Klbkch. The Antinium opened his mandibles and made a clicking, sighing sound.
“It is again troublesome that you live outside of Liscor and do not, in fact, pay taxes, Miss Solstice.”
“Ah.”
“Quite. Watch Captain Zevara could order such a guard detail for a short period of time, but I believe she would be disinclined to support such a decision even if I endorsed it to her.”
“Because she hates me.”
Krshia covered a smile with one paw as Erin slumped in her seat.
“I do not think she hates you, Erin. But you do bring her much trouble. And the city is more concerned with dungeons and fish at the moment.”
“Fish?”
“Sometimes fish attack the walls. Big ones. Like Lurkersnatches.”
“The black octopus things?”
“Yes. They are quite difficult to deter. I would advise you to take caution, but your personal defenses are probably more than adequate to deter most monsters. I trust Bird has fulfilled his duties well up till now?”
“Bird? He’s great. Really great. I was worried when he came back with the bow, but he actually paid for it? With money he got from the…Queen?”
Erin stared at Klbkch. Again, the Antinium nodded. He shifted his gaze. Bird was eating at a table across from them with Mrsha. He was happily enjoying a plate full of eggs and batting a ball across the table with Mrsha with one of his arms. Erin shook her head as she watched the Antinium Worker and Gnoll play.
“I can’t believe it. She likes him? Your Queen?”
Erin remembered meeting her. The Queen of the Free Antinium was many things. Huge. Scary. Heartless. In none of these adjectives did Erin see any possibility of her liking anyone. Klbkch seemed just as confused.
“It is an unusual development. But my Queen expressed great pleasure after her interview of Bird, and she did allocate him a large budget to purchase a bow.”
“Which he bought in my cousin’s shop. The highest-quality bow we had. It was quite surprising, yes?”
Krshia popped another fish flake into her mouth and chewed thoughtfully. Erin shook her head in disbelief.
“The Queen likes Bird. That’s just so…at least he’s happy. He was talking all of today about the bow. And water birds. I, uh, haven’t told him they don’t exist yet.”
“Ah. That may be best.”
“Hrm.”
The Gnoll and Antinium sat with Erin in silence, and she sighed. The common room of her inn was warm, and the smell of good cooking filled the inn. Ishkr, Lyonette, and two new Gnolls she’d hired—Raelia and Fersh—were serving tables. Again, without the booing the inn would have been a wonderful place to enjoy. However…
“At least they pay to watch the play and eat food. The Drakes, I mean. I’m earning some money each day off of them, but compared to a full house, this isn’t good at all.”
She had probably less than fifty people in the inn where she was certain her maximum capacity was probably six or seven times that. Krshia nodded as she eyed one of the Drakes sitting at a table close to them. He was booing, but not that loudly. He looked annoyed if his tail was anything to go by—it swept the ground in long, agitated motions.
“I am surprised to be honest, Erin. I would have expected them to throw things. Or fight. Perhaps they are not as angry as you think?”
“Naw. They’re mad. But I’ve got a handle on my aura now. As long as I concentrate, they won’t start fighting or throwing things. Booing is all they can do.”
Erin sighed and rubbed at her head. The effort of suppressing the irritated Drakes was a low-level strain at the back of her head. Krshia looked impressed.
“That is a powerful Skill, yes?”
“It’d be better if I could get them to stop booing entirely. It’s…well, I’m not saying I’m gonna give in to racist jerks and peer pressure, but this is really bad for my inn. I might ask the Players of Celum to stop performing Juliet and Romeo here and switch to a different play if I can’t find a way to make it more…acceptable for Liscor.”
“I am surprised you kept the show on after the first night.”
Erin glared at her hands.
“I didn’t want to take it off! There’s nothing wrong with Jasi playing Juliet and Wesle playing Romeo! If a Drake can’t marry a Human—that’s the entire point of the play! But business is bad. I don’t have a lot of customers, and I need to think about the [Actors].”
That was the thing. Erin had grown used to hard times and less income, but she’d never had to worry about a staff. Much less the Players of Celum themselves. But now she was employing ten regular staff, and she had a business contract with the Players of Celum. They had families to feed, and without a steady flow of coin, they were getting upset. It also wasn’t fun to be booed on stage each night. She sighed and drummed her fingers on the table, counting the Humans in the room.
“The thing is, I was really counting on getting Liscor on board with the plays. Everyone in Celum has seen all of the shows the Players put on six or more times. Interest is dying out. Either they work here or they move to another Human city. So…the jerks win. Again, unless I can fix this.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Do you have any ideas as to how to solve this dilemma, Miss Erin?”
“I’m thinking a trial audience. Maybe change some lines? We’ll do a run through after this play ends. Shouldn’t be long; they’re rushing the lines.”
“Boo! This play is terrible! We don’t need Humans coming to our city, marrying our daughters!”
The angry Drake stood up, fighting off Erin’s Skill enough to raise his voice. Erin swiveled in her chair and frowned at him. He glared at her. Klbkch turned and raised his voice.
“You are making a scene, sir. I caution you to seat yourself and let the entertainment continue in peace or remove yourself from the inn.”
The Drake clenched a fist as he glared at Klbkch. He was clearly drunk and not happy.
“You can’t order me about, you damn Ant! You’re just as bad as those Humans! You…bugs and your secret Hive with entrances into the dungeon—”
“Aw, shut up! That’s Senior Guardsman Klbkch, you idiot. I came to shout at Humans, not get into politics!”
To Erin’s surprise, another Drake called out, waving his mug for a refill. The drunk Drake glared at him. He must have been newer to Liscor because he looked at Klbkch and Bird with clear dislike.
“Antinium. Can’t trust ‘em. I heard Liscor was full of bug lovers, but this? You can’t hide your secrets now! Everyone knows…you’ve got a Hive. Underground. Right next to the dungeon.”
“That is where the Hive has always been, yes.”
Klbkch calmly looked up at the Drake. The drunk waved a claw menacingly. Maybe he was so drunk that Erin’s Skill wasn’t working on him. Erin looked around and saw a Hobgoblin looking over. Rabbiteater made a questioning fist, and she shook her head. Her Hobgoblin bouncers were effective, but whenever they started fights with Drakes, everyone tended to pile in. They’d tried to stop the Drakes throwing rocks outside once, but it had very nearly turned bloody when the Drakes drew daggers and clubs.
“The Antinium don’t belong in this city! Who’s with me?”
The Drake looked around for support, but didn’t get it. He glared at Klbkch.
“Senior Guardsman. Hah. What’re you going to do? Arrest me?”
The Antinium shook his head.
“Technically, I am off-duty. Therefore I would respond to further provocation or physical assault in the time-honored tradition of bodily harm. However, I would caution you not to start an altercation.”
“Oh yeah?”
There was something universal about belligerent drunks. Klbkch nodded.
“Yes. A brawl would be unfortunate for you. Especially if my partner were to join in. As he often does.”
“Partner?”
The drunk Drake looked around blankly and then spun as a claw landed on his shoulder. He looked up into Relc’s grinning face. Senior Guardsman Relc loomed over the smaller Drake. One large forearm flexed.
“Are we having a bar fight? Awesome! Go on, throw the first punch. I’ll let you have one. No—two! That way Captain Z can’t say I started it. Too bad there’s only like forty people here. Come on, what are you waiting for?”
He grinned toothily down at the smaller Drake. The drunk, who had sobered remarkably quickly, looked at Relc and then at Klbkch. He sat back down silently. Relc drooped.
“Aw.”
“Don’t be an idiot, Dad.”
Relc turned as Erin saw another Drake approach. Wing Commander Embria glared at her father as her red tail twitched irritably. Relc looked guilty as he edged back. He’d been sitting at a far table with his daughter throughout the play. Erin had left them alone—Embria didn’t seem fond of either Klbkch or her. Now, Embria frowned and poked Relc in the chest as he looked around as if seeking an exit.
“You’re a Senior Guardsman. You have a responsibility to keep the peace, not cause trouble. Is this really what you do on your days off? Pick fights in bars?”
“I don’t do it all the time—”
“If you were back in the army, you’d be put on latrine duty for a month! Your job is to protect citizens, not waste time and money!”
“Yeah, well, I dug a lot of holes back in the army. Let me have my fun! Don’t you like the play?”
Embria glanced over her shoulder at the stage, where the actors were trying not to glare in their direction.
“It’s fine, I suppose. I can see why it’s unpopular, but I don’t mind.”
“Right, right. It’s fun! We’re having fun. Father and daughter. Let’s sit back down and have food. Calmly.”
“We were doing that until you tried to start a fight.”
“I was just protecting my buddy!”
Embria looked towards Klbkch. Her expression turned icy.
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch can take care of himself. Come on.”
She practically dragged Relc away as he gave Erin and Klbkch an imploring look to save him. Erin just waved. She turned back to Krshia. The Gnoll was licking her plate. She looked up unapologetically as Erin stared.
“I do not believe I have ever seen Relc so inconvenienced, yes? It is quite amusing.”
“His daughter is not fond of me. I am fairly confident of that.”
“Hey, you can hang out with me, Klbkch. I’m glad to see you. We don’t talk enough these days. And Krshia, you should come over more. Mrsha likes you.”
The Gnoll smiled as Klbkch inclined his head.
“It is nice, yes? She is getting bigger. She could stand to run more—she eats well here. But she is healthy. And it seems that Bird is a good companion for her.”
The Antinium had finished his plate and was now throwing the ball for Mrsha to catch. Again, it probably wasn’t appropriate in the middle of a play, but they had space and the [Actors] looked resigned. Erin nodded.
“Bird and Mrsha. I’ve got a lot of kids running about.”
She paused as her mouth caught up with her brain. Kids. She glanced at Bird. He was sort of like that, wasn’t he? She knew he wasn’t like Pawn or the others. He wasn’t slow, but he was…well, she understood why Klbkch had been worried about him when Bird had met the Queen. Not for the first time, Erin wondered if Bird being assigned to guard her inn had been so he could protect her or if she could take care of him in some way. She glanced sideways at Klbkch.
“Are Pawn and the others doing okay?”
“They are performing to and occasionally above expectations.”
“That doesn’t tell me much. Let them visit the inn more often. They’re people, Klbkch. Isn’t that the entire point?”
“I…have received a request to allocate them weekly breaks. I will consider it.”
“Good. Now, I need to get up and be an [Innkeeper]. Check up on people. Give me a few minutes and we’ll brainstorm this play thing. You two want anything?”
“I could eat some red meat. These flakes are good, but unfilling, yes?”
“I would appreciate a refill of my mug.”
