She watched the arrow flash across the street towards the Raskghar. It raised a shield and caught the arrow. Krshia’s eyes widened. So quick! The Raskghar snarled and advanced. Krshia backpedaled, drawing another arrow and loosing it with long-honed reflexes. Again, the Raskghar predicted where the arrow was heading and stopped it before it could strike his left leg. It stared at her. Not it—Krshia smelled the Raskghar’s gender. She. A young she, in the prime of her life.
The Raskghar waited until Krshia grabbed for another arrow and then charged. It was quick! Krshia dropped the arrow and grabbed her knife. She slashed—the Raskghar leapt and caught her arm, bearing her to the ground.
On the street, it was muscle and reflexive action. No time to think. Krshia tried to stab, but the Raskghar was too strong. So she tried to bite—only to find a hand at her throat. The Raskghar effortlessly overpowered her, choking Krshia. It was laughing as Krshia tried to kick it—until the whistle. Krshia, choking, felt the pressure on her ease and felt the Raskghar bound away. She lay there, gasping, and heard the voices.
“There’s another one! Surround it!”
“Watch the sides! [Attack Formation]!”
Krshia sat up. She saw Watch Captain Zevara and Olesm leading a squad of eight [Guardsmen] rushing to surround the Raskghar. It spun, trying to find an exit, but Olesm’s voice guided the [Guardsmen] into flanking positions. It spun, a metal shield and axe in hand. The weapons were small in the Raskghar’s paws.
“Are you alright?”
Olesm ran over to Krshia. She gasped and nodded. Zevara was leading the attack.
“Take it down!”
She attacked with two other Drakes while a Gnoll with a spear covered her side. The Raskghar moved quick. It batted away Zevara’s sword thrust with its shield and grabbed the Drake charging it on its right. Ignoring the cut it received on the arm, it threw the Drake into her friend, knocking the two to the ground. Then it turned and caught a strike from Zevara on its shield. Krshia watched, dazed, as the Raskghar and Drake exchanged blows.
“Ancestors, it’s good!”
Olesm exclaimed in dismay as the Raskghar took on Zevara and the Gnoll with the spear at once. Its eyes never left Zevara’s face, and when she drew breath, it rushed her before the fire breath could emerge. The Raskghar turned and howled as an arrow sprouted from its shoulder. It looked over and saw Krshia and two Drakes aiming for it. It dove, and Olesm cut at it. Again, the [Guardsmen] forced the Raskghar back, this time towards an alleyway. The Raskghar retreated to the narrow space, and the [Guardsmen] hesitated. They could only attack two abreast now.
“Pull back. Hit it with arrows!”
Olesm snapped, but a claw brushed past him. Zevara rose, growling.
“I’ll bake it myself!”
“Wait.”
Krshia rasped at the Drake. She stared at the Raskghar. It was glancing from Zevara to the archers, eyes darting rapidly. Krshia stared at it. It was nothing like the stories she’d told Olesm! The Raskghar looked every bit like the primordial Gnoll monster it was, but it was far, far too intelligent. She pointed at it.
“Take it alive if you can, Watch Captain. It is one of many in the city!”
Zevara nodded. The Raskghar glanced at her and then bared its teeth in a menacing grin. It opened its mouth and, to everyone’s shock, spoke.
“Many. Many.”
The growling voice froze Krshia for a second. She stared at the Raskghar.
“You can speak?”
Olesm gasped.
“It knows the common tongue? How?”
“Learned from you. Just now.”
The Raskghar grinned at Krshia. It—her eyes focused on Krshia. Then on the other Gnoll [Guardsman]. When the Raskghar spoke it was slowly. Thoughtfully.
“We know you. Enemy. Old enemy. Prey. Blood prey. We know. You make stone city. You come here. Prey. In our hunting lands.”
“We are not your prey, thing.”
Krshia raised her bow. The Raskghar looked at her, and Krshia felt a fear worm its way into her. Instinctual, primal.
“It is the time of hunting.”
The droplets on Krshia’s body ceased. She glanced up. Overhead, the rain had stopped falling for the second time this day. The clouds parted for a moment. The skies opened. The Raskghar looked up and grinned. Krshia swore.
Moonlight fell down from above. The two nearly full moons shone down on Liscor. Krshia recalled the old legends. The Raskghar traded their ability to level for strength and savagery. Only when the moon shone did they regain their intelligence.
And what intelligence. The Raskghar grinned, her eyes glowing with too much knowledge. Her pupils dilated as the moonlight and rain fell into them. She turned.
“Don’t let it get away!”
Olesm shouted, and the [Guardsmen] loosed at the same time as Zevara breathed fire. Too slow. The Raskghar leapt and bounded up the alleyway, jumping from wall to wall, her claws digging into the brickwork with incredible strength. She howled as two arrows found her, but kept moving. She raced over the rooftops. Zevara instantly turned.
“After her! There are more Raskghar in the city! I want them all found!”
She raced off. Olesm paused.
“Miss Krshia, you should stay inside!”
“No, no. Gnolls are gathering. We heard the alarm. We must go together. There is safety in numbers.”
Krshia rubbed her throat. She could still hear Gnolls calling each other together. Olesm shook his head.
“You’re making yourselves targets this way! The Raskghar are aiming for Gnolls! They’ve carried off dozens already! Come with me—we’ll find the others and call in reinforcements!”
He raised something to his lips and blew. A whistle. The piercing call made Krshia wince, but it was soon answered by more whistles. Olesm pointed.
“Come on!”
He and Krshia ran through the streets, keeping a wary eye out. Olesm panted as they went.
“Those are Raskghar? They’re nothing like the adventurers described! One of them took on an entire squad! It must be the effects of the full moon! The intelligence—”
“Yes. But it is not the right time! It is too soon!”
“What do you mean?”
Krshia glanced up. The moonlight was fading as more rain clouds began to unleash a second downpour. But it wasn’t the moonlight that mattered.
“It is not the full moon yet. Close. But this lunar cycle will see both moons wax and wane over the next six days.”
“Are you serious?”
Olesm paled. He looked around. The howling continued as more warnings and whistles blew, calling for reinforcements or alarm.
“We need to secure the city first. We’ll triple the watch! Ancestors, we’ll seal all the dungeon entrances if we have to! But we need to catch as many Raskghar as we can. The Gnolls—”
“How many have they slaughtered?”
The Drake turned.
“Drakes? Every one they found. But we haven’t found a single Gnoll body.”
“What? Where are they?”
“The Raskghar took them.”
“Why?”
The Drake and Gnoll stared at each other. They looked around. The streets were dark. Krshia bared her teeth. She didn’t know what the Raskghar were doing. But she sensed it, the ancient fear, a warning from the roots of her species. She raised her head and howled a warning to all that could hear.
Raskghar. Danger, kindred! Danger!
 
——
 
Bird heard the howling first. He looked up from his watch tower and gazed towards Liscor. Howling at night? That was very strange. He had not heard howling at night except when the undead had attacked Liscor. And when Brunkr had died. He paused and stared around.
“The water is wet. Rain is falling. Someone is howling. That is a bad thing. I know this because my [Tactician] self tells me. But I see nothing.”
The Antinium peered into the water. Was it a fish? A bird? A moth-bird? He looked up at the skies. Nothing. But he knew there was something, so he kept staring. It was very hard to see in the darkness, with the rain, and all the water. All he could see was the droplets of water hitting the surface of the water. And a few shadows. Fish swam in the darkness, barely visible even to Bird’s enhanced vision. He paused. A few of the dark shadows in the water were very big. Bird drew an arrow and loosed it. He saw a shape jerk underwater and then saw the water splash.
“Oh. That is not a fish.”
A furry head rose out of the waters and stared at Bird. He saw glowing eyes stare malevolently at him. Bird raised a hand.
“Are you a Gnoll? I am sorry! I thought you were a bad fish.”
He paused. The furry head looked like a Gnoll, but the creature wasn’t. It was bigger. More bestial. And there were a lot of shapes in the water, heading to Liscor and the inn. He saw another head break through the water.
“That is a Goblin.”
Bird saw more Goblins surface and more Raskghar emerge from the water. He saw one point at him and growl and slowly drew another arrow.
“I think we are under attack.”
At first he wasn’t sure. Then one of the Raskghar clambered out of the water and Bird was sure. Most guests who came to Erin’s inn didn’t have big axes in hand. Most guests.
“Alarm! Alarm! I am calling an alarm!”
Bird began shouting as he drew an arrow and loosed it. The Raskghar dodged the first arrow, which surprised Bird. The second arrow he loosed was a [Homing Shot] and curved as the Raskghar dodged. It fell, but more were coming. Bird shouted.
“Alarm! Alarm!”
He didn’t know if anyone could hear him. It was raining too hard. Bird stood in the watchtower as more Raskghar and Cave Goblins charged towards the inn. There were a lot of them. He was just glad he had his new bow. If he didn’t die, he resolved to tell the Queen that it was a very lovely bow. More Raskghar thrust their way into the inn as Bird shot arrow after arrow. He would have gone below, but more were trying to climb the slippery roof and get him. Bird hummed as he shot.
“I am Bird, this is bad. If the monsters get Erin, I will be sad…oh, there are many. This is bad, bad, bad!”
 
——
 
Lyonette was sleeping soundly when she felt someone leap onto her. She gasped and sat up as Mrsha hurled herself onto Lyonette’s chest.
“Mrsha! I told you that hurts! I—”
The [Princess] was angry right up until she saw Mrsha’s face. The Gnoll was in a panic. Lyonette looked at her, alarmed.
“What’s wrong?”
She didn’t hear anything but the pounding rain. But Mrsha clearly did. The Gnoll looked around wildly, then sat back and howled. The sound echoed through the inn. Lyonette saw Apista buzz up in alarm.
“Mrsha, what—”
Then Lyonette heard the distant howling and horn calls coming from Liscor. At the same time, she heard a voice from above.
“Alarm! Alarm!”
That was Bird! Lyonette scrambled out of bed. She looked around.
“Mrsha, follow me! Apista!”
She thrust open her door and then remembered her sword. It was propped next to the window. Lyonette grabbed it and unsheathed it. She stared at the blade as Mrsha howled again. She could hear banging from above and then a crash from below.
“Erin!?”
She ran out of her room just in time to see Ceria thrust her door open. The half-Elf had a breast band on. Another door crashed open, and Ksmvr charged out fully armed.
“I heard Bird’s alarm! We are under attack!”
“Where—”
The first Raskghar came up the stairs like a battering ram made of fur. Ceria turned, and her eyes went wide.
“Raskghar!”
“Leave it to m—”
Ksmvr lunged with his enchanted shortsword. The Raskghar’s eyes narrowed, and it surged left. Ksmvr’s blade missed, and it backhanded the Antinium. He spun backwards, and Lyonette saw him crash into a wall. The Raskghar charged Ceria, who leapt backwards too late. It pinned her to the wall, and Lyonette saw its claws open.
The Raskghar opened its mouth, ready to bite as Ceria gasped, but it suddenly paused and sniffed. It brought its head closer and sniffed Ceria’s face and chest. It seemed confused. It lifted Ceria up and then howled. Lyonette’s sword entered the Raskghar’s side. It turned, eyes murderous, and slashed.
“[Flawless—]”
Lyonette’s sword came up and parried the blow. She felt the force almost tear the sword from her grip, but the claw was deflected. The Raskghar blinked at her and then slashed again. This time, it missed because Lyonette was backing up. The Raskghar bounded towards her on all fours and then turned. Mrsha howled as she rammed into it from the side, her small teeth biting.
“Mrsha, no! Run!”
The [Princess] screamed frantically at Mrsha. The Raskghar turned, teeth bared, but then it stared at Mrsha. At her white fur. It sniffed her like it had Ceria and then reached for Mrsha. The Gnoll ran in alarm, and the Raskghar followed her, only to stop as an angry Ashfire Bee buzzed around it. It growled as Lyonette jabbed at it from the side, looking more irritated than anything else. It turned, claw extended, and Lyonette saw the razor tips aiming for her face—
“[Ice Wall]!”
A sheet of shimmering ice blocked the claw mid-strike. Lyonette saw the thick ice fracture as the claws struck. She saw Ceria getting to her feet and Ksmvr rising, clutching at the broken chitin and green blood leaking from his face.
“Get back!”
Ceria shot an [Ice Spike] at the Raskghar. It howled as the projectile pierced its side and raced backwards. Mrsha fled into Lyonette’s arms, and the girl retreated back into her room, shouting for Apista. Ceria swore as she grabbed Ksmvr.
“Are you okay?”
“My injuries are superficial—”
“What’s going on?”
A door slammed open. Pisces looked around, annoyed and bleary. He stared uncomprehending at Ksmvr, Ceria, and the ice wall, and then his eyes widened.
“Springwalker—what—”
“We’re under attack! Raskghar!”
She screamed at him. Pisces’ jaw dropped. The door across from him opened. Yvlon strode out, fully armored. The woman didn’t bother with questions. She pointed.
“Downstairs!”
The Horns of Hammerad turned and ran for the stairs. They could hear fighting throughout the inn. They shot downstairs and nearly ran into the next group of Raskghar. The beasts snarled as they spotted the adventurers on the stairs. Pisces reached for his rapier, remembered he didn’t have it, and swore. He and Ceria shot flames and ice magic as Ksmvr and Yvlon surged down the stairs. The Raskghar retreated, and the adventurers leapt down to the ground floor to find a battle in full swing.
The Raskghar were already in the inn! They were battling the Redfang Warriors, who were already awake. Headscratcher and Rabbiteater were all fighting in front of the kitchen, fending off six Raskghar and a dozen Cave Goblins. The Horns could hear Erin shouting from inside the kitchen.
“Pisces, undead! Yvlon, Ksmvr, the flanks!”
