Thankfully, everything we needed was back on Yo Ling’s island (hooray for looting), making our first venture into Runic Inscriptions cost next to nothing, aside from building a secret lab and other miscellaneous stuff. Shuffling to the side, I watch in silence as Taduk closes his eyes and mentally prepares for the task ahead, his months of secretive failure weighing heavily upon him. I wish we didn’t have to do things like this, but Inscribing Runes requires external Chi manipulation and I’m still a ways from my first success. What’s more, I’m 100% certain the whole bit about Yo Ling trapping Spirits to enhance his Runic creations will have Akanai raring to burn the book, after which she’ll forbid me from looking into it. Baatar does everything Akanai tells him to and Charok tells Alsantset everything who tells Baatar everything, which means Lin and Taduk are the only ones I can trust with this.

Well... Initially I only wanted to tell Taduk, but he can’t keep secrets from Lin. If he holed up and disappeared without telling her, I’m sure she’d curl up in a ball and cry for days without end. As much as she loves me, Lin is and always will be a daddy’s girl. If she didn’t love sleeping in and hate small, enclosed spaces, she’d probably be down here helping him.

Thankfully, Taduk agreed with my point of view on how Energy is all the same and was willing to put in the effort to learn. Eager in fact, so eager he made the trip to Yo Ling’s island without me, making it there and back in three short days. He didn’t even bring Wang Bao with him, just spent an hour taking notes before zipping off in his rickshaw. I don’t know how he did it so quickly and he won’t say, but I’m guessing he had help from his secret expert friends.

Unfortunately, my Teacher has yet to succeed. I still don’t fully understand how runes work but Taduk seems to have a firm grasp on the situation. According to his explanation, Inscribing a rune isn’t as simple as drawing a symbol on an object. Though they’re called runes and Yo Ling describes it as the language of Energy, they aren’t static characters or a translatable system of words, because energy doesn’t think like a living creature would, it just... is. Runes are more of a concept, one which tries to bridge the gap between human intentions and natural law, persuading the Energy of the Heavens to act in a certain way against its nature.

Essentially, it’s magic. Even after months of trying to wrap my head around it, my grasp on the mechanics of Runic Inscription is virtually nonexistent.

What’s more, the rune changes based on the shape, size, and material of the object being inscribed. As I understand it, the bigger the object, the bigger the rune. It’s why the OuYang Patriarch made five rings from different coloured jade, to show off his skill. While the shape remained constant and it’s hard to get smaller than a ring, black jade and green jade are just different enough to matter when it comes to inscribing runes. Since then, rumours say he’s moved on to bigger and better runes, inscribing iron helmets and bracers, though still unable to work with steel or larger breastplates.

Meanwhile, my Teacher is starting with full-sized steel-shields since he doesn’t want to waste the effort Inscribing a ‘defensive hat’.

Silly, kindhearted, and egotistical. That’s my teacher, but I wouldn’t change a thing about him.

Without warning, Taduk opens his eyes and sets to work, his hammer and chisel dancing in his hands as he carves out an intricate pattern across the steel shield’s surface. While visually impressive, it’s nothing compared to the unseen work carried out using his expert control of Chi, weaving it into and around the shield as he works. A chip here, a scrape there, switching chisels on the fly as he engraves an increasingly complicated design onto the shield free hand. One wrong move and the inscription is ruined, but Taduk continues his work without pause, focused but unchallenged by this mundane work.

This, oddly enough, is the easy part.

After thirty minutes of engraving, Taduk puts down his hammer and chisels and moves on to the next step without rest as required by the process. His hands blur through the air as he uses the needle-thin glass pipettes to bring single drops of liquid to the shield, painstakingly going over his carved design with each fluid, bit by bit. He doesn’t merely coat the shield in it, each liquid can only go over certain areas which somehow forms the channels through which Chi will flow.

Only a miniscule amount is used during each try, but the jars only came with enough liquid for around sixty odd tries. Now half as full as they once were, Taduk only has two to three dozen more shots at this before we’ll have to find more and who knows how long that will take. Doing so without attracting unwanted attention will be difficult, especially since we need to keep Akanai and Baatar in the dark before we have a successful model made. This means we can’t use Yuzhen or Fung’s dad, our only real options. I could ask Magistrate Tongzu for help, but without an Oath, I’m not sure if he can be trusted, which probably means I shouldn’t.

Hissing sharply, Taduk slams a button next to him which drops the suspended metal dome onto the shield and nothing else. Clamping the dome in place, Taduk crosses his arms and huffs as a muted explosion rings out, emanating from the shield he was just engraving.

And that’s why I had to build a secret underground lab.

“Difficult, truly difficult,” Taduk says, already lost in thought. “It’s the right move switching from chest armor to shields. Shields are uniform in size, weight, and materials whereas breastplates would need to vary in height, width, depth, and by extension weight, but the Rune changes too much in the process. The notes are next to useless now...” Mulling over his notes as smoke wafts out from the dome, he starts muttering a string of unintelligible syllables, somehow using rhythm and cadence to determine how the rune should be carved.

Like I said... Magic.

My consoling words go ignored as Taduk shoos me out of the room with a wave of his hand and a promise to figure it out ‘soon’. Giving him a hug farewell, I make my way up the stairs a little sadder than I arrived, but warmed by my Teacher’s efforts to help. While part of his drive is pure curiosity and a thirst for knowledge, I also know he’d study the Runic rings if given a choice. Since many miraculous medical plants require decades, if not centuries or millennia to gather enough Heavenly Energy, a runic item which could speed things along would be highly desirable to someone who seeks to improve lives through basic medicine. Instead of working on his own dream or convincing me to share his, he’s studying how to make shields because he wants to keep me safe.

Although I love him like a father, I know it pales compared to how much he loves me.

It makes sense. There’s no love greater than the love a parent has for their child.

Chapter Meme
