First, he wanted to reinforce his Wellspring mana, so he pulled out his old reliable crystal and closed his eyes, absorbing some from it. That was always a trial, but he could handle it now.

When he was done, he looked at the crystal and saw that it was noticeably smaller than it had been before. His endless well was starting to run dry. He'd have to figure out a new source of this stuff, and from the hints dropped by the elves, that wouldn't be easy.

Worthwhile things rarely are, he thought, then pulled out Light mana next.

It had worked a treat with his halberd enchantment and seemed to resonate so well with his other mana types that it was a no-brainer: It was going to be part of his core.

In the spirit of going big or going home, he had purchased a level five Light crystal. This is going to be intense, he told himself, holding it in his hand. It practically melted and fell into his palm.

The next few minutes were indeed intense. Ultra-strong Light mana flooded through him, seeming to radiate from the inside out. Thomas closed his eyes, though he didn't know why he bothered a moment later because he saw brightness behind his eyelids.

This was a mistake, he thought, and again his mind flashed to that kid on TikTok who had blown out his own core.

Then the Adaptation and especially Wellspring seemed to brighten the already extremely energetic Light mana, and it went from radiant to a hair off from searing. Screwing up his face, Thomas bent double and concentrated on breathing and slowly herding the motes to his core.

Judging by the clock, it took a good forty-five minutes to finally get a handle on it. When he moved, his limbs felt light as a feather again. Was there a physical ability attached to this mana, sort of like... light speed? He waved his hand in front of his face but couldn't tell if there was a difference. That probably wasn't the type of thing someone could judge from the outside. He'd ask either Jo or Zach next time he met with them.

Finally, he eyeballed his healing mana. Healing was, of course, already a big part of his core, and he actually felt a little hungry for it now that he had eaten a large meal of Adaptation, Wellspring, and Light. The question was: level four or level five?

Oh, to hell with it. He picked up a level five crystal. He'd gone with higher levels with everything else, and he wasn't going to unbalance himself now.

Hopefully he wouldn't pineapple himself.

Thomas expected it to be worse than Light mana, but while the level five healing was so strong he could practically taste it on the back of his tongue, it actually wasn't as traumatic. His body was used to this stuff by now, and he just felt extremely full. He sat and breathed, and eventually the feeling eased as more and more motes attached to his core and built up that fourth layer, mixing and mingling with the Adaptation, Wellspring, and Light.

He was, he realized, close to filling up that layer completely. He might be able to break into level 4 now if he felt like stopping, but he wanted to absorb everything he could first. This layer felt much larger than the others. It made sense since he was building outward, but... it still seemed unusually large to his inner sight.

Heh. That's what she said.

With a smirk, he rechecked his mix. This layer was running about 33% Adaptation, 20% Wellspring, 10% Light, and roughly the remaining third taken up by Healing.

This was a good mix for him. The Adaptation made him flexible, Light gave him a combat edge and perhaps a little speed, Healing, of course, was for healing, and Wellspring seemed to replenish and reinforce all of it.

He'd probably want something in addition for his next, fifth layer. That would be the last and largest before he was actually offered a class.

Something with combat capabilities, he thought, though off the top of his head, he wasn't exactly sure what it would be. He was compatible with Earth. Maybe he should pick one in that family to help balance out the Light and give him more staying power while he tanked? Nature, maybe? He'd have to think about it.

Absorbing all that mana was hard work, and he had been sweating almost the entire time. So he chugged down two water bottles from the mini-bar and he took another shower, sluicing the sweat off before he dressed in the last clean clothes in his bag. As he did, he considered inducing the Purge on himself. Though... he'd seen it twice and it had been super intense for Prinna and Jo, to say the least. Maybe he'd see how Jo handled having no toxins, first.

He checked the clock: a quarter to one. Just enough time to get out of here and grab a coffee before housekeeping started getting on his ass.

He checked his phone and saw that he had a couple of messages from Zach. He'd sent a picture of himself grinning in front of a sign for the Pike Place Fish in Seattle.

Zach: on the hunt for a blink skill! Wish me luck!!! XP

Thomas: Good luck!

He felt a small, distinctly childish flare of jealousy for that awesome teleportation skill, and briefly considered whether it was too late to pick up one of his own... But no, even if he could somehow manage it by re-diving the Ross-Astor dungeon, he'd have to add the mana to support it. Hadn't he just been thinking that his mana needed more combat-related aspects? The last thing he needed was another support type.

Zach would have to continue being the team transport for now.

Jo had texted too. Her message, typically, was more practical.

Jo: Daughter's got a school thing early tomorrow morning. Can't dive till Sunday.

No team today. That was fine. Thomas had his own family time to catch up on.

So Thomas went through the motions and rented a car to get him back home like a muggle. Though, he splurged a little again and made sure it was a nice car. Still a sedan, but one with leather seats, and unlike his own, no bullet holes.

His apartment was exactly as chaotic as he had feared it would be. Kingston and Braxton had an Nerf war in the living room, and the couch cushions had been upended to be used as ad hoc forts. Fifteen-year-old Ashton claimed that he had no part in it since he was too old to play, but by the jeers of twelve-year-old Kingston and ten-year-old Braxton, that was clearly a lie.

Derek was, again, nowhere to be found, apparently working. He and Thomas had been kind of avoiding each other since the whole hand-regrowth blowup, but that had been a couple of weeks ago now. What the hell was his brother even doing all day?

Thomas filed that away for later and decided to spoil his clearly already spoiled nephews by putting in an order for delivery Chinese food. Everybody got a say in the dishes that were ordered, and if these weren't all growing boys, each with his own hollow leg—and apparently Ashton with two—Thomas would have been alarmed at the amount they requested.

"Okay, okay," he said, "but I'm also ordering beef and broccoli, and you are all eating the broccoli."

He got some grudging "okay"s in reply. Somehow, though, they ended up with a double order of walnut shrimp, which was practically like candy anyway.

Thomas was about halfway done with his plate, also with a heaping of walnut shrimp because he loved the stuff, when he suddenly felt a snap in his core, exactly like a tight rubber band had suddenly broken. He winced and barely had time to press his hand over his belly button before something large and human-shaped suddenly dropped half on top of him and half on top of the table, breaking it and scattering Chinese food everywhere.

The boys shrieked, and Thomas was on his feet, chopsticks clenched in his hand as if he was going to bring them down on... Zach?

Zach's whole body shook with violent jolts. A sparking cord of electricity with what looked like weights wound tightly around both ankles, and he had at least four arrows lodged in his chest.
