Deborah watched that happen a little, but then she came forward and grabbed a Personal Script of her own. The spark of eternity soaked into her body and soon she was looking at words that only she could see.

While Deborah and Jin read the air, Rafael came forward.

Rafael looked at the fractal Personal Script sitting in the air above the fountain. He had seen Deborah take that power for herself. He was scared, but he was here, being brave. His voice did not waver as he asked, said, prayed, “That’s real power, isn’t it. And you’re just giving it away.” He wondered, “Will you corrupt the world with it? Or will you be here to see this through to the end, unlike your father?”

Rafael was a skeptic. That was good and fine.

Ophiel simply said, “Power reveals, Rafael. Would you like to receive a revelation?”

Rafael had almost walked out of the meeting earlier, with his faction from Brazil, but Ophiel had made them stay with a casual threat of not allowing them to write the future of Earth from the inside. And now Rafael was here; terrified, yet still here.

Rafael breathed deep, and then he stepped forward.

With a hand that was shaking, he took a copy of the Personal Script.

Ophiel smiled as the three of them gained power. He waited for them to come out of the initial trance of integration. Soon enough, Jin Jin blinked and looked around.

Ophiel asked him, “Your government will be looking for you, Jin Jin. Want a [Reincarnation] to hide better? And also to gain a lot more years of natural life. I can do that for you.”

Jin Jin happily said, “Absolutely! Would you be interested in doing the same for everyone else in the world, in an organized sort of way, to form a basis of power upon which we can overthrow every established power base out there? In a non-violent way, of course, but with a large amount of defensive violence if necessary. And it would be necessary.”

Ophiel blinked a little. Going right for the throat, eh?

Deborah came out of her integration halfway through Jin Jin’s proclamation. She frowned at him almost instantly, then said, “What happened to you, Jin Jin?”

“Many things,” Jin Jin said, “And all because of the fear that mortals have of the divine. Now that I am out of their captivity I will forgive them all, and my people will forgive them all as well, but we will not forget. It is they who will be exiled outside of governments, this time.”

Deborah breathed deep.

Rafael came out of his integration, blinking and looking around.

Deborah said, “Then I suppose we have choices. We can do this the short, violent way. Or the long, maybe more violent way. I would like to present us as a boon to the world, though. Not just different sorts of tyrants.”

Jin Jin said, “I’m fine with any solid action, backed up with defensive plans.”

Rafael offered, “I was always fond of the Miracle Healer plan… Which is probably why I was offered a Quest for [Cleanse], [Greater Regeneration] and an Elemental Healing Aura.” He looked at the others. “My Other Self heavily suggested [Cleanse], so I went with that one to start. The Founder spoke of it sometimes so I… I picked that one.”

“He also said it was one of the most dangerous spells out there,” Deborah said, warily.

Rafael shook his head. “What were you offered?”

Deborah said, “[Witness], [Scry], [Future Sight]. I went with [Scry]. [Scry] is just… just what I need.”

“[Know the Path],” Jin Jin offered.

Deborah and Rafael looked to him. Deborah asked, “I don’t know that one?”

Jin Jin grinned. “Me neither, but it was the only one I offered myself.”

Deborah shuddered a little bit, giving a nervous chuckle, because she wasn’t sure what Jin Jin meant by that, and she had a bunch of her own Big Thoughts weighing on her. “This is truly the start of it all, isn’t it?”

Rafael said, “The kicking of the avalanche.”

Jin Jin said, “The start of the House of Benevolence, Earth chapter.”

Deborah sharply inhaled, keeping her thoughts to herself.

Rafael said, “My Ghost said something about that name.” He looked to Ophiel. “And you said something about ‘Wizard of Benevolence’, didn’t you?”

Ophiel grinned, and then he stated, “The House of Resons was established under a name that differed from the original organization’s name, all in order to shield you from the enemy of my father’s second home. Now that enemy is no more. Now, we are free to use the original name, and you are empowered to take up our original purpose: To bring wellness to this and all other worlds, and to connect them all together.

“House Benevolence was founded as a Gate Network organization. Portals to connect this part of the world to that part of the world, and to other worlds out there in turn. That is the original form of House Benevolence, of the true form of the House of Resons.

“I’m rather sure that Jin Jin’s [Know the Path] will eventually lead him to figuring out that spell that connects us all, that I used to bring you to this part of Antarctica; [Gate].

“When he finishes his Worldly Path, your branch of House Benevolence will be able to connect to the moon, or to Mars, or Venus. To all the worlds of this solar system. Through you, the humans of Earth will reach the stars, and beyond.

“But first you got to sort out Earth at least a little bit. Enlighten people to mana and magic, and all of that turmoil that will follow.”

Deborah breathed deep.

Jin Jin grinned, knowingly.

Rafael stared at his hands, feeling the true weight of his new duties.

Deborah said to Ophiel, “We’re going to need your help when this all blows up.”

“Absolutely. That’s what I’m here for.”

- - - -

A man walks down a street in a village in the Congo. He is dressed in a white and black suit. The local kids are all in tee shirts with bright prints of action heroes; they have holes in their shirts. The women wear colorful wraps around their shoulders and hips. The men wear clothes that are of indeterminate color, for they are dusty and orange, for they have come in from the mines to get their pay from the office on the street.

The man in the suit is out of place.

Everyone looks at him. Some ask their neighbors about the man, but they don’t know what is happening either. Aside from his suit he looks local, as if some people recognize him, but no one truly recognizes him.

The man is local, but he hasn’t been home in a very long time. He is happy to be home once again, because now he can make a real difference. He touches a black and white circle pin on his chest that is either a circle with a break, or an arrow twisted to nearly touch its own tail; it is hard to say from a distance. He is bald, freshly shaved and waxed, and his clothes are immaculate, his black shoes shiny as his head. He is as presentable as can be.

The man breathes deep, and since there are no cars on the street at this time of day, he steps out into the middle of the orange road, into the bright sun, and casts his voice wide, “Friends! Neighbors! I am here to heal whoever needs healing! A touch is all it takes, but the magic breaks if you work too hard afterward, so come forward for healing, and then take a break from your manual labor for the rest of the day! Sitting around is fine, but no working!”

And then he waits.

Very predictably, absolutely no one goes to see the crazy man in the middle of the street.

Women click their tongues and talk about him in small words, and then words that he is clearly meant to overhear. Men from the mine laugh at him and tell him that he needs a hat; the sun has baked his brain! They talk about how they have mine dust on them and that maybe he needs some orange, too. It would block out the sun better than his bald head.

The man smiles at the miners, and then said, “Perhaps you are right! I do need a hat.” The man holds his hands out to both sides and, showing that he has nothing hidden anywhere, unfurls his right hand. A large white hat appears. It is a cowboy hat, for the man always liked those old stories of cowboys in America. It has a nice black trim and band, too. He put the hat on his head, saying, “Ah! It is so much better with a hat. Thank you for the suggestion.”

Silence.

And then laughter.

“Do it again!” shouts a kid wearing a superhero shirt, as he stands with his friends, under the watchful eyes of one of their mothers.

The mother holds the kid back and calls at the suited man, “Don’t be weird!”

The man smiles and said, “There is nothing weird about this! I am merely doing some magic! Would you all like to see more?” Without waiting for a response, but getting an enthusiastic response from the kids anyway, the man stretches a hand out and then waves it to the side. A glass table laden with cups full of ice cream appears, each of them all rainbow and cold, with little plastic spoons stuck into them. All of them have sprinkles. The man announces, “Some ice cream for a hot day!” He picks one up and starts eating it with the provided spoon.

There is a moment of utter surprise. And then the utter surprise breaks upon every viewer in different ways.

He does not have to tell the kids to come get some for they are already breaking away from their parents, rushing him and the cold treats. Some kids grab two, ensuring that the rest don’t get anything, but the man waves his hand and more ice cream appears, and what would have been a fight is not a fight at all.

But now the parents are here.

“What is this! What are you doing!” shouts one woman who looks particularly angry. She knocks the ice cream out of a kid's hands, saying, “Do not eat that! I said do not eat that!”

There is a confrontation between kids and adults that rapidly narrows between all of the gathered adults and the man in the suit.

The man says that he will leave, and he does so.

The men want to chase him out of town, but they cannot. No one can touch him.

Everyone loses sight of the man despite everyone looking straight at him, and the man gets away just fine. Some people make the sign of the cross upon their chests, others say louder words to chase away demons.

The kids complain about not getting enough free ice cream.

Mothers, fathers, aunts and uncles, have to deal with those sorts of complaints for the next two days, and everyone making up stories about what the man was trying to do. Some people vow to drive him away if he should show up again.

On the third day since his first appearance the man walks out of the air in the middle of the road, in the middle of the town, as all the men are coming home from the mines again.

People start yelling right away.

But it is the owner of the mines, the one in the mine office, who steps forward, and everyone looks at him. The man does not tower, but everyone imagines he does. He looks at the man in the white suit, demanding, “Who are you?”

“I was born and raised here, though it appears no one remembers little Chibuike. It is fine if you don’t remember me anyway, Mister Orjea. I remember you, and I know you are a good man.”

Some people in the crowd pause.

Orjea frowns, trying to remember—

“Chibu?” says a woman, who Chibuike recognizes as Nkiru. She is a mother now and her recognition causes her to let go of her kid. “That is you!” Instantly, Nkiru is furious again. She grabs her kid and holds him back, thrusting the boy behind her skirts, out of sight. The boy complains about how he wants ice cream. The woman complains louder, “What are you doing here with this weirdness! You left 20 years ago!”

There are words of shouting and accusation.

Chibuike endures.

When he is allowed to speak again, Chibuike says, “I am here to provide free healing to all who need it, and I have a few tricks that allow me to escape unharmed, if I need to use those tricks. Healing is my goal. I came back here because I loved my home, but I vowed never to return unless it was with real hope in my hands.” He looked at Mister Orjea, and said, “This town would have fallen apart if it weren’t for you, but I am here to help it do so much more. I can heal miners. I can heal the sick. I can heal anyone. But my warnings from the other day still apply. The magic breaks if you work after I apply my healing.”

Confusion; that is what Chibuike sees.

Confused, Nkiru asks, “A doctor?” She remembered, her eyes lighting. “You went to France to become a doctor!” She frowns. “What is all this magic nonsense then!”

Everyone relaxes. They understand doctors and magic tricks. Nkiru’s words put Chibuike far down on the list of their big concerns. He is just some guy that is known, though he is still weird.

“I ended up going to America instead, where I was denied the doctor track due to a lack of education. I became a nurse, and eventually a nurse practitioner. And then magic found me. The magic that found me is enough to heal all your ails, if you wish it.” Chibuike asked, “Does anyone want to go first?”

Nkiru scowled, saying, “This is strangeness! I do not like this! Go back to America.”

The crowd agrees.

Mister Orjea agrees with the crowd, speaking up, “Whatever you are doing here with this stage magic needs to stop. Go away, Chibuike.”

“I refuse, and if I need to work outside of your bounds, Mister Orjea, I will.”

The air seems to crystallize.

Orjea is not a large man, but he towers anyway, as he steps toward Chibuike and prepares to poke him in the chest with two rigid fingers.

Orjea’s two fingers stop midair, as he pokes an invisible wall a foot away from Chibuike.

He freezes. He pokes the air some more. Yes, there is something there, but he cannot see it. It is invisible.

Orjea does not tower anymore.

His face falls and he backs away, silent and scared. A few people trail after him, looking back to Chibuike and then to Orjea, and then back to Chibuike. Some people in the crowd want to poke the solid air. Some want to poke Chibuike in the face, though Chibuike recognizes that desire more as ‘punching’ and less as poking. Some of the crowd begins to silently disperse, not wanting anything to do with—

Chibuike says, “I will be back tomorrow.”

And then he vanishes from sight, in the middle of the street.

There is a small panic.

The day passes with no small amount of discussion behind closed doors and speculation flying everywhere. There are cameras in the windows of some of the stores on the street, and some of those cameras had been pointed at the street for the entire altercation today. People begin to review those tapes.

They are bad cameras. They can’t see shit.

Someone sets up a much better camera, using one of their phones, setting it to record on the street, where Chibuike had stood twice in a row.

