Ophiel loved Earth. It was quaint.

Mostly, Ophiel loved Earth because he got to see where dad grew up. He got to see all the influences that turned him into who he was, from the lack of free housing to the lack of common help, to the over-reliance on commerce as the best way to make things better. That sort of economy had done a lot for Earth, but the place was a dump and the oceans were rising and precious few people were doing what needed to be done in order to prevent a catastrophe that everyone saw coming. Precious few people could actually do anything about those problems at all.

Dad could, though.

The year was 2024, almost 5 years since Dad and Sis had left this place through a planar tunnel. That planar tunnel had happened because the Fractal wanted to speak to the Dark, and it sent Erick and Jane… or maybe Dad and Jane sent themselves. The manners of how universes talked to each other was via ‘particles’ of people, and personal agency was important in those talks, but had that ball rolled downhill because it chose to roll down that hill, or was the nature of the universe, of ‘gravity’, doing most of the work?

Whatever the case, the Fractal was speaking with the Dark lots these days in the ways of action and exchange, and that’s what the Fractal wanted. The Dark theoretically wanted that, too, but who really knew aside from Dad.

Whatever the case, the place where Dad and Jane had come from was falling apart, and Ophiel was here to do what he could for the place.

Ophiel was shaped like a normal human person of 22 years old. He was mostly in 1 body, but he had left a part of himself in the Benevolent Safehold he had planted in Antarctica in order to watch over that place. His wings were hidden behind some Elemental Fairy which had effectively dismissed them from this plane of reality. And so, wearing a teeshirt and jeans, and with dark eyes that glimmered rainbow if you saw them at the right angles which he didn’t feel like changing at all, Ophiel walked through the cities of the United States.

Mostly the midwest.

He hopped around, taking a little Step here and there to get around. Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Fargo, Oklahoma City. Wherever the Lightning flickered, Ophiel moved. He cured a man’s cancer, he shut off the gas in a house so it didn’t explode, he helped a woman with some groceries and a few smaller things here and there. It was nice to do that for people. It was a lot easier than the usual help he did, which was to rescue people from monsters, usually pulling them through [Gate]s into Benevolence Itself and then setting them back down elsewhere. The Lightning told him what he could do, if he wanted, but Dad didn’t expect Ophiel to do everything. Mostly, Benevolence was already working on its own to do things here and there.

Ophiel watched as an insurance agency experienced a ‘catastrophic’ failure in its new AI program that was designed to automatically deny claims, and now it was approving everyone. That was nice.

The lightning flickered a lot, and it never stopped, so eventually Ophiel decided to stop and take a break.

Chicago seemed nice enough so he stopped there for some food.

A pizza? Yes, a pizza.

Ophiel went into a pizzeria and got some deep dish stuff. It was pretty good! As he ate he watched the people walk by the windows, going this way or that, completely oblivious that their world was going to change forever. Ophiel was here to do that. He just wasn’t sure where to start.

Dad hadn’t been certain, either, and he wasn’t about to make decisions for worlds that were not beyond saving themselves.

Dad had told Ophiel, “I’ve got some good ideas but all of them are bad in certain ways, so before I do all of that, I want you to tell me how you would do it, and we can talk about it. The girls and Evan want nothing to do with the place and Yggdrasil is too busy on Fenrir, but you showed interest in Earth, so... How would you introduce Earth to the universe, Ophiel?”

Eating pizza in a little place in Chicago, Ophiel wasn’t quite sure how he would introduce Earth to mana and magic.

Ophiel could just make a scene somewhere. Show off his wings and his multiplicity. Get on the news. Make a few scenes everywhere, really… Except he had wings and they’d think he was some sort of Christian thing. Even if he turned into his Big Form and showed off all his eyes and stuff, they’d still think he was Christian. Probably even more so, really.

And then there was the House of Resons.

And… Yeah. Ophiel was probably going to contact them soon.

He saw their touch everywhere. In that climate change activism gathering over there. In that public broadcasting station over there, educating kids about morals through puppets. And in that big bank-thing over there, across the street.

It was not just a bank. It was some sort of market manipulation thing, or something. Ophiel noticed the big building because it was filled with all sorts of people who had all sorts of small magics, and Marks of Benevolence. That’s why Ophiel had decided to have lunch here at this pizza place; to study the marketplace a bit more.

Also, the owner of the place had a Mark of Benevolence and Darkness. That was kinda common since they went hand-in-hand most of these days, but the big dude making the pizzas had a Mark of the Fractal, too, which was very rare outside of Personal Scripts. And there were no Personal Scripts on Earth. Not yet. So this guy had been given a rare gift, and possibly because he saw what no one else could; he saw possibilities everywhere.

Which is probably why he opened a pizza shop across from a big market/bank/thing; a lot of people with suits ate here all the time.

Ophiel finished off his whole deep dish, large-sized pizza. A waitress had spotted him eating and eating, and was amazed, so she had told the head cook, who was also the owner and with three universal marks in him, that ‘someone was eating the entire big pizza!’. The head cook had stuck his head out of the kitchen to see a few times as Ophiel kept eating 1-pound slices of pizza.

A few waitresses clapped happily when Ophiel finished. Some of them said they thought he couldn’t do it, but then he went and did it!

The head cook smiled, saying, “You must be hungry, kid!” He set out some garlic knots in a to-go box, saying, “I packed this full just for you. Free! On the House.”

The guy had said ‘house’ like ‘House’, full of meaning. The only people to get the ‘joke’ were himself and maybe the cashier over there, who seemed to be the guy’s wife. She raised her head a little, and then marked down another tic on a private tally beside the register.

Ophiel happily took the box, asking, “On the House of Reasons?”

The head cook paused.

The cashier perked up a lot more, narrowing her eyes at Ophiel.

The head cook smiled wide. “I knew you seemed like a good guy! Yes! The House of Reasons! You’ve heard of them?”

The waitresses all scoffed and went back to doing normal waitress stuff, though one of them muttered something about ‘that cult’.

“I’ve heard of them from my father, but now I’m actually going to go find out about them myself.”

“They’re great! They helped me to start this business and I make all the best pizza in all of Chicago now. I should introduce you to some people...”

And so began a month-long order of events that started with Ophiel getting introduced to one person, and then another person, and then, with a few more words said here or there, Ophiel ended up at a big House of Reasons meeting on a Tuesday night. They were some of the nicest people Ophiel had ever met, offering him housing for the night when he told them he was currently homeless, offering him meals when they asked when he last ate and he said a day ago, and helping him meet other people when he told them he was looking to make big changes in his life, and in the world. From one local chapter to the next, Ophiel couch-surfed around with purpose, thanks to the kindness of strangers.

He helped wherever he went, too.

A little healing here, a little bit of money miraculously appearing over there, helping to look after a baby while a mom went and did an errand, and just talking to people, learning how Earth worked.

Eventually, Ophiel ended up on a plane flying to Hawaii.

He could have gone there himself and a lot faster than a month of getting around on Earth, but this was working well. Every single person that met him seemed to lay eyes on him and know something big was happening, and how he could help them and everyone else. But eventually they moved him up the chain of command. Ophiel hadn’t told anyone about his real intentions here on Earth yet, but… Soon.

He was pretty sure the higher ups knew something was up with him, anyway. Something big. Even if they didn’t know, then they knew in a Benevolence sort of way. At least some of them… Right?

This was the right way to do this, Ophiel reflected, as he watched the Hawaiian islands come into view beyond the windows of the plane. This gave everyone time to get ready.

- - - -

Butterfly Prognostication was rather simple.

If a dark butterfly should appear when Deborah was strolling in her garden, asking questions, then the answer to her question was something close to, if not actually, ‘no’, depending on the appearance and disposition of the butterfly that crossed her sight. If a light butterfly should appear, then the answer was something like a ‘yes’. Moths were an acceptable divining tool in a pinch, but who really knew with those guys.

But the Hawaiian islands didn’t have many true black or white butterflies, and so she had needed to get creative with her interpretations of the local flutterers many years ago. It was one of the reasons that she loved this place the most, actually.

The Asian Swallowtail held a special place in Deborah’s heart, and in her butterfly magic.

The Asian Swallowtail was mostly black and white, but sometimes the white was more yellow, and the female had blue and orange on the tail, while the male had very little blue and orange. They made excellent prognostication buddies, because even as much as a twist of the wing or a shaft of sunlight or shadow could turn them into a myriad of different answers.

And somehow, about 500 of them had molted from some unknown citrus field or somewhere, and they were fluttering all over her gardens, outside of her house.

Deborah had woken to the sight with a gasp, and then began making big, sweeping preparations for the war. Because the Asian Swallowtail was a sign of Grandpa. The Founder. It was the butterfly she had associated most closely with him, and there were so many of them. She had woken everyone she could wake. She had told people she trusted to keep eyes open. The House of Resons, inside the House of Reason, was on full alert.

That had been a month ago.

The mania had mostly died down and Deborah had lost a lot of political favor when nothing big happened right away.

Deborah was convinced something was happening, though. She just couldn’t see it.

Deborah sipped her coffee as she sat at her desk, watching the wall, filled with screens, each of them holding a live stream from a butterfly garden she had personally started in this or that part of the world. And she worried. Each garden needed to be maintained for the butterflies, but she had mostly hired out that sort of help, so each of these gardens was not a perfect weather vane of the world.

But it was easy to find young witches who were eager to learn their power, to learn what Deborah could teach them, and they needed some prognostication tools anyway, and so, Deborah piggybacked when she could. Even her main garden, here in Hawaii, was mostly maintained by younger witches. Deborah just put her touches onto it every weekend; trimming trees and bushes and weeding the flower fields. Deborah simply didn’t have the time to maintain the gardens like they should be maintained, even if she was only maintaining a tenth of the House of Reasons that she used to control.

Several more splits of faith had occurred when Grandfather left five years ago, and more splits might be happening sooner, rather than later, thanks to Deborah’s mania...

And yet Asian Swallowtails were still everywhere, on every live stream from all parts of the world, and if not them, then other black and white butterflies. Marbled Whites in England. African Caper Whites in South Africa. Ohgomadaras in Japan. Particularly white Methona Themistos in Brazil. Where did they all come from! Where did they hatch! Some of these life cycles were not this long, but the butterflies were still alive, a month later.

Some people in the House thought Deborah was doing some sort of stunt.

Some people were on even higher alert, though; like Deborah.

And right now, a very white Morpho Luna was hanging out near the camera in the Mexico garden, fluttering its wings. It looked rather rainbowish-white-black as it moved. Normal Morphos, or rather the ones that everyone thought of, were iridescent blue. This one was white and black and iridescent anyway.

It seemed rather cheeky.

Gail walked into Deborah’s office with a stack of reports, looking nonchalant about everything happening on the wall.

Deborah asked her, “Look at that one there? Doesn’t that Morpho Luna look like the cat that got the cream?”

Gail plopped the papers down, giving a glance toward the wall… She paused. She hummed. “Maybe it’s a bit… Aggressive?”

“But in a subtle sort of way?” Deborah asked.

“Maybe in a ‘this is happening’ sort of way.” Gail said, “That’s Marianne’s garden, isn’t it? She’s always been focused on that war of yours.”

Deborah stared at Gail, saying, “It’s a real thing. We were warned, Gail.”

With perfect diplomacy, Gail said, “I believe that the warning was real, but I also believe that the Founder was always going to win his war. That’s what my own vine reading has told me for the last month, ever since this whole mass maturation event started.”

Deborah paused. She looked at her old friend. “… You actually did a reading? Recently?”

Gail winced. It was obvious she had not wanted to tell Deborah that, but Deborah knew things sometimes.

Deborah grinned, and then huffed a laugh. “Your reading must have turned out just as bad as mine!”

Gail said, “The vine curled too much. It started growing in squares, though. Not sure what that meant. It’s still 3 days out from flowering, too, so… I didn’t want to tell you before the actual reading happened.”

Gail had been with the House of Reasons for 20 years, and though she wasn’t as fast with her magic as some people she truly knew how to make the best predictions on long-ranging questions, though her vine magic did take a long while to mature to a readable state.

