Ophiel let out three pairs of black wings from his back, eliciting disbelief in some of the people on the screens, but the representatives from China, the USA, Canada, and England, recognized the wings. They knew he was the one who had moved the mountain, and who stepped in sometimes when healers were targeted. Ophiel said, “You all have your ultimatums. Further talks to follow.”

Ophiel cut the feed, then said to Deborah, “Toshi just launched a four-pronged attack on our Tokyo House. Kurdina killed some people in Moscow. I have recovered the souls and reembodied most of them, but four of those people killed were sleeper agents due to some soul twistings. Those four people got [Reincarnation]d and sent along the Roots of Yggdrasil. The rest will be coming here. I’ve already reaped Kurdina and Toshi. You are needed to take over the remnants of the Japan and Russia Houses.”

Big news.

Betrayal was always hard.

Deborah sunk a little, and then she rallied.

The other people in the room, standing to the side and watching Deborah speak, all faltered a little. All of them knew of the other Leaders of the Houses of Reson, and some had even been a part of those other branches. The Houses of Reson had mostly cleaved back together in the last few months, in the display of real power and possibility.

Toshi and Kurdina never returned, though.

Deborah stood, saying, “Cleaning up messes.”

Ophiel nodded. “Cleaning up messes.”

- - - -

It took 2 more years and a lot of growing pains to ‘prepare’ Earth, because apparently, when artificial intelligence technology really starts going, and the world leaders have a need for it, they can make censorship AI rather robust. Propagandist AI, too.

Everyone already knew what was happening, though. There was only so much that could be done in the face of the story of the Moving Mountain. Even worse for hiding the truth was the Day of Clouds, which took place on one cold January 20th, on Erick and Jane’s Birthday. Perhaps, if the nations of the world had not tried to hide magic so much, then Ophiel and House Benevolence wouldn’t have needed to do a Day of Clouds.

Spellwork had flashed across the entire globe on that day, on the exact hour of Jane’s Birth, and healed every single person. All maladies fixed. All genetic issues erased and replaced. All broken bodies made whole, and all age-related issues repaired as could be repaired.

On January 25th, Ophiel stepped in front of a camera, and spoke to the world with his wings spread wide.

The resulting panic was not that bad, but only, of course, because House Benevolence had worked hard to get everyone on board before the Great Reveal. And the Day of Clouds mostly proved their intentions, as well as their possible reach.

Humanity’s troubles were not over at all.

In many ways, they were just beginning.

But at least Earth was fixed in all the ways it could be fixed.

- - - -

Ophiel fiddled with his tie and fluffed out his robes, and then he discarded the tie to the closet, saying to himself, “No. Not doing ties. Not at all.”

He strode out of the bathroom, into the hallway, scowling on the outside but secretly thrilled on the inside.

Deborah was there, wearing the robes of a headmistress. She had that same sort of disapproving look to her face, too. “Where’s the tie?”

“I’m not doing ties. I refuse to wear a tie for the rest of my life.”

Deborah frowned at first, but then she smiled brightly. With a hopeful expression, she asked, “Rest of your life?”

“For a while, anyway. I like Earth and… It’s nice.” Ophiel smiled a little. “You really want to do this sort of thing? It doesn’t have to be you, you know.”

“It most certainly, absolutely does have to be me!” Deborah said, trying not to smile. And then she looked to Ophiel, adding, “It doesn’t have to be you, though.”

“I’m doing a lot more than just this right now, anyway.”

But Ophiel was most present here, and now.

Deborah almost said something—

“Bah. Drop it, Deborah. I’m here, I’m doing this, and it’s going to be for the long haul, too. The others might only stick around for a while, but I’m here for longer than that.”

Deborah’s face broke into pure joy. She promptly forgot all decorum and grabbed Ophiel into a hug, saying, “Thank you so much.”

Ophiel chuckled, hugging her back. “What are big brothers for!”

They had decided to just be brother and sister a while ago, and Ophiel loved it. He never got to grow up with Jane and them, but he was pretty close to Deborah’s age, somewhat, and that made it a whole lot nicer. Jane was always off getting into trouble with different people all the time, anyway.

Ophiel hugged Deborah a little tighter.

Deborah laughed, and then she let go of Ophiel. She wiped away a tear, and then she glanced to the side, where an organizer stood at the side of a stage, back where no one could easily see them. Ophiel and Deborah were a lot further back than that. The guy on the stage right now was just finishing up.

The stagehand motioned to Deborah.

She was already walking out.

The guy on stage said, “And now, let me introduce your Headmistress, Deborah Flatt, and the Dean of Students, Ophiel Flatt!”

That was another thing that had happened. Deborah took Dad’s last name.

Ophiel walked out right behind Deborah, into a sea of flashing cameras and so many gasps. Many of them asked each other if they knew the Deborah was going to be here, along with the Ophiel. None of them had known that, because of course they didn’t. Deborah had bigger responsibilities than teaching the first class of mages on Earth, didn’t she? Or at least that’s what some people were already saying.

Ophiel thought Deborah had bigger responsibilities, too, but she always had that streak of a teacher in her. Or maybe she just liked organizing people. She oversaw all of the Houses of Reson as much as she could, after all, and ever since she got her Personal Script her ability to prognosticate was on par with Teressa, or any other Seer. Better than Ophiel’s prognostication abilities, actually. So Deborah probably knew what she was doing.

Deborah smiled, calling out, “Welcome to a new age of Open Magic!”

Butterflies of every color streamed out across the roof of the room, illuminating the new student body (and several observers from various governments) with a rainbow of light.

“We’ve got an exciting school year planned for everyone! From History of the Universe to Divine Studies to smaller, no-less-complicated topics like Healing and even Fire Mana, I expect everyone here to leave with some power under their belts, and, if you prove yourself as Benevolent, then you too will gain a Personal Script, which is the most basic part of what makes me and my people so strong.”

The audience gasped.

The observers from the governments quietly panicked and then started sending off texts to their handlers.

Deborah beamed, “Yes! If you prove yourself, you will have power! The power to shape other worlds, though. Earth is a nature preserve, under the Agreement of Benevolence, signed half a year ago by many nations of Earth. So prepare to learn everything you can, and go make your Benevolent mark upon this universe or any other!”

The opening talks of Benevolence Arcanaeum continued with introductions to some of their new professors.

Tenebrae, the archmage orcol and his wife, Palodia. They were gigantic, green, and very much orcols, which caused a bunch of reactions among the crowd. Tenebrae and Palodia would be teaching generalized magic and war, respectively, while they raised their kids, both elemental and orcol, here on Earth.

Redflame, the dragon who created Ar’Cosmos, was here. He was venturing out into the universe, and he kinda wanted a multi-decade stop at Erick’s home world. He’d be teaching history. He’d be opening up a gate space into Fairy, here on Earth.

And then there was Ezekiel and the fae of gems and jewelry Gnowmi, who were introduced as humans from Veird, and not as who they truly were at all. Both of them looked perfectly human right now, though. It was weird to see Gnowmi all human-sized. They’d be groundskeepers, upkeeping Fairy Earth and the Arcanaeum which would exist partially inside Fae.

And then there was Yggdrasil, pretending to be a normal orcol from Veird, and his Computer Mage girlfriend Darnella, also from Veird. Both of them might only be there for a year, depending on scenarios. Some people connected Yggdrasil’s name with what Ophiel had spoken about in the past, but most people were just confused by such a name. Everyone was confused when Deborah had said that Yggdrasil would be doing whatever he wanted, but Darnella would be doing computer sciences and magic integration.

Ophiel fully expected Yggdrasil to tell him he was doing something wrong here on Earth, but that’s what older brothers were for; they hadn’t gotten a chance to really talk yet. Both of them were exceedingly busy.

There were a few incani, and dragonkin, and other races among the ranks of the professors, but most eyes were drawn to the size of the orcols among the professors.

When Yggdrasil smirked down at Ophiel, Ophiel decided he had had enough of that, and he fluffed up to be orcol-sized, too. Yggdrasil chuckled, and then Yggdrasil increased his height by another few centimeters.

Ophiel narrowed his eyes at his older brother. “Don’t be an ass.”

Yggdrasil laughed.

Deborah’s speech to the gathered audience briefly paused, and then she resumed.

When the speech was over and Ophiel exited the stage, Deborah went the other way and Ophiel went and hugged Yggdrasil, saying, “Glad to have you here. Anyone else coming?”

Yggdrasil hugged Ophiel back, chuckling as he said, “Why would we need to visit you? You’ve only been gone for a few days.”

Ophiel sputtered indignantly, but he didn’t let go of the hug, and neither did Yggdrasil.

Softer, Yggdrasil said, “Earth has been in Fenrir’s timezone for about a month now, Ophiel. Travel will be a lot easier. I’ll stick around as long as Darnella does, or as long as it takes before you get tired of me butting into Benevolence Itself.” In a way that only asshole older brothers could do, Yggdrasil said, “You could use some help with all of that.”

“Bah! Dad helped, and he’s a lot better at it than you, so don’t put yourself out on account of me.” Ophiel let go, smiling, happy that Yggdrasil was sticking around some, now that the time streams were joined. He turned to Darnella. “My brother the asshole, am I right.”

Darnella had been about to say something, probably demure or whatever since Ophiel hadn’t ever really met her, but then Ophiel’s words registered. She got indignant. “Yggdrasil is a great guy!”

Yggdrasil laughed.

<End Transmission>
