And then Deborah pointedly ignored the Japanese guy, and gestured to the woman in a suit, “Ophiel, this is my right hand woman, Gail.” She raised her voice, saying, “Everyone!” She glared at the Japanese guy. “—And Toshi—” She added, “Ophiel is the Founder’s son. The Founder is not coming back yet, but he will be back soon. Start rumors if you want. We’re not hiding this. The Reunification of the House will begin today, in the standard outline for such a reunification that I have outlined in the past.”

People gasped.

People stared at Ophiel.

Without moving, Toshi threw a [Benevolence Jolt] at Ophiel, who easily caught the magic and held it in his hands. He probably called it something besides [Benevolence Jolt], though. What would he have called it? White lightning? Eh!

It didn’t hurt.

The confusion of Ophiel’s arrival and Deborah’s declaration vanished in the light of that lightning. Everyone glared at Toshi, while his bodyguards backed him up.

And then Deborah yelled at the guy, “WHAT THE FUCK, TOSHI!”

“Kill the Buddha,” was Toshi’s only response.

Gail retorted, “That’s not even what that saying means.”

Ophiel flickered away the lightning in his hand like it was nothing more than static, saying, “You attribute way too much divinity to me, Toshi-chan.”

Toshi narrowed his eyes at the honorific ‘chan’.

Ophiel grinned.

And thus began 3 days of rather complicated political chaos that Ophiel mostly sailed through, playing his cards close to his chest, for now. When the initial chaos turned to solid desire for questions to be answered, that was when Ophiel told Deborah that he was ready to start giving out all the details, and answering all the questions.

“But I’ll need to give a presentation, first,” Ophiel said.

“Oh gods, Ophiel,” Deborah said, “I don’t think we’re ready for that yet.” She tried, “Next month?”

Ophiel grinned. “We’re ready now.”

- - - -

Several heads of the various Houses of Reason sat around a large U-shaped table in a conference room in Honolulu. All of them had extra people with them, and though Deborah had limited it to 2 extra people, some had as many as 5. The extras sat at the back of the room, practically stacked together. Some people stood outside of the room.

Ophiel had intended this to be a top-level dispensation of information, but it was what it was, and that was fine.

Toshi softly argued with a woman from the Russian House, named Kudrina, about how this was really happening. He did not like any part of this. Kudrina still didn’t believe this was happening at all, and that it was all some sort of ruse, but she was here anyway.

Other disbelievers had simply chosen not to come.

Deborah was one room over, beyond a thin door, softly yelling into her phone. And then she hung up. She walked back into the room, keeping her face serene. “It appears House China has chosen to simply not come, and their representatives here in the hotel are walking out.”

Kudrina stood up and spoke in a thick Russian accent, “We never should have come back, either.” She looked at Ophiel. “He is a charlatan. I do not know how he got the magical might he has, but the rain had to have been a cooperative effort from the Hawaiian House, and we will be looking into that.”

Toshi stood, saying, “Your House is in disarray, Deborah. We are glad we left it.”

Deborah looked about ready to strangle every single person in that room.

Another person stood up to walk away.

Ophiel was currently in a few different places. Most of his attention was on the Safehold down in Antarctica, where a billion souls had already been processed. Benevolence’s reach through time was mostly done, but there would always be some gathering happening due to the nature of slices of infinity, and the multiverse. Dad’s original slice of Earth was on to normal operations, for now; Everyone who died on Earth from now on would be funneled through there, and given choices.

And so, Ophiel had some spare bodies to throw at this particular non-cooperation happening before him.

Ophiel had been waiting for more people to gather, but it appeared the room would grow less crowded, instead of more.

Ophiel stepped to the center of the U in the conference room, and said, “I will now prove that I am not a false paladin.”

Toshi scoffed at the word ‘paladin’, starting to say something, but he never got far.

Ophiel opened [Gate]s, the rings of lightning revealing lands beyond this sterilized office space. One portal opened up to a specific place near Beijing, China, where an old man named Jin Jin stood in his ‘office’, looking at the world beyond, where a large wall separated him and his building from the forested mountains beyond. Jin Jin was the leader of House China, though he hadn’t been allowed to do much in a long while.

The people in the conference room could see the man looking at the wall beyond his compound, and how he was dressed in plain clothes with ID tags on his sleeves. He had no computer on his desk, and he had no electronics anywhere in his ‘office’, but he did have papers.

Jin Jin turned and saw the portal. He smiled, and said, “Ah. Hello. I was wondering how this was going to happen. I just step through, yes?”

Ophiel had not spoken to the man before now, but Benevolence had a way of letting people know when stuff was happening that was good for them, and that’s what Ophiel was doing right now.

Ophiel said, “Yup. Come on through.”

Jin Jin came on through and smiled as he saw everyone else in the room. “Ah! Friends. I have missed you all. How has the world been since my imprisonment?”

Stunned silence.

No one said anything.

Ophiel told Jin Jin, “I’m already picking up your compatriots and depositing them downstairs.” He held up several pill-shaped trackers that were still covered in blood. “I took the liberty of removing all of your trackers, as well.” Ophiel set them on the table, and then [Cleanse]ed the blood from his hands, as he turned and said to the Russian woman, Kudrina, “Your situation is stickier. We can discuss that later.”

More stunned silence.

Kudrina went stoic as a few eyes turned toward her.

Ophiel dismissed the [Gate].

Jin Jin was busy getting his seat at the table, so that is what he did while everyone else just stared. When he sat down he happily asked, “What’s happening, my friends? Who is this young man who rescued us?”

Ophiel forestalled the drama of the moment, raising a hand to conjure a lightward image of Fenrir about two meters across. He moved that image to the back of the room, saying, “I’m the son of your Founder. I know him as Erick Flatt. Dad.”

All possible conversation died in its crib as Ophiel conjured more lightward images.

Veird with its onion-like layers of land carved away to reveal the whole structure. Size comparisons of Veird to Earth. Comparisons of Veird to Fenrir. He made some numerical notations in the air, giving relative population numbers of the various lands, along with percentages of habitation. Fenrir was currently at a population of 3.9 trillion. Veird was at 16 billion, which was a vast improvement from before the Red War. Earth was at 8 billion.

Fenrir, with 2 million moons around it, had a total surface area somewhere in the 5x10^19 area. With its population of 3.9 trillion it was still only .000002% inhabited-by-average. It was actually a lot less inhabited than that since most people lived in communities of various sorts, condensing population down to civilization centers held together by gate networks, but Ophiel’s displayed numbers were fine for as-the-[Fireball]-falls sorts of comparisons.

That wasn’t counting the Painted Cosmology beyond Fenrir, though. Ophiel displayed that particular land-space number as ∞. That population was unknown to Ophiel, since it was growing all the time. He put up a ‘<∞’ for that population count. It was good enough.

Based on some comparisons, Veird was at least 8 times the size of Earth, even before the 13 new Shells that Solomon put around the place, and that wasn’t even counting the Underworld. Even with Veird’s double population of Earth, Veird was much, much less populated comparatively. Ophiel didn’t have that exact number, but he put it up as ‘~.005% inhabited’ and with an asterisk saying that it was a total guess.

Earth was maybe 10% inhabited. Pretty easy to make that guess, there. The internet gave Ophiel that sort of information… Well. 10% or 3%. Ophiel went with 10%.

As Ophiel let those numbers hang out there he added a few lightpaintings of House Benevolence, on Veird. The Reaching Hands in the center of Fenrir. Some depictions of Dad’s true size when compared to a planet like Veird, and Earth, and Fenrir. A whole bunch of other pictures.

He put Dad’s dragon form wrapped protectively around Fenrir.

The room was silent as he worked. A woman from Brazil scoffed quietly about illusions, but as Ophiel kept going, she went quiet. The people of the House of Resons could conjure illusions when they really needed to, but nothing on this scale. Ophiel was spending thousands of mana to do this. Not a single person in this room even had a core. They only had, maybe, 150 mana per person. And only the top people in the room. Ophiel had stores of power far beyond any of them, and the skill to match those resources.

Kudrina poked Jin Jin to make sure he was real. Jin Jin grinned and poked her back, chuckling a little as he did so.

In front of a silent audience, Ophiel stepped to the middle of the presentation space and turned into his ‘true form’.

Ophiel’s many wings spilled out of his body and he became a 2 meter tall many-winged iridescent black conglomeration of many eyes and colors.

People gasped.

Some looked like they were seeing god.

None ran.

Ophiel intoned, “My father, whom you know as the Founder, began life as a man named Erick Flatt, of Earth. When he fell to Veird, from Earth, in 2019, his goal was first to simply survive and thrive on the world called Veird, with his daughter, Jane Flatt. That was 30-ish years ago.

“Some of you are already recognizing many problems with this timeline.

“I say 2019, and that is the true date. This is when your Founder left, as well. I say 30 years, and that is also true. I would give you more exact dates, but your Founder is the Prime God of a universe these days, and stuff goes weird around gods of all sorts, and especially around my father.

“He won his Wizard War.

“But, as is the nature of these things, and as is the nature of Dad, time got all wonky.

“And so, I have traveled across infinity and through time, at my father’s behest, as a Paladin of Benevolence, to Earth, to have these sorts of conversations that we’re having right now.” Ophiel drew himself back together, back to human-shaped, as he donned some black and white mage robes that were cut in the warrior-style. They were rather fashionable robes back home, but they’d stick out like a ‘cosplayer’ on Earth, so he hadn’t worn them until now. With an easier tone, but with even more gravity to his voice, Ophiel said, “My goal here is to induct Earth into the greater universe, under the protection and ownership of my father, His Dark Benevolence, the Dragon God of Many Colors, the Wizard of Benevolence, Erick Flatt.”

Ophiel waited as the gathered people in the room absorbed all of that.

Deborah took charge, looking almost frightened but also hopeful, as she asked, “What does that sort of ‘ownership’ look like?”

Ophiel said, “For starters, I, as the hand of my father, have decided to do a few things to Earth. Everyone who does not like what I will be doing to Earth is allowed to develop technology or whatever in order to escape and build outside of Earth, on all the planets of this solar system. To be clear, when I say ‘ownership of Earth’, I mean this entire part of the Milky Way. There are other civilizations out there but let’s not talk about them right now, as they do not concern us.

“As for what I will be doing to Earth, I am going to start with complete nuclear disarmament, and the disarming of every army out there.

“From there, I will be cleaning up all the landfills, healing all the people, and installing a manaminer on Earth, to keep mana contained to Earth and allow for the proliferation of magical knowledge among the common person, since mana has a tendency to blow away if not contained.

“I’ve already installed an afterlife on Earth, so that anyone who dies will be transported to new worlds, with new powers to help them live new lives, but I imagine most people will want to come back to Earth, and I’ll be keeping an eye on that, and making adjustments accordingly.” Ophiel had a lot more to say, but he finished with, “And that thing I did with the lightning ring—” Ophiel conjured another [Gate] and stuck his hand through it, to reach out of the air a meter away and wiggle his hand. He pulled his hand back. “— This thing. I’ll be making a Gate Relay system here on Earth eventually, and when Earth connects to Dad’s godly timeline in 15 years, that [Gate] system will connect to Fenrir.” Ophiel stepped back adding, “And that’s it for my presentation, for now.”

More silence.

Jin Jin spoke up, “Is that it for the big words?”

Ophiel was surprised by the speed of the Chinese guy’s turn around, and so was everyone else according to their faces, but Ophiel saw where some of this was going, so he said, “That’s the big, overview stuff; yes.”

“Good.” Jin Jin said to everyone else, “I suggest we overthrow the United States, Russia, North Korea, and then China, all at more or less the same time, but if we have to pick an order, that is my order.”

Everyone tried to talk at once.

And yup, that’s where Ophiel thought this was going, but that was fine. For now.

Kurdina, from Russia, spoke above the sudden outpouring of words, “We can reason with Russia. We cannot reason with North Korea or with the American House, or even the Americans.”

Deborah defended America, saying, “Our people aren’t nearly as bad as your people! We don’t black-bag people and assassinate them in hospitals.”

“You do Guantanamo instead,” said Toshi, from Japan.

The yelling started.

Ophiel let them yell at each other for a while.

Ophiel only stepped in when the delegation from Brazil roared about this being too much. Those people got up and made for the door—

