Deborah said, “I’ve told you a hundred times Gail, your readings are exactly what they are meant to be; you just don’t understand enough to know the full extent of what you’re looking at.”

Gail sighed a little. “If the Founder would have told us more, then I would have been able to read the vines better. Anything I ask the vines about him always goes weird.”

From any other person, Deborah would have worried that those words were a prelude to yet another departure; another splitting of the House into smaller and smaller fractions. But Gail was just blowing concerns into the wind.

Deborah said, “Whatever it is, we’ll figure it out when we need to.” She picked up the stack of papers Gail had brought in, shuffling through them, asking, “Anyone interesting?” She picked one out a random—

Her fingers sparked with static as she opened the folder, briefly seeming like the brightest thing in the room. And then the static was gone, and Deborah imagined she had imagined that.

Gail sucked in a breath, though, saying, “That one, that you picked out. Oh my gods.”

Deborah breathed shallowly as she looked down at the open folder, at the image of a young man, taken from a security camera, and then a few more images at local gatherings of the House of Reasons over the past few weeks. He looked rather cute, in a nephew sort of way. Like Deborah needed to give him some food and fatten him up. Black hair, dark eyes, but otherwise a rather plain, North-American-white sort of complexion…

And yet, the image of him smiling at the camera had caught Deborah’s gaze.

A flash of insight came and then went.

Deborah breathed out as she sat the picture down, and then briefly looked over the reports themselves. Mostly, it was personal recommendations from the Chicago branch. They had all seen the kid’s spark of goodness and they wanted it nurtured, even if they didn’t quite have the words to describe their reasonings. Such was the Touch of the Founder, as some people called it. The House of Reasons was a very large organization, but only a few people at the top knew what the rest of them all knew.

That magic was real.

That power could be had, in the service of good.

And that they needed to support each other, for whatever might come.

Deborah closed the portfolio on the kid, and then softly said, “I want to meet him, Gail. I need to meet this ‘Ophiel Flatt’ today… It has to be a fake name, right?”

“Absolutely. From what I heard it took some doing to get him the plane tickets. He has no paperwork or social security number or anything like that.”

Holy shit.

Deborah got up from her chair, saying, “He’s staying at the hotel, right?”

Gail paused. “… Maybe you should let him stay under observation for a day or three.”

“Nope!”

- - - -

Ophiel sipped a drink out of a coconut as he sat by a pool, by the ocean. Tall palms waved in the gentle breeze and the world smelled of sunscreen and salt. Life was good. Everyone here had magic, too, which was nice to see. It felt like home again, but in a lesser sort of way. The air was not thick with power, and yet power existed. All of the power here was Benevolence, too, which was just… really nice, really.

Ophiel smiled as he sat in the sun, in his black board shorts, drinking his drink and waiting.

He was also down at the Safehold in Antarctica, fixing up the place. More than a billion people had been ushered through there, onto other worlds and other lands. The backlog was massive and kinda hard to get at due to the breadth of time separating this day and age from all the other years in Earth’s history, but so far no other gods had interfered in the necessary time magics. So far, the reincarnation of every dead soul to ever die on Dad’s Earth from the last 75 years was going well.

When some of those souls from that long ago were told about their options, only about half of them chose to live again, elsewhere. The further back the magic went, the less likely people were to accept reincarnations and the harder it was to place people in new lives. Fenrir was taking a lot of them, though.

This wasn’t the first world that Ophiel had reincarnated, and it would not be the last, but by the pure nature of the situation, this sort of situation didn’t happen too often. After all, how does one discover a world that doesn’t already have a fractal god on it? Not very often. Going through any normal channels at all, to find an unclaimed world, would be going through those channels, and all known worlds were claimed.

That’s what made them ‘known worlds’.

Perhaps Earth was claimed, too, but Ophiel had yet to see any signs of someone disallowing the grand reincarnations at Antarctica. Eh! Ophiel put that problem out of his mind.

He focused on the present, because Deborah was coming out of the hotel, wearing a veiled swimsuit and a big hat, looking like a normal sort of person simply coming out to the pool by the ocean.

She got a coconut drink of her own and sat down two lounge chairs away from Ophiel.

“Ah! This is the life!” Deborah said, smiling, starting up a conversation with Ophiel, a ‘complete stranger’. A lot of people in the House of Reasons did that. They made attempts to make people feel more welcome, and to foster a sense of community.

Ophiel smiled back, saying, “It’s pretty great. I’m Ophiel. Nice to meet you.”

Deborah grinned. “Deborah. What brings you out here, Ophiel? You look a little young to be vacationing alone.”

“I’m here for this House of Reasons thing. They put me on a plane and shipped me out here, said I should meet some people and they’d help me figure out my life.”

Deborah grinned. “Those people are great! They own this hotel. Let anyone come in and hang out as long as they attend some seminars first. That’s why I’m here.”

“I already went through one of those. Most everyone on the plane did, but you weren’t on the plane? Are you a local?”

“Not originally, but I’ve been here for 15 years and I love the place. I am in the House of Reasons, though, and I’ll be doing intake this year,” Deborah said, dropping the casual act a little. “Right now I’m just meeting people where they are.”

Ophiel chuckled. “That’s a good way to do it; meet people where they are. It’s usually less disruptive that way.”

Deborah blinked a little, and then she smiled softly. “Where are you from, Ophiel? That’s a pretty nifty name you got there.”

“Dad gave it to me on a world far from this one, called Veird, where he and his daughter fell to about 30 years ago, but also just 5 years ago. Time is wonky at vast distances, and when Layers and gods are involved.”

Deborah’s heart beat erratically as her eyes went wide.

Ophiel smiled softly, saying, “He won his war, Deborah. It’s solved, fixed, forevermore, and he sent me back here to decide how to bring Earth into the greater universe. Want to talk about that? Or do you want to hang out at the pool for a while?”

Deborah’s eyes dilated as she breathed deep. Her chin wobbled with emotion as her throat clenched. She wasn’t convinced, though. She quietly asked, “Do you have proof?”

Without showing anything at all, Ophiel looked at the empty, blue sky, and said, “It looks like rain.”

Deborah’s heart skipped a beat as the empty sky flickered with new clouds, rumbling with distant thunder. The clouds rolled in, and the rain began. The rain did not touch them at the poolside, though. Rain cascaded around a [Weather Ward] that Ophiel had put up.

The rest of the world vanished behind the sudden rainstorm, but it was a soft sort of rainstorm. Gentle, and yet obscuring. The perfect thing to use to hide a small meeting, and yet, if people were really looking, this meeting wouldn’t be hidden at all.

Deborah stared at the sky, at the rain.

Ophiel sipped his drink, letting her have a moment.

Deborah looked to him. “You really are… connected to him?”

Ophiel sat up properly to face Deborah as he let his wings out, all large and black and rainbow, saying, “Yes. I’m—”

Deborah jolted out of her seat to stand on the pool deck, exclaiming, “What the fucking fuck?! He said he wasn’t god!”

“… Er.” Ophiel put his wings away. He stood up, too…

And he wasn’t sure where to begin.

Deborah demanded, “Was he a god, or not?”

“Okay! That’s a good starting point. He was not a god. He is now. He’s not the god of Christianity. But obviously there was some influence here and there and dad’s a god now, for sure. I’m his son, one of his paladins, and since you’re his adopted granddaughter...” Ophiel held out a welcoming hand, smiling, saying, “Nice to meet you, sibling Deborah. Or niece?”

Deborah looked at his hand for a moment.

Ophiel waited.

Deborah grinned, and then she chuckled. She shed a tear as she laughed, saying, “I’m the aunt. You can be my nephew.” And then she hugged him, saying, “Welcome to Earth, Nephew!”

Ophiel chuckled on Deborah’s shoulder, saying, “I’ll have to introduce you to all the others sometime. You’ve got, like… a lot of siblings. We’re all sort of connected to dad in various ways.”

Deborah held tight, asking, “He’s okay, then?”

Ophiel held her back, saying, “He’s good. Dad won his war. Earth is safe from the bad ending, but now we’re here and we have to make a good beginning. All secrets will not be secret anymore.”

Deborah pulled back, wiping away a sudden tear as the rain fell all around their little [Ward]ed area. She stood facing Ophiel, saying, “Let’s start with some names, then. Can you finally tell us his real name?”

Ophiel smiled, saying, “Dad’s name is Erick Flatt, though a lot of people call him a lot of things. Apparent King. Wizard of Benevolence. Dragon God of Many Colors. Light in the Dark. Benevolent Darkness. Savior of Veird and Father of Yggdrasil. God of the Bright Path. God of the New Path. Hand in the Sky. There’s a lot more and he’s racking up more names every single day. Every new world he visits and saves from disaster gives him a different name. I assume you have a few names for him here. He told me a lot about what he had done on Earth, but not everything.”

Deborah wiped away another tear, saying, “We call him the Founder, mostly. I called him Grandpa, though.”

Ophiel grinned. “I just called him ‘Dad’.”

Deborah laughed happily.

Ophiel asked, “Have you made many plans to integrate Earth into the wider universe?”

“Oh gods,” Deborah said, still laughing a little, and yet understanding more of the situation by the moment. She had clearly been expecting a day like this for years now, but it overwhelmed her a lot more than she had expected it to. She said, “We have some plans. None of them were deemed acceptable. We tried bringing in some governments across the world a few different times but we had to abort those plans when the prognostications pointed toward everything going wrong— and you do not want to ignore the prognostications. We found that out the hard way a few times.” She breathed deep, then said, “The main problem is that powerful people like to prey on the magic of the House of Resons in order to use it for themselves, and that was bad, so relations broke down. But twice now, some people broke from the House in order to work with those other nations, trying to change them from the inside, even as they used their power for their own efforts. The China House and the Russian House… We barely have contact with them anymore, and the American House is… It’s complicated. We talk to them the most, but… I am not the lead of the American House anymore.” Deborah paused. She asked, “Would you like a tour of the place? We can talk about some of that stuff… But I need to know, first...” She spoke seriously, “Will Grandpa be coming back?”

Ophiel said, “He’s pretty busy back home on Fenrir, and in the Painted Cosmology beyond.” He clarified, “Fenrir is a dyson sphere around a sun with a radius of about Earth-Distance, while the Painted Cosmology is another universe beyond that land. Him and the other gods and a bunch of fae are building all of that right now, using the mana made on Fenrir and the new universe itself to fund the expansion of that universe. That other universe is entirely self-sufficient, but more growth is better at this stage of the project. It’s a forever-project, though, so they’re taking constant breaks.”

Deborah blinked a few times. And then she said, “Oh yeah.” She picked up her coconut drink. “We should have this discussion inside.”

Ophiel conjured some grey robes onto his body, asking, “Is this the proper look?”

Deborah looked at Ophiel, and then she broke down in tears, sobbing about how this was really real, and how she had felt so lost, and then Ophiel hugged her again. She hugged back, but only briefly, then she patted him on the shoulders and chuckled as she stepped back.

She looked embarrassed as she said, “Maybe something a little less ominous.”

Ophiel opted for a normal Hawaiian shirt, but in greyscale and black and white.

“Better,” Deborah said. “Now let’s go blow some minds. You can turn off the rain, though.”

Ophiel smiled and flicked some power at the sky, unraveling the working he had put into the heavens. The rain soon stopped, and Ophiel walked beside Deborah into the House of Reasons Hotel…

Ophiel spotted the coconut drink maker kneeling on the ground, a rosary in his hand as he mumbled prayers to the divine. He looked up at Ophiel and then purposefully averted his gaze from Ophiel.

… Ophiel did not wince —much to his own surprise!— and let the prayer happen without interruption.

As he walked into the house, he told Deborah, “I’m not an angel, the angels I know are nothing like what popular media shows here, and I know my black wings probably means something to you due to your butterfly magics… I’m not sure how to handle that, exactly.”

Deborah laughed as she wiped away another tear, saying, “It’s a whole can of worms, isn’t it.” She smiled. “Birds are terrible for prognostication and I banished them from my concerns ages ago.”

Ophiel laughed at that.

Several people were standing around the hotel lobby as Ophiel and Deborah reached it. There were four maids and four people in various fancy clothes, from one woman wearing a suit to a Japanese guy wearing a semi-formal yukata. All of them were looking Ophiel’s way. The Japanese guy, and his two bodyguards, had just walked into the front door, while Ophiel and Deborah had walked in the back way, from the pool.

Deborah froze as she saw the Japanese guy.

