And Ophiel silenced the room. People moved their mouths without speaking, but Ophiel’s voice carried fine, “This is the fate of your world you’re walking out on. If you want to leave, you can, but however the change happens will be decided in this room. Maybe not for an hour of yelling. Maybe not for a day. Maybe not for ten years. But the general shape of it all will happen here, and if you leave, then you leave.”

… The people from Brazil sat back down.

The room got much calmer.

The initial panic about Ophiel’s presentation was still there, and everyone was in shock, but they were coming to grips with his words. Maybe Ophiel could have gone softer, lobbed his pitch easier, but changing a world was never an easy thing to do for mortals like him, or like all the others in this room.

A secretary from Brazil, a man named Rafael, asked Ophiel, “This has to happen?”

“Yes,” Ophiel said, without equivocation. “All of this is happening. The timeline is not set and the reveal can come in parts, but this overall shape is happening.”

“Why? Why not let us be ignorant of the universe?” Exasperated, Rafael said, “No one wanted the Founder’s war. No one wants him here anymore, either. Can’t you just leave?”

Deborah scoffed, but she held her tongue; she wanted to know Ophiel’s answer to that question, too. Toshi looked imperious, but also concerned about how Ophiel would respond. Jin Jin thought it was perfectly normal for the Founder to come in and change everything for the better; that’s what he did all the time while he was here, after all. Kurdina just wanted to go back home and she did not care about Ophiel’s answer; she was resigned to being here, though.

Ophiel said, “Because I see pain, and I must heal it. If you’re looking for some deeper reason than that, you will not find it. We are at the base level of Benevolence. That is the nature of the power each of you have inside of yourself, that creates the mana you use. Benevolence is the nature of my Calling. That is who I am, as a Paladin of my dad.” He added, “Sometimes a surgeon must cause harm in order to help. That is what is happening here. I apologize for the harm I am causing, but I am still going to cause this necessary harm. Absolutely no one should live in ignorance of the greater universe, and mana is too useful to all people to allow it to go unknown for any longer.”

Silence.

Slowly, Deborah said, “Sounds like the Founder to me.”

Toshi was unconvinced, but he had hope. He said, “Sounds like a Founder that isn’t hiding anything anymore.” He stared at Ophiel, asking, “Tell us of the war.”

“Sure. We can start there.” Ophiel began, “So there was this person who killed a universe.” Most people paled at that declaration. Ophiel continued, “That is who my father fought against. Who he won against. That other person has been Forgotten by decree of the gods, and you might learn of him if you pursue those sorts of questions with the right sort of people, but that person is gone and we’re all better off that his great evil is no more. Let us Forget him, but not the lessons he taught us in his tyrannical evil…”

Ophiel spoke for a time, never naming names, but he did give an overview of what had happened, from the anti-memetic threats, to the erasures of timelines and planetary destruction, to the nature of Margleknot, the hub of this neck of the Fractal Universe. When necessary, Ophiel spoke of magic. The people here knew a lot more than the rest of the people on Earth, of resonwork and the slices/layers/structure of the Fractal Cosmology, but they needed more to understand what Dad had actually done.

Dad had never given them any names at all.

Ophiel fully suspected that someone here would try to ping the ‘rescue me’ yorddle system later, so Ophiel told them that if they did that, they would be meeting fae, and those fae would probably steal their names, souls, etc. Don’t mess with fae; that was a big message.

Some people were going to learn that the hard way, though.

Eventually, Deborah asked about everything, “Why did Grandpa do this? This way? Just to protect us?”

“Yes,” Ophiel said, “Power calls to power. Knowing too much would have gotten you killed. Now that the Great Evil is gone, and Dad won, that sort of calling won’t happen. Other dangers still exist. For now, Earth is not a concern to anyone else, so calling out to Power probably won’t get you noticed. And Dad owns this place now— Well. Him and his wife; Her Benevolent Darkness Shadow.”

Ophiel wondered if the shadows in the room would spit Shadow out, but she appeared to be busy. Maybe she would show up later, or maybe not. Probably not.

Ophiel continued, “And so Dad is now a filter through which all communication flows from this land, back to Margleknot, to Yggdrasil. Other than him, you’re pretty much on your own here on Earth. And that’s for the best. Of course! As I said earlier, that’s just here on Earth proper. If people go outside of Earth they can do whatever they want. I’m thinking we can make the humanity on Earth into a solar-system-wide civilization in under 10 years, and once you’re out there you can do whatever you want. Earth itself is going to be controlled by Dad, though.”

Toshi narrowed his eyes. “You’ve said that a few times now. How are you going to control Earth? Are you going to...”

Conversation resumed, and this time it was less worried, and more constructive.

Ophiel wondered if Dad could have done it better—

Ophiel caught himself in that thought. Of course Dad could have done it better, but this was Ophiel’s time to grow.

This was his isekai.

Right now was the introduction phase.

A few weeks from now, or maybe even today, Ophiel would start handing out Personal Scripts.

That’s when the real changes would really start.

He hoped all of the people here would become good friends, like Dad had found in Spur.

Ophiel dreamed of Spur sometimes. Of those simple times back when he was just sitting on Dad’s shoulder, watching the world. He wanted that for himself. Earth could be his Spur. These people could be his found family. Maybe most of them would go their own ways, but he could see some of them becoming a big part of his life here on Earth.

Jin Jin was absolutely ready to throw down with some big political action, so that was fun. He didn’t want to kill anyone, either, which was even better. When you had enough power violence didn’t have to happen, and Ophiel had lots of power. Jin Jin seemed to be magically empathic, too, which would be useful going forward. His power was actual power, though; Dad’s empathy had always just been who he was.

Toshi was going to be a problem, but only because he wanted to go too soft and too slow. He wanted to be inevitable, not transformative. Ophiel could see that as a valid strategy considering that all the dead on Earth went on to new lives elsewhere. So there wasn’t a true need to move fast. No one that died on Earth due to inaction would really die. But Toshi didn’t really understand that, Ophiel hadn’t really explained it, and no one here would understand that until Ophiel showed them all the Safehold. Mainly though, Ophiel wanted Earth to be better, and that included the people currently living on it. There was friction there, and only time would tell if Toshi ended up being an ally or a noncombatant. He probably wouldn’t become an enemy.

… Probably.

Kurdina was an enemy, but only because she thought her Russian contacts were the better path for Earth. That was fine. People were free to do what they wanted. Kurdina’s path might even prove beneficial in the end, when she came for them alongside the KGB, and the House of Resons was forced to fly, or falter.

Deborah would be a great friend for the rest of Ophiel’s life. She was already family, even though they had just met.

This was wonderful.

The Benevolent Sky in Antarctica’s Safehold showed that bad things were going to happen, but Ophiel would be here to prevent the worst from happening.

… Maybe he’d also build a moon base…

Deborah looked at him quizzically, interrupting the flow of conversation to ask, “What?”

Everyone looked at Ophiel.

Ophiel just shrugged and said, “I was thinking of building a base on Luna or maybe on Ganymede. Yeah, people would panic when they saw that stuff go up, but they’d also start moving to understand what was happening.” Into the stunned room, Ophiel said, “If I built it on Ganymede, then only the top scientists and governments would know, and it would give the world time to prepare. Crazy shit would happen, but it would be controlled by the people already in power. If I built it on Luna, facing Earth, then everyone would see it and that would get the ball rolling very fast. Probably too fast. So the far side of Luna? Or maybe none of that at all. I’m sure some scientists in Antarctica are going to find the Safehold I built there soon enough, which is also a way to get the ball rolling.” He smiled. Ophiel made a decision, “Speaking of which! We’ve probably talked enough for today, for here and now. It’s time to show you all how the afterlife is going to work on Earth, from now on.” He opened a portal to a land of darkness and cold.

Freezing temperatures billowed into the room but Ophiel held back the cold with some wardwork. A few casts of light later, and Ophiel revealed a mountain of snow and ice in the distance. Before that distance, though, there stood a permanent Gate.

It was a tall, white-glowing tree with shimmering green leaves and a rainbow crown. It was not Yggdrasil, but also it kinda was. Like a sapling. Its roots knotted into whorls and twists at the base. The largest twist of rootwork and thick trunk held a glowing white portal filled with softness and mist.

The mist parted and warmth spread out from the base of the tree, transforming the frozen world into illuminated summertime, though the ice was still thick upon the ground and the sky still dark with winter night.

The cold stopped billowing into the conference room and Ophiel stepped through the portal, saying, “This way to the afterlife. Don’t worry. It’s warm over here and I’ll bring you back fast enough.”

This was a large leap of faith for most of them; Ophiel saw that. In their terrified faces. In their desire to know more. In the turns of their head, as they looked away, not wanting to leap.

He still asked them to leap.

Grasses and flowers started to bloom upon the ice.

Jin Jin was the first out of the conference room, through the portal, happiness on his face and a spring in his old steps. He giggled like a schoolboy, asking, “Imagine getting into heaven while alive!”

The others warily followed, though not everyone. Most stayed behind.

Deborah was the second through the portal, though Gail was telling her not to go. As she stepped onto fresh grass, she said, “You beat me by a half a moment, Jin.”

Jin Jin grinned. “I always was a bit faster than you at these decisions.”

Toshi came through next, saying, “There is a fine line between determination and death, and you have already run afoul of that line before, Jin.”

Surprisingly, Kurdina came through, too, saying, “I never thought I’d see real magic again. Ever since the Founder left… I…” She fell silent as she gazed upon the Antarctic land, and their small slice of heaven spilling out onto that land.

Ophiel walked up tree roots that were like steps, striding toward Benevolence Itself, saying, “Dad is still not coming back for a while, but he’ll be here if we absolutely need him. The goal is to not need him, though.” He stepped through the portal, letting his wings out so he could flutter into the sky beyond.

And then he waited for the humans to come through.

Eventually, after some small talking amongst themselves, 4 leaders of the current Houses of Resons stepped into Benevolence Itself. Deborah came through first, followed by Jin Jin, then Toshi, and then Kurdina.

They stood upon a kilometer-wide platform of white, hexagonal stones where a fountain burbled in the middle and then flowed into streams that floated off into the horizon. An illuminated wind rose beyond the edges of the platform, carrying souls into a sky filled with clouds, like bright spots in fog rising into Infinity. When the lights touched the sky, those souls turned to lightning and then flickered off in geometric patterns, following their destiny to their next world.

Yggdrasil was there.

Past the impossibly far horizon, like a green mountain ringed in rainbows, supported on a sea of rivers, floating, watching, maintaining. Yggdrasil was here, and yet, not really. Just like in Margleknot, you could always see the Universal Tree in Benevolence Itself if you looked for him.

Jin Jin was the first to spot a spot of fractal power upon the top of the fountain, like a pearl of impossibility floating on nothing at all. He went to it. The others just stared at everything, but Jin Jin knew what he needed, and Ophiel watched it happen, smiling softly as Jin Jin touched the ‘stone’. Some people called it a ‘stone’. Others called it ‘The Fire’. Some people wrongly called it ‘The Fractal’. Some people poetically called it ‘A Revelation’. It looked like all of those things, and yet not at all.

Ophiel just called it the Personal Script.

Jin Jin picked it up, and yet, he did not pick it up at all. He picked up a copy, while a copy still remained on the fountain.

Power flowed into him, slipping into his skin and soul and mind like water into a sponge. He jolted a little, but that was it. And then he started reading the air.

Ophiel smiled and landed beside him, saying, “Use it well, Jin Jin.” He looked to the others. “Anyone else want one?”

Kurdina looked at everything again, her eyes locked onto the Personal Script, and then she backed away, fear changing her entire expression. She walked away, out of Benevolence itself, away from the enormity of it all. She dashed into the cold, and then through the portal back to the conference room in Honolulu, praying that she would make it before it closed. Ophiel was not going to close the portal, but Kurdina didn’t believe that.

Toshi followed her, silent. Less fearful, more ‘having made a decision’.

The two of them passed Rafael on their way out, glancing at him, warning him away in soft, fearful tones, not stopping to say anything more than that.

Rafael was terrified, but he was the third in command from Brazil, and he walked forward anyway. He strode into Benevolence Itself, affecting confidence that he did not have at all. And then he was there, in the light, in the warmth, staring at everything.

