The next day, that much better camera catches Chibuike appearing at that expected spot as though he had pulled back a curtain of invisibility. Perhaps that is exactly what he had done. Perhaps it was just a trick.

There was at least one trick prepared and ready for today, though. A trick that Chibuike had set up ahead of time, now that people knew he was back home, now that he could make plans to actually help his town in the Congo.

Miners coming in from the mine were ready for him to appear. They had rods in their hands, and they were ready to drive him off.

But an older man was there, the local priest. He was in a wheelchair, pushed by his niece. The father was Chibuike’s trick that he had set up last night, asking the father to trust him. If the father ever truly trusted god to provide when provisions were needed, then he should trust Chibuike tomorrow, at this time, right here, right now.

The father did not trust Chibuike at all, but he would play this charade. On his own terms, he would be there.

The father wheeled out onto the street, and the miners paused.

The father rolled forward, pushed by his niece, saying, “I broke my spine in a fall when I was young and stupid, and God provided me a Faith to lift me up. You say you can heal this injury. Where from does your power spring? From God? Or some other, darker source?”

“I ask for nothing but to prove myself. Does it matter where my power comes from?”

“It always matters, and the fact that you deflect means you are hiding something.”

“I am hiding so much, but I can make you walk again and I ask for nothing in return, except your honest acceptance of what I can do. I am here to prove myself. Nothing more, nothing less.”

The father glared.

The people watched.

The father said, “Swear to God that your power is not from Lucifer or any demon.”

Chibuike put a hand to the symbol on his chest, saying, “I so swear.”

The crowd was heavy with disbelief.

Mister Orjea, the mine owner, stepped forward, angry. He had a rifle in his hand, pointed at the ground. “You need to leave, Chibuike.”

“I will leave, after I heal the father,” Chibuike said.

Orjea looked to the father, saying, “Don’t do it. He’s a demon.”

“Demons have no power in God’s Domain, Orjea.”

The father’s niece pushed him forward.

Chibuike’s hand was already glowing with white sparks. He reached out to the father, and the father looked at that hand with open wonder. Chibuike touched the father’s shoulder, power soaking into the man, as he said, “No working. Sit there in that chair and don’t do anything stressful at all. Don’t let people touch you too much. It takes a while for the magic to truly work and your legs will tingle as feeling comes back to them. Come by for a checkup tomorrow. I will be here tomorrow, at this same time, at this same place.”

The healing would take a while to work, but Chibuike knew it was already 50% done. The father looked up at Chibuike like he was seeing divinity. Words failed him. He could already feel his legs again; Chibuike knew. He would regain so much, soon enough.

The father did not know how to handle what he was seeing. What he was feeling.

Chibuike leaned down and whispered to the man, “This is not a religious thing at all. This is simple magic, given to the masses, by a divinity that exists far beyond Earth, though it was still born here, just like any other human.”

“Who do you work for?” the father asked, so very worried, and yet hopeful at the same time.

“House Benevolence.”

And then Chibuike stepped back behind his [Invisibility] and floated directly up on a little [Force Platform], so he didn’t leave any steps in the dirt road. He had been in the House Benevolence Personal Script program for 4 months before deployment, and he didn’t have nearly as many skills as some of his fellows in the program, but he had enough. More than enough.

Chibuike would become a turning point for all of the Congo, from this road, from his home village, and from there, all the rest of Africa. He’d eventually link up with Kiama in South Africa and Nassor in Egypt, but maybe not. All he knew was that he was going to be responsible for House Benevolence’s roll out in this part of the world, and if he did well enough, then his little village would become a metropolis, for it would become a hub of a Gate Network.

As Chibuike rose into the air, the village converged on the father, who was already moving his feet again and laughing happily. Chibuike hoped that the people in charge of the House knew what they were doing, and that all of this was going to work out, because he already felt like he was exactly where he needed to be, doing exactly what he needed to do.

He was not going to stop at all.

He saw his future unfolding before him, in the happy, worried faces of the father’s clergy, in the kids telling their parents that the ice cream was obviously fine and that they should have been allowed to eat it, and in the old women sitting with canes in the shade, chuckling, joking about getting their hips fixed, or their eyesight repaired. Some people didn’t believe. Mister Orjea was worried. Deeply worried. Nkiru was hopeful, but only because she had been destined for poverty, and she saw something in Chibuike that would give her more than that.

She wanted magic, too.

Chibuike recognized that look. He had planned on becoming a doctor in the states and coming back here with all of that knowledge in his pockets, but he found he much preferred having magic.

- - - -

A village in rural China, located on a heavily forested mountain, gained a healer that could not be caught by the authorities. The authorities spent an entire month searching for the healer and they eventually started bombing the cave systems to find the healer, but the healer could not be found, except when she wanted to be found. The healer simply appeared to the sick and the wounded wherever they were, sometimes just a hand, sometimes just an eye appearing out of the wind, and sometimes her entire person now and then, when it was safe.

When the authorities cracked down, surrounding the mountain and threatening to bomb it to make the healer come out of hiding, the stories diverged as to what happened next.

Top secret recordings showed the overall truth.

The healer stepped out of the air, above the village, the long sleeves of her dress fluttering in the wind, under the night sky and the brightness of so many searchlights. Guns unloaded at her floating, beseeching arms, as she raised her hands to the sky in prayer. Tracer rounds and bullets all simply went through her, bloodlessly.

And then a being of light and black wings appeared out of the night. Cascading song descended upon the village, filling the entire sky with power, answering the healer’s song with a song of its own.

The mountain disappeared.

A crater was all that remained.

The story made international news when the mountain reappeared in Canada along with its 937 refugees, all begging for protection from China, and refugee status. The mountain had been placed far in the wilderness, but somehow, it landed with a power generator that ran without fuel, gardens full of food, and houses that were both repaired and made better in the fall to Canada. The weather around the place was even more temperate than frozen cold, like usual.

Canada didn’t know what to do with them, but it wasn’t like they needed actual physical assistance.

There were other problems happening in the world that were more important to deal with, anyway.

- - - -

Many people were violently overthrown in many places.

A government discovered all their nuclear bombs had been replaced by fakes when they tried to fire one. Most of the other governments already knew their bombs were fake; they just never told anyone. It would be a while for that conversation to step out into the open, but they were already talking about it in hidden rooms and via secured phone lines the world over.

Healers stepped out of the shadows and air the world over, giving help to those who needed it, and then escaping when their help was violently denied.

Some people set traps for healers.

Into those traps stepped warriors of shadow and air. Those warriors tore up those traps, cutting off limbs if necessary, but they also left [Greater Regeneration]s on those injured trap makers and instructions on how to care for the wounds.

Quietly, the phrase ‘House Benevolence’ began to spread across the world.

Some people knew where the magic was coming from.

When those people came with hard words and violent demands upon the House of Resons, Ophiel was there.

Ophiel was in ten places at once.

Eventually, the people in charge came with words instead of weapons and attempts at war.

- - - -

Ophiel stood behind Deborah, as she, in turn, sat behind a large white stone desk, inlaid in black.

The cameras turned on in front of them. Behind those cameras rose screens spread across an entire wall. Those screens began to flicker with images of flags or insignias. Just 12 screens. Just 12 nations to start. Ophiel had no doubt that Deborah would be speaking at the United Nations in a few more months. But for now, just these people.

The flags on the screens rapidly began to flicker as the feeds began. People began to appear. The United States didn’t send its president to the conversation, but they did send the Secretary of State, which was kind of discouraging. Most of the other nations did something similar, though.

It was fine.

Maybe the real people in charge would show up once Ophiel revealed himself a bit more, though he had expected the mountain-moving would have gotten real leaders into these talks. The real leaders were probably listening in, anyway.

Deborah began, “Hello, nations of the world. Can you hear me?”

They all started shouting at once, and then they communally decided to let the guy from the USA speak for them.

“We can hear you loud and clear, whatever you are, and we’re going to get real answers today. You might have taken all our nuclear bombs, but we can still reach you. We know where you are.”

Of course they did. They had known for a while that House Benevolence was on Honolulu, still operating as House of Resons. The Marine Base on Oahu had even sent people over here, to Honolulu, to prove that they could reach the House with violence. That didn’t work, though.

And now they were using diplomacy.

The fact that the Secretary wasn’t spilling the ‘secret’ of their location out to the entire world was actually a positive step in relations… Oh. By telling them that they knew where House Benevolence was, they were telling everyone else at the conference that they knew things, and they wanted to deal… Yeah. That sounded about right.

Deborah plowed on, uncaring of threats or machinations. With a strong voice, she said, “I’m Deborah, which is the only name you need to know. My previous affiliations do not matter, but my current ones truly do, and my current affiliations are to House Benevolence and our Founder, who is known as the Dragon of Many Colors, the Wizard of Benevolence, and the God of the Benevolent Dark. Perhaps you have heard some of these names. We have not made a secret of that information. This has all been to prepare Earth for the arrival of actual magic. What you have all seen our people do, from vanishing in midair, to flying away, to healing, all of that is simple magic. Really simple, actually.

“We’re giving magic to all of Earth, eventually.

“This will lead to trouble.

“We don’t want a mass extinction, but humans are sapient, and we all touch upon magic a little bit. Eventually, if we don’t gain understandings of magic, then we’ll be facing mass extinctions from a different direction; from outsiders coming in here and telling us what we can and cannot do. People slave-raid worlds like ours all the time. It won’t happen on Earth, mind you.

“But make no mistake: we are not alone in the universe.

“We are but one very, very small bit of life, out here on our own, and so very open to predation. That is why House Benevolence is rolling out magic slowly, and all in order to gather the attentions of your faces right here, and anyone else who might be watching. To warn. To help. To inform.

“Earth is currently under the absolute protection of the Dragon of Many Colors.

“It won’t be that way forever, and especially not once we advance past Earth as a species.

“Earth is protected. Earth will become a nature preserve. We will clean up the oceans of plastic and otherwise, heal the sick, rip the pollution out of the skies and the cracks in the ground, and ensure humanity makes it to the next step in the civilization ladder, which involves mana, and magic. If you want to stay in power, then you will assist us with this, otherwise we will fight, and we will win.

“We will not be killing you to get what we want.

“We don’t have to, and also it’s wrong to kill people.

“We don’t expect you to try and follow these self-imposed limitations of actions, as evident by some situations out there that you are all aware of, but we do hope you follow suit, now that our courses of action are laid bare.

“We don’t have to kill anyone to do what we need to do. All we have to do is show the world that the systems of power we offer means that they don’t have to rely on the old systems of power at all. Everyone can have magic. Everyone can have healing. They can have personal farms that sprout food in their front yards, and they can make houses out of the stone and water out of the air. It’s easier to do all of that collectively, though. Governments are still necessary, if only to protect us from ourselves.”

Silence.

The Secretary of State spoke first, “You’re going to destroy everything.”

A statement of fact, yes. Mostly incorrect, but also… not wholly incorrect.

Deborah started off with a joke that became anything but, “Surely you don’t like having to think about health insurance, do you? No one does! So let’s get rid of it and heal everyone directly. The doctors can easily be trained in Healing Magics and Pharma can do something productive with their new free time, I am sure. Maybe they can get to cleaning up the world, or planning on how to terraform the other planets of our Solar System. Scientists are still needed to develop stuff, but magic certainly throws a few wrenches into the machine. They’ll figure it all out.” She ended with, “It’s a big change. Bigger than Earth could possibly imagine. But we can weather this storm and come out the other side—”

Ophiel cleared his throat, because something had just happened outside.

Deborah sighed. “Ah. It appears someone attacked us, or something like that.” She looked up to Ophiel. “Ophiel?”

