Sarnai was running herself ragged preparing for her son’s third wedding, an experience which could only be described as a nightmare.

Though Luo-Luo took on the lion’s share of the work regarding the finer points of the joyous event, Sarnai was left to account for all the important details the silly girl overlooked, namely security and crowd control. Given Rain’s recent accomplishments, his rivals and enemies would be fools to pass up this golden opportunity to take his life, especially considering they’d publicized his schedule for the big day beforehand in order to gather a larger crowd. Missing the forest for the trees is how the boy would describe Luo-Luo’s actions, so focused on using the wedding to raise morale that she overlooked how devastating it would be if the inhabitants of the recently ravaged and rebuilt Central Citadel were to bear witness to the public murder of their hero and saviour, Falling Rain.

Oh how Sarnai loved to hear others praising her son in the streets, which only made it all the more vital to guard him well. Muttering a small prayer asking the Mother above to watch over him in these trying times, Sarnai went back to work ensuring her son’s defenders were well prepared to keep him safe on his wedding day. Her Disciple Rustram was in charge of more earthly affairs, mostly making sure the crowds didn’t get too unruly and injure themselves in the excitement, while Naaran handled matters pertaining to Peak Experts and their ilk with help from Binesi and Major General Inthavong. Those last two were a welcome addition to Rain’s growing collection of loyal military supporters, with die-hard veterans flocking to his banner and truly accepting Sarnai’s son as their superior and commander. Brigadier Hagane might have also joined their ranks, but the Central-born Warrior died holding back the Defiled tide here in this very Citadel, and Rain had yet to find a replacement advisor for his War Council.

No simple feat, as so many Imperial heroes died during Bai Qi’s siege, it was a damned miracle the Citadel was still standing when Rain arrived with reinforcements, and another when he seized victory from the jaws of defeat.

As such, no harm could come to him, and Sarnai worked tirelessly to make it so. Most of her work came from guarding from within, for the servants of the Imperial Clan could not be wholly trusted. Though the Death Corps and Royal Guardians would most certainly act to defend Rain’s life in public, neither group cared enough to coordinate efforts with the People or the Imperial Army. It wasn’t necessarily a nefarious scheme on their part, as it might well simply be a matter of pride, with the Eastern Warriors seeing Rain as an Imperial Scion first before anything else, and as such, believing it fell to them and them alone to protect him from any and all threats. The Death Corps in particular had become much more peculiar about their duties and jealously safeguarded Rain from all others, but the boy hardly even noticed given how little he paid attention to his own safety in recent days.

Such was the price of hubris, though Rain could hardly be blamed for taking pride in his unheard of accomplishments, having progressed from shattered Core to Peak Expert and possibly even half-step Divinity within a matter of months, all at the tender age of twenty-two years young.

Though Luo-Luo considered Rain’s festive welcome to the Citadel as a grand success, Sarnai arrived at a different conclusion upon seeing how excited and hysterical the crowd grew once they laid eyes on their Legate in the flesh. Some shouted, others screamed, while all pushed and jostled to get close enough to touch him. Were it not for the ever vigilant Death Corps Guards brandishing their fearsome polearms and the Royal Guardians mounted atop their fearsome lions, the crowd might well have started fighting in the streets for the dubious honour of kissing Rain’s boots. Worse was how he indulged them and approached the crowd of his own volition, walking right past his guards to shake hands or chat with complete strangers without thinking twice. There was a time when the boy would have exhausted all his efforts scanning the crowd in search of disguised assassins, while worrying if there were Wraiths hiding in the shadows and around every blind corner. Now he’d progressed to the opposite extreme, entirely unconcerned with his own safety and taking risk after risk without thinking. Though she warned him many times to keep his distance during his parade through the streets, the boy assured her that nothing would go wrong, a prediction that ultimately proved correct, to her complete and utter surprise.

Then again, the assassins might well have been holding back and waiting to see if Rain’s foolhardy antics were a well disguised trap, but they might not be so cautious the next time around. Thankfully, in the days after arriving at the Central Citadel, the boy was content to stay home for the most part unless his duties demanded otherwise. This afforded Spymaster MuYang the much needed time to vet the Citadel’s visitors as best he could without having to worry too much about Rain’s safety, given how his manor was the safest area within a hundred kilometres bar none, including the Bulwark itself. Not only were the Death Corps, Royal Guardians, Aspirants, and Sentinels guarding the area in full force, Sarnai’s Mentor Hua Lie was there to keep little Lin-Lin safe, which meant nothing short of an attack from another Divinity could threaten the soon-to-be married couple.

Granted, if such an attack were to happen, then there was nothing even Hua Lie could do to save them, but the Ancestral Rabbit assured Sarnai that their deaths would not go unavenged, a sentiment which was worth less than the silly woman believed. Though the Treaty was mostly a farce, it was still enough to keep those peak existences from destroying civilization as they knew it, which would be humanity’s fate should it ever come to open warfare between Divinities.

With her family’s safety at stake, Sarnai enjoyed precious few minutes of sleep in the days leading up to the wedding, but what irked her the most was how indifferent to matters both Rain and Lin-Lin appeared to be. Neither one cared about the wedding itself, so long as they were wed, and were it up to them, they would have said their vows in front of family and called it a day from there, but Luo-Luo insisted that this public spectacle was sorely needed as it would give the Empire a reason to celebrate and make merry during these woefully uncertain times. The girl wasn’t wrong, but as stated, Sarnai had her reservations regarding the public nature of this joyous event, all of which had been overruled because Rain felt it would be fine. “I cannot live in fear just because the Enemy might make an attempt on my life,” the boy had said, waving away all of Sarnai’s concerns without even thinking it through. “If they come, then so be it, but I’ll not delay the wedding any further.” Flashing the smile which won him the love of so many women, her son added, “I’d rather face a thousand Wraiths than risk Lin-Lin’s wrath.”

A wise sentiment indeed. Though the sweet girl was cheery and delightful by nature, she had a penchant for devilish mischief in her younger days that never quite went away. Before Rain’s arrival in the village, there’d been an outbreak of pranks and tomfoolery within the village that had ostensibly never been solved. Mostly harmless capers like bedding doused in itching powder or clothes going missing while people were bathing and the like, but while the culprit responsible had never been caught and the incidents died out before escalating, Sarnai eventually learned that young Lin-Lin had been behind all the mischief, with help from the overly doting Hua Lie who wanted so desperately to be the young girl’s mother.

The poor, foolish woman. Though Hua Lie cared more for her natural-born children than most Ancestral Beasts, her love and affection for them could only be described as lacking at best. While her children were not killed out of hand and instead raised in happy homes either in the village or out in the world with the fathers, that was about the extent of Hua Lie’s maternal actions. The most promising of those half-rabbits were even taken in as Hua Lie’s Disciples, but Sarnai wondered how her senior sisters must feel seeing their indifferent Mentor and absentee mother dote over a child who wasn’t even hers. Hua Lie’s reasoning for doing so wasn’t even sound, for she’d grown enamoured with Taduk for biological reasons more than anything else, desperately wanting to have a child by him that would not, in her eyes, be born a weakling and failure. Despite seeing so many of her half-rabbit children grow up to become happy and productive members of society, the poor, stupid Ancestral Rabbit was unable to escape her instincts which demanded that she bear strong offspring who could carry on her powerful bloodline. It was an obsession with her, one that struck her harder than most Ancestral Beasts, likely due to her rabbit nature, but this was all based on mere speculation. In all the years Sarnai had known her Mentor, Hua Lie had never once taken a lover, as she was firmly fixated on the Medical Saint and no one else.

Which made it all the more heartbreaking when Taduk disappeared for the better part of a decade before returning with the three-year-old Mei Lin in tow, an adorably darling reminder of the Medical Saint’s lacking affection for poor Hua Lie.

In truth, Sarnai had expected a bloodbath to ensue in the wake of Taduk’s ‘infidelity’, but things were not as they seemed and her Mentor recovered admirably from the shock. Once matters were made clear, Hua Lie’s idiot rabbit logic told her that if she were to become Mei Lin’s mother, then Taduk would have no choice but to take her as his wife, a backwards and incomprehensible rationale if there ever was one, but the sweet girl took to Hua Lie like a duck to water. It wasn’t until Mei Lin was older that she realized her “mother’s” affection was based upon ulterior motives, a realization the idiot Hua Lie had openly admitted once she thought the girl was old enough to understand. Even after spending hundreds, if not thousands of years among humans and the People, Hua Lie still didn’t entirely understand mortals and their ilk, mistakenly believing that a twelve year old girl would understand the complex affairs of adults just because she’d had her first flowering.

Then again, in Sarnai’s Mentor’s defence, that was the way it was with beasts, and most of Hua Lie’s “common sense” was based upon her own personal instincts. Those served her well enough in the countless battles she’d experienced throughout her journey from newly ascended Ancestral Beast to the peak of the Martial Path, but they proved a massive hindrance in matters of love and family. At least sweet Lin-Lin was not so cold as to cut off her self-appointed mother entirely and even personally invited Hua Lie to the ceremony, even if she was against the marriage in the first place. There were many concerns, mostly to do with Rain’s short life span in comparison to Lin-Lin’s, concerns Sarnai also shared, but children rarely ever cared to learn from their parent’s mistakes.

The day before the wedding itself, she took time off from her busy work to welcome her beloved family as they arrived at the Citadel, with Mila, Yan, Li-Li, and Lin-Lin in tow. Studying her daughter-in-laws as they waited, Sarnai wondered how the dilemma appeared from their long-lived perspective, and if they too would regret marrying a human in the centuries to come. Her dog-brained husband insisted she was still as beautiful as the day they married, despite all evidence to the contrary, but even if he meant his words with all his heart, how long could his love sustain him after she was dead and gone?

“What is the matter, my love?” Observant as always, Baatar caught onto her mood as he leapt off his crazed quin Balor and fell into a state of hyper-aggressive vigilance, his martial minded dog-brain expecting her to be under some sort of duress. Thankfully, she expected as much and tugged his sleeve hard enough to stop him in place before he could assault some random bystander who he thought looked suspicious.

“Nothing, you fool,” she Sent, sparing him a little face on account of how handsome and heroic he appeared, a mirror image of the strapping young Warrior she’d married all those years ago. “I missed you is all.”

“And I you, my rose.” Taking after their son’s shameless habits, Sarnai’s husband reached out to stroke her cheek in full view of the crowd around them, one which had gathered to welcome their Legate’s bride and family. Sarnai could almost feel the horrified eyes staring at this mismatched pair, the flirting antics of a handsome hero and aged crone enough to turn anyone’s stomach, but she couldn’t bring herself to slap his hand away. Though she’d been separated from him before, she’d never gotten used to his absence, and after so many decades of marriage, she loved him more now than ever before.

At least the commoners were kind enough to keep their scandalized gasps to a minimum and Mother-in-Law Akanai had the good graces to pretend not to notice, so Sarnai basked in her husband’s affection for all of a second before reluctantly stepping away. “Good quin,” she said, offering Balor a pat on the nose as he came over to greet her, rumbling in squeaky delight as he took in her scent. Despite having vowed to never ride him into battle again, the quin was quite taken with her, probably because he enjoyed bullying her so. A good thing Balor wasn’t overly affectionate like Mafu, who insisted on receiving belly rubs whenever he so pleased, and was content with the bare minimum of interaction. That being said, Sarnai did love to rub Balor’s belly too, as his soft, velvety fur was unmatched by any beast save perhaps Mama Bun and Rakky.

Heralded by their shrieks of delight, the twins ran headlong into Sarnai’s arms and she spent the next few minutes spoiling them so as the whole family headed back to the manor on foot, a much needed jaunt after five days of travel. Rain’s new wagons were a marvellous creation, boasting a whole host of improvements that made them more comfortable than ever to ride in, but even the Medical Saint had no cure for cabin fever. Though Rain had arrived by ship after sailing for less than a day, Baatar chose to ride with his retinue in order to inspect the Wall’s defences firsthand, meaning the five-day journey took twice as long which was far too many days for the poor twins. Even Alsantset and Charok seemed antsy from their travels and were fraying at the seams, but once Sarnai took the twins off their hands, their mood improved by leaps and bounds as they were free to finally enjoy a moment of peace and quiet.

Children were a wonderful blessing, but Sarnai knew how difficult the little monsters could sometimes be...

“Where’s Rainy granma?” More darling than ever, handsome little Tate tugged at her hand and tried to urge her to walk faster, even though his tiny little legs were already pumping at a furious pace. “He’s at home, yea? How come he didn’t come see us too? Is he in trouble again?”

The sweet child idolized his uncle so, and it warmed Sarnai’s heart to see it. Little Tate would go far with Rain as his goal, because aside from his dour moods and lecherous appetites, the boy was a perfect role model to look up to. “We didn’t expect you for another hour dearie,” she said, lifting her adorable grandson off the ground to hug him tight. “Rain was in the middle of bathing Jimjam so he looks all prim and proper for the wedding, and you know how difficult that silly wildcat can be.”

“Oh. Okay. Poor Jimjam. Poor Rainy...” So relieved that Rain was alright, Tate forgot he was a big boy who didn’t like being carried anymore, which meant Sarnai was able to hold and hug him for the rest of the trip. Precocious Tali was more free-spirited and adventurous as they made their way through the Citadel streets, causing Sarnai no small amount of headaches as she tried to corral the curious girl and keep her in sight, but ultimately, Tali had a good head on her shoulders and knew when to push her boundaries and when to stay in line. She was much like Alsantset in that way, a rational and sensible girl who would go far in life so long as she cared enough to put the effort in, and given her accomplishments with Spiritual Cooking, it was clear she possessed the drive needed to overcome the trials and tribulations ahead.

They heard Rain long before they saw him, laughing up a storm while chastising the tiger. “No Rakky, you already had your bath today. Same with you Ping Ping, so get out of the tub and let Banjo in.”

As she strode through the door, Sarnai was greeted by the sight of the hulking, horse-sized tiger seated in the courtyard, dwarfing the massive, custom order bathtub Rain purchased just to wash his animals in. The alternative was letting the animals bathe in the manor’s bathhouse, which would have been a nightmare to clean with all the fur and debris clogging up the drains. Even though Rain had servants and Death Corps Guards to clean up his messes, he was still conscientious enough not to make more work for them than necessary, and earnest enough to do most of his chores after fobbing off all his official duties onto poor Luo-Luo. The girl in question was sitting off to the side consoling poor Jimjam after his bath, his soggy fur pressed against his surprisingly thin frame and making him look so much more miserable than his gloomy scowl could ever express. A dramatic kitten like always, even though Rain bathed him in warm water and likely spent a good half hour trying to towel the wildcat dry, Jimjam loathed baths with a passion unmatched by any of the other floofs. Even Princess and the rabbits didn’t seem to mind too much anymore, especially once Rain started heating their baths and using his own herbal soaps over the harsh and more commonly found alternatives.

“I see things haven’t changed much in my absence,” Sarnai declared, taking great satisfaction in seeing the boy’s face light up as he realized his family had arrived. Shirtless and drenched from his attempts to pry Rakky out of the bathtub, he ran over with a wide smile and a playful roar to hug Alsantset and Charok, with the former complaining loudly about his damp clothes while the latter clapped him on the back with glee. It was telling how he greeted his sister and brother-in-law first before setting them down to hug the twins and his father next, because the truth of the matter was that Alsantset and Charok had been there for him from the start, right from the first moment the girl laid eyes on a tired, sickly, scrawny slave all those years ago. Sarnai had grown to love the boy dearly, but in those early years, she’d kept her distance for fear of what might come to pass, and being a sensitive and observant soul, her attitude had not escaped Rain’s notice. He held no grudges and even claimed they did the right thing, and though Sarnai agreed with his logic, she couldn’t help but feel guilty for not supporting him when he needed it most.

No matter. There was no cure for regret, but she still had the rest of her life to make things up to him, and so she would spend her years doing exactly that. Not out of guilt or obligation, but because she loved her son dearly and wanted nothing more than for him to be happy.

And happy he was, happier these last few weeks than Sarnai had ever seen him before. Ever since his return from the Brotherhood monastery, Rain seemed like a changed man, a cheerier, more upbeat version of himself that had confidence and optimism in spades. She hardly recognized him when he appeared out of the skies with Taduk and Mentor, wholly recovered from whatever ailed him and kept him from expressing himself in full. With his recovery, his sheepish demeanour had all but disappeared as he ordered every Cloud-Stepping capable Expert ready to set out within half an hour in order to support the Central Citadel. No longer did he offer opinions to his more experienced advisors, for this was a Legate here to take command, and command he did. Even Sarnai’s wooden-headed husband noticed the change, for little Rain had become a leader in truth, no longer simply carrying the mantle of Legate, but wearing it well like a Warrior born.

It wasn’t just his attitude that’d changed either, as evidenced by his lean, yet strapping shirtless frame which poor Luo-Luo had trouble tearing her eyes away from. Years of living with Charok had done little to undo the effects of early malnutrition, and while he’d always been a handsome boy, his gaunt and sometimes skeletal frame always made him look several years younger than he truly was. Now however, he had finally fattened up and looked his age, with firm but supple muscles and an abdomen you could wash laundry on. That was something Yan and Mila had giggled about while whispering in corners that were not as isolated as they believed, so vocal with their appreciation that Sarnai was glad her son had learned to put up Concealment and Sound Barriers before returning to the household, as otherwise it would have made for many awkward mornings after long, sleepless nights spent listening to all of their bedroom antics.

Oh the scandal it would cause if the world knew young Rain bedded both his wives at the same time, not just once, but every night since his return. At least he had the good sense to spend these last few nights alone in order to rest up in anticipation for his wedding night with Lin-Lin, and Sarnai was sure he would need it.

With her husband here to take charge, Sarnai left him to sort out the rest of the details regarding their son’s safety and spent the rest of the day in her family’s company. It was a real delight watching Rain cajole Rakky out of the tub with cheek and belly rubs so he could bathe the bears and bunnies in turn, especially since the big tiger repeatedly insisted on being washed and groomed despite having already bathed several times today. This most murderous of floofs had seemingly been tamed and domesticated by Rain and his persistent efforts, though Sarnai still feared for poor George and his silly little rabbit life.

And just like that, she spent the rest of the day in the quiet company of her loved ones until dinner, after which Rain and Lin-Lin retired to their respective rooms early for a good night’s rest. If left to their own devices, the bride and groom were both liable to sleep through the entire morning’s festivities, so Sarnai made sure to wake early so she could help them both get ready. Upon running into Yan and Li-Li in the hallway, she discovered that they both had the same idea and was gratified for the help, sending Li-Li off to wake Rain while accompanying Yan to tackle the more troublesome of the duo to boot.

“Five more minutes,” sweet Lin-Lin groaned, slipping her head under her pillow and pressing down on both ends, her desperate, last ditch effort to secure more precious seconds of sleep. Even the excitement of her wedding day wasn’t enough to entice her out of bed, for if she were to have her own way about it, she would only show up for the ceremony itself before leaving with her newlywed husband in tow. Not the worst way to go about things, as these Central wedding customs were far too involved and convoluted for Sarnai’s tastes, but as Legate, Rain’s wedding was about more than just him and his bride. This was a day of celebration after many months of doom and gloom hanging overhead, a sombre cloak even the stunning victory over Bai Qi had been unable to wholly dispel.

“Come now, Lin-Lin,” Yan began, while Sarnai inwardly resisted the urge to simply rip away the covers and slap the girl’s bottom until it was red. This was to be Lin-Lin’s most joyous of days after all, so some allowance had to be made, but there was a limit to Sarnai’s patience. “You need to get up and eat breakfast,” Yan continued, her tone taking on a devilish cast, “Else you won’t have strength to last until night. Believe me, you’ll need it.”

Wicked little girl to tease her sister wife so, especially one as innocent as Lin-Lin who didn’t even catch the innuendo. A pitiful groan emerged from under the covers, and after a few seconds of silence, the darling girl threw off her pillow and begrudgingly pushed herself up into a seated position, her head bowed and back slouched in a caricature of pure exhaustion that adorable Blackjack mimicked from his place perched between her ears. “It’s too early,” the girl complained, looking out the window and seeing nothing besides the early morning gloom. “Even the birds aren’t awake yet...”

She wasn’t wrong, but such was the price one paid to marry Legate Falling Rain. Suppressing the urge to grin that came alongside an eruption of pride, Sarnai palmed Lin-Lin’s adorably pliable cheeks and kissed her sweetly on the forehead. “It’s only for today, silly girl, so put away that pitiful expression. In a few hours, you will finally marry your sweetheart and make him your hubby in truth, so a pout is hardly a fitting way to greet the morning, yes?”

Beaming prettily at the reminder, Lin-Lin rubbed the sleep out of her eyes and yawned ever so neatly, her lithe, diminutive figure so dainty and delicate unlike Sarnai’s own. Squeezing her tight with all her might, Lin-Lin hugged Yan in turn before bouncing out of bed with her customary liveliness. “Okay then. Let’s. Go. Get. Marrieedddddd!”

Chuckling at how quickly the girl changed tack, Sarnai snagged Lin-Lin’s collar and gently pulled her back. “You can hardly go out and let your dear hubby see you like this, especially today of all days. Come, let us brush your hair and wash your face at least.” Even having just woken up with her hair all tangled and tousled, Lin-Lin’s wide eyes and rounded cheeks made for a fair and enchanting sight, but that didn’t mean no improvements could be made. With Yan’s help, Sarnai seated Lin-Lin down in front of her make-up desk and set to work, the surface and mirror both sparkling clean from complete and utter lack of use. That would change soon enough, as Luo-Luo had an entire team of stylists and make-up artists coming within the hour to help Lin-Lin prepare for the day, but thus far, they’d managed to keep all of this a secret from the famously impatient girl.

As soon as she was presentable, Lin-Lin bolted out of her chair and ran out to greet Rain, who received her with open arms while fully dressed and actually looking somewhat presentable. It was the right move sending Li-Li to wake him, else he might still be in bed while Yan indulged his every whim, perhaps even stealing a moment to cuddle or kiss. There was a time when Sarnai thought the girl had more steel in her, and the same could be said of Mila, but they were both wrapped firmly around Rain’s finger and beholden to his every whim, so madly in love it bordered on insanity. It was comforting to see how deeply their feelings ran, and the same was true in reverse, for it was clear at a glance that Rain loved them with all his heart, for it was present in his eyes and Aura both.

And now he would have a third wife to add to the list, one who would not spoil and pamper him, but would expect to be spoiled and pampered in turn. Not the worst outcome imaginable, but Sarnai hoped he would one day find a good woman strong enough to keep him in line. Song would be the perfect candidate for such a role, but there was no sense rushing the sweet and stoic girl into a relationship she was clearly not ready for. Still, her fate was all but sealed, for regardless of what metric you measured by, Song was Rain’s wife in everything but name and bedroom.

Then again, the same could be said of Luo-Luo, whose affections went completely unanswered, but in light of her son’s voracious appetite, it was only a matter of time before he succumbed to Luo-Luo’s bold advances. That day would not be today however, as he only had eyes for Lin-Lin, though it warmed Sarnai’s heart to see him take time to make sure Mila and Yan were both doing well. It could not be easy watching the man you loved marry another woman, even if you were already his wife, but Sarnai imagined she herself was strong enough to do the same, should the right woman for Baatar come along. Difficult to find someone who fit all the right criteria, as she’d already ruled out all of her friends and acquaintances, but her beloved, dog-brained fool of a husband needed a wife with an iron will to handle him, which narrowed the field down to a select few, all of whom already had husbands of their own.

Perhaps she could convince Baatar to sign on as someone’s second husband. Now there was a possibility to ponder...

After a quick and hearty breakfast buzzing with anticipation, Luo-Luo’s convoy of assistants arrived to help prepare Rain and Lin-Lin for the day, much to their chagrins. Amidst a chorus of groans meant to convey their wordless discontent, Luo-Luo merely smiled and said, “Oh come now you two. Given the importance of today’s events, is it really too much to ask you both to sit still for an hour in order to look presentable for the crowds?”

“Well... no,” Rain admitted, while Lin-Lin pouted in silence, clutching her hubby’s arm and resting against it in a darling display of sleepy dissatisfaction.

“What say you, Mother-in-Law Sarnai?”

Though surprised to be asked, Sarnai nodded at Luo-Luo and scowled at her sheepish son, who still had the nerve to try and wrangle out of this minor inconvenience. “You said it yourself,” she declared, throwing his words back at him. “Today is not just about you and your marriage with Mei Lin, but about lifting the spirits of everyone involved. Do not be so dramatic. It is merely a brush and some powder, hardly the end of the world.”

“And you, Mother-in-Law Akanai?”

Again, the woman was surprised to be included, but she answered in the same vein as Sarnai, as did the others whom Luo-Luo addressed, including Alsantset, Li-Li, and oddly enough, Tate and Tali both. Only after garnering their support did Luo-Luo reveal the devious depths of her machinations, standing tall and proud with a smile wide as the day was long. “It is good that you all feel this way,” she said, gesturing at the horde of helpers standing to one side, “Because these attendants are here to help everyone look their best.”

A move which of course would have been met with widespread resistance had they not all just chided Rain and Lin-Lin about how minor a sacrifice this was. Well played by Luo-Luo, and Sarnai quietly revised her opinion of the seemingly servile young woman and how she would fare as Rain’s proper wife.

Though it made her feel ridiculous, Sarnai allowed the attendants to do her makeup, of which there was surprisingly less than she expected from the same people who helped Central’s elites paint their faces white. When their work was done, Sarnai reluctantly looked in the mirror and found herself gazing into the past, for she’d somehow lost thirty years over the last half hour. Her wrinkles were no longer so evident now that they were hidden beneath a layer of concealer, and the lines drawn along the edges of her eyes made her pupils seem brighter and deeper than before. Her rouged lips were tinted so lightly it could almost be mistaken as a natural shade, and though her hair was still dusted with salt and pepper streaks, it was arranged in a neat and artful coif which covered her ears while simultaneously keeping her bangs out of her eyes. By the Heavens, she almost looked young again, a feat which she would have once believed impossible. Was this how it was for every noblewoman of the Empire? How had these secrets evaded Sarnai’s notice for so long? Lovely as all this was, she feared that her husband would see this and gush about how beautiful she was, which would only make her feel all the more conscious about her natural appearance, but when she finally found the courage to step outside, she was almost brought to tears by the lack of surprise in his expression, wholly unfazed and by her complete transformation and making little to no fuss about it at all.

“Was it as difficult for you as it was for me, my rose?” he asked, wrapping his arm around her waist in search of solace and comfort. “They had all these tweezers and implements to poke and prod at my skin, it is a wonder I’ve no scars to show for it.”

“Oh, it is not so bad.” Tucking a stray strand of hair behind her ear in a girlish fashion, she tried to will him to notice her newfangled appearance, but her efforts were all for naught. “Perhaps I should hire one or two of these helpers and learn how to do all this myself.”

“I do not see why you would need them,” Baatar replied, his brow furrowed in confusion. “You hardly look any different at all.”

Idiot. Calling him dog-brained was an insult to dogs everywhere, and Sarnai swore to find a more appropriate comparison, though she did so love him for being honest.

Once the whole family was properly painted and dressed for the day, Luo-Luo went through a final inspection which saw both Rain and Lin-Lin sent back into their chambers, but only because they were of like mind and made changes to their outfits so that they might be more comfortable. Rain had untucked his shirt beneath his armour because he thought no one would notice, while Lin-Lin pulled out three hair pins and a decorative comb because they made her head too heavy to hold up. The girl’s makeup also needed several minor touch ups, as she’d smeared them while snacking and resting her cheek on Rain’s shoulder, which also had to be wiped and polished again in turn.

After all this fuss, the parade itself was almost a let down. The crowds appeared in full force and their enthusiasm threatened to blockade the streets, but young Rustram had things well in hand and dispersed the huddled masses before too long. Riding at the head of the procession, Taduk made for a curious sight, so handsome and dignified yet so obviously out of his element as he sat poorly atop sweet Mafu’s back. The quin was darling to behold in his collared silk shirt, as were the three pups in his arms who were similarly dressed for the part, while Lin-Lin stood on her palanquin flanked by Yan, Mila, Luo-Luo, and Li-Li, all of whom waved to the crowd, looking beautiful and delighted as she received their praise and accolades with a smile. Things could have gone so much worse, but none of Sarnai’s nightmares proved prophetic as the two-hour long parade concluded without incident, with Lin-Lin’s palanquin setting down in the middle of the wide, concrete bridge that stretched from the north end of the empty basin to the south, with four towering fortresses scattered along the way. It was here in the centre where Rain stood waiting in front of a covered monument, a rectangular object that stood at least five metres high and was hidden under a waterproofed cloth. Oh how he looked so handsome and heroic in his golden armour, with bright eyes and a joyous smile which were dazzling to behold, especially when juxtaposed with the grim, featureless scowls of his Death Corps Guards, who all but melted into the background as the main characters of today’s events took to the stage standing side by side with hands clasped and fingers interlaced.

“Thank you all for coming out to celebrate this joyous event with us,” Rain began, his voice booming over the hubbub of the crowd yet not so loud as to drown everything out. To Sarnai’s surprise, she could feel her son’s genuine bliss and gratitude accompanying his Chi-enhanced voice, and a quick glance at her husband revealed that he felt it too. This was clearly Oration, yet another Chi skill that few knew about much less understood, and Rain was using it without meaning to once again. “However, today is not just to celebrate my union with Mei Lin, a dear friend I have known for as long as I can remember and cannot imagine a life without.” Again, the truth of his statement was evident from the barrage of emotions his words instilled, and Sarnai could see the crowd being won over by his heartfelt admiration. “Today is also a day to celebrate and remember the fallen heroes who made this day possible.”

What followed was a long and emotive speech that recognized the sacrifice of so many good warriors, from the lowly, unnamed soldiers who fought to their last breath, all the way up to the dearly departed Sword King, Ryo Dae Jung, Rain made sure to include them all in his earnest dedication. “These heroes died to see us to victory,” he said, still holding the crowd’s attention despite his long-winded speech, “And their sacrifice will not be forgotten, not so long as this Citadel stands and Warriors patrol its walls.” Working together with Lin-Lin, they unveiled the monument behind them to reveal a towering marble slab, so white and lustrous it all but glowed in the sunlight. Appearing out of Concealment, Monk Happy gave everyone a scare as he approached the plain slab with ladder, hammer, and chisel in hand, but Rain at least had the foresight to warn his immediate guards, if not the ones further out. Cheeks burning as he realized his gaffe, he glanced towards an empty space and gave it an apologetic look, where Sarnai assumed Naaran was standing and fuming in furious silence.

With a few taps of the hammer, Monk Happy carved a single name at the top of the slab, centrally positioned for maximum attention. Only three characters were written there, and Rain read them out loud for all those who could not see or read. “Ryo Dae Jung,” he declared, without adding any title or epithet to follow, but such a simple design fit these circumstances, for there were few who could ever forget this young Legend’s accomplishments.

Having been informed of his task beforehand, Monk Happy set to work carving in the rest of the names, starting with the deceased father and son pair, Ishin Shigen and Ishin Ken-Kichi. Though they were placed below the Sword King and not even in a row all to themselves, one could hardly complain about so high a placement on the monument, especially considering Ken-Kichi was not even a Peak Expert when he died. Rain read those names out loud as well, again without embellishment, which could be seen as an insult by some, but could also be construed as offering them the same respect given to a fallen Colonel General.

As the minutes passed by, Rain read off a litany of names that quickly fell into the realm of obscurity, but not a single soul in the crowd stirred with agitation or impatience. These Warriors died defending the Citadel, so this was the least they could all do to show their respect and gratitude, a sentiment which shone clearly through Rain’s Oration. Even the restless Mei Lin stood utterly still at his side, holding his hand and supporting him through this sombre event, one which lasted for two full hours, and only because Monk Happy was so deft with his tools that even a scribe with a brush could barely match him. When the marble slab was filled to the brim with names of the fallen, Rain lowered his head in a moment of quiet introspection, and it only felt right to join him. So many of Sarnai’s comrades had already given their lives in the war against the Enemy, she wished their names could be included on that monument as well, but she knew her son well enough to know he would not let them be forgotten.

And she was right, for when Rain raised his head again, his voice burned with steely determination and righteous fury. “These are but a fraction of the good men and women lost to the Enemy since the Western Province fell, and I intend to see every last name inscribed somewhere along the Wall, so that they will not be forgotten until long after I have taken my last breath. That is the least I can do for these heroes of the Empire, for it is only through their efforts that we still stand here today.” Pausing for effect, he then switched tack and said, “However, it would be remiss to not honour the efforts of those who still live, and as such, I ask that you all bear with my long-winded mannerisms for a little while longer.” A chorus of laughs sounded in the wake of his self-deprecating joke, and even Sarnai could not help but smile as Rain called upon the Commander General to receive his accolades.

A good move by the boy, reminding the entire Citadel that even though Shuai Jiao was the older of the two, in the end, he answered to Rain and Rain alone.

There were a fair number of awards to dole out, but Rain progressed through them quickly enough, the most prominent of which was promoting the Sword King’s widow to the rank of Lieutenant General while stating that he had already sent in an appeal to the Emperor requesting He grant her the rank of Colonel General. Again, the ceremony dragged on, and even Sarnai thought he was going overboard with the addition of Dame Cixi and her comrades from the Spring and Autumn Consortium. Calling them up one by one, Rain spoke a few words about their good work in reinforcing and rebuilding the Citadel, and named the four harbour towers in their honour as the four seasons fortifications. A minor reward all things considered, but for some reason, these Central people put great stock in their poetic names and other such malarkey, so they were all suitably impressed.

“Lastly,” Rain concluded, unable to contain the weariness in his tone, yet still brimming with pride and enthusiasm, “I would like to call upon Eccentric Gam to the stage.” Odd to wait so long to call upon the half-fox, especially in light of his pivotal role saving Jeong Hyo-Lynn and Shuai Jiao from the Enemy, but the boy was always one to play by his own rules. Shabbily dressed as if he didn’t expect to be called, the aged Warrior stood awkwardly at attention while Rain went over his accomplishments during the siege while placing emphasis on his lack of military title. “However, brave and heroic as his efforts might be, I have yet to touch upon what I believe is his greatest contribution of all.” Grinning as he ran his gaze across the crowd, Rain looked the Eccentric in the eyes and said, “Difficult to imagine a deed more auspicious than saving our Commander General and the newest Lieutenant General of Central, but I believe it is only right.” Gesturing at the basin around him, Rain continued, “For without this man’s efforts, none of this construction would have been completed in time for this joyous occasion. Not the moat, the bridge, the docks, or the sluice gates, all of these defences are only in place thanks to Eccentric Gam’s efforts and his Blessing of Earth, which he put to good use in helping lay the foundation of this most critical of fortifications. As thanks for all your efforts and achievements, I, Legate Falling Rain do so appoint you as an Exarch of the Empire. Stand proud, Exarch Gam, and be known as ‘Eccentric’ no longer, for a man of your stature deserves far more respect and recognition than that.”

A political move, honouring the aged half-fox above all others and making mention of his laborious efforts. Normally, such mundane efforts would be seen as beneath the dignity of lofty Martial Warriors, and while Gam’s contributions were no real secret, most gave face by ignoring them. However, now Rain was flipping everything on its head once again and claiming that they should honour and respect Gam for his work, a move which would prove unpopular with the noble elite, but had won the approval of the common masses if the thunderous applause was anything to go by. These men and women were the salt of the earth, and they wholeheartedly venerated Gam as one of their own, a Martial Warrior who was not above getting his hands dirty and doing the work which needed to be done. In fact, as Sarnai studied the crowd in detail, she realized it wasn’t just the commoners who cheered for Gam, but many of the younger Martial Warriors as well, including some youths who’d only a few months ago laughed and made jokes at her crippled son’s expense.

From laughing stock to venerated hero, that was how far Rain had risen in their eyes, and they cheered for Gam because Rain believed the man worthy of their admiration. Slowly but surely, Rain was bringing change to the Empire one heart at a time, and Sarnai only wished she would live long enough to see all his efforts bear fruit.

Now was not the time for maudlin thoughts about mortality however, so she swallowed her shame and took her husband’s hand in her own, caring not what others might think. All that mattered was to see his beautiful smile directed her way, and as she stood there and watched their son lead the next generation in the future, Sarnai looked forward to what would come next. For this coming event was a tradition of the People that they’d brought to Central, namely the feats of strength in which Rain would prove himself worthy of Mei Lin’s hand in marriage. During his previous two weddings, Rain had been crippled and unable to showcase the full extent of his capabilities, and while he made the best of his situation, she hoped today would remove any and all doubts as to his Martial strength in a most spectacular fashion.

Ryo Da’in, Ishin Ken Shibu, Lu Jia Zian, and various other young talents of the Empire were no match for Rain anymore, so who would step forward to challenge him? Sarnai was not sure what the boy had arranged, but he’d promised it would be a show to remember, and she intended to hold him to his word.

Even if it meant going out to fight him herself.

Chapter Meme
