“Also! It can’t be moved, anyway. I made sure of that.” Melemizargo said, “When Idyrvamikor made the orcols and threatened to consume all of this tiny world’s people into one —very poor decision on that boy’s part, which he only found out later— and Kirginatharp interfered, turning Idyrvamikor’s civilization curse into a spell that only affected him, I had to step in to prevent the utter destruction of everything and everyone on this world. Because, with how the Script limits the number of fae in this world, if Idyrvamikor’s spell had completed properly and all people including the fae had been turned into one, then the number of people left alive in this world would only be one. This had been that fairy’s plan all along, to force Rozeta to increase the bands of Elemental Fae on Veird.

“But since I can only sense this singular world, I had to prevent this absolute tragedy.

“In the aftermath, I might have gone overboard, though, and Kirginatharp is now Cursed with the Dragon Curse, irrevocably, and Idyrvamikor got murdered by that fairy for failing to live up to her expectations, since he was wounded by his failed Wizardry and thus easy pickings, and also proven to be weak enough to need killing, too.” Melemizargo added, “That fairy murdering her husbands is what that fairy does to all men who disappoint her that much, by the way.”

“… How much of that is true?”

“All of it!” Melemizargo said, “But you are right to question my memory. I’m not so good with remembering that part of my life either, and really, everyone was at fault for what happened way back then. Maybe someone else eventually killed Idyrvamikor? I doubt it, though; that fairy has a very specific operating procedure. Idyrvamikor was left alive after that failed Grand Wizardry, though. That’s all I personally remember. The rest I’ve had to piece together.

“But I’ll get it all back, for sure! Soon, Erick! Soon! Darkness will spread once again! And you will be the Herald of Benevolence that lights the way!

“You should probably become a dragon just so no crazy people can crawl out of the woods and kill you when you least expect it.” Melemizargo said, “Those are the ones you really have to watch out for. The crazies. I should know; I used to be one of them. That fairy will always be one of them, according to her base nature.”

… Whatever came out of today, Erick was sure of only one thing at this singular moment. He was not messing with the Darkness inside of himself; he would not be touching the source of all mana that deeply. The Darkness would touch back.

It was also rather concerning to find out that Erick was only capable of Wizardry because of the Darkness inside of himself—

… Wait.

Erick scowled. “Was I a Wizard before I came to Veird?”

“Yes,” Melemizargo said, “Absolutely. There is life outside of Veird, Erick! And you are proof of it. For the longest time I thought this meant that I was trapped in a [Fake World], or some other truly powerful magic. How else, but through some spell’s function, could you explain the Sundering; a sudden event that did not make itself known through normal matters of Time Paradox Wizards, always flitting about as they wished? I would have known of the Sundering before it happened.

“I SHOULD HAVE KNOWN, ERICK!

“IT MAKES NO SENSE THAT I DID NOT KNOW—” Melemizargo breathed. “Pardon the anger.”

Erick barely heard the apology.

The world had quaked when Melemizargo roared, the very mana vibrating with shockwaves of black magic. Erick’s own magic failed him, as he fell to the floor, all his spellwork breaking from his body, his aura falling away from his control, his [Pristine Benevolence] canceling.

And his mind filling with utter terror, blanking under the displeasure of an angry God among gods.

But then Melemizargo pulled himself back, the tunnel —now broken just that much more— began to shift as cracks sealed and boulders melted into solid floor. Claw marks vanished. Tail smashes healed, the walls transforming back into something solid.

Erick’s mind transformed back into something solid, too. As his brain started working again he began casting all the spells that had been stripped from him, knowing that the only reason he was being allowed to cast those spells at all was that Melemizargo was letting him. Healing magics began repairing broken eardrums and lacerated skin, and restoring Erick’s left pinky, which had caught on a wave of Darkness and simply disintegrated.

Erick eventually climbed back onto his feet, though his shoes were gone and his feet now touched bare rock, and his pants and all his other clothes had been ripped apart. His rings were broken; he would have to make more. Fairy Moon’s necklace was broken, too; a hairline crack ran right through the center of the small watermelon-like jewel hanging on Erick’s necklace.

His timeline was no longer hidden to all viewers. He was once again visible to the world through mana sense, and [Witness], and all those other spells.

… Not good.

Melemizargo sat there on his haunches, waiting for Erick to be ready to continue.

Erick breathed, and then nodded; ready to continue. “As you were saying? About Wizards and planars?”

Melemizargo nodded in return. “There is life outside of Veird. Perhaps it is just bits of Darkness that had fallen through the Yawning Voids left by Primal Lightning, that collected upon whatever life was already out here in your universe. Perhaps my predecessors for the Mantle got up to some shenanigans long before I came along, and seeded your universe with ours. Or maybe it was the other way around. I think the most obvious answer is that mana exists in all universes. The fairies seem to think so. Whatever the case, Wizards naturally occur in this New Cosmology, too. But without a true mana-holding environment, those Wizards can never grasp what they innately have.

“And yet, Wizards will be Wizards.

“I suspect that every planar who has ever come to Veird is the product of an unfortunate or fateful or perhaps even Fateful encounter with a Wizard, since Elemental Fate is not locked away outside of Veird. Perhaps there are some sorts of mechanisms out there which can replicate, temporarily, the mana density of a normal manasphere? I do not know. I cannot sense the mana out there; it is a complete Void to me. To me! Which is odd and I want to be angry about all over again, but also I do not want to hurt you again, so let us continue with Wizards and chance: A Wizard does a Wizardry, and then magic happens, as it sometimes does, and people get whisked to this tiny world in some odd, arcane form of spontaneous magic. Possibly because the density is so much higher here, and so a random [Teleport] puts them here, most of the time? Maybe for another reason. I suspect that most people either end up here, if they are lucky and the Wizard wants them to succeed, or maybe the planar is simply shredded by forces they never see coming.

“There were planars in the Old Cosmology, too, and the theory about why those people happened and why people like you continue to happen, is the same as it always has been… But it’s all still actually a mystery to us. Or maybe not.

“I am the Darkness, but I have also forgotten more than I have ever known. I doubt I’ll ever be able to get it all back.

“If that makes sense to you.

“Based on what I have seen of you, I theorize that you didn’t want to lose your daughter, and you were on the very edge of that happening, and so, on a strange road in the middle of wherever —if I have that part of your story right— you finally did your first bit of Wizardry. You sent your daughter here, to someplace that you thought might be safe. Or that she might enjoy. Or maybe it was truly just a strange accident? Who knows! Maybe you do, if you search yourself deeply enough. Or maybe not?

“And for whatever reason, you came along for the ride!” Melemizargo said, “I am very glad that you did.” He stretched to his full, regal height, and asked, “So you want to be a dragon now, right? Make some Benevolence dragons of your own, and all that?”

Erick wanted to do quite a lot, but maybe not transform himself into some other species right this very moment.

“I think I’d rather like a nap back home, actually,” Erick said, “And then maybe dinner, or something. Talk to others.”

“That’s an option, too! I look forward to your eventual choice, whatever it might be.”

Erick blinked—
