Except for the dark tangle that held right next to the platform, larger than life, right on the edge of white stone, splashing lightning onto the ground. Ferns and mushrooms and flowers grew where that dark lightning touched, and then lightning touched again, burning everything down, only to zap again a moment later, sprouting life out of the ashes, bigger and more beautiful than what had come before.

Rozeta’s breath hitched as her entire body went rigid.

Erick’s heart skipped a beat, his core sitting beside that heart suddenly feeling small to contain all of his soul; of all that he was seeing.

Fizzing lightning and gentle wind was the only sound flowing through the Gate Space for a long while, as both goddess and Wizard studied what they saw.

A minute turned to five, and then to seven.

And then Rozeta spoke, “It’s a change, Erick. But...” Rozeta tore her eyes off of the nearest tangle, and gazed to the sky of planets beyond. White light fell from her eyes, like tears, and she did not bother to hide them, or brush them away. Without looking at him, she steeled her voice, and said, “Make your own choices, Erick. I’m sure it’ll turn out fine either way.”

“I hope so, Rozeta.”

Silence reigned again.

And Erick walked forward, into the lightning that flashed as black as Darkness Himself.

- - - -

Erick stepped into a familiar place that was not really familiar at all.

He had only ever been here for about 5 minutes, once, and that was almost two years ago. The place hadn’t changed, but Erick certainly had; he could actually see the area, thanks to his Perception and his mana sense.

The ground was mostly flat, but filled with rubble of all sorts from boulders to fallen ceiling, with ‘potholes’ here and there. But they weren’t potholes, as Erick remembered them; they were battle damage. Claw marks from meter-long claws that had been raked through the stone. Places where something heavy had crashed, breaking the surface. The walls of the tunnel were a good fifty meters away on both sides, and they looked worse than the road, looking like someone had used them for shelling practice in some previous century, or maybe only a few decades ago. Maybe not even that long.

The place was dark, but there was some light.

A few pillars of illumination stood here and there on the edges of the tunnel, like shining fountains of radiance, lighting this small part of the Underworld. They were actually long-lasting permanent wardlights attached to a version of runic web that was wholly buried into the ground, and thus protected from casual damage. They were a rather ancient design, but they still worked, though most of them out in the open had been mined for their precious metals long, long ago.

The only places that had lights like this were the deeper places that the Darkness had fully reclaimed.

That Darkness swirled up ahead, looking like a gloom standing tall in the tunnel, but still a lot smaller than he could be if he wanted to. Erick had noticed the massive dragon right away, for his mana sense stopped at Melemizargo’s influence, but Erick did not actually see the God of Magic yet.

Melemizargo was just a gloom right now.

An ink stain upon the world that was darker than black.

Erick felt melancholy well up within, but he was having none of that, and so with a grin upon his face,

Erick sang, “Hello Darkness my old friend. I’ve come to talk to you again—”

A small chuckle started in the tunnel, growing to a fast laugh as bright white eyes opened in the gloom, and Melemizargo pawed forth like only darkness could; his wings snapping backward and then collapsing against his shoulders, his tail whipping the air, his eyes glowing bright white as he smiled—

Fangs, the size of orcols, a mouth filled with dark radiance.

A voice like quiet thunder,

“Hello again, Erick.”

“Hello, Melemizargo.”

The Darkness moved in, slowly walking forward, and then to the side, circling Erick, his voice echoing as he spoke methodically, his darkness flowing, creating the inner wall of a hurricane there in that too-small, large tunnel, “Do you want to be a dragon, like me? Or more like the Other Dragons of Ar’Cosmos, spinning personal Truths that work well enough? Or do you desire to force dragons to mortal bodies that you control for the rest of their lives, constantly giving out rebirths until the former dragon displeases you? Or do you want to try some new form of immortality? To tear apart what makes a person make mana, and stuff it into a new, more permanent container? I’m open to many different suggestions, and options.” Melemizargo stopped, standing directly in front of Erick, his head and fangs and bright, bright white eyes barely meters away, his voice filling the world, “All you have to do is make a decision which affects all of the coming universe, and then keep making that decision for the rest of eternity.”

Erick felt sweat drop down his back, and all over himself, but not because of Melemizargo’s closeness—

—not just because of Melemizargo’s closeness—

—but because Melemizargo was angling for something. Sure, the decisions Erick made today would have long lasting consequences, and he would have to keep making those decisions until he felt like doing something else, but if Erick should truly feel like doing something else, he could give up his responsibilities to another.

“What do you want, Melemizargo?”

“Two things!” The God of Magic pulled back, seeming to smile a bit as he spoke from a much more comfortable position twenty meters above Erick. “The first is simple. On Shadow’s Feast you will sing that song to me and you will sing it well. The full thing! I want to hear it all, for the words vibrate something inside of me that has not been active in a very, very long time.”

“… And the second?”

“Consider asking me to turn those wayward dragons into Shades!” Melemizargo grinned. “It is the perfect solution to your problems. I’ll even give you ultimate authority over all of them—” He Looked at Erick. “—as I already have, but which you have failed to accept fully—” He digressed. “It might be too early for more Shades, though, so I could lock those particular Shades into a small, timeless box, and let them out into the future. Say? 50 years? I could bring them out one at a time, too, and ensure that they all play nice, under your well-established rule. They won’t even know that any time has passed, at all. Seems like a nice middle-path to me.”

Erick stared up at the black dragon. “Really.”

Melemizargo looked down at Erick, going from a strongman look, to instantly allowing his face to show that he had known full well he had asked for too much. “Well fine then. The Shade option is not really necessary. I do want the full song, though. That part is not negotiable. Such a display will show that you are actually committed to this treaty between Myself and all the godly sparks barely holding onto their existence in this tiny world.”

“… I would like to know what it is that makes people make mana,” Erick said, trying to move the conversation forward, “And if I can preserve that somehow through [Reincarnation].”

Melemizargo smiled a little, then said, “You can preserve some of that, but not all of it, for not all of that production is within your rights. It is within mine, and I don’t feel like sharing that with you right now. There are some things you can change through your [Reincarnation], though. I will list how it all works, and you can then decide what to do with that information afterward.

“Here now is how mana production works:

“Life itself grants you a single point, though certain types of existences grant more. Wizards, for instance. Dragons are another. I am not telling you about that particularity, though, for that is the information I am withholding… Probably. However, you can still do a lot for the people under you.

“Base production is gained through experience with the mana, and through learning how mana actually works. The Script artificially causes this rise in people through the implantation of points and spells and a resulting familiarity. If people can actually learn to use those grafted magics, and if they gain aura control and mana sense and they learn how to transform an Elemental Body into a Greater version of that magic, then they gain more base mana.

“With these things gained, a normal person, starting at 1 mana production, can raise to 5, then 10, then 50 to 75 base mana. A person was not a mage in the Old Cosmology unless they gained around 50 base mana production.

“A Truth of the Self is perhaps the largest bonus that most people will ever gain, and that is worth 100 to 500 base mana production, depending on the Truth, and the person wielding it. Once a mage attains a Truth, they are usually able to become an archmage without needing much more than what they already have.

“And now we come to the multipliers, which are separate but often linked to the base modifiers.

“Immortality is an easy 10 times multiplier.

“The head of a major magic school, and much of the staff, all of them ensuring that people learn of magic, can each gain as much as a 10 times multiplier to their own mana production.

“The entire major governing body of a nation usually finds themselves with another 10 times multiplier.

“Most people are just normal people, though, gaining perhaps a 2-ish multiplier if they are the head of a large family. A farmer supporting a city on her crops is another 2-ish multiplier. The head of a growing co-op is perhaps a 3.

“Killers of killers get a large multiplier, but wars are always mana sinks. Sometimes necessary, true, but usually not.

“Killers of the innocent. Killers of the normal. Killers of the powerful. Not much of a multiplier! No real negatives, though.

“Everyone has an upper limit of how much mana they can actually produce, and that is rather unchangeable and based on that part of mana production that I am not willing to share with you. Most people reach this limit if they try at all.

“But if your goal is more mana, overall, the best thing to do is make more people.” Melemizargo said, “So if my daughter has a problem with you [Reincarnation]ing some dragons because their mana production will go down, I would tell her to take a look at the nation you are building, where you have plans to teach magic properly, with runic webs and Remake quests and Particle Magic newness. All that real learning should counterbalance the loss of a few hundred dragons by quite a lot, as soon as you get a real population.”

Interesting.

Erick had another sudden question.

“What is my total production? Without being a Wizard?”

Melemizargo smiled. “Are you trying to trick an answer of ‘what is mana production’ out of me, Erick Flatt? Did Rozeta not tell you? I would have expected her to, but then again they do always try to keep that particular knowledge hidden and I always have to go teach them not to.” He lost his smile there at the end. “Now that you are here, and you still don’t know… Do I have to go teach them that lesson again?”

Erick scowled. “Actually, she told me that you would tell me, so don’t be an asshole about this.”

Melemizargo’s eyes widened in surprise, and then he filled with joy as he laughed loud, then said, “Wonderful! I’ll tell you the secret of what makes mana! It’s Darkness. It’s Me. Every single soul has a bit of Darkness inside of it, and it is that Darkness that allows one to connect to all the other mana out there, and produce mana of their own. A tiny bit of breaking! A tiny twinge of soul sundering —though that terminology is completely wrong— constantly turning possibilities into mana, and allowing every living being to turn mana into magic. If you magnify that Darkness through ways that were decided long, long before I took up the Mantle of the God of Magic, you magnify your mana production. My Darkness doesn’t actually soul sunder you, though. Using one of those awful little devices —which are not aptly named at all— is to violently turn a soul into possibility, ripping out the Darkness and mulching the soul in the process.”

Erick…

Had a lot of thoughts about that.

But mainly it was just one:

“I have Darkness inside of me?”

Melemizargo leaned in, smiling wide, his glowing white fangs framing a cavern of light, as sun-bright eyes stared down. “A lot more than most.”

Erick processed that.

And Melemizargo pulled back, adding, “Dragons have a bit more than most other people, as is their draconic right, as the people most Blessed by Darkness. But then there are people like you, who look like the First Wizard, who caused the Darkness to cause everything else. Oddly enough, Wizards rarely ever happen among dragons because dragons are already Blessed by Darkness. Sometimes, though, a Wizard turns into a dragon, and has the powers of both. If you wanted to be a dragon I would not be opposed, Erick. I would actually like it if you could join me at my level of power. You’d certainly be more of a god than all the other phantoms running around in this tiny world.

“You’d still be lesser than me, though. Let’s not kid ourselves.”

Erick wanted to sit down.

They all wanted him to be a dragon. Even Melemizargo.

All of them had different reasons, too. And now this Darkness-thing, with mana production, was yet another layer to the whole issue. Erick tried to think logically about all this, about why they all wanted him to be a dragon, but he was still missing some pieces—

Wait.

“What is the Dragon Curse, Melemizargo?”

A dark chuckle.

“You think I seek to burden you, my dear Wizard, with that awful Curse? By ascending you to a power easily able to topple Kirginatharp, that you will, by all rights, take his place as Second to Rozeta? And that somehow the Curse will transfer to you?”

“That was exactly what I was thinking, Melemizargo.”

“Well your paranoia does you poorly in this case. Your idea of moving the Curse onto you certainly seems like a scheme that someone out there might have come up with, but not me, and I doubt any of the gods actually want you interacting with that Curse at all. If you gained the Curse, you could remove it from yourself, and thus from the whole world.” Melemizargo said, “Which is the opposite of what everyone seems to want.”

“… Okay. Well. That seems somewhat reasonable.”

