“The news that I’m doing that is still disseminating, and that offer, once more know of it, will allow a lot of holdouts worried about encountering other dragons in their travels. They can head into Ar’Cosmos without risking a fight.

“Thankfully, not too many dragons have thrown too many hissy fits and exposed themselves to the broader world, but if they do, I have the Inquisition ready and able to respond to those scenarios within moments. Your Benevolence has actually been helpful in spotting those problems before they happened, too.

“One would-be-fight in Eidolon has already been prevented before it could even happen. Three more fights in other places met the same fate. In all four cases, every participating dragon in those fights were then moved into Ar’Cosmos without further incident.

“Everything is going very well, Erick. So far.” Rozeta said, “The only real wrench in this scenario is you, and the decisions you make today, for whatever you decide means that the flow of dragons might change.”

Erick was very glad to hear that Rozeta was taking this whole thing seriously, and as soon as Erick had that thought he realized that of course Rozeta would take a grand movement of dragons seriously. She wanted the Curse to exist to lock down dragons from controlling and fighting over the world until nothing was left, and so dragons hid, barely showing themselves. When people moved, though, there was always a chance for dragons to accidentally meet other dragons and start a fight, thus killing hundreds of bystanders or more.

And here was Erick, a source of possible draconic power; a Wizard able to allow those dragons to not have to flee to Ar’Cosmos under the threat of Fairy ultimatums. He was the same sort of power that dragons had been fighting with the wrought and with Kirginatharp all these centuries to control.

Erick had known it would get bad. He had known that dragons were going to come for him.

But now he realized…

Maybe he did need to be a dragon, just so he could withstand that sort of demand upon him.

Or he could run and hide and let the storm blow over.

But then dragons would raze Candlepoint to the ground, looking for him, or finding each other and fighting because the Curse would make them fight.

“There’s going to be a lot coming for me.” Erick asked, “I’m going to be a target again, no matter what my choices are, and many of them aren’t going to be nearly as polite as Al.”

“Yes.” Rozeta said, “But before we get into your response to that whole situation, I want to say a few things.

“I have a responsibility to maintain the Script.

“Dragons produce anywhere between 250 mana to 5,000 mana per day, with the vast majority producing somewhere around 4,000 mana per day, and a few other outliers here and there producing a lot more. That’s anywhere from 25 times the value of any other sapient, to 500 times. Each one you [Reincarnation], ridding themselves of their Dragon Essence, is the same as killing between 24 to 499 people.

“So this is all kinda like that pachinko machine I saw you playing around with that other time.

“I once said I wouldn’t care if you killed a thousand people, if you thought it best for the world. I reassert those words again.” Rozeta said to him, “If you need to ‘kill’ five thousand people, it’s fine. But that’s only transforming 20 dragons into normal sapients, and there are a lot more than that headed your way. I’m guessing 300 to 400 dragons. I would strongly prefer that you do not ‘kill’ around 140,000 people, each of which have lived for centuries or more, constantly contributing to the safety of their own small parts of the world, and by their very nature as dragons, and their habits of dropping kids wherever they go, the continued existence of Veird itself. But if you have to kill all those people… Then you have to.”

“… I didn’t consider that.” Erick looked at Rozeta. “Are you pushing me to do the dragon thing?”

“Absolutely.”

Erick blinked, uncomprehending.

“You wouldn’t need to get help from the fairy. I could help you instead.” Rozeta glanced around. “We could do it in here, but you’d need to make the space deeper, and by a lot; the Script is still here, and so is the Curse. We’d probably do it in a private plane, though, that I can cut off from Veird for a little while.” She looked to him. “Becoming a dragon would make your eventual full ascension to Wizard take less time, but not all that much less time. It would allow you to rather easily learn how to make double and triple cores, and allow you to remove those cores to use them in permanent enchantments. All that is rather nuanced, though, and not really important at the moment. One thing that is not nuanced, is that all your children henceforth would be half-dragons, carrying within them a small part of your own Paradox’d Benevolence. That one is fixable post-birth, though.”

Erick had no words. Instead, he looked out across the sky, and saw that nothing changed, even though he was really, truly considering Rozeta’s offer. He said, “I could fix my future kids, couldn’t I. Give them whatever bodies they should have after they’re born, instead of whatever genetics decides. And then when they grow up and if they don’t like the one I chose, I could change it again before they Matriculate… or whatever other Script-inclusion system might happen in the future.”

Rozeta nodded, then she said, “I do have about a thousand ulterior motives for suggesting this path to you, though, but I can tell you about the major ones. I want the Houses of Ar’Cosmos to have less power. I want you to be a stable force for as long as you feel like it. I want you to be less susceptible to murder and possible assassination. I want you to be as strong as you want to be, because when we do open new worlds I want you to be able to fight my father, if it should come to that.”

“… Ah.” Erick had quite a lot of thoughts. He focused on the one that was most important overall. “Would your father even allow such a threat to his power?”

“Yes.” Rozeta said, “For you, he would. He and I have already talked about this. He doesn’t think you would actually be a threat to him no matter what powers you could gain, and he is right. You will never actually be a threat to him. None of us ever will. But if he should actually try some shit, if he is still insane, I want a backup plan. You won’t be fighting to win against him; you would be fighting to survive, and ensure all the rest of us survive too. I want you to be fully strong when the time comes to help keep the world from breaking. You and any dragons you Paradox, too.”

“… Ah.” Erick watched the sky, and felt his decision coalesce inside his heart. He was going to do this, then. He was going to become a dragon. “But I like me. I don’t want to change.”

“Good news there! When I made [Paradox Shift] I built it thinking that this might happen, and I am glad to report that I can easily add a third option to your Paradox form; one with [Dragon Body]. I can even give you all the Dragon Essence you need to gain that power.” Rozeta said, “All of that is as simple as deciding you want this, and then following through. It’d take a day to get it done.”

“I suppose you have thought of everything, then.” Erick asked, “But what if I’m not good enough? What if this whole thing isn’t going to work at all?”

Rozeta smiled as she chuckled, saying, “You are a saint, Erick. You are more than good enough. If everyone in the world had even half of your desire to do good then Veird would have no problems at all.” She added, “But if this doesn’t work out, we can always remove your dragon body version of yourself. Such an action would be dangerous and it might cause unforeseen problems, but I could do it, and I wouldn’t even need your help to do it. If you’re worried about going on a rampage, don’t be.”

Erick smiled a little. “I was worried about exactly that.”

“I know.”

Erick stared out into the sky, as another thought formed in his mind; one that didn’t require becoming a dragon.

He could take whatever makes a dragon make all that mana, and then put it into another form.

A Protean, perhaps.

In that moment, it was like he was setting up the pachinko machine again, where one final slot held the deaths of a thousand people, and all the rest held nothing. Except in this case, every decision ended in death for at least a few people, and maybe a lot more than that. Who knew what would happen if Erick unleashed a second immortal and [Perfected Polymorph] type of people upon the world? One that didn’t fight with each other, like dragons do. One that had Erick’s Benevolence in them to start with.

In little time at all, Erick worked through that entirely new idea, and when he thought it was mostly finished, he mentally set himself upon this new course of action.

All the while he tried to sense for a feeling of ‘don’t do this’.

But nothing changed in the sky; the tangles of lightning were still distant and fractionally dark here and there. It was entirely possible that the sky was less dark overall, but that could mean many different things. Maybe he’d gotten rid of a few good possibilities out there, and made a few more bad things happen. Or maybe he had gotten rid of bad things, and gained some good. There was no way to really know except to let other people study the sky for a day, but even then, Erick knew that he would get conflicting opinions, and he’d have to make the decision on his own.

He’d always be making decisions on his own, wouldn’t he?

Erick briefly discarded his new idea, and turned his thoughts back to being a full dragon.

To hell with the protean idea.

Dragon all the way!

To dominating his part of the world! To handing out power to others, for them to dominate their parts of the world, too!

… But in a way different from normal draconic domination. Such a world would not be a repeat of the glimpsed horrors Erick had heard from Apogee, the planar half dragon from a world filled with dragons who ruled everything and ate all who opposed them. A Benevolent Dragon world wouldn’t look anything like the unfurling horror show happening in Ar’Cosmos right now, either, where Bright Smile was surely going to come out on top and become the Dragon Empress of Fairy.

A world of Benevolence Dragons would be something new.

And the sky remained the same.

He stared for a while.

And then he asked Rozeta, “What about taking whatever makes a person produce a lot of mana and shoving it into the protean species?”

Rozeta sighed a little. With great reluctance, she said, “If you want to go down that path, you need to talk to my father. You were going to anyway, but… Here are some facts, so that he doesn’t try to steer you wrong: I know what makes people make mana. The gods know, too. A few very select immortals know as well.

“But this is a topic that no one talks of for reasons you will discover. We have tried to Silence this information, and rip it out of people’s minds, making them unable to even think about this Truth, but this is impossible.

“And now you are wondering what has been hidden from you. What other parts of your naturally curious nature have been stripped from you without you ever realizing.

“The answer, in all cases, is this: That which you cannot know is that which would harm us all, and has thus been removed from you and all others. But as soon as you ascend to a True Wizard and remove yourself from the Script, all those limitations of the Script can’t touch you.”

Rozeta looked to him, waiting.

That was a lot.

Erick stared out into the sky of his Gate Space, thinking.

“… Not that unexpected, actually.”

“… I am glad you are taking this well.”

“I trust you, Rozeta, and I appreciate that you trust me, too.” Erick asked, “Anything else you think I should know before I go talk to your father?”

“I would rather you be a dragon than make a new race of dragon-like immortals, Erick. A hundred times over, I would rather the known solution than your new, protean idea.” Rozeta said, “Proteans are not inherently tied to Benevolence right now, but if you do this, then I will have to make them tied to Benevolence, and Benevolence would become like a new major subset of mana, like Stone, or Air, or Dragon, or Force. It is dangerous to do that. I would have to call for a full vote of all Relevant Entities to see if this would be allowed, and if they vote no, and if you continue with this idea, then… Then I would force myself to continue to work closely with you, just by the nature of your power and your role in this universe…

“But there would be strains. Breaks. Unknown fractures.

“Ultimately, I cannot dictate how you do your magic, but please don’t go down the unknown path. Please don’t accidentally break the Script, trying to make it fit a mold that is more pleasant for you.”

Erick felt a chill.

Maybe he should stick to being a dragon. Really consider that as a part of his future. It might be nice, actually? Dragons seem to like being dragons, and most of them are fully capable of being whatever form they wish to be, so it’s not like they’re limited by anything except for what the Dragon Curse did to them, and Erick wouldn’t be affected by that.

Hmm.

Would he like lounging around atop Yggdrasil’s roots, after a nice swim, laying in the sun like a very long, very large cat, soaking up the rays?

Erick smiled a little at that thought. He could just be nude all the time, then. Might be rather freeing! And hey! He could still turn back into himself and wear clothes and talk to people and be the same sort of person he had always been, like Kirginatharp, but with a lot more power and ability to make the world a better place.

And he could help others become Benevolent, too, and that was probably a good thing. Maybe he could really do this—

A wind blew across the sky.

Yggdrasil waved in the breeze.

And then everything changed.

The sky suddenly deepened, falling away like light piercing a gloomy night, revealing everything in the distance. Erick’s Gate Space was suddenly not a 150-ish year map of the future, with lightning lifting off the edge of mist a few kilometers off into space.

It was a map of a thousand years hence, with white mist falling into streamers of lightning, and collecting in brand new tangles. A few dark tangles still held at what Erick had considered the hundred year mark, but past that floated worlds.

Planets of black tangles, gently orbiting in a glowing sky.

Erick and Rozeta stood in the center of an orrery of unmatched Sight.

It would have been beautiful. Magical and miraculous.

