“The fairy pact is good… eventually. It will be good eventually. I can admit that. But there are dragons that don’t want to go to Ar’Cosmos, and they will either throw themselves against the fairy in order to stop from being taken, and fail, or they will accept a [Reincarnation] from me. But there is that other option. I could become a dragon myself. I could turn every incoming dragon into a Benevolence dragon. I could put more of me out there— though I am rather sure that this option will not be that easy. Something bad will happen if I choose that path. And yet… I haven’t seen anything bad when looking in that direction…

“Though I should probably step into my Gate Space and have a real, serious look.

“The problem is I don’t want to become a Benevolence Dragon, Atunir.”

Atunir smiled softly, saying, “You know most Wizard Kings of the Old Cosmology were actually dragons? Not actual Wizards at all?”

“I think I heard that once or twice.”

“Then there you go. Or, you could Wizard up a different solution.” Golden flames licked across the world, taking Atunir and the sky and the field with them, but leaving behind the voice of the goddess, “I would advise against that, though. Big Wizardry is dangerous. Never know how that could go.”

- - - -

Erick stepped into a park; a lightly wooded area with benches and picnic tables and a small pond where ducks quacked and dragonflies flitted upon the reeds. Another man sat upon a bench near the pond. With a gentle scattering, the man threw green dots into the pond. Those dots floated. The ducks went crazy for the food.

Phagar, looking like a mirror of Erick, turned to see Erick. He smiled. “Hey, Erick. Come on over.” He held up a thawing bag of frozen peas in his left hand. “I got more peas if you want to feed the ducks.”

Erick smiled, and made his way over there, asking, “Do you know how long it’s been since I fed the ducks? —you probably do know.”

Phagar handed over the bag as Erick sat down, saying, “I do. Your last week at college, a few days before the mother of your daughter came and granted you Jane.”

Erick’s hand paused inside the bag. He didn’t think that that was the exact last time, but now that he thought… Yeah. That was correct.

Erick just breathed, took out some peas, and threw them to the hungry ducks. In a rush of feathers and snapping beaks, the ducks rushed in to grab all that Erick had bestowed upon them, some of them diving down to grab the deeper peas while others fought for the peas that floated on the surface.

Erick frowned a little.

Something weird was happening.

There were a lot of ducks down there on the water. More than he thought there had been. And then, as soon as there wasn’t much food left on the water, some of them fought with each other for what was left. Some of them looked at Erick, and at the bag in his hands, like if he didn’t give them more then they were going to take it.

Erick grabbed a massive handful and handed out more peas, scattering green morsels across the entire surface of the pond. That was exactly what the ducks wanted, and it seemed to be what was better for all of them, because now they could hunt and prosper without harming each other. A lot of the peas managed to float for a good minute before they were eventually consumed, but by that time, Erick already had another large handful ready to go.

Green life scattered, and the ducks went back to feasting.

Erick continued on like that for a while, measuring his gifts of food to what the ducks were able to consume, but then the sky darkened a little. He looked up.

A formation of ducks —not many at all— settled down in the lake, crashing into the waters and diving for the green peas. Fights erupted again and Erick’s minor balance was ruined. He reached into the bag again and rapidly scattered food for the hungry animals. This time, it took 30 seconds for all the peas to vanish into gullets and for the ducks to start looking at Erick with hungry, beady black eyes.

Erick handed out another massive handful of peas, drawing deep from the bag in his lap. The bag wasn’t actually emptying at all. He had more than enough peas for all that he saw.

And then more ducks showed up.

“Oh,” Erick said, finally realizing what was happening. “I see.”

The bag of frozen peas seemed endless. But the ducks were also endless.

“The ducks keep coming and coming,” Phagar said, breaking the silence between them. “Even if your bag is endless, something else must be done if you are to care for them all, for there will only ever be so much room on the pond. Or, you could not feed any of them. In that case, the pond would have one or two ducks, based on how much food there is naturally, and all the rest would go somewhere else.

“You sit upon a crossroads, Erick, as you often are. Do you feed them? Or do you let them find more ponds elsewhere, even if they will probably fight in those other spaces for whatever resources there might be, and which you will never know of?”

Erick knew what he wanted to do.

He wanted to make a new pond, maybe two or three more. He wanted to scatter more and more food out for everyone. He wanted to power through the cynicism that others might see; that there was only so much he could do before he killed himself trying to do it all.

But Erick knew that he could never do it all on his own. Reality was reality, no matter how much of his own personal Reality he managed to bring into existence, and share with the world.

He smiled a little with a sudden thought. Could he appoint some of these ducks to hand out food to others? Train them up to help him hand out even more peas to all the rest of the ducks? Not without a lot of effort! But the thought was fun.

… That fun thought rang in Erick’s soul.

For Veird was not a world of mundanity; it was a world of Magic. Erick could, theoretically, take in some ‘duck essence’ of his own, become a duck, live with them and teach them at their level. He could taint them with his own Benevolent understanding of the world. He could make them better than they were before.

Or rather… Not ‘better’, but different. More apt to help others. Able to help others without fighting with those others.

And yet…

Erick said, “If I became a dragon then I would be vulnerable to the fairy pact, as you all seem to be calling it.”

“We wouldn’t let that happen.”

Erick looked to Phagar. It was like looking into a mirror of golden fire.

Phagar said, “Though you don’t have to pick that option if you don’t want. There are other paths.”

Erick chuckled. “What other paths?”

“Just turn the dragons into normal people, Erick, no matter what their personal problems with that transformation might be. Sure, there’re some unpleasant ethical concerns there, but I have every confidence that [Reincarnation] is still a good solution to this problem.”

Erick looked back to the ducks. They were all quacking at him like a town hall full of angry protesters, demanding that he fulfill their needs above all the other needs of the community. Thinking back to those old memories brought up others. Some of those protesters were always good people, looking out for what was best for all, but there were always those who wanted what was best for themselves, and damn all the rest.

He could still do all of the possible solutions to the dragon exodus, if only he took on more power, couldn’t he? For some, [Reincarnation] would be the right solution. For others, a Benevolencing might be best.

But only if he could actually do that.

The pond began to mist with golden fire. Some of the ducks squawked even louder, taking to the air and flying away as fast as they could. Others didn’t care, they just stood there, staring at Erick, demanding more food as golden fire burned them to bone, turning them to ash and dust as the entire world fell away into a golden conflagration.

The fires didn’t touch Erick, but he still felt the heat.

Phagar’s voice came to him, “And yet, ethical concerns about forcing people into new bodies might be the least of the issues here.”

The park from college vanished.

- - - -

Erick stepped onto a cloud in the sky.

Rozeta stood across from him, wearing her wrought form; a human woman but made of white metal, and wearing a pantsuit of the same. “Hello, Erick. We have to talk.”

Erick said, “Hello, Rozeta. Let’s talk.”

Rozeta smiled softly. “I would like for you to take us into your Gate Space, so that we can both better see the outcomes to what is to come, and of whichever ways you lean.”

“… You need an invitation for that? To come into Benevolence?”

“I do not.” Rozeta said, “I have already tried to get the sky to appear on my own, though, and that did not work. I am trying to replicate what you already have, but that will take some time. And thus, this is a situation like with many Elements and magics that are wholly created and sustained by a still-living person; unless you invite me in and I am there under your own continued cognizance, then the nuanced functions of your magic will not manifest.”

Erick would have invited her into his Gate Space at any other time and not had a second thought, but today was a day of Fairy Moon shit. Of Fae problems. That fact made him unduly wary about inviting anyone into his Gate Space.

Rozeta noticed. So instead of insisting, she gestured to the cloud and summoned two chairs that sat catty-corner beside a round table. Tea and cookies appeared on that table. Rozeta went and sat down on her chair, saying, “All this fae nonsense has me on edge, too. Will you allow me to put your mind at ease? As much as I can?”

A pang of comfortableness welled up inside Erick. He went and sat down, asking, “Can she actually get in here?”

“She usually respects holy communions… Or rather, she dislikes them. She will certainly try to appear if we say her name, so we won’t be doing that. She might try to make herself present in your Gate Space if we eventually end up getting there today. Or she might not. She’s busy, and so, right now, we’re safe.” Rozeta looked to him. “You’re safe, Erick.”

“Am I, though?” Erick asked, as thoughts of approaching dragons filled his mind.

“Not really, no. For now, though. You are safe. When I am with you, you are safe.” Rozeta asked, “Do you believe me?”

Erick thought for a second about what his life was, now, and then he sighed, saying, “Yeah. I do. But… You know what? I certainly didn’t get this far being scared of magic, so let’s tackle this head on. Let’s go to the Gate Space. We can view the sky as we talk.”

“… Are you sure, Erick? We don’t have to move on yet if you don’t want to.”

“I do, though.”

Rozeta smiled a bit. “Okay then.” She stood.

Erick stood with her.

As though he had already cast the magic, as though he was closer to his magic than he had ever been before, a jolt of iridescent white lightning flickered from his half-raised hand, striking the clouds ahead. That lightning gathered a short distance away, like flowing threads, and suddenly the Gate Space stood on the other side of a lightning-ringed [Gate].

Erick led the way, with Rozeta at his side.

The Gate Space had grown by a lot since Teressa and Aisha had been filled with lightning falling from the sky, almost a month ago. The central platform had increased in size again, forming a layer of octagonal stone and scattered green spaces about a kilometer across. The fountain in the center had become a twenty meter tall thing of flowing water and a surrounding pond, filled with lilies and life. Flames glowed at the top of that fountain like a signal bonfine, shaped in a [Renew] rune.

The fountain’s pond emptied off the edge of the structure, tumbling into a minor river that wound back and forth in a ditch of depressed stones, to flow off into the sky, to reach for Yggdrasil in the distance like a tether.

Yggdrasil was bigger, too. Erick almost expected the big guy to notice that Erick was here; to notice that Rozeta was here, if nothing else. But that big [Scry] eye did not appear; Yggdrasil’s focus was locked to playing and learning at Treehome.

Erick looked up, and Rozeta looked up with him.

The sky was a distant thing, at least a few kilometers away, and deeply piled with whirling white Benevolence, like storm clouds that tried to be lightning now and again. With a mental flick from Erick, all that changed. The sky spooled into lightning, like a weaver gathering wool into yarn.

Silent lightning crashed across the heavens, spreading out and touching nothing except itself. A few darker tangles appeared here and there in those crossings, but nothing serious. Nothing imminent.

Erick was somehow disappointed in that. “I expected to see a new tangle about this sudden decision.”

Rozeta was not disappointed at all, though. She was thrilled, and relieved. She smiled brightly and then began to relax, seeming less like a goddess in that moment and more like a friend who had just been told that some test results from a doctor had come back negative; nothing was wrong. She chuckled, saying, “That’s about correct, Erick. Nothing is wrong. Or at least you’re going to make the right decision.”

Erick had a sudden, burning question, “But isn’t it foolish to pin your hopes that this is all correct?” He swept a hand at his Gate Space. “That all this isn’t some figment of my imagination?”

Rozeta laughed a little; a happy sound. “I’ve looked at a lot more paths to the future than this one; This is just another confirmation among many that this is the right path, Erick. You made Benevolence very well! Be proud of your accomplishment, and what your mana means for the continued existence of this world, and all others to come.” She smiled. “But I am glad to see that you aren’t resting on your power, and that you are taking proactive roles to ensure that what we see comes to be. Nothing quite like actually working to make a problem go away, as opposed to doing nothing and hoping it goes away.”

“… Speaking of ‘doing’.” Erick faced the sky, asking Rozeta, “Got any plans for making this fairy pact not kill a lot of people?”

“Absolutely. I’ve got levers working everywhere to ensure a safe transfer of dragons to Ar’Cosmos. The fairy is the main one. She’s doing her thing, and in a few cases where those dragons pray to me —which is very rare for dragons, by the way. Dragons like gods about as much as the fairy does. In those cases of prayer, though, I am able to offer [Gate]s to put those directly to Ar’Cosmos, so that they don’t have to cross the world to get where they need to go.

