Adam patted his back sympathetically, while Can Hu stood over him, staring down in disappointment as it slowly shook its head. "I warned you, Pathbearer. I warned you that this armor would fail you. I just did not think that it would fail you so utterly, so completely."

"Oh, don't be overdramatic, Penitent," Helix said, pushing the automaton aside slightly. "He'll adapt. It's normal to have such moments when your Awareness reaches new heights."

Shiv groaned. "The magnetic sense is getting worse… It feels like my skull's getting pulled out of my head."

"Oh, don't complain about that. You'll wish you had it, should you ever get lost. Do you know how important it is to know where True North is?"

Shiv didn't even know the concept of True North until recently. Worse was how he could practically see every detail on the orcs, and he saw what orc skin looked like in high definition. He saw the things trapped between their often pristine-seeming teeth, what horrors lurked in the depths of their nostrils, and Shiv wished he were blind. Slowly, he fought his way back to his feet, and as he opened his eyes once more, he winced as the light speared bolts of pain down his nervous system. He quickly adjusted his compound ocular network, returning it to a more baseline human setting.

"Adam," Shiv said. He placed a hand on the Gate Lord's shoulder to support himself. "I owe you an apology."

"Oh?" Adam said. "For what?"

"Is this what it's like for you?"

"Well, mine's Heroic-Tier, and all of my senses are greatly amplified."

Shiv almost sobbed for Adam’s suffering. "I'm so sorry. The things you must have heard, the things you must have smelled, all the time. It's... Your life must be hell. I didn't know this was what it was like for you. It must be hell now.”

"It's quite alright. Well, I can't quite smell pheromones, but yes, not wonderful. Some things you just pretend you don't see, and some things you can't ignore, no matter how hard you try."

Uva coughed and made a show of looking away, where she accidentally met Valor's gaze. She coughed louder and faced the ground instead.

“Well, now,” Helix said, clapping Shiv on the shoulder. “Off the ground. Time for you to improve your Awareness Skill too. There are orcs to see and wars to wage. The sooner you get used to this, the faster you’ll develop your Awareness Skill Evolution.”

And Shiv laughed. “Everything is just part of your plan to get me to level the supporting skills I need for Biomancy, isn’t it?”

Helix adjusted his glasses. “Indubitably.”
