The crushing pressure grew stronger with each step, to the point where moving and even thinking became laborious. Without [Void Zone] and his Imperial Fate working together to remove the majority of Saṃghāta’s punishment, he would have been as infirm as someone on their deathbed at this point. The D-grade Bloodline Talent could only weaken the ambient Dao, and there was no need to mention its effect on the silent boulder.

The nullification sphere only managed to penetrate the surface before being stopped right in its tracks, unable to go even an inch further. That small infraction was enough to trigger a vehement response, and the trapped Killing Intent felt like it would boil over. The harsh reaction once more reminded Zac of the interred saints he met during his Pilgrimage of Faith.

It was their intense rejection of his Void Energy that had kept Zac from experimenting with his Bloodline Abilities in the vicinity of the boulders. Now that Zac needed to create a spectacle, he almost welcomed the boulders reacting the same way, with "almost" being the operative word. The risks of him being targeted by whatever he released outweighed the benefits of additional firepower.

The stabilizing sigil floating above the stone faded by a few shades as its ward grew irate. There was no doubt in Zac’s mind it would shatter with a proper push, and he saw no reason to delay. He was spending exorbitant levels of Void Energy just to stay afloat. Still, Zac figured it couldn’t hurt to try reasoning with the trapped wills before releasing it.

“Senior, I don’t know if you can hear me. The Empire needs your assistance,” Zac said, infusing his will while holding Tam Brooks’s Veteran’s Token and the [Court Cycle Token] against one of the weak spots. His eyes lit up upon sensing a hesitant ripple in the crashing waves of hostility, and he quickly pressed on. “The Empire’s Grand Undertaking is being threatened by a powerful force following a false God. They call themselves the Buddhist Sangha, and they—"

Zac didn’t get to finish his sentence before the whole boulder began trembling from blinding levels of murderous intent. It stirred the whole region’s ambient Death, causing the crushing pressure to mount. Zac groaned, nearly forced to his knees. He was still elated. The thing inside could understand his words, and it absolutely hated the Sangha. Their mere mention elicited a much stronger reaction than being exposed to Zac’s Void Energy.

“They want to replace the Imperial Fate with their Dharma while the Limitless Empire slumbers,” Zac croaked, adding further fuel to the fire.

It worked, maybe too well. A deafening thud caused a ripple that spread through the whole memory domain. It sounded like someone was punching the boulder from within. The pulse held no physical force, yet a dozen bones shattered across Zac’s body when Saṃghāta’s pressure briefly skyrocketed. Not only that, the pulse had deposited a few slivers of monstrous Killing Intent in his body, causing an unprompted connection to the boulder.

‘Void... Emperor…’ A chorus of voices seeped through the stones and into Zac’s body, filling it with an insatiable hunger for carnage. ‘We... serve…’
