Considering the length of the lava lasso, I flew up just enough for it not to tug on me, then dove down. Letting out a Paralyzing Screech, the otter’s attack got interrupted for a fraction of a second. It wasn’t enough to make it stop, but it bought me some extra time.

With Iron Claws still active, I attacked its face without mercy. My talons pierced through its nose, cutting a small gash across it, but it healed quickly. Upon landing, I used Ember Step, creating a wall of fire very close to it.

While I knew that wouldn’t do much, obscuring its vision was also a bonus. I used the time it was blind and still charging the shot to send a series of rapid Blade Wings at the lasso.

“How dare you attack my face?” It yelled out, but I really couldn’t care less.

However, no matter how much damage I did do it, the thing would heal fast. Basically, I was just wasting energy.

I just had to go and pick a fight with a level forty three…

It was too late to regret, I got cocky, and seeing just how I couldn’t do any damage to it, I knew that I’d picked the wrong target.

Of course it would be dangerous if it lived alone in a goddamn Qi Lake.

Resisting the urge to curse myself, I struggled to get rid of the-

The otter’s shot came straight toward me and I just barely managed to dodge it with a Side Step thanks to Phoenix Reflex warning me. However, the lasso was too short, and the skill got me further than I wanted it to.

As a result, my leg was now in unimaginable pain.

Luckily, it wasn’t broken, or I would have been crippled for a good while, and that wasn’t the kind of thing I needed with a huge battle on the horizon.

Still, I was in a rather tight spot.

“Since you want to play hard, I’ll show you what real fire looks like.”

Ha, you want to show a goddamn Phoenix what real fire looks like, why you-

After seeing thats its energy ball attack didn’t work, the otter grabbed the chain and dragged me toward it. I wasn’t sure what it planned to do with me, but I didn’t want to find out.

Probably something that had to do with its fangs, yeah. Which was weird considering-

My train of consciousness got cut upon seeing a rather potent fire attack come out of its mouth.

As a result that only made me want to escape more, but I’ve used up all my cutting techniques, so what else could I do?

Nothing than what all birds are good at, of course.

Peck!

It wasn’t the best skill I had, but left with no other option I could only eat my problems away.

Peck!

As it turned out, that was a rather good option, as the moment my beak touched the lasso, the potent fire energy practically got swallowed by me.

Peck!

[Skill:Peck(Begginer) has ranked up to Peck(Intermediate)]

I knew I was a gluton, but wasn’t this a little too much…

After absorbing most of the Fire Qi from the closest part of the lasso, I flicked my leg and the thing broke off as it was made of dirt. That was a good thing, as another one shot at me right after.

Thankfully, both Phoenix Reflex and my Divine Sense warned me of the danger, and I used Side Step to dodge.

I now had the perfect opportunity to escape, but I felt a little indignant. Was I willing to leave after getting humiliated like that? No, no I wasn’t.

Taking advantage of the fact that the otter was clearly underestimating me, I quickly came up with a plan to steal right from under its nose.

Opening my wings wide in a taunting fashion, I focused Qi into my legs and shot to the sky, using Aerial Redirection to dodge yet another lasso.

[Skill: Aerial Redirection(Novice) has ranked up to Aerial Redirection(Beginner)]

That was a nice surprise, and it would definitely help me in the very near future, as another lasso came my way. It was much faster than before, but I managed to pull through by a literal feather’s width.

Now that I was somewhat up, I could leave, but I wasn’t willing. Instead, I activated all my stealth skills and dove down into the forest. Shrouded in no less than three stealth skills, I blended in with the shadows.

With my Divine Sense I saw the otter angrily look around, then growling and rushing toward the forest. That was exactly what I wanted.

Still, I didn’t want it to be too close to its lake, but I doubted it would go too far away. If I wasn’t in constant reach, it would probably give up at some point.

So to keep it interested, I would sometimes pop out of stealth, have it try a lasso or two at me, then run away and slip back into stealth. It was a fun game, until it wasn’t.

The otter’s presence amplified tenfold, as did its speed and deadliness. It wasn’t throwing things at me anymore, it was barelling through the bushes of the forest at extreme speeds.

I gulped and took to the skies as the slippery thing climbed on top of the tree I was on, quickly chasing after me. Deciding that it was time to go all out, I flew forward as much as I could while making sure it was still chasing.

After making some good distance from the Qi Lake, I decided that it was time to put my plan into action.

I lowered myself into the forest and slipped into stealth, disappearing from all senses. After letting the otter run past me, I took the skies while hidden, and headed straight back.

I knew that the otter would catch on to the trick fast, so I flapped my wings as fast as I could.

The way back was much faster, and the otter’s Qi Lake soon appeared within my vision. Heading there, I located where the crystal was, and dove down.

The water was hot, very, very hot, but I was rather good at handling hot things. One of the issues when diving inside that I didn’t consider was the density of the water, since it felt more likew lavan than water.

It even stuck to my feathers, which was rather annoying. I could see why the otter’s furwas so slippery now, if it wasn’t, then it wouldn’t be able to swim comfortably, and would be in my current situation.

I rushed down as fast as I could and got my claws on the rock. The moment I did so, I transferred it into my bag of holding without any issue, and started my way back up.

It was really annoying, but I was glad that the otter hadn’t-

Just as I was about to speak too early, the universe decided to prove me wrong, as the damned thing was currently rushing toward the lake at an incredible speed.
