Raelt grumbled under his breath, although Geril was nodding in agreement with his daughter’s suggestion. King Raelt was, as yet, unmarried, and he had no children, at least directly. He looked down at his daughter, dismayed. Jecaina of Jecrass was little like her adopted father. She was more like her mother, who was Raelt’s half-sister.
That technically made Raelt the uncle of Jecaina, rather than father. But it was her mother who had given birth to Jecaina after a tryst gone wrong, and she had abandoned her daughter. So Raelt had raised her.
It was a story everyone in Jecrass knew, but only Jecaina brought up her heritage. Anyone else who tried that, River Warden or not, would be heaved straight off the Sunset Corridor balcony.
“I don’t intend to get married soon enough for you to join any of Flos’ subjects and ride to his capital, Daughter. And you should be wary of the King of Destruction’s proclamations. He is a dangerous man. Possibly the most dangerous in the entire world at this moment.”
Jecaina’s eyes widened. She protested, taking an aggressive step towards her father as if she were about to lunge.
“But Father, he’s a legend! I grew up hearing stories about the King of Destruction—everyone did!”
By ‘everyone’, Jecaina meant all of her young friends, noble or rich enough to ride about with the nobility and the [King]’s daughter. Raelt had told no such stories, and he cursed the crowd around Jecaina who had spread the King of Destruction’s myth to her. But then again—she was right. Flos of Reim was a legend, and now he was back. There might be a lot of young folk who joined his capital. He’d have to try and mitigate that somehow.
“The King of Destruction is no hero, young lady. I don’t know what stories you’ve heard—”
“He was a champion of the people, wasn’t he? Don’t lie, Father. Didn’t he start a war with the Medilean Kingdom when he heard the royal family had been overthrown and a tyrannical [Warlord] had taken over? Wasn’t he the man who fought the Order of the Black Judgment when they became little more than bandits?”
Raelt bit his lip. He answered carefully, trying to force the words through his stubborn daughter’s ears.
“He did do that. And he fought in the name of justice, that’s true enough. He would start a war over a single wrong, and tens of thousands would die. That does not make him a good [King]. Or even a good man.”
“But he did conquer all of Chandrar. Isn’t he a man worth following? Shouldn’t I meet him? You met him, or so Liass’ father claims.”
“Warden Telimt is a liar and a braggart. And he’s telling the truth in this case, which is why I’m convinced Flos’ return won’t bode well for Jecrass or anyone else. There will be a proclamation, and anyone who wishes may leave for Reim. But Jecrass is still Reim’s enemy.”
“But Father! The King of Destruction could be a powerful ally! Jecrass has never wronged him. And—and at least three of his Seven are with him! Mars the Illusionist, Gazi the Omniscient, Takhatres, the Lord of the Skies—and Orthenon, his [Steward]! Wouldn’t you like to see them? Just once?”
The [Dueling Princess]’ eyes were shining. Raelt felt a twinge of conscience at the look in her eyes. If he were her age, he might have felt as she did. But he had to be the one to put his foot down, so he shook his head.
“He is not an ally I want, Jecaina. I don’t trust him. In fact, I think Minister Lyfelt and I—oh damn, will you initiate contact with him, Geril?—will condemn his letter. At least in word. The other northern nations will most likely do the same. Claiven certainly will.”
“But Dad—can’t I at least meet him? As a dignitary? Mellia says I could go as a diplomat. The King of Destruction’s supposed to be very handsome, and so is the King’s Steward. And he’s supposed to be unmarried…”
It was possible Raelt might have a heart attack before he even reached the Warded Chambers. He tried to banish thoughts of Orthenon and Flos from his head, and he pointed a finger at his daughter.
“You will not ride into Hellios, and nor will you or your friends join any caravan headed towards Reim. If I catch so much as a whiff that you’re planning it, I will bar you from the stables. And the same goes for your friends. If need be, I’ll throw them in the dungeon for a day or two to cool their heads. Their parents will hear of this as well.”
“That’s not fair!”
“It’s my order. And I’m still the [King].”
Raelt snapped at his daughter. She stomped a foot.
“You—you tyrant!”
Jecaina scowled at her father. She turned and stormed off. He shouted after her.
“I’m a [Tyrant]? You haven’t even met the King of Destruction!”
She didn’t reply. The servants who scurried out of the way didn’t even look at their [King]. Raelt adjusted his crown, feeling flushed with anger and embarrassment. He hurried down the corridor and found Geril standing in front of the Warded Chambers. They were marked by a magical door and were the most secure part of the palace, warded against eavesdropping and other magical and physical means of spying.
“Everything alright, Your Majesty? I, ah, spoke to Minster Lyfelt. He is awaiting you.”
“I’ll be with him in a second, Geril. Did you hear that?”
“Your daughter’s parting words were fairly audible, Your Majesty. I take it she wished to visit Reim?”
“She thinks he’s a hero. Damn Liass and Mellia and her friends, gallivanting about and putting thoughts in her head. She’ll have to rule them someday, and old friendships will complicate things. I need to teach her to be a proper ruler, rather than a half-wild [Princess].”
“She is quite skilled in some ways.”
“With a blade? That’s not ruling. That’s a hobby. She’s not going to be a [Warrior Queen] of old, Geril. And she’s not going to meet the King of Destruction. Nor will anyone else. Put a word in the border patrol’s ears about watching for young nobles trying to sneak into Hellios.”
Geril nodded.
“Shall I send a message to the families of her companions, Your Majesty? I could also increase her bodyguard.”
Raelt shook his head glumly.
“Don’t bother. That will only make her more rebellious. Leave be—Jecaina might dream of visiting Reim, but she’ll probably give up when she realizes how far she’d have to ride just to get to Hellios’ capital, let alone Reim. I dread the day when she learns a movement Skill, though.”
“Perhaps Your Majesty would like another glass of water? With some lemon?”
The [Head Servant] suggested gently. Raelt hesitated and shook his head.
“No, I’ll speak to Lyfelt. Let no one in. This won’t take long, I hope.”
He straightened his attire, checked his light crown was straight on his head, and then opened the magical door. The Warded Chambers were a series of rooms that contained a number of Jecrass’ secrets, but Raelt needed only one of them now. He walked straight into the first room, ignoring the two side doors, and stopped in front of a large, marble statue. It was the head and shoulders of a man, although the carving was generic. The man had a head of hair, eyes, a nose, but there was something plain about him. He had no distinguishing features, and that was the point. It was an enchanted item of course, and the eyes of the statue were turned sideways and the mouth was moving. Raelt heard a few words as he walked into the room.
“—yes, send the reply to Medain and copy a response for Claiven. I’ll speak with the parliament in half an hour, but delay my arrival until—ah, Raelt!”
The statue’s eyes turned back towards him. Raelt half-smiled as the statue’s lips curved upwards.
“Minister Lyfelt. I’ve kept you waiting.”
“Not at all. And it’s my pleasure, King Raelt. But let’s dispense with the formalities, shall we?”
“Of course.”
Raelt inclined his head. There was a high stool which he perched on, wishing the marble bust were closer to the ground. But the damn [Enchanter] had installed it at a normal head’s height, as if you wanted to stand and talk to the stone statue for hours. Perhaps he’d thought Raelt would keep it by his throne or something.
Fat chance of that. Raelt knew that whoever looked through the mirror on the other side could see and hear whatever was happening around the statue in Jecrass. And while he trusted the man on the other side, Minister Lyfelt was still the head of Belchan and thus the ruler of another nation. They had set up this system to communicate, but Raelt wouldn’t share all the workings of his court with Belchan.
The marble bust had cost Jecrass’ treasury 28,413 gold pieces exactly. Raelt had added in the price of getting a [Mage] who specialized in both enchanting and stone magic to come from Belchan, carve and enchant the marble head here while being housed in the finest rooms and treated like a royal visitor, and then come back to repair the magical head twice when the spell malfunctioned.
Was it worth the coin? Well, yes. Raelt and Lyfelt could communicate instantaneously this way, which saved the issue of trusting a [Mage] with [Message] spells. Additionally, they could properly chat rather than write brief text messages to each other. Raelt still resented the cost, but Belchan had paid for an enchanted mirror, and that had to be double what he’d spent.
That was Belchan for you, though. They were home to one of the [Mage] schools of Chandrar, not nearly as impressive as Wistram, but certainly lucrative for the magic users that called the nation home. Added to that, Belchan was richer in water and natural resources—they had a small gold mine as well as rich fields for agriculture. The one thing they didn’t have was a monarchy, which currently Raelt regarded as a plus.
Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan must have been sitting, because the marble head craned up a bit to meet Raelt’s face before something changed and the head lowered again. He’d probably adjusted his seat. His head looked left slightly, and the nondescript features—a far cry from Lyfelt’s handsome visage—spoke curtly.
“I’m speaking to King Raelt of Jecrass. Turn away everyone at the door.”
He looked back at Raelt and smiled.
“Apologies, again. You know how busy it is with the King of Destruction’s letter.”
“It’s actually fairly quiet around here. But a [King] doesn’t have to deal with as many people as a [Minister].”
“True, true.”
Lyfelt chuckled. He had a very pleasant voice, the kind of soothing tones you could listen to for hours. Despite the statue speaking, he still had a great deal of charisma, some of it inborn, some of it part of his class. He had been elected [Prime Minister] by Belchan’s people, and unlike Jecrass, the country was a democracy, a rare sight in any part of the world. It had a parliament, and the position of Prime Minister was a result of a party winning a majority, as Raelt understood it.
He was glad Lyfelt had won, and not just because the man was easy to talk to. Lyfelt was a career politician, someone who’d gained a [Politician] class and consolidated it to [Minister]. He wasn’t born into his position like the River Wardens of Jecrass, and so he’d risen to ruler of a nation purely by his political savvy.
“I’m planning on issuing an announcement with the contents of the letter later today. What of Belchan?”
“Ah, I believe I’ll let it filter through the parliament members. They’ve been briefed, and they’re already taking sides on the matter. As if there’s a choice. I trust you made that clear to your court as well?”
“I had to hammer it into their heads. But I don’t see an option besides agreeing to the King of Destruction’s terms, do you?”
Lyfelt grimaced.
“Not at the moment. But there are more options available, Raelt. A pity your River Wardens can be so…so…shortsighted. But then, half of the minor parties in my parliament are like that.”
Raelt nodded, feeling some of the weight of this morning drop off him as he and Lyfelt groused about being rulers. The two men were friends, although they were dissimilar in quite a number of ways. But fate had conspired to make them allies, and the friendship had come over time.
After all, both Jecrass and Belchan were in the unenviable position of being neighbors to two major powers, the Thalassocracy of Medain and The Claiven Earth, as well as adjacent to the traditionally hot-headed Helliosians and Germina.
Jecrass and Belchan had always allied to keep Medain from expanding southwards, and occasionally that alliance had included Germina and Hellios, and all four nations had fought with Medain’s armies of adventurers and soldiers in the past.
“How do you think this will change issues with Medain or Claiven, Lyfelt?”
“Aside from the fact that we’ve lost Hellios and Germina? Well, with this letter we might not have to watch our borders. But if Medain pushes south…it’s tricky, Raelt. I don’t think either country will do so immediately—they’re rightfully wary of the King of Destruction. It just depends on what he does next and whether we can trust the letter.”
“You don’t think we can?”
The bust smirked.
“I trust no one’s word one hundred percent, Raelt. Even when sworn in blood. Even yours, old friend. I intend to use Flos’ declaration to my advantage, and I advise you to do the same. I’m already speaking with Claiven and Medain about this. Perhaps even get some kind of agreement hammered out, even if it’s only a joint condemnation of the conditions. If I play it right, Belchan can even be the reluctant nation coerced into opposing the King of Destruction with a small bribe.”
“Just be careful. Flos of Reim is no one to play games with. I knew him when he was becoming the King of Destruction.”
Raelt warned his friend, although he feared it was falling on deaf ears as he watched Lyfelt’s confident expression. Lyfelt was new to his position for all that he’d served for six years as [Prime Minister], and for him, power was still an intoxicating berry drink. To Raelt, who’d been born a [Prince], power was like an old riding glove. Slightly stained and frayed, certainly useful, but not exactly pleasant.
“Don’t worry, Raelt. Both Claiven and Medain hate the King of Destruction far too much to worry about our countries, except as bulwarks between him and them at the moment. They’re sending me [Messages] nonstop, hoping I’ll agree to some kind of ‘defensive pact’ that allows them to put their soldiers in our borders.”
Raelt grimaced at that and then frowned.
“I didn’t get any [Messages].”
Lyfelt’s head shook slowly from side to side.
