The actual meeting, as such, was very short. Informal, even. The gathered rulers waited about, perhaps for Orjin or Salii to ask one of them to speak. But why would Pomle do that? Eventually, the rulers realized they would have to take matters into their own hands and broke up, some talking to another and others gathering in small groups to talk while their retainers hovered about them.
It was rather like watching groups of birds mingle together. Orjin, eating some roasted meats that tasted like a bird of some sort, sat patiently on the ground. His ears, like his eyes and nose, were far stronger than they should be, and he could hear snippets of conversations. From some. At times, there would be pockets of silence as one of the monarchs deployed a spell or Skill that muffled Orjin’s hearing. The sensation was unpleasant, like cotton wedged deeply in the ear.
No one was happy about the King of Destruction’s letter. But the degree to which they were concerned varied from monarch to monarch. Femithain was concerned and made his objection clear to Revine as they spoke together.
“He wants his people back. His veterans. If other nations allow this, a number of Reim’s scattered allies might reach his kingdom without making enemies of every nation around them.”
“A clever trick.”
The Siren’s voice was low, her gaze piercing. She glared past Illivere at some of the haughty Stitch-Folk from Nerrhavia. She looked back at the Crafter-Magus.
“His allies are scattered, but with this, he could guarantee their safe passage. And you are right. There are many who fought for the King of Destruction. He could form an army of experienced soldiers. It strengthens Reim and buys him time against his enemies.”
“However, by the same token, he has pledged to attack no one.”
“You think that matters? The King of Destruction will find an excuse. He always has. What will stop him from breaking his vow when he has grown enough in strength?”
“His enemies, one suspects. But you are correct, Siren Revine. This benefits Reim. The question is: will enough nations defy his imposed ‘peace’? This is one such gathering, but I would not commit Illivere to such a course of action.”
“…No. No, it would make targets out of our nations. That is true enough. And yet, what if Nerrhavia dared? The Empire of Sands is already the King of Destruction’s enemy. He cannot fight on too many fronts.”
“But how many might he fight on? I have heard reports the Lord of the Skies and his tribe are raiding the outskirts of the Empire of Sands constantly. If he were to send Takhatres against the League of Illivere, just one of his Seven—”
“He cannot stand against all of us.”
“But who is ‘us’, Siren? I came here to discuss a course of action, but fighting the King of Destruction does not appeal to me.”
That was Illivere. Cautious and refusing to commit. Whereas Revine, the Siren of Savere, was open about her hatred for Flos. On the other hand, Empress Nsiia and Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia—
“I cared little for the proclamation, Queen Yisame. But tell me, does Nerrhavia desire war? You sent no army against Reim with the coalition, and you were surely able to do so.”
Yisame brushed her hair back impatiently, wrinkling her nose as Nsiia fed one of her hyenas by hand.
“I did not care to. It is true that the smaller nations petitioned Nerrhavia to enter the battle. What of it? Nerrhavia does not fear the King of Destruction. Nor do I wish to spend the time and energy it would take to battle his nation. The only thing that has roused my ire is his demands of my nation. In that, Flos of Reim has erred and provoked my response. And you, Empress of Beasts?”
Nsiia grinned up at Yisame’s face as the hyena prowled away.
“I counted Flos of Reim as my ally, once. Tiqr will abide by his peace and his request. It is a simple thing to answer, isn’t it?”
 
—-
 
“She said that? Curious.”
Femithain and Yisame stood together, speaking quietly. The Queen of Nerrhavia looked down at him.
“And you, Crafter-Magus? What does the assembled will of Illivere think? Or is it paralyzed by fear?”
The Crafter-Magus’ gaze didn’t waver as he adjusted his spectacles.
“Illivere waits and thinks, Queen Yisame. There are actions that benefit Illivere. I think war does not benefit Illivere. On the other hand, it benefits few nations, Nerrhavia included. I came to ascertain if I had allies…or enemies before choosing my next course.”
He held Yisame’s gaze, not affected by her charms. She hesitated.
“Very well. I withdraw my words.”
“I thank you for that. As for Empress Nsiia, she seems to be held in her course. May I ask if Nerrhavia is the same?”
“How do you mean?”
“Nerrhavia is an enemy of Reim, or at least, no friend. It would fain see the King of Destruction ended. But Flos of Reim is battling the Empire of Sands, is he not?”
“So?”
“Is the Emperor of Sands an enemy to Nerrhavia? I’ve heard he is of the String-people. And he claims…”
For the first time, Yisame looked uncomfortable. She held up a hand.
“I did not come here to discuss that…one. I only care for the King of Destruction’s letter.”
She swept away from Femithain, and his eyes followed her. A few minutes later, Nsiia and Revine nearly came to blows.
“The King of Destruction looted Savere! His armies plundered my lands and my treasuries! Shouldn’t I hold a grudge against that?”
“As far as I understand it, he did to Savere what your [Pirates] have done to other nations for years. Or did your ships not raid Zeres four months back? Izril, Terandria, Baleros—Savere is a home to ships and theft from every part of the world, isn’t it, Siren?”
The [Empress] and the Siren stood eye-to-eye, glaring at each other. There was a dangerous feeling in the air, but Nsiia’s hand was on her belt. She had put aside the spear she carried, but her knife was still there, and Revine knew it. The Siren breathed in heavily.
“My ships and my ports offer sanctuary. Moreover, it is my land. My grudge against the King of Destruction is mine to carry, not for others to judge.”
“Then is it war between Savere and Reim?”
The Empress of Beasts challenged Revine. The Siren’s eye twitched. Behind her, the watering hole’s calm surface began to shift ominously.
“Not yet. But should Reim’s territory ever expand towards any coast, it will not be safe from my wrath. Or that of my sister. And if you claim friendship with the King of Destruction, I would warn you as well, Empress of Beasts.”
She turned and stalked away. Orjin sat and watched Nsiia shake her head and turned to soothe her hyenas, who’d gathered around her protectively. Salii frowned as she watched the gathering.
“She’s the only one of them who’s speaking out in Reim’s favor. It might be a mistake.”
“Perhaps.”
That was all Orjin said. He watched as Revine and Yisame spoke quickly and quietly in a bubble of silence. They both showed something to each other. Orjin could see it was a letter before they quickly hid it once more. He saw Yisame nod and Revine bare her teeth. They were not the only ones with the letter or the only ones who shared a conversation in silence.
The tension bubbling up between Nsiia and the other monarchs was now in full boil. But it came to a head when Nsiia raised her voice after an argument with the Queen of Xem.
“I was but a girl when Flos of Reim appeared on Tiqr’s borders. I opened my borders to him and joined my armies to his because I believed in the righteousness of his cause. Hadn’t he done away with monsters and enriched his lands beyond belief?”
She looked around as the other monarchs turned to face her. The Empress of Beasts spread her arms wide, shouting to them and the other retainers in their escort.
“He brought wealth back to Chandrar! Those who accepted him as friend prospered! It was his enemies, those who refused to join with him and made war, who suffered. Did he not bring riches unimaginable back to his kingdom?”
“By looting every land he came across! Tiqr might have been spared, but Savere was not! Nor was Nerrhavia!”
Revine’s eyes were furious as they locked on Nsiia’s. The [Empress] smiled coldly. She was younger than the other three, save perhaps for Yisame.
“He was willing to fight against the other continents who wanted to turn Chandrar into a plaything to be fought over by their armies. Yes, his ambitions failed and he abandoned his people. What of it? He has returned, and whatever wrongs he has committed could be aimed at any nation here, ten times over.”
She turned to face the other monarchs. And some could not bear to meet her eyes. Those that could gave her hard looks. Nsiia shook her head contemptuously.
“I do not call myself the King of Destruction’s subject any longer. I am not the girl I was, nor is he the [King] I know. But I will not join with you to attack him if that is what you plot, like cowards hiding in the dunes. I came here to say that and to dare a bit of bravery from the hearts of my fellow rulers. I see that was a lost cause. Cowards, the lot of you.”
She turned and began to walk away. That was too much. One of the String-people in Nerrhavia’s delegation unsheathed his sword.
“No one insults Nerrhavia’s Queen so! To arms, brethren!”
Nsiia whirled as dozens of String-people unsheathed their weapons. Behind her, the Grand Elephant trumpeted alarm, and her Garuda and Human soldiers grabbed their weapons and sprang up. The Stitch-Warrior who’d shouted charged at the Empress of Beasts. He sprang, and Orjin caught him and slammed his head into the ground.
A smooth move. And the blow cracked the earth a bit. The Stitch-Warrior went limp, and Orjin felt at his head. Yes, the right amount of force. His skull wasn’t even cracked; the silk body made him tougher. But not that tough. He turned as another warrior rushed at him.
“You d—”
He’d probably said ‘you dare?’ Orjin watched him land on the ground after he’d kicked him and realized he’d never know what was said. He turned, stepped back as a silvery blade slashed twice at his chest, and lunged forwards. The Stitch-Woman went down, choking.
“Defend Her Majesty!”
“Protect his Royal Highness!”
“To me, men of Xem—”
“Golems, on guard! Hold, and defend but do not engage—”
“Strike the skies, Garuda! Circle and aim! To me, Mezha!”
A flurry of voices screamed orders at once. Nsiia leapt backwards as her Grand Elephant, Mezha, charged forwards. Everyone scattered as the trunks scythed the ground, and Nsiia pulled herself up into the chair on top. Garuda were in the skies. Orjin saw dozens of blades being drawn. He lashed out, knocking another one flying with a fist. He dodged a thrust, chopped down, and knocked a spear from a loose grip. He punched up, and the body went flying.
“Stop, stop! No violence in Pomle! Stop, or else—”
Salii was shouting, but no one was listening. She ducked as a blast of water knocked a dozen [Knights] to the ground. The Siren of Savere was pointing at Nsiia. And it might have been war then, or death. But that was when Orjin grabbed the spear.
“Her Majesty—”
The first Stitch-Warrior screamed as the spear tip went under his armpit and cut up. His arm went flying, and he clutched at his shoulder. It wasn’t bleeding; the arm had turned to cloth as Orjin severed it. But the pain was real. And every head turned as Orjin charged towards the Stitch-People on their chariots. They were trying to mount up, but the stallions were frightened by the other animals and the magic. They turned, aiming at Orjin as he leapt at them.
[Spear Dance: Crashing Rapids]. The screams of the warriors half-mounted in their chariots filled the air. Legs, arms, hands, all went flying. The instant Orjin’s spear severed the limbs, they became cloth, bits of silk, cut by the powerful blows. The only time the warriors bled was when the spear failed to sever a limb completely. Orjin whirled his spear, cut both legs off a downed Stitch-Warrior, and turned.
Elephant. It was rampaging towards him, intent on crushing everything in its path. Orjin rushed at it. The Grand Elephant was huge. He leapt at it and saw its head go down, trying to gore him. But the Grand Elephant hadn’t expected Orjin to jump so high. He leapt up until he was nearly level with its forehead. He saw Empress Nsiia gaping at him and drew back a fist. He punched Mezha in the skull once. The Grand Elephant blinked, stopped, and sat down.
“Empress!”
A jet of water blasted past Orjin’s head. It missed Nsiia, and the [Empress] ducked. The Siren of Savere was pointing at her. The second jet of water shot at Nsiia, hundreds of pounds of concentrated water, enough to blast flesh to shreds. Orjin, standing on Mezha’s head, raised a fist. He balanced on the dizzy Grand Elephant’s forehead, shifted his weight, aimed—and punched. Once.
The explosion of water and thunderclap of sound made everyone around Mezha duck. Water rained down harmlessly as a blast of air knocked the Siren back onto her rear. Orjin leapt down, spear ready. He threw it and hit a Golem in the face. The steel behemoth staggered, and Orjin charged it.
[Aeriform Shockwave]. A punching technique. Orjin didn’t use a Skill for the Golem. He just charged into its leg and began hammering on it. Pivot, punch. His fists left imprints in the steel, but the Golem was tough—
“Hold, hold! Yield! We yield!”
Someone was shouting frantically. Orjin looked around, blinking, and realized the War Golem was stumbling back. The [Knights] had thrown down their swords, and the String-people were holding up their hands—those that weren’t lying on the ground, that was. All stared at the man standing in the center of the destruction.
The Strongest of Pomle. He looked around, breathing a bit faster. Mezha was still blinking as the elephant felt at the place where he’d punched her. The String-people were cut to pieces—but alive. And the Golem was limping back, one leg badly malformed, the spear embedded in part of its head.
“What was—”
Queen Yisame shakily looked out from behind her ranks of protectors. There were hundreds of them and only one of Orjin. They could have brought him down; the best of her defenders had stayed with their [Queen]. But their confidence wavered as they realized Orjin had only been the first.
Nerrhavia’s finest looked up from their gilded chariots. They saw the people perched on the cliffs, sitting on top of the palm trees, standing on the dry ground.
Pomle’s warriors. They were staring down, armed with spears, some just bare-fisted. Savages living in a small nation. That was, until you remembered how Pomle had formed.
Neutral ground.
“Orjin. They’ve put down their weapons.”
