Orjin nodded. He walked across the bare, cracked earth with Salii. She was fully clothed and wore shoes; he did not. He was barefoot, but he didn’t feel the heat radiating up from the ground. Nor did he sweat as much as the Drake. The two headed towards a distant spot where a small stand of trees had grown up and water gathered.
An oasis, and not a mirage. The watering grounds were really just a hole in the ground where water had collected. Enough to let people live, and as such, anyone in Pomle would invariably visit the place for the precious resource. It was also the most populated area, as those less inclined to solo survival had made some structures here or found a reliable source of food from the thirsty birds and animals that came to drink from the watering grounds.
The Strongest of Pomle and the [Secretary] of Pomle set a quick pace at first, but it slowed when it became clear that their definition of ‘quick’ varied. It wasn’t that Salii was out of shape; she had lived in Pomle, and that was a harsh lifestyle at times. But Orjin was just too quick. He slowed to a crawl as she huffed and caught up to him, jogging. Orjin waited for Salii to catch her breath and then spoke.
“I have never asked it, Salii, but what brought you to Pomle?”
It had been five years since he’d known her, and this was the first question he’d really asked beyond her name and what she did. Salii glanced up at him, surprised. The Drake swished her tail and shrugged. She consulted her little sheet of parchment secured to the clipboard of wood as she spoke. It was one of the things she always carried with her.
“I thought it would be a challenge. Pomle has no industry. No trade goods or proper economy to speak of. There are no bureaucrats, no system of government besides the tradition of the strongest, and no treasury. There isn’t even a proper waste disposal system in Pomle.”
“We bury our waste far from the water.”
“I meant sewage, Orjin. Half of Pomle’s citizens live in tents or isolated structures, very few of which are made out of stone. The rest sleep in the open. This place would give any other [Secretary], [Overseer], or [Manager]-class nightmares.”
“So, why did you stay?”
“Well, I thought I’d level up faster here.”
“And did you?”
The Drake [Secretary] gave Orjin a toothy smile. He smiled as well. That was a good answer, all told. For if you were coming to Pomle, it was probably to do just that. Level up, to be alone, or to find a challenge. Pomle was not a place where you came to be famous or make a fortune. It was a special, small nation, the newest to Chandrar.
“Here we are. Oh, Ancestors. Some of the monarchs have already arrived! Orjin, you need to say something.”
“What?”
“I don’t know! Give the peace speech you did last time.”
“Very well.”
He sighed. The watering grounds were clearly visible ahead of him. He could see the relatively wetter ground was occupied. Someone had set up tents here, and not the weathered homes of some of Pomle’s residents. These were bright, silk affairs, and there were pennants flying from the top of them. Horses, people…Orjin couldn’t remember when he’d last seen so many gathered here.
“Let’s see…this looks like Mediv, Xem, Lamullt—none of the huge nations are present yet. But these are still [Kings] and [Queens], Orjin. Look. That’s one delegation right there, by the edge of the watering grounds.”
Orjin saw them. Two dozen riders, looking for a place to tie up their mounts. And that was just the main group. It looked like a small group of richly-dressed folk—the [King] and [Queen], perhaps, and a son—along with some courtiers. Behind them were a double-row of soldiers riding camels. They were trying to eye the other guests at the watering ground and shot Orjin and Salii a distrustful glance as they approached.
“[Camel Knights]?”
“Something like that. I’ll announce you—”
“No need.”
Orjin had spotted another group at the edge of the watering hole. They were leading their horses to drink, and he thought he could tell the [Knights] apart, if only because they were wearing the heaviest armor of all the three groups. They were offering the water to their horses and chasing away some of Pomle’s people from the watering hole. Orjin could hear one of them shouting as he approached.
“Clear off! This is Lamullt’s royal escort! Anyone who interferes with the path of his Highness of Lamullt will be dealt with!”
The [Knight] speaking looked hot, irritable in the dry weather, and out of patience with the children and people of Pomle, none of whom were showing him deference. Orjin could see they were the owners of the silk tent, striped yellow and white. And the [Knight] was keeping the others from the watering hole.
“Orjin—”
“You there. Back up. This is Lamullt’s—”
Another armored man blocked Orjin’s way as he strode past the bright tents. He glanced dismissively at Orjin and then noted the man’s body with another frown. He put his hand on his sword.
“This is King Victal of Lamullt’s—”
“The watering grounds are open to everyone. Stop interfering with Pomle’s citizens.”
Orjin stared at the man. The [Knight] glared at him.
“Did you not hear me? This is Lamullt’s [King] residing in the tent over there! He has claimed this space in preparation for the meeting of the monarchy. This…hole will be free for others to use it when—”
He got no further. Orjin was reaching out to brush him aside and watching the man’s hand tighten on his sword. He wouldn’t get the chance to unsheathe it if he tried. But before he could, and violate the law of Pomle, a shape hurtled past Orjin, and a wooden clipboard smacked the [Knight] in the face.
“Gah!”
“Back up!”
Salii slapped the [Knight] over the head as he jerked back. He tried to grab his sword, but the [Secretary] dealt him two more swift blows to the head with the edge of her clipboard. She was quick, and Orjin stopped to admire her technique. Before the [Knight] could draw his blade or his comrades interfere, Salii was shouting at him.
“You, draw that sword and you and Lamullt violate the peace of Pomle! And you, the idiots at the watering hole! Pull your stallions back! If they foul the waters, they’re horse meat!”
The [Knight] at the watering hole jerked his head around. He scowled at Salii.
“How dare you. And who is this?”
He pointed at Orjin, who was looking around, surveying the other two camps. Nobles, retainers, servants—they were making a mess as they set up everywhere. He felt disgusted; normally, he’d let any caravan go through Pomle and just stay far away, but he had to be here for this? On the other hand, he saw what Salii meant. All three nations had brought warriors, escorts, and they would be a hard fight to put down for most of Pomle’s warriors if they started one.
“Shut up and move those horses back! Draw that blade and you will lose that hand! This is the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin! And in this land, none of you have any rights beyond entry! If you offer violence in this place, you void that right!”
Salii was shouting at the [Knights], waving her clipboard in the leader’s face. He stared at Orjin, glancing at the man’s bare chest and his skirt made of cotton. Orjin thought it was a wonderfully colored thing, but he glanced to one side and saw a group of what might have been nobles in rich silk attire staring at him. Orjin returned the look blankly and then saw someone push the tent flaps back.
A [King] emerged from the tent, and a localized hush fell amid his subjects. Not on Salii, Orjin, or any of Pomle’s subjects. No longer impeded by the [Knights], several children leapt into the watering hole with a splash.
The bit of noise drew the attention of the other two parties. They drew closer, eying each other like foreign cats. A man in bright clothing strode forwards as the riders approached on their horses. Orjin spotted a circlet of gold on the man and women in the center and one of silver on the boy following them. The [Herald] took a deep breath and shouted.
“His Majesty of Xem, his Royal Excellency, [King] Aliman. Her Majesty of Xem, her Royal Excellency—”
One of the other men stepped forwards and tried to shout over him.
“You are in the presence of His Highness of Mediv! Bow your heads before—”
“Silence.”
Orjin lifted his foot and stomped. At the same time, he used a Skill, and a tremor ran through the ground. Just for a second. Salii, standing next to him, lost her balance, and the riders’ horses reared. In the watering hole, a bit of the dirt exterior collapsed, and the children happily screamed as they jumped into the water. The shouting men stopped and every head turned towards Orjin. He looked around.
Now, what did Salii want him to say? Oh, yes, the speech. Orjin spoke as he looked at both [Kings], the one from the tent, the one on horseback, and then the woman standing behind a line of [Soldiers] who were all pointing their spears at him.
“This is Pomle. I am the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin. Thirty years ago, we claimed this land and fought every nation who tried to impose their rules on us. And for thirty years, Pomle has known peace. The King of Destruction’s armies passed us by. Pomle has nothing, though many claim sanctuary in our lands. But we have always been a place for those who wish to train. This is why Pomle is neutral ground.”
He looked around. Three rulers stared back at a man without a shirt, sweat dried by the sun, dust covering his legs and feet. Orjin returned their gazes impassively.
“So I warn you once, rulers of foreign countries. Hold to this peace. Conduct your talks as you will, and I will guarantee the peace. But to anyone who violates the peace, their safety is no longer assured. Stop no one from drinking from the watering grounds. I will stay here to maintain the peace so long as the talks continue. Salii is the [Secretary]. Speak to her if you have any questions.”
Then he turned and walked away. Salii blinked as all eyes turned to her. The Drake smiled. She waved her clipboard.
“You heard him. If you want to tie up your horses, you’ll have to find space further away from the watering hole. The same goes for, um, ditches to relieve yourselves. It has to be away from the water. As for the meeting, please keep this space clear. We’re expecting the delegation from the Illivere League to arrive any minute now…”
 
——
 
Orjin didn’t bother to socialize with the first monarchs who arrived. They didn’t seem keen on approaching him either. Their escorts, on the other hand, kept staring at Orjin warily, as smaller predators tended to do when a larger, more dangerous creature was around. Of course, Orjin had no intention of starting violence. He was more annoyed by the spears and other weaponry, but Salii had talked him into letting them keep the arms.
“It’s not like Pomle doesn’t have our own warriors around, and they are monarchs. They fear assassination. And you have your hands and feet.”
And they were weapons in themselves. Orjin acquiesced with bad grace and spent his time sitting on top of one of the date palms that grew around Pomle. That got him more askance looks, but it was perfectly common; several children strong enough to make the climb had done the same, and Orjin recognized two warriors, one a [Spear Dancer], the other a [Martial Artist] like him, sitting on the tree tops and watching the sights. That was how Orjin spotted the delegation from Tiqr first.
The noise that split the air as the delegation came into view was a trumpeting blast. But it came from no horn. The creature that appeared over the tops of the palms was grey, huge. Its steps were long, and as it swayed its huge head, its tusks caught the light. Ivory, capped with gold. And it was similarly adorned with a riding booth.
On top of it sat a woman. And before her raced warriors wearing cloth armor riding striped zebras. Hyenas bounded forwards, terrifying the horses and other animals. They raced ahead of men and women who walked side-by-side with lions. The elephant raised its trunk to the sky and blew another sound, scaring the birds out of the watering hole.
They flew about her as she rode in. A laughing woman dressed in clothing almost as revealing as Orjin’s. But her garb was made of feathers and bright cloth. As she approached, the rest of her escort dove out of the sky. A flock of Garuda of every color, swooping about her.
“Tiqr.”
Salii stood with Orjin as he watched the procession come to a halt. It was as large as all three escorts that had come before it and then some. He shook his head as the woman on the elephant’s back patted the animal, and it blew a third trumpet before she slid to the ground off its back.
“I know that much. And that woman riding the Grand Elephant. She would be the Empress of Beasts, wouldn’t she?”
“She would.”
Salii stared at the [Empress] as she landed on the ground. She was nothing like the monarchs who stared at her as if they were witnessing another strange beast. The [Empress] looked to Orjin like a warrior as much as a leader. And he knew without asking that she was a [Beast Master]. Her mount proved that.
Elephants were already huge creatures. But the Grand Elephant was easily half again as large as the regular elephants that Orjin knew. It seemed impossible that such a huge creature could exist, let alone sustain itself, but Grand Elephants were able to travel vast distances in search of food. And in the savannas of Tiqr, food was abundant. As were other, less friendly animals.
Hyenas. Riding zebra. Even a pair of lions. All these animals would scarcely tolerate each other, let alone Humans in such close proximity. But the animals took their places, as docile as could be. And as she walked past, the hyenas crouched. The lions lowered their maned heads. Even the elephant appeared to kneel.
“Strongest of Pomle!”
The [Empress of Beasts] came to Orjin first. She ignored the other monarchs and laughed as she embraced Orjin. She smelled of the wild, and she was strong.
“I am Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. I greet you, Strongest of Pomle. I have come to this gathering with little warning, and for that, I offer you my apologies. My escort will drink of Pomle’s waters if it is acceptable, and for that boon, I offer you this.”
She gestured, and Orjin saw that there were more conventional forms of transport behind her procession of animals. From a wagon, a pair of brawny men jumped to the ground with a coffer. It was filled with jewels.
“Treasures of Tiqr. A small price for water, is it not? Will you accept?”
Orjin felt a claw jab him in the back repeatedly. He ignored it.
“Pomle welcomes all those who offer no violence, Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. No gift is needed.”
