A shaky voice spoke behind Orjin. He turned. Salii was clutching her clipboard like a shield. The Strongest of Pomle shook his head. He’d lost himself in the heat of combat for a second. He looked at the assembled rulers. They stared at him. Any one of them might be able to wipe Pomle off the map. With time. With their resources and their standing armies. But in this place?
“Bare a weapon again and the peace of Pomle is gone for the nation who strikes. Is that clear?”
They nodded. Orjin stood up. He rubbed at one of his fists.
That hurt.
“Then proceed. I’m going to have a drink of water.”
He turned and walked off.
 
——
 
“Would you challenge yourself against Mars the Illusionist, Strongest of Pomle?”
That was what Empress Nsiia asked Orjin when he returned from having a drink of water and reflecting on the fight. He looked at her.
“Mars the Illusionist? If she came to Pomle, I would challenge her. But in war? No.”
“You’ve never dreamed of going into battle? You’re as strong as any Named Adventurer, I would guess.”
Orjin shook his head.
“Killing people does not interest me. That isn’t why I train.”
“But your strength…”
He sighed. That was what was so hard to explain to [Warriors].
“I did not kill the String-people of Nerrhavia. I tried not to hurt your elephant, Mezha. I do not enjoy killing. Fighting, testing myself, breaking my limits? I enjoy that. But I would not fight the King of Destruction’s armies for so petty a reason.”
Nsiia blinked at Orjin. She looked around Pomle, little more than a watering hole and dust. And she didn’t understand. Even so, she clasped his hands.
“I thank you, then. I might have been hurt or gravely injured despite my protections. And you spared Mezha, for which I am grateful as well.”
“She was not hurt?”
That made Orjin smile slightly. Nsiia nodded.
“She’s merely dizzy. But well enough to walk with a healing potion. I think I shall be going soon.”
“That seems wise.”
Indeed, no one else had deigned to talk with Nsiia after the incident. Her people were indeed packing, and the Garuda warriors were warily circling even now. But one man did step forwards to exchange a few words before the Empress of Beasts left.
Femithain spoke to Nsiia in a little bubble of silence. He’d included Orjin in it for some reason, but the man made no comment. He sat back down and listened as the two spoke quietly.
“Illivere is neutral, Empress. But I think that word means something different to all those present. I would warn you…”
“Not to ally with the King of Destruction? As I said, I am neither his ally nor his enemy for now. You are all intent on being his enemies, Crafter-Magus.”
“He is not a man who inspires peace, Empress Nsiia. But I fear it is too late for talk of alliances and enemies. I would caution you to…to simply be wary. You see, even your form of neutrality is a side. And when all those present skew one way, neutrality of your sort appears to be something else. This meeting was more than to measure the reactions of each ruler to Flos of Reim’s demands.”
Nsiia’s gaze sharpened as she looked at Femithain. The other monarchs were watching him warily as well, but the Crafter-Magus was unreadable.
“I see. Thank you for the warning, Femithain. Perhaps…”
He held up a finger.
“Let us leave it at that.”
“Mm. Then I will take my leave.”
Femithain bowed his head. Nsiia nodded curtly and turned to Orjin a final time.
“Was this an extraordinary day for Pomle, Strongest? Or was that battle one of many?”
Orjin thought about the question and then shook his head.
“Today was another day, Empress of Beasts. Perhaps I will remember it as extraordinary. But I think it meant more to those who came here than to Pomle itself. I thank you for your gift. Should you return, Pomle will be open to you.”
The Empress of Beasts smiled sadly and nodded.
“True words. And true neutrality. Such is Pomle, I see. If we meet again, Strongest of Pomle, I would like to speak longer. You were the most enjoyable person to talk with here, however briefly. But I think I shall be quite busy.”
She turned and raised a hand. Her animals laughed and roared and trumpeted and screamed, and the Empress of Beasts departed. The other monarchs watched her go. They spoke for an hour after she left, in silence. Orjin watched them. Then they too went.
“Salii.”
The [Secretary] was counting the jewels Nsiia had presented them with when Orjin found her. She jumped and guiltily closed the coffer’s lid.
“Er, I was just—what?”
“Are you able to make sense of what passed here?”
Orjin sat with the Drake. She hesitated and bit her lip.
“I do have a letter. A second one, not from the King of Destruction.”
“You didn’t tell me you received one.”
“That’s because Pomle received no such letter. I…copied it. There were several being waved about, and their little magical silencing spells can’t stop a [Secretary]’s Skills. Not one of my level. Would you like to read it?”
“Yes.”
The Drake nervously handed Orjin a letter, an exact replica of the ones he’d seen in the other’s hands. He blinked at it.
“How? We don’t have paper.”
“I can copy any material I want. Once a day. I told you I leveled up fast here. Read it.”
The Drake urged Orjin. Slowly, he opened the letter, noting the seal.
It was a letter from the Emperor of Sands. An envelope that smelled of rich spices, oils, and was written on white paper and gilded with some red metal that shone in the light.
“I see.”
Orjin read for five minutes. He read the letter twice. Then he calmly ripped up the letter, but he didn’t throw it away. It would make good kindling for a fire. Salii winced, but said nothing. It was better that the letter be destroyed anyways, rather than anyone know it had been read. The Strongest of Pomle looked at his [Secretary].
“It explains what’s about to happen. Do you think the Empress of Tiqr knew?”
“I doubt she did. Unless…did Femithain warn her?”
“He did. But perhaps she knew regardless.”
“What does it mean for Pomle?”
Salii was nervous. Orjin stared at the watering hole, now occupied just by Pomle’s people, and at the warriors training as night fell.
“Nothing.”
“But—”
“It changes nothing for Pomle. Why would it?”
Salii didn’t answer. Orjin left her there. He walked away from the watering hole after filling a water skin and returned to his camp. There he practiced hitting a Grand Elephant for six hours, dodging around its huge body, trying to figure out ways of incapacitating it. And then he practiced his Skills. Restlessly, aware of his limitations. The Strongest of Pomle trained until his arms and legs hurt and he was too tired to keep moving.
Orjin of Pomle slept restlessly that night, although he had trained hard and thought even longer. He wasn’t sure exactly why, but he drifted off to sleep dreaming about the people he had seen and the nations they had come from. The rulers, all of whom commanded vast tracts of land that stretched farther than the eye could see and armies beyond counting. Yet up close, they were so small for how much power they commanded. Giants, wearing the skins of small folk. Orjin drifted off, imagining that.
The next day, the Illivere League, Savere, and the Kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fallen along with six other nations to the south of Reim all declared war on Tiqr.
