Raelt waved that aside. There was a limit to how far he could push Dulfe without it being an insult, and the man was wary of directly antagonizing his [King]. Still, he’d pay for that later, Raelt promised in his head. But he had to make this clear to all of his court, so he turned his head and spoke in a carrying, kingly voice. Which really just meant loud.
“Perhaps the rights of my citizens on your lands is a discussion to be put aside until later. However, if it turns out any of the King of Destruction’s citizens were harmed, I will happily direct his queries your way, Warden Dulfe. Or do you plan on refusing to let his subjects go? Anyone present?”
He looked around. And no one, not Dulfe or Emile or Cerani or anyone else could offer up a reply. All Dulfe could come up with in the end was a spluttering complaint, much like a toddler.
“It appears we must accede, however roguish the demand! I will let anyone who claims the King of Destruction’s name go, Your Majesty. But I will consider it an assault on Jecrass!”
Raelt nodded heavily.
“That might be wise on both accounts, Warden Dulfe.”
The man blinked up at him, but Raelt was serious. The [King] pondered for a second, wondering at the implications. But he didn’t share his concerns with his court. There were better people to talk to. So he just decided to twist the knife one last time.
“And while we’re on the subject of it, please send me a proper census of all the citizens who claim the King of Destruction’s protection as you make a proper announcement, Warden Dulfe. That goes for the rest of you as well. I would know who we’re losing to Reim.”
“What? We have to announce it?”
Dulfe spluttered, but Raelt nodded.
“Indeed. And make a firm accounting of all those intending to leave. I require it.”
The other Wardens looked annoyed and irritated by turns. It was a reasonable request, but they’d have to count all their citizens planning on leaving. Dulfe’s face turned a deeper shade of magenta, but it was a royal order and he could only bow his head. He shot one final remark across Raelt’s bow as he turned to go.
“I only hope Your Majesty is as diligent in protecting our borders against Reim’s aggressions. Or else it would appear that we should contribute less of our hard-earned gold to the royal coffers each year. Perhaps a vote? Until then, Your Majesty, I take my leave.”
That was a threat. Raelt bared his teeth at the man’s back as he received a perfunctory bow. He stood up as his court milled about.
“I will take my leave as well. Geril, see to it my guests are properly served, and I’m sure the late peerage will wish to be caught up.”
“Your Majesty won’t stay and deliberate a further course of action?”
Warden Cerani looked dismayed. Raelt turned his head.
“Beyond acquiescing? Not at this moment. I shall let you know if my plans change. Until then, I must confer with my peers. Good day to you.”
He ignored the flurry of curtsies and bows as he stepped down from his throne and walked out a side door of his throne room. Raelt strode down the corridor as he heard the doors open and swift footsteps. Geril was following him, but Raelt wasn’t in a mood to chat with his old servant.
“Dulfe, you pompous frog. A vote to cut your own taxes? I’ll double the levies on your land if you so much as hint towards it!”
The problem was the man might actually force a vote. And threats aside, Dulfe was influential enough to make a bad enemy. But Raelt didn’t intend to let the man get away with insulting him in public—well, in front of the royal court—without some payback. A [King] had ways, so Raelt swiftly turned left at the intersection and then hurried up some stairs while Geril panted to keep up.
Raelt was quick on his feet and very fit and Geril was old, so Raelt hated to make the man move fast, but he had to be in position.
He knew the layout of his palace by heart. And calling it a ‘palace’ was generous because in truth, it was smaller than some castles Raelt had known. But a [King] had to live in a palace, and worse, this one had a name for every corridor and room. Raelt slowed as he came to an open corridor and felt a warm breeze on his face.
“Your Majesty?”
Geril panted as he climbed the stairs. Raelt waved at him, and the [Head Servant] caught his breath. It was a shame he’d never gained [Lesser Endurance] as a Skill; it would have served him well in his old age. Perhaps Geril should have been less active, even semi-retired. But that might have killed the old man outright. Raelt turned to him.
“My apologies, Geril. But I need to speak with Lyfelt in the Warded Chambers to discuss the King of Destruction’s letter. I thought we’d take this route to get there. I could use a breath of fresh air. And a drink to clear the bad taste from my mouth.”
“Ah, the Sunset Retreat corridor, Your Majesty? Excellent choice. Shall I bring you a beverage? Wine, perhaps?”
“It’s barely past breakfast. Make it water. With ice for a treat. And bring me an orange while you’re at it, Geril.”
The old servant hesitated as he beckoned to a young boy ready to run the errand.
“Er, all the ones we have are still from last year, Your Majesty. They’re not quite fully deteriorated, but I fear our preservation runes aren’t able to keep them fully—”
“An orange, Geril. I don’t care how bad it is as long as a bit’s edible.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. At once.”
Geril bowed his head. He didn’t leave Raelt’s side, but the young boy ran off to fetch the [King]’s water. And the orange. Raelt for his part took a slow, almost snail’s pace of a walk forwards and felt the light of the palace change. It had windows of course, but now bright sunlight streamed through a place where the walls of the palace just…stopped.
The Sunset Corridor was one of the unique parts of Jecrass’ palace. It was a lovely, long stretch of walkway with a swooping, modernistic design where the hallway opened up, letting great, sloped balconies give anyone walking along it an unparalleled view of the countryside. It was also the most defensively idiotic choice you could make, but one of Raelt’s predecessors had decided he had to have it in, so Raelt could walk along the Sunset Corridor and survey his kingdom as the morning breeze warmed his skin.
During a sunset, Chandrar was beautiful, and the previous [Kings] of Jecrass had forbidden anyone from establishing buildings on this side of the palace to keep the view unobstructed. There was plenty of space in Jecrass anyways. It was a flat nation with more water than dusty Reim or Germina or Hellios, which allowed it to cultivate vast plains. On those plains, the people of Jecrass raised sheep, cows, goats, and many animals of pasture. But what Jecrass was known for was…
“Horses. I see there’s at least two herds out and about. Are they the royal stock?”
“I believe so, Your Majesty.”
“Hm. Well, good for them.”
Raelt eyed the distant four-legged creatures roaming about and grazing on the grass. He felt they somewhat spoiled his view, but he couldn’t air that comment out loud. Someone might be listening.
King Raelt was a man of likes and dislikes. It had already been noted that he hated his court, but he had more than a few dislikes in his kingdom. Horses, for one. Raelt disliked horses and felt like the feeling was mutual. Which was ironic because the Realm of Jecrass was known for the superior stock of horses it turned out, from warhorses to racers to sturdy plow animals.
But Raelt could never enjoy riding the things or caring for them. Possibly it had to do with one of the times Raelt had broken a tailbone, leg, or arm riding the things. But horses were only one of his dislikes, and as Raelt impatiently waited at a precise spot about three quarters of the way down the Sunset Corridor, the young servant boy raced back with water and an orange fruit.
“Allow me, Your Majesty.”
Geril peeled the orange with careful hands as the servant handed Raelt a glass of cool water. He savored the bits of ice floating in the drink, for all they were almost already melted. Ice, now, ice he liked. It was a luxury in Chandrar, but a [King] must have his indulgences. He drank down the water—it was important to stay hydrated after all—and glumly looked at the orange Geril presented him.
“It is rather…”
“It’s fine, Geril. Hand it to me.”
The half-peeled orange was indeed far past its prime. Still edible, but not the sort of thing you’d give to a [King]. Geril had done his best and found the best part of it to peel and left the mushy bottom unpeeled, but Raelt still regarded the orange glumly. It was a known fact that the King of Jecrass liked oranges, but that was partly a lie.
Raelt bit into the half-rotten orange slice and chewed it. Slimy, mushy—the [King]’s mouth revolted at the sensation. Raelt hated eating oranges. He didn’t hate orange things. Carrots, for instance, were delightful and crunchy. And they grew well in arid climates! But his [Royal Gardener] refused to have such a mundane crop in his tended gardens. Oranges and other rare fruits were all in vogue.
It was another feature of being a [King] where you were at the mercy of your [Gardener]’s whims. Still, his daughter loved the stuff, and Raelt liked oranges for a reason other than for their taste. He chewed the pithy, slimy orange slice slowly, trying not to grimace as Geril waited with him. Raelt had to endure the chewing for a good four minutes—then he heard what he’d been waiting for. The clip-clop of hooves outside the corridor. Instantly, Raelt swallowed and turned to Geril.
“Delightful, Geril. But I fear you were right. The rest of this orange is too rotted for my tastes. We’ll have to check the runes in the storage rooms. A shame we can’t make them perfect. Ah, well.”
He glanced across the balcony as he spoke and with one hand, flicked the orange through the air. It fell from the balcony, coincidentally just as a small group of riders emerged from below. The rider in the middle never saw the orange coming. Raelt heard a small impact, then a shout of pain and then fury. He hurried down the Sunset Corridor, smiling, and Geril followed him. The old [Servant] might have been laughing. Or tutting quietly.
There were three entrances leading out of his palace. Of the three, anyone who wanted to use the stables would have to pass this way, and Raelt knew the voices of his [Hostlers] by heart. He could time the exact moment someone would be passing below the balcony of the Sunset Retreat corridor. The rest was just a matter of aim. And Raelt had splendid accuracy.
“I believe His Majesty might have accidentally struck someone with his orange. A terrible accident, sire. It might even have been one of your Wardens afflicted. Shall I ensure the victim is alright?”
Raelt raised his eyebrows as he turned his head to Geril.
“A [King] shouldn’t be concerned with all the minutiae of his subject’s lives, Geril. That’s a valuable lesson I learned just today. Onwards, I say. No one’s died from being struck by an orange. And if they have? Well, there’s probably worse fates.”
The [Head Servant] sighed, but he made no further comment. Raelt smiled to himself and, in a much better mood, led the old man at a walk towards his actual destination, the Warded Chambers. Servants bowed as Raelt passed by, and he gave them a proper kingly nod and a few words to the people he remembered. The young ones came and went, but there were a number of old folk like Geril that had tended to Raelt since he was an infant. Raelt was nearly at his destination when he heard a slight ding, a jingle of sound. He turned and didn’t quite sigh as he saw the young woman striding towards him.
“Father! Is it true that the King of Destruction sent a letter? May I see it?”
The young woman walking towards Raelt was dressed in riding leathers, and beneath them, she wore leggings and a tunic meant for the sparring courts or for travel. She was the exact opposite of most [Princesses] with her long-legged stride—something she shared with her father—and the fencing sword strapped to her belt. She walked with a cat’s grace, and her presence was heralded by the chiming of a small, silver bell tied to the sword at her waist.
Princess Jecaina of Jecrass stopped in front of her father. She was just into her twenties, young, brash and confident, and beautiful, although Raelt was biased in everything when it came to his daughter. He smiled as he greeted his daughter, although his eyes flicked to the sword at Jecaina’s waist.
She owned a beautiful sword, slim and agile, a [Fencer]’s blade which suited her because she had that class. The silver bell was another thing she never went without, which irked Raelt for all of his fatherly love. He hated bells. He had a sword, but he refused to let bells near it.
“Yes, Jecaina. The letter arrived during breakfast. It quite ruined it, actually. You would have been able to read it. If you’d been there.”
It was a mild rebuke, and it bounced off Jecaina as she tossed her head, letting her hazel-green hair fly for a second. It was a peculiarity of some of Jecrass’ bloodlines that their hair could actually turn green. Raelt’s hair was simply a light brown, but his daughter had inherited the rare color from her mother.
“I was riding with Liass and Mellia. Besides, the letter hasn’t gone anywhere. May I see it?”
“Later. I need to speak to Minister Lyfelt about it. Don’t bother Geril for it, Jecaina. I’m sure you know what it says.”
Her eyes sparkled.
“The King of Destruction’s peace! And he’s calling for his subjects or anyone who claims loyalty to him! Isn’t it splendid?”
“I don’t believe I used that word, did I, Geril?”
“No, Your Majesty. I believe that word is not suitable for Her Highness’ ears.”
Jecaina laughed.
“You swore, Father? But it’s not a threat! We can give the King of Destruction what he wants. And isn’t it a wonderful chance? I could ride to Hellios, or maybe even Reim, and see him now that he’s sworn to peace!”
“Absolutely not, young lady. You’re not to go riding anywhere near the border, much less on another week-long jaunt.”
Raelt had a miniature heart attack at the thought. Jecaina scowled at him. They were nearly of a height, both tall, inheriting the royal family genes.
“Father! I can handle myself. And surely the King of Destruction wouldn’t stoop to kidnapping.”
“He might not, but someone else might. You are Jecrass’ heir and next ruler by right.”
She tossed her head again challengingly. Much like her favorite horse, actually.
“I only have half the claim. If you had a child, you could nominate them. And I could go adventuring!”
“Spare me.”
