“You rely on your Mage’s Guild, Raelt. Whereas I have a [Court Mage] and King Perric of Medain knows that. The Claiven have also reached out to me, and you by proxy. They are concerned, but no one’s suggested refusing.”
“I don’t know how that would be a good idea. That would give him cause to go to war. Unless every nation did that, and the ones that didn’t would be safe.”
The minister was nodding impatiently.
“A trap in the words, obviously. Far easier to give him what he wants. What’s a few thousand citizens, or even ten thousand?”
“You’re not concerned by that?”
Raelt was surprised, but Lyfelt scoffed.
“Anyone who would follow the King of Destruction wouldn’t vote for my party or for me, would they? And I’ve already had to deal with a few incidents involving his supporters in some of my cities. Unpleasantness. I’ll be glad to wash my hands of them.”
Unpleasantness? Raelt shifted uncomfortably. It sounded a bit like what Warden Dulfe had described.
“Treat them with care, Lyfelt. The King of Destruction cares for his subjects.”
The bust rolled his eyes.
“I won’t be hanging them, Raelt. I’ll just turn them out and let them go on their way. It will free up housing, solve the issue of those damned fights over the King of Destruction—”
“So you’re going to do it.”
“Of course, of course. But I won’t make that decision until parliament’s fought it over for at least a day or two. And I’d encourage you to do the same. I’ll send over a few [Messages] when I’ve pinned down some of the other nations on a joint agreement. Feel free to correspond with the others, but be coy, Raelt. Let them think we’re hesitating to condemn Flos because we’re too close. As if we think he might renege on his word.”
“He won’t. Flos was never one to break his oaths lightly.”
“Obviously, or I wouldn’t count on him. But if we can make the other countries incentivize ours…what’s the tariff on Jecrass’ horse stock? I might be able to get Medain to lower the taxes they charge on [Merchant] caravans coming through their borders.”
“Always looking for a better deal, aren’t you?”
“One of us has to. How’s your daughter taking this by the way?”
“Terribly. In that she was excited by the news. She thinks he’s some kind of hero, and I have no idea where she got that from. Some of her young noble friends, no doubt. I haven’t said a word to her—”
“See, that’s where you’re wrong. My little boy’s just as excited, but when I can tear myself away, I’m going to sit him down and talk to him about the King of Destruction. Temper his views with mine. You should do the same.”
“Jecaina won’t want to listen.”
“Well, what if you phrased it like this? Have her come over to, ah, suggest who might visit Hellios, perhaps as a diplomatic party. Yes, one of your River Wardens and their offspring of course. Purely as emissaries, not as a friendly overture—we can even coordinate this with the negations with Medain. But you can call Jecaina over to ask her who’s the most level-headed, and when she demands to go, you can say—”
Raelt listened, blinking, as Lyfelt conjured a scenario out of thin air and laid it in his lap. He frowned, nodded, and left the Warded Chambers feeling a lot better. The man was truly quick with ideas and ways of pulling other people’s strings. King Raelt felt better for having spoken to another ruler, even if the conversation had only confirmed his course of action.
“Your Majesty?”
Geril was waiting for him, standing rather than sitting. Raelt wished the old man would just take a seat. He had been sitting and talking for a good forty minutes! He let Geril hobble after him until the man’s feet weren’t so stiff.
“I spoke to Lyfelt. Summon a [Mage]—I’ll need to send a good deal of [Messages] throughout the day. And I need to return to my court. More politics.”
“I see. And what will the realm’s response be?”
Geril’s voice was slightly anxious. Raelt smiled at him.
“We will give him no reason to find issue with Jecrass. That goes for anyone passing through our borders. I have no doubt there will be at least a few groups travelling south from Medain. We will treat them as his subjects and let anyone who wishes to leave go unmolested.”
“Will we dissuade them in any way, sire?”
“Not with violence. With words? Perhaps. I will be touring different estates later. Warden Dulfe’s especially, to see if I can persuade his folk to move elsewhere in Jecrass, not out of it. Even those who claim to follow the King of Destruction might be persuaded. They are citizens of Jecrass, even if their loyalties lie elsewhere. Let’s hope some change their minds.”
“I see, I see. And is that Belchan’s response as well?”
“It will be, eventually. We may make a statement with the other nations, but I have no desire to give Flos an excuse.”
“But Your Majesty—if his proclamations pass purely unchecked, is this not a victory for Reim?”
Raelt had been thinking the same thing as he spoke to Lyfelt. But now he shook his head.
“Minster Lyfelt assures me that this won’t be the case. He told me Reim’s worries don’t lie north, but rather in the south. There is a…gathering taking place of the rulers there.”
Geril’s brows creased. The elderly man frowned for a second.
“The south. Pomle?”
It was a good guess. Raelt nodded.
“The very same. They’re moving fast. Lyfelt is content to let them do…whatever it is he thinks they’re doing. I think we’ll find out in the next few days what is going to occur. But it won’t involve Jecrass at the moment.”
He turned and rested a hand on Geril’s shoulder. Raelt smiled down at his old retainer, and the [Head Servant] nodded. He smiled up at his [King], much as he had for over four decades of being at Raelt’s side, from boy to man.
“His Majesty does his best. I will gather the remaining court and find a [Mage]. But you have a bit of time, if you don’t mind me saying so, my liege. Why not rest an hour.”
“I may do that. Thank you, Geril.”
The [King] looked out the windows at the bright morning. He felt tired, but the weight was off his shoulders, mostly. He’d done what he could. Let the other nations make plots and schemes. Raelt was going to nip down to the stables and see if he could steal some carrots from the horses and eat them in his quarters. And he was going to savor the moment. Because he had a feeling those days would be in short supply in the future.
So went the [King] of Jecrass. In Pomle, another sort of ruler was having an equally eventful day.
 
——
 
It was past midmorning and into early evening when Orjin of Pomle was interrupted. He was in training, balancing on a pile of rocks with one foot. The stack was about six feet high, made up of a large rock with a relatively flat top, followed by ever-smaller rocks that threatened to shift and fall down with every move Orjin made with his one foot balanced on top of them.
But he didn’t fall. And despite Orjin being tall and heavy, from muscle, not fat, and despite the sweat beading his dark skin, he kept balancing on the rocks. That in itself was mildly impressive; Orjin had to constantly shift to keep the unstable tower of rocks from collapsing. But you wouldn’t know the complexity of the task unless you’d tried it once.
What was really impressive no matter how you looked at it was that every few seconds, Orjin would hop in the air and his feet would change from right foot to left. And the tower would tremble, but never collapse.
It was training, albeit of an unusual kind. The theory was that if you could keep your balance on a shifting pile of rocks, you could run up a collapsing hillside or fight on a rocking boat. There were Skills that would give you perfect footing no matter where you went of course, but Orjin wasn’t the sort to rely on gaining a Skill when he could simply learn what was needed.
However, the figure who strode up to him had no time for rocks, balancing, or sweating in the sun. She cleared her throat as Orjin shifted from left foot to right, lightning fast, and he looked down at her.
“Salii. Is there something you need of me?”
“Yes, Orjin. You’re needed by the water grounds in a few minutes. Do you have anything to wear?”
He gestured at his bare chest, and the loose pants he wore. They were worn, and Salii eyed them with clear dismay.
“Something more formal if you have it.”
“Why?”
Orjin sighed. He looked down at Salii and saw some of the sun’s light shining off her dusty, brown scales. She was a Drake, a rarity in Chandrar. She was also a [Secretary], or some class similar to that. If she was asking, it meant something was happening that required Orjin’s presence.
“There is a gathering, Orjin. At least eight nations are converging on Pomle. The first of them will be here within the hour, if not sooner.”
“Not for war.”
Orjin said that as a certainty. If that had been the case, Salii would have told him already. She shook her head, looking peeved as she saw him flip. One hand was suddenly supporting him as he held perfectly still, balancing upright. It was an impressive physical feat, but even Orjin couldn’t maintain it for more than a second. Then he lost his balance, and the tower of rocks came falling down. So did he, but he turned and landed neatly on the ground. Salii stepped back as the rocks fell around her. She swished her tail.
“Orjin—”
“I know. Tell me now.”
The man sat on the ground, sighing. Salii sat with him, and he looked at her, attentive, if not quite happy. He was no [King] or ruler in the sense of having a class. Perhaps he should have one, but Orjin of Pomle had no desire to be a leader. The fact that he was one was purely coincidental and had no bearing on how he lived his life. Most of the time, that was.
“Where should I begin? Last night—no, I suppose yesterday, the King of Destruction sent out a bunch of letters via Courier and Runner. [Messages] too, so some of the nations received word before the others. The upshot of it is that they all received the contents of his message, and they’re gathering here to discuss what the King of Destruction said.”
“Ah. He sent a letter?”
“Yes. To Pomle as well. I read it. Do you want to…?”
She offered an opened envelope to Orjin. He waved it away.
“Just tell me.”
“Well, essentially what he said was…”
Salii repeated the bare bones of Flos’ declaration to Orjin. When she had finished, he shook his head.
“Peace. And he wants his subjects to return to him? This doesn’t concern Pomle. We had no quarrel with the King of Destruction, and if anyone wished to go to him, they are already gone.”
“I know. But it matters to other nations. And because the rulers want to talk in person, they sent word. They’re coming.”
“Eight nations? Which ones?”
“All of our neighbors. And a delegation from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They’re all moving fast, especially Nerrhavia, to get here.”
“Fine. Why does this concern me?”
The [Martial Artist], the warrior, folded his arms. Salii looked exasperated.
“Because you’re the Strongest of Pomle! The ruler!”
“So? Let them talk here.”
“It might not just be talk. Your presence is needed to guarantee the peace. And to make sure none of the other rulers take offense by your absence.”
Orjin sighed louder. Of course, he’d suspected that would be the case. He thought about refusing or walking off. Salii couldn’t stop him if he did, but…she was Salii.
Pomle was a small nation. If you looked at it on the map, it would be almost a complete circle, a little dot sandwiched between other nations, right at an intersection between four, in fact. It was a tiny nation, smaller even than Reim had been. But it was important, for Pomle was known far and wide as neutral territory.
It had no government, no rulers, and those who came to Pomle were free to do as they pleased. Most who lived in the country trained for combat, [Martial Artists], hermits practicing some style of weaponry—more than one famous warrior had trained in Pomle’s single oasis or on the plateaus of its grounds. But other sorts came to Pomle too. Outcasts. Refugees. Criminals.
No one regulated them. Or at least, no one actively made the people pay taxes or follow any rules. Troublemakers were dealt with. Murder and crime were also not tolerated; Pomle’s warriors would take matters into their own hands. Only two things held any sway over Pomle. Those were the tradition of the Strongest and Salii.
Orjin was the Strongest of Pomle. It was a simple title, and there was an even simpler way of choosing the Strongest. Whoever beat the current leader of Pomle took his or her place. Orjin had won this position eight years ago, and those who had challenged his position had all been defeated. There hadn’t been many challengers, actually; few people wanted the position. Most just wanted to live peacefully, and the Strongest had obligations.
One of those obligations was listening to Salii. No one could quite remember when she’d appeared. It had to be five years ago? At least. But one day, she’d shown up and started ordering people about. And they had listened mostly, because she had good ideas. Like how to settle quarrels over bathing. Organizing a place for children to play where adults wouldn’t accidentally intrude. Even convincing a [Mage] to draw some runes of preservation so food could be stored.
Things like that. Orjin hadn’t questioned Salii at first, and she’d gotten him to do any number of tasks he wouldn’t normally, from sorting out troublemakers to quelling monsters. He didn’t mind that; monster fighting was good practice. But sometimes she had requests like this.
“Why must I be there? For the status of the other rulers? If that is simply it, I will refuse.”
“Not just that, Orjin. All the monarchs are bringing escorts. And if they fight each other, it might be war. And that war could involve Pomle. If you’re there, you can make sure no blood is spilt—er, less blood is spilt.”
That made sense. Orjin tilted his head towards the sun, sighed, and then nodded.
“I have some more colorful clothing with my things. Let me dress.”
He stood up. Salii watched him leap over the collapsed pile of rocks and run towards a tall plateau of orange-red rock that defined Pomle’s geography. Orjin wasn’t long; he moved fast, and before more than two minutes had passed, he was running past with a more formal skirt made of bright, colored cotton, and a loose cape of some kind of animal or monster hide. He still had no clothing on his upper body, though.
“Where’d you get that?”
“A [Merchant] gave it to me once for saving his life on the road. Will it do?”
“It’s…fitting. Okay, come on. Let’s walk to the watering grounds.”
