“I see. I suppose he would be more effective than the enchanted training golems in the Azarinth temples,” Verillion said as he joined in beside Lilith.

“Vastly. I remember fighting my first Centurion like it was yesterday, let alone what the Executioners can do. Still strange to think they’re on our side now,” Lilith said.

“What you did with Aki was a stroke of genius, though knowing you, I would assume it was just dumb luck,” the vampire said.

“Decades of planning coming to fruition,” Lilith said and laughed.

Verillion sighed.

“Are you okay? Why are you crying?” Paige said, having stepped close to Gweneth.

“I’m not crying. It’s just dust and sand,” Gweneth said, rubbing her eyes.

“You’re crying,” Ryan stated.

She glared at him but the boy smiled and touched her shoulder.

“I’m proud of you,” he said.

Gweneth closed her eyes and groaned. Everything was confusing. “Why would you be proud of me?” she asked but instead turned and pointed to the two high level monsters. “They said they were going to the headquarters. Let’s follow them!”

“Yes, we have to find out more about their magic,” Paige said, her notebook in hand now. She scribbled things down as they walked.

Gwen felt like a huntress as they followed the two people along. They waited at a distance whenever Lilith bought something from one stall or another. It looked like she was constantly eating. When they finally reached the headquarters, other Sentinels and some random people and adventurers were walking with them too, some at a distance, others openly approaching the two, both of them taking some time to greet and talk to the people. Even the vampire seemed nice by now, though he had seemed scary from up close.

They entered the headquarters and Gweneth saw a lot of Sentinels she hadn’t ever met before. They looked impressive, had high levels she couldn’t identify, wore armor made of ash, some a silvery metal and bone. The stonehammer armor, she thought. Someone had told her a rumor that the bone was from Lilith herself, ripped out of her body with her own hands and given to those who became Medic Sentinels.

She couldn’t imagine ripping out her own bones, it sounded so cool.

“They’re going to have a bout,” one of the nearby Sentinels said, a man with blonde hair and armor made of ash.

The girl next to him grinned. She had chains wrapped around her arms. “She’s been out there all this time. How many do you think she killed?”

The man puffed air out of his nose. “You’re not trying to compete, are you?”

“I’ll never stop,” the girl said and glanced at Gweneth. “Seeing something interesting? You’re new, aren’t you? One of the arcane ones.”

“Is that a problem?” Gwen asked, more bite in her voice than she intended. She was excited. And she knew the girl was trouble, she would get hit again.

Instead, the other Sentinel grinned. “Look at this one, talking back to me like she’s some three mark brawler. I like that.”

“Don’t get too close to her, little one,” the man said, looking at Gweneth. “She will die soon.”

Me or her? Gweneth gulped.

“What the fuck is that supposed to mean, Nathan,” the girl with the chains said and spread her arms wide as he smirked. “I won’t challenge her to a bout this time.”

“Sure,” the man said and followed the other Sentinels down the stairs.

The girl sighed. “He always tells me I’m too reckless,” she glanced at Gweneth and her group. “I’m Celeste, good to meet you. Hard to get around to seeing the newbies these days, so many void creatures to hunt and kill. I hope you’re not softening up.”

“Aki doesn’t let us,” Ryan said.

Celeste grinned. A dark expression. “Yeah. I almost forgot.” She paused and then pointed to the stairs. “Come now, they said they would have a quick bout. You’ll see something crazy, though I doubt they’ll go all out or we’d all be literal red mist clinging to the walls.”

“They’re that powerful?” Paige asked.

Celeste glanced back, her expression unreadable. She only said one word. “Yeah.”

They went down and soon reached the deepest training hall, the one for the higher leveled Sentinels training with Executioners and Hunter Praetorians. It had the most enchantments out of all the training areas.

She joined the others, excited murmurs shared by the Sentinels.

Gweneth watched Lilith and Verillion standing at the center and then she saw how Lilith raised her boot and slammed it down into the ground. Gweneth had to raise her arms to protect herself against the wave of air. A ringing sound came to her ears and she heard a thrumming set of cracks run through the entire hall. Touching her nose, her hand came back with blood as she healed herself.

Her hearing returned but her eyes were a little blurry still. She saw lines of blue running through the ground and walls. She cracked the enchantments. With just her boot.

She gulped.

“… yeah, I’ll ask him,” Lilith said.

A moment later, a man in wide robes stepped out of nowhere. He looked old but nice, like the baker at the Heavenly Sweets in Arkamp who sometimes gave them leftover bread and that one time even sweets.

“I don’t think this is safe at all,” the man said after a moment.

“We won’t go all out,” Lilith said.

“You better don’t, I don’t think I could stop you,” the man said as he stepped aside, his form glowing once with arcane power before he flared up into blue light.

Gweneth once again covered her face before she saw a shimmering barrier appear before her. A dome that closed around Lilith and Verillion.

“No ash or heat, just fists and claws,” Lilith said, her voice perfectly clear despite the barrier.

“No fire either,” Verillion said.

“Sure,” Lilith answered.

Gweneth saw sets of turquoise runes flare to life above Lilith’s armor, the runes slightly hazy, an afterimage following them as Lilith changed into a battle stance. A very similar stance to the one she had learned to use. She gulped, feeling the thrumming magic of the barrier and the warriors within. She saw blood red claws form in front of Verillion’s fingers and a moment later both of them vanished, a thundering wave of force slamming against the arcane barrier. She heard impacts but couldn’t follow anything. Streaks of red splattered against the barrier. She raised her brows, realizing it was blood.

“Incredible.” Gweneth heard Celeste murmur.

They’re not human at all, Gweneth thought when the two fighters stood still again, their armor damaged, wounds healing in the blink of an eye. The vampire was losing.

How can someone be that powerful? Could I get to that point too? She didn’t think it possible. Looking around at the Sentinels, she could see admiration, joy, and excitement in their faces.

The barrier came down and she could hear Verillion’s strained breaths. He straightened up and brushed away blood from his damaged armor.

Lilith looked at the gathered group and grinned. “Who’s next?”
