The man kneeling in front of me had shiny, golden-blond hair. Slightly messy but, admittedly, perfectly messy. His eyes were bright blue, and his face was clean, fully shaven, with a sharp jawline. He kept his head low.

His polished armor somehow had no scratches—as if he had never been in battle before—and the sunlight reflecting off of it scorched my eyes.

“My lady…” he said. His voice sounded exactly like what you’d expect. Young. Smooth. All that good stuff.

I didn’t want to admit it at first, but he was glowing. Like literally glowing. Was it the armor? The knightly aura?

“You…” I began. “I…”

I was at a loss for words, not because of him, but because of how stupid this whole interaction was.

Reina and I stepped aside, continuing our way to the Adventurer’s Guild. But the man was relentless. I blinked, and he appeared in front of me again—that same kneeling position, one hand over his chest, a flower in the other, shoved into my face.

“My lady…” he said again.

Okay. What the hell was going on?

“Could you at least make the effort to say something different?” I asked.

He briefly glanced at me before bowing down again.

“My beautiful lady…” he muttered, less confident than the last attempts.

Reina stepped in. “Sorry, but we’re in a hurry. We’re just trying to get to the Adventurer’s Guild.”

Why do things keep getting in my way? The Tree Sentinel, the demonic sapling, the guards… and now this guy?

He turned to Reina, offering her the same gesture and flower.

“My… slightly less beautiful lady…”

Her smile twitched. She took my hand and forced us away.

The man stood, scratched his head, and the flower fell to his side. He walked directly beside us as if it was supposed to be normal.

“Hm…” he muttered.

I shot him a look. “Could you get away from us?”

He shook his head. “No, because now you’ve got me curious. Usually, the ladies just slap me across the face, but you…? You’re different.”

[TROPE COMPLETED: YOU’RE NOT LIKE THE OTHER GIRLS]

[REWARD: Pending…]

I raised my brows. A pending reward again? This was probably a part of a chain quest then.

[TROPE IN PROGRESS: LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT]

Description: A commonly misinterpreted trope. True love doesn’t occur at first sight. What’s usually meant is strong initial interest, not love.

Completion criteria: Receive a confession within ten minutes. Authenticity affects rewards.

Status: Target is interested, but not yet in love.

So right now he’s only interested in me, huh? That’s expected. Although I’m pretty curious what the rewards are—

I stopped myself. What am I thinking? Have I already gotten used to being bombarded with tropes?

I looked at the man.

“So I’m different because I haven’t slapped you yet? I could change that if you’d like.”

He took a slight step away. “My lady, please don’t force yourself to act like the others. I’m in love with you because you’re different from them!”

“You’re not in love with me.”

“But I am, I swear!”

I looked at the System message again.

Status: Target is interested, but not yet in love.

“...Right,” I said. “Then tell me—what do you like so much about me?”

I noticed him slowing down a bit as the three of us continued walking, almost like he was deep in thought. Reina glared at him.

“I uh… your hair,” he began.

“My hair?”

“It’s a gorgeous white… like one of those thousand-year-old elf archmages.”

“...who?”

“And your golden eyes. They’re as gorgeous as the sun itself.”

“I see…”

“I love how short and cute you are, and… I don’t even know why. I just do. When I saw you, something just felt right.”

“Okay, that’s enough,” I cut in. “So, pretty much you just like my appearance. I think love is a bit deeper than that.”

He blinked. “It is?”

I gave him a strange look. “...Yes? What kind of question is that? Have you never been in love before?”

He scratched the bottom of his chin.

“So anyways, my name’s Leon—”

“Don’t just change the topic!” I yelled, running out of patience.

I looked over at Reina with desperate eyes. “Please help me,” I whispered.

Before she could even say anything, Leon suddenly burst out,

“I’ll prove it to you! I love you! Please go out with me!”

…

[TROPE COMPLETED: LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT]

[REWARD: Processing…]

[NOTICE: CHAIN TROPES DETECTED]

- LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT (COMPLETED)

- YOU’RE NOT LIKE THE OTHER GIRLS (COMPLETED)

[CONSOLIDATING REWARDS…]

Note: Due to heavy sincerity, the rewards are greatly multiplied.

What? Heavy sincerity?

He actually meant it?

[ITEM ACQUIRED: EXTREME LOVE POTION]

Effects:

- Induces overwhelming romantic feelings toward the user

- Effectiveness scales with dosage and target body mass

- No exceptions

- Lasts for an eternity

This item will now appear in your [INVENTORY]

Note: Do not drink this yourself. Seriously.

I looked at Leon, more dumbfounded than anything. Was he so inexperienced with love that he really thinks he’s in love with me?

“You’ve got to be kidding me,” I muttered.

Reina grabbed my arm. Hard.

“We’re leaving,” she said through clenched teeth, as if the confession was the thing that really tipped her off.

“Wait, my lady—!” he called after us.

“Run,” Reina said.

We ran as fast as we could.

I had a strange feeling he’d come back again pretty soon. He was too much of a trope not to.

***

There was a giant knight in the corner, an elf mage in another, a gnome playing a flute like his life depended on it, and everything else you’d imagine in a guild. And to top it all off, a mug flew past my head the moment we walked in.

Yup. This was definitely the Adventurer’s Guild.

As Reina and I walked in, my System flickered.

[TROPE INITIATED: EVERYONE STARES]

Completion criteria: Have all the guild members stare at you as you walk by.

I gulped as we walked to the front desk.

…

Nothing.

Not a single reaction to our entrance.

[TROPE FAILED: EVERYONE STARES]

Reason: Nobody stared at you. Not even one.

Punishment: You realize nobody cares about you.

Behind the counter stood a catgirl—or, I’m sorry, a beastfolk, as this world calls them. Her ears flicked as she flipped through a stack of papers, and her tail was completely still. The other workers were all sorts of races, though mainly humans, elves, and other beastfolk.

She didn’t look up as we approached.

“Hi!” Reina said enthusiastically. “We’d like to register for this guild.”

She sighed and gently set aside the papers, pulling another slip of paper from behind the counter.

“Name, race, role, origin, experience level,” she said, completely uninterested. “Each of you has thirty seconds to fill this out before I let the folks behind you in. Time starts now.”

We looked at her.

“Uh…” Reina said. “We need something to write with.”

“Ah.” She reached to her left and handed over a quill and ink.

And so we filled it out. Reina’s profile was just as expected: human, knight, came from a village, beginner. As for me…Well, I just copied pretty much everything she put—except I listed myself as a mage rather than a knight.

She didn’t even bother reading what we wrote. She reached under the counter again, pulling out some kind of crystal ball with a stand.

[TROPE INITIATED: APPRAISAL CRYSTAL TEST]

Completion criteria: Gauge your rank with the crystal. Your appraised starting rank affects rewards.

Reina was the first one to go. She began to take a deep breath—though it was cut short as the receptionist eyed her for taking too long. She put her hand on the crystal, and it shimmered faintly.

“D,” the receptionist said right away.

I wasn’t sure whether to be impressed by how quickly she judged Reina’s rank or feel bad that she was a D-ranked adventurer.

Reina’s eyes lit up. “Yes!”

“Is that good?” I asked.

She nodded. “F means useless, E means very weak, so D must be… well, I don’t know, but it’s better than the other two!”

I looked at the receptionist.

“Is that true?”

She nodded once. “Somewhat.”

I was up next. Honestly, with all the tropes I’ve experienced so far, I had no idea what to expect. I could end up F-rank. Maybe even S. Maybe the crystal would shatter. Who knows.

I mean, I was an overpowered protagonist, wasn’t I?

I just had a very strange feeling that I wouldn’t get an S.

I hovered my hand over the crystal ball. Normally, this is where I’d start talking about having sweaty palms, a racing heart, dramatic buildup, blah blah blah, but that’s boring.

And I didn’t want the receptionist giving me the same look she gave Reina.

So I just went for it.

The crystal lit up with my touch. It was the same as Reina’s at first, but this time, something was different. Even the receptionist noticed it.

“Hold it steady,” she said.

The light flickered. Then it flickered again. The glow changed into all sorts of colors, and the pulse became uneven. It dimmed, brightened, then dimmed again.

The receptionist frowned. “That’s strange…”

The ball continued to do all sorts of weird stuff until it eventually settled down. I heard whispers from the people waiting in line behind me, but that was about the extent of it—the others all around the guild didn’t seem to care.

“C,” the receptionist concluded. “Possibly high C.”

I blinked. That was it? Not high, not low, but… C? Average?

I checked my stats, remembering I had sixty unallocated stat points. Honestly, that was kind of my fault.

[TROPE COMPLETED: APPRAISAL CRYSTAL TEST]

[REWARD: 12 silver]

Silver

[0 → 12]

The silver will now appear in your [INVENTORY]

Note: Average results yield average rewards. Congratulations. You’re normal.

“That was underwhelming,” I muttered.

The receptionist heard me.

“Not really,” she said, her tail wagging once. “Actually, a beginner starting at C rank is fairly rare. You should be proud of yourself.”

A compliment coming from somebody as deadpan as her actually felt pretty good.

“Thanks,” I said. But I knew she was just trying to comfort me.

Well, it is what it is. Looks like I’m just average after all. So much for the overpowered protagonist trope.

Just as I was about to walk away, Reina placed something on the counter.

My eyes widened.

The demonic sapling. She had pulled it out of her bag.

It brushed against the crystal ball, and…

The ball exploded. The sound was so loud that everybody in the guild turned toward it.

I facepalmed.

[TROPE REDEEMED: EVERYONE STARES]

[REWARD: Pending…]

[TROPE INITIATED: HANDING OVER A SUPER RARE ITEM TO THE GUILD]

Completion criteria: Turn in the item without causing a scene, losing it, or getting arrested.
