“I am Fetohep, child. One of Khelt’s eternal rulers. Tell me, did the King of Destruction tell you of my nature before you arrived? I see he did not. Do you fear me? I am one of the undead. And I am also [King]. Does my appearance frighten you?”
The Quarass tensed. She saw Trey look at her, which was bad. But when he turned to meet Fetohep’s gaze, he only bowed slightly, in the way she’d taught him.
“I—do a little bit, your Eternal Majesty. But your lands are very beautiful. And I—I think you’re quite regal!”
He burst out with that. The Quarass blinked. Fetohep’s burning gaze went out for a moment. Both rulers stared at Trey. After a second, Fetohep spoke.
“Interesting. I have rarely heard those words uttered in truth. Tell me, Trey Atwood. From whence do you hail? You look of Terandria, or perhaps Izril. And yet, you are no [Slave]. [Slaves] know etiquette. How camest you to Reim?”
“Well, Your Majesty—”
Another look. This time Fetohep glanced at the Quarass and she spoke.
“Surely that is yet another matter for more formal discussion, Fetohep? It touches upon the King of Destruction’s return and thus, Reim’s relationship with Khelt.”
“Really?”
Fetohep’s gaze sharpened on Trey. He nodded abruptly and turned, gesturing towards his palace.
“Very well. We shall discuss the matter tonight, as we dine. Come, my palace lies open to you both.”
He gestured and began to walk slowly into the palace of Khelt. One of the wonders of the world. Maybe not on the top seven list, but certainly on the Quarass’ private list of top thirty sites. Maybe even top twenty.
The doors were thrown open and the Quarass could see black stone and a long rug, seemingly without end inviting them in. She regarded the rug. That was new. It looked like a genuine masterpiece too; at least done by a Level 40 [Weaver]. She wondered how long it was. If it was over forty feet, she’d be impressed.
Trey stared at the grand palace, his eyes going to the ornamentation on the tiles, the glowing alcoves spilling magical light out around colored glass, the sweeping scale of the hallway, and all the other things that held visitors spellbound the first hundred times they saw it. The Quarass, who’d walked these halls far more times, followed Fetohep. He was going to show off his kingdom of course.
The palace of Khelt’s capital, Koirezune, had not been worked upon by the masters of each generation, concurrently built up by the feats of genius of mortal hands. No, it was so fantastically made that it skipped most geniuses and only took from the best masters that stood out in the annals of architectural history. The fact that Drevish had been the last to work on Koirezune’s palace spoke to his skills.
The Quarass admired Drevish’s work; he’d expanded the palace, doing away with that terrible, kitschy ‘woven gold’ design and expanded the exterior of Koirezune’s place with flowing walkways, much in the same style of Wistram and Lizardfolk cities. She regretted his death; the man had been an irascible master. Trey, meanwhile, was following Fetohep as the [King] of Khelt did what he so loved to new visitors who weren’t the Quarass: show off.
 
——
 
“Look upon my kingdom, Trey Atwood. Tell me what you see.”
“It’s…beautiful.”
Trey’s eyes widened as he stood on the balcony of the palace. It was exposed to the open air, and unlike Reim’s palace, all of this palace’s ornamentation was just that. There was not even the hint of the functional but unaesthetic murder holes, arrow slits, or any other fortifications on Koirezune’s palace. Nor, looking out across Khelt, did Trey see any in the city.
It was simply beautiful. Like a modern city of Earth, only, as Trey had noted, largely built of stone. But there was glass on some windows! And more color than any modern city; like Ger, the capital of Germina, the people of Khelt worked murals into some of their buildings. Yet while Ger did wonders with colors, Khelt had taken it to the next level.
Here was an example: someone had, over time and effort and using the very rooftops of houses in one district of Khelt’s city, created the image of a leaping whale thing—it had four sets of flippers—breaking out of the water by coloring each rooftop. It was the kind of beautiful image that tourists would flock to, in order to marvel at the scope and effort of the work and take pictures of. And that was one work amid thousands Trey could see.
A bell tower whose bell looked as though it was made purely of glass, but for the knocker. A street that told some kind of tale in miniature—Trey saw a rearing Dragon, fleeing from—
Houses clearly made to be experimental, one circular rather than conventionally rectangular, another which was made entirely of wood—living wood! A flowering tree! Trey’s mind hurt trying to take it all in. He looked at Fetohep. The [King] was pleased.
“Yes. It is. Have you ever seen its like, child?”
“No.”
Trey had seen wonderful things, but not all in one place. Fetohep nodded. He cast a hand out over his city; by his side, the Quarass blinked, not impressed by the sight. She scanned the city, looking bored, and then focused on the circular house. Oh. That was new.
Fetohep was speaking to Trey. By now, Trey was almost used to staring into the dead face. Almost. He kept having to remind himself that Fetohep wasn’t a mummy, but that was all. Honestly, it wasn’t bad; Fetohep almost looked like someone wearing a really good costume. Gazi was scarier because she was clearly non-Human in a way only CGI could even try and fail to imitate.
“Of all the nations of Chandrar, nay, the world, Khelt stands among them as a rare paradise. My people are untroubled by war, famine, or other threats. Undead till the fields, and provide menial labor. They hold Khelt’s borders, ensuring peace from all but the gravest threats. Few nations can boast of such glories for all its folk; in almost every other nation, there are those who starve. Never so in Khelt.”
“I—we saw that coming into Khelt, Your Majesty. But how come no one else has tried it?”
Fetohep shook his head slightly.
“Few can command the undead as I do. Fewer still trust them, with reason. Other nations do make use of labor as Khelt does, but less efficiently. Illivere’s Golems are costly, and few. But Khelt’s people serve their kingdom eternally in death. As does its [King]. I know you wonder as to my nature.”
“Oh, no—”
Trey hesitated. Fetohep was staring at him.
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep nodded. The [King] touched his chest with one hand and Trey saw how his hand moved. There was still skin and muscle and tendon underneath the withered hand, but emaciated. And—in places—decaying. But slowly; Trey remembered reading somewhere that in case of zombie apocalypse, it was probably a bad idea to go into freezing or arid climates; corpses would decay much slower.
Fetohep was also probably protected by magic; Trey had learned to see it under Gazi’s tutelage and Fetohep was practically blinding.
“I am a Revenant. One of the few undead possessed of the will I kept in life. I do not level. But all my Skills of old are given to me. However, I am not like base undead. Even Revenants are consumed by their grudges, their hatred of the living. I am not. In life, I swore to protect Khelt, and so I was given a second chance in death. I am Fetohep, Eternal King of Khelt. And I hold your sovereign, Flos of Reim, in contempt.”
He seemed to say that like a challenge. Trey hesitated.
“I—I understand that’s so, Your Majesty. I’ll tell King Flos that if you wish. But um, I don’t think he minds.”
Fetohep’s gaze focused on Trey for a moment and the young man held his breath. Fetohep turned abruptly, walking back into the heart of his palace.
“Of course he does not. He is a child. But it seems you are not as rigid as his [Steward] or his other Seven. Very well. Gaze upon Koirezune as long as you will. I shall await you within.”
Trey saw him walk further into the palace, and gesture to someone. A servant; the same young woman Trey had seen walking towards the palace. Aside from the Quarass, him, and Fetohep, Trey had seen no one else in the empty palace.
He glanced back at the city and then saw the Quarass walk up next to him. She glanced at Trey and whispered.
“Well done. Give him no insult. He will continue to test you. Do not belittle Flos Reimarch, but do not offend Fetohep either.”
“What am I doing? I don’t know what he wants!”
The child Quarass looked up at Trey. She shook her head impatiently.
“Wants? He wants nothing of you, Trey Atwood. Nothing but to command your respect. Fetohep is vain. Your role is to intrigue him. Mine is to negotiate. Come, let us not keep him waiting.”
They found Fetohep waiting within. The undead needed no light; he was clearly at home in the darkness, if the glowing golden lights in his eyes didn’t give that away. But he flicked a hand and the magical lights filled his hallways, giving the wrought stone and ornamentation a beautiful, soft glow.
Fetohep gestured ahead and Trey saw that six people waited for him and the Quarass, all dressed in rich clothing that befitted nobility more than servants. But servants they were as they bowed to Trey and the Quarass in perfect unison. Fetohep spoke, pointing down the branching hallway.
“I offer you two rooms where you will both sleep, and the comforts of my palace. You are guests. Whatever you desire will be fulfilled, Trey Atwood. Simply speak your will to my attendants and they will be fulfilled. Save for the comforts of flesh; Khelt has no slaves.”
He looked at Trey. The young man jumped. Did he just say anything? Save for—
“Khelt doesn’t have slaves?”
The Quarass looked up sharply. Trey bit his tongue; he’d blurted that out. Fetohep paused.
“I care nothing for citizens not of Khelt, but slavery itself is an inquietude that breeds discontent and ill practices. Slavery is banned within Khelt, for all my subjects are mine. For that reason, outsiders are banned; they spread diseases and violence. [Slaves] are a nuisance.”
“Oh.”
Trey paused. It wasn’t exactly a liberating answer. Fetohep studied him.
“Does this bother you?”
“No—I—no, I don’t like—I mean, I think keeping slaves is wrong, Your Majesty.”
It might have been the wrong thing to say, but Trey had to say it. To keep saying it rather than be silent. He saw the Quarass look at him. Fetohep stared at Trey, his face unreadable. His mouth opened and the ghostly voice replied.
“I see. Have you need of rest, Quarass, Trey Atwood?”
“No.”
“No, Your Majesty.”
“Then we shall dine. Come; let us speak civilly before we return to the topic of your arrival.”
Fetohep swept down the corridor, and Trey followed. He could feel the servant’s eyes on him. Or—attendants. There were three men, three women. Two of the young women were very young, and one of the men. The other three were older, but they all stared at Trey and the Quarass with great interest. He could hear the two young women giggling until Fetohep turned his head; then there was complete silence.
He didn’t scare them. That was what fascinated Trey. Or rather—his subjects did fear Fetohep, but for his authority. Not because he was undead. In fact, as he led Trey and the Quarass to a dining hall and two of Khelt’s citizens swung the doors open, they surrounded him, pulling out his chair, taking his murmured orders, all without missing a beat.
Before Trey knew it, he was seated at a vast dining table. Near Fetohep and the Quarass; it wasn’t going to be some gag where he sat at the other end. The [King] was seated on a suitably impressive chair, much like a dining throne, and the Quarass and Trey on chairs no less comfortable. Trey stared at one of the attendants, a young woman, as she bowed to him. An older man was bowing to the Quarass.
“You dine on my hospitality, Trey Atwood. Speak your desire and it will be fulfilled.”
Fetohep looked at Trey. The young man blinked.
“You mean…?”
“Anything you wish, within the Skills of my [Chefs] will be made. And the talents of Khelt’s people are near limitless. Name it and it will be so.”
Name it. It was like having a cooking genie ask you what you wanted. Trey’s mind instantly went blank. He began to panic, staring at the Quarass, but she was unhelpfully already listing her desires to the servant, as if this was normal. And for her, it was!
“I shall have a dish of roasted eels seasoned with the most succulent vegetables of Khelt’s gardens. I care not which. Let each eel be seasoned with juice of lemons and be the youngest and most succulent plucked from Khelt’s rivers. To drink I will imbibe a glass of white juice made of grapes. Finally, I wish eight sparkling glossberries sprinkled with nali powder, served upon a bed of crushed ice.”
The attendant listened without even so much as looking for a notepad. He bowed and murmured.
“It will be done.”
Then he stepped backwards towards the doors. Fetohep, the Quarass, and the smiling young woman all stared at Trey. His mouth went dry, but his stomach rumbled. Trey wished it could provide his panicking brain with instructions.
“Name your preference, child.”
Fetohep was staring at Trey. Trey saw the Quarass looking at him, so he went for it. He wavered, searched for anything, and spoke.
“Uh—I’ll have um—a pie? A shepherd’s pie? Please?”
He saw the Quarass’ eyes narrow. Trey winced and tried not to sink down in his chair. It was the first thing he could think of. Fetohep’s gaze also looked disapproving.
“A shepherd’s pie? Elaborate, Trey Atwood. What is this dish made of?”
“Um—well, it’s a dish from home—if it’s hard to make, I could ask for—”
“Nothing is out of the realm of possibility. Describe it to me, child.”
Fetohep’s voice seemed to snap for the first time in irritation. Trey hesitated.
“Well, it’s some fried carrots, um, peas, meat—lamb meat or maybe beef—all fried up. And then you put mashed potatoes on top and bake it—”
He stopped as Fetohep held up a hand. The young woman was biting her lip, trying not to laugh.
“Ah. Traveler’s Pie. They call it so in Izril and Terandria, do they not, Quarass?”
“They did when I visited both continents.”
The Quarass murmured, giving Trey a look. He bit his lip. Fetohep’s gaze was disapproving as his tone. He looked a Trey.
“I am aware of the meal. Intriguing that the name has changed. You are aware you may ask for any dish you wish, boy? Why do you ask for a low-born dish?”
“It’s food from home. I’m sorry, Your Majesty—”
Trey cut off as Fetohep shook his head. The [King] sat back, looking displeased.
“Let it be so. What do you wish to drink?”
“Um—grape juice sounds good to me as well.”
