“What do I care for Reim? What benefit is there in giving the King of Destruction any aid? I say it again. What does Khelt lack? Slaves? The dead are the only servants my people need, not other people with wills of their own. Gold? Metal is worthless. Food? No. Our stores are vast and my people sated. What can Flos of Reim give us?”
Fetohep’s voice thundered in the banquet room. The people of Khelt shrank back across the walls as he rose. The Quarass rose as well and Trey felt a pressure in the room. It was coming off both rulers. Where it met between them, he felt like the air was charged. He shuddered as they glared at each other.
The [King] of Khelt was the first to break away and sit once more. Not because he’d been overwhelmed; the Quarass was unsteady on her feet, pale with the effort of projecting the same force that he was giving off. He sighed as he sat and she slowly, unsteadily did the same. Pensively, Fetohep stared past her, out a window, and then spoke.
“Culture, perhaps. A world filled with sights to astound and new music and art. If he could offer Khelt that, or something of worth, I would see purpose in his transitory empire, his vision of conquest. But the King of Destruction has never brought that. Only the ruination of what exists. So. How could he ever dream of appealing to me?”
“Perhaps it is not what he seeks to build, then. But what he would shield against. Fetohep, if Reim has nothing to offer by alliance, let me make the case for Reim’s necessity to guard against what threatens us all.”
The Quarass’ hand shook a bit as she reached for a cup. She looked drained by the clash of wills. She was too young, Trey realized. Fetohep waited as she drank and some color returned to her cheeks.
“Go on, Quarass.”
She glanced at Trey. And he realized she was about to use him. Her trump card. She didn’t look confident though. She’d lost the debate, he realized. Fetohep was objecting on two levels to helping Reim and the Quarass was making a case for the latter now.
“Trey Atwood. Tell his Eternal Majesty the name of the nation from which you hail. It is he who helped awaken the King of Destruction, Fetohep. He and his sister, by sheer virtue of their encounter with him.”
“What?”
Fetohep’s head turned, the first movement of surprise in their entire conversation. He stared at Trey. The young man ducked his head, his heart beating wildly. He looked at the Quarass. Tell him everything? But her glare forced him to open his mouth.
“I—I come from England, Your Majesty. A country in the United Kingdom.”
“England?”
The [King] of Khelt paused. His eyes flickered. Then he shook his head.
“No such country exists. Nor was one founded or I would know of it.”
“And yet he speaks the truth.”
The Quarass stared at Fetohep, her eyes challenging. He glanced at her and his eyes condensed, staring at Trey. He paused.
“Where is this nation located? Which continent lies closest to it?”
Trey saw the Quarass smirking from her seat. She was enjoying this. He was not. Fetohep was staring straight through him.
“Um—Europe?”
Another pause. Fetohep’s eyes flickered again.
“Impossible. Quarass, if this is some fanciful trick of falsehoods that escapes even my abilities—”
“What would I have to gain from it, Fetohep? Our relationship will doubtless exceed the span of my life. Even my predecessor would not incur your enmity so.”
The young girl calmly drank from her cup. Fetohep glanced at her.
“A continent named…?”
He paused. Trey could see his mind working, trying to parse the information that was true yet untrue at the same time. The Quarass put the pieces together softly for Fetohep.
“Another world, Fetohep. Trey Atwood and his sister hail from another world.”
The flames in Fetohep’s eye went wide and then suddenly vanished. In the silence, Trey stared at the motionless [King], and then around the room. The attendants waiting upon them stared at Trey, some purely uncomprehending. But then Fetohep moved. The flames in his sockets glowed again, brightly. He stood.
“Attendants. Speak nothing of what you have heard. Clear this room. I will speak to the Quarass and Trey Atwood. Alone.”
He rose, turning, and his people fled the room, casting glances at Trey, wondering. The Quarass rose too. She smiled slightly. But when she looked at Trey, he didn’t see complete confidence in her eyes. And as Fetohep turned, Trey saw no fear in the undead [King]’s gaze either.
Only…curiosity.
 
——
 
The conversation was long. Trey stood before Khelt’s throne and stared up at it. It wasn’t made of bone, as one might assume, or even black stone. No, it was wrought of a pearl-like stone which shimmered and caught the light, casting ghostly echoes—as if refracting the light into a dreamy otherlight, creating ghostly illusions of the throne to the sides.
Fetohep sat on the throne, listening as Trey spoke. Sometimes, the Quarass would speak, but it was mainly Trey. And he spoke to both rulers. He had told the Quarass some of the things about Earth, but now he spoke the rest.
It was the same thing he had first told Flos. About Earth. About a world with technologies beyond this world’s own. Smaller perhaps, but far denser in population. Of buildings that touched the sky, men and women that walked upon the moon. A world without monsters or magic or other species.
About war. The Quarass demanded that. Trey spoke of guns, of missiles, of planes that could fly beyond any [Mage] and weapons that brought destruction to entire cities. The Quarass clearly thought that would sway Fetohep.
She was wrong.
“A weapon that may destroy a city in a single moment?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep stared at Trey. He looked at the young boy, and then at the Quarass.
“One that can be sent hundreds, thousands of miles at will. That may destroy a vast city at a moment. And an entire world of nations that possess a might of arms few nations of this world could ever hope to match. Weapons that reach out and touch from miles away.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. It’s—”
Trey fell silent as the Quarass signaled him with one hand. She stepped forwards, smiling.
“Do you see now the peril that has woken the King of Destruction, Fetohep? Another world waits, unseen, linked to ours by some great force or magic. Should they come, will Khelt stand against such dire weapons?”
The undead [King] paused. He regarded the Quarass, and then Trey. For a moment he was uncertain, even though he had tested Trey under truth spells. But then he believed. He sat on his throne, leaned back against the ghostly material.
And laughed. The laughter caught Trey and the Quarass off-guard. It was harsh, unnatural. A dead man’s voice. Fetohep laughed and then stared down at Trey and the Quarass. And his eyes held no fear.
“A threat. I see. So the world will be plunged into uncertainty once more. Tell me, Quarass. Why should I fear another world?”
She stared up at him. She wasn’t prepared for this. The Quarass tripped over her words, a child again.
“Why? Because it is dangerous! Because it has the potential to overturn this world! Khelt cannot stand against such weapons!”
Fetohep dismissed her statement with a single flick of his hand.
“And what of it? Khelt will survive. Do you think the world of Trey Atwood is the first to command weapons so wretched, so depraved that no nation could stand against them? Remember, Quarass! Both your lands and mine have seen such madness and lived! In ages past, we endured the tyranny of half-Elves, Selphids. We fought the wretched Crelers when they emerged from Rhir, bent knee to passing tyrants.”
Fetohep rose and pointed down at the Quarass. She stared up at him, astonished, along with Trey.
“If this other world threatens Khelt, this land will rise up. Or bow. It matters not. Tell Flos of Reim that he will have our subservience when he proves too dangerous to resist. As last time. If he would try Khelt now…he cannot. So I will have his oath sworn in blood and deal with a second world when it threatens. Not before! Your threat is meaningless, Quarass.”
He laughed again, shortly. The Quarass stared up at him. She looked at Trey, and almost lost her balance. He stared at her.
What did they do now? Flos would have to agree to Fetohep’s demands unconditionally or go to war. Either way, he lost, and he had a lot more to lose by going to war, even if Fetohep attacked first. You couldn’t destroy Khelt like Germina. Trey imagined legions of undead, rising without end. How many could Fetohep call upon? How many lay buried in Khelt’s soil? Hundreds of thousands?
Millions?
“I respect your attempt, Quarass. Truly. You have done your utmost for Reim and thus Germina, but I am unmoved. I take this information of a second world with greatest curiosity, however. I would speak of it with you, Trey Atwood, not as a threat to my kingdom, but as a scholar would. Let us return to a more intimate setting.”
Fetohep was magnanimous in his perceived victory. He led the way out of his throne room, and his attendants appeared, escorting them to a smaller sitting room. The Quarass was silent, and Trey could see her clenching her hands, trying to think. But—she was rattled. She was young. And Trey realized she was panicking.
If she’d been older, perhaps she’d have had a chance. But Fetohep’s composure was too much for a, what, a Level 8 [Quarass]? Trey found himself sitting as Fetohep motioned.
“The delicacy. Gelato. Two bowls.”
The word made Trey look up. The attendants were smoothly coming towards them, bearing small buckets of powdered ice. And in them sat two bowls of…Trey’s eyes widened.
“As you are my guests, enjoy it. I believe our negotiations are finished, so all that remains is to see to your hospitality. Quarass, Trey Atwood, I present to you a delicacy from Terandria. Milk-based, or so I am told. A creation of sugar. I have been importing it for my [Chefs] to create. It is called gelato—”
“Ice cream?”
Trey gasped as he tasted the frozen dairy. Fetohep broke off. The Quarass glanced up, taking her bowl with ill grace.
“You are…familiar with this treat?”
“Yes! Your Majesty, it comes from Earth! It’s a treat from my home!”
Trey was delighted. Ice cream! Vanilla, unfortunately. Fetohep stared at him.
“Ah. Then perhaps one of your own now stays in Terandria. For that is where this dish originates. It—comes from your world?”
He looked disappointed that Trey knew about it. All the enjoyment of having something unique was gone; even the servants looked disappointed. Trey glanced at the Quarass, but she was sulking as she ate from her bowl. Quickly though—she wasn’t used to sugar and clearly enjoyed it. He on the other hand—well, it was the first time he’d had it in months, but it was still vanilla.
“Well, there’s other kinds. You can flavor it, Your Majesty. This is vanilla, but there’s chocolate, strawberry—any number of flavors!”
“Really? The [Merchants] who brought it to me assured me they had brought what is being served in Terandria’s palaces.”
Fetohep looked put out. Trey nodded. He saw the Quarass glance up slightly. The other attendants were listening with interest too.
“Maybe they haven’t invented it yet. Does this world have chocolate?”
“I’m unfamiliar with the word.”
Fetohep looked hesitant. Trey tried to describe it. The [King] just shook his head, bemused.
“A dark substance that is eaten so? It does not come to mind. My subjects? Inquire among the [Chefs].”
Two hurried off. Trey thought for a second.
“If it’s not chocolate, then perhaps um—cocoa beans? They’re a plant. Tropical, I think. Maybe you have it, but no one’s turned it into chocolate. Or at least, done it the way we make it in our world.”
Fetohep clicked his fingers.
“If it exists, Khelt surely keeps it. Unless it is not known as a food by any species. Tell the [Chefs] to locate such a…bean?”
“I think so. No, wait—they look like beans, but they come from a big…pod. I think. They should be dried! Or you dry them out and…”
Fetohep was nodding, and his gaze was alight with interest.
“Fascinating. So this other world of yours truly has different foods. From the dishes you ordered, I thought our worlds were too similar. But what else has your world in terms of delights to offer?”
The young man hesitated. Fetohep was genuinely interested, and that interest made the Quarass stir as well. She glanced sharply at Trey, and then cleared her throat. Fetohep glanced towards her. The Quarass spoke softly.
“Will you excuse me a moment, King Fetohep? The flaws of flesh call me.”
“Ah, of course. My attendants will show you what you require.”
Fetohep shook his head slightly. The Quarass nodded. Then she gave him a subtle look and nod that Trey couldn’t interpret. It was towards him. Fetohep paused and Trey, seeing his glance towards his face, took the cue.
“Ah, Your Majesty, if you would…”
“Only naturally. Go. I will content myself until your return.”
Fetohep waved Trey and the Quarass away, almost hastily. Two attendants, smiling, showed Trey and the Quarass down a corridor towards the lavatories. They were elaborate. And there was running water! Trey did his business, embarrassed knowing that the servants were waiting outside. He hurried outside—there was no hand washing station, which made him ask for water and soap. They hurried off to get it, and the Quarass emerged from her own door. She looked around and strode towards him at once.
“We have a moment to speak. You sent away the servants?”
“I need soap and water. You, uh, wash your hands?”
“I touched nothing untoward.”
She narrowed her eyes as if Trey was accusing her of something. He bit his lip, but the Quarass shook her head. She drew him aside.
“Fetohep has few flaws. Among them, his faded memory of flesh. I insinuated that you were close to relieving yourself for lack of control of your bladder so we could speak.”
Trey flushed, but the Quarass went on. She was scanning in every direction for the attendants.
“Fetohep is not impressed by strength of arms or threats. I failed to convince him to offer Flos Reimarch something of value; he would rather use force than appear to be Reim’s ally.”
“I understood that too! What do we do?”
The Quarass frowned, tapping one lip. Trey winced.
“I will attempt to persuade him once more, but he speaks truthfully when he states that he dislikes Flos Reimarch’s war of conquest. Fetohep cares for history and your [King]’s will directly opposes his. However, he is vain. He prides Khelt upon being peerless. You observed his look when you spoke of delicacies he was not aware of?”
“Yeah. Do you think—”
The Quarass nodded.
“Do so. And Trey?”
“Yes?”
“Do you have your device? Then this is what we shall do…”
 
——
 
