He smiled to himself as he stepped through the door, breathing in the fresh air. I’ll bet I can just convince Rain to come slime hunting. Sure as the depths, I’m not digging through the disgusting things myself. I bet he’d give me half the Tel, even if I did fuck all. It’s not like he’d need my help to kill them. Still, he’d probably even insist that I take a share. He’s too kind for his own good.

He sighed. Damn it all, why did the lair have to be a swamp? There’s no way I’m asking Rain to come with me, as nice as that aura of his would be. He’d never agree to it, plus, there’s no way I’d get him in there…

Maybe Carten? I could use him as a distraction….

Nah, that’s an awful plan. The water system, that’s the way. Now, to find the entrance.

Late that night, Rain trudged toward the gates of the city. The sun had set hours ago, and the sky was overcast, making it a very dark night. He was dead tired, having spent the entire afternoon working on Operation Heatsink. Ameliah had left to go look for Jamus and Tallheart, leaving him alone with his thoughts. She hadn’t returned, though he’d been out there for a good eight hours.

Instead of jogging, he’d taken his time, reducing the intensity of his Novas so as to not freeze himself too badly. He’d needed to do that to compensate for the boost from Aura Compression. He’d pulled the range in a bit, seeing as the fully frozen area didn’t reach the full 108 meters. It was hard to tell if it was more or less efficient this way, but It hardly mattered. It was going to take him days and days. He figured that he might as well get some experience for Aura Compression while he was working on it.

All in all, he’d completed seven full rounds of Refrigerate novas, each followed by just over an hour of sitting in the heart of Winter. He’d taken to warming himself intermittently with tightly-constrained flashes of Immolate, just to take the edge off. It took a bit of mana, but it was worth it to prevent frostbite. It helped, but it wasn’t enough. The cold had seeped into his bones. Despite that, he wasn’t using Immolate as he approached the city. His skin felt dry and cracked, all of the moisture sucked out of it. It was time to give the magic a break.

Even after all of his effort, the air was still warm. It did seem to be a little less bad than it had been before, but he hadn’t made nearly as much progress as he hoped. Hot air rose, meaning the blanket of cooler air that he’d created should have settled over the city. It sure didn’t feel like it, though. Without a thermometer, he didn’t really have a way of telling. His sense of temperature was honestly a bit whacked at this point.

He was tired, hungry, low on mana, and bored out of his skull. Unlocking skill trees and playing with builds hadn’t been enough to keep him entertained through the long, cold work. He’d managed 22 trees this time, the maximum that he could unlock with his current experience cap. Spreading out the unlocks over the course of the afternoon had seemed to help with the soulstrain. He’d done them in batches, five at a time at first, then dropping down to four when he started feeling discomfort, then down to two when it worsened further. The last few trees were truly painful, but he’d pushed through. He wasn’t willing to try forcing the training dialog to appear. In theory, that would have allowed him to keep going, but there was such a thing as going too far.

He’d unlocked quite a few interesting skills over the course of the afternoon, but the one he couldn’t stop thinking about was Tissue Scan. It was tier 2, in the Restoration tree. Both Wallace and Ameliah had used it on him. Wallace was one thing, the man was the closest thing that this world had to a doctor. Ameliah, however, that was another story. When he’d read what the skill did, he’d been mortified. It would allow the user to see a complete 3D image of the body. Inside…and out. His cheeks burned red once more as he thought about everything that she had seen. She hadn’t even mentioned it. He wasn’t sure if that made it better, or worse.

He sighed as he drew to a stop outside the tavern where Melka had said she’d wait for him. An evertorch was burning across the street, giving him just enough light to see thanks to his Perception accolade. He was surprised that Melka hadn’t come out to see what was taking him so long, and also a bit worried that she wouldn’t be there anymore. He didn’t want her to get in trouble for shirking the task that her superiors had saddled her with. As annoying as it was to have a babysitter, he got along well enough with her. He didn’t want to get stuck with some rando instead. Plus, she was clearly in a dark mood after the attack on the city and he didn’t want things to get any more difficult for her.

He looked up at the sign for the tavern. It was hanging at an angle, one of the chain links holding it up having rusted away and been replaced with a horseshoe. There was no writing on the sign, just an image of something that might have once been a plum. It was so faded that it was hard to tell, especially in the dim torchlight. Still, it was obviously a tavern from noise leaking into the street. It sounded like it was packed in there, the drone of voices mixing with something that could charitably be called music.

He opened the door, pushing his way into the room. He immediately made the mistake of breathing in. He almost gagged, choking on the odor of vomit, stale sweat, and rotten beer. He’d detected a whiff of it even before opening the door of course, but he’d just assumed something had died in a gutter nearby. He’d never expected that the inside of a building could possibly smell worse than the sewers, but there it was.

Fuck, this can’t be the same tavern. I must have gotten confused. No way someone would willingly choose to breathe this…

He looked around the room in awe, trying to breathe through his mouth. The place was indeed packed. Nobody had noticed his entrance yet as far as he could see. They were all watching… Yeah, that’s…wow. This is not a normal tavern. I hereby upgrade it to ‘wretched hive of scum and villainy’. He turned his attention away from the pair of…performers…dancing on the table, spotting Melka sitting at a table in the corner. He shook his head. Wow, it really is the right place. Damn. There is no way I’m going in there. Not without doing something about the stench. Air should NOT have a flavor. Purify.

He used Aura Compression to restrain the magic, wearing the spell as a cloak as he did with Immolate’s space-heater mode. He kept the power as low as he could, just enough to scrub the odor out of the air before it made it to his nose. It didn’t take much; Purify was particularly effective against airborne contamination. The light from the spell was barely noticeable. This was good, as he assumed that Purifying the entire building would be a sure way to cause a panic if he did it without warning. Still, I kind of want to…

He shook his head, then looked for a path over to Melka that would keep him out of sight. The tables were all full, with yet more people standing around in between. A huge man was sitting on a stool by the door, but it looked like he’d fallen asleep; an impressive feat, given the noise. There was a wooden cudgel lying at his feet and a crate behind him packed with all manner of weapons. Some sort of bouncer?

Seeing no clear path, he sighed and started pushing his way through the crowd. It was dark and loud, so only those near him reacted to his presence as he forced his way through. Some recoiled in shock as if struck, others simply laughed or yelled, too drunk to care about the adventurer in their midst. He felt particularly out of place as he pressed through the mass of unwashed people dressed in rough outfits. He cursed under his breath as his foot slipped on something that squished as he put his foot down. Again he had to fight the urge to just open up and clean the entire place from rafters to floorboards. Melka would be pissed. Heck, she might be anyway, she did tell me not to make her wait too long.

As he finally reached her table, he realized that he was right about her being pissed, just not in the way that he expected.

“Oh, there you are. What took you so…so,” Melka struggled, slurring her words. Giving up on finishing her sentence, she took a huge drink from a massive wooden mug instead. She slammed it down on the table with a thunk, then squinted at him in the dim light. “Sit down,” she said, swaying slightly. “You’re making me dizzy. And take off that fucking helmet.”

Rain sat, not sure quite what else to do. He looked around, then reluctantly removed his helmet, taking a second to tie it to his belt using the short piece of rope he kept for that purpose. He’d wanted to just get Melka and leave, but she didn’t seem like she wanted to go. There was a massive pile of empty mugs sitting on the table in front of her, each as large as the one she was now holding. She didn’t drink all of those, did she? Damn, she must have. It’s not like anyone else is sitting at this table. Holy shit. How the hell is she still conscious? Does she have a spare liver?

“Um…Melka,” he said, raising his voice over the roar of the crowd.

“What?” she shouted back. She poked a finger at him. “Hey, where’s your drink?”

He shook his head. “I don’t have one. I just got here.”

“Well, why not. This is a bar. Bars are for drinking.” She got up and waved her hand in the air. “Hey! Refill!”

“Melka, it’s after tenth bell,” Rain said as she swayed, falling back into her seat with a heavy thump. “Don’t you think we should head back to—”

“Fuck no!” Melka interrupted, practically yelling. “I’m…no. I want to stay here,” she continued in a much lower voice.

I am not equipped to handle this… “Melka, let’s go. I’m tired, and you’ve had…” he quickly counted. “Nine already?” Damn.

She laughed. “Nine, ha! No, you left me here since noon! I’ve had… I’ve had… I lost count.”

Rain’s response was cut off by the arrival of the server, bearing a pair of mugs, filled to the brim. The large woman set them down on the table, spilling beer out across the surface. “There’s two more, love,” she said with a smile. “You’re all set.” She turned to Rain and looked him up and down, then frowned. “Fancy man, eh? Think I’ve heard of you. Payment in advance, even for a lord such as yourself. What can I get ye?”

Rain sighed. “I’m not a lord.” Melka was working on draining the mug she’d been on when he came in. It looked like it was going to take him a while to convince her to leave. Maybe I should just…leave her here? Go get her boss or something? No, that would be a dick move. He looked back at the server. “Um, got anything to eat, or…?”

“Nope,” the woman said with a snort of laughter. “Drinks only.”

Rain sighed again. He was starving, not having eaten anything but a ration bar since breakfast. “I’ll just drink this one, I guess,” he said, reaching for the second mug.

“The hells you will!” Melka shouted. Her hand darted out to intercept his with lightning speed and surprising accuracy, given her current state. “That’s mine!”

“You want anything or not?” the server said in an irritated tone. “Hurry up, would you? I ain’t got all night.”

“Nothing, thanks,” Rain said, looking at her. “We’re fine.”

The large woman snorted, then left. Rain pushed his hand forward, fighting against Melka’s grip as he struggled to reach the mug. “Now, I’ll just take this one, and when we’re both done, we can go. Hey, would you let go?” Damn it, why is everyone stronger than me? She’s got a grip like a vise.

“Fine,” Melka said, releasing him. He lurched forward, then caught himself. He grabbed the wooden mug and peered into it. Damn, this is a lot of beer. Hesitantly, he took a sip. Yuck. And it’s light beer. This whole place reminds me of college. He took another, slightly larger sip. It could be worse. It’s drinkable. Barely.

“There you go,” Melka said. She took another massive swig from her own mug, then slammed it down with a thunk, empty. She sighed and collapsed forward to lay her head on the table, nestling it in the crook of her arm. Her brown hair was fanned out into a tangled mess. She mumbled something, but he couldn’t make it out as her mouth was smooshed against the wood.

“What was that?” he said, looking at her with concern. Did she just pass out? How fucking drunk is she right now? Does Endurance help? It must. Actually, hang on. If she passed out, that’s good. I can just carry her back to the stronghold. I’ll have to see if I can sober her up with Purify once we’re out of here. I’d do it right now, but that would make a scene. If she goes back like this, they might—

“I asked, what’s it like?” Melka said, turning her head to the side so her cheek rested on the table. Her eyes were closed.

Rain blinked. “What’s what like?”

“Being an adventurer,” she slurred, still not opening her eyes.

Rain shrugged, then kicked himself for forgetting that her eyes were closed. “It’s okay I guess,” he said. “I haven’t been one for that long.” He took a large sip of his beer and grimaced. The sooner he finished it, the sooner they could leave. He contemplated just pouring it out on the floor. The filthy floorboards could use a good wash.

“Being in the Watch…” Melka said, trailing off. She coughed, then sighed. “Being in the Watch…is awful.”

“How so?” Rain asked, sliding his chair slightly closer to her so he could hear her mumbled words.

She opened one eye and peered blearily up at him before closing it again. “It’s like…you’re not a person. Everyone hates you, just for wearing the plate. That’s all they see. The plate. The fucking plate.”

“Melka, come on, let’s go,” he said. “You need sleep.”

“Maybe…maybe you’re right. I’ll just sleep. Right here. This table is…comfy.”

“No, not here. Come on, let’s get you up.” He reached for her shoulder and started to lift her, but stopped when he felt her body shaking. Is she…crying? Fuck. You know what, enough of this. I am too tired to deal with this, and I barely even know her. Time to make a scene. Enough tiptoeing around.

