He let go of her shoulder and stood, then released his hold on Purify. The barely perceptible wisps of light began to spread through the room. Looking around, he saw that his supposedly private conversation with Melka had already attracted quite a bit of attention. More and more people started looking his way as they noticed the spread of the spell. He boosted the intensity slowly, the light brightening as a hush fell over the room. The light grew even brighter as he switched Channel Mastery from restricting the skill to boosting it. People cried out in alarm and shied back. The filth was wiped from the floor, the walls, and the faces of the crowd in a rapidly brightening sphere of light. The man who’d been strumming away at his lute stopped with a jangle of notes and the room fell into a shocked silence.

Rain focused on Melka, still lying on the table with her eyes closed. He focused, concentrating on the concept of the frankly ludicrous amount of alcohol that must be in her system. It is a poison. He pulled his aura tight again, shrinking it back down until it encompassed just the two of them. The light grew painfully bright as he activated the rest of his buffs. He didn’t see the reaction of the crowd, his senses fading away. He kept it going for a good thirty seconds, then canceled everything, nearly out of mana once more.

He opened his eyes to see Melka staring at him, a horrified expression on her face. She sat up quickly, staring around the spotless room and at the stunned faces of the watchers. Wordlessly, she stood and ran for the door, people making way for her as she passed. An excited mumble started to build in the room, growing to a roar as people realized what had happened.

“Night Cleaner!” someone shouted, thumping him on the back, hard. He winced. Damn it, they’re all still drunk. I didn’t want to sober up the whole room, but now getting out of here is going to be a pain. I’ve gotta move, and fast. At least I got an excuse to sanitize this damn place. He moved quickly, chasing after Melka as she fled from the room. People tried to stop him, slapping his back and reaching for his arms, but he refused to be stopped, relying on momentum and his armor to plow his way through. He escaped into the darkness not long after Melka, hurrying to catch up. She was walking quickly, but she slowed to a stop as he caught up to her.

“Are you okay?” Rain asked. He couldn’t make out her face that well in the darkness.

“No,” Melka said, softly. “I’m not okay.” She took a deep breath and sighed, then started walking again. He fell into step beside her, remaining silent.

They walked for a few minutes before she spoke again, not looking at him.

“Sorry. And thank you. You didn’t have to do that.”

“I did,” Rain said.

“You should have just left me there,” she said, sniffing.

Rain shook his head. She couldn’t see him, but it didn’t matter. He didn’t know what to say. “What happened to you during the attack?” he said finally, not looking at her, staring at his feet instead. “It’s okay if you don’t want to tell me. I won’t ask again.”

Melka sighed deeply. She seemed to struggle with herself, but Rain gave her time, simply walking in silence. She would either talk to him or not. He’d done as much as he could do.

“I…” she said, then paused. “I died. She…killed me.”

Died? He paused, considering whether he should ask her to clarify. “Velika?” he asked instead. They passed into a pool of torchlight, allowing him to see her answering nod.

“She…cut my head off. I saw my own body, lying there. Headless. Blood spurting from my neck. I couldn’t move. Couldn’t breathe. The other one…he healed me, I think. I have no idea how he did it, how it’s even possible. I remember…he was carrying my…my head…”

She took a deep breath and let it out slowly. “Everything was going black. Suddenly, I could breathe again. I saw his face looking down at me. I tried to move my arms, my legs, to make sure they were still there, but I could barely control myself. Then…”

She stopped, gesturing in front of her vaguely with her hands. “Then, nothing. This horrible, horrible nothing. It lasted for what felt like days, but also no time at all. I can’t describe it. I couldn’t move. Couldn’t see. Couldn’t even feel. I was just…existing. I thought that was the end. I thought I’d died for real. Thought I’d just imagined the healing and that this…nothing was the afterlife. But then, I was back. Right where I had been, sprawled on the ground, gasping for air. Velika was gone, but the entire complex was on fire. Fedek was there, but he was like a statue. I couldn’t move him at all. A few other officers, too. They were all frozen. I think that’s what the nothing was. He…Westbridge…he did it to us, somehow. Some skill. Whatever it was, I woke up first. None of them know… Nobody knows…other than…her. And you, now.”

Rain stared at her in the flickering light of the torch. “Melka…fuck. Just…fuck. I can’t even…”

She started walking again, and he hurried to follow her. As he walked, Ameliah’s words floated through his mind, written on a ragged scrap of paper. Having nothing better to say, he said them aloud. “It will be okay.”

Melka sniffed. “I’m not so sure.”

Rain reached out, hesitated, then lay his hand on her shoulder. She didn’t shy away. “It will. Trust me, I should know. I’ve died before too.”

“You don’t look dead,” Melka said, looking at his hand, then shrugging it off gently. “But then again, neither do I. I can’t tell if you’re telling the truth, or just making something up to try and make me feel better.”

“Honest truth, I swear,” Rain said, smiling softly. “I fell off a cliff. Over fifty stride down, then did a belly flop onto solid stone. Broke every bone in my body and the rest of it into jelly. Luckily, there was a silverplate with us. She healed me, but it was a close thing. A couple more seconds…” He shook his head. “Anyway, it gets better. You move on. You don’t forget, but it gets easier to ignore. Having people around…helps. I know you don’t know me, but…I’m here. If you ever need to talk.”

Melka looked at him, a sad smile on her face. “Thank you,” she said, then sniffed. She gestured back at the tavern. “Please don’t tell anyone about…that. Ever.”

Rain nodded, then the pair continued on in silence.
