From our talks, I could tell Althea lost her way a bit with the war ending. Her skills suited assassination, not domestic living. She put everything she had into dismantling Elysium, and that showed in her efficacy at the time. Slicing through skulls and having good aim didn't work so well with establishing homesteads. I tried keeping her spirits up, but she kind of wondered what to do next with her life.

I hoped she'd find out something as awe-inspiring as she was.

Listening to her reminded me of myself in my pre-Schema days. When I thought about graduating from school, I was at a loss. I didn't know what to do or where to go. Without Schema's arrival, I might be working at a fast-food place or struggling with school loans.

At that moment, I crafted a pillar of my flesh and blood, a beacon of mana. It contrasted harshly with that different reality and timeline. I wondered how I ended up in this position, one with enormous potential. It made me think about other people and what they were capable of in different circumstances.

Perhaps everyone hid on an ocean of potential that they could not see.

I found that both disappointing and heartening at the same time. Even while having these thoughts and building cities, I kept my runes revving full blast. I channeled mana into my endurance inscriptions without ever ceasing. In fact, I held many furnaces on it at all moments.

The reason for that was self-evident. Cutting myself off from Schema was no longer an option; it was an inevitability. I prepared myself for it with each passing moment. I might craft runic inscriptions for my own trees and perks at this rate. A vast improvement on my runic work was required for that.

So, I kept three minds researching cipheric sigils at all times, one for general research and the others on Plazia's sigils. I kept four psyches on the city making, two on warping, and two more dedicated to time magic. Seven channeled my runic markings and furnaces, and one kept everything coordinated. All in all, I amassed nineteen minds that hustled and bustled at all moments. In time, many more would join their ranks.

Knowing my plans progressed, I finished another city. A sunrise peaked over the horizon, orange light shaving the clouds above. The hues of a sunrise crafted a frame for the blue skies, and I spread my arms at it. I just worked through three days of rain, and a bit of sunshine did me good. Before I soaked it in, a message popped up in my status. I peered down at it.

Obolis Novas, the Finder of Secrets | Level 24,492 Cap: 27,000 | Class: Founder | Guild: The Empire - I see that the ahcorous arrived within an absurd scheduling, and they've stayed on the frontlines ever since. Incredible, I must say. I never envisioned a day where you destroyed a galactic horror in less than a day, and yet, it has come to pass.

That elite efficiency worked to our benefit, as we've turned the tides against the Hybrids. I do wish to thank you fully for your gift. My guild organized the skeptiles, and we're now able to send portions of them over towards Earth as needed.

There are 30 million of them, and they enjoy arid environments or flush jungles; it depends on the tribe you're moving to. I understand that your guild may need time to assimilate such a vast number of people, and we're more than willing to give it to you.

And if you have time to chat, I'd genuinely enjoy working out the details of our dealings whenever you are available.

I raised an eyebrow at the message, thinking back on my relationship with the Emperor. He gave me opportunities, but he also pitted me into some poor circumstances. Technically, he gave me an elemental furnace, a planet, and two able subordinates. At the same time, I doubted he could get the furnace working, he couldn't hold the planet anyways, and he couldn't get Florence to do anything productive.

Even Helios's service was gifted to me because Obolis wanted to punish the guy. If anything, I questioned my relationship with Obolis more and more with each passing event. Still, he gave me a lot of information, and he might help me take advantage of my Schema and Overseer meetings. Before confronting Schema, I'd make sure I was ready, however.

Cancelling Schema's limiters, being able to warp, and having some control of time magic, I'd get that all lined up before I confronted the AI. After thinking all that through, I thought up a message.

Daniel Hillside, The Harbinger of Cataclysm | Level 18,767 (Cap: 26,000) | Class: Sovereign | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion - I can talk now, but not for too long. I'm expanding the guild right now. Here are my coordinates if you want to visit...

I sent him the data, Schema uploading it automatically. After a few seconds, a notification popped up.

Obolis Novas, the Finder of Secrets | Level 24,492 Cap: 27,000 | Class: Founder | Guild: The Empire - I'll be there in a moment.

Within a few seconds, a warp appeared beside me. Obolis stepped out from his majestic study. In his graphene armor and with a smile, he spread his arms at me,

"It's good to see you again...You look different."

I smiled back, "Because I am."
