“Hmm,” Brovose said. He gave Hegar a significant look, then flicked his eyes toward the sloping path that led up out of the crack.

Hegar nodded back. He spared one last glance for the armored man, then beckoned to his companions and walked confidently in the direction Brovose had indicated. Mercifully, Anton decided to follow without comment. The man could be incredibly dense, sometimes. At a gesture from Rain, the white-cloaked figures parted, letting them pass. Hegar walked through them as if he hadn’t a care in the world. It was clear, at least, that Rain and his people didn’t know how strong they were either. They wouldn’t attack.

Once they were a few stride away, Hegar stopped, then finally looked back over his shoulder. “If you really are who you say you are, why did you pretend before?”

“I did not pretend,” Rain said, his words slightly hollow from the helmet. “I was as you saw me. Just as I am now.”

Hegar narrowed his eyes, then shook his head. “Come on,” he said to his friends, turning away. When you find a potential enemy you aren’t sure you can meet face to face… He glanced over his shoulder once more, narrowing his eyes. Gather information, then, if necessary, kill them in their sleep. He could feel the gazes of the group drilling into his back as he climbed the rapidly growing slope.

“Do you think they would help us get past the second chasm?” Brovose asked once they reached the surface, following his question with another yawn.

“Shh,” Hegar said, then continued in a low hiss. “Fucking, later.” Behind some gods-damned wards.

The moment the trio passed out of sight, Rain almost collapsed, his knees suddenly losing all their strength.

“Fucking hells, Rain!” Kettel said, excitedly clapping him on the back.

“Hmm, indeed,” laughed Jamus. “Good work maintaining your composure, Rain. I could barely tell it was you.” He paused. “No offense.”

Snorts of laughter and released tension came from the gathered members of Ascension as Rain tried to regain control of his breathing. Where the HELL is Ameliah?

The flames crackled as Ameliah ripped off a bite of the haunch of meat she was holding. She chewed mechanically. The meat was flavorless and tough, and also slightly burnt from being too close to the flames. She swallowed anyway, then took another bite.

A cold wind was blowing in the foothills to the north of Vestvall. She’d flown for hours, then, when she’d tired of the wind, walked for hours more, stopping when the Ice Courser she was eating had volunteered to be lunch.

The wind gusted, but she barely even noticed as she stared into the fire. Dispassionately, she let her arm fall, inadvertently dropping the haunch of meat into her lap. She could feel the hot grease begin soaking into the fabric of her brown traveling clothes, but she couldn’t bring herself to care. The only garment she would have worried about was her cloak, but she wasn’t wearing it. It was back in the camp where she’d stashed it with the spares.

I wonder if they’ve found it yet.

A log broke in the fire, the flames swirling as they were whipped by the wind.

Ameliah sat like that so long that the flames guttered and died and the chunk of meat on her lap grew cold. She didn’t even notice the slime until it launched itself at her. It was only by pure reflex that she threw herself out of the way.

She recovered from her surprise more quickly than the monster, scrambling to her feet and raising a hand, prepared to pull it down into the earth and crush it into oblivion. Before she released the magic, she hesitated.

It’s just a Slime.

Ameliah lowered her hand, inspecting the monster as it oozed back toward her. It wasn’t even an Ice Slime, just the normal variety that you could find anywhere under the sun. This one was small and yellowish, reminding her unpleasantly of snot.

Smiling a bittersweet smile at the memory of Rain’s first encounter with such a creature, Ameliah switched to Purify. The billowing light took a few moments to deal with the Slime, wiping away the remains of her meal from her clothing as it did. When the spell had finished, a small Crystal Slime sat on the frosted ground before her, quivering in confusion as it grappled with the sudden reality of its existence.

Crouching down, Ameliah watched as it investigated the remains of the fire, recoiling violently from the still-hot coals. It headed for her next, and without thinking, she extended her hand, fingers closed into a fist. The slime ignored her gesture, instead bypassing her arm and bumping against her knees. It pulled back in surprise, then turned and started moving away in a hurry.

Ameliah ignored it. She was staring at her extended fist, frowning.

After a moment, she let her arm fall, then stood. With a short chant, her feet rose from the ground as Flight took effect.

The mountains that had been her goal were barely visible in the north as she rose, but she didn’t spare them a glance. The Crystal Slime and the remains of her pathetic campsite vanished behind a hill as she picked up speed.

Heading south.

Heading home.
