It would be inaccurate to say that Rain floated at the center of a nebula of chaos. It would be inaccurate, even, to say that he was within it at all. Framing the situation in such a manner proceeded from a flawed assumption. It was like asking after the center of the universe. The question made no sense, not to anyone who had pondered the true nature of the singularity.

The center was everywhere. And it was nowhere.

Rain did not exist within the chaos.

Rain was the chaos.

That had been the fundamental shift in perspective that had allowed him to exist in this state. He was aware of the entire extent of his soul, however large that was. It felt vast, but he had no frame of reference—nothing to compare himself to. Regardless, large or small, he did know that he was finite. There was a point at which chaos stopped and nothingness began. A barrier. An envelope.

A paling.

That wasn’t to say that Rain could feel his paling. He couldn’t perceive details within the chaos, not without focus, and focus would swiftly lead to collapse. Rain could, however, deduce the barrier’s condition by watching for patterns in the insanity. He could feel himself, for lack of a better word, leaking.

If the roiling chaos of Rain’s soul was the atmosphere, then the evidence of the damage was a jet stream. A prevailing wind leading toward the edge, and then out.

And yet, Rain was not diminished. Even as he leaked away, he was renewed…by the core.

Again, words failed. The core was everywhere, and it was just as much Rain as the chaos itself. Instinctively, he knew that his soul should have structure. The source of his power should have been visible here—at the very least, as a mental abstraction. Perhaps as a beating heart of magic, like that of a lair, or perhaps as something torn from his subconscious, such as the warp core of the USS Enterprise.

If such an image had existed once, it had been torn apart along with the rest of his soul. Shredded. Pureed. Atomized.

Fixing his soul would require putting that image back together. There could be no center until he made one.

Carefully, Rain coaxed his drifting thoughts toward a concept. This was the tricky part, focusing without focusing. He knew not to try creating anything as complex as the concept of a core. That path led to failure. He concentrated on something simpler. More basic. More fundamental, even, than an atom.

Zero.

The chaos seethed, and Rain almost tumbled back into his body before he caught himself. He relaxed his focus, but not entirely. Guiding, but not guiding. Patterns emerged—memories, flowing through his being and coalescing into the concept he’d chosen.

He almost lost control again in anticipation. Once this step was completed, he’d have an anchor—something to stabilize the chaos and hold him here. A center, even if that center was of his own making.

Slowly, ever so slowly, the idea crystallized. It couldn’t be described as anything that could be seen. Sight was meaningless. And yet, it could be perceived. As the concept snapped into focus, a minuscule void of calm formed around it. An enclave within the chaos.

Zero Bastion.

Rain’s awareness flickered, then snapped into the void. He still existed within the chaos, but his perception of it felt muted, somehow, for all that it was still him. By creating a zone of order, he’d unlocked the ability to focus. In the bastion, he could finally stop to take a breath.

Metaphorically speaking, of course.

I wonder how long it’s been. Someone better have saved me breakfast.

Rain pushed the errant thought away as the walls of the bastion trembled. He still needed to be careful, and the clock was ticking. He concentrated again, his thoughts clinging to the safety of his refuge while simultaneously reaching into the chaos once more.

One.

Again, the concept began to form. If zero was darkness, then one was light. Order again, though of a different form.

The chaos was pushed back, receding as the two concepts flew toward each other through the tumult. As they touched, they merged, the bastion growing to include the twinned concepts of true and false. It was more than that, however. The zone of order expanded. Numbers themselves, binary logic, counting, addition… Each concept built upon the others, strengthening the bubble of structure that Rain had formed within himself.

He concentrated again.

Two… And then, because he couldn’t help himself, he continued in a Transylvanian accent, Ah, ah, ah!

Fortunately, the bastion was strong enough to withstand this sort of distraction at this point. Maintaining it would begin to grow difficult again as he added more numbers, but for now, he was in something of an island of stability. Trying to integrate any concepts save numbers had thus-far resulted in failure, and the best he’d managed so far was counting to fifteen. Today, he was aiming for ten, at which point, he’d try adding negatives.

Just as the number two was about to merge with the bastion, the walls trembled, then it popped like a soap bubble, sand-blasting Rain’s consciousness with the full force of the chaos he’d been holding at bay. He found himself back in his body, opening his eyes to see Tarny staring at him with his hand resting on Rain’s shoulder.

“It’s been an hour, Captain,” Tarny said, removing his hand. “Bringing you back, as ordered.”

Rain sighed. “Thank you, Tarny,” he said. He stretched his neck, working out a kink that had formed while he’d been ignoring his physical needs. “No luck, I’m afraid.” I can’t keep track of time in there. I thought I was going faster than before, but I guess not.

“You’ll get it eventually, Captain,” Tarny said, smiling and offering Rain his hand.

Rain grasped it firmly and allowed the man to pull him to his feet. Tarny had come a long way in the past few weeks, his fervor mellowing into something closer to the loyalty of a friend, if still a bit intense.

Rain quirked a smile. “Okay, Adjutant,” he said in a formal tone. “Report.”

“Yes, Sir,” Tarny said, pulling a clipboard from under his arm. “The count is in for last night’s defense. It’s light, as we expected, given that these are freshspawn. Thirty-seven Tel, two Cold, and two Force. Most have elected to take their shares in credit.”

Rain blinked. “Two Force? Really?”

Tarny nodded. “We don’t know what specific type they came from, as you’d already dissolved the bodies. Speaking of bodies, we’ve delivered the gourmets to Vestvall for processing. As agreed, in exchange for the meat, the townsfolk will tan the skins for us, as well as give us any Tel or Crysts that they extract.”

Rain nodded. He’d already gotten the details of the arrangement from Vanna yesterday. “And the quantity?”

Tarny ran his finger down the clipboard. “Two thousand eight hundred forty-seven kilograms of assorted edible monster corpses. Using our estimated population for Vestvall, that’s three point seven nine six kilograms for every man, woman, and child.”

Rain smiled. “There’s no need to work out the exact division when one of the numbers is a guess.”

Tarny smiled back. “Just did it for the practice, Captain. Oh, that number is gross weight. It does not account for the removal of bones, claws, hides, bowels, and so forth.”

Rain nodded. “Understood. We’ll have to step it up in the future. This should take the edge off, but we need to build a surplus. I’ve got some ideas.”

“Naturally, Captain,” Tarny said, nodding. He turned back to his notebook. “Roll is the same as last night with one exception. All members save Ameliah are accounted for. She left before dawn on a scouting run and has yet to return.”

“Hmm,” Rain frowned. “Did she say when she would be back?”

Tarny shook his head. “No, she did not, nor where she was going—unless she spoke to someone other than the sentries on dawn-watch, that is.”

What’s she up to? Should we wait for her?

Tarny continued as Rain scratched at his beard. “Vanna has ordered the distribution of picks and other mining equipment, borrowed from the townsfolk. As the mayor indicated, we’ve confirmed that the area in which the crack formed was rich in iron. We don’t yet know to what degree it will inhibit Geomancy.”

“Mmm,” Rain said distractedly.

“Shall we prepare to move out as planned, Captain? Rain?”

Rain shook himself, then nodded. “Yes. Sorry, Tarny. We’ll leave at seventh bell. Ameliah will catch up if she’s not back by then, and Corrin should be able to get things going on his own. It will be good practice for him. Besides, if there’s iron, we’ll be using the picks either way. Tallheart will be happy.”

Tarny nodded. “I am sure. Next item, I’ve looked into Crimson Gar and his group. I made sure to speak with everyone who’s interacted with the townsfolk. There are conflicting reports of skill usage, and their behavior could generally be described as juvenile, but not overtly malicious.”

“So, nothing new then,” Rain sighed.

“Not so,” Tarny said. “There is one new detail. Mlem reported speaking to a washerwoman named…Lana. This woman has apparently been helping them with their laundry…among other things. Through this, she has seen each of their plates. All bronze.”

“What other things?” Rain asked, narrowing his eyes.

“Mlem was vague, but it was clear enough.” Tarny spat. “Adventurers.” He snorted, then looked back up at Rain. “As a rule. Present company excluded.”

Rain nodded, though he was scowling as Tarny continued.

“Mlem did say that the washerwoman seemed…well enough. Not in distress or anything, at least not more so than the rest of Vestvall. Merely tired.”

Rain sighed. “I need to know more. I suppose I should talk to Mlem myself.”

Tarny nodded. “Pardon, but what will you do if they are indeed coercing her? Will you confront them?”

Rain sighed. “Yes. I’ll have to.”

Tarny nodded. “Captain, if I may. They’re bronze. You are worrying too much.”

“And I don’t think you’re worrying enough,” Rain said. “You heard my briefing on them yesterday. Do the math. They’re somewhere between level eighteen and level twenty-four, assuming those bronze plates are legitimate. I get the feeling that it’s closer to the top of that range. When they killed the Musk Wolf, they barely even celebrated. That means their caps were higher than that.”

“Oh,” Tarny said, lowering his clipboard. “I hadn’t considered that. I was assuming they’d be the same level as you.”

Rain shook his head. “Even if they were, you shouldn’t use me as a metric for strength. My build is bottlenecked right now. Any off-the-shelf adventurer at my level could kick me to the curb.”

“Is it bad that I am beginning to understand your idioms?” Tarny asked.

Rain snorted. “No, Tarny. Just don’t ask me where I’m from. You know I can’t talk about it.” He rubbed at his neck. “Anything else on Crimson or the others?”

“I’m afraid not,” Tarny said.

Rain sighed. “So be it. Keep an ear to the ground.”

Tarny nodded. “On to less important matters. Firstly, Reason wishes to speak with you concerning the testing of his latest Cold resistance ointment.”

“Is it still stripping the fur?”

“Yes,” Tarny said.

“You tell him no human trials until he can prove to me that it won’t do the same to us.”

“He said you’d say that,” Tarny said, then coughed. “Actually, he said ‘Inform the captain that the pelt of man is unlike that of monster and that timidness is the bane of innovation.’”

Rain snorted. Reason was still speaking like that, even though the entire company was onto his game at this point. “Fine,” Rain said after a moment of consideration. “He can try it. IF he gets a willing volunteer. And I want Tahir on standby to heal any injuries if it goes wrong. You make sure to tell him to test a small quantity first.”

“Yes, Sir,” Tarny said, nodding and making a note. “Next, Samson wishes to speak with you regarding the scheduling of sword instruction. Now that we have arrived at Vestvall, he would like to extend practice to two hours per day, thrice per week.”

“Done,” Rain said, “Ask Lyn and Hanes to extend the staff and archery classes as well, assuming they’re up for it. I’d like to start general combat drills, too, cross-discipline, though we should run that one by Vanna.” He tapped his chin. “Actually, check with her before you extend any of the classes. She might have other plans.”

Tarny nodded, making a note. “And mathematics?”

“Leave that at an hour. People have enough trouble finishing their homework as it is.”

“Thank you, Sir. Your mathematical brilliance is only matched by your boundless mercy.”

“Oh, shut up, Tarny,” Rain said, laughing.

“There is one final, trivial matter. Clubbs has challenged you to a game of chess, reminding you that you insisted upon double or nothing for the rematch. He’s already set up the board over by the well. He is holding your breakfast hostage, I believe.”

Rain froze. “Damn.”

Hegar woke groggily, swiping at his interface to quiet the blaring tone that had dragged him from his sleep. Pulling the cloth from his eyes but not opening them, he groaned as the torchlight pressed against his eyelids.

Another groan from beside him told him that Anton was also struggling awake. Brovose, who was supposed to have been on watch, was snoring heavily. Hegar long-suspected that the man had found a way to disable his interface’s wake-up call—that, or he was actually capable of sleeping through it.

Licking at his fuzzy teeth, Hegar sat up, finally opening his eyes. The Crimson Swords were camped in a section of an old mineshaft, a blazing evertorch lying on the ground where they’d dropped it to provide light. When the Shift had rent the earth, this shaft had been exposed, along with several others. It made for a convenient shortcut, bypassing a particularly narrow and claustrophobic section of the crack that led to what they were calling the second chasm.

“Fah,” Anton said, throwing aside his blanket. The hook-nosed man sat up and ran his hands through his dirty hair. “Morning already. Feels like I just went to sleep.”

Hegar grunted, hiding the grogginess he himself was feeling. He got to his feet, then kicked at Brovose. “Blame this one. Good thing for us that his snoring kept all the monsters away at the same time it was keeping us awake.”

Brovose grunted and rolled over. “…five more minutes…” he mumbled.

Hegar kicked him again, harder, sending him tumbling right on top of the evertorch. Brovose was up in a flash, frantically patting at his filthy embroidered robe.

“Depths, Gar!” he yelled. “What the fuck?”

