“Serves you right,” Anton said, grinning. “You were supposed to be on watch, idiot.”

“The barrier is still going,” Brovose said after confirming that he wasn’t actually on fire. He pointed down the tunnel, indicating the faint purple tinge to the darkness. “I just got this robe,” he complained, lowering his arm. “I’m going to have to get it mended…”

“What about that way, genius?” Anton asked, pointing in the other direction. “You think that wooden door is going to—”

“Samahleah’s bounteous tits, enough!” Hegar shouted, interrupting him. “I’ve had it with you two!”

“Hey!” Anton pressed a hand against his chest, miming affront. “I’m innocent. He’s the one that—”

“Shut up!” Hegar snapped. Anton, mercifully, closed his mouth, though he didn’t stop grinning. Hegar rounded on Brovose instead. “And you. If you fall asleep on watch again, we’ll fucking leave you there.”

“Pff,” Brovose puffed. “You wouldn’t. The two of you wouldn’t get very far without a mage.”

“Not like we’re getting very far with one,” Anton said. “What’s it gonna be, Gar? Down again, or back to the surface?”

Hegar sighed. “The surface. I need a shower and a hot meal. We’ll try again in a few days once I’ve got my stamina back.”

“I keep saying we should bring some of the townsfolk with us,” Brovose said, then stopped to fight off a yawn. Once he got his jaw back under control, he continued. “We could…pay them, I suppose. Or not.”

“Dead weight is all they’d be,” Hegar grumbled. He ran a hand through his hair, unhappy with the gritty feeling from his scalp. This had not been a clean run in any sense of the word. They hadn’t even made it past the second chasm this time, let alone the third. It didn’t help that something had been eating the torches they’d left along the way.

Hegar pointed at Brovose. “Get the light. We’re going. Anton, I want you in front. Make sure to check the shadows. When you aim, make sure to sight down the arrow, like I showed you. I don’t want you missing again.”

“Fuck you,” Anton said. “It was one shot. You don’t hear me telling you how to use your rapier, do you?”

“That’s another thing,” Brovose interrupted. “We need to talk about our name. It’s inaccurate. Why are we calling ourselves the ‘Crimson Swords’ when Hegar’s got the only one?” While he spoke, he picked up the torch and began walking down the tunnel.

“Because I won the fucking card game is why,” Hegar snapped, hurrying to catch up before he was left in the dark. “For the last time, we’re not changing it.”

There was a thrum of a bowstring, then a screech from the darkness ahead of them. Anton grunted in satisfaction, then lowered his bow. “Brovose is right. The name is stupid.”

“Your face is stupid,” Hegar said.

Anton spluttered in response. “Fuck you, Hegar,” he said coldly, once he recovered. There was a crunch of breaking bone as he swerved out of the way to step on the leg of the fallen Deepcat he’d shot. It let out a pathetic gurgling mewl, dying but not dead. “Anyway, I think—” he stopped suddenly, holding up a hand.

Hegar had heard it too. It was the sound of metal on stone. The sound came again. Pickaxes, striking in unison.

“Come on,” Hegar said, pushing past Anton.

As the three proceeded up the winding tunnel, the sound of the picks grew clearer. They encountered no more monsters, but another sound soon joined that of the picks. Voices, singing in harmony. The words were muffled by the distance and the earth, yet still recognizable.

♫This: the song of sons and daughters,♫

♫Hide, the heart of who we are.♫

♫Making peace to build our future,♫

♫Strong, united, working 'till we fall.♫

At the first word of each line, the picks fell, sending echos of their impact down the tunnel in time with the rhythm of the unfamiliar song.

The villagers? What in all the hells?

The pool of light from Brovose’s torch rounded a bend in the tunnel, bringing into view the rough-hewn wood of the door that they’d helped the villagers install to control this passage. It was still closed, the heavy oak bar in place. Suddenly, there was a shouted command, and the voices cut off along with the rhythm of the picks.

“Seems they heard us,” Brovose said mildly, walking to the door. “I didn’t think the villagers had it in them to make it all the way down here on their own.”

“Out of the way,” Hegar hissed, shoving Brovose aside. He moved up to the door, then grunted as he lifted the massive bar. He threw it to the side with a crash, then pushed the door open and walked out into light.

He froze as his eyes took in the scene. There was rubble everywhere, with fires burning brightly here and there. The large boulders that had been clogging up the bottom of the chasm had been shattered and were in the process of being reduced to gravel. That wasn’t what had brought him to a stop, however. Instead of townsfolk, the wielders of the picks were…

He had no idea.

The first thing that struck Hegar was how clean the people before him were. Each and every one of the perhaps two-dozen figures was wearing a dappled white cloak, completely free of so much as the smallest speck of rock dust despite the fact that he’d just clearly heard them mining. That wasn’t all, either. They were armed with more than just picks. These were warriors, though Hegar could see no plates to mark their affiliation. His well-honed danger senses were ringing harder than they had since the night of the Shift. It was like being under the eye of the Watch back in Fel Sadanis.

One figure, in particular, had Hegar’s heart beating fast. The man, likely the leader, was staring at them from beneath his helmet. He was standing with his dark gauntlets resting one-atop-the-other on the butt of his long-handled pickaxe. The iron head of the pick was planted confidently on the ground in front of him.

This man wasn’t merely armed. This man looked ready for war. His full plate was more impressive than anything Hegar had ever seen, even in the north, and though he couldn’t judge the quality with just a glimpse, the sword belted at the man’s waist would doubtless be of even finer make.

“Hello, Hegar,” the man said in a relaxed tone. “Fancy meeting you here.”

Hegar blinked. “You…know me? Who…?”

The man laughed. “Yes, I know you. And you know me.” He tilted his head, and Hegar got the feeling that he was grinning behind his visor. “Would you care to take a guess?”

Hegar narrowed his eyes, thinking swiftly. Is he with the Guild? No, I’d have heard of a team like this. A noble? He glanced over his shoulder at Anton and Brovose. They both shook their heads, Anton even going so far as to shrug.

He turned back to face the armored man, then scanned the faces of his followers. On the second inspection, not all of them seemed quite so dangerous, after all. Other than their cloaks, their armor was in poor condition and mismatched. A mercenary band? I didn’t think there were any down this way…

“No guess?” the man asked.

Hegar shook his head slowly. He moderated his words, for all that he was beginning to relax. “Remove your helmet, sir, and then I’ll guess all you’d like.” They were on uncertain ground, here. Until he knew how strong this group was, he would need to be careful.

“I will, once Anton puts away that arrow,” the man said.

Anton hissed in surprise, and Hegar’s eyes opened wider. Knowing my name is one thing, but he knows Anton’s too? Hegar thought back, trying to recall whether he’d called Anton anything other than Skinner since he’d decided on the nickname, coming up empty.

“Who are you?” Anton demanded, raising his bow even higher and sending a wave of alarm through the crowd. The leader didn’t react, but several of those behind him reached for weapons.

“Skinner!” Brovose hissed. “Let Crimson handle it! Lower your bow!”

“Fuck off, Sleeper,” Anton hissed back, his voice barely audible. “I’ve got enemies you don’t know about. If he knows me, that’s not good.”

“And do you know him?” Brovose hissed back.

“Don’t think so,” Anton said, still not lowering the bow.

“Relax, Anton,” the man said. “You do know me. You just haven’t realized it yet. Here, I’ll give you a hint. What is the word in common for a flying animal with feathers?”

“What?” Hegar asked, looking at him in bewilderment. “What kind of heat-fevered question is that?”

“A bird…” Anton said slowly. When Hegar turned to look at him, there was a strange expression on his face.

“No,” the armored man said, bringing Hegar’s head back around. “The correct answer is ‘a shit.’”

“No FUCKING way!” Anton shouted, almost dropping his bow.

“What the hells is going on?” Hegar demanded, rounding on him.

“That voice…” Brovose said, humming to himself.

A clink of metal floated to Hegar’s ears, and he turned to see that the armored man had reached up and was removing his helmet. It came away revealing a young-ish man with brown hair and a short, well-trimmed beard. The man’s features were vaguely familiar, but he couldn’t place them. He was particularly struck by the eyes. There was an intensity behind those brown irises that felt out of place on the man’s otherwise unremarkable face. Those were the eyes of someone who’d experienced pain, time and again, and each time decided that it would not stop them from achieving their goals. It was the look that separated an adventurer from a child that was merely pretending. This man has seen things.

The man smiled, raising his hands disarmingly, and Hegar noticed that his teeth were unnaturally white. Suddenly, it clicked. Hegar’s eyes widened in stupefied recognition. He could only think of one person he’d ever seen who’d had teeth like that. What the fu—

“It is you!” Anton blurted.

The man smiled wider. “Yes.”

“You are…” Brovose said, trailing off. After a moment, he snapped his fingers. “Rame!”

The man blinked, and there was an awkward pause as he stared at Brovose. “Rain,” he said.

“Is this some kind of fucking joke?” Hegar demanded, looking around. “There’s no way…” he trailed off, returning to inspecting the man’s face. The curve of the nose, the line of the jaw. It was the same man. Just several stone lighter and with the beard. And those eyes. He definitely hadn’t had those before.

It was Anton who spoke next. “You were pretending the whole time,” he said accusingly, using the deadly tone that he adopted whenever he was considering killing someone. Rain’s smile vanished as Anton raised his bow again. “Who the fuck are you, really? The man we found couldn’t even speak. Are you an Adamant Empire agent? No… Are you even human? You’re a mimic, aren’t you? You killed that mute idiot and took his skin.” Anton drew back on his bow, stopping about half-way.

The man raised his hands non-threateningly, looking mildly alarmed and perhaps a bit hurt. His people reacted much more strongly, dropping their picks to draw swords and ready other weapons. A Firebolt popped into existence above the upraised finger of a youth with fiery hair even redder than Brovose’s. He didn’t release the magic, trapping it instead in a show of control. The fire flickered and pulsed hungrily, as if straining to break free.

“Skinner, stop,” Brovose hissed. “Whether it’s him or not, look around. We’re outnumbered.”

“Yes, Skinner,” Hegar said through his teeth, putting a hand on his arm and forcing the bow down. “A fight would be bad for us, even if it’s worse for them,” He turned to look at Rain. “There’s no need for violence.”

Yet, he added to himself.

Controlling his expression, Hegar stepped forward, extending a hand. “Apologies, Rain, if that is who you really are. Is the woman with you?”

“She’s around,” Rain said, extending his hand to meet Hegar’s.

Hegar took it, then squeezed, hard. Unfortunately, the man’s gauntlet prevented him from getting an accurate measure of the man’s strength that way. The armor, at least, was as sturdy as it appeared to be. The man’s grip was firm, but not crushing. “Tell me,” Hegar asked, still gripping tightly. “What was her name?”

“Ameliah,” Rain said. He nodded to Brovose. “And that’s Brovose, though I hear he’s going by ‘The Sleeper’ these days. I’ve gotta say, it fits, though it’s a little generic.” He looked at Brovose, then shrugged. “Sorry, Brovose, but it’s true.” He looked back at Hegar, who quickly hid his smile. “Anyway,” Rain continued, “you three saved me from a Musk Wolf, then forced me to fight a slime with a burning stick. Satisfied that it’s really me?”

Anton snorted. “Well, you’ve proven you have his memories, skin-stealer.”

“Wait, are mimics actually a thing?” Rain asked. He looked down at Hegar’s hand, still holding his own. “Can I have my hand back now, please?”

Hegar reluctantly released it, having learned nothing. His instincts were giving him mixed signals. He had no idea how strong this man really was, or even who he really was.

“Listen,” Rain said, motioning for his people to back down. The kid with the Firebolt launched it up into the air, where it detonated harmlessly. Rain cleared his throat. “No hard feelings about tying me up. In the end, you saved me. That wolf would have had me if you three and Ameliah hadn’t come along.”

“Right…” Hegar said slowly. He shook himself. “Past aside…” He looked around. “What is this? What is your purpose here?”

“This is Ascension,” Rain said, as if that explained more than fuck-all. “The mayor asked us to secure the crack. We’re clearing the boulders so we can get some more fires going. I’d appreciate you telling us anything you can about what we might find below.” He gestured. “That tunnel behind you. Where does it go?”

“Down,” Hegar said, warily.

“And it’s ours,” Anton added. Hegar turned and glared at him, then mouthed the words, ‘later, idiot.’

“Is that so?” said Rain, scratching at his beard. He lowered his hand, then replaced his helmet on his head. Hegar stiffened, but the man didn’t make any further hostile motions. He placed his hands atop his pick once more. “I believe that is something we’ll have to discuss with the mayor. This land belongs to Vestvall, not to you. You will have to share, I’m afraid.” A note of cold entered the man’s voice. “We’ve heard reports of your…behavior in the city. That stops.”

“Is that a threat?” Brovose asked mildly. “Just so we’re clear.”

“Yes,” Rain said. “I suppose it is.”

