“We’re just the unchosen who want to spit in the eyes of fate. We wish to claim destiny that belongs to someone else. You might not understand it, but we’re honester than anyone else.”
“Sure you are.”
The [Innkeeper] spun her wheel, and her ship listed starboard. Jiupe’s eyes popped—then she began to snarl. She whirled.
“Take us into them. And signal Maxy.”
Her [Navigator] spun the wheel—then looked up and swore.
“She’s coming back at us! Brace!”
Jiupe whirled and saw The Naga’s Den had swung away—but she was coming closer. Closer—and now the [Innkeeper] was looking her right in the eye.
She never intended to parlay. That look in her eyes—no mercy, no regrets.
Jiupe backed away from the railing and snarled. She raised her voice in a roar.
“Brace and then carve them down! Kill—”
Then the two ships collided.
Blood-By-Tide met The Naga’s Den as the two ships rammed into each other. The Naga’s Den was over four hundred feet long, and Blood-By-Tide was half her size, but still large enough, squatter and reinforced by a Bloodtear Captain’s Skills.
Enchanted wood met alongside the hulls, and at first the magic and slicked wood groaned against each other with a sound to set the teeth on edge. But the rumbling grind that set a horror in a [Sailor]’s soul became louder and louder. Blood-By-Tide was trying to back away as Jiupe howled.
Wood began to scream, and the paint rubbing away turned to the crack of boards. Both ships were caving in, wood snapping like explosions, and splinters of wood and nails spraying into the air with nowhere to go.
The bones of the ship began to meet air as more thunderous booms heralded parts of each ship bowing inwards. Timber pressed up against other wood that compressed—then, with nowhere to go—began to pulverize.
Magic enchantments began to flare, and wild spells began to vent outwards, unleashing their spells or raw magic that met and mingled with the rain as blooms of color, drowning out shouts and screams as the crews of both ships were thrown off their feet.
The [Innkeeper] drew closer to the [Captain], and now the two women were staring at each other, ignoring the wood splintering around them. Jiupe and Erin Solstice didn’t blink.
It was like a bar fight. Blood in her eyes. Someone beating Jiupe across the face as she struck back, again and again, until she punched bones in. Jiupe refused to give an inch. She ground her teeth together—
Then they were underwater, and she was drowning. There wasn’t anyone to punch—there was just the insane pressure of the deeps, and they were sinking. She couldn’t breathe.
The Drowned Woman convulsed, and she saw Erin Solstice doubling over. Blood running from her eyes and ears and nostrils. She couldn’t breathe either—but her eyes were still locked on Jiupe, and her hair was burning pink.
She couldn’t—breathe—her head was exploding. Her ship was howling, and the crew were screaming something. Someone shook Jiupe, again and again—but she was drowning in those eyes.
Splintering wood. A body drawn into that maw of breaking wood and pulped in a bloody spray. Water, entering her hull—and Jiupe jerked away. She gasped for air—and the [Innkeeper]’s aura crushed hers.
 
——
 
“Captain? Captain, they’re boarding—”
Rosiere grabbed Captain Jiupe. The woman had fallen over suddenly. Maybe it was the impact? He saw Jiupe stir—and her hand, normally capable of crushing iron, was shaking. Her mouth was open, and her nose was bleeding—she looked dazed.
“Her aura—”
Rosiere stared at Jiupe until he realized what had happened. Had she just lost an aura clash? Jiupe? Why couldn’t she move?
Then Rosiere looked up, and Jiupe heard shouting. The two ships had ceased grinding at each other, and a boarding plank had been dropped.
Ghosts were charging down at them. The Bloodtear Pirates halfway towards the enemy ship froze as they saw dead men and women advancing, firing crossbows and wands.
“Take ‘em out! ‘Ware spellcasters!”
Rosiere cut one of Dakelos’ crew in half, grateful they could be hurt with regular weapons, but a black spell burned a hole through one of his crewmates. And the ghosts…there was no destiny to steal from the dead.
The Bloodtear Pirates realized more were coming. And not just ghosts.
“Follow the [Innkeeper].”
Something leapt down, a Demon from Rhir. A monster tall and wearing a suit of all things, and ghosts were followed by House Shoel. They were all charging down the gangplank, the [Admiral], a Hobgoblin.
Erin Solstice—
“Kill the [Admiral]! Kill the—”
Rosiere bellowed. It was so simple. He saw the [Innkeeper] surging downwards after the first rank and leapt at her. She sprayed an open jar of green liquid at him and pointed her wand.
He half-dodged the acid, and the bolt struck his sword. It vibrated, and Rosiere screamed as his face burned. He saw Erin Solstice inhale and, for a moment, remembered a stupid rumor about her.
Then she breathed black fire, and the screaming [Pirate] tore at the flames. He raised his sword to cut at her, but that thing—that Demon—no, that Devil seized his arm and tore the sword loose. Then the clawed hand gripped Rosiere’s head and began twisting.
Rosiere refused to die for a while. He saw, as his neck began to crack, refusing to move at first even under the incredible strength, more ghosts pouring down. A woman vaporizing one of his crew.
Why are we losing? Where’s Captain Jiupe? Then, as Rosiere’s skin began to tear and he screamed—he saw Jiupe staggering to her feet.
 
——
 
Captain Jiupe’s first blow was wide and drunken. She couldn’t put any strength in her shaking arms. Her aura was gone—and the [Innkeeper]’s cut drove across her face, releasing poisoned blood.
“You can’t kill us all. Your destiny—”
The woman slurred, reeling backwards as Erin advanced. The [Innkeeper] dodged a slash and a jab from the tendrils and cut Jiupe deep along one arm. Jiupe went for a leg sweep—Erin pointed as her eyes flashed.
“[Apista’s Jetflame].”
Jiupe dodged the roaring flames as they pushed Erin back. The flames burned at Jiupe, but her shaking limbs regained some strength, and she snarled and charged Erin, arms wide and coated in her poisoned blood.
In response, Erin jumped, hovered in the air, and one boot kicked Jiupe in the face. Down both women went, and Jiupe rolled—just in time for Erin to nail the dagger straight through Jiupe’s shoulder, armor and all.
It was sharper than—Jiupe didn’t feel the pain, but she screamed in fury. She was still drowning in the deep, and Erin Solstice’s aura was crushing her. She thrashed with her jellyfish arm, spitting, trying to land a bit of poison on the [Innkeeper] as Erin stood back.
“Maxy’ll have your blood. You think you can stop Bloodtear? There’s nothing you can do to stop us, even if you kill a dozen [Captains]!”
“I don’t care!”
Erin Solstice screamed at Jiupe. The [Captain] stopped thrashing and looked up at Erin. She tried to stand up—and something shoved Jiupe flat.
She’s supposed to be an [Innkeeper]. She’s got no inn. 
But the woman looked like she was a dead woman walking to her noose. She put a boot on Jiupe’s chest as the [Captain] struggled. Jiupe’s crew was dying. But she saw those hazel eyes burning wide and insane.
“They told me to try and save the world. The ghosts gave me their secrets and hopes, their last will. I have it all here when I deserved to carry none of it.”
Erin struck her chest, and Jiupe stared up at her, bloody mouth open. The [Innkeeper] looked down at the [Captain]. Her chest was heaving, and a Hobgoblin holding a bloody sword stopped when she saw Erin.
“I was so afraid of dying again. There is nothing thereafter but a petty, cruel afterlife and empty oblivion. Or worse.”
Jiupe saw it in her eyes. Madness was in her gaze. Proper Bloodtear madness. The [Innkeeper] clenched a fist to her chest—then she let it go.
“All of it. All of it. I will give it away to watch the life flicker out of your eyes. I’ll give it all away to save just him. We are all damned. There’s no destiny or salvation I care for. There is no tomorrow. Not for us.”
The Drowned Woman stared up as Erin pointed her wand down at her. Her mouth moved soundlessly, bloodlessly as the [Innkeeper] fired the spell three times. Then she bent down to pick up her knife, wiped it twice, and rose. Erin spoke into Jiupe’s emptying eyes.
“Tell Death we will settle it all soon.”
The decks were still full of fighting, but the [Innkeeper] strode back up the gangplank. The Lucifen were surrounding a single pile of ash, an outline of a body. Forty of them staring down—then up at her.
She ignored them all. The Hobgoblin was the only one Erin counted as the [Admiral] pulled his forces back—then her head turned. She stared through the storm and swung the wheel around.
“There you are.”
Blood-By-Tide was sinking into the waters, and Jiupe’s eyes stared up at the rain falling onto her unblinking visage. [Pirates] singing into the storm, then calling a new name into stones. Maxy’s voice, growing louder.
No regrets the [Innkeeper] left in her wake. No mercy. Waters turned crimson and skies black in the day. Each ship she met running bloody.
She fought until she died.
 
——
 
The [Pirates] loved to board ships. If they reached the wheel, rudder, mast, or any other critical part of the ship, you were dead.
Until those moments, Rabbiteater was helpless. He could use a bow as well as most [Archers], but he just stood or sat, hunkering down and conserving his energy for the melee that would decide life or death.
Cortese was more useful, activating his Skills, and Menrise was the one who could conjure shields, attack with spells, or call for support from other ships and the magical kingdoms.
Seraphel was useless at all times. So she watched as a rain of [Light Arrows] covered the ground behind her, wrapping a bandage around one of the [Soldiers] of Calanfer, who was bowing to her as she stemmed the bleeding from an arrow gone through a wrist.
The [Healers] had told her the arrow would cause more bleeding if removed. Arrows of light struck the ships behind Throne’s Will, an unending torrent of glowing stars.
—The [Pirates] had no reason to look so magnificent as they sailed straight through the onslaught. Most barely even cared about the damage Calanfer’s magic was causing.
Father must be burning through spell after spell in our vaults. The Kingdoms of Terandria had thrown Skill and spell across the ocean, but so few did anything.
This chase had lasted forty minutes, and the Throne’s Will unleashed another broadside of [Light Orbs]. More glowing lights that the [Pirates] tried to shoot down before they burst and broke holes in the hulls. Like gentle bubbles homing in on their targets.
Menrise’s magic was less beautiful, but more practical. A [Fireball] blew apart in the air before it reached one of the ships closing on her. It wasn’t magic that halted the spell, but the insects.
Shifthold was coming. Two half-Elven ships from Gaiil-Drome were Shifthold’s target. The Alchemist Irurx didn’t even look up; his ship was surrounded by flying beetles, huge, hand-sized with mandibles like razors, that shielded him from arrows and spells alike.
“Throne’s Will. We are fleeing with last wind spells. Conjured current from home. Regrets.”
Seraphel saw a series of flashing lights from one of the ship’s starboard lanterns and realized the two half-Elven ships were turning away. Fleeing from Wistram into the storm. They were accelerating.
“Throne’s Will to Distant Canopies. Luck. We will slow the [Alchemist] if possible.”
Someone flashed a response over the decks. Seraphel knew this and relayed the messages out loud several minutes before someone told the rest of the crew what was happening.
[Intercept Missive]. [Codebreaker’s Tongue]. Some of her [Princess] Skills that had little use—well, some.
Throne’s Will kept firing light spells from the stern and port sides, but Shifthold was already breaking away from the other [Pirate] vessels. Slowly, but with gaining speed as the [Alchemist] activated his own spells and alchemical means, he accelerated, and the two half-Elven ships broke into the storm.
Some ships were fleeing the main fleet’s combat and just—sailing into the storm. Taking the chance they’d just escape notice and live. Seraphel had seen some get away, to all her understanding, alive. Others? She’d seen Admiral Maxy’s ship chase down one, and the crimson flare across the horizon had revealed Longshot Gamble hours later, returning from a hunt.
Luck. That was all the Calanferian ship could offer. No wishes, no courage or hope. There was none Seraphel saw on the faces around her.
Thronebearers had fought like Kaaz’s lions for days now, and she thought she had misjudged them. They had held the decks against the sea’s worst [Pirates], shoulder-to-shoulder with soldiers and even civilians, until the red washed over their boots with the surf and they fell into the waters.
And still. Here was Seraphel.
After she finished tending to everyone who was resting in the cabin’s interior, Seraphel fiddled with a speaking stone and scroll. She was tending to the [Message] spells herself, and the other ship communications, though both were unreliable.
“Throne’s Will. Seeking your position.”
That was coming from…Prince Iradoren’s ship, Legend’s Wake. Seraphel had told the [Captain] not to answer. The [Prince] had his own battles to lead. Seraphel’s back prickled as she wondered why, of all the nations, including his own, he kept asking about them.
She chanced a glance sideways, and a single person was so still, not even watching the fighting, that she wondered if he were taking a nap.
But not even the Goblin [Knight] had the ability to sleep right now. Rather, Rabbiteater was staring at something behind them. Head pointed towards one wall, but she was sure he saw the person he claimed was following them, regardless of storm and [Pirates].
“Is she still there, Rabbiteater?”
“Yes.”
His voice was…it was bitter. Bitter, tired, weary of this battle. She had heard him cursing the [Pirates] during the fighting, voice filled with frustration. He saw no meaning in this, even if he somehow understood the Bloodtear Pirates better than she or Cortese or Menrise could.
However, Rabbiteater’s voice was also—relieved? Hopeful? Filled, Seraphel thought, with envy, with something she had known only a few times.
Reassured. Like a girl Seraphel had once been, who believed the Eternal Throne really was a place where nothing bad could happen, where parents could solve the world’s problems and each bad day was something that only got in the way of your happy-ever-after.
And she thought, for the first time in her life—
What a naïve Goblin.
