Then a voice made both her and Rabbiteater glance down at the speaking stone again.
“—disrupted our [Sphere of the Ideal Climate] spell—will not be able to revive it. Spellcasting will continue to disrupt [Pirates] as best we can. Condolences, Terandrian fleet.”
A new voice through the scrying orb. That was Archmage Viltach, his voice ragged, shouting, and a roar of some gigantic, inhuman voice behind him.
Apparently, Wistram was both assessing damages from some kind of attack as well as fighting undead. It meant nothing to Seraphel as Rabbiteater sat there.
“Rhir and the Iron Vanguard. No one’s coming to help from Wistram. Your [Innkeeper] is braver than Archmages and the Blighted Kingdom’s soldiers, it seems, Rabbit.”
The [Princess]’ tone was bitter. The Goblin just nodded his head once.
“Yes. I wish she wasn’t, but she wouldn’t be her without it. Huh.”
He sat there a second, then his head dipped—jerked up—as if he were waking up. Rabbiteater slapped the sides of his head briskly, making a faint metallic noise as some of the Terandrians in Seraphel’s cabin and the [Princess] looked at him.
“What am I doing?”
“Resting. You can’t do much out there, Rabbit.”
Seraphel peeked her head out the window, and a stray boulder hit the seas past the Throne’s Will. The [Pirate] ships weren’t even close enough to do more than exchange long-range fire.
That wasn’t what he meant. Cortese half-carried Menrise in, and the two collapsed, exhausted, as Mariel and the servants attending to Seraphel ran to get them water, a towel—Rabbiteater sat up as Cortese sat down, eyes blank.
“Nah. This pointless war…Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat were worse. That was just people dying for land. For country. But I liked the silly [Knights]. I left my home because I was sad. And because I thought Talia was hot.”
Some water came back out of Menrise’s own helmet as Seraphel opened her mouth. Cortese focused on Rabbiteater slowly as some of the wounded [Soldiers] pivoted, despite it all.
“Did I hear you correctly? Did you, Rabbiteater, join the war initially because—”
“Yep. It didn’t work out.”
Rabbiteater looked around.
“What? It was a good reason for me. I didn’t stay and fight because of her. I stayed because I liked the Order of Seasons and the people. But it was a stupid war. These [Pirates] have better reasons than the nations. Still bad reasons, but…they’re easier to kill.”
He was getting up, resting one hand against a wall. His visor swung to Seraphel, to Menrise, to Cortese, who looked so worn from the proud [Hundredlord] they had met.
“Now she’s come for me. A reason as stupid as mine. All for one silly…”
He trailed off. Then, Rabbiteater looked straight at the 4th Princess of Calanfer and gestured at the speaking stone she held.
“Seraphel. Can you do me a favor?”
“Yes. Anything.”
She was relieved to have anyone need her help. Rabbiteater turned his head away from what only he could see.
“Get me…in touch with Wistram. And the Iron Vanguard. Every ship close to us.”
“Why?”
“I’m going to try something stupid. If it doesn’t work, it doesn’t work.”
The [Princess] heard him inhaling, saw his chest rising and falling now, as if a silent figure who had drenched himself in rain and blood until he couldn’t tell which was which were waking from a slumber. He looked brighter, even, but perhaps that was just her imagination.
Cortese gazed at Rabbiteater with a sudden look of curiosity, and Menrise made a faint, mocking laughing sound. Neither one moved as Seraphel fiddled with the speaking stone, murmured into it, then raised the stone.
“—Throne’s Will. You are addressing Captain Toheart of Paranfer’s Legion. We have our orders. At this time—”
“—mge Viltach. We cannot provide any more spellcasting support. Feor is coordinating all strikes through Rainbringer at this—”
A number of voices were sounding through the stone. Some [Captain] from Rhir, the Archmages of Wistram, and Tulm the Mithril’s brisk voice.
“The Iron Vanguard is unwilling to reopen negotiations, Your Highness of Calanfer. Closing the connection—”
“You cowards.”
Rabbiteater gripped the stone in one hand and spoke into it. The voices speaking stopped abruptly.
“—se me? Who is this?”
The distorted voice of Archmage Viltach was affronted. Rabbiteater exhaled.
“Ser Solstice on Throne’s Will. Who’s listening?”
 
“I am Strategist Tulm the Mithril of the Iron Vanguard.”
“—mage Viltach, speaking for the [Mages] of Wistram.”
“Captain Toheart of the Rhirian 2nd Fleet—”
“—earing you, Ser Solstice. Griffindance. Say again? Is this a warning?”
 
Seraphel had tuned him to every ship and [Mage] in range. Including Bloodtear Pirates, she suspected. Maybe that was too many, but the Goblin never hesitated.
“To all ships who can hear me. This is Ser Solstice on Throne’s Will. I’m with the [Princess]. This is an order: stop running and get over here. You Iron Vanguard, you stupid [Mages], and everyone else. Get over here, you cowards. Or, if I survive, I’ll kick all of your heads in.”
The three other members of the Ivory Five, the Calanferians, and everyone else fell silent. A cold voice replied to Rabbiteater.
“Your orders are disregarded, Ser Solstice. You have no authority over the Iron Vanguard.”
“I have all the authority over you, Tulm the Mithril.”
Rabbiteater pointed a finger at the speaking stone glowing in his palm. Another pause—and the voice replied.
“Closing connection.”
The Goblin’s reply was to speak louder into the stone.
“—I am ordering you to get over here and fight. Is the Iron Vanguard made up of complete cowards? Ignore the [Strategist]. I want every [Mage] in Wistram here. Swim if you have to. Every ship who can hear me, you’re next. Either stand with us and fight or go join the Bloodtear Pirates like those [Storm Sailor] cowards.”
He didn’t have much vocabulary. He’d used ‘cowards’ four times, but Seraphel couldn’t turn her head away from the Goblin.
“—respect, Ser Solstice—”
“Shut up. Send the Golems if the [Mages] aren’t brave enough. Would you just—”
Rabbiteater smashed a fist into the wall in frustration, and his head rose to that distant [Innkeeper]. His voice shook with emotion.
“Would you just prove you deserve this new world you want so much? Every child in Liscor and monster of Izril is braver than you. Keep sailing on. Next time, it’ll be your turn, and no one will come for you. We’re right here. Get over here and help or keep sailing until you fall over the edge of the world. The Blighted Kingdom? Wistram? The Iron Vanguard? Show up, you cowards. Or don’t ever look me in the eye again. Seraphel, turn this off.”
He tossed it at her, and the [Princess] caught the speaking stone. The outraged silence on the other end of the stone…she lifted it to her lips, about to sign off or say something suitable. What came out was—
“This new era does not belong to piss-streaked observers offering condolences. Good day to you.”
Then she turned the speaking stone off, and she saw Rabbiteater nod at her.
“Nice insult.”
Menrise spoke after a moment.
“I liked yours, too. Rabbiteater, you’re properly insane, you know?”
“Maybe. You should meet my friends.”
He walked out into the storm. Now, Seraphel followed, heedless of the rain, but it didn’t touch her dress. Rather—she saw a barrier in the air upon which the storm broke.
A [Knight], a [Champion], walked across the ship, ignoring the storm, the oncoming ships, and the spells landing around him. He was engulfed in an aura.
Two, mixed and mingled so they looked like one.
[Aura of the Hearth]. [Aura of the Brave].
Together, it made the air around him change. Manifesting the vision in his heart. He raised his axe, and the Thronebearers and crew looked at him
If they were watching, perhaps they saw it. Vengeful, hungry [Pirates]. A furious [Prince]. Unsettled, insulted observers.
A figure wearing armor, a cloak of blood pooling around him, holding a golden axe with a jade edge up to the sky. A mysterious man whose face was hidden by a scarred and battered helmet.
The light of an inn played around him in the raging storm. He held his weapon higher, waving it as if beckoning.
Follow me. I have all the authority to command you I need. 
Follow me. You have no excuse not to. 
Seraphel raised her voice as she saw Rabbiteater’s intentions and lifted her arm.
“Captain. Stop that ship from advancing.”
The [Captain] who was manning the wheel himself to let his [Navigator] rest looked around, and Rabbiteater’s head turned. Seraphel was pointing at Shifthold and the Alchemist Irurx.
“Your Highness!”
Ser Thilowen had kept them from engaging any dangerous ships or risking Throne’s Will. He began to override her, and Rabbiteater pointed at him.
“Shut. Up.”
The [Knight] began to speak, and it was as if someone came up from behind him as Rabbiteater’s aura bore down on him. A hand upon Thilowen’s shoulder, and he saw a glowing figure smile—and he could not speak.
Rabbiteater’s [Boon of the Guest] was fading, but flames still exited the slits of his visor, and Shifthold seemed to shiver as the Throne’s Will changed course to intercept. The [Knights] and [Soldiers] on the deck looked up as the Goblin Slayer of Izril stood there.
“I feel silly.”
He spoke as Seraphel approached him. The Goblin was looking at his free hand, then across the sea. He didn’t understand why Cortese and Menrise stopped and Seraphel was gazing at him like that.
“Keep doing whatever you’re doing, Rabbiteater.”
That was her advice to him. The Goblin tilted his head towards her, then she knew he smiled behind his helmet. He raised his axe and pointed it at the enemy ship.
On board it, a single figure, Alchemist Irurx, turned his head with a stare of madness at Rabbiteater. No fear, only contempt, as the two ships slowly neared. Thilowen shouted.
“They’re firing alchemical potions! Get Her Highness to cover!”
It was just like every other engagement in this long battle. Dame Neranthei lifted a shield, and Thronebearers lined up, waiting as the two ships drew alongside each other. The sneering Irurx pointed at Rabbiteater, and the [Knight] exhaled.
They never understood it. Each and every time—Irurx looked so confident, so sure of himself as he lifted his arms to marshal his crew and use some dread Skill. Then that sneer changed to surprise as his ship rocked, and a shower of exploding arrows rained across his deck. He turned his head—and Seraphel saw a pair of ships circling back.
“Throne’s Will, we are joining you.”
A voice—the half-Elves of Gaiil-Drome. Seraphel saw the distant figure of Irurx swirl, a snarl on his lips—then his mad gaze turned back.
Towards that laughing Goblin. Unable to conceive of why things were going wrong. Then—the [Knight] was bracing as he stood there, waving Seraphel to cover and calling her stupid again.
Like he was just one warrior in the battle and not someone who had made the storm swirl around him. He kept looking back, engulfed in the aegis of an inn. Surrounded by a brighter day as he pointed at the [Alchemist] now trying to break away and escape.
The [Princess] swore as she grabbed the [Captain] and ordered him to change headings once they broke away from Shifthold—she looked back at Rabbiteater, then scanned through the storm and began to plot the trajectory of Legend’s Wake. That they might avoid…
—She swore the silly Goblin would make it out of this storm. Elsewise, how would he continue to surprise her? Then her smile faded, and she saw the [Pirates] driving out of the storm at them, like moths drawn to his light.
But he refused to stop glowing.
 
——
 
“Erin!”
She took the decks of the second ship like the first. A mindless charge off The Naga’s Den’s decks and into the Bloodtear Pirates savaging another ship. Lucifen. Ghosts.
The Horns of Hammerad saw The Naga’s Den slam into a pair of ships locked in combat, and Pisces saw Erin charge over the decks. Colth’s voice mingled with Vofea’s scream and Ceria’s command.
“Turn! Turn and kill the bastards!”
“There are more ships coming—”
“I’m on them. Don’t let them flank her damn ship. Horns—charge!”
Ceria leapt into the waters again, and Pisces desperately whirled the undead ship until he was on a collision course with the Bloodtear Pirates. Then he heard Ksmvr shouting.
“Vofea, keep behind me. Keep—”
Death. Pisces sensed it in the air before they even slammed into the other ship. Erin was out there. This new ship—he had no idea who they were.
[Pirates]? They looked—young.
 
——
 
“There’s an [Innkeeper] aboard The Naga’s Den, and she’s killed Jiupe. 2nd Armada, look out for it. More ships in the water. Not friendly. ‘Ware your backsides.”
Maxy’s voice crackled through a speaking stone held by Zoler, the Dullahan who led the Newblood crew of the [Pirates]. They’d been unable to commit to a full scale assault despite the eagerness of the younger [Pirates]. It was a weird kind of mercy, this time. The older [Pirates] had taken all the risks at the start, and only this final battle had a proper melee developed where it was death or glory, every ship for itself.
Zoler had led her crew against two ships without taking either one; they’d fought across both decks before the ships had separated. Her blood was afire, and she was looking around for the Iron Vanguard.
She’d sworn to Admiral Rosech she’d die before her father, Tulm, attacked. He was probably waiting for afterwards to attack survivors, and she’d sworn to head off his ships. So she was glad enough to be alive.
But what a battle. If she’d seen Prince Iradoren or those half-Giants, Zoler would have gone for them, oaths or not. She was burning up, but when she saw that ship and heard Maxy’s voice, a [Light] spell had gone out in her head.
The Naga’s Den? An [Innkeeper]?
Could it be? No. But then she heard someone screaming about an adventurer group in the storm. It couldn’t be.
The Horns of Hammerad? Her Newblood crew was half Izrilian ‘Vampires’, or whatever they were, but the other half were young [Pirates], and they watched scrying orbs, same as everyone else. Zoler’s favorite team were the crazy Silver-rankers who’d cleared two dungeons and had an Antinium and all sorts at sea.
“That’s it! That’s The Naga’s Den! Dead gods, she’s smashing into The Troll Marauders. Captain, should we bail ‘em out?”
At first, Zoler was focused on the huge ship, which came in for an insane ramming impact towards both ships. Whoever was steering it didn’t have a care for the ship!
