“Ser Gorethem! Now or never if you please!”
A single huge man was striding down the length of his ship. One side of his armor was torn open, and arrows were pitting his flesh. He looked half-dead—but the sword he carried?
Gorethem Krakenblood, the Lance of Kaazaldrin, finally stopped and found—some spot on the Kraken’s tentacle that Anand realized was just above one of the huge, blinking eyes. A slight bulge to the flesh—the man raised his greatsword high, grimacing in pain, and his voice silenced even the Antinium’s screams and Torthe’s shriek.
“[Sword Art: The Kraken Bleeds].”
When he swung his sword, the shockwave blew Anand off his feet and sent him spinning as the Waterproof rocked. He was terrified he’d go flying into the surf, but he hit one railing of the ship designed to prevent just that and got up. What was happening? The rain was hot and sticky and—
He realized it was purple, gushing down, and looked up.
Kraken blood was raining down from a gigantic wound forty feet tall. A terrific cheer arose—for a moment, then shouts of despair. Ser Gorethem was kneeling, his greatsword smoking from the force of the impact, but the Kraken’s tentacle wasn’t severed.
The damn thing wasn’t even cut halfway through. The entire limb convulsed from the blow, however, and the massive, round eye set into the Kraken’s limb was rolling around in pain. Anand waited for the tentacle to drag them down as the Kraken tried to pull its catch into the water, enraged and in pain.
—Then he realized something weird was happening. The tentacle that had formed a huge spiral around the four ships was slowly uncurling. The rest of the limb was pulling down fast, but, Anand realized—
He’s hit the brain! Or some kind of control muscle. The member of the Thousand Lances knew something about Krakens, and like a severed nerve in a hand, the Kraken was unable to keep contracting its tentacle. Anand looked around, trying to calculate where the uncurling tentacle would—
“Torthe! Steer us there and row! Row!”
“What? Are you mad?”
Anand was pointing at a wall of moving flesh, but the [Strategist] seized the wheel, and Goat waved his flags furiously. Row! Row!
The other three vessels saw his ship moving ahead and followed him. Pure herd mentality—but as Anand saw the tentacle sinking, the tip of it passed by, and an opening revealed itself.
The desperate three ships made it out of range of the Kraken’s tentacle before the waters sucked down everything around it. The purple bloodstain vanished in a vortex—along with one of the [Pirate] ships too slow to follow Anand’s vessel.
“Dead gods! Dead gods! Dead—”
Torthe was screaming, and the Antinium were hugging each other. Anand was dizzy, sick, covered in blood—and he had not a moment to celebrate because a second later he heard a shout.
“Kill the bastards and let’s get out of here before the Kraken comes back! Come on, lads, he’s used his best Skill!”
The Antinium in their low-to-the-water vessel looked up and saw two ships ram into each other again. Incredibly, the moment they realized they’d been spared oblivion, the Bloodtear Pirates charged the Terandrian vessel. They leapt back on board the deck, and one of them pointed.
“[Covering Fire: Longshot Gamble]! Have another, Ser Knight!”
It must have activated some kind of long-range support Skill because a flaming projectile shot out of the air, hit the member of the Thousand Lances, and sent him bouncing across the deck. The nobleman and [Soldiers] rushed forwards, shouting desperately, and Anand even saw giant cats yowling and fighting the [Pirates].
“Kaaz! Kaaz and the Thousand Lances!” 
“For the Hundred Families of—”
The Terandrians were losing. The decks were covered in purple blood, and the rain and swaying decks meant that the [Pirates] had the edge on footing, and they seemed faster, stronger, and more used to the sea than this other kingdom.
Of course, if the Terandrians were bad at sea…the Antinium were the furthest out of their element. Their tiny tub could barely hold sixty Antinium, which was all that Wrymvr could even carry. No wonder the [Pirates] ignored them in their frenzy to kill the Kaazians and get out of here.
The Terandrians likewise would have first attacked the Antinium as monsters if they even had a second to breathe.
Which was why the first [Pirate] was really surprised when an Antinium climbed a rope Torthe had secured, tumbled onto the deck, and rocked back and forth before pulling another Antinium up.
“Uh.”
The [Pirate] stared at Goat as the Free Antinium rose. Goat had a goat painted on his chest, and he had a sword and shield and armor gifted to him by the Armored Queen on him. The Antinium slid sideways in the rain. He looked like the least dangerous thing in the world, and the [Pirate] began to ignore him.
—Until another Antinium tumbled over the side of the ship and pointed a finger.
“[Steady Ground]. [Combined Arms]—take the flank. [Archers]—fire.”
More Antinium climbed over the railing, and a pair of Workers with bows dropped to one knee and fired two arrows that dropped a [Pirate]. The swaying ship stopped rocking for a second, and all the [Pirates] and Terandrians used to the rocking of the ship—stumbled.
Goat did not. He charged forwards, blade swinging in tandem with one of the Armored Antinium, and the [Pirate] deflected a dangerous slash to his belly.
“Antinium? Let’s—”
The Bloodtear Pirates pivoted as Kaaz’s soldiers stared in horror at the bug-men. Both [Pirates] and Terandrians hesitated, but the Antinium were attacking Bloodtear. The Bloodtear crew looked at each other.
Did the Antinium have any destiny worth stealing? Kill them anyways, right? How dangerous could they be? It was just sixty of—
Then the Antinium [Strategist] pointed.
“Kaazians, you are under my command. [Evasive Tactics]. There, there—[Armored Advance]. Forwards!”
The Terandrians hesitated—but the [Soldiers] felt a protective Skill envelop them and surged forwards instinctively as the [Pirates] cursed and backed up.
“Kill the [Strategist]! Kill the—”
The Bloodtear crew knew how to fight. They locked blades, hacking at the fearless Antinium, but the four arms caught the [Pirates] off-guard, and the Antinium fought in a cluster of bodies. One [Pirate] raised a bow, aiming it right, left—
“Which one is it?”
They all looked the same. A snarling [Mage] drew a bead on the Antinium and produced a glowing [Fireball]—only to look up.
Ser Gorethem charged back into the battle, armor dented, bleeding, but his greatsword made of a Kraken’s tooth rose and fell, and Anand poked his head up and pointed.
“Reform around the [Knight]. You—fall back into line. [Apply Healing Gel]! [Unit: Antinium Nature]!”
Ser Gorethem jerked as a wet, sticky substance covered his wounded arm and torso. He recoiled, tearing at it, then felt the agony of the poison and pain cease. They’d run out of healing potions, but Anand—
Gorethem felt his skin, already enhanced by his Skills, suddenly deaden in sensation. He felt…sturdier, but also, instantly, developed an aversion to the water around him. Yet he felt his bleeding slow and his wounds were healing.
The Antinium was pointing, and Ser Gorethem hesitated, then joined a screened advance as the Antinium and Kaazians pushed forwards. The cursing [Pirates] were retreating towards their ship—and the final blow came when Anand calmly spotted their leader trying to retreat.
“There. [Unit: Acid Jar Blades].”
The [Pirates] ran for it as a dozen wounds began bubbling and eating flesh away. Their [Captain] tried to escape—but a blade ran him through the leg, and the Kaazian nobleman spat as the screaming [Captain] stumbled and tumbled head-first off the ship into the sea.
“By Kaaz Dorem Laegriser! Give these rogues no quarter!”
The [Pirates] were fleeing, and Anand shouted over the nobleman as Ser Gorethem almost took the ramps.
“No, give them all quarter. Do not pursue!”
The Kaazians slowed, mostly because the Antinium came to a halt. Sure enough, the boarding ramps began falling as the enemy ship broke away and drove into the storm. Then it was just Anand, the bewildered Terandrians, who aimed their swords uncertainly at the Antinium—the nobleman snapped, his voice wary, then his eyes flicking to the [Knight], and his tone growing urgent.
“Antinium. Ser Gorethem, are you alright? Someone find a healing potion—Ser Gorethem!”
The [Knight] of the Thousand Lances was panting for air. He had been wounded in the last six battles, once against Admiral Rosech himself, and their healing potion stores had long since run out.
But he was able to stand, and his other arm, which had been functionally inactive, maimed by injuries, grasped his greatsword. He stared at the strange new additions to the battlefield.
That Dragon in the sky. A full Adult Kraken—now Antinium?
The Antinium’s leader, if you could call any of them distinct, was shorter than some of the big ones…‘Soldier-types’ he thought they were from his understanding of them. It spoke in a clicking, slightly staccato tone.
“Wound assessment. The enemy ship has broken off. Goat, tend to any injured Antinium. Is Torthe alright?”
He turned to a Drowned Woman of all things as one of the huge Soldiers produced a pot of greenish-brown gel. The Kaazians stared. Lord Altivem, the last surviving member of Kaaz’s nobility on board their ship, raised his rapier wearily, his voice hoarse.
“Not one step closer, whoever you are! The Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon—”
He hesitated. Had just been saved by these Antinium? The Black Tide of Izril? It made no sense, but the Antinium’s next words were extraordinary. Even, Gorethem realized as he panted for air and regarded the bug-people—calculated.
“I am Strategist Anand of the Free Antinium. I request immediate coordination with Earl Altestiel. We have come to aid noble Terandria upon request.”
That pulled Lord Altivem up short, as well as the other Kaazians. Ser Gorethem just thought—
How intelligent.
“Upon request? Are you our reinforce—”
The spluttering [Lord] hesitated as Ser Gorethem held his sword out. The Antinium tensed as the Knight of the Thousand Lances stood straighter. He uttered one question.
“Whose request?”
Strategist Anand exhaled faintly as he locked gazes with the [Knight] whose own perspicaciousness belied his size. Anand touched his chest simply.
“Our own. We must save a dear friend of ours. We will fight and die for Erin Solstice. Please do not force us to do battle. Earl Altestiel is her friend.”
Antinium in the storm. Lord Altivem’s mouth dropped open, and Ser Gorethem saw the Antinium standing there, huddling in the rain, terrified of each passing wave.
For honor, in strange lands—he thought he saw the Dragon’s mismatched gaze in his memory, looking at him and judging, and he saw the Antinium clasping two hands together that shook as he held a sword in his other hand, and his antennae waved.
Insect men, a Drowned Woman [Pirate] hiding behind them—Ser Gorethem spoke.
“You have not a chance in a thousand of finding someone in the storm with a Kraken awake, let alone safeguarding…her from the Bloodtear Pirates.”
“I know. I must try.”
He heard a smile in the Antinium’s reply.
 
——
 
They just kept coming out of the storm. The Bloodtear Pirates had all heard it now. The [Innkeeper] was in the storm.
With a crew from Ailendamus no less, led by that Admiral Dakelos fellow himself. It sounded like a joke.
The half-Shark Captain Dovom wasn’t sure if the [Innkeeper] was laughing.
He was taking his vessel towards her, ignoring easier targets because it was that famous name. Erin Solstice. He’d heard her called the ‘Goblinfriend’ of Izril.
She had burst out of the waves into the calm eye of the storm and run into the thickest of the fighting. Earl Altestiel’s ship as well as Lord Belchaus’, Griffindance of Lord Firrus, and over sixty other ships were locked in mortal combat.
The Legend’s Wake had been sinking Bloodtear ships like a damn beast of war, but it had peeled off for some reason. Dovom had been weighing hunting it down with the [Pirates] until he’d seen The Naga’s Den.
It was lightly crewed, for all it had ghosts, and wounded badly. He smelled blood in the water, and his appetite towards the Earl of Rains was sated.
The Earl was damn hard to kill. He and the Lord of the Dance had been boarded eight times and fought off each [Pirate] crew—including Rosech’s own.
Unsettled King, crewed by Rosech, was currently burning another vessel, heedless of two entire warships docked with it. Dovom didn’t like Admiral Rosech of 1st Fleet, but he had to admit the man was a devil of battle.
But he was insane, even for him. He’d thrown his crew into the worst of the fighting, screaming about his son and his Skill not working. The half-Shark [Captain] was ready for blood—his shark side was going wild—but he wanted his future after this.
The [Innkeeper]. His ship, styled with gigantic teeth taken from Reefeyes and other sea monsters, crashed towards her and smashed into the larger ship—but he had the Skills, and his personal ship crunched through part of the other ship’s deck.
Some of the broken boards began reknitting as the Drowned Man called for grappling lines, and a bolt of magic shot one of his ballista crews off their feet.
Damn, they’ve got [Mages], and someone’s repairing their ship. Even so, he felt himself going into a wild frenzy as he smelled blood on the decks. Strange blood.
His crew came up over grappling lines, and another team smashed into the hull from the side. Dovom sent Newbloods over the top and heard them being butchered as he went in from the side.
The [Innkeeper]’s lot weren’t expecting an attack from below. Ghostly figures surged down the steps, and Dovom hesitated a second, remembering the ghosts he’d seen at the end of an era. But when one shot him with a crossbow, he went forwards, howling, bit a ghostly head off, and realized they weren’t nearly as dangerous.
“Kill the [Admiral]! Don’t stop swarming them! Up! Up, you fucking sea rats!”
He emerged onto the deck, huge, bare chest covered in tough sharkhide wet with rain, a bandolier of throwing knives on and his axe in one hand, teeth gnashing.
Someone put a hole in him in a second. He took a step, blinked, and some noblewoman in black finery pointed. A searing lance of pain blew a hole straight through his shoulder.
“Captain!”
The crew saw Dovom fall back, but the shark-man just grabbed one of Alchemist Irurx’s potions and slammed it into his shoulder.
“I said—[Crew: Bloodthirsty Frenzy]. Kill them!”
