Erin Solstice was turning towards the fighting, heedless of the danger as the Bloodtear Pirates spotted her ship and Griffindance. Ryoka Griffin was whispering what sounded like a prayer to the Faerie King.
Her Sariant Lamb was made of braver stuff than she was. Embraim saluted it and offered it some fire, but the little thing had no lust for glory, just blood. Embraim saw Erin look at him, and her face drained of color.
“Did you say—?”
“This matters, Erin Solstice. We are the Order of Solstice. He is yours. Do not look back now. There is nowhere to go.”
Her eyes were open wounds, and he felt for her. If he had Mercy, Normen’s Honor, Halrac’s blue Sadness, or any other emotion to give her, he would.
Embraim was only glory. He saw her own fire fading, but his would never die.
—They slammed into the ships so hard Embraim stumbled, and he saw the Hundredfriends Courier and his Orangutan swing themselves over the railing first. Then went Revi’s summons, though the [Summoner] stayed with Erin. The Lucifen were shooting spells down, and the Bloodtear Pirates were sending up boarding ramps. A hammer of stone struck the decks as Ryoka Griffin tried to take wing—a scream from above, and she landed, a shard of stone buried deep in her chest.
“Squire Rivel. Tend to her.”
Her flaming sword had a heat even Embraim’s fire lacked, but it was not so beautiful. Embraim peeked over the railing as he counted the ships throwing up gangplanks to him.
We may be dead.
They had crashed into the Bloodtear Pirates—and the battle-hardened figures had come right at them. A Lucifen turned one boarding plank to sand, and Erin set another ablaze with black flames, but there were too many ships.
I suppose math does matter. Embraim saw Rivel grabbing Ryoka and dragging her into cover. She looked stunned, as if she hadn’t expected to have a piece of stone piercing her guts.
No one was invincible. Erin Solstice flinched as another shard of stone blew the top of her left ear away, and Embraim stood. He’d spotted one of the ships closest to him and judged it had the most [Pirates] and that dangerous [Captain] casting spells.
“I am Embraim, Knight of Solstice! Cover me!”
He roared as Nerry pulled herself up and shot spells down. The Lucifen stared as Embraim swung himself over onto a ramp the [Pirates] had raised and charged down it.
He slipped and caught himself, sliding into one [Pirate], grabbing at a rung and kicking to avoid falling into the waters. An ignominious death. Someone stabbed him—he knocked them off the boarding plank and into the water as he slid downwards, cursing.
—Hit the deck. Rose as he heard someone screaming and felt frost in the air.
“It’s the fucking Ice Squirrel! Jiupe’s little [Mage] friend! Kill them!”
Embraim was aboard one of the ships. He swung his sword and blew fire without looking—a boot kicked him in the face as someone screamed.
He bit until he sawed through leather and into flesh.
Embraim spat the boot away as he stood, and an entire crew of Bloodtear Pirates stared at him. Shipbreaker Ereiyne had been pointing at another ship on which undead and adventurers were fighting.
“It’s an Antinium. Look at it. It’s a [Knight]-Antinium. Anyone want this one’s destiny?”
Someone laughed. Embraim stood taller as an arrow sprouted from one of the [Pirates]’ eyes, and the others shot arrows back up at Badarrow, but Embraim was surrounded by dozens of foes.
“I am [Pyre-Knight] Embraim of the Order of Solstice. I off—”
Someone threw a dagger through his chestplate. Embraim staggered and felt it pierce through his chitin. He raised the lantern he carried in his fourth hand and blew.
Flames coated the deck, and [Pirates] leapt back, screaming. Embraim had a shield, a sword, a torch burning with his flames, and the pink lantern in hand.
“—I offer you the chance to surrender and retreat once.”
The Bloodtear Pirates had something he liked, for they grinned—not in mockery, but a kind of appreciation of his statement.
Captain Ereiyne did not. The Shipbreaker pointed a wand at Embraim with due wariness as her barrier spells absorbed a stray shot from above. Embraim had no conception of the battlefield. No understanding of who lived and who died.
He was only here.
“Antinium, aren’t you the first [Knight] of your kind? And you’re dying here of all places. What a shit destiny. No one wants that [Innkeeper]’s neither. Nor a Goblin’s. Who’d want that life?”
She motioned, and the [Pirates] spread out. Knight Embraim looked at them and shook his head. They did him the courtesy of listening, so he replied, his voice proud.
“Fool.”
The Bloodtear Captain’s eyes narrowed. Even if she stole his class, she would never understand. Embraim touched his chest with the hand carrying the lantern, and the flame glowed brighter. So bright they had to shield their eyes. They lusted after it, though. His was a pure, simple flame.
“Fool. I have chosen my fate each and every time. There was never a more glorious Antinium than I.”
Then he charged as she fired a bolt of stone that pierced his armor. Objectionable. He hoped the Order eventually got better equipment. His flame burned brighter and brighter.
 
——
 
Squire Rivel of the Order of Solstice saw Knight Embraim charge a ship of [Pirates] alone. The Antinium made it two steps before a spike of magic stone pierced through his chest and exited his back.
He kept going.
The first [Pirate] was as dangerous as the [Knight]. Embraim brought down his sword, which was deflected, and swung his shield—but the [Pirate] side-stepped, cleaving off a mandible.
The torch burned the [Pirate] in the face, and the figure rolled, burning. Embraim swung the lantern around to blow flames, and a second spellcaster webbed him.
He had a Skill from Elia Arcsinger’s downfall. A blow to sunder the deck and raise a bonfire, like Normen had gotten. It knocked several figures off their feet—and one of the [Pirates] lunged forward and knocked Embraim off his feet.
On his back-shell, the [Crusader] was vulnerable. The [Knifemaster] stabbed him again and again in the side, neck, chest—green blood on the blade, but the Antinium was tougher, anatomy unknown.
He breathed fire, and the figure rolled away. Embraim got to one knee. A pillar of stone launched him backwards again. Captain Ereiyne.
Shipbreaker. When the Antinium stood, eight projectiles struck him in the chest, then again, and he backed into a railing. The [Pirates] saw him take another step, and this time, their [Captain] put a hole in his heart.
He kept trying to walk forwards—but green blood ran down the decks, and his flames were flickering. The [Knight] gazed upwards, not at Rivel, but at something only he could see. And his voice rose.
Rose, perhaps, as if he knew he was being watched from [Scrying] spells. By Antinium. By his friends. By Erin Solstice.
He raised something, and Captain Ereiyne put a second hole through the side of his head, but he was already…the Antinium’s voice clicked as he shouted above the scream of battle.
“My successor shall bear this lantern.”
Weakly, with a child’s strength, he hurled the lantern into the sea, and it bounced off the side of the ship and tumbled, glowing until it hit the water and the flames went out. Then Embraim collapsed.
One of the [Pirates] peered over the edge of the ship as the Shipbreaker made a comment to her crew and pointed at Erin Solstice’s ship. The Bloodtear Pirates were locked against Admiral Dakelos’ ghostly crew, and Griffindance was being boarded. The Horns were trying to make for Erin, and—and Rivel saw Embraim die.
Then the flames that had covered the Antinium from the moment he realized his class flared into a light brighter than the Vampire had ever seen. A flame to dwarf the sun, and the [Pirates] around him leapt back.
Captain Ereiyne spun and blasted the flames and Embraim’s corpse with a wave of dirt. Yet neither the dirt nor rain did anything to the pink flames that spread across the deck as if it were slicked in oil. A [Pirate]’s foot was caught in the blaze, and the pink fire of glory covered the foot and leg in a flash. The panicked figure shrieked—the flames were turning the deck to ash in seconds.
Fire.
The [Captain] and her crew leapt for the gangplanks. Captain Ereiyne conjured a ramp of stone and leapt to safety off her ship, but dozens of Bloodtear Pirates went up like matches with each second.
Glory burned, painful against Rivel’s tears, brighter than anything, filled with wrath and sacrifice and a fire that consumed one of the ships and all those trapped aboard.
Then, as the ship drifted away, untethered, still burning and sinking into the waves, the fighting continued.
 
——
 
Anand liked Kaaz’s own. He thought they liked him too and wasn’t sure why.
They had time for a few questions in the minutes while he asked for Altestiel or Erin and their ship cut through the water towards both. Between shouts, spotting Kraken tentacles rising, friendly and enemy ships—what questions might you ask an Antinium?
“What do your people want? Conquest?”
“The Queens may. I am not my people.”
Ser Gorethem stood witness. Lord Altivem, members of the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon, [Sailors] and [Soldiers] and lesser [Knights] stood around and asked what some might call silly questions.
So Anand spoke only the best of answers.
“Are you…some would call you monsters. Antinium have done monstrous things and come from Rhir.”
That was not a question. But Anand treated it as such.
“I have never been called a monster to my face.”
“Really?”
“Mm. Yes. Other objectionable terms. ‘Ant’. ‘You’. ‘Worker’. Never ‘monster’. But then, I am only three years old.”
He enjoyed their faces. The Free Antinium explained why they wore colors. Ser Gorethem put only one question to Anand, as if laden by one great burden.
“What would you ask of us, of Kaaz, if you had but one wish for your people?”
Anand smiled at the silly [Knight], who was, like many of his kind, including Ylawes, so serious as if he were the only thing that mattered.
“I would ask you to visit The Wandering Inn, of which I am very fond of patronizing. Be sure to read the signs.”
Ser Gorethem paused and looked at Anand.
“Perhaps I misspoke…Strategist Anand. If you could ask for anything—”
“I heard you. I meant what I said. That’s where I became…me. If I could send the entire world there, I would. It is a good place. Erin Solstice is a good person. I may not know good—but if I do, I learned it from her.”
Then they saw the [Pirates], and Anand’s heart leapt when he saw Erin’s ship—and sank when he sensed how many [Pirates] there were.
Wrymvr, come!
He called on his only ally, for he was a weaker [Strategist] and had not risen yet, as Bird had; Wrymvr flew towards him—and then cursed.
“Kyvik. The—”
Anand saw a ship burst out of the waves and heard a buzzing—but it was not Wrymvr’s wings.
Shifthold. It was bearing down on the Terandrian fleet, and that mad [Alchemist]—Anand saw his trajectory. The dread Alchemist Irurx was coming. Worse—he’d brought reinforcements. Anand heard a snarl from the Terandrians and saw one of the greatest traitors sailing with the half-Elf.
Admiral Imor Seagrass, aboard Seagrass, and three ships crewed by [Storm Sailors] in his wake. A mystery. They were bearing down on Altestiel’s ship, Erin, and as they saw Anand—his ship as well.
 
——
 
“Kaaz off the port! Slaughter them!”
The half-Elf was raving mad. Irurx was upon the hunt, and he had dragged Admiral Seagrass into his wake. He was still trying to kill half-Elves, but the [Alchemist] understood the battle hinged upon the Earl of Rains.
Imor Seagrass understood that very well, which was why he was sailing next to a monster of the seas. But there was bile in the [Storm Admiral]’s throat.
Too much. He’d seen ships go down, decks coated with blood. Dead gods, he’d known the Bloodtear Pirates were butchers; he’d seen their handiwork and fought them off time and again.
But could looted destiny really be worth it? Half a dozen of his ships had broken from the battle, ignoring his orders. His crews had ‘stolen’ destiny too, but they weren’t propelled forwards by the same lust the [Pirates] had.
It was…it was the kind of thing Imor Seagrass had seen growing up as a poor [Deckhand]. A back-alley fight where there would be murder over a single silver coin. The [Pirates] had nothing else but this vision of a future. They were committed; they’d have it or be damned.
So that begged the question: why was he here?
Imor Seagrass was an [Admiral], albeit of no nation. He had a reputable trading business. He had far more to lose than the Bloodtear Pirates. Why had he joined with them?
Part of the reason was destiny. Every few seconds, Imor Seagrass would check his brushed suit, styled as if he were actually a nobleman, and all the primping, paying for expensive fabrics, and learning to style himself—it had always looked fake.
Today? His suit was covered in rain and grime, smeared with blood, and had several cuts. His blood was cold and chilled—yet it was blue ichor that ran through his veins. He still bled red, but Imor Seagrass no longer needed to pretend to be noble.
Nobility stolen. What did it mean? Was he now a nobleman? Did he have a house? Did it matter?
It was all bile on his tongue. This wasn’t worth it. Irurx didn’t even care for destiny; he just wanted more bodies for his ship to experiment on.
“We’re exchanging fire with the Kaazian ship, Admiral! She’s got no teeth! Moving to boarding range.”
“Keep us wide and lay her on her back.”
The Kaazian ship wasn’t a threat. Imor wasn’t boarding ships like the Bloodtear Pirates; his escort turned and began laying a broadside into the single ship, expertly aiming for her masts and rudder.
The [Alchemist] was preparing some witch-brew on his vessel; a cauldron fired a glowing brown projectile into the air, and it hit the sea and began to spread out. The Kaazian ship sailed straight into a trio of [Fireballs] rather than touch whatever it was.
Seagrass’ collar itched. His body was cold. His heart was—fluttering.
Was it that damn woman? Magnolia Reinhart? He had signed a contract with her, but the penalty—he forced a hand over his chest, gritting his teeth.
“Take us—take us towards the Earl of Rains!”
He could be an [Earl] by the time this was over. Was that enough? Imor Seagrass half-turned and saw his crew gazing at him, wide-eyed, confidence shaken.
Allied with [Pirates]. Betrayed Terandrian trust. His entire trading fleet wouldn’t have safe harbor nor cargo after this.
They must think him mad or so desperate that he’d thrown them into the maw of a Kraken for this. Imor gazed into their faces, then ahead.
