“I never knew Aldrail was like that.”
The passing of Plainsblood and Captain Aldrail shook Admiral Maxy a different way. The half-Elf kept her eyes fixed on the ship behind her.
She didn’t want to say it, but part of her thought less of him. That Gnoll had it all in his paws, and that was what he did with it?
His choice. She just didn’t understand it. By the looks of things, all of Plainsblood were leaving. Maxy didn’t get it.
Her crew had spilled blood. They’d stolen fate. Maxy herself had gutted five nobles. And she was still right here. So were almost all of her crew. And did you know why?
Every single Bloodtear Pirate and member of Admiral Seagrass’ crew, and the man himself, had one of those destiny Skills. He must have been visited by the ghost as well.
It still favored her and the higher-level ones, but it was why even the lowest-level Newblood was willing to charge into hellfire. Yet Maxy knew that smiling warrior had not offered her the same Skill as Aldrail.
Not by half. Maxy still wanted to sail after that woman into the great distance. The deck had shook where she walked out of the fog. Like the avatar of battle and the madness the Bloodtear Pirates loved had descended to offer them something.
Potential. The potential, she’d claimed, to shatter every old safeguard and rule. Maxy saw it.
“Admiral. Admiral. I did it.”
Someone had taken a nap. Maxy turned, and one of her crew arose. A Human man scrambling up, hair matted with blood, earrings fresh-looted. His eyes opened wide, and she saw his smile.
“Which Skill was yours?”
For an answer, her crewmate began laughing. Then—when he stood up, something appeared around him, and Maxy raised her brows.
Plate armor. It looked ceremonial and definitely didn’t belong to him. It had the crest of…she thought it was Pheislant?
“Admiral. You’re looking at a [Knight]. Right and proper. I took it! Look at me!”
Other members of the crew gathered around as Maxy slapped his shoulder, and the man crowed. He strutted around, and she guessed which Skill he had.
[Seize the Throne: Class by Blood].
“Are you looking to jump off, Arnjef? We could get you to Plainsblood if you want to swim.”
Maxy called out, pursuing a hunch, as she pointed back at the Gnoll ship still untethering from the doomed Taligrit ship. She saw her crewmember turn and hesitate one second as heads came up. But then he grinned and shook his head.
“Now? Admiral. I could still trade up to [Lord].”
“Better not shank a [Lady] then, or I’ll give you a dress and take you out to dinner when the battle’s over.”
The half-Elf replied, fast as a whip, and her crew howled with laughter. She walked down the deck and looked them over. Maybe it was Rosech. He chose people like him. Tulm’s daughter. Aldrail. Idealists who believed in one vision of Bloodtear.
Her people were like Captain Jiupe, Captain Ereiyne the Shipbreaker, or the half-Shark Dovom from the doomed Third Fleet.
Their Skills weren’t there for some highfalutin concept like destiny. Maxy didn’t trust that, even the Skill if she’d received it. The nobles’ destiny was to end up right here, spitted on her sword. What kind of a destiny was that? Even if it was more…abstract, like with Aldrail claiming the right to be born with a silver spoon in his mouth…
No. Her crew had different Skills.
One woman had been hiding away treasures in a chest of holding below decks. Every time she went out and killed someone, anyone, she had more gold and precious jewels, family heirlooms, even artifacts, than she could count.
Looted differently from her victims. Maxy’d had to make a ruling to prevent the crew from fighting over it. You see, it wasn’t from the pockets of some noble or a [Knight].
It was from their vaults. Or homes. There was a [Looter] Skill to end all Skills. Each dead soul plucked a treasure from a bloodline itself. Shame they hadn’t met some of the Five Families, eh?
[Fortune Bleeds].
Others? Maxy knew, after today, they’d be all over her crew. She had an escape plan. Bloodtear might end, but her ship wouldn’t. Some of her crew would leave. Many would have targets on them, but not all. She paused and kicked a Drake preening and muttering in front of a mirror.
“Oi. What’s your name again?”
She knew her command crew by heart, but this Drake’s identity suddenly escaped her. Maxy was ready to stab him in a second; infiltration wasn’t impossible. But the Drake held up his claws as he saw the warning light in her eyes.
“Peace. Peace, Admiral. It’s my new Skill!”
She didn’t whip out a wand and put a hole in his head. Maxy crossed her arms as some of her people followed her.
“Name it.”
“Aw, Admiral—”
“Name it or I’ll get suspicious.”
The Drake hesitated, then gulped. He held up one clawed hand.
“Okay, okay! But not the name, alright? I’ve got to keep it private. After all…[I Left My Name Behind]. Reckon you can call me ‘Rob’ until I leave.”
‘Rob’ grinned with all his teeth, and Maxy stared at him, then threw back her head and laughed.
“Rob? That’s the Skill you wanted?”
“Hey. I’m a pragmatist, Maxy. They can hunt me down. It’ll be hard now I’m…well, you don’t even remember what I did, eh?”
That was true, and Maxy kept laughing as her internal sense of danger peaked. She pretended to wave it off and muttered to one of her lieutenants.
“Keep an eye on him. He mighta been my [First Mate] for all I know, or a real bastard.”
She got an affirmative and strode on. Even so, suspicious new identity or not—this was real Bloodtear. Let Rosech claim a new destiny for his son. Maxy lifted her blade and admired her reflection in it.
What did a half-Elf want? She looked herself in the eyes, and she’d had a bit of grey in her hair, which told you how old she was. Old enough to remember Zelkyr kicking around, not that she’d been more than a sprout. Face full of pockmarks from sickness and injuries at sea.
No. For Maxy, she saw a younger half-Elf and grinned. She wanted just two things.
[Siphon Luck]. [Siphon Time].
Her sword raised high into the sky. All a [Pirate] wanted. How much she got, she didn’t know, but you had to be lucky enough to have been born into a noble house, right? She wasn’t about to go after the [Prince] or those damn Golaen giants unless they were weak.
A perfect [Pirate] balanced on the prow of her ship and pointed ahead. Her crew roared and began singing as they aimed into that storm.
“Let’s take their lives, boys and girls. Call out the loveliest ships and let the Newbloods screen us this time. Pull Zoler back. I need my insurance against Tulm in one piece.”
The storm washed over Maxy, and you know what?
She couldn’t stop smiling.
 
——
 
Roshal found Erin Solstice in the storm. How? They must have had a way to track The Naga’s Den.
Slaver-ships sailed with ribbed sails flexing in the wind. Cracking whips forcing oars to pull faster. Teams of [Slaves] led by an armored [Slaver] were being armed with chains and nets.
Or just blades. Crossbows and bows.
Take her alive.
Take her dead.
She would not escape either way. The Masters of Roshal had agreed on that. The ships cut through wave after wave, some smashing headlong into the spraying surf. [Slaves] went overboard, even [Slavers], and no one turned back.
Everything had a value in Roshal, and the greatest quarry was ahead of them. Each ship pushed hard, whips rising and falling and Skills speaking themselves until figures slumped over from heart attacks to catch The Naga’s Den.
The chase still took hours, even when the other vessel was in sight and large in the waters ahead. Minutes would go past filled only with the roar of the weather—then there would be screams, shouts, as the ship exchanged magical fire or arrows landed around the pursuing vessels. Counterattacks, cries to reload, maneuvering as the two ships moved like ungainly beasts in the surf—a swift repositioning of Skills or magic—
Then more waiting. Until the moment the ships unleashed on each other again or one drew close enough to board the other. Then the violence had no end until the two vessels separated and one fell away or sank into the waves.
More shapes in the darkness, more minutes passing by until the next enemy drew out of the storm. That was how they fought, at sea.
That beautiful ship of Emir Yazdil’s was fast—and somewhere, a crew had appeared to give the vessel more speed. It was firing off deck-spells now, making the approach hard. Like smaller fish led by a few sharks of similar size, Roshal closed in on The Naga’s Den, clashing, pulling back—spurred on by the demands of their own lieges.
One ship finally saw the dark hull of The Naga’s Den and the smoke burning off the decks despite the sleeting rain and signaled their approach.
“Kill the rudder.”
The [Captain of Warrants] steered the ship closer herself, sweating as she glared at the [Clandestine Fleshraider] giving the orders. She dared not object, and her ship drew closer—until an explosion made her flinch.
“Was that a [Fireball]?”
Another one blew up, but she didn’t see it. [Invisible Fireballs]?
“Keep going or I’ll put you in a collar myself. All three ships—all ahead, now! Charge!”
The damn idiot treated this like some kind of land battle. Charge? The [Captain] drove her ship ahead as two more ships moved out of the waves. At least they gave the [Mages] more targets.
“She’s already locked in combat with two more ships! Now’s the time! [Slaves]—freedom to the first one to put a collar on Erin Solstice’s neck!”
One of the [Slavemasters] ready to board the ship screamed, and the deck moved with desperation and excitement. The [Captain] turned her head right and left, trying to anticipate more spells, but flashes from both sides of The Naga’s Den proved she was fighting against multiple ships.
Five ships on the [Innkeeper], and Roshal was having trouble bringing her in. Was she that good at fighting? What the hell were those glowing figures? Wait—the [Captain]’s eyes darted sideways.
More reinforcements. A sixth ship came barreling out of the surf, and the [Captain] relaxed a hair—then tensed up.
“Ship to port! That’s not one of ours! It’s a Drowned Ship!”
A glowing shield proved that. It was fast—and the [Raider] whirled uneasily.
“It’s barely sixty-man. Ignore it.”
“It’s turning towards us—”
The three ships of Roshal advancing on The Naga’s Den from the rear saw that Drowned Ship curving, moving at a perpendicular angle across from them. Any doubts the [Captain of Warrants] had about whether it was friendly or not were dispelled.
“Destroy that ship!”
No one needed second orders. A prow-mounted harpoon exploded, and someone fired a [Lightning Bolt] spell from a second ship. The shield around the Drowned Ship wavered—then popped like a bubble as a shower of arrows hit it. Instantly, the Drowned Ship tried to juke and evade more fire.
“That’s no warship. What are they playing at?”
It was still drawing closer. And the [Captain] realized while the small crew were rushing around, trying to take cover—there were six figures on the railings that drew the eye. They weren’t moving.
Her eyes narrowed. She saw, through the flashes of lightning and the rain washing across the narrowing gap, obscuring and revealing the world in slow washes of color—a familiar set of faces.
At least for some. Her hands went slack on the wheel a second.
Isn’t that the [Necromancer]? The Antinium—
Then her eyes fell on a smiling face, and she recognized a Named-rank adventurer; her heart leapt as she saw a species she’d never laid eyes on before: a half-Goat.
I want her.
It was one team of adventurers. No question why they were here, but her crew—the [Captain] turned to grin at the [Raider].
“More spoils, eh?”
She didn’t get a response. The [Fleshraider] was staring at one of the Horns of Hammerad—and his face had gone white.
“That’s Colthei the Demon. The Naga’s killer. I thought he was—”
Then the [Captain] swung her eyes back to the Drowned Ship and realized they were getting closer. She snapped.
“Get ready! Capture them! Kill ‘em if you have to. There’s only six of them!”
 
——
 
“Three ships. Six of us. Two for each.”
Ksmvr doubted Captain Ceria’s math. Each ship of Roshal had to have at least a hundred fighting soldiers on it. They weren’t full warships, but—
“Don’t be stupid, Ceria.”
Yvlon snapped at the half-Elf. Ceria Springwalker adjusted her circlet and glanced at Yvlon.
“Right. Sorry. Pisces. Colth. Take that one on the left. Yvlon, Ksmvr, make sure Vofea doesn’t get in over her head. Take the one down the middle. I’ll take the far right.”
The [Armsmistress] gave Ceria a nod.
“Thank you.”
The Drowned Captain’s head was swiveling between the Horns as the ship rocked from explosions battering the hull. Colth and Pisces were silent. Every tendon on Colth’s neck was standing out, and Ksmvr saw Pisces’ eyes were locked on the crew of one of the ships. Ksmvr could see collars and chains on some.
“That ship’s got a net specialist. Watch it, Captain. No Djinni, though.”
Colth turned to Ceria as he studied ‘her’ ship. The half-Elf nodded, adjusted the circlet on her head, and hooked one leg over the side of the ship.
“I’m going.”
Vofea was staring at Ceria and the ships ahead of her. Faerie or not, she seemed to have a grasp of numbers and how the math wasn’t adding up.
“Wh—is this normal, Ksmvr?”
“No. Act like you know what you’re doing. Rookie. We’re going to save Erin Solstice. No one dies. No one dies.”
Ksmvr could see the condition of the other Horns, one by one, as he cycled through them. Most were in good shape. They were all tired from their trip through the Crossroads. Pisces was breathing too hard. Yvlon was in the peak of health, and—and they looked at him, and Pisces smiled. Ceria turned to face them as the waters roared below the ship.
“No one dies. That’s an order. Don’t go charging into danger, Yvlon. Colth, Pisces, do something smart. Ksmvr, you can’t swim. Stop him from jumping and stay with Ksmvr, Vofea. Link up and then get to The Naga’s Den. Three ships. I’ll keep mine busy long as I can.”
The [Captain] opened his mouth, but there was no time.
The half-Elf leapt off the railing as a bolt of lightning flashed across the bow of the ship. Ksmvr cried out.
“Ceria!”
He saw her plunge towards the dark waters, and the [Captain] shouted.
“Landfolk overboard! Throw a line!”
He swung the ship wide so he didn’t drag her under. A Drowned [Sailor] grabbed a line of rope, strode to the railing—and stopped. Then Ksmvr saw a story he knew.
Once upon a time, in these very waters, there had been an [Ice Mage]. A master of Wistram.
Illphres. Ksmvr knew the story by heart.
