His crew charged past the ghosts, straight into the lines of the nobles from Ailendamus. Dovom was right amidst them, the largest shark in his pack, roaring with satisfaction. This was Bloodtear! This was—
Some kind of monster with a bald skull for a helmet, black ‘skin’, and a mouth of razors seized him. A sword burnt into Dovom’s flesh, and he howled—hacked back into a suit of all things, and the hand released him. A finger pointed, and this time, Dovom ducked—
 
——
 
Viscount Visophecin was bleeding. Even now, his mind was analytical, but it was beset, the cold fury of a Lucifen tinged with unease.
Too many [Pirates]. Too high-level. Every third one survived even a direct shot from the Lucifen’s killing magic, and the Lucifen were not inexhaustible. They were—
Dying.
There were just too many [Pirates]. Admiral Dakelos’ crew fought hard, but the [Pirates] ignored the ghosts, going for the Admiral, who stood, sword slashing, heedless of his own life, next to Erin Solstice and the Hobgoblin, Ulvama.
Erin was insane too. Like the Agelum. She was fighting against the [Pirates], knife in hand, shooting her wand at point-blank range, eyes wide and fearless.
How did they not sense their own deaths? The Hobgoblin slashed with a sword, her magical paint flaring and taking a blow cleaving towards her shoulder. The [Innkeeper] raised her hand, and a swarm of magical fish appeared out of the air, biting, tearing—
The [Pirates] threw themselves into it. They knocked Visophecin off his feet, three of them tackling him and stabbing his Warform. He threw one off him, grabbed the other—
“[Hellfire Palm].”
Fire raced into the woman’s face, and cracks appeared before flames burst out of her. Visophecin immolated the third with his flaming sword and stood. Where was that [Capt—
A crossbow bolt shattered on his forehead, and he reeled. The Devil stumbled—flickered—
Visophecin lost control of his warform and knelt, panting. A [Pirate] aimed a crossbow down at him, and the Lucifen pointed up—a hole opened in their throat as Visophecin spoke.
“[Law of the Lucifen: Cease Breathing].”
[Pirates] clutched at their throats around him—and still they fought. One tried to sweep Visophecin’s leg, and Visophecin struck a face, again and again, and felt fragments of bone being hammered into a face and saw that smile full of blood—
Hatred. They didn’t fear him. They hated him. They envied him. They were…
“Visophecin!”
A scream. The Lucifen turned and saw someone backing away as a figure emerged through a wall of fire. The half-Shark [Captain]. Azemith threw up her arms to shield her face as the Viscount raised a finger too slowly.
A blade ran Azemith of the Lucifen through and cut up. Visophecin’s eyes went wide.
Two hundred and ninety-three years. Bitter boredom.
Reluctance to join Ailendamus.
Igolze and Azemith bearing Paxere. Friendship with Uziel and Razia established after sixty years of—
Chuckling over Sariant Lambs and the Agelum’s fondness for them until they grew so numerous—
An open mouth. Red eyes staring at him, hand outstretched.
Gone. Those features of desperation, regret, fear—became fire. Black flames laced with yellow light. Hellfire itself. Azemith’s form burnt into the air—then her body became soot, and the flames burned a hole into the deck as she vanished with the smell of sulfur and a scream in the world.
A Lucifen died. Even the Bloodtear Pirate’s [Captain] looked unnerved. Then he lifted his sword as if admiring what he saw—
Visophecin only felt hands pulling him back when he realized his kin were dragging him away. Someone had opened a gate, and they pulled him away from the Bloodtear Pirates’ crew.
“Viscount, we are dying.”
Someone—Vultapheles—was speaking, face covered in blood. Too dark and grey to be the same as Human blood. They were afraid, yet fear did not master them. It could not for a Lucifen. But it was there, and those eyes held a pain as Visophecin jerked.
“Let go of me.”
The half-Shark [Captain] was heading towards Erin Solstice. Lucifen were falling, and the fourth of his kin perished as a man strode into the [Pirates].
Igolze, Azemith’s partner, pointed a finger around him as he ran into their blades. A spray of acid coated everything around him, and [Pirates] clawed at their faces. He was heading towards the [Captain]—but sagged as Visophecin saw dozens of blades embedded in his arms and legs. Someone fired a crossbow bolt through his neck, and the Lucifen lifted a hand. His eyes rose towards the dark skies as if searching for a light—
Fire consumed his features. His eyes scorched into Visophecin’s vision, and he left no sign of his presence behind but ash.
But Paxere.
“Enough.”
Visophecin whispered. He did not understand it after all.
Mortality.
Still they came. The [Innkeeper] saw the half-Shark [Captain] bearing down on her and walked towards him. The [Shaman] slammed a staff on the ground, and Erin Solstice grew half a foot. Then a foot—
A mouth full of teeth in the [Captain]’s grin. She stabbed at him, and her knife, forged by a master of Dwarves, drew his blood, his hide or not. He swung a fist into her mouth and recoiled as pink flames burned up his arm. She spat blood and teeth and carved a line across his face.
Punched him hard enough even he felt it. Dodged a swipe from the sword and threw half a jar of acid in his face—but even the acid refused to kill him. 
A screaming half-Shark man smashing her into one railing. A crossbow bolt striking her in the chest—and it failed to even scratch her clothing. The [Innkeeper] caught it and planted it in his wrist.
He hurled her down the deck, caught himself as Visophecin put a hole in the fin on his back, took cover, and looked up as the [Innkeeper] pushed herself up.
Blood in the water. No regrets, aye.
 
——
 
Captain Dovom didn’t like her eyes. She was supposed to be an [Innkeeper]. She fought like a bastard. She didn’t blink even after he slashed her and broke her teeth.
Like a dog who yapped at you despite you being bigger than it. But this one bit, and—blood was running down his face as he snarled.
“Captain! Help—”
“Kill that [Admiral] and the [Mages]!”
He ignored the pleas of a crewmate. They had her! They had her, and he was throwing aside a ghostly [Cook] who punched Dovom hard enough to make him curse—then one of his crew seized him.
“It’s not just the crew! We’re under attack! It’s—”
Another ship? Dovom spun and saw someone charge into his crew from the rear. He was fearless. Prepared for anything—but even Dovom hesitated when he saw the Orangutan.
Erek brought down his sword on a shoulder, and lightning crackled through the air. A young man with tattoos ran past the Orangutan and threw himself onto a blade. The [Pirate] twisted it—but the Courier drove a dagger through the man’s ear and twisted that.
“The Hundredfriends Courier!”
Dovom snarled incredulously—then saw more pink flames. An Antinium was burning. No—a [Knight] was wreathed in flames.
They had come over the side of the ship. A tiny vessel, the Hundredfriend Courier’s own ship, was tethered in the water, and a Nelgaunt, glowing, was smashing into Dovom’s ship.
A flicker above him. Dovom looked up and saw another Courier. His mouth opened a second. He’d always thought she was attractive.
Then Ryoka Griffin pointed her sword, and flames burned from it. She traced a line across the deck, and the flames covered a [Pirate] in front of Dovom and seared straight through them. He saw flesh boil and char in less than a second, and Ryoka Griffin flew past, eyes wide and filled with tears.
He thought she didn’t kill.
“Retreat.”
Dovom saw the [Innkeeper] rising, but suddenly his confidence was lost. The Hundredfriends Courier would not die. He was a small army as his summoned friends attacked—and behind him was an Antinium [Knight]—and another armored figure, slashing at the [Pirates]. A small force…until a glowing spider the size of a house crawled over the deck.
“[Summoner]!”
Revi Cotton had no more tears. She fired her wand as her summoned warriors and the massive Shield Spider attacked. Erin needed an army. She and Seve were that army. And they were ready to die. Someone had to. Halrac was already dead.
The Drowned Captain was falling back, but ready to butcher these newcomers. They kept coming. Adventurers. Damn Antinium!
Then an arrow pierced his cheek, and he gagged on it as it pierced his tongue and it spasmed. The arrow snapped as Dovom howled, but another hit him just below the eye. And another.
“Rtrt!”
A lone [Archer] stood there with the rest of the reinforcements, still aglow from the Archmage of Izril’s last spell that had thrown Seve’s small ship across the ocean. A miracle? His bow sang, and a [Pirate] fell. Then another.
Badarrow kept firing as they shot at him. He didn’t flinch as a spell passed over one ear. Each spell and arrow was one not aimed at the [Innkeeper]. She was right there.
So was his brother. Someone had to come, and he had spoken first.
Badarrow. Revi. Embraim. Rivel. Seve. And Ryoka Griffin. In the end, it had been exactly six people. Five by the Archmage of Izril. The last on a Unicorn’s back.
Plus one last person ready to die if it meant something.
Nerry fired both wands and cut a [Pirate] down from the legs. The razor-sharp arc of magic was as powerful as she’d hoped. The lamb was grinning. Smiling happily for maybe the first time in her life.
Then, and only then, Erin Solstice stopped. Her face was swollen, and she had lost the spell Ulvama had cast. She was bleeding, her eyes wide and, for once, shocked.
“What are you doing?”
“Getting my brother back.”
Badarrow grinned at her. Ryoka Griffin landed on the deck, panting.
“They’re leaving. There are more ships out there. I see Altestiel’s ship—”
“Ryoka? Revi?”
The [Summoner] came over, breathing hard, and looked at Erin. Revi’s cheeks were still stained with eyeshadow and tears.
“Someone has to do it. Halrac would want it this way.”
“Go back.”
“Not without you. I believe I saw the Horns of Hammerad. Let us link up; no one will survive without their help. There is a Kraken in the waters, and those ships ahead have even more [Pirates] than this one. Squire Rivel. Make sure the lamb isn’t washed away.”
Embraim. Rivel looked at Erin, a crimson glint through his helmet, and Erin turned to Ryoka, silently, as Seve and Erek strode forwards.
“Why you? You’re not a fighter. Go away. And you—”
“I am a Sea Courier. I have a delivery to make. You, back to your inn. A number of people are counting on me.”
“Ook.”
“Leave! I don’t want you here! I don’t want you to die!”
Erin screamed at them. She thought she was dreaming, but they always showed up. Even when she didn’t ask for them. Somehow. The Horns of Hammerad? The Antinium? Ryoka Griffin was staring down at her Faeblade, and her head jerked up slowly as Nerry slipped towards them. The Wind Runner’s voice rasped.
“If you hadn’t escaped Roshal, I would have killed every single one I could get to. Are you—did they—”
Ulvama grabbed Badarrow in a hug, and he blinked, then gripped her firmly and said something in the Goblin tongue. Erin looked around as a figure rose from a patch of soot.
“The choice is yours. Continue or retreat? Now you have something to lose.”
Viscount Visophecin smiled at Erin with rage and loss. She met his eyes and looked at each one of them. A proud [Knight], a Vampire who had lost his appetite for blood now that he saw it shed. A pair of Couriers, one shaking with fear, the other fearless.
An Orangutan who looked up at her with calm eyes that said he had chosen to be here. A Sariant Lamb grinning like her namesake. A lost Stitch-woman carrying the pride of her team. Devils staring death in the eye.
An [Admiral] who looked at Erin like her future. She met Dalekos’ gaze, then turned to the Hobgoblin seeking his brother and the [Shaman] who looked up and knew what she would choose.
“I’m sorry.”
That was what the [Innkeeper] said. That was why they loved her and hated her for it.
 
——
 
“Erin?”
Earl Altestiel thought he was dreaming. He hadn’t been thinking of her, even in the lulls between clashes. He would have liked to say something poetic, afterwards, like he had thought of her or Desonis.
He had just gone blank and then forced himself to focus.
The [Earl of Rains] wished he could have said he wept for his crew. The truth was he was just counting numbers. If there was anyone in his heart—
It was his friends. He had many friends and people he knew. Lord Belchaus, who was splinting one leg, his smile gone, his people cut and bleeding, face as grim as Altestiel had ever seen it.
Many noble comrades, both in spirit and title. But it was that silly Goblin, morose [Princess], arrogant [Lord], and silly [Spell Lady] he hoped would make it.
He had been trying to keep the Throne’s Will away from the fighting. They were being hunted.
“Keep the Unsettled King here! Don’t let it go!”
It was following Legend’s Wake into the storm, and despite his best efforts, the giant warship sailed away. Rosech was hunting the [Prince]—which meant he was going to run into Rabbiteater and the Ivory Four.
Prince Iradoren had offered to safeguard Seraphel. Why? The worst of the fighting was here—
Something nagged at Altestiel, but he couldn’t think—his ship was shaking. He gazed upwards, and wondered if he had imagined that Dragon being here. Then he saw the [Pirates] swinging into his ship again.
The 1st Fleet of the Bloodtear Armada was winning. Rosech didn’t even have to lead them.
We have lost this battle, truly.
The Luminary had murdered them all. Wistram couldn’t see a thing with the storm and could provide no magical support. Worse, that Drowned Woman had forced their ships to scatter before her. She was unto an Archmage, and unless they killed her or that Dragon could turn the tides…
He was battling Maxy’s fleet, but Altestiel had a feeling as to why the Iron Vanguard were advancing now. Damn the Dullahans.
“Altestiel. I’m going.”
Lord Bel staggered to one foot, and Altestiel saw him favoring one leg.
“Use your Skills.”
“I am my Skills. Nadel, one more dance.”
The Lord of the Dance and his vanguard were staring into the heart of the enemy. [Pirates]—Rosech’s butchers, each one bearing a red armband and fighting harder the more they lost or the more blood they shed.
[Berserkers] or close enough. Altestiel looked around.
“Kiish?”
“I will join Lord Belchaus, Earl.”
