He didn’t know what happened. At first, he thought it was more Bloodtear Pirates, but then he saw ship after ship, ironclads with metal armor attached, and realized who was besieging them.
“The Iron Vanguard has joined the Bloodtear Pirates!”
Ser Markus shouted, and the Summer’s Champion protested.
“That can’t be! Signal them! Can they have—”
The water exploded around him, and an Autumn Knight tried to raise more barrier spells as Greysten stumbled. He did not understand—but the Iron Vanguard’s ship had begun engaging every Terandrian ship in sight.
Disaster. Then he heard someone screaming for the fleet to kill…Erin Solstice? Oaths of vengeance upon the Dullahans. The Bloodtear Pirates were still out there.
Madness.
 
——
 
For an entire day and night they had tried to kill her, but the Luminary of the Seas, Captain Lidera of the Bloodtear Pirates, had held the sky at bay.
Her light had erased spells meant to kill her friends and comrades. All the power of a Luminary was coursing through her veins, and she knew, very soon, her body would give in.
It could not be a conduit to this much power without backlash, but she had known that from the start.
This was her defiance, spit in the eye to the Drowned Cities. To the Shadewards and other Luminaries.
They were trying to kill her, too. Tendrils of darkness magic climbed up from the sea, but she burnt through them with contempt. No…her adopted son, Solwes, was what Lidera worried for. She aimed another beam of light down at the real foe, which had been sent up against all the fleets present.
The Kraken.
It was ravening mad and, like the [Pirates]—driven. Krakens were intelligent. Something—someone—had sent this Kraken up to fight until it died.
“The Eater of Threads herself swims below us. You’ll have no more of my kin, [Witch]. Look at me, devourer of the deeps.”
The Luminary shone brighter, and the Kraken, flailing about below her, focused on the painful light above. It had a weakness, and it was that for all its size and many hearts and brains that could endure unimaginable devastation—
The Kraken still needed to see. Lidera’s light blinded each tentacle’s eyes. Light, a weapon without limit, which could not be blocked nor dodged nor parried if it was bright enough.
A tentacle burst from the sea to grab Lidera, and she ignited herself until she was as bright as the sun. The light itself burnt through the flesh; the Kraken’s tentacle barely kept her from blinding her allies.
“How I glow.”
The Luminary giggled as she pierced the depths, and the Kraken screamed. It would be their end. Both of their ends; she’d seared her very organs. The only things that needed to keep working were her heart and mind.
It would all be over soon.
 
——
 
Behind them, they were all coming. Erin Solstice gently folded Verdan Blackwood’s hands over his chest and looked up.
“You’ve done it now.”
Ceria Springwalker remarked, almost cheerfully. She bent over, looking at Verdan Blackwood, then at Erin.
“He was an Archmage when I was a student. Not a very good one by the old days’ standards, but the Dullahans loved him. They’re like Minotaurs. They have a thing about grudges that makes Drakes look kindly. You can buy Drakes off in time.”
Erin said nothing. After a second, Ceria hugged her.
“We came as fast as we could. Sorry we missed the Solstice.”
“I didn’t want you here. I wanted you to be safe in the Crossroads.”
It made the half-Elf laugh. Then the ship rocked, and Erin saw the Lucifen raising another barrier. Ceria backed up.
“Better help. I’ll tell you why that’s funny another day. We’re your team, Erin. Pisces was going to say it, but I beat him to it.”
She winked, carefree, acting silly as could be—and Erin stood there. A Goblin Lord perched on a higher point of the ship, laughing as he swung his sword. Erek was trying to make Nerry stay put or hand her to Visophecin to take to safety.
Rivel was just leaning on the railing, looking into the waters where Embraim had been.
“Any moment now. It’s all my fault. But I did it because I knew…I knew it might make a difference.”
Erin Solstice stood on the deck, looking around at ships, now fighting each other, splintering. Every group was tearing each other apart. She’d done that.
Her.
She did care. But she had still done it. All for one person. All for a Goblin.
One person decided to talk to Erin about it over the roar of it all, despite the fact that any second a spell might land or House Kallinad might hit them with a projectile.
Anand didn’t care. Well, he did care, but he stopped in front of her, and though he was not Pisces, who had known her a bit longer, or Badarrow, who had a stake as personal as Erin’s—more—
He felt he had a small right to this.
“Hello, Erin. Goat is dead.”
She blinked at him, and he knew the feeling of wondering whether his eyes were working. Anand went on, voice level.
“So is Aluminum Armor, who liked the word you taught me, even though we never found it, and was one of the first Armored Antinium to ever become painted. And Worker C44, who decided his name might be better but never came up with it. If you survive…if any of the Antinium survive, they will carry the names to the Free Hive, so do not worry. Rabbiteater is just ahead. I hope we save him.”
“Anand.”
He nodded at her, and his voice was not…cheerful. It was direct. It had the makings of cheerful, but he could not hide some tones he had never spoken to her before. He felt it was time.
“I wish to tell you that I know why you came. I am glad you escaped Roshal. They are bad people, and if I live—I will make sure they have no sway anywhere I can. But I will not predict the future. I know Rabbiteater is there. I know…”
He paused.
“I know that if I were there, you would come for me. It still hurts.”
Anand was certain. He was, but he still checked, and he saw her look at him. Wordlessly, and his heart felt better. Even now.
“I wish you hadn’t come.”
“If you go, we will follow. Every single time. Hasn’t Bird told you that? Or did you not believe him because he is Bird?”
The [Strategist] scolded the silly [Innkeeper] and realized too late that the person he had looked up to as knowing everything, being able to do anything…was still just a young woman. He wondered how he’d never noticed and wished, in a way, he never had.
Her eyes were full of guilt, and Anand felt the ship list.
“—I would do it again. I just wish…”
Rabbiteater had every right to be saved, but it came out anyways.
“I should have stayed at the inn.”
Then, perhaps, it would be an Antinium, not a Goblin. Antiniumfriend instead of Goblinfriend…but that didn’t sound as good. A petty little child stood in front of Erin, and she raised her haunted eyes to his.
“Why didn’t you?”
The Worker smiled ruefully and chuckled.
“We had a people to learn to lead.”
Then he saw her look at him as if she had never seen him fully before, and he felt taller. Anand saw her chest rise and fall, and her hair was burnt; the flames were out. She was just the [Innkeeper] now.
To the end.
No more the [Witch] of wonders.
Not the person to unite the north and south of Izril.
No devil-forged woman, reborn ghost.
Just the [Innkeeper] who had been at the start of it all. The greatest and only. She spoke to him softly.
“I love chess, but I’m bad at strategy, Anand. He’s right there in front of me. If it were you, I would go. I don’t know if I would be here for someone else.”
“Thank you.”
They stumbled, and someone cried out as Anand and Erin came back to the world. The [Immortal Moment] vanished for the last time this long day, and Anand felt The Naga’s Den rock. The impact sent him stumbling—and Erin threw her arms around the Worker. She hugged him with all her strength as the deck slid.
“I love you, Anand.”
Then they were tumbling, and the world was ringing. Anand lay on his back-shell, stunned, and saw her bend over him and check him. She whispered in his ears, and it stayed with him as long as his soul remained.
“Don’t die.”
She rose, and he whispered back. Reaching for her hand.
“I won’t.”
She looked down at him, eyes gleaming, then was running, knife in hand, towards the end of it. Anand?
He was laughing softly as he rose. No one could understand why. The [Strategist] followed Erin, chuckling.
“Bird’s not the only one who can learn to lie.”
They ran into ships on the way to Rabbiteater. [Pirates]. A confused flotilla who opened fire on the Goblinfriend of Izril. Anand kept running, chasing her, as the storm began to clear.
