The battle was getting more chaotic suddenly. The Bloodtear Pirates had been winning, but it wasn’t just this ship that was causing havoc. A bunch of [Captains] had pulled back from the hunt.
“—[Dangersense] has gone off. Admiral Maxy, you feel that?”
“A bunch of [Storm Sailors]’re freaking out. Let’s regroup on me.”
“Jiupe’s dead? Hold on—what’s that in the sky—”
A babble of voices. Zoler was about to shout at them she’d found the [Innkeeper] when her head rose and she saw something high above the storm.
“War Walkers falling down. What’s…that?”
Zoler’s crew were focused on the ghosts and strange magic-casters attacking their friends, but their heads rose, and more than one fanged mouth opened as Zoler’s eyes traced something in the sky.
It looked like a great, winged shape in the storm. But that was impossible. Wyvern, probably. Because it looked like—
Golden flames burned down as a Dragon roared across the sky. Zoler shouted and threw her hands up. She saw a line trace itself across the horizon. Flames seared over the tops of the waves and refusing to go out. Then a streak of light strafed past her ship, just missing the Newbloods—and hit a Bloodtear ship in the distance.
“Tree rot, what the hell was that? Some kind of Wistram spell?”
Maxy roared as a ship went up as if soaked in oil. Zoler stuttered, at a loss for words for the first time in her life.
“Admiral? Th-that was a Dr-Drag—”
Stories of the horrors of Dullahans, their old enemy, flashed into her mind, and she was a little girl again, her head hiding under the bed at night. Her father’s famous deed—the surprisingly small corpse they’d shown in secret—
All of it dwarfed by a shadow that shot across the storm. Then came a roar that deafened Maxy’s questions.
Dragon.
“Take us about! After it! After—”
One of the Vampires was pointing excitedly, as if he wanted to fly after the Dragon, but it was already gone, leaving a trail of wind through the engagement. But then Zoler saw another bloom of gold.
“Something’s in the air. Wistram illusion or real thing—every ship with a reach above a thousand feet on me. I’m going to tickle it. It just flamed my shield-spells. Looks like Terandria just got some backup. Rosech, you hearing this? Rosech, stop hunting for the [Prince] and look up, damn it!”
Maxy’s voice was cold. Unfazed. A woman to admire. Zoler tried to wrench her attention ahead. That’s right. Get the [Innkeeper]—and do what?
For one second, the Dullahan wavered, then gave a different order than what Maxy might want.
“Listen up, crew. The [Innkeeper]’s mine. Everyone else—take them out. If she’s really the one, she’s worth more’n just one destiny. Got it?”
Take her alive, if it could be done. That was the Bloodtear’s way, even now. Besides…who wanted an [Innkeeper]’s destiny?
The crew half listened to her, some staring up at the sky—others pointing ahead.
“Captain, we’ve got more ships. Looks like—Roshal? Wait—”
Zoler spun, seeing a new, unfamiliar ship in the waves. Her eyes narrowed.
“It’s glowing. It ain’t the Illuminary. Hold on…is that—”
She must have hit her head and was dreaming all of this. Because it could not be—but she swore her eyes picked out a group of undead skeletons, a young man holding a rapier with white robes, an Antinium, a woman with silver arms, a smiling man—a half-Elf—a…Goat Beastkin?
She didn’t know who two of them were, but four of them made Zoler’s heart suddenly stop in her chest. One of her crewmates swore.
“It’s them after all. Horns of Hammerad. Here? Captain—”
“How?”
Zoler began, then realized she sounded like all their enemies. She hadn’t fully believed it even when she’d heard. But she should have known. The Horns had appeared in damn Chandrar and sailed with Khelt and the King of Destruction and the Hero of Zethe himself! If that was Erin Solstice on the ship, the Horns of Hammerad were right here.
A grin of delight burst across Zoler’s face, and she began to whoop and wave at them—then realized their ship was coming for hers. The Newbloods’ [Captain] hesitated and realized…oh.
“We’re gonna have to kill ‘em, Captain. They’re coming in—get ready, Newbloods!”
“Fuck, fuck, fuck—don’t we owe Erin Solstice a favor?”
One of the Vampires whispered. Zoler glanced at them, then at the Horns. But they’re my…
“G-get ready!”
The Dullahan shouted. There were other Bloodtear ships in the water. If the Horns didn’t smash into her ship, the other ones coming after The Naga’s Den would run into the adventurers in minutes. She pointed her sword and saw the Horns of Hammerad were staring at her.
It really was them. Zoler saw them staring at The Naga’s Den—then a half-Elf swung over the railings. Zoler thought she was going to swim, but Ceria Springwalker hit the water, and the Ice Squirrel began to skate over the waves, freezing them in real time. The [Pirates] tried to fight back, heads turning, ducking as shards of ice struck the ship and crew alike.
“Dead gods! Did you see—”
“Shoot her! Shoot—”
Their ship rumbled as a spear of ice struck it near the rudder. Zoler stumbled and realized she was smiling in delight. Then she felt eyes on her and looked up.
It’s a damn undead ship. She saw the undead sails at last. Saw a [Necromancer] lock eyes with her and felt a thrill as she saw Pisces raise his rapier—then she gazed past him at Yvlon Byres.
The Silver Killer. And her eyes…Zoler’s smile vanished.
Their ships connected, and the slam of wood on wood knocked everyone around. Zoler was first on her feet.
“Up! Up! Get—”
She still didn’t know what she was doing until she saw the first Skeleton Champion clear the decks. Then Zoler’s instincts took over. The Dullahan leapt forwards, slashing to take its head off—and it blocked her blade.
The skeleton riposted so fast Zoler barely deflected the slash. Another leapt onto the deck, and a Newblood in a wild charge slashed into it—and it impaled him with a delicate thrust of the rapier.
They were—Zoler parried six fast slashes, swept a leg, stabbed down, and the skeleton caught her sword with one hand before it could fully pierce its skull. It rolled, slashing at her legs, and she jumped, fell, and stumbled to one knee.
“Kill them!”
Newbloods were charging around her, and one of the Vampires punched the skeleton clean off the ship. The grinning [Pirate] held a hand out to Zoler as she reached for it—
A silver spike of metal went straight through the Vampire’s head, and the girl looked confused. She opened her mouth to scream—and ash began to flake from the wound. Then she crumpled over without a word.
Another spike of metal burst through the air, and Zoler’s duck saved her life. Three more [Pirates] slowed, puzzled, staring at metal running through their limbs; a half-dozen were hanging in the air, impaled.
Then the screaming began. The spikes of metal withdrew, and Zoler saw an arm clinging to the railing of her ship. Then a face followed it up. Blonde hair, covered in blood, bared teeth, blue eyes. A surprisingly calm face that made Zoler’s legs shake.
Yvlon Byres. The Silver Killer pulled herself onto the deck as someone aimed a crossbow at her. It pinged off her helmet.
The second one hit her straight in the forehead, and Zoler made a sound. But Yvlon just recoiled—one of her arms turned into a shield—and she yanked the tip of the crossbow bolt out of her head.
It had barely gone into her skull. Then she lowered her arms, and Zoler shrieked.
“Jump!”
An arm like a scythe slashed across the deck at knee-height, and anyone who didn’t jump or dodge—the Silver Killer charged past Zoler and slammed into a young Minotaur, who skidded backwards, roaring.
Their heroes—a Newblood looked up, mouth open, as a figure flew down, a cloak revealing Ksmvr of Chandrar as he shed the invisibility spell at the last moment.
Then a silver blade beheaded the [Pirate], and Zoler lifted her sword.
“Wait. We’re your—fans—”
Her voice was quiet, but the Antinium, Ksmvr, actually heard it. He turned and called to a figure following a wave of skeletons onto the deck.
“Pisces. I believe these are our fans.”
And there he was. Captain Zoler’s blade wavered as she saw a head of dirty brown hair rise. Two grey-green eyes found her face. He raised a rapier, and a bell chimed silently as Zoler stared at it.
—Her head twisted. Pisces’ rapier tore open her cheek and slashed through the air. Zoler made a sound, and the [Necromancer] pointed his off-hand.
“[Deathbolt]. Where’s Yvlon?”
Zoler fell flat on her back, eyes wide, as Ksmvr pointed. Without a word, the [Necromancer] charged as a Satyr whirled a huge sling behind them and loosed it with a crack.
Pisces had heard Ksmvr. But his rapier kept moving. It extended as he lunged again, and a [Pirate] with a half-smile of incredulity grimaced. And the Horns of Hammerad—kept—going—
When Zoler pushed herself to one shaking arm, trying to breathe and keep her heart from stopping, she heard more shouts of dismay. Then she heard two sounds to put terror into her chest.
“A-Antinium! Antinium in the skies! And the Dragon—”
“The Iron Vanguard is attacking! The Iron Vanguard is attacking!”
Zoler heard a shriek from above, a sound she had never conceived of, and then the roar of distant spells. Her father had forsaken his promise. Why? Zoler was scrambling for the speaking stone to speak to someone and ask why—
Then the first Kraken tentacle burst from the waters, and she stared up, up, and ever higher as the Kraken rose from the deep. Zoler could swear then that she heard a woman cackling.
 
——
 
At first, Tulm the Mithril denied the truth.
“Erin Solstice? Move a cutter to confirm.”
He had weighed trying to intercept Roshal, but he’d had no idea where The Naga’s Den was, and even the Seer of Steel hadn’t been able to locate them. Her presence here suggested she had escaped Roshal…but of all places to head.
Perhaps they’d pushed her into the storm?
The Iron Vanguard were in the middle of circling Wistram, surrounding the Bloodtear and the Terandrians, when the first oddities began cropping up. Tulm couldn’t see into the storm, and he had hesitated to send even the Krakenbane Destroyer, Sea’s Authority, into it.
The [Pirates] were dangerous, but Tulm would find his daughter if he could justify the boarding action.
Xol of Ingrilt had supported the measure not just for Tulm’s ego, and so the [Strategist] was relieved his counterpart was taking his stance.
The [Dragonslayer Strategist] didn’t know who would come out victorious from the fighting. He suspected both fleets would be irreparably damaged. If the Bloodtear Pirates emerged…he was weighing attacking the ships exiting the fighting and tipping his hand early.
They could do unacceptable damage to his fleet.
“If she is in the midst of the combat—obligation dictates we send a ship to rescue her, Tulm.”
Xol offered as he stomped across the pouring decks. Tulm felt more rain washing down his armor and snapped back.
“Of course. However, Zoler’s oath means the instant I do…”
He was devising a simultaneous strike and about to request the Seer of Steel approve his plans. And if magic or urgency demanded it, he would execute a rescue upon confirmation of Erin Solstice’s whereabouts, response or not. Then, as his lips were moving, it happened.
A burning line of gold shot down from above. Tulm saw it bloom through the storm, and his heart, his very class, suddenly drove everything out of his mind. It was like the ringing of a Dragonward bell. Doom—and hatred.
Every Dullahan who’d seen the line of fire recoiled. Some [Strategists] aboard Tulm’s command began calling for magic detection reports. But while they were going off—Xol froze, and his eyes swung to Tulm.
“Strategist Tulm. Was that—”
Another bloom of gold. Then Tulm heard a boom of sound and saw a shape bursting through the edge of the storm. His voice was lost, then he spoke. He had never failed to keep his head in a war scenario, even as Niers’ student. But—
“Dragon. Tulm to fleet. Dragon sighting. Scatter by Petal of Ponds formation. Signal Invictel now. Identify.”
Frozen, the Dullahans’ entire communication network went dead at his words for…a minute, two minutes, Tulm couldn’t say. His eyes were locked on the sky, but now he felt every line of his body vibrating. His mind was trying to recall the records, but a breathless [Historian] from Invictel clicked onto the speaking stone line.
“—tegist Tulm. Strategist Tulm—distortion magic spells. Can you hear—?”
“Reapply the [Communication] spell. I hear you. Which one is it? [Ship: Dragonfire Ward]. Do we have any Dragonbane weapons out of storage? Bring Sea’s Authority into the center of our formation!”
Tulm was giving rapid orders, trying to picture a way to keep that Dragon from strafing their ships. They were weak once wounded. But his blood began to sing as he heard a grim, even triumphant tone.
“We are certain from the description and speed, Strategist. Identifying Dragon tentatively as—if it is named—Teriarch. Last Dragonlord of Flame.”
Xol of Ingrilt had drawn a sword and shield and had pivoted to face the sky. But his great head lowered, and his eyes went wide as Tulm’s grip tightened on the speaking stone. The [Historian of Foes]’ voice went on. A shaking, fearful, wrathful tone.
“Teriarch. Lord of Pyres. Champion of Ashen Wings. Doom of Amerital Goolm. Strategist—”
“I understand. The Iron Vanguard’s fleet will assume a combat formation. Seer of Steel, our fleet is poised to give battle to the Dragon. Do I have permission to sacrifice the colony fleet?”
Silence. Xol lifted his head as War Walkers emerged from their ships. One raised a bow, and the Krakenbane Destroyer began to glow. Tulm heard a massive voice from the speaking stone.
“YES.”
Xol raised his voice in a bellow, and Tulm allowed it. Dullahans began hammering on their breastplates—but then every eye was on the skies. And Tulm was suddenly drawn back to the battle by a voice from his speaking stone. One of the scouting ships.
“Strategist. I bear witness to Erin Solstice’s presence.”
Tulm began snapping orders.
“Protect Erin Solstice. Signal all forces. We will engage the Dragonlord once we draw a lock on—”
Then someone shouted a warning, and Tulm’s head snapped around as he heard more coordinates being shouted.
“Another flying shape approaching!”
It must be slower if they actually spotted it before it passed. Two Dragons? Tulm’s mind began racing as he recalled Niers’ warning he had passed on via Umina. What—
