Then they looked ahead as the Slavers of Roshal stared down the undead. The crazy eyes of Chandrar’s Silver Killer. Glittering blades. The stare of the fae, and a sword whose bell made nary a sound. A smile from a half-Elf, whose circlet whispered to her ears alone.
And Colthei? Colthei raised his voice and called out to them. His voice was pitched high and rang so loudly that even the meanest [Slaver] heard it over the thunder of wave and surf. His voice was, at first, proud and noble, and his address was enunciated.
Unto a [Caller] or a [Herald], for the [Supporter] had many talents.
“This day, we commend the souls of the fallen to the Hundred Heroes of Terandria! Let all those of valor who perish not be forgotten but laid to rest before their own as champions, regardless of nation or heritage! We are the Horns of Hammerad, and we give battle to you, the Slavers of Roshal, in the name of Erin Solstice and freedom. Come before us with honor and the will to arms, ye champions of Lailight Scintillation, what scant of it you possess. All chains will be broken. The seas shall be your grave. You will be hunted down like you deserve until the last [Slaver] is scoured from the world’s face. Death. Flee, craven dogs. Till we rip out your insides and let you choke on your own bile and blood. Die screaming. Death, death, death—”
His voice kept growing louder until weaker-willed [Slavers] clapped their hands to their ears, removing their helmets to shield themselves from the voice, cowering in terror.
[Doomsayer]. The [Supporter] kept screaming as the two ships tried to pull away. But the Horns of Hammerad were coming at them—and even the distant [Innkeeper] looked back and felt it.
 
——
 
“The Horns of Hammerad? Why—why now? Go away. Please.”
The [Innkeeper] saw them coming, and her eyes opened wide. She tried to turn away, but the wheel was in her hands, and it slowly turned back ahead.
What did you see? 
A [Pirate] ship hunting the waters for Ser Solstice and the Calanferians was closing on Throne’s Will when they saw an unfamiliar ship break through the waters. At first, they stared—then laughed.
Damned if they were by every nation—there were few destinies they wanted among Roshal. But there was never a bad day to kill [Slavers].
“Let’s have some sport before we move onto the main course, boys! Looks like she’s under-crewed!”
Captain Jiupe of Blood-By-Tide was pointing her arm and one of her jellyfish stingers ahead as her crew cheered. They had plundered fate itself and were hungry for more. Why stop at one destiny when you could have more?
The Drowned Woman stopped when she realized the ship was famous.
“Dead gods, Cap’n. That’s The Naga’s Den. We don’t want to piss off the Naga himself, even now.”
A nervous crewmember spoke up, but the [Captain] narrowed her eyes.
“Shut up. That…there should be Djinni on his ship and hundreds of deckhands. What’s he doing in the storm? Hunting for [Slaves] from either side? Wait—who’s that? Is that—who I think it is?”
Every eye pointed to a single figure on deck, and someone trained a spyglass on the figure.
“Can’t be.”
“It is.”
“There’s a destiny. Captain—you think—?”
“All about. After that ship. Now!”
Suddenly, Jiupe was excited again. She didn’t know how or why, but she doubted the Naga would turn his ship over to just anyone. But she’d spotted noblefolk on the deck; someone was searching for info, but the person who’d caught Jiupe’s eye was proper famous.
And she had a destiny…Jiupe looked again, and there was no mistake.
“Erin Solstice. Someone tell Maxy. No, wait. Tell her after we’re on our way.”
Maxy herself might come calling for this. And Jiupe…licked her lips. It was the [Innkeeper] who seemed to attract chaos. Dubious fate, but she’d come back from the dead, they said. She was a [Queen], a friend to multiple species, courted by a Wall Lord—
If even half the things they said of her were true, it was a fate Jiupe herself wanted. There she was, in the storm. The Drowned Captain began to smile, a predator’s grin…when she noticed something was off.
It was the [Innkeeper]. She had all the signs. Not just her face, but she was in the company of a Hobgoblin—and she had a damn aura that felt like an inn at sea. Jiupe’s own aura was strong enough to feel Erin’s. The [Innkeeper]’s presence was huge, covering her entire ship.
But mostly—it was the hat. A flaming hat on her head, proper style even for a [Pirate]. Though now Jiupe looked again, she wondered if all her informants and news sources were pulling her leg.
“Strange. ‘S it supposed to be…pink?”
She’d always imagined the hat to be more like a multicolored flame, something artful or maybe a rainbow of colors. This—this was a bright pink flame. And it was spiky.
No, wait. Jiupe magnified the spyglass and realized what was off.
That’s not her hat. That’s her hair. Her hair was on fire. It was blazing, a hairstyle of its own, rising from the [Innkeeper]’s head, and her face was grim and bloody.
Her eyes were staring ahead through the storm—until they turned—and met Jiupe’s through the spyglass.
The [Captain] dropped the spyglass as if it were suddenly burning. She cursed as it rolled down the deck.
“Captain, looks like there’s some kind of summoned crew on deck. And an informant just whistled—that [Innkeeper] escaped Roshal! They’ve been after her, and there’s a bounty for her alive or dead!”
One of her crew reported excitedly. Rosiere, one of Jiupe’s [Pirates], licked his lips as the Drowned Man continued.
“We think those’re Ailendamus’ nobles on board. Important ones. You think we can take them? The Naga’s Den is a famous ship, but it’s got practically no crew.”
Jiupe half nodded, but her eyes were locked on the ship, and now it was turning—she broke out of her reverie. There were eyes on her.
“She’s seen us. Get ready.”
“She’s seen…?”
Rosiere looked up, and The Naga’s Den came about. Erin Solstice was aiming the ship at them. Now, Blood-By-Tide was moving, aiming to come about parallel to the other ship. The Naga’s Den was taller than their ship by a good ten feet, and Jiupe saw her [Navigator] swinging the wheel left—then right.
“Captain, she’s coming straight at us.”
“Well, lose her!”
“I’m trying, but she’s got Skills and—”
The other ship kept coming at them.
“Turn us now!”
Suddenly, Jiupe had a premonition, and she saw her helmsman hesitate. She grabbed the wheel, and her ship turned.
“[Rapid Turn], [Crosswinds Blow]—is their helm mad? The Naga’s Den’s no rammer!”
It was a fancy ship, for all it was one of Roshal’s slaver ships. It had no armored prow—Blood-By-Tide did, and Jiupe wouldn’t risk a collision with a ship of that size. But the [Innkeeper]…Jiupe turned, and now the other ship was trailing them.
“She’s insane all right. Take us parallel. Hoi there! Parlay! Stow your blades a sec, boys. I want to know what’s going on here.”
Someone raised a white flag as Jiupe began shouting. The Bloodtear Pirates were sensing something was off.
“There’s ships following hers in the storm, Captain. Roshal’s. But they look—wrong. That one’s glowing, and I swear I see undead on one. And them nobles make my [Dangersense] go off.”
“I know. Shut it, Rosiere.”
Jiupe whispered as her [First Mate] strode towards her. The Naga’s Den kept sailing ahead, and Blood-By-Tide came alongside as the [Innkeeper] came into view.
Her face was pale. Her eyes were staring wide, and she had the look of women Jiupe had known. Women stabbed and determined to continue onwards. A dead woman’s eyes who’d drag you down to the depths.
“Ahoy.”
It was the first and only time Jiupe had used the expression. She didn’t know what to say. Her crew laughed, thinking she was joking, but the [Innkeeper] just glanced down at them as she moved her wheel, eyes locked on something in the storm.
Even the Bloodtear Pirates could barely see much beyond the flashes of light from ship-to-ship combat. Jiupe was relying on other ships and her hunting Skills to sense foes in the water. But Erin Solstice…
“You’re the Bloodtear Pirates.”
Jiupe swept Erin a theatrical bow, taking off her hat.
“None other. And you’re Erin Solstice, the [Magical Innkeeper] herself. I’m Captain Jiupe of Blood-By-Tide. Any other moment, I’d invite you aboard and treat you to a drink, Miss. In a spot of trouble with Roshal, is we?”
She smiled with both her teeth and her Drowned half, jellyfish tendrils waving. Erin met her eyes, regarding her fish-face, and her expression didn’t change.
I suppose if she’s smiling at Antinium and Goblins, she won’t blink at me. Something—put Jiupe’s hackles on edge. So she continued after a moment’s silence.
“We’re going hunting in this storm. Begging your pardon, Miss Solstice, but you’re a tempting target. What’s, ah, a bunch of Ailendamus’ nobles and an [Innkeeper] doing in a storm like this?”
Her crew were listening, sizing up their opponent, weighing how to get up the other ship fast. Some of them could jump and hit the deck, but Rosiere was eying the crew of…summoned people?
They didn’t look like regular summons. There was something too animated about the crew standing at the railing. And one of the men…
“Captain. Captain. That’s Admiral Dakelos. The one from Ailendamus.”
Who? Jiupe was about to hiss back as she waited for Erin’s reply when she recognized that name. Dakelos? The fellow who’d killed half a dozen Wellfar ships in boarding actions?
That…might complicate things. Jiupe was rapidly losing her appetite for a hunt. She did not like those strange nobles. They gave her bad vibes, like the Ice Squirrel or a foe she couldn’t take the measure of.
But the [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice looked down at Jiupe. Erin Solstice’s tone was flat. Flat like the voice that whispered in Jiupe’s head. Flat like dead water.
“I know what you’re doing. You’re after the Terandrians. One of my people is aboard the ships being attacked. Ser Solstice.”
Jiupe licked her lips and put a grin on her face.
“Ah. The Goblin Slayer and Lightherald fellow himself. Shame. That [Princess] is one of the biggest targets. Well, she’s the cursed one, so I suppose no one’s that hungry for her.”
I am. Jiupe kept her voice light and conversational, but those eyes made Jiupe’s own vision itch. And Erin hadn’t blinked yet. Her hair was still on fire.
Didn’t it hurt? The pink flames called to Jiupe. They were beautiful and terrible. Like tears at sea and regrets—and glory. Two things so close they were almost the same.
It hurt her eyes. Jiupe had to shield her face, and she snarled.
“Well so’s you know—our [Admirals] themselves might take a swing at your beloved [Knight]. I’m not attacking you because Roshal’s no friend of mine. That could change in a second. ‘Specially if I let the fleet know where you are.”
Nods and grins from the other [Pirates]. If this quarry was dangerous, they’d just call in another ship hungry for destiny. The noblefolk shifted, but Erin Solstice’s eyes only brightened at that last bit, and not for the reason Jiupe thought.
“Do you have communication with your fleet?”
“‘Course.”
“Good. Then tell them to leave the Throne’s Will and Rabbiteater alone. Earl Altestiel’s ship as well. Call it a favor or name your price. Do it now.”
Jiupe stared up at Erin—then she laughed. It was an incredulous, hoarse, angry laugh, and it grew louder as she realized the [Innkeeper] wasn’t kidding. Jiupe slowly reached up, and poison began to seep from her tendrils and into her mouth. She spat it onto the deck, and it hissed.
“Well, I liked you more as a story. I don’t think you understand what’s going on. Maybe Roshal addled your head, but do you see this storm, Miss Solstice? This is the final battle of the Bloodtear Pirates. Every ship present is bound for new destiny or death. Do you think we’d heed you on our best day? Or do you think you scare the Bloodtear Pirates?”
Her hand crept towards her sword hilt. Now, Blood-By-Tide was edging towards The Naga’s Den’s port, but both ships were going flat out, wind in their sails.
Storm at our backs. Blood in the water. Blood in the sky.
Her nature was singing in her veins. But Erin Solstice looked down at Captain Jiupe, and her voice…seemed to echo and gave the woman pause.
“I didn’t think that would work. I’m asking you a question, Captain Jiupe. Is there anything I could offer that’d change your mind, or your crew’s or the other ships’? Will you stop?”
Because she said it like that, because something in her gaze said she might understand—Captain Jiupe looked up at Erin with a half-smile and swept a bow.
“Not for you or any [King] or [Queen], woman or beast under sky or wave.”
Her crew grinned at her words, and they were good words. So why did Jiupe feel so unsettled?
She remembered a conversation like this, between that outcast traitor—the Bloodfeast Raiders—and realized this reminded her of that.
Only…it felt like the inverse, this time. There was no hostage. Of course, the Bloodtear Pirates had the Terandrians on the run—but why did the [Innkeeper] look at her like that?
Patiently waiting, voice strained, as if giving Jiupe the moment to say her piece for the look of it. But her eyes—the [Innkeeper] sighed as Jiupe’s confident smile slipped into a snarl. Her voice was muffled by the rain and surf, but she raised it and called out.
“Okay.”
That was all she said. Erin Solstice began to turn the wheel, and Jiupe shouted up at her. And she meant what she said next, impulsive though it was.
“You’ll die, [Innkeeper].”
Erin stopped and looked down at Jiupe, and the woman cupped her hands to her mouth.
“I quite like you, though you’re stupid as shit, but you’re brave enough to balance it. I’d rather not stain the waters with your blood. Turn back, for we’ll not spare even you.”
Her crew turned to her, and Rosiere opened his mouth, but Jiupe held Erin’s gaze. The [Innkeeper] paused, resting her hands on the wheel, and the Hobgoblin sighed and shaded her eyes and looked behind her. But the [Innkeeper] just called down to Jiupe, sounding mildly puzzled.
“Why do you all speak like that?”
“Like what?”
Jiupe hesitated and wondered if it was her accent. The [Innkeeper] just shook her head.
“Like…‘only for you, Miss Solstice’. I’ll give you one chance. Think carefully. Speak like monsters and stop trying to be liked.”
The [Captain]’s eyes slowly narrowed. She called up to Erin softly as her crew slowly came to one railing.
