He swung his sword one-handed, and one actually blocked him. His sword hummed through two necks, bent the sword the third held with both hands, carried the figure across the deck, and the [Pirate] slammed into the upper deck with a loud sound.
Greydath hadn’t expected to find decent [Pirates] with a sword so soon after that Minotaur [Prince]. The honor of blademasters would have had a [Knight] wait for the [Pirate] able to block his strike to stand.
The Goblin Lord flicked his greatsword, and the point struck the [Pirate] through the face, embedding itself into the deck. Greydath hopped over, reclaimed his sword, and wondered if he could disguise hims—
“Goblin!”
They said that after they opened fire on him. The faint flash of light from the corner of his eye was the only warning he had aside from his instincts. Not from the spells, either.
Invisible. Greydath dodged under them and cut something in half. A ray of light? He saw them hesitate and lunged.
His sword hit two barriers, and he carved through their midsections. Then one exploded.
A death spell? Had he hit a spell while casting? A potion?
—His ears hurt. Greydath pulled a piece of metal out of his shoulder, wincing. He had no toughness Skills and had dodged the explosion’s shrapnel—most of it.
They were more dangerous than he cared to admit. He was a Goblin alone, not ambushing some adventurers or a force that had no idea who he was. More [Pirates] spun, and Greydath…retreated belowdecks with another hop.
He had a reason. The reason was the prickling on his back and a charm stone that vibrated. He didn’t carry artifacts. Artifacts made him stand out, and that would make him a suspicious Goblin, not some old one that was harmless and that even other young Goblins ignored.
But he did have to know if they were watching him.
[Scrying] spells. The entire world was probably watching this battle. It made Greydath’s mission far, far harder because he did not want to reveal himself. But there was only so fast he could move if he was one of…Erin Solstice’s friends?
Hadn’t he heard from the Goblins on the island that she was some kind of [Goblinfriend]? They’d gotten it from Anazurhe’s tribe.
Silly notions. Velan had friends. The Titan saw what that earned him.
Bootsteps above. Greydath sensed them coming after him, but they were smart enough not to come downstairs. One conjured a wave of poison.
Lots of spellcasters in this crew. Must be the [Geomancer].
Well, that wasn’t how he thought or worded his thoughts. That was how most Goblins thought and how Greydath had learned to communicate with them. If he had to speak ‘low-Goblin’, the term the Goblin Lords had for the half-speak that tribes barely remembered, that was how he thought and worded his opinions.
Or even more crudely if the tribe barely had any grammar. Greydath’s thoughts, when he was only himself, with no one to act to, even other Goblin Lords, were different. The translation was…it was a translation of a language that flowed and had nuance no species remembered.
An old tongue that he had learned from his mother. The daughter of Curulac. He was Curulac of a Hundred Days’ grandson.
Everyone forgot that Curulac had lived long before those hundred days of destruction. So Greydath’s true thoughts were something more like…
—incantationless magic. Neither superior nor remembered from the old days. Cunning spellcasting of [Pirates] who mastered war magic better than [Mages] of the Halls of Wistram.
Do they know me?
I remember the eyes of [Archmages], and I have cut them down. I am a poem of old.
What pretentiousness did they sing of me?
 
Greydath’s blade
Cuts cause
Half keenly as his tongue.
 
Goblins of Terandria had made such foolish poems. Now—focus. Do they remember me?
I see it in the wide, mismatched gaze of a [Pirate] slumping down the stairs. No [Knights] of Terandria are old enough to remember a salute at a crossroads. A Goblin challenging them to a duel. It has been long since I set foot on my homeland’s shores. Now—I leap.
—The water washes down the steps like cold, stinging poison dripping from a jellyfish’s noxious tendrils. My blade sings past the deck once, twice, past what is impermeable. 
I am amidst foes. Statues, like the garden I once set foot in, only these are statues-to-be if anyone loves them. I have cut across battlefields. 
Do you remember me? Terandria surely does. I cleave upwards, through the deck at the [Pirates].
Belly-cut, entrail-less, one falls. Though the eyes above must not glimpse how it was done. They surely fall upon the locus of battle. Ere I rise, I stab twice more, blade slipping between the cracks of the floorboards to kill. 
A Goblin of acquaintance I must pretend to be. A nonce name chosen. Not Greybeard, for my words may be divined; Aknel, perhaps, a Goblin I knew whose name fits if any does for seeming’s sake.
Aknel, passing well with a sword. Died standing in the surf the day we cast a chunk of Terandria’s soil into the waves and made an island of it. [Goblin Knight], for the days when we had them.
Foolish boy. Did you think you were the first? I will see you live and find the one who called for me.
Then Greydath flicked up the stairs, hopping from railing to railing and avoiding the poisoned wave, and appeared on deck as the last [Pirate] collapsed, slain from below by his bladework that ignored the barrier of wood that should have stopped his sword.
He was Greydath. He was now Aknel. 
It was hard to pretend not to swing his sword as if he knew it. Harder still when he saw the Humans dying.
Greydath advanced from the ship he had claimed, onto the Lord of the Dance’s ship where [Pirates] were cutting down the last resistance and turning on Rainbringer. The Goblin strode forwards, swinging his sword into the backs of the [Pirates]—fast. As an expert might, shearing through enchanted cloth and metal and Skills and leaving bloody trails on the decks.
—It was not enough. He had the ken of that, now, in the falling bodies as he beheld the struggling ship, Griffindance, and the [Innkeeper] pinned down with an ‘Archmage’ throwing up a barrier of magic.
They were on the final Terandrian ship, [Pirates] storming over gangplanks and trying to take the center of the ship, which was protected only by a ring of people and Verdan’s magic.
A dome.
It was always a dome or bubble, pulled up by the last vestiges of power, reflecting blades and spells until relief came or the magic fell. By this, he knew Verdan Blackwood was no great Archmage.
There was no art to his magic. Greydath had once seen a flower of magic shielding a [Mage], each petal falling away until he slew her. And he had slain a [Mage] so talented as this.
Greydath eyed the Bloodtear Captain who stood on the furthest vessel from the fighting, launching spells in a [Mage]’s duel while forcing the [Pirates] to keep attacking. It was a battle she’d inevitably win given the numbers on her side, but she might have triumphed by magic alone, regardless.
That [Geomancer] might well call herself an Archmage. Shipbreaker, they said? She knew battle better than the old man. The defenders on-board Rainbringer were failing to push the [Pirates] back as she manipulated the battlefield amidst her attacks.
The Lord of the Dance was the most gifted warrior present save for Greydath, but the very floorboards of the ship buckled and quaked, forcing his people off-guard, and only he could dance upon the ever-changing ground. He was wounded though, and the Shipbreaker fought with the simplest magic, however crude.
An explosion of a stone pillar she conjured, and only a true master could dodge it. The [Lord of the Dance] ceased his jig and fell to one knee, sprawling onto the deck, and the circle of bodies narrowed again.
Almost simultaneously, the lone combatant skating over the seas saw another pillar of stone rising up and juked to avoid—
The half-Elf flinched as it peppered her ice armor, and the agility of a [Prankster] availed her not as the Shipbreaker blocked spell after spell and insulated herself against cold with layers of clever stone, trapping pockets of air between.
Master of earth. Greydath, still trying to sneak forward and break through to Rainbringer and the [Innkeeper], cut swifter. The crowd of [Pirates] had sensed their comrades falling soundlessly and turned, but they were not the ones Greydath cared about.
That [Geomancer] had to die.
He did it fast, without mercy, and swung his sword and cleft the world in twain. So fast and so sudden that he cut across the distance between them, two hundred feet.
A slash through the air; let the watchers think it was chance, an arrow, or just doubt their eyes. It should have bisected her completely. He cut the magic. Cut her and felt it done.
She lived.
Greydath didn’t know how or why at first, only that Captain Ereiyne screamed. A scream of pure terror and pain—and he saw her cut in two—divided and dead—
Then stumbling, uncut, face white as [Pirates] recoiled, and the other [Captains] and crews turned to her—then him.
He knew not how, but the why of it was obvious.
Skills. They endlessly surprised any warrior, and to this one? He saw her lips moving; his ears caught the name of her Skill, and Greydath sighed.
A gift for these [Pirates].
[Stolen Lives].
So then. Greydath resigned himself to it as a [Captain] leapt impossibly high. He saw a [Sword Art] in the air, and for a moment, admired it. A beautiful piercing blow, like the thrust of a lance—and knew it would tear apart the deck upon which he stood.
He admired it for it was stolen from a [Knight]—and gave the one who wielded it no credit at all.
For it was but a copy of true mastery, and Greydath saw it come out of a box, without nuance or intonation. For that sin, he swung his sword.
Die.
The Hobgoblin did his best. He hopped forwards, pretended to stumble, and swung his sword in a flashier Skill, cleaving the air—but he didn’t think it worked.
The [Pirates] looked down and flinched as blood spattered across them, and one of their leaders fell, two pieces landing silently to earth. The Shipbreaker pointed at him, and he felt the floorboards twist and hopped out of the way of the first spire of earth with a sigh.
Then they injured him.
He could not help it. He could not dodge everything, nor was his body capable of morphing to avoid a storm of swords or a rain of arrows. He was fast—but they were everywhere.
A singing fire he dove through, an arrow that grazed him—he flicked the poison from entering his veins, and the spray of shrapnel struck his skin and pierced deeply. This was not the offense of underestimating that Antinium who had a gift with the bow.
This was just—numbers. Canny fighters.
He lost his temper. Greydath whispered a Skill, swung his sword, and the [Pirates] around him vanished.
Ninety-four degrees. Twenty-six feet. That was the cut, and it was smooth and polished—blood kept running for a while from the severed bodies, and the mast of a ship collapsed. He tried one last time to pretend it was his great Skill—but it was too late.
The eyes of them fell on him, and he smiled and smiled and knew if they hunted him, he might die and his time would be over. But he was old and tired—and one last time, he wanted them to say his name.
So he leapt. High, higher, swinging his sword and cleaved down. Again, the Shipbreaker lived, but only because her Skill saved her.
He cut the deck she stood on. He cut the ship in twain, and the [Pirates] around her vanished like the dream he sometimes thought this world was. A petty one he wished the Goblin Kings had erased, for he knew the truth of it.
Then they knew him. Then the cry arose, great and terrible, and he sensed himself marked a hundred times over with fear and horror from all his enemies—and it was the world over—by [Pirates], by Terandrian Kingdoms, by distant and near powers. The Blighted Kingdom, Roshal, all those who held up the world in some way and feared when Goblins next would shake it.
He raised his arms and smiled, for he had longed for this, even if he might die. And they said his name.
Greydath of Blades.
 
——
 
He appeared out of the battle like a story, and there were many. Erin saw him raise his hand. She saw the ship list and split and looked around.
They were alike in horror.
Terandrians.
[Pirates].
Even [Pirates]. That offended her. Even [Pirates]? Yet when she looked at him, even she felt it.
Goblin Lord.
The one thing about Goblins she had never understood. He smiled as he killed, and it was easy. One last curtain for this battlefield. One last tragedy.
“Kill…kill the—that is Greydath of Blades.”
Archmage Verdan whispered. They knew him. Only one Goblin had that strength of arms. What Erin saw was not what they saw.
Somewhere, the Blighted King saw Greydath of Blades, another old foe, and was incontinent. Somewhere, Roshal beheld a monster of his ilk and fell silent in fear.
Erin saw that he had attacked her foes. She saw Ulvama’s look of hope, fear, and Badarrow’s snarling smile as one who saw someone he had anger—and hope towards in this moment.
And she saw Greydath looking towards the two Goblins as if they were the only light in the world he cared about.
Then the nations of the world tried to kill him.
He’d cut a ship in twain. He fought in no way Erin had ever seen, except maybe once, when a strange half-Elf had attacked the Horns of Hammerad, or rather, humiliated them on the way back from Celum to Liscor.
The Goblin Lord cut a hole in the ship to dodge, came out the side of the hull, carved through a section of another ship, and danced off the falling ship and across the air, sword singing a song only he knew. He fought as if the rest of the world were children, who had learned to fight left and right, but never up or down or in any other dimension.
—But he was one Goblin, and Goblin Lords died. 
“Get to the ship! Get to the—”
Chaos.
Her party was running across the linked ships, and at last, Erin saw Earl Altestiel in the fighting as Greydath took on—everyone. She ran up a gangplank, onto a deck where [Soldiers] of Desonis turned towards her—then lowered their weapons in astonishment.
They were spread out in a ring, having been forced inwards to protect their commanders. The Earl of Rains was shielding a [Lord], Belchaus, and both men looked at her like they’d seen a ghost.
“Come with me. Where’s Rabbiteater?”
Altestiel said nothing. His mouth was open, and his eyes, weary and despairing, lit up just one second at her face. Then he seemed to stare at her like a stranger, and she wondered how she must look.
Kiish answered for him.
“T-Throne’s Will. Erin. Is that you?”
“Come with me.”
Erin reached out to take Altestiel’s hand and dragged him a step. She meant to haul Lord Belchaus up too, but the man couldn’t stand.
“He’s wounded.”
