Deckhand to a [Captain], then a self-styled [Admiral], so rich and powerful that entire nations and powerful people made deals with him. He’d done it. Risen to the top—and then seen that you didn’t go any higher.
You were still a commoner. There were only a few routes higher. Marriage or conquest, like the Titan of Baleros. No noblewoman wanted to marry a [Sailor] little better than a [Pirate]; let alone a [Princess]. He’d asked for a price, thinking to buy his nobility, and they’d named half his fleet and fortune for the honor of it.
Seagrass was tired of it. Tired of having to fight every damn [Pirate] in the world. He didn’t enjoy it like Rasea Zecrew. He wanted a shred of the respect he’d earned for keeping the seas safe. So when he’d heard about Terandria’s predicament, he’d begun sailing south, hinting to every nation that he’d take a title for the risk.
Until they were backed into a corner, the nations, all of them, from glorious Erribathe to Calanfer, had tried to play him like a fiddle. [Duke]? You must be joking, Admiral. A knighthood. Minor, unlanded nobility. Citizenship and a pat on the back. A permanent trade contract.
This was why no one came to their aid. Not damn Wellfar, not the Iron Vanguard—so to Rhir’s hells with them as well. It made it so much easier to accept the other offers.
He had to make sure Terandria was well and truly crippled. There were bounties per ship he sank—and he had over a dozen clients, each with their own standard. Who wanted Terandria crippled?
The better question was—who didn’t? Most of the smart ones didn’t put anything down by name, but they’d paid in full. And they knew how to offer him land and more than mere gold. A retirement.
He wasn’t sure if all six Walled Cities were in on it, but he knew it was more than one. He had sorted through gold coins and noted that they couldn’t find enough minted elsewhere, so it was definitely at least two of the Five Families; the crystal rose, almost relic-class, pinned to one lapel was proof of that. He suspected House Reinhart, though his fluttering heart said it wasn’t Magnolia Reinhart who’d backed him.
“Damn the Kaazian ship down deep. What’s taking you?”
He snapped at one of his [Captains] and got a strange report—there were Antinium on the ship? Seagrass hesitated.
No one wanted them dead. He had a windfall waiting for him if the Erribathe ships died, but Antinium…? His heart lurched again, and Seagrass put a hand to his breast.
How much longer? Retirement. Plunder. It still wasn’t worth this contract—but he had one more thing waiting for him. The man turned and stared towards where he’d marked south at.
Terandria didn’t know him at all. They had a damn [Princess] sailing with them, cursed or not, and Calanfer had smiled politely when he’d even hinted at a chance to court her.
The Empire of Sands had offered him the hand of a [Princess]. New nation or not—he was going to have it. The Terandrians could wonder why he’d betrayed them afterwards. Just one more ship—one more decade of wealth and luxury—
Then, as Imor Seagrass prepared to cut down on the Terandrian fleet, he heard something unearthly in the storm.
A shriek. Yet it wasn’t the sound of Dorhmin war cries nor any beast he had ever seen swimming below his ship. The [Admiral] whirled, eyes on the surf—then realized it was coming from above. He looked up—and a monstrosity with too many mouths, black as a nightmare, dropped towards Irurx and the [Storm Admiral].
Wrymvr the Deathless. Imor threw up his hands, and his crew began to loose arrows and spells upwards. They bounced off that hide, and for a second, Seagrass’ ship listed as the Antinium landed.
Maws of tearing teeth. A [Storm Sailor] dragged up, screaming her heart out until he saw her heart, viscera raining down, and he was screaming as well, dodging a glob of acid—
Then Wrymvr leapt, circling, and even the Alchemist Irurx gazed upwards in awe—and Seagrass thought—reverence. Irurx threw his hands up, and Shifthold began fleeing.
“Admiral! What do we do?”
One of his [Captains] bawled at him, terror breaking through even the bravest resolve. Imor Seagrass looked around, and his nerve broke.
“Break! Break and follow Seagrass! We’re heading south! Chandrar!”
All thoughts of attacking the Antinium, let alone continuing this farce, left him. The Storm ships broke away, and Seagrass collapsed onto one railing, then headed for his cabin. He’d lie low. Marry into royalty.
He was a Human, so he couldn’t change his face like Stitch-folk, but anyone could use an illusion spell, and that Empire of the Sands needed a navy…his heart hurt. Imor Seagrass stumbled down the deck, too afraid to lock eyes with the Antinium sailing past him.
 
——
 
Anand had the slight pleasure of watching the ship flinch as Wrymvr the Deathless descended upon Shifthold and Imor Seagrass’ remaining fleet. However, it was bitter in the knowledge that Wrymvr was now locked in battle.
To his gratification, he saw all of the Storm ships beginning to turn; only the [Alchemist] kept fighting, though Wrymvr informed Anand the half-Elf was actually trying to parlay, claiming they were on the same side.
“Chase him out of the battle, Wrymvr. Seagrass as well. Queen for a queen. Suboptimal trade. I am bad at chess after all.”
Ser Gorethem stared at the giant insect locked in combat with the ship as Anand smiled at him. Anand turned away from Admiral Imor Seagrass. He had expected to die, fighting a legend of the sea. But he was almost disappointed to learn the man had no will to fight.
All of this and he didn’t have a reason a hundredth as good as Anand’s? Goat had more will in one antenna than that [Admiral]. Anand forgot about the [Storm Sailors] in the next moment. The running battle had drawn them closer, and a flash of lightning revealed a cluster of ships—and the one he was following, running low to the water, turning and heading straight for the fighting.
The Naga’s Den. Then Gorethem pointed at it, and Anand reckoned they were twenty minutes away. Kaaz’s [Captain] was shouting every Skill and oath to let them catch up, and the Knight of the Thousand Lances looked at Anand.
“Your [Innkeeper]—”
“Yes. Let’s go.”
 
——
 
Kaaz docked on one of the ships besieging the Earl of Rains’ ship. Anand had seen Erin Solstice charging down the ramp; it was a tactical choice.
The [Pirates] had already boarded The Naga’s Den, and so the [Innkeeper] was fighting forwards rather than be trapped, trying to reach Altestiel and Lord Belchaus.
Anand had always known she was good at battle. But she didn’t love it.
He…did.
There was a joy to it he had never told Erin. The power to fight back. To see his mind triumph over a foe, to see the Kaazian [Soldiers] engage in a charge, slicing forwards then feinting back behind his Free Antinium and the Armored Antinium, who slammed into the [Pirates] and made them buckle as Anand pointed out targets and his [Archers] picked them off.
This was power. This was what he had longed for as a Worker watching Crypt Worms tearing other Antinium apart. This mattered.
He did not love the death. One of the Free Antinium fell, gurgling, as a [Pirate] drove a blade through their throat. A Kaazian [Soldier] vanished with a cluster of others, and a [Soldier] stared at a spike of earth that burst from the ground, painted red.
We. Are. Dying.
But if the battle were a chessboard, a strategy Anand saw from above…he understood that the Antinium were trading deaths well against the [Pirates], who were superior fighters. The Antinium’s attack was surprising the [Pirates]. Giving the other people on his side a reprieve.
“Forwards!”
It was about value. Anand valued Antinium lives. He valued Erin Solstice above his own. So he shouted.
“Forwards! Don’t stop!”
He rammed them forwards, running himself and slashing at the first [Pirate] like Ksmvr had taught him, until the Antinium were compressing the [Pirates]. They needed maneuverability. Antinium could fight in a squeeze.
Dead bodies pressed up against the living, being shoved down and trampled, regardless who you were—screams and curses, and he knew they were dying.
Someone stabbed him deeply through the armor the Armored Queen had given him, and it hurt badly—Anand grabbed for his potion, and a [Pirate] tore it out of his grip.
I should have exp—
A blow knocked him flat. Anand felt feet trampling him, heard screams, and activated every Skill he had left, desperate.
He was blind save for the shouting until someone yanked him up, and he realized it was one of his Workers. Archer…A21?
Yes, the very same. One of his handpicked Antinium. The Worker was bleeding from pieces of stone buried in his carapace, and Anand realized they had won. Temporarily—the [Pirates] were backing up, and the Kaazians and Antinium were looking to him for orders.
Got to go after the [Mage] next. Or reach Erin. Stand. Assess. Anand saw the Worker speaking and realized his auditory channels were filled with ringing.
“Say it again?”
Archer A21 spoke.
“Goat’s dead.”
Anand stopped. He looked around but did not see the Soldier who had come with him long ago, or where he’d fallen. Anand saw the remaining Antinium, numbers cut in half, looking at him, and knew his next orders would kill more.
He nodded, briefly, as he saw the battlefield in his mind.
“I’ll see him soon.”
 
——
 
The [Pirates] swarmed the decks. Shipbreaker Ereiyne had repositioned onto another Bloodtear vessel and was exchanging spells with a half-Elf racing over the ice and water.
It was a familiar sight. Not the death or the battle of [Mages].
The sight of an [Ice Mage] running on the water…an old man remembered seeing that, once. A novice practicing the trick in Wistram’s calm harbors.
He wondered if they had known each other. Then he pointed down as his [Levitation] spell carried him through the storm. He was tired, gasping. He couldn’t fly like Eldavin. The Archmage of Memory was…strange. An old [Mage] too perfect for this world.
Archmage Verdan Blackwood was a coward. But he had served in the Iron Vanguard. He wore Dullahan armor, an honor accorded to so few.
He saw the [Innkeeper] that had changed fortunes and the Seer of Steel’s injunction, and Tulm the Mithril’s orders had reached him even as Feor and Viltach and the new ‘Archmage’, Beatrice, had been tracking down the last undead that Erin Solstice’s [Garden of Sanctuary] had delivered, and assessing the damages in Wistram.
So, the Archmage of Dullahans conjured a barrier, sealing off the [Pirates]’ advance, and dove towards Erin Solstice.
When he landed, he sensed that [Geomancer] turn her wrath on him, and he struck the ground with his staff.
“[Zone of Control]!”
Her attempts to cast spells through the earth halted—so she threw a pillar of earth at him. He blocked it in the air, panting, as the [Innkeeper] whirled.
“Who are you?”
The old, scared Archmage would have swept a bow if he weren’t trying to fight for his life. There were too many [Pirates]. 
“I am Archmage Verdan Blackwood. The Iron Vanguard honors your deeds, Erin Solstice!”
He wished she looked at all impressed. She stared at him—then grabbed his arm as he sensed powerful spellcasters—everywhere.
Noblemen and women? They were like [High Mages]—no, some of them had the adeptness of [Grand Mages]! And even their magic—the Bloodtear Pirates cut a spell apart, and Verdan saw the [Innkeeper] dragging at him.
“Altestiel’s ahead! Do you see Rabbiteater?”
“Who?”
A pair of…Goblins were ranging ahead, one with a bow, the other with a staff casting a very complex piece of magic he realized was intercepting all the arrows in the air with swirls of wind. A [Shaman]? One was swearing.
“I don’t see—there’s a Goblin somewhere here! There! Your [Earl]—”
The [Shaman] pointed as Verdan Blackwood grasped weakly at Erin’s arm. A <Quest>? He wasn’t sure how to ask, but tether himself to her. If they lived—he was trying to tell her he would teleport her to safety and maybe as many as four others?
Then the final person to join the battle revealed himself, and Verdan heard a cry arise, from [Pirates], from Desonis, even from Griffindance, of universal horror and dismay. And his skin chilled, for the [Innkeeper]’s head rose, and her eyes went wide as the two Goblins stopped, one with a sigh, the other with a snarling smile of incredulity.
“Goblin Lord!”
 
——
 
He had swum after they let him jump off the ship. The other Goblins would have slowed him down, even if they were better than average.
This was not a place for them to die. At first, he’d assumed he was going after Roshal, so he’d told the Goblins to find him one of Roshal’s ships and boarded it.
When he’d finished killing them, he realized they were hunting a Hobgoblin and an [Innkeeper], and Greydath had no idea what was going on.
But Greydath of Blades had been here anyways.
That idiot [Knight]-[Champion] was at sea, and Greydath refused to let promising Goblins die.
He hadn’t expected the Kraken. Or the Dragon. Or the Dullahans.
It occurred to Greydath, the Goblin Lord, that he might actually die when he saw how many Bloodtear Pirates there were and realized Terandria was sailing into the storm. Erribathe…they’d kill him in a heartbeat.
To slay one of their [Princes]—he almost would have tried. But they always had more heirs. Save the Goblin.
Two of the three idiots were surrounded. Greydath had made a choice when he sensed both Badarrow and…the other one. He remembered her. She’d grown stronger since he’d been in Tremborag’s pitiful tribe.
They both had. Greydath of Blades had been anchoring himself onto the side of one of the Bloodtear ships, panting, holding onto the greatsword he’d claimed from the Isle of Goblins.
He was tired. Swimming through the ocean for over a day after his damn ship had capsized—he didn’t know how to steer it alone—and cutting that stupid Kraken made him feel old.
The Goblin Lord began grinning when he sensed a handful of [Pirates], smart, canny, with Skills—tiptoeing over to the edge of the ship.
They’d noticed him hanging here. Scourge of the seas. The most deadly [Pirates] of this era. One pointed a wand over the edge of the ship suddenly and made a sound.
Greydath caught the hand and cheerfully tossed it back up. Then he punched a hand into the ship’s side, lifted the greatsword, and pulled.
An old Goblin with a grey beard, bald and scrawny—but growing taller with each second—landed on the deck, a bright, polished greatsword in one hand. A [Pirate] was holding the stump of a hand, staring, as three more recoiled.
