Then he heard a shriek. His blood chilled. His mind went numb a moment, and Dullahans cowered, fearless against their foe of Dragons—but they had never dreamed of this.
A wretched monster of chitin, wings spread, flying, gargantuan and dreadful, mouths open and shrieking, passed overhead. It carried something, and Tulm’s head tracked it as the Dullahan took his head off and raised it.
Then he felt his understanding of the battlefield vanish completely. Tulm raised a stone as the Seer of Steel shouted.
“TULM. WHAT IS THAT SOUND?”
“Identification. Confirm—I have just spotted Wrymvr of the Antinium. Repeat. Wrymvr of the Antinium.”
And—Tulm waited for confirmation until he relayed this because he hadn’t believed his eyes.
The Centenium had been carrying…a ship. The Iron Vanguard began moving into the battle as Tulm gave orders.
“Open fire on all Bloodtear Pirates, but do not break formation. Hold on the Dragon until you have explicit orders. Do not engage the Antinium or any irregular ships at this moment.”
The Iron Vanguard began their advance as drums beat, and the [Dragonslayer Strategist] began to activate his Skills reserved only for this foe when he sensed the oceans roiling.
The first Kraken tentacle punched a hole in one of the troop transports off his portside bow, and he heard shrieking. Then he looked down and triggered a third all-fleet order without requiring identification this time.
“Kraken.”
 
——
 
The Dragon was going to die. He sensed a [Dragonslayer] below, and he knew the Iron Vanguard was here.
But he had come because it mattered. So he flew and breathed fire.
Lines of gold until his lungs felt incapable of another breath. Streaking over the storm, whirling out of cloud cover, and he swore he could sense the very age of the ships below him, old stories not fitting in this new world, just like the Dragon himself.
They had all changed, but there was Erribathe, sailing in confidence, pitting themselves against the greatest of [Pirates]. Hungry souls.
Glowing lights from Wistram.
That girl. Which one? She was heading straight to her death.
The Dancer…
No, Erin Solstice was striking another ship, and Lucifen were dying. They fought so strangely, these Devils of the modern age.
In teams, not alone, surrounded by servants. Supporting each other, dragging one of their wounded number behind glowing ghosts. Teriarch saw them for a second, high above, as his Dragonbreath pierced the Third Tide.
They always loved traps. Tripwires of darkness magic. Explosive runes—master spellcasters. One of them was using a flaming sword quite well. Superior beings, they called themselves.
But it was a few dozen versus…he saw one vanish beneath a tangle of bodies before their comrades blew the scrum apart. Ghosts were locked against [Pirates], and Erin would never turn back.
So they went to her. Allies and enemies, drawn together like moths to a great lantern. Roshal’s ships. [Pirates]. Strange allies.
A half-Elf [Admiral] was cutting the waters, a lantern on her prow shining a spotlight of viridian light straight through the storm. She pointed at the [Innkeeper], and one of the bolts blew a hole in the hull of The Naga’s Den.
So he dove—and saw the ballistae swivel up at him and realized it was a trap.
The Dragon dipped a wing, and pink flames sent him into an aileron roll. He spiraled out of the way of one, two—
The third bolt grazed him, and flaming shrapnel and clinging fire rained down across his brass scales. The flames burnt against his hide, and his reply was a blooming ball of fire that sent [Pirates] scrambling and burned through the shields. Panting, the Dragon winged away fast.
She’d sent flames against him. A mistake. Next time, they’d load something nastier. His head was swivelling as he kept moving. Slow down and they’d catch him.
Something was wrong. He heard a wild screech and realized there was another flier in the air. The Dragon spotted Wrymvr at the same time as the Centenium saw him, and both froze.
What is that?
It looked like some kind of twisted idea of a Dragon. But—Antinium? Teriarch didn’t remember, and he almost blasted it with fire, then saw it spit a glob of acid. Teriarch blinked out of the air, repositioning above the thing, and began to dive like a comet.
—Then he saw the ship the Centenium was dropping towards the battle below and the little insect-men and a Drowned Woman staring up at him in horror, and he understood.
When the Dancer calls for aid—
The Dragon spun out of the way again as Wrymvr and the Antinium ship he had carried from the Hivelands hit the water. The half-Elf [Admiral], Maxy, whirled, and a ballista bolt hit Wrymvr in the side. The Centenium jolted—then buzzed towards her ship.
The screech made even Teriarch’s wings feel faint. He saw the half-Elf retreating as the Antinium boat—barely more than a waterproof tub—spun wildly. Yet they too were following the wounded ship crewed by the [Innkeeper].
Madness. Heroism. The Dragon stabilized his flight, circling the storm, wondering what the most optimal move was. Locate the Goblin? Which…one…was it? He couldn’t tell from above.
Teriarch began to dive towards one and sensed something only he could see from high above.
The sea’s churning. It was impossible for anyone, even a [Scrying] spell gazing down on the storm, to see it. Teriarch, miles up, saw the black waters moving. His pulse quickened, and the ancient Dragonlord’s eyes widened. Something massive was rising—
Then the first tentacle burst from the surf. A tentacle, blowing apart a ship like a toy, reaching ever higher, like the legend it was. Ancient suckers crusted with debris, open mouths and multiple brains—and eyes, oh yes—eyes—
The Kraken beheld Teriarch, and the Dragon spoke.
“Scale rot. What next?”
He should have brought the Giant’s sword. The Dragon hesitated—then performed a spiral dive and exhaled as his claws reached out, raking down the tendril.
It turned into a flaming torch as he raked open the tough skin, and the Kraken convulsed, but more tendrils were rising, and it was big. Not the biggest but—
Had it sensed the fighting? The Dragonlord was tiny compared to the Kraken, and he broke away from the waters suddenly rather than continue his dive into the water to the Kraken’s main body. That was how you had to fight them. Bleed them out. Take them down limbs at a time or find a way to hit their submerged form.
He had been about to—this was a young one who’d never fought a Dragon or it would have never exposed itself to the air that long. But the Dragonlord swore he’d heard it.
A [Witch]’s laughter echoing from the deeps.
 
——
 
Oh yes. It was her. She’d done it.
Belavierr stared up at the surface from the depths of the ocean. Her orange eyes glowed with rings of broken immortality. Shattered power and the malevolence of a [Witch] bound by defeat and obligation.
They’d bested her. They’d tricked her, even. Her.
Forced her to uphold old oaths. [Witches] as terrible as she, binding her with word and authority, and they had done it.
How she labored.
How much she’d lost.
Yet she was still Belavierr. Spider! Temptress!
The Kraken was screaming. It had few wounds—well, up till the moment it had surfaced—but it was wild with madness and grief, as it understood these things. Faced with surfacing into this storm with food and things to destroy or facing her, it had taken a simple pact.
It rose into the storm above. Belavierr didn’t know what it was attacking. A fleet, she knew. Multiple fleets near Wistram?
She didn’t care. The Witch of Webs spun in the dark, her dress billowing black, like the ink that even the darkness of the water could not match. Cackling.
So much work to do. The Witch of Webs was hunting for something at the bottom of the sea. She had obligations binding her. She could feel the oaths and the humiliation and shame—but she was laughing. Laughing as ships began sinking.
Who had she doomed? What moment was this? She did not care.
Only and only that they were sinking. Screaming bodies plunged down into the unforgiving waters, devoid of breath. The [Witch] lifted a hand, and her smile captured the flickering lives, the desperation to live of [Pirates] and nobles. Dullahans, Drowned Folk subjected to crushing pressures, Humans—all of them.
The Witch of Webs began to strike deals on her terms as more ships drifted down to the bottom of the sea.
 
——
 
Strategist Anand realized the first moment he saw the Dragon that he was outmatched. The roaring Dragon appeared through the storm, and even Wrymvr screamed.
“The Dragon. I am dropping you! Brace!”
The Centenium’s telepathic command made Anand, Goat, and the other Free Antinium and the volunteers tense. Wrymvr dove, and the water was coming up hard and fast—
“We’re going to split the ship!”
Torthe shrieked in his ear, and Anand felt their ship, the Waterproof CXI, plunging towards the surf. He had a cogent thought.
We are all going to die.
Then they hit the water with the most almighty splash in the world, and the entire ship screamed. Antinium ran around frantically as the boat rocked, and Wrymvr took to the air. Something exploded on Wrymvr’s armor, and Anand lifted a hand.
“[Steady the Ship]! Patch the holes!”
There was only one ‘deck’ and a hull that Antinium raced into, ready to bail, but of all things, the impact hadn’t sunk their ship. The Antinium hadn’t figured out mobility, but durability—
“We’re alive? We made it? It actually floats—”
They hugged each other. Anand knew their ship floated. Of course it did. They had not made a hundred and ten previous iterations of this ship to know it floated.
But it was never meant to survive a storm like this. Well, it was, but I didn’t think we’d test it out like this!
“Deploy oars. Goat, lead them.”
Row! Row! Row!
The Soldier shakily produced some flags and waved them as Armored Antinium and the Free Antinium began to row in unison. Where? Anywhere.
Waves were rising and falling, and the Waterproof was bobbing up and down like a little toy in the middle of the most horrible storm Anand had ever seen. The water was red, and he saw even Torthe looked terrified.
“We’re in the middle of the Third Tide. Blood and darkness. The Bloodtear Pirates—”
That was who had attacked Wrymvr. When Anand looked up, he saw the Centenium flying after a huge warship retreating from him, flashes of burning light bursting against his chitin.
Unlike normal, there was no faint amusement or idleness in the Centenium’s thoughts. His voice was ‘fainter’ as he concentrated, and Anand heard no other Queens. They were far too far out at sea. He was surprised Wrymvr had made it, but the undying Centenium truly was unique.
“Anand. Stay away from this ship. Dangerous. Dragon in the skies. Avoid.”
“Wrymvr, do you see Erin?”
Anand screamed at the sky with his voice and his mind. He sensed the Centenium’s irritation/wariness/confusion.
All for her. Wrymvr did not understand why Anand had ordered him, ordered him to take a strike crew to sea. The Antinium in the Hivelands had believed that if Pawn could not protect Erin, they would make no difference, and the Grand Queen’s new…[Slaves] had been unsettling.
Then the Flying Queen’s treachery, at least as far as the Armored Queen had intimated. They had left in the middle of what might have been the first inter-Antinium war since the dawn of their people. Wrymvr had agreed to carry them because he had sensed Anand’s conviction.
Someone had to find Erin. Anand might not be the only one, but—he was her [Strategist]. So the silly Antinium who hated water and was already growing seasick lifted a spyglass and tried to stare around the dark night.
“Give me the wheel! All ahead! The waves’ll batter us dead, but…[Weathersense]. We’re heading to the eye of the storm! Got it?”
Torthe saved them in the first few minutes. Anand had no orientation at sea; there was no maneuverability as the [Strategist] was used to. They couldn’t leave the ship. Down was death, and the waves were like a constant earthquake.
However—his Antinium did know how to fight, and they could row. Torthe spun their stupid ship with the waves, heading towards what she saw as ‘safe harbor’. And Anand’s own [Battlefield Sense] let him work out what was happening.
There were at least three fleets fighting each other. One was relatively intact, advancing into the storm, but two were mixing and mingling in the waters, both half-blind and tearing each other to bits.
There were also a number of irregular ships with no allegiance—Anand knew one had to be Erin. But the wildcard was the flying Dragon—oh, and the Kraken and Wrymvr.
Both flying monsters were attacking from the sky, mostly the Bloodtear Pirates, but everyone was shooting at them. Yet what could not be predicted was the Kraken.
“Light of my life!”
Torthe shrieked as a wall rose ahead of the Waterproof. It looked like land, a perfectly round cliff wall that appeared out of nowhere, hundreds of feet long, until Anand realized it was a tentacle. It curled inwards, sweeping three ships, two [Pirate], one Terandrian, inwards.
And the Waterproof. Antinium rowed desperately as Anand saw the tentacle curling inwards to collect the vessels and then descend.
The Kraken was so massive that the tentacle pulling the ships down was executing the move slowly, so you had minutes to watch the walls of flesh constrict and scream and scream until you were being pulled down into the water where maws would open and tear you to bits.
Anand was a [Strike Strategist], not a hero. Antinium tried to climb the wall of slippery flesh, and he saw one of the Armored Antinium begin stabbing and stabbing the flesh with a sword. His blade barely dug into the flesh, and when the tentacle shifted slightly, the Antinium went falling into the surf.
[Quick Evaluation]. We are dead.
Anand saw [Pirates] trying to do what they were, hacking at the massive tentacle as if they could cleave through it. All three ships had attack spells, and they were unleashing them on the Kraken, gouging out what was to the Kraken pockmarks of flesh on a massive arm.
They’d never make it. The tentacle curled, and Anand saw the water actually dipping towards a whirlpool. He saw a desperate group of figures fighting like mad as a Terandrian ship, crossed swords and a snarling image of a lion on their flag, tried to escape. The soldiers hacked at their area of the tentacle. All three ships were being drawn closer together, and Anand saw desperate heads turn towards him.
“What in the name of the deeps is that?”
A [Pirate] shouted as Waterproof rammed into his vessel. Anand stumbled, felt an impact, and saw a nobleman with a rapier and a face covered in blood staring down at Anand. Then the nobleman turned.
