No. Don’t do that. Altestiel raised a hand, and a wave of water surged over the deck. It knocked some of the lower-level [Pirates] flying and gave his people a second’s wind—but the rest just landed on their feet, as if he had showered them with water, and laughed.
The Earl of Rains straightened. If he fell—the ships around him had no chance. The nobility had fled doomed ship after ship, and like a collection of valuables, they had drawn more [Pirates] onto them.
The Order of Seasons’ ships were locked in a deathmatch with two ships to the side. He saw Griffindance, no longer able to maneuver at speed, spitting incredible volleys of fire still.
Lord Firrus and Pheislant. Altestiel looked around for Belchaus, and his friend was striding down the deck to cheers.
“The Lord of the Dance is mine!”
The [Pirates]. Altestiel went blind as a flash of lightning came down. He looked up for salvation and saw a Dragon bursting through the clouds. For a second—he felt a ray of hope.
Then something struck it out of the skies.
 
——
 
Teriarch saw one of the main engagements of the battle as he escaped the Iron Vanguard and flew into the storm, trying to find Erin Solstice or—someone.
[Pirate] ships overrunning vessels. The Dragon saw a huge swathe of them. He could strafe the entire wing of them in one move. He dipped a wing, trying to catch his breath.
If only he’d had more time to recover. More time—
It mattered not. The Dragonlord came down like a falling star, illuminating the night sky. He flashed through the cumulus clouds, red rain, a beautiful woman blowing a kiss, sitting on a flying carpet—
Teriarch’s eye twitched, went round—
“[Arm of the Stone Giant].”
Archmage Eldavin hit him with a pillar of stone as he shed his [Invisibility] spell. The Dragon had begun to twist, but the spell still struck him in the chest and launched him out of the sky.
“Greetings, Lord of Flames. My turn to ambush you.”
Eldavin.
The Dragonlord of Flames lost all the breath in his lungs, and a crushing blow swatted him out of the sky like the hand of a Stone Giant. His whirling mind was somewhere thousands of feet below as the half-Elf dove towards him, aglow with magic.
Fool! How could Teriarch have forgotten how close to Wistram they were? Yet—but—he sensed his foe was already wounded. Eldavin was whole, body intact, but his mana flow was a mess.
Wounds to his face, heart—any other being would have perished, but he wasn’t really a person. He was a simulacrum, and so long as magic flowed, he lived. Teriarch had made Eldavin too well.
Even so; magic vented itself across Eldavin’s body as he cast more spells, unevenly distributed, flickering through regrowing circuits of power. It had to be agony—yet the Archmage of Memory’s mismatched eyes were upon his foe.
The Dragon. Neither one would be safe while the other lived. They knew it, so the two fought wildly as they fell.
The two hurtled downwards as Teriarch spat flames—Eldavin activated his second spell, and the second [Arm of the Stone Giant] punched up and caught the falling Dragon with a satisfying explosion of sound.
Predictably, he was so heavy he went through the layers of stone, crunching through half the gigantic pillar of stone before he glanced off and down, but that presumably hurt more.
Eldavin followed the Dragon down, pelting him with the only spells he thought would work aside from pure, brute force: frost-type magics designed to sap Teriarch’s inner fire.
“[Bolt of the Ice Witch]. [Frozen Heart]—”
Magical resistance. The two hit the surf, and Eldavin dove into the water, augmented by spells, as the Dragonlord floundered.
Now I’ve got—
“WRETCH.”
Teriarch’s flames ignored the laws of nature and came out in a huge orb like a second, underwater sun, and an explosion of steam blinded Eldavin. Cursing, the Archmage blinked out of existence—spotted Teriarch trying to swim upwards.
[Zone of No Transference]. [Greater Deathbolt]!
Eldavin shot down towards Teriarch, and the Dragon howled. They were ending this—now!
“Your people are dying! And this is what you choose to do?”
Teriarch’s voice thundered through the water, agonized, as he exhaled more flames then cast a spell Eldavin didn’t recognize. The water constricted, and the Archmage howled—he barely cast a barrier before the pressurized bubble turned him into pulp.
“Kindly die before I rescue the Terandrians, Teriarch. I’m not the only Archmage brave enough to leave Wistram.”
“Servant of Kasigna!”
“I want to live.”
Then Eldavin raised his hand, and the Dragonlord, snarling and making towards him in the water, saw the half-Elf draw a sword made out of lightning. A weapon from Drath.
It belongs to me as well as you. The Dragon bit, and Eldavin swung the sword into his side—
 
——
 
The thunderclap filled the entire battlefield. It was the largest bolt of lightning so far, and even the Krakenbane Destroyer taking shots at Wrymvr stopped a second.
“Anand. Wary. You are heading towards danger.”
Wrymvr was in pain, despite his [Greater Lightning Resistance]. He was backing away from the Iron Vanguard, as were the [Pirates]. He heard a distant response and quickened his wings.
“Erin is there.”
The Centenium had no approximate word for the Antinium phrase it thought. The closest was:
Damn it.
He flew faster.
 
——
 
A ship was bearing down on the Bloodtear Pirates from the side. Lord Firrus Kallinad desperately tried to signal it. He didn’t think it was the Bloodtear Pirates.
“Ship! The battle is lost! Earl Altestiel has signaled the retreat! Ship!”
He was shouting with a [Loud Voice] spell, but it couldn’t hear him or—his daughter ran across the deck.
“Father! Our [Mage] says that’s—The Naga’s Den! A Roshal ship!”
“What?”
Lord Firrus stopped, and his first instinct was to fear Roshal had joined this madness. He didn’t think they would come to Terandria’s aid. But then again…
Something was off about the ship. It was taking on water, and it looked like it had been boarded multiple times. The [Pirates] must have attacked it too. But it was coming on, and Lord Kallinad had a thought he couldn’t believe.
Either they were mad—or those [Slavers] were braver than he imagined they could have been.
Then he caught a glimpse of the ship, and his eyes bulged. Ghosts crewed that vessel.
“By the light of Pheislant.”
“Ghosts? Is it like last time? With—”
Talia Kallinad stopped, and her eyes lit up in hope, but then Firrus saw other figures, less spectral and distinctly realer. His jaw dropped.
That’s Ailendamus’ Viscount Visophecin! His eyes picked out the man, unmistakably, by chance aboard the deck. He was standing in a cluster protected by magic, pointing ahead, and the [Lord] saw other strange figures.
An Antinium in armor. A Stitch-woman with a staff?
“Goblins?”
Firrus drew back a step—then focused. There were only two Goblins. And they were all surrounding a pink glow. A…a woman steering the ship.
He thought he recognized her. But he couldn’t place her until Talia cried out.
“Is that…Rabbiteater’s [Innkeeper]? Erin Solstice? What is she doing here?”
It was a question many had asked. Firrus did not ponder it. He just shouted.
“The battle is over! The Earl of Rains is lost! Turn around!”
They had to regroup with Throne’s Will! He had heard there was help coming. Wistram, and even Rhir had begun to take action. Altestiel was lost, however. Any [Tactician] could see that.
Firrus saw the head turn towards him, and a pair of glowing eyes somehow met his in the storm. She had heard him. The Earl of Rains? The ship kept coming.
“Lord Firrus! Give us a new heading!”
Someone begged in his ear. House du Havrington, his objectionable fellow nobles from Pheislant, were united in this moment. They were all Terandrians, and Lord Firrus was leading a bulk of them away from the Earl’s last stand with the Lord of the Dance.
What a coward I am. We are. Now, Firrus saw an [Innkeeper] and—and damned Goblins turning.
“—Lord Havrington. I cede my command to Hearthlord Voloke. Griffindance will try to break Rainbringer and Impetuous Step out of combat. Hearthlord, follow Legend’s Wake and link with Throne’s Will. We must break to Wistram.”
They might be leaving a third of their number in the storm, but he could not find them. The Hearthlord of Cenidau, one of the most experienced [Lords] at sea, gave a curt affirmative.
“Luck be with you, Lord Firrus.”
“Firrus! You can’t abandon us—”
Cowards, the lot of du Havrington. Firrus gave orders for Griffindance to come about.
It was his daughter, of all people, who had the courage to argue with Lord Firrus.
“Father, our sails are damaged, and the wing spells won’t work. If they board us—”
“We still have the firepower to destroy ships, Talia. Are you suggesting we leave Altestiel behind?”
“How many people will we sacrifice if we all die, Father?”
She spoke sense, and Firrus came out of his desperation, hesitating. But—he had heard the Iron Vanguard were fighting at last. If they had any hope of mounting a counterattack…his eyes lingered on that ship.
“That woman and Ailendamus’ nobility—however they have come here—are going to the [Earl]’s defense. Should we let Goblins be more courageous than we? Prepare for boarding.”
His people shouted, a thin cheer, as Firrus stared up at the sky, hoping the Dragon would reappear. The barrel-chested man looked at Talia, and she flinched for reasons he didn’t know; he had meant they were all shamed by Goblins, not just her.
So that is the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. I have heard her called…what was it?
Oh yes.
Goblinfriend.
There had to be eight ships still locked around Earl Altestiel’s and Lord Belchaus’ ships, not counting the ones giving pursuit to the rest of the fleet. Even with his ship and The Naga’s Den…she never hesitated, that woman. Firrus stared sidelong at her and saw an Antinium [Knight], the first of his kind, salute him.
The [Lord] hesitated—then saluted back. He saw two more ships bearing out of the waves and saw one of Kaaz’s own ships—and, of all things, a ship that glowed, filled with holes and undead?
Firrus Kallinad recoiled until he saw another familiar team. The Horns of Hammerad. He hesitated—and gave the order to hold fire. He swore he saw a robed figure on deck reply with the dueling salute of Pheislant.
They were bearing down on the [Pirates], and Lord Kallinad ordered Griffindance to open fire, again and again—until they were locked to the teeth against the [Pirates].
 
——
 
The [Pirates] were filling the water. Ship after ship, locked with the two Terandrian ships like some many-limbed monster. A dead Kraken’s tentacle was actually lying in the water, brain severed or too wounded for the Kraken to pull it back.
The damn thing was still thrashing, but the Iron Vanguard were pouring fire into the sea, and the glowing light burned into the deep, blinding the Kraken.
Luminary. Krakenbane Destroyer.
That was all elsewhere. [Pyre-Knight] Embraim heard Erin screaming.
“The Horns! The Horns—”
So they’d made it too. Good. The [Knight] still felt queasy from being teleported countless times in the night and then hurtled by a spell through the air until Seve sailed them into the storm.
But he felt alive. He stood at the railing of the ship as the Lucifen talked.
“—six to eight. If we count two [Lords]—three with Firrus—and our spells—”
They were counting.
Embraim did not. Counting was hope. He turned to Rivel and saw the Vampire boy—and he was a boy, though he was chronologically older than Embraim by far—shivering.
“I saw Vampires in the crews. Vampires—”
“Can you convince them to join us? Stay with Erin, Squire Rivel.”
The Vampire gave the [Pyre-Knight] an incredulous look. He was a poor Squire. But Embraim had been still touched by the fact that Rivel had volunteered to try and save Erin Solstice. He put one hand on the Squire’s shoulder, and rain pelted his armor.
“You are a member of the Order of Solstice. No matter what happens next, or how you were inducted. Fight well, Rivel val Lischelle-Drakle.”
Then his head rose, and Rivel flinched as a tremendous roar of sound greeted his ears. The Lucifen speaking urgently stopped, and Embraim looked over the side of the ship and saw one of the two vessels sinking.
Lord Belchaus’ Impetuous Step had a gigantic hole in the center of it. Embraim was no nautical specialist, but he suspected that was a problem. Something had punched through the enchanted boards at last—and he saw another pillar of stone smash down.
“Ah. [Geomancer].”
The Free Antinium had books about [Geomancers]. Embraim had wondered what one was like. Now he saw another pillar of stone smashing into the ship, and another.
Captain Ereiyne the Shipbreaker, one of the Bloodtear Pirates’ most dangerous [Captains], was casting spells as the Selphid brought down one of the two warships that had dominated this battle. She was attacking Raindancer as well, hammering the hull with stone, but it hadn’t cracked.
Yet.
No one was doing math anymore. Good. Math annoyed Embraim on a battlefield. The [Crusaders] had never counted the odds in Liscor’s army or when facing the Eater Goats or Gargoyles. Math got in the way of what must be done.
And what must be done was…he observed the Bloodtear Captain with magic was virtually unassailed by the Earl and Lord of the Dance’s forces.
No one could take her ship, defended by her crew, and she had the leisure to continue attacking with her magic-wielding [Pirates] without fear of reprisal. Even Griffindance’s barrage just hit rock-cladding on the Bloodtear ship, and the armor ‘regrew’ second by second. There lay the greatest concentration of the enemy force, and Shipbreaker Ereiyne’s crews were invading The Naga’s Den as well.
What must be done was simple.
Embraim swung his eyes to Erin. Erin, who had freed the Antinium. Who so many had come for.
He did not love her for that. He was not sure he did love her. But her flame, that pink fire burning on her and in his heart, had given him glory.
Embraim did love glory. He raised one hand, and it still burned off him. Brighter than ever. A beautiful color that had lit an Antinium’s dull world and made him stronger than anyone else. Braver than he could imagine.
“—coming—”
“Hm?”
Embraim turned his head, but he hadn’t heard that with his ears. He realized it was in his head.
Antinium? He had a helmet on and the sound was faint, but his antennae, poking through the holes in the steel helmet, distinctly registered more ‘voices’.
“Anand?”
