“Someone carry him. Visophecin—”
The Lucifen was staring at Greydath with a horror that Erin had never seen before. Horror and hatred. The Lucifen had recoiled from him as one, and when Greydath turned, his eyes flashed with recognition. Visophecin was whispering in Erin’s ear.
“We must leave. Now. That thing will kill us all. Even if there were five of me. He killed my father.”
Erin didn’t know who Visophecin’s father was or when he had died or how old Visophecin really was or whether it had been a battle or…
She wished she didn’t know.
It made him more of a person to her.
Her heart was empty. She pulled.
“Let’s go.”
“You’re trying to save Rabbiteater. Ser—”
“Yes.”
Altestiel finally figured it out, and only because he knew her. The indigo-haired man, who looked bloody and tired and nothing like the charming man who’d come to meet the Titan’s chess-partner, looked at Erin, and he understood her.
Even Lord Belchaus didn’t. Erin saw Antinium and then a figure break through the panicked [Pirates]. Blood on his robes. Panting.
Of course Pisces Jealnet found her. She met his eyes, and their entire history lay bare between them. Pisces didn’t need a question like Altestiel. He just met her eyes and knew.
You’re here?
Of course.
He took her arm, and she squeezed his tightly. Altestiel breathed out as he recognized Pisces.
“The Throne’s Will. Prince Iradoren is moving to cover—”
His eyes flickered, and a moment of worry appeared.
“—We’re regrouping. I can’t leave. I have to get Rainbringer—if we do not regroup, we’ll lose them all. My command post is here.”
“Then move the ship to Rabbiteater.”
Altestiel blinked. He looked at Lord Belchaus, then Erin, and she saw his mind working.
“No…no. Go after him. I know what to do. Kiish! Sweep the decks! Cover Erin Solstice! She needs a ship—”
The Naga’s Den had survived this far. Erin wondered if they’d have to fight for it, but the [Pirates] were running. They would fight to the death against anyone but Greydath of Blades. He’d killed that one—the Shipbreaker—twice.
He’d made it look easy.
Strategist Kiish proved she was one of Desonis’ finest by not staring at the Goblin Lord and snapping orders to Desonis’ [Soldiers] and Nadel’s forces. Altestiel pointed at Erin.
“Get Rabbiteater and run, Erin! Don’t do anything else!”
“I’ll be back for you if you don’t leave.”
He grinned, annoyed, rueful, and Erin reached for him again, but Altestiel glanced around and swore.
“Incoming!”
Something burned down from above, and everyone went blind. Two burning objects fell into the sea, and Erin realized that something had come out of the storm and straight down at them. Ryoka Griffin groaned.
“Oh come on. What was—”
Was that a flaming meteor? Erin looked up, and another spell fell and another, then a ship boomed. Greydath of Blades had cut the first one, and now he spun his sword and redirected a lightning bolt, leaving the curved lightning etched on his vision.
Ah.
Storm or not.
Battle or not.
Every nation in the world was now trying to kill him. Altestiel shoved Erin. She turned, and the [Pirates] were all fleeing to their ships. The oppressive wave of bodies became clear paths, and a dozen figures headed towards Erin, running from the ships they had been fighting across.
Her friends.
Erin saw Anand, saw Ceria skating towards them, grinning in pure terror, Yvlon shielding a…goat woman…and a small group of wounded Antinium stopping as Anand picked up a lamb, who nearly shot him in the face.
Then it was everyone.
Everyone except her guy.
Anand stared at Ksmvr, who pointed at Badarrow, and the Hobgoblin’s jaw dropped when he saw Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] blinked at Revi—and they had no time for it, so Erin locked eyes with Anand.
“To the ship. Run!”
They looked at her and ran. Well, began to run until Visophecin grabbed Erin, threw her through his gate spell, and ushered everyone else onto the ship. The Viscount hissed in her ear.
“Twelve Lucifen are dead, and we all will be too if we don’t exit this place.”
“I—I have a teleportation spell for up to five people, Miss Solstice. I am Archmage—”
She had almost forgotten the silly old man. Erin stared at Verdan Blackwood, and he shut up. Visophecin met Erin’s gaze.
“That [Admiral]’s hunting Rabbiteater. Altestiel said a [Prince] is guarding him?”
“Prince Iradoren of Erribathe. The [Prince of Men]. If anyone can safeguard Rabbiteater’s ship, it would b—”
Visophecin hesitated just one second.
“—be him.”
His eyes had flickered. Erin had seen Altestiel’s pause and saw Visoophechin try to hide it from her. She saw it. Perfect as day.
Why would a [Prince] go to save Rabbiteater? Perhaps the [Princess].
“We’re going. That [Admiral]. How dangerous is he?”
“Admiral Rosech? Miss—that would be one of the most dangerous [Pirates] in the entire world. He may have his entire fleet with him!”
Verdan Blackwood looked around as if he didn’t know why they were all here. The Horns were hugging Revi. Anand had found an Antinium body and was laying it down. Erin stared at a familiar little sheep—
How many more? Visophecin’s eyes were boring holes into hers. Erin Solstice said two things as an [Admiral] who knew the answer turned to her, hands on the wheel.
“Where to, Miss Solstice?”
“The Throne’s Will. Can you kill him, Visophecin? You? Archmage Blackwood? Ceria? Ulvama? Seve?”
Faces turned. Erin saw the Terandrian fleet, ships in the storm, fighting, trying to regroup and get away, and the Iron Vanguard’s ships, moving through after them. Where was Teriarch? Ryoka was scanning the sky.
More spells raining down. Ceria, Visophecin, Verdan Blackwood, Ulvama—all looked at Ryoka as Seve-Alrelious nodded to Erin grimly, eyes alight with the promise of A’ctelios Salash.
“I’ll try.”
Erin looked around and met two pairs of crimson eyes—and sighed. She saw Ulvama shaking her head. Badarrow’s eyes going round, and Erin Solstice turned.
The Goblin Lord was dancing across the remaining ships, but running out of room—and he could not walk on waves. Maybe he could cut them, but his grin was wild, and he stared up at the sky as they all fled him.
The Goblin Lord opened his arms as if to greet a rain of boiling air, then cut it in twain…but it lashed down with the storm and turned the ship he was on to molten slag. It was sinking, now, and Rainbringer, two Bloodtear ships, and Griffindance were all circling away.
The Pheislant ship was firing at him, and he cut a flaming boulder in two. Greydath looked around, calmly, as if choosing who might die next, and at the sky again.
It was a Goblin’s smile.
In the end, no matter who he was—and she had never met him—it was the same smile she saw on Rags’ face when the Goblin had first learned to try for once. The smile the Redfangs had given her. The smile she had learned, sometimes.
Bared teeth, humor, because he did see it, excitement and joy, for he would find it even as a Goblin. But behind it all—a question.
What’s next? For surely they would try again and again until he was dead.
Greydath spun, his blade raising—and the [Innkeeper] shouted.
It was a silly Skill. No great one. The great skill was [Immortal Moment], which she used, but without the silly Skill, he would never have heard.
[Loud Voice].
“Over here!”
He heard it. Earl Altestiel heard it. The strange crew around her definitely heard it. The watchers on television…
Saw it.
An [Innkeeper], leaning over the railing as a horrified Archmage tried to grab her, bending over as a Goblin Lord, the Goblin Lord, Greydath of Blades, stared at her.
For once, even he looked shocked. Surprised.
Incredulous.
She cared for it not. The [Innkeeper] waved her hand and shouted.
“I need your help! Come with me! Take my hand!”
Hands were dragging at her—she threw an elbow. Something was coming down, a glowing pillar of light from above, and Greydath glanced up—and at her.
So surprised that when he smiled next, he looked young. As if he had seen something that he really hadn’t ever seen before. Versions thereof. But never this.
He hesitated one second and looked her in the eye, mouthing, as if to ask…‘are you sure?’
But it was too late for either of them, wasn’t it? The Goblinfriend of Izril gave him a smile he recognized, and he leapt.
Golden light obliterated the place on which he had stood and turned even the ocean to gold. He jumped through the air, impossibly far, and she bent over and over—and he caught her hand.
He was surprisingly light. She jerked—and pulled—and he looked up at her, a Goblin Lord clinging to her ship. Holding her hand.
For the world to see.
Of course, he could have made the jump without her. But he’d wanted to see if she’d really catch him. Erin Solstice pulled Greydath up without a word as Ceria closed her eyes shut, Visophecin backed away, and Verdan Blackwood fell on his backside with a look of horror.
Nerry just laughed and laughed silently, falling over to one side as Erin spoke.
“I need to save a friend of mine. He’s called Rabbiteater. You’re a Goblin Lord, aren’t you?”
“Yup.”
Erin met his eyes as Greydath raised his brows. She exhaled and spoke.
“Then help me kill everything between me and him. Please.”
The Goblin Lord slowly straightened, inch by inch, vertebrae by vertebrae, tendons cracking, until the hunched, old, wizened, little man became someone else entirely. When he raised his sword—Erin saw someone who Zeladona had dreamed of meeting all her life.
“Yes,” Greydath said.
Then came the end of everything.
 
——
 
Lord Firrus Kallinad spoke. He said:
“Open fire.”
His finger pointed straight at Greydath of Blades and The Naga’s Den. He saw Erin Solstice there. He knew, in some part of his mind, that there were other people on that ship. The Horns of Hammerad. Nobles.
He saw Greydath of Blades, enemy of the world.
That was enough.
Antinium. Other Goblins.
Anyone else and he would have stopped and thought twice. Not that one. Not the Goblin who had marched with the Goblin King.
Not him.
How could she do it? Lord Firrus Kallinad asked no questions.
Griffindance loosed the first barrage of missiles. Then flaming explosives. Then—everything they had.
Just everything. The Naga’s Den reeled as explosions tore up and down it, and the [Admiral] took his ship away as Griffindance attacked and attacked—and then spells began raining down from above as well.
 
——
 
“Kill the [Innkeeper]. Kill the Goblin Lord! Kill them all!”
The Blighted King ordered it, and so Rhir lit up with spells. Nereshal heard orders being sent as a first wave of magic broke down—and Greydath of Blades cut the damn magic in two.
“Your Majesty! There are nobles of Ailendamus, and we do not have unlimited—”
Othius the Fourth seized the [Chronomancer] and shrieked at him.
“Kill them both!”
A burning [Message] tore the air around the throne room, bypassing barriers as the King of Khelt demanded the Blighted Kingdom cease. Nations were in uproar—and the rest hesitated as they burned through safeguards, checked their dwindling spells of armageddon—and even Othius stopped, hands on Nereshal’s neck.
A wave of magic slammed into the ocean, causing the seas to rise and change into spectacular colors—then geyser up in pure destruction. It did not touch The Naga’s Den, for Greydath of Blades had severed even those spells with ease.
But he could not be everywhere. Nereshal saw, on the ship, the friends of Erin Solstice—the Goblinfriend of Izril, for that was how he now knew her, now and forevermore—had taken cover.
Magical shields from House Shoel. A barrier of ice. Seve-Alrelious pulled a piece of wood buried in his neck out with a grimace—but a master of barriers and wards had saved them all.
Archmage Verdan Blackwood was a defensive expert. His power had protected the deck of the ship, stopped Griffindance’s assault as Dakelos bore them out of range.
He had come to rescue Erin Solstice, not realizing that she was right where she wanted to be. The Archmage could have fled. When he beheld doom falling, he still could have escaped.
He was no hero. No Amerys. But the canny old man had one weakness, or perhaps he clung to it, for all he tried to be a true Mage of Wistram with a heart that lived only for magic and eyes that could sacrifice everything for power.
A master of magic saw a young student come to Wistram and leapt in front of her, trusting to his armor and sorcery. One uncalculated move in a lifetime of deliberation.
Thus, the old man had done exactly what he’d set out to do.
Save Erin Solstice.
Make an impact.
Othius, raving, and Nereshal, heart pounding and suddenly going still, looked up, and the [Chronomancer] closed his eyes a second. When he opened them…he still saw it.
An [Innkeeper], gently holding an old man who had jumped between her and one of Pheislant’s attacks. Armor or not, magic or not—something had burned a hole straight through his chest. She was saying something to the old Archmage of Dullahans. Then she stood up and did not weep, not yet.
But Dullahans wept.
 
——
 
Tulm the Mithril saw Verdan Blackwood die.
He didn’t know why the Archmage of Baleros was there at first. His mind…normally crystal clear, felt sluggish. He must have…heard Tulm giving the order to try and protect Erin.
They were close enough to Wistram. Then had been Greydath, and that [Innkeeper] had—
“Verdan Blackwood is dead.”
Xol of Ingrilt spoke. The War Walker intoned each word slowly, speaking to the fleet. He spoke the obvious, that it might be heard. He spoke the words without inflection, without commentary.
Tulm’s head was sitting on a table, staring at the scrying orb. He raised it now, and in his words were emotion. And inflection.
“This is Strategist Tulm the Mithril to the fleet. All ships in range. Engage the Terandrian fleet. The Archmage of Dullahans will be avenged.”
Later, someone would analyze whether it was an accident. Later, they would accord explanations to why this had happened, perhaps that it might never occur again. Later, they would assign blame and recriminations and mourn.
In this moment, the Dullahans cared not for anything else but retribution.
Verdan Blackwood would be avenged. The first ship nearing one of Terandria’s ships opened up with gouts of [Magma Spray] spells. Tulm saw the Krakenbane Destroyer turn away from searching for Teriarch, and the first spell burst across the night.
 
——
 
Ser Greysten of the Order of Solstice had been moving towards the rendezvous point Prince Iradoren had called when the attack began.
