Veron finished his shield late that afternoon. And he got to work on making his new throwables. Or shootables. Blade bullets? He wasn’t sure how to call them. What came out in the end were five thin blades, perhaps very short swords but without a handle, and made of stone. He could charge and shoot them much like the smaller rocks he had used before. The somewhat broad shape would make them more difficult to aim at a distance, but from a closer range, they would be a lot more lethal.

Veron tried to implement a bit of metal too, an iron coin that he embedded into the tip of one of the blades. If he could add steel spikes, the projectiles could become a lot more dangerous. Though he found that it already felt wrong while he set it up, and when the time came to test, Veron couldn’t affect the rock anymore. Not in the same way that was, and nowhere near as effectively.

He kept his small arrowheads too, in case he ran out or needed them for smaller targets like mosquitos or perhaps the eyes of a Vereltir.

It does feel like a pretty fucked up way to fight, Veron thought when he held one of the stone blades. But it’s what I can do.

They practiced more grappling but at some point, Veron could tell he was out. He was getting slower and worse so they called it.

Veron went for a bath, changed his clothes and washed his other set. Then he went for a walk through the city. Hayden didn't join.

Snow now covered most of the roofs and the sun was hiding behind a layer of gray winter gloom. The airship he had seen that morning was gone. Veron could see to the three mountains surrounding the city but their upper halves were shrouded in misty clouds. He was cold. Slowly, he made his way towards the burg near the center of the city, stopping and entering a store that sold coats and other clothing.

There were a variety of styles available and he started trying a few after checking with the store owner, an older woman with a sharp look in her eyes. He found a broad dark brown coat that fit even with his armor on. It was lined with fur to help with the cold, none of it visible when he closed the buttons. When he didn't wear his helmet, he found it looked pretty good on him. “How much for this one?”

“Eight hundred,” the woman replied, giving him a questioning glance.

“Iron?”

“Yes, iron,” she said without batting an eye.

He put it back and tried a few other ones, asking for prices but they were all in the range of fifty to a hundred silver. Veron checked a few other stores afterwards but both clothing and armor seemed pretty expensive. He decided not to buy anything yet and asking the others for advice. It was possible the prices were higher in this part of town but he could also imagine high quality clothing simply being quite expensive.

Eighty out of my near four hundred silver for a coat. I can see that, but I’ll want to make sure I want it.

He checked a few other stores on the way to the Guild. The closer he got to the main road, the more expensive things seemed to get. A good set of leather armor would cost him his entire savings, around three to four hundred silver, or three to four gold. Plate armor like the one that Hayden wore cost at least five gold, but he saw single helmets that cost more than that. Most stores didn’t have any labels with prices, so he assumed there was some wiggle room in terms of haggling, but he needed to get a feel for the general prices first to try himself at that.

The prices for weapons were the most diverse. Single swords he could buy for 30 silver and others were more expensive than entire sets of plate armor.

A lot to learn.

He finally reached the burg and went inside, both to get warm and to check the map of the dungeon. He’d learned about a lot of new moves from Hayden, so wasn’t sure how much he could still cram in his head, but he was curious about the maps as well. Now that he’d been down in the dungeon, he could grasp them a whole lot better.

Veron joined the many other adventurers and scholars gathered in front of the large depiction of the Crypts, checking and quickly finding where they had entered it. It was only halfway down the first layer. There were hundreds of hallways, stairs, rooms, pits, and traps. He smiled to himself, hearing the murmurs and conversations of the armed and armored people around him.

I think it’ll take some time to get into all this.
