I can’t apologize or I’d be admitting fault. It kinda is, but that’s beside the point. One gemstone I can handle, but who knows how much damage these damn birds have caused in the short time we’ve been here? “Um... Might I suggest using an umbrella to keep them away? Honestly, everyone should probably use one while they’re around, they’ve stole- err... eaten... a lot of greasy, spiced meat. I’m guessing it won’t sit nicely inside their bellies, which mean... well... yea.”

Having said my piece, I awkwardly ignore the still glaring noble by pretending to be interested in some wares. At least the noble stopped his guards from slaughtering my birds but he won’t leave. Meanwhile, I’m stuck here because Li Song is still silently bargaining with a confused hawker who has yet to realize what he’s dealing with. Exacerbating the situation, Yipi flutters down and lands on my shoulder, swinging a broken silver chain clamped in her beak as if asking, ‘what can I get for this?’.

Amidst the choked laughter of those around me, including the angry noble’s guard, my cheeks burn with shame as I trade Yipi for her shiny. Returning his broken jewellery, I weather the angry noble’s murderous glare and say, “Err... The gemstone’s still attached so it shouldn’t be hard to fix. Sorry.”

Ah fuck me. Sighing, I reach into my coin purse and pray I have a couple gold coins to spare, cursing my apologetic reflexes and the dumbest custom ever invented. Why does apologizing mean I take responsibility? Can’t I just be sorry for his misfortune?

To avoid any more embarrassing exchanges, I rush everyone out of the city as soon as possible and head back to our camp, arriving with hours to spare before dark. Forget going back for dinner, I’ll just hang out here and never go back in unless I have to. Stupid birds. Waiting outside my yurt, Taduk and Guard Leader sit in strained silence at two different tables, sipping tea and exchanging glances from a short distance. Bounding out of Guard Leader’s lap, Mama Bun stands on her hind legs and inspects her babies with Li Song's help while I take a seat next to Taduk and Lin tells him all about our fun-filled afternoon, including long descriptions of everything we ate.

When my wifey’s tale comes to an end, I ask “How’d your underwater search go?”

“Not well my boy, not well.” Pouting in Mama Bun’s general direction, Taduk shakes his head and sighs. “We brought the little buck-toothed idiot out on a skiff but she wanted to go farther than I felt comfortable with. Even the greatest experts are hindered when fighting underwater and my half-witted associate has proven herself unable to adapt to changing circumstances.”

“Says the man who feels most comfortable living in a burrow.” With a pointed sip of her tea, Guard Leader adds, “You always were overly cautious and afraid of change.”

Hmm, maybe that’s why there’s so much sexual tension between them, because my teacher isn’t adventurous enough. Then again, Guard Leader seems like the type to enjoy pegging, in which case I can’t blame Taduk for refusing. I shouldn’t make jokes before hearing the whole story, but I want him to have someone to share his life with. I love him like a father and don't want him to be lonely after Lin marries me. I'd happily invite him to live with us, but considering he once told me he can hear a mosquito fart at twenty paces, it’s better for everyone involved if we lived in separate houses.

If he wasn’t exaggerating, then separate villages might be even better. Mental note: ask Diyako to look into soundproofing. Or learn how to do it myself.

Ignoring Guard Leader’s barb, Taduk empties his tea cup and stands, gesturing for me to follow along. “Anyways, now that you’re here, we can resume our search. Come, come. Bring the rabbit.”

“I’m not sure I understand,” I say, lifting Mama Bun into my arms, who happily rests her chin on my shoulder like a big floofy baby. She's so sweet and lovable now, I can’t wait for all her bunnies to grow up. “Why am I needed?”

“Because Rain my boy,” Taduk says with a grin, pointing at Ping-Ping following behind us. “You come paired with a most formidable aquatic guardian.”

Oh no... No no no no no. “Be reasonable teacher, we don’t even know if there’s actually a Spiritual Plant out there.” Proving me wrong yet again, Mama Bun twists in my embrace to stare intently out to sea, her little nose twitching violently in anticipation. Dumb long-eared rat, I should’ve left you to drown. “Who knows how far out it might be? Is it worth risking our lives for one Spiritual Plant?”

“No need to try and dissuade me, my mind is set.” Looking like a man on a mission, Taduk marches ever southward towards the beach, with a spring in his step and a glint in his eye. “If we don’t claim the Spiritual Plant then that veiled wastrel will, an injustice I cannot abide. Besides,” he added, flashing me his goofy smile, “I’ve never studied a Spiritual Plant which grew underwater. Who knows what mysteries we might uncover? Don’t worry my boy, it’ll be perfectly safe. Probably. We brought rope and everything.”

From bitter experience, I know it’s pointless to argue. It’d be easier to get rid of Ping-Ping than change Taduk’s mind once it’s made. What’s more, after today’s lunch, I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t interested in going for a swim. While I’d like our underwater adventure to go smoothly and without incident, I’d also like to know if kraken tastes better than squid.

They say men die for wealth and birds die for food, but it appears I'm willing to die for either or. Does that make me better, or worse?

Chapter Meme
