Up close, he could see that the boy on the ground was gritting his teeth now. Someone had arranged colorful gemstones in a line on top of his chest, and the kneeling girl who was applying pressure to his wound was definitely casting something.

Alden looked at Jel-nor. He’d thought she wasn’t panicking like the others when he first dropped in, but now he realized she was just holding it in a little better. Her hands were shaking. She was still wearing the macrame bracelet that matched her lasso around one wrist.

“I am not capable of catching that thing,” he said, trying to keep his tone firm and calm. “Not quickly. Maybe I could manage it eventually, if I had time to think up some kind of trap. But if you want to get your friend’s foot back in a hurry, you have to summon someone else.”

She stared at a spot just over his shoulder. <<You…you must capture it,>> she said in a voice that trembled. <<I have summoned you here, and I command—>>

The guy standing nearest her grabbed her by the arm. <<Don’t.>>

His voice was harsh.

<<But we have to—>>

<<If the task is truly impossible, and you try to enforce it that way, he can request arbitration,>> he snapped. <<Being denied admission to LeafSong is not as serious as being charged with Contract abuse!>>

<<I agree,>> a girl added, glancing nervously at Alden. <<My family would disown me if I was involved in that kind of scandal. If you formally enforce after summoning under false pretenses, I’ll report it myself.>>

<<Cowards,>> someone else spat. <<Maybe you two don’t need a scholarship to a good school, but I—>>

Before long, half the group was screaming at each other, and Jel-nor was crying while she held her tablet in a white-knuckled grip.

Alden was so tense he couldn’t unlock his jaw to speak. Not that he knew what to say anyway.

These guys obviously need a grown-up. He was fairly sure he was right about the situation now at least. For some reason, they thought they could hide their crime if they banished crocosquid and got the foot back.

Alden stepped over to the injured person. When the girl casting the spell paused for breath, he leaned over the two of them and said nervously, “Do you want me to hold him? It’s what my skill’s actually good for.”

She blinked up at him, a vague expression on her face as if she were trying to snap herself out of a trance. Surprisingly, it was the victim who answered.  He’d bitten his lips until they bled, and he was panting. But his eyes snapped open and flicked to Alden.

There were rings of golden metal around his irises. Alden had seen a few different Artonans with those. He thought they were probably devices similar to Joe’s smart monocle.

<<I can endure,>> the boy said stiffly. <<I do not require treatment yet. This is merely a trial of suffering on the path to my future.>>

Alden stared at him. Was this guy for real? He was missing a body part. “Are you serious?”

<<An injury such as this is meaningless compared to my purpose. I don’t expect a human to understand. We must…we must draw the mishnen in. It has locked onto me. It will come if we bait it.>>

The girl trying to heal him looked shocked. And it took Alden a second to realize what he meant.

“You mean bait it with yourself? Will that even work? I was just swimming with it, and it ran from me. Maybe it’s not hungry after its last…”

He trailed off because it seemed rude to call his foot a “meal.”

<<Why would it be attracted to you when we are so nearby? A mishnen can only eat a few times in its life. It prioritizes quality.>>

Alden thought this idiot might have just insulted him.

“Well, I’m here to help an injured person,” he muttered. “If you feel so good you want to go fishing, then send me back to the lab.”

<<It will work!>> an eager voice said.

Alden turned to see Jel-nor’s face brightening. <<In the moment it attacks him, you can stop it with your skill! If you bring it onto land, I can kill it. We’ll retrieve his foot and dispose of the beast while you take him to receive medical care. All will be well!>>

Alden side-eyed her. “I mean…I guess?”

But how were they going to explain the foot getting severed and partially digested in the first place? Well, that wasn’t Alden’s business. What was his business was worrying whether or not he could get in trouble for going along with this scheme.

Dangling a bleeding person in a pond to lure squidzilla was extreme. What if it went totally wrong, the guy died or lost another limb, and the assembled teenagers tried to pin the blame on Alden?

Could they do that? Joe had said working under orders would protect him from repercussions. But this group seemed off the rails. Would the System back Alden up if they lied and said he’d misconstrued their instructions or just failed at them?

He wasn’t sure. He wanted to ask the System outright, but he didn’t want them to hear him.

And while they were all hyping each other up to go fishing for their monster, another, more chilling, thought suddenly occurred to Alden.

What if they get me killed on purpose? There was a lot of desperation in the air. The one who wanted a scholarship seemed capable of it. Jel-nor and the injured guy did, too.

They weren’t supposed to be able to outright murder him. But if they deliberately put one of their friend’s lives in danger and then ordered him to protect them…

That’s kind of what they’re doing with this bait plan anyway.

Alden hated making a split second decision under these circumstances. The last thing he wanted was to make a bunch of Artonans furious with him. But he was willing to admit he was in over his head. He punched a button on his interface and started typing.

<<What…are you doing?>> the victim gasped. Alden had to hand it to the guy. He was really sharp for someone who was slowly bleeding out.

“I’m looking for a spell that will help me catch the mishnen,” Alden said. “I have one left to affix.”

The boy closed his eyes. <<That is a worthy thing for you to do,>> he said. And he actually sounded moved. <<One day, when I become a Knight of the Mother Planet, I will summon you often and pay you well to thank you for your sacrifice.>>

Alden smiled in spite of himself. This guy really was serious about…something. Being a Knight? He was also self-confident to the point of stupidity.

“I can’t believe I just wondered if you would try to murder me,” he muttered. “You’re kind of cool. In an insane way. I don’t know what a Knight of the Mother Planet is, but I’m sure you’ll get there, man. Hopefully with both of your feet. Try not to hold this against me when you become an awesome wizard, okay?”

An answer to his message flashed across the screen, and he sighed with relief. Good.

<<I don’t understand?>> the wannabe Knight said.

The girl who’d been healing him must have, though. Her eyes widened in alarm.

Alden gave her an apologetic look. Then, loud enough to catch everyone’s attention, he said, “If it’s any consolation, I called someone who might think you guys summoning a vicious creature you can’t control is interesting and ambitious. I hope it works out for you all.”

About three seconds later, Joe teleported in. He arrived neatly on dry land beside the lake.

I knew it wasn’t normal for the System to drop me in the water, Alden thought. Had Jel-nor been trying to land him directly on top of the monster to facilitate its capture?

The professor was taking a bite out of one of the egg rolls Alden was so fond of, and he wore an expression of lively curiosity on his face as he examined the scene before him.

“Alden, you poor dear!” he said. “Where are the rest of your clothes? Did they get your coat wet?”

He glared at the assembled students. One of the girls burst into tears, and the boy who wanted the scholarship actually prostrated himself on the bloody leaves.

<<Do you brats have any idea how much damage you could have done? What if my assistant couldn’t swim? What if he’d been carrying a large quantity of alkali metal? What if I hadn’t designed that beautiful coat of his to be waterproof?>>

“Um…professor?” Alden gestured at the guy on the ground. Whatever they’d been doing to seal his wound had obviously been forgotten in the shock of Joe’s arrival. The shirt wrapped around his ankle was rapidly getting soaked with dark burgundy blood now.

“Oh, yes,” Joe said in an unconcerned voice. “It’s him. I suppose you’d better haul him around while I deal with the rest of it. Just a moment. Let me…”

His eye zipped around behind its smart lens, and a second later, Alden received a trio of messages.

The first was a System notification letting him know that an official university representative was now on scene and should be obeyed. The targeting halo appeared over Joe’s head.

The second was a proper quest assignment to “offer aid” to the injured student.

The third was a private message from Joe.

[I assume you’re willing to keep your mouth shut about their little infraction, and you don’t care how I handle the matter. Otherwise you would have called the head of the medical team instead of me. Is that right?]

Actually, Alden had made his choice mostly based on the belief that Joe wouldn’t order him to fight a sea monster when he needed him alive to complete his own dangerous quests every night. But it was a nice bonus that the professor might be inclined to help the students get away with their crimes. They’d all be able to summon Alden for whatever they wanted one day, and he didn’t like the idea of them seeking vengeance against him ten years down the line.

He made a zipper motion against his lips, which had Joe tilting his head in confusion, so he added an additional thumbs up.

“Wonderful!” said Joe, rubbing his hands together and turning to admire the  creature in the pool. <<Today, ladies and gentlemen, we will all be learning an important lesson. Mistakes have consequences. And having someone like me fix those consequences for you can be very expensive.>>
