Seconds passed.

Skills and spells from Pathbearers possessed of Legendary power smothered the Challenger with as much fervor as they did every second of the last few minutes, but evoked no reaction.

The levels came first.

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 281 > 284

These Words of Truth and Adoration 66 > 71

The smile followed thereafter.

The Challenger’s barrel chest swelled, and then he began to laugh. And Shiv felt a relief brighter than the dawn rise inside. “Using the truth as a leash. Well done, Deathless. Well done. Where there were no flaws to exploit, you tried to appeal to my virtue, or what you assumed to be such.” The god let out a sigh. “I can see what you're trying to do, sparing your friend his emotional anguish and also guiding me toward what is truly a more exciting struggle. And if I must confess, I am indeed curious as to why it is hard to bless him. And I think I want to find out.”

Both Shiv and Adam slackened with relief. Shiv felt like his heart wasn’t being choked anymore.

“But for your desperate meddling, and this acquiescence I have granted you—a punishment is in order. To balance things out.” And a crushing claw dug its nails in Shiv’s chest once more. The Challenger turned to face Adam with a beatific, knowing smile. “I thank you for the inspiration. Your thoughts are so very loud. And Deathless? A reminder: there are consequences and prices to be paid, even in victory!”

“No, no, no, wait, wait, wait!” Adam cried.

Shiv didn't know what the Challenger was talking about, why Adam was so panicked. Not until he saw a stream of festering divine essence leave the Challenger and pierce into the eldritch egg that remained of Longinus. The evolving eldritch egg that still held Georges inside. The Dreamtaker's cocoon promptly ignited with the foul touch of war. And before Shiv could beg the Challenger to stop, he was flung aside as the orc god drove both hands into Adam's chest and began prying.

And with it came an anguished shriek that would follow Shiv into his nightmares.
