They are not invincible. They are not immortal. They are not beyond our ability to kill.

I want you to repeat this to yourself every day. I want you to repeat this to yourself every time you remember what you've suffered at their hand. Repeat it when you see your reflection in the mirror, in a filthy puddle, or say the words in total darkness if no light shines in your life.

Gods are not omnipotent. They are not undefeatable. They can be laid low by mortal hands!

It is known as the Methods of Deicide in Chorus, where its practitioners have waged wars for a thousand thousand years, and a thousand thousand gods and pantheons have fallen and risen in that time.

The scaffolding of a god is faith, and faith is spawned from the most failable of beings: us, Pathbearers, fragile of heart and prone to hypocrisy and self-delusion as much as base arrogance and all the vices you can name.

To see a god perish, one must adopt the fur of the wolf and lead the pack astray. Breach their places of worship, commingle with true worshippers, and make them tear at each other. Make them debase and self-mutilate the very tenets of their own faith, and the god supping from their worship in turn. Force a God of War to choose Peace, and vice versa. Force a God of Hunger to starve and a God of Innovation to choose Stagnation.

These things can be engineered because gods, boundless as their power may seem to those suffering under their yoke, ultimately live under the same heel as all of us.

The System dictates the rules.

Oh, some gods say they are its hands, that they are the System made manifest.

I say these are lies and feeble delusions of megalomania in equal measure! The ravings of those who could not rise alone!

HEAR THESE WORDS AND KNOW THEM TO BE TRUE: THE GODS ARE LESSER THAN THE LEAST OF US!

IF THEY COULD NOT EVEN MANTLE THEIR OWN MIGHT, WHY SHOULD WE NOT BE ABLE TO STRIKE THEM DOWN, THEY WHO ARE BORN FROM THE WORST OF OUR WEAKNESSES?

But, if sabotage and destruction are not enough to drag their heaven down to the earth, if their might appears that insurmountable, then try making the god actually something worth worshiping.

Try changing them into a thing of goodness.

—The Heretic’s Guide to Anti-Theism, Authors Unknown

363

Split [IV]

“No!” Adam screamed, casting his head back and forth. He struggled against the Challenger's grip. He tried finding his bow, tried calling it to his grasp, but the Challenger's grip was truer than the laws of reality. Adam could not move, not of his own volition. The only thing the orc god allowed was the twisting of his head and the desperate tightening of his facial muscles.

“Choose,” the Challenger repeated, unmoving as skills potent enough to sunder mountains and more continued to crash down upon him from every direction in the room. His voice was calm, but there was a rumble of thunder about in the aftermath, a promise of storms to come. “You must choose. You truly must. It is only proper. After all, I have ceded a Legend to you, and I do not even ask for a Legend in return. Merely a Pathbearer, one that might be in desperate need of power. Think of this: Your father, enslaved to the Starhawk's will, has been bound to his fate, yet he's never truly enjoyed martial mastery. Not like the kind I shall bestow upon him, the opportunities to experience. Your mother, weak now, would take years to regain her former glory, and by then, what would she be? A feeble fledgling among Legends and potential Myths. And then there is your beloved, oh, poor Isabella Van Stormhalt. If only she'd chosen to wed someone unfavored. If only she'd chosen to follow her mind instead of her heart. Her life wouldn't be consumed by such tumult.”

Though Adam knew the Challenger was taunting him, he couldn't help but suffer regret. There was truth in the words, after all. He thought about Isabella, who was on death's doorstep, delirious, incapable of even holding on to her sense of self or her memories.

Adam didn't want to consider it, but part of him wondered if this… was the right choice after all. If there were a potential path for everyone to be satisfied. Isabella would be potentially cured if she could maintain her pacifism. He knew that Orcish Skills didn't change you immediately. That there was a chance that if you fused the skill or if you waited it out, the skill could be pacified.

But Adam also had another insight. The Challenger was devoid of Heroism, barren of true goodness or generosity. Nothing he offered was for free. Everything had a price, a cost, and ultimately a benefit to the Challenger himself. Whoever Adam gave would likely be taken, one way or another.

Despite Adam's earlier words, he knew the Challenger was more monster than fool.

The orc god leaned in, his head the size of Adam's body. The primitive ape hidden deep inside Adam's flesh began to scream, for a predator had breached its comfort zone and come to claim a pound of flesh. “I've been very polite to you, little Godling, but if you will not choose, then I will choose for you. I have told you that I refuse to kill these practitioners of war, fine and brilliant ones that they are, but that does not mean I cannot find another use for them. That does not mean I cannot squeeze truer potential from their supple flesh. If you do not choose, then I will see them transmuted into a form that is perhaps more to my liking than yours.”

And the Challenger laughed heartily. “I wonder what might traumatize you more: an orc hatching from the remains of your father, your mother, your beloved, or someone under your charge?”

Slowly, the Challenger’s open mirth died down, changed to become something of an assuring smile, as if he was sure Adam would make the right choice, and as he looked into his eyes, Adam began to truly believe it. The Challenger was playing and plucking at Adam's emotions. Even if his contagious rage couldn't affect him from the outside, his Social Skills were like a scalpel, jabbing and pricking at Adam, provoking him toward a cliff of greater despair. “And that is truly the easiest option. Think of it. Give in to it. Embrace it. Just give me someone from your homeland. Someone from Blackedge. Someone you are more than willing to lose. Give me one of your subjects, one that you do not know the name of, one of the survivors who would have made nothing of themselves otherwise. It is the smoothest choice for your heart, one that will not siege your ego beyond an eternity of regret. Such is the greatest mercy you can offer yourself, and I can offer you. I am a most merciful God, for Mercy exists in War, and it too is one of my Domains, for what great fear can arise when you know that only torment awaits? It is the promise of heaven that leaves hell such a miserable den of depravity.”

The longer Adam deliberated, the clearer the Challenger’s cruelty became. The choice itself was meant to hurt Adam and also potentially to damage his Domain, for there was nothing heroic about casting an innocent into the jaws of a wolf. “You want to see if you can break my Domain prematurely. Is that it?”

“I am curious as to the durability of your little burgeoning Divinity, yes, but I have a feeling it will survive a crack, just as I have survived many cracks. Domains are not nearly as fragile as skills. The pain is immense, of course, and the time it takes to heal a riven Domain can exceed centuries. But if you survive, then you will look back upon your past weakness with fondness, as they are nothing compared to newer and greater wounds.”

Adam scowled at the greater god. “Then… here is my turnabout: I challenge you to live up to your godhood. I challenge you to struggle against me properly. Give one of your skills to me. Let it fester inside me and see if it changes me. See if you get a new orc out of the deal, perhaps a second fledgling god orc. An orc God of Heroism.” Adam laughed bitterly as he tried to imagine that. “Wouldn't that be quite the prize?”

“I would defile you that way if I could, little Godling.” The Challenger's voice turned into a rumble of pure frustration. “But there is something about your unique Divinity, something I do not understand, that refuses to let me infest you. You burn me and my power; it peels off of you, as I said before. No, you are not a candidate. I already tried the moment I laid eyes on you. You are a fledgling, a child that is neither proper Legend nor proper god, and still I was to give you the honor of being my Nemesis! But then my oath in divinity slid off of you like it was worth nothing.”

The orc god breathed out through his nostrils, his face a mask of offense. “And now, here you are, still burning, still pure, still untarnished, taunting me with your soul’s defiance. It is only due to my own impotence that my offense has taken this refined form, little Godling. I have an urge to see you break. No, you are not a choice. You are not an option. Choose someone else. Or I will pick for you. I will not repeat myself.”

Yet, before helplessness could overtake Adam, another voice joined the conversation, doing so with a wet cough of pain. “Hey, Fucker! You didn't need to torture me. I know you godsdamn didn't. Those skills would have healed on their own.”

The Challenger granted Adam a moment's reprieve. His attention drifted toward the one clasped in his other colossal hand, surrounded by a buzzing swarm of flies, by chains of maggots, by that vile, fetid incandescence that flowed from the Challenger. Some of the orc god's Divinity boiled Shiv from the inside, but rather than simply inflicting pain, it seemed to restore him. Instead of being the frail, worn puppet hanging limp in the Challenger's grasp that Adam was, Shiv's head was held high.

The Challenger pursed his lips in mock surprise. “Bruiser, you recover so quickly.”

“Don't give me that shit,” Shiv spat. “You're the one who performed bastardized soul surgery on me. Felt like you filled me with a bag of knives and shook me around.”

“Oh, I didn't know you were one to let pain bother you. How uncharacteristic.”

“Fuck you. I can handle pain. Doesn't mean I like it.” Shiv grunted, but it was a noise of pure annoyance rather than anything else, and in that moment, despite all the new gifts Adam had obtained, despite his faint Divinity, he was more envious of his friend than ever. “But never mind that. You want to stick a skill in someone? Shove it inside me. A second round for you, the chance to make things even, all on me. Let's do this again. In fact, I got just the skill for you to make better.”

“Bruiser, how terribly inappropriate of you. This is utterly impolite.” The Challenger chastised Shiv by tutting at him, the same way a father would his idiot son. “This is not your choice to make, nor your burden to take on.”

But Adam didn't hesitate. He knew then the best choice had presented itself. “I choose Shiv! Shiv! Give him the skill!”

Shiv snorted. “Yeah, see? He chose me. Easy. Done. Give me the skill!”

The Challenger frowned at the both of them like they were two children performing a badly thought-out prank. “I reject this choice, obviously. You have undergone this ordeal once and cannot do it again, Insul. Your soul is already inoculated. You've proven yourself formidable. Which is more than half the reason why I chose you to be my Nemesis-Commander on Integrated Earth.”

“Coward,” Shiv spat, writhing in the Challenger’s iron grip. “You're a god, aren't you? You make the rules. Change them. Take another swing at me. Let's see if you can corrupt my pre-Legendary skill. Apparently, it's really restricted. Even got a Myth to jump me.”

The Challenger hummed. “Ah, yes, Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin. A very, very special skill. But no. For one, I do not have the specific corresponding Domain—and do not wish to risk obtaining a Domain that is Anathema to Strife.”

That took both Shiv and Adam by surprise.

“What? You're saying you don't have an Orcish counterpart to the skill? How?” Shiv didn’t believe the Challenger, but the orc god just sighed.

“I may be War incarnate, Deathless, but that doesn't make me all-powerful and omnipotent. This skill exists beyond the reach of my Domains, and I do have many, with Trauma, Psychology, and Time being among them, and being close to representing your skill in part, but Reasonableness? Diplomacy? Introspection?”

The Challenger shook his massive head. “Not so, Little Bruiser, not so. To this end, I must offer my congratulations. You've truly outdone yourself, and you've spread beyond blind violence. Now you come into your true potential. Your grandmother would be so proud. That whisper of the Chandler blood inside you does not disappoint, or perhaps it's simply thanks to your experience. After all, too many congratulate nature when in fact it was nurture that sowed the seeds.”

And then, almost imperceptibly, the right side of the Challenger's face twitched. A hint of irritation overtook him. “But quite honestly, the lack of a Domain and the inconvenience that causes isn't the real reason. I think I should be direct with you, Bruiser. I will not invest you with a new skill. I will not break my own laws, not because I cannot or that it will cause fissures to spread through my soul—hairline, though the fractures might be. No, I refuse above all else because I have faith in you, and ironically, that kills all strife for this contest. There is no tension, no possibility of you failing. Your Legendary Harbinger is already designed to consume anger, and even without it, you devour fury like it's fuel. No, no, no. I believe in you. I have faith in you. I, in this regard, worship you. There is no doubt. And so there cannot be war.”

The outpouring of confessions overwhelmed Shiv. “I have other skills—”

