“But apparently not a Listening or a Comprehension skill.” The Challenger clicked his tongue disapprovingly. “I told you. You have already undergone this ordeal once and survived. I cannot have you again. Do not make me repeat this a third time, for I will not.”

The Challenger's eyes briefly flicked to Uva before turning away. He shook his head as his disappointment mounted. “Recently, I would have considered this one, for she is still affected by me, and there was a skill inside of her I would have liked to see infested. Yet that is now Unique; I cannot find it. It is specifically part of her, not a simple fragment, but essential to her being. Her Psychomancy has merged, gone beyond being merely eldritch. It's fusing with her on a fundamental level. And I resent that. I resent the bastard gods of the Outside claiming this one before I could. But resentment will not undo what has happened. Which leaves the choices I offered before.”

But while the Challenger engaged with Shiv, Adam found himself drawn to another presence, another radiating source of mana. He thought it was Hymn at first. The Headmaster was still hiding behind his veil of nightmarish eyes, but there was another source of eldritch mana beside Hymn and Uva.

Discarded beside the Culturist, barely visible through the haze of detonating magical skills, was an egg, wrought from the ruined husk of Longinus. An egg that contained the former Avatar of the Wanderer—a copy of Georges. He was wrapped inside a colorful cocoon, and the Dreamtaker had embraced him and undergone an evolution of her own.

And suddenly an idea came to him, one he was uncertain about, but one that seemed far better than any other choice he had. Georges was already contaminated by the eldritch, had already been traumatized and stained by Longinus's divinity. For the Challenger to infuse an orc skill into the mix, maybe that could be a wrench in the works rather than a bestowal of a Curse.

But is that Heroism? Is that right? Is condemning someone who has already been made a victim so long to suffer even more—no, no. Godsdammit, no! There’s no good choice here! Just no good choice!

***

Pillar of Orichalcum 422 > 461

Vitality Drain 172 > 204

Inertial Overdrive 331 > 355

Aegis of Assimilation 145 > 149

Legion of Self 114 > 144

These Words of Truth and Adoration 52 > 66

The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder 52 > 60

A Glimpse of Perspective 94 > 97

Aside from a bout of horrific suffering, the Challenger had done good work in rebuilding Shiv's broken soul. All his skills were now returned and bestowed their rightfully earned levels. A rush of power pulsed through Shiv, and it continued cascading and building.

It wasn't enough. He was stronger than ever before. He'd gained more than ever before, and his options were wider than ever before. He wasn't just a brute anymore.

But it still wasn't enough.

Not when it came to the Challenger.

Shit. Harbinger? Any other ideas? We can try to keep provoking him. He's a God of War, so maybe we can frustrate him enough that—

"There is nothing we can do that will frustrate him enough. Perhaps there is nothing anyone can do." For the first time, the Harbinger sounded resigned. And more than that, it seemed unnerved. Shiv gazed into the emotional core of the Challenger, and though the orc god could feel an impossibly vast array of emotions at once, there was no instability there. His mind was great, a colossal expanse of knowledge and memory, but it was also in perfect harmony.

The Challenger was a god of Strife, War, Desolation, but he himself was paradoxically serene. "He stands opposite to Longinus or Sullain,” the Harbinger whispered. “They were consumed by a broken mind and a broken heart. Nothing consumes the Challenger. His will is enchained by his reason, and his mind is an unbreachable temple of wisdom. We cannot taunt him. We cannot provoke him. We cannot predict him, for he understands himself better than anyone, as he might understand us better than we do. Most importantly, he understands what I can do, and he will not fall to such folly as Evanescia or Produveral have."

But there has to be something! Some kind of emotional weakness. Maybe some kind of psychological flaw?

"If it exists, we have not mastered his nature nearly enough to perceive it."

“There isn't.”

Shiv went absolutely still. The Challenger repeated his declaration once more. “There isn't. I know what you are thinking. The last person to use the Harbinger on me tried the same thing, reacted the same way, before I tore her in half. Your silence, your momentary considerations, it gives you away. You need to be faster, Bruiser. You need to spend more time thinking at length ahead of the conversation, not during. Many Pathbearers think they are gifted at improvisation. Incorrect! They are simply lazy. They are unprepared, and so they allow the preparation to happen in the moment. Sometimes, they are creative, which makes up for their deficiency. But we should not accept such deficiencies. I expect more from you, just as I expected more from myself. We are proper instruments of War, you and I. Even if we disagree on the grounds of morality, we still hold the ideals of being a Pathbearer sacred, and so you must live up to that ideal. No more, how do you put it…” The Challenger smirked. “Half-assing.”

Shiv hadn't been a brute for a long time, but the Challenger might never have been one at all. In prior conversations, Shiv was guided by his social intuition. His natural talent for psychology and his knack for interactions guided his words and thoughts; above all, though, Shiv was a bloodhound for any kind of weakness born of mind and heart.

But the Harbinger was right. There was no such vulnerability in the Challenger. In fact, for the first time, Shiv thought himself utterly and completely outmatched. The Challenger loomed over him like a dark reflection. Shiv was no orc, but within the brutal god, there was a representation of what Shiv could become even if he didn't go divine. Here was the embodiment of power. Here was someone capable of terrible calamity, yet utterly in control of themselves.

"A virtuous monster is the worst adversary a hero can face," the Harbinger whispered. "There is no hubris we can strike at, for as an individual, they are far less flawed than we. But that doesn't mean we are without options. We don't need to best him. This does not need to be a fight. We can still bargain. He respects you. He has faith in you, and that gives us a measure of control, the slightest bit of leverage. Use it."

Immediately, Shiv centered his mind. And he sighed. “What do you want aside from abusing Adam?”

“Abusing?” The Challenger frowned, almost offended by Shiv's words. “I am not abusing him; I am testing him. I am putting my weight upon him and seeing where he creaks and cracks. And this is not just about cruelty. This is about an exchange.”

“Okay, so he took the Culturist from you—and you're going to make him do what? Pick between his dad, his fiancée, his mom, or someone else? You're trying to make him compromise his Heroism?” Shiv shook his head. “I'm disappointed. I really am.”

“Oh, come now, Deathless, don't play these psychological games with me. I have played them eons before you were born. They are fun when your victim is vulnerable in such a way, but neither of us is a victim in this regard. Please do not treat me as such.”

“I'm not treating you like a victim; I'm just thinking that you're uncreative.” Shiv hesitated as he made eye contact with Adam. The Paragon flicked his eyes leftward, and Shiv nearly betrayed his confusion. What was Adam trying to hint at? He didn't have time to figure that out—he needed to keep this going. “I know Adam, and if your psychology is as good, no, fuck that, you're better at this than I am. I can feel it, and that feeling inside of me has never been wrong. And so, if my intuition is good enough to know what might hurt him, then yours is too.”

The Challenger tilted his head. “Go on.”

Shiv took a moment to organize his thoughts, and a faint pull originated from within the Challenger. Shiv’s Rhetoric Skill indicated he had the orc god’s attention. “Look, I have my own issues with Roland, but let's be honest, that orc skill is wasted on him. Roland is not weak. Roland will beat that skill. He will fuse it. You know he will. I know he will. You have faith in me? Well past my bad blood, I have faith that Roland Arrow is going to make you waste that skill.”

Adam's face contorted in horror. “Shiv, what the fuck are you doing?” he hissed.

Shiv ignored his friend and continued. “There's no fight with Roland, no struggle. The outcome is already decided, so I don't think he's your good choice here. Now, there's Adam's mom. The thing about her, she's plenty pissed at baseline anyway.”

“And so she's the better candidate?” the Challenger asked.

“No, she's still a pretty bad candidate, but that's for another reason. She's only been back for what, a few months at most? Adam barely knows her. I have no idea if she can fuse or wait out your orcish skill, but I can tell you this much: losing her will hurt Adam. It'll sting something bad. It'll traumatize him. But I'm pretty sure that he'll manage. He will live to hate you, and if you want to start a rivalry that'll see Adam come for you the same way I'll come for you down the line, sure, go ahead. But this isn't going to test his Heroism at all. Not enough emotional weight.”

The Challenger nodded slowly in contemplation. “If you are trying to lead me back toward yourself or your lover, I fear your words are wasted.”

“Trust me, I'd love to dance with you again and make you swallow that shit—and thinking about you putting an orc skill in Uva fills my guts with a kind of hate I can’t describe. But no. Not us. Not Isabella or some random person from Blackedge either.”

“And why not? What does your Harbinger tell you? That the young godling is strong enough to survive his grief?”

Shiv shook his head. “That the way you are going about this is closer to a God of Cruelty than War. War is about fighting, isn't it? About dominating your enemy? About beating them down?”

“Partially. Go on.”

“Well, you're turning away from war now. You're acting like a god of petty torture, or whatever sick Domains there are. Yeah, if you want Adam to hurt himself and to betray himself, sure, have him give up one of his family members as a sacrifice. Push him to the brink. That's going to traumatize him bad. But you forgot something. I'm still here. Uva’s still here. We're not going to let him break. You rip him apart; we will put him back together. Better than you put me back together. And there is no fight there. As you got faith in me, have faith in these words: I will keep Adam sane. No matter what. But if you are a God of War, if you are a God of Strife, then you will know that I'm right when saying that you don't want to put that orc skill in me one more time. You're sure that I'll win? Fine, but isn't your name literally the Challenger? Why are you letting a little thing like Adam not taking your skill on the first try stop you? Why aren't you trying to figure out why that even is? Why aren't you trying to win?”

And as Shiv wove his new narrative, every word he spoke filled him with a greater discomfort. He couldn't even look at his friend, but in his heart of hearts, he knew this was what Adam wanted. Adam was self-sacrifice. Adam was noble to the core, but this was Shiv pushing him onto the blade.

And it just felt godsdamn wrong. But he couldn't stop. There were no better options. He had to see this through if he possibly could.

“Just think about it,” Shiv insisted. “Think about it. I can handle whatever grief you inflict on Adam. You know what the Harbinger can do. I haven't tested my ability to break emotions inside people, but you bet your ass I'll do that to him if it means stopping him from being swallowed by his own grief. But if you want to inflict a real war on someone, if you want someone worthwhile back in exchange for losing the Culturist, there is only one actual fight here.”

Finally, Shiv mustered the strength to look at Adam, and he saw such hope in his friend's eyes, such gratitude. It made Shiv sick to his stomach.

“His Haunting Omniscience. It's already too powerful for him. It's ripping his mind apart. You can feel it. You're the only reason he's not insane right now. I want you to imagine inflicting an orcish skill that's a mirror of his Awareness on him after finally peeling through his weird Divinity. Imagine the rage he would constantly feel every waking moment. Imagine that. Imagine the struggle Adam would have to go through if he, extremely favored, with an invasion of his Gate on the horizon, couldn’t kill, and warred against his own rage.”

The magnetic pull Shiv had over the Challenger grew stronger with every word. “Imagine the irony. Imagine the thematic triumph. Adam burned away the itch inside the Culturist. Now think about him falling to your influence. He failed to convince you earlier because he was desperate, and that scratched your itch. Well, right now I'm telling you to ignore your itch in favor of your Divinity. This is War. There is a question, and I can't answer it. I don't think you can either. I don't know if Adam can beat your skill, especially when your skill is attached to his Legendary Awareness. I don't know, but don't you want to find out? After all, there is no war like a war with yourself, right? We can always be our own worst enemies. Especially when it comes to a Delve. So I'm gonna ask you again, Challenger: Are you nothing more than the incarnation of cruelty, or do you actually want to see a fight? Because out of all of these choices, there’s only one that has any real tension.”

