(Book 2 of The Wandering Inn, No Killing Goblins, is coming out on Tuesday, September 22nd in bookstores!)
<I’m doing a live Q&A with Erin Bennett and Gavin on the 22nd at 7 PM EST! Come and watch!>
https://www.youtube.com/live/cXukl39CeOk
 
 
Hello, it’s me. I’m posting another Tales of Innworld by Enuryn the [Naturalist] during my break and I have an announcement—Book 2 of The Wandering Inn, No Killing Goblins, is out on Tuesday, September 22nd! That’s crazy! I hope you enjoy the new cover art and take a look! I’m going to be staring at it in the bookstores—I went there yesterday and bought a ton of books for my growing library. I like bookstores. I forgot how nice they smell and I may need to buy a lot more books…the libary must grow.
Aside from that I’ve been resting up well. I have a blog post you can check out with more details. This is about Enuryn’s art!
Marc (he has a crazy stare) and Traffy are a fun duo. I need to get back into the Riverfarm chapters but this is another good look into the life of people there. A [Traffic Conductor] is a class about as useful as Liska’s…and you’re gonna level faster when you’re in a new place like this!
Well, Pallass doesn’t really have the same issue. They have huge walkways and good layouts and their city is almost entirely walkable because it just doesn’t have enough room for huge wagons on the upper floors mostly. But a Drake [Guard] on the 1st Floor could tell you some things about the bazaar snarls and traffic there. They still need bulk elevators and getting things to their destination requires bags and chests of holding—it’s a city that works because it’s so rich. By contrast, Riverfarm is using Earth ideals and thus arises Marc. Perhaps actual traffic lights will take his job but I think his class would stick around as someone who can monitor streets and fix this kind of dispute.
I hope you enjoy and also one last thing—I have a livestream event on Tuesday, September 22nd at 7 PM! It’s a question-and-answer with Gavin and Erin Bennett! She’ll read out my answers like last time so huge thanks to her and Gavin and see you there! Back to resting for me!
—pirateaba