This is what they forgot: a woman who looked like Erin, but who wasn’t, appeared in the distance in front of the door. Niers focused on the [Pavilion of Secrets] and saw her standing there. A hand against the door. She turned as Erin strode down from the gazebo, and Niers followed and spoke.
“Don’t mind me. I’m just doing my job. Took you long enough to notice.”
Erin frowned as she approached the door.
“What job? Why’s the door open? Wh—oh.”
She came to a halt, and then Niers saw it too. Though he wasn’t as surprised as the two women, who both turned and stared at him. Alas, he was smiling a bit. He stood as that sliver of the door moved wider, just a hair. Revealing what lay on the other side.
A strangely grey world. His rooms where the Fraerlings, like Iuncuta Eirnos, and Seneschal Atmodeca were held—searching around, moving, but in snapshots of motion. They’d appear here or there—like pictures.
Strange. Even Erin was entranced. Was it due to the Skill? Or perhaps the Niers and Erin were moving in different dimensions? He swore he even saw himself walking around and wondered how much time was passing. The snapshots seemed…slower than they should be. As if they were moving faster for some reason.
He wasn’t sure…but what Niers did see, along with Erin, was that something had changed in the room beyond. Despite the power of the [Pavilion of Secrets]—a hand had moved as Niers had opened the door. He’d seen her as he turned.
The greatest [Strategist] in the world—and never forget, his superior. The greatest [Rogue].
Three-Color Stalker.
Foliana.
She was a giant given the size of the door. And she had a clawed tip of her finger on it. She was frozen in place, seemingly, her eyes glowing, but her nail was on the door, pressing at it. The [Pavilion of Secrets] was on the other side, holding it in a silent stalemate. But the door—was—opening.
“She’s quite talented, even for her level. As I said…this didn’t happen even in Sheta’s time that much. They were in the same room, which doesn’t help.”
Pavilion-Erin was trying to sound measured and calm, but there was a faint strain in her voice. The real Erin put her hands on her hips, and suddenly—that air of heaviness around her lifted.
She smiled, and her voice was teasing.
“Met your match?”
“Hardly. She can’t even force the door open. I have far more safeguards for her kind. But if you’d care to help?”
Pavilion-Erin really should have known better. But she missed the twinkle in Erin’s eyes. The [Innkeeper] walked over and put her hand on the latch of the door. She turned, winked at Niers, and pulled the door open.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] recoiled, then sighed—and Niers saw the giant hand of Foliana vanish. A regular-sized Squirrel-woman stumbled—caught herself as she drew her daggers in a blur, and held one at Erin’s throat.
“Mm. That was hard. And quick. I feel old. Is this a trap, Niers?”
She inspected Erin, and Niers shook his head.
“Welcome to Erin Solstice’s Skill, Foliana.”
He should have been annoyed, but he was mostly impressed she’d made it, even with Erin’s help. Dead gods, she’s going to brag about this for years.
Foliana peered at Niers, at Erin, and then poked Erin with her dagger.
“Ow! Hey! Foliana, it’s me!”
Erin sidled away from the daggers. The Squirrel Beastkin sniffed her a few times, then regarded Niers.
“Mm. It looks like a trap for Niers.”
“I’m not a trap! Stop poking me! No violence is allowed in here!”
“I know. I heard. You should be exploding when I poke you with this. Okay.”
Foliana hopped into the room, inspecting the bricks, the gazebo, the door on the far side, and then she peered at Niers. He cleared his throat.
“Erin was catching me up to speed on what was going on with her situation, and I with her. The implications of this—”
“Don’t care. Snacks.”
Foliana did a hop, vanished, and appeared on the roof of the gazebo. Niers and Erin whirled, and the [Innkeeper]’s jaw dropped.
“Wh—hey! Can she do that?”
For answer, Niers took a step and appeared on the gazebo roof. Instantly, he stumbled and then fell, cursing—
“Foliana, you rat!”
He hit the ‘ground’ without pain. Foliana lowered the foot she’d kicked him with.
“This is my spot now. You were having fun while I tried to get through the stupid door. It felt like I was pushing for hours! Snacks.”
“Half an hour at most. Erin, you can eject her if you want.”
“Try it.”
Niers sprang up, and Erin appeared next to them.
“Oof! I’m gonna hurl! Eject Foliana? Aw, but I like her! I can do snacks! Better yet, you wanna visit a coffee shop, Foliana?”
Her eyes lit up, and Niers realized he hadn’t considered Erin’s ability to share her memories.
We could do so much with this place—but then Foliana jumped down.
“No.”
“No? But it has great snacks! Even Fetohep liked it!”
She invited King Fetohep here before me? Well, he did know her—Niers kept his face straight. Unfortunately for him, and Erin, they were in the presence of Foliana, who smiled hugely.
“Niers. She invited Fetohep before you.”
She poked him, and he tried to jab her back, but she hid behind Erin. Blushing faintly, Niers growled.
“And what’s wrong with a coffee shop? You drink it like a sponge!”
“Yeah! I like the place! It’s in Grand Rapids, my home city! I used to go there all the time! Well, some of the time. The coffee wasn’t free.”
Foliana turned up her nose.
“Anything good enough for the King of Khelt isn’t good enough for me. Take me somewhere, mm, better. Then tell King Fetohep about it. Snacks.”
She slapped the railing of the gazebo, and Erin spluttered.
“Snacks? How about Chuck E. Cheese’s?”
“Sounds stupid. What makes it special?”
“It has a giant rat for a mascot.”
“I’m a Squirrel. You’re, hmm, speciesist. You heard her, Niers. Terrible.”
“Wh—I’m not!”
Niers kept his face straight as he shook his head, folding his arms disapprovingly.
“I did hear that too, Foliana. A terrible thing. And she made me the same height as her. Disrespecting my Fraerling heritage.”
Erin spun around to him.
“We’re the same height, Niers, pal! And I know you use Signim!”
Foliana poked her from the other side.
“He uses it because he has to. Don’t be heightist. Also, you made us think we were under attack. Bad. Bad. Don’t be bad, buddy. Friendo. Chum.”
“That’s my bit, Foliana. You can’t use—”
Erin started giggling. Niers felt himself smiling despite himself. He stared at Foliana as she held out her paws and shoved them in Erin’s face.
“Snacks.”
Fortunately, Foliana had appeared. When Erin, exasperated, took them to a supermarket, the Squirrel Woman merely stole a basket, then refused to accept any candy until Erin took them to a restaurant in Grand Rapids she had been to, an ‘Electric Cheetah’, that she swore she liked. But the Squirrel-woman could not be contained.
As soon as she had raided the root beer and eaten appetizers, she demanded Erin take them back to the gazebo room. Not for any conversation. Or rather, that was a secondary objective.
 
——
 
“Hmm. You’re small now?”
“Yep. Hey, Niers, you do the lights. And why do I have to carry you on my shoulders, Foliana?”
“It’s funnier that way. Stop moving. How’s it being small? Niers made me small for a while.”
“You did?”
“She wanted to visit a Fraerling city. It took ages to make the spell good enough for a prolonged stay, and she was only there for six days.”
“What? That’s so cool. Think they’ll be able to make me get bigger? But why only six days?”
“Undoubtedly if you find a big city. Foliana, you tell her?”
“Racism. More light, Niers.”
“…She broke into every place she could and stole everything she could, didn’t she?”
“Yep.”
“Mm. And I solved part of their Last Box, and they got mad.”
“You did?”
Erin was giggling so hard that Foliana hopped up and hovered in the air instead. Niers floated up and created a steady beam of light for Foliana to see with. The fourth member of the group, squeezed against one part of the [Pavilion of Secrets], folded her arms.
“You’re never going to get in.”
“I got in here. Niers, pass me the other pick. No, the squiggly one. The squiggly one. The squiggly—yes.”
They were all gathered around the vast doors on the other side. What was Foliana doing?
She was trying to pick the lock to the [Palace of Fates]. Pavilion-Erin glowered as the real Erin held up a root beer for Foliana to sip. And that’s all they did. Just chatted while Foliana tried all the tools in her bag of holding and quite a lot more she imagined to jimmy the lock.
In the end, she failed, but she made Erin promise to let her try again. And they didn’t speak of great big things. Just how bugs tasted and Foliana scaring Ryoka.
Niers would have thought it was trivial and mundane an hour ago, but he was so relieved that Foliana had appeared that he slung an arm around her shoulder as they were walking back to the door. She instantly vanished.
“Meh. I’ll unlock the door next time. You talk strategy with Niers too. Promise?”
She held out a pinkie, and Erin hesitated.
“I guess I could at least talk to him. Now and then. It’s tiring using this thing, but…we could play a game.”
She smiled, and he slapped his forehead.
“We forgot! What about a few rounds of speed chess?”
“No.”
Foliana tugged at his arm, and he protested. So did Erin.
“We’ve got all the time in the world, Foliana! Since this is like, only part of us. We could play a bunch of games! I like that!”
“No. I’m not leaving until Niers leaves because he has to explain everything. And I’m not going to watch boring chess.”
“It’s not boring.”
The two chorused. Erin promised to contact Niers at a better time, and he promised to play some games unless he was in a battle or something. And then?
His hand was on the door latch when he couldn’t help but glance over his shoulder at her. And he thought she’d grown older. Far older in days. Just as he’d told Lyonette, she’d lived through something new, terrible, and come out the other side.
But she’d already been someone who kept secrets. She’d already lived and died once, and that was more than he had done.
Too many secrets, making it impossible to talk to her and get a glimpse of her, just like how he could tell the truth and be honest and no one would ever see the color of his soul. Erin’s eyes lingered on Niers, then flicked to Foliana.
“Niers? Foliana. Thanks for talking and not pressing me super hard on anything. It’s difficult to share big secrets.”
He raised a hand, and Foliana nodded. They lingered there as Erin took a breath. Then she turned her back and stared into the infinite void, as if there was nothing frightening there. It made Niers shiver, and his mind wrestled with the limitless sights. But she just stared into that great beyond as if she were seeing something else.
He could see it, here. Niers saw someone come striding out of the darkness. A lone figure who raised a hand in greeting and farewell. He wore a strange suit, bulky and festooned with tools that hung from his belt. Pockets—Niers recognized the way the suit was made, and it said to him that it was airtight. Like Drowned Folk diving suits or Dullahan’s gear for dangerous environments.
But he—Niers stared at the short man with his pointed beard, white hair, and smile full of laughter and mischief and intelligence.
He laid eyes on Zineryr the Gnome, and his mind went blank. Foliana blinked, and her tri-color gaze flicked to Erin—and then she jumped as the void split and tore.
“Gnomes?”
Pavilion-Erin whispered, and she appeared with the two, staring with an open-mouth. But the [Innkeeper] only raised a trembling hand, and the colors shot across the skies, turning the endless night into a sea of blazing colors, like Dragonfire of every kind burning through the world.
Memories.
Niers saw more laughing folk appearing, waving at him, and his heart leapt when he saw Fraerlings, a Giant standing, Khelta, and a host of people, some of whom he knew, regarding him.
Erin turned and cupped her hands to her mouth, shouting at him.
“Niers! This is Khelta; Velzimri, the Sage of a Thousand Secrets; and Elucina, the Rebel of String. They saved my life and taught me, along with Califor and the [Witches]. And this—this is one of the Gnomes I met. His name was Zineryr! I think he was there when the gods died. I think—”
Tears caught in her eyes. Shimmering water and regrets and wonder. Erin turned to the smiling Gnome.
“I think he was a scientist, an explorer. I think he never wanted to be a warrior, but he was really, really good at it. Sort of like me. I wish I’d talked to him for so much longer. That’s who I met.”
She had told him once, but the truth of it took Niers’ breath away. He gazed upon the face of a Gnome and thought, yes, here were the laughing folk written in Fraerling legends and lore.
Zineryr did not disappoint, like so many others. Niers and Foliana exchanged a glance, and he saw her eyes were also shining. Niers gazed past Erin, at the lands upon which these ghosts stood. He thought he knew, but he asked anyways, voice hoarse.
“Where is this?”
“The land of the dead! Or—it used to be. There was a war for everything, and you missed it. I think they could have used you. Now, I believe it’s gone. They are. But this is what it looked like. It’s too awful for me to show anyone. I can’t even show Ul…but you—you get it. Look. I lived through this and no one would ever understand, even when they believed me. But you do. Aside from the battle at sea and Roshal’s ship, everything else was easier.”
The [Innkeeper] had tears in her eyes as she spread her hands, and he saw Seamwalkers battling ghosts. The half-real lands of Izril consumed by towering horrors. A [Soldier] with a gun, riding a Dragon. And his heart leapt and hurt in ways that even he would have been ashamed to say. A terrible longing and regret. Just like hers.
Foliana nudged Niers, and he realized he was taller than she was, a rarity for them. The [Rogue] was smiling.
“Ooh. She’s outdoing us, Niers. What do you think? I don’t feel like dying. Mm. Too ordinary.”
Foliana peered at the landscapes flashing below, above, all around them. Even Pavilion-Erin was gazing in wonder, head spinning left and right, as if she didn’t know this.
What did Niers think? The answer came from his mouth, too fast for him to stop.
“It’s a land. It’s ground of some kind. It can be taken and held. If it exists—it’s just another frontier.”
