“Let me see. The Dyed Lands are expanding aggressively, and three of the Great Companies are battling it. I haven’t heard from the Eyes of Baleros—the Gazer company—but they’re fighting Jungle Tails, who have emerged and are skirmishing across western Baleros, mostly. I suspect they’re also combating the Dyed Lands, but these two affairs are wrapping up my forces. It makes rescuing Rabbiteater’s group, or any other, very difficult as my armies will come under attack.”
“That’s rough, buddy.”
His brows crossed, and he turned to see her giving him an innocent expression. Erin wavered, then scowled herself.
“Damn pavilion. Alright, fine—that sounds awful, but I can’t do anything about it. I never could. I’m no [Strategist], and…you’re the Titan. I have to trust you can deal with it. Unless there’s actually something me or the inn could do?”
Niers had to admit, he was stung a bit by the cavalier response. Her explanation helped. He stared out into the void.
“Nothing on the level of strategic help. You curing Foliana was enough. It’s just a mess. Jungle Tails emerging the way it did truly did surprise me. Part of it was my former [Chamberlain], Peclir Im.”
He scowled, imagining that bastard, and focused on the man’s rather bland features. His balding pate. Why had he turned traitor? Something Jungle Tails could offer him, more than gold or power, Niers bet.
Erin jumped when she saw Peclir appear in the void. Niers smirked as he turned to her.
“That’s Peclir Im, if you should ever meet him. A dangerous man. Not physically, but sharp. He fooled me. Jungle Tails is sweeping across western Baleros; their old strongholds. My forces are pulling back, reconsolidating. It looks like, well, this.”
He swept a hand, and to his delight, the continent appeared in miniature around them, filling the void. Flags and figurines appeared as well, moving—the war room maps he had practically memorized.
“Hey! Stop, stop!”
Erin waved her hands as the images zoomed so she could peer down at western Baleros, where red lines indicated armies—even with troop counts and dispositions, Niers’ personal notes visualized perfectly.
I’d love this Skill for planning warsims. Niers created an image of ten thousand Nagas advancing on one of his burning fortresses, a composite of images he’d seen and his imagination, and then glanced at Erin. The vision of battle hung in the distance.
“What? Am I taxing the Skill or something?”
She pointed a finger at him.
“No! This is my cool thing to reveal! Stop figuring out what this place can do!”
Erin snapped her fingers, and the gazebo vanished. Then they were walking in the void over the map of Baleros. She stomped up to him, and he grinned. It was unsettling to the stomach to be floating, but he just pointed down.
“Strategy is the air I breathe, Erin. I’ve been frustrated of late. This is why. Do you see?”
She did. The map he painted for her rewound in time until it was pre-Jungle Tails attacking. She saw the flashes of combat appearing, just raids at first—then a flurry of attacks.
“The day I was betrayed and went missing in Izril. Now…”
The map developed more patches of red as Jungle Tails emerged. In the east and central Baleros where the Forgotten Wing company held strength, their flareups mostly were suppressed, and Niers pointed to Elvallian where he’d crushed an entire army. But the western perspective…
“Do you see what I’m doing?”
He was reminded of his classes with the fake Erin, whomever she was. The [Innkeeper]…was not that Erin. She peered at the map, frowning.
“I guess? Everyone’s leaving the forts? Packing up? And you’re moving towards the Dyed Lands…which are in the way of reinforcements to the west. Darn, no wonder you’re losing all the western stuff.”
Another flash of mild disappointment. Not that her read was off—but she just clearly didn’t speak strategy as any kind of language like she did chess. Niers pointed out movements of troops to her.
“Not just that. I’m…fighting delaying actions across our holdings. See the fortresses? We’re ceding territory but delaying Jungle Tails from establishing a base of power.”
She caught the patterns now he pointed them out to her, and he went on.
“You see, any fortress we have will endure most sieges. Jungle Tails rushed into several, and it cost them more than it should have to take the fortresses. Without that, they grind down the defenders, but they’re well supplied. When they reach the breaking point, I either relieve the forces or they use escape routes.”
Or surrender.
It was messy and felt like enduring blows to do it at this level, but it was buying time for him to consolidate his power and come at Jungle Tails. Erin murmured.
“I get it. I don’t like strategy, Niers. I’m not great at it…you’re letting Jungle Tails take all that territory?”
She watched as an entire city turned red. Niers shrugged tiredly. He wavered, but then was honest with her.
“What else can I do? When the Forgotten Wing company became the 4th Great Company of Baleros, we removed Jungle Tails from that position and took a lot of their holdings. Lizardfolk remember. It’s not even been more than two generations.”
“They’re not loyal to Forgotten Wing?”
“A bit—but Jungle Tails can offer them what I never could. Power. The Eyes of Baleros are power, and Lizardfolk are often treated like—the Gnolls of the continent. But differently. Second-class citizens, expendable. Yes, there are a lot of those who’d sympathize with Forgotten Wing, but they’d inevitably die even if we rallied militias. So we’re falling back. Jungle Tails won’t massacre most places, and I’ve evacuated those that are in danger.”
Abandoning places to the Nagas. Erin peered at the map, then her finger stabbed down towards a pocket of obvious blue.
“You must have a lot of people there, huh?”
He didn’t even have to look. Niers nodded.
“The Gelizment Frontiers. We have a lot of forces there, and it’s being enveloped slowly, but it will fall. I’ll have them endure sieges as long as we can, then retreat into the jungles. We might lose a third of them on the march, or they’ll have to go native—but I can’t reach it in time.”
Baleros had so many damn jungles that cutting a road that wasn’t already cut took time and resources. He was fighting for control of highways and forts. Erin nodded, accepting the explanation, but then she surprised him again.
“Yeah. It’s tough. I…this…is why I could never do your job, Niers.”
He felt a pang in his chest as she stared down at the map. Erin seemed to wrestle with herself, then added—
“Evacuating those forts in the frontiers sounds like the right thing to do. Or you could let them fight for it. Your soldiers, people who’re afraid of Jungle Tails. Everyone.”
His head turned to her. She was studying the map, and the [Innkeeper]’s eyes were tracing the flow of colors.
“It’s like…more central, isn’t it? A rallying point. I bet that people are looking to it as the one safe point right now.”
“Yes. But it can’t hold. It won’t, Erin. Jungle Tails has hitters as hard as my [Generals]. They will take the fortress if we make a stand there, especially if we collect so many we can’t actually put them in a fortress. It’ll be land battles. Army versus army, and they’ll die fast. Faster without healing potions.”
She nodded.
“It’s a symbol, though. And people are losing their homes, Niers. If you give them a chance to fight and die for it—some will take it. So long as this place stands, the entire region will rally around it.”
He felt a light tingle on his skin.
“They’ll be slaughtered. They would do a lot of damage, but I’m avoiding that.”
She peered up at him, and her hazel eyes were suddenly bleak.
“Yeah. But strategically, does this make more sense?”
“From a certain point of view.”
He was cold, but his arms were tingling, and he felt his heart leaping. A monster’s heart—Erin turned away.
“It’s their choice. It should always be their choice. If you give people the right to die for home and family, not needlessly, they will take it. If you do that—how much time does it buy? How many troops does Jungle Tails have to divert to take this spot? How much does it distract them? How much morale does it raise?”
“I can’t answer that. But—I think it’s worth trying.”
He murmured, and she turned away. Waved a hand, and the continent below vanished. Erin stood with her back to Niers, suddenly appearing burdened, as weary as he had been before the door had appeared.
“Erin?”
“I wish I hadn’t seen that. I wish I hadn’t suggested that. This is why, Niers. This is why you and I aren’t the same. It’s too hard to be a person with your job. How do you…not become a monster like Chaldion? Or worse?”
She turned to him, and now he felt like she was inspecting him as so many did—searching for the monster that so many found to be self-evident, bursting out of his skin. But she wasn’t sure. And—he whispered.
“Everyone’s a monster when you hand them power, Erin. It’s…avoiding what you know you can do. Knowing you can point, order, and someone vanishes. But you don’t do it. Something has to matter more than your own ego. You put an anchor down and cling to it. Foliana treats everything like hers, but she takes care of it. A giant squirrel and her nest and children.”
“And you?”
Her eyes locked onto him like beams of light, and he shrugged. The truth compelled his tongue.
“I have students because it makes me not want to horrify them. I’m second-in-command because I need to treat this like something I’m responsible for, not something I own. How do I stay grounded otherwise?”
He flexed a hand, staring at it intently, at the scars rather than her face.
“I meet other Fraerlings, and if they refuse to get near me, I know I’m being sucked into my position.”
“Ah. They’re a moral people.”
He heard her exhale, and then he dared to meet her eyes. She was gazing away, and he breathed again.
“Yes. They are. Smallest of the world with egos and opinions about giants. I, ah, I lied to you, you know. Within the rules of this place.”
She turned to him, and Niers walked through the void. He conjured nothing, but just stared down.
“Laismosz the Praeriehome. I called myself the last son of it. Which is true…but it wasn’t destroyed. It suffered attacks. Several, because I came from it. Because I involved it in my wars and struggles. The city wasn’t fully wiped out—it just dissolved into smaller settlements.”
“Oh. Do you feel guilty about it?”
The Titan of Baleros stared down, down into the darkness.
“On bad days, I don’t. I tell myself I could have made them what Paeth is now. I think that Fraerlings should be feared, should be strong. Or at least have someone like me with a finger on the scales of the world. But then I remember—”
He turned to her, grey in his hair, a tall man with a sword, handsome and charismatic—a warlord who could compel thousands to follow him, daring enough to fight giants, mind sharper than any blade. Held back only by his size.
Titan of Baleros. Niers finished his sentence.
“—I never gave them any choice. So they chose for me.”
He waited, and [The Wandering Innkeeper] exhaled. She stepped forwards, and he thought he saw something appearing out of the darkness. An inn glowing with lights, rising higher, changing—he blinked, and it was gone, a ghost of memories.
“I think the same thing, sometimes, about Liscor. About people I help and hurt. I’d do it again. Perhaps they were happier before they wondered if Antinium had names or if killing Goblins was right or wrong. Or perhaps they were in less danger. I will do it again and again. I just don’t like myself that much sometimes, Niers.”
He stood there and felt that painful connection in his heart. The Titan gazed at Erin, then away.
“I challenged Jungle Tails because I saw them pressing down on people like a rotten fruit. Filled with maggots and corruption and decay. I threw Baleros into war; I have killed and fought for my land and kept going. Because I see no one else with a better vision for this continent.”
In silence, the two stood together. Two monsters wearing facsimiles of flesh, pretending to be people. Niers realized his heart was hurting more. He understood Erin. He felt connected to her. This conversation was everything he wanted—
And it was a nightmare. They understood too much of each other. He tried to change the subject to something lighter, and he could not. Nor could she, in this moment. She wore her scars fresh—she was still the woman who had slain a [Prince] and shoved him aside without even pausing to look at his face.
No. Not this.
He felt Queravia laughing at him, because once more he had gotten his wish only to find it had twisted. He had always, always wanted someone who understood him. But not so perfectly.
I would rather we had just played chess…
He could feel his mouth opening, and Niers feared what he would say next. Or she—her eyes contained that weight which could crush souls into dust as she turned to him. Trapped by their similarities. Helpless in the face of a tragedy of their own design.
Every Titan needed a hero. Every innkeeper needed a guest of magic and adventure.
The [Pavilion of Secrets] was one the great works of Empress Sheta. But it wasn’t invincible, perfect, and neither was the [Palace of Fates]. And both the [Strategist] and the [Innkeeper] had forgotten that.
It was the smallest sliver of light in the void they stood in. There was no light source in the [Pavilion of Secrets], and yet, in this moment, Niers did feel some kind of light on his skin. Not that he needed it to see here; if there was no light, there was no true darkness either. He and Erin were perfectly visible…but he was still illuminated by something.
He turned—and realized where it was coming from. There was a sliver in the air. Just a tiny fragment—but something was pouring from it.
True light. Not even strong light; the ambiance of a room, but it made Erin turn.
“What’s that, Niers?”
“I don’t…oh. The door. Is my time up?”
It was the door that he’d opened to get here. It hadn’t vanished, even though the door to the [Palace of Fates] had—temporarily at least. Erin waved a hand.
“No, I don’t think—hey, Pavilion? What’s going…huh.”
The gazebo was back. Niers and Erin were standing in it, and he twisted around and saw the vast doors, fit for a giant Harpy, on the other side. The door that presumably led back to his reality over there…
A hair open. He and Erin exchanged a glance.
