“Ah. I am Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, Second-in-Command of the Forgotten Wing company. Last surviving son of Laismosz the Praeriehome. And you are Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. Aren’t you?”
He gazed up at her, and she smiled and nodded. Then she reached up and a waterfall of burning colors painted her hat, which she swept off her head. She bowed slightly and straightened.
“That’s me. And this is the [Pavilion of Secrets]. I invited you here because…I think I owe you a chat. No. I wanted to speak to you, Niers. That’s the truth.”
Though it was the [Pavilion of Secrets]…he didn’t believe her. He walked forwards slowly and rested a hand on the gazebo’s staircase.
“May I come up?”
“Please do. I’ve got a seat ready for you and everything.”
She gestured to the chessboard, and Niers halted when he saw it. He peered at her with such a curious expression on his face, and he glanced back at the door from which she could see a dark room, still cracked open.
“What’s wrong?”
When he hesitated too long, the [Innkeeper] asked, and the Titan eyed her.
“It’s…simply that if I were going to choose a trap for myself, I’d probably make it look like this.”
He murmured, and she inspected him. The [Innkeeper] slowly nodded as her smile faded, and she stood there, wondering what to say. Then her lips quirked upwards, and she walked over to the chess table. Casually, she swept the pieces off of it. Niers jumped and reached for a sword at his side as the pieces bounced to the floor of the gazebo or fell into the aether and vanished. Erin leaned over the table and beckoned.
“I wouldn’t blame you for thinking that. The last time you tried to meet me, a bird ate your leg, right? You opened the door anyways. Don’t fear me, Niers. I think I wanted to meet you to thank you, because I need help, and because I know you’re smart and I must plan ahead. But I also think I wanted to meet you so you could judge me. It feels like everyone I meet is afraid of me or thinks I’m silly. But you won’t do that.”
She glanced up at him, and the Titan stood there, frozen a second, before walking over. He sat down, glancing at her, taking in her hair, her arms, the scar around her neck…and she wondered what he saw of her.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros saw many things. But it was mostly what he didn’t see—the truth behind the illusions. When you built someone up in your head before meeting them, you imagined them to be all kinds of things.
Taller than they were, or more eloquent. You saw the pieces of them that you glimpsed, and so if you placed them too high, they always let you down. So it was true—
He saw no genius mind, all sharp blades of intellect. She didn’t approach him like someone dueling with a sword of wit. Nor was she a warrior.
Niers was a warrior. Erin didn’t sit ready to move or with the air of someone who had confidence in her body to execute what she willed.
She was, even, not a leader. Someone who thought of her people and who spoke and acted as the face, the pillar, the center of a group, whose limbs could be that of a nation. Who read rooms and minds with ease, and who inspired others to follow with their very presence.
Erin was an [Innkeeper]. Her class did not lie. But nor did she disappoint Niers Astoragon. He had thought, in the fake Erin he had met, that he had found a truth behind her, the warrior unveiled by fighting and the battles at sea, a jagged blade.
But this stranger wasn’t one for all she had so many scars. Nor was she a [Survivor], someone who had endured the unimaginable.
She was, instead, like a piece of glass. A prism, and the lens of light that shone in this place without a sun reflected those rays of her. Strategist and general, leader and builder. But he wasn’t sure what she was, not quite. She didn’t fit in the neat boxes he’d built for so many people over the years. Not even in three boxes.
[Innkeeper] was a good class for her, because he had no idea what she was.
If he had come in here like a rushing river of suspicions and fears, seeking information like a hungry bank overflowing, water flooding into every crack and crevasse, a tidal wave of inquisition—she just sat there.
Her flaming hat was the most magical thing about her, and when it vanished, she was just a young woman with patchy, white hair, discolored in places, fallen out in others, scars on her arms. Around her neck and on her wrists.
She seemed like she had gone through lifetimes. When she smiled at him as he sat down across from the table, Niers saw what he had always seen:
A wonderful mystery. As if even Erin Solstice didn’t know what might happen next, what she might say or do or think. A confidently vague mountain sitting in a world of mists. Waiting for life to hand her something else.
A mountain of experiences, each one built up on her regrets and failures and desires. Ready for her to collapse it to pave a path across the sea if need be.
Ah, there was her danger. The Titan smiled at last and inspected the table, then twisted around.
“Thank you for inviting me here. May I ask a few questions, or have I missed other niceties?”
Her hazel eyes twinkled faintly at him.
“I suppose we know each other well enough for you to ask. I hope I didn’t alarm you with the door. When you rejected it, I wasn’t sure if I was bothering you in a battle or something. It doesn’t affect you until the Skill ends. You just wake up—”
“And remember. Yes, the notes said.”
He’d pulled the notes out and was glancing at them. Erin peered at them, then stood up.
“Hey, can I see those?”
“You don’t know what they say?”
She edged around the table.
“Nnnnope. I mean, I know the rules, sort of. But I’ve never felt what it’s like to have the door come for me. Hey! This is written out really nicely.”
He coughed into one fist.
“I suspect it came to me in a way I found most understandable. So you’ve invited people in here?”
She glanced sidelong at him, and he was amazed he was taller than she was. Did it mean she was a Fraerling or was it just the property of the room? He could reach out and touch her if he raised a hand.
Niers did not. Erin nodded absently.
“Just a few people to see how it worked and then to tell some friends I was alive. I had it for a while…but I didn’t know how to activate it. I thought I’d have to get back to my inn or something. And I was busy not dying.”
“Ah. As a Fraerling?”
Another sideways glance. Erin nodded.
“I should’ve known you’d figure out what was going on.”
“Well, I met your imposter. Ah. You’re aware you have an imposter, right?”
“Mm.”
She frowned at the notes and then turned a page.
“Hey, it says here, ‘no harm shall come to you by any means save your own’. Does that mean you can, like, punch yourself in here?”
Niers cleared his throat.
“I suspect it means that you could activate a mental Skill or some other effect that might harm you, especially if it was something like accelerating your mind at cost. But it certainly seems as though you could trick someone into injuring themselves.”
“Or you could punch yourself in the face.”
Erin nodded to herself, and Niers felt a touch—exasperated. Which also reminded him that his relationship with her had rather been like that. She could be silly. Remember, it’s an act. I think.
“Doubtful.”
“No, you go ahead and try it.”
“…Why don’t you?”
Erin gave Niers a very serious look.
“I don’t want to. Also, this paper lies a bit. You can’t hurt people, but you can touch them. Plenty of ways to cause people discomfort.”
She paused and then shivered softly. Niers nodded, eyes on Erin.
“I promise that isn’t my intent, Erin. I’m simply here to ask questions.”
She peered at him like an owl—and then poked Niers in the side.
It was so fast that he jumped and slapped her hand by reflex. Neither action truly hurt the other; but Niers had definitely felt the poke. Erin sidled to her side of the chess table, then peered at her seat.
“Darn. And here I thought we were going to talk and hang out. Instead, this is like training for the Quarass. Phooey.”
Rather than sit down, she went to the benches that encircled the inside of the gazebo and lay down on them! Niers half-rose, then cleared his throat.
“The Quarass of Germina? I wouldn’t talk to her. If there was any person who could manipulate this place and you—she would be the most dangerous.”
His tongue seemed to twist in his mouth, and Niers hesitated—then the truth compelled him to add—
“Aside from the Blighted King, the Death of Wings, or Emir Yazdil, that is.”
She glanced up at him, as if realizing he’d had to add that. Erin put her feet up on the open window of the gazebo, which meant her back was on the bench. It was an attempt to appear casual, but it seemed highly uncomfortable, and she managed it for about six seconds before sitting crosslegged and scowling at him.
“You don’t tell me what to do, Niers. I need to talk to her, and the Quarass is like…the second-worst at best.”
“Who’s first?”
“Noneya.”
“Noneya? I don’t know that n—”
Niers’ mind, sharp as an Adamantium blade, caught up with the word right as Erin pointed at him.
“Noneya business! Hah!”
She stared at him. He stared back. Erin lowered her fingers. Coughed.
“I guess it’s some of your business. But I’m going to talk to other people whether you think it’s a good idea or not. Besides, I’m not the one opening random doors.”
She folded her arms triumphantly, and he fought for control of his features. Then realized…he was trying not to smile.
When the Titan smiled, actually smiled genuinely for a moment, he thought Erin Solstice relaxed. Certainly, she gave him one of her own, but it was far, far more worn than he remembered. Niers sat at the table and suddenly wished he had asked to play chess. Because he needed a piece to look at. He gazed at Erin again, trying to redirect back onto the mind sharper than the Quarass—if it wasn’t him, then who?
Or other matters. But he just watched her, and the words slipped out before he could help it.
“Dead gods, Erin. Who put you in chains? And are they alive? Because I will have them killed.”
The Titan gently asked Erin, and she blinked at him. Then her hands rose to her neck, and she stared at the scars on her wrists as if she’d forgotten she had them. Her face went blank. Her head lowered, and her locks of hair covered her face. He was guilty, then.
But then, after a moment, Erin inhaled; her head rose, and she looked him in the eye.
“Thanks, Niers. The ones who were on the ship already died, though. And the rest are too well protected to kill, for now.”
She thanked the Titan, who had terrified so many, even when he was small as a mouse, for the truth of what he would do. Simply and without doubt. And he…ah, damn.
He covered his mouth to hide a smile and kept his mouth shut.
Because his treacherous heart was falling a tiny bit in love again.
 
——
 
“So you killed them.”
The Titan and Erin were talking, him from the chess board, she from the gazebo seats. Then he moved—not to sit next to her, but to peer out across the void. She sat there in various positions, and he paced or leaned out the gazebo—even hopped out of it to pace around the outside and walk in the void.
Again, things she had never seen done. But it felt like they were both strangers and as if they knew each other well. So well. For you see, they had talked across the board, both as players and as well as sending messages. They’d seen what the other could do.
“I had help. And the masterminds in Roshal are alive, the six of them. But everyone else who tried to chain me and Ulvama died.”
Niers nodded. He turned his head to her, and he was again too sharp for Erin’s tastes. But she had wanted this.
“Where is Ulvama now? In my company or elsewhere? And the [Slaves] are with House Shoel, I presume? Or headed back to your inn? It won’t be safe if it’s the latter.”
She scowled at him.
“Do you get tired of asking nosy questions?”
He tugged at his beard, vexed.
“We’re on the same side, Erin. Can’t you trust me with answers?”
“I’m great at not giving out answers. Do you give your allies all the answers all the time?”
“I’m quite honest about what I do!”
She rolled her eyes.
“Sure, until you do the thing you were actually planning. Telling someone ‘you’re in check’ doesn’t stop you from forking their pieces or setting up a move. That’s what you do.”
“Point.”
He had to concede that and ran a hand through his hair.
“Alright, fine, what will you tell me?”
She thought about it, and he figured some of her hesitation came from experience in this place. Certainly, he’d managed a partial ‘lie’ about honesty, and she’d caught him on it. It would be extremely fun to use this place…if he didn’t actually want to talk to her. His desire for information was warring with his desire to talk to Erin, and he wished he could stomp the former, but alas—he was enjoying this too much. He waited as Erin uncrossed her arms, then rested her arms on the wall behind her.
“…I hate giant centipedes. And sandfleas.”
The answer took him off-guard, and he laughed despite himself.
“Oh. Oh, no. You’ve run into Balerosian wildlife? As a Fraerling? Are you okay?”
“Hey, I hit Level 50! I’m great! Look at these guns!”
She flexed a bicep, and he didn’t see much muscle, but Niers turned.
“You’re actually well? There are monsters which could kill Level 50 Fraerlings, Erin.”
“Yeah…I found help. I shouldn’t say who or what. It’s a promise.”
“Ah, a Fraerling village. Say no more.”
This time, she threw something at him. A chess piece. He caught the pawn in one hand and blinked.
“You can shift the [Pavilion of Secrets] as you desire. Ah, yes, it was in the rules. I skimmed that. Can you alter this place completely, like your [Garden of Sanctuary], or just in small ways? And can you open that door?”
She threw up her hands.
“Hey! Why don’t you reveal all my tricks? No, that leads to the [Palace of Fates]. No getting in. Now I bet you’re going to research that when we finish talking. This is why I didn’t call you up right away.”
Embarrassed, the [Strategist] changed subjects.
“I appreciate that you called. Truly. If you tell me where you are, I can have my Fraerling allies send help. Though there is a risk they might be monitored. It’s slight, but there. You know what’s happening with my company, don’t you?”
“Some things, but tell me.”
She sat up, and he shrugged.
