The sound—! Eireth nearly clapped her hands to her ears as her entire body felt like something was vibrating it from inside out. The ship was shuddering—she pointed.
“Board and silence her!”
No one heard, but Rhir’s [Soldiers] were charging over [Light Bridges] already. However, the Singer’s voice—she turned, and the Lieutenant saw a cone of force sweep through the air and blast one [Light Bridge]. The spell shattered as the Blighted Kingdom’s warriors were hurled into the surf.
Dead gods, the Singer had the power to send objects flying? Despite herself, Eireth hesitated—this was on par with the [Heroes]’ abilities! But she hadn’t appeared in Rhir, had she?
No wonder I was given the order to claim her for the Blighted Kingdom! The [Lieutenant of Pragmatism] shouted.
“Advance! Stop her! [Squad: Haste]!”
[Soldiers] sped up, dodging another cone of sound, but the [Storm Sailors] rose from their hiding places and began to fight. Sea-faring fighters against Rhir’s own.
The Blighted Kingdom should have killed them fast, despite the [Storm Sailors] fighting on their own ship, but the [Captain] swung the wheel, and his ship rocked, splintering more [Light Bridges] and sending [Soldiers] plunging into the water.
“Press the attack!”
More and more [Soldiers] were advancing, heedless of the obstacles. But the Singer kept screaming—and Eireth feared actual hearing damage now. Even so, she saw a [Storm Sailor] fall as three black arrows sprouted from one eye. Her people were on deck now, and the Singer’s voice faltered.
She gasped for air as they surged towards her, then tried to scream again. Movement at the cabin doors—someone hurled a [Soldier] back with a heavy impact, and Eireth threw up a hand.
“[Halt Action]! Earthers, do not harm!”
The [Soldier] froze, and a second mallet hit him so hard he dropped, but the Earther, Thien, was safe and kept swinging his drumsticks around. She heard music from below, possibly empowering the crew…
The Singer. Some kind of barrier was surrounding her, blocking the spells the [Mages] were trying to disable her with. She drew in breath, but her wail was gone. Then she began to sing another song.
Eireth simply plugged her ears with cloth, knowing that her forces were doing the same. Charm or other effects wouldn’t work on them. She saw her [Soldiers] killing surrendering [Storm Sailors] on the deck and nodded.
Then the [Storm Sailor] with three arrows lodged in his eye sat up and jumped on top of one of her people. He ripped a gorget off one of the [Soldiers]’ throats—then the throat as well.
Ghoul. The surprised [Soldiers] were suddenly under attack—their own deceased and the ship’s dead crew were rising! The [Captain] wasn’t doing it—he backed away as more undead threw themselves at Eireth’s people. The [Lieutenant] just gazed at the Singer.
She could raise the dead and use magic with her voice? Small wonder Eireth’s superiors wanted her so badly. This woman should have been summoned to Rhir’s soil! Eireth clenched a fist, then relaxed. As soon as possible, she intended to return to Rhir where the only battle that mattered was taking place.
 
——
 
The dead were rising, but it wasn’t enough. Her trump card that had saved her so many times—the [Soldiers] just hacked down their own number and kept coming. She’d seldom seen such efficient killers. The crew, the [Captain]—
They ran him through as Cara backed up on the deck, the [Sailors] still alive fighting around her. She was trying to deflect spells and arrows, raise the dead, and debilitate them all at once.
She had more Skills than just her [Wail of the Banshee]. [Fame is My Magic]. [Melody of Flames]. [Song of Rejuvenation]—
She was activating them all. Flames appeared like burning stars, igniting [Soldiers] of Rhir, and lightning crackled overhead as the [Storm Sailors] fought harder around her.
But she was just one person. One—and her magic was up against dozens of [Battlemages]. She wasn’t a warrior.
And she had no champion. No ghostly [Knight]. No hero to fight for her.
Her voice was weakening. Cara was staring up at the sky, hoping someone was watching, but if this was Rhir, they weren’t going to leave witnesses. Some of the [Sailors] were shouting at the approaching vessels, but they all had the same black hulls. No help there, just more death.
God, what a mistake. She should have never done this—but she hadn’t thought they’d come after her like this. Cara’s voice was hoarse as she drew breath for one final scream. She saw the black armored bodies surging up the stairs of the deck—and falter.
Cara’s voice caught in her lungs. It felt like a hand was squeezing, squeezing her lungs. A knife’s edge of terror forced her juddering heart to halt, and her head turned.
On board the Blighted Kingdom’s ship…she felt something wake up. And then it was like someone was holding a knife to her throat. A feeling she’d felt before—she touched her throat and gasped.
“Who—who’s laughing?”
The [Sailors] cast around. They couldn’t hear it—but there was laughter in her ears. Was that an aura?
It was like pure madness—she saw the figures turning, and the rush from the other ship reversed. Someone, a female voice, was shouting orders.
“Surpress—Lord—fall back!”
A [Lord]? Then, there was a press of bodies around one of the stairwells. Cara saw the bodies pressing together fall about. She swore she saw a flash of silver—then red.
Something sliced through the bodies, and the spray of blood coated the black hardwood decks. She saw a smile flash across her eyes. Her head jerked, and it was burned in her vision. She was shivering—
“What is that?”
Then the laughter was surging across the decks, a man’s high-pitched voice. She saw a figure, thin and dressed in a ridiculous, colorful suit, turn, knives in his hands.
Cara laid her eyes on the first [Hero] of Rhir she’d ever met a moment before he began to kill the [Soldiers] around him. A laughing madman wrapped in steel and insanity.
A [Clown].
 
——
 
The voice woke me. So I killed my way out of the dreams. I don’t know where I am. I don’t know who I’m killing.
A thousand Demons are screaming at me. It’s a funny trick. Is this reality? Is this another dream?
Eireth. I swear I hear her voice. But I don’t care. 
Blood on the ground, in my mouth, on the floor. I turn, and the skies are a thousand eyes. The ground…is rolling. Where am I?
I hear a voice. Something real in this endless night. Kill that, kill the faceless marionettes with blades in front of me.
It’s so easy. They wave their blades, and my knives swing through them all. I leap, throw my blades, and pull more from their hands.
Still laughing. I can’t stop. I see another…hill…and now they all look like my friends. I plant my blade in Richard’s eye and twist—that’s the only thing that’s real.
If I’m awake. Have to think they made a mistake. Or else it’s just who they want me to kill.
The voice. Towards the voice. A singing Demoness with pink horns. She screams, and I hear it—
Hear it through everything. A female voice, screaming at me, and I luxuriate in the truth of the sound. But it’ll kill me.
—So I leap through the air. Grab that arm, and a blade slashes across my ribs. I’m laughing as I toss her from the hill into the ground that rolls and vanishes. 
Instinct. Madness. Everything else appears the same. So I kill the Demons in front of me, the ones behind me.
Friends.
Children.
They look the same, and I can hear Eireth telling me to stop—I put my foot on the edge of the cliffs behind me, grinning at her as she appears out of the mists. Raising her hands. 
Someone shoots me in the knee.
“I used to be a [Warrior] before that.”
No one gets the joke. I’m laughing. I spread my arms as she reaches for me.
She told me Emily was dead. Expected me to cry, if I even believed her.
I take a step back as well and—
Swear I’ll kill them all.
 
——
 
By the time ships were able to investigate the wreck of the ship assailed by the Bloodtear Pirates, there was no evidence aside from a huge amount of fish devouring the dead bodies.
…No armor or weapons to be found, which wasn’t thought of as suspicious by the [Harbormaster] until several inquiries had him sending [Fishers] and [Divers] to confirm that was the case.
But his hands were preoccupied with the Blighted Kingdom’s ships, who were unloading passengers. The [Lieutenant], Eireth, practically strode off her ship, so intent on heading out of the city. He supposed that was Rhir for you and thought little of the incident except to wonder why the Bloodtear Pirates would slaughter an entire crew including the Singer of Terandria.
They did that—but such a beloved person? Then again, perhaps she’d survived? No one could confirm seeing her die.
There the matter rested. Aside from a quiet request from Tulm the Mithril to the Seer of Steel to have any ships available investigate the matter—but he was unable to move from the New Lands where Dullahans were disembarking and felt frustrated.
Another, more direct message came from Elvallian to the Blighted Kingdom. It was addressed to King Othius IV from the Titan of Baleros. Of course, it was vetted by countless [Strategists] and other members of the court, but the message was a one-line sentence that eventually did reach the Blighted King.
 
What are you doing in my territory?
 
No response was sent back. Not that the Titan of Baleros had been holding his breath. Niers Astoragon sat and tapped his fingers on the chess board he was no longer using, then turned.
“Send Wil and Yerranola with Erin Solstice’s party. Tell them that the Singer of Terandria is either on board those ships…or those screams they heard from the harbor mean she escaped. Hand Wil a copy of my notes on Rhir for senior [Strategists].”
Atmodeca, his [Seneschal], nodded, and the Crocodile Beastkin stepped away.
“At once, Lord Astoragon.”
 
——
 
When Cara opened her eyes and found a seagull pecking at her hair, she realized she was badly sunburnt. Also, alive. She sat up on the beach, searched around, and began swearing.
 
——
 
It was another difficult day. A bad day, he would have said…but he had lived through truly bad days. Having a bird rip a leg off didn’t even rank in his Top 10.
No, these were just unpleasant. And it seemed, again, as if he should say that such days and nights had increased in number, but his memory was too good. Being an adventurer and then a young [Strategist] leading mercenaries meant he had wept all his tears long ago.
Niers Astoragon had buried every companion he’d loved and known save for Foliana and precious few others. His best officers and friends in the Forgotten Wing company were former enemies—and children like Perorn all grown up.
No—it was just disappointing. That was the word for it. He felt like he had earned, or won, the right to more pleasantness. At least some calm. Instead, he was once more up against multiple foes. Watching the Jungle Tail company, revived, eating pieces of his territory. Fighting the Dyed Lands, witnessing the scramble for the New Lands, and wondering when the next continental war would begin and whether his company would be in a position to weather the storm.
But not just the big things. Big things he could accept and even pat himself on the back for being in a position where the Forgotten Wing company were players on the board. It was the small things.
Small…like thinking you were going to meet someone you’d put a lot into. Too much, really. Imagination and hopes and—too much for her to ever live up to. If it was even appropriate.
But it wasn’t even her. Or was it? Was he mistaken? Now the doubts came, but that just added to the—disappointment. He’d hoped and, again, been reminded why you didn’t do that. He felt like a young fool, only he was far too old for this.
Small things. All the excitement of a new world tarnished by children being turned into pawns and soldiers. Having to play unkind hands against their ideals and finding bodies.
Or rather, not even bodies. More than he’d told Erin, Ryoka, or the United Nations company. Baleros was a harsh continent, and he couldn’t confirm if they were an Earther or a random Human. Or whether something worse had happened to them and been covered up. Roshal, hungry Lizardfolk, bandits—the jungle was a damn kindness.
The Titan of Baleros had been drinking, true, but the final straw had been this evening’s events. It wasn’t even someone he knew—it was just depressing.
Bloodtear Pirates. Go suck on a stickbug. Every [Storm Captain] and [Sailor] worth their salt who looked into that supposed raid would realize it wasn’t them. But there wasn’t any proof.
There never was. What got Niers was that they hadn’t even had the decency to be subtle about it. They didn’t have to. They just erased an entire crew, captured or killed the Earthers, and that was it.
And he couldn’t do anything about it. Rather, he could, but for reasons even Foliana could articulate, he wouldn’t. Niers had thought about it. He’d thought about everything. Killing the King of Destruction.
Making contact with the Demons and trying to get ahold of some truths.
Invading Terandria.
Even put a few plans into motion only to watch them fail. That was…fun. Making a difference felt like forward motion. Watching a ship burn and knowing he had to be silent made him feel like he was sinking into the mud. Drowning in disappointment.
It makes me want to pack up shop. Pull up the stakes, hand the reins off to Perorn, or just let them figure it out and lead a crusade, Terandrian-style, at something. Head over The Last Tide. March on the next country that thought it was funny to take Fraerlings hostage, like that story about Samal and the Fraerlings in cages.
Just burn a hole straight out of the world and rip a page out of the history books. Of course, it wouldn’t topple any true systems. He’d done it before; it never did. But dead gods and cats…it made a difference for the nation that vanished.
It was the same feeling that he thought, on dark nights, that had driven Flos Reimarch to becoming the King of Destruction. Or perhaps not; Flos was an actually principled man, even if it was all ego. Perhaps…this was the feeling of Goblin Kings.
The Titan of Baleros was sitting on his desk, tossing a few items in his bag of holding for his campaign. He didn’t really have a focus; anything he wanted would be sent after him. He wanted to go with Erin, Ryoka, and Geneva to Oelnnox and face that mess. He wanted to shake Erin by the shoulders or drop Iuncuta Eirnos and a full strike team on Jungle Tails’ heads. But he couldn’t.
