What a madman. He regretted saying it the moment he heard his own voice, because it sounded insane. But then he looked around and realized he was in the company of an old friend, a Skill, and Erin Solstice. She just smiled at him, seeing a piece of his soul—and he gazed at the Gnome’s face.
A suit meant for an explorer, not a warrior. It wasn’t armored. He didn’t carry a weapon.
So that was a Gnome. Niers raised a hand, gazing at the sky streaked with colors. And he did reply. He swept a hand over the vision before him, and the air split in two. Erin’s vision of the lands of the dead remained, but halfway towards him, the colors stopped. He heard a voice panting.
 
——
 
Felt the grit on his skin. Smelled blood—and the tang of magic and something else in his nostrils. Erin Solstice’s eyes widened, and she beheld a ghost.
A screaming Naga, spear raised, body translucent, face warped until their mouth was a hole in reality, their body distorted by the wraith’s fading memory. A true ghost in the Waning World—
Until a pair of daggers swept through it and the screaming ghost vanished.
Memory.
A younger Foliana appeared, panting, ice coating her armguard and left shoulder as she pointed. Shouting behind them; a corridor of bodies. His people were advancing over the corpses of Jungle Tails’ soldiers. Fighting in the Labyrinth of Souls, closing the net.
“Where’s the Dragontouched? Has he reached the center?”
Niers heard his own voice as Named-rank adventurers, friends, advanced past him. A half-Elf with a bow from the Village of the Spring, eyes glowing with magic. A rebel Naga, holding scimitar blades. They were moving into a vast room, and someone whispered.
“Niers—there’s too much magic ahead. My [Dangersense]…”
Danger was singing in his ears too, the loudest sound he’d ever heard. Foliana glanced at Niers, and he realized she had never known what he’d heard in that moment. Niers heard his voice echoing.
“Push forwards. We can’t let him get whatever is here. If it’s another Eye of Baleros—we advance.”
The image blurred. Niers and the Named-rank adventurers who were his team, and the [Mercenaries] they were fighting with that would later become the heart of the Forgotten Wing company, kept moving forwards. Until they found the Dragontouched, the leader of the Jungle Tails company who’d followed them into this dungeon.
He’d reached the center minutes before they had. And there they saw it.
“I have seen the faces of Elves.”
Niers met Erin’s eyes, and she saw them. The statues lining this vast room in alcoves—preserved against the wrath of time.
No, this battleground.
A testing chamber. He could still see the dais rising in the distance in his memories, as clear as day. The promise…waiting behind the last trial of the Labyrinth of Souls.
A little figure lay on the ground, surrounded by dead Lizardfolk and Nagas of all species. The Dragontouched, whose features had been altered from the Naga he had been, able to breathe every flame known to Dragonkind—lying there, staring up at the test.
The largest Hydra in the world, made of shimmering energy, some construct from the age of Elves, rose a thousand feet high. Next to it, a far smaller Minotaur, still a Giant unto its kind, rested a hand on the axe that had cut the Dragontouched in half. Niers heard his own voice, calling out hoarsely.
“Retreat. Ret—”
The face of Elves.
 
——
 
“I’ve always known where the answers were.”
He wanted to laugh at the expression on her face. The Titan of Baleros had never, ever shared that image with anyone. How could he even describe it? Who would believe him, if he did?
“We were never ready. I told you…”
You’re not the only one. The image of the Labyrinth of Souls vanished behind him. The Titan of Baleros turned, and he saw it again.
This time, it was just a marsh, absent of the regular noise of insects and animals. An older Niers, raising a hand warily as his hunting force halted. A veritable army ready for what he thought was an Elder Creler.
Then—the muck and water erupted upwards. What he’d thought was an island rose—and the serpentine head came up. Eyes flashed in two colors down at him, and the detritus and filth clinging to the Earth Dragon’s scales fell away. They shone such a vibrant green that even his [Soldiers] hesitated.
The young Dragon roared a challenge in the common tongue, and she barely spoke it well. The Titan threw up a hand—and he met her eyes as the [Innkeeper] stared.
I’ve met them too.
Then he saw her gaze at him, smile, and her eyes lit up with wonder. He realized he could talk about them, with her, and not betray that sacred trust.
Ah, look, his heart seemed to cry at him. Look.
I’ve found another real person who has beheld a truth and not been blinded by it.
Even the [Pavilion of Secrets] was silent, drinking in these mysteries like a child hungry to find the answers. Niers, Erin…
And Foliana. The great [Rogue] of Baleros gazed at the warring visions of might and magic, wonder and legend as the two glanced at her. She waved a paw over her head. Then seemed vaguely displeased when nothing happened. Niers and Erin began to relax their control on the images around them—but Foliana was quicker. She drew a dagger and cut—
Everything.
When Niers saw again, it was her vision she wished to show them. To show Erin.
 
——
 
What Foliana saw was the way their faces tightened. A hand clenching. The way they drew back or looked around.
Fear in the lines of their bodies, but also their auras. And she saw every aura. That was what even Niers forgot at times: how different her eyes were.
To the Squirrel Beastkin, every person’s aura was a manifestation around them. It pressed at other people, reflecting their desires, feelings, and strength. To Niers and Erin, it was a surreal, dizzying vision.
But they still saw the court, resplendent with ancient legends writ on the very walls. And the [Innkeeper]—her breath caught as the [Prince of Men] bowed stiffly to the visiting Squirrel Woman.
Prince Iradoren. Then he stepped back, and even he was afraid of the famous killer of Baleros. Even in his court of myths.
“Foliana…”
Niers’ voice was lost in the memory. And the [Innkeeper] had just stepped forwards to stare at Prince Iradoren’s face. She peered at him as he stood there, talking to a short Fraerling with great interest.
But the Squirrel Beastkin stood alone, partly invisible, as ever. She hopped around the Court of Myths in Erribathe, peering at the strange representatives of each part of the Kingdom of Myths, the best of whom were only vaguely aware of her presence. Unwanted, unwelcome.
As ever. Foliana felt only a bit sad as she hopped over to a corner and sat, watching as the young [Prince]’s eyes lit up with tales of the world he had never met, surrounded by sycophants, hanging on the Titan’s words, trying to make promises he had no right to. A younger Niers too. Not yet head of a Great Company of Baleros.
Then someone surprised Foliana. She jumped four feet up as a hand touched her arm. Someone had snuck up on her; an old half-Elf—old, even for their kind, bowed to her.
A servant? She held a broom and asked Foliana if there was anything the [Rogue] wanted. Foliana was not fooled and shook her head as the former Queen of Erribathe bowed like a servant. She left—and then a man came striding into the room, late, hair covered with leaves, mud on his tunic.
Laughing about wrestling a pig, to the dismay of his son. And his aura could have swallowed the entire palace, but it was contained, barely peeking out of his skin. The most ordinary [King] she’d ever met. A slumbering monarch? No…a content [King].
The King of Myths cast around the room and then bent his head and listened to the serving half-Elf. His eyes found Foliana. So he gazed around, found a table, and picked up a silver pitcher and cup. Like a [Cupbearer], he approached her and offered her a glass, pouring the wine from the pitcher. Because no one else had remembered to.
She smiled faintly at King Nuvityn, who had no fear of her. Only eyes that sparkled with delight for meeting someone who carried stories with her. Who was one. A man who could not be tempted with glory for glory’s sake. A fine ruler of Erribathe, and the despair of his son.
Foliana’s head turned in the memory, and she met Erin Solstice’s gaze.
That was who she’d killed. And this…Foliana pointed a finger at the smiling King of Myths holding the pitcher.
This was her foe.
 
——
 
“Now, I see. I didn’t want to know his face. Do you remember them, Foliana?”
“Yes. Sometimes. Mostly, no. But sometimes.”
Niers was jealous of Foliana, because she had something to teach Erin, a perspective he did not. She always had been able to cut to the heart of matters in ways he never could. And he could do what she could not, but in this moment, he did envy her.
Erin Solstice stood in her [Pavilion of Secrets], and her eyes lingered on the place where King Nuvityn’s memory had been.
“He looked nice, for a [King]. I killed his son.”
“I’m protecting the—other Erin as best I can. And Erribathe is not foolish. I’d be more wary of other factions than them. He wouldn’t harm children.”
Niers added quickly, and Erin nodded. She stood there, head bowed, and he feared they had burdened her. But then she exhaled and turned.
“Thank you, Foliana. And you, Niers. I think that’s enough for today. I don’t wanna spoil all the cool stuff and heartache on the first meeting.”
She smiled faintly, and he grinned ruefully in answer. Foliana just scratched at one ear with her foot. She and Niers weren’t weeping with emotion, and in truth, neither had Erin, except for once.
All their grand deeds and these events of which they’d shared were behind them. Instead, they stood together, and Niers only regretted he hadn’t taken them to one of his favorite bars in Elvallian and all had a drink.
A drink—such a quaint tradition, but they had no greater emotions to spill out. They weren’t performative, here, or back in these moments. A toast to now and then—and to the days to come. Between those who had witnessed stories.
That was what lay unsaid in Foliana’s casual words. She nodded at Erin, and there were few people she had ever offered that quicksilver smile to. Like a flash of her daggers, sharp and alive. Niers was grinning too.
“Fancy Skill. Don’t get trapped here. Touching grass is also nice. And she’s boring. Don’t like her.”
She poked Pavilion-Erin in the cheek until the fake Erin swatted at her finger. The [Innkeeper] laughed. Then she raised a hand.
“Thank you. Until next time.”
The Titan nodded. He turned the door’s handle in his hand and walked out of the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Both he and Foliana glanced over their shoulders as the door swung closed.
Niers saw Erin smiling and waving at him. He lifted his hand—
 
——
 
Niers and Foliana snapped back to their bodies, and reality resumed. Memories attempted to mesh and merge. Niers remembered being in two places at once—slightly jarring. The Titan froze, mid-step across his desk, and counted.
Twenty minutes. Interesting, I think we spent longer in the [Pavilion of Secrets], but it might have been trying to stop Foliana from getting in. Nothing of consequence had happened here—just attempts to locate the door. However, at that moment, Eirnos spun and pointed to the place where he’d emerged from.
“—swore I saw something! There!”
Eirnos pointed, and everyone whirled, but Foliana just appeared as Niers took a seat on the tables. Fraerlings leapt down, and Atmodeca signaled the soldiers forwards, but the two leaders of Forgotten Wing just eyed each other.
“That could have been a disaster, Foliana. Thank you. Sincerely, for once.”
“Stalker? Has the threat been neutralized? Did you do something?”
Foliana ignored the voices shouting at her. She nodded.
“Mm. I’m jealous. All my Skills aren’t that cool. All I can do is stab lots. Open locks.”
“And catch a door that no one else could see during a time slow. Or time accelerant? I suppose that was slightly impressive.”
“Get a chronomancy expert here, now! Lord Astoragon, who—?”
“Don’t you forget it. I think I heard something behind the lock.”
Niers’ eyes sharpened. Eirnos was screaming in his ear, but he half-rose.
“Really?”
“Yep. Weird. So what did you think?”
Niers stood there and stared into the distance. He saw that [Innkeeper]’s pained expression, thought, and then murmured.
“I don’t know her. I thought I understood her, but I don’t. Parts of her I get. She’s going through what you or I did. But she’s…”
“Report to me, Niers!”
Someone shook him repeatedly until Atmodeca picked up the Fraerlings and carried them off. Niers finished his thought.
“…unexpected. That’s all. No conclusions beyond that.”
Not riveting happiness. But not disappointment either. Just thoughts. About everything she’d said. Curiosity—distractions, really. Foliana eyed Niers, then she snorted softly.
“Decent food. Hmm. And she’s your size.”
She offered him a smile, and his heart leapt in his chest and nearly came out his mouth. Niers smiled back; he couldn’t help it. Then Foliana dropped her smile.
“You’re too old for her.”
“I—know that!”
“Way too old for her. Someone inform Commander Rozcal that the Titan is too old for a twenty-year old girl.”
Every Fraerling turned to gape at Niers, and he leapt to his feet.
“Foliana, you just won a lot of goodwill. But I will hurt you—”
She hopped away.
“This is inappropriate. I forbid this as the Commander of Forgotten Wing. Good night.”
She ducked the miniature [Fireball] he fired at her head and vanished to explain to a very sleepy [Chef] exactly what the sandwich and appetizers she wanted tasted like and the names such as ‘root beer’…but not at all what they were made of.
At least she went to bed smiling.
—Well, the Titan was grinning too hard to sleep.
