So, the tired Titan of Baleros stood there, counting pairs of socks and wondering if eleven was enough. Dress socks, enchanted socks…it used to be you just hoped you had enough socks. He was so tired that when he turned and saw the door, he just ignored it.
Niers Astoragon walked past the door that stood upright, despite having no hinges or anything supporting it, next to a map of Baleros. He found another pair of socks and tossed them into his bag of holding. Then his head turned back.
“…Hm?”
The door was gone. The Titan rubbed at his eyes, then went back to picking out socks. And oh so carefully, he adjusted his belt and made sure the enchanted dagger was ready to throw. When he turned around with some boxers, the door was standing in the center of his table.
“Ah.”
This time, he walked around it and triggered a silent alarm on one of his rings. A door appearing in his chambers meant whomever had sent it had bypassed enough security measures to make even Foliana trip up.
But he didn’t sense instant danger…the Titan inspected the carvings on the stone door.
“Hm. Harpy. The Death of Wings? If you’re here, announce yourself. I’m in a bad mood.”
The tiny Fraerling’s head swept around, and his stare left a streak of soot on the maps on his blackboard, the table with the chess board. He waited—then counted.
“…nineteen…twenty…ah, fuck. Someone’s taken the citadel.”
He grabbed his sword. That alert should have had a response in five seconds or less. How many of his people were dead? They’re going after Erin. Get to the Fraerways, then Foliana. Activate—
Seneschal Atmodeca leapt into his rooms, wielding two toothed swords from the Beastkin tribes, and Niers heard a response in his ears.
“Lord Astoragon, Foliana is on her way!”
He blinked—turned—and the door was gone. Niers saw Atmodeca sweep around amazingly fast; the Crocodile Beastkin woman could move like her animal ancestors when she chose to, all speed and reaction. He frowned—then the hatch in the Fraerways blew open.
“[Mark All Targets]! Two?”
Iuncuta Eirnos and a full squad of Fraerlings wielding crossbows sighted and stopped, searching for an enemy they couldn’t see. Niers felt a finger touch his shoulder that neither Atmodeca nor the Fraerlings noticed.
Foliana. But even she didn’t react at the speed she should have. Niers spoke, frowning.
“There was a door with Harpy markings on it. Slow reactions, Iuncuta.”
“We were here in ten seconds, Lord Astoragon! Harpy? The Demons? Spread out and check for magic! [Mages], what do you sense?”
She barked at him. Niers saw more [Soldiers] appearing, and on a hunch, he frowned and touched his ear.
“Operator. How fast was your response time?”
“Four seconds, Lord Astoragon. Is this a test? Your code, please.”
He rattled it off and assured them this time wasn’t a test. He’d done this before, but…Niers frowned.
“I counted twenty-four. Time-stop. We’re up against [Chronomancers], perhaps. Or the Skill has a time slow embedded.”
Even the Fraerlings gaped at him, aghast, but Foliana just poked him gently again, signalling she got it.
What the hell can do that? The list was narrowing, but his first thought was…Nereshal? The Blighted Kingdom wasn’t that pissy though. Unless there was more to that ship attack?
Bogleraums?
Cats, he wished he hadn’t thought of that. The Titan swung around and gazed at Atmodeca, who was waiting for his opinion.
“I think I was hit with a Skill. A door appeared for me to enter. Some kind of negotiation or contract-type Skill. Perhaps the Blighted King.”
“Don’t enter it!”
Eirnos snapped at him as if she could give him orders. Niers just spoke to Foliana.
“It felt rather safe.”
Her third poke with the tip of a knife indicated she thought his instincts sucked. But now, Niers was waiting. Once, twice…do we get a third try? He pulled something out of his pocket and began flipping it in the air.
A coin. Just a tiny coin—Fraerling money from Rozcal’s city. Niers had no use for coins, but the glittering piece of worked gemstone flashed in the air. He flipped it a few times as he spoke, asking for [Mages] who could analyze Skills.
“I know it’s a Level 40+ spell, but I heard there were magics that could detect this kind of thing, Eirnos. Do you have any specialists? I—ah.”
Niers stopped talking and glanced up. The Fraerling coin hung in the air like a little star, the light reflecting off it. He turned, and Atmodeca was frozen, sweeping a hand over his desk, a giant woman. Niers turned back.
“Last chance, one supposes.”
The door. He could just let it go, and he bet whomever was sending it would get tired, but that didn’t fit his style. Most Skills like these, even if they were traps, had rules.
You don’t get a free time-stop with Skills meant to just kill you. Unless, of course, this was coming from a Level 70+ [Harpy Empress], in which case she might murder him dead. But that would beg the question why the Death of Wings thought he was worth murdering.
Maybe the door was faked to let him think it was Harpies? But if so, then you were faking a Skill. Nothing for it but to open it; he wasn’t getting more information from the façade of the door, and he did a circuit; it always faced him such that he couldn’t see the back of it.
Niers thought all this in eleven seconds. Nine left. He checked his sword and pulled out a scroll from his bag of holding and tucked it into a holster in his belt. Then he did an inventory of his equipped rings and made a firing order of spells.
And then…he reached for the latch handle and thought that if this was a fake, most idiots wouldn’t know what a Harpy door handle looked like. And that this was the perfect lure for him.
He shouldn’t have opened it. He was needed. If he died, so many bad things happened…but this door was the call to adventure, to danger. He had to open it. The Titan of Baleros reached for the handle and casually swung it open.
He stared into the empty blackness of the void and saw the strange brick path leading towards the distant gazebo. He breathed out, once, and then took a step forwards.
He had observed that he could ignore the door—that his levels and Skills meant he could even refuse it. Even now, he felt like he could step back if he wanted to. Though the effort was increasing with each passing moment.
I outlevel whoever this is. It still could be the Blighted King. Niers glanced over one shoulder, intending to send a message to whomever was here. Then he blinked. Stared up at something and smiled.
“Sorry. But I have to know.”
He walked through the door as it slowly swung shut behind him. Then, the Titan of Baleros realized that this strange place wasn’t empty. There was, in fact, a distant figure standing at that gazebo sinking through the void of reality.
She had brown hair. The Titan stumbled slightly on the path. He stared ahead, and his mind told him that it was like every other time: a mistake, a disguise, an illusion, a disappointment. His feet took him onwards.
 
——
 
Everything was strange about this time. She should have known it would be…but this was the first and only time she found herself waiting in the room.
Waiting—and chatting with the Pavilion of Secrets. Pavilion-Erin was watching the figure striding towards them. The real Erin Solstice was sitting.
“I didn’t know someone could refuse it like that.”
“They seldom do. This time is…unique. You’re amidst high-level people. Sheta never experienced this, but she was careful.”
Pavilion-Erin sounded—intent. Her eyes were on the door and the man. Erin Solstice just coughed into one hand.
Three times. She felt her heart pounding. The [Pavilion of Secrets] frowned.
“Ah, he finally noticed the rules. He’s got them in his hand.”
“I thought you beamed them into their heads?”
“Not this one. Do you want me to stay around?”
Erin frowned at Pavilion-Erin.
“You can do…no. No, not for this.”
“As you wish. I have something to—to do. This will be interesting.”
Oh yes. Erin Solstice saw her image vanish. Then it was just her, and she couldn’t quite see the road, so she craned her head. Glanced at the chess pieces on the board. She’d set them up with her as black, her opponent as white, but suddenly she thought this was so clichéd and stupid.
Act cool and sit here? They knew each other.
They were strangers.
He was perhaps the most dangerous man she had ever met. She owed him a great favor.
Part of her feared him.
She could have not told him anything, but Nerry had said he suspected her.
She wanted to meet him.
Erin Solstice owed the Titan that.
So she stood slowly, pushing herself up from the table, because just waiting for him to arrive was silly too. Her head rose, and the first thought that [The Wandering Innkeeper] had, when she saw Niers Astoragon in the flesh, was…
Hey, he’s pretty tall, actually.
The man who came walking across the brick path leading to the gazebo would have actually been a pretty tall Human—and it was Human he appeared to be to her. Or maybe she was just Fraerling-sized?
Or perhaps…this was how he saw himself. Because for the first time, she felt as if she could sense his will, his very aura, swirling into the [Pavilion of Secrets]. Changing it ever-so-slightly.
The Titan of Baleros was reading from a sheaf of papers in one hand, head bowed. He was walking straight to the gazebo, not following the slightly meandering road. He was, in fact, stepping through the void on a path of his own, not on the bricks.
No one had ever tried that. But he did it without even noticing, reading the papers in one hand. He was so engrossed in them that when he glanced up, he was barely ten feet from the steps. Then he stopped.
“Hey. Sorry about the late hour.”
She spoke without thinking, no grand pronouncement in mind. She should have said something fitting for their relationship, something to mark this moment. But the [Innkeeper] just smiled wearily.
The [Strategist] stood there, inspecting her, his face one of utter surprise. He blinked, lowered the papers, and spoke.
“You’re the real one. That is—I swore I saw a fake just now.”
She gazed at him. His voice was hoarse, and he seemed nervous to approach. She beckoned slightly.
“You’ve got good eyes. That was, um, the Skill.”
“Ah. A sentient Skill?”
Niers didn’t approach. Erin nodded.
“Wait, you’ve heard of them? It’s, uh, me, by the way. Erin.”
“Yes. You know who I am.”
She nodded. He just inspected her.
“What is the name of the Skill, if I may ask? I’ve heard rumors of Skills this powerful, but never…was this your Level 50 Skill?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked. He was interrogating her? And—she saw his eyes flick to his notes—
Was he testing the rules already? She glanced over her shoulder at the chess board and felt like water was rushing around her. As if she were in the presence of a Grandmaster of chess from her world—and she had met them. But not, well, just a ‘Grandmaster’ of chess.
Something more.
 
——
 
A word on chess.
According to the FIDE (the international chess governing body) ranking, the highest-ranking chess players were Grandmasters or International Masters as a rank below that. You could also get titles like World Champion, but anyone who ever hit that rank was a Grandmaster already.
Maybe a dozen players had won the World Chess Championship as International Masters…the point was that they were the best. Erin, back when she’d been on Earth, hadn’t been nearly good enough to even approach that level. She’d been considered a prodigy as a child, then gotten back into chess—still enough to be considered one of the best in the world, but that was comparing a molehill to mountains in terms of ability.
Still, she’d met them. A few of them. The feeling that she got from Niers Astoragon was like that of sitting down and facing a Grandmaster. But again—not just like meeting them.
Grandmasters were people too. They got mad, they told jokes, they were silly, and once you got past their reputation, you just saw people. Incredibly gifted players of chess, but it didn’t make them geniuses.
Chess was just a game. That was what Erin Solstice knew. Everyone else put so much into it. ‘If you’re good at chess, you must be smart. Chess is like strategy!’
It…was like chess. The pattern recognition, practice, reading your opponent, and skills that you honed through chess could apply to lots of stuff, but it was still, ultimately, only chess. Or at least, Erin hadn’t heard of a chess Grandmaster being asked to general an army or solve math equations.
You had to be careful to remember that. People cheated in chess. The players could be petty, silly, stupid—or the opposite, of course. But you couldn’t know who they really were until you sat down at a board against them and they played you.
Really played you. No amateur could bring a Grandmaster out on the board. They could beat you blindfolded, drunk, and half-asleep because there was no competition. But when they were sharp, well-rested, at the top of their games, motivated…then you saw them.
 
——
 
That was what Erin meant in her head when she felt like a river was rushing past her, the sensation of meeting a Grandmaster. It was the feeling she got from the Titan of Baleros, the world’s greatest living [Strategist]. Focus. Intelligence, thoughts swirling around him so loud and coherent she could almost hear them.
The Titan of Baleros was gazing at her. Directly at her, testing her. Testing this place, and he was not merely good at chess. His company was one of the greatest fighting forces in the world, and he had been a Named-rank adventurer, a leader of armies. It all pressed at her—and he didn’t even have a mastery of his aura. It was just him revealed in the Pavilion of Secrets. A tiny, subtle knife so sharp it would cut through you if you reached for it.
And yet, the [Innkeeper] had been here before. She leaned on the white wooden railings of the gazebo and inhaled the air, which was neither cold, still, nor really air but simply the void itself.
She stared past Niers, into forever’s darkness, and then smiled down at him. The rushing river of his intensity broke around her smile. She knew he had every right to be suspicious, to question, and she owed him this.
But even so, she reminded him of his manners.
“Before I answer that, I think this is the part where you introduce yourself.”
She called down to him, and the [Strategist] blinked. His mouth opened, and then he coughed into one hand. Folded the papers up and stuck them under an armpit. Then felt for a hat he wasn’t wearing and said—
