Cara O’Sullivan was standing on board the deck of the ship, watching the shores of Baleros growing larger under the pale light of the green moon. She kept her eyes fixed on the continent she’d never wanted to visit.
Baleros, the continent of wars and mercenaries. If she had a top-ten list, it was just above Rhir at the bottom. But here she was. No one else understood her train of logic, and it seemed like some of them had finally had it.
Footsteps on the deck behind her. She spoke without turning her head.
“Thien. Did Greg finally talk you into bothering me?”
The [Drummer] and [Historian], one of the longest members of the band, came to rest on the railings next to her.
“Greg’s just a loudmouth shit, Cara. I can’t believe you didn’t kick him out of the band last tour.”
“Not my fault he became a [Famous Guitarist]. Really leaning on the famous part of his class. Or that he threatened to blow all our covers if we didn’t keep taking him around.”
Thien grimaced. He leaned against the railing, his dark skin glowing faintly green under the unnatural moonlight. Well, unnatural to Earthers. She was used to it by now, but he still cast a glance up at the sky and shook his head.
“I can’t believe we’re going to Baleros. Rae’s still in denial, you know. She thinks we’re just going to hit the port cities and leave.”
“I hope it’ll be that simple.”
Cara was sipping from a canteen. Something magical in the lemon-flavored drink to keep her from being seasick. She hadn’t been feeling too bad—until she’d had to perform in a ship’s cabin a few days ago. The effort and motion had made her sick to her stomach—or maybe it was getting nearer to the continent and the tides changing.
Thien leaned on the railing. He didn’t say anything to her. So she broached the silence. She hated silence; it got so uncomfortable.
“It was supposed to be the New Lands. Izril, mainly. We’d hit First Landing, then go south. Tour the big cities and then the Walled Cities. Liscor…”
“You were going to scout The Wandering Inn, right?”
Her face didn’t change, but Thien knew all her tricks. The [Popstar] and [Thespian] was a gifted actress, but she couldn’t hide everything from him. She didn’t want to, but…
“That’s a no-go after the Winter Solstice.”
“So, what? We’re back to keeping everyone in Safety until we find a nation that fits us? C’mon, Cara. You did a great job getting everyone, but Abebi can’t keep them corralled forever. They’re going to…leave.”
“They’re welcome to leave. It’s not a prison. But Wistram’s going after them, and so are Terandrian nations. I just wish we had some place that worked.”
She spat some of her drink out over the railing; a bug had found its way in. Thien shrugged, uncomfortable.
“Avel was great…”
“I know. But its [King] can’t keep a secret to save his life. Nor can he force other nations or spies to back off. We needed Samal or somewhere that was truly safe. It doesn’t matter. The plan changed, and here we are. Is the band mutinying?”
She’d taken the band with her. She shouldn’t have; she’d told Abebi to stay and mind Safety—because someone had to, because this was dangerous, and because this wasn’t something Cara should be doing.
Not her, the Singer of Terandria. She should be making money back on her continent, but…Thien just stared at her.
“It’s the 4th Princess of Calanfer, right?”
She compressed her lips, and he went on.
“Everyone knows. I was friends with Elena before she went scouting Wistram. I’ve been to Noelictus when we tour—there’s all kinds of stories about you, if you know who to ask. The Singer of Afiele…and the performer of the Synphasia both have stories about them. I think it’s a good idea.”
“But…?”
He leaned on the railing.
“But we’re not going up against the Iron Vanguard or anyone, right, Cara? We’re a band. I’ve hit [Thugs] with my drumsticks, and that’s as close as I want to get to fighting. And what about Erribathe or the nations that’re mad at her—or the [Innkeeper]? Are we getting her too?”
Cara evaded the question.
“She can take care of herself. She is taking care of herself with a Great Company, as far as I know. Besides, we don’t have a ship back just yet. I’ll arrange one once we’ve landed.”
Both Earthers were glancing at the [Captain], who was eying them from where he had taken the wheel. He was quite impressed with her reputation and had even changed course from one continent to another for her, but she had the feeling that he’d be glad to put her on shore. She couldn’t blame him; she had an antsy feeling herself.
I should not be here. But I can’t leave Seraphel. 
Not after what she’d seen. Not her friend. Cara moodily poured the rest of her canteen out over the side of the ship. It was nasty dregs, anyways.
“Should we have, y’know, brought more help, Cara?”
“Like who? It’s hard enough hiring trustworthy bodyguards who’ll leave their continent.”
They had a decent number, but they weren’t fighters and had made that very clear to her. Thien cleared his throat a few times.
“You know…Rolairenes.”
“He’s got his own thing to do. Besides, he’s a one-trick pony.”
“Pretty damn good trick. Okay, let me just say this: I’m down to get this [Princess], but I’d like answers, Cara. Serious ones.”
Thien faced her, and she turned.
“I owe you that, Thien. Rae too, and the others. How many are rioting?”
“Just Greg. I just wish you trusted us more, Cara.”
She felt bad about that, she did. The [Popstar] rubbed at her pink hair.
“It’s less of trust and more of me not having a great plan, Thien. I thought I’d gather up all the Earthers, find a home for us. Well, ‘home’ never appeared. Just Safety. I thought I’d link up with another Earther group, like the United Nations company or someone. But no one had a plan. Not at Wistram, not anywhere else. Nothing Earther-first. Then I thought that the inn would be the place. But look at it now.”
He exhaled.
“Damn. Well, that doesn’t make me feel better. There’s no group of Earthers we can join? Not one?”
She ticked off groups on her fingers.
“Wistram lost most of theirs. Erin’s inn…no go. There’s pockets, but nowhere safe and controlled by us. Rhir treats them like [Heroes], but as far as I can tell, the Blighted Kingdom has them under their thumb.”
“…So are you saying that Safety and our group is the only independent Earther force in the world?”
She felt her stomach lurch again.
“I fucking hope not, Thien. Because what do we have to show for it?”
He shoved her gently.
“You. Let’s say we get this 4th Princess—”
“Seraphel. She knows about us.”
“She does? Well, what about Calanfer?”
“Fuck the royal parents, Thien.”
“Oh. Well—let’s say we get her. Then what?”
Cara stared out across the sea, then turned around to face him. The multi-colored stars were out, and she forced a smile.
“Then I think we at least talk to Erin Solstice. And if we go back to Terandria with her or she goes to the New Lands…I won’t make the band follow her. I think, Thien, after that we tell Safety to vote. And if they think we just go to Avel or Noelictus and choose a side, we do.”
He thought about it.
“In that case, I vote to join The Wandering Inn.”
When her jaw dropped, he grinned at her.
“What? They’ve got a Hobgoblin with a guitar who shreds. Let’s go with Erin Solstice, replace Greg, and just…live there.”
She almost laughed at him, this silly Vietnamese man with too much optimism for her doom and gloom. Cara shook her head.
“Well, let me address the band and tell them a story about Seraphel and me. I owe them that. We should be at port by daybreak according to Captain Thursc. Then, I want us to make a stir like we’re just here for the attention. I’ll do some scouting undercover, and—”
And we’ll just get to Seraphel and make sure she survives. If we can get Ryoka on our side, so much the better. Erin…I’m not so sure about. 
That was the plan. It was a decent plan for the Singer who had come this far purely based on a desire to help her friend Seraphel. It was even a good plan…until she gazed over the starboard bow and saw the ship rising out of the waters.
It shed black liquid silently, and she saw the hull was a pitch-black color as well. Only the faintly-shimmering orange barrier protecting the crew from the sea had any color to it.
Silent. Thien saw Cara’s face change and swung around.
“A ship? What the?”
“Captain! A ship!”
She raised her voice and shouted. The [Captain]’s head swung around from the prow of the vessel, and she saw him jerk in alarm. So she wasn’t the only one who thought that the sudden appearance was—
“Thien, get the band. Tell them there might be tr—”
Cara was already going over the list of songs they could play in her head. They could speed the ship or protect the [Storm Sailors] from the elements. Her band wasn’t helpless. But that sensation of dread still didn’t prepare her for the first volley from the ship.
Wooden panels on the side of it glowed, and huge, magical hooks appeared and shot towards their vessel. They smashed through the hull, and Cara stumbled. The roar of sound was followed by a shout.
“Starboard! Starb—”
A thunk. She peered up, and a [Sailor] plunged head-first past her, onto the deck. Cara saw a black quarrel in his chest.
“Oh. God.”
Thien whispered. Then Cara screamed with a voice to wake the dead—
“WE’RE UNDER ATTACK! SHIP TO STARBOARD!”
She lurched to her feet and pushed him towards the cabins as shouts and screams began. The [Captain] threw the wheel around, shouting.
“They’ve raised red flags! It’s [Pirates]! To arms! Wait…”
His eyes focused on the distant ship dragging itself closer as more grappling-spells shot from their bow. And Cara had seen the same thing.
“Those aren’t fucking [Pirates]. Thien, activate the [Scrying] spells! Call for help!”
She shoved him again, and then the [Drummer] ran. But Cara knew before he came running upstairs to scream that the scrying spell wouldn’t be working. She stared at the black ship as a calm sense of dread filled her.
The ship had risen from the deeps, but it was no Drowned Folk crew on board. They wore no insignia she could see, but their spells and bows rang again and again over the waters. Killing [Storm Sailors] with each volley.
She had seen this vessel before. The Singer finally remembered where. The battle at sea. She uttered one word.
“Rhir.”
 
——
 
One of Lord Hayvon Operland’s best people was [Lieutenant of Pragmatism] Eireth Versh. She waited until they were less than three hundred feet from the ship before speaking.
“[Ship Magus], signal our alarm on all channels. The First Point is under attack by the Bloodtear Pirates. Our vessels are moving to engage, but we are out of position.”
“Sending, Lieutenant.”
More of Rhir’s ships were sailing in from the north, these ones without submersible capabilities. To an observer, it would appear like they were indeed attempting to chase off the [Pirate] ship assailing the vessel. Without scrying spells, no one would have more than a distant view from the harbors.
“Prepare for boarding. [Archers], strike the [Captain]. The Singer of Terandria and her band are to be taken alive at all costs. No other survivors.”
She re-iterated her orders for the benefit of the soldiers who stood ready to board the ship. This wasn’t their primary mission, of course; they were supposed to be transporting their package and aiding in the destruction of the Dyed Lands as well as performing reconnaissance. However, when they’d been informed of the Singer’s presence on The First Point, her orders had changed.
“The [Captain] is deflecting shots, Lieutenant.”
A crisp voice spoke in her ear, and she tapped the speaking stone.
“Understood.”
The archers fired faster, trying to target the obstinate [Storm Captain], but it appeared his Skill was capable of holding off their arrows and bolts. No matter. They were minutes from boarding, and the other ship was being pulled towards theirs. No chance of breaking away.
It wasn’t her first naval battle, but it wasn’t Eireth’s specialty. She disliked uncertainty. So she touched the speaking stone and re-tuned it to another channel.
“Ship’s hold. Status of prisoner?”
“Dreaming, Lieutenant. Still dreaming. No fluctuations in the spell latices. Should we move to deploy?”
There was a hint of eagerness in that voice she didn’t like. They wanted to see what would happen. Eireth had seen what happened.
“Keep him that way. Boarding party, [Advantaged Blow]. Prepare for ramming—!”
They were larger than the carrack by a good margin, and her ship was loaded with Rhir’s [Soldiers], who stood in ranks, ready to stride over [Light Bridges]. The [Storm Sailor] crew were being suppressed, hiding behind cover.
A perfect assault…except for the presence of the Singer of Terandria. She was standing behind the mast of the ship, and Eireth saw her head poke out, pink hair shining in the moonlight.
“Stunning spell, hit the Singer.”
A [Battlemage] took aim, but she just ducked back into cover, and the spell harmlessly splashed on the mast. Eireth didn’t like it. There were far fewer options to neutralize someone at range without harming them…
“Lieutenant, [Threat Forecast]! Sound!”
“[Silencing] sp—”
Her people were good. The spells were already going up as Eireth shouted. She relaxed as the Singer’s head poked out from behind the mast. Then she activated her Skill, or at least, the [Lieutenant] assumed she did.
The waves rolling past her ship shivered, then fragmented into sprays of water. Eireth felt her own ship vibrating slightly and saw the Singer’s mouth was open. Whatever it was seemed loud—the Storm Sailors had hands over their ears, and she saw a fallen sword juddering across the deck.
Upon contact, paralysis! Eireth signalled to the [Mages] next to her, and they nodded. She lifted her hand; the ships were close enough now to activate [Light Bridge]. As soon as the Singer stopped singing, they’d attack.
Her hand rose and stayed up for five seconds. Ten…Eireth frowned as the vibrations through her boots grew louder. Now she saw the Singer more closely, it didn’t seem like Cara O’Sullivan was singing. It more looked like she was screaming…
There was a faint—wailing sound in Eireth’s ears. She felt at them and glanced at the [Battlemages] enforcing [Mass Silence]. They were casting, eyes locked on the Singer. But the sound was growing louder. And louder—
Eireth studied the Singer and moved to signal to attack—when the silencing spells tore and the [Wail of the Banshee] blasted her and everyone on board her ship.
