“The succubi wouldn't agree with that.” Ren said and looked at them. “I would have liked it to have taken longer; but this works, too.” He said. “Ladies, please relax and I'll see you all again later.”

There were several mumbles, and two failed attempts to wave to him, and he chuckled. He went to each of them and gave them a kiss on the cheek with another small burst of emotions. It made them moan and writhe a little, and he felt that they were sated well enough to last them for a while.

“Let's go, Artemis.” Ren said, and they left Wynphine's living space through the balcony and went over to the Main House. They went inside and he told the maids what he was going to do. They told him not to rush and to take his time, and they would see him when he got back. He kissed each of them and left the apartment, then went to Princess' house. He could feel that she was awake, and knocked. “Princess, it's time we head to the High Elf lands for a quick visit.”

“Yes, My Lord.” Princess said and came out, and he climbed up onto her saddle.

“To the High Elven Kingdom, please.” Ren said.

Princess trotted up into the air and Artemis flew beside them, then they poured on the speed and disappeared from sight.

*

“Oh... oh, my god.” Tommy's real life girlfriend Jamie said after she, Apple, and Clint's date collapsed on the bed in Apple's work room. “I... I can't believe... did... did we really...”

“Oh, we sure did.” Apple said, a little breathlessly. It was hardest for her because she had to entertain both women, once they had gotten into it. “That was fantastic.”

“I... agree.” Clint's date said. “I've never even thought that... well...”

“... that another woman would enjoy being with you?” Apple asked.

“Yeah.”

“Well, it can happen.” Apple said and smiled. “Twice in one night, apparently.”

Jamie and Clint's date started to laugh, and Apple sat up and looked at Jamie.

“I hope your curiosity was well fed.” Apple said. She was tempted to stroke the other woman's cheek, but she knew that their time together was over and didn't want it to get awkward between them.

Jamie nodded. “Thanks for... well...”

“...letting you know how players on the other team win the game?” Apple asked, and Jamie laughed again.

“I'm not signing up, if that's what you're thinking.” Jamie said. “I love having... ah...”

“You can say 'penis' and not feel dirty.” Apple said.

“Tommy's a great boyfriend.” Jamie said and sat up. “I really should get back to him.”

“This is kind of still my first date with Clint.” Clint's date said. “Of course, I've never had a day-long date before.”

“Me, either.” Jamie said. “It's weird that we can spend so much time in here, and yet only a fraction of that passes in the real world.”

“You get used to it.” Apple said. She stood up and equipped her fur bikini. “Pop your clothes back on to clean up, and I'll walk you back to the guys.”

“You don't have to do that.” Jamie said and stood up, then her outfit appeared an instant later.

“I want to make sure none of the other customers mistake you for dancers.” Apple said.

“That's a good point.” Clint's date said and equipped her clothes. “We'll follow your lead.”

Apple opened her door and led the two women back across the club. Sure enough, one of the customers tried to reach out for Jamie and Apple gently moved the hand away and plopped it back on the guys lap.

“No touching without permission.” Apple said. “Or you're outta here.”

“Slorry, mish.” The guy said, clearly drunk.

“That's okay.” Apple said and pat the guy's head. “Enjoy the show.”

“I...” The guy tried to say something, then his head fell backwards and he started to snore. Apple smiled at the sight, then brought Jamie and Clint's date the rest of the way across the club to the private booth. When they got there, Jasmine came out with a handful of gold coins.

“Hey, Jazzy.” Apple said. “I take it they aren't bored waiting?”

Jasmine grinned and stored the money. “Not anymore.”

Apple chuckled and pat the other woman's shoulder, and held the curtain open so Jamie and Clint's date could go inside. “I return you to your dates.”

“Thanks, Apple.” Jaime said as they stepped inside.

“Anytime.” Apple said and closed the curtain behind them.
