I hold the glossy black blade tight in my grip.

My demonic blade, or better known as the midnight dagger doesn't have the same properties as my elemental attacks. So, in switching energy sources the safety of my long-range strikes will have to be sacrificed in order to test out my next move.

This is one of my two trump cards, the other being the Red Hydra's buff, but I want to save that for when I'm sure I can take this man out.

Using something that saps my strength and power afterward at the beginning of a fight is not the right choice to make right now. Using my agility and adaptability to the landscape, however, may be the edge I need to make sense of this barrier skill the Sector 2 leader has.

If mana-based attacks are useless against it, he's basically invincible to anyone that stands in his way. The confidence in his voice and fearless movements make sense.

What he doesn't know is my Demonic Energy may be his only weakness.

The blade in my hand clinks against my rings, momentarily making me worry about all of my mana-imbued items I wear on me now. My cloak, boots, chestplate, rings, and amulets all give off minor mana readings. I took off everything near my dagger hand when I went into the Abyss previously, although I didn't take off my boots or cloak.

They were completely fine even when my body was leaking tens of units of demonic energy.

The only mana-imbued things I've seen react negatively are active skills, and active mana-wielding weapons.

I don't have the time to change my whole outfit, so I'll have to assume my theory is sound.

While deep in thought about my next attack, this has given him enough time to locate me and continue his charge.

Loud crashing noises followed by violent static waves come closer. Multiple burning huts get holes blasted through them as the Sector 2 leader approaches again. I jump to the sky, putting up a mana barrier on my exposed side and air-stepping a safe distance away.

My own fire and wind blades erupt from his grey energy and fly up in the air to collide with me while the Boss charges forward in a straight line, crashing through the house I was just sitting behind. A straight line of destruction follows his path. The voice speaks up again.

"A Demonic Blade... Now you've really got me interested... A worthy prize for when I finish you off..."

The static tones are combined with a deep laugh this time, sending shockwaves through the air.

"Maybe I'll actually have some fun..."

He turns and runs my way again, as I drift down to the fiery mess below.

Deactivating my mana-imbued buffs will negatively affect my speed and awareness of my surroundings, but to pull off this test I'm going to have to take the risk.

My feet hit the ground, and my stat-boosting gold and red aura vanishes as I clear my pathways of mana. The heavy footsteps draw closer and closer at an incredibly fast rate. However, my heart beats faster and the corners of my lips curl upward.

I stand behind a burning building, letting him approach ever closer.

"Demonic Energy Manipulation."

My vision shifts to the familiar black and white tones as I channel energy into the dagger gripped tight in my right hand.

A wave of relief washes over me as the wisps glide over my silver and gold rings, but don't erupt into an array of sparks.

Over 5 units pour out instantly, allowing for the excess matter to leak from my footsteps through the soles of my black boots.

Just because my mana-imbued buffs are gone, doesn't mean I'm completely helpless in battle. The speed and agility boost this Demonic Energy Overflow is more than enough for what is needed. I still have the element of surprise, as well as being hidden behind walls as the man runs at me in solely straight lines.

His movements are easy to predict.

I can't sense his mana anymore, but the loud static can still be heard and the vibrations of his footsteps are very loud, practically sending ripples through the sand beneath my feet.

I jump out of the way as the Sector 2 Leader plows through the small hut I'm taking cover behind. His voice also sounds happy now, but still covered up by a low monotone rumbles.

"Come on, don't give up so easy... Show me what other skills you've got..."

The small hut erupts into flames and its two halves fly to the sides. I'm within 5 meters of the walking menace. Even with my demonic vision, the swirling grey cloud remains, covering a black suit of armor.

I lunge in and swipe at the energy, swerving out of the way fractions of a second later, leaving traces of the black blade's refined demonic energy to poison the impenetrable defenses I've been throwing mana at for this whole battle so far.

To be safe, I only scratch the surface, allowing the black blade to glide through just like it's cutting through air.

I shift my body to boost off the ground with a hard step in the opposite direction once the deed is done, only looking back when I'm sure I'm out of range.

The sight before me puts a smile on my face.

As the Sector 2 boss turns to face me, a large portion of the grey mass around his body is torn away. The invincible swirling energy ball now spews off in many directions as the familiar golden-yellow sparks fill the erratic wisps.

The portions of matter that leave the man's body armor crackle and disappear into thin air as the sparks engulf them completely. His voice yells out from the bright yellow growing display.

"You can wield it too...? I've never met a human capable of such a feat..."

The sparks grow more and more, but this doesn't stop me from running further away.

This battle may basically already be won, but there's no point in dragging myself down with him if I don't have to. The irreversible reaction will destroy him, but if he gets a hold of me beforehand, I could very well be a goner too.

"Boy... I still have to kill you, but I would like to at least know your name..."

The cool and calculated tone of the man facing certain doom echoes behind me without an ounce of fear.

Demonic Energy still leaks from the bottoms of my feet as I dash away, but as I glance back the sight behind me wipes the smile right off my face.

Although the grey wisps are in fact disappearing as they're eaten up by the sparks, that's all that is affected...

The aura of energy around the Sector leader crackles away into nothingness, but the black suit of armor remains. It's eerily similar to the Demonic Guardians I faced on the 25th floor of the Solaran Labyrinth right before the boss room.

Before I can even gulp, his robotic tone rings out again while the final spark sizzles out.

"It's time to get serious..."

White and grey wisps erupt from his armor once again, and he pulls a long black sword out from seemingly nowhere.

In the blink of an eye, he runs toward me, now with nearly twice the speed and much lighter, carefully placed steps.

The static crackles get louder and louder before the armored Sector leader is less than 10 meters away.

I grit my teeth and attempt to lunge to the side, but he glides into my path with ease. With this movement speed and precision, he was clearly in control the whole time. He was merely playing around.

The black blade slices right through my stomach before I even get a chance to defend.
