“Of course I won't be mad.” Ren said and kissed her. “The only reason I'm doing this is to make you happy.” He said and smiled. “Having great sex is just a bonus.”

Donna chuckled. “I didn't even have to use my ability to ease battle horrors for you this time.” She said and let him go, and sat up.

Ren got up off the bed and equipped his clothing, then put on his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak.“Well, I kind of skipped over the part where I died.”

“You WHAT?!?” Donna yelled.

“That's my cue to leave.” Ren said and ran for the front door. “Bye!”

“Get back here!” Donna said and equipped her clothing to run after him. When she reached the front door and looked out, he was nowhere to be found.

Ren had hopped onto Princess and she ran up the road. He asked her to stop at the Library, and he went inside and saw that Rosie was just changing shifts.

“Perfect timing.” Ren said, and she turned to smile at him.

“It is.” Her grandmother said from behind the reception desk. “Give me a hand.”

“Gladly.” Ren said and walked over to her, and helped her waddle over to Rosie.

“What brings you here?” Rosie asked.

“I was just passing by on my way back to the Housing District, actually.” Ren said. “I thought I'd stop in and tell you the Walin County Library is ready.”

“I know.” Rosie said. “I got the notification a while ago.”

“Oh.” Ren said and then smiled. “Well, at least I got to see your face twice in as many days.”

“Such a sweet young man.” Rosie's grandmother said. “I'm sorry she missed her chance with you.”

Ren blinked his eyes for a moment, then looked at the old woman. “She missed her chance?”

The old lady nodded. “You've got too many irons in the fire for her to be a significant part of your life now.”

“But, she is.” Ren said, truthfully. “I knew she wouldn't want to be with me because of my living arrangements; but, she's still a significant part of my life.”

“That's nice of you to say.” The old lady said. “Rosie.”

Rosie took her arm and they started to walk out of the Library.

“Can I walk you home?” Ren asked.

“That's not necessary.” Rosie's grandmother said before Rosie could say yes. “She's giving up her life here, and everyone she knows, just to be near you.” She said. “Isn't that enough for you?”

“I... ma'am, I...” Ren sighed as he felt resentment from the old woman. “I thought having her own Library would make her happy.”

“It does!” Rosie said before her grandmother could say anything. “It's just that I accepted the offer without talking to my family first.” She said. “I have to try and find someone to take care of grandma.”

“Why?” Ren asked, a little confused.

“I'm moving so far away from her...”

“Isn't she coming along?” Ren asked.

“Wh-what?” Rosie asked.

“When I asked you to be the Head Librarian, I just assumed your grandmother would be coming, too.” Ren said and touched the old woman's arm. “I'm really sorry if you thought otherwise.”

“Forget everything I just said.” The old woman grinned and looked at her granddaughter. “Rosie, you have my permission to sleep with him, even if he won't marry you properly first.”

“Grandmother!” Rosie exclaimed, and her face turned to a deep red.

“We'd be delighted to have a strapping young man escort us back to the house.” The very happy old lady said and transferred her grip to Ren's arm.
