“Yes. I have considered that. Since I do not have one, that is the fallback option, and honestly? It might be the real answer to this [Gate] dilemma. Everlin was born with the natural equivalent of [Airshape], after all.” Erick said, “I guess I’d go for [Lightwalk]; the dungeon will make that possible, rather soon. Anywho! You know how they call it [Blink]? Or how the word ‘sight’ is bracketed in the skill? Like it’s an alpha spell? I don’t think that’s a coincidence, so much as what the skill does to you when you use it.”

Erick [Blink]ed forward.

In that brief moment the world turned dark, like he had more than closed his eyes. It was like all his senses had turned off, all at once. He was adrift in eternity. And then the spell blipped him back into Reality. In the split second before Reality returned, first came the sense of Self, and then came his feet back on the ground, and then came his eyesight and every other sense, all at once. It was a disorienting feeling the first hundred times Erick had [Blink]ed or [Teleport]ed, but that was thousands of blips ago, and each time it was the same sensation. The exact same sensation.

He turned to Kiri, saying, “I think, by blinding the ability for the user to perceive Reality, that the user is able to adjust their position to a predetermined secondary location, because that secondary location is suddenly shifted to be the location where the user is most likely to be. Therefore, its just a matter of returning the senses to the self, and then ‘blip!’ you’re where you expected to be. Mana does the rest of the heavy lifting.” He added, “This is my hypothesis. Right now, the spell provides the secondary position, and like you have said, I might need to provide the secondary position through some sort of Elemental Body skill, but maybe I don’t.”

Kiri frowned a little, but said, “I think… I think your fallback plan is going to be the real solution to this problem.”

“Probably!” Erick cast a perfect wardlight sculpture of an Ophiel into the air, with all the proper densities and shadows and eyes and wings as the original. Erick had gotten rather good at copying, in wardlight, what he could see with his own eyes. “But for now, we have this.”

Ophiel fluttered down to the unmoving copy of himself, quizzically trilling flutes and harps. He adjusted his malleable body to perfectly match the hovering wardlight sculpture.

Erick stepped back from the wardlight, then took control of Ophiel. He positioned Ophiel upwind of the wardlight sculpture of himself. He shut all of Ophiel’s eyes, but turned on [Detect Intent]. A gentle glow of white illuminated everything in barely-there glows even though his eyes were closed, as mana flowed with ambient intent all the time. Erick’s own body was standing to the side, glowing white. Kiri and Poi were green and blue glows. The wardlight that looked like Ophiel was particularly bright white, as the intent there was freshest.

This next part would be tricky, because Erick had no idea how it was supposed to actually happen.

He focused Ophiel onto the airborne copy of himself, and then pushed mana out into the air. White glows caught in his [Detect Intent] sight, as mana spun out of Ophiel like mist, to flow along the breeze flowing across the front lawn. Intent-filled mana caught on the wardlight-Ophiel.

Erick, inside Ophiel, focused Ophiel’s intent on that fake Ophiel.

… nothing happened.

He tried again.

Twenty minutes of trying later, while the sun set over the western ocean and Erick shut off Ophiel’s senses or opened them wider or opened one eye and then physically blinked it, but without [Blink]ing, Ophiel blipped.

Erick came back to himself just in time to see the remnants of his [Familiar] scatter into the ambient mana, destroying both the [Familiar] and the wardlight sculpture in a blazing pop of white mana. Why had he come back to himself? His [Familiar] had died, of course. So he had returned to his body. Simple explanation, there. What he couldn’t explain, at all, was what he had done to make Ophiel blip.

As Kiri started cursing up a storm and Poi laughed loud, and even Teressa’s eyes went wide, Erick instantly summoned another Ophiel. The little guy reappeared in a flurry of justified flute-filled screeches.

Erick said, “So there are some issues, but the theory works?”

Poi laughed again.

Kiri said, “What the FUCK are they teaching in arcanaeum?”

“I didn’t get it right, Kiri. There was obviously a problem.”

Ophiel screeched again, punctuating the fact that yes, there had been a problem.

Erick would have to summon two Ophiel for the next set of experiments. He knew enough about his [Familiar] to know that the screeching was not because Ophiel didn’t like getting blown up, but because there had briefly been zero Ophiel in existence, and Ophiel hated not existing.

Erick added, “This is basic stuff, Kiri. It’s not tiered magic. Maybe that’s what they teach?”

Teressa clarified, “And a lot of math.”

Erick commiserated, “So much math.”

Kiri cursed into the sunset. Poi laughed again.

- - - -

Three days later, Erick still hadn’t managed to make Ophiel ‘[Blink]’ without exploding him, no matter what supplementary spells he used. [Lightshape] to create a different sort of ‘illusion’ of Ophiel, which was altogether very poorly done, [Airshape] to mold the windy ‘corridor’ of magic that led to the fake Ophiel, making Ophiel as simple as possible. Erick even tried having Ophiel [Polymorph] into a rock, but that did nothing at all. It wasn’t possible for a person to [Polymorph] into something inorganic, but Erick thought that Ophiel wasn’t really a person, so it might have worked; but it did not!

Erick did find out how he was able to do this ‘half-[Blink]’, though. When he got back to Windy Manor from yet another 12 hour day at the dungeon, late at night, Kiri confronted him. She had the answer.

“I found the answer!” Kiri said, “What you’ve almost managed to do was find a Repeatable Quest left open since the beginning of the Script. All Basic Spells have this quest attached to them, but no one does them because the spells were made by ancient archmages and no one can do them. There were warnings all over the books.” She added, “Because… you know… the exploding.”

Erick exclaimed, “So that’s what I’m doing? Cool!”

Kiri blanked. She scrunched her face in confusion, saying, “I don’t understand what temperature has to do—”

“It’s just a saying, and I know I’ve said that before to you.”

“Probably. It’s late. I’m tired.” Kiri shook her head, saying, “Anyway! Repeatable Quests!”

Erick asked, “Like… repeatable repeatable?”

“Five times maximum. The books were clear on that part, and also very clear that the explosions we’ve seen are one of the nicer outcomes of an improperly done Basic Spell. This is also why they don’t teach this method.” Kiri said, “The reward is 1 point, though.”

“Nice!”

“Very nice.” Kiri said, “Now, if you can do it without the exploding, then you might actually get that point. So I think you’re going to need an Elemental Body skill. These illusion [Ward]s are close enough to work, but they’re not the real thing. I think, as you said before, that the mana, and maybe even the Script is covering for this inarticulate display of magic.” She paused. “But… Uh… that’ll take a while for you to get an Elemental Body. So...” She asked, “So I have the parts to make a [Familiar], now, and I would like your help. Could you help me on that?”

Erick smiled wide. “Of course! What kind are you going for?”

“[Lightshape], with a focus on this infrared light.” Kiri said, “I’ve been able to get that specific ‘lightwave’ right, but I’m pretty sure all I’ve been doing is a [Heat Ward] sort of thing. But maybe that’s all a [Heat Ward] truly is? I don’t know.”

Erick kept smiling. “Infrared sounds like you, for sure.” He glanced out at the dark sky beyond the large windows of Windy Manor. He said, “But I’ve got to sleep. Are you thinking tonight, or—”

“Tomorrow. Yes.” Kiri said, “Tomorrow. At noon.”
