Ashlock then focused on the city below him—or what was left of it. Besides the World Tree's titanic roots that sprawled throughout the city, everything else had withered or was in the process of decay. While it was a somewhat sad sight, he knew that with his knowledge of the harmony dao, he could regrow everything far more vibrantly than it had been in a short time. His goal had been to force the millions of mortals who lived here to rush inwards and cause a scene.

"Let's see if I was successful. I'm sure a cultivator or two has become aware of the situation by now," Ashlock mused. While the area directly below him was devastated, in the grand scheme of things, it was a minor blip to Floridawn that spread to the horizon. Moving deeper into the city with his Eye of the Tree God, he could see the vibrant part of the city in the distance. Zooming over to it, he came to an abrupt stop.

There was an unmistakable presence of someone incredibly powerful demanding his attention. By the sheer gravity of their presence, it was clear that they were a cultivator attuned to a spatial affinity. It didn't take Ashlock long to find them among the sea of people. On a random, unassuming street, a young man wearing a simple white robe was looking directly at him.

Beside him was a man who looked like a contestant on a forest survival show and a black-robed cultivator. The two flanking the likely Monarch Realm cultivator were in the Star Core Realm, and to Ashlock's spiritual senses, their tiny souls felt like mere moons orbiting a black hole.

The white-robed man said something to the person beside him, his voice obscured by layers of Qi. Both of them looked suddenly shocked and terrified, with the black-robed one attempting to jump into the sky toward a floating sword, only for something Ashlock hadn't expected to occur.

With a click of his fingers, the area around the white-robed man convulsed like a wobble in reality, tearing apart everyone in his vicinity—including the black-robed man attempting to escape and thousands of mortals nearby. A sea of blood splattered the walls of the nearby houses and pooled at the white-robed man's feet.

The only survivor was the bushy-faced man at the white-robed man's side, who looked so stunned that he couldn't even speak a word.

Ashlock had no clue what to make of the scene before him. That was until the layers of Qi surrounding the area opened up to invite him in, and the culprit of the massacre smiled at him.

"Greetings, All-Seeing Eye. It's been a while," he said and gestured casually to the blood-caked street before him. "You might not know me, but I've been interested in you for quite some time. Please, I'd love to have a chat."

Ashlock had no idea who this man was or how he came to know of his godly persona. Deeply curious, he had Anubis step out of a nearby shadow before the cultivator.

"How do you know that name?" Ashlock demanded, letting his voice, which sounded like a hundred different ones overlapping all at once, echo through the now-empty street.

"The Silverspire family told me about you when I visited," the man said plainly, completely unperturbed by Anubis's presence or Ashlock's way of talking.

Ashlock suddenly connected the dots. "You're the one who stole and imprisoned my demonic sword, aren't you?"

The man nodded. "Guilty as charged," he bowed dramatically, "I do hope you will forgive me for that little incident. The name is Councilman Cyphion of the Flower Accord. It's a pleasure to finally make your acquaintance." He rose and smiled widely. "After all, I'm a big fan."

Ashlock paused. This man was a Councilman of the Flower Accord, and his... fan?
