"Well, would you look at that," Faelorian muttered as he stepped back to stand beside Thane. "It really is as you described. A three-meter-tall lich made from bamboo. What an interesting creature."

"Its eyes..."

Faelorian glanced at him. "What about its eyes?"

"They aren't golden like before, and there isn't that same weight to the gaze anymore."

"Did you say golden?" Faelorian rubbed his chin. "Perhaps he really can control divine energy?"

"What are you planning to do with it now?" Thane asked curiously.

"Well, now that my curiosity has been sated, I guess I'll wait and see how this evil god will react to having his mouthpiece stolen. His response will dictate my actions moving forward."

"I don't think that is a very good idea..." Thane began but swallowed his words as the containment array suddenly glowed with power, seemingly resisting a foreign force. The dark flames of the shadow lich went out, and in their place, flames of vibrant gold appeared. The lich opened its mouth despite the restraints and formation, doing everything it could to burn it with light.

"Councilman Faelorian, you have been marked for death by the Covenant. It may not be today, tomorrow, or this year, but death will find you all the same," the lich leaned forward—causing a few vines to snap—and the monster grinned at them. "The All-Seeing Eye will dine on your flesh and savor your soul."

The eyes then dimmed once more, and the lich fell forward like a puppet cut from its strings. However, the overpowered formation continued scorching the lich with light, swiftly turning the creature to dust that melted back down into the shadows. However, it didn't end there. The grass began to darken as Qi uncontrollably poured from the surroundings into the shadows.

"Enough," Faelorian commanded, and everything stopped. The shadow was gone, and the grass array was in shambles.

A pin-drop silence blanketed the room.

"Leave me," Faelorian said, turning to exit the room before Thane got a chance to see his face. However, by his swift departure through the hole in the far wall, the Monarch seemed to be taking the words of the dying lich seriously.

Now left alone in the dark room, Thane mulled over the lich's words.

Just who is the Covenant?
