“Very well,” Haneish said, busy copying her plate number into the ledger. Looking up from the book, he passed her plate back to her, then did a little hop in his chair, turning himself to face the board. “Woodmarsh, Woodmarsh, let’s see...” He gripped the back of his chair with one hand, hoisting himself into the air with no apparent effort and balancing there. Ameliah noted that his robe had been tailored for his particular situation, folded and fastened at the bottom with a pair of golden toggles worked like spears.

After a moment spent reading the postings at the top of the board, Haneish shook his head. “No, I’m afraid I don’t have anything out that way.”

“Oh well,” Ameliah said with a shrug, slipping her pack back on and tightening the straps. “I know you said it was quiet, but any interesting news? Empire movements, plate hunters at large, strange travelers passing through? Citizen sightings, maybe?”

Haneish grunted, settling back into his chair. “No Citizen sightings. There is a new rumor about them, which I’m sure you’ve already heard. A team called Ascension in Barstone apparently witnessed the Warden taking control of the Citizens’ link—taking control of their minds.” He shuddered. “Terrifying.”

“It’s true,” Ameliah confirmed, grimacing in full agreement. “I was there.”

“Come again?” Haneish said, his hand frozen above the blue paper.

“I was there,” Ameliah repeated. “I’m actually an Ascension member, though it isn’t a Guild team. You’ll find it listed in the ledgers after the next sync, but we only registered it so we could take group quests.”

“I see...” Haneish said uncertainly.

Ameliah just smiled, hardly able to blame him for doubting her. Adventurers were always spinning their own truth to make themselves seem more important than they were. Antsy to be on her way again, she summoned her helmet. “Anyway, sorry, but I’ve got places to be. You seem to have a pretty good thing going here, so I doubt you’re interested, but you might want to read this when you post it.” She tapped a finger on the blue sheet. “We need people with experience.”

She turned, waving a hand over her shoulder. “See you around, Haneish.”

She turned for the door, ignoring all the bronzeplates suddenly pretending they hadn’t been eavesdropping. Emerging into the street, she looked up at the gray sky and clicked her tongue before turning west, resigned to getting drenched. She left the city without incident, and before long, farms and fields gave way to trees, though the traffic on the road forced her to moderate her speed. It was busier than the road north, the stone-filled wagons going to the same place she was.

Thus, she had more than enough time to free another skill, which she did, swapping Living Armor for Amplify Aura. Trading a tier-four for a tier-zero hurt even more than giving up an unfinished skill. Really, though, the Heavy Armor capstone was as useless to her as the Hurling prerequisites. It would surely be useful on her next delve, but on the surface, all it did was drain her stamina.

By the time noon rolled around—though you wouldn’t know it, looking at the sky—another city sprawled before her. Woodmarsh wasn’t a Citizen-city, but it was still at least as big as Fel Sadanis. The stone quarried in Elfield came through here, flowing through its harbor on the deep and placid North River. With the river trade came adventurer traffic—bronzeplates, mostly, working as hired guards for merchant ships or simply passing through on business of their own. Thus, the Woodmarsh Guild was actually larger than the one in Elfield, though when Ameliah found the building, she noted it was in significantly worse repair.

After arranging for another posting with an unpleasantly obsequious clerk, she left again, headed to the docks. There, she found a quiet tavern and purchased a hot meal of beef and barley, which she happily devoured before Airwalking her way across the river. The idea of finding a room had crossed her mind but had been immediately dismissed. She wasn’t going to waste half a day just to avoid getting wet.

The far bank of the North River played host to a small lumber camp south of her, but that was it, most people having no reason to cross. There was an isolated village even further south, supposedly, but she had no need to visit the hunters and trappers that lived there. Instead, she turned north, looking for a particular rocky outcropping along the shore.

She found it in short order, any uncertainty about whether it was the right one vanishing as she inspected its base and found the tiny lily that had been scratched into the dark stone. Standing beside it and placing the river to her right, she took one quarter-turn westward, then strode confidently into the trees.

To keep her bearing, she used an old trick her father had taught her for days when the sun was being shy. Choosing a tree directly ahead of her, she visualized a straight line running from herself, through the tree, to the next tree beyond. Upon passing the first, she repeated the process with the second, so on and so forth making her way off the edge of the map.

This forest hadn’t seen a surveyor in generations, she was sure. The ‘least shit’ map, for example, showed clear land with a number of tiny lakes in this direction, lakes Tallheart said the forest had swallowed long ago. She could believe it, the trees growing taller and the silence deeper by the minute. Finally, as she was beginning to fear her trick had failed her, she spotted the low stone wall that was her next waypoint. How old it was, she couldn’t even guess. It was all overgrown with moss, the mortar having long since crumbled away, leaving nothing but tumbled stones to mark what might have been the boundary of some long-dead shepherd’s field. If there’d been a settlement here, it had fallen to the forest before her father, or his father, or his father’s father had even been born.

At the end of the wall was a boulder, and Ameliah knelt to inspect the lily symbol carved into it. There was also a helpful arrow pointing due north, but instead of following said pointer, she used it as a guide to align herself, heading precisely northwest until she found the mouth of the correct valley. Sure of the path again, and with the valley to guide her, she increased her speed to a sprint, relying on Efficient Movement to help her slip through the trees. The forest felt truly ancient now, with towering trunks and little in the way of underbrush.

She ran for hours, taking the opportunity to unlock her skills again, though she didn’t swap anything just yet. Despite her class’s name, Uncertain Savior hated it when she did that and would punish her with a progressively worsening headache the longer she persisted. For a few hours, though, the sheer versatility of being able to swap a skill at a moment’s notice would be worth it.

At the end of the valley as the sun was setting—not that she could see it—she found another marked stone outcrop, suspiciously cleaned of moss and bearing the lily as clear as day. It was here that she would have been meant to camp until someone came for her had she actually been seeking refuge. However, there was no telling when that would be, nor guarantee she’d be approached unless she pretended to be something she was not. Fortunately, she had other options.

Starting from the marked stone, she began moving in an ever-expanding spiral, searching for tracks. By the time she found the clear imprint of a boot in a patch of dried mud, her head was pounding, and the light was beginning to fade. “Oh, thank Dozer,” she said with a relieved sigh, chuckling at herself as she traded Amplify Aura for Follow Trail. Another half-hour and she’d have needed Lunar Orb just to see the ground. Follow Trail was useless without a trail to follow.

Dismissing her helmet and massaging her temples, she started concentrating again. She’d need light soon regardless, even with the Tracking skill guiding her senses, and she hadn’t bothered to bring an evertorch or a flashlight. Deciding it would be wiser to wait out the time rather than risk losing the trail, she sat by the boot print and dug out something to eat.

Two hours later, with a pale orb bobbing obediently behind her and thunder rumbling in the distance, Ameliah began seeing clear signs of habitation. Nestled beneath the trees, fenced-off plots of mushrooms began popping up here and there, as well as orderly rows of reedy plants she didn’t have a name for. She also started to feel like she was being watched, the hair on the back of her neck rising, though she saw no one. The smell of wood fires told her she was close, but rather than call out and risk a panic, she continued in silence, her unease steadily growing. Before long, she found out why.

“No...” she gasped, falling to her knees. She sent her light ahead, wishing she couldn’t see what it was showing her. The woodsmoke was not that of campfires or hearths, but of devastation. The houses were burned, many of them fallen in on themselves. The hope that the village had fallen to a mere fire died as her light revealed a dark stain in the middle of the street. Blood.

Ameliah dismissed her helmet, fighting back a strangled sob as she looked for bodies, finding none. How long—?

The crunch of a boot on gravel made her whirl back to her feet, her bow appearing in her hands as the sensation of being watched took on a much more serious implication. A tall shadowy figure stood at the edge of the trees, the silhouette of a bow held in one hand.

“You are not her,” a voice said. It was male, but not nearly so deep as Tallheart’s. A teenager’s voice, maybe.

“No,” Ameliah said, lowering her own bow, then dismissing it completely. “No, I’m not, but I’m a friend.” She recalled her light, its pale light washing over the shadowy figure as she sent it high above her head. She’d been right. It was just a kid, though unreasonably tall and lean, and with two tiny nubs on his forehead.

“Human!?” the cervidian gasped, taking a step back and bringing his bow up.

“I’m a friend,” Ameliah stressed in a desperate rush, bowing at the waist. “Tallheart’s friend. Please, don’t—” She stopped, rising to see that instead of running, he was stalking toward her.

The cervidian said nothing as he came to a stop. His face was a mask, unreadable as he stared down into her eyes. Despite being even taller than Tallheart, he couldn’t be older than sixteen.

Ameliah felt her heart breaking.

After what felt like an eternity, the cervidian let his bow fall to his side. He raised his other hand, and Ameliah held perfectly still as he brushed a tear from her cheek, taking his fingers away to stare at them. “You weep for us?” he asked, hate and disbelief mixing in his voice. “What good are your tears?”

“What happened here?” Ameliah choked.

“What does it look like happened?” the cervidian snapped, his mask breaking as his eyes ignited with rage. He closed them after a moment, clenching his jaw and exhaling through his teeth as he let his hand fall. The anger was gone when he spoke again, leaving only resignation and despair. “Humans happened.”

Not looking at her, he turned, trudging away toward the trees. Thunder rumbled in the distance. The distant rush of rain grew louder, and a cold droplet joined the warm ones already streaming down Ameliah’s face.

Wordlessly, she followed.
