She’d run out of chaos. Looking through the eyes of a bird on the other side of her soul, she confirmed it, finding the dark island drained to reveal barren and corroded stone.

Huh. First time that’s happened. Also, I need a better solution for storing chaos. Even with my Endurance, the stone anchor’s not holding up that well.

She was brought out of her musing by a voice.

“By the gods, Turnip! This is—ooph!”

“Shit!” Ameliah cursed, squeezing her father tightly as they crashed into the half-constructed fortress island.

“Gah!” he cried as he landed on top of her.

“Sorry!” Ameliah cried, lifting her father off her from where she’d sheltered him from the impact. She hadn’t expected her chaos stockpile to recover quite so quickly, and in her excitement, had put more power into her tackle than she’d meant to. She got up quickly, setting him upright as she likewise found her feet.

“Are you trying to kill your old man for good?” her dad demanded, brushing the dust from his ragged cloak. “A simple hello would have done just fine.”

“I…got a little carried away,” Ameliah said, caution tempering her initial response as she looked with more than just sight. The system was running all through her father’s body, mixed up with what had to be his reddish-brownish soul. It wasn’t hers; that was for sure. It was almost like looking at another person’s paling, folded into the shape of a person.

Belatedly, she noticed her armored sentinels were rushing to confront the intruder and called them off with a thought, shoving away the one that had been hopping forward on one leg before he could notice it. She turned her attention back to her dad to see him plant his hands against his lower back.

“Gods, you’re strong,” he said, arching his spine hard enough to make it pop. “Ahh, that’s better. Good thing you can’t kill the dead.”

“Dad…” she said, not quite sure what to say.

“What?” he asked, misreading her hesitance for admonishment. “I’m not going to dance around the fact that I’m feeding the worms. Honestly, I’m over it.” He turned away from her to the edge of the half-built island, throwing his arms wide to encompass the entirety of her creation. “Now, as I was saying, holy shit! How did you do all this when you’re still silver? This is just…wow. Just wow. You’re not supposed to be this good yet. I mean, actively refining potential? I’m starting to question whether you even need me at all, Turnip. It’s as stable as a rock in here.”

“Uh, Dad,” Ameliah said, her level of wariness rising. “Not that I’m not glad to see you, but can we back up a minute? Why are you here, and how? Do you remember last time?”

“Yes, I remember,” her father said, turning with a smile. “Things got a little heavy last time, so I’m trying to keep it light. And yes, before you ask, I’m still made from your memories, more or less. Can’t remember your aunt’s name, you know?” He knocked on his forehead with his knuckles. “Anyway, I’m here to help you, so that’s the why. As for how….” He paused, sucking his teeth, and her wariness suddenly became much harder to maintain.

He’d always done that when he was thinking. She’d loved making fun of him for it.

I will NOT cry this time.

“Well,” her father said, rubbing at his scraggly beard—another thing he’d always done. “The system takes an imprint of everyone’s soul when they die, which it calls an echo. That’s the framework. Add some essence to power it, sprinkle in a few compatible memories borrowed from the host, plus a bunch of raw information I’m supposed to translate for you, and”—he clasped his hands before gesturing to his artificial body—“one soul guide made to order. No refunds. Sorry.”

I know it’s not him, but…it’s him.

“Dad…” Her voice cracked despite her best efforts, and then he was there.

The embrace felt strange, her being the taller one, but it felt…right. He began rubbing her back gently as she struggled to regain control, which didn’t really help her keep composure.

And then he started humming Dog in the Yard—the song he’d used to soothe her as a child.

“Take as long as you need,” her father said as the first sob wracked her. “I’m not going anywhere.”
