“It just means he will take advantage by dictating the amount of years I can remove. I need to check other resources.”

“You should and I will help,” Sidjin said. “but don’t expect much. Most archmages have had a decade of preparation to achieve what Elunath accomplished, and many still fail.”

“You’d think they would document it.”

“They do but most of those mages are rivals.”

Viv sighed. She came from a world where the spread of knowledge was seen as mostly beneficial, but here on Nyil it appeared to be a strategic asset so people shafted each other over arcane secrets. There was no general notion that humanity could progress and make a difference here. Progress and enlightening were not concepts people even talked about. Everyone seemed to serve themselves and their close circles with the unwavering belief that, sooner or later, the septic tank would hit the industrial fan and drench the entire sub-continent. She understood but she didn’t like it.

“Do you think I should take his offer?” she finally asked.

Sidjin seriously considered her words before answering.

“Personally, I do not want you to die. I want you to live a long and happy life and I want to be part of it. I believe Elunath will try to give you diminishing returns on your offering so you end up serving him for at least a few years, and though he is an asshole, it looks to me that it is preferable to a horrible death. I have gone to great lengths not to die just before escaping. I also admit that, if I were facing the prospect of more torture, I would rather relinquish this life. The only good answer here is the one you decide for yourself. This contract is just an option. If, at the moment of signing, you have a better choice or you prefer to give it up, you should. I will be there with you, if you allow it.”

“Yes, you are right. It’s still early. And at least I have a last resort option if nothing else pans out. I should be relieved.”

“This is cause for celebration! I would suggest a celebratory lunch, unfortunately, I wanted to start on Sterek right away now that you are enrolled and Elunath gave me his approval.”

“You are going to the committee of ethics?”

“I already did while you were busy. They insist I talk to Sterek first and try to resolve the conflict amicably.”

“Uh, are they not concerned that one of their researchers tried to steal research and claim it as his own? Isn’t that bad?”

“Well… it is considered unethical to steal from either the living or the recently dead with powerful living relatives.”

“...”

“...”

“So it’s only bad if you get caught,” Viv said.

“In moments like those, your outlander nature shines brightly. There is so much lost knowledge developed by isolated researchers lost over the centuries. Those who find interesting ideas in ruins or dusty private libraries are encouraged to refresh and claim them.”

Viv thought about her hive shield, which she had ‘borrowed’ from the lone mountain ruins.

“Oh.”

“There is no shame in sitting on the shoulders of giants, especially when those giants are dead and cannot protest. Ah, here we are.”

Sterek’s research lab was situated in the upper part of town around the edge on account of the volatility of its nature. Viv had been informed by a local that the mineral plateau was ‘as dry as a hag’s twat’ which made getting water difficult, hence why it was sparsely populated. Half of the laborers’ day was spent making sure the cattle was well-hydrated. Viv sat to wait at the entrance of the tall stone building. The wards were nice but that place was cold and unadorned. Fantasy brutalist. It was clear the designer had considered costs and the possibility the place would have to be rebuilt on occasion.

A pair of assistants filling forms kept stealing glances at her. They looked younger than her, but the way their mana moved showed amazing control, especially of colorless mana. Sidjin returned before anyone could speak. From the tension in his shoulders, Viv knew it hadn’t gone well. She waited until they were back on a buggy before asking questions.

“Wanna talk about it?”

“He found a nice way to avoid the problem by asking me to prove it was me and my research. He did so by asking me a question pertaining to anchoring the portal. It’s a block in his research. His notes were on the board behind him.”

“And you could not tell him without him completing the research I assume?”

“Oh no, he has a few more ordeals to clear, but it certainly set the tone. He doesn’t want to relinquish his research. I think he has invested too much in it. Even if I had given him the answer, he would have still found an excuse to dispute my identity.”

“There has to be a way to prove you are you.”

“And I sincerely hope the ethics committee has them.”

And it did have them, but they wanted him to be identified by a family member. No matter how many times Sidjin tried to explain to the clerks that he was banished, they argued that since he was a prince there had to be at least some Glastian people who would identify him.

“Can’t you just take his word for it? He can swear an oath and demonstrate the level of magical mastery he claims,” Viv tried to argue, but the clerk disagreed.

“He could be a madman and believe in what he has said. There were cases before where talented yet unstable individuals claimed to be a deceased expert. A prince is a public figure. Surely you have people who can recognize him.”

“It is as I told you. I have been in prison for years, and I have scars. All of those who were close to me have reasons to see me dead and the rest will not be able to swear with certainty.”

“We either need three unaffiliated witnesses or some sort of heirloom,” the clerk said, “sorry.”

Viv could tell the people were not being arrogant about it. If anything, they looked like terrified people trying to cover their asses. Nevertheless, Viv had not anticipated so many hoops and from Sidjin’s face, she could guess he had hoped for a quick settlement. He was remarkably calm when they left the building, having made no progress whatsoever.

“I’ll try to find a way, I suppose.”

“Am I being paranoid or could it be that you are being deliberately sabotaged?”

“No, it makes sense for centers of learning to protect their researcher and only punish when they have no choice. The Academy is not exempt from favoritism. I am disappointed, but not surprised. Don’t worry, I expected something like that to happen.”

The fallen prince kept silent while Viv dealt with her annoyance at systemized assholery. He grabbed her shoulder and pulled her in a half hug. She returned it. Then she came to a decision.

“I’m moving the schedule ahead. Buggy, get us to the academy’s faculty of medicine. It’s on the other side of — “

“I know where it is, lady. I went there last time my foot got infected. They pulled a wood shard as long as my thumb!”

“Hmmm, right.”

“We are doing this now?” Sidjin asked, suddenly nervous.

“I did not make any appointment today because I didn’t know how long it would take to meet Elunath. Since we’re out early, let’s put our time to good use.”

“Ah it is just that my back hurts and the stone is so cold and I am making excuses, am I not?”

“You did not sleep comfortably?”

“No I… forgot to buy a mattress. Wait! You knew? You knew!”

“What are you talking about, royal boy? I thought you were not pampered and had everything figured out?”

“Aghhh you evil woman!”

They spent the rest of the trip bickering.

Tod was more than willing to help her get her hand on a cleric of Sardanal to help with the procedure.

“We have that girl Morea who’s been harping about healing full time. A good sort. You show her your spell and make sure all is well, won’t you?”

Morea turned out to be a short and cute young woman with very pinchable cheeks for an adult. She was constantly cheerful, though it had the sort of brittle quality of someone expecting it to shatter at a moment’s notice. Viv judged it might be a defense mechanism. In any case, she was delighted to have a kind person around for what was going to be a long and arduous procedure.

As promised, they first finished repairing Sidjin’s body. The torturer had removed entire strands of muscle, leaving behind crevices and scar tissue. Viv’s first time was to ablate and rebuild large parts of the legs and arms since his body had compensated for the amputation. Morea’s help proved invaluable because she had a prayer that prevented blood loss. It even worked after Viv used her black mana scalpel. It took half an hour to do everything thanks to Viv’s experience. Once she was done, the time came for the ‘piece de resistance’: Sidjin’s nethers.

“Okay, I’m starting now. Ready Morea?”

“Ready.”

“I’m ready as well,” Sidjin mumbled nervously.

The witch cut into tissue with care. Without the priestess, this would have bled a lot and required a break to let Sidjin recover, but fortunately all was going well. The Halurian spell soon revealed the form of the lost member and Viv set out to rebuild it with clinical disinterest. Concentration came easily to her magically enhanced mind. It also helped that the penis wasn’t that complex to remake. Only the ‘corpus cavernosum’ and ‘corpus spongiosum’ were slightly exotic, the rest was nerves, blood vessels and connective tissue. Nothing she hadn’t handled before.

When she was done, Sidjin was whole, except for the scars he had wanted to keep. His body was still a little too thin and the rebuilt skin was too pale. Those would come with time. He would also need some reeducation. Speaking of which.

“Oooooh…” the prince whispered, staring at his freshly regrown cock.

It was, she had to concede, a very nice cock. Really good specimen. The firing new nerves had also led to a bit of a turgescent situation. It was good that Viv had prepared for this moment. She put on a birth control ring while her lover watched mesmerized as the phoenix rose from the ashes. Then she grabbed it.

Sidjin yelped with surprise then sighed in contentment.

“Ah, Viv darling…”

He turned incoherent under her ministrations. She had clearly caught him off guard.

“I’m not sure…”

“As your medical expert, I’d like to make sure everything is in working order. You wouldn’t object, would you?”

“If you insist…” he croaked. “I bow to your expertise!”

“Good!” Viv said while unbuttoning her dress.

“Well…” a tiny voice said near the door, “I’ll show myself out then?”

***

Viv sighed with contentment and settled on her bed to read her etiquette course booklet. Sidjin was still in the hotel room they had rented after deciding a stone slab was not the best place to indulge. Classes would start the day after and she had to prepare a bit more. A knock on the door distracted her. She stood up to find an envelope had been left on the ground by the dormitory’s staff. It bore her name. She opened it and read its contents. They had been written in a suspiciously perfect hand, every letter the exact same as if coming fresh out of the printer.

Your Grace,

There is a prize of fifteen gold talents on the head of Prince Sidjin,

Contact me at the five fishes tavern for more.

Sincerely,

S.

“I will ruin that asshole first and then I will kill him,” Viv announced to a nearby pillow.

“I hope you are not talking about a fellow student?” a suspicious voice said.

“No,” Viv replied, then louder: “A researcher put a hit on my boyfriend after stealing his research!”

Viv realized she had made a big mistake. Her brief outburst would be exhibit one in an earth trial and listed as motive. Thankfully, she was no longer on earth.

“How dastardly. There is nothing worse than caught idiots doubling down on their crimes. Please,” Ereska said with a carnivorous grin, “tell me more.”
