Elunath did not live in a mansion. He lived in a palace. To reach its protected entrance, Viv and Sidjin had walked through a ring of crowded manors hiding from each other behind high walls. Ancient walls topped with neatly trimmed hedges formed an impenetrable enclave around the house proper. Just the value of the real estate would suffice to buy all of current Harrak to the last infant, the last shirt button, if one could find a person rich enough to sign on it. Viv considered an obvious truth while they waited by the monumental gates. In Helock, money was a tool of the poor.

The door opened by itself with a clang shortly after. A woman in a blue dress waited by the entrance, hands clasped in front of her in a demure fashion. Viv caught an impression of strong blue mana in her aura, and though she refrained from inspecting out of politeness, there was no doubt in her mind she was a powerful mage. Her clothes were enchanted as well. They looked pristine as if brand new, the azure contrasting with her pale skin. She smiled and bowed in a clearly rehearsed move.

“Welcome to the abode of Archmage Elunath, the Earthshaper. My name is Lani. You must be Viviane and his Highness Sidjin of Glastia. Please, come in.”

She guided them through a large entrance hall with stairs leading up. Viv could have parked a Rafale in here, plus the missiles. Thin columns reached up to a ceiling decorated with flowers and views of the ocean. A dark-skinned northerner in a white ensemble garnished with alabaster feathers sat by a desk, classifying documents. She used an intricate monocle to inspect Viv rather than the skill. In passing, Viv could not help but notice the woman was breathtaking. Like the greeter, both of them wore perfect make-up and magically perfected designer clothes. It was when they crossed a corridor displaying rare vases and came across a short, curvy Viziman that Viv’s suspicion grew to certainty. Elunath had something going on with his attendants.

“So, Lani, I could not help but notice your practiced aura. Are you one of his students?” Viv hazarded.

It was difficult to guess what was appropriate and what was not. Nevertheless, Sidjin had not reacted beyond a light frown and it was open-ended enough. Lani took half of the bait only. She gave Viv a political smile — one that didn’t reach her eyes — before answering.

“We are all students, yes, and masters in our own rights. We have served archmage Elunath since he elevated us from our very humble origins. He trained us well, and in return we assist him with his research and the day-to-day activities. We also benefit from his wisdom for our own pursuits.”

Viv had some questions, such as ‘Are you free to leave?’, ‘Are you even paid?’ and also ‘Are you all dressed to the nines on what seems to be a normal day to impress visitors and am I being paranoid or?’

The main issue was that Viv knew that mentorship with a sex option existed in at least two ancient warrior cultures she knew of, Greek and Japanese. It could be the same here, or it could not, and even if it were the case there was little she could do. Even if the practice was frowned upon, Elunath was so far above the law it would take unspeakable atrocities for the other mages to take him on. And indeed, she could tell why. The earth mana kept getting thicker as they approached the back of the estate until its presence was nearly overwhelming and Viv would struggle to draw on anything else. The walls felt more solid and more real, somehow, and the few potted plants they came across were vibrant with life. Lani eventually opened a heavily warded gate with a finger symbol, each monumental pane sliding slowly and quietly over a polished pink granite floor. A man waited behind a desk at the edge of a circular room topped by a cupola. The morning light shone over floral patterns set in the ceiling by a gifted crafter. Or perhaps Elunath himself. An ornate seat sat empty in front of the white and gold desk.

“Viviane the Outlander and Sidjin of Glastia, sir. They came together,” Lina presented.

“Did they now?” the man replied.

Viv took a moment to inspect the man, again without using the skill as she was absolutely sure it would get her out on her ass before she could say ‘faux-pas’. Elunath was handsome in a strange, artificial sort of way, with every separate feature perfect by themselves. He had chiseled cheeks, a square, stubborn jaw, and beautiful brown eyes under perfectly cut brows. Close-cropped black hair and perfectly unblemished dark skin gave him an image of neatness that was almost unnatural. Viv had moles and pores. Tiny scars. That was normal. This guy had nothing. He was like a statue or a portrait made by melting the images of a thousand hot guys together. She had seen more realistic people in photoshopped ads, except this guy was staring at them, ringed fingers twined over a gold-embroided robe. He was very real, and very dangerous.

“I can wait outside if you prefer,” Sidjin kindly offered despite his appointment being the earlier one.

“No no that will be fine. It saves me time. Please, take a seat,” Elunath said.

He did not react but his power flexed and an identical chair came flying from a back door, settling near its twin with nary a thud. Sidjin and Viv sat in silence. The witch noticed a platter full of drinks at the edge of the desk but Elunath did not offer them any. It certainly set the tone.

“I believe Sidjin of Glastia is first. Would you prefer being called your highness? Or did you forfeit the title with your exile?”

“Just Sidjin is fine, sir,” the ex-prince graciously allowed.

“Marvelous. Do tell me why you are here.”

“I come regarding an issue of research theft.”

Elunath did not react while Sidjin methodically exposed his case. A certain Magister Sterek had stolen his notes back in Glastia while Sidjin himself was otherwise engaged being tortured to insanity. He was now in Helock claiming them for himself, although he had issue recreating even the most basic version of the portal so far. Sidjin was going after him to reclaim his intellectual property and needed Elunath’s tacit permission since Sterek operated under his benevolent approval. Once he was done, Elunath had them stew in painful silence for half a minute before answering.

“Sterek did come here asking for my wisdom. He had very little to offer and I have other new branches of experimental magic I am exploring at the moment. He is not working to further my goals, if that is what concerned you. I shall be frank. I abhorred research drama when I was at the Academy and I abhor it even more now. You are free to tear each other’s throats in front of the ethics committee, just leave me out of it or you will regret it. Only if, and I cannot understate this enough, only if you have a working proof of concept would I be interested in providing funds, resources, or advice. Until then, I will not be involved. Do we understand each other?”

“We do.”

“Excellent. For what it is worth and if you are truthful, I wish you good luck in your endeavor. Was there anything else?”

“No sir.”

“Then what about you, Viviane the Outlander? What do you want to talk about?”

“I’d like your help to go part-elemental before my attunement rises enough to kill me.”

Elunath didn’t reply, but Viv felt the light touch of an inspection skill. The man seemed to consider her in silence. While he thought, his skin suddenly gained the texture and color of bark. The effect disappeared so fast Viv was not sure if she had really seen it, or if the high mana saturation had fooled her mind, somehow.

“You have a perfect black distribution. I did not think it was possible without turning into one of the undead. How long do you have? Five years?”

“Less than two.”

“Ah, yes, black mana is uniquely destructive, an antithesis to life itself.”

Viv did not correct him.

“And you come to me as one of the two elemental archmages still active around humans. Yes, I see how that would make sense. Hmm. It is truly unfortunate that you disseminated your unique regeneration spell so freely or you would have a valuable bargaining chip. Unfortunately, it might as well be public knowledge now. I hope for you that you live long enough to learn. In any case, the change into part elemental is not just a complex process that requires several steps and the use of precious tools and regents, the difficulty is to complete this process with your sanity intact. To do so for myself was a titanic project. To do so for you, I would need to modify my methods to take into account your specific alignment. I would need to research additional containment methods to prevent cross-contamination, and this is just a fraction of the effort I would have to expend to help you. I do expect some form of compensation for the list of favors I would do to you. What is it you offer in return?”

“What I’d like to know is what you are looking for. This is a preliminary discussion. I have little to offer at the moment but I have means to find more.”

“Yadda yadda, all I hear is that you have nothing. My interest lies in ancient knowledge or rare tools and objects. If you find something relevant, and only then, I will start my research. Be aware that I will still ask much for this service.”

Viv thought for a moment, then she removed a notebook from a breast pocket and wrote the first line she remembered from the base of the statue of  an unknown god back at the lone mountain where she had almost died from a Necrach-induced heart attack.

“How about this? Does it look familiar?”

Elunath inspected the writings for just long enough that Viv knew he was interested.

“Where do you see this?”

“Did you not just say I should learn to keep my secrets?”

Elunath sighed and rolled his eyes dramatically.

“I am not asking for the exact geographical location. Was it a private collection? A ruin? A fever dream?”

“A ruin.”

“Hmm. Then yes, I am interested. Tell you what, I will contractually accept to save you and turn you part elemental to the best of my ability against a century of servitude.”

“What?” Viv blurted, but Elunath lifted a hand.

“Not slavery, the same terms the girls abide to. For each service you render, for every artefact you bring, I will shave time off this in accordance with the value of what you bring.”

“And only you would judge its worth.”

“I am not a bleeding heart idiot, but I am not dishonorable either. Working for me is a small price to pay to become a vaunted elemental mage. You will have the time and power to accomplish a great many things. Or you could refuse and die with the maddening pain of black mana poisoning while your organs shut down one by one. Do you have more writings?”

“Yes. There were five stellae.”

“Write their content and I will shave five years of the total. Give me context and I will remove another year. I will put everything down by contract.”

With a flourish, Elunath moved his hand. A scroll unfurled and filled with ink. He gave it to Viv to peruse. She was not a legal expert, so she was not sure what to think of it.

“It’s non-binding on your end,” Sidjin said in a low voice. “It gives you the option to enter a contract of servitude of the stipulated length with him against him turning you part elemental to the best of his abilities. He will have to honor it if you decide to sign. The magical seal is legitimate.”

“Feel free to consult a lawyer. I will leave the contract with you,” Elunath said with a cold smile.

“And you would reduce the amount of time?”

“The empty section at the bottom will list all of your contributions and how much each one is worth. I never bargain, but you are free to refuse an exchange.”

“So context and six stellae worth of writing and you remove six years.”

“That is correct. We can proceed right away.”

“... Alright, I’ll bite after I check the contract.”

“Send the copies by writing alongside the contract so I can amend it when you are ready. The lawyer will recognize the seal and its value. I will not take your doubts as an insult since you are newcomers, but do know I have a reputation for honesty here.”

“Right.”

“I will be looking forward to our cooperation. Was there anything else?”

“Not at the moment.”

“When you have something, send me a message and I will grade it. A list of supplies and regents will be sent to you, and every piece you can acquire yourself will be deduced from the cost. I may also send you offers if you are so inclined. Do you fear getting your hands dirty?”

“That depends on whether or not you ask me to murder orphans.”

“I shall take this as a maybe. I believe our business is concluded. Kindly see yourselves out.”

Viv and Sidjin walked out in silence, only stopping to exchange farewells with a falsely peppy Lami. The outlander waited until they were out of sight to ask the burning question.

“So, are all powerful archmages cunts?”“The best mages humanity have to offer have reached their level thanks to their amazing drive. Sadly, a kind heart is not a prerequisite. Come, I saw a lawyer office on our way down. Let’s see if they can do a rush job.”

It was only a single sheet of parchment so for the atrocious cost of five silver talents, Viv was able to quickly learn that yes it was a legally binding, official contract and that not only was it legit, a copy had appeared in the vaults of the Helock’s government to act as a reference and Elunath would have to burglarize two offices and murder five different officials to wiggle out of the contract.

“You must be rather important to warrant such terms,” the lawyer said. She was a woman with graying hair and piercing dark eyes.

