Nu’s box explained and that was when Delta suddenly remembered something.“You had dimples and messy hair!” she accused. Nu’s box went blank as Luna shared a look with Rale.“What’s dimples?” she asked blankly. Rale poked her cheeks with a bright grin.“These! Nu had a human shape and Delta thinks of him to be quite dashing!” he announced. Jack looked at Nu.“Was gonna ask about that but I didn’t want to seem ignorant of human/box hybrid species so I kept quiet...” he said.

Nu’s flustered words made Delta frown.“But that’s like tyrant and evil stuff, the people down there might be pretty settled and peaceful,” she argued without pausing. There came a howl of bones on stone and screeching of ghosts that cast eerie shadows.Jack chucked a green orb over his shoulder and it bounced down the stairs before the stairs belched green sickly fire. There was a beat of silence.“Okay, not peaceful but maybe we should at least get information to act on...” Delta deflated feebly.“That would be great but I’ve been trying. For years! Here’s the jiggy of the jag. Place is overrun with the dead. Everytime I blow something up, within a few hours it rises again,” Jack began.Delta thought the more she looked at him... the more he seemed like a cute gecko. Maybe she could... keep him?No, she had to focus!“Sounds like a Dungeon,” Luna mused. Jack waved that off.“Nah just boring necromancy gone supernova. There’s a priest of the Silence way back in one of the rooms, I can’t ever get to him... or her,” he said quickly, remembering Luna and Delta.Delta felt cold.“S...Silence?” she echoed. Jack itched his snout.“I think... I remember… Maybe I made it up, but there’re some nutters that like the Silent One a lot... Like, a lot a lot. They kinda died for him. Still do!” Jack said brightly as he suddenly looked proud.“Silent one, some boogie man of the oldest creation myths,” Luna said bored. Delta turned to stare at her.“Wyin told me a bunch of stories!” she defended quickly. The idea of that tree telling anyone anything that didn’t involve death or blood was odd but considering her dream... yeah... Wyin might like that story as well.“So… super religious nuts?” Rale summed up. Jack raised one claw.“With an undead army,” he added.“Most religious nuts have brain dead followers,” Delta muttered. Kemy’s religion seemed nice... she could exercise thinking and willpower and it didn’t seem to harm anyone.“So... how do I expand?” Delta asked the question that she had been avoiding. Rale and Luna puffed their chests out.“I, the mighty Rale, shall assemble a squad to aid Jack in taking over the first room and give you time to take control and improve it!” Rale grinned as he planted his trident into the ground.“You... can go down there?” Delta asked in surprised.

Delta blinked for long moments, she silently opened her menu and stared at the new entry.“I’ve been trolled!” she said aghast.“Trolls could be useful, not clever but pretty good at smashing things,” Jack said cheerfully. Delta shot him a look.“This is all too much, too fast. First off, how the heck did you get down there? How did you survive?” she said, voice filled with utter dismay at the idea of being trapped...Like Renny.Another victim of these Silence assholes.Jack deflated for a moment.“That’s a long tragic backstory I don’t remember and will make up on the spot with lies to make myself look better... do you wanna hear it?” he asked somberly. Delta almost said yes.Almost.“Maybe later. Nu... what happened with the Spider Tunnel?” she gave it an official title along with the question.

Nu struggled to explain so Delta just looked at the tunnel herself and sure enough, she also struggled to quite explain what she was seeing.The crude tunnel had been superheated and twisted like the inside of a drill. Bright glowing streaks of orange and dim purple encircled each other for a fair distance until Delta came to a dead end where a white barrier prevented her seeing the outside of the tunnelThe eye-catching feature being a giant glowing orange egg nestled on the ceiling. Inside, a tiny form was seen as the egg pulsed with Mana.

The accusing tone made Delta smile slightly.“I might have blown up at her a little,” she admitted before turning to peer at the egg.“So, is it... a contract? Or something like an epic monster?” she guessed.

Delta paused.“It wasn’t my fault,” she said quickly.

“Ah, but Nu; I make it look good on purpose,” she winked. She eyed the glowing egg for a long moment but it didn’t look anywhere near ready to hatch.“Hurry up, Queenie. You got some karma to work off,” she urged and the egg pulsed just a little bit brighter.She turned and faced the stairs.She had an… Adventuring party to make?Delta was pretty sure Dungeons were not meant to be making the adventurers but instead waiting for them. Delta shrugged to herself, she never stopped to be a ‘proper’ Dungeon before.Why start now?
