Lord Bellhein was a tall, slender man with shifting eyes and deep wrinkles across his forehead from how often his brows were creased. Edmund resembled him a lot, though his son was comparatively much calmer-looking. There was a constant nervous energy around the noble, one that felt at odds with his standing. Despite this, Daphne knew a lot of people were intimidated by him, but she’d never been one of them.

“Edmund left for the capital,” she announced, stepping over to the table with zero hesitation.

Now that she was closer, she could see stacks of papers with what she assumed were the recruits’ information. The deck itself overlooked the main training area below, which consisted of a wide, smooth expanse surrounded by seats that were currently filled with recruits watching from the sidelines.

On one end of the field, a large bag of sand had been set up. One by one, each recruit was called forward to hit the bag as hard as they could. White chalk lines marked the various distances the bag landed across the ring. Currently, the furthest ones were about half way across. It looked like they were almost done testing all the recruits.

Lord Bellhein cleared his throat. “I’m aware,” he said. Around them, the examiners scratched away at their papers, doing their best to look like they weren’t listening in on the two nobles.

“You could’ve seen him off at least,” Daphne said. “He’s your son. You did the same thing last time!”

“I had important business,” her uncle tried to argue. Daphne narrowed her eyes, glancing down at the training grounds where a young man with sandy-blond hair was currently reeling his arm back to hit the sand bag. The sound of the impact made it up to the deck, and the bag flew forward and skidded across the ground before coming to a stop about halfway across the field. Around her, the examiners nodded approvingly.

“Good potential, that one,” one said. “Seems dedicated to the cause, too. Very eager to learn.”

“Too excitable, if you ask me. I suspect he’ll be troublesome once training starts,” said an older woman with short cropped hair and sharp blue eyes. Someone chuckled.

“You’re too stern, Edna. Either way, he’s passed every test. We have no reason to reject him.”

The other examiner grumbled a little at that, but she didn’t argue. She glanced down at her paper again and called out the next number just as Daphne was about to turn away to continue scolding her uncle.

“Number 84!”

From the sidelines, a tall, broad-shouldered woman with long dark hair pulled into a thin ponytail at the nape of her neck rose and stepped forward. She looked older than most of the recruits, and she walked with a steady, relaxed sort of confidence that felt distinctly different from the typical nervousness or cocky arrogance seen in fresh cadets. That wasn’t what caught Daphne’s attention, though.

Imposing stature aside, the woman was covered head to toe in bandages that seemed to wrap all the way up to her neck. Their stark white hue stuck out sharply against her darker clothing, and Daphne felt her curiosity rising despite herself.

“Why is she covered in bandages? Is she injured?” Lord Bellhein asked with a frown. One of the examiners beside him peered down at his paper.

“Reportedly, recruit number 84 is from Drovna. She claims to suffer from ichor-poisoning and uses the bandages to conceal the warped flesh.”

Daphne’s eyes widened. She looked down at the training grounds again.

The recruit in question was currently waiting idly while the bag was dragged back to the starting position, appearing almost bored. Daphne found herself unconsciously scanning the woman for any familiar traits, though of course that was ridiculous. It sounded like her ichor-poisoning mostly manifested physically, not to mention that everyone was affected differently by excess ichor to begin with.

Still, it was the first time the noble had ever met someone with the same condition as her.

Her uncle’s frown deepened. “That’s no good. If she’s ichor-poisoned, she’s too unreliable to serve.”

“I would respectfully disagree, Lord Bellhein," said the examiner called Edna. “She’s passed all the exams so far with flying colors. Even her weakest test result, the sprint, was well above average.”

“It’s a liability,” the noble argued. “And what if it infects the other soldiers?”

Daphne narrowed her eyes at that. “Ichor-poisoning isn’t contagious. You know that,” she said lowly. The man winced, but before he could open his mouth to respond, the recruit in question got in a ready stance.

Daphne’s gaze snapped back to the field, watching with bated breath as the stranger first took a moment to study her target, then stepped back, lunged, and slammed her fist into the bag in one fluid motion.

A loud boom echoed across the training grounds as the bag was sent hurtling towards the other end of the field. A few recruits watching on the sidelines yelped as the wind from the punch sent dirt spraying into their eyes. The sack showed no signs of slowing down.

With a final resounding thud, the bag slammed into the opposite wall and burst open. Grains of sand exploded out, spraying all around as the torn cloth fell limply down to the ground. Finally, everything fell still.

For a moment, no one moved or spoke. On the other end of the field, the person responsible for the silence lowered her arm.

“Ah, whoops.” Her voice was deep, not at all winded, and as casual as could be. “Sorry, didn’t mean to do that.”

Daphne felt a wide grin stretch across her face. Beside her stunned uncle, the blue-eyed examiner from earlier cleared her throat.

“Well, Lord Bellhein,” Edna said. “I do believe number 84 has passed.”
