“The foundation is set. We have land, companions, wealth, and inheritance,” Laondio said, nodding at the stele. “We are soon ready to announce ourselves to the world, and I hope you can become the Empire’s pillar. There is no one who better embodies our ideal than you.”

Karz said nothing, instead training his swords on his old companion.

“My friend, I admit I’ve had an ulterior motive for helping you all these years,” Laondio smiled, unbothered by the malice directed at him. “Except it’s not what you think. As much as I want to keep the incense offerings for myself, I have to rein myself in. Certain parties cannot abide my ambitions, forcing me to retreat to the shadows. With you standing in the light bearing my name, we will equally share the glory.”

“Someone’s looking for you? Is it the Selvari? I know they can’t be happy about a cultivator with such a terrifying affinity to the Kingdom of Man running amok in the colonies. I’ve heard they’ve been spotted recently,” Karz asked with suspicion.

“Only some inspectors checking in on their investments, nothing to worry about,” Laondio lightly laughed. “Do not worry, the Selvari will not pose a threat to our undertaking.”

“The rulers of the Cosmos won’t be a problem? Isn’t that comforting,” Karz said, his voice dripping with sarcasm.

It had been a huge shock to learn that the Grand Expanse, with its ancient history, seemingly limitless lands, and countless opportunities, was but a colony of a monstrously powerful faction on the other side of the universe. The Serene Sea Sect wasn’t qualified to communicate with the great families of the Selvari, but Karz knew that the great sects of the expanse all had to pay tribute.

Karz saw no reason the Technocrats would release their hold on the continent because of the cataclysm. They’d just install new families to provide benefits. The only reason they didn’t bother directly taking over the whole thing was its remote location.

“Their road is a dead end, I can assure you of that. It may have been the Kingdom of Progress in previous Eras, but this time it shall stay in the hands of Man,” Laondio said with utmost certainty.

“What kind of hare-brained idea is it to establish an empire if you need to lay low? I don’t need the heat either,” Karz muttered. “What’s wrong with staying the course?”

“The status quo isn’t enough. Not for the Cosmos, and not for us,” Laondio said. “You need terrifying amounts of resources to achieve your Dao, and I can tell that you’re about to reach an impasse. You’ve already seen how the city can become your hands and feet. An empire can reach much farther. One day, it shall cover every corner of existence.”

The silence stretched for twenty minutes until Karz sighed. “What would I have to do? You know I’m no good with administration.”

“Do you think I’m blind?” Laondio laughed. “Haven’t I been gathering competent followers for precisely this reason? There will also be some helpers arriving soon.”

“So what am I supposed to do? Sit on a throne and look pretty?”

“You only need to do one thing: become unmatched and embody the ideal of the Empire,” Laondio said. “Only the strongest under the Heavens deserve to be called the Limitless Emperor.”

“Limitless Emperor?” Karz muttered, his gaze lingering on the stele. “I like the sound of that.”
