The plague had been unable to fully damage this side of Sigsug, as Jen had been steadily controlling the mana in the air, allowing its recycling so some of the greens at the top of the hill would remain preserved.

Jen had explained that this was only a temporary measure, dependent on the mage's mental capacity and tolerance. Not everyone could freely recycle the mana in the air while doing other things, as it required very high concentration and often full focus. That was the reason she hadn't expanded it to the whole village. Doing so would only recycle some areas while leaving others blighted, and not only that, it would also cause her to expend more of her mental energy, which she didn't want to do while she was searching for a permanent cure for the blight.

Molly's demeanor became warm when she reached the entrance. She pushed open the door enthusiastically, the wood swinging inward with a creak at her touch.

The joy on her lips almost widened as she entered, but before she could take another step inside, she paused. A frown appeared on her face as her gaze landed on the dining table where Jen had been writing something earlier this morning. It was empty. Her frown deepened as she walked closer, her crimson eyes falling on the book Jen had been writing in.

Molly's eyes couldn't help but widen when she noticed a fresh, bloodied handprint on the white sheet of the book.

Just then, she heard a crashing sound deeper inside the cottage.

Her legs moved before her thoughts could follow as she bolted toward the source of the noise.

Within seconds, she was nearing Jen's room. Before even reaching it fully, Molly's hand pushed the door open, and her eyes widened impossibly. Her right hand, still holding onto the woven basket, fell weakly at her side, the ingredients scattering across the doorway as she stared at the sight before her.

Jen was sitting on the bed, her face pale. Her hand covered her mouth as she hacked out a violent cough, blood dripping down from the sides of her fingers while she coughed. After the fit receded, she withdrew her hand weakly to her side. Her lush blue eyes stared distantly for a moment before widening slightly when she noticed Molly at the doorway.

"Molly... you're back." A frail, reassuring look graced Jen's lips as she spoke, staring at the little girl who stood frozen at the door.

Upon hearing her name, Molly moved slightly, her legs losing strength as she almost fell. She held herself and rushed forward, nearly tumbling several times until she finally reached Jen. She knelt instantly where she was, grabbing Jen's bloodied hand and checking if she was truly seeing what was before her. Her breath became uneven as she struggled to grasp what was happening.

"Oo... wahii..." she fumbled on her words, instantly forgetting she was mute as she stared at Jen, wanting desperately to say something, her crimson eyes already growing watery.

A melancholy, tender look touched Jen's features as she lifted Molly's chin. The girl was already slowly sobbing.

"Don't cry, my dear Molly..." she whispered. "It was meant to be."

Molly began shaking her head. A groan, almost a scream, escaped her throat as she shook her head, already knowing what Jen wanted to say but not wanting to hear it, not wanting it to be the truth.

But Jen said it anyway. "My time has come."

"It's time for me to bid farewell to this world."

Molly instantly broke down into ugly tears as Jen embraced her tightly.
