Uxel grumbled. Ironically, even the Lizardfolk and Drakes worked together better in their practice battles. They were both scale-folk, and the Drakes, worn down by the Lizardfolk constantly waving and being cheerful, had adopted a grudging respect for them.
But Plains Gnolls and City Drakes. Ser Vorn adjusted his helmet, flipping up the visor. He replied cautiously.
“As I understand it—it isn’t General Zavarial who insists on the match. Bastion-General Quiteil was the one who instituted the change for the march and he has refused to rescind the order.”
The Gorgon swung his head sideways, tongue flicking out. As always, he admired Ser Vorn’s stallion—mainly because he was hungry and he could see the heat emanating off the nervous horse through his infrared vision. The [Knight] effected not to notice the drool.
“Bastion-General Quiteil has his reasons, I’m sure. And before you ask, Uxel—he is Bastion-General of 4th Wall. Which apparently means he is the highest-ranking member of their number. 4th Wall being most important. Rhir politics.”
Both sighed. Cirille was stalking away from Merish, and the Gnoll was talking with his people, clearly just as mad. Uxel checked the sun in the sky.
“Very well. Another day wasted. Let’s retire. A game of chess? Go? Cards?”
The [Knight] nodded and they headed back towards the 5th Wall. Ser Vorn checked his lighter money pouch and shook his head.
“I refuse to play Delezza. I can’t help but think that she cheats. Uses her skills or magic.”
The Gorgon Commander’s mouth opened and stayed there. Ser Vorn glanced at him.
“What? I know it’s a dishonorable accusation to throw around lightly, but—”
“No…no. You’re right. But you just noticed that? Now?”
 
—-
 
“I don’t know what to do. Why are their tactics so incompatible with ours? Sergeant Rhikel. You first.”
Later, Cirille was frustrated, standing in the temporary war room for her division. Drakes stood around the table. And two Gnolls.
Both were lower in rank and were not normally added to this discussion. But something had to be done. It had been three days and other groups, like Paxhal’s flight, had been chasing down Demons. They were raiding, but until the Gnolls and Drakes could work together, the four-unit army of Ser Vorn’s heavy cavalry, Lizardfolk under Uxel, and Cirille and Merish’s forces weren’t allowed to patrol.
It was earning them derision from the other nations. A Minotaurian [Axe Captain] had pointedly asked Cirille only yesterday over the nightly gambling and socialization—dice that night—if she wanted to trade commands. He’d offered to switch with Merish. Two thousand Gnolls for four hundred warriors from Minos. The [Captain] had implied it was a good trade.
But Quiteil—damn him—had refused the request even after Cirille had made it, despite the embarrassment it caused her.
“Well, Sergeant Rhikel?”
The Drakes stared pointedly at the Gnoll. He was a City Gnoll and looked very unhappy. Rhikel saluted.
“Permission to speak, Commander?”
His accent, way of standing, even method of speech were more in line with the Drakes. Cirille nodded. The [Sergeant] struggled for words.
“I am a City Gnoll. I understand it is…not something Drakes think of.”
“We understand the difference, Sergeant.”
The Gnoll nodded cautiously, and so did a [Lieutenant]. The Gnolls studied the ground or air and Rhikel went on after a long pause.
“Yes, Commander. But I believe—you think of the difference as just location. Plains Gnolls are completely different. Life in the tribes is completely different. When you command a joint force of Gnolls from the tribes, you are not in charge of a number of army units. It is a collection of warriors, each with their own style and tactics.”
“And? I am working with Chief Warrior Merish and Commander Uxel and Ser Vorn. Why is his group the most difficult?”
The [Sergeant] hesitated.
“…Perhaps because his job is the hardest, Commander. Harder than yours?”
“What was that, [Sergeant]?”
Captain Shellc narrowed his eyes. The Gnoll snapped to attention and stared straight ahead. Cirille knew that expression.
‘I said the truth even though I knew it wasn’t going to make you happy and here I am.’ It was amazing how much you could read into a look if you’d made it yourself.
“Captain Shellc, desist. Explain, Sergeant Rhikel. Chief Warrior Merish has two thousand Gnolls under his command. We have five times that number. Commander Uxel has any number of Nagas, Gorgons, Lamias—and Lizardfolk. And you know what a nightmare they are for military discipline.”
The others chuckled, even the two Gnolls. They had seen Nagas angrily berating Lizardfolk who wandered around, left their duty, or just caused trouble. What a nightmare. Rhikel’s smile lasted a second.
“Yes, Commander. But of the two thousand Gnolls—there are probably over a hundred tribes represented there. Some sent only one or two warriors, but most sent someone. And each is different and…prideful. I imagine Chief Warrior Merish has trouble even…er…getting them to maneuver. Let alone executing precise commands. I’m impressed he has managed to keep them from infighting.”
“Infighting? But they’re all Plains Gnolls!”
Dismayed, Cirille looked at Ossky. The [Lieutenant] looked just as puzzled. Rhikel cleared his throat.
“Yes. Some of whom have blood feuds or quarrels. It cannot be easy, Commander.”
The Drake officers looked at each other. After a second, Ossky opened her mouth.
“Thank you, Sergeant. Dismissed.”
The Gnolls saluted and marched out of the room, clearly relieved. Cirille blinked the spots out of her eyes.
“Great. So the Gnoll forces are even more splintered than we thought.”
“Hah. Just goes to show, Commander. They need discipline. We work together and I’m not from the Walled Cities. But I can follow orders, even if I think Zeres is shit.”
“Hey!”
“Sorry, [Bannerman]. I hate seafood.”
“What does that have to do with anything?”
“Shut up, Captain Shellc. We had three years to drill together. Chief Warrior Merish came what, one year back?”
“…Yes?”
The others shrugged. No one knew. But even if he had less time, Drakes were still [Soldiers]. Cirille began to understand the problem. The question was how to solve it.
 
—-
 
When the officer’s meeting broke up without much resolved, Cirille decided to visit Merish.
It was the first time she’d done so outside of when they’d joined forces. Oh, she had seen him at cards and the mess and other places since their schedules were lined up, but she had the distinct impression he didn’t care for her. The feeling…wasn’t mutual. Oh, she didn’t appreciate working with him and wished her life was easier, but she didn’t hate the Gnoll.
They were stuck on Rhir. In hell itself. She didn’t hate anyone here. Well, except maybe Quiteil. And whoever had swiped her tea rations from home. She suspected Viri. And Delezza winning every damn hand of cards…
But not really hate. When Cirille inquired at the barracks though, she didn’t find Merish.
She did find a brawl. The Gnolls stopped fighting when she opened the door. The Drake stared.
“What is going on here?”
Two groups of Gnolls had been, apparently, kicking the snot out of each other. The others were watching or pulling them apart, but Cirille saw half a dozen tribes on one side and a few of the largest tribes on the other. They stared at the Drake.
“…Nothing? We were just engaging in a…ritual of the tribes. Very magical.”
One of the [Shamans] waved his staff vaguely. It was about as good an excuse as she got under her command. The Drake looked around. The Gnolls did not look very hospitable towards her. But she was a [Commander]. The Drake handled it the only way she knew how.
“Officers—to me. Someone get a [Healer] and everyone else—I want this barracks cleaned up in five minutes!”
The Gnolls looked at each other. For a second Cirille was afraid they’d ignore her. But then some of the head warriors drifted over. Some of the other Gnolls headed for a [Shaman]. The rest watched Cirille step back. One [Warrior] nudged another.
“Cleaned up? Does she want us to sweep?”
The other shrugged and picked up some sheets.
“Let’s make beds. Drakes love making beds.”
 
—-
 
The fight had been about The King of Destruction. To be more precise—him accepting Gnoll tribes as his sovereign citizens. Cirille looked around at the other Gnolls.
“Why did that cause a fight?”
“He let Doombringers—”
Another Gnoll punched the back of the Gnoll’s head.
“Who cares?”
She snapped. The Gnoll rounded on her.
“They’re not called ‘happy-bringers’, you idiot, you! And besides, he took in poorer tribes. Troublemakers!”
“The Dustfur tribe does not cause trouble. You just quarrel with them because your tribe lost a trade agreement eight years back.”
Another Gnoll poked the [Far Hunter] in the side. He whirled, growing louder.
“That’s not it at all! But those Gnolls are sellouts. Pets—”
Someone kicked him in the back.
“Say that again.”
Cirille watched the Gnolls hitting each other for a second, open-mouthed. And she thought her Drakes brawled over Walled City politics.
“Alright, enough! Where’s Chief Warrior Merish?”
She shouted and the Gnolls looked at her. Sergeant Rhikel had been right. Each tribe had their own opinion, even if only one warrior had come from it. They conferred and one of Merish’s [Shamanic Warriors] offered the answer.
“On break. He asked [Far Hunter] Deirr to take over, despite him choosing sides—”
“Where did he go?”
“The unfunny Humans.”
Cirille stared. She wasn’t given an answer to what that meant. But she was given directions. The [Commander] hesitated.
“I’m going after him. Far Hunter Deirr—take your people and all the Gnolls under your command and uh—trade with Viri’s group.”
“Trade?”
The Gnolls blinked. It was the only thing Cirille could think of.
“That’s right. Ask Commander Uxel for permission. You’ll stay in the Lizardfolk barracks. It beats a fight.”
And if you make trouble, the Gorgons will be only too happy to smack you around. The Gnolls looked at each other. After a second, Deirr frowned.
“But my tribe is not the only one who fought with the others. Why are we singled out?”
“Did I say your tribe? I meant all of them.”
The Gnolls looked at each other.
“That is a quarter of the command, Commander.”
The Drake closed her eyes. It was never easy.
“Fine then. Divide up into the groups that actually like each other. I’ll transfer…Uxel’s Lizardfolk into your barracks. And Commander Ossky’s squad and Sergeant Rhikle’s groups…”
She began dividing up the Gnolls into non-argumentative groups and splitting them up. She expected them to fight or object; Drake officers would, but the Gnolls were adaptable. If anything, they seemed eager to get away from each other.
“Even Drakes are better. But please—not the [Knights]? They sing.”
Commander Cirille soon found the barracks a humdrum of different species. She looked into it and closed her eyes.
“Ancestors. Merish is going to kill me. At least it’ll hold for a day.”
Then she went off to find Merish. What did ‘unfunny Humans’ mean, anyways? The only ones she could think of were—
“No. Why would he go there?”
 
—-
 
A [Clown] stood on the illuminated stage. Well, it wasn’t a stage so much as a converted bar. [Soldiers] needed to relax. And 5th Wall had been set up with facilities for any number of things. Of course, the buildings weren’t built into the wall itself, like 4th Wall, but just outside.
It was dangerous, but the wall was under construction. The real one, with the huge moat, would be a much vaster place. Cirille had seen the plans. It was going to be something even the Walled Cities would envy.
For now, though, this was one of the inns—or bars. But the [Clown]?
Tom sipped from a drink of rum on the stage. The audience was quiet. The room dark. Someone had hung a magic lantern and shaded it so it created a beam. It swung to follow him as he walked back and forth in front of the single stool.
“So—heehee—who remembers killing their first monster?”
He giggled into the little speaking stone he carried. Some people raised hands or claws or other appendages. The [Clown] pointed.
“You. What did you kill? First thing.”
“Goblin.”
“Goblin! Ha! Hahahahaha—that’s not a monster, that’s a person! If it levels, it’s alive! Heh.”
He began laughing hysterically.
“Hahahaha—”
The [Clown] caught himself as the audience stared. It wasn’t just his troupe, although they filled the seats, their painted faces always grinning—some thoughtful. The [Clown] paced back and forth.
“Goblins are fine. What about you? Carn Wolves? Okay, okay.”
Another sip. Cirille watched, uncomprehending. Merish was sitting at a table, chewing on some food while he listened. Tom went on.
“See, my first monster was right after we arrived here. There I was, fresh out of training, with a knife in hand. I’d never killed. I was Level 6. I’d seen people dying, though. We just came from the capital after we got slaughtered. Demon ambush.”
The audience stirred again. Some nodded. But this wasn’t the angry recollections. This was…a story? Cirille saw another Human. Sir Richard. He was watching, leaning against the bar.
The story went on.
“So I’m in the capital. But we were told Demon attacks could happen any time. So I hear this screaming as I’m just outside the gates. Not Human. Not a person. I turn to look—and there’s this huge armored thing coming at me. Giant jaws, teeth like sawblades. It’s not big, by the way. Yay high.”
He indicated something around knee-level. Someone laughed. Huge? The [Clown] looked about.
“It looked big, alright? It could still chew off a leg. And it’s coming at me. So—I panic. I look around to run. I’m not fighting it. I was hoping I could get Richard to kill it.”
He pointed into the audience. Heads turned. Tom grinned, huge, maniac. But not as insane as he had been on the battlefield.
“But no one’s there. So—I draw my knife. And I jump at the thing. Well, it jumps me and I stab it. Trouble is—it has armor on its stomach. And at first it’s not biting me—I think I surprised it. So I start stabbing and it starts to trying to eat me at last. That’s about when I shit myself.”
The audience giggled. The Gloomless Troupe laughed, falling out of their chairs. The others just stared. The [Clown] giggled too.
“You think that’s a joke? I think that’s why I survived. The thing was so repulsed by the stench it stopped biting. So I flip it onto its back. And there we are, wrestling.”
