He made a knife appear and stabbed with it, pretend-fighting. Cirille edged around the room, trying to get to Merish while she figured out what was happening. The [Clown] continued.
“I’m stabbing it and it’s biting me, and I think I’m winning, but you never know. And there’s blood all over and the damned thing won’t die. But at last—I finally get it. It falls over. Dead. And I’m alive. And I’m a hero. I just killed a knee-high monster!”
He grinned around. The audience murmured. That was in debate. Tom went on.
“I actually drag the thing to the gates. I’m going to show everyone. I’m still bleeding, by the way, but I don’t heal myself. I want people to know how much I fought. Like a tiger! That’s a big cat, by the way. I hear they have them in Baleros. So I find my friends. Richard was there. He remembers this. Everyone says ‘Tom! What happened?’ And I say ‘Demon attack, no big deal. Killed it. Want to see the body?’ And of course, I’m showing it around.”
He brushed at his clown costume, feigning indifference. The [Clown] paused and the audience leaned forwards, feeling the narrative coming to a close.
“So there I am. The [Guards] are sounding the alarm, they’re all asking how it attacked me and I’m ready to accept a medal or trophy. I’m definitely leveling up tonight. Then, at that moment, Lady Emirelle asks if anyone’s seen her pet Skeljaw.”
He paused. The audience went silent. And then those who figured it out started laughing. Some in horror. Others found it genuinely hilarious, like Uxel. Some were appalled, like the [Druid] who looked ready to jump Tom.
The [Clown] grinned around, sweating in the spotlight.
“The worst part is that she’s still mad about it!”
Laughter, conversation as he sipped from his drink. Cirille slid into the table next to Merish. The Gnoll jumped.
“Commander Cirille?”
“What in the name of the Walls am I looking at?”
“Some kind of humor. They do it every night. I thought it was wise to see. It is a ritual of this troupe.”
The Gnoll nodded towards the stage. The [Clown] went on. He pulled out a knife as the audience looked at him again. He had a kind of crazy charisma, Cirille had to admit.
If Sir Richard looked like a young commander, Tom was the opposite of everything Cirille had been taught to respect. It was like watching a tragedy or a disaster—you couldn’t walk away.
“Okay, next bit. I can do magic tricks. See this knife? I’m going to make it disappear.”
The audience stirred. Richard unfolded his arms. He looked concerned. But Tom didn’t ask for volunteer. He held his hand out, palm facing the audience.
“Watch, the blade, watch it vanish—”
He stabbed himself through the hand until the hilt was all that was visible. Cirille made a sound. The audience groaned or shouted. Tom held out his hand. Then he turned it sideways, looked at the blood running down the blade of the knife. He wiggled his fingers weakly, looked at the audience.
“…Ow. I didn’t think that through.”
That time the audience was even more split. But Commander Uxel was nearly on the floor laughing. Cirille began to catch on.
“Oh. He’s trying to be funny.”
“Sometimes he is. I’m still not sure why he does it, though. Something to do with his class? Why did you want me, Commander Cirille? We will try your formations tomorrow. But we need not quarrel now.”
The Gnoll looked warily at the Drake. She grimaced.
“I…wanted to talk to you, Chief Warrior. I, er, wasn’t aware of how difficult it was managing your command.”
He looked wary and surprised.
“It is my duty. I was appointed Chief Warrior by the others. They will follow my order.”
“Er, yes. But it can’t be easy. I stopped by the barracks, actually, looking for you. There was an incident…”
The Gnoll groaned. He half-stood as Tom launched into another story. It had a punch line; that was the trick.
“What problem? How many were hurt?”
“Don’t worry about it. I sorted it, somehow. Uh—you might not be happy with how. That happens often?”
The Gnoll sat down, sighing.
“You would not know. But the Tribes love to quarrel. Drakes are peaceful compared to some blood feuds. And Gnolls are not as restrained as Drakes.”
Restrained as…? Merish clearly didn’t know about inter-city wars. But apparently, Gnolls from feuding tribes would gut each other if left alone.
“I split them up. Just for sleeping.”
The Chief Warrior blinked, but he didn’t object. He actually nodded, looking thoughtful.
“That may be…best. I did not think it wise to ask, but I had considered it. But what about my command? Our working together?”
“I think…it’s time to revisit how we work. Maybe we can try to work around your slower responses, Merish. Or assign some Gnolls used to military command?”
“Hrr—maybe—”
A knife struck the table and vibrated. Merish and Cirille fell out of their seats, grabbing for their weapons.
“Hey! Shut up in the audience or I’ll kill you!”
Tom shouted. Cirille got up, hearing laughter from his posse and the audience .The [Clown] glared, then turned it into a grin.
“Where was I? Oh, right. The fire. Bastion-General Quiteil is so mad he’s already threatened to have me jailed or executed. And there I am, with about a thousand magical arrows on fire. So I thought the best thing to do was put them out. Someone should have really labeled those barrels.”
More laughter. Cirille didn’t laugh, but she sat, warily eying the knife as she and Merish had a drink. She had no frame of reference for this. It wasn’t like a [Bard], or even a [Fool]’s act. But it was new. And it spoke to some.
 
—-
 
For Richard, seeing Tom on stage was a revelation of kinds. It wasn’t great standup. The [Clown]’s skills in no way translated into actually being funny. And the kind of engagement a [Mad Clown] did was different from the kind most comedians wanted from their audience.
But he looked happy. This was what Richard thought Tom should be. On stage, trying to make people laugh.
Richard wondered if it would have all been different if Tom were less…responsible. Able to run away and not fight and put his life on the line.
“He put on the makeup after we were slaughtered in the ambush at 5th wall. I forgot.”
“Hm? What was that, Richard?”
Vincent was sitting at the bar, only half-listening as he flirted with a Minotaur [Archer]. The Minotauress looked like she’d kill Vincent and that was if he was lucky.
“Tom. He only tried to become a [Clown] after most of us died. Remember? There were a hundred and then sixty after that. And after that…”
“Don’t remind me. I’m trying to get lucky. Do you think she’d be impressed if I beat her at arm-wrestling?”
Richard eyed the Minotauress. She was an [Archer], but he doubted he’d have an easy time, let alone the [Swashbuckler]. He patted Vincent on the arm.
“Good luck.”
He saw the Drake, Cirille, and the Gnoll warrior leaving after a while. But Richard kept watching, even as the audience changed. Watching the [Clown] flounder, get laughs, laugh uncontrollably. But when he smiled—Richard thought he meant it.
 
—-
 
Commander Cirille had a deeper appreciation for Chief Warrior Merish’s struggles after that night. Let alone dealing with the uncooperative warriors.
But that night after watching the unfunny [Clown] hadn’t resulted in any epiphany about how to resolve their issue of commands.
It was then somewhat ironic that the problem turned out to have solved itself the next day. Quite by accident. Merish informed Cirille she’d discovered the secret.
“Mixed commands?”
He nodded.
“Give me more of your Drakes. I will give you my Gnoll [Hunters], yes? Then I will command just the heaviest warriors with my [Shamanic Warriors]. Mix in the Gnolls and if they see others running, they will follow.”
“But that’s—”
Cirille closed her mouth on ‘not allowed’. This wasn’t the Walled Cities and this wasn’t her taking command of another army. Thoughtfully, she looked at Commander Uxel, who was waiting to trounce her.
“…Fine. Let’s try it. Give me five minutes—where are your best lineholders?”
“That would be the Jadehammers Tribe. Them, over there. Stubborn as goats…damn. I think they heard me…”
 
—-
 
This time, they won. And handily. It wasn’t that they worked better together—it was just that the jarring gap in their styles had closed. And the Lizardfolk, for all they were adaptive, didn’t do well with a battlefield where they couldn’t continually hide or outmaneuver the enemy.
Also—the individual skill sets of the Gnolls and Drakes became apparent in one clash between Ser Vorn and Drake [Riders], the [Knight] himself rode to complain. He had paint all over his armor from arrow strikes.
“Commander Cirille. I must protest! Your [Archers] cannot fire into a skirmish between cavalry. You’ll hit your own side!”
That was military doctrine among Drakes as well. But Cirille had employed the tactic. The [Commander] folded her arms and tried not to smirk.
“I understand that, Ser Vorn. But the Gnoll [Far Hunter] under my command assures me his elite [Hunters] can do so without ever hitting a friendly combatant.”
The [Knight] huffed.
“That may be so for a practice engagement, but would you trust that to an actual battle, as we are simulating, Commander?”
She raised one brow.
“Do you see any paint on the other [Riders], Ser Vorn?”
The [Knight] checked his besmirched armor. Then frowned at the Drakes celebrating.
“…Huh.”
Commander Uxel had lost, but the Gorgon was in such a good mood after discovering Tom’s comedy that he barely cared. In fact, the Gorgon slithered over after the second loss.
“Commander Cirille. I’m interested by these tactics. Give me your Drake spears.”
“What?”
The Gorgon pointed.
“I will give you Viri and a [Mage] division. I want to see what Drake spears do.”
She blinked at him. And then…the pieces fell into place. The Drake glanced at their lines.
“I think, Commander Uxel, we need to practice against some Rhirian forces.”
The Gorgon grinned.
“Only if we can hit them harder.”
That did make Cirille smile. Merish too.
 
—-
 
By the end of the day, the formations between the joint army had changed. Instead of Drakes taking to the front, they’d adjusted their lineup. It looked more like this:
Drakes still formed the heavy front line. There was nothing like their tight formations for stopping a charge or giving one. But now Gorgons and Lizardfolk formed key wedges, ready to smash into weak points. They had the offensive power and speed that Drakes lacked.
Merish’s Gnolls joined the archers and heavy infantry, mainly. Where they had to stay in the fighting, the Gnolls with enchanted weapons were best.
And meanwhile, all three species’ spellcasters hung back with the [Archers], sheltered by Drake formations. Ossky’s wing, as the only fliers, kept up aerial pressure and more mobility along with Ser Vorn’s [Knights], who were the heavy cavalry that every other species lacked.
But the kicker that made their formation the best was…well, the Gorgons. Cirille had to admit it; Uxel’s abilities didn’t extend to just venom fangs, the enhanced scales, or his height or brawn.
Gorgons and Medusae shared sight-attacks. Gorgons were weaker; they just made the enemy’s muscles lock for a second or two. But when you were maneuvering, a second or two made all the difference. He’d used it to break Drake formations for the last three days. Now, the mixed army took apart six different groups of Rhir’s forces in skirmishes.
Bastion-General Zavarial pronounced them fit for patrol duty. Cirille shared a celebratory drink where even Delezza’s usual sharp tongue was absent. All the [Demon Huntress] did was smile.
“Took you long enough.”
The significance of the words didn’t sink in until that night. Cirille lay down, inebriated after long drinking with Uxel and Merish; Ser Vorn had declined, citing an aging body. She closed her eyes…and heard it.
 
[Foreign Commander Level 33!]
[Conditions Met: Foreign Commander → Combined-Arms Commander Class!]
[Skill: Copy Weapon Art obtained!]
[Synergy: Gnoll-Drake Command obtained!]
 
Her eyes snapped open.
“What? What’s—”
She would find out the next day. The next day—reinforcements came from 4th Wall. Cirille found out about her Skill.
And a [Message] came from home.
 
—-
 
That day, Commander Cirille woke up to chaos in three different barracks. Commander Uxel, her forces, and Merish’s division were all filled with confused soldiers, asking questions and receiving little answers.
Bastion-General Zavarial was not pleased. The half-Elf came striding over himself to find out what was wrong this time. And just when the irregular companies had finally begun working together!
“Report. What is it?”
“I don’t know, Bastion-General. It may have to do with my new…Skill. But it’s not a Skill—”
Commander Cirille’s blush was impossible to see under her off-black scales, but her look of mortification at having the supreme commander for the area dealing with her forces at dawn was visible for all to see.
“Skill? What Skill?”
“I consolidated my classes, Bastion-General! I am now a [Combined-Arms Commander]. I have obtained two new Skills—of a kind.”
The Drake threw a salute. The mix of pride and confusion was also evident. The half-Elf stopped. He flexed his hands and the scales running up his forearm and ending at his elbow flexed. Heritage of his mixed ancestry—Lizardfolk and half-Elf. The blood of half-Elves always threw true, but sometimes they carried influence.
“Congratulations, Commander Cirille. What is this new Skill?”
The door to the Drake’s barracks was open. Cirille heard shouts—one Drake was swearing and clutching at his nostrils. Captain Shellc looked around. And Bastion-General Zavarial saw the Drake was coughing, eyes watering.
“Er—a synergy, Bastion-General? [Synergy: Gnoll-Drake Command]. But I don’t—”
“Ah.”
The half-Elf suddenly smiled. And he relaxed so suddenly that it caught his junior officers off-guard. The Bastion-General chuckled.
“I see. In that case, I will inform Bastion-General Quiteil of the situation. Your division is excused from patrolling today. Reorganize and assess the effects of your new ability, Commander. And congratulations.”
“Thank you, sir. But what…?”
He was gone before she could ask what had happened. Bewildered, Cirille stepped into the barracks. And she heard Captain Shellc roaring at the others.
“You all stink! Who’s not been bathing for the last week? You—[Soldier]! I can smell the horse crap on your tail! Wash!”
He pointed at a Drake, who checked his tail, which was indeed less than clean after being dragged through something untoward. The others looked at the Drake.
