Didn’t stop. The Drake saw a huge insect-creature tear one of the Humans apart. Another, a young Garuda with a beak painted white to match the paint on her face leapt into the air. She tangled with it, stabbing. It had six cutting appendages it turned on her and was three times her size.
The [Jester]-Garuda giggled. She had a knife. She stabbed and stabbed as her blood and feathers fell out of the sky. The insect-thing tore her apart—but only when it separated her arm from her body did she stop stabbing.
“Ancestors. What—”
A [Clown] was climbing onto one of the tall walker’s heads. He stabbed a dagger repeatedly through the brain as it tried to throw him off. Then he vanished.
“[Storm of Stabs]. Hah! This is so much fun.”
He landed. The Cilewalker collapsed, bleeding from dozens upon dozens of cuts. Captain Shellc just stared. The laughing Humans were still advancing. They moved up until they were fighting with the monsters.
“Fall back! [Archers]—stop shooting!”
Commander Cirille was bellowing. The Humans were so far in the other forces were in danger of hitting them with arrows. Still—they kept moving. And they bled. Dozens of colorful bodies were already on the ground. But they laughed and laughed. Even the monsters seemed unnerved by it.
“Madness.”
Captain Shellc whispered. He heard a strange tune in the air. Some kind of…cheerful song? His scales crawled. The monsters at the breach hesitated. They began moving back.
Even the outside sounds of the rest of the battle dimmed. The [Clowns] were laughing. They advanced, grinning despite mortal wounds. The laughter was everything in the world. They threw themselves forwards, following their leader.
And the monsters fled. They just turned around, or crashed into other groups of [Soldiers] rather than fight the mad things. Captain Shellc shook his head. The song was in his head and so was the laughter.
“F—fall back. Take position at—”
The Drake caught himself. He hadn’t received orders to retreat. But even his [Soldiers] were slowly moving back. The [Swordsman] caught his breath. He dimly heard a horn. Looked away from the insane troupe—
Another wall exploded as a titan fell on it. More monsters surged over the body. And then—came the Demons.
 
 
—-
 
The walls collapsed in another breach. Cirille pointed.
“Captain Shellc! Redeploy and cover that breach!”
She shouted rather than use command signals because the Drake wasn’t listening. He’d ignored her last three orders. Something about the [Clowns]? They’d ruined her formations but they were holding the breach by sheer slaughter and the terror they seemed to be inflicting on the enemy.
“1st Fliers—prepare to support 4th Infantry!”
Lieutenant Ossky saluted. Her single wing of Oldblood fliers took to the air, preparing to swoop down and attack.
“Commander Cirille—pull your Drakes back.”
The counter order came just as Captain Shellc finally pulled back. The Drake turned. She saw armored figures, wearing strange leather, armed lightly.
Demon [Skirmishers]. They fought amid the monsters as they climbed through the second breach at her position. She looked around. If Captain Shellc wasn’t going to stop them, then who—
“[Giant’s Sword]! With me! Emily, clear the way!”
The Champion of Rhir. Sir Richard rode at the gap as the [Hydromancer] peeled off from the Humans and their escort of elite [Soldiers]. She raised a staff and pointed.
“[Tidal Wave]!”
A wall of water appeared out of the air. It crashed into the first wave of enemy soldiers and monsters, knocking them back. The water mage wasn’t done, though. Before Richard and the other Earthers thundered into the gap, Emily twisted her staff.
“[Summon Water Elemental]!”
The water swirled up, forming a huge figure that began lashing around at her command. Then Richard hit the first demons on the ground. He swung a massive sword like it weighed nothing. Eddy blasted left with his wand as he slashed wildly. Vincent was on foot—he leapt up, slashing through a Cilewalker’s hide with his enchanted blade.
They were as good as Gold-ranks. Cirille turned away from the fighting as the elite [Soldiers] tore through the Demons and monsters. She longed to be in the fray, next to Sir Richard. His presence was inspiring the [Soldiers] as he cut down a Demon commander unable to stop his forward rush.
But the larger battle was more important. 5th Wall held—but for every titan they dropped, another was there to take the place. What was slowing them from breaking through the stone was the fact that they weren’t that strong or tough given their size.
Strong and tough enough, though. Another breach shook the walls as one finally punched through. An arrow blew an arm off as it exploded—a half-Elf lowered his bow.
 
—-
 
Bastion-General Zavarial. He looked around. He spoke crisply into the speaking stone.
“The enemy titans are creating more breaches. We are unable to stop them with wall-spells and standing forces alone.”
“Can you bring down the originator serpent-titan, Bastion-General?”
The question was clipped. The Blighted King and his [Strategists] and [General] in the capital were watching the battle. The half-Elf looked around.
There it was. He’d had his siege weapons targeting the thing, and the [Mages] as well. But it was staying back.
The serpent-giant was about half as high as it had been. But it continued to subdivide. The largest of its moltings were downed. But the Demons were flooding the breaches the copies had created. Bastion-General saw them flooding behind 5th Wall.
Missions to raid and destroy. They were taking advantage of the confusion, not intending to win this battle. He gritted his teeth.
“Your Majesty—5th Wall will hold. However, I request Lord Hayvon to advance and hunt down the raiding parties. At least four groups of fliers have also violated our skies.”
“It will be done. What of the lead titan?”
Quiteil’s voice. Zavarial looked at it, behind a wall of other titans. It could think. He had the impression each writhing ‘snake’ made up the command-mind. It was smart enough to keep dividing. He…frowned.
“Hold. It’s doing something.”
A few slithering shapes were returning to the figure. And suddenly—it was several feet taller. Bastion-General Zavarial had been a champion of [Archers]; he didn’t doubt his eyes, even though the titan was thousands of feet away.
“I think it’s feeding.”
“Feeding?”
The smaller snakes were breaking off the body and devouring the dead. Monsters—[Soldiers]—it didn’t matter.
“So that’s how it does it. Your Majesty, the serpents are eating to regain their mass. If it survives, it will grow to its original size. Or larger.”
“That must not be allowed to happen. Bring it down, Bastion-General. Lord Hayvon has offered to do personal combat with his forces.”
“No need, your Majesty. I request access to long-range magic. The Arrow of Winter scroll.”
Silence. And then—a terse voice.
“Granted.”
The half-Elf smiled. Despite the battle, he felt a surge of…exhilaration. Slowly, he recited a series of commands.
“Bastion-General Zavarial of 5th Wall requesting access to Arrow of Winter Scroll. Password—”
 
—-
 
“…Confirmed. In transit. One minute.”
Quiteil rose from his desk. Calmly, he walked over to a cabinet and inserted a pendant from his neck. The lock-spell faded. Then he pulled out the key.
“[Mage-General]. The box.”
The other commander in charge of 4th Wall’s magic was already waiting. The box appeared in a flash of light as it was teleported from the capital. The two counted down, inserted both keys they carried.
The instant Quiteil opened the box, every hair on his body stood up. The magical vibration in the air made the [Mage-General]’s nose begin to bleed.
And the cold. Quiteil took the gloves that had come with the box. Despite the anti-freeze enchantments, it still burned his hands.
“Second teleportation in progress. Bastion-General, teleporting to your exact coordinates in three, two, one…”
 
—-
 
Pop.
It was such an innocuous sound. The scroll appeared with a flash of light and the Bastion-General grabbed it. His hands turned white with frost at once. But he opened it in a moment.
Huntress Delezza and half the [Mages] not fighting for their lives turned to look. The half-Elf walked up the walls. Calmly, he stared at the serpent-Titan and amplified his voice across the walls.
“This is Bastion-General Zavarial. Opening a Tier 7 Scroll. Clear the area.”
Horns began blaring. Ser Vorn galloped back with his [Knights], behind the walls. The half-Elf smiled.
 
—-
 
“Tier 7? He has to be joking.”
Commander Cirille’s head turned. She saw the half-Elf holding something. The scroll…hurt her eyes. She was no [Mage], but there was something about it that seemed too real. As if the magic contained were unable to rest solely within the ancient vellum.
The serpents were moving. Walking—moving back. Perhaps even it sensed the danger. If so—too late.
The scroll opened. Cirille saw a flash. She felt cold—
 
—-
 
Snow began to fall from the air. Tom sneezed. For a second, his laughing stopped. Richard, panting and retreating for another charge, looked up.
“What’s that…?”
He felt like a kid, remembering the first winter’s frost and snow. He looked up and saw a pale blue light flicker across the walls. It ran from the scroll. Emily’s eyes were round.
“That’s a spell?”
 
—-
 
“[Arrow of Winter: Glacius Pillar].”
The half-Elf pointed. The light swept across 5th Wall. It flowed upwards. Magic itself, cold and deliberate. Creating, in the sky, something.
An arrow? Yes and no. Was a pillar of ice, as tall as some of the titans on the battlefield, an arrow? It formed in the air, cold enough to feel like burning to those close enough to it. Hundreds of feet up—it began to rotate. The serpents began to scatter, leaving their titan-form.
Too late. Too late. They had nearly half a minute to run. But when the [Arrow of Winter] fired the entire world shook.
Commander Cirille fell to one knee. Tom laughed as he fell over.
 
—-
 
On 4th Wall, Bastion-General Quiteil felt a tremor that ran through his room. He sat back down, removing the gloves. He looked around, found a cup, and took a drink of tea.
“Cold.”
He grimaced.
 
—-
 
When he reached the walls, after the silence, Richard saw a field of ice. It covered nearly a mile from the place the spell had struck.
“…Fuck.”
Vincent stared over his shoulder. The pillar of ice stood out of the ground where it had cracked and frozen the earth. Around it stood—corpses.
The frozen copies of the serpent-thing. Richard hadn’t known if they were alive or just enchanted somehow. Either way—they were dead. They had been turned to ice.
So had the main body. The…collective was dead. A few forms were oozing away; the ones that had managed to flee to the edges of the blast-zone.
Nothing remained. Not monsters, not Demons. Everything where the Tier 7 spell had hit was gone. Turned to ice by the magic.
The fighting at the wall had ceased. Attackers and defenders alike had stopped to stare. Until Bastion-General Zavarial reminded them of their purpose.
“[Geomancers], seal the breaches! Send forwards all riders—I want that monster dead!”
He aimed an arrow and shot a Demon through the chest, armor and all. 5th Wall’s forces advanced. Commander Uxel, grinning, ran through a lumbering Demon nearly as big as he was, with horns and tough skin—but not tough enough. Richard looked around.
“…I think we’re done.”
Emily announced from her point on the wall. The [Knight] looked at her.
“There’s fighting to do. Vincent, Eddy, on me.”
“I’m done. We won. My god. Why do they need us?”
The [Hydromancer] just kept staring. Richard went down the walls. Tom was laughing and pursuing monsters past 5th Wall, ignoring orders for him to come back. But Emily just stood there.
She was over Level 30. Level 34—which was insane for a [Mage] to level so fast. In a way, she had eclipsed Richard and even Tom, who hadn’t even used his latest and most horrifying Skill.
But this? This was beyond anything she could imagine.
“Why do they need us?”
The [Hydromancer] looked around, repeating the question. It was Bastion-General Zavarial who eventually responded. His keen ears had picked up the question.
He shook his hand out; he had gloves since he was an [Archer], but frost still clung to them. Still—whoever had made that scroll was no idiot. It wasn’t permanent frostbite.
“Lady Emily. That spell might be beyond your abilities today. But it is just a scroll. Even for dire need, we hesitate to use them and the Blighted Kingdom has saved and commandeered every such artifact we can. In times of need, we will spend a thousand times that in a single battle. That is the power of planning—such as Bastion-General Quiteil excels in. Which is why he is the most trusted, glorified commander of the kingdom’s army, serving on 4th Wall.”
Emily looked at him, face pale. The half-Elf went on, still shaking his hand out and looking around, seeing what had to be done to rebuild and chase after the Demons who’d gone rampaging in the now further-unsafe zone.
“…However. In time, you will have that power if you live. That is why you are here. And if you cast that spell once a battle—we will drive the Demons out of hell itself. I promise you.”
“I’ll do that?”
Emily looked past him. The pillar of ice, the arrow stayed in the ground, freezing everything. Her eyes locked on it. An act of god, if god still existed. Since it wasn’t—it was just a spell. Cast by mortal hands.
It lasted for six hours before disappearing.
 
—-
 
“Ancestors.”
Even much later, when her division was mostly rotated off-duty and she was having a drink and cards with the other commanders, Cirille was still shaken. She took another sip of Firebreath Whiskey.
“Ancestors.”
“Look, would you stop saying that? We all saw it, Commander Cirille. Everyone’s shocked.”
A female Centaur, Wehna, snapped. The Drake blushed.
“Sorry. It’s just—that was a Tier 7 spell? Even Manus can’t just throw them around!”
“Yeah. But in context, it’s not that big. I’ve seen scrolls like that used before. The Blighted Kingdom has a number of scrolls.”
Delezza was at the cards table. Cirille was too rattled to play cards, but more officers than just the commanders had joined the cards-night. Captain Shellc glared at his hand; Lieutenant Ossky was also there to play, but she was actually worse than Ser Vorn at her tells. Every time she got excited, you could see light coming from her nasal cavities or earholes.
