The air blew warm from the north, bearing a strange odor with it. The scent of corruption, the odd tang that was Rhir. Cirille wondered if she wanted to do a second tour. Four more years…but why not? She had already gained a new class. In four more years—
“Commander Cirille. Ser Vorn. First Warrior Merish. Commander Uxel…”
A voice spoke on the walls. The others turned. It was Viri. The Lizardman had leapt up onto the walls in a single motion with his pole.
“Viri, get off the walls! Who’s causing trouble this time?”
Uxel hissed, vexed at the Lizardman’s disruption of the ceremony below. Viri just looked at him. The colorful little Lizardfolk didn’t laugh or grin like usual. He pointed.
“Follow me. Hurry. Delezza’s dying.”
 
—-
 
They had brought her in via stretcher. Horses would have torn the wounds open further. Cirille joined the crowd milling around the [Healer]’s stations.
“Keep back. What happened?”
Bastion-General Zavarial strode forwards, ordering the [Soldiers] and officers back. It was one of the other [Hunters], Sisth, who answered. He had a huge wound running down his cheek to his arm.
It wasn’t healed. Cirille stared at it, confused. They had healing potions. But the [Healers] were applying needles and thread to the wounds, fussing around with liquids—
Trying to stop the bleeding. As the crowd moved back, Cirille saw Huntress Delezza.
Her eyes were open. And she was wounded. Dozens of cuts, arrow wounds had pierced her enchanted clothing and armor. She was breathing. But she bled—and each second the color drained a bit more from her.
“Use a potion! What’s wrong?”
Someone demanded. Paxhal fluttered forwards, but the [Soldiers] keeping order thrust him back.
“Poison. It’s not even a strong dose. But it’s new. They ambushed us.”
Sisth was one of two [Hunters] besides Delezza alive. His patrol had been cut down. The [Healer] looked up.
“We do not know what poison it is, Bastion-General. The Demons must have created a new toxin. It doesn’t—do much more than cause paralysis in the joints. But…”
It stopped them from healing with potions. Cirille knew poisons. The bane of soldiers everywhere. It was why [Healers] were still needed.
“Save her. Huntress Delezza must not die.”
The [Healer] bowed. He was high-level. But Cirille saw from the Dullahan’s face he had little hope. They bent to their tasks, trying to stem the bleeding, close wounds with gels that stopped the blood loss. But they couldn’t replace it and that was what Delezza needed. Until they worked up an antidote…Delezza had minutes.
“Let us through. Hey—I said, move!”
A voice. High and crazed. Someone shouted. Cirille whirled. She saw a flash of blades. The crowd broke up.
“Tom, stop this—”
Sir Richard followed the [Clown] as he advanced with his Gloomless Troupe. The [Clown] wasn’t laughing or smiling like he always was.
“Sir Tom. This is not the time—”
“Shut up.”
The Bastion-General stopped as the knife aimed at his chest. Tom looked around, breathing hard.
“Get—get—get Chole. Where is she? We don’t need [Healers]. Do a blood transfusion!”
“A what?”
Cirille didn’t know the word. But Sir Richard and the other Champions did. They turned to each other.
“What is this transfusion?”
“It adds blood to the body. Chole’s been working on one—damn. All of her equipment’s back at Hayvon’s mansion! We don’t have time to get it.”
“Improvise, then! Someone send a spell to Chole! Ask her—it’s about blood types.”
“Step back! You idiots! Someone find a tube. And a jar!”
Tom shouted. The [Clown]’s posse kept the others back, slashing with daggers, heedless of being on the same side. Cirille saw Richard trying to explain.
“We need blood. In a container. Then we funnel it into Delezza’s veins.”
“Blood?”
Everyone in the crowd offered theirs at once. Tom looked around.
“Not Drakes. What’s her blood type? Humans! Non-Humans, piss off!”
Humans pushed forwards. Richard looked around. Vincent pushed forwards as Tom grabbed some empty glass jars the [Alchemists] had been using.
“It won’t take if it’s not the same blood type, Tom—”
“Don’t lecture me, Vincent. Chole told me there’s a way to figure it out. How does it go?”
Emily spoke up. She had a finger to her temple.
“Chole says—mix the blood. If—if platelets develop, it’s incompatible. If not, it would work!”
“Do that. Get Delezza’s blood. And mix it with—”
Blood splashed into containers and some of Delezza’s blood was added in. The others were trying to figure out how to do the transfusion.
“We need a needle. No—a drip. Maybe there’s a spell we can use?”
The Bastion-General motioned and a [Mage] ran forwards.
“If you need any spell, we have [Mages] of many varieties. [Blood Mages]—none, though. But what about [Necromancers]? They’re experts at setting bone.”
“Sir, there’s a single [Blood Mage] stationed on 2nd Wall—”
Cirille saw the people milling about. Tom was checking the bloody containers, demanding to know from the [Hydromancer] how long until they were certain the blood types were compatible.
Bastion-General Zavarial and Richard were trying to get two [Mages] from Wistram to create an artificial funnel. The [Alchemist] had completed something he was applying to Sisth’s face before attempting another healing potion—
The lead [Healer] looked up.
“Huntress Delezza is dead.”
The babble ceased. The Earthers, [Soldiers], Cirille—turned. The [Huntress] lay there. Her eyes were still open. But she’d stopped breathing. Tom looked up from the desperate collection of blood in jars. He looked at the body.
He didn’t laugh.
 
—-
 
“Huntress Delezza fought against the Demons for years. She earned the title of Hell’s Warden. I have come to Rhir before and I knew that the [Demon Hunters] under her tutelage were the finest in the world because they learned from her. Her entire family fought in hell and died there. Of Humans—of any species—I think there is little braver that can be said of her. I wish I had more words. But when I return to Terandria, I will speak her name in Noelictus and lay her among the honored dead.”
Ser Vorn spoke, lifting a cup of wine. It was dark, but not as red as Delezza’s blood. Cirille had no desire to drink wine. The Firebreath Whiskey burned as she joined his toast.
The commander’s mess was silent that night. Delezza was dead. Sisth, her apprentice, had filled her spot. But he was still being tended to. He hadn’t taken mortal wounds, but the antidote was being researched with no hope of an immediate cure.
One would have to be found. In the meantime, Bastion-General Zavarial had asked for volunteers to try this blood transfusion tactic, to combat the poison and save lives. Perhaps it would save hundreds of thousands in years to come.
It had been too late today. The Champions had said little after Delezza had been pronounced dead. They wore expressions of guilt. If they had been a few days earlier in pushing it forwards…if Chole, their [Nurse], had been there…
If. It was a familiar word to Cirille. She had lost friends before. This was a familiar scene.
She hated it. Someone else got up to speak. The Drake listened. She drank.
“Huntress Delezza died a hero.”
Huntress Delezza had died in an ambush behind 5th Wall. Not against the titans. Not against some great enemy. The Demons had attacked and fled. She’d killed eight with her crossbow and then her sword. But they’d been low-level. Expendable.
They’d taken a great [Hunter] down today. That was true. It was a reminder that for every big battle the Blighted Kingdom won—this happened. Cirille had seen other officers die in routine patrols, skirmishes, accidents. Delezza had been the first she knew personally since coming to 5th Wall.
“Cirille. Do you want to say anything?”
Merish sat back down. Cirille started. She looked around and shook her head. No one said anything else. Someone had started up a card game. Not because it was fun—but it was where Delezza sat. They left her seat open.
Suddenly, Cirille was sick of being in Rhir. Her joy over her class, her excitement, was gone. She wanted to march on the Demons and end this war.
It was a sentiment echoed across the others. Uxel just sat there, coiled up, refusing to talk. Merish stood with Ser Vorn, talking in a low voice. Cirille got up. She could at least…
“Commander Cirille. A [Message] for you. From High Command.”
It was then that Cirille got the communication scroll, handed to her by a [Messenger]. She opened it, read. The Drake stared at the neat writing, the little numbers, the—
She crumpled it up and tossed it in the fireplace. Merish and Ser Vorn looked up; Uxel uncoiled.
“What was that?”
“A damn message from High Command. No—Salazsar. One of the Walled Cities. Guess what? They want me back.”
Cirille shouldered her way to the bar. She slammed down her cup and money and watched the liquid refill. She drank again, sipping. The fiery liquid hurt and that was fine. It was a feeling, at least.
“They want you back? Is something wrong?”
Her friends sat with her. Cirille bowed her head.
“No. It’s…a separate offer. You get them, sometimes. Some Wall Lord of Salazsar—Ilvriss? He’s one of their most famous ones, I think. He’s offering me a job. A promotion, even. [General]. Of some private army. Good pay, no fighting in hell…probably some political maneuver. He might want me to fight against Fissival. Or the tribes.”
She lifted her glass and nearly threw it across the bar. The [Bartender] watched her and the Drake slowly lowered the glass. Her grip tightened.
“Cushy job. Will you take it?”
Uxel looked at her. Cirille laughed.
“If I got it a week ago, I’d have leapt at the offer. But today? Now? Ancestors damn it. We shouldn’t be fighting each other!”
Her raised voice and pounding fist made heads turn. Merish nodded, looking at her. Ser Vorn glanced at the fireplace.
“It wasn’t a good time, Cirille. But don’t reply today.”
“Ser Vorn—”
“Listen to me. You are distraught. So am I. Delezza was a friend.”
The [Knight] reached out. Cirille saw he had unshed tears in his eyes. Some of her fury—subsided. She hadn’t known Delezza long. She felt selfish, and sagged.
“I’m sorry. It’s just…”
The others nodded. She didn’t need to go on. Uxel spat venom into his drink, took a gulp.
“This is why I will leave. I will fight the Demons. But I cannot die here. If I thought we would end the war, I would fight until I end. But not…”
“That is why I come back. But that is why I leave. Don’t act rashly, Commander Cirille. Delezza would say—well, something hurtful. Just wait.”
Ser Vorn saw the Drake nod. Or jerk her head at least. After a while, Cirille stood up.
“I can’t…I’m going for a walk.”
She stood up. The others watched her leave. After a moment, Merish followed her.
 
—-
 
She didn’t know what drove her there. Some instinct, perhaps. Intuition. Cirille stumbled through the corridors, the drink burning in her veins. And she found the inn.
The Gloomless Troupe was there. No one else. It wasn’t a night for comedy. But this—wasn’t comedy on the stage either.
The room was filled with laughter. The audience, smiles wide on their faces, laughed and giggled. Insanity. Cirille paused at the doorway, her scales prickling.
A [Clown] stood on stage. No—two [Clowns]. Both identical. They wore patched, blood-stained costumes. And they held huge…sticks?
“Ha! HAHAHA! That hurt!”
One Tom smacked the other on the head. The second Tom fell over, comically prat-falling. The audience howled with laughter. He got back up.
“You bastard! Take this!”
He pulled out a knife and stabbed the second Tom in the stomach. Hilarity. But the blood was real. The second Tom blinked. Then he kicked the other Tom between the legs.
“Are they real…?”
Cirille watched the slapstick routine. Only—the blood and wounds the two Toms caused were real. She saw one smash a potion bottle into the other’s face. He ground the glass shards into the second’s skin.
“Why are you healing yourself? Why are you healing yourself?”
Two [Clowns]. It was…a Skill. The [Clown]’s new, deadly Skill. Used in a performance. Two Toms, alike in their insanity.
Laughing like madmen. They laughed, and laughed, as they wounded each other. One hit the other so hard with the stick the other fell down. And then the first Tom was on top of him. He began swinging.
“Tell Delezza I said ‘hi’!”
He bashed the other one in the head. The other Tom tried to get up. But the bloody stick swung down again. And again.
The other Tom started twitching. The audience laughed. But Cirille didn’t know if that was the real Tom or…she stared transfixed. The other Tom kept swinging even when his clone stopped moving. Again and again, painting the stage with red. He laughed louder as he took a bow for the audience.
It should have offended her. Appalled her. It certainly did, to part of her. But as the Drake stumbled away, leaving the madness to fester, she thought the laughter was just his way of crying. Of expressing his grief.
She hoped that was the case.
 
—-
 
The day after, the [Clown] was alive. So he hadn’t killed himself. Perhaps it had been an act. Or just chance that one Tom died. It was a microcosm, really.
5th Wall did not stop for Huntress Delezza. Oh, Bastion-General Zavarial said a few words as she was put into a casket for honored burial at Terandria—and it was an honor compared to cremating the dead. Noelictus had a practice of entombing the bodies of their fallen.
But the wall did not stop for the [Demon Hunter]. Only one section truly mourned. And 4th Wall? 1st? The capital? If it was mentioned at all, say to the Blighted King, it was just marked as ‘a high-level foreign asset dying. New poison; worrisome.’
It made her so tired. Cirille patrolled the next day, marching with Viri and other [Scouts] hunting for Demons. She didn’t get to kill anyone. She wanted to.
But that was how war worked. It was never battle when you wanted it. It was boredom. And then suddenly—
“I’m leaving. I’m going to take the offer. Salazsar isn’t my first choice. But I’d have to wait for another decade to hit [General], I bet. And it’s a promotion. A guaranteed class.”
Commander Cirille gathered her officers and friends. Ser Vorn smiled; Captain Shellc looked at Ossky. Uxel bared his teeth.
“Good! I was going to hit you if you declined.”
“So you’re going to leave? Now? Is that how it works? Can they replace you so easily?”
Merish blinked at Cirille. She nodded.
