Lord Hayvon, 5th most powerful [Lord] in the world…allegedly…rode for the walls of Rhir. For the border. He only stopped when the speaking stone lit up.
“Lord Hayvon. By order of Bastion-General Quiteil. Hold.”
The [Lord] drew rein. He turned back and bellowed into the stone.
“5th Wall is under siege!”
“That is known. But the monster is new.”
The precise tone of the master of logistics was infuriating. Lord Hayvon tightened his grip and his warhorse snorted. The air was charged. He rode with his elite soldiers, three thousand strong.
[Lancers]. Veteran [Riders], [Knights].
“We must ride on 5th Wall now, Bastion-General. Even at top speed, I cannot activate my skill until we are at least sixty miles from the wall. I can be there in forty-five minutes.”
5th Wall had been built over a hundred miles from 4th Wall—it would expand the Blighted Kingdom massively if done. It was under siege. These were the facts.
“Hold your ground, Lord Hayvon. That is an order from his Majesty. If necessary—we will evacuate the entire 5th Wall and make a stand here. Nereshal is prepared to teleport to the front. Her Majesty is marching from 3rd Wall with her personal guard at this moment.”
The [Lord] gritted his teeth.
“Sir Richard, Sir Tom and the other Champions are at the 5th Wall. If we lost them—”
“His Majesty is ready to use a Skill to cover their retreat. This is not a debate. Hold your ground.”
The speaking stone went dead. The [Lord] snarled, but Quiteil was Bastion-General. Even the most powerful [Lord] of Rhir had to bow to his will. Hayvon turned his horse. He roared an order to the cavalry.
“Back to 4th Wall. Prepare to sortie at once!”
 
—-
 
Something new. Bastion-General Quiteil sat at his desk. He did not write. This time…he was checking his notes. Calculating.
The second speaking stone was active. Communication across Rhir was paramount. It was Quiteil’s specialty. He was no Hayvon, a combat-born expert. He was a [Logistics General]—in fact, a [Peerless Logistics General]. And that was only by virtue of promotion. His nature was calculation. He would never lead a battle, even from the rear. He would win it on paper, with numbers.
He was Bastion-General of 4th Wall for the same reason. Now, he spoke.
“Your Majesty. The Deathslayer Arrows are ready to loose. I have portal-spells ready to cover the retreat. Your status?”
Your status. He asked the [King] calmly as he ordered Hayvon around.
“I stand in the war room. The treasury is opened. A hundred thousand gold pieces are ready to be spent. What is the status of the battle?”
The answering voice was less calm. The Blighted King stood with Nereshal, his commanders in the citadel. Quiteil checked the map.
“Bastion-General Zavarial reports ongoing magical battery of the enemy titan. Demon forces are advancing behind the new monster. I am designating it as Serpent-Titan. Each instance is a ‘clone’ or ‘copy’.”
He adjusted the map. On all five walls, the name flickered into life as the Bastion-General wrote it into the air. The other commanders could see the flickers of magic coming off 5th Wall—a projection of the battle.
“I will use my Skill when Zavarial orders the retreat. I want a scrying spell to show me the battle, Nereshal!”
The [King] was snapping. Quiteil didn’t demand the same; he’d already had a [Diviner] on the task. But the Demons were casting anti-scrying spells.
He was calm. The Bastion-General waited. He saw one projection of the Serpent-Titan flicker, disappear.
“It would appear the titans are not as defensible as Demon Giants, your Majesty. Confirming…89 spells cast to bring down one instance. Estimating Tier 3-5.”
He hadn’t waited for the report to come in on the separate [Message] scroll he was reading from, by the way. When the confirmation flashed up in hastily-scrawled letters from 5th Wall, it only reinforced his count. He’d made the analysis by watching the projection on the battle-map and counting the individual flashes of light.
“There are nearly a hundred of them! And they continue to multiply!”
The voice snapped back. Bastion-General Quiteil nodded. His eyes flicked to incoming speaking stones glowing. Nine of them.
“Your Majesty. I will disconnect your speaking spell until reinforcement is needed from the capital.”
“Bastion-General—”
Silence. Quiteil tapped the stone. He opened another channel, spoke briefly, switched to another.
“Confirm code—”
“Bastion-General!”
“Your Majesty, I am busy.”
The [Logistics General] muted the stone again. And then he had a thought. He tapped the stone.
“Your Majesty—a question. Exactly how many ballistae are mounted on 1st Wall at this moment?”
“What?”
“Please confirm the number.”
The thin man leaned away from the speaking stone as the invectives began spewing forth. He muted it again. And turned his attention back to the battle.
Calm. This was not his battle to fight. He waited to do something. Anything. Evacuate the entire 4th Wall, send Lord Hayvon forwards, activate the wall’s defenses.
Anything. Nothing. The Bastion-General’s finger tapped on the desk until he made it stop.
 
—-
 
“4th Infantry, hold those gates! [Archers]—hold your fire!”
Commander Cirille bellowed as the first serpent-titan fell. She saw something—cartilage?—burning, practically vaporizing as the [Long Range Fireballs] brought it down. They were firing from the walls and the [Mages], and they could have annihilated a normal army.
But as one titan fell, the others walked.
Thump. Thump.
Cirille saw the progenitor being screened by dozens of the now-larger copies. Each time the serpent-monster ‘molted’, another copy-shell of it appeared. The original grew smaller as a result. But over a hundred of the things were walking on 5th Wall. And behind it—
“Demons are flanking! Counting six—seven thousand behind the titans!”
“I report flying groups, each at least eighty in count, four at coordinates—”
“Monsters. Giant insects—unknown type. Cilewalkers. Some…some variant of slimes? Why aren’t they attacking each other?”
A babble of voices. Cirille saw the monsters, flooding around the huge footsteps. They were different types. Flying hornet-beetles, Cilewalkers, the huge, spiked half-cactus, half-wolf creatures that could scale a wall and tear you to pieces with their incredibly tough hides and thorn-appendages, yellow slimes, running with red in their cores and…bubbling?
Each one a threat. And somehow—none of them attacking each other. The monsters ignored the serpent-titans, save to move out of the way of the steps. The Demons—ranks of them at the back—were ignored by the monsters.
“Damn. Damn, damn—Chief Warrior Merish! I said, [Archers], hold your fire!”
The Drake glanced up. Gnolls with massive longbows were loosing arrows despite the Titans being far out of range. The Chief Warrior ignored her.
“They have Skills, Commander.”
Cirille saw that, but the Gnolls were loosing at any target they thought they could hit. Nothing like the volley of Drake [Archers] nocked and waiting.
Thwap. The sound tore the air even among the shouts. The thump of a ballista going off made Cirille jump. She saw them firing enchanted munitions. One hit a serpent-titan—tore a chunk off.
“They’re fragile!”
Lieutenant Ossky exclaimed. Captain Shellc, in charge of 4th Infantry was below. His sword was drawn, and he was ready to sortie from the gates. The Drake Commander looked about.
She was holding her position on the walls. Her Drakes and Merish’s Gnolls were deployed together. The Bastion-General was throwing everything at the distant monsters, trying to bring them down before they reached the walls.
But he wouldn’t bring them all down. There were too many. And 5th Wall, despite being sturdy and high, wasn’t finished. The wall-spells were firing, but they couldn’t last forever. Cirille looked about.
“They’re going to break the walls. If they do, we hold the breach. Ancestors. How do we bring them down? Trip them?”
She mumbled to herself, and as quickly, dismissed it. Her division wasn’t equipped for—giant-slaying. There was enough siege weapons and [Mages] to bring down the colossi. The real danger was the monsters and Demons. If they got a foothold, the defenders would be in danger.
“[Archers]. Prepare to loose. Target the Cilewalkers.”
Drakes drew back on their bows. Cirille raised a claw, as the monsters streamed forwards. The first titan accelerated. A mass of calcified serpent-forms, somehow moving. It swung a vast arm up, aiming at the walls.
Someone was laughing. Cirille looked around, distracted. She saw a [Clown], laughing with his insane posse. Cirille turned back—
 
—-
 
A Bone Behemoth crashed into the serpent-titan. It was heavier and the sound of the two colliding drowned out everything. The hollow entity fell back.
“Sweep the leg.”
[Mage-Captain] Hetarria pointed. The [Necromancer] corps raised their staves, concentrating as one. The giant Bone-Drake swung the hammer of bone low.
The serpent-titan’s leg crumbled. It went down, striking at the bone-behemoth.
“Cracking damage. [Mend Bone].”
A dozen [Necromancers] cast the spell and the cracks on the Bone Behemoth healed. It turned, protecting the wall.
“Mage-Captain, strike the illuminated target!”
The order came down the walls. One of the oncoming titans lit up in Hetarria’s vision as the Bastion-General marked it.
“Bone Behemoth—charge. Frenzy.”
The [Necromancer] pulled and the combined magics made the giant’s orange eyes flicker. It charged, smashing into a second titan. One against many.
For a moment. Across the walls, more serpent-titans were approaching. A section evacuated as a [Strategist] realized they couldn’t bring down a titan before the serpent-titan approaching hit it. Commander Cirille was moving her Drakes to intercept along with Commander Uxel.
“On the left!”
Another titan had closed, despite the explosions bringing down more, slowing the advance. Hetarria could barely take her eyes off the one attacking her Bone Behemoth. Who would slow it? Who would—
 
—-
 
“Summoning complete.”
Ser Vorn heard the shout from the walls. The [Knight] of the Order of the Thirsting Veil saw something rise. He opened his visor just a second to stare.
A roar. Shifting gravel and sand, sounding like thunder in itself. The figure was less sculpted, more primitive than the undead Bone Behemoth.
It rose. The sand-constructs were ‘only’ thirty feet tall. But six of them lumbered forwards, swinging into the serpent-titan. Filling the hollow structure, dragging it down by their sheer weight.
[Summoners] from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They walked down off the walls in full retreat. Their creations fought for them as the [Mages] left the battle, their job done. Ser Vorn saluted them. Then he heard the first impact shake the walls. He looked left.
“Ser Vorn!”
One of his junior [Knights] had seen the impact. Mortar stone bulged but the wall held. The titan hammered the gap again and the infantry waited. It was coming.
“Hold your ground.”
The [Knight] didn’t turn his head. He was waiting. He lifted his lance, waiting until their section was breached or they were called forth. He heard a roar as the first titan broke through.
 
—-
 
“Clear the ground! Let it pass! Then hold that breach!”
Captain Shellc was a [Swordsman]. His sword was light in his hand as the Drake saw the titan stumble through the walls. Ungainly. He narrowed his eyes. Then—he saw something move in the dust-cloud.
“Forwards! [Unit: Extended Spears]!”
Drake formations. The lines of Drakes carrying long, long twenty-foot pikes was meant for fighting anything and everything in this world. And when they charged to cover the gap, the first rank of Cilewalkers ran onto the pikes. For a second, the pikes were improbably longer by four feet.
Which wasn’t much given how long they already were. But it mattered. The Drake [Captain] in the 2nd-rank saw Drakes being thrown back by the impact. The Cilewalkers were huge, ten feet monstrosities of packed muscle under those damn hides! But the spears went deep, slowing them.
“Swords, forwards!”
The Drakes charged between the spears, cutting at the slowed monsters. Captain Shellc slashed into the monster’s hide with his enchanted sword and was rewarded with dark orange-brown blood. He counted as he slashed, hearing Drakes shouting and slashing as more monsters tried to push forwards. The spears made a wall and the Drakes with smaller weapons fought between the jabbing tips.
“…ninety nine…three hundred. Fall back! Fall back! 3rd rank, forwards!”
The [Captain] counted to five minutes and ordered the retreat. Drakes disengaged, allowing another rank to move forwards. They began applying potions, resting.
It was a microcosm of a larger battle. Shellc heard bows snapping, explosions from beyond the wall. The thump of the titan’s feet.
He didn’t care. Part of Shellc was listening for orders, keeping an eye on the battles to his right and left, but most was focused on his section. He saw a group of Gnolls, fighting in the breach next to him. They had nothing like the Drake’s organization; they fought, snarling, falling back as need be.
Plains Gnolls. The [Captain]’s internal count called to him.
“3rd Rank, fall back! 4th—”
The Drake heard a complicated horn signal. He turned his head.
“Spears, fall back in order!”
The Drakes began moving backwards, keeping the monsters at bay. Captain Shellc turned his head. Commander Cirille had ordered a second unit to charge once the monsters advanced far enough. It was a classic tactic—fall back and draw the enemy forwards for a flanking maneuver.
“Fall back, Chief Warrior!”
Someone was bellowing at the Gnolls. They growled, looking up, confused by the sudden retreat. They fell back more sloppily, without keeping the monsters from advancing.
What a mess. But the [Shamanic Warriors] had somehow downed three Cilewalkers already. What kind of enchanted gear…?
“Hold! I said, hold, damn it—”
Commander Cirille’s voice. Captain Shellc turned his head, but the words weren’t meant for him. He saw a group of Drakes preparing to charge in. But someone was in their way. A wild group of—Humans?
“Let’s go!”
Someone screamed. Captain Shellc saw a rush of bodies leaping, cavorting, even twirling past him. Painted faces. The Drake’s mouth opened as the Gloomless Troupe ran straight into the monsters.
“Spears—halt! Push forwards!”
He shouted desperately, but it was too late. The [Clown] and his followers ran straight into the monsters unsupported. A Cilewalker slashed one huge arm and half a dozen bodies went flying into the air. Captain Shellc cursed. He saw the Humans swarm forwards. And they…
