“It’s not war. The Walled Cities or Rhir can replace me whenever they want. That means I have to appoint a successor or one gets sent. I—I’m not sure how fast this Wall Lord wants me. But I intend to accept.”
“Who will replace you?”
The Chief Warrior glanced at Shellc and Ossky, who were Cirille’s two most trusted subordinates. Cirille nodded at Shellc.
“Captain Shellc is the logical replacement. I’d recommend him for [Commander], and I’m sure Rhir and the Walled Cities would authorize him.”
“Commander!”
The Drake blushed.
“All very good. If you leave soon, we’ll have cause to celebrate. Perhaps—no. We’ll have to make it special. Back in Terandria, my kingdom is preparing to go to war. We might not see each other again.”
Ser Vorn’s graying smile made the Drake look at him. She nodded slowly as the others realized—that was right. When they left Rhir, they wouldn’t see each other. So Cirille took a breath.
“It’s—well. I know you’re all here for another year. At least. Most of us head home by next winter. But you can always be recalled.”
“Ailendamus might insist.”
The [Knight] murmured. Uxel nodded.
“My company could send reinforcements. But I will stay. Someone needs to fight. I imagine Merish’s tribe is the same.”
“Actually…we’re going to leave soon too. Some of the officers. The kingdom has allowed it. They must return for the Meeting of Tribes. Perhaps our groups may travel together.”
The Gnoll growled. The [Commander] nodded. She looked around.
“A Gorgon, a [Knight], a Gnoll from the tribes, and a Drake [Commander].”
“It sounds funny when you say it like that.”
Her friends looked at her. Cirille nodded. She had…an idea. It had come to her as she’d thought about going home, and what her class meant.
“I have a suggestion. When I leave…I’m going to be a [Combined-Arms Commander] leading a mostly-Drake army. Even if I can recruit Gnolls, it won’t be the same. But my specialty, what I’ve learned since coming here, is the power of multiple species working together.”
She met their eyes.
“I was thinking. Well, I asked for a copy of the offer. And it’s a lot of gold. Huge salary increase. [General] class. This Wall Lord says he wants a real commander with experience in battle. Honestly, I think he might be overvaluing my experience. I haven’t seen that much fighting. But if he’s willing to pay for me—I was thinking he might pay for more.”
The others looked at her. Ossky’s teeth shone as she bared her lips for a second.
“What are you saying?”
“Salazsar’s rich. Not sure you know how much, Uxel. But their export is literally gemstones and precious ore. They could…hire mercenaries. Well, they do all the time. Liscor’s army, they buy other cities to fight for them. I don’t know how much a Balerosian company charges. But if a Wall Lord made your company an offer…”
The Gorgon looked at Cirille sharply. Merish’s head turned.
“You want to bring Lizardfolk to Izril?”
“The Walled Cities aren’t used to Gorgons. Drakes, Humans, Gnolls—I want to see a Medusa fighting Antinium.”
The Drake’s heart was beating faster. She looked around.
“And Gnoll tribes have peerless archers. The Plain’s Eye tribe has [Shamans], which the Walled Cities essentially lack. If I made a request conditional on my accepting the offer—would you be interested in another sort of campaign?”
The others looked at her. Ser Vorn was purely astonished. He closed his mouth.
“—Ailendamus would never send me. However. Other [Knights] from my Order might be interested if I talked to them. The Order of the Thirsting Veil isn’t a stranger to crusades abroad. And we don’t induct non-Humans. But I don’t know why. Perhaps it’s an old issue. Or just that an opportunity hasn’t arisen.”
“Your order uses poison, Ser Vorn. Gorgons are a natural counterpart.”
The [Knight] eyed Uxel. The Gorgon grinned.
“Don’t give us horses. We’ll just eat them. But are you sure, Cirille?”
“Absolutely. If I’m going home, I want anything I’m part of to be…new. It might be political, but I don’t have to serve Salazsar forever. And when I’m done, I keep my class. So I’m a [General]. And if I prove the efficacy of a mixed-species army…”
Cirille looked around. Someday, she might come back. But Rhir was an eternal war. And if she wanted to change things—well, you started at home. And when they called, you brought a proper army back. She looked at Merish, Uxel, Ser Vorn, Ossky, Shellc—each one looked thoughtful.
“You don’t have to decide right away. I’m going to lay it on this Wall Lord and see if he jumps at any of it. But I’ll make the same offer to you and—Paxhal, Springwaters, anyone who’s interested. I doubt many more will be. But there it is.”
The Gnoll was the first person to respond. Chief Warrior Merish smiled.
“I’ll think about it. Certainly, we’re going the same way. My tribe will be interested.”
“I as well. I’ve always wanted to see these dreadful Antinium. And see what they taste like.”
Uxel grinned. Ser Vorn saluted.
“My Order will hear your request, Cirille. And if war threatens…”
They stood there for a while. War back home. Old grudges between species. Night fell on 5th Wall, and for a moment Cirille stood there. With a company of people who looked nothing like her. Comrades in arms, nonetheless.
Home felt so far away. The Drake took a breath.
“There’s just one last thing to do then. I’ll let you know what the Wall Lord says.”
Then she went to send a [Message]. And after that…Commander Cirille went to speak to Mage-Captain Hetarria. After all—a [Necromancer] was a hated enemy. Just like Lizardfolk. Or Gnolls. She’d been thinking about that too.
 
—-
 
That night, in Salazsar. Wall Lord Ilvriss was waiting on a reply. Not waiting as in ‘waiting for it right that second’, but anticipating one, even if it was a rejection.
“Wall Lord. [Message] from Rhir. Commander Cirille.”
The little reply came back for him. The Wall Lord accepted the scroll, which had come via Salazsar’s [Strategist] on duty rather than the Mage’s Guild. Security for the Blighted Kingdom and all that. He unfurled the [Message], which had auto-copied onto magical scrolls rather than risk transcription.
What had she said? He did not know this Commander Cirille outside of her record and reports on her. She had been in Rhir three years. Mostly on guard-duty around the capital, which didn’t make her as ideal as he wanted. But she was still solid, with a different perspective. He was taking a risk on her talent.
The Wall Lord read the [Message]. He blinked at it. Then he frowned. He stared at the words, trying to make them make sense in his mind.
“Is this a joke?”
It had to be. But why…? The Wall Lord, completely flummoxed, stared down at the words on the enchanted parchment. It read:
 
‘Salaszar is naught but cowards and thieves. Bring back the Harpies, who used to rule. The Antinium will bring down your walls like cheese. You know nothing, Wall Lord of fools.’
 
Ilvriss stared at the [Message] scroll. He turned to the Drake who’d delivered the scroll.
“Ah—please have the Night-Strategist send a confirmation [Message]. I don’t believe this is what was supposed to be sent. It’s almost certainly not from Commander Cirille. I think someone’s playing a joke on me.”
The Drake bowed and hurried off, embarrassed. Ilvriss sat down, rubbing his head. Who…rhymed ‘thieves’ and ‘cheese’?
That was just stupid.
 
—-
 
Rhir. Hell. Day by day, you could say not a lot happened.
People died. People lived. The war continued. The blight was contained by both sides. Demons, the Blighted Kingdom.
But the war was a stalemate. 5th Wall was being built. But the Blighted Kingdom was not threatening the Demons. It was a war to be won by attrition, time.
On other parts of the world, people did very exciting things. Tried to cure the Yellow Rivers disease. Conquered other nations. Wrote newspapers, etc.
The world changed quickly some years. Some months or days, even. When you left Rhir, with fresh ideas, with friends forged, and visions of the true dangers, the heights of power, the potential for change existed. But hell itself didn’t change.
Until it did.
The single shot rang out loud, despite the improvised headphones she’d put on. Loud—a louder sound than almost anything in the world.
That was one bullet. The revolver she held carried .357 Magnum rounds. Five of them, to be exact. It was a compact model, meant to be a concealed carry as opposed to a larger gun. Sacrificing firepower for size. But she hadn’t been meaning to go to war.
When her father had given it to her as a birthday present, he had meant it for self-defense. If he’d ever dreamed she would be in a situation like this, he probably would have bought her a much more powerful gun.
As it was, the revolver clicked as she swung out the cylinder to show the spent cartridge to her audience. They had a hard time seeing, but she explained.
To someone who understood guns, the evolution in firearms technology had changed massively, such that even small things could…revolutionize combat.
“This is a fast-loader.”
The girl with the gun informed the closest watcher. She showed him the bullets ready to be inserted into the cylinder. She could reload in a heartbeat. Again—in antiquity, earliest firearms had been reloaded manually, with powder and bullets stuffed down the muzzle of the rifle. Giant, ungainly weapons with the accuracy of a toaster.
Now, a young woman from Texas could walk around with a weapon that could kill someone who thought she was easy prey. Very efficiently, incidentally. Even a small firearm from her era had surpassed the crossbow in reloading, accuracy, range, firepower—and it was all in one hand.
Her audience watched. Listening to the explanation. It was not the first time the girl had made it. And she had gotten far, far more questions from every other person who’d ever seen the deadly weapon.
But the ones who listened now…mattered. Well, not in the same way as the others. But she respected them. They awed her.
“…and that’s a revolver. There are bigger guns. Ships. Airplanes that fly faster than anything in the world. We’ve made all kinds of weapons and this is one of the smallest.”
She held the weapon up, unloaded of course—and the sky leaned down to stare at her. Well, not the sky.
“It is small. But weapons your folk make always are. If they are larger, they are larger. Why does it matter?”
One of the last Giants spoke. At last, ponderously. He had taken minutes to reply. It was not that he was slow. It was just that their sense of time differed.
The girl looked up. Flora gestured to the gun.
“It matters because it will change everything. Your world has steel. I mean, swords and spells. This weapon is different.”
“Hm. I see, I see.”
The Giant didn’t move. He just sat there. That one movement had been more than she’d seen him make in all their other conversations. His eyes and mouth were the only things that moved.
“I see it not. It is a small thing. The noise it made was loud. For a small weapon.”
Another voice complained. Female. The other Giants murmured agreement. Flora had to jog around to show it to them. She was panting when she circled back to him.
He was oldest. Tallest. His name was so long that she had given up pronouncing it. It didn’t have the same kind of consonants and vowels—or if they did, it was like the earth speaking. She had taken the first part of the name and called him Callidaz.
The Last of Giants spoke.
“So this weapon is unique.”
“In this world.”
She hadn’t met anyone else with a gun. And she had been assured by people who knew all about war that it was novel. Not all-consuming. If there was just one.
But she was a [Gunslinger]. A class—the first of its kind. She didn’t feel like a daring hero of an action flick, though. She had seen the heights of magic and Skills and they had impressed on her: she could die. Even with a weapon from earth. Hell—even with an RPG.
Perhaps that was why she was here. To remind herself. She had, instinctively, pointed the gun down; shooting into the air killed people since the bullets still had to land. But even if she’d shot at the Giant’s face, she doubted Callidaz would have even blinked. Even if she hit him in the eye.
The last Giants sat in Rhir. Listening.
“So the gun is not the most dangerous weapon. And yet your…world…has many guns.”
“Yes.”
“And these guns are deadly.”
“Yes. And we have weapons that can destroy cities. Even you, Callidaz. In a single moment. With a single weapon. Before you could even blink.”
It wasn’t a threat, although some might have taken it that way. The Giant…did not. He just nodded.
“I see. Your world has weapons that can destroy cities. Can destroy mountains. Can destroy me. They have weapons that will win wars from afar, with superior distance. Despite armor and spell, they will kill. You have a world of such weapons.”
“Yes.”
“Well done.”
She gaped up at him.
“What?”
The Giant looked down at her.
“Your people have made a weapon that is better at killing than the last weapon. Well done.”
The uncomprehending sincerity of it made her blush. It was not a statement with any sarcasm or irony. That was what hurt. He did not know why it was an achievement, but he also believed her when she said the revolver was special.
“Aren’t you…angry? Doesn’t it worry you?”
The question came out of her, almost shyly. The others worried. Mighty as they were, they pressed her, making plans if Earth ever came to their world. They wondered about war. But the Giant had understood the gravity of the gun. And he…cared and did not care.
“Hmm. An odd question.”
The voice came from another Giant. She looked down at Flora. She did not move. Giants—true Giants, not their children—could sit there forever. Or at least, since they had first come here.
Now, the female Giant looked at Flora, puzzled. She looked at the others before addressing the little Human.
“It has ever puzzled me why the little people care about how they can kill us. How well they can do it matters, doesn’t it? To you, it matters. To us, it does not.”
That…didn’t make sense. Flora stared up at the female Giant’s features. So like a Human’s and yet—she was the mountains itself. That was how she seemed to have been born.
“It doesn’t worry you? The danger?”
Flora wanted them to be worried. She wanted them to…say something. Everyone listened to the Giants. Consulted with them. But the Giants seldom demanded or suggested anything. They just waited.
“Ah. I see.”
