“Captain Shellc, what is happening?”
“Commander! We have a serious hygiene issue here! The rank is getting sloppy. Even some of the officers! I’ve chewed out eleven idiots who can’t even clean themselves properly! And there’s mold in two of the bunks!”
The Drake complained as he turned to Cirille. She looked around. He wasn’t…wrong. But the other [Soldiers] were sniffing themselves and finding nothing wrong.
“Captain, it’s just a little funk. I’ve smelled worse. Hells, I’ve slept in worse and never noticed.”
One of the [Sergeants] complained. Captain Shellc pointed a clawed finger at him.
“Stow it, [Sergeant]! I haven’t smelled anything so foul since I was in the sewers back home! You’ll get your group cleaned up or I’ll—”
Cirille sniffed.
“…I don’t smell anything, Captain. I think it might just be your nose.”
The [Captain] turned to his commander, looking appalled.
“But Commander—I’m not the only one! Hey! You all, come forwards!”
He waved, and about a hundred out of the thousand stationed in this section came forwards with complaints about the smell. Cirille blinked.
“One hundred…? What other issues have there been, Captain Shellc?”
“Well, Commander. It’s not as bad as the smell…but there were a few incidents at the mess.”
“Like what?”
“Oh, some idiots bit through their spoons. Damndest thing. And some others decided to copy them. They ‘claimed’ it was just weak metal, but…”
He didn’t know. But the [Swordsman]-[Captain] wasn’t an idiot. He narrowed his eyes as Commander Cirille looked around.
“What about the Gnolls?”
“…Chief Warrior Merish and Ossky were investigating that. That’s…different.”
It was indeed. About a third of the Drakes under Cirille’s command had been affected by certain—traits. A stronger bite, complaints of enhanced smell, or hearing. But the Gnolls? That was when the coin dropped.
“I can’t stop. Every time I open—gah.”
Chief Warrior Merish himself had a symptom. He opened his mouth and Lieutenant Ossky jerked her head back before the plume of frost froze her scales off. She turned as Cirille strode into the room, followed by her officers.
“Commander! It’s incredible. Either I’m a Lizard—sorry, Uxel—or some of the Gnolls have developed Oldblood breath attacks.”
“Impossible!”
Shellc exclaimed. Merish opened his mouth and exhaled. The Drake leapt back as a cloud of freezing ice swept towards him. It wasn’t as bad as Ossky or some of the other Oldbloods’ abilities; she could be visible for miles upon miles away if you looked at her when she went hard—but it was still powerful.
“So that’s what it does.”
Cirille just stared. A Skill worthy of a class change indeed. She had no idea it even existed. Everyone looked at her. Commander Uxel bared his fangs.
“Care to explain?”
 
—-
 
“Synergies are similar to Combination Skills. They require multiple components to work, Commander Cirille. I have adjusted your file to note the advantageous matchup.”
Quiteil’s voice was precise and still annoyed Cirille. Mainly because he wasn’t surprised or even noticeably pleased by the development.
“You knew it would happen, Bastion-General?”
“Not at all. However, a Drake Commander unwilling to work with another species is not useful. The possibility existed. Synergies are known to Rhir’s forces. Other nations have very little experience in this area due to a lack of mixed-species forces.”
The clipped voice came through the speaking stone. Cirille hated that he was right. She chewed on her lip as Merish burped and froze Viri’s face as the Lizardman tried to peer into his open mouth.
“But Bastion-General—Gnolls exist in Drake command.”
“Correct. However, they are a minority and function as Drake [Soldiers] do without distinction. I do not have the time to debate the differences, Commander. Congratulations. I look forwards to your second tour. Bastion-General Quiteil out.”
He closed the speaking stone. Cirille glared at it.
“It’s just his way. He’s actually pleased. He said ‘congratulations’. You’ll get a bottle of something or some present, no doubt. The brass loves new classes.”
The [Scrier] on-duty assured Cirille as the [Commander] returned the stone. The Drake smiled at the Human.
“Thank you. I…what did he mean by ‘second tour’?”
The Human woman blinked.
“It means they’ll offer you a chance to stay another four years, Commander. That means they think you’re valuable.”
 
—-
 
Valuable? No one had ever applied that word in context with Cirille’s service in Rhir. The Walled Cities had selected her because she was a decent commander who wouldn’t embarrass them—and also because she wasn’t good enough that she would be needed.
Cirille had leveled on Rhir. She would be an asset to Manus when she returned. But now Rhir wanted her.
“Because you can work with other species. Lots of commanders aren’t so flexible. They get sent back. It is a compliment. I heard some of the Walled Cities send Drakes who can’t work with anyone at all. That was why I thought you would be so annoying. I was wrong.”
Uxel informed Cirille. The Gorgon slithered down the wall as they walked together. Cirille looked at him.
“Certainly, I wasn’t…at home with Merish. Or you, Uxel. But aside from the ‘Lizards are enemies’ idiocy, it wasn’t hard to adjust.”
He grinned at her and spat some venom over the wall after making sure no one was below.
“You say that. But some Drakes are as stupid as rocks. And as stubborn as Dullahans. Take the compliment. But will you stay?”
“I hadn’t thought about it.”
The Gorgon nodded.
“Think. I will be going back, even if I learn the [Combined-Arms Commander] class. Which I wish to do.”
That surprised her. Cirille glanced at Uxel.
“Even if they ask you to stay?”
The Gorgon shook his head.
“I came here to fight Demons, to level—I have done both. But Baleros calls. It may be foolish—but when I return, I want to challenge my superiors. My company can be stronger. Maybe even a Great Company of Baleros someday. Or maybe we can go abroad and conquer parts of Izril?”
He grinned. That was Gorgon humor for you. Cirille smiled.
“Only the northern parts.”
There was a lot to think about. Synergies were powerful—why did the Walled Cities not know or try to gather such useful abilities in their commanders? Then again, it did require multiple species with their own autonomy.
In the interim, however, making the new abilities in her forces work proved a challenge. Captain Shellc ended up in command of more Gnolls than Drakes—because the Gnolls shared his keen sense of smell.
“I can’t believe how much they stink.”
The Drake complained. All the Gnolls chuckled or grinned. Merish laughed.
“You will get used to it.”
“I’m not sure how useful a good sense of smell is on the battlefield. Among our [Scouts] maybe. And the hearing becomes a problem.”
Cirille confessed to Merish. The Gnoll [Shamanic Warrior] nodded.
“It is not always useful. If the enemy uses poison—you will know. And good hearing helps sometimes when the enemy is hidden or maneuvering in the darkness. But what of our…breaths?”
He had managed to avoid freezing everything in sight. Cirille frowned.
“Shellc swears he’s gained some muscle as well. As for Gnolls breathing fire, acid, or what have you—I suppose it’s just another weapon. We’ll show you how Oldblood formations work. Ossky’s an expert; it’s breathe and fight.”
“I lose air when I do it too much and end up gasping like a fish.”
The winged lieutenant grinned.
“You need to practice. It’s like a quarter-Oldblood strength at best, Commander. Maybe if you were double your level they’d all have abilities as strong as mine.”
“And Captain Shellc would be walking around with a coat of fur. Let’s just work with what we have, Ossky.”
 
—-
 
A few observations after a day of drilling: the Synergy was powerful. Not all-powerful. It had limitations.
Firstly, it only affected those under her direct command. So while Drakes and Gnolls stationed with Uxel had new abilities, the Lizardfolk did not, much to their disappointment.
Also, the abilities ‘faded’ the further her command got from Cirille. And if you left her command in any capacity—she had ‘traded’ a group of Gnolls with Uxel—they disappeared entirely.
In combat, it made Merish and the Gnolls even more problematic to fight against. The Gnolls would happily turn your face to ice before smacking you around. On the other side, along with enhanced smell, Captain Shellc happily did press-ups until the ‘regular’ Drakes collapsed.
“It’s powerful, but more in that your [Soldiers] keep your abilities. I’ve seen better [Commander] Skills. Have you heard of [Sight’s Bane Formation]?”
Uxel stood on the walls afterwards, with Ser Vorn, Merish, and Cirille. They were all tired—and some nursing slight injuries by accidental Gnoll-breath attacks. One of them had accidentally breathed a dust cloud onto Ser Vorn and the [Knight] had hours of buffing for his armor.
“[Sight’s Bane Formation]? Never heard of it. What does it do?”
The commanders were all too eager to share knowledge. It was after all, a kind of power, knowing about rare Skills. The Gorgon grinned.
“Turns your soldiers invisible.”
“What, all of them?”
Even Ser Vorn looked incredulous, and he was decades older than the rest. The Gorgon nodded.
“Saw a Medusa-General use it once. Her capstone Skill of Level 40. Turned her entire army invisible for three minutes. They took the enemy apart.”
“I want that Skill.”
Merish muttered. Cirille nodded. That was the difference. A three-minute Skill that turned an entire battle around—or a longer-term Skill? She’d take it, either way.
“Say, you have the Titan of Baleros, right? What kind of Skills does a [Strategist] of that level have?”
The Gorgon frowned.
“I’ve never seen the Titan fight. Good thing too; but I’ve heard he can move across the world from battlefield to battlefield in moments. He can apparently multiply a unit’s power so it smashes through right when you’re not looking at it. Things like that.”
“Gah. [Strategists]. You know, it might be untested, but I’d put our combined formation against one of Manus’ forces. We don’t have as many elites and specialized units, but there’s a lot we could steal from each other.”
“[Knights] especially. Gnolls don’t have [Knights] because armor and fur get hot.”
“Nagas can’t ride horses and Lizardfolk are too light.”
“Drakes—have trouble with tail armor. And riding horses is harder. Tails, again.”
All three looked at Ser Vorn. He scratched at his head and smiled.
“And we Humans lack your interesting abilities. It would appear we complement each other.”
The commanders shared a moment’s congenial pause. No one wanted to say ‘I’m so glad we’re working together’ or something sappy like that. They’d probably get tossed off the walls. But the sentiment existed without words.
A trumpet blaring a welcome interrupted the moment. The commanders on 5th Wall turned and saw an approaching procession.
“What’s that? Minotaurs? I thought we already had all of their forces stationed here.”
Cirille spotted a large group moving up towards the walls. They were big, armored figures. Ser Vorn peered with an enchanted spyglass.
“…Ah. Those aren’t Minotaurs. Those are Humans.”
The Drake peered at the distant figures.
“Stop joking, Ser Vorn.”
“It’s not a joke.”
“They’re massive. As tall as Gnolls! Taller! They’re half-Giants, right?”
One of the Humans was eight feet tall if she was any judge, and looked like a half-Giant. But Ser Vorn assured her he was Human.
“There’s only one group they can be. See the insignia on their armor and the welcome?”
Bastion-General Zavarial himself was welcoming the group. As Cirille descended to talk to some more of the irregular commanders, someone finally explained.
“They’re a Unit. You know? One of the special ones? Those are the Queen’s personal unit. Shel’s Cleansenborne. She’s not with them, by the looks of it.”
“They can’t risk the Queen on 5th Wall. Not that she hasn’t been here before.”
The Queen? Cirille remembered seeing her. The Blighted Queen was far younger than King Othius IV, and she was a veteran warrior who carried a mace fit for a Minotaur. A giant of a Human. By the looks of it—she’d passed her traits off onto her entire unit.
“How do they get so big, though? That cannot be a Skill, yes? What, do they grow overnight if she inducts them? Like mushrooms?”
Laughter in response to Merish. Springwaters, the half-Elf [Marksman], shook his head.
“Not at all. They’re trained from youth and go through a growth spurt. They can’t quit the unit, I think.”
“Well, they’re going to be a terror to whoever fights them.”
Cirille remembered the [Flesh Reapers] for a moment. She wondered if being half again as tall as other Humans did something to their physiology. Certainly—the armored warriors marched with unnatural silence, even compared to Drake armies. They didn’t show any skin; they wore helmets and armor, standing still like Golems.
Perfect warriors for a war against Demons. Someone frowned. Paxhal.
“If they’re so special, why are they here now? They missed the fighting.”
A snort. The Minotaur [Axe Captain] looked down at the Humans, glaring as if trying to figure out if they were a match for his troops.
“Normally they’re on 3rd Wall. They must be here to deal with that serpent-titan. Did you hear? Some [Naturalist]’s named it. They’re called Zavaral-swarms.”
“Zavaral? You mean, like Bastion-General…?”
Snorts from up and down the wall. That was a dubious honor. Or the [Naturalist] had a sick sense of humor. The Minotaur grunted.
“Apparently. It’s not a laughing matter. The Kingdom is afraid a few got away. And if they did—or if the Demons kept a few, they could breed them. Send titans like that against the Blighted Kingdom every month. Not just one, either. Dozens, all multiplying. Imagine that.”
The others fell silent. That gave Cirille chills. She imagined how quickly that would wear down even the Blighted Kingdom’s supplies and soldiers.
And yet, to conquer that fear, the Cleansenborne marched. 5th Wall would be launching seek-and-destroy teams. The Hunter’s Guild’s specialists and Paxhal’s fliers had been scouting for the Zavaral-swarms. And tomorrow—Cirille’s forces would join the hunt.
She looked forward to it. Rhir’s Champions stood with Bastion-General Zavarial, meeting the leader of the Cleansenborne and the other, smaller regiments sent forwards to join 5th Wall. All except Sir Tom and his crazies, of course.
