Actually—she and the [Knight] seemed equally matched. Commander Uxel was coiled up as Viri—who was an officer for some reason—sipped goat’s milk. Just…goat’s milk. Nothing alcoholic for the Lizardfolk.
Merish had a drink too, but it wasn’t as stiff as Cirille’s—an ale. The Gnoll sniffed.
“You say that. But Tier 7 is a magic even Archmages of Wistram cannot cast easily, yes?”
“Not at all. At least, Archmage Nailihuaile can’t unaided. I think she can do Tier 6? Maybe. But that’s with her staff.”
Viri looked up. Cirille nodded.
“And there’s a scroll? And they used it?”
That horrified her almost as much. Sir Vorn looked up from his imitation of a poker face. Ossky narrowed her eyes as if trying to figure him out. Shellc peeked at her cards.
“They do have more, Commander Cirille. Moreover, the spell saved us the danger of losing more portions of the walls. You may look at it like this: Bastion-General Zavarial did not use the spell until he was certain it was needed.”
“Yes, but…Manus can’t—”
Snorts from around the room. Delezza picked another card.
“As I understand it, Manus can throw similar enchantments from its walls pretty easily. All the Walled Cities can. Maybe not Tier 7—but I’d take a rechargeable Tier 6 spell. Anyways—we used the scroll, and it’s over. Big battle for your introduction to 5th Wall.”
It had been. There were still hundreds dead. Not thousands, which you might have expected against so many titans, but the 5th Wall had drained a lot of its magic. There were huge gaps caused by the fighting, but repair work was underway—astonishingly quick.
Some [Geomancers] had literally repaired parts of the wall by raising permanent walls of stone. It wasn’t as polished, but by nightfall, no gaps would exist in the temporary 5th wall.
The real danger was the Demons. They’d used the battle as a distraction to break through across 5th Wall. Unlike 4th Wall’s sturdy enchantments and overwhelming force, 5th Wall wasn’t done so they did this often. Now, every village and settlement past the 4th Wall was in danger. Lord Hayvon and many units were hunting for them and Cirille had been informed her division would be helping with that or patrolling.
“What I do not understand is why the Blighted Kingdom has such spells. Even a Great Company lacks for the ability to use such scrolls. I have no doubt every nation has some in their vaults. But to use one so readily?”
The Gorgon, Uxel, got nods from around the room. Cirille had no doubt Manus had similar artifacts in the deepest vaults. But they’d been reluctant to use them even in the Antinium Wars except as last-ditch spells.
“Probably because Rhir needs to have them, Uxel. They get resources from around the world. Say an Archmage makes…fifteen Tier 5 spells in a year? Hey, how many scrolls can your average [Mage] make?”
Delezza looked around as she slapped a silver coin on the table.
“Archmage Naili could probably make a Tier 6 scroll. Depends on her class. [Spellscribes] can make hundreds, easy.”
“Hmf. Well, let’s say fifty, then. If your Archmage makes fifty—the Blighted Kingdom probably gets at least five. And that’s scrolls we can still produce. They have had thousands of years to build up an arsenal.”
“Okay, then what are we doing here? I got my flight wing torn up dancing with those damn Demons. Walk up to the Demons and cast all the scrolls you have.”
A Garuda scowled. He looked around. Cirille knew the answer to this one. Delezza sighed.
“Flight Commander—sorry, I forget your name.”
“Paxhal.”
“Paxhal, right. Think of it like this. The Blighted Kingdom probably has at least ten of those scrolls if they used one here. Probably lots more, but even so. The armies of the world stand with the Blighted Kingdom. And they still think that if they march on the Demon King’s capital or whatever lies at the center of hell—we’ll lose.”
Another silence. Cirille broke in.
“Besides, artifacts can be lost. Imagine losing even a single relic-class artifact to the Demons? It’s better to commit only to a battle you know you’ll win.”
Manus military doctrine. Shellc and Ossky nodded. But some of the other officers looked intrigued at this basic idea.
It really was astonishing. A quarter of the ‘commanders’ in the room were self-taught, or had never had a formal education to get to their rank. The Drakes at least had a lot of military theory.
On the other hand…it didn’t exactly endear them to the other races. A Selphid [Berserker] rubbed at his head. But her voice was female when it came out.
“Speaking of battles you’ll win—it was something to see other factions fighting. I’ve seen Rhir’s tactics, but those ranks of Drakes lined up were funny to look at. Your lot didn’t press in at all. Gnolls did. And so did those insane Humans.”
The Drakes went still in their seats. Cirille glanced over and made her voice friendly.
“We were fighting in formation. The phalanx? It was hard to coordinate with…other groups. We would have preferred to let the enemy advance and keep flanking. Our tactics are designed to minimize losses.”
“Yeah. It must work really well.”
Silence. Delezza raised her brows.
“Different tactics. Drakes do well at line-holding. You’d have wanted them if you had to retreat, Captain Grexi.”
“Maybe. But my tactic is slicing the enemy up until they run around. Did you see those Humans? They’re not even Selphids and they went as hard as my squad.”
The Selphid [Berserker] conceded. She grinned and the others shifted.
“Mad as loons, all of them. Did you see them laughing? They didn’t care even when their friends got slaughtered.”
“That’s the Gloomless Troupe for you. [Clowns]. Which are like [Berserkers], only they dress funny.”
“I’ve never heard of the class. Someone told me they were like [Fools].”
“They’re definitely foolish. But effective.”
“No, I mean, [Fool], the class.”
“Oh…what’s a [Fool]?”
Cirille broke away from the main conversation, which was a mix of admiration and…fascination with Tom the [Clown]. The Champions of Rhir also got their own nods; they hadn’t done badly. Especially for such young people.
“Our formations would have held those monsters with few casualties at all. And we’d have had a chance to do it if we didn’t get fouled by those damn Humans.”
Captain Shellc was grousing at the cards table. Merish took a seat and was dealt in. Captain Shellc glanced at him and then coughed into a scaled fist.
“Same with the Gnolls.”
“What?”
The Chief Warrior looked at him. The [Captain] glared as Cirille got up.
“You heard the order to retreat. You should have obeyed it. I saw nearly ten Gnolls go down because you didn’t move with us.”
“Perhaps we fight differently. ‘My’ Gnolls are better at skirmishing. Your commander wants us fighting in prolonged engagements.”
The [Shamanic Warrior] growled. He took up his cards, peeked at one. Captain Shellc grumbled, but Cirille went over and leaned on his shoulder. Hard.
“I’m sure Captain Shellc is just venting, Chief Warrior. We saw your forces take down a lot of monsters with commendable speed.”
“Thank you, Commander.”
That was all the Gnoll said. Cirille glowered at Shellc and he dipped his head. Lieutenant Ossky took a drink and nearly blinded the table.
“We were all needed. Even with a Tier 7 spell, you need grunts. [Soldiers]. Wish I had six more flights, Commander.”
The others looked at her. Cirille nodded. She turned to Paxhal.
“Sorry we left the Garuda in the skies, Flight Leader Paxhal. But Ossky’s my only flight group.”
“And no one else can fly. Except the damned Demons and that Human [Knight] with the boots. Say—what were those Demons. I’ve never seen the like.”
Uxel glared about, gesturing at the sky. Cirille hadn’t been focused on the air battle; the Demons had mostly passed beyond the wall, for their raiding missions.
The heads turned to Delezza. The [Huntress] calmly took a drink.
“Oh. Them? You’re going to have to learn to watch the skies. No one on patrol goes without heavy archer or [Mage] compliments. Even a group of [Riders] gets torn out without aid. The Demon’s flying forces love ambushing unprotected groups.”
“But what were they? They looked like Bagrhavens, but they were smaller. Less foul—they used armor and Skills, I saw it!”
Uxel looked at Delezza. The [Demon Huntress] nodded.
“Of course they did. They’re Harpies. I’m surprised you haven’t fought them before, Uxel. But then—you Gorgons scare the wings off them.”
Harpies? Cirille paused with a drink to her lips. Some of the other commanders had never met them. Paxhal had fought them, but never before coming to Rhir.
“I thought Harpies were extinct.”
“Most are. They joined the Demons, though. And as far as I know—there aren’t any left. They used to be on Izril. Harpies and Nagas. Any left?”
The question went to the Humans, Drakes, and Gnoll officers. Slowly, all the Izrilians looked around.
“Harpies haven’t lived on Izril for…a long time.”
“Once, they did. My tribe remembers trading with them. They used to rule a large portion. Once. No longer.”
Merish mumbled. He folded his cards. Cirille glanced at him. But the Gnoll said nothing more.
“They joined the Demons. Gave themselves to hell. Watch the skies. They’re not like us. They don’t have hands, like Garudas, and they’re only good in the air. Even so. They were a people once.”
“What happened?”
The question came from Viri. The [Longstick Jumper] sat on the edge of his chair, perching there. He looked at the Drakes, the Gnolls—no one had an answer for them.
“I guess they just died out.”
Someone muttered. The cards moved across the table. Cirille shuddered.
And the rest became Demons.
What a fate. She had a bit more than she should have to drink. The next day, she and Chief Warrior Merish went on patrol and began joint-command drills.
It did not go well.
 
—-
 
“Stay in formation! I said—blow the horn, [Trumpeter].”
The sound for retreat ran out, a single fixed blast. But the furry figures still stuck into the fighting against the smaller Lizardfolk energetically beating on them with sticks and the annoyed Gorgons for a good minute before disengaging. Commander Cirille glowered.
She saw 4th Infantry moving with precision at her commands, but the disengage and flank maneuver was hindered when the other wing of Commander Uxel’s Lizardfolk [Skirmishers], led by Viri, caught Merish’s group and wiped them out.
Well, ‘wiped them out’ just meant more Gnolls had to go off and sit down and the skirmish exercise was ruined. The Drakes retreated as Ser Vorn neatly dodged all of their spear formations and ‘carved up’ their archers. That was Cirille’s fault for underestimating how fast his eighteen-odd [Knights] could move. Her own [Riders] couldn’t catch the Skill-boosted [Knights].
Afterwards, she stomped over to Merish and had it out with him again.
“Chief Warrior, this is the sixth time—”
“That was not our fault, no! We disengaged when we heard the horns!”
“A minute late!”
“A minute? We were fighting. We cannot just run off when someone calls the retreat!”
“It was disengaging. Tactical maneuvering! Drakes don’t retreat—”
“I have seen them disengage many battles where my warriors won because we did not keep running around to hold meaningless lines! Either let us skirmish or do not give us so many orders!”
“I need to know where you’re going!”
The Gnoll growled loud enough for his other officers—who were more of leaders from each tribe—to hear.
“No one knows where the battle takes them!”
 
—-
 
“Dead gods. And I thought Cat and Dog-Beastkin fought. Are they always like this?”
Commander Uxel stared at the two arguing commanders as he and his officers relaxed after the practice battle. Three days had passed since the battle for the 5th Wall. In that time, all the irregulars had participated in patrols, but they were mainly there to hold the line.
And practice how to work together. Bastion-General Zavarial was understandably reluctant to send out units who hadn’t drilled together. And because Bastion-General Quiteil had ordered it, the Gnoll and Drake forces were fighting together.
Poorly. Ser Vorn looked discouraged, and he was normally a font of patience.
“I have never been to Izril. But I cannot understand why the two species fight. They both occupy southern Izril, do they not?”
“Yes. Because you Humans drove them south. Sorry, I mean, Humans in general.”
Ser Vorn didn’t take offense as the Gorgon corrected himself. He was only a bit taller than Uxel, even mounted up. The [Knight] nodded at Cirille and Merish.
“But they ally to fight Humans. And the Antinium.”
“And Naga and Harpies. The enemy of my enemy is more of an enemy. But they do not get along. It isn’t Gnolls—it’s Plains Gnolls and Drakes of the cities.”
It was like water and fire. Or ice and fire. Drakes maneuvered, but they loved those tactical formations. Their phalanxes were hard to break and even Uxel had learned to respect the fact that if you attacked the Drakes from the front, you’d end up losing.
His Lizardfolk were better at skirmishing anyways; the Gorgons and Nagas were the fist that added punch to the lighter-weight Lizardfolk, and Lamias and other spellcasters—the main Lizardfolk evolutions—could batter the enemy with spells.
Mobile, adaptable. Lizardfolk came at you full of surprises, which was how they liked it. By contrast, Drakes had organized archers, mages, and of course, their spears and other infantry. They were hard to break up, and they loved forming lines from which to slowly wear you down with ranged fire. But break up their tidy formations and they struggled.
Gnolls were different from both races. They were mobile, but not as fast as Ser Vorn’s [Knights]. They were individually strong, and tough. Not as much as Gorgons or Nagas, but possibly better than your average Drake; Merish’s two thousand were certainly better than the average [Soldier].
They were also excellent archers, and very quick to react. But they didn’t like huge engagements. They preferred to hit and away.
All of that was great on paper. But in practice—the Gnolls just had a different sense of timing than Cirille’s soldiers. They hadn’t drilled to obey an order no matter what was going on and it showed.
“If we don’t make our forces work together, we’ll never leave 5th Wall. Why does Bastion-General Zavarial force those two to join commands? I would switch with Merish.”
