Ren looked around, and everyone pretty much did the same thing. A few tried to get spots near the wall, but were quickly pushed away. Ren would have to remember to stay by the wall, or he'd lose the spot he was in. He was glad that this was the game night that happens during the real life night, or he would have been in serious trouble. Ren sat down and tried to not look anyone in the eyes. The room became almost deathly quiet as all of the lights were extinguished.

Now that the lights were out, several Warriors climbed down into the pit on small ladders. They went over to the body of the one who had attacked Ren, picked it up, and carried it out. Ren could see everything as clear as day, and he stayed awake the entire night. He'd forgotten how boring it was to sit down and do absolutely nothing.

*

Elerlyth was bored out of her mind. All she did was walk around and guard an empty warehouse. She explored everything inside, and found a big cabinet in the living room of the apartment upstairs.

“It's nicer than my place in the real world.” She said and laughed. “I wonder where he got all this nice furniture?” Elerlyth went into the bedroom and laid down on the bed. “Oh! Now that's comfy.” She said and settled down and stared up at the ceiling.

“Making easy money sure is boring.” She threaded her fingers together and put them over her abdomen. “Ha... the little shit was right! I do hate this job.” She ran her hands over the armor she wore. “Damn nice armor, though.”

She took a deep breath and smiled. “It's been 3 days, and I still can't believe I'm not 'hungry'.”

*

The night crawled past slowly, and Ren looked up at Teepo.

Hey, Teepo? Do you know any other stories?

Teepo laughed. “I know a few.”

Can you tell me some of them? I feel like I'm wasting my time just sitting here.

“Sure, Ren.” Teepo said and then started to tell Ren tales about everything. Beetle Warriors, forest nymphs, goblins, and anything else that Teepo just randomly thought of. After several hours of this, Ren thought of something.

Do you know anything about giants?

“I'm sorry. I've never met any giants, or heard any stories about them.” Teepo said. “There's not a lot of room underground for people so big.”

It was a long shot anyways. Ren sighed mentally. Can you keep talking? I'm trying hard to not fall asleep here. He thought.

“Of course!” Teepo said and skittered around in circles. “I can even talk REALLY LOUD if you want me to.”

Ren grinned. I'll let you know if I need that, thanks.

Teepo continued to talk until the morning and Ren had heard so much, that he didn't remember any of it. He apologized to Teepo for wasting his time, and Teepo chittered in laughter.

“It kept you awake, didn't it?”

Ren smiled and the Warriors came back into the Hole. They lit all of the lights and the cooks brought in breakfast. Everyone ate, and a few minutes afterwards the fat dwarf came into the room.

“Well! Let's get things going!” He said as he sat in his chair, and then several other dwarfs came into the room behind him. They didn't have chairs, however. The winners from the fights the previous day gathered into the designated spots and faced off against each other. One of them was Croggart, and everyone placed bets for their favorite fighters. Ren didn't watch the bouts, though. He watched the dwarves that stood behind the fat dwarf's chair.

They must be here for a reason.

“I think they are betting on the fights.” Teepo said as he skittered over to the room the fat dwarf was in. “Yeah, definitely betting.”

A lot? Ren thought.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “If a platinum is a lot, yeah.”

Keep a tab on them, Teepo. Ren thought. Let me know what the total bids were.

The fighting went on for half of the day, and the fighters were whittled down to 5 winners. Ren paid them 5 gold each, and then the entire group of prisoners voted on who would fight in the wild card spot. It was hotly debated, but they eventually picked the most popular fighter from the previous round that didn't win. The final round was fought, and the 3 winners earned 10 gold each. They decided that a Round Robin should happen, and the fighters fought their matches. It took a while, as these fighters could take punch after punch without showing any signs of weakening. Of course, Croggart was the top winner, and the other 2 came in second and third. Ren paid them their prizes of 30, 20, and 10 gold respectively. Everyone clapped, and none harder than the fat dwarf himself.

“The first Brawlers Tournament comes to a close! Congratulations to the winners!” The fat dwarf said and stood up. Ren took this opportunity to go over to the Warrior to receive his cut of the bets. The Warrior handed it over and Ren counted it.

Teepo, how much did the new dwarfs bet?

“If my counting is correct, it was about 350 gold.” Teepo said.

Ren looked at the Warrior and them motioned to the new people. “Did they bet?”

“Yes, they bet.” He said and sighed, as he couldn't lie without losing Honor.

Ren turned to the fat dwarf. “We had an agreement.”

“That only covers bets from the prisoners.” He said and grinned.

“I said all bets, and you agreed.”

“What's he talking about, Khirbor?” One of the dwarves asked.

“Nothing. Nothing.” Khirbor said and waved them towards the door.

“It was a split of the profits from charging for the bets.” Ren said as they walked to the door. “This tournament was my idea.”

“Don't listen to him. He's a prisoner here. He has no Hon-”

“I challenge you, Khirbor!” Ren hollered at the group of dwarves, and everyone fell silent. “You are a liar and a cheat, claiming my idea as your own, then not fulfilling your agreement with me.”

“You're a prisoner, you can't issue challenges!” The fat dwarf said and turned to squeeze through the door.

“Actually, he can.” The dwarf said. “You were about to say he doesn't have Honor, but he clearly does. If you also didn't pay him part of his agreed cut of the profits...”

“None of it's true, I tell you!” He said. “It was all my idea!”

The dwarf winced and then scowled. “I knew there was a reason you were sent here to manage this.” He said. “You belong here.”

“Either accept the challenge, or lose whatever Honor you have.”

The fat dwarf glared, and turned to Ren. “Fine. I accept.”
