Death Corps and Defiled clashed in the courtyard below, but Sarnai could only watch and wait as these traitors threatened the safety of her most industrious Daughter-in-Law.

Fingers curled around her Piercing Star and nails sharpened into Deadly Thorns, she resisted the urge to throw herself into battle and lend aid to the beleagured defenders. There were at least a thousand Defiled here in District Seventy-Eight, which she suspected had been cursed by the Heavens above. The burgeoning township was already grieving the loss of eight-thousand souls, guards, militia, and neighbours who died in a tribal raid not five days past, and now it appeared like the Chosen had come to finish the job. Like using a sledgehammer to kill a spider is what this was, which meant they were here for some other purpose, perhaps to capture Luo-Luo or Sarnai herself, possibly even both. Whatever their mission, the armoured Chosen elites showcased just how different a beast they were compared to their tribal counterparts, somehow slipping a thousand riders past the Western Wall unnoticed to circle around the district and attack from the east. Not only that, but they wasted no time in execution of their attack, charging the walls and slaughtering the patrols in a matter of seconds before moving on to surround the courtyard manor with disciplined efficiency. Sarnai barely had time to don her armour and step foot outside her room before the Enemy leader smashed through the gates, charging headlong into the fray with a voracious howl of victory.

So this was the infamous Mitsue Hideo, a young man only a few years older than her son and already well on his way to becoming a Peak Expert.

A surge of indignation coursed through her veins as she took measure of the young traitor and gauged his improvement since his match against Dastan during the Imperial Grand Conference. The Father was well known to cheat in His Eternal War against the Mother Above, but this was just too much. With twin maces in hand, Hideo seemed all but unstoppable as he smashed his way through the Death Corps line and pushed into the Royal Guardians, who were equally helpless before his domineering attacks. Every time his weapons made contact with his opponent’s weapon, armour, or body, those twin maces let loose with a dissonant chime that indicated he was utilizing an advanced form of Reverberation. A powerful form at that, one that killed with a mere touch and left his opponents in shambles as they coughed up blood or collapsed into a broken heap. This was no Mountain Collapsing Stomp, but a more focused and deadlier variation, one Sarnai would call the Organ Rupturing Strike in light of the effect it had on its targets, sending deadly shock waves through their bodies to cause massive internal trauma. The only recourse was to either cancel out Hideo’s Reverberations through overwhelming power or dodge the attack altogether, the latter of which was all but impossible in the chaos unfolding in the courtyard. Hideo was not the only attacker, and his Chosen not only outnumbered the beleaguered Death Corps Guards and Royal Guardians, but they were also mounted atop their fierce gajashias which were weapons unto themselves.

Even if every available Warrior and militiaman had been waiting atop those walls ready to repel this attack, Sarnai suspected the district would still have fallen without too much struggle. A thousand Defiled were nothing compared to a thousand well-trained and disciplined Chosen, meaning there was no victory here, not for the Imperial defenders. Their only hope was to hold out until reinforcements arrived, which was unlikely to be anytime soon considering these Chosen had made it this far unnoticed, meaning rescue was at least an hour away. No, if Sarnai were free to act, she would have grabbed Luo-Luo and Cloud-Stepped away as fast as she could in desperate hope of survival, but alas, the Enemy was not so willing to let her leave.

Aside from Sarnai, there were four other Peak Experts present on her side, Gunan, the weakest, followed by Kuang Biao and two Royal Guardians who introduced themselves as Royal Five and Royal Seven. They weren’t brothers, nor were Royal Guardians constrained like Death Corps guard to only ever be known by their ranked designations, so Sarnai suspected they used those names because they didn’t care to share their real ones with an ‘outland savage’. Not that she cared for their approval, for she didn’t need their love or admiration so long as they upheld their duty, but while five Peak Experts working together might stand a chance of turning the tide against these overwhelming odds, the Enemy had a Peak Expert of their own, and they all knew that his strength dwarfed their own, even with all five of them working together.

At first glance, there was nothing so formidable about her foe’s appearance, a tall, lanky monk with a jutting forehead, jagged cheekbones, and a square jaw that left him with a face that could never be considered handsome. Ragged hemp robes hung loosely from his angular frame, and his empty hands were pressed together in prayer, but there was no mistaking the Aura of threat and menace radiating from his presence or the murderous glint emanating from his narrowed eyes. His long, black, bushy eyebrows arched towards his temples before drooping all the way down to his chin, a stark juxtaposition next to his bald head and clean-shaven chin, but they framed his rugged features perfectly and made it impossible for Sarnai to tear her eyes away.

Not that she would if she could. If she presented even the slightest opening to this opponent, then her life was forfeit, for this was the monk who exchanged blows with Colonel General Shuai Jiao and came out even, if not with the upper hand.

Gunan, Kuang Biao, Little Seven, and Little Five were all of the same mind as Sarnai, all readying to strike against this formidable foe, but despite spreading out to attack him from multiple angles, not a single one of them moved to attack first. It wasn’t fear that held them all in place, but rather a lack of options, for it was clear that it would take all their strength to defeat this powerful foe. It wasn’t impossible, or even unlikely that their combined efforts could overpower the monk, only difficult and costly to the extreme. Sarnai put their odds for victory at fifty-fifty, assuming her allies were willing to sacrifice their lives to pin the monk in place long enough for her to deliver the killing blow, but those were poor odds to gamble the lives of four Peak Experts away on, especially young Warriors with remarkable potential like Sarnai’s comrades.

There was also the need to consider collateral damage, as a battle between Peak Experts of this magnitude might well tear the entire district apart and kill countless innocent bystanders in the process.

All this and more passed through Sarnai’s mind during the opening seconds of battle, but she had no choice but to bow to circumstance and pray the Imperial Clan soldiers could keep Luo-Luo safe without aid from Sarnai or her peers. Such was the nature of this particular clash between Peak Experts, the strength of each side so evenly matched that the first to act would almost inevitably be the first to fall. The monk was powerful, but not powerful enough to overwhelm all five of his foes in an instant, and dealing with any one would leave him vulnerable to the rest. In contrast, if one of the five Imperials were to fall first without creating an opening for his or her comrades, then the balance of power shifted in the monk’s favour, especially if he had hidden comrades she had yet to account for. Both sides were deadlocked and there was no way around it, for even if Sarnai cared to roll the dice with her life and the lives of her associates, the collateral damage might well be enough to do the Defiled’s job for them.

More seconds passed as Hideo spearheaded the assault on foot, his presence alone enough to tilt the scales in his favour even if the Defiled didn’t vastly outnumber the Imperials. There were two-hundred Death Corps garrisoned in the district, as well as another three-hundred and sixty five in Luo-Luo’s personal honour guard, plus a scant thirty Royal Guardians to round it all out. Two to one odds at best, but the Enemy was united and fighting as a single unit while the Imperial forces were scattered all throughout the district. Worst of all, without someone capable of dealing with Hideo’s Organ Rupturing Strikes, the traitor was free to run roughshod over the defenders and tear through their battle-lines unchecked, a wild, domineering Warrior that few under Peak Expert could match.

Truth be told, even some Peak Experts might fall to the tyrannical traitor, especially if they were caught unaware by his newfangled Talent. Sarnai herself would not escape unscathed if she were foolish enough to directly trade blows, because Hideo had incorporated the mechanics behind the formidable Mountain Collapsing Stomp into his newfangled ability, allowing him to deliver overpowering Reverberating blows far above and beyond what most of his peers could match. Brother Du spent long hours explaining the theory behind the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, likening it to gradually building waves in a pool, a man on a swing moving higher with each pass, a pinwheel picking up momentum as it went, and many more such examples of exponential growth, but even though she understood the basic concept of utilizing Amplification, Reverberation, and careful timing to build up the force behind a strike, she was unable to make heads or tails of how to make use of this knowledge. Knowing something could be done did not mean she could replicate it so easily, and despite putting a fair amount of effort into studying this Talent, she made no headway at all. The timing was the most difficult part and also the most crucial, because if you Amplified a Reverberation even a fraction of a second too early or too late, then everything you’d built up would be wasted as the discordant forces clashed and slipped out from under your control. Even a famed Runic Craftsman with phenomenal Chi control like OuYang Yuhuan was unable to grasp the timing without creating a static Rune with fixed variables, so how could Sarnai ever hope to match up?

Such was the nature of Talents, and while Rain proved that anyone could learn to utilize these Talents, he was a genius that came along once every ten millennia, if that. The Heavens were unfair, but Sarnai was proud of her sweet son, even if he did take his superlative aptitude for granted.

So focused on her standoff against the monk, Sarnai heard Luo-Luo’s weapon before she saw the girl move, and by then, it was already too late to stop her. Out went the chain affixed to the haft of her sceptre, the weighted head arcing out directly towards its target, and Sarnai’s heart grew heavy with grief. Hideo’s Organ Rupturing Strike only needed to connect in order to grievously injure his foes, and Luo-Luo’s Spiritual Weapon offered his Chi a direct path back to her internal organs. Even if the strike didn’t kill her immediately, Luo-Luo would likely bleed out within minutes, as the girl was unable to Heal and Sarnai lacked the authority to commandeer a Healer just to babysit a ‘mere’ Imperial Servant. The silly girl meant well and had progressed along the Martial Path by leaps and bounds, but she was out of her depth against a foe like Mitsue Hideo. No shame there, for there were few people his age that could match him outside those most superlative of talents, but now, sweet Luo-Luo’s life would be cut short all because Sarnai was too weak to protect her.

The chain unfurled and Hideo reacted, his maces swinging up to intercept the unexpected blow at the last moment, and Sarnai heard the warbling peal which signalled an oncoming Organ Rupturing Strike. The boy’s mastery was so complete, delivering so devastating a blow was almost entirely effortless and without thought, a sound signalling the end of Luo-Luo’s short life. Sarnai fought the urge to interfere or rush to Luo-Luo’s aid, because there was simply nothing she could do to save her. All moving would do was condemn her allies and the district both, just so she could hold her sweet, silly, kind-hearted daughter-in-law as she bled out.

So instead, Sarnai watched as chain met mace and death beckoned to sweet Luo-Luo. A clang sounded upon impact, but not a dissonant ring like they all heard many a time before. Instead, this was more of a melodious chime, one that sparked hope in her heart as Hideo staggered back from what should have been an ineffective attack, his admittedly handsome features etched with surprised concern, an expression that soon turned into moon-eyed astonishment as he gazed upon his foe. This delay afforded Luo-Luo a chance for a second blow as she pulled back on her sceptre and used her free hand as a pivot point for the chain, shortening the length of the weapon and changing the angle of attack to bring it careening back down onto Hideo’s head. Given the slow speed of transition, the traitor had plenty of time to recover from the initial clash and again blocked the weighted head with both raised weapons, but this time he held firm as his features twisted in outrage. Erupting into fury and motion without hesitation, he launched himself forward in order to close the distance between them, but Luo-Luo remained unfazed as she twirled back a single step and brought her chain whipping about, the weapon wrapping in a loose coil around her back and free outstretched hand before swinging back out in full force to stop Hideo in his tracks once more.

