Finally, the others took notice of their exchange and the sea of combatants parted to make way, and while both sides remained wary of the other, everyone on the battlefield now knew that the outcome of this duel might well decide the overall victor of the battle. How they all came to this conclusion at the same moment in time, Sarnai could not say, but she’d seen the monk intervene against Colonel General Shuai Jiao in order to save Hideo’s life, so she imagined he would do so again if Luo-Luo was about to kill the traitor. That was all the opening Sarnai and her peers would need to deliver a devastating blow against the monk, and might well lead them to eventual victory.

To think, a year ago, Zheng Luo had come to them as a spoiled, pampered Imperial, and now she was matched against one of the strongest Warriors of her generation in her first ever life-and-death match.

Even as she watched with bated breath, Sarnai could scarcely believe how equally matched the two duellists were, with Luo-Luo twirling and dancing about while her chain came to life in her hands. Instead of blocking the third blow, Hideo moved to dodge it instead, the heavy weighted crown of Luo-Luo’s flail smashing into the ground at his side. Unperturbed by the disruption, Luo-Luo’s wrist flicked back once, then twisted and flicked a second time, which somehow sent the crown whirling towards Hideo’s head once again, only this time from a blind angle to the side. The sound of the weapon whistling through the air was all the warning her foe received, and a lesser Warrior would have died then and there, but Mitsue Hideo was not only one of the strongest youths of Central, he’d also improved by leaps and bounds since succumbing to the Father’s lies.

The attack still connected with a ringing peal, but Hideo caught the brunt of the blow on his weapon and the follow through bounced harmlessly off his Runic Armour, but to Sarnai’s surprise, the traitor still staggered beneath the glancing blow. There was more to Luo-Luo’s attacks than pure physical power, this much was clear now, and perhaps only Hideo himself was aware of what it might be. Confidence shaken by the unknown, the traitor howled in defiance, but Luo-Luo paid him no mind as she unleashed yet another attack. This time, Hideo dove out of the way, but Luo-Luo didn’t miss a beat and extended her sceptre to one side while allowing the chain to loop around her free hand and elbow. Once, twice, thrice it wrapped around her, only to dart out as she redirected the crown and ‘thrust’ out at her foe as soon as he gathered his nerve and tried to close in. Caught off guard by the unexpected direct attack, Hideo raised his maces to block once more, but this time he jumped back just before it connected, no doubt hoping to mitigate the force of the blow, one which struck with a melodious metallic chime and drove the traitor back into the ranks of his Defiled Chosen.

The note cut through the sounds of battle even as Hideo crashed into his waiting troops, and for a moment, Sarnai hoped the boy was dead and gone, but that was unlikely as the monk had yet to move. Not one to let success slow her down, Luo-Luo’s flail continued to whirl about as she gathered the chain around her, keeping the crown twirling about and the tension stored within the gathered chains, ready to unleash once more when her foe emerged from the crowd. Less than a year of practice, and Luo-Luo used her weapon as if she were born with it in her hands, a Martial Warrior deep in the throes of Insight while faced with deadly peril.

When Hideo returned to the fray, he did so in complete silence, his expression one of fury and hatred as he stalked towards his foe. The crown hissed as it cut through the air with another powerful thrust, but Hideo side-stepped on a diagonal before diving forward into a roll, neatly avoiding both initial attack and return trajectory of Luo-Luo’s cleverly manipulated weapon. Rather than catching the crown on its way back, Luo-Luo danced aside and allowed it to sail past her before grabbing the chain and releasing it, redirecting her weapon back at Hideo with effortless grace, slowing his calm advance and setting him back two steps for every three he took. The crown howled, the chains chimed, and the sceptre sang as Luo-Luo put her all into the offensive, and it was this symphony of sound combined with Luo-Luo’s rhythmic movements which finally sparked Sarnai’s comprehension.

As she noted earlier, Brother Du had explained the concept behind the Mountain Collapsing Stomp multiple times, mostly during discussions they held in the courtyard almost every night after dinner. Luo-Luo had been present more often than not, and while she never claimed to understand or even showed any interested in the discussions, it was clear she’d managed to grasp some basic form of understanding that allowed her to find Insight, for she was utilizing this same concept in her own attacks to not only neutralize Hideo’s Organ Rupturing Strikes, but also incorporate her own Reverberating variation of the same. Only the traitor could say for certain as he was the only one to experience her attacks, but Sarnai could almost hear Hideo’s teeth cracking when Luo-Luo’s cleverly chained attacked forced him to block another strike. Again, he raised both weapons to meet it, and again, he leapt back to minimize impact, and though he didn’t crash into his Defiled Chosen a second time, he was forced to give up all the ground he’d gained thanks to Luo-Luo’s overwhelming offensive.

Seeing the traitor’s hands and knees trembling ever so slightly as he struggled to steady his breath, Sarnai was certain she had it right. Some form of Amplified Reverberation was the only possible explanation, else there was no way Luo-Luo’s attacks could be so effective, lacking in raw power as she so obviously was. Dazzling though her dance might be, her movements were neither fast nor powerful, but deliberate and compelling, a show far superior in aesthetics and execution compared to Ishin Ken Shibu’s overrated sword dance. Where the pompous Central brat’s opera show was largely impractical for combat, Luo-Luo’s performance was both beautiful and functional for the battlefield, her movements timed to the music of her weapon and speaking to Sarnai on a deeper level, hinting at secrets she lacked the ability to comprehend, yet was still enlightening to see in action nonetheless.

Luo-Luo’s flail seemed to come to life as it whirled and darted about, a fanged snake striking, encircling, and even slamming down on its foe, wrapping around the tree, columns, and enemy alike to strike at Hideo from unexpected angles. At times, the weapon returned to coil around Luo-Luo, but never once did the girl falter in her steps as she demonstrated a mastery of her weapon few could ever hope to match. Even Tursinai, a rising dragon of her generation and a prodigy with her chain and sickle, would be hard pressed to match Luo-Luo’s superlative movements, though allowances had to be made since the girl was currently under the influence of Insight. How much she retained was yet to be seen, but somehow, Sarnai suspected Luo-Luo would have no trouble recapturing this dance in the next few months, assuming she survived the night at least.

An outcome which was still up for debate, as she was not the only genius taking part in this duel. Loath as Sarnai was to admit it, Mitsue Hideo was no paper tiger and had earned his place in the Hwarang, a young man who might well have emerged victorious as the Number One Talent in the Empire if the Legate’s contest had been held on solid ground. It was only out of consideration for Imperial Face that kept Hideo from utilizing the Mountain Collapsing Stomp on the prepared floating stage, a handicap he was unable to overcome during his duel against Dastan, but if he’d been free to act, Sarnai couldn’t see how anyone short of Rain could have defeated Hideo in single combat. The traitor here before her today was much improved, and talented though Luo-Luo might be, she still fell short in comparison to the top talents of the Empire when it came to raw ability and experience, a flaw Hideo saw through and exploited.

As soon as the traitor changed up his rhythm of attack, Luo-Luo’s dance faltered for a fraction of a second, but it was enough to reveal her inexperience. By mixing feints and false starts into his routine, Hideo was able to throw Luo-Luo off, and while she adapted remarkably well after being fooled once, it was enough to taint her thoughts with doubts and indecision, which was almost as bad as falling for Hideo’s tricks. Step by step the traitor advanced, dodging all of Luo-Luo’s attacks until he finally worked out how to counter her piercing Reverberations. Since the Reverberations were transmitted through physical contact, he simply utilized his Domain Deflection to keep the flail from ever actually connecting with anything but Domain and air, silencing Luo-Luo’s harmonic chiming. Rhythm and melody both impeded, Luo-Luo was forced to shorten her flail as Hideo advanced, looping the chain around one arm, then the next, then trapping a portion underfoot while all the while keeping it taut and ready to use. Alas, despite all her efforts, she was fast approaching the end of her rope as Hideo’s unstoppable advance brought him almost within striking distance.

Sarnai could already see how the duel would play out, and it did not end well for Luo-Luo. In close quarters combat, the girl would quickly be overwhelmed by Hideo’s superior strength, speed, and skill, and the Imperial Warriors would no longer be able to hold back. The Defiled Chosen would then follow suit, and the lucky Imperials would die before the Enemy started taking captives, for there were many fates far worse than death. If it came to it, then Sarnai would make sure to end Luo-Luo’s suffering first, before taking her own life as well. Her blockhead of a husband would be inconsolable for a time, and it pained her to do this to him, but she was only hastening her death by a few decades, if that, so at least then he could move on all the sooner.

Her heart clenched as Hideo stepped into striking range, but instead of attacking with his maces, he took another step to get even closer. Ready to gamble with the lives of everyone in the district just to save her daughter-in-law, Sarnai ignored the surging Aura of threat from the monk and almost leapt into action, but then Luo-Luo exploded in a dizzying flurry of motion. With less than a forearm’s length of chain still unsecured, Luo-Luo’s weapon sang as she whirled the crown about in a blur and brought it down on Hideo’s shoulder, an attack he Deflected away using his Domain. Wasting no time in recovering from the block, Luo-Luo drew her arm back and down to bring her still swinging weapon around in an arc, but her movements were not fast enough to land a strike. Already, Hideo’s maces were lowering to block the second strike, but then he faltered in place as a green blur darted out from Luo-Luo’s nightgown to snap at his face. Though her poisoned glands had been removed, young Noodle didn’t know it yet, nor did Hideo who flinched at the unexpected sight of a deadly, venomous serpent emerging from Luo-Luo’s undergarments.

Which gave the girl just enough time to slam the crown of her sceptre home, with a meaty thunk right between the traitor’s legs.

Though his mangled manhood could be healed, Luo-Luo crushed what little dignity the traitor still had left to him as the emasculating blow set him careening through the air with a high-pitched howl of agony. Every man on the field collectively winced in pain, with more than few gasps and giggles following soon after, but pleased as she was with Luo-Luo’s accomplishment, Sarnai was in no mood for levity as the monk’s Aura intensified even further, his rage and menace crushing down on her and making it difficult to even breathe. To her right, she sensed Gunan struggling to even remain standing while Kuang Biao, Seven, and Five weathered the Aura with grace and aplomb, their swords drawn and spirits surging. Some Imperial skill perhaps, something to defend against such crippling Aura attacks, but while Sarnai resented the Imperial Clan for hoarding their secrets, her grumbling could wait for another time.

Because while Hideo might have been injured and humiliated, he was not dead yet.

Though moving with a noticeable limp, Hideo returned to the battlefield with such alacrity Sarnai wondered if he could even feel pain. Roaring in anger as he set to with his maces, he charged headlong at Luo-Luo who’d let her vigilance slip in the face of supposed victory, yet another sign of her inexperience. Again, she recovered well, but by the time she reacted, Hideo had already closed half the distance and was almost within striking range, and Sarnai could see the desperation in Luo-Luo’s eyes as she struggled to find Insight once more. Without it, the girl still made a good fight of it, and Sarnai even thought she might pull off another victory, but then the monk clapped his hands and started chanting in a deep, resounding baritone, one that stilled Hideo and Luo-Luo both for all of half a second.

