The monk only uttered a single sentence, perhaps five syllables in total, but then he clapped again and Hideo took up the chant. Though lacking in impact, Hideo’s droning chant was equally disorienting and set the hairs on the back of Sarnai’s neck to standing, but the effect on Luo-Luo was far more devastating. Unable to hear the ‘music’ or find her rhythm, the girl’s movements fell apart as she struggled and failed to put up an effective defence. Pushing through with nothing but speed and strength, Hideo advanced into striking range and the rest of the battle progressed as expected. His mace smashed into her raised sceptre and sent her careening away with cry, only to be cut short as the second mace clipped her ankle and sent her crashing to the ground.

Then Hideo cut his chant short to howl in hunger and hatred, leaping upon Luo-Luo with mouth open and avarice in his eyes, and Sarnai could stand still no more.

Her spear lanced out to pierce the traitor’s head, but the monk’s empty hand closed around the haft and stopped it in place. Kuang Biao appeared behind him, but the monk avoided the deadly thrust with a careless tilt of the head. Lifting Sarnai off her feet, he utilized her and her spear as cudgel to batter Royal Five and Royal Seven out of mid air while driving the breath out of Sarnai’s lungs in the process. Gunan’s attack arrived late, but rather than target the monk, he aimed his sword at Luo-Luo, if only to spare her the pain of rape and torture. The monk expected this as well and simply booted the poor man aside, and Sarnai could do nothing except cling to her spear and listen to Luo-Luo’s screams of panic and terror as Hideo tore her clothes and bit into her shoulder with voracious appetite, while Noodle latched onto her hated foe with unhinged ferocity.

No, no. Not like this. The poor girl deserved better, and Sarnai would not let her suffer so.

The scene of Luo-Luo’s magnificent dance played out in Sarnai’s mind once more, and the sounds of the outside world stilled as she listened to the music of Luo-Luo’s battle. The crown howling as it cut through the wind, the chain jingling as they were pulled taut around her, the sceptre singing as it twirled in her hand, all in harmonious accompaniment to the ringing peals of her impacting weapon. This was a melody only Luo-Luo could truly hear, but Sarnai caught snippets of it by simply watching, and a realization washed over her as she listened. Luo-Luo was utilizing rhythm, timing, cadence, and harmonies in her battle, but not solely in a physical sense. The music also helped her regulate the flow of Chi and grasp the timing of Amplification and Reverberation, like a guideline to how to unleash her variation of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp. Follow the notes and the rest fell into place, with the natural melody of the world – no, the Heavens themselves – keeping time for her and showing her exactly how to unleash her subtle yet debilitating attacks.

And now Sarnai could hear that same melody, not in the music of battle, but the orchestra of her own body. Her strained breaths, beating heart, pounding chest, and creaking bones, all of it came together and guided her to the proper conclusion, so she drew upon the zither lessons her mother used to teach her and poured Chi into her spear.

The Reverberation started as almost nothing, but Sarnai built it up with dazzling speed, like the rapid strumming of the zither strings building up from quiet whisper to earsplitting clamour in the blink of an eye. Sensing danger, the monk released his hold on her spear, but the Piercing Star was aptly named as she Cloud-Stepped on empty air and rammed the weapon home in his chest. All the power she’d built up was released in an instant, the force Amplified a hundred times over into a single, devastating attack, one that struck home with a clap of thunder and broke Sarnai’s wrist upon impact, but it had a far greater effect on the monk.

The shockwave blew Sarnai away from her foe, and by the time she recovered, so too had the monk, but rather than use this time to recover or retaliate, he collected the young traitor instead. Instinctively moving to shield bloodied Luo-Luo in her torn and tattered nightgown, Sarnai took up her spear in her left hand and readied to fight to the death, disappointed that her powerful attack had barely pierced her foe’s skin. Though her spear would’ve made short work of his hardened Domain, the monk was simply too fast to hit, dodging back and away from her thrust so that only the tip of her spear touched flesh. Even this much was enough to render his right arm weak however, as the Honed and Reverberating forces wrought havoc on his innards and forced him to carry Hideo like a log rather than hold him up with a single hand.

Then the Imperial Experts struck, and Sarnai was once again taken aback by their skill.

Kuang Biao took the lead as Royal Five and Seven followed suit, three Experts fighting with such flawless coordination there was no mistaking their familiarity. They’d practised together before and it showed in their execution, all moving in for the kill without hesitation and taking turns risking their lives while trusting the other two to protect them. Killing blow after killing blow was blocked by the monk, but not only were his efforts limited by the coordinated attacks of his foes, he was also hindered by the fact that all the attacks were aimed at Hideo rather than himself. The monk’s flesh was tough and his hardened Domain durable, but the same could not be said of the traitor, and it seemed the monk valued his ward’s life over victory or even escape as he fought three Peak Experts to a standstill.

And then Gunan attacked again and drew blood by pure luck.

His all out attack threw off the Royal Guardians’ coordination, but to everyone’s surprise, the former Aspirant’s wild swing struck home and carved a shallow furrow into the monk’s left shoulder. The counter-kick caved in Gunan’s chest and ended his life before he could even bask in his accomplishment, but then Kuang Biao’s sword pierced through the same wound and the monk –

Changed.

Stoic and unflappable. That was how Sarnai would have described the monk’s demeanour, his attitude unchanging even when Luo-Luo’s crushing blow landed between Hideo’s legs, but now... now the monk was angry. Features contorted in wrath and fury, the monk howled with guttural hate as he headbutted Kuang Biao to the ground. Seven and Five appeared a split second too late, and were summarily swatted aside with a single backhand, their armour shattered and bones broken before their still bodies hit the ground. Advancing on Sarnai with purpose and alacrity, the monk paid her no mind as his eyes were fixed on Luo-Luo, his mind already moving on before Sarnai was even dead.

A mistake, for she was not the same Warrior she was this morning, not with Insight singing in her veins.

Pierce the Horizon shot out, a movement Sarnai had practised countless times before, only this left-handed thrust contained everything she learned about the Mountain Collapsing Stomp. Again, she strummed the strings and built the trilling notes up to a resounding crescendo, but this time, she did not release it as a mere strike. No, impacts were for clubs, maces, boots, and other blunt objects, which was why the Mountain Collapsing Stomp was ill-suited for her weapon, so Sarnai adapted it and made it her own by combining it with yet another skill she’d long since polished, the Deadly Thorns of the Mountain Rose. Originally, she envisioned releasing shards of Chi with her fingertips so that she could defend herself while confined to her wheelchair, since she had no way to carry her spear herself, but now, she unleashed a Deadly Thorn from the tip of her spear, utilizing the full-extent of her Domain to project a Honed, pulsating blade of Chi that stretched well over a metre long. Caught unawares by the range of her attack, the monk misjudged his Deflection and the Deadly Thorn bit deep, exploding into a Thorny Bush of Honed Chi. The Piercing Star drove home as his body staggered back from the Amplified impact and Honed Reverberations coursing throughout his body, bleeding from a thousand cuts both inside and out.

Twice now, Sarnai had made the monk bleed, but even this was not enough to kill him. Retreating away with Hideo in his grasp, the monk scowled as blood dripped from his mouth and lacerated torso while Sarnai added yet another facet of his unpleasant appearance, one she had missed until now: crooked, jagged teeth, not to the point of fangs, but it was startling to see so blatant a defect in a Martial Warrior as powerful as he. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the monk intoned, lacking the calm and serenity of his former brothers as his multitude of injuries knit back together before Sarnai’s eyes. “Little flies, all truly deserving of death for hindering this monk’s Disciple and his progress along the Path.”

Though her spirits were flagging and Chi-reserves low, Sarnai’s courage did not fail her as she settled into her one-handed spear stance, her broken wrist left untended since she couldn’t afford the distraction. “Come,” she said, smiling through the pain and exhaustion, for the hymn of battle still sang in her veins. “Let us see who will live and who will die. Twice I’ve bled you now, but I suspect the third time will do the trick.”

“Hmph. Arrogant fool.” Though physically nothing changed, the monk seemed to grow three sizes larger in Sarnai’s eyes as his Aura surged with menace, but she would not be intimidated by unspoken threats. “You think yourself my match? You know not the heights of Heaven, for you are but a frog –”

A dull crack rang out in the darkness of night, and blood spurted out of the monk’s ruined left eye, and then the monk and the traitor were both gone. The Defiled Chosen still remained, but cloaked Warriors appeared out of the shadows, perched atop the manor walls and ready to rush in. Dozens more appeared inside the courtyard proper, standing between Sarnai and the Enemy with their weapons at the ready and Auras blazing with courage and conviction. A hand reached out to steady Sarnai on her feet, and she almost lashed out in blind panic until she saw who it was, plain, unremarkable MuYang draping his cloak around Luo-Luo’s huddled, shivering shoulders. “Well fought,” he said, his tone dull and flat as ever, but Sarnai took no issue with it here and now. “Templars, clean up what the Imperial Consort started.”

And the cloaked Warriors fell upon the Enemy with silent efficiency, killing without passion or fury.

Revising her somewhat low opinion of Luo-Luo’s unassuming spymaster, Sarnai considered asking Mila to craft her a Spiritual Gun as well while binding the poor girl’s wound, an ugly bite mark marring her otherwise fair shoulder. Noodle watched her work with a wary eye, and Sarnai made a note to speak with Taduk about undoing whatever he did to the beautiful snake to render her venom inert, for she had proven herself a loyal friend and able guardian tonight. With Luo-Luo’s life no longer in danger, Sarnai watched MuYang’s cloaked Warriors run roughshod over the Chosen, only to realize that almost every last one of them here in the courtyard was at least an Expert, with no less than ten Peak Experts Sarnai could see. What’s more, from what she could hear, the Defiled Chosen stationed outside the manor were no better off, their screams of impotence ringing out into the night before being cut short by death or dismemberment. “How did you know to come here?” she asked, eyeing the spymaster with suspicion. “How many did you bring?” And how was he paying or feeding all of them?

Offering the barest hint of a smile without actually moving his lips, the spymaster said, “Junior Yimu informed this one of Consort Zheng Luo’s plans. The Enemy has been frantically searching for information regarding the Legate’s whereabouts, so it wasn’t much of a stretch to assume they would try to capture and interrogate the good Consort here in hopes of extracting the Legate’s location. Thus, I brought out the full force available to me, five thousand Templar Aspirants hailing from all across the Empire, though this one apologizes for the long wait before we revealed ourselves. This one thought it best to move into position to ensure none would escape.” Nodding in appreciation, he added, “Clever of the Bekhai not to contest the Colonel General to make it appear as if the Legate’s situation had grown dire. If not for this, then I suspect the Enemy might have dispatched a more powerful force, though we will have to investigate how they made their way past the Western Wall without notice.”

Truth be told, Sarnai had wanted to take up arms against Shuai Jiao and beat the fool bloody, but her block-headed husband sided with Mother-in-Law Akanai and convinced her that Luo-Luo knew what was best for the Empire. If the girl saw fit to back down without a fight, then it was likely the right move, as evidenced by how quickly she bounced back to lend aid to the commoners most affected by the attacks.

