That aside, five thousand Templars? Was that what the Aspirants called their Warrior division? The last Sarnai heard, MuYang had maybe a dozen silent Martial Warriors guarding Rain night and day, as well as a handful of other Warriors in public positions like Gunan, while the bulk of his spy network was comprised of faithful commoners, but now the spymaster had a veritable army of trained Experts at his beck and call. Sensing the unspoken question, MuYang offered a slight shrug and even furrowed his brow ever so slightly, which for anyone else was like throwing his hands up in confused frustration. “There was a time when the Aspirants’ network stretched all across the outer provinces, the efforts of loyal sons and daughters of the Empire who’d taken up Heaven’s cause. After Goujian’s betrayal, most went to ground and disappeared, but these last few months saw many come out of hiding to support the Legate, while others are new to our cause.” Frowning, he lowered his voice and added, “Oddly enough, they all said the same thing, that they were guided to the cause by the Mother above, claims I had no choice but to believe since they kept finding me in person despite the great lengths I went to in order to stay hidden.”

“...Perhaps the Heavens have not abandoned us yet,” Sarnai said, stroking poor, shocked Luo-Luo’s hair in an effort to soothe her fear, hoping this defeat would not poison her mind and ruin her promising future. “First the Stormguard, now the Templar Aspirants, the weapons we have to wield against the Enemy has grown once more.” Not to mention Luo-Luo and her increased strength putting her close to the forefront of her peers, and Sarnai could not be any prouder. Putting MuYang and his secrets out of mind for the moment, Sarnai focused on her daughter-in-law and said, “There, there, girl. Nothing to fear anymore. You fought well, and you are safe now, you hear?” Though she broke down into a wail and cried, Luo-Luo finally returned Sarnai’s hug and buried her face into her shoulder, and for a few minutes, comforting the poor girl was the only thing that mattered.

Because even if this Daughter-in-Law had not come to them by choice, Zheng Luo was one of the People, and Sarnai loved her like her own. Now if only Rain would get over his stubborn, mulish streak and give the poor girl a chance as well. Sarnai wasn’t getting any younger, and she wanted at least three more grandchildren to spoil before she was too old to care for them anymore.

Chapter Meme
