I expelled my breath in a huff. “Alright. I understand. Not a fan, but… I hear you. So, what can you do? We’re short a Mage who can work with the weirdness we’ve got going, and a sniper, because they were a team.”

He chuckled. “Y’all are a bunch of special needs sluggers, that’s for sure. Be precise. What’d ya want? Better eyes? More boom?”

“Better eyes would be amazing. Somebody on the Path of Perception who’d be able to scout for us, make sure we don’t get ambushed. The three of us are kinda limited in that we need a good deal of setup to work best. Whatever they can do apart from that would just be a bonus, honestly. Boosts, damage, whatever.” I considered his other suggestion. “As for more damage? Sure. We’d take that. A healer would be nice, if there are any.”

He nearly choked with laughter at the suggestion. “Bless your heart, son. I reckon every single group out there’d sell their sister for a healer.” He waved his hand in a vague easterly direction. “Only ones with an abundance of healers are them Asian military folks. And that’s because those in charge force ‘em to pick what they choose.” He shook his head. “Healer’s just another Mage. There’s no guarantee you’re even getting a proper healing talent for the first tier. That means you might be stuck until Level 5 just banking talent points, risking your life as you try to level up, without even allowing ‘em to pick something to protect themselves. Poor fuckers.”

I grimaced. That was diabolical. Not only would it lock those poor bastards into support positions for life. It’d also that they would be even more stuck with that coalition. Especially because there’s be a language barrier involved. Even if he wanted to and dared, how would some poor Thai labourer be able to make himself understood enough to jump ship and join another grouping?

It wasn’t like I knew any of the other groupings properly. There were bound to be plenty of good people in them, tons of aid to help lift you up, incentives to keep you on the road to success. But dammit, if it didn’t look like we were planning to continue with the same tired bullshit in this new world that we’d played since forever on Earth. “I’ll be honest. If healers aren’t really a thing, we’ll probably take whatever we can that won’t interfere with our getup.”

“Darn tootin, you will.” He waved me off. “Now git. I’ve gotta take a leak. I’ll have something for ya in the morning.”
