“For the first phase, one hundred portals rose in a ring around the rooftop. A wave of mechanical beasts came pouring through them every three minutes. Team Earth raced to break the portals before we were buried in a tide of clockwork critters. It was a tough engagement, but thanks to the gains we made while climbing the tower, humanity was able to hold our own.

“Things got a lot tougher during phase two, when more portals appeared and unleashed an army of clockwork soldiers. Those constructs were no joke, and some good people died trying to hold them back. But with some help from Kenji’s elite units, we were able to stem the tide and start breaking some portals. So far, the battle that would determine the fate of Earth and everyone who called her home was looking good.

“That all changed when the third phase began. There were only two portals this time, but the thirty-foot clockwork giants that emerged from them were deadly as fuck. Even after letting loose with our strongest attacks, Team Earth was only able to take one of the big bastards down, and we couldn’t break their portals. Making a bad situation worse, everything went to shit when the next wave of giants arrived only two minutes after the first, and it looked like our story was about to end in tragedy.

“But in the heart of our darkest moment, our heroes arrived. Outlined by the Earth hanging in the sky above, Devin and Nick appeared on the battlefield—two of humanity’s strongest warriors. This was your big moment, Devin, so why don’t you wrap up the end of the fight?

“Will do, Veronica. Fantastic job with the recap by the way. Nick and I were late to the party, but we were just in time to help turn things around. The third phase of the battle was already underway, and an army of clockwork beasts, soldiers, and giants was hitting Team Earth hard. We needed to deal with the Guardian, but first, we had to take some pressure off our friends so they could do their part while we engaged the boss.

“Nick and I let loose with some smashy smash choppy chops, then attacked the device controlling the portals to draw the Guardian out. That living machine was a total badass—our toughest enemy to date by far. We gave it our all, and it seemed like we had the upper hand, but it turned out the metal bastard was toying with us the whole time. It removed its Tier-1 Limiter, then hit us with the full fury of a Tier-2 elite.

“We had undergone some crazy growth recently, but that was too much even for us. Just when we thought we were done for, the rest of Team Earth began buffing us with supportive magic, giving us the boost we needed to win the fight. Once the Guardian was dead, the Earth was finally safe… or so we thought.

“Taltos and the System made a surprise appearance, fighting over the rules for the Fate of Earth quest chain. You’ll have to ask Nick about the details, but both of them had added a few tweaks, trying to one up the other. Taltos made the Guardian crazy strong, and the System snuck in a special Diamond reward for humanity if they were able to bring it down. Nick also learned the full story of how the System had been planning to invade the Labyrinth all along—seeding worlds with champions and then tricking Taltos into stealing them.

“In the end, the System won their dispute, securing the Diamond reward for humanity and granting us a one-year protection period after we became full citizens of the Labyrinth and the Earth was installed into the outskirts. We had just enough time to give a Species-Experience Pill to Sophia, V, and Kenji before the teleportation sequence began and book three came to an end.”

“Although our planet is safe for now, we still have a long fight ahead of us before we shake off the shackles of the Mad God for good. That brings us to the end of today’s recap. Thanks for sticking around to the end. That reminds me, I have a favor to ask before we say goodbye.

“If you are enjoying this series and want it to continue, please consider leaving a rating or review right now and mentioning LotMG to your friends. A story lives and dies by its reviews, and we could really use your help. Thank you so much for following along with our adventures and I’ll see you soon. Why don’t you get the last word in, Veronica?”

“Sure. I just wanted to add my thanks to Devin’s and let you know that we have something special planned for book four. I won’t include any spoilers, but I think you’re really going to enjoy it. Have a fantastic day. Now, let’s check in with Nick and get this story rolling along. Bye for now!”
