“Wait a minute,” I interject. “So, you’re telling me I could’ve gotten the Poison Resistance skill just by drinking one of these potions? If so, why did you make me drink toad eggs this entire time?" I growl.

Again, Tabitha laughed at my frustration, but thankfully she didn't cough this time, which was a good sign. "You're right; you could’ve. Though if that was the case, we would’ve only had one vial when we really needed it. Also, aren’t you curious how much the potion was?”

I could practically picture Tabitha’s grin based on her tone of voice, but damn it, she knew how to tease me with information. "I'm guessing more than the healing potion. 500 gold coins?” I speculate.

"Close, 610. Each," Tabitha stresses the last word, and I make a hissing sound from rapidly sucking in air.

Holly crap, they were a lot of money! Wait a minute; I start doing the math in my head. We each drank a poison resistance potion, Tabitha drank one of the healing ones, and I drank one of the mana potions; overall, the four potions were worth 1,750 gold coins!

"I take it by your silence; you've finally realized what it took to save us," Tabitha remarks in a subdued voice.

“We drank a fortune,” I don’t need to be able to see my reflection to know I’ve gone pale.

“And it was worth it. We’re both alive,” Tabitha pauses. “For now.”

"If they were that expensive, does that mean your potions were tier 5?" I purposely ignored that last part of what Tabitha said, as I refused to think negatively after making it this far.

“I wish,” Tabitha huffs. “No, all the potions I had were only tier 4. High-quality, mind you, but only tier 4."

“That’s it? But they were so strong; and expensive?” I’m shocked to hear such potions were only tier 4 and not 5.

“Nope, just tier 4,” Tabitha again assures me. “I don’t think you understand the gulf between tier 4 and 5. Like blacksmiths, tailors, or any other crafting profession, few apothecaries can make anything considered tier 5. So tier 4 is the best most people can get their hands on, and people above level 120 strictly monopolize gear higher than that. It's the same reason my gear couldn't hold up against the snake."

“I thought the snake was just that strong," I mumble in a quiet voice, but I might as well have been shouting in the silent ruins.

“That too,” Tabitha growls in what sounds like frustration. “I didn’t think we’d encounter a lesser dragon out here, especially not one strong enough to create its own mana zone. So if we went to combat it, we'd need to-," Tabitha's voice suddenly cuts off.

“What’s a mana zone?” I ask curiously, but Tabitha doesn’t answer me. “Tabitha, is everything ok?” I ask again.

“Tell me, Aaliyah; you're watching our surroundings with Sense Mana like you always do, yes?” Tabitha ignores my question for her own, immediately putting me on guard.

“Always,” I answer. Even now, I have a clear picture of the rooms surrounding us.

“And you don’t sense anything?” Tabitha asks, sounding worried now.

“I don’t. Do you?" I push Sense Mana to its limits without entering a meditative state, trying to find whatever was worrying Tabitha.

“My danger sense skills started going off," Tabitha's anxious voice echoes throughout the quiet room.

“I don’t see anything!" I shout, panicking about the invisible enemy not even Sese Mana could spot. “I don’t have any mana to summon a light.”

“I can’t do much, but I can do that,” Tabitha proclaims in the dark.

“Tikth idwessgh fral nhtig!”

Tabitha casts a spell I'm unfamiliar with, but seeing how a ball of light quickly condenses a few feet above her, I'm assuming it's Scholl's version of my light spell.

Once again, the room we’re in is illuminated with light, and no sooner than it is, do they start emerging from the walls.
