Erick tried, “[Call Lightning] was the first spell I made. The rest flowed from there. Rain was a byproduct which I expanded upon afterward. All I know is that you’re a Rain Mage, so… I’m not sure what to tell you. Rain was just a happy accident of my own spellwork. I’m sorry. I cannot help you in this.”

Shendeng said, “Just admit it was Goldie, the Shade of Assassination. She got in here and she gave you my spellwork. It’s why she’s still alive and Blessed by you while all the rest are dead. It’s why she’s running around setting notes on pillows, threatening the release of even more secrets unless we cooperate with Melemizargo’s plans for peace and prosperity.”

Erick sighed.

He didn’t know much about any of that. But...

Erick asked, “Is she actually doing that?”

“Yes!” Shendeng said, “And since Songli is working with her, then Songli needs to die!”

“How about this: I will find her and stop whatever she is doing. I found her once, I can probably do it again. Finding people is not hard for me; and that is my own magic, completely.” So even if I did want your fucking magic then I could probably just find you and take it you pompous… Erick didn’t say that. Instead, Erick asked, “Will that be acceptable? No more of your secrets will spill out into the world. Or at least not through Goldie.”

The lightning wolf stared for a long moment. Then, he said, “Not my preferred outcome, but it is more acceptable than working with priest-killers and civilian murderers.” He paused, then let out a sudden laugh, and said, “A pet Shade on a leash!” More seriously, he added, “And they won’t turn on you if you make them slaves. A fitting punishment if I ever heard one.” The wolf retreated, adding, “I demand satisfaction soon, Archmage Flatt! Or else I will work with these priest killers even though it pains me! We cannot have Shades moving in the shadows of Songli. You might not have known they were doing this, but it’s a bad look for you either way.”

Erick had a very, very low opinion of Shendeng, but he kept that opinion to himself. Instead, he said, “I will need time to find her and inform her of my displeasure, and to investigate all of the new information I have received today. How about no one do any war for a month, and we revisit this problem then? We can even get a priest of Koyabez to erect a [Zone of Peace] in the talks, so that no one can cast any harmful spells at each other.”

Many of the gathered people seemed to approve of the idea; it was written on the relaxation of faces, and in the loosening of shoulders, and fists. But just as fast, the other people, the ones from Terror Peaks, went hard. Raidu was still behind a bubble, but the other ones weren’t. They made their opinions known.

“Shades have always walked the streets of Songli! You all know this!” The speaker was a woman who was at Raidu’s side, but far enough away to not be in the same bubble of Discord. Erick didn’t want to trap her when she hadn’t spoken until now. She shouted, “Erick controls the Shades! He admitted as much! He is an agent of Melemizargo!”

Another one, on the other side of the sky, yelled, “Don’t be taken in by the Wizards words! My clansman! Don’t fall for his lies!”

Raidu’s woman yelled, “He has all the New Stats!” She gasped, as though in realization; an act. She was a terrible actor, though. “He has Charisma! The Wizard has Charisma!”

That single word sent a ripple of change through the audience. Many backed away.

“Shield your mind!” a Terror Peaks clansman yelled.

Another yelled, “Kill the Wizard!”

And just like that, as though it was planned, for it likely was… There was a chant. One voice was joined by three, then by ten. Not everyone who chanted wore the style of armor of Terror Peaks, but half did.

“Kill the Wizard! Kill the Wizard! Kill the Wizard!”

Raidu’s woman leveled a spear at Erick’s lightform. The spear turned to flames, then the woman launched herself at Erick.

He was in absolutely no danger. The magic of the spear was minuscule. The woman was barely buffed up. Erick let it happen. He held Ophiel's [Animadversion] back, too, so that the woman didn’t explode herself in her own fake zealotry.

Erick, Raidu, the entire audience, watched the woman attack.

The woman burst into scattered light the instant her spear touched the [Prismatic Ward] that defended Erick’s lightform. It was as though she had exploded away…. Because she had?

Huh?

Red mist, burned flesh, and sliced bones scattered in the air.

She… She killed herself?

Is that… Is that what happened?

“Murderer!” exclaimed a man, right on cue. “Murdering Wizard!”

Erick was still trying to process what he had seen.

His first instinct was that this was some sort of [Teleport] farce. But he had [Soul Sight] running. Through [Soul Sight], he watched as the woman’s soul broke apart and vanished from where she had been. She had not done some odd [Teleport]-like effect. She had truly killed herself.

That had actually happened.

Erick shivered, but he was not so deep in revulsion that he didn’t recognize when a new person [Teleport]ed into the nearby air.

The newcomer was a man in flowing red robes, hovering a hundred meters from Ophiel. Erick recognized him. Everyone did. The chanting stopped, as Patriarch Xangu took the field. He was the man who claimed credit for the attack on Koyabez’s temples.

Xangu’s voice filled the world, “The Wizard has shown his true nature. He is aligned with Shadow and Darkness.” A spear appeared in Xangu’s right hand. It was a thin thing of craggy metal and a single brittle point, but it was also a solid-red brightness upon the manasphere, filled with enough power to drown out everything else in the sky. A second passed, and suddenly, Erick felt fear. He watched, transfixed, as that red brightness turned to white, but not just any white. It was his own color. It was the exact shade of white as his own soul. Xangu declared, “And thus, the sentence is duly passed.”

Xangu didn’t point with the spear, or move the artifact at all. It moved in the manasphere, becoming a Forest-tree-sized weapon of a thousand, thousand points, each curving through the mana without care for the physical, each trained on its target: Erick’s soul.

The singular weapon struck each Ophiel as though it was aimed from every angle.

The spear popped [Prismatic Ward]s. It drank in the light of [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk]. A handful of spear points reflected upon [Animadversion], but the vast majority got through, into the soul of Ophiel—

And then further.

Erick had already retreated from his [Familiar], back into his own body.

The spears followed.
