This fight sucks. Every time he finally figured out where the boss was, and got to it, the stupid snake simply disappeared, forcing him to spend most of his time charging around like an idiot, growling at shadows and illusions. He couldn’t tank any of the demons either – even on the few occasions when his Challenging Roar overcame the curse, it was only for a few moments. The curse was always on and continually taunting the monsters away from him.

As he growled in frustration at missing the vanishing archer yet again, his chime sounded.

You have been cursed with Mark of Prey.

He roared his challenge again, not for the taunt, but for the strength reduction that Challenging Roar inflicted upon the wargs. He braced himself with his back against the wall and lashed out with a Swipe at the snouts of the pursuing demonic wolves, making them flinch back or yelp in pain. Unlike Ali and Malika, he couldn’t fly, but that meant he was facing down a half-circle of wargs. The only upside was all the imps’ fireballs were slamming into the back of them, instead of him.

Perfect, he thought. Even with the twenty-five percent damage vulnerability from the curse, he could still mitigate an enormous amount of incoming damage by reducing the space the enemies had to gang up on him. They kept getting in each other’s way, and Ali’s healers had free rein to walk around with impunity. Well, Ali had them under barriers to protect them from the boss’s arrows, but still.

Survival Instinct prickled, warning him of an enormous attack. He ducked low, allowing one of the wargs to rear up over him. It was a maneuver he would never have allowed otherwise, but the Flamecaller’s shot was too powerful for him to ignore. The howling arrow smashed into the warg’s spine, knocking it flying right over his head to crash against the wall. He recovered his stance, swiping at the demonic wolf that stepped up to take its place.

That’s how you block! Thanks for the assist, buddy.

Ali’s arm itched. It was almost completely regrown already, but she still felt shaken by having lost it. It was a choice she had made deliberately – she could have demanded full healing from her Acolytes, but she needed them to be ready to save the mark. Instead, she had made do with a simple holy Restoration that slowly pulsed within her, healing the damage second by second. It wasn’t like she needed the arm urgently. Although, she did have to go digging around on the ground to retrieve her Orb of Mana.

It’s been almost a minute, she thought. For the entire duration of Malika and Mato’s turns with the curse, she had realized that it wasn’t that difficult of a fight, provided you were not the ‘prey’. If you were, it was insane, and she knew she was still rattled enough to be missing important opportunities and details. She stood to the side and watched all the demons mobbing Mato, ignoring everything else in the room. Her Storm Shamans’ lightning nova totems must be racking up enormous amounts of damage as the demons didn’t even bother avoiding them in their frantic rush to get at the marked person. Although, with all the hellfire flying through the room, it was not likely they would kill anything more than a couple of imps. Still, she focused her minions on tracking down the boss, and the totems helped dispel some of the illusions whenever it teleported.

“You will be my prey.”

Suddenly, every single demon in the room stopped and turned, fixing their gaze on Calen. He gulped. His wings unfurled and he threw himself into the air, but Ali saw at least ten Amplify Casting and Accelerated Casting spell formations ripple through the horde of demonic imps.

Aah, crap! There was no way she could block all that, and Calen had no way to survive it either – perhaps if she still had her imp boosting her intelligence, her barrier may have been strong enough, but it had been wiped out early in the fight. No chance.

She threw up a barrier anyway. The first fireball detonation cracked the sphere and the second shattered it a fraction of a second later. Ali threw up another, slightly smaller orb around Calen, but the fireballs rained down like a meteor storm. Barriers shattered as fast as she could throw them up, filling the air with golden shards and dust like her terrifying fall through the ventilation shaft. Her spheres rapidly shrank in size, constricting around Calen’s body. He shouted something through the glittering fiery conflagration, but Ali couldn’t hear a thing.

“Fuck,” she muttered and triggered Arcane Recall. She needed a different strategy. In the abrupt artificial stillness and calm of her spell, she counted seven fireballs passing through the remains of her last barrier on their way toward Calen – and, to her horror, she spotted the remains of a recall potion that had been blown out of his hand, spraying trails of shattered glass and smoke out into the frozen black flames.

Quickly, she flipped the pages of her Grimoire stopping at the ooze imprint. Which creature she picked was hardly relevant, she was looking for an aptitude. And the Lava Lurker had it. Fire immunity. This should do it. Its body was also infinitely malleable. She summoned it right on top of Calen, forcing it to be created enveloping him. Sorry, Calen, she grimaced internally. It would undoubtedly be excruciatingly painful, but the flame damage from the ooze was nothing like what was about to hit him from all those imps.

Suddenly, time resumed, and the reddish scorching lava ooze appeared draped over Calen’s head and torso. “Heal Calen!” she screamed, sending the commands to her Acolytes, but they were already focused on him. His panicked cry of alarm was muffled from inside the body of the ooze.

That must be terrifying, she thought. He had been staring death in the eye and suddenly he was drowning, smothered by crawling lava. And she had been unable to warn him beforehand. The detonations of hellfire blasted shockwaves through the room, and her Acolytes scrambled to heal Calen in the epicenter of the blasts. Imps launched themselves recklessly into the fire, trying desperately to cling to the Lava Lurker or Calen’s burning legs, only to fall screaming back into the seething mass of demons on the ground. Ali ignored them, her attention glued to the sight of Calen’s wildly fluctuating health. As soon as the last of the instant fireballs detonated, Ali threw up a fresh barrier around Calen and made the ooze release him.

“Sorry,” she called out.

Calen coughed, his face rapidly unburning to an unhealthy pasty white under the ministrations of the healers. “Uh… no problem.” He was visibly shaking from the unpleasant and extremely painful experience, but he was alive. Ali fed her barrier magic more mana. It’s a good thing my barrier recovers some mana on impact, she thought. The amount of mana she was pouring into the construct was quite ridiculous, but then, so was the damage she was preventing.

Ali hovered above the mass of demons that now completely filled the cavern. They were even crawling over one another to gain height to try and reach the flying half-elf.

“Brace!” Malika shouted. “He’s doing something big!”

“That’ wasn’t big enough?” Calen yelped.

Whatever it was, she couldn’t see anything from the raid boss’s mana – it simply stood there, hellfire winking out of existence, leaving his bow plain and unadorned. He raised it to the roof and fired a single shot, but as the air filled with a thousand arrows, Ali gasped in alarm.

She slammed a thick barrier overhead and hunkered down next to her Acolytes while she screamed for her friends and minions to come to take cover. Then the storm descended. It was like a hailstorm of arrows that went on and on. Not a single drop of fire magic was present; every single arrow that fell was solely physical damage. Her mana drained, feeding her barrier spell as it was unable to recover anything from the purely physical, stamina-based skill. Calen ducked under her barrier, followed by Malika. Mato charged under cover, his back bristling with arrows like a porcupine. Whichever of her minions did not make it to cover died to the unrelenting onslaught, along with every single demon in the room.

No fire, she realized. The boss was clearing the room before the demons got out of hand. Fire didn’t work against them, so this skill seemed ideally suited to the job. She downed a mana potion to keep up with the demands of maintaining her barrier magic, replacing it every time it cracked, and simply endured. She was reminded of the time they had hidden from the bone spear breath of the Skeletal Wyvern in the library – that feeling of helplessness in the face of an overwhelming onslaught.

Suddenly there was silence, so stark after the din that it hurt her ears, and she recovered her wits, looking around. But in that moment, she saw something horrifying; a powerful surge of mana drawn from each of the demon corpses flowed back through the domain to the Flamecaller, and the boss’s health began to rapidly recover.

“You will be my prey.”

You have been cursed with Mark of Prey.

This time she was more prepared – she collapsed her barrier around herself and fired her shards at the Flamecaller boss as its bow once again flared with the roaring hellfire flames.

“Calen, he healed to full when he cleared the room,” Ali yelled, sharing the disastrous news. “He drew mana from each of the bodies and it all went into healing.”

“Go all out after the next teleport, I’ll use Righteous Fury,” Calen called out. “Mato, get in front of the rift and use your Battlemaster. Kill all the demons.”

Carefully, Ali backed up against the rock wall, and sure enough, the boss vanished right on cue. She removed the back half of her barrier, reinforcing the front instead, relying on the rock behind her to keep her safe. It seemed that Calen had understood her guess; the boss somehow healed from the monsters he killed, and his new strategy seemed to be to deny the boss any more kills, relying on Mato’s potent retaliation attack when the monsters ignored him running past to attack the Prey.

Ali didn’t have time to watch him down there, focused instead on wherever the boss might appear. She whipped her head to the side as the howling noise of the boss’s powerful attack filled the chamber and instinctively shifted her barrier. The room shook and her barrier shattered, but this time she had built enough defense and a properly angled barrier surface. The arrow deflected slightly as it destroyed her golden wall and glanced off her shoulder to bury itself deep in the granite behind her. All she sustained was a small wound and a lingering patch of hellfire as the Power Shot expended its energy into the rock.

Thank goodness, she thought as a small trickle of restoration magic repaired her wound. I can be much smarter about barrier angles and types. I wonder what else I can do? Arrow funnels? Arcs that return arrows to their sender – oh, crap!

She slammed up another barrier as two imps entered via the shimmering rift and fixed their eyes on her – but their fixation triggered Mato’s retaliation skill, and the loud thumps and crashes of his blurring strikes filled the room. Up in the center, suspended on glowing wings, Calen’s mana ignited, outshining the rift itself. His skill activation signaled their counterattack. The pulsing motes of light flared with intense power, and Ali directed her minions to attack without holding back. “All on the boss!” If they ran out of mana or stamina, she would deal with that later. Skills flared, and the room filled with lightning, magic, totems, and arrows.

She studied the Flamecaller’s health while everything in the chamber howled, hissed, crackled, and flickered. It was the best opportunity for their counterattack, given that the boss had just cleared the room of demons for them. The Flamecaller’s health spiraled rapidly downward under the hail of the empowered arrows Calen was firing, Malika’s flickering punches, and even her barrier shards. Her job, though, was still to keep her healers out of harm’s way. They were weak enough to die instantly to a single arrow. But Mato’s presence at the rift was having a major impact – she did not have to defend herself much against demons even though she was cursed, they were either trapped there by roots or killed from the combination of lightning totems and his powerful retaliation strikes as they all failed to pay attention to him under the influence of the powerful Mark of Prey.

Calen’s light finally faded, but the boss still stood. He was so close to death it was a wonder he could still move, but he fired his teleport, vanishing and leaving five images behind. At the same moment, the handful of remaining live demons that had come through the rift turned to Mato and began attacking him. In a moment of surprise, Ali realized she had survived her turn as prey without really noticing the curse expiring.

“Mato’s cursed,” Ali shouted.

“Shit!” Calen exclaimed, realizing the implications instantly. If Mato had the curse, the demons would no longer ignore him – which meant his Battlemaster wouldn’t trigger, and their primary tool for killing them was rendered ineffective.

“I’ll block,” Ali suggested, not certain if the improvised strategy would even work. She dropped her heavy barrier and instead threw up barriers around the demons Mato was fighting at the rift.

If that snake kills even one or two, he will heal again. She had no desire to let the Flamecaller kill his way back to health.

There was a sudden howl and crash, followed by a roar of pain as a hellfire arrow shattered one of her barriers and buried itself deep in Mato’s side, knocking him sprawling. Ali reacted instantly, throwing up a replacement barrier in front of him and taking the brunt of a fireball and a hellfire breath attack before they hit him. She could see just how low his health was from that powerful Ambush, and she knew she had to give her healers a few seconds to help him recover. Holy magic flared beside her, and Mato’s health shot up. Another spell landed, and his health recovered further. She blocked another breath attack and finally, his health crept up to a safer level.

Her intense focus was interrupted by a chime.

Your group has defeated Demon Hunter – Flamecaller Elemental – level 75 (Hellfire)

The boss was down, but there were still dozens of demons running around like soldier ants disturbed from their nest. As soon as Mato’s curse wore off, they would attack everyone indiscriminately.

“What do we do about the demons,” Malika said. “And that… rift?”

“Let’s help Mato clear the room,” Calen said, his bowstring still twanging continuously. “Ali, deconstruct the boss quickly. We can keep the demons off you for a bit.”

