There, staring out of the shadows, was a great floating orb of light-consuming blackness, a shadow among shadows, trailing writhing tentacles that reached to the ground below it. Below the giant central blood-red glowing eye, larger than her head, was a mouth filled with gleaming fangs – and dotted around its face were a distinctly uncomfortable number of eyes of several different varieties and sizes. Two mid-sized eyes stood in the ridged brow above and to either side of the central one, forming an inverted gleaming triangle. A smaller, vertically-aligned central eye was embedded in the forehead above the largest one, with two further pairs on either side. All these eyes swept around to stare directly at her as the mote remnants of the dissolved bloodstone burst out into the air.

Ooh, a friend! Ali identified him.

Sentinel – Demon – level ?? (Mind)

As the notification text appeared, something shimmered and it warped, changing smoothly into something else.

Fuzzy Cottontail – Rabbit – level ?? (Hellfire / Blood)

Oh, I remember this game! Ali thought. It’s just like Mieri–

A sudden recollection of pain and despair at the hands of the talented Mind Mage burst into Ali’s mind like a silent explosion of dread. A chill rippled through her heart, and she swallowed, staring at the monster of nightmares. The insidious tendrils of the mind demon had infiltrated her mind, bypassing her defenses entirely unawares! Ali sucked at the air, but found she could not breathe.

Suddenly, it all made sense; the mana pouring from the bloodstone fed a vastly denser domain than hers, mingling with what looked like hellfire mana, but again much more potent than what she had observed from the Flamecallers and their imp, or warg minions.

We’re in a dungeon. As far as she could tell, in the short distance between where she stood by the crystals and the back of the cavern where the demon lurked, the domain grew far more potent than even the densest mana she had billowing out from the Elder Tree. Certainly, way beyond anything she had ever experienced. A very high-level dungeon!

And she and her friends had waltzed right into the demon’s clutches.

“Malika,” she whispered.

“Come on, Ali! Let’s dance!”

“Malika!” she hissed. “Mind magic!”

“Don’t be silly, Mieriel is still at the Adventurers’ –” Malika began, and then her face froze in an expression of horror, giggles and grins shattered. “Mind magic,” she croaked, turning to glance surreptitiously at the demon in the corner as Ali indicated with her eyes. “Fuck, oh fuck…”

They both turned to find Mato on his hind paws dancing with Calen out in front of the many-eyed horror.

“They’re charmed,” Ali whispered.

“I thought Mato had a lot of wisdom, like us? Can’t he break it?”

“His Natural Prowess doesn’t boost wisdom in his Bear Form, only his tree and beastkin forms,” Ali said. “I don’t know how to get him to transform without alerting the demon.” It seemed like the Sentinel was content to keep luring them in with whatever spell it had wormed into their minds, and hadn’t yet noticed that the two of them had broken free of its clutches.

“Oh, that’s easy,” Malika whispered back. Standing up with a loud forced giggle, she called out, “Hey, Mato, I’m hungry. Isn’t it picnic time yet?”

The bear wheeled about and immediately transformed into his Beastkin form, and as he did so, Ali witnessed his euphoric expression crumple into one of shock and fear. To his credit, Mato reacted instantly, sweeping Calen off his feet and running full tilt back toward Ali and Malika.

“Ooh, Mato!” Calen exclaimed. “Whee, this is fun!”

The huge vertical eye in the middle of the monster’s forehead split wider and blazed with mana. The background chimes suddenly rose to an angry shriek and blasted into Ali’s mind with the force of a boulder launched from a catapult.

Ali stumbled, clutching her temples as the hammer-blow of agony almost knocked her unconscious. Only a millisecond’s preparation had helped her to resist; to partially deflect the attack somehow.

“Run!” Malika shouted.

The Sentinel’s jagged mouth yawned open to reveal a perfect circle of gleaming, needle-sharp fangs, and another mind-breaking, skin-crawling hiss filled the cave. Several more orb-shaped Sentinel demons of differing sizes, colors, and number of eyes shimmered as they materialized in the cavern. The huge central eye gazed at the ground and projected a broad complex runic formation onto the stone with potent red mana. Ali recognized a high-level teleportation spell.

“Incoming!” she yelled.

Fuck, how could we be so stupid? She had just waltzed into the demonic dungeon of some ancient god, lured in by a charm spell of all things – and she had pissed it off by deconstructing several of the bloodstones that only now she now realized were part of its domain mana propagation. Brilliant. Just brilliant.

Calen giggled like a child offered a ridiculously large candy.

The strange mana of this realm rippled all around them, multiplying her danger-sense a hundredfold.

Fuck, here we go! Ali turned to flee and, in the chamber behind her, dozens and dozens of imps, wargs, and other demons she had no name for began to materialize, popping out of the runic formation with howls and hisses of fury. A second, giant teleportation circle opened in the center of the cavern and a behemoth of a demon suddenly filled the cavern, a presence so vast that the ambient mana bent around it. She had risked a glance back, but she wished she hadn’t. Her blood ran cold at the sight of stubby bat-like crimson wings that sprouted from its massive back as it turned its enormous body to face them. Far too many gleaming fangs were crammed into a dripping maw that seemed too wide for its blunt face. Dark recessed eyes fixed her with a cruel glare while it readied a blood-smeared glaive held in a powerful clawed hand. The weapon was at least twice as long as Mato was tall.

“Intruders! Sound the alarm!”

Ali clapped her hands to her ears.

Four monstrously heavy legs shook the cavern as the creature lumbered into motion, bearing a corpulent body that would dwarf even Ali’s biggest Forest Guardian. But it was the intense mana and overwhelming presence that made her gasp as it bore down on her with the palpable force of an invisible hand of god, trying to snuff out her life.

Maalgaroth [The Corrupter] – Pit Lord – level ??? (Blood / Hellfire)

The sticky, cloying mana rolled off of the Pit Lord in waves, crashing through the cavern in time to the pulsing of the crown of hellfire hovering upon its brow. As the stupendous tide of its aura smashed into her, Ali’s notification chimed cheerfully.

You have been afflicted with the Pit Lord’s Corrupted Blood.+30 damage per second bleed.Demonic energy infuses your blood causing progressively worsening disorientation, perception distortion, nausea, and dizziness.After 30 minutes your race gains the demonic trait, and you become a thrall of the Pit Lord. Contagious. Range: 25 meters.Corruption – Duration: 30 minutes.

She swept up her Acolytes and fled into the tunnel with her friends, frantically throwing barriers up behind them to catch the storm of hellfire hurled their way, biting down against the waves of nausea and dizziness that tore through her body like a squall. She wiped the sweat from her face, but her hand came away dripping amber, covered in her blood.

A deafening droning filled the air as a cloud of hundreds of demonic hornets each the size of her fist swept past one of her barriers and descended, biting and stinging, upon a struggling Storm Shaman. In seconds, Ali’s reserve snapped, and the poor Goblin dropped to the ground as a shriveled husk, literally sucked dry in moments. Angry red mana surged like mist among the swarm as they circled once and took off after a Kobold rogue.

The roof crawled as hundreds of cloaked shadowy spider demons poured in after them, seen only through the Tremor Sense of her ooze and the heat vision of her imp. Even as the hornets drained her struggling minions of blood, the spiders appeared from the shadows with vicious blade-like strikes, decapitating and mutilating in an instant.

The tons of rock weighing down above their heads shook with the force of a mighty crash as the Pit Lord threw its enormous bulk at the too-narrow tunnel, its claws tearing through stone as if it were clay, rapidly expanding the rocky tunnel in its eagerness to hunt.

“Go!” Malika shouted. “Go!”

“Go! Go! Go!” Calen echoed, singing merrily while blood ran in rivulets from his eyes and nose.

“Snap out of it, Calen,” Mato growled, barely keeping ahead of Ali’s rapidly dying minions and delaying barriers as his bewildered friend bounced on his shoulders.

“He doesn’t have enough wisdom,” Ali said. “We need to get out of here!”

“Slap him!” Malika yelled.

Calen’s face scrunched up. “You don’t love me any moooo –”

Mato’s thwack clipped the back of Calen’s head, but did nothing apart from make him blink in surprise. Throwing down a quick Divine Step, Malika found an angle and belted him savagely across the right cheek. “Wake up, you idiot!”

The poor half-elf blinked rapidly several times, his hand leaping to his cheek. “You little – oh! Oh, fuck! I feel the love now…”

How they made it back to the rift in one piece, Ali would never know, but somehow, they managed to avoid dying to the fireballs, outran the giant Pit Lord, and avoided the horde of its demonic companions trying to tear them apart. She sighed in relief at the disorienting transition as she dove through the rift, suddenly finding herself back in the empty chamber of the Emberforge Mine’s Demon Hunter with the life-saving holy restoration barely able to keep pace with the corrupted blood that was making her bleed from her eyes and her ears.

But the surface of the rift rippled violently and an enormous, clawed hand thrust through, wielding the giant glaive that dripped with blood. Ali squealed, scrambling backward behind a hastily cast protective barrier as the huge polearm impaled one of her Hobgoblins and drew it struggling and dying back through the rift. Its despairing shriek cut off with a horrific crunch.

The surface of the rift rippled, beginning to disgorge demons in their dozens.

“Aah! It’s a dungeon-break! Run – run faster!” Calen shouted, staring wide-eyed at the horde of smaller demons pouring through the rift, clawing, biting, and burning in their fervor to catch them. “What the fuck, why am I bleeding?”

“Welcome back, Giggles,” Mato said, “Now, how about you use your own legs for a change?” He threw Calen toward the doorway and took off at a sprint, his body already warping into his Bear Form for more power.

Ali needed no encouragement, pushing her barrier to its utmost speed while she hung on with a white-knuckled grip.

“What about the respawns?” Malika asked, her healing magic flickering rapidly as they rounded the corner entering the Landing. They had been down here for long enough that the Emberforge Mines should have respawned many of the elementals in the earlier tunnels.

“Just run past them, hopefully they will slow down the demons,” Calen managed.

“Uh, shouldn’t we recall around now?” Ali asked, flying as fast as she could with her heart beating rapidly in her chest. She had lost most of her minions to the demonic horde that was pursuing them with fire, raucous cackling, and continuous howling. She coughed, retching up blood, and almost fell off her barrier. Her friends and all her minions were suffering, staggering as they ran, trailing blood on the ground behind them.

“We can’t,” Malika gasped. “The corruption is contagious.”

“We have to find somewhere to stop them,” Calen said, his words coming ragged. “We can’t train the dungeon-break into Myrin’s Keep; they’ll kill everyone. And we need somewhere to plant Mato to cure this corruption.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
