“Ok. This won’t take long,” Ali said, and darted over to the corpse, glad that Calen had remembered her magic, and that she would have the opportunity to learn something new. Demon Hunter was a class they had not seen yet, but it had to be a specialization of the regular hunters. The main differences had been the lack of minions, substantially increased power, and the ridiculous rain of arrows that had cleared the room. Quickly, she set about deconstructing the downed boss while directing her remaining minions to support her friends at the rift. Ten seconds later, the monster evaporated into mana, and several things dropped to the ground while her chimes sounded.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Mark of Prey.Domain Magic analyzed: Slayer (Demon).Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Dexterity).

Ali grabbed the bow and bracers the monster had dropped, along with five essences that flickered with black flame, and stored all of it before she hopped on a barrier and flew off to join her friends. Demons still slowly trickled in through the rift.

“I’m done,” Ali said. “We can go.”

“We have a bit of a problem,” Malika said. “The demons are not stopping.” Sure enough, as she said it, the rift shimmered and coughed up another Hellfire Warg.

“Without the boss, they seem pretty easy to manage,” Calen said, unleashing arrows at the handful of demons Mato was now tanking.

“But we can’t wait here until the boss respawns,” Malika countered. “And if we leave, what then? Does the dungeon just slowly fill up with demons?”

“You have a good point,” Calen said, frowning.

“What if Ali barricades the door with some stone?” Malika suggested.

“I can do that, but I think the dungeon might just deconstruct it,” Ali said.

“I think we should go see where they’re coming from,” Calen said, his eyes sparkling with curiosity. “Maybe we can stop it at the source?”

“Through the rift?” Ali asked, eyeing the scintillating tear in the fabric of the realm.

“We killed the boss, it’s a unique opportunity to learn what’s causing the problem and maybe fix it,” Calen argued.

“Mato would say yes,” Malika said, answering for the bear. “The demons are not too challenging, so it’s probably worth the risk.”

“Hopefully it’s not a spawning pool or something crazy,” Ali said, but it seemed that Malika was right, there were only two wargs left attacking Mato and both of them were low on health already, due to her strategic barrier placement. Only one imp remained. Even with new demons walking in every now and then, they were killing them quickly.

“If that’s the case, we leave and try Malika’s idea of boarding up the doorway,” Calen suggested, licking his lips as he stared at the portal.

He really is an explorer at heart… Ali glanced at the couple of demons – now corpses – that had phased through the rift since the conclusion of the battle. Nothing we can’t handle. Won’t hurt to take a quick peek to satisfy his curiosity. Her eyes lingered on the rift itself and the incredible manifestation of magic it represented, wondering what she might learn from studying it – even just experiencing it.

“Give me a few minutes to replace my minions and then we can go check it out,” Ali said. As her friends and her minions finished off the demons, she resummoned her Hellfire Imp and recovered her intelligence buff and then they all approached the strangely shimmering, shifting tear.

Up close, it seemed quite stable, only at the ragged edges were there sparks of rainbow-colored mana discharging into the profoundly twisted magic being leaked across the torn boundary between realms. Mato glanced at them and then stepped through the rift, his form warping strangely and turning into a much smaller dark shimmering blob, vaguely seen through the partially transparent rift, and disappearing entirely from her mana sight. It seemed none of her skills worked across the rift – like it was opaque to her magic. Aligned with her desires for once, Sage of Learning drew heavily from her mana as she witnessed the astonishing phenomenon.

Ali smiled to herself. Yes, I can learn so much here. It’s just like stepping into my own library.

Calen stepped through next, followed by Malika. Ali sent her minions through first and then quickly followed.

The rift tugged at her skin like a resilient slippery soap-bubble membrane while her body and senses warped and twisted. Her mana sight registered a rainbow-burst of chaotic light and movement for several seconds until she shoved her way through and stumbled out onto the damp, rust-colored rocky ground beyond. Ali coughed, struggling to catch her breath in the acrid, scorching, and oppressively heavy atmosphere. A strong sulfurous stench hung in the air, reminding her of the first time she had encountered a Fire Mage, but it seemed to emanate from everywhere all at once. Yet, despite the discomfort, breathing did not require the continual assistance of a holy Restoration spell.

A sudden cackling drew a reflexive barrier from her fingertips, and a ball of hellfire detonated on it, but her friends and minions made quick work of the lone imp.

“This is an abyssal plane,” Calen said, his voice hushed in awe as he scanned the deep cavern they had emerged into. His Explorer skill must be going crazy because his attention kept being pulled off to unseen notifications.

Ali took a few moments to survey the cavern with every available sense. It was hot and muggy everywhere, that much she could tell even without her imp’s heat vision, but the mana was surprisingly dense and potent, contributing greatly to the oppressive weight she felt in the air. The cavern itself was mostly dark, lit only by the shifting light of the rift and now by Calen’s floating orbs that threw back glittering sparkles from minerals embedded in the far walls. They were interlopers here in a desolate wasteland devoid of life. No insects crawled across the jagged igneous boulders, not even a cockroach. No plants sprouted from the cracks, colonizing the mineral-rich ground or feeding on the dense mana. Beside the imp that had jumped them the moment they entered, nothing moved.

The elusive sounds of distant chimes echoed through the cavern, a hint of a melody that plucked at Ali’s memories and left goosebumps crawling down the back of her arms – so faint that she couldn’t even tell if they were real or it was just her imagination playing tricks on her.

“Which way, explorer boy?” Malika asked, snapping Calen out of his wonder, and Ali chuckled at his sudden startled expression.

“Sorry, that sounded rude,” Malika apologized, “but you are the resident Pathfinder here.”

“It’s fine,” he said, grinning at her and showing he hadn’t taken offense. “I was just distracted. I never imagined I would set foot in another realm! I think the demons were coming from this direction.” The awe in his voice hadn’t entirely left as he led them forward along the rocky scree lining the floor of the cave. “Whatever is creating them seems to be through that tunnel. Mmm-hmm, tum-tee-tum, be on alert, everyone.”

It was nice to see him being so cheerful. Mato’s bear fangs flashed in a grin at their companion’s little ditty. Ali glanced back at the shimmering rift, reassuring herself that the way back was still open. She had no idea what she would do if they got stranded here.

They followed Calen into a dark tunnel, cracked stone and rubble crunching under the feet of her larger Hobgoblins. The walls wept wine-red droplets of a viscous liquid while the ambient mana pulsed slowly, making Ali imagine that she was entering the bowels of some gargantuan beast.

“Well, isn’t this wonderfully creepy?” Malika said, cheerfully.

“Yes,” Ali said, irrationally wishing she could hold her friend’s hand. Why is she smiling like that?

The tunnel meandered back and forth, heading always slightly upward, passing through several wide-open caves that seemed to be filled with debris and rock, occasionally running into an imp or a warg headed in the opposite direction.

“Do you think they’re attracted to the rift?” Ali asked. It was certainly a powerful force, traces of its presence still visible in her sight as rainbow-hued scintillating flecks of drifting mana. Every single demon they encountered seemed to be heading downward toward the rift itself.

“I think that’s a reasonable assumption,” Calen said, his eyes glancing shifting rapidly side-to-side. He rubbed his beardless chin thoughtfully. “You’re a very reasonable person, Ali, have I told you that?”

“Uh… no?” Am I blushing? I guess it’s just the heat in here.

They came to the end of a cavern with several exits, but Calen led them unerringly to an unnatural-looking hole in the wall, covered with scrapes and grooves as if some monstrous being had chewed its way through solid basalt. “I don’t think we want to fight whatever it is that made this,” Ali said, pursing her lips in thought. Some of the scrape marks were larger than her entire body.

“Yeah, we’ll run if we find anything too powerful to handle,” Malika said, nodding her head. “I’ve got my running boots on.”

“We might have to actually run,” Ali said, starting to form a thoughtful frown that simply wouldn’t stick to her face. “I don’t recall if recall potions work from another realm. Call, recall, call… isn’t that funny?”

“Wait, seriously?” Malika said, freezing mid-step and glancing back at Ali for a moment.

“The Novaspark Locus requires mana to complete the teleport, and the amount is proportional to the distance…” Ali said. Did distance even have meaning across realms? How much mana would it even cost? Ali ran several calculations in her head, but without a deep understanding of cosmology and the topology of the rift and nearby realms, her numbers would remain wild guesses at best. Eh, it probably will be fine!

“Oh, and we’re in…” Calen whispered, his pupils grown large in the darkness. “We’ll have to … run! Pfft!” He snorted suddenly. “Let’s be on our guard! On our guard! On our guard!” he continued repeating the sing-song chant as he marched forward. “Come on, no dawdling in the ranks, back there! Hop to it!”

“What’s up with him?” Ali asked, grinning at Malika.

“Seems excited,” Malika answered. “The music’s kind of nice, don’t you think?”

“You hear it, too?” Ali said, slipping several additional threads of awareness into more of her minions and settling into the unusual Tremor Sense of her Ooze.

They emerged from the gouged-out tunnel and into a new cavern, but this one had gleaming crystals embedded into the rock walls, glowing with a dark red inner light that reminded Ali of the wargs’ eyes in the depths of hellfire. Dripping from the walls were trickles of shadowed red that pooled into a river flowing sluggishly away through the center of the cavern. At the far edge of her sight, she could make out what looked like a tall brazier of hellfire – whatever it was, it clearly was not natural. She wrinkled her nose at the strange metallic tang in the air. What is that smell…

Malika let out a low exclamation of surprise.

“What is it?” Calen asked, head whipping about.

“Bloodstone, look!” Malika exclaimed, eyes sparkling with excitement as she crept into the cavern, her hand reaching for a crystal.

Ali immediately identified it.

Abyssal Bloodstone

“Wait, Malika! I think we should be careful,” Ali cautioned. The mana in this place pricked at her memories, but she just couldn’t put her finger on it. It was a lot denser than she was used to, and the affinities were strangely mixed in a detailed patterned structure that was beyond even her advanced mana sight and understanding.

“Wait for what?” she complained. “Just look at this! We’re gonna be so rich!”

“We are being careful!” Calen sang, prancing over to see what Malika was on about.

Is he drunk?

“Hey Ali, come help me with this!” Malika called, her face flushed as she tried to lever one of the rock-embedded crystals out of the wall.

“Is it valuable?” Ali asked, floating curiously out into the open space, with her minions fanning out around her.

“It appraises as an exceptionally potent crafting resource,” she explained breathlessly. “Useful for armor, jewelry, and a whole host of magical devices – even potions. You definitely need to learn this!”

“Is this blood?” Ali ran her fingers across the surprisingly warm gleaming crystal, and they came away wet and sticky.

“It smells like blood!” Malika said, grinning. She wiped a finger across the stone and examined it closely, and then popped it in her mouth. “Tastes like it, too.”

Strange mana poured forth from the crystal, mingling with the rest of the ambient mana in the cave in a way that, while beyond her grasp, still somehow seemed strangely familiar.

Is it Magicite? Ali craned her neck to examine the bloodstone more closely. If it was, it was no affinity she had ever heard of. I need it!

Quickly she deconstructed the stone before moving on to the next one with a sudden frenzied urgency. In the background, the strange haunting melody swelled toward a crescendo. As Ali deconstructed the third one, Calen suddenly called out in surprise, standing out in the middle of the chamber.

“Hey guys! Guys!” Calen giggled, the high-pitched sound falling in a strangely muted way in the chamber. “This… this is a dungeon!”

“Don’t be silly, Giggles,” Malika snorted. “It can’t be a dungeon!”

Ali snorted. “Giggles…”

Variant: Abyssal Bloodstone added to Imprint: Stone.

Ooh, I got it! So… pretty, that mana’s so…

“No, seriously,” Calen said. “Look at this!” A chime went off in Ali’s mind as he shared the results of his Explorer skill.

Lair of the Demon GodAffinity: Hellfire, Blood.Age: ?Known Creatures: Demons.Known Bosses: ?Dungeon

“My skill can’t even figure out the threat assessment or level,” he said, and then burst into gales of laughter and slapped Mato on the flank. The hefty bear shimmied out of the way. “Demon God! Ha ha ha! That’s rich, right?”

“Is Mato… dancing?” Ali asked, pointing and nudging Malika.

“He is, and he’s good!” Malika crowed, “Maybe I should ask him for some samba lessons!”

Ali grinned hugely; happy her friends were having such a good time. Exploring through the rift had been a fantastic idea. She scanned the cavern, searching for more bloodstone, and her eyes slipped across a shadow that gleamed strangely in the darkness.

Hmm, that’s… weird? She smiled again at Malika’s raucous laughter and looked back.

