“She's right.” Sage sided with the girl immediately, which kind of annoyed Shiv. His Psychology Skill rolled his eyes. “Please, you know she's right. We don't know enough about Longinus' skills, and he probably has a plethora. He ranks among the most powerful beings on Integrated Earth, and considering he's been in the Fairwoods for countless cycles, he likely developed a few skills here as well. Narrative skills. You remember what those Red Riding Wolves did to you with a single tap to the head. We can't afford that kind of mistake with a god.”

“So you really want me to just stay hidden in the Backstage until his paranoia burns out, and he reappears?” Shiv concluded.

The girl scoffed. Her hawkish face twisted in amusement. “I would recommend that you wait before you tear into him, even when he shows up in full. Your skills are still damaged. You need some time to repair your soul. Though you're hurting him, you're just chipping bits of him away. I'm going to be very honest with you, Shiv. I think you're going to be down here for a few days, maybe even a week. It's going to be a bit of a marathon fighting him. Because you have no business killing him. You're like a Pathless guy with a pickaxe trying to bring down a titan, swinging over and over again until you get to his core. Any other time, in any other world, that titan would hit you once, and you'd stop existing. Him stabbing you once with his lance cracked your skills and broke part of your soul. But this isn't any other world, and you aren't any other Pathbearer. And you just might be able to bring him down with that little pickaxe inside of you.”

She thrust her index finger forward, jabbing at the gleaming blade which glowed at the center of his chest. “But you're going to have to exercise a bit of patience. Something that Longinus doesn't have. And you're going to want to keep him guessing. Keep his mind reeling. You're going to want to keep playing mind games.”

“Damage his sanity just as much as you strike at him physically and spiritually,” Sage agreed. “We have the tools to do this. We simply need to stick to our strategy and execute. We are no longer in a brawl, Shiv. We can’t win that. We are not his equal. Not even remotely. But we can wage a campaign. Because even a mosquito can sting a bear to death given enough time.”

“Be the mosquito,” Shiv breathed. He considered his options as the battle-frenzy gripping him cooled. “Yeah. This… I can work with being a mosquito. I can work at being a nightmare instead of a monster. I can be patient.”

“Good, because we’re going to be getting to know Longinus pretty well,” the girl replied. And then she looked away from Shiv and regarded the environment of the Boiling Toad. “And I think I got some recommendations on how you can make his life a living hell right now to pass the time, and some on how to get some levels after.”

“Oh?” Shiv said. “What’s in your head?”

“Longinus thinks everything here belongs to him, right? Well. We break everything here. We start setting slaves free here and there. We ruin his cooking operation and shit in every bowl of porridge he’s going to drink out of.”

A sneer spread across Shiv's face. The sheer vindictiveness of the girl was delightful. “You know, Adam’s sister, I kinda feel bad you don’t actually exist. I think we could have gotten along real well.”

She cheesed him with a smug grin. “We’re getting along real well right now, you oversized shit. Now, try to fix those skills of yours, and then see about tearing up some cooking stations and ruining some meals. The Wanderer’s here got a lot of feelings—let’s give him some more. See what it takes to make the cunt cry.”
