Safe enough, he decided after the circuit. He hadn’t spotted Stuart, or anyone else he knew well enough to hide behind, but things didn’t look too ridiculous from out here. If Ro-den showed up with a politician’s spouse, he’d beat a retreat, but right now the food was motivation enough to be brave. The smell was mouthwatering. He’d missed meals over the past day, though he couldn’t say which ones since he wasn’t sure if he was more on Anesidora time or local time at this point. And on top of that, he’d been inhaling recovery potion, which always made him ravenous.

He would dive into the pavilion, grab something the gremlin approved of, and say hello to Leeter-zis so the master wizard would know he was here for whenever the spell casting needed to happen. If Stuart was inside, Alden would glom onto him, and if he wasn’t, he’d text him.

Plan of action in place, he stepped through the open wall.

Immediately, a fistful of something that looked and felt like cornflakes rained down on him from above. I know I came for the food, but this isn’t what I envisioned.

He brushed flakes from his hair and shook out the one that had fallen down the front of his shirt while he looked up to find the culprit. The pavilion had a carved branches, netting, and platforms overhead that formed a second floor of sorts. It was patchily lit, so Alden had to scan the branch above him more than once before he realized Emban and Ryada were waving down at him.

Ryada was waving, at least. Emban was taking the cup that must have held the cornflakes from her. Alden was almost surprised to see them there. He’d expected to find strangers doing that Artonan party thing where they slopped food all over the place to indicate that times were good. Once he was sure Stuart wasn’t with them, he carried on, aiming for a food table.

The sounds around him were astounding in volume and variety.

The young kids had all been tucked away somewhere, but the teenagers who’d sneaked up to sit on a balcony with Alden earlier that morning were still around. One of them came scampering out of a pile of people engaged in a group dance to announce that he’d like to be thrown up into one of the ceiling nets by the mighty Avowed.

“What?” asked Alden.

“Any one you choose will be fine,” the boy said, waving his arms over his head excitedly. He had dark skin and hair that was damp and reddish. Alden remembered it being a different color this morning.

“And then you might throw Doee and Azkoo up, and come with us, and we’ll help you with your back.”

Alden was trying to follow. “Because…my back will hurt after I throw three people at the ceiling?”

The boy laughed and laughed. He laughed so much that he sat down for a second, like the energy required for his mirth had come straight from his legs, before he climbed upright again.

“Don’t worry,” he said. “My hands are very strong. I won’t let go of the net and fall.”

“I’m sure you’re strong, but—”

“I’m going to repair machinery like my parents. Grip like a pekahop.”

“But I’m not strong enough to throw you up to the—”

“Don’t worry! I weigh less than the table you moved for the bors.”

He was laughing some more with his arms wobbling around. It reminded Alden of Jupiter dancing with the snake plant during Kon’s party, but in this case, he was pretty sure the wavy arms meant, Pick me up, and throw me, human! I will tell everyone at my new school an Avowed threw me, and they will think that is a very awesome thing about me because of course it is.

Alden suspected this would seem less cool when the boy wasn’t in a Here-to-There party haze…but what if this really was a once in a lifetime opportunity that would grant him fame among the local ordinary class people? Who was Alden to deprive him of that chance?

He targeted the boy. “I’ll throw you, but I’ll do it in my own—”

“Yes!” He grabbed Alden’s shoulders and squeezed them. Hard. “And then the others! They were too shy to ask.”

So Alden contributed to the party by “throwing” three people at a net. He preserved their clothes, jumped up with them, and tossed them only a short distance. He didn’t think it was that impressive, since the net he’d aimed for was pretty low, but everyone here was in the mood to feel impressed regardless, so his passengers weren’t disappointed. At least not until he refused to let them “fix” his back by painting stripes on him with the same red dye they’d used on their own hair.

“But we want you to match everyone else. For the party!”

“I’m hungry,” he called up. “Maybe later.”

He left them pouting there in the net and grabbed some food, piling random vegetables and grains into a bun for portability while he tried to step on a minimal amount of spillage and keep an eye out for Stuart.

Oh no. He’s still misting houses, isn’t he? He’s never going to finish. He’s going to force himself until he completely exhausts his authority.

Alden took a couple of gummy purple blob things and wrapped them in a napkin. They seemed like they might be a different flavor of one of the side dishes Stuart had enjoyed when they were eating meatpetal together.

Now, I just need to let Leeter-zis know I’m back in case nobody told him.

This simple plan fell to ruin a moment later when a silver ball rolled to a stop in front of him, marking him as the central character for the dancing group’s next song. He had no idea what to do as they encircled him, spinning, kicking, and calling for him to, “Shout the shout and roll the ball!” like those were comprehensible instructions.

A woman took pity on him before he could make a total fool of himself and jumped in to teach him to, “Shout the shout,” which Esh-erdi would have loved to hear him attempt since it was supposed to be this twittery yodel in time to the music being played by volunteers up on one of the platforms. The best Alden could do was a loud gargle of a noise while he kicked the ball around to different dancers, trying to figure out how to earn freedom from this terrifying experience.

He was finally let go when one of the dancers missed the return kick, and the ball rolled off toward another victim. If he’d known that was how it worked, he wouldn’t have tried so hard to make gentle passes that even the clumsiest, most party-afflicted dancers could aim for. Hurrying away from the dance as fast as he could lest it come for him again, he felt something he hoped was fruit splatter against his forehead, inhaled a tendril of smoke that was drifting through the room all by itself like it had a mind of its own, and then sneezed a flower.

“What the heck?” he whispered, staring at the blossom of smoke in front of his face. It waved five petals and a curling vine before it drifted away.

Nose burning and itching like crazy, veggie bun still held in one hand, he found Leeter-zis…only to be welcomed way too warmly by the people watching the fights. Poor Magoob-ith was a really tall woman, and the fights weren’t fair if the heights didn’t match up. If Alden Ryeh-b’t would just hold still and let someone clamber up onto his shoulders so that he could be Magoob’s opponent, the way of the night would be much closer to perfection.

“Wait. I’m an Avowed, so doesn’t that make it more unfair than height—”

“It doesn’t matter my leaf-eyed ingredient! You already have your partner!”

Indeed. There was a person in white sitting on Alden. Not a person he knew. But a really tall Artonan woman and her own rider were coming at them, and people were screaming that they’d bet on the human…and when the party finally spat him out the same wall he’d entered through, he was victorious and confused. He rushed for the safety of the paddle plants before anyone could call him back, and caught his breath in one of the half-moon nooks, taking stock of himself.

His forehead had fruit juice on it. He hoped Tuck and Yinuo could save his pants from the dye if the washers at the dorm wouldn’t do it. And his dinner…

“Where’s my veggie bun?”

******
