So I set a few stronger potions and compounds onto the top of her armor. We'd bought some of these in Rivaria, but most of them I got from Caprika. Her family had dozens of connections, so having her ship in a few of the stronger 'medicines' wasn't a problem. Learning some alchemy on my own wasn't a bad idea, and I had some knowledge of basic chemistry. I added it to my to-do list before getting back to the matter at hand.

After adding in a few metal canisters for the more volatile composites, I finished Althea's protective gear. It was decent.

An Everchanging Remedy(lvl Requirement: 5,000 | Type: Bidpedal | Size: Medium | Type: Light) - This nano-fiber mesh has been reinforced with dimensional wiring, enabling both flexibility and lightness in combat. Through intelligent design, this protective gear is also flexible, enabling the shifting of the wearer's body. Combining the protection of power armor with the lightness of kevlar, this is an excellent body armor for any mobile combatant.

Two other features were added outside of these designs as well. The first involves runic enhancements that increase the balance of the wielder. The second feature is a set of injectors that allow the wielder to push potions and stimulants into the blood mid-fight. This dramatically enhances the potency of whatever liquid is administered.

These traits create an adaptable suit of armor for adapting combatants.

The Harbinger's Gift:

[+100 Strength, Constitution, Endurance, and Willpower.

+50 Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+10,000 health | +1,000 health regen/min

-10% to Charisma | -10% to Mana Regeneration | +10% to Health Regeneration | + 25% Dimensional Resistance]

(Positive bonuses doubled if member of Harbinger's Legion | Does not stack with other items carrying a Harbinger's enhancement)

Potions stored: Eagle's Eye, Hurricane, Hastening potion(tier III)

+15,000 health | +1,000 health regeneration/min

+40% to damage resistances

+50% to effect of aiming and balance skills

Just like the rest of the gear, the Harbinger enhancement was its biggest selling point. It still gave reasonable tankiness enhancements though, and it was light enough to use. With that finished, I moved onto her weaponry. That would be the most critical aspect for Althea anyway given her skill set.

Her first new weapon was a smaller rifle. Considering she was over level 5,000 now, I'd outdo her current design by a certain amount. I molded out a cylinder by shifting my skin like a liquid. This was far simpler than trying to shape the metal on my own. Instead of snapping it like usual, I heated the connection point of the cylinder and my own body. This allowed me to disconnect it without risking a crack through the structure.

With some time saved, I etched dozens of precise enchantments along the barrel. Most of these were mass reducers and accelerator enchantments. They would lower the mass of the bullet until it left the barrel, allowing it to be fired faster. Since they would affect the bullet instead of the rifle itself, I added diamonds across the upper structure as well.

The reason was diamonds were more durable than most gems and could store more mana. This would reduce the load on Althea's mana reserves, shoring up one of her weaknesses.

After finishing the barrel, I created a series of open set pieces for the surrounding stock. Althea needed tiny openings so that she could mold her arm into the barrel. Otherwise, she wouldn't gain the benefit of her armor piercing abilities. I kept that in mind, lightening the overall weight of the rifle while making it more accessible at the same time.

Star Forger made a world of difference here, giving me a greater shaping ability than ever before. Without as many restrictions on my handling of the material, I went all out with the efficiency of the design itself. Thinner, sleeker, and more polished, the product came out without any apparent flaws. It felt good to actually add something to the work of Diesel for once since I wasn't held back by my previous restrictions.

I assembled the pieces together, lining the various sections with rough diamonds that my miners back on Earth dug up. Polished and pretty pieces weren't necessary since they were just holding a ton of mana. I kept the enchantments oriented around the gun rather than the wielder though. This meant Althea wouldn't need to mold the mana on her own. She would just need to come to me anytime she needed this recharged.

I already kept a series of blueprints for most of the enchantments in my grimoire previously. I made my adjustments subtle, not wanting to exceed Althea's level cap. The goal would be a requirement of level 7,000, something Althea reached during her weeks in Thisbey's ranks. She thinned out a few of the more scrupulous members during her stay there, taking out key targets of the revolutionaries.

As the last adjustment, I added a removable lengthener to the barrel. This would allow her to adjust the piece into a sniper rifle at will. Considering we'd be fighting indoors and in an ocean of sorts, a shorter barrel was better. Still, it never hurt to give her extra options. Just as well, I made a mass amplifier at the back of the stock too, letting her use the weapon as a makeshift club. She'd make better use of that than Torix likely would, so I figured why not.

Knowing melee combat was inevitable, I created a bayonet for her rifle, keeping the blade dull as a butter knife. I didn't sharpen it since she'd mold her arm over that part and create the blade herself. It would be superior to any edge I could create given her armor piercing.

The weapon was the best piece of gear I'd made yet. Practice makes perfect after all.

The Wake of Destruction(lvl req: 7,000 | Type: Rifle | Size: Medium) - This is a highly modified railgun that uses a series of mass manipulators to enhance the speed of the bullets fired. In this case, it fires harpoons instead of bullets, giving the gun excellent stopping power.

This weapon isn't limited to just enhancing the bullets, however. A built in battery system composed of durable diamonds increases the wielder's deft and handling of their mana. This in combination with the accuracy and precision enhancements make the item devastating in combat.

This devastation isn't limited to a range either. The rifle itself is hard, heavy, and dense enough to be used as a makeshift bludgeon. Another mass manipulator in the stock allows the wielder to enhance this effect further, making it even heavier than it would otherwise be. A bayonet attachment gives the wielder slicing potential, giving access to multiple damage types as well.

These factors combine into an effective killing weapon designed with practical use in mind.

The Harbinger's Gift:

[+100 Strength, Constitution, Endurance, and Willpower

+50 Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+10,000 health | +1,000 health regen/min

-10% to Charisma | -10% to Mana Regeneration | +10% to Health Regeneration | + 25% Dimensional Resistance]

(Positive bonuses doubled if member of Harbinger's Legion | Does not stack with other items carrying a Harbinger's enhancement)

500/500 railgun shot enhancements left in mana reserves

+200% to critical hit damage

+100% to shot speed

+75% to accuracy and precision of shots

The speed of the bullets would enhance the damage she dealt considerably. Considering we might be facing another hybrid of sorts, the added oomph made a massive difference. It would work well for her.

With that handled, I created a chain for her, ending in an elongated blade. This enabled Althea to extend the range of her melee combat. Considering we might fight another hybrid, that distance was a priority. At the same time, this melee weapon needed durability, so I stuck with chains instead of fabric or whip. Althea was ridiculously strong after all.

I kept the hilt relatively heavy for this weapon too, ensuring she could snap it about with relative ease. This weapon might take training, however. She could easily whip herself with it, and for Althea, that would splatter her across a room with no effort whatsoever. That's why I ended up adding a bayonet to the actual rifle itself.

A Dark Prison(lvl req: 5,000 | Type: Chain and Blades | Size: Medium) - These pitch black chains end in blades, designed to be whipped at a moderate distance. Heavy and unwieldly, these weapons require extensive training in order to prevent self harm. If mastered, they allow for multiple styles of combat.

Simply wrapping someone in chains and squeezing can be deadly if applied with enough force. Considering the strength required to wield this weapon, that should be a given if the wielder can swing A Dark Prison. The chains also allow the wielder to tie up melee combatants, giving them a measure of control against rushing foes.

At its most extreme, the wielder can use the blades themselves at the edge of their range. This is difficult for many reasons. The chains create a delay as the blade lags behind in the swing. Knowing the exact distance of the weapon is also challenging. Those factors aside, the leverage and whip this weapon can create is intense, allowing the condensed dimensional fabric to slice almost any foe.

Use with caution.

The Harbinger's Gift:

[+100 Strength, Constitution, Endurance, and Willpower.

+50 Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+10,000 health | +1,000 health regen/min

-10% to Charisma | -10% to Mana Regeneration | +10% to Health Regeneration | + 25% Dimensional Resistance]

(Positive bonuses doubled if member of Harbinger's Legion | Does not stack with other items carrying a Harbinger's enhancement)

+300% Critical Hit Damage(with blades)

+50% Critical Hit Damage

It would make for an interesting long term project for Althea, though she wouldn't use it in the upcoming battle.

With all those various designs finished and piled into the corner of the main room, I got to training. By the time I had a set of goals planned out Torix and Althea returned above our base. Not long after, Chrona and Krog arrived as well, both of them suited up in Skyburner attire. I gave them the location and told them to take a roundabout route here. Given our recent targeting by an assassin, they respected my wishes.

As I walked up, I introduced the two groups, letting them get to know each other a bit. With that finished, I created a hole in the center of our base, allowing Chrona and Krog to come in. Once inside, I bragged a bit about my constructive ingenuity, really soaking up their compliments. It was nice to be lauded for something else besides my ability to smash faces.

They reacted particularly well to the armor and gear I made them. I suited them up, showing the gialgathens how to put the gear on and seeing how it fit. It was a bit too loose for Chrona, though my model fit perfectly on Krog. I mentioned the fur fix and how it would make her more comfortable, to which she rubbed in Krog's face. Even ancient frog dragons could be petty. Go figure.

The best part of the meetup was seeing Althea though. She ran up, and I lifted her up in a circle, both of us smiling at each other. It made Krog gag and Chrona swoon. I couldn't care less about what they thought. I wasn't here to impress anyone, outside of my crafting ability.

With our reunion settled, we drafted up a few battle plans for the operation. Althea and Torix would sit in the back, offering potent spell support and suppressive fire. Krog and I would be the vanguards, running in front and smashing skulls in with our melee potency. Any targets we missed, Chrona would catch by creating her time fields in the middle of our group.

She was the key to our formation. She'd slow down any attackers that got passed Krog and me. On the other hand, projectiles and the like would get slowed down in her time dilation field as well. The temporal area acted as a potent offensive and defensive utility in that way, adding security to Althea and Torix. Should someone manage to pass both our lines of defense, well, Althea could handle herself up close. That much was certain.

Atop of all these advantages, Torix collected an army of lower level silvers as well. This unnerved the two gialgathens at first, but after a few illustrations of Torix's dominance in the matter, their fears wisped out. With so many layers of strategic defense, this would enable Torix and Althea to unleash the full fury of their offensive abilities.

Any single targets would get decimated by Althea's Breaker abilities. Tiny swarms would fall to the aoe and armies of Torix. It was a potent offensive core for our entire team, instilling confidence in us. Our defensive unit wasn't anything to scoff at either. I offered tremendous disruption with my gravity magic, and any prolonged conflict would favor me. That made our long term prospects much better.

Krog's illusion magic wasn't to be undermined either. All in all, I almost felt sorry for whatever it was we'd be fighting. Almost.

With our plan assured, we took the next two days to try out the gear I made and execute a variety of tactics. While we were in a hurry to destroy whatever it was in the Skyburner base, rushing in and dying was idiotic. That's why we took this time to develop our plan and execute on it in a few silver dominated territories. Getting to know each other was an added bonus, strengthening the cohesion of the group as a whole.

Once we got to a certain level of fluidity, I even gained a new skill. Hallelujah.

New Skill gained! Teamwork(lvl 5) - Others fight alone. You fight with others as one. Adds better application of team strategies when fighting with others. Effect dependent on level.

