It was worth the effort. After a quick polish, the project looked professional. Well, as professional as my first time making gialgathen armor could look. I analyzed it, seeing what Schema had to say about it.

A Corrupting Sunrise(lvl req: N/A | Race: Gialgathen | Size: Enormous | Type: Light) - Created from the condensed dimensional fabric, this metallic substance holds many properties that are advantageous to battle. When encased in this substance, the wielder's dimensional stability enhances, giving them resistance to attacks on the plane that the wearer stands.

This acts out as dimensional resistance. The sheer toughness of the compound is remarkable as well, giving it far more durability than steel or even orichalcum. This applies nearly all known kinds of damage, from chemical to elemental, it matters little when putting this armor between you and the coming damage type.

The effects are limited to just armor as well. The many ingrained gemstones can act as mana batteries, giving the wielder tremendous enhancements to their effective mana pool. At the same time, large injections of this mana will act as a stimulant, creating unnatural levels of ferocity and fury in subjects using this armor.

It can even extend the life of the wielder, offering enhanced vitality and regenerative effects to those that wield this tool. Though potent, use these features with caution. The long-term effects of using this energy source are unknown. Likely personality loss and long term brain damage can be inflicted with continuous use.

That being said, the protective properties come with nearly no drawbacks. For a gialgathen, this is an incredible tool to have in their arsenal.

The Harbinger's Gift:

[+100 Strength, Constitution, Endurance, and Willpower.

+50 Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+10,000 health | +1,000 health regen/min

-10% to Charisma | -10% to Mana Regeneration | +10% to Health Regeneration | 25% Dimensional Resistance]

(Positive bonuses doubled if member of Harbinger's Legion | Does not stack with other items carrying a Harbinger's enhancement)

2,000,000/2,000,000 Mana Stored

+50,000 Health | +1,000 Health Regen/min

-10% to Charisma | -10% to Mana Regeneration | +60% to damage resistances

Bonuses doubled for a member of Harbinger's Legion. Bonuses don't stack with copies of A Corrupting Sunrise. Excess mana is siphoned to Dimension C-138.

The sheer quality of the materials used helped me a lot here. The flaws in my craftsmanship would become more apparent otherwise. It saved my ass in this scenario though. That's why the armor enhanced the health regeneration of the wearer so much. Since my own health regen was that high, it rubbed off on people wearing what I was made of.

Overall, the armor took a full day of consistent grinding to make it happen, but it increased the gialgathens chances of survival dramatically. With that handled, I glanced through my messages and took note of Torix and Althea's measurements. I stripped more armor, melted it down, and set to work.

For Torix, a thicker set of armor could be used. Of course, I kept the design light, but it wasn't entirely as necessary since Torix often warped across a battlefield. The gialgathens flew, so they needed something light. Armed with that insight, I focused on creating better joint structures for Torix. I figured as a lich, keeping his body together was the most critical task. It was much more difficult to cast without arms for example. It could be done of course, especially by a capable archmage like Torix. At the same time, why let him get crippled like that?

So I spent more time on the joints of the armor than the rest of it combined. I created wire structures that flowed and crisscrossed through the slabs of armor. These wires all culminated at the joints, adding a chainmail kind of reinforcement on those specific parts. This took forever since I had to make tiny balls of molten metal and pull thin strings of armor from them. Otherwise, the wires were flimsy and easily broken.

As the wire passed, I let it cool down by air instead of magic. This enabled it to be as flexible as possible. With the joints finally finished, I created the same supporting runic structures and mana augmentations. I used the absolute limit of my mana pressing abilities here, giving a temporary repulsion to the armor. If a giant fireball came at the wearer, it would sweep around them. In this case, Torix.

I gave additional runic supports for the charged gems as well, helping ease Torix with processing my mana. With the framework finished, I added a few details like a skull mask and a crown of thorns. Considering Torix's penchant for dramatic flair, I felt it was fitting. I admired my work while inspecting the status. It had a few surprises.

The Blighted Web(lvl req: 6,000 | Race: Bipedal | Size: Medium | Type: Heavy) - This protective wear is composed of condensed dimensional fabric plates and wires of the same material. Many of these wires reinforce the joints, creating a web of protective armor.

Heavy yet functional, it ensures that its wearer will stay in one piece even under tremendous kinetic damage. Nearly all known damage types are mitigated as well, a capable mana press going so far as repelling most spells from even reaching the wearer. Many gemstones have been charged with volatile mana on this armor as well.

Runic inscriptions aid the wielder in wielding the energy, but its a calculated risk to use it unless the wearer is very skilled and has excellent willpower.

This nigh absolute protection comes at a cost, however - the armor is very heavy. Weighing in at nearly 3,000 pounds, it requires a high strength stat to walk around in. Think of putting it on a long range artillery mage or technician. Warping abilities prevent the armor from being impossible to wield as well, along with gravitational magics.

All in all, it's an armor designed to protect and synergize with long range combat.

The Harbinger's Blessing:

[+65 Strength, Constitution, Endurance, and Willpower, Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+5,000 health | +500 health regen/min

-10% to Mana Regeneration | +10% to Health Regeneration | +25% Dimensional Resistance]

(Positive bonuses doubled if a member of Harbinger's Legion | Does not stack with other items carrying a Harbinger's enhancement)

1,500,000/1,500,000 Mana Stored

+75% to damage resistances | +75,000 health | +500 health regeneration/min

It had a different kind of bonus then the gialgathen's armor did. It suited Torix more, though I'm sure the slight stunting of his mana generation was still a pain. Considering Torix focused on having a massive mana pool rather than regenerating it, I hoped it was worth it. Besides, the extra mana stored in the gemstones would more than make up for the difference.

With the Blighted Web finished, I set to work on Torix's staff.

It was easy enough to create a pole, but the jewel and runic work here was intense. Before doing so, I jotted down a few blueprints for the runic work in my grimoire first. After getting a plan down, I decided on an elemental augmenter and presence amplifier set of enchantments. Torix would no doubt be leading an army of silvers into the base with us. This would help him keep them under his thumb while giving his offensive presence a bit of a boost.

Once finished, I used Star Forger to create impossibly small points of contact on the staff. These superheated dots allowed me to trace with unparalleled detail. Without my enhanced perception, I wouldn't even be able to see what I was writing out, to be honest. I did though, so it came out clean and crisp. I'd need to work on the design a bit more in the future, but it was good enough for now.

With that finished, I carved into the top of the staff, creating many sockets for a variety of gemstones. Using some sapphires I found in a jewelry store back on Earth, I gave the stave a cold affix. By adding rubies, topaz, amethysts, and a rainbow of other gems, I enhanced every element I could think of, along with others I couldn't. It would take Torix a bit of practice before he could use it right, but it would be a powerful addition.

With the elemental augmenter finished, I created a series of runes to enhance charisma and intimidation. On the inside of the hilt, I injected several emeralds into the supporting structure. Before I finished, Kessiah leaned out of her room,

"Hey, can you cool this damn place down? It's hot as hell in here..."

I facepalmed. Duh. I was turning this place into a furnace. I raised my hand, siphoning mana through my palm. After cooling the site, I set back to work. I finished embedding emeralds in the hilt of the staff, hoping they'd work well with the charisma enchantments. They 'cooled' mana somewhat, so charging them with my own wouldn't overload Torix. Most likely at least.

After closing a few online guides about gem allocation, I finished the hilt. I kept it simple, giving it extra thickness so that it would be heavier. If Torix grabbed it near the bottom of the staff, he could change the angles better by manipulating its center of mass some. That's how swords worked, with the hilt of the sword often weighing as much as the blade itself.

As the finisher, I put a citrine into the bottom of the staff. Around it, I created a series of runic carvings that altered the gravity of the stave. When mana charged into it, it would make the staff heavier. If Torix wanted to hit an incoming foe, he could lift the staff and channel mana into the construct. It would become a club at a moment's notice.

It was a beauty.

Elemental Elocution(lvl req: 6,000 | Race: Any | Size: Medium | Type: Heavy) - This is a heavy, durable staff embedded with several augmenters. First and foremost, it enhances the effects of elemental magics. Though taking time to master, siphoning mana through various gemstones eases the conversion of origin mana into various elements. This enables further power and intensity when wielding these kinds of offensive spells.

The other augmenter is oriented around one's speaking ability. By enhancing the feel and voice of the wielder, it gives them a menacing aura. The last enhancer is simple yet effective: a mass manipulator. By channeling mana into the bottom of the staff, the density of the matter increases. This is useful when wielding the staff as a club as a last resort.

Normally, a mage would never, under any circumstance, use their staff as a physical weapon. Most staffs are composed of woods that lose their strength and resilience within a few years. Given the unique nature of this staff's composition, that shouldn't be a problem.

The Harbinger's Blessing:

[+65 Strength, Constitution, Endurance, and Willpower, Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+5,000 health | +500 health regen/min

-10% to Mana Regeneration | +10% to Health Regeneration | +25% Dimensional Resistance]

(Positive bonuses doubled if member of Harbinger's Legion | Does not stack with other items carrying a Harbinger's enhancement)

500,000/500,000 Mana Stored

+50% to damage of elemental spells | +10% elemental piercing

Unique Skill: Overwhelming Presence - only active while wielding weapon

Like the armor, it gave the Harbinger's Blessing rather than the Harbinger's Gift. That was good considering it suited Torix far better than the previous one did. The different attributes would help him out more too, though they were lower overall. Considering I was more of a warrior than a mage, that made sense to me.

With that finished, I turned towards Althea's gear. She needed something even lighter than the gialgathens. Fabric was an obvious choice, so I stuck with a flexible carbon fiber mesh we bought in Yildraza. After pulling dozens of long wires from glowing orbs of metal, I stitched the cables between the cloth. This added extra tensile strength, which was more important than the hardness of the armor. After all, she needed the ability to shapeshift.

That's why I left plenty of slack for the wires, giving her extra space to fill out the jumpsuit. This took many hours, the stitching process inevitably taking ages. Without Star Forger and Force of Nature, I would've lacked the dexterity in my hands to perform the task. Since I could hold the cords with minuscule gravity wells, it made the process possible though strenuous.

I was overjoyed to be finished with the reinforcement process. Since Althea's mana management wasn't as reliable as the others, I kept the runic inscriptions simple. I added thin plates to several spots on her upper arms, forearms, and back. These were stabilizing measures, for the most part, helping her focus in a fight.

Without magic being her primary defense, I added obsidian vials across the back of her plate armor. These would act as storage devices for various alchemical compounds she could inject into herself mid-battle. Althea used these kinds of compounds before, having many tranquilizers in her suit when Torix and I found her. It wouldn't take a leap in logic to assume she knew how to handle herself around a few stimulants as well.

Considering Schema had no problem with chemical compounds, it would be a huge boon for her in the fight. The A.I could care less as long as it helped with handling eldritch after all. I'd use them myself, but my health regen stunted their effect on me. By the time any potion or chem worked its way through my system, my metabolism would've disintegrated it. Fortunately, Althea's health regeneration was much lower than mine, giving her access to these kinds of tools.

