“Ha... hahaha.... hahahahaha!” Ren laughed maniacally. Everyone stared at him as he kept laughing and tried to talk. “That's just... Ha haha....” Ren wiped the tears away from laughing so hard. “...sheer stupidity.” He finally got out and kept laughing.

“Is there something wrong with him?” Maldir asked Narhilda in a whisper.

“I don't know.” She said and shook her head. “He should be upset or angry... not laughing.”

Ren eased his laughing, took the piece of parchment from Gausen, and read it.

Notice!

Despite not being a dwarf, you have been Drafted. Report to the Garrison immediately for training.

“An Elfling being drafted into the Dwarf Army!” Ren said and grinned. “Spread the word!” He said and pointed to the 2 warriors. “Let it be forever known that I, Ren, having only just arrived in the dwarven lands, has become the first non-dwarf in the dwarf-only military!” Ren said and started laughing again.

Notice!

Your declaration will be spread far and wide! As the trailblazer for all future draftees from other races, your name will be written into the Annals of Dwarven History. Your acceptance of the situation has also given you Honor.

Influence: +1000

Honor: +500

Fame: +1000

Notice!

Your fame has spread to foreign lands. You are now Well Known!

You have gained a Special Skill: Aura Level 1 (Beginner 0%)

Your presence is such as those near you will be in awe of you and your accomplishments.

Higher levels will spread your presence for a further distance (current distance: 10 foot radius).

Can be combined with items and similar abilities to increase both potency and distance.

New Title!

You have received a title to signify your new status in Dwarf society.

Ren, The First.

You have gained a Special Sub Skill: Command (Beginner 0%)

This sub skill under Aura will allow you to lead a group and issue orders.

Higher levels will allow a larger Command Radius, and generate loyalty from those under your command.

You have gained a Special Sub Skill: Camaraderie (Beginner 0%)

This sub skill under Aura allows mutual trust and friendship to easily build among people who spend a lot of time together.

Higher levels will allow a larger Camaraderie Radius, and grants XP bonuses when fighting in a group of 2 or more.

Narhilda, Lady Neram of House Neram, gasped.

“Mother, what is it?” Nathalia asked.

“It's... I didn't expect...” She shook her head.

“What is it n-” Maldir started to speak and looked at her, then his eyes widened. He suddenly stood up, and gave a slight bow. “My apologies for being discourteous.”

“Get. Out.” Narhilda said with a hint of scorn in her voice.

Maldir and Darohm left the kitchen quickly and went out the front door.

“Mother! What was that?” Nathalia asked.

“I can answer that, I think.” Ren said, and everyone turned to him. “I'm Lady Neram's retainer now. As long as I am under her employ, I am a part of House Neram. Any Influence I gain while a member, I believe she will also gain.”

Nathalia turned back to her and her mother nodded. “He's right. As the only male in this House, it's upon his shoulders that the gaining of Influence rests upon.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “You mean... all these years your husband has been gone...”

Narhilda nodded. “This House's Influence and Honor have been worn away to almost nothing.” She said and sighed. “I didn't know it would work this way when we made our contract.” Narhilda said and smiled. “Apparently, you mean a lot more to this House than any of us realized.”

Ren sat down at the kitchen table and folded his hands under his chin, to think about what he was going to do.

“Ren?” Nathalia said and put a hand on his arm. “Are you okay?”

“I'm fine.” Ren said and smiled. “Whoever did this, they got me good, didn't they?”

Gausen looked at Ren. “What did you say?”

Ren told him about the fine, and then about actually paying money for it. Gausen's face went from surprised, to shocked, to disbelief.

“You paid your fine?!?” Gausen said, and Ren laughed.

“Yes, and someone didn't like that one bit.” Ren said. “And now this.” He held out the piece of parchment. “But they made a huge mistake. This won't get me out of the way.” Ren said and bared his teeth in a big grin. “All this will do is give me a bigger hammer to hit them with!”
