Beable had a shocked look on his face for a moment and then squinted his eyes. “You're not going to sell them yourself, are you?”

Ren shook his head. “No. You're right. They're terrible lamps.” Ren reached out and squeezed the tip of the lantern in his fingers, right where he saw a flaw, and it crumpled. Beable winced.

“A flask of oil for each is too much.” Beable said. “How about half that, and 2 empty barrels. I'm overstocked on those, anyways.”

Ren thought about it for a minute. “Deal.”

Beable smiled as they shook hands. “You're a lifesaver.” He said. “Do you want them delivered?”

Ren shook his head. “No, I'm leaving soon and won't be home. I'll take everything now.”

Beable got a surprised look on his face and then shrugged. “This way.”

Ren followed Beable into his back room and saw stacks of boxes and crates. The amount of money he's got tied up in stock is just staggering. Ren thought as they made their way to a stack near the back of the room.

“These are the crates of lamps.” Beable said, putting the damage lamp in the top crate and banging it shut. “There's 20 of them in each crate.” He pointed to another smaller stack. “That's the oil flasks, 10 in each.”

Ren stored the 5 crates of lamps into inventory, then with 5 crates of oil flasks.

Beable shook his head in disbelief. “You Adventurers sure are something.” He said and turned around. Ren followed him back out to the front of the store and to a pile of empty barrels. Ren took 2 and stored them. When he looked around, he saw the grappling hook.

“How much is that?” Ren asked and pointed.

“70 silver.” Beable said without thinking. “Ah... I mean, it's 1 gold. Yes, 1 gold coin.”

Ren laughed and then handed over 6 gold. 5 for the bad lamps, and 1 for the grappling hook. Beable looked at Ren with an expression that Ren couldn't discern what it meant, and then Beable smiled.

“It's always nice doing business with you.”

Notice!

You have gained a favorable opinion from a member of the Merchant's Guild.

Ren dismissed the popup and smiled back at Beable. “I was just about to say the same thing.” Ren said and Beable nodded, then let him out of the shop. “Have a good day.” Ren said and waved, then ran up the street. He got back to his building and let himself inside. “Hey, Ruck... I'm sorry I didn't ask while we were there, but Beable was in a hurry to close the shop... was there anything in there that you wanted?”

Ruck crawled off of Ren's back and shook from side to side, and Teepo hopped off Ren's shoulder.

“If you think of anything you do want for your cabinet, let me know.”

Ruck gave Ren an 'okay' gesture. Ren nodded and then took out one of the empty barrels. He examined it closely, opened the top and felt the metal bands, and discovered the pattern for it. Ren used his new dwarf skill Appraisal and determined that the barrel in it's current condition was worth a little more than the cost of the materials, about 50 copper. He took out the other barrel and used Appraisal on that one as well. Ren brought over a stool, and took out the 5 crates of lamps he just bought and stacked them on the floor in front of him.

Ren opened the top crate, picked a lamp up, and used Appraisal on it. It was made of copper. With his Vision of Impurity picking out the flaws in the metal, all Ren could do was determine how much it actually was worth, and not what Beable had paid for it. It came out to be 8 silver for the first one. He repeated this process and used Appraisal on every one of the 100 lamps. When he'd gotten about halfway through, Appraisal went to Level 2 and he noticed something in the copper.

Is that... traces of gold? Ren thought, and his Vision of Impurity went to Level 6. Yes, definitely traces of gold. No wonder the copper was weak! Ren kept appraising the lamps and they ranged from 3 silver for the really bad ones to 10 silver for a few that only had a couple of flaws. Ren kept those lamps out. When all the lamps had Appraisal used on them, he examined the lamps he'd put aside and discovered the pattern for it. It was a good design, with the wick at the top and the thick bottom. Ren thought. When the copper wasn't too weak to hold the heat, that is.

Ren had the bright idea to smelt them down, but it was getting late and he didn't want to start another project that would keep him up all night.

“Goodnight, Ruck.” Ren said and Ruck waved. Goodnight, Teepo.

“Goodnight.” Teepo said and crawled into his place under the floor.

Ren went upstairs and into the bedroom. The sweet pastry was still there, but it had been there for almost an in-game week. Ren took the pastry and the note, then realized he didn't know what to do with them, as he didn't have anywhere to throw them out.

“I need to make a trash can or something.” Ren said and stored the pastry and note in inventory. He climbed up onto the bed and laid down next to Lucy. “Goodnight, Lucy.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren logged out for lunch and Stella teased him about sleeping with Lucy, and Ren rolled his eyes. He tried his best to tell her that they were sleeping in the same bed, but weren't sleeping together. Stella laughed and served him lunch. Ren ate and watched a few game shows on television. The watch Lucy had given him beeped and Ren looked at it.

Yep, the night is just about over. Ren thought. “See you at supper, Stella.” Ren said and put on the VR headset. My anvil will be delivered today!

“Flow Login Start.”

********
