In the Lower Realm, more and more crisis events are popping up all over the outer ring of the galaxy.

At first, only a few thousand bright white demons were spotted, but this soon turned into hundreds of thousands, and even millions, attacking star systems.

"They're being strategic! I don't know where they're getting this data, but it's obvious they're reclaiming the highest-grade worlds first... especially the ones we've recently cleared Vermillion and Morvale Forces out from!" Alveron shares.

A live chat of the other Administrators, Commanders, and Knights all listen in. A few of the highest-ranked leaders in the Galactic Trade Commission are invited to listen too. These are rulers that held tens and up to hundreds of planets each before being connected to the World Wide Connectivity system. A great number of them are from the star system of elites living on Noble Grade worlds, while others have unique skills or energy forms that put them on par with Noble Grade talent.

Over the years during the Realm Wave, Order and a solidified hierarchy have been created.

Bri accesses the data, pulling 1% of borrowed stats now that the Rising Emperor and Empress have finished using all of it.

In the last hour, the number of connected planets to the World Wide Connectivity system has increased by over ten times. With over 63 billion additional worlds flooding in, the opportunity to trade luminite crystals and create instant transport points in a new massive sector of the galaxy opens up.

This is instantly coordinated, and Knights of the Crimson Army are sent out to strictly scan the highest-risk planets and recently attacked solar systems. Many elites volunteer to help with data collection too.

Fisher and Lydia are both in the same solar system, but on different planets, far across the galaxy, exploring an old war ground. There are dozens of 1st Class and Noble Grade Demonic Worlds abandoned or even destroyed into pieces, orbiting a white sun in deep space.

They stop their exploration early without much annoyance. There are thousands of solar systems like this one, and the artifacts they're collecting for Bri, Monk, and Alveron's research are no different from their usual finds.

Fisher, the True Cored water mage, uses a fast travel perk to teleport next to Lydia across the solar system when an emergency message hits their status. He's grown taller, and his aura is far more rich with true confidence over these last few years. His new soul armor covers his body head to toe, and shimmers blue just like his eyes and hair.

Out from his soul storage, he pulls out a bright blue blade. All over its edges, ripples of water seem to move about, and the outlines of serpents swimming in an ocean look as though they're waiting to be released out of the sea that dwells in his weapon.

"Looks like we finally get to do something other than trash collection on these dead worlds. There are some real enemies out there that the Knights aren't going to be able to handle."

His eyes gleam with excitement, and an aura of intimidation floods out from his body. It vibrates with the sensation Noble Demons give off. After killing so many from the leftover armies in the lower realm, this hunter's will has grown strong enough to exert his own vibrations on the space around him.

Lydia, the white ice mage with a dense True Yellow core of her own, responds with a cold stare.

"More war isn't a good thing... Look how many have already died. Whatever these things are, they have no remorse yet they're intelligent. They're calculative but can't be reasoned with. It's the worst of both worlds."

The two stand in silence, staring up at the empty sky on this desolate demonic world, watching coordinates for the strongest demons popping up in their minds as the Knights and elites map out the galactic battlefield. Then, also watching the destruction of thousands of worlds all with billions of system users on them that they've already failed to save.

Lydia's eyes are still dead and cold, but deep in their center's a glint of life is still left. She looks over at Fisher, as in the Lower Realm, he is the only one capable of understanding the level of power available at her fingertips. The two have grown much closer over the years of this Realm Wave.

Her soul armor gives off a white frosty mist, similar to Fisher's. It was crafted by Bri with only the best materials found in the Lower Realm, imbued with Low Quality ether that shouldn't naturally occur anywhere but in the Green Zone and above.

When she pulls her soul sword out from storage, its thin, curved katana shape trails with a white mist just like her armor. Yet, as she swings it across her body, the illusion of a white tiger's growl feels like it is splitting space where it soars through.

"Let's make a bet. I think I can kill more of these Demonic Soldiers than you..." she says in a far more playful tone than her previous words.

A smile creeps onto her face, and the air pressure shifts as her own Noble-level vibrations start to pour out of her body.

Both of them start pulling borrowed stats and responding to the emergency pings in their mental systems, and the planet beneath their feet starts cracking into pieces as it cannot withstand the pressure of their auras.

Flashes of white light are left behind on the crumbling planet as they activate their greater forms and teleport to the front lines.

–

In the Green Zone, Raven and Arie peacefully stand in the central tower of the Mensa Citadel.

Far less time has passed after the Realm Wave in this zone, but over the last ten days, these two have fallen into a routine together. It consists of sparring to train and keep sharp, talking with the new citizens of this citadel, exploring the zone while cultivating the dense green threads in the air, and spending leisurely time together in peace after winning their battles in the war for the green zone.

The entire citadel has been completely renovated to accommodate their new building projects and there are many transfers of the demon-owned towers over to mana-based Lords to expand businesses and stimulate the economy. More sturdy fast travel connections have been added to the Ellipsia citadel nearby. Both of these floating cities are far closer to the empty void of green clouds where old citadels used to be in the past. New lords that ascend often appear in these pockets of the zone, so accommodations have been built out for all kinds of races.

The automated systems are still active, testing for intelligence and general strength or threat level. The wild beasts are all sent to the Grand Citadel to live in the massive lowest tier of the three-tiered structure built by Ava, managed by Zashen, a white Griffin, and a council of intelligent Elite Warriors that all used to fight in the final rounds of the old Grand Citadel's tournaments.

They all live in an elites-only headquarters at the top of the Citadel, but the middle section, where hundreds of millions of Lords live now and carry out business, has been directly connected to many smaller hovering trade centers, the Fortress itself, and many more fast travel connections have been added to make transfers to Mensa and Ellipsia easier.

Warning signals activate in all of the Citadel's command centers, but the first ones to actually feel the aura of their enemies are the dual-wielding swordswoman and the archer who has been training an army beneath Mensa for a few days now.

Both of them are geared up head to toe in brand new soul armor too. With Celestial Grade Craftsmanship available to them as a borrowed skill, all of the soul weapons, raw materials, and previously unusable medium-quality ether fragments can now be infused into their soul weapons and utilized to create armor.

They match with dark-colored lightweight armor, that glows with white shimmers of light.

A unique aura pours out of both of them, as they've come to realize their place in this galaxy. Seeing the immense growing control they are a part of as the influence of the Rising Emperor grows in the Lower Realm builds up their confidence and will as generals more and more every day.

Images of the attack on the outer solar systems have been transmitted up to them, but it is a frightening surprise when waves of High Noble Vibrations start pouring into the Green Zone too.

Both of them instantly open the roof of the central tower and float up to get a better view with their own eyes. Dents in space are left behind as they kick off the air, flying away from the citizens of the Zone. They send messages to the Warlords and Ava that are further away of what they see.

Borrowed stats start flooding into their bodies. Raven pulls out her swords, expands to a massive greater form, then disappears as a unique aura of Noble Vibrations, Divine threads, and Soul Energy cloaks her being.

Black, white, and purple spirit hands come out of Arie's back as he pulls his bow out from his soul storage.

The sight of countless rifts opening up on the horizon of the Green Zone is an incredibly eerie sight.

Bright White Demons pour out of them, walking forward through the air without emotions. Many of them somehow still have True Yellow Cores. Dense white ether covers their bodies and makes it so the Zone's gravity does not affect them. Others pull in enormous amounts of green clouds and break through to green cores without flinching or slowing their strides.
