It wasn’t useful to her, so April leaned back and watched the opening bids fly. Nothing appealed to her that much in this first wave of items, as they were all Tier 14 items primarily aimed at incoming teams trying to get the best gear they could before entering Minkalla, but it was still useful to gauge the mood of the crowd.

It didn’t take long before her first item for sale here appeared onstage, a Tier 14 mace with an extension enchantment on the haft that could extend out to a full seven meters, and an enchantment that empowered any metal-aspected skills cast through the weapon by thirty percent, or twice that if they were also delivered by the weapon.

She had other items that came through and were sold, each adding a tidy sum to her credit account, but it wasn’t until the natural treasures started coming out that she really started paying attention again. The first item on the docket was certainly starting off strong, and sent murmurs through the crowd despite the muffling enchantments liberally lining the booths.

A Leaf of Eternity.

The natural treasure was one that could grant the digester an extra two thousand years of lifespan, and represented a chance for many of the Desperates to avoid Minkalla altogether by outright tripling their lifespan.

The bids eventually settled on a truly astronomical number, well beyond her total proceeds thus far. Her own natural treasures didn’t sell for nearly as much when they came up, though the Deep Prismatic Agate was a clear forerunner in that respect. It single handedly managed to cover the cost of any two or even three of the natural treasures she’d bought earlier.

Eventually, the growth items took the stage. There were a couple clearly from Minkalla, sitting at Tier 14 already, but most were imports from outside the system, as seen by their lower starting Tiers. They were ready for bonding to either rich delvers who just exited, or rich delvers who wanted to place a finger on the scales of fate, and choose at least one item they could take into the depths with them.

The first promising item was a chain mail shirt that increased the power of all elemental transformation skills- [Body], [Form], and [Spirit]- and while the price swiftly grew past what April was willing to pay, now she was on the hunt.

A growth shield that could be mentally controlled as though affected by an animation spell caught April’s eye, and she put in a few eager bids before calming herself. Liz had used a shield towards the end of Minkalla, yes, but that was in large part due to her missing arm, and April didn’t want to affect the girl’s fighting style in such a dramatic way as to introduce an entirely new tool to her arsenal. Fortunately, she was quickly outbid by a green-bearded dwarf and so didn’t need to deal with Luna’s displeasure at bringing back an ill-suited growth item.

She could have justified the item at the bargain bin price, but not anything above that.

A torch that could freeze fire spells cast through it to form the head of a mace caught her eye, as did an icicle-wand which drastically increased the control the caster had of a skill post-usage. A growth pendant which improved all bloodline powers sparked an incredibly fierce bidding war, until it was eventually won by a dragon five rows in front of April after he tripled the latest bid alongside a show of force.

He’d flared his presence for a brief moment, showing off his Tier 40 status as he raised his bid, blatantly breaking the rules of the auction. Despite Erik giving an extra-long opportunity for anyone to outbid the dragon, none took up the offer, and the dragon won his prize, much to the obvious displeasure of the crowd. April could practically feel the smug aura the dragon was exuding, even as a pair of Tier 42 guards showed up to escort him out. He’d received the item, but April couldn’t help but wonder if he’d still be smiling after he paid whatever fines were levied against him, and he’d learned how long the ban from the Corporations would last.

Judging by his attitude, he might not even care.

That had led to some discontented muttering from the crowd as well, leaving a bit of a darkened mood across the auction hall. It also prompted a couple other high Tier 30s and low Tier 40s to try their luck as well, but they made the mistake of not also raising the bid by an incredible amount, and wound up being escorted out the moment the bid was raised again. In one notable instance, they didn’t even wait for the bid to be re-raised, instead force-marching the loudly complaining Guild man out the door, ignoring his shouts about how they ‘hadn’t seen the last of Doctor Impossible (the second)!’

That raised everyone’s mood a couple notches.

Then, she saw her prize. It was a staff, long and largely unadorned, made of some unidentified dark wood. It enabled the caster to control any of the four level one elements- Fire, Water, Earth, and Air- with any manipulation skill the caster had, even those of higher-level elements. It would be relatively easy to get a Talented crafter to affix a spearhead to it, and while the spearhead wouldn’t be growth, the staff’s effect would.

Even some kinesis skills would work if the original and resulting elements were similar enough. The example given was utilizing metal skills with earth affinity, but April already knew what it would be perfect for. It would allow Liz to control water or even air with all of her blood skills, utilizing her masterful kinesis abilities on a substantially more abundant element: something very important now that she’d lost her glove and accompanying blood reservoir.

On top of that, it would empower Torch a truly incredible amount, giving Liz a substantial boost compared to using [Fire Manipulation] in her outer spirit. Granted, between the lack of the young phoenix’s bloodline not properly applying to [Blood Manipulation], even if it was controlling fire, and the inherent inefficiency to the staff, it would ‘only’ be more of a two to three times multiplier all told. But it was still an incredible boost to her versatility. Even if she didn’t want it, and chose to delve exclusively into blood magic, Aster and even Matt could benefit from the incredible versatility the staff offered. It would transform an elemental specialist into an omnielemental specialist, and that was no mean feat, particularly as they began building their Intents.

Bidding was fierce, as she expected, but April had money to spare, as the mountain of loot her kids had brought out of Minkalla translated into pure credits. Even as the price rose, and rose, and rose, she matched and outbid every other contender. The Sect woman in multicolored robes, the red dragon in golden Clan armor, the stern-looking woman in Federation military garb, they all challenged her and lost.

It might have been the kids' money she was spending, but she felt invigorated by her victory.

Still, it took nearly everything she had left, with only enough for a Tier 20 skill and two Tier 8 skills with her spare change, to be exchanged on the Empire market for contribution points, but she had won.

Now, she just needed to return to Luna and see if she had passed this test.
