Unfortunately, it still finished off her ‘natural treasure’ budget, and she moved on as one of her own items, a nugget of heavy iron, came out onto the auction table. She had more skills to buy.

She found a ‘hologram’ store selling illusion skills, and picked up [Illusion Manipulation], [Cast Illusion], and [Afterimage] for Matt and Aster. The first two were a basic part of any illusionist’s kit, enabling them to create and then control illusions, while the third was a Tier 20 version of [Mirror Image] that created an entire series of illusory duplicates in the wake of swift movement. But with [Illusion Manipulation], they could be manipulated into running in different directions and generally causing a ruckus. Aster also got [Illusory Summons], [False Skill], and [Solid Image], letting her create illusions of monsters or cast skills, then provide actual substance to the illusions. They wouldn’t do much damage, but any opponent that didn’t realize they were dealing with illusions could still be knocked around.

One of the masterwork suits of armor went through on its auction, giving April a new influx of cash as she tracked down a good vendor for [Diffusion Shield], a defensive skill which was meant to be cast in conjunction with other defensive spells as it spread out the penetrative power of an incoming skill over a larger area. The skill would make it easier for self-regenerating shields, like all of Matt’s defenses, to take on armor-piercing skills. A few modifications would also make it work with outgoing skills too, and make it even easier for Matt to utterly annihilate weaker enemies. It might not be on Luna’s list, but she bought it nonetheless.

She bought [Illusory Fang] from the same vendor, after a bit of consideration. Someone must have just sold an absolute mountain of the skill somewhere, because the price crashed while she was watching, and she was able to get it for less than a single kilocredit. It was an illusion skill, which made it decent for Aster, and made a single bite illusionary, dealing no damage in the process. It instead inflicted a fear effect that mostly just discouraged those afflicted from attacking the caster. Not a truly useful skill, but one they expected Aster would get good use out of for practice, if nothing else.

The Iron Bamboo she had up for auction ended up paying out far more than she had anticipated, and with some of the surplus credits, she got Liz [Create Blueprint] and [Whirling Charge]. The former would help with the blood mage’s internal alchemy, letting her conjure up an entire set of ingredients for a potion using her [Blood Copy], without having the real ingredient on hand. If she could get [Library,] that would be even better to pair with the other two, but that was unlikely. The Tier 32 skill was for sale, but it was in such high demand by organizations and immortals with eons worth of data to efficiently store and categorize that the price was well out of her range.

[Whirling Charge], meanwhile, was a short-range dash that shot out a blade of air right ahead of the caster with enough power to either push back or outright cut through some weaker foes, and she seriously hoped that Liz’s Talent would properly convert the skill. A razor-sharp arc of blood leading a rapid charge would leave quite the impression on anyone foolish enough to get in range of the blood mage.

Similarly on the list of ‘skills that they hoped would survive the transition’ was [Will of the Millennium Oak], whose Clans-exclusive status and generally desirable effect of rooting the caster to the ground in exchange for enhanced vitality, durability, and mana regeneration made it her most expensive skill purchase yet. It was to the point where she wondered if Luna was betting too much on it surviving the conversion, and if the manager should refund Liz if it ended up breaking.

April was more confident in her next two purchases, [Inventory] and [Hypertension], as ways that Liz might be able to partially offset the loss of her glove. The former was a reserved skill that would ideally enable Liz to keep a mass of blood in a dimensional storage space that would hopefully still count as a part of her, as the glove once did. The latter was already a Tier 26 blood skill- with a price tag to match- which compressed more blood into the same space. Most people used it to give them additional energy and resistance to bleeding out, but Liz would be able to leverage it into more blood for her reserved blood skills, her alchemy, and more.

As far as movement skills went, April barely made it to the auction for a [Cracked Air Slide] that sacrificed cost for better speed and cooldown. Matt wouldn’t care at all about the mostly nominal increase in mana cost, but would be interested in skating across the ground with the wind at his back at high speeds in the middle of a fight.

She ended up in a bidding war with a young Corporations man who looked like he’d quite recently come out of Minkalla himself over the skill. But she had credits to spare thanks to a bulk sale of lightning-enchanted spears that had just gone through, and once it reached nineteen percent over market value, he backed out. He was a lot more insistent about the subsequent [Tailwind] that empowered all wind spells cast in the area, in addition to its normal effects, albeit for a double mana price. April eventually let him have that one at two and a half times the normal sale price of the skill.

An array of cracked skills that she didn’t care for were up next- a [Cracked Shadow Dagger] that both had a decreased mana cost and could be applied to larger blades without losing potency, a [Cracked Puddle Jumper] that worked on water instead of air for a single-digit mana cost, a [Cracked Rain of Fire] that lingered for hours post-casting, a [Cracked Venom Strike] which transferred lost coordination to the caster, a [Cracked Firebolt] that was more of a siege-class spell than anything practical for delving…

Eventually, [Cracked Shatter], the skill she had her eye on, came up for bidding. This version of the ice-aspected skill, instead of simply breaking ice, detonated it, creating a frozen fragmentary grenade of whatever it targeted. She actually got into a three way bid for that, but she eventually outbid both the Clan man in yellow and Republic woman in a black coat, securing it for herself. Either Aster or Matt could use that skill, and she knew it was worth the sky high price she paid for it.

After leaving the auction, she picked up a non-cracked [Tailwind] to compensate for the cracked variant she didn’t purchase, and from the same vendor- an eager evolved wolf quite willing to make small talk- a [Dispelling Wind], two [Air Body]s and a [Water Body].

That left a single skill remaining on her list- [Dispelling Edge], a simple skill that helped the user cut through a skill and dispel it harmlessly instead of, for example, detonating a fireball. She sent a message to Jeremiah asking if he’d found a good seller, but he replied that he’d gotten a Cracked variant earlier in the week. As such, he hadn’t bothered looking for a good source for the skill. He did send her a list of weapon skill vendors, and April eventually settled on the third person in the list, after the first two stated they were saving their supplies for a projected price increase. She couldn’t imagine why, as the skill was already the second most-expensive one she’d bought this trip. Did they really need to wait for a few more kilocredits?

After she had checked off most of the combat items she had on her list, April made her way over to the crafting and utility item vendor sections. The items they sold may have been less directly combative, though that seemingly didn’t reflect in the attitudes of the people buying there. From what she could see, there didn’t seem to be any actual fighting, but a dwarf woman was screaming at a man until she was red in the face over what seemed to be a substandard grade of copper, and a pair of armadillo men were arguing furiously about some minutia of enchanting that nobody else seemed to care about.

Not wanting to engage with that at the moment, April stepped into a small venue for home goods, and quickly parsed through what was on offer with her [AI]. Three copies of the “homemaker bundle” went into her virtual shopping basket, a collection of skills aimed at making domestic life easy. They were made up of a handful of skills for cleaning, massaging, and generally translating small amounts of mana into a basic but useful task, all for a fairly reasonable price. They had been pushing themselves hard for years now, and they all deserved a taste of the finer things in life.

Also, if she had to watch Matt manually manipulating water and soap to clean the floors one more time, she would drag him to the nearest skill vendor herself so he could get the proper tool for the job. They had too much money not to pay for small luxuries. With that in mind, she put some wheels of good cheese, wine, tea, and coffee into her basket before finalizing the purchase and moving to the next area, casting only a brief glance at two Sect men, one in pure white robes and the other in a red and gold outfit, locked in a shouting match about their ‘honor’ and respective families.

In the enchanting area, the number of databases for sale was staggering, covering fields as disparate as civil engineering and veterinary care. She added a number of Tier 15 and under rune catalogs to her slate of things to get for Matt, but her attention was drawn to some of the Sect modification scrolls that somehow hadn’t been bought out by the Sects themselves. That was quite the find, and she homed in on a scroll for modifying [Analyze] before bringing it up to the merchant with the cybernetic eyes.

April listened patiently as the woman talked about how the scroll would describe how to modify [Analyze] into an enchanting workhorse, giving incredible detail on the mana flows within an object, but she had to prevent herself from cackling as the merchant continued on to say how the first stage of the modification would drastically increase the maximum cost to nearly nine thousand mana per use. Yes, for a normal enchanter, that was quite the drawback, but she happened to know someone who wouldn’t mind that tradeoff. Keeping her face steady, she haggled the woman down to throwing in a few enchanting skills at a discounted price to make up for the shortcomings of the skill modification, before finalizing the deal and walking out feeling like a bandit.

Her next few stops were uneventful, and she was able to translate a portion of her remaining credits into a variety of skills and tools for potions, cooking, and resource collection. Nothing terribly exciting, but the suite of skills would give them a better basis for taking their crafts to the next level.

With that taken care of, April made her way to the main auction room. Unlike most of the auxiliary auction rooms, which she’d been visiting throughout her time at the moon, this one was reserved for the biggest-ticket items, was held once every three months, and always had the best stuff. Fortunately, most of her auctioned items had either already sold or were slated to appear during this auction.

That latter data point earned a smile from her, and she opened up the ‘Review Me’ page of the auctioneer she’d hired and gave him a five-pointed star. She had plenty of money, and most of her shopping was already done.

If there was anything excellent for her charges, she’d be able to afford it.

She settled into the auction floor, finding a booth towards the middle of the rows of chairs. Strolling onto the stage was a man wearing a shiny silver bodysuit with the MinkallAuctions logo on each arm and on his chest, like some kind of parody of the Guild woman seated next to her.

“Goooood evening, ladies and gentlemen, noble beasts and mighty dwarves! I am Erik Voltax, and I will be your presenter and auctioneer for this auction, brought you by MinkallAuctions: your one stop shop for the grandest treasures the Forge has to offer! We have a wonderful selection of items for you this month, courtesy of the first waves of delvers emerging victorious from the depths of Minkalla! If you haven’t already been able to download the bulletin for today’s auction, please see an attendant! They will be happy to help you with any problems you may have. As always, we ask that you restrict your sphere of awareness to just your booths. A full, detailed breakdown for every item on sale is linked through your bulletin, and if you have any concerns about the veracity of the items you purchase here today, please contact the customer support line, whose contact information may also be found in the bulletin. And just as a reminder, all bids are final and you will be expected to settle your bill before leaving. As a courtesy notice, our lovely neighbors are often surprised at the conversion rates we offer for foreign currency, and we encourage you to check them and ensure you possess sufficient Corporation Credits before placing your bid. For more details, see our customer disclaimer which can, once again, be found linked to the auction bulletin.”

With a clap, the lights around them cut off- pure showmanship, as anyone here and with the funds to buy anything would be able to see in the dark as though it were bright sunlight- and spotlights illuminated the stage as a podium rose from the ground.

“We will begin our auction tonight with a Tier 14 void bracer, capable of sending out a Void Bubble Shield, currently cataloged as [Bubble Shield NM8-FF-CVZ1079]. It’s mana hungry, but serves as a nigh-impenetrable shield around the caster. Bidding will begin at one megacredit. Perfect if you have a loved one thinking about heading into Minkalla in the near future.”

