[Shadowstrike], or [Weapon Empowerment DK14-SE] was the first skill she found a good deal on. The vendor she’d tracked down had just gotten a couple from another delver, and so was willing to sell to her for nearly market rate. It created a semi-real illusion of a lengthened blade limned in darkness that could actually cut, and most importantly, carried the enchantments of the underlying blade. Granted, both the copying and the cutting power was lessened due to the quasi-real nature of the projection, but that could be taken care of with some modifications. And if April understood the nature of Matt’s Courtly Warfare boon correctly, he could probably leverage it into projecting the illusion at an angle from the ‘main’ blade, giving him extra flexibility with the skill.

Her next stop was getting medical skills for the team.

[Directed Heal] was technically on her list, but wasn’t actually something she needed to buy thankfully as the damn skill was far, far too expensive. The team had found three shards of it within Minkalla, and while one went to Susanne the other two were earmarked for Liz, one for her inner spirit and one for her outer spirit. She’d passed on them during their initial picking-over of loot, but Matt’s ‘abysmal’ mana control made him ill-suited to be a healer, whereas Liz’s blood magic would make her an excellent one. So, she was just keeping the two skill shards unsold, and would be presented to the girl along with a pair of other healing skills to get her started as the team’s dedicated healer. Luna was probably planning on literally beating sense into the girl if she kept refusing on principle, but hopefully it wouldn’t come to that.

The first supplementary healing skill for the girl was [Rehydrate], with the hope it would convert to some kind of [Blood Transfusion]. [Medical Scan], meanwhile, was to be her ‘you will become a healer now’ skill, and would help Liz become a competent one in years rather than decades. Though by Luna’s standards, it would probably be centuries until she was ‘passable’. But April knew this would make things faster and easier, which justified its insane cost. Especially in the other Great Powers where healing wasn’t free, the skills were always in demand making them sell for a premium at the best of times.

She then got lucky and found a vendor specializing in ice-aspected skills. Why someone would specialize in a specific element for selling, let alone selling said skills for below-market rate, escaped her. But she intended to capitalize on her find. Thanks to the oddly-dressed person clad in full arctic gear that also had ice clinging to its edges, [Glacial Spear], [Meadows of Rime], [Floating Snow], [Polar Beam], [Glacial Strike] and [Sheer Cold] all came off her list. And though the last of those wasn’t strictly on Luna’s list for Aster, it was too perfect a skill to not get for Matt. If it was too perfect for Luna to allow him to use, well, she could live with that; it was a damn good skill not usually seen in the Empire.

Like [Breach], a skill she knew Matt had been eying, [Sheer Cold] was sometimes called a channeled-charge skill, where after an initial cast it could accept more and more mana to strengthen the eventual effect. In [Sheer Cold]’s case, the initial cast created a sphere of ice over the caster, and channeling mana into it caused it to get colder. Once released, it would snap-freeze a wide area, with the initial casting cost determining how large of an area it affected, and the amount of mana channeled in afterwards increasing just how cold it got.

[Glacial Spear] was largely a supersized [Ice Spear], and while its exceptionally long cast time made it impractical to utilize on anything but massive or especially tough targets, it would make an excellent finisher for Aster. Even unmodified, it summoned train-sized chunks of ice and slammed them onto its targets, crushing them and freezing them if its jagged tip didn’t impale them from the start.

[Meadows of Rime] was usually only found in the Clans, Federation, and Republic, but it was still for sale here. The skill wasn’t a terribly popular one due to its lack of protection for allies, but for as long as it was sustained, it would spread a creeping frost centered on the caster, slowing down anyone in the area and freezing the ground and air into razor-sharp points that would cut any inside of it. The slowing effect could be modified to exclude certain targets, but the cutting edges couldn’t. Its resulting lack of popularity mostly balanced out the premium inherent to any Clan-locked skill.

The same couldn’t be said for [Self Movement IC20-TX], also known as [Snowdash] or [Floating Snow On A Windy Frozen Night]. [Floating Snow], as the Empire had named it- which got the idea across just as well in far fewer words, in April’s opinion- was an excellent escape skill. It turned the caster into a flurry of snowflakes, allowing them to drift to a nearby spot before reconstituting back into themselves. The only real downside was the inability to cast any other skills during the five-second transformation, but it was still an invaluable protection against many physical attacks.

[Polar Beam], [Freeze Ray], or [Ranged Attack IC14-EB] was a favorite in both the Corporations and Guilds, with a price to match. The attack bore a few similarities with [Ice Spear], but it didn’t use a physical projectile. Instead, it was a freezing ray that froze a single target solid. Most conventional armor did nothing against the ray, and only those which specifically protected the wearer against cold could stop the attack.

[Glacial Strike] was the last ice skill on her list, an ice meta-skill that would coat the target of whatever skill it was cast alongside with a coat of ice, weighing and slowing them down substantially.

As she was wandering through the crowds, a notification pinged her AI that a set of fire-based natural treasures had sold at auction, helping her recoup some of her losses with the ice skills. She noticed a caped Guild man yelling at a bored-looking teen about skill exchange rates as she wove through an open spot in the crowd, but didn’t stay to watch the debacle, as a pair of armored guards were already on their way to break up the altercation.

Most likely, the brightly-clad man would get a fine and either a warning or an ejection from the trade hall that might last for a few weeks at minimum. The Corporations had very little tolerance for abuse of any sort from either side, especially when it made them look bad, as this current commotion did.

She made it to the first auction that held any promise just as a leaf-bladed growth dagger was sold to a Federation woman with silver lines tracing her cheekbones, and just before the bidding for a ring with a massive diamond set on it began. According to the itinerary and the announcer, the Tier 5 item could store a single spell from either the wearer or another person and release it later. She’d considered it for Liz, but her mild interest quickly fell off as the price rose beyond her discretionary budget for the moment.

That same discretionary budget rose as a notification informed her the kids’ Dew of the Last Dawn natural treasure sold at a separate auction room, but the ring still wasn’t worth the price tag as it swiftly rose through the megacredits. Two Empire shoppers were locked in a bidding war, and it didn’t look like either were about to back down as the price rose beyond anything reasonable.

Eventually, it sold for a truly ridiculous sum, and a pair of clawed gloves with an armor-piercing effect were up next. Again, it was potentially decent for Liz, but not worth joining the bidding war between a bearded sect man in their ridiculously baggy robes, and an anthropomorphic fox only wearing a kilt that confirmed their allegiance to the Monster’s Collective.

As a void blackberry sold in the interim, April set out once again on her quest for new skills. The auctions were ongoing and she had the itinerary up on her [AI], so she could see if anything that might be useful for her team came up.

[Mist Manipulation] and [Steam Manipulation] were some of the final Tier 14 elemental manipulations that Matt didn’t have yet, and they were about as expensive as April had expected. Still, she was a bit annoyed that she’d gotten the former when she did, as the skill dropped a whole two kilocredits in price just a day after her purchase.

She did manage to intercept an ongoing trade between a Federation man with vividly green eyes and a skill vendor, after she overheard the former list [Weapon Empowerment NM14-ES] as one of the shards he was trying to sell. [Heart-Piercing Stab], as she knew it, was a slight improvement to a simple [Mana Thrust], in that it could be directed in other directions after it was cast. And as a skill without an innate mana aspect, it stood a decent chance of surviving the conversion to Liz’s inner spirit. In any case, she managed to buy the skill off the Federation man at market rate, making it a better deal for both of them.

[Like A Reed In Spring] was harder to find a good deal for, and she eventually had to settle for buying it from a skill merchant who didn’t even have it in stock, and had to order up a shard from the grand exchange. Still, the ability to make a polearm shaft flexible was too high on her list to pass up just because she had to pay ‘normal’ rates. A similar fate befell [Scatter Shot], which was basically an earth-aspected volley of [Fireball]s, but at least the Tier 14 skill wasn’t too expensive to begin with.

A bracer capable of summoning a mana-construct elephant finished its auction for a bit less than she’d hoped as she settled into an auction room, but it was still enough to stretch the budget for a couple of natural treasures.

A Mirage Shadow was a treasure earmarked for Aster, and the shimmery, ethereal substance would act as a second mind of sorts when controlling illusions, giving it the benefit of her full attention while requiring no concentration on her part. April got it fairly cheaply after the Corporations woman bidding against her suddenly ran out of the room in a small panic.

A Cinder Heart was for Liz, which would enable her to store and later release flames from her own body. She might not have much use for her Torch persona, but little was not none, and while absorbed, it would provide her with additional defense against ice and cold besides, giving her a bit more of a buffer from the backsplash from Aster’s wide-scale spells.

The Profound Snowflake, which would help Aster in splitting her attention between ice skills, was a harder fight than April had expected, but she’d won out against a Federation woman in red. She lost the first Shimmering Bloodcrystal to a Clans spearman. The crystal would provide a wave of healing proportional to the amount of blood ‘stored’ within, so she felt fortunate that two more were on the docket. She was able to get the second one, letting another Empire shopper acquire the final one.

The Dewdrop Jadechip would turn Matt’s thumbnail green until he reached Tier 15 and could suppress it, but it would aid him in any mana manipulations involving physical contact with the digit. Unfortunately, The Last Gleam of Sunset went out of her allotted budget after two Guild shoppers, a man and a woman in white and black respectively, got into a bidding war. Each of them seemingly was more interested in ensuring the other wouldn’t get it than actually winning the item for themselves. The woman won in the end, and she outright cackled in victory, claimed her winning, then dashed out of the room with the man in hot pursuit.

The Golden Apple of Abador didn’t go over her budget, fortunately, and she happily claimed the fruit and its ability to enhance self-cast healing spells for Liz.

Stygian Gossamer did go a little over budget, but the Monster Collective humanoid bird she’d been facing had bowed out right as she placed her last bid. It would render any part of the body it was draped over and fused with practically invincible, or it could be processed for a universal durability boost. Which way Matt went with was up to him.

The Infinite Diamond was more straightforward in its use, simply boosting the power of neutral-mana skills used by whoever consumed it. Fortunately, it could be ground up into a powder and drunk with water, though missing even a single speck of dust would render the entire treasure useless.

The Crimson Dawnflame was for Liz, a treasure well-known for its use in aiding the bloodline growth and cultivation of phoenixes. While the crestfallen look that appeared on the Monster Collective phoenix she was bidding against each time she raised her own bid nearly persuaded April to just let the poor creature have it, she hardened her heart with the reminder that Luna had sent her to get gear for the kids at any cost. The bird was escorted out after a heart-wrenching cry accompanying its loss for ‘attempted emotional manipulation,’ but that just caused April to want to deck the arrogant Empire man who laughed at its misfortune. She knew she might be being played but it seemed like honest desire and loss from the bird and she could only hope another Dawnflame came up for auction soon so it might get the treasure.

April restrained herself— after shooting the man a glare— well enough to get Aster her Breath of Boreas, which would help the fox further develop her own winter affinity, and she nearly cheered when a Fragment of the Rainbow Bridge appeared in an auction itinerary and that she was able to afford it, her only other contenders being a Corporations man in a white lab coat and a Federation woman wearing an iridescent set of armor.

