"At least that's some good news," I proclaim. “In here,” I direct us into a room coming up that contains the stairs leading downward. “Do you think I could heal broken bones in a few days with my Vitality?”

"Depends on the break," Tabitha explains casually as we travel deeper into the r

uins.

From there, our conversation shifted to various topics, some serious and some— less so.

We spent a few minutes discussing how the bricks used on the floor differed from the ones on the walls. They were almost indistinguishable, the only difference being that the floor bricks were a slightly paler grey.

Color aside, though, the bricks making up the floor had the same force-absorbing properties as their wall counterparts, only much milder. It was like walking on a beach; you had to put in more effort to move, but nothing as ridiculous as trying to walk on the wall bricks.

While I could talk about magic materials all day, Tabitha wanted to discuss more pressing matters. She asked me if I could sense the lesser dragon above us, and shamefully, I had to tell her I couldn't. She wasn't surprised by this and explained why I had trouble sensing the winged serpent.

According to her, the winged serpent had deployed a mana zone. I had heard Tabitha use the terminology earlier when we first ran into the lesser dragon, but it was only now that she explained what it frankly was.

Strong magic beasts can diffuse part of their essence around themselves and affect the mana of a given area, creating zones that can hinder the skills of others and slowly morph their surroundings to suit them better.

It was why the forest above the colosseum was dead; the winged serpent’s mana zone corrupted the surrounding mana, making it unsuitable for plant life. It was also why I couldn’t sense it, no matter how hard I tried. The winged serpent perfectly blended into the background it created, so unless I’m incredibly close to it, I won't be able to pinpoint its exact location.

The mana zone was also responsible for tricking Tabitha's Danger Sense, and the bad news didn't stop there. According to Tabitha, if all that wasn't bad enough, there was a genuine possibility that the winged serpent could track our movement inside its mana zone, meaning as soon as we surfaced, it would know.

I know I shouldn’t be casting stones, but I couldn’t help but curse at such an overpowered ability. How on earth are we supposed to fight something like that?

Tabitha reassured me it was possible, though it would be tricky. I asked her if she’d ever fought against a magic beast with a mana zone, but she denied ever doing so. Only extremely powerful magic beasts form a mana zone, and encountering one is rare. It was just our luck we ran into one.

Tabitha did add one piece of what she considered good news to her explanation. When she first realized we were in a mana zone, Tabitha feared the magic beast we ran into was above 150, as that was around the level magic beasts started forming mana zones.

I had snapped at her, questioning how that could be considered good news, but she assured me it was coming.

Tabitha told me she couldn't sense the winged serpent's level, but after fighting it, she was positive it wasn't near level 150.

So why the mana zone? As Tabitha put it, it had to do with the winged serpent being a lesser dragon.

Tabitha explained that lesser dragon was used to describe beasts with draconic ancestry, no matter how removed they were. Dragons were apex creatures known for their invincible bodies and even more devastating magic capabilities. Because the winged serpent was a descendant of them, it was able to manifest a mana zone prematurely.

Tabitha was confident the winged serpent was somewhere around level 130; it could be lower or higher, but it definitely hadn't reached 150.

It was exciting learning about mana zones. Of course, Tabitha reminded me multiple times that everything she knew came from her master, but that got me thinking: Pacore was over 150; could he produce a mana zone? Tabitha didn't want to talk about it, but was a mana zone something you advertised? Pacore said he had zero magical talent, but did you need talent to affect the world around you?

No, you didn’t.

I pondered the potential of such an ability down multiple flights of stairs until we reached the room I was leading us to.

The two of us were now sufficiently far enough away from the snake that it wouldn’t be able to hear me working on Tabitha’s armor. And now that we were here, it was time to get to work—

Right after a quick meal of hard biscuits and overly salted jerky.

It was that, or I got distracted by my stomach while I worked.

First, food, then we could start on our preparations.

I need to fix Tabitha's armor, improve Mana Skin now that I’ve gained so many magic skill levels, and lastly—I looked down, focusing on a large underground chamber I could now sense deep beneath us.

Before we leave, we'll need to check out that room. All the remaining death mana from the soul horrors was slowly gathering there.

I couldn’t sense any soul horrors, but if there were any more left, that’s where they would be hanging out. But, sadly, exploring would have to wait until later.

But we’ll get there, eventually.
