“Oh.” Ereka said, because she knew what that meant. “A duel wouldn't work.”

Nathalia shook her head. “I couldn't call on the House Champion to fight her, could I?”

Ereka took her into a hug, and Nathalia cried on her shoulder. “Ren's the House Champion.” She said. “No, you couldn't.”

“I attacked her from behind.” Nathalia said. “She didn't expect it at all.”

“Good.” Ereka said. “If I remember correctly, she would probably tear you apart if she knew it was coming.”

“I know.” Nathalia said. “I had to strike when I could.” She sighed. “I lost over a thousand Honor to do it, though.”

“I'm so sorry.” Ereka said, and held her tightly.

“I don't know what to do now.” Nathalia said.

“You don't have to do anything.” Ereka said. “This isn't the first time something like this has happened.”

“It... it's not?”

Ereka smiled and let her go. She went to the shelves of books, picked one of them, and went back to sit on the couch. She flipped it open to the right page, and read out loud one of the many times it had happened.

“But... but this time, she's an Adventurer.” Nathalia said. “That's never happened before.”

Ereka nodded. “That's not the only difference.” She said, then looked at Nathalia seriously. “Why didn't you kill Ren, too?”

“I... I almost did.” Nathalia said, and cried.

*

Anabelle was happy that Ren had finally come to the shop. It didn't matter that he was only there to do things for the shop; all she cared about was that he was there, and that he was okay. She thought she might have heard a scream earlier; but, she didn't ask him or Nathalia about it.

Nathalia had walked by her and left the shop without a word, and then Ren had come down a little while later. She knew something weird must have happened, and ignored her impulse to find out what it was.

*

Ren figured Anabelle wanted to know what was going on, but he didn't really know himself. He knew what had happened, but from this point forward, he had no idea how things were going to go. He did the weapon and armor repairs quickly, and filled any quick forge orders that he could, then said goodbye.

“Aren't you going to visit...” Anabelle started to say.

“I can't.” Ren said. “I honestly don't have the time for anything else right now.” He sighed. “I've delayed going back to the Dwarven Kingdom long enough as it is.”

“I understand.” Anabelle said, even though she really didn't; but, she knew that's what Ren needed to hear, so that's what she said.

“Thanks, Anabelle.” Ren said and smiled at her.

“Hold on, I'll walk you to the portal.” Anabelle said and waved to Carly, who came over and took responsibility for the main desk. Anabelle took Ren's arm and led him out the back door of the shop, up the stairs, then into the apartment.

“I'll be back here tomorrow to meet Elerlyth.” Ren said. “She said she's going to keep me busy all day, so I don't want to be disturbed.”

“I... ah...” Anabelle didn't know how to respond to that.

“I'm sorry if this is going to mess anything up that you have planned.” Ren said. “I didn't intend...” He sighed. “I have to stop saying that.”

Anabelle smiled. “Despite good intentions, bad things happen.”

Ren nodded. “That seems to be the way things are going lately.”

“Don't worry.” Anabelle said. “Once you're back in Aurora in less than 3 months, things will get much simpler.”

“I can only hope.” Ren said, and opened the cabinet. “See you later.”

“I can only hope.” Anabelle repeated his words back to him. “When do you want to take the money made in the shop?”

“You don't need to keep it for change or anything?” Ren asked.

Anabelle grinned. “Why would I need a hundred platinum to make change?”

Ren snorted a laugh, and she handed the money to him.

“Did you take your pay?” He asked.

“What pay?” Anabelle asked. “We never discussed actual money.” She smiled. “I distinctly remember asking for special kisses instead.”

Ren smiled crookedly. “I think 10% of the profit would be more appropriate.” He said. “What about the other girls? Have you been paying them?”

“Of course.” Anabelle said, then realized what Ren had said. “Did... did you just say 10%?”

Ren nodded and handed her back 10 platinum. “You're doing a great job.” He said, and Teepo dissolved into the ring.

“Ren!” Anabelle said, as she held the coins in her hand as if she didn't want to touch them. “What am I going to do with all this money?”

“Anything you want.” Ren smiled at her, and then stepped through the portal.
