They arrived at the airport the next morning in a small convoy of autocars filled with All Brew house guards. The Alchemical Star airship had been brought out and was moored at one of the landing pads, with dozens of ground crews swarming over her, doing last-minute preparations.

The polished metal vessel glinted in the morning sun, its All Brew red and gold colours giving it a regal appearance. Its mana-gathering wings and sails were both more numerous and larger than those on a standard airship, hinting at the thing's power requirements.

Wood was still the main material used on airships because it was comparatively light, which helped control the amount of power the contra-lift enchantments needed.

This... it was mostly metal, and where airships usually had one or two turbines to propel them forward, the Alchemical star had six, arrayed in two pods of three on each side of its stern.

Anyone would call this a grandstanding monstrosity. It hadn't been designed for practicality. It was a statement, a tool to project an image, a reputation.

David peered at Cornelius, standing nearby, hands on his hips, observing his airship with a wide smile on his face.

He snorted. A reflection of its owner.

A middle-aged dogkin woman, wearing an All Brew red-and-gold naval suit and captain's hat, approached their group, stopping a few paces away and standing at attention.

“Mr. All Brew, pleasure to see you this fine morning. Is she to your satisfaction?” The woman asked.

Cornelius took a second to notice he had been spoken to, his eyes still glued to the, admittedly, rather striking form of the vessel before him.

“Hmm? Oh! Ms. Plerigass! Yes, yes, she is marvellous! Good job with the preparations, especially on such short notice!”

“It was no problem, sir. I've been keeping her in tip-top shape even through the airworthiness trials. Just had to give the lady a buff and a shine.” Plerigass turned her head toward the rest of the group. “So, who among you are we ferrying to Amberose for her maiden voyage?” She asked, a smile at the corner of her mouth.

“Me!” Niala exclaimed, raising her hand. “Me and David! Can I go look at her?”

The dogkin blinked, the smile reaching the rest of her mouth. “Oh, you must be Niala then? I'll have my second give you a tour once we're underway. Just so you know, we're ready to embark, anytime you want.”

Niala's ears flopped down as she nodded, pushing back her excitement, letting her eyes linger on the ship for a few moments more. Then, her ears flicked, and she turned toward her family. “I guess this is goodbye? I feel like I just got here too...” She said, deflating.

Cornelius walked up to his daughter, putting his hands on her shoulders. He gazed upon her for a few moments, his eyes moistening. “Niala, my precious daughter. I was so happy to see you again. Please, if you want to visit again, send me a message via your avilem, and I'll dispatch the Alchemical Star to pick you up. Anytime, and as often as you want.”

“Dad...” Niala said, her eyes glistening.

Cornelius sniffed. “As often as you want. I mean it. Even if you just want to come have dinner with us, I'll... I'll...”

Niala swept away a tear with her hand, nodding. “We'll come back to visit you and Angeline, for sure! I really... I didn't want to be away for that long, but... I was so afraid you'd be angry with me!”

Her father's lips trembled. “Oh, daughter! Never! Please! I would never turn you away!”

“Dad!”

“Niala!”

The two catkins crumpled into one another, bawling their eyes out. Angeline smiled and walked up to the pair, putting her arms around them, both of them pulling her into the family hug.

Some time later, the trio untangled, father and daughter drying their tears, before Niala's ears twitched.

“Oh! I almost forgot! A parting gift!” She said, retrieving a small pouch from her satchel and handing it to her father, under Angeline's curious gaze.

Cornelius took the pouch and inspected it, giving his daughter a puzzled look. “What is it?”

An impish smile graced Niala's face. “Oh, nothing much. Just twenty grams of fairy dust.”

Cornelius and Angeline froze. The man's eyes were the only thing that moved, swivelling toward the small treasure he held in his hand.

“Fairy... dust? Fairy dust?! Daughter! How did you get this much fairy dust?!”

Niala crossed her hands. “Oh, not me! It's mostly a gift from David. The fairy dust belongs to him!”

The catkin's eyes snapped onto the man. “You? How?!”

“I have a contract with a fairy university. They pay me in fairy dust. They gave me two hundred grams last time.” He explained casually.

Cornelius choked on his words. “Two-two hundred!?” His eyes went back to the pouch, then to David, wide and calculating. A slick smile drew across his face.

“Oh! My dear David! From the moment I laid eyes on you, I knew you were someone special, and you've proven me right!”

Niala rolled her eyes nearby. “Dad!”

He turned to his daughter. “Niala! My wonderful daughter! Once the date of the marriage is set, inform me at once, won't you? Your sister and I will make sure to attend!”

Niala glared at her father, then glanced at her sister, who had a mischievous smile splitting her face. Grunting, she turned around, grabbed David by the sleeve and stomped off toward the airship.

“Bye, Angeline. Bye, Dad.” She shouted over her shoulder.

Her steps, determined and wilful, lost energy as they approached the ramp leading up into the ship. She stopped at its base, her eyes staring at the ground.

David stepped up to her, putting an arm over her shoulders and giving her a small shake. “You heard your father. We can visit again anytime. You're not leaving without knowing when you'll be back this time.”

She looked up to him, her eyes moist, but a smile on her face. Drying her eyes with her sleeve, she nodded, turned around, and waved at her family, who waved back.

And then, they stepped up and into the Alchemical Star.

Within half a bell, they were lifting off.

The Hungerwoods, Azure Guard camps above the Living Vault

Sammie navigated through the tents and shacks within the small earth-and-wood fort the guards had set up near the Living Vault's entrance, tracking down Sybil.

He found her sitting at a table in the maintenance pavilion, working on her gear. She looked up as he approached, a small smile tracing across her lips, which he returned. He sat in front of her as she put down her sword and sharpening stone.

“What's up? It looks like good news.” She asked.

His smile grew bigger. “Yep. Just got confirmation from the captain; our unit's rotating back to Riverwall for a couple of weeks of rest.”

She leaned back, stretching. “Oooh, that IS good news! When are we leaving?”

He shrugged. “Whenever the next unit shows up with the supplies, probably tomorrow.”

She rocked forward, crossing her arms on the table and resting her head on them. “I can't wait to take a good, long bath at the bath house. Maybe even rent a room for a night or two at an inn. Get an actual bed.” She moved her head so she could see him with one eye. “What about you?”

He puckered his lips. “Honestly? I'm just going to be happy to not be sleeping on top of a pits-bound fel hive, especially after what happened the first night. I've been waking up in the middle of the night, certain I'd heard something roaming about...” He said, his shoulder slumping.

She winced, straightening back up. “Yeah, that was something. I was certain we were going to die. I mean, we would have, if it hadn't been for... them.”

They relived through their memories in silence. Sammie looked up. “Did we ever figure out who they were? The guy clearly had Azure imbuements, and he was acting awfully casual with Lord Isaac.”

She tilted her head, her long bunny ears wobbling. “I heard he was his brother, if you can believe that.”

Sammie narrowed his eyes. “Lord Isaac's brother? He has a brother? Is he a half-blood or something? What was that guy doing here?”

Sybil shrugged. “Beats me. I'm just glad he was there. Man, I'd never seen someone fight like that. Those fels, they were just like... nothing. That stupidly long sword of his just sliced through them like water.” She snorted. “And he never turned off his imbuements. That's not normal. Nobody has that much mana.”

“Yeah... and the way he made us all fly like that?”

“Pfft, the worst is that nobody who wasn't there will believe us. Not even that catkin's potions. Healing potions don't work like that.”

Sammie scratched the back of his head. “I guess, though I'm glad they did. Even if I'd survived, I wasn't looking forward to having giant acid burns across my face and body.”

Sybil smirked. “What? Why not? I thought it helped offset your overall ugliness.”

“Ha. Ha. Yes, Broken-nose Sammie's ugly. How original.”

“Nah, I think your nose's your best feature. It's your bloodshot beady eyes that are the real killer.”

“First, my eyes are not beady. Beady-Bill's eyes are beady. It's in his name. Second, they're bloodshot because I can't sleep because we're camped right outside the entrance to a bleeding Fel Hive. I don't know how you do it.”

She shrugged. “We've been killing them a dozen a day for a while, now that we can detect them.”

“Yeah, we killed hundreds by now, and it doesn't seem to matter. Just how many are down there? And how in the saint's armpits are there still living animals anyway? Shouldn't they, I don't know, get wiped out by the swarm every night?”

Sybil put a finger to her temple. “From what the old guys told me, evolved fels, like those down there, aren't really interested in non-humanoids or non-magical beasts.”

“Oh? Do we know why?”

She shook her head. “No. Just that a corrupted will attack anything, but even they will go after humanoids and magical beasts first. I guess we have something in us that tastes better.”

“Oh, lucky us, fel's preferred meat.”

She grinned. “I'll have them put that on your tombstone.”

“As if you'll outlive me, Ms. Hero. But don't worry, I'll drop a handful of stinkflowers at the statue they'll have built in your memory.”

They gazed at each other for a short while. Sammie was the first to snicker, soon followed by Sybil.

She shook her head. “Well, whatever. Hey, you think we can find out where the girl got her potions from? If we could get a few of them, we might live to see retirement.”

Sammie leaned back. “Huh, yeah, that's actually a good idea. Short of losing your head, I guess you could heal up from anything.”

Sybil nodded, bunny hears swinging back and forth. “Yep, yep. That's me, Sybil good ideas. Here's another good idea. Finish sharpening and buffing my sword while I go find some food.” She said, getting up and pointedly leaving her sword in front of Sammie.

He blinked, “What? Why!? I can go get food myself!”

“Huh-huh, but the cook doesn't have a crush on you, so he won't give you extra biscuits and dessert. Sword's payment for the extra rations. See you soon!” She fluttered her fingers, sauntering away.

He watched her go, scowling, before grabbing her sword and sharpening it while muttering.

“Stupid attractive Sybil, make Sammie work extra just for some biscuits. Am I a dog or something? Pfffft.”

The Fairlands, Tulipville's outskirts

Moromu's boss had been clear; the Cute Bunnies Cooperative had to go. Their fields were cutting through some of the Sweet Syrup conglomerate's holdings, forcing their workers to drive their machinery back to the roads and around, wasting time and money.

She'd figured it shouldn't be too hard; the CBC had been on the decline for years now. A nice little package of manamints to each of the three owners and a little speech about the changing times and the uncertain future should do it.

Of course, Moromu had also made sure to buy exclusivity contracts with most of the CBC's previous suppliers a few seasons ago, so they should have been feeling the squeeze by now.

Her cariole pulled up to the CBC's driveway and frowned. The last time she'd been here, the buildings were in need of a new coat of paint, there were rows of old farm equipment rusting away as they awaited repairs that never came, and there were few employees to be seen.

Nothing like the prim, clean, and swarming sight in front of her.

She drove up to the administration building, which had been repainted a bright pink, and got out, walking up to the door and pressing the doorbell.

Within a few seconds, one of the two tall sisters came to answer the door, her joyful face turning sour as they recognized Moromu. “Oh, it's you.”

“Ms. Windwhistle, so good to see you.” The corporate fairy greeted, a fake smile on her face.

Somimi snorted. “I'm glad one of us feels that way.”

“Now, don't be like that. I've actually come to you today with a very interesting proposition, if you could give me a few minutes?” Moromu asked, subtly motioning to be led inside.

The tall fairy eyed the corporate stooge for a few moments before wordlessly stepping out of the way.

Her polite smile still on display, Moromu bowed her head and went inside, Somimi closing the door behind her.

They were soon in the general office area, with Kumimi and Pumpkin going silent as the corporate fairy walked in, giving each of them a few seconds of her practiced smile. She sat down at one of the guest chairs unbidden, just as Somimi walked in behind her and rested herself against the wall.

“Good morning to you both, Ms. Windwhistle, Kittenkiss. I've come here today with a proposition which I'm sure you'll find very interesting.” Moromu began, under the critical stares of all three CBC owners.

Unbothered, she continued. “As you know, Sweet Syrup, my employer, has been looking to purchase your fields for quite some time now, and, given the continued financial difficulties of the CBC, I've come today with a purchase offer which is quite generous.”

Moromu took out three copies of the offer, handing them to reluctant hands, and waited for the fairies to review the summary page, holding up her smile as they did.

One by one, the three owners finished reading, exchanged looks, before handing the documents back, Moromu's smile straining as they did.

“Is something unsatisfactory in the proposal?” She asked. “While very generous, we would be open to discussion, and-”

“We're not selling.” Kumimi cut in.

“...and why is that? Your finances are-”

“None of your concern, and doing quite well, thank you,” Somimi interjected.

Only now did Moromu's smile dull. “I take it one of our competitors has already met with you? I did wonder where the funds needed to refurbish your installations had come from, but do know that-”

“No competitor. We have a new sponsor and a new product. We don't need you, your money, or any one of your ilk, for that matter.” Pumpkin countered.

Moromu's smile was gone by now. “A new product? What kind of produce could possibly save your failing operations. My offer was most generous, and you would do well to properly think it through. Your collective debts must be very close to terminal. You know what that means.”

Pumpkin looked on, blank-faced, before smirking. “Well, why don't we show you our new product?”

The corporate fairy blinked. They were willing to reveal their secret? Well, as they said in business school, never stop a fool from completing their mistake.

A small smile returned to her mouth. “I would very much enjoy seeing it, yes.”

Within a few minutes, a hot cup of brownish liquid was before her. The smell wafting from it prickled at her taste buds, like a strong vinegar. She eyed the beverage, turning her eyes up at the three fairies. “What is this?”

Pumpkin shook her head. “Don't worry, it's not poison. Just take two sips, one after the other. If you want, one of us will drink from the cup first, to prove it's safe.”

Moromu eyed them, but eventually did as suggested.

The first sip was... bitterly infect. She grimaced and looked at Pumpkin, attempting to figure out if this was a farce. The small fairy gently shook her head, motioning for Moromu to take her second sip.

It took her a few seconds, but she did so, and...

It was...

Enjoyable?

It felt... invigorating? As if she had bared her wings for all to see, but with none of the shame that accompanied exhibition.

She looked up at Pumpkin, then to the Windwhistle sisters. They all shared the same knowing smile.

Creepy, she thought, as her hand brought the cup back to her mouth absentmindedly.

She finished the beverage. In the end, it was nothing more than a surprisingly enjoyable drink. She repeated her warning, told them they would get one more chance to accept the proposition, and went on her merry way.

Three days later, Moromu was back at the CBC admin building in the early morning hours, banging at the door.

A groggy Somimi came and answered. “What do you want?”

Moromu, her suit crisp, hair slicked, and shoes mirror shined, bowed. “Greetings, mam. I wanted to inquire if your cooperative had a position open for an experienced and skilled operations' manager.”

Somimi blinked, a devilish grin taking over her lips. “Oh, and why are you asking?”

Moromu cleared her throat. A slight edge sneaking into her voice. “I... I'm sorry. I can see the writings on the candies.” She took and released a short breath. “Your drink, it's going to sweep the nation. No, the world.”

Somini slowly nodded. “And... what's that have to do with anything?”

The job-seeking fairy fidgeted with her hands as she weighted her options. Her posture straightened as she made a decision. “I want to be on the winning side. The... Old Woman? It is... liberating. I had so much focus and energy after you had me drink it that I cleared my entire backlog of ether-mails the same day, and then I started writing a three-month improvement plan for one of our ailing refinery. I submitted it the next day, and it got me a raise.”

She let out a puff of air and looked back up at the towering fairy. “And if a single drink does that, every fairy between both coasts will want to keep a steady supply of Old Women. Productivity is paramount. We all know this.”

She steeled her eyes. “Please, let me join this ship before it launches into the sparkly stars.”

The tall fairy tilted her head as she smirked. “Right, well, why don't you come in and discuss that deal of yours some more, then?”

A quarter bell later, the CBC welcomed their newest employee, Moromu Twinkles. Part of her contract was an uninterrupted supply of Old Woman.