Elise’s tour of the cavern stuck mostly to the outskirts. She showed Charlotte some of the more interesting buildings, as well as a couple of the offshoot caves, one of which had an Abyssal Mimic in it. Charlotte wanted to know what it tasted like, and it was hard to convince her not to try and hunt it. Elise wouldn’t have minded killing one, but she didn’t want Charlotte to put herself in that kind of danger before understanding what kinds of abilities the monsters of the abandoned city had.

A few minutes later, she learned that her caution might have been unwarranted.

With how silly Charlotte often acted, Elise tended to forget how powerful she actually was. Charlotte was a bonafide Tier 7 monster with a Mythic Species, and more importantly, almost all of her stats were focused on the physical side. Her mana was almost the bare minimum it could be for a monster at her level, while her body was about as powerful and indestructible as it could get.

Somehow, her acid wasn’t actually magical, most of the time. She produced it within her body, and somehow was able to secrete it through some of her pores, as well as her fangs. She had some mana-based abilities to help her control it more precisely, and sometimes enhance or dilute it if necessary, but that was it. Everything else was just raw, physical power.

They encountered a herd of Abyssal deer not long after leaving the mimic cave, and Charlotte tore into them gleefully. Literally tore. The deer turned to meet her, lashing out with their tentacle-covered antlers, trying to stop her. Charlotte pushed through them effortlessly, and shoved two acid-coated hands deep into its neck before ripping its head straight off.

Many of the deer fled upon seeing that, with only three staying to try and fight. Their desire to fight did not last long, though. They tried to charge her from three different angles, probably hoping to skewer or grapple her or something, but Charlotte simply swung her backside around, knocking them over like bowling pins. She then shot out a web to reel one of them in, and eviscerated it with her spider maw. The other two lost the will to fight, and turned to run away.

Elise had originally planned on telling Charlotte to stop. She was worried about the arachne biting off more than she could chew. Now, Elise knew that it might have been her that bit off more than she could chew by letting Charlotte stay with her. The deer were far from the most powerful monsters in the cavern, but they weren’t the weakest either, and Charlotte had killed them effortlessly. The Abyssal Hounds were more dangerous, but they would meet a similar fate if they tried to fight her, and Elise thought that maybe even the Abyssal Wyrms living in the hanging buildings would be hard pressed to take her, though that wasn’t something she really wanted to test.

She kept those thoughts to herself, though, since she now had to help Charlotte clean up.

Charlotte wanted to take both deer corpses back to her cave, but Elise vetoed the second one. It was in an extremely sorry state, its organs liquified in a puddle, and its ribs half-disintegrated. It would create a mess and a stink no matter where she tried to put it, and unfortunately, unlike Elise, Charlotte did not seem to have any aversion to the scent of rotting meat. Elise didn’t want that in her cave, even if it would be quarantined inside Charlotte’s room, so it would be staying here for something else to eat, or to be reclaimed by the spawn zone.

Charlotte pouted, but acquiesced, and settled for just nibbling on it before wrapping up the first corpse and sticking it on her back so they could continue the tour.

Elise showed her around a bit more, walking all the way to the boiling river, which Charlotte drank directly from without even flinching, then they flew up to one of the hanging buildings as Elise talked.

“This one is empty, but most of them aren’t,” she explained. “Some of them just have some weak birds and bats, but a few of them have Abyssal Wyrms, which are very powerful. So if you ever want to go out alone, you have to be very careful about these, and if you run into one of the wyrms, fly away back to my cave. They don’t like going over that far.”

Charlotte nodded seriously as they landed on the balcony-porch of the hanging building and walked through the large door.

As far as Elise could tell, most of the hanging buildings were not actually lived in. They were mostly used for storage, hence the relatively empty rooms, and the doors big enough for the Abyssal Wyrms to fit through them. It made sense, since there didn’t seem to be any way to get there, other than flying, and she highly doubted that an entire species of aerial people like the Ainar would live in an underground city like this.

They walked to the other side of the building and out the opposite door, standing on the balcony to look out at the city. At that moment, an Abyssal Wyrm emerged from one of the hanging buildings on the far end. Elise pointed it out to Charlotte, talking through its actions as it dove down to the ground and started seizing prey out of buildings with its semi-incorporeal tentacles. Thankfully, Charlotte didn’t find it very tasty-looking, and seemed to understand the danger that the monster posed, so she was easily convinced not to go looking for trouble with them.

“Look how it’s flying now,” said Elise, suddenly pointing down as the wyrm did a U-turn midair. “Did you see that?”

“Yeah?” said Charlotte, confused.

“It stopped before it got too close to the center of the city,” continued Elise. “It realized it was getting too close, and immediately turned around.”

“Why did it do that?”

“There’s something powerful living in the castle. Powerful and dangerous enough that the Abyssal Wyrm isn’t willing to risk getting too close. And if it’s that powerful, there’s no way either of us can handle it, so we need to steer clear. You can never go close to the castle. Not until we’re both stronger and we’re confident we can handle what lives there.”

“What if it comes to us?” asked Charlotte.

“That…” said Elise, looking down at the castle. “That has never happened. Whatever lives in the castle, it has not left the castle since I arrived here. If it does… then we’ll just have to deal with it or run. I saved one teleportation scroll just for that.”

Charlotte nodded again, and the two watched the Abyssal Wyrm as it continued its hunt. Soon, a second emerged from a different part of the cavern, then a third, then a fourth, and a fifth right as the first returned. As far as Elise could tell, there were only those five in this cavern, and this time of day was their usual hunting time. She hadn’t expected the timing to work out quite so perfectly, but it was the reason she had brought Charlotte up to the hanging building when she did.

They watched in relative silence until the last of the Abyssal Wyrms returned to their abodes, then descended back to the ground to continue the tour. Elise pointed out a few more monster dens, warning Charlotte to stay away. That was less for the arachne’s safety, and more for the safety of her clothes. She was fairly confident that Charlotte could handle just about anything that lived on the ground, but she didn’t want her making a mess. Not while Elise was around, at least.

When they neared the end of the tour they had in mind, Elise was paying less attention to what Charlotte was doing, and more attention to her own soul. The monsters of the cave had started settling down for the night, and the soul storm was due any minute now. She was hoping that Charlotte would have enough awareness to notice it on her own, since that would save Elise the trouble of having to teach her.

In the meantime, Charlotte was having fun exploring randomly around the city. While Elise walked calmly, she was running all over the place, poking her head into random buildings, and climbing on top of others. Currently, she had her nose in the air, and was meandering through the streets and alley, following some scent that Elise couldn’t detect.

Elise watched in amusement as she bumped her rear end into a door frame, and had to turn completely sideways to fit through. There was nothing alive in the house, and the last few times Charlotte had followed a scent, it was just to a random dead monster, so Elise didn’t bother to go in after her. She figured Charlotte was just going to find another one of those, but instead, a few seconds later, she heard a slurping sound and decided she needed to investigate.

She walked inside, then went downstairs into the basement where Charlotte was, stopping at the bottom of the stairs when she saw what Charlotte was eating. The entire floor was covered in translucent orange goop with the consistency of gelatin. In the far corner of the room, Elise saw the remnants of some black webbing stuck to the floor and walls. It was a familiar scene, and one she remembered vividly, since it had been a formative experience in the new world. Popping the evolution cocoon of the Lesser Earth Wyrm had been the source of the experience points for her first evolution, and the popped cocoon room was one she had spent a fair bit of time in afterward.

Charlotte had big gobs of the stuff in either hand, and was currently standing with a thoughtful expression on her face and bits of orange goop on her chin. She seemed to be unsure of whether she liked the flavor, and her uncertainty ended up being so great that a couple seconds later, she slurped down another handful.

Elise snorted with laughter, then turned her attention back to the remains of the cocoon coating the ground. A popped evolution cocoon wasn’t that surprising, since evolution was dangerous, and there were many things that would gladly take the experience points for popping a cocoon. Something about the state of this one bugged her, and it only took her a few more seconds to realize why.

As she stared, she suddenly felt that slight aetheric quiver that indicated that the soul storm was impending, and it dawned on her what had caused the death of whatever this monster had been trying to become. The soul storm. They didn’t just stop so monsters could evolve safely. They kept coming, twice a day, day after day. And if she was stuck down here, she would have to suffer through that too.

Shit.

“Elise?”

“Huh?” said Elise, looking up from the goop. “What is it?”

“Did you feel that?”

Elise took a moment to process what she meant.

“Oh! Yes, the quiver! Yes, that means that we need to leave. Right now. Or else we're going to be caught out in the soul storm. You remember what I told you about the soul storm, right?”

“Yes!” said Charlotte. “I need to make a strong soul shell for it.”

“Exactly,” said Elise. “So let’s get back to the house as quick as we can and then make our soul shells.”

“Okay!”

Elise was pleased that Charlotte had noticed, and proud of her observational skills, but those emotions faded before they even returned to her home cave as her mind returned to the evolution conundrum. The more she thought about it, the more she realized that her main issue was not the soul storm, but rather her lack of information about how evolutions worked.

There was a chance that all she needed to do was make a strong enough soul shell to weather the storms for as long as it took for her to evolve. She couldn’t do that at the moment, but it sounded like something that might have been feasible. There was also a chance that now that she had soul awareness, she would be conscious throughout the evolution process, and she would be able to actively repair her defenses during each soul storm.

But there was also a chance that her soul would be weakened during the process, and that any preparations she made would be in vain. There was the possibility that the System had stunted her soul’s development to the point that no matter what she did, she would not be able to survive it. There was a possibility that evolution without the System worked completely differently from anything she was imagining, and whatever preparations she made would be in vain.

And avoiding the soul storms was unfortunately not an option. She had one teleportation scroll back to Charlotte’s house that they could use in case of an emergency, but if she tried to evolve in the relative safety of the forest instead of here, the timer on the waypoint would be well past expired by the time she emerged. She would never return to the underground cavern again.

It really put a damper on all her plans. One reason she had been looking forward to having Charlotte around was for the additional protection when evolving, but that wouldn’t really matter if she died anyway from the soul storms. But she needed to evolve still. She simply wasn’t strong enough at 5th Tier to explore the more dangerous reaches of the caverns.

I want to investigate the castle and the big tunnel, but I can’t do that until I’m strong enough, so I need to evolve, but I can’t do that until I figure out how to do it safely, and I can’t do that because I don’t know how System-free Evolution works, and I can’t ask anyone, because the only people who would know are the sealed heroes, who are completely incommunicado…

She sighed as she landed in the cave, commanding the roots to part so she and Charlotte could enter. She followed Charlotte up to the hole in the ceiling, joining the arachne in the main chamber. She kept half her mind on Charlotte, making sure she was settling in properly and getting her soul defenses ready, while the other half continued to work on her current issue. She went through her options while the soul storm hit, and even after, while she checked to make sure Charlotte was alright, she kept thinking about it.

As she went to bed that night, she still couldn’t stop thinking about it, and while she lay staring up at the ceiling, an idea suddenly came to her. There was someone she could ask. They might not know how evolutions worked without the System, but if anyone had any insight into what she was dealing with, it would be him.

Oberon.