“Would the monster that was in the area happen to have been a massive serpent?” asked Elise.

“It would,” said Oberon. “You knew of it already?”

“I met it,” she said. “It’s dead.”

“You killed it?!”

“Irylax did.”

“Oh. Yes, that makes more sense. Do you know anything else about it?”

“It was similar to Quel’Khulan, but stronger.”

“Stronger?!”

“Yes. And there are more similar boxes around, which should now be unsealed.”

“That’s not good.”

“No. So if you ever see any of the things that came out of this box, don’t anger them.”

“Noted.”

They looked at the box in silence for a few seconds, then Oberon put his hands on his hips.

“Well, that’s that, then,” he said. “I thought I’d be giving you an important warning, but now it’s the other way around. And that’s really the only thing I had to say, so…”

“I guess I’ll be heading back, then?”

“I guess so. Well, I should remind you to think over what I said last night too. I really think that Rayna might be your only choice.”

“Maybe…” said Elise before looking up at him. “You’ve been uncharacteristically serious lately.”

Oberon took a deep breath, and let it out in a long sigh.

“Yes, well,” he said. “Being unserious just hasn’t been as fun lately for some reason.”

“So you’re trying to convince people to befriend mass murderers to find new joy in life?”

“I never said you had to befriend her. I merely asked you why you felt so strongly that you shouldn’t.”

“I don’t want to associate with people who do things like what she did.”

“A perfectly reasonable desire,” said Oberon. “But sometimes, you don’t have a choice, and being antagonistic only makes things worse.”

“I know.”

“And sometimes those people you only associate with out of necessity end up being the most interesting and impactful connections you’ll ever make.”

“Not for a good reason.”

“Usually not,” said Oberon, shrugging. “But sometimes they’ll do something so unexpected and good that it makes it all worth it. It’s what makes what I do so fun. People are unpredictable and complicated. If they could be summed up in a single word like ‘murderer’ or ‘tyrant’ or ‘monster,’ there would be no point in talking to anyone.”

“I suppose.”

“You don’t have to like them. You don’t have to get close to them. In fact, I recommend you avoid exactly that. Getting close to people is how you get hurt. But avoiding them is how you miss out on life. There’s a sweet spot somewhere in there that you have to find.”

“How do you not get close to people you spend a lot of time with?”

“Practice. You’ll get used to it eventually.”

Oberon smiled, but the smile didn’t quite reach his eyes.

Another minute passed, and neither spoke. Elise didn’t want to talk about it anymore, and Oberon didn’t seem to know what else to say. Elise tried to think of a good way to end the conversation and leave without being too rude, but was saved from the trouble when she heard the faint sound of footsteps and voices coming down the tunnel. Oberon glanced over at them, then sighed.

“I guess time’s up,” he said telepathically. “Thank you for the warning, and good luck with your dilemma.”

“Thank you. Bye.”

“Bye.”

When she returned, for a few minutes, Elise did nothing but stare up at the ceiling. She wasn’t sure what to do. Objectively, Rayna was her best option. Working her soul defenses up to the point that she could survive evolution was the safest option. If all else failed, she would have that to fall back on.

But she didn’t want to. She had seen firsthand what was happening at the Blood Syndicate headquarters. The people in cages, forced to fight life or death battles for entertainment, the vampires turned against their will, the thousands of horrible people she had gathered to enjoy it all… Anyone who could head that was not someone she wanted to work with if there were any other alternatives. And at the moment, she might have had alternatives.

She still didn’t know how pre-System evolutions worked. There was a chance that she could be conscious and not in the drunken soul state that Oberon described. Or that the evolution just worked completely different. She had already perfected her soul form, right? Maybe she wouldn’t need the cocoon at all. Maybe she could just morph her body slowly over time or something…

She pictured herself in various states of being in between her current base form and her ideal one, then shook her head. Maybe that wasn’t a good idea after all. But still, a version of evolution that didn’t put her in extreme danger from the soul storms would be nice.

I just need to figure that out, and I’ll be fine…

Sleep took her soon after, and she dreamt about trying to walk down the street with a human upper half and rabbit lower half, like a weird mutant centaur. Every hop sent her human half swinging like a bobblehead, but she couldn’t stop moving because… Well, she just couldn’t. She needed to get somewhere or something. When she woke up, she couldn’t remember. She only remembered bouncing around like a bobblehead.

The next week passed quickly. Charlotte’s company made Elise’s days much less boring, and surprisingly didn’t actually impact her productivity all that much. She had taken on the personal project of helping Charlotte master System-less magic as well, and the process of teaching gave her some surprising insights. She understood why the first crystal had recommended practicing with a partner. Being on the receiving end of soul pulses was completely different than sending them, and knowing how it felt from that end gave her a deeper understanding of what she was actually doing.

Charlotte was making decent progress, though she was running into a similar issue Elise had, where she had learned soul meditation before gaining any sense of her soul. She was progressing through the aether pulse variations more quickly than Elise had, though. Elise told herself it was because she was a good teacher.

On the eighth day, however, a problem arose.

“Elise!” said Charlotte, so loudly it made Elise flinch.

“What?”

“I got a Skill Quest!”

“A Skill Quest? What Skill?”

“{Aether Pulse}!”

“And what are the requirements?”

“Send ten varieties of aether pulses!”

Elise rubbed her chin, deep in thought. A Skill would probably make it easier to do the aether pulses, but it would be harder to make it work with other magic. It seemed almost like a trap.

“Okay,” she finally said. “Let’s keep going then and see what happens.

It took another three days for Charlotte to complete the requirements to unlock the Skill. Just as Elise thought, it made aether pulses easier, but it would be impossible to use the Skill to lead into proper mana manipulation. Charlotte could easily target Elise, or their various Abyssal neighbors, but targeting her own mana cores was impossible. It did have the unexpected benefit of letting Charlotte experience aether pulses as they were “ideally” supposed to be used, according to the System, and by extension, Elise could feel them too, at least on the receiving end. That made the Skill not totally useless, but given the fact that aether pulses were more of a training tool than an actually useful ability, that was about where its utility ended.

Out of curiosity, Elise decided to hook herself back up to the System and unlock the Skill for herself as well. It was not any more useful in her hands than it was in Charlotte’s, but it was interesting to watch the System do the same things she could do, but in its own way. It was doubly fascinating to watch from her soul as a new spell construct appeared there. She inspected it carefully when it appeared, and noticed a few interesting points that she would have to study later.

While Charlotte did her best to master aether pulses, Elise was doing plenty of independent work of her own. The process of turning all the spells she learned into spell constructs was tedious, but satisfying. With every spell construct she completed, she was making herself that much more powerful, and that much less dependent on the System, and seeing her casting time go from half a minute to half a second was incredible.

She also did as much as she could to figure out how to evolve without the System. She had a reservoir filled with condensed soul fog just sitting in her soul doing nothing for her, so she started drinking it whenever she could. She had never gone all out in doing this before, so it was interesting to watch how it affected her. Whenever she drank the soul water, she felt like her soul was being nourished, and when enough time passed for her to process it, she felt an odd emptiness.

It was similar to hunger, but without the urgency. She didn’t feel like she had to drink more. She just felt like could drink more.

Worried about going overboard and accidentally triggering an evolution, she kept close watch on her soul as she did this. Nothing seemed to be majorly changing, though. Whatever the soul water was doing to her, she couldn’t tell. Not at first, at least. It was only when she reconnected to the System for the first time in a week that she noticed a change.

Wait… Did I level up?

She had been checking her Status Window so little lately that it was hard to tell. She was pretty sure that she hadn’t been level 11 before, though. And unless her memory was really failing her, her stats had gone up. Just in case, though, she spent the rest of the day throwing caution to the wind and chugging soul water as fast as her soul could handle it, and when she checked the System again that night, she had gone up to level 12. And her stats had definitely gone up.

It didn’t feel like I leveled up.

She stood up and moved around the room, stretching and kicking her limbs around, trying to feel if anything was different. She thought that maybe she felt a little stronger than before? At this point, an extra ten in each of her physical stats wasn’t that noticeable any more, but she definitely didn’t feel any weaker.

It didn’t take long for her to come to the conclusion that she had gotten the stats of the level up. The reason she didn’t notice it as much, though, was that they had come gradually instead of all at once. The System absorbed the soul fog, and used it to empower her in bursts, but without it, her soul just naturally took it in and gradually improved her body and her “stats.”

Whatever concerns she had had about overdoing it on the soul water evaporated right there, as well as her concerns about the drunken soul water being wasted. She also felt further distaste for the System. The leveling seemed not only pointless, but suspicious. She could already imagine some argument about it being a way to show the users some semblance of progress, but they could have done that with a percentage bar or something. The fact that the System took the soul fog in first, and then re-released it later made her think that perhaps the System was skimming a little off the top. What it did with that soul fog was a mystery, but she didn’t like it one bit.

Later that night as she tried to fall asleep, her mind kept going back to how the leveling worked. Something was nagging at her, and she couldn’t figure out what, but she also couldn’t sleep until she got it. She tossed and turned for nearly an hour before suddenly standing up.

Oh.

She slowly sat back down as the truth hit her, then pounded her fist on her bed.

Dammit!

Everything the System did was based on how the world actually worked. Skills? Those were just spell constructs. Experience and leveling? Also a natural process that it had just slightly modified. Species and Class tiers? Those were just soul tiers.

So why would Evolution be any different? Sure, the System probably took some liberties in how it displayed it, but the actual process wouldn’t be changed. Skills worked exactly the same as their spell construct counterparts. Leveling up had the exact same effect as ordinary soul growth. Evolution would be the same. After all, monsters still had to evolve, even before the System got a hold of them, didn’t they? And before they were intelligent enough to guide their own Evolutions as well.

It’ll be the same either way.

With a sigh, she flopped back onto the bed. She had contacted Oberon the other day, and he had not had any luck reaching the Collector. Wherever the Collector and his adopted children were, and whatever they were doing, they were completely off the grid, and given what Oberon knew about the Collector, he could be gone for anywhere between one day and twenty years. Elise couldn’t afford to wait twenty years.

Dammit…

It took even longer to fall asleep after that realization, since she dreaded what she would need to do when she woke up. Putting it off until the morning was the best she could do, since at this point, there was no longer any good reason to wait. She needed those soul defenses, and there was only one person who could help her. If she was even willing anymore after everything that happened.

Her sleep was restless that night, and when she woke up, she was still filled with dread. She managed to stall until after she ate breakfast, but after that, she knew that she was just wasting time and dragging her feet.

“Hunting?” asked Charlotte, the last bite of her meet still half-chewed in her mouth.

It was a hunting day, and she was excited. This actually made it a good opportunity for Elise to do what she was doing, since she would guarantee some semblance of privacy. Besides, Charlotte had been down here long enough to know the rules. She didn’t need any supervision anymore.

…Right?

“Actually, I’ll be staying here today,” said Elise.

“No hunting?” asked Charlotte, crestfallen.

“No, you can still go. But I have something to take care of here. So it’ll be a solo hunting trip for you today. But I’ll join you next time.”

Charlotte perked up slightly, but she still didn’t look quite as excited as she had.

“We can go hunting together tomorrow, if you want,” Elise offered.

Charlotte immediately brightened. “Okay!”

“For now, just have fun, and remember, don’t go into any of the danger zones.”

“I won’t!” said Charlotte, raising a hand in a salute.

The next moment, she was scuttling off toward the cave entrance. The roots were already parted, as Elise had gotten in the habit of leaving them while she was awake. Charlotte couldn’t control the plants, so locking her in or out would have been cruel. It stayed shut at night to keep anything from getting in while they slept, but there was nothing in the cave that could fit through the gap that could pose a threat to either of them if they were paying attention, so there was no point in not having it open.

Elise watched Charlotte disappear over the ledge with a small smile, then walked back into her house. She stopped in her bed, then waited another five minutes before finally closing her eyes and starting the dreamwalking. Finding Rayna’s thread was somewhat more difficult than she expected. It was not quite as thick as she would have expected, though it somewhat made sense. They had only directly interacted a couple times, and as much as Elise disliked her now, that dislike was not quite as direct as her dislike for, say, the warg.

Once she found the thread, she gave it a mental tug, and the next moment, felt her soul being pulled far, far away. When her vision cleared, she found herself in a dimly lit room, looking into an even more dimly lit corner where a lone figure sat, curled up in the fetal position with her hands on her head. Her dress was in tatters, her hair was a mess, and the room was full of broken furniture.

The figure looked up sharply as soon as Elise arrived, glaring at her with angry red eyes. Elise felt a sudden sense of danger as the figure’s aether rose and the anger in the eyes grew to manic levels. She was about to pull herself back when all of a sudden, it stopped. The red eyes returned to normal, and the tension in the room vanished.

Rayna stood up, dusting herself off and adjusting her dress so that she was a bit more covered, then turned to face Elise.

“Well,” she said. “Isn’t this awkward.”