“Rayna,” said Elise, a note of confusion in her voice.

She was prepared to be angry when she saw the vampire and struggle to suppress it, but even knowing what Rayna had done, seeing her current state, it was hard to muster the anger she wished she felt.

“To what do I owe the pleasure?” asked Rayna.

Her voice was less energetic than usual, and there were dark circles under her eyes like she hadn’t slept in weeks.

“I… have a dilemma,” said Elise, deciding not to comment on Rayna’s state. “And I was hoping you might be able to help?”

“You want my help?”

“Yes.”

“Even knowing what I’ve done?”

Elise was silent. She didn’t expect Rayna to bring it up first. She had planned to avoid the subject, and just get what she came for and leave. But now that it was out in the open, she didn’t know how to respond.

“Well, you’re here, so I guess I already know the answer,” said Rayna. “What did you need help with?”

“I need to be able to protect my soul from constant attacks while in the middle of an evolution. I need better soul defenses… and there’s no one I can ask but you.”

“So you had no choice.”

“I–” Elise hesitated. “Yes, I had no choice.”

“So you’re using me.”

Elise gritted her teeth. The anger she hadn’t been able to muster earlier was starting to rise.

“Yes, I am,” said Elise. “I’m going to be honest; I don’t like you. I think you’re a monster for what you’ve done. If I had things my way, I would never see you again until I was strong enough to kill you. But I don’t have much of a choice right now, so I’m willing to compromise and make a deal.”

“You know, you’re not supposed to tell the person you’re bargaining with how desperate you are,” said Rayna with a light smirk. “That’s how you lose leverage. In the future, it would be better to pretend you didn’t care about what I’ve done, and that you just want to form a business partnership.”

“I don’t care,” said Elise. “Just tell me what you want.”

“And do you really think you’ll be strong enough to kill me? Even Irylax would have struggled with that, and I hear she just killed a god.”

“Yes,” said Elise resolutely. “I will.”

“So you’re asking me to help you, someone who wants to kill me, protect your soul so that you can safely evolve so that you can get stronger, eventually strong enough to kill me?”

Shit, thought Elise.

She had been so thrown off that she’d spoken without a filter.

“I can– I can promise not to kill you,” said Elise, trying to salvage things.

Rayna laughed. “There’s no need for that. I’ll help.”

“Y– you will?”

“Conditionally, of course. I want a favor.”

“What favor?”

“It’s a secret,” she replied.

“I refuse.”

“I can guarantee that it’s something that the current you would not have a problem with, and that’s all.”

“Can you promise–?”

“That’s. All,” said Rayna firmly. “I will not say anything more.”

“How do you know that I won’t have a problem with it? How do I know that I won’t have a problem with it?”

“You won’t,” said Rayna. “But if you’re concerned, {Fey Bargaining} works for things like that. If I say you won’t have a problem with it, but I am mistaken, the deal will not form.”

Elise narrowed her eyes.

“You can check with Oberon if you don’t believe me.”

“I will.”

“Good,” said Rayna. “In fact, why don’t you do that right now? Come back in two hours. You caught me at a bad time. Let me clean up a bit, and we can talk more.”

Elise was still a bit suspicious, but after how much she screwed up the conversation earlier, this was a much better outcome than she expected. She nodded, and the next moment, Rayna waved her hand, cutting the connection and sending Elise snapping back to her body.

The moment she was back, she found Oberon’s aether thread, and went to visit him again. She found him in the middle of doing something she really wished she hadn’t seen with a woman old enough to be Elise’s grandmother. He even had the gall to look smug when he sent her over to a different clone in a more clothed state.

“Oberon, what the–”

“Ah, Elise,” he said, cutting her off. “I didn’t expect you to be back so soon.”

“What was– Who was that? Why–?”

“The matters of the heart should stay in the heart,” said Oberon. “Now, what did you need?”

Elise shook her head to clear the sight from her mind, then explained her conversation with Rayna, and asked about {Fey Bargaining}.

“Oh yes, that’s correct,” he said, nodding. “The Skill is an interesting one. I don’t understand how it verifies those things, but it does, as long as you’re consciously thinking about it. You can be misled if you’re not paying attention, but as long as you are consciously focusing on making sure it aligns with your ideals, it’ll work. And if you’re still skeptical, we can test it right here. I’ll suggest something that you don’t actually want to do, and you agree on the condition that you actually want to do it. The deal will fail.”

“Alright,” said Elise hesitantly.

“How about this? I have something that I know you’ll want to do, and if you do it for me, I’ll give you something good. Ava’s been working on a new clothing line. Customizable as always, but with more luxurious fabrics. I’ll have her make a set attuned to you. Whaddya say?”

“If it’s something I’ll actually want to do, I accept.”

Elise felt the familiar sensation of a deal forming and her jaw dropped in horror.

“Wha–?! Oberon! What did–?!”

She looked up at him and saw that he was barely holding in laughter.

“What did I just agree to do?”

“It’s something you’ll want to do!” he said. “I swear I wasn’t lying. Here let’s do it again, but with something you actually don’t want to do. Same deal, but different favor.”

“I don’t believe you.”

“Please?” said Oberon, clasping his hands. “I swear, that’s how this works. I was just playing a prank.”

Elise eyed him suspiciously, then relented. “Fine.”

Another deal formed.

“Oberon!”

Oberon doubled over in laughter. “It’s– It’s even funnier the second time!”

He slapped his knee, wheezing with laughter, and Elise was tempted to cut the connection right there. She trusted Oberon enough that she didn’t think he would actually make her do something too bad, but she also was extremely angry at him for making a joke out of something so serious.

“What happened to being unserious not being fun anymore?!” she demanded.

Oberon took a deep breath to recover from his laughter. “I said it’s not as fun. Not that it’s not fun. And also–” he burst out into laughter again. “You should see your face! It’s almost as red as your eyes!”

Elise clenched her fists. It took all her self control not to just leave right there, but she really needed the answer.

“Let’s make another deal,” she said. “I want you to do something that I know you’ll want to do. If you do it, I’ll give you a third favor.”

“And if not?” he asked, still laughing.

“Then it cancels out the other two favors I just agreed to.”

“As long as it’s not something I actually don’t want to do and you’re not trying to trick me the same way I tricked you, I accept.”

Nothing happened.

“You were trying to trick me,” he said, grinning.

“No, I wasn’t,” said Elise sternly. “If that had gone through, you would have had to give up your freedom to serve me for a month.”

That immediately sobered Oberon up.

“Oh,” he said. “Well, it’s a good thing I wasn’t lying, then.”

He broke out into another smile, but it was more subdued than before.

“Yes, yes it was.”

“Well, that’s certainly one way to kill the mood.”

“What did I agree to do?”

“Well, as you now know, they are things you’ll want to do.”

“But what are they?”

“The first is to attend a party disguised as a haughty noble. The second is to, at that party, cause a scandal that will have high society talking for a month, then disappear, never to be seen again.”

“But– what–?” Elise sputtered. “That sounds–”

“Fun?”

“I was going to say mortifying.”

“And fun.”

“…Maybe a little. But not a bad scandal!”

“Of course, of course,” said Oberon. “It’ll be fun! I’ll find a good party when you get back and we can have a night out!”

“I guess…”

“Well, if that’s all, I’ll let you get back to your business. I have some business of my own to attend to after all. Unless you want to stay and wa–?”

Elise left before he could finish speaking, but she could practically hear him cackling alone in his office without her. Her face was flush with anger and embarrassment, but when she calmed down, she was more or less satisfied with how it had gone. And in retrospect, the prank had been pretty funny. She at least knew Rayna couldn’t trick her if she didn’t want to be tricked.

Most of the two hours Rayna had asked for were still ahead of her, so Elise settled into her soul, building up more and more spell constructs. At this point, she was almost halfway through the second crystal, though she knew progress would slow as she moved on to the more complex spells. Still, she was happy with her progress, and she was fairly certain that within a few months, her prowess without the System would surpass what she could do with the System. With the exception of her {Whisper} and {Power Word Kill}, of course, but she had a vague idea of somehow replicating it outside of the System to resolve that issue. It would be a while before she understood enough about spell constructs to make that actually happen, but with the progress she was currently making, she hoped it wouldn’t be too long.

She ended up losing track of time while in her soul, and definitely spent much more than two hours. At first, she was panicked, not wanting to be late to an appointment, but then she remembered who the appointment was with and calmed down. Elise preferred to be punctual, but of all people to leave hanging, Rayna was one of the people she minded the least.

Still, she didn’t want to be too late, just in case the vampire changed her mind, so less than a minute after she noticed how long it had been, she was already back in her soul, searching for the right thread.

When she reached Rayna, she found herself in a very different room from before. The first room had clearly been a bedroom, while this one looked to be an office. It was clean and neatly decorated, and Rayna herself had changed into a dress that was intact. She looked much better than before, the dark circles gone, and there was a faint smile on her lips as she sipped from a glass full of blood.

“Ah, there you are,” she said. “I was getting worried.”

“I lost track of time,” said Elise curtly. “I tested with Oberon. That deal you proposed earlier would work, as long as it’s actually something I would want to do.”

“Yes, I can assure you that the favor I want to ask of you is something the current you wants to do.”

“The ‘current’ me?”

Rayna had used the phrase earlier, but Elise had not had the wherewithal to point it out at the time.

“Yes, the current you,” said Rayna. “But it is possible that you in the future will not. That is why I specified it. I don’t want the deal falling apart if you change later.”

“I don’t like that,” said Elise. “What if the thing is helping a friend, and then that friend turns out to have been leading an international crime syndicate, killing and enslaving people for decades for a publicity statement, and then I no longer want to help them?”

“What an oddly specific example,” said Rayna, chuckling. “But I can assure you that it’s nothing like that. There is no information like that that would drastically change your mind. If you knew every detail right now, you would still want to do it.”

“Then why not tell me every detail right now?”

“I can’t. But I can assure you that the information would not change your mind. The only one who might change is you, and if you change in a way that makes you no longer want to fulfill the favor, I want to make sure the favor still comes to pass. Even though I don’t expect you to change that much, people can be unpredictable.”

Oberon said the same thing.

“I still don’t like it,” said Elise, setting her jaw.

“Then how about we add another condition. If you do happen to change your mind about wanting to do it in the future, and you feel that I have in any way deceived you, or you feel that the deal was unfair, the favor will be nullified, and you will no longer have to fulfill it.”

“Doesn’t that mean I just won’t do it if I change my mind?”

“Maybe,” said Rayna, shrugging. “But is that acceptable? I will sincerely teach you about soul defense without any deceit, and without holding anything back, and in exchange, you will do me this favor in the future, a favor which the current you has no problem with, and that, should you in the future decide that the deal was unfair or deceptive, the favor will be null.”

Elise looked into Rayna’s eyes, trying to find any trace of deception or subterfuge. Rayna looked back impassively, sipping on her blood. The deal sounded too good to be true. Elise had brazenly laid her motives out on the table, but Rayna was agreeing to all this without even making her promise not to kill her. The deal seemed too one-sided to be true as well, but Elise couldn’t find any problems with it.

Just in case, though, she had Rayna write it down, and the two spent half an hour making sure that it was worded in such a way that Elise was wholly satisfied she couldn’t be taken advantage of. Rayna was extremely accommodating the entire time, even adding a few clauses so that Elise could be absolutely certain this couldn’t be turned against her in some way. She made Rayna promise the soul defense training would be safe, and that she would get Elise’s consent to do anything intrusive or test her in any way, and that she could not disclose any of Elise’s secrets that she happened to glean, and a number of other things. In the end, Elise was scratching her head in confusion, but there were no issues with the contract she could see, so she and Rayna agreed, and the bond was formed.

“Excellent,” said Rayna, smiling. “Now, explain in a bit more detail what your predicament is.”

Still unnerved at how well everything was going, Elise began to explain her current situation. She gave a bit more detail than she probably needed to, hoping that if Rayna knew anything about where she was, she would comment, but that did not appear to be the case. Rayna was interested, though, asking questions about what Elise knew about the city, and how old it was, and where it was located. Elise could answer very few of the questions, but Rayna didn’t seem to mind.

When she was done explaining the soul storms, and the issue with evolution, Rayna, leaned back in her chair, crossing her arms and looking up at the ceiling, lost in thought.

“This is tough,” she said. “It should be possible, but it will be very difficult. It might take years for you to reach the level you need to make this work. And Oberon was mistaken. A soul shell is the opposite of what you need. It would never survive the evolution process. It’s too rigid. What you need is a way to absorb the impacts and adapt accordingly, even while your soul is in flux. There are ways to do that, but for a beginner… How good are you at soul sculpting?”

“Like, making things in my soul?”

“Yes.”

“Uhhh, pretty good?”

“What have you made?”

“Well… I’ve got a house with a bunch of rooms, some clothes, a garden, a hot tub, and then I’ve been working on a small Domain area, but it’s not very far along.”

Elise chose to leave out the spell constructs, despite the fact that those might have been her most impressive feats. It turned out that she didn’t really need them, though, since Rayna seemed suitably impressed as it was.

“Oh,” she said. “Well, this might go more quickly than I expected. Did you have another teacher?”

“Irylax.” And Aya’Rhun.

“Ah, that makes sense,” said Rayna, nodding. “Well, since you already have a robust foundation, I do believe we can jump right in!”

The lesson lasted three hours, and covered the basic roadmap of getting Elise from her current state to the level where her soul could passively defend against the soul storms. Throughout the lesson, Rayna proved to be a surprisingly skilled and patient teacher. Elise almost hated how good she was. She knew that the contract basically forced her not to do anything bad while teaching, but even so, Elise had expected there to be something to nitpick her for. Condescension, impatience, inability to put things into words… But no, there was nothing. Annoyingly enough, Rayna was one of the best teachers Elise had ever had.

She explained concepts of soul defenses that Elise had only been vaguely aware of. Making the edges of her soul rigid to simply block the soul storms was easy, but Rayna explained that rigidity was, in fact, one of the worst ways to build soul defenses. It could be powerful, but it was also inflexible, and a powerful, focused attack could break through while the rest of her soul remained vulnerable behind it.

“A rigid soul shell can make a good inner layer, but as an outer layer, you are condemning yourself to pain and suffering against any competent soul combatant,” she had explained.

What Elise would need to start working on was making her soul more like rubber. Instead of standing strong against what hit it, it would bend and flex, absorbing the impact, while still retaining its strength and thickness to prevent anything from punching through it. Rayna explained that it was the same principle behind the spell {Feather Fall}. Rather than fully halting the person falling, which would cause a dangerous and painful change in inertia, it eased them into the slowdown, allowing them to land on the ground unharmed.

Not only was it safer, but it required less force. Or rather, it required lower “force density,” in Rayna’s words. Overall, it would take the same amount of energy, but it would be spread out over time, instead of needing to be all in one place at one time.

This all made sense to Elise, but the lesson started to go over her head later when Rayna started describing some of the soul constructs she would need to automate her defenses. She tried her best to listen and take mental notes, but she knew that she would need further direct instruction down the line.

In the end, Elise’s head was swimming so much she almost forgot how much she disliked Rayna and even said a pleasant goodbye before departing. She caught herself when she returned, and scolded herself, making sure to drill into her head what kind of person Rayna was, then spent some time practicing the basics of what she had just learned. An hour passed as she experimented with changing the properties of her soul to be more like rubber, at which point she had a sudden thought that brought her back to reality.

Wait, where’s Charlotte?

She reached out with her aether sense, but the cave was empty other than her. It had been more than six hours at this point, and Charlotte was still out. Charlotte enjoyed hunting, but this was a bit long, even for her.

Elise walked out to the edge of the cave, her heart rate elevating with worry. Charlotte could take care of herself against just about anything in the cave… but what if there was something Elise missed? What if there was something lurking around that was too much for Charlotte to handle? What if she had underestimated Charlotte’s maturity level?

She didn’t see the arachne anywhere, and was about to fly out to look for her when she remembered she could use dreamwalking to check in on her. Stepping back into the cave, she was already searching her soul for the appropriate aether thread, and she sat down just a few feet from the root wall to start the dreamwalking.

To her great relief, Charlotte appeared to be alive and well. Very well. She was currently happily chowing down on a plate of meat at a surprisingly intact table somewhere. She noticed Elise almost immediately, and Elise waved, but instead of waving back, Charlotte froze, looking slightly panicked.

Wait, where is she?

Elise looked around and saw that the room Charlotte was in was far larger and more opulent than any she was aware of. In fact, it was so large that she knew for a fact that there was only one building still standing that could house a room this size.

“Charlotte, are you at the castle?!”

“Uhhh…” said Charlotte.

“Ah, hello, friend of Charlotte,” said another voice.

Elise rotated in horror to see that across from the table there was someone else sitting. The voice belonged to a man, but their entire body was covered in a thick suit, and their face was covered in a mask.

Who is that??!!?!