“Again, I must thank Udraal for making you. I must thank Udraal, for he offered me satisfaction beyond satisfaction. It will be my delight to watch as this creature destroys Blackedge, as it purges the non-believers, as it tears the tower serving as the Starhawk’s connection to this world. As it presses down on Roland Arrow's body and forces him to WAIL!”

Sullain shouted the final words, and the Tarrasque slammed a titanic foot down against the wards. The cracks lining the magical barrier turned into fissures that began shaking immediately. Moreover, the Tarrasque's casual tantrum-induced stomp unleashed the force of a tornado. Shiv cursed as he used his Outside Context Problem to avoid the overwhelming blast. It tore across the top of the barrier and ripped through where he stood.

Pieces of magical shielding were shredded free from around Blackedge as well, and the hurricane winds carried far and wide.

Thank the System for Roland's Vitality Arrow, Shiv thought to himself. He would have been dead if the Town Lord hadn’t flooded him with life force earlier. He definitely wouldn’t be able to use his Unique Skill right now.

Shiv’s thoughts went blank as the Tarrasque looked around. It was momentarily confused, but then, its head suddenly snapped in his general direction, and it narrowed its eyes.

A thousand-thousand alarm bells rang inside Shiv's head, and he didn’t waste time waiting to find out if the damn abomination could actually sense him. Shiv accelerated toward the Tarrasque, his mind whirling. He couldn't communicate with Adam and the others while he was outside context, and he realized he couldn't communicate with them anyway because his Psychomancy had been ripped clean from his soul. His magic would take time to reconstitute, but there was still a hope—something of a plan. If Adam could get his very angry arrow to strike the Tarrasque, then maybe it could strike a killing blow, or at least injure it severely enough for Roland to put it down.

But something kept gnawing at Shiv.

Something told him not even that would be enough.

He ignored the feeling and went for the Tarrasque's eyes. He spiked himself 100 times in a row. His body instantly came asunder, his flesh peeling like tatters, his outer armor ripping apart from the sheer acceleration. He slammed his Skysplitter right into the red, mana-filled orb that was its right eye.

The tip of Shiv’s blade snapped off.

Outside Context Problem 65 > 66

Deepest Edge 66 > 67

Shiv stopped dead, and he emerged from his outside context state in a blast of white and red. He discharged himself before launching himself back in time to four seconds ago. Fire and force exploded over the monster’s head. When the wave of destruction passed, the unharmed Tarrasque winked its right eye once as it grinned at Shiv.
