“I bet you’ll get people to play. I’m going to earn money.”
“How?”
Kevin shrugged.
“Lyonette says she’ll pay me to help out. I can do that. Lift stuff, clean tables. It pays less than begging, though. But I’ll put in some hours after this. Also—that Centaur? He’s really cool. Guess what he has?”
Kevin showed Joseph a spliff. The young man from Spain blinked at it.
“That can’t be what I think it is.”
“Yup. This world is really like ours. Just with magic. You should talk to the Centaur. He’s a really chill guy. Apparently he sells dreamleaf, which is even better than weed. According to him. But since we’re friends of Erin and you know—from Earth—he hooked me up.”
“He knows?”
Kevin rolled his eyes. He realized he didn’t have a lighter and sighed.
“Everyone knows. That Goblin dude? Numbtongue? He was playing Journey in the basement.”
“Get out. He looks intense. Have you seen his scars?”
“He’s cool too. I think. I was going to smoke this with him, see if he wants to.”
That was Kevin for you. Joseph shook his head as he finally found the lost football. He checked it, but it was in one piece.
“Think we should walk back? Or use the magic door?”
He glanced back towards the inn. Kevin patted him on the shoulder.
“Tell you what. I’ll use the magic door, you walk back. You need the exercise now you’re playing soccer. We’ll see who gets back first.”
“Asshole.”
And then—the two young men heard a voice.
“You! Yes, you! Stop right there!”
They turned. A very angry Gnoll woman was coming out of Liscor. Kevin winced.
“Uh oh.”
The Watch? That was Joseph’s first thought. That angry Drake Watch Captain probably didn’t appreciate people hitting her walls. But—he didn’t see any armor on this woman.
Nor, he realized, was she alone. He hadn’t seen Ekirra at first because his mother was dragging the little Gnoll behind her. Joseph recognized Ekirra and the mother.
“Oh—can we help you? Hey, Ekirra.”
The Gnoll cub shyly waved at Joseph. But his mother did not. She stopped in front of Joseph.
“You were the one who played that game yesterday, right? Soccer?”
Joseph winced. Kevin grinned.
“It’s called ‘football’. But yes, I—”
“He got a class. [Kicker]! From your game.”
Ekirra’s mother, Jeva Silverfang lifted her son up by one paw. He kicked the air aimlessly as she put him down. Ekirra seemed quite pleased. Jeva on the other hand—folded her arms together.
Kevin and Joseph both eyed her. Neither was the tallest and Jeva was in the average bracket of a Gnoll woman’s height—which was six foot, two inches. Or, as Joseph would have said, around 1.9 meters.
She was also muscular. And she had claws. A predator’s teeth. She could probably trash both of them if she got mad. Joseph gulped.
“Uh—I’m sorry? I didn’t know. I mean—it was just a game. I—”
He looked at Kevin for support, but Kevin was standing tactically behind Joseph. He called out hopefully.
“We’re really sorry about it!”
“Sorry? For what? He got a class!”
Jeva’s brow wrinkled. Joseph and Kevin both looked up. Jeva shook Ekirra at them by the scruff of his neck; the young Gnoll whined.
“Moooom—”
“I’m not angry Ekirra got the class. I want you to take responsibility!”
The Gnoll woman informed Joseph. He looked blankly at her.
“Responsibility? For the class?”
“Yes! Teach him how to level up. Otherwise it’s useless, isn’t it? Like being a—a—[Bartender] if you never work in the business! Or one of those little [Gossips]!”
Drassi, trotting past them out of the gates to work, gave Jeva a very hurt glance. The Gnoll woman ignored her as she thrust Ekirra at Joseph like a parcel. The Gnoll boy looked up hopefully; he had his little red ball that had started it all in his paws.
“We can pay. But I want Ekirra to level up. Can he get a job as a—one of your football people?”
“What, as a player?”
Jeva brightened up.
“Yes! Those others were telling me it’s a game. Can Ekirra learn to play? He’s young, but he got the class—he has potential. Doesn’t he? Does it pay well?”
Kevin and Joseph exchanged glances. In their world, the answer was obvious. Well, if you were female that was already a huge pay cut. But sports stars?
“Ye-es. But no one plays uh, soccer—damn it, Kevin—I mean, football around here. I could teach him—I’m not a big expert, but I guess around here—we don’t even have a team or anything. Let alone a field or proper balls!”
Joseph replied. Jeva looked at him, a bit mystified.
“Well, of course not. It’s new, isn’t it? But if it’s Terandrian or Balerosian or whatever—people like it. I just want you to teach Ekirra. Will you? What are your rates per day? We can’t afford a lot of silver…”
“Rates? I mean, I can, but like I said, there’s no game. It’s just for fun, Miss Jeva.”
Ekirra’s mother snorted.
“Hah! You’ll have your game and fields. Or haven’t you heard? That [Architect] Lamia—Hexel or whatever—is already smoothing out the Floodplains! He says he can do it in one day. And the Council is approving a team! They’re probably going to approach you. I saw Watch Captain Zevara running out to the inn just this morning, and Councilwoman Krshia!”
It had been for different reasons. But Joseph and Kevin’s mouths dropped.
“Really? A game? Joseph? They want him to manage?”
“And play. Didn’t they ask?”
“Something else happened.”
Joseph muttered. He looked around, head spinning.
“Why—why do they want me to play? I mean, it’s fun, but—”
“It’s fun, of course! I kicked the ball around with Ekirra when he came back. He wouldn’t go to sleep until he passed out from tiredness! Even my husband and I bought one of the big balls and played after work with some of the others in the neighborhood. I just wanted to make sure Ekirra got classes.”
That was it. It was fun. Joseph blinked. He saw Jeva smiling. What more reason did you need? In a world with so many monsters, a game like this? They had magic artifacts, like Cade’s Box of Wonders, but soccer was a magic of its own this world had never come up with.
Joseph began to smile. Jeva added after a moment.
“—Besides. We have to have you, Mister Joseph. On the team. The Council’s afraid that Esthelm or Celum will make you a better offer. Or Pallass. They’re all putting together their teams and they’ll have adventurers and such. But you’re the expert.”
The matter-of-fact statement made Kevin’s eyes go wide. Joseph felt weak at the knees.
“…Other teams?”
 
—-
 
It wasn’t a one-and-done type of thing. Soccer had come, and it was here to stay. Baseball now…baseball had an allure, but no one had made the step of deciding there should be games, teams.
Competition. Because baseball had only ever appeared in Celum and Liscor. But the advent of the Wistram television had changed more things. In a bigly way.
Lism rubbed his claws together in the Council’s meeting room.
“Those Human bastards—er, I mean, Celum and Esthelm have already decided they’re going to make teams. And Celum’s not even rebuilt yet. Pallass wants in, and some of the other northern cities.”
The rest of the Council was nodding. They sat around—Krshia opposite Lism. She spoke, checking her notes, a challenge in her voice.
“That will not take long, yes? Magnolia Reinhart’s aide has come to the city. She has promised gold, supplies, to rebuild. Thanked us.”
She indicated the pink letter. Lism sneered at it.
“After causing all that trouble with the Antinium? Bah. Did she offer to repay us for our help?”
“Yes, actually.”
The Drake had taken a sip of tea. He coughed, pounding his chest. Krshia smirked at him.
“And while it may take time, Celum will be rebuilt. In the meantime, the ‘Human bastards’ are in our city, Lism. So I think it is good that we treat them as citizens, yes? Many have useful talents. Or will we throw them out?”
He hesitated. And modulated his tone after a second.
“Of course not. I was just saying—those sneaking bastards in a general sense, Silverfang.”
She gave him a toothy smile and he bared his own sharp teeth. The rest of the Council listened, used to the bickering. Elirr was combing his fur; it was a casual Council that had gotten to know each other after so long. Lism just wished the old Gnoll wouldn’t shed on the carpet.
“Naturally. But the influx is good and bad, yes? People grumble. But Hexel is building, and he will have the soccer pitch done with soon. So—we will have teams.”
“Compete with other cities. In baseball too. Yes, I can see it now. An excellent idea.”
Lism smiled, folding his claws over his stomach. He heard a cough from the left.
“Lism. I don’t see why it’s that useful. It’s fun, but is this a priority for the Council? Surely, the other news is more important…”
Alonna looked blank. Jeiss woke up; he’d had a late night patrolling, and looked around guiltily. Raekea frowned, fingering a patch of soot on her fur.
The other two Council members were, conspicuously, absent. They had ‘accidentally’ not been notified of the meeting. Again. They’d arrive eventually. And it was…convivial, without them.
Even with Silverfang opposite him, Lism felt—content. He actually smiled at Krshia. She understood.
“Alonna, these games may be pointless, but think of it. We have a market for the equipment. We have people who will pay for the pleasure of viewing. And when other cities compete? We get visitors, their money, sales from the events—we can charge entry fees!”
“Tickets. It is an established thing. Very profitable, yes?”
Krshia nodded. The two [Shopkeepers] were in sync. Alonna blinked, and then she caught on.
“…Right! And if Wistram wants to watch—Ancestors, the King of Destruction was playing just this morning.”
“And nearly declared war on us thanks to that damned—one of our Humans. Miss Erin Solstice.”
Lism caught himself quicker this time. Krshia sniffed.
“But Erin will allow instant visitation to our city for all the trouble she causes, yes? And we already have an entry fee for Liscor. If we put one on Celum, and Pallass, even if it is only coppers…”
The two [Shopkeepers] grinned in avarice and Alonna shuddered at the sight. Krshia and Lism, working together. What nightmares might emerge from that?
“Elirr, you’ve been quiet today. What do you think? Jeiss? Raekea?”
The other three started. Elirr checked his comb.
“I agree. It is all coming together at the right time. And Hexel—he is most suited to help. He’s already making use of our Antinium yes?”
The Lamia was very flexible, as, perhaps, a Lizardfolk could be. The Council nodded, even the Drakes.
“I have to admit—he’s quite cheap. Given our initial down payment. I like this idea. Can we get him to—to smooth out more of the Floodplains? Space for multiple games, perhaps.”
Lism muttered. Elirr scratched at his head.
“It should not be a problem. Hexel, he says the trouble comes in the spring, when the rains erode such things, especially if they are flat. But that is what drainage is for—I will ask him.”
He had appointed himself the liaison to working with Hexel. The Council had agreed; Elirr was very friendly, not a Drake, and the logical choice. Raekea on the other hand raised one paw.
“I have no objections either. However, I’d like to move along the conversation. I have to meet with the Dwarf later today.”
“Oh. Yes. Are you busy?”
The Council instantly sat up. Lism’s eyes met Krshia’s. She looked at him.
“I hope you will say nothing of damned Dwarves when he meets with us, Lism. If he meets with us.”
“I’m tactful!”
The Drake blushed. She was going to pay for that comment. However…true it may be. He checked his tongue. Raekea, oblivious, muttered as she scratched at her fur.
“I am waiting for Olesm’s reports. We get most of our ore from Esthelm. Cheaply. And the Dwarf, Master Pelt, he is interested.”
“Pallass won’t be happy. They’ve warned us twice—”
“Pallass can eat my tail. If that [Smith] wants to move, let him! Anything you need, Raekea! We’ll even…give him his own forge! As big as he wants!”
“And pay for it.”
Jeiss coughed into one claw. Lism looked at him.
“We don’t need to—”
The [Guardsman] looked at Lism.
“Lism, if we could get mastercrafted blades in our city, no matter how troublesome this Dwarf supposedly is—Zevara would build the smithy herself. So would I. I vote to authorize Raekea to offer Pelt…”
The Council debated. They put it to a quick vote, obviously with two in absentia—they didn’t matter—and it was 6-0. Even Lism saw the point, although he put limits on how much they were going to give Pelt.
But then they were on to the next point of business. By the time Olesm caught up with reports of exactly how much ore of different types they’d imported or had their [Miners] collect in the last year, the Council was going back to the games.
“We didn’t approach the Human? We can’t let him go to Celum!”
“No fear. I think Joseph is with Erin. And we can prevail on her. I’ll put a word in later.”
Olesm reassured his uncle. Lism relaxed.
“Good, good. I hear Pallass saw the broadcast. Hah! As if they even played one game! They’re apparently putting Garudas on a team with Oldbloods. Talking about a ‘practice game’ in one week. Say, what about a game for young people as well as adults? Send a [Message] back about that!”
The others nodded cheerfully. And it went without saying that Liscor had to win, in any practice game or what-have-you. Civic pride, the Drake and Gnollish desire to win and chase the ball—it was all part of this game.
“Put the Human in charge of making the team. Send all the applicants to him. Oh—and I suppose we need to pay him. Let’s work that out as well as charging these…‘tickets’, did you say, Silverfang?”
Lism sighed. The Gnoll nodded. She produced an abacus and counted on it.
“Hrm. I think we can fit in a good salary. For our players as well. And budget for team clothing yes?”
“Argh. The expenses!”
“Don’t worry, if we charge even a few coppers for a ticket at a game and have at least…say, at least twelve games per year, we are making good money, yes? Shall we work it over?”
“Lunch. We also need to account for [Healers]. Did you see that Garuda break her leg? And she was Gold-rank. Let’s do the numbers after we end our session, Silverfang.”
The [Shopkeeper] growled. Krshia nodded. It was another unlikely pairing, but if Elirr was good at being personal and Raekea could talk about mineral deposits all day—Lism and Krshia were both good at numbers and sales.
