Lyonette du Marquin didn’t see the advent of aviation like Ryoka suddenly did. But Bird and Mrsha were already making parachutes and planning to jump off Liscor’s walls. What had she done?
Still…it was too late. Too late to take anything back. Like the sight of Lyonette smiling and teaching Pawn to play a game with string like Cat’s Cradle.
Just a glimpse. And nothing…lewd. But Ryoka was not Erin. She had seen the truth behind that moment. Lyonette sat across from her, nervous.
“Um. Ryoka?”
The City Runner looked up. She met Lyonette’s eyes. The [Princess]’ slaps still filled Ryoka’s memory. But now Lyonette just looked—terrified.
Afraid that Ryoka knew everything. Which of course, was true. But Ryoka didn’t hold a grudge. She just looked up.
“Erin doesn’t know.”
It wasn’t a question. Lyonette shook her head anyways.
“She doesn’t. Only a few people do—”
“Mrsha does. She’s not happy about it.”
Lyonette’s eyes flickered.
“But we were so careful—”
“She’s a smart girl.”
Silence. The mood was uncomfortable between the two. Ryoka had known Lyonette briefly, respected her—she still remembered the [Princess] trying to manage the inn and Erin’s thoughtlessness. She was sure Lyonette didn’t like her.
But perhaps it was time to try to mend bridges. Ryoka took a breath and Lyonette flinched.
“I’m not going to tell anyone.”
“Please don’t—”
The two stopped. Ryoka half-smiled.
“No judgment, Lyonette. I’m just curious. Uh—how? And maybe why. But no judgment, really.”
The [Princess] looked at her suspiciously. Doubting Ryoka’s motives. But Ryoka was—calm. Very confused, but this was the least she’d judge someone over. Perhaps the [Princess] saw that. Or—she had been dying to tell someone. So, heart pounding, she leaned over.
“The truth is…it was over months, alright? And…”
Ryoka Griffin leaned forwards. Listening, exclaiming. And as she had promised—not judging. Even laughing. Mrsha peeked through the door. Glowering. She wanted a scolding, not an ally for Lyonette! She sighed out of her nose and grumped off.
 
—-
 
On this quiet day, where small miracles and meetings still happened, day passed into evening into night. Mrsha the Great and Flying, Galina’s introduction to the Players of Liscor that sent Andel, Jasi, and Emme all hurrying through the magical doorway…
Small events. For, as the sun set behind the High Passes, he appeared.
No one saw him arriving. Not the [Guards] on watch, nor those from the inn. He walked up the hill to the inn, grumbling about feet, robes, a hero from wars no one remembered. A scholar of things lost to time. A leader of dead peoples.
A Dragon, of course.
He was talking as he stopped outside the inn. The [Innkeeper] saw him. Sensed…his presence. She stared out a window and gasped. But for a moment, Teriarch, or Grand Mage Eldavin was grumpily speaking into the air. Holding a conversation only he could hear.
“I’m pursuing my own leisure, brat. Nothing has ‘come up’. This isn’t about those [Raiders] or whatever that event was. Pure coincidence. I have business with Ryoka Griffin.”
“Which is?”
Magnolia’s voice was clipped, intent. Teriarch sniffed.
“Nothing that need concern you, Reinhart.”
There was a pause at the other end. Magnolia chose her words with exquisite care.
“But you are…awake.”
“Yes. I had a small nap. That business with the Wyverns and such. I regret missing your messages.”
“Do you…think you’ll have time to visit? I should like to host you. My mansion at Invrisil; to discuss any number of issues.”
“And repair your carriage like some common [Enchanter]?”
The Dragon huffed. Magnolia winced.
“Not if you don’t wish to. Teriarch, it would be a delight…”
“I will consider it. I do have a number of small errands to pursue…yes, perhaps after this. But I have a meeting to attend.”
The Dragon smiled to himself. Magnolia’s voice broke in, worried—almost grand daughterly. She had been so happy to know he was awake.
“Teriarch, if you’d think about it, perhaps you could come with me to Oteslia.”
The old man paused. His eyes flickered. And he saw so many ways that would lead to the kind of disaster that Ryoka Griffin felt in regards towards the parachuting theory she’d just given to this world.
In many ways—they were alike, the two. He shifted the laptop he was carrying under one arm, a copy of Kevin’s. Minus the stickers; he’d peeled them off.
“I think not. I may call on you, Reinhart. But I am—putting in half-effort to my expeditions at the moment.”
“…What?”
“I must go. I will call upon you tomorrow, I think.”
The Dragon hurriedly ended the spell. He saw someone cautiously opening the door to her inn. Erin Solstice raised one hand.
“Um. Hi.”
“Good evening, Erin Solstice. I have come to meet with Ryoka Griffin. I trust my presence is acceptable?”
The Dragon’s voice was dignified. He drew himself up and Erin looked up. She nodded, slowly.
“She’s inside. Talking with Lyonette. But I think she’s been waiting for you.”
“I see. Thank you.”
The Dragon tried to sweep forwards, but Erin stood in the doorway. She hesitated as Teriarch eyed her.
“Is something the matter, Miss?”
“Um. Uh—can I ask you a question? You’re…important, right?”
Erin scuffed at the ground. Teriarch blinked a few times at her. Erin eyed him. There was no other explanation for it. Joseph had played soccer, but that had been his thing. This—this was due to Grand Mage Eldavin, she was certain.
“One could say so, yes. I am a Grand Mage.”
“Is that more important than an Archmage or something? Because…I leveled up when you visited. Twice.”
The Dragon froze. Erin thought she heard a curse—though his lips didn’t move. She frowned, then the Grand Magus smiled at her. It looked rather artificial.
“Ah. Unintended consequences. Miss Erin Solstice—it may be that I am quite important. But my time is over. If I have any bearing in your inn—no, let it only be a few moments of interaction. Nothing more. We will not meet again after this.”
He had said that last time. Erin didn’t believe him. She looked at him, cautiously.
There was a coin in her pocket. Made of mithril. Carrying a word that had nearly killed Pelt. She had not shown Ryoka. Or anyone else. The truth was too big. She hesitated, holding it.
“…What have I got in my pockets?”
“What?”
The Dragon blinked at Erin’s whisper. The young woman looked at him. She paused.
“Nothing.”
She did not trust him. Not yet. Ryoka said this was a good person. She trusted Eldavin. But Erin didn’t know him. She looked up at Eldavin. She knew literally nothing. Even Montressa and Bezale didn’t know anything. Palt only had rumors of the half-Elven [Grand Mage] who had once been part of Wistram.
“Can I ask why you’re friends with Ryoka?”
“Friends?”
The question seemed to offend the half-Elf. He frowned.
“She has done me some services in the past. And she has…rendered services to me. I owe her a debt due to our bargain. We are not friends.”
Erin eyed the laptop under his arm. A copy of Kevin’s. She nodded slowly.
Power. That was scary power if he’d actually duplicated the laptop. But what…who was Eldavin? Erin felt like she was only seeing a fraction of him, as weird as that was. And it made her wary. She knew he was powerful. Scarily powerful.
“I’m um. An [Innkeeper].”
“Yes. That fact is apparent. What is your point?”
He was also pretty rude. The Grand Magus snorted at Erin, impatiently. She frowned. But went on, scuffing at the ground.
“You…you’re pretty good at magic and stuff, right? High-level?”
“One could infer so.”
The Dragon cautiously replied. He had no idea where the young woman was going with this. She looked up.
“Um. I just wanted to ask. Since you’re here and all…you must have lived a long time.”
“You could say that too.”
He whispered. The Human child looked up at him. And he, finally, saw her nervousness. Uncertainty.
“I was hoping you had some advice. I’m sort of…high-level myself. And this inn is cool. The [Garden of Sanctuary] is strong. You said it yourself. But every time something bad happens—Magnolia Reinhart was in here a little bit ago. And I couldn’t stop her.”
Teriarch blinked. She had? He consulted his notes, searching the [Messages] he collected and read for news about that. Erin went on.
“I level up. But when something bad happens, I can’t stop it. I was wondering…if you had any advice. I mean, I know you’re a [Mage] and I’m an [Innkeeper]—but what do you do? To keep people alive?”
The question made the Dragon stop. He looked down at the [Innkeeper]. And suddenly—his focus was on her, not watching the War of Stars or whatever it was called with Ryoka Griffin.
Slowly, the Dragon replied. Searching Erin’s honest face.
“…Erin Solstice. You are quite talented for an [Innkeeper] of your age. This inn proves it.”
“Thanks.”
She looked up at him. The Dragon went on, looking at Erin. Seeing all the other [Innkeepers] he had ever met flash through her. None had ever been honored with the [Garden of Sanctuary]. But some had been…
“There have been legends, girl. Who reached levels higher than yours by your age. They come—as you do—by virtue of the challenges they surmounted. I cannot ever remember an [Innkeeper] who rose as you did. But [Warriors]? [Mages]? Of all kinds, I have met them.”
She was silent. Listening. The Dragon went on, his voice turning older. If you closed your eyes, you could almost see them in his words.
“Those grand heroes died. Many, in small places, by accident, as their enemies overwhelmed them. By chance. Never forget that. Some became legends. But ultimately—they all died. Some were so mighty that they could slay entire armies themselves. Some had vast empires. And even then—they fell to a blade in the back. A greater foe than themselves.”
He was bad at pep talks. But he was good at honesty. The old being went on, looking at Erin.
“Are you asking how to make your inn safe?”
“Yeah. I have important things here. People. Is there a good way?”
Erin Solstice asked, knowing the answer. And the Dragon knew that she knew. Out of courtesy, another sudden connection, he replied. Honestly.
“No. Safety? Safety is an illusion. Tomorrow, the High Passes could explode and the seas boil into fire and cataclysm stalk the earth.”
The young woman shivered. When the Grand Magus spoke, it was like he could see these things. Had seen them. She bowed her head, crushed by that terrible truth. In any world, normality could be destroyed in a moment. Erin had learned that long ago.
Then the Dragon went on. And Erin’s head rose. For his voice was very kind.
“If you would crave anything, do not crave safety. Look towards the courage to walk through adversity. That is more valuable than any illusion. Treasure the moments you have, child.”
He raised his hand, gesturing to the inn. There it stood. Erin looked up, following his gaze. It was still being built. But there it rose.
What a beautiful thing. She smiled.
“I get it. Be prepared for anything. Rebuild if everything gets destroyed. Again and again. Even if the sky falls down. But…that’s so much work.”
The Dragon looked at her, surprised. He blinked as Erin gave him a knowing look. Then he started laughing.
In his cave, the Brass Dragon laughed until he rolled over on his side. With the kind of humor he hadn’t felt in centuries. And the Grand Mage laughed too. Erin chuckled and then joined in. They laughed for a while. When he straightened, the old half-Elf put a hand on Erin’s shoulder.
Contact. He looked into her eyes with his mismatched ones.
“It is, isn’t it?”
That was all they said. Teriarch entered the inn as Erin held open the door. But those little moments changed everything.
“Ryoka! You have a guest!”
The young woman shouted. Ryoka Griffin came down the stairs. Her eyes widened.
Teriarch was busy observing a scrying orb. The King of Destruction was still playing soccer—that, and baseball. He was taken with the idea of hitting the ball. Laughing.
The orb was also repeating the battle—slaughter—really. Teriarch’s eyes narrowed as Ryoka hurried over. He pointed at the King of Destruction, affronted by the [King]’s rampage as he laughed.
“Who is that impudent little man?”
Every head turned towards Teriarch. Ceria’s jaw fell open a bit.
“The…King of Destruction?”
“Who?”
Eldavin’s voice was very blank. His eyes fluttered and then he snapped his fingers.
“Oh, that one. I thought his kingdom fell apart and he died.”
“No. He was asleep. He came back last year. He’s…going to war again.”
The others exchanged a glance. What hole in the ground had the Grand Magus been in? But it all fit. The half-Elf scowled.
“How tiresome. What a bloody little [Conqueror]. His lot are the kind who slew Giants and made war in any era. Strange to see the descendants of the tall aiding him.”
He dismissed Flos with a shake of his head. The others looked at Eldavin’s back as Ryoka motioned to the Garden. Teriarch’s voice was instantly inaudible as the two bent their heads together. Erin and Mrsha followed through the door. Pisces snuck after them and smacked into the invisible barrier, despite being [Invisible] himself.
“Are you…here to watch another movie?”
“Hm. As time allows. You must explain this to me. It looks like these mortals are in space. But surely that is impossible. Elves and Gnomes were the only idiotic creatures willing to go up there. But Humans?”
“It’s fiction. And we have been to space. I told you, remember?”
“Ah. Yes.”
The Dragon wrinkled his perfect nose. And Mrsha raced into the Garden, as Erin looked around for popcorn. And yeast.
Numbtongue had already tactically hidden in the trees. This time the Dragon saw him. He strode towards the tree and Numbtongue looked down, warily.
Teriarch looked at Numbtongue. He could have said many things to the Hobgoblin in that brief moment. But he did not. He had spoken to this little Chieftain.
This was not the first Goblin he had ever met. He spoke one word as he looked past Numbtongue.
At Reiss.
“Ghosts.”
The Goblin Lord looked at Teriarch. He said one word to Numbtongue.
“Dragon.”
The two came over to the hill after a moment. Ryoka hesitated.
“I appreciate you coming here. Are we going to…”
“Afterwards. Let us enjoy this moment, Ryoka Griffin. A halfhearted bit of effort. And then we shall speak. After that—we shall not—er—our time may be more limited.”
The Dragon’s eyes twinkled as he caught himself. Ryoka Griffin half-smiled, but her heart began to beat faster. But for a moment—
 
—-
 
