Soccer. What a repugnant little word. Football, the sport of sports, was spreading across the world. You couldn’t put the Djinni back into the bottle.
And you couldn’t get a Dragon in a bottle in the first place. The point was that the world changed with a game of kick-the-ball. Because, as scholars had observed—the game was more than just a game. It mattered, it was fun, but it was also a vehicle for ideas. Possibilities.
The game changed the world in a fundamental way. And that had been yesterday.
 
—-
 
As the sun rose, King Raelt of Jecrass killed a half-Giant.
It was near the end of a battle with his forces and Reim’s armies. Both the King’s Steward and the half-Giant, Zamea, had left their forces to break the siege on Sadomere. The newly-reinforced city had withstood a full-scale assault by General Lael’s forces and the [General] had refused to retreat, despite the Skill-enhanced fortifications.
This was her chance. Kill the King of Destruction and Reim fell to pieces. Raelt couldn’t fault her for trying.
Orthenon and Zamea hadn’t left their armies undefended. But Raelt’s army had used the flicker-charge Skill, broken past their ranks of half-Giants, the Serpent Hunters, and began to inflict casualties on Reim’s forces.
Rather than risk losing even a quarter of their army’s elites, Reim’s forces had fallen back, ceding one of Belchan’s passes to Jecrass.
A small victory, but born only out of Orthenon and Zamea being absent. But the other victory—came later.
One of the half-Giants was unable to catch up with her peers. She floundered, roped by [Trick Riders], hemmed in by infantry. She scythed left and right with her shield and sword, giant instruments carried by the twenty-foot half-Giant. She had killed countless Jecrass’ warriors already.
But Reim’s forces were falling back. No rescue attempt would be mounted. Raelt would have preferred that.
One half-Giant. One, out of about twenty that Reim was fielding. Not a small thing at all. And yet—the woman put up her sword as she saw herself surrounded.
The half-Giant’s curled hair beneath her helm was wet with her blood. Arrows stuck out on her skin, failing to pierce deeply. But she was tired. Bleeding. She looked down as Raelt rode his horse forwards. She panted.
“I am defeated. Will you accept my surrender, King of Jecrass?”
She asked curiously, resigned. Just—asking. But both of them knew the answer. The King of Jecrass slowly shook his head.
“The King of Destruction will ransom you or set you free if we seek to hold you, Lady Giant. Nor can we keep you prisoner. You made your choice.”
He swallowed hard. The half-Giant looked around. She sighed. And then smiled. Her voice grew deeper and the Humans backed up as she lifted her sword and shield. Her voice boomed.
“Look up, then, little man. See how the tallfolk die.”
 
—-
 
It took her a long time to die. Raelt himself fought, pulling back his army rather than let the foot soldiers die by the hundreds. The half-Giantess absorbed spells, arrows—
He cut out her eyes, racing up one arm. She screamed, then. And he saw her stumbling around, flailing. Until she just stopped moving.
She asked for no quarter after that. And she fought to the death for the King of Destruction. Whom the Nomads of the Sky had sworn to fight under.
“One less.”
No one in Jecrass’ army smiled after the half-Giantess’ death. Her corpse just lay there. No glory, no magnificent death. Just a bitter end by numbers. Raelt counted.
One less. Statistically—one twentieth of the King of Destruction’s fighting force had died here. But he’d guard his other half-Giants more carefully.
“How pointless.”
Raelt muttered to himself. He’d won something, but it didn’t feel like a victory. It didn’t feel—like Jecrass was winning this war. The King of Destruction’s armies fought hot, leveling, retreating rather than losing their elites. Raelt had killed one.
And elsewhere? He raised his head and listened, dully. Sadomere—renamed as Drevish’s Madness—was no longer under siege.
 
—-
 
“[Spellcraft: Enhanced Scope]. [Featherweight].”
Grand Mage Esiela cast the spell on the axe. She was not alone. The linked spell of the other [Mages] of Parasol Stroll added to her power. They wove the magic into the axe. And The Grand Mage saw the half-Giant’s hand lift the axe.
“My thanks, Grand Mage.”
Esiela flinched. She looked up and saw Zamea’s burning gaze. The Grand Mage hesitated—but she was bound by blood magic. So she raised her hand and cast the second spell.
“Spellcraft—[Haste].”
The cost of the second spell nearly wiped out her reserves. But the half-Giantess’ eyes gleamed. She clenched one hand, opened it. And she was—faster. She turned, as Orthenon called the charge.
“Break their lines. First Shepherd!”
The First Shepherd of the Nomads of the sky, taller than her fallen kinswoman by ten feet towered across the battlefield. She had been ignoring the arrows raining down around her; the [Mages] were protected by a spell. But now Zamea put the helmet on her head. And her voice boomed.
“I come, Orthenon. Order your [Soldiers] back. I will not stop until the enemy breaks.”
“Parasol Stroll, backwards!”
The [Steward] pointed. The [Mages] retreated. In the distance, Esiela saw the King of Destruction’s forces sallying forth from the city. They hadn’t been broken by the much larger army of Jecrass besieging them. And now—reinforcements had arrived.
It was a silly battle. Esiela looked about. Proper, three-to-one odds against Reim’s forces. Even with reinforcements. But Drevish’ Madness was incredibly reinforced. Magical statues of Orthenon attracted arrow fire, and the inner city was designed to stymie any assault, favoring the defenders in any clash.
But sortieing against the army? Esiela was no [General], so she would never have advised this. But the [Steward] and the King of Destruction had fought countless wars. And this tactic—was something they could finally pull off.
The half-Giantess lifted her light axe and her steps quickened across the field. General Lael was turning her forces to account for her and Orthenon’s [Riders]. Zamea looked across the field of her enemies, unconcerned.
“This is a sad day. A glorious day. I have seen my kin, a small brother in Izril. And heard one of my people die. For both, I will fight until Chandrar’s sands are wet with blood.”
Esiela shivered. That was the kind of mad line that Chandrar’s warriors came out with. Zamea saw a flurry of [Fireballs] and a [Siege Fireball] being launched at her.
Gold-ranks. As well as Jecrass’ [Mages]. The half-Giant saw the spells coming—and dodged. She was fast.
[Haste]. Esiela felt sick. And not just because of the mana drain. She had cast it on Zamea. Normal [Haste] spells were far, far too weak to affect a half-Giant. But a Grand Mage studied spellcraft.
Lael’s forces weren’t prepared for that. But the King of Destruction’s forces pressed forwards, ramming into Jecrass’ infantry and the [King] began to cut a path with his elites.
Zamea charged. Her footsteps were like a fast-beating drum—then a relentless hammering. The horse, spread out and prepared to dodge and encircle her, saw the half-Giantess running at them.
Too fast. She caught them as they galloped, and her axe swung. Esiela looked away.
Carnage. This was taking a titan of the battlefield and making her more deadly. Jecrass’ army broke in the next five minutes as Zamea and Orthenon tore the forces apart.
 
—-
 
“General Lael! We can’t outrun the Giantess!”
The [General] had already seen. She looked around, desperately.
“Call the retreat! Send the chariots in! Use ropes—slow her down!”
The [Rider] gulped.
“Nerrhavia’s chariots are already retreating, General!”
“What? I didn’t signal for—”
Lael turned. She saw Nerrhavian ‘mercenaries’ pulling back. The Silk Stitchfolk weren’t going to stay around and die. She already had problems holding them back from charging whenever they felt like. She cursed.
“Send the adventurers—”
“They’ve already left!”
Medain’s forces were also fleeing. Adventurers. Lael looked around.
“Safeguard the [Archers]. Fall back! [Trick Riders], forwards! Warden Emile’s van will hold the line and then retreat!”
Her army rippled. Jecrass’ soldiers held the line, as the King of Destruction’s forces and the reinforcements took them to pieces. They died—rather than the reinforcements from abroad. That was how it had happened the last two battles. Lael had a terrible taste in her mouth as she watched Nerrhavia’s [Charioteers] forming up at a safe distance, banging war gongs and sounding horns to provoke Reim’s forces into chasing them.
This wasn’t their war. Jecrass was bleeding against Reim with half-hearted support. They could have won, if the other forces had held. If they brought down Zamea—
“The Steward is charging!”
“Fall back!”
Lael spurred her horse and they fled. She cursed. They had been so close. They had been so close to taking the King of Destruction’s…
She lowered her head. She didn’t see a victory in this war. Not without something changing. You couldn’t bleed Reim. They were all war-maniacs, like Zamea, still chasing the [Riders] and cutting them to bits. She looked back once, to catch sight of that monster. She could swear she heard the King of Destruction laughing.
 
—-
 
Another easy victory. Well—hard-won by [Soldiers], life-and-death. But when Reim concentrated their power, it wasn’t even funny. Let alone entertaining—the Wistram broadcast barely mentioned the battle, except to dully note the figures. Plucky Jecrass holding the line against all odds, and all that.
What did get attention was what came after. The scrying orb flickered into view. No Noass or Sir Relz to commentate for a moment. The image spoke for itself.
“So, is this how the game is played? Magnificent. How fun!”
The King of Destruction was playing soccer. Football. Whatever. He kicked the ball across the ground, a bit awkwardly, but copying the motions he’d seen on screen. And he was physically adept enough to kick it across the field.
“Yes, your Majesty. Do you fancy a game?”
Mars was laughing. Today, she looked dusky-skinned, her voice purring along with her curled hair. She kicked the ball back and the King of Destruction stopped it with one foot.
It was not the severed head of an enemy. Those didn’t bounce. Rather, the leather ball was quickly-made, enchanted. Flos frowned, then looked ahead.
“Teres! Catch!”
He kicked the ball. The audience watched the ball soar high into the air—way past Teres, standing a hundred feet away. She went chasing. Flos grimaced.
“I forget my strength. What is the term? Pass the ball, yes. Orthenon! My Steward, your timing is impeccable. Zamea, my condolences on the loss of your kin. Shali, was it?”
His grin faded for a moment as Zamea rested on her axe. Blood still covered Flos’ beard, although he’d removed his armor. Mars of course was wearing her illusion. But as the [Steward] came forwards, Flos smiled.
“It was something to see, wasn’t it? Such a lively game! Let’s play one—match? One set?”
“If your Majesty wills it.”
“I do. And you shall play, Orthenon. By the way, do you like the city?”
Orthenon glanced up at the battle-worn statues of his face, some of them looking exceptionally stupid or exaggerating his features, like his nose. One was just of him mooning the enemy. He grimaced.
“Your Majesty, my enjoyment of Drevish’s posthumous work is matched only by my anticipation of this…‘game’.”
“That’s the spirit! Let’s make two teams. Hello! I understand people are watching?”
The King of Destruction strode up towards the camera. The Wistram [Mage] enlisted to cast the scrying spell flinched.
“Y-yes, your Majesty?”
“Excellent. I’m rather fascinated by this game. If these…players from Liscor are watching, you have my thanks for the entertainment! So novel. If any would like to visit Reim—well, perhaps after the war ends, eh?”
The King of Destruction’s eyes glittered as he smiled widely. He laughed and the entire viewpoint shook as he slapped the [Mage] on the shoulder and sent them sprawling.
“Truly interesting. Teres! Where’s that ball? If they would like to give me any tips on how this game is played, I would appreciate that too. Can you arrange that?”
“Your—your Majesty? I uh—”
About that time, the frozen audience in The Wandering Inn saw a Street Runner edge into the room.
“[Message] for Mister Joseph? First-priority from the Mage’s Guild. The—the King of Destruction has a question.”
And the legend entered the inn.
 
—-
 
It was a thing Human beings were bad at. Understanding how…worldwide mediums worked.
Like the super-information highway of Earth, or television in both worlds, or just…phone calls, there was some part of humanity (and other species) that couldn’t process the scope of such technology.
‘When I say something online, or on television, people see it.’ That was easy. But how about a thousand people? A million. The Human mind couldn’t process the scope of that many people.
Let alone the consequences, or what might happen if you became the center of attention, even for a second. It made the abstract real, but you couldn’t know how that felt, really felt, until it happened.
Joseph carefully pinched himself in the inn.
“Ow.”
He looked around. Then, felt a pinch.
“Ow! What the—”
He saw Rose pull back her hand. She looked mystified at him. Then Mrsha pinched Joseph’s ear and ran away to safety—Moore—when Joseph swore.
The half-Giant was still staring at Zamea. A familiar stranger. He absently patted Mrsha’s head as she stuck out her tongue at Joseph. He looked around.
“What do I do? That’s the King of Destruction, right?”
“Um. Yes?”
Ceria Springwalker squeaked. She looked into the scrying orb. It was on a delay, so only now did the King of Destruction begin calling for a [Message] spell to be sent to Joseph.
“The King of Destruction just sent you a [Message].”
Pisces blinked a few times at Joseph. He was a smart person. Well, Pisces thought of himself as a smart person. He still couldn’t quite fathom it.
“I uh—he’s asking how the game is played, how to kick…what do I do? That’s the tyrant-guy, right? Do I say nothing?”
“Are you crazy? That’s the King of Destruction. You don’t piss him off. Tell him! Write down the rules of the game!”
Rose exclaimed. The other Earthers began to buzz, arguing—looking around for something to write the rules down on, and a map of a football field. The non-Earthers just stared.
The King of Destruction. Gazi the Omniscient had been here, but him? Yet—this was just a backdrop to today.
