Soccer had come to this world. Again—this was mainly Erin’s fault since she’d shouted ‘soccer’, rather than ‘football’ into the scrying orb.
Joseph wasn’t happy about that. But he was at the center of attention and began to mechanically write the rules down. Number of players, a field this large…it was actually hard to describe a game to someone who had no reference for it at all. So many little rules.
“Am I dreaming? Pinch me, Ksmvr. No—just surprise me.”
Ceria muttered. She slapped her cheeks. She’d met Gazi, of course, but—she felt a pinch on her pointed ears and yelped.
Ksmvr hadn’t pinched her after all. He’d gently nibbled on one ear.
“Should I consume your ear? I feel like that is not appropriate surprise, Captain.”
“No. I’m awake. Wow. This is—wow.”
The half-Elf just had to sit back. She looked around. And everyone else who had seen the events on the scrying orb were just as stunned.
“Halrac. Don’t pinch me. This is insane! It was just a game of football! And that mad [King] is playing it?”
Revi nodded to Halrac. The [Scout] was just silent. His face was tense, drawn. He couldn’t believe it either. But he was taking it seriously.
Typhenous on the other hand? The old man looked delighted as he worked on something on the table.
“My dear Revi, you underestimate the—commonalities between royalty and we common folk. Everyone enjoys simple things in life. I think rather than worry, you should enjoy the moment—and take advantage of what you can! There. Excuse me, I think this is quite appropriate.”
He eyed the finished product. Revi did too as Typhenous got up. He slid a square of cardboard, the surface, white, in front of Joseph.
“Excuse me, Joseph, is it?”
“What? Yeah. Hey, here are the rules. Do I—do I send it back?”
“I can take it back, sir. No charge. All paid for. Is that your reply?”
The Street Runner Drake held out his claws. Joseph looked around, white-faced. Then he stared down at the sheet of cardboard. Paper glued onto thin wood, really.
Well—it was very clean. And an image of a football—a proper one, with white and black spots—was hand-illustrated onto one corner. Well, close to a proper ball. Typhenous had made them literally spots.
“Your signature, Mister Joseph. Just in the center. I’d appreciate it if you could make it as fancy as possible. I have three more—”
“Uh. Sure. Why?”
The old [Mage] didn’t reply until Joseph signed all three.
“Just memorabilia, sir. Planning against the future. They may appreciate in value.”
He winked at Joseph as he tucked them into his robes. The old [Mage] certainly had a practical eye towards everything. Joseph just looked at the hastily-scribbled reply to the King of Destruction.
“What do I do?”
No one had an answer. So—Joseph looked around, desperately. It was the next morning, and he shouted one word. A name.
“Erin?”
The young woman was sitting at a table with Ryoka. Mrsha had already crept over to sit on Ryoka’s lap. She sniffed at a bowl of half-eaten cereal. Ryoka glanced up, but Erin kept talking.
“—and I leveled! Twice! You have to tell me. Come on. Is he really a super-[Mage]? Can he enchant my ovens? Why do you trust him?”
“Erin, it’s a secret. Like—Ivolethe. Same level, you know. I think someone wants you. Do you want a bite, Mrsha?”
The City Runner took a spoon and offered Mrsha a nibble. The Gnoll hugged her and Ryoka smiled—then her face nearly went splut into the bowl of cereal as she ducked. Apista buzzed overhead. Ryoka stared up, wide-eyed.
“What the fuck is that?”
“Language. That’s Apista. Haven’t you met her?”
Ryoka felt Lyonette slap the back of her head; they were sitting at the same table. Mrsha punched Lyonette for hitting Ryoka. She was being mean again! Erin saw Joseph hurrying over.
“Erin. Is this okay to send to the King of Destruction?”
“Who?”
Erin hadn’t been paying attention. Nor did she really process the immediacy of sending the message to the King of Destruction, who was kicking the ball to Orthenon on the scrying orb. The [Steward] refused to kick the ball back.
Erin read blankly, half-listening to Joseph’s explanation. She was still focused on Teriarch and her new levels.
“Looks…like soccer rules.”
“Football. Do I send it? He’s the King of Destruction.”
“Who? Oh, yeah. Are you watching him? I’ve never watched, but Rufelt says he goes around declaring war. And wasn’t he Gazi’s boss?”
The [Innkeeper] looked around for confirmation. Lyonette and Ryoka gave her long looks.
“That is correct in everything, but—how can you be so wrong, Erin?”
Lyonette looked askance. Erin just shrugged. She scribbled something on the paper.
“Well, he’s a jerk. Here, send this to him. Why are you doing it anyways?”
She held it out to the Street Runner. Joseph hesitated.
“He asked for me. He’s live on the TV—scrying orb, Erin.”
“Oh. Really? Weird.”
The [Innkeeper] blinked. Then she went back to her morning porridge. After a few bites, and a sip of blue fruit juice, she woke up a bit more.
“…Joseph?”
“Yeah?”
“When you say he asked for you…um. You mean, you? And he’s actually there? That wasn’t, like, some formal message or you just talking about soccer to Esthelm?”
“No.”
“Uh oh. Well, it’s probably not going exactly to him—”
About six minutes later, the scrying orb watching Flos playing soccer with Orthenon was interrupted.
“[Message] from Liscor, your Majesty.”
The [King] read from it. Everyone in The Wandering Inn waited, with bated breath. Erin Solstice…slowly walked outdoors as Lyonette and Ryoka stared at her back. To stretch. It was just the morning, after all. Good time for a walk! Even with Rock Crabs about.
“Ah, I see! We can play this! How fascinating—and what’s this at the bottom? Dear…hah! Orthenon! Read this!”
Flos began to laugh. His eyes widened and he doubled over in guffaws. Orthenon read the paper. His brows twitched.
“Amusing.”
“Read it out loud! Mars! Mars, you must read this! And Teres!”
Two others came over. Mars read it out loud, slowly.
“Dear, King of Destruction. I hear you’re a big jerk. Your vassal, Gazi, is also a jerk. Go stuff your face and stop declaring war!”
She began to laugh. Flos staggered upright, looked around, and then began to howl with laughter.
The Wandering Inn was in waxworks. Lyonette turned dead-white. Only Mrsha was giggling. Oh, and Numbtongue. He was lying on the floor, laughing his brains out. Typhenous was smiling behind his beard—
But everyone else was quiet. Orthenon read the missive again.
“I don’t believe this came from ‘Joseph’, your Majesty. The writing style is different.”
“Some brave employee at the Mage’s Guild, perhaps. Or someone else?”
Flos paused for a moment and his eyes twinkled. But his vassals kept a straight face as they remembered what Gazi had once told them. The King of Destruction chuckled as he straightened.
“I see. Well, Joseph or not—I shall take the words under consideration. Stuff my face indeed. Yes. Ah—Orthenon?”
“Yes, Sire?”
“Find me a map. Where’s Liscor again? I’ll add it to my list. Actually, move it to the top, Orthenon.”
The King of Destruction smiled. Every head slowly turned to Erin, peeking through the main door. She slowly closed the door.
“I’m joking, of course.”
Flos and Zamea both started laughing. Ryoka eyed the bowl of cereal. Mrsha looked up, bits of grains on her face. Ryoka slowly wiped Mrsha’s mouth with a handkerchief. About six minutes after that, Rufelt kicked the door open.
“Erin!”
He was too late to beat Watch Captain Zevara, Olesm, and half the Council who were all screaming Erin’s name. They knew who had really sent that last bit.
And that was just breakfast.
 
—–
 
In all seriousness, though. When the King of Destruction’s little game of football lost interest and the viewpoint changed away from Wistram—
It was still madness. Things did not calm down.
At least, for Joseph. For Erin Solstice, things went back to normal after Zevara screamed for twenty minutes. Which was a record, for her. It was just a little event in the eyes of the world.
And there were important things happening. Ryoka found Mrsha sitting on her shoulders. She stood up.
“Oh no. I have some strange white leech on my back! Oh well, I can’t get it off.”
Mrsha giggled. Ryoka sighed.
“I should go for a run. But stretches first! This way—”
She bent over to the right, raising one arm as if she were doing an actual stretch. Mrsha teetered, then grabbed Ryoka’s arm. Giggling. Ryoka went the other way.
“I wonder if I can touch my toes?”
She could. Mrsha flailed around desperately, only her legs gripping Ryoka’s neck and shoulders keeping her on Ryoka. She laughed, and Ryoka grinned.
Lyonette scowled from the side. But Ryoka and Mrsha had months to catch up on. And Ryoka was trying.
“What do you want to do, Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll looked up as Ryoka pried her from her head. Did she get Ryoka? The City Runner nodded.
“Until T—Eldavin gets here, I’m all yours. If you want to do something.”
Mrsha thought about it. Then, shyly, she went over and tugged on Ryoka’s hand. She wanted to go into the Garden and show Ryoka everything. The City Runner looked at Erin and Lyonette.
“Go on.”
Erin smiled. She nudged Lyonette. The [Princess] huffily nodded.
“Don’t be jealous.”
“I just don’t want her influencing Mrsha too much. She has bad habits. And she might run off again.”
Mrsha heard Lyonette’s whisper, quiet as it was. She looked back and then glomped onto Ryoka, tugging her forwards. Erin looked at Mrsha.
“But she loves Ryoka. Don’t be mad, Lyonette. See how happy Mrsha is today?”
“Still. After all she did. Running off and—”
Brunkr. But Lyonette didn’t say that part. She didn’t know what exactly had occurred, but she correctly blamed Ryoka, if for the wrong reasons.
Erin just smiled. Her friend was back. And—a bit better. After a second, Erin ran through the doorway.
“Wait for me! You have to see the stupid chocolate tree!”
Mrsha threw a bit of dirt at Erin. This was her special time! But Erin was just as happy to see Ryoka. It felt like she hadn’t known how much she had been missing Ryoka, either.
For once, the Crazy Human of Liscor had nothing she wanted to change about the world. But another crazy Human—or rather, an unlikely person was getting all the attention.
“That was a great game. I can’t believe you can play it with magic. It changes everything. And I have a new class—look at this!”
Joseph was still smiling. He hadn’t been drinking either. Not that he hadn’t been tempted. His hand still shook to think about a nice, cool glass of…but he had a reason to not drink at the moment. And that purpose made everything different.
He stood outside, kicking the ball up and down. It wasn’t enchanted anymore, but Montressa had promised to work on it. She wasn’t here—or Beza. They were, at that moment, waiting for orders as Wistram had an inner war about how much of this was an Ullsinoi prank and how much they knew, or had.
The United Nations company was looking for a Courier through Luan and Ken. The Queen of Pop was thinking about [Messages] and Wistram as well. Laken was—well, Durene had to keep telling him what had happened, but he got the point. Football was a lot less interesting when you were blind.
They were all other stories. And while they might intersect upon Liscor—at the moment, Joseph kicked the ball up, then looked around.
“[Power Kick]!”
He turned and blasted the ball towards Liscor’s walls. The other Earthers grinned as Joseph kept speaking.
“I got it! As well as [Sure Footing] and—oh shit.”
The ball flew through the air. Very aerodynamic. And Joseph, already good at kicking the ball, hadn’t realized how powerful his Skill made his kick. The ball flew, and flew from the hill the inn stood on.
“Watch out!”
The [Watch] ducked as they saw the ball coming at them. It hit the wall—about eight feet from the battlements, and bounced off. Joseph breathed a sigh of relief as one of the Drakes hurled insults at him from the wall.
“Sorry! Did you see how far it went?”
“Dude. Your class is great. I thought about getting it, but y’know…I don’t play soccer.”
“Foot—”
Joseph exasperatedly trotted down the hill as Kevin followed him. Rose looked around.
“Don’t break a window, Joseph. I’m going to watch the plays. Galina says they’re really great.”
“Sure. Where are Leon and Troy?”
“Dunno. Watching the scrying orb?”
“Um. I’m going to stay here.”
Imani looked across the Floodplains and shuddered. The stretch between The Wandering Inn and the city was perfectly safe, but Kevin and Joseph waved at her as she edged back inside.
“So—[Kicker]. Why do you think you got that instead of [Player] or [Footballer] or…uh—something else?”
Kevin scratched his head. Joseph shrugged.
“Probably nothing else matches. Ryoka said classes are based off this world’s stuff. There’s no [Gamer] class.”
“Dude. I know. Leon and Troy wanted to get the class, but I told them it would probably only make them better at playing on my laptop. Did you know Ryoka deleted all the stuff? Even the one with—”
“I know. We shouldn’t have given it to her.”
Kevin smiled. He and Joseph went up and down the hills easily; they were in good shape. Erin thought of Kevin as ‘stoner guy’, and that was hurtful—partly true—but Joseph knew that Kevin was actually very athletic.
“It’s fine, man. Look where we are. We could be in the mansion getting attacked by assassins and with all those angry [Maids]. Anyways, I got my laptop. This inn is great. You have soccer, you kicked your habit—what’s getting rid of a few movies?”
“They’re gone.”
“Nah.”
Joseph looked up suddenly as Kevin winked.
“…No. She forgot to delete them?”
“No, she did…but I have an automatic backup drive. Remember, I used to work at that bike place? The manager made me do all the bookkeeping. That’s the store’s laptop, well, mine. But we used it for the store.”
“Hah!”
Joseph laughed. Not that it was crucial to keep Kevin’s stash, but it was…from home. A great comfort. And all that. Kevin nodded, but he was causal about it.
“It doesn’t matter if it gets deleted, Joseph. I bet you there’s some stuff here.”
“What…you mean illustrations?”
“There have to be. Think about it. Our worlds are so similar. They loved soccer. I bet you that if I looked around in Liscor…”
The two began laughing at the ludicrous idea of going out to buy bawdy illustrations in Liscor. They were friends. Well—Kevin got along with everyone.
“Maybe later. I want to play another game around Celum.”
