There they sat. Numbtongue ate yeasty popcorn as Mrsha’s jaw dropped open as lightsabers, blaster fire, and the force flickered across the screen. Teriarch had his own bowl. The largest, and Ryoka felt Erin leaning on her, laughing as Teriarch kept pausing the movie to ask questions.
“Just watch! It’s a movie! A movie!”
In some ways—it was a mimicry of life. Numbtongue and Teriarch experienced the death of Obi-Wan Kenobi differently, but strongly. Death was something everyone here had felt and the movie was much more…real than even child-Erin and Ryoka had known.
But the action was glorious. Even if it was silly at times. Everyone cheered at the end, although Teriarch was a bit miffed.
“But the cost! That was a battle-moon. They should have invaded it, secured it, rather than destroy it! What happened next?”
“There are two more movies. And the prequels.”
“We don’t mention those.”
Ryoka nudged Erin. She stuck her tongue out at the City Runner.
“They’re good! Aw, Kevin doesn’t have them. Who wants to watch the next one? Who has to get more snacks?”
It ended up being Ryoka. She got up as the second movie began to play and she only missed the opening text scrawl.
And it was a glorious night. If only you could linger there, moment by moment…at some point, Ryoka caught herself looking around. Feeling each second lingering.
An [Immortal Moment]. Teriarch met her eyes and they looked at Erin, and Mrsha laughed and Numbtongue sat forwards, watching intently. Erin Solstice laughed and looked up and they grinned in that moment.
But even that was not forever.
Over too soon. Soon, Mrsha was dozing in Numbtongue’s arms, dreaming of Ewoks and giant traps. The others were a bit frazzled by bingeing three movies in a row. Erin was blinking.
“How much popcorn did I eat? Did we have dinner? I don’t feel good.”
“It’s late. Maybe Mrsha should be in her bed.”
It was indeed late. Later than good little Gnolls should be up, or even bad ones. Numbtongue lifted Mrsha.
“I’ll take her.”
It was perhaps the first thing he’d ever said to Ryoka. But she nodded and the [Bard] left the garden with Mrsha. That left Erin. She rolled down the hill. Teriarch and Ryoka heard her voice.
“Oh no, oh no, I’m rolling, stop me, ow, ow, I’m gonnathrowup—”
She lay at the bottom on the hill. Then began to crawl towards the door.
“I’m gonna go lie down, okay?”
That was 100% Erin. Then, Teriarch and Ryoka stood there. The Dragon slowly closed the laptop and it vanished as he waved a hand.
“Entertaining. The things mortals come up with.”
That was all he said. He sat there, smiling. The ghosts of the Jedi had pleased him more than anything else. Yoda…well, the similarities were there. Almost like stories, movies, had shards of truth in them.
For a while, Ryoka looked up at the stars in the sky filtering through the dome. It was peaceful here. No annoying little bugs. Just the wind, the night…
A perfect place. The Dragon remembered sitting here, on this very hill, as a Harpy girl—no, a woman now, looked up and confessed all her worries as her grand empire struggled.
He blinked. And there was Ryoka Griffin. The Dragon sighed.
It was time. He spoke, wearily.
“Ryoka Griffin. We have one part of our bargain left unfulfilled. And time…well, time is neither your enemy nor friend. But it must be done, for we have a pact. Let us speak now of your greatest wish. To meet your friend. The faerie, Ivolethe.”
By his side, the young woman stiffened. She turned to face him and the Dragon’s head moved slowly, fixing her with a piercing gaze.
“Yes. I thought it was time too. You…told me there is a way. Can you help me?”
“I did not promise that. I will not place myself against other immortals, even in a contest of wills. Before I speak of what may be—let me tell you that what you ask is dangerous, Ryoka Griffin. Fae are old as Dragons. Perhaps—older. Certainly, some of them are older than I. They danced in a time when Gods still lived. To strive for anything, much less tempt their wrath…you understand what this means?”
“I do. But Ivolethe is my friend. I…want to see her again. To apologize. To…it’s worth the risk to me.”
Her eyes were steady. The Dragon nodded once, forebode other comment. It was her will.
“Very well then. In that case, I will give you the knowledge you seek. Firstly, know this: the fae have a compact with our world. They enter it with the winter, to bring snow. They are bound by a promise as old as time. But they manifest as Winter Sprites and are forbidden from interacting with the world in…noticeable ways. Pranks their King allows. No more.”
Ryoka nodded. Teriarch went on.
“I do not understand all the ways of their kind. But I understand that your friend violated their rules in the grandest of ways. To save your life—that is the most egregious of sins. The Faerie King may forgive lesser slights, even laugh at pranks. But this? No. Your friend was punished.”
“To never see me again. That was what…Laken said.”
The Dragon nodded.
“A bitter thing, for an immortal. It symbolizes the wrath of the Faerie King. And the difficulty you must surmount.”
Again, the young woman nodded. Steeling herself. The Dragon stroked at his beard.
“…If it were less than that, you could make gifts. Persuade the fae to intercede on your behalf. But I fear this is no small matter. The issue of your friend’s station is also a problem. She is of the highest of the fae. One of the King’s own court.”
“Tuatha?”
Ryoka blinked. She had no idea if that was accurate. But the fae were in all legends. Still—she had guessed Ivolethe was more than she seemed. Teriarch just shrugged.
“I do not know all their names. Yes, from your world, perhaps. The point is that she is close to royalty as any of the fae. She is of the Winter Court—or the Summer Court as they change. The Faerie King’s wrath will be far worse with her than any other.”
The King of the Fae. Oberon. If you believed Shakespeare. Ryoka shivered. That was a creature truly from myth and legend. Even more than Teriarch. He had roots in her world.
“…I didn’t know Ivolethe was so important.”
The young woman said. But she remembered that night when Ivolethe had lost her and she had met the figures around the fire. Then—she had seen Ivolethe differently. Taller, rushing past her in the darkness as they chased…
The Dragon snorted at Ryoka.
“Her status is unmistakable, girl. Did you not think to question her power? Do you think a sprite could have frozen the air like that, wearing a false shell a world apart?”
Ryoka hadn’t. She blinked, remembering…Ivolethe hadn’t even seemed wise, though. Well—a few times. But she could be so petty. She ate bugs and demanded treats. She closed her eyes.
“She always seemed so—small. Selfish. Mischievous. Not like royalty.”
The Dragon rolled his eyes.
“And your image of fae nobility must be the truth. I see. The arrogance of mankind. You saw her, did you? What do you think I saw?”
He looked at her with a Dragon’s gaze. Ryoka felt her skin tingling.
“So she’s…important.”
“It makes your task harder. She will be under guard. Watched. And if you seek to meet her, you will need a gesture as important as her station and sin.”
Teriarch was frank. Ryoka’s heart beat faster.
“What do I do? Belavierr said she could help us meet…”
“A [Witch] could. Particularly a powerful one. But their ways are often mixed with old tradition. Sacrifice. I have no such power or rituals. I only have knowledge. Do not mistake me, Ryoka Griffin; I am not helpless. I have thought on this puzzle long and hard, and I have a solution. An elegant one.”
In his cave the Dragon exhaled a plume of flame. Ryoka leaned forwards.
“What must I do?”
The Brass Dragon’s voice was calm in the night.
“Firstly, know this: everything the fae do is born of rules. They delight in breaking them, but they respect rules more than anyone else. They have power. If you want to appease them, you must obey their rules. You know some—cold iron is their foe. Make no promises for words are binding. Also—time matters. The Winter Solstice and Summer Solstice are times of particular power in this world. When barriers grow thin.”
He fixed Ryoka with an eye. She whispered.
“The Summer Solstice?”
“Exactly. That is when the fae are allowed to come through in great number. In the winter of course, they have their duties. But both days are…celebrations. No, I take those words back. Moments of great import to the fae. It is then you must act.”
Now the Dragon raised a finger. And the air began to shimmer. Not with smoke this time; he used the medium of light. Faint, glowing forms flitted across the world. Vibrant shapes.
Fae. Ryoka reached out unconsciously, and the illusion broke on her fingers. Teriarch looked at Ryoka with sympathy.
“The Summer Solstice is your best bet. It is more of a celebration than winter. Winter—the ending of seasons is more somber. Hence, the Winter Court, for all their mischief. Summer on the other hand? A time of rebirth. Joy. Forgiveness.”
“I see. What happens on that day?”
“The fae will visit our world. They are still bound not to interfere, but the restriction is relaxed. They will appear, causing mischief and delight. And especially…where they are welcome.”
The view changed. Ryoka saw a party of people—Gnolls—sitting around a fire. Dancing figures appeared out of the darkness. She could almost see them, laughing, teasing.
“They came to Erin when she threw a party.”
Erin had told Ryoka about that. Where she had received the faerie flowers which were so valuable, even if it had been a prank. The Dragon nodded.
“They do love parties. Especially those thrown in their honor. With particular rules. No iron of course, proper introductions and ceremonies observed…why, on a Summer Solstice, if the correct banquet was thrown, the Court of the Faerie King themselves might descend.”
He looked at Ryoka. And she inhaled. Her mind flashed to the same conclusion.
“A party?”
That was his idea? The Dragon nodded, pleased.
“Not just any party. Do not mistake me, Ryoka Griffin. If you were to bedeck this inn with all manner of delights and invite the fae in—this inn is curiously not made of iron except on the door—the fae would come. You would be assured of pixies, sprites, brownies, those damned satyrs—well, any number of fae that can cross worlds.”
Ryoka nodded. Satyrs were real? She resolved never to meet them. They sounded like assholes, even more than regular goats. The Dragon nodded.
“…You might even receive one of the high court. But it would be chance, you understand? And say you were to meet one of Ivolethe’s peers. It would avail you naught.”
“Couldn’t I ask…?”
“Of course. But this would be a celebration. You understand? They would be little inclined to heed you, and if they did—what of it? It would be one of the high court begging the Faerie King. Almost worthless.”
Ryoka nodded. She wanted the Dragon to get to the point, but he was enjoying this. His own cleverness on display.
“Ah, but you need the full court, or a majority of them. And you need formality. If you were to make a celebration worthy of them, a proper ball, with gifts and an abundance of food and entertainment such as they had not seen for millennia—then you would be guaranteed for most of the Summer Court to arrive. And they would owe you a boon.”
“So you’re saying—”
The Dragon’s voice rose.
“To do this—you would need the greatest celebration. Thousands of gold pieces, creating a proper stage. Entertainment! Food and drink such that even the fae would be satisfied! But more than that, the difficulty, Ryoka Griffin, would be permission.”
“From whom?”
The Dragon’s eyes darkened.
“The ruler of the land. Erin Solstice does not own her inn. Not in the way she needs to. You would need the permission of a true ruler, not this…city’s. A high noble. Perhaps Reinhart herself. I will not lie to you, Ryoka Griffin. To do this, you need funding, time, preparation. It may take you years. A decade. But I believe it can be done if you begin seeding the ground…”
He broke off as Ryoka slowly raised a hand.
“What?”
“I have an [Emperor].”
“Yes, yes, you have—wait. What did you say?”
The Dragon’s jaw opened and stayed there. Ryoka was breathing heavily.
“I have…an [Emperor]. And he owes me a favor. Is—is  that enough?”
Teriarch’s eyes bulged. He spluttered.
“A—what? In Izril? There are no—are you serious?”
“Yup. He’s an [Emperor]. From my world.”
“What? No one told me about—”
The Dragon’s strangled voice echoed in the Garden. Ryoka smiled, crazily.
“I can do it. I can get his permission. He has links to the fae. Is that enough?”
The Brass Dragon hesitated. Then he frowned.
“…From your world? Tell me about this [Emperor].”
“Well, he’s…”
Ryoka gave as quick a description of Laken Godart as she could. The Dragon listened, frowning. He didn’t care about Laken’s morality or decisions, or even the scope of his empire. He held up a claw.
“…There may be a problem.”
The young woman’s breath caught.
“What? He’s got authority over his land. Riverfarm ceded it to him.”
“Yes. And that solves your issue of location, girl. But the problem remains: that is not enough. Not for the fae. Your [Emperor] has one flaw. Two, really. One is that he is alone. The second? He does not own the land. Not in the right way.”
The City Runner’s heart sank.
“But he’s an [Emperor]. Do you mean he’s not really one?”
“No, no. I’m sure he has the class.”
The Dragon waved that off. He tried to explain. And it was simple, really.
“Your [Emperor] is new to Izril. Even if he were to live here for a thousand years, he would be new to the fae. Because his forefathers did not live and die here. His family’s bones do not lie in Izril’s soil. That is claim. True, the Humans invaded Izril millennia ago. But the nobles, like Magnolia Reinhart herself, have a claim the fae respect. Death and life for generations.”
“Oh.”
That was fae logic. Ryoka clenched her fists and punched the grass. Teriarch frowned.
“It helps. Mistake me not. An [Emperor] is attractive. But he has only one [Lady] in his court? Yes, and he summoned the fae once?”
“More like he asked for a favor.”
Laken had once summoned the fae to meet the other nobles. But that made the Dragon smile.
“Of course they came. And that is your answer! Ryoka Griffin! That is your answer. And a mirror of what I intended. The fae came because the other nobles were present. Because the [Emperor] set a stage worthy of their arrival. If such a gathering is made twice, they will come again.”
He stood up, excited now. Ryoka stood up as well, heart beating.
