They were like the treasurers of the Council. Whereas Jeiss was their arm of the law and combat expert, along with Olesm. Alonna advised on magic and politics and handled [Messages]…
The two other Council members were largely useless.
“We will come back with a proposed budget. Now, I think—on to the third most important topic of the day, yes? Perhaps most of all?”
Krshia tapped the table and looked around meaningfully. The others looked up. Lism’s tail began to wag with sheer delight.
“Of course. Do you have the missive, nephew?”
Olesm produced the rather fancy letter that had arrived by [Messenger] just this morning. Not Runner; [Messenger]. As in, a class hired by a person or group for dedicated work, not a freelancer.
“I think we’ve all read it. But can you give us a proper rundown, Strategist Olesm? Tismel and Zalaiss may need briefing later.”
Alonna smiled at Olesm. The Drake sighed; mostly for the latter bit. But he nodded. There were a few places for him to put his maps and documents. He handed them around now. Copies of the letter, and a few strategic notes. Lism saw him point at the map.
Maps of Liscor and of Izril or even the world, were, of course, expensive. Not prohibitively, but the [Cartographers] really did sterling work with their illustrations. You could buy political maps, ones that showed where monsters were strongest, geographical overlays, magical ones…
Of course, nations and space shifted all the time, so no map was perfect. But this one was fairly up-to-date. Olesm pointed at Liscor; the valley and pass leading down through the High Passes was quite familiar to Lism.
“Here we are, Councilmembers. And here—is our new road. It’s nearing completion, despite the setbacks, and Master Builder Reikhle has only a few days to go. Of course, then there will be creating a short wall and shoring up the road…”
“I wonder if we can get our [Architect] to do that cheaper as well.”
Lism snorted. He didn’t exactly like Hexel for all the Lamia was friendly, and he was certain Hexel didn’t like him. Lism felt…sympathetic about what had happened, really. But how quickly did he turn from hating a Lizardman to thinking of him as ‘Liscor’s.’ Funny, that.
Olesm was tracing a careful route through the foothills, south of Liscor and around the Bloodfields, marked in red. And soon, the road would connect to…
Another road. The Council leaned forwards and saw the road network branching out from there. To the south, lay Izril.
Obviously, of course. It always had. But the southern route was only safe in the winter and fall. Liscor was more connected to the north than the south. Isolated from all in the spring.
That was how it always had been. But Lism was already dreaming of rope…bridges…that could be used in the spring. They had been isolated and that had always been their strength. Inter-city wars had never affected Liscor and their army could go abroad and make money while the city stayed safe—although they used to leave more than just the Watch behind.
But it had also made Liscor poor. Reliant on the army. Now, the road would connect.
“The letter we have received comes from Hectval, a small city closest to us. It is part of the Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem Alliance, a defensive pact between the cities and towns here.”
“Inspired name.”
Jeiss drawled. Lism laughed, but he waved for Olesm to go on. The little dot of a city, only visible on very detailed maps, was indeed close to the Bloodfields. And Liscor. Olesm coughed.
“You can see their standing forces and so on there. Public knowledge; I believe they have excellent fletchers. You can see their proximity to the hills here, which have an abundance of birdlife…I can get you more information if you’d like, Councilmembers. But they sent a [Messenger] yesterday.”
“Down our road.”
Lism growled. That almost upset him; he had hoped to send a trading caravan down the road first, as part of a ceremony. But the contents of the letter had been…excellent. Olesm nodded.
“It will be publicly used, Councilmember Lism. The road, that is. But Hectval sent a letter of, well, greetings. It is very formal.”
It was. The beginning of the letter had about four lines of introduction. But Lism could respect that. They had made an impression.
“I was actually told that the letter was exceptionally formal, and had a lot of nuance from Maviola—er—I think we should labor carefully over our reply, Councilmembers. To avoid seeming less than formal. The long and the short of it is that…Hectval would like our cities to exchange goods, ideas, visitors. They’re asking for a meeting.”
Lism beamed. He sat up and looked around. The rest of the Council seemed excited too. Krshia looked a bit confused.
“All this for a meeting? They could have just come and knocked on our gates, yes?”
“Silverfang, you are just a—an uneducated beast! There’s a proper way to do things! With elegance! Tact! Between Drake cities, this is how things are done.”
Lism cried out. He looked around importantly. He hadn’t ever actually been part of a delegation—he’d never even left Liscor. But he felt strongly that this was it.
“I think it’s clear. We should respond, as politely as possible, and agree to a meeting. At last, we’ll have another city to talk to! And this is just the first! More Drakes!”
He smirked at Krshia. The Gnoll sighed.
“Hopefully more tolerable than the ones here.”
“Silverfang…”
The two Councilmembers began to quarrel. Elirr sat back and Raekea helped get the back of his head with his comb.
“You’re making more of an effort to do your appearance, Elirr. You don’t even smell of cats.”
“I have to. I’m a Councilmember and a liaison with our [Architect]. Did the cologne work? Those damned pests dump it in the toilet.”
Olesm smiled. The Council was in high spirits, and Olesm went off to hire Joseph. And find Maviola; she had already began to vet a proper team. She was his acting-assistant. He could hire one. And why not?
The Drake gave that serious thought as Tismel and Zalaiss hurried in—just to hear the Council breaking for the day. He ran off before they could demand to know what had been said.
Olesm was feeling better than he had in months. Maviola was staying at his apartment. He’d had…well, relationships. But none that lasted long. None that felt like this.
He smiled. And the Council were doing big things. Important things. Actually doing things. Lism and Krshia were actually working together, rather than killing each other with knives.
Olesm was happy for them, but he found that his life outside of work also mattered. He, Maviola, Selys, and Lyonette were all going to go to Invrisil to shop. Hawk too, which was fine, but Olesm had heard Selys shouting at him after the game so that might be in doubt.
And another city was coming to Liscor. Olesm sighed. He couldn’t wait. For once, the Drake thought it might be a glorious day.
 
—-
 
It was glorious. Below Olesm’s feet, an Antinium with azure colors spread her arms and smiled.
“Antinium walked in Celum. Did you see it, Klbkchhezeim?”
“Obviously, Xrn.”
She raised her staff and Klbkch raised one arm to block. Xrn, the Small Queen turned to him.
“So that is the power of Erin Solstice. I see it now. Your advice was right, Klbkch. Give her no vaults of treasure or overt aid. ‘Let Erin be Erin.’ And she brings joy to the Antinium.”
“However much that is worth.”
Xrn flicked the staff at Klbkch’s head. He leaned back.
“You are so lacking in…kindness, Klbkch.”
“I was not made for it.”
“I know. But you could learn. Never mind. Erin Solstice has also distracted Liscor and the other cities from pressing our Hive as strongly.”
“They are still making plans.”
“Yes. But the worth of the Antinium is not in a place. The Painted Antinium must join the other Hives. I will coordinate things here. Support Erin Solstice from the shadows if she needs it. How is the delegation coming?”
“…Well. I am ready to leave.”
“Good. Do you have the snacks? Or rather—are these enough?”
Klbkch and Xrn turned to the Workers busily loading sacks onto their backs. For transit to other Hives. The grand passage under the Bloodfields may have been discovered—but it could still be used. Carefully, of course; it was sure to be monitored. Klbkch eyed the huge pack bulging with its contents as it was loaded onto a single Worker’s back.
It was heavy. The kind of thing even the meanest [Sergeant] wouldn’t make a [Soldier] carry in war. But a Worker? The Antinium bore the load with ease. And carefully too.
Because the contents were all acid-flies. Packed in so heavily that there was probably, oh, at least a hundred pounds of flies.
Another basket had fresh Garry-bread, edible for Antinium. One more had cheese…and there were multiple packs of each. Xrn and Klbkch salivated for a second.
“…We may have enough snacks. But the Queens are voracious.”
“I will send more. Visit the Armored Antinium first. Or the Silent Antinium. Your discretion, Klbkchhezeim.”
“I will. Stay alive, Xrn.”
“And you.”
She lowered her staff and tapped his head. A blessing, then. Klbkch bowed. And then, without a word, he walked away. The Workers followed him as he left the Hive.
He had been just as brief with the Free Queen, for all the emotion in her. Xrn didn’t think he’d even said ‘goodbye’ to the other Workers. But there he went. Anand and some of the Painted Antinium were in his cohort. Anand was practically hopping with excitement because Klbkch had chosen him. Xrn smiled at his glee.
“Move out.”
Klbkch spoke briefly, and they walked off. He was truly bad at being kind. Perhaps—if he had been—he might have stopped at The Wandering Inn and met Ryoka Griffin. But Klbkch was a silly Antinium.
And he was on the move.
 
—-
 
In The Wandering Inn, Revi Cotton sat and looked around.
“Feels like we never left, right, Halrac?”
“The inn was literally rebuilt from the ground up, Revi.”
The [Veteran Scout] saw the [Summoner] scowl at him. Revi looked about.
“True, but the atmosphere is the same. That game of…football? It feels the same.”
That was also true. Halrac nodded once as he maintained the enchanted bow. He experimentally checked the enchanted bowstring that Hedault had given him to replace the ancient string the bow had been given to him with. It felt good.
Solid. Revi grinned as she looked at Halrac.
“That meeting was something, right? I thought Hedault would kill the Horns. Especially Pisces.”
“Yep.”
Halrac was a poor conversationalist. Revi sighed.
“That part where he threw his equipment at Pisces’ head? I nearly died laughing. But he really liked Ksmvr.”
“Mhm.”
“And that part where he asked Ceria to marry him?”
Briganda snorted with laughter. Halrac paused. He looked up.
“…Do you want something, Revi?”
“What are we doing next, Halrac? We’ve got the money from Hedault coming in, but we’re not spending it or waiting for gear like the Horns.”
Hedault had been very patient. As well as generous. For a nominal fee, he’d be overseeing the conversion of treasure to coinage for both teams. As well as the Halfseekers. Amazingly patient, in fact; Halrac had expected him to murder the Horns of Hammerad. But they must have had one favor because they were actually in talks with him over replacing broken gear and even commissioning more.
Revi’s question reminded him that they had little business with Hedault—or Invrisil or Liscor for that matter. The [Scout] raised his head.
“I suppose it’s time to go. We’ll head through Invrisil’s door when the press slows. Tomorrow, maybe.”
“So we’re going to Riverfarm?”
Briganda looked up. She was feeding Cade lunch. The boy was very interested in a song being played from one corner of the room. He kept forgetting to eat the mushy bits of corn and grain.
“Cade, open your mouth. We could…stay awhile, Halrac. Right, Typhenous? Cade likes it here.”
“I wouldn’t object.”
The old man gave Halrac a knowing glance. And the [Scout] himself hesitated. He looked around the inn.
Pleasant indeed. So much so it would dull your senses. When The Wandering Inn wasn’t in uproar, it was like this.
In one corner of the room, Kevin sat with Numbtongue. He had successfully ingratiated himself into the Hobgoblin’s presence in two ways. Firstly, the spliff, which they were sharing. Second?
His computer was pulsing a soft song into the inn. Amid the quiet voices, the tiny stereo was playing. But the real music was coming from Numbtongue’s guitar. He was playing, copying the song after hearing it the fifth time.
Kevin was tapping the table with a ladle—matching the beat. Numbtongue missed a note, but he was faithfully copying the song. And the quiet singer’s voice added to the song. If no one else were here—you could imagine the Hobgoblin would have sung too.
Rose was tapping her foot to the beat as she listened. For a moment, Halrac listened. His eyes fixed on the [Bard]. And Numbtongue, a Redfang, noticed. He looked up and Halrac glanced away.
“It’s time to leave. We have work to do.”
He spoke reluctantly. But you could stay here too long. And they had already left, once. Briganda sighed.
“I really like it here. Right, Cade?”
“Yep.”
The little boy nodded. Halrac glanced at him.
“We’ll be back in time. We’re just going a short ways away from Invrisil. Not more than a week on the road, even with Cade. If he’s coming.”
“Riverfarm is safe, right? Anyways, we’ll be gone for a while if we take this [Emperor]’s offer. When are we going?”
“…Tomorrow.”
Rose began singing as a new song came on. To the curious, Stolen Dance, on Kevin’s computer became the iconic Hotel California. As the young woman’s voice tried to capture the lyrics—which she did know—Numbtongue stopped playing.
“Rose, this is about the guitar, the guitar. Not singing.”
Kevin objected. As Rose protested, Galina sat at the back of the inn. So far away that the music wasn’t even really audible. And over here there was far less noise. She whispered to the ugly Drake sitting next to her.
“So they do this every night?”
“And they practice! This is Lady Macbeth.”
“Lady Macbeth?”
Relc grinned at Galina. The two were bitten by the stage. They watched as the Players of Liscor began to warm up. The Players of Invrisil were back to work in their city, and neither Relc or Galina had, as of yet, visited the city.
But Relc was going to go as soon as he got a longer break. He certainly had the gold for it. He jingled the full coin pouch at his side. He nodded to Temile ordering the [Actors] about.
“Yup. See, this is a take on the classic Macbeth. Do you know it?”
