Alas, it was not to be, the Spectre easily defeating the Red Devil, standing over the corpse of his fallen foe like a vengeful phantom feasting on death. She barely registered the killing blow before the Butchers erupted into cheers and threw themselves into the fray, swarming her bullies once again. There was no hope, not anymore. The ropes meant to remove the supports and destroy the bridge had been abandoned the first time she’d fled with her bullies, and soon, she would be sent running in disgrace for the second time today. Assuming she survived of course.

How humiliating, but truth be told, why would anyone expect differently? What did she know of warfare and tactics? She was nothing but a damn washerwoman who didn’t know her place, an upstart promoted through sheer happenstance. If not for Mao Jianghong’s betrayal, Sovanna would have never dreamed of rising beyond the rank of Staff Sergeant. Keep her bullies in line and make sure they never overstepped their boundaries, a simple job any idiot could do, but now she drowned in her ignorance and impotence.

A spear-tip tore into her shoulder and she lashed out, connecting through luck and pulping the face of her attacker. There was no flow of Chi or explosion of power, nothing more than pure muscle, plain and simple. So odd, she wasn’t that strong, was she? Obviously not, to think otherwise was nothing more than a fool’s dream. Opening her mouth to bolster her flagging bullies, the words froze in her throat, unable to utter the simple phrase, ‘hold the line’.

The corpse eating bastard Gen was right. Why bother? They were doomed.

One of her bullies seemed to think the same, dropping his weapon to turn and flee. Unable to move past the throng of bodies, he was cut down from behind in an instant, the battle persisting despite his cowardice. She couldn’t fault him either, she knew the lad. A fruit merchant’s son, not even twenty years of age, as green as they come. He had no place on the front lines of a battle like this. Where were the elites and nobles? Where was the Council or the Magistrate? Tucked away in their manors and fortresses, safe and sound while commoners bled and died for them.

Business as usual in Sanshu.

Lost in her thoughts, the battle continued to rage around Sovanna as she stood like a stone in the river, searching for purpose in all this madness. If she left, would anyone even notice? There was no victory to be won here, the Defiled were too strong. Yo Ling defeated Gerel and Gao Qiu as easily as turning his hand, while Jariad stood back and Bastard Liu refused to even show his face. Who was left to fight the Spectre? The Magistrate was nowhere to be found, presumably fighting at another bridge, but how was Sovanna to know for certain? For all she knew, she’d been abandoned here to slow the Butcher’s advance while the Magistrate fled with the Council and all their ill-gotten gains. Why die for them? She had no stake in this fight, a solitary woman in the prime of life, yet without family to call her own.

“Sovanna, hold on a little longer.” The Magistrate’s Sending sounded in her mind. “Help is coming, hold fast.”

The assurance cleared her mind and renewed her determination. He was still here, fighting for his city as a true hero would. Glancing around at her bullies, she shook off her dark thoughts and grit her teeth. No family? Nonsense. Channelling her meagre Chi, she lifted her mace and strode forth, laying about her in a frenzy, shouting for all to hear. “Fight on me bullies, fight on! Ye gonna let a bunch of pirate filth show ye up? Impossible! For in our veins runs the blood of heroes, our bravery stronger than steel! Stand firm! Fury of Sanshu!”

A resounding cheer followed her words. These were her bullies, her family. She would die for them, and they for her, fighting to defend the rest of their family, still fleeing the city. Buoyed by her example, her bullies fought and died, but they held the line, giving not a single scrap of ground for long minutes. Their battlelines grew lopsided as the Corsairs were pushed back, the Defiled threatening to engulf her bullies, but still they fought on, holding to the bitter end. Laughing in defiance, she crushed one skull after another, determined to take as many down with her, so she could hold her head high and honestly tell the Mother, ‘I gave it me all’.

Blessed Mother, take me if ye must, but spare as many of me bullies as ye see can, I beg ye.

A dark shadow moved in from overhead and the Butchers faltered before Sovanna, glancing up and behind her. Barely registering the pause, she moved to attack, but someone pulled her back just in time to avoid a barrage of projectiles. Stones, arrows, bricks, and spears, someone threw everything but the chamber pot at the Defiled lines, to little effect. Turning to glare at the idiot who ordered a volley so close to her people, her jaw dropped at the sight of the ragged mob, sending wave after wave of projectiles as they marched, drowning the Defiled beneath a volume of fire. She picked out a few familiar faces among the crowd, their likenesses posted in every square and market in the city. Mongrel Kabi, Ulfsaar the Voracious, Light-fingered Yu, Daxian the Virtuous and many more. Whether they were heroes or villains changed depending on who you asked, but one thing was certain: their strength could not be denied.

Leading the charge was the Lord of Thunder, Lei Gong himself, his white hair standing on end as he cackled, sending blinding bolts of power into the Defiled lines. Beside him ran a short warrior, armoured head to toe in shimmering blue scales, with a coiled length of metallic rope in hand. While the other bandits charged the Enemy, the scaled warrior stepped aside, flanked by a giant and a slim warrior, both wielding thick, metal staves and dressed in similar armour, though not as colourful as their leader’s. Glancing at the gathered guards, their saviour reached up and removed his helmet, revealing a pinched face panting from exertion, his rat ears fluttering atop his head. “Woo,” he exclaimed with a toothy smile, glancing at the gathered guards. “Looks like we got ‘ere just in time. Now which one of ye sorry sods is in charge?”

Every head turned to look at Sovanna, and she stepped forward. “I am Sovanna, guard captain of Sanshu. And ye are?”

Leering from below, he grinned and bowed in an almost courtly manner. “What a lovely guard captain, my honour to meet ye.” Straightening up, he put his helmet back on, winking playfully from behind the mask. “I have the pleasure of being Hangman Jorani, and I’ve brought the Mother’s Militia here to scour the Defiled filth from Sanshu. The Mother wills it,” he added, somewhat unconvincingly.

The armoured giant nodded enthusiastically while chiming in, “Don’t forget the Askcends’ and the Bekkies, Jor. They’re here too.”

With a long sigh, Jorani answered, “Yes Ral, thank you. The Azure Ascendants are here too. We stumbled across the Bekhai outside, who say Major Yuzhen is on the way. There, you happy Ral? That's everyone.” Turning to Sovanna, he said, “You lot take a breather and don't be stabbin' me in the back now, we’ll handle this good and proper. Come, lets go kill some Defiled. I need more practice with this damned chain. Worst fucking spiritual weapon ever, how does he expect me to use this thing?”

While they marched off, Sovanna listened to the giant rumble on, chatting as if he were out on a stroll. “Jor, can we go to the market later? Chey said they have candied fruits. I never eated candied fruits before.”

“Sure, I’ll buy ye all the candy ye can stomach. Business first though, don’t ye be dreamin during the fight now, can't eat no candy without a head.”

“Will do Jor, I'll be real careful... Do you think Mister Rain will let me pet a roosiequin? They look so soft and fluffy.”

“Ye call him Officer Rain, nice and proper like. We’ll see about the quins, no promises though.”

Sovanna’s mouth opened and closed, then opened again, hanging in disbelief as she slumped to the ground, too exhausted to walk away. What a strange world she lived in, with nobles all scrambling to flee the city and leaving the citizens behind, while almost every bandit and vagrant in the region rushed to Sanshu’s defence.

The Mother worked in mysterious ways, but Sovanna didn’t question Her will.

Chapter Meme
