Kervin almost trips over his own feet, and a look of realization crosses his face. His plan would've worked if he kept his route, but now that he's only selling to the army and my village, those goods will probably waste away before he gets the chance to sell them. Our village doesn't need that many supplies, and over half of what people buy from Kervin are mostly perishables. I’m sure the army isn’t interested in the hundreds of plates he has stacked in his kitchen.

“Can’t you sell it back to Silver Herd?” I ask

“I would lose too much money if I did that.” Kervin hangs his head in despair.

“You should have a yard sale,” I suggest without thinking.

“A what?” Kervin gives me a confused look.

Are yard sales not a thing here? I try to play it off like I just came up with the idea. "Well, I was thinking why not wait until spring and try to sell a bunch of items in front of your house."

“How would that work?” Kervin eagerly asks me. I notice Reel looking over his shoulder, listening in on our conversation.

I doubt the concepts of yard sales will break this world, so I better explain the idea to Kervin. "You put up signs around your neighborhood saying you're selling a lot of random cheap items. You fill your yard with goods and let people look through everything. You let them haggle you down to prices cheaper than they could find in a store. Seeing such an assortment of goods at low prices will bring others in, and you'll be able to empty your house without losing too much money."

Kervin looks at me like I sprouted another head. “That’s an amazing idea,” He exclaims.

Kervin would be able to open a convenience store with everything he has in his house. Now that I think about it, I haven't seen any general goods stores. Every shop is focused on a single type of goods.

Kervin and I continue to talk about my yard sale idea, going back and forth, discussing the concept's peculiarities, helping us to pass the time.

“We’re here,” Reel announces while we’re deep in conversation.

We’re stopped directly outside a building even bigger than the inns we’ve passed on the street.

Made mostly from stone and large logs, the building dwarfs the surrounding competition. If the size wasn't intimidating enough, the building screams excess money. This is the first building I’ve seen that has glass windows. Both the wood and stone have designs etched in them, and I also sense an excess amount of mana contained in the building.

I don't think the whole building is enchanted, but I'm sure some of the rooms are.

Reel moves off to the side so that Kervin can take the lead from here on out. I follow a few steps behind him and prepare myself to meet Kervin’s supervisor.
