Not letting my lack of reaction get to him, Kervin draws a key out of his pocket and moves to unlock his door. "You must be tired from the trip here; come inside and rest, while I send Reel to contact the local Silver Herd branch."

“That sounds nice,” I follow Kervin through his open door, deactivating Mana Skin as I enter.

As soon as I enter Kervin's house, my eyes start to adjust to the lack of light. I watch Kervin's silhouette shuffle around until he finds what he's looking for. I hear a match strike, and a small glow illuminates Kervin's face. He lights a lamp sitting on top of a table, and the room I just entered becomes visible.

Oh, gods! I immediately regret shutting off my skill.

“Careful where you step." Kervin sidesteps a few small crates and starts walking into the next room. As the light begins to fade, I'm forced to follow him.

I walk through an obstacle course of crates, barrels, and miscellaneous goods scattered everywhere. And the room I follow Kervin into isn’t any better. What I can only guess is his kitchen, judging by the stove, is filled with different pots, pans, and utensils covering every inch of his countertops.

"Can you hold this for me?" Stunned by everything around me, I take the lamp by instinct.

Kervin undoes a latch and pushes hard on the shutters of a window. Grunting, Kervin manages to force the shutter open, and fresh air breathes new life into his house.

The light from outside filters in, and I can better see my surroundings. Everything looks new, but different items have varying levels of dust coating them. I rub my finger against a pan and am appalled when I see it has turned grey.

Kervin sees the dissatisfaction and offers an apology. “Sorry for the mess, I haven’t been here for almost a month.”

I have to bite back a retort. This much dust can’t gather in only a month! If mother was here, I’m sure she would choose to burn the place down to the ground and start over rather than try cleaning it, after she strangles Kervin, of course.

Lurte and Ryiba walk into the kitchen, holding Kervin’s and their supplies and place them in an open corner.

“Did Reel leave already?” Kervin asks his men.

“Yeah, he left,” Lurte answers him.

“He seemed happy to go,” Ryiba huffs.

"That's good; once he gets back, we'll go out and get an early dinner.” I’m happy to hear Kervin say that. I wouldn’t trust anything he has resembling food in this house.

“Where will I sleep?” I ask.

“You can take the first room upstairs. The staircase is around the corner,” Kervin directs me.

I leave the three men behind and head to my room while they continue to open more windows. As I move through his house, I notice the only place he hasn't crammed stuff is the stairs. I see a few items I might have to come back for if my intuition turns out to be correct.

I make my way up the stairs and see my room as soon as I reach the top. I unhook the simple latch keeping the door closed and walk into my assigned room.

“I was right,” I sigh. This room is like all the others, completely covered in dust. Clothes are thrown everywhere, and a pile is hiding the bed. I look down and see my shoes have left dust imprints on the floor.

I'm tempted to waste some of the coins I brought with me and rent a room at a nearby inn.

“No, I’m too cheap for that,” I mumble to myself.

I stretch out my body and throw my things on top of a pile of clothes. I move over to the wall and open a window, hoping to remove the stale air.

I leave my room and walk back downstairs. I quickly find the items I spotted earlier, a cobweb-covered broom and an overturned bucket. I see a rag lying under a crate and take everything I found back into the kitchen.

Kervin and his men are sitting on a few chairs that I distinctly remember being covered before.

“What do you have there, Aaliyah?” Kervin asks as I enter the room.

“Where can I get some water?” I ignore his question and stifle my desire to throttle him.

"Need to fill up your waterskin; I can send Lurte to the closest well?” Seeing Kervin trying to be helpful makes me want to hit him even more.

“I need water to clean my room.” I hiss through my teeth.

"Oh! You don't need to worry about that; you can throw the clothes on the floor, it doesn't matter."

I slowly walk up to Kervin, sitting in his chair, and look down on him. "Water… to clean… now," I slowly say to him.

“I think that barrel has some old water in it, boss.” Lurte points at a barrel that has a stack of plates on top of it.

I leave an astounded Kervin behind and shift things around until I can fill up my bucket. Juggling everything in my arms, I leave the kitchen and Kervin’s guards laughing at him.

"What did I do?" I hear Kervin ask his men as soon as I leave the kitchen. His men only laugh harder at him. For someone so smart, Kervin can be really dumb at times. I guess we have that in common.

I make it back to my room and set everything down on the ground. The room is small at only 150 square feet, but for the first time, I have no idea where I should start cleaning. I scratch my itchy forearm and notice it's covered in dust.

I know it's a waste of mana, but I start by cleaning myself first.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

I immediately feel better as five days of travel falls away from me. During the trip, I used all my spare mana to keep Mana Skin up for the longest time possible and nothing else.

When my magic fades away, a small circle around my feet has replaced the dust with the black specks of dirt my spell leaves behind. I check how much mana I have left, 657.21. That’s enough mana for me to cast my cleaning spell over ten times and still leave enough in case of an emergency. If I'm careful with my magic, I can at least make sure my bed is clean.

I wish I had a higher tier cleaning spell. Should I try making my own?

No, that would be too dangerous in someone else’s house. I walk over to the bed covered in clothes and start throwing them onto the piles already on the floor. Men’s clothes, women’s, children’s, why does Kervin have all of these stashed in his house?

I wrap the first sheet on the bed around me and prepare to use my spell. I’ve used the spell so much I can cast it after only a few seconds.

I start but pause my casting soon after. I haven't tried to improve my three spells in a long time. Their mana cost reduces as I level my mana related skills, but I haven't tried improving my use of the spell since my skill levels were much lower.

Let’s see if I can figure out a way to boost my spell somehow.

I start casting my spell again, but this time I recite it slowly. I focus on how my mana moves through my body and out through my skin. Using Mana Manipulation, I help the spell structure itself around my body, reducing the cost I used to pay when I first learned the spell.

When my spell finally activates, I notice the spell converts the mana surrounding me into the glow I’m used to. The area the spell cleans is bigger than the mana I have surrounding me.

Maybe I can increase the mana surrounding me and use Mana Manipulation to help the spell form despite covering a larger area than intended.

A huge smile crosses my face; I have to try it!

I change out the sheet wrapped around me, so even if the spell doesn’t work as intended, I’ll still clean a part of my bed.

I move to the center of the room and start casting my cleaning spell again.

“Ahyt,” I gather 200 mana just underneath my skin.

“ls,” I expel the mana out of my body and keep it close, so it doesn’t disperse into the surrounding space.

“Weem,” I use Mana Manipulation to structure my magic just like the spell does typically only this time, I make it eleven times bigger.

“Appiss!” The spell completes itself, and the mana structure the spell and I created ignites into a dazzling display of light that fills the room. Everything starts to flake apart, and countless black specks fall to the floor.

I feel a shift in my soul, and I immediately spot the difference. The experience surrounding my soul increased quickly from leveling three of my skills at once.

Cleaning (LV51) (12%)

Mana Manipulation (LV54) (0%)

Empowered Spell (LV2) (3%)

Cleaning finally passed its test, and I gained a new tier 4 magic skill!

The room's air is no longer stuffy, and the wooden walls look like they were just processed. The ground is covered in the residue of my skill.

I’m so happy that it worked!

Now I just need to shake everything out and sweep everything up.

I move over to the bed and shake off the remaining sheets. Once I'm sure none of the black flakes remain, I remake the bed. Next, I shake out every piece of clothing and throw it on top of the clean bed. I wipe off a nightstand, which was the only other piece of furniture in the room.

A massive pile of clothes is covering my bed, but now nothing is on the floor. Sweeping up the remaining mess is easy, and I use the rag to make sure nothing remains.

Now that everything's cleaned, I move all the clothes back onto the floor, leaving enough room for me to sit down and have enough space for folding everything. I place the broom and bucket full of black sludge in a corner to deal with later.

Basking in the success of my skills, I enter a light meditation while folding the clothes into neat piles. My high Dexterity makes the task super easy.

If my mother could see me now, she would be so proud of my cleaning OCD.

I think it’s safe to say I’ve been officially brainwashed over the years.

After everything was folded and stacked against one of the walls, I moved to my bed and entered a deep meditative state. Using Extract Mana, I absorbed mana from the atmosphere to increase my regain speed.

The only reason I'm stopping is that someone came up and knocked on my door. “Miss Aaliyah, may I come in?” I hear Lurte ask through the door.

I swing my legs over the side of the bed. “You can open the door but don’t walk in,” I instruct him.

Lurte pushes my door open, and his eyes become the size of dinner plates when he sees how clean my room is.

“What can I help you with?” I ask him, reminding him he came to ask me something.

“Reel returned; we were asked to take you to meet the regional director as soon as possible.”

“Already?” I ask in astonishment.

“Yes, the others are waiting for us downstairs.” Lurte moves to the side, making room for me to pass him.

I slip on my shoes and grab my sword and coin pouch. “Is it ok for me to walk around with my sword?” I ask Lurte, who's patiently waiting for me.

“It’s fine to carry it with you, but there are consequences if you draw it without a good reason,” He informs me.

I walk out of my room, and Lurte closes the door for me. We make our way downstairs, and I activate Mana Skin again before we step outside the house.

Kervin and Ryiba look surprised to see me clean, while Reel gives me a knowing look. Reel also looks like he’s straightened up since I last saw him. Does he know a cleaning spell as well? I know he's here to spy on me, but maybe I can extract a new spell from him if I’m careful.

“Ready to go?” Kervin asks me.

"I'm ready, but I thought we were meeting your supervisor tomorrow." I give him a questioning look.

"Apparently he was expecting us," Kervin gives a sidelong glance to Reel. "Not only do they have a variety of materials set aside for you to look at, but we were also invited to dinner afterwards.”

I take a quick glance at Reel as well. How is he communicating with Silver Herd? Maybe one of his magic tools works like a cell phone?

I look back at Kervin, "Please tell me we're walking. I don't think I can spend another minute in that cart anymore.”

"Don't worry; it would take too long to hookup the bivol. Our local headquarters is only a fifteen-minute walk from here.” Kervin assures me.

We set out with Reel taking position in front of us while I walk next to Kervin in the middle. Lurte and Ryiba walk behind us, completing our little formation.

Walking on the sidewalk is much more interesting than riding in the cart. Every food and produce stall we pass allows me to see new foods that I've never tried before.

I can see inside the shops we pass, and I regret that we don't have the time to window-shop. Tailors with colorful designs on their walls, I see a pair of boots inside a cobbler's shop that immediately draws my attention; I touch my coin pouch strapped to my side and remember most of my money is tied up with Kervin.

Maybe I should check his house to see what he has before I leave.

That reminds me, "Hey, Kervin, why do you have so much stuff in your house?" I ask him the question that’s been nagging me ever since I stepped inside his front door.

"All that 'stuff' as you call it, is an investment." I resist the urge to call him a hoarder. He continues to explain, "When I was making my rounds to different towns, I would keep an eye out for any deals I could find. Sometimes I would have a bad run and wouldn't sell as many goods as I should've; instead of reporting the bad news to Silver Herd and hurting my reputation with the company, I would purchase my goods at the company’s bottom line and store them in my house. I wait for prices to shift for certain commodities and resell them for a profit.”

That does sound like investing; only he’s working with actual goods instead of stocks. But wait, “That’s cool, but what are you going to do now that you’re only doing deliveries to my village and the army?”

