“I didn’t think you would have friends.” I playfully poke at Kervin.

“I wouldn’t call him a friend, more like a drinking buddy. I met Maz when I first started trading in Drey. His family owns a good bar that I frequent when I’m in town, and he noticed me from our lines of work. We usually spend time complaining about our jobs and drinking ourselves under the table. I can't think of a time we've hung out, and we weren’t drinking.”

I'm surprised how talkative Kervin has been lately. He said he wanted us to be more open with each other, but the change of character is a little unsettling.

“I’ll meet up with him after you leave for your village.” Kervin trails off, and I turn my attention to my new surroundings.

Drey is the first city I've visited in this world, and it doesn't disappoint. After we crossed through the wall, it was like entering a new world. Snow-capped buildings stretch as far as the eye can see.

The street we’re driving on is narrow, only three carts wide, made from grey stone that matches the city’s walls and buildings.

The city is more interesting because it lacks the symmetry of my previous world's counterparts. The buildings are crammed together with people's houses mixed in with businesses. Small alleys are the only thing separating the buildings, and none of them have a yard.

The buildings are made of stone and wood, and all look different with varying designs. I stare up at the biggest building on the street as we pass by it. The sign on the front of the building reads 'The Sleepy Traveler' I chuckle at the generic name but can't take my eyes off the building.

Most buildings we’ve passed are limited to a single floor with only a scant few reaching higher. The inn towers over its neighbors, reaching four stories tall. As we pass by the building, I hear loud voices coming from the entrance; someone's having a good time.

To the right of the inn is a stable crammed with bivol and even a few jelen.

“Are we going to be staying in an inn like that?” I ask Kervin.

He smiles at my question, “I’m pretty sure I told you I have a house here. There’s no need to waste good coin on a cheap inn like that.”

“It didn’t look that bad to me,” I say in defense. I forgot that Kervin mentioned in passing that he stores his extra goods in his home here.

"It's not the worst inn in the city, but we've barely left the wall.”

"Then does that make this the slums?" I ask Kervin. The buildings look similar to the ones in our village, and though there's some animal waste on the side of the road, it doesn't scream filthy.

“I wouldn’t call this the slums. Drey has a few areas you wouldn’t want to walk through at night, but this area is fine. The houses and businesses closest to the wall are some of the cheapest, and become more extravagant the closer you get to the city’s center.”

“Why is that?” I curiously ask.

“What do you think happens when the city is attacked?” Reel says to our side.

Kervin continues to explain. "He's right; if anything happens to the walls, it's these houses that will suffer the most.”

"How often does that happen?" I turn back and look at the massive gate we went through. It's hard to imagine something getting past such an enormous fortification.

“It’s rare, but it does happen. The most recent incident was four years ago during a particularly dry summer. A flock of scorch-wings was flying by and tried to nest here.” Kervin tells me with a grimace.

“Scorch-wings?” I’ve never heard of them before.

"They’re a fire-based magical creature. Think of a bird mixed with a lizard four feet long that likes to light itself on fire." Reel explains with a cocky look on his face.

I ignore him and instead ask Kervin, “What happened?”

“Scorch-wings build nests out of charred wood. They gather lumber into a pile and light it on fire with their bodies, using the charred remains to make a nest. They aren't very aggressive to humans, but the flock ripped apart homes and caused more than a few fires."

"That sounds like a problem for the whole city, not just the homes closest to the wall." I point out.

"Buildings closer to the city's center are made with fire-resistant materials and earth magic, some wealthy individuals even have enchantments guarding their homes. The only usable wood for the scorch-wings to scavenge was the houses built around the walls,” Kervin explains.

I nod in understanding. Flying enemies would make the wall a moot point. I bet some enchantments could help with that, but that would be incredibly expensive. It's easier for rich people to fortify their homes instead of reinforcing the entire city.

“But do monster attacks happen that often?” I question.

"Not like that. Goblins sometimes are spotted near the city, but the local guards take care of them whenever they pop up. Unless something unusual happens, the city goes years without being attacked.” Kervin reassures me.

“That is if we don’t factor in the war,” Reel ominously reminds us. “If the fort falls, Scholl’s forces could be here in under a week.”

“You should say that to the general next time we see her.” Lurte flashes Reel a daring look.

“I don’t feel like dying just yet.” Reel looks away.

A lull in our conversation gives me time to turn my attention back to the city. Plenty of people are walking through the snow, wearing simple coats. I spot two men with shovels clearing the snow from the walkways while a third is shoveling a frozen pile of crap into a wooden pushcart.

Those walking by the men laugh and point at them.

“What are they doing?” I point at the workers. “Why would people make fun of them for cleaning the streets?”

"It's their punishment," Kervin tells me. "You can't see it, but they have shackles on their wrists and ankles. Those who commit crimes are sentenced to menial work to pay back their debt.”

“What happens if there aren’t enough criminals to clean the streets?”

“And what if bivol can fly?” Reel laughs at me.

Kervin gives Reel an annoyed look before answering my question. “Sad to say, there’s never a shortage of hands to clean the streets. Even if someone has the coin to pay off whatever fine the guards give them, the lord requires every criminal to help clean the street for a set amount of time. Steal a pomme, and you’re charged double the price and have to spend a day shoveling snow and shit.”

“Why not lock them up? Couldn’t they just run away?” I ask.

“The only people held in cells are those being investigated or waiting to be executed.” Kervin points to the men working, “The shackles on their limbs will shock or detonate them if they try to leave the city, depending on their crimes. The same thing happens if they don’t check in with guards every day to receive their work orders.”

Holy crap, that takes ankle monitors to a whole new level! "But wait, if they're working for the city all day, how do they earn money for shelter and food?"

"They're still allowed to go home every night and eat whatever they can afford. Those who don't have the means, like vagrants or people with long term sentences, can claim a free meal at the end of the day and a cot to rest for the night. A few of the destitute willingly work for the city during the winter for a place to rest and a hot meal."

As our cart passes the working men, I make a mental note not to break any laws.

We turn down a street and head deeper into the city. The distance between the buildings starts to open up, and I can see a gradual change in their designs. We turn down another street and pass by another cleaning crew; only this one is different.

Three men and a woman are shoveling snow and scooping up the waste around the street, but my eyes are drawn to two women in robes and fur jackets. The women are standing next to a large pile of snow and melting it with fire magic.

“No way, there’s criminal mages!” I shout in disbelief.

One of the women turns toward us and scowls.

“Apologies, this is her first time in the city.” Kervin quickly steps in. The woman scoffs at us and turns back to focus on her spell.

Kervin snaps his reins and tries to get his bivol to move faster. Once we're out of sight, Reel bursts into laughter. "I can't believe you called them criminals!"

I can feel my face starting to blush. I turn towards Kervin and demand an answer, “You said the city uses criminals, why are there mages melting snow?”

Kervin rubs his face and takes a deep breath. "Only for the physical work. Hauling the snow and ice out of the city would take too many hands; it's much easier to melt it into the sewers."

"Why would a self-respecting mage take the time to melt the snow?" I ask inquisitively.

“To earn money,” Kervin’s short response fries my brain.

“Why would mages need to melt snow for money?”

“Technically, they aren’t mages yet.” Kervin takes a side glance at me and sees the uncomprehending look on my face. He looks back to the road and asks me a question, “What do you think makes someone a mage?”

“Aren’t you a mage once you can cast a spell?” I know my simple answer isn’t what he’s looking for.

"Being able to use magic is a start, but that doesn't give you the qualifications to call yourself a mage. When someone introduces themselves as a mage, then they're saying they can use at least ten spells above tier2."

“What does that have to do with money?” I ask Kervin.

“You know that your friend Sandra is studying to be a mage, right?" I nod to Kervin. "Are you aware of how she got her apprenticeship?" His second question stumps me.

“Isn’t it because she’s talented?” I quietly reply.

"If that were the case, then there would be more mages in the world," Kervin tells me with a cynical tone. "The one thing that gets you an apprenticeship with a mage is money. Your friend's family paid a lot of money to send her here and practice under a mage.”

“So, talent means nothing?” I ask in disbelief.

“Yes and no,” Kervin says. “If a noble wants to spend their money for their child to try and learn magic, a mage doesn't care if the child has any talent or not. A few lessons a week, and the mage walks away with gold in their pockets regardless of if the child can cast a spell or not. Mages charge for each spell they teach their disciples, and the time it takes to teach them. Depending on the teacher, I’ve heard of families shelling out over 200 gold for a member of the family to learn enough spells to qualify as a mage.”

"If that's the case, then why were those two melting snow?”

"You asked me how talent plays a factor in who a mage teaches, that's what happens when a mage accepts a student on credit. Those two women were deemed talented enough for the mage to teach, but they owe him every coin they would have had to pay upfront. The city pays mages to melt the snow in the wintertime, which they delegate to their unpaid students. The exact details of the relationship with the different mages staying in the city is a secret. Still, many believe their indebted students are only given a fraction of what the mages receive for the job."

“Does that mean Sandra is out here melting snow as well?” I hastily ask.

“Now, don't worry, I already said her family paid. I helped to deliver the money before she left your village. She’s probably studying at home right now while your brother is working; do you want me to take you to their house?”

“You know where they live?”

“Of course, I do. I stop by whenever I’m delivering a letter from your families. They live on the other side of the city in a house close to the wall.”

I'm tempted to run and see them right now, but that's not practical. I shake my head at the idea. "We don't have time, and besides, they're due back in the village once spring arrives. I’m sure mine and Sandra’s families would rather our reunion be together.”

“If that’s what you want.” Kervin has the cart take a left at the next intersection.

We pass by more people walking around, but I can see the difference in their clothing. Everyone is wearing fancier jackets and looks much more comfortable walking around in the cold. Nicer storefronts sit next to houses that have small yards.

Moving through a city and seeing the difference in wealth at a glance is a little disconcerting. Mother used to tell me short stories of the city she grew up in, but words can't do it justice.

"Looks like we're here." Kervin drags me out of my thoughts. "Welcome to my home." He gives me a soft smile, obviously a little proud of his home."

We stop at a corner lot, and I take a good look at Kervin's house. The house is two stories and is made from black stone and lumber that's been treated with a dark brown polish. I can see the area to the side where he usually parks his cart based on the grooves in the ground. Attached to his house is a small stable meant to hold his two bivol. With him using his space to store his cart and bivol, he has no garden like his neighbors; in fact, I spot quite a few big weeds thriving around his property. His neighbors must love him.

"Isn't it beautiful?" Kervin raises his hands, showing off the grandeur of his two-story town-house.

"It's pretty nice," I off-handedly remark. Kervin looks disappointed at my reaction. It's not that I don't think it's a lovely house; it's just it can’t compare to the homes I've seen on tv and the internet in my past life. Maybe if his house was hovering or made out of magical materials, it would tickle my fantasy heart, but the place in front of me is only slightly bigger than those in our village and made with slightly better materials.

