Oberon’s office was dark. The only light came from the half-full moon shining through the window behind his desk chair. His face was shrouded in shadow, and his fingers were steepled in front of him.

“So, the prodigal princess returns. I was beginning to think you had forgotten about me.”

“We talked last week.”

“And you disappeared without a word.”

“I said many words.”

“And here you are, crawling back like a worm. You need something from me, don’t you? You only come back when you do. Well? Out with it!”

“It.”

“…What?”

“You said ‘out with it’ so I put ‘it’ out.”

“I– You–” he snorted. “That’s not– that doesn’t even work!”

“I was just doing what you said.”

He leaned forward, his body twitching in silent laughter. Elise pursed her lips as she forced herself to keep a straight face. The lights turned on in the room and another Oberon appeared beside the first, looking at Elise’s incorporeal form with a stern expression.

“I thought I raised you better than this,” he said, shaking his head in disappointment.

“Apparently not.”

“Apparently not,” he sighed.

A few seconds later, they both burst into laughter, and the Oberon in the desk chair disappeared. The new Oberon took his place, sitting down heavily and slapping his hands on the desk.

“So,” he said, grinning. “What can I do for you on this fine middle of the night?”

“Hypothetically, if there was something trying to assault your soul every twelve hours or so, how would you safely evolve?”

“I would find somewhere that the thing trying to assault my soul every twelve hours can’t reach me and evolve there instead. Somewhere like the bathtub of the most well-secured facility in the world, perhaps.”

“But hypothetically, if that was not an option, how would you hypothetically defend your soul? Hypothetically.”

“Hypothetically, I would try to find another option anyway. Because hypothetically, defending my soul during evolution would be impossible.”

Elise let those words sink in before responding.

“When you say impossible, do you mean literally impossible, or just so difficult it might as well be impossible?”

“Both,” said Oberon.

“Even if I have soul awareness?”

“Especially if you have soul awareness.”

“Why? What is it like to evolve with soul awareness?”

“It’s terrible. I only had it for my final evolution, and I regret not procrastinating to learn it even longer. When you evolve, your body literally gets dissolved. Without the body to anchor you, your soul gets… strange. It’s like being drunk, but worse, because instead of affecting your body and balance, it affects your very being. While your body is being destroyed and reconstructed, your soul is changing too, and reforged to fit your new body. The body gets built around the soul, and you can feel it being anchored to your very existence.”

“I feel sorry for you, needing to go through it four more times. And your last one already took you a week. Even if you don’t go up in rarity, this one will take at least a month, and the one after that could take half a year, and after that…” he shuddered. “Enjoy your time in your own body while you can, because you’re going to miss it.”

“So it’s impossible to defend your soul while that’s happening?”

“Like I said, it’s like being drunk, but in your soul. If you try to do anything, you’re more likely to break your own defenses than repair them.”

“What if I set up robust defenses beforehand?”

“Well, theoretically, that’s possible, but remember, when you evolve, your soul changes too. The basic defenses you make before the evolution won’t fit anymore after a few days. You would need to set up your soul defenses to adapt to the changes of your soul, and self-repair, and do it all without your interference, and frankly, even I couldn’t do that. Not that I’m the best example of soul prowess, but I certainly know more than most mortals alive.”

“Hmmmm…”

“You didn’t already reach your Evolution threshold, did you?”

“No, not yet.”

“Good,” said Oberon, uncharacteristically serious. “That’s good. Don’t. I’ll see if I can find a way to get you out of there. The Collector’s daughter should be able to whip something up. A scroll that can use your aether signature to teleport to you or something. If we have that, we can get you out, and you can evolve in safety here. We can even set up an anchor so you can go back when you’re done. Although…” He scratched his chin. “ I haven’t been able to get in contact with the Collector since last year.”

“Why not?”

“Not sure.” Oberon shrugged. “It’s not unusual for him to disappear for long stretches of time, but I haven’t even been able to talk to his children. It’s a bit strange. Erin and I were planning something quite fun at the auction this year, but I haven’t heard from her in a long time.”

“So then… I just wait?” asked Elise. “Wait for you to get me out so I can safely evolve?”

“That’s certainly the safest option. If you’re determined to set up your soul defenses to survive the evolution, then I suppose you could ask Rayna for help.”

“I don’t want her help.”

“I understand, but even if you don’t like her, she is one of the world’s foremost soul experts.”

“It’s not that I ‘don’t like her,’” said Elise, scowling. “It’s that she’s an untrustworthy, sadistic psychopath who lied to the entire world and caused thousands of innocent people to suffer and die. For a publicity stunt.”

“Well, no one’s perfect.”

Elise glared. “It’s not funny.”

“If not her, there would have been someone else,” said Oberon with a shrug. “She played a role. Her role is over now. I doubt she’s doing anything like that anymore.”

Elise stared in disbelief. She understood what Oberon was saying, but the way he was talking, it didn’t sound like he thought what Rayna did was that bad. Maybe there would have been another monster in her place if she didn’t do it, but she had still chosen to do it. She was personally responsible for all the suffering she caused. And Oberon didn’t care.

“Are you serious right now?!” she demanded.

Oberon gave her a complicated look, then sighed.

“I’ve lived for a very long time. Tyrants and villains come and go. People die, often in tragic and horrible ways. If I took the time to care deeply every time it happened, life would be awfully dreary, wouldn’t it? I tried to be a hero once. It was exhausting. There’s always someone else to save. There’s always someone you can’t reach in time. Stop one criminal, and a few months later, there’s another one in their place.”

“That doesn’t mean you should just befriend mass murderers!”

“Why not?”

“What?”

“Why shouldn’t you befriend mass murderers?”

Elise sputtered. “What do you mean why shouldn’t you befriend mass murderers? Do you even hear yourself?!”

“Of course. But what about you? Think about it for a minute. Give me one legitimate reason why you shouldn’t befriend mass murderers?”

“Because they’re mass murderers!”

“That’s circular. Try again. Take a deep breath and think for a second.”

“No,” said Elise. “I’m done. Bye.”

Elise cut the connection, fuming, and found herself looking back up at the ceiling of her room. The last thing she saw before being pulled back to her own body was Oberon wearing a placid, resigned expression.

What the hell?! she thought, pounding a fist on the bed.

She had known that Oberon was inhuman. His sense of right and wrong was always a little… off. The things he thought were “pranks” sometimes bordered on psychological warfare. But he had lines he didn’t cross. He never killed people. He never inflicted bodily harm. He usually didn’t financially ruin people, and when he did, it was usually to people whose finances were in such a precarious state that they would have toppled all on their own eventually.

But now, here he was talking about what Rayna had done with the Blood Syndicate like it was a minor character flaw. Like someone telling white lies, or getting jealous of other’s success. “Oh, it’s alright that she ran a criminal organization that trafficked tens of thousands of people every year. Everyone has their problems.”

“Bastard,” she muttered.

“Are you talking about me?”

Elise flinched and turned to see a ghostly Oberon floating beside her. It seemed that he was dreamwalking to her to finish their conversation.

“Go away,” she said, turning away.

“There’s something I never got to say.”

“I don’t care. I don’t want to talk to you right now.”

“I really think–”

“I said go away!”

Elise reached out to him and sent an aether pulse. It was not strong, but dreamwalking was a fragile state of being, and the disruption snapped him right back to his body. For a few seconds. Then, he returned.

“You were friends with both Rayna and Freddy,” he said. “They were already mass murderers when you knew them. Why is it different now?”

Elise sent him back again.

“Rayna wasn’t always like that, you know.”

Another aether pulse.

“Neither was Freddy.

Another.

“Neither was I.” He paused and waited a few seconds. “Not going to send me back again?”

“Whatever point you’re trying to make, just make it and go away,” said Elise, still facing away.

“My point is that just because someone is your enemy doesn’t mean they can’t also be your friend.”

“That doesn’t make any sense.”

“It’s easy to look at one aspect of a person and use it to define their whole self, but as you get older, you’ll realize that’s not how reality works. A mass murderer isn’t just a mass murderer. A saint isn’t just a saint. A king isn’t just a king. They’re people. People you may not want to interact with, but they’re still people.

“Emperor Francis III was considered one of the worst tyrants to ever live. The wars he started and the policies he instated caused millions of deaths. But did you know that when he was a child, he wanted to be a musician? He was actually quite good on the Vinaklavier, and if his older brother hadn’t died, he likely would have lived a peaceful life as a wealthy performer.

“Even after he became emperor, he wasn’t just a tyrant emperor. He was good to his friends and family. He threw excellent parties, calling in all the best musicians to play, and he made dance instruction mandatory among other nobles and wealthy folk to make sure the parties stayed lively. He liked to keep stray cats around his castle, so he could play with them to destress after a long day at work. If you ever got some one on one time with him, he was actually a very polite, well-spoken, and intelligent man. And he was responsible for the deaths of millions.”

“Why are you telling me this?”

“Do you think I approved of what he did?”

“Based on the way you’re talking, yes,” Elise said bitterly.

“Of course I didn’t. Do you really think I would want so many people to die?”

Elise didn’t respond.

“You don’t need to approve of what someone is doing to get to know them. You don’t even need to like them. You can think of it as just using them for your own benefit if you want. But cutting people off because they do something you disapprove of—even if it is as awful as what Rayna did—will have you missing out on things you don’t even realize you’re missing out on.”

“What if I want to miss out on those things?”

“Then you’re more than welcome to make that choice. But don’t feel like you have to make that choice because you think someone is a bad person. Sometimes, the worst people make the best friends and teachers. Or the best friends and teachers turn out to be the worst people. And sometimes, the worst people cause the greatest good. I know you were never one for history, but Emperor Francis III was well-known enough that you might know how his story ends.”

Elise was silent. The name sounded familiar, but she couldn’t place it. And she wasn’t really in the mood to humor Oberon at the moment, so she didn’t try very hard.

“It was suicide,” Oberon eventually said. “One day while he was out on business, a bard started playing a song outside his carriage for him to hear. It was a song about the state of the nation, and how much the people were suffering. The guards arrested the bard, but Francis told them to let him go so he could finish his song. He listened with a straight face, and at the end, he let the bard go, saying that making music was not a crime.

“The next morning, he was found dead, slumped over on his personal vinaklavier with a self-inflicted hole in his head, and a note designating his nephew as his heir. That nephew later became known as Charles the Good, who used his uncle’s fortune to repair what had been broken, and bring Vina into a new golden age.

“Francis was a horrible ruler, and by many accounts a horrible person. Many people hated him. Many people tried to kill him. But what did him in in the end wasn’t any of that. It was an emotional connection and a personal choice. And in the end, he did something right with his choice of heir.”

Oberon was silent for almost a full minute before he sighed and spoke again.

“I’ll do my best to get in contact with the Collector. We’ll find a way to get you out of this cave and into safety so you can evolve. But if he’s gone missing, or ascended, or something else has happened to him… Rayna might be your only option. And regardless of what she’s done, she is still a very good option if you can put your feelings aside.

“Be mercenary about it if you want to. Go to her for her knowledge and nothing else. Take everything you can get, master your soul, and use that mastery to kill her. But don’t throw out a perfectly good option just because you don’t like them. I’d rather not see you die because you were too stubborn to get help from someone you disliked.”

Elise didn’t respond.

“I’ll leave you to think for now, but when you’re done, please dreamwalk back to me. I have something else I need to show you. Something related to your friends from the boxes. Until then, think about what I’ve said. And remember that whatever she’s done—whatever she is now—Rayna was human once too.”

Elise sensed his presence vanish, but she did not move from her spot. She just stewed in emotions too complex to put into words until she fell asleep.

When she woke up, her head wasn’t any clearer than it had been the night before, but she was calmer. She was still angry at Oberon. The conversation the previous night had been a rude awakening to the fact that she and Oberon did not quite share the same values.

But he wasn’t entirely wrong either. Regardless of Elises’s personal feelings toward the matter. Rayna might very well have been her best option if she wanted to safely evolve. And she didn’t have to like Rayna, or even befriend her to learn from her. She could do exactly as Oberon said, learning everything she could from the vile vampire, and using that knowledge to grow strong enough to pay her back for the things she’d done.

I might not have a choice… she thought as she ate breakfast amidst Charlotte’s babbling.

She spent most of the day relaxing with Charlotte, talking when she needed to, and thinking about her conversation with Oberon when she didn’t. By the end of the day, she hadn’t come to a final decision quite yet. She didn’t know if she could since she still didn’t know how Systemless Evolution worked. But she was at least ready to face Oberon again, so when she lay down for bed, she took a deep breath, and dreamwalked right back to him.

“You’re here,” he said, looking up from his desk. “Good. One moment. Let’s change venue.”

He waved his hand, and Elise was suddenly somewhere else, facing a different Oberon. This one looked nothing like his usual form, and was instead a short, squat old man with thick glasses, but she could tell from the fact that her dreamwalking session was locked onto him that it was still Oberon. He was standing in a passage made of ancient, cracked stone bricks with moss growing all over.

“We’re currently on Carsas,” he said in a wheezy voice as he started walking down the tunnel. “This area was previously unexplored, because there was a powerful monster living in the region, but a little over a year ago, the monster disappeared, and they’ve been slowly venturing out. In a recent expedition, they found this.” He patted the wall. “An ancient structure of a slightly different style than everything else in the vicinity.

“I won’t pretend to understand the intricacies of ancient architectural styles, but suffice to say, it stood out enough that they organized a formal expedition into this structure. An expedition that, of course, I was on. And when we got to the middle…”

He hurried forward until they emerged into a wide chamber illuminated by floating lanterns that looked much more modern than anything else in the cave. He stepped aside, gesturing toward the center of the room, and when Elise saw what was there, her eyes widened.

It was another of the mysteriously smooth boxes, identical to the others in almost every way. The only difference was that it was white instead of black. And it was open.