Delta watched as Numb did a soft strike into the air. There was a soft ripple.“I-I mean... that’s pretty... interesting but don’t hit me or I’ll burn you,” Cois sniffed and Numb gave him a look before the grin reappeared.“I would never harm a brother,” he promised. Cois gave him a sour look.“What makes us brothers? Please, I am your magical leader,” Cois sniped back. Numb raised one brow before he bowed slightly, one hand pushed into a palm.“Oh do forgive me, oh magical leader. I do believe your campfire is burning your mushrooms,” Numb commented. Cois screeched as the blackened mushroom crumbled before his eyes.Delta giggled as Cois stomped towards the mushroom grove, muttering to himself.“How do you feel?” Delta asked brightly. Numb looked at his hands.“Alive. I feel alive. Power is flowing through me and I can feel something bubbling just under my skin. Power with a cost but so much of it. I could lose it all in moment, but I know... I need to stay in control. Forgive me, mother, I need to go relax. I need to go stand under the waterfall on the second floor. I need to thank... I need to thank another brother,” Numb bowed and turned, rushing down the tunnel in a burst of speed that the goblin had never had before.“Wait! I wanted to check your new menu!” Delta called, but the goblin had already rushed into the boss room and shut the door.“Still Numb, if you know what to look for,” Billy commented. Delta sighed but she couldn’t help but feel happy. To see one of her first monsters grow into such a form made a deep pride rise up within her.There were some really bad things about being a dungeon core. The isolation at the start, the trapped feeling, the idea that you were subhuman...But there were always upsides.Delta turned to Billy who straightened up.“I’m ready,” he said, voice calm. Delta opened the menu and looked.

Delta read them aloud and Billy just stared.She eyed the options, the words teasing her like a temptress of the night. Random pet.Random pet.She felt the itch to pick it, but she looked at Billy.“Well?” she asked with a smile, but the tone felt a little nervous. She cleared her throat and waited.Billy looked down for a moment.“Stalker. I want to be a stalker,” he admitted. Delta felt relief. Random picks had been... interesting for her heart. It would be good to have a stable choice for once.“Hold onto your hat!” Delta cheered and hit the option.The light swirled again, but the orange was much darker this time. It didn’t shatter like before but instead flaked away like autumn leafs.Billy had looked cute with his little green hat and arrows.Now? Billy looked like a nightmare that lived in the darkness of the trees.A dark hood barely showed two red eyes, the shadows hid most of the face. A thin mouth was licked by a black tongue.Two large thin ears pierced through the hood and both were pierced by two iron rings. The form was hunched over as if ready to launch into a sudden burst of speed.Cruel arrows of dark metal filled the quiver, the dark bow made from some odd wood and tight string.The hands that held it had dark nails, showing the power that could fire an arrow from unseen distances.Billy stood straight and Delta squeaked at how he almost reached the same level as her chin.Lanky, but so tall.Billy pulled back the hood, the skin a darker shade of green than before. The face, now fully shown, was almost the same as Billy’s previous form but it was more angular. It made his smile wilder.“This is... nice,” Billy stated. His voice was much deeper.Delta laughed nervously and almost wished she had convinced Billy to spin the random wheel.Billy ran a hand over a series of pouches and items on his body. Rope, vials, folded nets. Billy was decked out for war.“H-how do you feel?” Delta asked meekly and Billy pulled out a wicked dagger. He began to flip and catch it as if he’d done so all his life.“I feel like this was the right choice. Mother... I thank you,” Billy bowed and pulled the hood back over his head. Delta stepped closer and looked him over.“You look scary,” she had to let him know. Billy laughed.“Even better. Excuse me, I need to go test this body. I want to scare the ever-loving crap out of Cois,” Billy grinned, the expression enough to give small children nightmares.How did the excitable Numb become serene and the calm Billy become creepy?They were still her gobs and like any good parent, she would support them in any phase they went through but it didn’t mean she had to be calm about it!“H-have fun!” Delta waved as Billy stalked off.It took her a moment to notice that Billy had escaped before she could check his menu.He was only going down the hall but Delta needed a moment to herself.“I swear if I evolve Mr Mushy and he turns into something like Maestro, I’ll scream,” she muttered to herself.Then she paused.“If I evolve the Pygmies... will they still be cute?” she whispered.She was starting to have a minor panic attack when sudden loud arguing filled her head.People had come into the dungeon, and two of them were screaming at each other.She was at the entrance in a blink.“You’re a dog for a kingdom that grows fat off enslaved creatures!” Holly Dabberghast snapped, her usual cheery face, white with anger. A man Delta had never seen before was turning redder than was healthy.“They’re hardly innocent. Monster attacks, mana infections and fluctuations, draw people in with treasure to eat them? Yes, innocent,” the man drawled with sarcasm. Holly narrowed her eyes and a necklace around her neck glowed green.Quiss strode in between them.“Holly, calm down before I send you home. Noland, shut the hell up,” he said bluntly. They both looked at him.“Quiss, he’s here to size Delta up for the rest of the world. This is the beginning of it all,” Dabberghast snapped and then took a deep breath.She looked around at the entrance hall. Read the signs. Suddenly, she looked sad.“Please... Delta doesn’t deserve this,” she looked at Quiss. The man just met her eyes for a long time. Dabberghast looked at the Peacekeeper badge on his chest.“Of course... you have no choice,” she nodded. Noland just sniffed and looked around.“I must say, I’m not impress-” he was cut off as he was knocked out of the way as Deo tripped into the dungeon with a yelp.“Deo, sweetie, please be careful,” a beautiful voice called. Delta had to clear away a slight fog for a moment as the woman’s voice bounced along the dungeon walls.Delta stared at the party that had come to her dungeon.It was... a weird one.A fire mage, a druid, Deo, Deo’s mother(?), and some asshole.“Welcome to my dungeon?” Delta tried to sound confident.All of them seemed to feel something as Delta spoke.Deo waved.“HI DELTA! I’VE COME TO DO MY HOMEWORK!” he called. Delta had a feeling it wouldn’t be quite so simple...----
