They played video games with Aunt Connie, who was predictably enthusiastic about Alden’s new diet and insisted on ordering in another, depressingly salad-like pizza to celebrate.

Nobody said they were trying to take Alden’s mind off of the funeral, but he knew that was what they were doing.

And he appreciated the hell out of it.

He fell asleep on the sofa sometime after midnight and woke up a few hours later to the smell of more food.

Not leftover pizza, but actual real food the likes of which their house had virtually never seen. He wandered into the kitchen to find his aunt and Jeremy sitting at the table with scolded expressions on their face, while Boe stood at the stove giving the sizzling pan in front of him a death glare.

“Are you cooking?” Alden asked, twisting his head from side to side to work out a crick in his neck.

“Maybe,” Boe said, squinting at the pan. “I’m not sure. Your stove is sketchy. And I’ve never done tofu before. And Connie put the mashed avocado in here while I wasn’t looking, so that’s going to be a new experience. But possibly I am making breakfast hash.”

“It smells great.”

“No. That’s the coconut bacon. It is great. But Jeremy ate half of it already.”

I’m in trouble, Jeremy mouthed. Alden’s aunt nodded in agreement.

Alden smiled. “You guys are the best.”

“Your teleport’s at ten?”

“Yeah. It’ll be even earlier on Anesidora. I should get there a few hours before the service, and then Ms. Zhao’s got me porting back late this evening. I think she wanted to give me a chance to hang out and be a tourist for a while if I wanted.”

It wasn’t like anyone had known he’d be moving to the island on a permanent basis in the near future. It was supposed to be his last opportunity to visit anywhere he might have spent time with Hannah.

“I took your dress shirt to the dry cleaner yesterday!” Aunt Connie said.

No. She hadn’t. At least not the dress shirt that fit him. But it was still a nice gesture.

“Thanks,” Alden said. “I appreciate that.”

They ate together. The hash was good. It probably would have been great sans hot avocado goo.

Alden found his thoughts kept scattering while the others talked around him. They flitted from Hannah, to the day ahead, to the letter in his room, to class selection, to Gorgon, to…everything. It had been a wild couple of days.

When he focused back on the conversation at the table, he realized Jeremy was complaining about the fact that Boe was still dragging him to their consulate classes for the day even though Alden wouldn’t be there.

“Hey, will you two take notes for me?” he asked. “If you don’t mind?”

Normally they didn’t bother. Boe didn’t need to. Jeremy didn’t want to.

“I kind of feel like I shouldn’t miss anything?” Alden said, trying to keep it subtle in front of his aunt.

Ditching regular classes was one thing. But consulate classes suddenly seemed way more relevant to his life than they had last weekend.

“I’ll do wordchains!” Jeremy offered.

“If you’re a glutton for punishment, I can record the lecture in Artonan Life.” said Boe. “You can listen to Instructor Pa-weeq talk about irrigation as many times as you like.”

“Thanks, guys. Anyone up for attending my logogram class?”

“Can’t,” said Boe. “We have plans.”

“Both of you do? Together.”

“We made them just now, telepathically, when you asked for such a horrible, horrible favor.”

Alden spent the rest of the morning going over his schedule for the day, getting dressed, and trying not to fidget with his tie.

“I wanted to bring up one more thing,” said Boe, watching him over the top of a partially destroyed gardening magazine.

Jeremy was in the living room vacuuming because he’d dropped a piece of pizza the night before. It wasn’t a big deal, since the living room carpet was patterned with mysterious stains, but apparently the sanctity of clean flooring had been embedded into his brain by his mother, who was a neat-freak.

“What is it?” Alden asked. “Nothing too stressful please. I’m pretty sure my adrenal system is nearing some kind of critical point.”

“Try not to be stressed then. I just wanted to remind you that you can’t tell anyone on Anesidora you’re one of them. Yet.”

“It’s not like I was planning to announce it at the service.”

“I know. But in case it came up and you wanted to share with this Cly person or Arjun Thomas or something…I’m not sure what happens if you tell them. Most of Hannah’s friends were islander kids, right? They might feel like you should register while you’re there. With Anesidora I mean. Not the U.S.”

“I’m not going to tell. But if something slips it wouldn’t be the end of the world, would it? I do plan to register eventually.”Boe scratched at a zit on his chin. “I think it would be fine? I’m sure they’d let you come back home. But I’m not sure they’d let you come home alone.”

Alden had only been giving the conversation about a tenth of his attention. But when Boe said that, he suddenly found himself completely focused.

“What does that mean?”

“So…with S’s and A’s they kind of get an honor guard once they’ve affixed and registered.”

Alden blinked. “I think I’ve heard it mentioned in passing? It’s for really high-value classes?”

“No, it’s for all of them,” Boe said with a shake of his head. “They get their own dedicated superhuman to follow them around for ninety days and help them prep for their transition to the island. It’s all friendly enough, but if they refuse, they just get a dedicated spy instead.”

Alden straightened his tie for the thousandth time while he processed that.

“Oh,” he said finally. “No cold feet allowed, huh?”

“You get it. I’m not sure it applies to B-ranks. They don’t have limitless resources. But I bet the city could afford to send a few cops to lurk around outside your house at all hours. And that would be a tense way to spend the next few months.”

“All right. My lips are even more sealed than they were before. I’d like to have some time to figure out how to handle Rabbit without people hiding in the bushes around the house watching me.”

“Good,” said Boe. “Your teleport’s in ten. How does it work?”

“I get a call from the System on my phone. There’s a countdown, then a nasty feeling like you’re about to vomit, and then you blink and you’re in a travel center on Anesidora.”

“Fun.”

To Alden’s surprise, he sounded sincere.

“Yeah, it is. Pukey feeling aside. It’s cool.” He grinned. “Maybe I’ll get a teleportation skill one day.”

Boe rolled his eyes. “I’m glad your penchant for dreaming is intact, you lowly B-rank Rabbit.”

###

Alden’s phone never rang with a call from the System.

Instead, the interface blossomed to life in front of his eyes a minute before he was due to leave.

[A LOCAL TELEPORTATION INSTANCE HAS BEEN REQUESTED.

DESTINATION: ANESIDORA, ARRIVAL STATION F

TIME TO TELEPORT: 65s]

[Do you wish to accept teleportation?]

[YES/NO]

It was a relief. He, Jeremy, and Boe had just been sitting around awkwardly, waiting for it to happen.

“It’s a System notice. Not my phone.”

“Makes sense.”

“I wish I could see it,” Jeremy groaned. “Is it as awesome as I imagine it would be?”

Alden watched the timer tick down. “I don’t know. It’s amazing, but it’s also getting normal faster than I would have thought. I guess because it’s similar enough to the tech we’re already used to.”

“Don’t forget our letter.”

“It’s literally in my hand right now, Boe.” Alden held up the large yellow envelope for emphasis.

“I meant don’t get distracted by superhero island and forget to send it.”

“I won’t. You two are going to go to class today, aren’t you? You’re already running late.”

“I’ll haul Jeremy there somehow.”

“Tell Gorgon what’s up. He probably saw Skiff, but in case he’s worried—”

“We’ll do it. Just do your thing already.”

“Yeah,” said Jeremy, waving his hands in front of Alden like a magician. “Vanish. Begone.”

Alden agreed to the teleport. A few seconds later, right before Jeremy accidentally poked him in the eye, he felt nauseated.

It passed as suddenly as it had come.

And just like that, he was on Anesidora, standing inside a phonebooth-sized teleportation bay. The arched ceiling over his head was covered in spiraling symbols.

In front of him was what looked like a blank metal wall. He only knew it was the door because of prior experience.

“Welcome to Anesidora, Mr. Thorn!” said a female voice through a hidden speaker. “I see this isn’t your first visit, so you know the drill.”

“Security scan?”

“Yep,” said the voice. “Do you submit to a scan? If you don’t submit to the scan we can pull you out for an in-person evaluation. The wait time on that is usually half an hour.”

“The scan’s fine.”

“Please hold still. This will only take a few seconds.”

Alden held still. This thing can’t tell I’m a selectee, can it?

The question sent a flash of panic through him. He’d always thought of the process as going through a glorified metal detector, so he’d agreed without a second thought.

He opened his mouth to ask for the in-person evaluation instead, but as soon as he did, the door slid open.

“You’re all clear! Follow the signage to the exit. Have a nice day, Mr. Thorn.”
