“No executions,” I reassure him. “In fact, you’ll be promoted. I need someone who knows the city and its surroundings as I’m sure you do. And I can promise you; you'll never be left in a situation like this again."

“Truly?” Jason asks, his bottom lip quivering.

I nod my head. "Draft up what I tell you to, and we can both sign it."

A smile crosses my face as I walk Jason through our contract. He's a trained aid, so he quickly picks up how he's supposed to form the document so I can't go back on my promises. He'll be invaluable in controlling the city.

After we sign at the bottom, Drey is officially under Scholl’s control.

**********

I stand on the ramparts watching the setting sun.

My men have already confiscated the guard's weapons and long since sent them home, taking their place on the walls. We have regular patrols moving throughout the city, but opposition is few and far between. An optimal outcome.

“I should’ve said I would take the city before nightfall,” I joke to my companion.

General Pitz is still steaming after I just got done telling her how quickly the city fell and my negotiations with Jason. “A bunch of cowards, all of them,” the general spits on the ground.

"Hey, don't spit on my new wall." The look the General gives me could kill a lesser man. I think I've teased her enough for one day, so I'll give her a bit of good news. "If it makes you feel any better, everyone who escaped Drey is mounting a proper defense in Blaiton. Apparently, someone believes they can defeat me if they have enough time to prepare." I laugh to myself.

“You’ll get the fight you’re looking for,” General Pitz says in a low tone.

I don't answer her, but I hope she is right.

Taking Teeburn and Drey feels hollow after my fight with the general. I crave a real challenge, real battle, a chance that I might die, no matter how small that might be.

But first, I'll need to get this city in order before the refugees start showing up. I sent word to the King asking for skilled leaders to run the cities I conquer, but I don't know who was sent.

At this rate, it will be at least a month before I can march on Blaiton. Let's hope they don't disappoint me for the third time after I'm graciously giving them so much time to prepare.
