It's hard to guess if the magic gem inside my armor will last another transfer, but that's a problem for whoever receives my armor after I'm dead. I may be old, but my skills have never been stronger, and I don't see my armor failing me anytime soon. Especially not here in this battle.

Once I make my final adjustments, I find the nearest communication mage and have them spread the signal to form ranks, officially starting our siege on Drey.

I activate the magic tool that shields me from sight and start walking down the center of my troops. Anyone who's fought me before would know my formation, but it’s the most effective against new foes.

I picked up this tactic fighting the warlords of the west. Their soldiers were always zealots worshiping battle, even more so than myself, and it took an extreme show of force to demoralize them.

As the guards upon the wall prepare their few siege weapons and spells, I remember the first time I implemented this strategy.

If I remember correctly, it was while we were sieging a warlord’s castle in the summer. The battle had already gone on for four days straight without our opponents showing any signs of forfeiting their hold on the keep when my crazy idea came to fruition.

Since then, this formation has always left the same impression on my opponents.

My men's shields go up as we march into Drey's firing range. I thought they would start firing immediately in a disorganized fashion, but instead, they hold until more of my soldiers are in their range. At least they aren't complete fools.

But unlike the lengthy stare down we had with General Pitz, Drey’s defenders release their first waves of attacks as soon as they think they have enough people in their targeted area.

Defender of All

I activate my favorite tier 5 skill.

As if everything was aimed at me from the beginning, every spell, bolt, boulder, arrow, everything curves in the air and diverts to where I’m standing.

The world becomes silent as I activate my many defensive skills.

The first to hit are the spells. Drey mustn't have many remaining mages because only two siege class spells are launched at me, both of them sub-par. I don't even count the lower-tiered spells that wash over me like a light rain. Forcing all the spells to converge on my location causes many of them to collide with one another. When spells collide, it reduces their overall strength by a good margin effectively canceling a good chunk of them out.

Spells of this caliber aren't able to hurt me, but they still kick up a large dust cloud, where two of my lesser-known skills come into play. I focus on my Danger Sense skill, predicting where the large boulders and bolts will land. It gets harder to predict their trajectory when skills boost projectiles; however, sadly, Drey doesn't seem to have anyone competent in working their siege weapons.

Activating my Dancing skill, I smoothly dodge each boulder and bolt as they land around me. Few know of my love of dancing, but I recommend it to each of my students to improve their footwork.

A few competent archers, around level 50, tag my armor with their arrows, but that's all.

When the dust starts to settle, and I make my presence known, my army cheers, further demoralizing Drey's guardians. It's easy to spot the panic in our opponents' ranks after seeing me appear unscathed from their attacks. To them I’m only wearing a simple uniform without any armor. Scanning the walls, just as I predicted, two of their catapults and one of their ballistas have broken after their first volley.

I should show them what a real attack looks like just to educate them. “Fire!” I yell using Loud Voice.

“Fire!”

“Fire!”

“Fire!”

My commanders echo my orders, and my mage battalions unleash utter destruction against their pathetic siege weapons.

After a few continuous volleys from us, nothing remains on the ramparts other than their soldiers cowering in fear. They tried to protect the siege weapons with shielding spells, but once a few of our spells soared near the undisciplined mages, they dropped their magic to prioritize their own self-preservation.

Is taking this city going to be even easier than Teeburn?

Now that it's relatively safe, I summon over three communication mages from either side of me. "Send word out to the mage battalions; I want them to continue peppering the walls and the city with loud and flashy spells that do little damage. Then I want you three to make my voice loud enough so that the whole city can hear me."

“Sir!” They all acknowledge my orders and quickly get to work.

I thought I would need to assault the city for a whole day before I could break them, but judging how many people I see fleeing the ramparts, over half their forces must be deserting their stations.

I take note of a few brave men and women still trying to hold the walls. Our mages switch tactics like I ordered them to and start launching flame spells that are bigger and brighter than usual ones that lack any real substance behind them. Most spells like that only do damage with their blast waves, so they shouldn't damage the walls or the city much. But they will be loud and cause chaos amongst the people.

“Master Pacore,” One of the mages addresses me. “We’re ready to broadcast your voice to the entire city.”

I feel their mana wrap around me and solidify into their combined spell.

Showtime!

"City of Drey, I am Master Pacore the Deathless, and your city will surrender to Scholl's rule!" I can hear my voice echoing behind the city's walls. If they had any decent mages left in the city, they could've quickly terminated my broadcast, but seeing how the spell holds, I take it any remaining mages are long past trying to hinder us.

“I demand council with your city’s lord to discuss your immediate surrender.  We are not here seeking wealth or to slaughter innocent civilians. Our bombardment will end as soon as your lord makes an appearance on the walls or the gates are opened. Make haste; I'd rather not burn down half of my city."

I signal the three mages to stop transmitting.

Now it's only a matter of time before the city is ours. If the lord doesn't come to speak with me, he'll have a riot on his hands.

I wish my apprentices were here to bet with me on how long it will take. I'd try asking the general for her opinion, but I doubt she'd feel like guessing how quickly she thinks one of her cities will buckle under our might.

**********

As the general of this army and as the strongest person here, it's my job to stand and watch how everything plays out. If I were a lesser man, I'd be back in my tent waiting for a response from Drey, but that's not me. I stand proudly in front of my soldiers, waiting for a response.

…….

Not that standing here for two hours isn't the most boring thing ever. In the beginning, I was at least occupied by the occasional arrow aimed at me, but those stopped after the first few dozen bounced harmlessly off my invisible armor.

I'm about to start considering sitting down at least, when I see someone waving one of Drey's flags, trying to signal me from the wall. I've already given out orders to stop our barrage if such a thing should occur, so it doesn't take long for our mage battalions to stop casting their magic. My men are under orders to retaliate heavily if this is a trap, but the battlefield goes silent until then.

As I make my way over to Drey’s wall I get a good look at the man waving Drey’s flag, he appears to be in his thirties, practically a child in my eyes. With everything quiet, I can use my skills to communicate without needing a mage, so I just shout up at him. "I thought I demanded the city's lord to make an appearance; who are you?"

Even looking up at this distance, I can see the young man's face is pale and covered in sweat. "The city's lord is out on business to the neighboring city of Blaiton. I was left in charge in his absence," he shouts back down to me, fear in his voice.

I'm honestly, 100%, shocked! It takes me a whole minute to come to grips with what this young man just told me. The city lord had the gall to flee his own city! If such a thing happened in Scholl, he'd be executed in front of his people!

I have to bite back the anger rising in my throat. How could this be acceptable? Now I need to convince a scared child to open the door to his house. “Then does that mean you represent the city?” I ask.

“It does,” he answers in a quivering voice.

"Fine, then open your gates, and we'll stop our attack."

“How do I know you won’t kill everyone once I do so?!” At least the lad has a head on his shoulders.

“I’m willing to enter by myself and sign a contract of surrender with you if I must,” I tell him.

The young man takes a while to think over his options. More than once, I see him look over at my experienced soldiers who are still in perfect formation with a look of utter dread. Poor lad, even I feel bad for him. It isn't his job to make these kinds of decisions. I'm honestly scared to see the state of the city if this is what I have to deal with.

"I'll allow you into the city to discuss the details," the boy eventually agrees to meet me face to face. One of the soldiers next to him whispers in his ear. "And have your army move back, as well," he hastily adds.

“I agree to your terms,” I call out, signaling my nearby commanders with had gestures. As one, my army retreats while maintaining its formation.

I make my way up to Drey's main gate with a prideful strut and wait for them to open the small metal door next to it that leads into the walls. The door opens as soon as I'm a few feet away from it, and five heavily armored and armed guards burst out to secure the area. They're all in the level 50's range, meaning they’re the strongest soldiers here.

I'm escorted through a small tunnel and up the many stairs leading to the city's ramparts without a word from my guides. I measure my steps, making sure not to move to quickly. I don’t want to startle them.

You can smell the old brickwork and feel the dampness in the air as we make our way to our destination. I'm not sure if that's from their winter just finishing or if these are signs the wall isn't properly being taken care of.

When I finally taste fresh air again, I'm standing on the ramparts, able to see my men in formation in the distance as well as finally laying eyes on Drey. The city looks abandoned; everything is boarded up, and not a soul is walking the streets. Drey doesn't appear to be in as bad a situation as Teeburn, but who knows how many people are still in the city. If more than 30% of the citizens have already fled it could be difficult to get the city in working order, even with reinforcements on the way.

I'm escorted over to a spot nearby with a small field desk. The young man who negotiated with me is sitting there. Up close, he looks even younger than I thought; possibly he's only in his late 20's, he's dressed as an aid to a noble would be. His black hair is in disarray, and his panicked expression only grows more pronounced when he sees me approaching.

I boldly stroll over to the small desk and sit across from the young man like the guards surrounding us don't bother me in the slightest. He looks like he wants to say something, but I'll be taking the lead in our discussion. "It is polite for both parties to announce themselves in these situations. I am Master Pacore the Deathless, one of the strongest people in Scholl; who are you?"

The young man swallows a lump in his throat, and most of the guards watching us flinch at my introduction.

“I’m Jason Hailes, aid to the city lord and current highest official in the city."

I can't help but snort, causing young Jason to flinch back. He's probably not even the head aid to the city lord, or he would've introduced himself as such. “Do you know how this works?” I ask him.

"Yes," he doesn't answer confidently. "The two of us discuss the terms of surrender for the city. I think we should first talk about what will be the city's new tax laws under your rule."

What is he doing?

"Then we can talk about citizens' rights," Jason continues despite the frown on my face.

Is he trying to piss me off?

"Securing enough food for everyone is also an important matter," he nervously continues.

No, I see what he’s doing. He’s trying to stall for time. It was probably the last order given to him by the city lord.

"Enough!" I interrupt his ramblings. All the guards around us level their various weapons at me. "I did not come here to negotiate daily affairs; I came here to sign a binding contract stating I won't kill everyone in the city. This city will be under Scholl's control from this day forward. We'll decide how we wish to run the city."

"You can't just force us to sign anything. You're in our custody now!" Young Jason tries to put on a brave front; he might be of some use in the future.

I start off chuckling before I break into a hearty laugh. "I hate to tell you this kid, but even if all the men on this wall got together to kill me, I’d still walk out of here without even a scratch. I could kill all of you myself and take the city single-handedly if I was inclined to. The only reason I came up here to talk was to facilitate a peaceful transfer of power."

The guards with their weapons drawn step back, and I noticed a few others listening in take-off in fear.

“I can’t just give you the city,” Jason grits through his teeth.

"You can and you will," I tell him in a firm tone. "You said it yourself; you're the highest authority in Drey at the moment. That means you're responsible for the lives of everyone in the city. I can spend the next day destroying your walls and making my way into the city, slaughtering all the guards as I go. Or, you can surrender and be guaranteed safety."

"I won't be executed?" Young Jason asks me.

