The well-oiled doors swung open, and Ali stepped into the guild hall, blinking a little in the relative dimness after the bright sunlight outside. She had recounted the terrifying experience of being at the mercy of whatever ominous spell infested Nathaniel Sunstrider and her narrow escape due to the inexplicable actions of her mother’s book. However, the Archmage had amassed a towering reputation, and it was challenging to accuse him of anything when all she had was a strangely disturbing visual from a realm that she wasn’t entirely certain was even real. Still, Lira promised to consult with a Troll sage she was certain still lived, and Ryn offered to use her skills to research information in Ciradyl’s vast library, leveraging the writ of access to the restricted section. At least they took her account seriously, and that had set her heart somewhat at ease.

“So, what did you guys learn about fighting bosses yesterday?” Vivian said. She stood by the guild jobs board, addressing a crowd. Almost the entire guild was seated in the hall, either on the couches or on the floor, listening to her – and for the first time, the room was full. All the familiar faces were there; the regular ranked members, and many of the novices who had earned their classes yesterday – but there were also quite a few unfamiliar faces identifying as classless and carrying training weapons.

Their entrance to the guild hall earned them quite a few glances, but Ali noticed that the eyes of many of the unclassed people lingered on her for longer than she expected.

“Don’t suck,” someone called out from the middle of the group, provoking a few snorts and laughs, guiltily suppressed.

“That’s about accurate,” Vivian said with a smile. “But I would say it more like, don’t show up to a raid boss unprepared. That way you won’t get a slime sucking off your face.” Laughter attended to her stern, finger-waggling imprecation. “Other ideas? Speak up.”

Ali floated over to the reception desk. “What’s going on?” she asked quietly.

“Vivian wanted to hold an all-hands meeting – to talk to all the new guild members,” Mieriel said.

“She seems happy.”

“She got ten fresh combat novices out of the group you took to your shrine yesterday, she’s been insufferably bubbly all day.”

Ali shot Mieriel a surprised glance. The idea of the powerful and stern Guildmaster being described as insufferably bubbly seemed incongruous, but she assumed that Mieriel was referring to the sense of any inner emotions leaking from Vivian’s mind.

“I do have a more serious question,” Ali said.

“I can probably guess, but go ahead.” Mieriel adjusted her collar self-consciously.

“Do we know who sent that assassin team?” This was the main reason Ali had wanted to stop by the guild in the first place. Random assassins were one thing, but this was the second coordinated group that had been sent against her, and this time they had even targeted the novices.

“As far as I can tell, they were hired to disrupt the class advancement ceremony in any way they could and to assassinate you. I got a lead that implied Jax Hawkhurst sponsored the hit this time,” Mieriel said, with a matter-of-fact tone that would have been more appropriate for discussing breakfast cereal selections.

“Doesn’t that mean he’s desperate? I thought he doesn’t like getting his hands dirty?” Ali had little knowledge or aptitude for politics, but Malika had shared the basics of how the crime syndicates were set up in Myrin’s Keep, and how they evaded the attention of the authorities. In essence, Jax Hawkhurst operated a legitimate business, and all the shady stuff was done through intermediaries.

“Jax is under a lot of pressure right now. With the blight, the southern road is impassable, and that means a lot of his merchant business is bleeding money,” Mieriel explained. “He’s been forced to rely on kidnapping, slavery, and protection or loansharking. Or at least his affiliated businesses are doing that. But you keep selling exceptionally valuable resources to the guild store, and now that Donella Novaspark is getting a supply of magicite, her people are making some incredible new crafted items. The Academy is making enormous profits, none of which he can touch. So, you’re personal enemy number one for him.”

“I see.” She really did see – this wasn’t some convoluted political scheme. She was eating his business when he was in a bind because of the blight. Ali smiled thinly. “Strictly business?”“His sort of business.”

Another burst of laughter nearly lifted the rafters. Ali closed her eyes briefly, fighting back nausea. When would this end? She had no desire to live all her days in fear. No. Her tiny fists clenched. That, she would not do.

“Aliandra, do you mind doing the Guildmaster a favor?” Mieriel asked suddenly.

“What’s that?” Ali glanced at the stern Guildmaster, still talking to the majority of the guild members.

“Word about the shrine has been trickling out and we’ve been receiving a steady influx of new recruits from the poorer parts of town. There was an enormous amount of competition for spots to access the shrine. Many of them think it was a one-time deal and those that didn’t make it are emoting a lot of despair, frustration, or feelings like it was all a waste of time. Perhaps you could mention that you will do another class advancement when they’re ready?” Mieriel said. “I mean if you’re ok doing another one, of course.”

“I see.” It certainly explained some of the complex looks she had gotten from the unclassed recruits.

Shouldn’t be difficult and the mana demand isn’t much of an issue either, she thought. She had already decided that sharing her shrine was one way she wished to make a difference in town, and she was rather grateful that someone like Vivian was so invested in helping the novices grow in productive directions.

She didn’t bother answering Mieriel any further, knowing the Elf would simply read her ambient emotional state and get her answer that way. Instead, she floated over to where Vivian was wrapping up.

“And this is Aliandra, everyone. For those who haven’t met her, she’s one of our silver-ranked adventurers, and she ran the class advancement yesterday.” Vivian introduced Ali without mentioning her class, even though it should be obvious.

Ali nodded to the group, hearing murmurs and conversation spring up at her introduction. She smiled at a few familiar faces, Havok, Basil, Seth, Aiden, Willow… in fact, all the bronze adventurers seemed happy to see her. Even the newly classed Sabri and Brena were grinning, which had been a worry for Ali after the trauma they had both experienced.

“Guildmaster,” Ali said, using her title in front of the guild. “I just wanted to let you know the shrine will probably be recharged enough to use again in a week.” Multiple sharp inhales around the room made her pause. Even she sensed their desperation, their hunger. “Perhaps not for as big a group, but for any of the recruits that are ready by then. Just let me know if there are any emergency cases like Sabri who need it on short notice – we can probably squeeze them in earlier if we need to.”

“Thank you, Aliandra,” Vivian said, and then she turned and addressed the group again. “You heard her, those of you who didn’t make it will have another chance in a week. Focus hard on your training with Malika today and I’ll evaluate you all over the week. For those of you who are team leaders and provisional leaders, I want you all to make time for Calen’s lectures when he returns. That way your teams can be more like the successful Ahn Khen disciples and less like the mercenaries that got crushed. That is all.”

The group immediately broke up into smaller groups and the guild hall filled with a busy commotion. It was really beginning to feel like a proper guild with so many people in it.

Seth lurked by the guild jobs board, keeping mostly to himself. There were a few people in the guild who accepted him – his own team, the Guildmaster, and the administrator. Also, Aliandra and her team had been very kind to him. But the room was filled with strangers, and many of them eyed him warily. Especially after the accident with the zombie.

He studied the jobs board, a little anxious to get out of the room and get some quiet and space. There were several jobs related to killing undead and clearing blight with the concoctions the herbalists and alchemists had come up with, but for those he would need his team, and they were taking a break for a day or two. Surprisingly, killing other undead was quite difficult for his class and abilities – he had to forego his Volatile Wraith skill entirely, given that death magic typically healed zombies and skeletons.

His eyes passed over a spider kill quest, an herb collection quest, and a few equipment purchase orders, not finding anything particularly exciting.

In the background, he overheard Aliandra calling out, “Hey Mato, while you’re off foraging with Basil, I’m looking for spiders. If you find any and can bring me their corpses, that would be very helpful.”

“Ok, no problem,” the large Beastkin answered, waving.

Aliandra, and Mato. The two of them had rescued him from the sewer and basically handed him a new life here at the guild. His eyes returned to the spider kill quest.

Sure, why not? He reached out and took it, turning to find Mieriel and let her know. It didn’t pay well, but it was a job he could do solo, now that he had reached level fourteen – and he could do it at night when nobody would bother him and his skeletons. Ever since he had started using the life drain of his volatile wraiths, he found he needed less and less sleep because of the rejuvenation effect they granted him.

If she wants spiders, I can collect some.

He sighed, wishing not for the first time that life had not turned out quite like this. At least his class let him work alone when he needed space – such a big cloud had to have at least a little silver lining, right?

Ali left the busy guild hall by herself. Mato and Basil had headed off to go hunting some fire-affinity plants in the mountains, and Malika was still at the guild teaching combat training classes to the recruits.

She was a little anxious about walking around town without her friends, given the target painted on her back by the criminal organizations, but she had two Kobolds and a level thirty Luminous Slime following her around, and she could sense her ‘moss munchkins’ – as Mato had taken to calling the Moss Creepers – lurking in the sewer below, in range of an emergency teleport in case things got out of hand.

It was a bright and sunny day, and the town bustled with activity. Ali stopped at a street vendor, drawn by the aroma and sizzle of frying spiced meat. She purchased two skewers, storing one in her ring for later, and nibbled on the tasty snack as she continued onward through the market district.

She turned a corner finding a busker sitting on the side of the street. A youthful-looking girl who had a sound-magic affinity, a small carpet, and a collection bowl. Curious, Ali stopped, still enjoying the tasty skewer.

And then the girl began to sing.

Ali stared, spellbound for the entire song. The girl sang several voices simultaneously; bass, alto, and soprano, and she even sang the flute accompaniment in a flawless concert. It was not just the sublime sound of her voices; Ali could see the music flowing from her throat and chest in the vibrations and harmonies within the mana she wielded. A beautiful story of love lost, tragic despair, and then at the brink, a blossoming of unexpected new love.

She found herself clapping without restraint at the conclusion of the song, and she was not the only one, a crowd had formed during the show without her noticing. Amid the cheers and excitement, Ali flew over and dropped a large silver piece in the collection bowl, thanking the girl for her performance.

Eventually, Ali found herself on the familiar Artisan’s Row, and just a few moments later she pushed open the door to Lydia’s Allure, finding Lydia herself seated at the desk.

“Hi Aliandra,” she said, greeting her as she entered with her Kobolds. She left the slime outside just in case it would mess up the floor or brush against the clothing displays.

Tailor – Human – level 62.

“Hi Lydia, I see you leveled up again,” Ali answered.

“Yes,” she said, a sad look flashing across her face before she replaced it with a smile. “Though it’s slowed down a lot. What can I do for you today?”

“I have a big favor to ask,” Ali said. Lydia’s eyes lit up with just a hint of her previous curiosity and excitement. “I need a bunch of robes with fire resistance enchantments made.”

Her face instantly fell. “I already told Calen I can’t make them; he asked me the other day. I would have thought he told you.”

“Oh, he did,” Ali said, retrieving the tailoring book from her ring. “He took Ryn to Ciradyl, and she found this in the library for you. Well, she found the original in Elvish and I translated it.” She offered the book to Lydia.

Lydia’s eyes widened as she saw what Ali offered. “This… is this a book on Tailoring Enchantments?”

“Yup,” Ali grinned. “I just hope it has the right information for you to figure them out. Do you mind giving it a try?”

“You do know this is illegal, right?” Despite the tart response, Lydia snatched the book up, immediately opening it and reaching for some paper and a pencil. “Let me copy the enchantment quickly so you can have your book back.”

“That’s your copy,” Ali said. “I only need the fire resistance enchantment, but I do hope you find the rest of it helpful.”

Lydia looked dumbstruck, pencil paused in mid-air, staring as if Ali had just conjured something unimaginable. Actually, given the iron grip the Guild of Tailors kept on information across the human kingdoms, producing a book on tailoring enchantments was probably more unexpected than her sprouting a second head. Hmm. Now she had lots of ideas, and some involved sending monstrous books to bite her enemies…

“This is way too valuable to just give away,” Lydia finally managed, holding it as if it might accidentally break or fly away.

“Just thank Calen. He’s the one that earned a Pathfinder Guild membership and access to Ciradyl’s library.” It certainly had been an enormous boost to her efforts to rebuild the library, and she was rather enjoying the surprise she had created for Lydia. “Besides, this isn’t giving away. It’s passing a book to a friend.”

