After moving through a series of complex emotions Ali could not entirely follow, Lydia’s face finally shifted back to her normal shrewd business-like expression and said, “Like you had nothing to do with it. Thank you for this priceless gift – I’ll begin studying the fire enchantments immediately. I’ll leave a message with Mieriel if I make any breakthroughs.”

Ali smiled and said goodbye and Lydia immediately put up a ‘closed for lunch’ sign in the window as she left to head back.

She was serious about the immediate part, she thought with a smile. Books are seriously infectious.

It felt good to be on the move again, to be doing something instead of forever waiting. He was waiting for his friend to return from Ciradyl, he was waiting for Thuli to make his armor, he was waiting for the others to find fire resistance, it was an endless wait while the flame elementals and the Emberforge Mines simply sat there unchallenged.

Mato desperately needed to do something.

Now that all the farms and farmers had been cleared of the blight, he had found himself to be a little bored. More than a little, actually. His aura was powerful, but up against the vastness of the entire blighted forest, it would be insignificant. Instead, the Guildmaster planned to build up the bronze-ranked adventurers and use the quest system to hunt abominations in the blighted forest and protect the farms that way. Once they tracked down the Blighted Patchwork Horrors, he might be useful again.

More waiting.

He had spent quite a lot of the time studying within Lira’s tree, or in his own Tree Form but, while it was productive, he still missed the rush of combat or even just the sense of being able to do something productive.

He took a deep breath of fresh air. Basil led the way up the rocky pass far into the mountains above Myrin’s Keep. The young herbalist reminded him a lot of Calen when they were younger – shy and quiet. But he was exceptionally smart and knowledgeable about his plants, and the moment he got going on his passion, he had a lot to say.

Right now, he was talking about fire resistance potions, and what plants were needed to make them. Mato listened, fascinated by the intricate ways in which the natural bounty of life and growth was crafted into something potent. He was not personally interested in crafting, but like any ecosystem, growth would lead to change, and the effects would ripple throughout the system. Once they found the proper plants, he would try and help Ali grow them in the dungeon, and the effects on the herbalist and alchemist crafters would be the direct result of their introduction of the new species.

And then we can fight the dungeon.

Basil had reached level fourteen already, but the hike would have still been impossible for him alone. Most of the monsters they encountered along the way Mato could scare off with a roar, but occasionally he had to fight off the more insistent ones, and even a level ten monster could quite easily kill someone like Basil who had a non-combat class.

“I think we’re close,” Basil said, and indeed, Mato could feel the heat building through the rock beneath his feet.

“Up over that rise?” Mato asked.

“Yes,” Basil said. “At least, according to the directions Eliyen gave me.”

Mato crested the rise and looked down into a small ravine. Waves of heat rose into the air, making it shimmer. It would be a rough descent down the steep, scree-covered slope, but they had certainly found their goal.

“It’s called the Hellmouth,” Basil said, glancing at his notes. “Or the Devil’s Crack. Also, Fire Elemental’s Picnic.”

“That’s colorful,” Mato grinned. “I guess it depends on who you ask? This would be a great place to grill some meat skewers.” There was a deep fissure in the cliffside that glowed red with radiant heat. A slow viscous flow of lava seeped out of the fissure, pooling below at the base of the ravine before dripping over the far edge to somewhere unseen.

“Look, things are growing down there,” Basil exclaimed excitedly, clearly not picking up on the idea of pausing for a snack.

Mato squinted his skill-enhanced eyes in the direction he pointed and saw some kind of climbing plant growing up the cliffs beside the radiating fissure, sporting red flowers. There was something else too, a kind of ground cover sprouting between the rocks beside the lava pool. “Looks like we found the right place.”

“Yes!” Basil answered.

“Grab on,” Mato said, switching to Bear Form and using his weight and strength to offer Basil something stable to hold on to for the climb down the ravine. They clambered over boulders, slipping occasionally on the loose jagged stone, but they made it to the bottom with only minor cuts and scrapes that were quickly healed by his regeneration aura.

“Look! Fire Grass!” Basil rushed forward to look at a clump of what seemed to be grass, either unaware or uncaring of the searing heat radiating from the lava pool. Immediately, he reached down to the plants, pulling out some tools to gather them.

He gets this excited over grass? Mato ambled along behind, remaining close enough to ensure his regeneration aura would repair any of the burns he sustained. Fwaugh, now that’s a whiff of sulfur! He sneezed energetically.

Fire Grass – level 15

The little scrubby plants were perfectly normal clumps of grass, aside from the fact that the blades were red and wreathed in dancing flame. Basil hissed as he got his fingers seared, but he was determined to dig up that clump.

“What do you use this for?” Mato asked, crouching down and examining the strange-looking grass. The flames seemed to dance endlessly without consuming the leaves.

“Well, you asked about fire resistance potions. This would be one of the more useful ingredients to have in large quantities. It’s difficult to harvest because it burns… ow!” He snatched his freshly blistered hand away, but he reached for it again. “It only grows in areas with fire-affinity mana, so it’s normally quite rare. As you can imagine, it doesn’t keep long either, once removed from its native environment.”

“How do you normally harvest this stuff?” Mato asked, curious how the herbalists handled dangerous affinities.

“I brought health potions,” Basil answered.

“Well, that’s… a way, I guess?” Mato said. He had expected something a little more… sophisticated.

As Basil dug around in the scorched earth, Mato redirected the damage from the flames to himself, earning a grateful glance. Basil worked quickly and soon had the clump of grass wrapped and stored.

“I’d like to collect a few extra so that Eliyen can use whatever Ali doesn’t need,” Basil said, hunting around for some more. “Do you want to learn how to gather them?”

“Sure.”

“Here, use this, it will help you learn the skill.” Basil retrieved a small silver trowel with a wooden handle and handed it to him.

Novice’s Gathering Trowel – level 3A basic tool for digging up plants. +1 to Herb Gathering skill.Requirements: Wisdom 10Enchanted by Eliyen Mistwood.Main Hand – Gardening Tool

Basil was a remarkably good instructor, confidently demonstrating and explaining what he was doing with simple and easy-to-understand concepts. When Mato made his first attempt, Basil corrected a few things and then let him collect as many as he could, while explaining other aspects of gathering, the history, and subtle details of the herbalist arts of collecting interesting and useful plants.

When they finally had about twenty samples stored, Basil stopped. “I want to see what that is growing up the cliff face.” He got up and scampered over to get a closer look while Mato finished up his gathering.

Mato whipped his head around at the sound of a sudden scared yelp and saw Basil thrashing and grabbing at rocks while being dragged toward the lava by several vine-like tendrils.

Flame Lasher – Plant – level 32

Mato roared, transforming into his Bear Form. Dropping the last clump of Fire Grass he had harvested, he charged into range, barely in time to redirect the damage from Basil as he fell into the lava pool with an agonized scream, saving him from a crispy death. The vines were connected to the plant growing up the cliff face, many of its tendrils extending below the surface of the lava. It was a thick, ropy-looking plant, with a reddish-brown bark-like texture, and all along the vine grew tiny flowers made entirely from flame.

Way too late, Mato realized that the strange, blackened shapes wrapped up in the vines along the cliff face were the charred skeletal remains of several animals. He plunged his head into the lava, ignoring the surge of pain, and bit down hard on Basil’s leg, redirecting the damage he inflicted back to himself along with the continuous use of Arboreal Sanctuary to keep Basil alive in the lava. His own health plummeted as he shouldered the damage for both of them. He growled his frustration and hauled as hard as he could. Even with his enormous strength, the Flame Lasher resisted with a surprising amount of power, but their tug-of-war ended in a great ripping sound as several of the attached vines split and tore. Basil shot up out of the lava with a sucking sound and landed on the rock with a yelp, clearly shocked to still be alive while slapping the remains of the vines and molten rock off his arms and legs.

Blinded and nearly deafened by having dunked his head in the lava, Mato charged the Flame Lasher by memory, but he was immediately intercepted by a tentacle of lava lashing out of the pool and striking him heavily on the flank.

He Identified the attack using his Survival Instinct.

Lava Lurker – Ooze – level 36

Another searing strike came for him, and he blocked reflexively, wincing as the scorching ooze seared his hide with the heavy impact. But the newcomer had not discouraged the Flame Lasher in the slightest, and Mato felt the rapid whipping strikes lashing at him from a distance.

Blinded as he was, he knew the ranged attacks would be a problem, but he had to deal with the onslaught of fire damage from the ooze first. He roared, taunting both monsters to attack him, and not be distracted by the easier target Basil presented nearby. Then he burned some of his own health to power his Bestial Combat and struck at the amorphous blob of lava intent on eating him. The health cost was a risky move, but as soon as his claws ripped through the heavy, viscous body of the ooze, he felt the welcome surge of his Brutal Restoration kicking in and beginning to heal him.

Perhaps I should have waited for my fire resistance armor before taking a dip in the lava. It was a bizarre and uniquely uncomfortable sensation to feel his eyes regrowing, but one he was unfortunately quite familiar with by now. He struck again and again, his attacks becoming more effective as first his hearing and then his eyesight returned.

He blocked several whip strikes from the lasher – scorched lines of burnt flesh and fur that he took across his shoulders – and then swiped one more time at the ooze.

“On your left!” Basil yelled.

Survival Instinct suddenly registered an attack from his direction. Mato ignored it, focusing on blocking the much more dangerous coiling limb from the large blob of animated lava in front of him. A small glass vial arced overhead and came down on the rock beside him, shattering in an explosion of ice and frost that leached the heat out of the environment rapidly. The cold bit into his hide damaging him, but the effect on the ooze was far more dramatic. It recoiled, parts of its body blackening and cracking.

Seizing the opportunity, Mato powered his attack to the maximum and unleashed his retaliatory battle master strike. His claws shredded through the ooze, shattering the blackened pieces and tearing it almost in half, spraying chunks of rapidly congealing lava in all directions. It collapsed, splatting against the ground to the sound of a soft chime, and he whirled about and charged the Flame Lasher over by the rocky cliff, ignoring the whip strikes of its vines.

Without its ally, and without the ability to move, the vine was a poor match for Mato’s abilities. Swipe tore into the fire plant, ripping it from the cliff and shredding it until it ceased moving.

“What did you do?” Mato asked as he reverted to his normal form.

“Frost bomb potion,” Basil answered. “It’s pretty weak, but I think the lava ooze was vulnerable to cold.”

“You just happened to have one with you?”

“No, I made it. I packed some things in case the fire was a problem.”

“It worked pretty well,” Mato said. For a non-combat class, Basil certainly had good instincts. Presumably from his practice with his bronze-rank adventurer group, fighting in Ali’s sewer, and all the training Vivian had been investing in them.

“We should definitely collect this,” Basil said, bending down to examine the remains of the Flame Lasher, his voice filled with excitement and awe.

“That thing almost killed you, remember?” Basil had lost half his health while he had been taking care of the ooze and the lasher, but he just downed a health potion and remained close to Mato while studying the plant.

“These are incredibly rare fire plants,” Basil continued, more or less ignoring Mato in his excitement. “They’re impossible to cultivate and hard to find. Did you know their flowers can be used for some very powerful reagents and tinctures? The engineers and alchemists in town are going to love Ali if she can grow these. Eliyen too – she will make a fortune refining the essences and reselling them to the crafters.” Then his mouth twisted into a wry smile, “Well, she’ll most likely make me do it, she doesn’t like fire.”

“Ok, you collect those. I’m going to regenerate our health.”

Pausing briefly to store the corpse of the Lava Lurker, knowing Ali would probably like it, he shifted into his Tree Form, boosting his regeneration aura substantially. In the cool serenity, he ranged out with his plant senses, locating a couple more vines for them to collect and taking a moment to check his notifications.

Your group has defeated Lava Lurker – Ooze – level 36Your group has defeated Flame Lasher – Plant – level 32Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 30.Swipe has reached level 29.Survival Instinct has reached level 20.You have learned a new general skill: Herb Gathering.Herb Gathering has reached level 1.Herb Gathering – level 1Mana: Your knowledge of botany and plants allows you to use your mana to properly harvest many plants for use in herbalism and alchemical potions. Skill increases the range of plants you can harvest, and the speed and quality of your work.Wisdom

