Maviola knew all the tricks. She had a few rhinestones, which she decorated one of the cakes with. Souvenirs. She slapped down Octavia’s hand as the [Alchemist] began writing eagerly.
“I know those come from Numbtongue. Don’t mark it as Salazsar-quality! Now, all we need is to throw something glittering into the blue fruit and we have ourselves a noble’s treat.”
“Lasica is going to murder you.”
Imani whispered as she stared at the opulent decadence. Maviola clapped her hands together briskly.
“She can line up with all the hundreds of other enemies I have. What’s she got, a ladle? The last enemy I had came at me with a spear and chariot. Now—start porting that to City Hall. Palt, Imani, some actual Balerosian elegance, please. Make a list and Liscor will pay you for it. Lyonette?”
She was putting together this moment on a budget and a time limit of one hour. Good thing it was Maviola El, who had once entertained an entire group of nobles on eleven gold coin’s worth of delicacies. The El family had little money at times. But a whole lot of style and experience.
“What do you want with the Players of Celum?”
The [Princess] followed the [Lady] as Maviola marched straight into Invrisil after flipping some silver coins into the bowl. Maviola looked at her.
“We need the last part of a party. You should take notes, young woman! This is how you entertain.”
The Players of Celum were having breakfast—well, a breakfast meeting that had run late as they discussed a third branch of their organization or just a joint group under Temile.
“We’ll see what Pallass says, but I think Temile needs to front the Pallassian group either way. No objections! There’s no one I trust except for maybe Pralcem and Jexam and since neither one wants to be a [Manager], the Drakes can take him or leave him. It’ll be a mostly non-Human cast anyways—”
Emme looked up as Maviola walked up to them.
“Can we help you? Lyonette, um…Maviola? Is something wrong with Liscor? We heard about the Raskghar.”
Jasi stood up at once, a worried look on her face. Temile twisted in his seat and Wesle and the others rose as well. Maviola shook her head.
“The Raskghar are dealt with. For now. But I am inviting all of you—especially you, Emme, you, Jexam, and Jasi—and Wesle too, I suppose—to Liscor’s City Hall in…forty six minutes! We are having an event.”
The others hesitated. Maviola had that way of speaking that said ‘this is how it is’. Emme though, had heard that voice many times. Usually coming from her mouth instead of anyone else’s. She raised an eyebrow.
“And why would we do that?”
“Because not only will Liscor’s Council be there, but a number of Pallassian [Senators], as well as a delegation from Hectval. Other Drake cities. Dress up!”
Maviola clapped her hands cheerfully. Emme began to ask questions, but Maviola was through the door and adjusting it to Pallass before anyone could leave the table.
“You don’t have Pallassian [Senators]!”
Lyonette hissed at Maviola as the door opened and they stepped into the checkpoint. But her look was admiring. She saw where Maviola was going. The [Lady] turned to the [Princess].
“It’s a self-fulfilling promise. Like a riddle. Follow my lead, please? We might both level! Well—you might. Anyways, here’s a tip, Lyonette du Marquin. Once you have one…”
The other fell into place. Maviola began to clear her throat as the Drakes inspected them.
“You’re not on the list. Reason to enter Pallass?”
Kel the [Sergeant] looked suspiciously at Maviola and Lyonette. The [Lady] responded in a breathy rush.
“I am so sorry, but we’re trying to deliver an urgent message to the—the Wings of Pallass? And the Flamewardens. It’s from Erin—”
There was a groan from the [Guards] at the checkpoint. Maviola held up her hands.
“I know! I am so sorry. But also—to Miss Drassi? And whoever’s on duty at the Wistram News Network. I’m sure they’d want to know. I think there’s even a bounty on news?”
That was actually true. The [Guards] hesitated. Some of the napping ones sat up in their chairs.
“What news?”
“Well—and if any of you want to tell Drassi, since we’re so busy—can you raise that gate? It’s this huge event in Liscor. A delegation from Hectval—and the Players of Celum are attending—I can’t talk about it. We’d like to go, please?”
“Adventurer Bevussa’s team is attending a gathering in Pallass.”
Kel remarked suspiciously—but two [Guards] were already buying favors to go run out of the checkpoint real quick. Maviola’s eyes glittered as Lyonette decided that she had a new mentor.
“I know. But Erin was sure they’d want to skip that one to attend this one. Please—we’re in a huge hurry. It would be terrible if the Gold-rank teams were to miss it!”
All true, except for the Erin-bit. But since Maviola had been telling truths, she risked one unconfirmed lie if they were watching their truth spells. After a few seconds of whispering, the [Sergeant] grudgingly raised the gates. Maviola and Lyonette swanned through, already talking.
“It was so much gold leaf on those dishes, Maviola. Really high-class food you said?”
“I can’t believe anyone would miss it, Lyonette. Honestly—how many [Senators] do you think are attending? I didn’t get the number.”
“Just the important ones.”
That was a bit of good dialogue. They’d have to repeat that once they burst into whatever party Bevussa was at and pulled her away. Probably with a lot of [Senators] who wanted to be the ‘ones who were invited’.
Maviola El smiled. She loved games like this. By the time she hurried Bevussa’s team to the very important event in Liscor, there was a queue outside the door to Liscor. Gossip moved faster than Maviola could jog—people had been whispering about it at the social event by the time she’d told Bevussa about it.
The [Lady] returned to City Hall with food, guests, and thus, entertainment as well in tow. A fancy event in less than an hour, with prestigious guests from two major cities, and less than a hundred gold coin’s budget. Far less if she could kick Octavia’s inflated prices off.
“Let’s see Erin Solstice do that.”
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice walked through Liscor, towards the prison.
She got lost twice. She wasn’t actually that familiar with the jail, despite having once spent a night there. But all she had to do was follow the angry people.
Many were armed. In this world, everyone had a belt dagger. And many Gnolls owned bows.
They were afraid. Erin sensed it in the air, even without her lessons from Maviola. But more than that—there was anger there.
Far worse than Calruz, even. The crowd in front of the jail wanted vengeance. And Erin couldn’t blame them. She had seen what the Raskghar would do.
Mrsha. Erin suppressed the feeling rising in her chest. It felt like—
Invisible flame. Hatred. Ready to burn out of her. But the Raskghar were contained. She just wanted to make sure her friends were safe.
The Gentlemen Callers were probably following her. Erin wasn’t sure if anyone else was. It didn’t matter right now. She saw a huge crowd in front of the prison.
“Let us in. Let us in.”
They were chanting. The line of [Guards] had been reinforced and—Erin saw—they were armed with nonlethal weapons. Well, not immediately lethal weapons. Well—if you swung them lightly—
Shields, clubs, and so on. They clearly didn’t want to fight. Or be here. Erin stood on her tiptoes at the back of the crowd. She tapped the nearest Gnoll on the shoulder.
“Excuse me. Is there any news about the Raskghar?”
“No sign of ‘em. They took one out and put one back, but the bastards are in there, being fed and treated while—”
The Gnoll growled as he stared ahead and then realized who he was talking to. He stared at Erin.
“It’s you!”
“Me? Hi. Have we met?”
The Gnoll pointed at her.
“We’re not letting you save this lot! It’s not like the Goblins!”
He raised his voice. Erin blinked.
“No, I wasn’t—”
More people were turning. The Gnoll’s shout attracted them and they looked around.
“It’s her.”
“The Human! The [Innkeeper]!”
“Erin Solstice! I knew she’d be here sooner or later…”
“Can I get a hamburger? Hold the onions—”
The Watch reacted at the same time as Erin tried to explain that she was just looking and asking what the news was. Erin was protesting as the Gnoll began listing dead Gnolls, growing louder and louder.
“Move it! Make way by order of the Watch!”
An entire squad of sixteen stormed down the street, forcing the crowd back. One of them, a Drake, pointed at Erin as they halted around her.
“Miss Solstice, by order of the Watch Captain, we have to escort you to the Watch House. Please don’t approach the jail or start a riot!”
“I wasn’t gonna—”
“There she is! Intercept her before she gets to the jail!”
Another squad pounded down the street. The [Lieutenant] raised one hand and shouted at the second squad of Liscor’s Watch.
“We got her! Stand down!”
The other [Guards] stopped and looked visibly relieved. One of them actually took off a helmet to wipe at his brow. Erin began to feel hurt by all of this—until she remembered half the things she’d done.
“Am I under arrest?”
The [Lieutenant] gave Erin a side-long look.
“And where would we put you? We evicted everyone but the worst criminals to get the Raskghar in there. No, the Watch Captain just requests your presence. Without incident? Please?”
“I just wanted to find out what the Raskghar were up to. Okay, fine. Stop looking at me like that!”
Erin sighed and walked with the entire patrol moving around her, clearing a way down the street. After two streets she had to protest again.
“Guys. Guys. Can you stop shouting for people to clear the way? This is really embarrassing.”
“Watch Captain’s orders, Miss. Move it, you lot! You—ma’am. Ma’am. Stow that enchanted arrow now, please…”
The air was tense. The city unhappy. And for some reason, Erin saw Ishkr bringing a stack of pizzas towards City Hall. Well, you didn’t need an excuse for pizza, she supposed. Life got weird.
“Hey Zevara, you wanted to see me?”
The Watch Captain was in her office. The patrol, having escorted Erin to the building, loitered downstairs leaving Erin to walk up to the office and knock by herself.
“Come in. Have a seat, Miss Solstice.”
The Watch Captain looked weary. Sleepless. The look she gave Erin was only slightly less miffed than normal. In other words, deeply suspicious that Erin would ruin her day.
“Thank you for not causing an incident.”
She rubbed at one eye. Erin folded her arms.
“I wasn’t going to! I just wanted to make sure the Raskghar weren’t up to something. Are they up to something?”
She took a seat as the Watch Captain looked around.
“I’d offer you something to drink, but I don’t know when that tea kettle appeared. As far as we understand it—these Raskghar are not here to cause trouble, but rather seek our help, Miss Solstice. Nokha and a smaller group have vanished…I have no idea if they’re in the city or far away, but I’m posting an all-city bounty on them and issuing an alert as if they were all Gold-ranks.”
“Help?”
Erin hadn’t gotten a good look at the Raskghar. Zevara laid out their problem succinctly.
“We’ve applied spells and most should live. They would have died without cures for the magical plagues. As it is—all of the [Guards] are on hazard pay for risk of catching something and we’re consulting with Typhenous about preventing the spread of disease. The city’s being patrolled and I can’t imagine there are enough Raskghar to mount a full-scale attack if that’s how they all look. Still—a small band of infiltrators is the real threat.”
The Watch Captain checked a list of patrols and a map of the city where she’d strung up pins and thread to mark routes before turning back to Erin.
“With your permission, I’ll have two squads supplement the Antinium in your inn. I understand you’re using your…magic garden-thing to protect some citizens? They should remain there if possible for the foreseeable future.”
“That sounds…great. Thank you.”
Erin decided that, on the whole, mentioning that she had two master-class criminals who had been hired to protect her and a major gang chatting with the Antinium in her inn over snacks wasn’t going to enliven Zevara’s day. The Watch Captain nodded at her.
“As for the Raskghar—Olesm has confirmed that Nokha gave them instructions to surrender to the city, in hopes of a cure. He’s also made it clear that the Raskghar don’t have other orders…but are unlikely to remain docile once they recover. Nor do we have the space in the prison at the moment. Hexel is already drawing up plans for secure containment, but it will take time, even with Antinium.”
“Sounds about right. Are they under guard?”
“Yes. I doubt two hundred could overwhelm the security checkpoint Calruz—the [Guards] set up.”
Calruz. Erin leaned forwards, urgently.
“Is he in there, with them?”
“Yes. Still in his cell.”
“Can you put him somewhere else? He doesn’t deserve to be locked up with them. He’s not a monster.”
Zevara paused. She eyed Erin and shook her head slowly.
“There are no cells rated to hold someone of his level. It’s temporary. But I can’t deal with any issue other than the Raskghar. Half the city wants them dead. The other half just wants them gone. If I don’t keep a majority of the [Guards] protecting the jail—and only the non-Gnolls—the crowd might rush in and slaughter the Raskghar.”
“Yeah, I saw that. Tense.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded slowly. Zevara waited…for something? Erin stared at her blankly. After a second, the Drake coughed.
“…That would be illegal, obviously. As Watch Captain my duty is to uphold the law. Not all the Raskghar are guilty of murder. Some are, obviously, but they cannot all be executed.”
“Right.”
Another peek at Erin. The Drake slowly turned. She sat down and regarded Erin as she shuffled some papers into line.
“You…don’t have anything to add, Miss Solstice? I had a patrol looking to prevent you from storming into the jail.”
“I wouldn’t do that. I mean—I was going to ask, but I wouldn’t storm in. I uh—might deserve that, but I’m trying to be a good citizen! Really!”
Erin saw Zevara blink a few times at her. The Drake’s face was slack. She was searching every inch of the young woman’s expression for…what?
“So, you don’t have an appeal for me about how the Raskghar should be treated?”
“D-don’t let them out? Watch out for Nokha?”
The blank look from both sides dragged out until Erin had to ask.
“What? What am I supposed to be doing?”
