“Remarkably. Who doesn’t send ahead they’re coming? But who’d know about Hectval? One of the [Merchants]? I could go ask, but I don’t want to waste time.”
The Gnoll nodded. Her eyes flicked to the window.
“I know who to ask. Follow me.”
She led him at a quick trot out of City Hall. Lism followed. Krshia was fast when she wanted to be. Damn Gnolls who were used to running about.
Krshia. Krshia Silverfang. It was still odd to not have that as an epithet on his tongue. But then—there were good qualities to the Gnoll. Lism had always known that. He just hadn’t ever felt like giving her credit for them. Until recently. But he could make a list if he had to.
Quality #4 on the list Lism did not have in his head was that Krshia Silverfang…knew people. Lism knew people, but there was a definite disconnect in how they operated. Krshia had clients who let her be their middlewoman, shop for them. She made friends. Lism? He had business associates.
“Who’re we going to meet?”
“Wing Commander Embria.”
“Why her? The last thing we need is the army mucking about and—”
Love the army, support them and all that. But they weren’t exactly the first people you went to for diplomacy. 4th Company had a record of clashing with the Watch and assuming their authority trumped a Senior Guardsman’s. Krshia rolled her eyes as she looked back at him.
“Lism, you fool, you. The army has worked for Drake cities more than anyone else in Liscor! Wing Commander Embria, she and the other officers negotiate with the leaders of Drake cities! I heard as much over tea!”
Oh. Then Lism frowned.
“You’ve had tea with Wing Commander Embria?”
“Mm. Only four times, but I made a point to do so, especially when I became Councilwoman. Good to know the army’s representative, yes?”
“Yes…but who has time for four tea sessions?”
“Who doesn’t?”
 
—-
 
Wing Commander Embria had her company sweeping around Liscor and inside of it. The [Soldiers] were on high-alert; they were also monitoring for [Invisibility] spells, Skills—even though the Raskghar didn’t have them. For once, Lism was glad to have experienced warriors to supplement the Watch.
Mind you—even if the Raskghar were five times larger than the ones in the cells, you couldn’t walk down a street without seeing a group of armed Gnoll civilians, most carrying bows, a patrol of the Watch, an Antinium squad, or one of 4th Company’s groups. It made Lism feel a bit better.
However, this was not what he wanted Hectval’s delegation to see. Wing Commander Embria blinked as the two found her.
“The Hectval delegation? Me?”
“That’s right, Wing Commander. We’d value your input. In private? We won’t detract you from your duties long. But this is an important moment diplomatically for Liscor.”
Lism and Krshia expected Embria to object, but after a moment’s thoughtful silence, she nodded.
“Of course, Councilmembers.”
They headed to City Hall at a fast march. Lism was panting when he arrived and he was the only one. Embria turned once they had closed the door.
“I forget that Liscor isn’t…in touch with a lot of Drake cities, Councilmembers. But you deal with Pallass.”
No, they talk down to us and we argue until they try to force whatever they want down our throats.
But Lism didn’t say that. He cleared his throat.
“The Hectval situation is…new to us. Our [Negotiators] and some of the Council are hard at work, but we’d appreciate some clarity here, Wing Commander. They accepted our invitation and were due to show up nearly a week ago—then they appear without warning?”
Also, the delegates had been very standoffish. Not shaking hands—of course, Lism had hurried them to the Tailless Thief in all the chaos, but he’d definitely gotten an odd vibe from them. Almost—challenging.
Embria hesitated. Her eyes flicked from Krshia to Lism in a way that said she had thoughts—but she was reluctant to say them. Like a customer asking themselves if they really needed an embellishing ornament on their scabbard.
“Councilmembers. As Wing Commander, of course I would be delighted to assist Liscor in any way I can. Naturally…as Wing Commander…but as advice goes, or input, I, uh, might clarify my remarks differently as Embria.”
Lism and Krshia frowned. Embria scratched at her chin awkwardly.
“Of course, I can give my best input. As Wing Commander—”
“We would accept comments ah, unofficially, Embria.”
Krshia grinned, catching on. Embria sighed and relaxed. She took off her helmet, as if doing that and losing her militarily-straight posture made her not Wing Commander all of a sudden.
“Okay. Look. It’s not something I can say er, as Wing Commander. Badmouthing another city could land me in hot water in the army.”
“But we’re just asking you for advice, Wing Commander.”
Embria looked uncomfortable and Krshia nudged Lism. Not the point right now. The flame-scaled Drake scratched at her neck-spines.
“Politics, sir. More than one Wing Commander’s lost their jobs because they make the wrong comment while we’re working for a client. This is off-the-record. But what Hectval’s doing is sort of a classic among Drake cities. They show up unannounced, don’t respond to your invitations on time—and then complain you’re the ones responsible for poor hospitality. And if you rise to the bait, they’ll shout about it to every Drake city in range. I don’t know why, but they’ve decided they want to make Liscor look bad. You need to win them over or turn the tables on them.”
Lism and Krshia looked at each other. Lism dug at one earhole with a claw.
“…Say what now?”
 
—-
 
Intercity politics in Drake lands was another world. Feuds, alliances—the Drake city-states were each a law unto their own, with different customs, rules, and so on. Each one was like a little nation and you made friends and enemies to stay afloat.
Of course, Lism had known this. That was like any city, really. But Drakes took it to another extreme, according to Embria.
“Hectval is part of the Three Cities Alliance. Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem.”
She actually remembered the names? Embria shrugged.
“We have to. It’s our neighbors and they can cause trouble—mind you, they’d never be as rude if the army was in two hundred miles of their city. They’re known for…crossbows, strong bows and arrow fletching. Hilly terrain—makes fighting their [Archer] battalions a right pain in the—”
She broke off tactfully. Lism stared at her.
“Fight them? Dead gods, we’re entertaining them, Wing Commander!”
“Sorry, sir. Liscor’s army has fought almost every city in Izril at one point or another. We take notes. I’m not the best for diplomacy, but Liscor’s army has to negotiate with clients and keep abreast of the weather.”
“So Hectval’s holding a grudge?”
“Or they think you’ve slighted them somehow. It could be anything. Maybe they want to pressure Liscor into helping them. You have to ask—and mend bridges if it’s a slight. But er, tactfully.”
A word as foreign to Embria as it was to Lism. Krshia was already eying him with great concern. He could be tactful! Lism bridled a bit.
“It’s just such an odd way of going about it.”
“It’s politics, sir. Liscor’s been isolated for a long time from Izril proper due to the Bloodfields. Personally, it might just be that they don’t like the idea of Liscor.”
“Don’t like the…that’s it?”
The Wing Commander looked more astonished than Lism. She eyed him right back.
“We’re Drakes, Councilmember. The last time I was with the army before heading to Liscor—we were around Oteslia, taking work in a Walled Cities conflict because the Serpentine Matriarch of Zeres insulted the First Gardener for refusing to attend her birthday.”
Krshia stared at Lism. He wanted to protest that he hadn’t been responsible for that. It sounded crazy to him as well. Mind you—how hard was it to attend a birthday if that was the result?
He pulled himself together.
“We are Drakes, Wing Commander. If they want hospitality, we won’t give them an inch to complain about. Some good, Liscorian traditions to strengthen long-lost ties between cities and we can sort things out.”
Embria had a dubious look in her eye. She bit her lip.
“…Might be harder than that, sir. As I said, that’s the Scalespeaker—the one with the golden belt you need to impress and he’s a staunch traditionalist. I’d have to ask Wikir or someone who’s up-to-date with records.”
They had records on individual’s personalities? Dead gods, they needed to hire more [Negotiators]. Lism tried to recall that Drake.
“Ah, their leader?”
“No…I think they have a Council. Scalespeaker is like—the diplomatic version of a Watch Captain. We don’t have one, but they’d be the top [Diplomat]. Again, off-the-record, but I’d keep Antinium out of sight. Er, Erin Solstice too.”
“You don’t have to tell us twice, Wing Commander. We’ll make it good, old-fashioned—”
“Try really old-fashioned, sir? The Scalespeaker’s a traditionalist and a liberalist city like Liscor is already—”
“Liberal?”
Lism’s jaw dropped. Now he was convinced Embria was lying to his face. Liscor? She saw his genuine confusion and coughed into a claw. Was she…was she covering a smile?
“You have Antinium in the city and trade with Humans, Councilmembers. Most Drakes don’t see Humans unless they visit a big city. Or enlist. You’re as bad as Zeres to Hectval. Maybe even Oteslia or Pallass.”
The Drake [Shopkeeper] had to sit down for a moment. Liscor? Liberal? His entire life, he’d fought to keep Liscor’s traditions and they were…
Krshia was fighting not to laugh her stupid tail off. Too quick to laugh, that was Krshia Silverfang. It was not at all endearing.
“We’ll—see what we can do. Any general tips, Wing Commander? Putting on a parade or anything grand is difficult with the Raskghar situation—ah, and I’ll let Councilwoman Krshia go with you to oversee that.”
Embria saluted, and chewed at her lip.
“…I’m not an expert on Hectval, but a show of generosity in the face of their attitude is probably the best bet. Gifts of Liscor’s trade goods, something impressive—if you do it well enough, they’ll have to reciprocate even if they hate your guts. It’s another power-move, but it has to be done well.”
Great. And how was he supposed to do that? Lism sighed. He straightened and nodded at Krshia.
“Thank you, Wing Commander. Krshia, go deal with the Raskghar.”
“Are you certain, Lism?”
“Of course I am. You—you’ll be fretting over them and getting in my way. I’ll handle this.”
He looked as confident as possible. Krshia relaxed. She smiled at him as Embria turned to go. Lism waved surreptitiously—
And then sagged when the two were gone. Uh oh. But he’d volunteered for this and it was time to impress Hectval. Impress them. Impress—
What would Silverfang do? She’d…why, she’d do something Gnollish. Put out some silkap and tea, and charm them. But that wasn’t the move here. Lism would offer around a snack platter over some of the decent wine if they were his friends. No, no…he didn’t have the right mindset. He needed…
Lism looked around. And then he hurried off, as one did, to consult with the person he went to for advice. Krshia had a network.
The proud uncle had his nephew.
 
—-
 
Olesm Swifttail was interrogating one of the Raskghar. Safely. The Raskghar was in one of the individual, temporary cells in the Watch House’s barracks. And everyone was keeping their distance.
Magical plague. The Raskghar had been hit with it and it had killed them. Typhenous had probably slain more Raskghar than any other adventurer with a few spells. Olesm had studied plague spells and they were nasty.
However—also easy to deal with in some situations if you had the right spells. [Dispel Magic] erased a magical plague spell in most cases. The trick was having enough spells and mana for an entire infected regiment and catching it before it got that far.
Normally, the ailments caused by magic lasted as long as the magic did. It was worse on [Mages] of course, unless their natural skills let them fight magical effects. Half-Elf armies were bad targets for plague spells…
What else had his course in Manus taught him? Ah—that the real danger was that a magical plague effectively compromised your health so that you’d get sick with regular diseases.
As was the case here. The Raskghar hadn’t known what the magical plague was. And it had infected them multiple times over. Even with the magical cure now—the Raskghar was coughing, ill.
“Good magic. Make better. Surrender.”
She kept saying that. As if someone had been teaching her the words. Olesm folded his arms.
“Who told you to surrender? You are under truth spell. Answer—or we will know.”
And do what, torture you? Kill you? Zevara wouldn’t stand for it. But Olesm still felt as though someone was creeping up with a dagger.
The Raskghar needed no threats, anyways. She looked at him with dim wariness in her eyes. The effects of the moons were fading. She was the most intelligent of the un-Awakened lot; half had already lost the ability to speak in coherent words.
“Nokha.”
Everyone in the room shivered. A dozen [Guards] were ready to attack this single Raskghar if she tried anything. But there she sat.
“Where. Is. Nokha?”
The female Raskghar shook her head.
“Nokha leave. Many moons ago. Take…strong. With…her.”
She growled something unintelligible. But the truth stone Olesm was consulting—all three of them—glowed. Even the most advanced one just said that the Raskghar was uncertain, but truthful.
Damn. The [Strategist] consulted his notes.
“Let’s see. Nokha was sick with the others. You were attacked by—undead. Adventurers. Antinium. And more and more Raskghar were dying. Then she decided to leave, and told you to come up when both moons were full to surrender. She told you to surrender and that we’d make you better.”
“Yes.”
Olesm threw his clipboard down. The Raskghar watched.
“Good slaves. Mercy.”
“Mercy? We should execute them now, along with the Minotaur, [Strategist]!”
One of the Drakes hissed. Olesm itched to say ‘yes’, but he held up one claw.
“That’s not your decision, Guardsman. Watch Captain Zevara is handling the situation. We want to know more. Where did Nokha go? Did she say anything?”
The Raskghar growled.
“Hungry.”
“You can eat if you tell us what we want to know. What did Nokha take?”
“Sword. Magic. Food?”
The Drake’s fist clenched.
