“…’s a stupid sounding name.”
The [Lady]’s eyebrows twitched. She produced a tiny flame of calm and handed it to Erin.
“Just take some this time.”
Erin reached out to pluck the fire from Maviola’s palm. She grabbed at it—and her fingers passed through.
“Ooh! That’s cool!”
“What is going on? Pick it up!”
“I’m trying! It’s not—”
The fire went out. This time because Maviola clearly lost whatever calmness had gone into the fire to begin with.
“What is happening? Can you take this fire or not?”
The furious red flame covered her arms and set her long hair aflame. Erin backed up. She saw Maviola extend a burning arm at her.
“Take the damn fire already!”
Erin grabbed at it—and got a handful at last! The fire sputtered on her hand for half a second. And then it went out.
Slowly, the flames on Maviola went out. She and Erin stood there, on the street, panting and looking at each other. Someone tossed them a copper coin. It bounced past Erin’s left foot. Maviola scooped it up and threw it back at the person who’d tossed it.
“What’s going on?”
She turned to look at Erin. The [Innkeeper] thought she knew.
“It’s…different. Your fire and mine. Isn’t that it?”
The [Lady Firestarter] hesitated. Both of them could remember when their Skills had mixed and let them see into each other’s memories. And Maviola’s fire—she had demonstrated each one she had to Erin.
“Your fire…sorrow, depression was blue. I have sadness. But it’s not like yours.”
“And my hate fire—it’s different from your color. That has to matter.”
Slowly, Maviola nodded. It was different perspectives. Erin thought of the color of her happiness. Different from the yellow of Maviola’s. Glory was pink—to Maviola it was gold.
“I don’t think you can teach fire that easily. At least—not if we’re like this.”
Slowly, the [Lady] nodded.
“I’m sorry. I suppose I don’t know how my Skill interacts with other people. You are the first I’ve met.”
“Yeah. Sorry for snapping at you. It’s just been—I’m stressed.”
“I’m not sorry.”
Erin’s face twitched. She looked away from Maviola. The fire thing had been a pleasant distraction. What she needed…
Was to figure out what the Raskghar were to her. She walked off. Towards the one place that had the answer. Maviola El hesitated. Then followed. Erin really wished she hadn’t. Young Maviola was kind of a jerk. Beautiful and passionate. But also a jerk.
 
—-
 
Later that night, Lism was pondering the definition of words. And he was pleased that this was the only concern in his immediate life. He glanced around the decorated entrance of City Hall, which could serve as a functional ballroom if you did a bit with it.
[Waiters] were serving food to the glittering crowd standing around and talking. There was no dancing, but a wonderful ambient music was floating through the hall. Drakes were talking in groups; most of the Gnolls were busy with the Raskghar business, but adventurers and Drakes mixed and a few Gnolls were present from Hectval as well. The Players of Celum had their own group of attention and the entire atmosphere? Convivial. Cozy, without being cramped.
Most excellent. Lism sipped from his glass as he thought.
Would it be polite to call it a ‘soirée’? No, wait, those were in smaller houses. Well, this was a reception then.
Lism was muddling over the exact wording for the speech he had to give. He nervously adjusted the ruff of one of the very traditional suits he’d put on. But this was a success. Maviola’s efforts had paid off.
No, this was a triumph. Liscor’s City Hall was filled with dignitaries. [Senators], Guild Leaders, and rich (and thus, important) people from Pallass and Liscor.
It was the kind of thing that impressed. Even Gold-rank teams, who liked to hobnob since a lot of the richest members of a city were often the ones who’d hire you.
Dazzling, radiant—and the pizzas looked fancy. At least, to Lism. Gold flakes. There had to be something fancy about them if you ended eating gold, right? He heard a commotion from the doors.
“Get back here! He’s stolen a pizza!”
One of the food thieves. They got everywhere. Ancestors! Lism was sort of glad, actually. It proved there was something to steal.
And certainly…he owed Krshia a large debt. Even that Maviola character might be decent, halfway worthy of Olesm. No Erin Solstice had popped out, no Crelers had tunneled out of the cake to attack everyone…it was an unmitigated victory for Liscor.
Even more than Lism could have predicted. Mystifyingly so. The Scalespeaker of Hectval, Yisht, lushed over to Lism. And that was the correct word in this case.
“Councilmember Lism. This—this is hospitality. Accept my deepest gratitude—and you have my apologies. Just this morning I thought this city was a cesspool and look at it now!”
He had a glass of expensive wine in one claw and a ruby plucked from a cake wedge in the other. Drakes hadn’t ever seen the El family style of decorating appetizers and they’d made a run on the desserts. It was the glitter, the shine.
“Delighted, Scalespeaker. And never mind the introductions, eh? Your delegation is welcome in Liscor! It’s splendid to have you!”
The two Drakes laughed together. Hectval’s delegation were socializing with the people in the room, and positively beaming with Tismel, Zalaiss, and Alonna, who were the Councilmembers present.
Strange, though. The Hectval delegation’s attitudes had done a one-eighty since arriving. The Scalespeaker nodded.
“The fault was mine. Misconceptions, you see, Councilmember Lism. I’ll have the mud on my tail when I go back to explain it. But you’ve been nothing but hospitable in clearing this mess up and I’m sending for proper gifts to match this generosity as we speak. Just wanted to let you know that this—this won’t be forgotten.”
He gestured around the room. Lism laughed and smiled as Yisht escorted him around. And he resisted the urge to shout ‘what the hell was going on?’
They must have really wowed the Drake city, or they didn’t have experience with this kind of wealth. Lism puffed up. At least he’d have something good to relate to Krshia tonight. He thought he could sequester some of the good food; they could have it at his apartment.
He hoped the Raskghar issue was settled. And he’d introduce Krshia later. A success! They were going to have to do this again as well! The Pallassian people were so taken with this event that they were asking if they could do it again.
“Just elegant food, good conversation—for the gifts between Hectval and Liscor? Of course. And here I thought Liscor was unstylish, pardon me. But this—”
A Drake from Pallass rolled her eyes and exclaimed. Even Tismel and Zalaiss and the old Council were pulling their weight. Yes, Lism beamed as he took a drink.
It was all coming up just fine. He saw someone waving urgently at him behind Yisht.
“Ah, excuse me, Scalespeaker. Perhaps something to do with the Raskghar…we will certainly have time to continue this.”
The Drake waved him off jovially. Lism hurried over to Jeiss, who was waving at him in armor, looking worried.
“Jeiss! This is going amazingly well! I have no idea what we did, but that Maviola saved our tails! Please tell me it’s not an emergency.”
“It’s…”
Lism closed his eyes.
“Don’t say it. Please.”
“Erin S—”
The Drake wanted to cry. He covered his face as Jeiss patted him on the shoulder.
 
—-
 
An hour ago.
Erin Solstice stood in the prison. The [Guards] had let her through the crowd on Zevara’s orders. They were staring nervously at her from their double-line of fortifications.
They were ready to destroy the entire prison and everyone in it. The Raskghar were dangerous. Even behind bars—Erin had a sense that if they worked together, they might be able to rip a bar free or something.
And even if they couldn’t? They just gave her the impression of being wild things locked up.
The [Guards] had cautioned her to stay back from the bars. She had eight around her, all the best fighters, watching the Raskghar carefully. For their part, the Raskghar stared at the backs of the cells, away from the bars.
They were still sick, but noticeably better after having the plague spells dispersed. Some were eating, but most had ravenously consumed the food.
It smelled. There were sewage holes that allowed waste to be…processed, but the Raskghar themselves sort of smelled and the excrement-shafts were very small. That was important; you could smuggle something in or out that way. A master [Thief] could squeeze through improbably small places.
Erin wondered if the Gentlemen Callers had followed them inside. She looked around. If Wilovan and Ratici were here, they weren’t immediately noticeable. And as they had said—they couldn’t save her from everything.
So she was careful. Erin Solstice looked around. Maviola had left to find Olesm after taking one whiff of the prison. There wasn’t much for her to see, anyways.
Here were the Raskghar. What did you do with them? Erin saw small Raskghar, sniffing at her. But they didn’t look like Mrsha.
They looked like they were wondering if they could kill her if she was in the cell with them. But maybe that was bias? Goblin children…Pebblesnatch had been dangerous.
“Pebblesnatch.”
The poor, happily cooking Cave Goblin with her poofy hat. Erin clutched her heart. She had been a slave to the Raskghar.
It was the wrong thing to remember here. Erin Solstice looked at the eyes watching her, glinting in the hung lantern’s light. And she tried.
The young woman walked down the jail. She came to a stop at a glowing cell and looked in.
“Hi, Calruz.”
“Erin Solstice. Zevara was expecting you. I did not hope to find you here.”
The Minotaur was petting one of the two rats. The other was perched on his head. Erin almost smiled at the sight. But it was another reminder.
A rat king made by a little Gnoll. A tortured Minotaur. Justice and…
“Zevara was right. But why didn’t you want me to be here?”
The Minotaur bared his teeth.
“Because there is nothing to save. Goblins? Goblins can fight with honor, for all they are a foe my people have fought against. Antinium may be a people, foreign as they are. But the Raskghar are nothing but madness. Look at me.”
He gestured to himself.
“There is nothing for you here to redeem, Erin Solstice. Tell Zevara that. She will not listen.”
“Maybe because she believes in you.”
The Minotaur’s eyes flickered.
“It is the one flaw in a good—no, an excellent Watch Captain. Justice, Erin Solstice. Let those outside have their justice. Or let me exact mine and we will close this chapter, the Raskghar and I.”
Erin looked at him. The cells stirred. She looked around. And she did not miss the looks some of the [Guards] gave Calruz. They were not entirely hateful.
“Zevara spoke to me, Calruz. About…justice. She has a good point. Not all of the Raskghar are murderers. There’re kids here.”
“And some ate the hearts of Gnolls for power. I ordered it.”
The Minotaur did not blink. He didn’t stop petting the rat either, with a finger as gentle as a feather’s touch. The rat curled up its tail and yawned as it stared ahead. It was happy.
It was easier for rats. They did not have to judge. And it was that reason why Erin came here. To find what Zevara wanted. She looked around.
“It’s not right to punish a species for…everything.”
A snort from behind her.
“No? Perhaps not. But if justice waits, it is not justice at all. How long must the grieving wait for the murderers to die?”
“At least a day.”
Erin thought she heard a chuckle from a [Guardsman]. She looked around, unsmiling.
“What?”
The patrol fell silent. Back to Calruz, the young woman walked.
“It’s not right to let a mob in here and tear people apart, Calruz. That’s why the law’s there. You don’t hang people instantly either. You make sure they’re the ones who did…whatever it was. Justice—probably shouldn’t be swift. That’s more like vengeance.”
“But either way. Murder was done and far worse than murder. Ask the living. Ask the child. Look at them, Erin Solstice.”
The Minotaur was unwavering. Erin stood up. And she did look. She did try.
Raskghar. There was a cell of young ones. If they weren’t so large, Erin might have called them…four? Six? They were the youngest living ones.
There were no babies here. The plague must have killed them. Erin tried to think of that.
“Can I see them?”
“They’re dangerous, Miss Solstice.”
“Just one?”
The Senior Guardswoman considered that.
“Back up. Back up—this one. Forwards.”
She pointed to the smallest Raskghar. They others crept forwards, but the [Guards] slapped long-handled poles on the ground and they moved back.
Now that—that seemed wrong to Erin. Even so—she looked at the little Raskghar.
“Hello. Can you understand me?”
It growled at Erin. Making a low whining sound. Erin felt like she was talking to a feral dog. Maybe it was too young.
“I’m Erin Solstice. Are you okay? Can you…do you know what I’m saying?”
No response. Had the moons already waned? The Raskghar just crouched on all-fours, peering at Erin. It was so young. And—it wasn’t cold, but the Raskghar looked like it was shaking a bit.
“What’s wrong? Is—he?—cold?”
The [Innkeeper] turned to the [Guards]. They shook their heads.
“Shakes, Miss. [Healer] says it’s not cold. They didn’t want the blankets. At least, this one didn’t.”
They pointed at the pile one Raskghar was curled up in. The young woman nodded. Then she eyed the Raskghar again. It looked thin. No doubt starved.
“Can I give them some food?”
“We fed them—”
The [Guardswoman] saw Erin dig at her belt. Slowly, Erin pulled out…some dried meat. A snack. Jerky.
The Raskghar sniffed. It edged closer—the [Guards] warned the others to stay back.
Slowly, so slowly, Erin extended her arm with the bit of meat. She tried to wave it in order to capture the Raskghar child’s attention
“Hi. Can you talk to me? Are you hungry? What’s your name?”
The child looked at Erin. And then it lunged. Erin jerked her hand back as the jaws snapped next to where her hand and the meat had been.
“Back!”
One of the [Guards] yanked Erin back. She lay there, panting, as the Raskghar child fled, disguising itself among the others.
Erin heard silence. Then—laughter. Her skin prickled.
It did not come from the Watch. She looked over—and a Raskghar crouched at the front of her cage.
A large one. She was more like a Gnoll. But again—larger. Primal, like what Gnolls were in times before they had possessed spears and weapons and had to defend themselves with claw and muscle alone.
“Little one stupid. I. I Asoma. Still speak. You give food? Kind master.”
