Ryoka, Fierre, and Salamani were over two thirds of their way to Invrisil when the news about the Raskghar caught up to them. Rather—they had to go to the Mage’s Guild and get a letter from Mrsha addressed to Ryoka.
Dear Ryoka—the letter began, because of course, you had to have manners and Mrsha’s mother was a [Princess]—
 
Dear Ryoka,
Raskghar have left the dungeon. They are prisoners in the city, but Nokha isn’t there. Everyone is worried. Hurry up and come here.
–Mrsha
 
Of course, that made Ryoka run faster, but she was still a City Runner. She slowed Fierre and Salamani down.
But she was coming. And if you looked or listened—they were drawing together again. Faces seen and never seen at that inn.
Away from Invrisil, Laken Godart was fulfilling a debt to Ryoka. Some of her needs he couldn’t oblige her, but a party? He had gotten a few RSVP’s from nobles that Rie could lean on. The ones who’d attended his gathering during the time of the Goblin raids—had politely refused.
But he had his own concerns which dovetailed with the party. Riverfarm would be ready for Ryoka’s guests.
Some of it was design. Some of it—coincidence. For instance, Ryoka had not told them she was going to Invrisil. Certainly, after the last few encounters she was not kindly disposed to the three Gold-rank adventurers sitting in the wagon headed far more slowly to Invrisil.
It could be as long as a week’s trip. But they were headed back. For a few reasons. Mostly, to see about a famous Dwarf-smith that Dawil thought he could get in with. Also, to meet one of Ylawes’ old friends in the area…
That wasn’t the surprising thing. The surprising thing was that they had company who also knew Ryoka. Two people, in fact.
“So you both know Ryoka Griffin?”
“Well, I can’t say as I have personally known her, Lord Ylawes. More like an encounter one time.”
Termin tipped his hat as he ordered the two mules to stop flirting and keep going. He chuckled.
“Crazy, meeting a Gold-rank team who just met her. She doing well? She was rescuing this team from these evil frogs…”
“Wailer Frogs?”
“The very ones. Actually, I owe her a bit of a debt. Leveled up from that encounter, so I did. But how’d you meet with her, sir?”
The [Wagon Driver] nodded, much pleased. He turned to the last rider on the wagon—well, Termin was doing a bit of a passenger shuttle so people kept getting on and off, riding with the goods. But the ones bound for Invrisil, his last stop numbered four in total.
The recalcitrant young man looked up.
“We stayed at the same inn. I’m just moving cities to earn more money. Reizmelt’s dried up.”
“Fist fighting. You know, I’d have given you a shot if you hadn’t laid out that huge fellow. Must have been three hundred pounds. You should have tried it, Ylawes.”
“It wouldn’t have been fair. Without my armor…and with it, certainly not.”
The [Knight] demurred. Falene rolled her eyes. She objected to the trivial pursuits both her companions were on. Wistram called to her. But—she’d heard some Wistram [Mages] were in the inn, so she had her own reasons for going too.
But that was the thing about travel. The Silver Swords were moving slowly, able to run off and slay some monsters before catching up with the wagon. Ryoka and the other two were moving for Invrisil as fast as they could. Yet they would be too late. Had been too late, for the Raskghar.
Not that they had been needed. The attack had been a non-attack. But the problem with things you didn’t kill was that they remained.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice had been intending to end her day with a bracing game of chess. Perhaps even a few games of cards with Numbtongue who had developed something of an addiction to it. Or perhaps an addiction to gambling.
Instead, she rose before dawn after a sleepless night. She had slept—in that way where you forgot you’d rested because you’d kept waking up and falling back into uneasy slumber.
As a girl, Erin would sometimes watch a horror movie or see some creepy picture and have nights like that on Earth. That had been one thing, with only the phantoms of her mind for company.
Knowing there were actually things out there had meant that Erin got probably two entire hours of sleep out of the eight she had been ‘sleeping’.
Only her Skills had given her enough rest to function. And even then—Erin looked around the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Little sleeping forms. Numerous bedrolls—and a bed. Erin passed a hand over her weary face. Dozens of figures, actually.
Silently, she checked the two objects she’d been sleeping with. Not next to her—so there was no risk of rolling into them, but close enough to be grabbed in a moment.
A knife—a frying pan, and closer than that impromptu bar-weapon—a glowing, green jar. Erin examined it in the faint light before the dawn. She was careful not to touch the edge of the knife as she unsheathed it. Normally, she didn’t even use it for cooking.
As for the jar—Erin looked it over, making sure the seal was tight, and not corroded. She ignored the pan. Pans were pans. Erin put the knife on her belt, stretching. Then she remembered—
Potions. Erin checked her belt. Two healing potions, one Tripvine…no, that was in the bag of holding. She sighed as she put the pan inside the magical bag.
Erin checked the jar of acid one last time for cracks or flaws in the glass. Honestly, she wasn’t happy even carrying it in a bag of holding. If it broke—you had less than ten seconds before whatever the acid did probably wouldn’t ever heal.
But as weapons went—Erin carefully placed it in her bag of holding and stood up. She stretched again as she looked around her garden.
She knew how many people were in and out of it. Two had left—Numbtongue, which was fine, and Palt. Both okay. Even so, Erin checked the numbers within, expanding her…senses. Her aura? Checking her garden for intruders.
Surely she would have noticed. But Erin did it anyways because she felt uneasy.
Mrsha and Lyonette, check. Pawn, snoozing in an Antinium-huddle with the Workers and six Soldiers—check. The Soldiers were clearly awake—they were staring at Erin.
Little snoring buzzes coming from Ekirra’s nose for all he’d been so nervous Saliss had given Erin a drop of sleepy-stuff to put in a cup of blue juice for him. He slept with his parents and other Gnoll families who’d asked…
Visma, curled up with her parents, holding onto one of the Mrsha-toys. The silver ball Numbtongue had made. Better make sure she didn’t try to keep it…
Bird wasn’t here. He’d refused to leave his tower, claiming, accurately, that he didn’t need to sleep and that the inn was far more secure with him there. He was still up there.
Kevin, Rose, Joseph, Imani, Troy, Leon, Galina…check. Erin ran down the few others in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. And those in the inn.
Few had wanted to sleep in the rooms when Erin had offered the garden for the night. Even people from the city had approached her when they’d heard Erin talking about it. After all—it was probably the safest place in all of Liscor and Erin wasn’t making that up.
The people who’d refused were Bezale and Montressa, who’d put up wards on their rooms, and the Players of Liscor—half had wanted to be with their families or slept in Invrisil given their ongoing thing.
The other half were here with said families or friends, snoring away. They were using bedding from the inn, turned into bedrolls; it was Lyonette who had arranged for a bed to be imported here for herself and Mrsha, and set up a small space for them.
She was holding Mrsha tight and Erin didn’t wake either. The [Innkeeper] exhaled as she finished her check.
“Nothing happen when I was out? Yellow Splatters?”
She turned and the [Sergeant] paused. He had walked up on her from behind.
“No, Erin Solstice. No reports from Liscor, either. I have checked every twenty minutes with Purple Smiles, who is deployed there, along with Belgrade.”
He spoke. An Antinium with a voice that made Kilkran remark that he’d fear for his job if Yellow Splatters were anything but Antinium. Erin looked at the Soldier and had a flash of another Antinium.
“We are here to protect you.”
Would she ever forget any of the other moments like these? Perhaps not. They all flashed across Erin’s mind. Some more pressing than the others.
For instance, the Painted Antinium were here in force. Erin had two squads in the [Garden], and she knew that forty were in the inn, hiding in the basement, resting, patrolling—each one a Painted Soldier or Worker-Archers and thus superior to even normal Antinium.
The night Skinner attacked would not repeat itself. The Raskghar’s raids would not repeat themselves.
“We live and learn.”
“Yes.”
Yellow Splatters watched her. Erin looked around. That was the thing about surviving stuff. You tended to not want it to happen again. Zevara had requested six hundred Antinium Soldiers to patrol every inch of the city and hold the walls. And no one was complaining about that.
Not today. The [Innkeeper] walked towards the door. Yellow Splatters followed.
“What are you doing, Erin Solstice?”
He was formal and not at the same time. He did not call her ‘Miss Solstice’ these days. Which Erin liked. But he did use her full name. Erin turned as she walked towards a door waiting for her along the walls.
“Someone needs to make breakfast. And since the staff are all here or on vacation…”
“It may be dangerous.”
The [Sergeant] moved to block her. Undeterred, Erin walked left—the door was in front of her again.
“If there’s a monster in the inn, it’s both invisible and it can evade my [Innkeeper]-senses, Yellow Splatters. My innsense. No…that sounds horrible. Have you had anything to eat?”
Yellow Splatters hesitated. He seemed so large, despite not being that much bigger than regular Soldiers. But Erin was so familiar…
“The Antinium have brought field-rations.”
The look of horror on Erin’s face made it quite clear that she knew exactly what Antinium rations looked like. She pushed open the door, shaking her head—
Every Antinium in the common room stood up as Erin stepped through the door right outside her kitchen. A dozen bows raised and lowered instantly. Soldiers prepared their fists—and stopped.
The young woman reacted with the same speed; she lowered the knife and jar.
“It’s just me, guys. Erin.”
The Antinium looked at her as she waved. As if they needed clarification on that last bit. Erin sighed as her heart decided it was time for a sudden sprint in the morning.
“Everyone’s on edge. Hey, Pink Stripes? Nice to see you.”
Erin made finger-guns at a Soldier standing closest to her. He copied the gesture with all four hands, slowly.
Outgunned, Erin looked around. She caught sight of herself in the large scrying mirror. Fortified inn, armed Erin, Antinium ready for a fight.
What if this had been the Erin who arrived in this world way back when? Almost a good thing she hadn’t—the Goblins who’d attacked her and the Rock Crab wouldn’t have survived those meetings. Erin walked into the kitchen and stared at a Worker with a bow sitting next to it.
“Archer C2, get that out of your mouth. I’ll get breakfast. Anyone want food? You know what? I’ll just…”
The Worker slowly spat out the bit of Antinium rations—the bar of—the congealed and dried substance that—
The…semi-solid matter that was slightly crumbly, but was lightweight, kept for over a month, and which even rodents wouldn’t eat. Erin still had to worry about pests, even with her [Field of Preservation]. The Children of the Grain Sack had taught her that, so she did arm her traps.
She’d tried using the Antinium’s field rations until she realized nothing would eat it, not even bugs.
A bee buzzed out of the doorway, saw the room full of predators, and immediately buzzed into the kitchen. Erin, yawning, was grabbing all the pre-mades. Not Imani’s more elegant dishes, but the old standards she made.
Pizza, big pots of soup you could warm up…damn.
“They can’t eat these pizzas. Where’re Garry’s special pizzas with his dough? Let’s see…oho!”
The ‘oho’ was because Imani had labeled everything. One of the things Erin had never done.
‘Antinium-safe foods’ was a pantry with a lot of space in it. So much so that Erin had food for all the Antinium just from it alone. She began heating things up. Meanwhile, Apista crawled around.
The bee wasn’t hungry, per se. Since the Garden had an ample supply of all the plants she could want and she had a small supply of emergency-honey she was adding to.
However, she was a bit—jazzed. She could take the edge off. Mrsha and Lyonette had been worried, and the air, to the bee, was a bit tense. Apista cast about and then flew out of a window Erin cracked open to let some fresh air in and the smoke from the fires out.
“Hm. Hm…okay. Hey guys! Food! Come and get it. Help yourselves.”
Erin put Soldier-safe bowls and the first pot of soup out after a few minutes. Antinium clustered around. Assured by Erin that the bread was Garry’s and thus safe, they lathered it up with butter and dipped it into the rich—and buggy—soup.
Funny thing about Antinium. The ones like Yellow Splatters had no problem doing anything. But Erin took the extra minute because she knew Antinium to make a few pick up the butter knife.
“Put butter on the bread. It’s optional, but you’re allowed to do it, see? All of you, have one buttered slice. That’s an order.”
She phrased it like that because if you gave an Antinium a loaf of bread and something optional, they wouldn’t ever do the optional bit. Like condiments—you had to teach them it was alright to use up a stick of butter. It was…them thinking a bit of ketchup was worth more than they were.
Just a small thing. But you had to do it in Erin’s mind. So one of the things Ishkr taught [Servers] was to add condiments to an Antinium table’s order so they’d eat it. Don’t give them the jar of ketchup! And yes—it was a jar. Erin hadn’t developed squeeze-technology yet, at least in a way she was happy about.
“Greedy Drakes now, they’ll take the jar with them. Especially the food-thieves. Don’t see them around.”
Erin shot a glance around the inn, as if checking for the spies who liked to frequent her inn. To her surprise…she realized the inn had a few people loitering outside.
Busybodies? Erin would attend to food first. Food made the world better. Speaking of which—
She looked around for her mother before she bit into a lukewarm piece of pizza. Just—because her mother would have had something to say about that for breakfast. An odd thing, to think of her mother. Erin really didn’t…so the pizza bite’s swallow was a bit hard for reasons other than consistency.
