All was well—on the surface. But Erin felt the tension. Still—that wasn’t what was wrong with the world.
What was wrong was that the good fellows had turned their backs until she put her shirt back on. And Bezale was smacking Palt hard as Montressa checked Erin’s midsection.
“Any more pain?”
“No. I think it’s good.”
Erin had cracked a rib when Palt fell on her. Two, actually. Which—to be fair, wasn’t exactly surprising when a horse fell on you.
“I am so sorry…”
“It’s fine. Healing potion’s already working.”
Cracked ribs weren’t as bad as broken bones. But Erin would have loved for Pisces to be here. She’d survived Skinner with…okay, maybe it wasn’t as fair. But Wyvern attacks? Crelers? And this was how she went out?
“Death by horse.”
“I said, I’m sorry.”
Palt was beet-red. He might have been a skilled [Illusionist], but he didn’t exactly have the most nimble build.
Erin eyed the Gentlemen Callers. They had refused to look until she put her clothing on. Not that she’d even exposed more than navel and said ribs. She knew beachgoers who were far more scantily clad than she had been.
But they were—The Gentlemen Callers. And the five Human men whom had introduced themselves to Erin and were politely helping themselves to a non-Antinium spread of food?
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. And they were…criminals.
What astonished Erin was that they came out and said it. Twenty minutes was all it took. Five minutes really; patching Erin up had taken longer, mainly just to find a female pair of hands to administer the potion properly.
“So you guys are a gang?”
The Gentlemen Callers looked at each other. Wilovan, the burly Gnoll with the nearly-top hat and Ratici, the capped Drake who was short and slender. They glanced past Erin.
“It’s a delicate subject, Miss Erin. I’d hate to insist, but—”
One look was all it took. Palt grabbed Montressa and Bezale.
“Why don’t we stand over here, you two?”
Erin blinked. She saw the Centaur shuffle them off and mouth something at her which she completely missed. And it was something because Erin was certain none of the three [Mages] were listening in magically. Beza made a gesture to Montressa and Palt began shaking his head like Mrsha after a rainstorm.
“The Gentlemen Callers are two big Faces, Erin. That’s like—a ruler of the underworld. You don’t make them your enemies. They’re part of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. They’re a smaller gang, but they’re elite. Erin—these guys are big players in northern Izril. I have no idea why they’re here! Even one of the Elusive Lot would have trouble getting them to move, let alone send the Callers here!”
That had been Palt’s whispered explanation when he’d put three and three together. It had confused Erin, but Ratici had made it clearer.
“We’re criminals, Miss Solstice. Call us a gang—call us [Rogues] if you like. We prefer to be called upstanding sorts—but only by comparison. We were hired to look out for you.”
That was easier to understand. Wilovan tipped his hat as Erin turned back from the [Mages].
“To be more precise, in the interest of honesty, Miss Erin, Ratici here is the finest [Thief] you’d ever lay eyes on, which is an indictment, of course, in his line of work as it were. And I’m a humble [Thug]. A fellow with a club who taps folks and absconds with coin. Dishonest men that we are, you can see why we’d hesitate to introduce ourselves before now.”
Erin had noticed this before, but the way they talked and even acted had roots in her country’s past. Not entirely one-to-one, but the Gentlemen Callers had a style about them.
But they were criminals. Honestly, the first Erin had really met. There was Pisces…and Lyonette, and the thugs and Grev. But these two were actual professionals compared to the amateurs.
“A [Thug] and a [Thief]. So you two are jerks who beat people up and then steal everything they own?”
She expected them to bridle at that, but the two just smiled. Wilovan touched a furry hand to his cap in a kind of salute.
“High-level, so a bit more than that, but we did start there. And I regret to say there was a time I roughed up any sort, Miss Solstice. But we’re part of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, and we follow a…code. If we prey on those with coin—it isn’t those down on their luck. Never children, never decent sorts.”
“Ah.”
They were Robin Hoods of this world. But when Erin made the comparison without the name, the two chuckled.
“Hardly, hardly, Miss Solstice. We don’t ‘give to the poor’ save by way of spending large at a favorite restaurant or such. We’re simply honestly dishonest folk in that we pick our targets with more care than say—another gang.”
“And…why do you have a code of conduct at all? Are you honorable guys?”
Erin saw Wilovan blink slowly at her. He had that unflappable refusal to get angry or riled that Erin had seen in, well, only a few people.
“If there’s an [Honorable Thief], it isn’t one Ratici and I would bump elbows with, Miss Erin. Say rather we do what we do with the modicum of integrity we have—simply to live with ourselves.”
They were honest about their dishonesty. Erin sat back.
“So why are you here? Someone hired you two to protect me? Who?”
The two exchanged a glance.
“A client.”
“Who?”
“I’m afraid that’s confidential, Miss Solstice. You may have noticed us around—we accepted the contract just a bit ago.”
Erin had noticed them for a while. She scowled.
“But who? Ilvriss? See here—you can’t just sit in my inn and, er—guard me.”
The duo sighed even as Erin realized she hadn’t phrased that quite right. Wilovan looked at Ratici. The [Thief] glared at Erin.
“We wouldn’t be having this conversation if you hadn’t picked us up, Miss. You must be over Level 40. I could sleep cheek-to-jowl with that Level 30 Drake [Innkeeper] in his bed and he’d never notice me.”
“Peslas? Ew. Why would you want to?”
Wilovan’s lips quirked. He nodded at the Brothers.
“My friend Ratici is free to entertain himself as he will on his time off, Miss Erin. Not that he’s generally so rude. But the fact remains—we wished to be unnoticed guests, but it seems our client was rather perspicacious as it were.”
Erin really wished Pisces were here. Even Ratici’s lips moved.
“What’s that then, Wilovan? Wait. I think I know. Perspi…sweaty?”
“Not at all, Ratici. Fine word. Read it in a book with a lovely woman just the other month. It means a discerning fellow. One with a lot of insight.”
“Ah.”
The two had the same rhythm as Relc and Klbkch. Perhaps that was why Erin smiled despite wanting to be mad. The problem was—she had met these two and been amused by their colorful interplay before. They seemed friendly. And Numbtongue liked them.
Even so. They were [Thief] and [Thug]. Erin narrowed her eyes as she had a thought.
“Hold on. How long have you two been protecting me? I remember you being here for a while. What else have you two done?”
They eyed each other. Erin folded her arms. Wilovan coughed into a paw.
“Is this necessary, Miss Solstice?”
“It sure is if you want to stay here another second! I’m not having strange criminals under my roof!”
Ratici gave Erin a long look.
“As opposed to known criminals?”
“I know a jerk who sniffs a lot. He tried to rob me once. That’s—that’s not the point! I’m in charge here! Well?”
The two sighed. Wilovan snapped his fingers.
“Ah. There was that nastiness with that Bearclaw personality. One of the small-timers from down south. Messed about your friend. Terrible thing, that. Apologies, but we weren’t able to stop that.”
Relc. Erin’s stomach tightened up.
“You let it happen?”
“He seemed like a good sort to defend himself. Mind you—we were already taking liberties if you don’t mind me saying so. Our client’s orders don’t pertain to anyone but you, Miss Solstice. But we ah, had to adjust our criteria. A few unscrupulous sorts were going to kidnap the little Gnoll child. We persuaded them not to.”
Erin did remember that Bearclaw’s gang had been found unconscious. She hadn’t delved into it, with Relc being beaten up and his apartment burned by the Golden Triangle mob. She looked at Wilovan.
“You two did that?”
They winked as one.
“The Brothers don’t stand for kidnapping or anything that’d hurt a child. Cute little girl. Could use some pants, but then, we were all young once.”
Erin sat back. She had no idea! And she wouldn’t have if they hadn’t been obvious. She hadn’t even sensed Ratici and Wilovan except that the other five Brothers had made them noticeable.
“So you were in my inn to…”
“Chase off any of the rough fellows who came calling yesterday. Since that fine Named Adventurer isn’t here, we thought a bit of emergency help wouldn’t be amiss. Mind you—we’d have let the Antinium take the first swings. No offense, but we’re not here to risk our lives.”
But they were here to help. And who had hired them? Erin had a list of…well, she could imagine Ilvriss, maybe Magnolia or…
There were a few others. Erin narrowed her eyes.
“How long are you two going to guard me for? Can you tell me who hired you?”
“That would be a secret on both counts, Miss Solstice. We’re already compromised—we should remit some of the fee to the client, Ratici.”
“Damn. Pardon my language, Miss Solstice. Won’t happen again.”
The Drake looked embarrassed. Erin sighed.
“…Call me Erin.”
The young woman smiled a bit. Then Erin narrowed her eyes again as she had a sudden realization.
“Hold up. Invrisil. The mob…you two were there as well! You protected me!”
“And this is why we don’t take these sorts of jobs, no matter how good the pay is, Wilovan.”
The Drake leaned over and muttered. Wilovan whispered back.
“You’re being quite rude, Ratici. I hate to remind you in front of Miss Erin like this.”
“Terribly sorry, Miss. It’s been a fraught day.”
They both tipped their hats again.
Double damn. She was beginning to like them. Erin folded her arms.
“So you two won’t tell me who’s hiring you. But you did say you’re under orders to protect me?”
The two winced. Erin rubbed her hands together.
“So if I punched a Rock Crab…”
“I’d be amazed anyone would risk that, bodyguards or not. We can’t be everywhere and we don’t work miracles, Miss Solstice. Quite the opposite. And until now we thought your inn was safe at night.”
Erin’s face fell.
“So did I.”
Reality was Raskghar and this messy situation. Honestly, the Gentlemen Callers were the bright spot in Erin’s day. She looked at the Brothers.
“So those guys are like underlings?”
“Lower-ranking members. Decent sorts. Inherently trustworthy with anything but money, Miss. They’d rob you blind if you weren’t under protection, but make sure you got home in one piece. Can’t say that’s fair, but it’s how we work. Wave at the [Innkeeper], lads!”
All five instantly stopped having pizza and gave Erin a tip of the hat instead. She looked at Ratici. Now what was she going to do with them?
As happenstance would have it, Erin never got to answer that question. Because—the Gentlemen Callers were not actually applicable to her problems. They could have stopped the Raskghar cold. Would have—if Saliss hadn’t been there. Erin sensed that. They were two of the most high-level guests she had, right up there with Grimalkin. Not like Saliss, who was at the top or Grand Mage Eldavin, but…
But the problem was different. Erin heard a howl from the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She was out of her seat in a second.
Ratici beat her to the door. The fellow smacked into the open doorway and bounced off. Wilovan stepped back and held the door to let Erin through. He’d taken in the scene in a moment.
The children, of which there were eleven, were in the Garden, all crying. Some louder than others. Erin saw Mrsha standing with Ekirra. Visma was lying on the ground, howling as she held the silver ball. Her dress was muddy—Mrsha had pushed her along the pond-area’s banks.
“What’s going on here?”
Apparently, there had been a squabble. Visma had refused to give the ball back after breakfast when Mrsha wanted to play, and Mrsha, usually caring and generous with her gifts, had demanded it back. She’d pushed Visma, the Drake girl had begun crying, and so had everyone else.
Erin felt like crying, a bit, as she saw Mrsha’s tear-stained face and snotty nose. The little Gnoll toddled over to her on two legs and hugged at Erin’s leg.
She was shaking. It wasn’t the fight that had started the crying. Erin bent down as the adults rushed over.
“Here, here. It’s okay, Mrsha. It’s going to be okay. I’m sure Visma forgives you. See? She’s alright. You just have to say sorry. You’re Mrsha the Big and Brave, aren’t you? It’s alright…”
Mrsha sniffed as Lyonette halted. She looked at Visma, and then buried her face in Erin’s shirt. She was still trembling.
“What’s wrong, Mrsha? Everyone’s okay, see?”
The Gnoll shook her head. She looked up and her trembling paws formed one word. A biting claw descending on a heart made out of her paws.
Raskghar.
Erin stopped for a second. Of course. They hadn’t gone away. They were in Liscor. They had bypassed the walls, invaded the heart of the city. Who cared if a few metal bars stood in their way? They were there.
No wonder she was terrified. Gently, Erin held Mrsha. Lyonette reached out, but Erin held Mrsha for a moment. Hugging her tight.
“Don’t worry, Mrsha. You’re safe here. No one’s ever going to hurt you, I promise.”
A lie that Erin knew she couldn’t keep. But that was how you were supposed to lie to children. Especially your children. And Mrsha—if only she could believe that. Erin held her and looked to the open door, around at the frightened faces.
“It’s going to be alright. Okay? It’s going to be alright. I promise.”
She transferred Mrsha to Lyonette after the crying slowed and a few minutes had passed. Then Erin walked slowly towards the door.
“Handkerchief, Miss Erin?”
Wilovan handed it to Erin for her wet front. She blinked at it and shook her head. Then she checked her waist.
“You two…if you’re here to protect me, we can talk about it later. I have somewhere to be.”
Slowly, she walked past the Gentlemen Callers. They exchanged a glance as Erin walked into the city. Her knife was at her side. It weighed so little. But it was sharper than last time. Erin had prepared her inn, herself for this kind of day.
Never again. She walked into the city as the real troubles began.
 
—-
 
Evil sat in Liscor. Monsters. Things from the dungeon and the ancient past. If those in Erin Solstice’s inn had little sleep—at least they had the [Garden of Sanctuary].
