Those living in the city, let alone close to the prison had even less. To be fair—some hadn’t bothered to even try.
It would be wrong to call the group of mostly-Gnolls and some Drakes ‘demonstrators’. Demonstrators implied they had something to demonstrate and were at least vocal about the subject.
This crowd was quiet. And armed. They said little. But if the line of [Guards] around the prison’s entrance were to open—Watch Captain Zevara was certain that the prisoners would be dead within five minutes.
“Prisoners.”
She repeated the word so it lodged in her own head. That was how she had to think of them. Inmates, prisoners…as the law prescribed them. She could hear what other people were saying just fine, thank you very much.
Monsters. The Gnoll’s forsaken ancestors from ages past. Nightmares which deserved neither mercy nor pity.
But they had surrendered. So—treat them like prisoners of war? Criminals each with a part in aiding and abetting murder at the very least?
The Watch Captain wished tea was stronger. Or stamina potions lasted longer. She stood in her office.
“We have the cells for them. Barely. We have to fit multiple to a cell, even in cases where the solitary confinement won’t do. Also—the issue is that we can’t use some of the older cells. On advice, I’ve moved Raskghar only to cells we’re sure can hold them since none can use Skills.”
“On whose advice, Watch Captain?”
The Council was listening. And unlike previous Liscors, this Council seemed prepared to act. Unfortunately—Zevara was at a loss to tell them what she thought should be done.
Not kill all the Raskghar was a good step. But sentencing? Containment? There was going to be trouble soon with the Gnolls who wanted vengeance and everyone knew it.
But the Council had two problems today. The guests from Hectval had arrived unannounced. Getting them situated had been easier with the Raskghar situation, but they’d still been all ruffled scales until they were placed at the Tailless Thief. Not her problem, anyways.
Zevara stood straight and looked past Lism’s shoulder as she always did when she had news that she didn’t want to actually convey. They were all here, including Jeiss, who was in the position of having to be a superior to his boss. There should probably have been a law against that or something.
“…the advice comes from prisoner Calruz of Hammerad, Councilmember Lism.”
“Watch Captain! That Minotaur is responsible for—”
“He is the only known expert in the world on their capabilities, sir. It was my decision to stand by his advice, which only goes as far as whether the Raskghar could bend the steel bars of their cells. Which they could on some of the iron ones. Sir. I take full responsibility for the decision.”
Lism’s outraged mouth clicked shut.
“Is the Minotaur still under confinement?”
“Yessir. In the magical cell.”
But he was not the issue. Or rather…it was a good thing the cell was there. As the old saying went, not to protect Calruz from the Raskghar. Quite the opposite.
 
—-
 
The [Guards] in the jail proper watched as the Minotaur and the Raskghar sat in a staring contest. Neither side moved or blinked. Calruz’s eyes were burning.
“Let me out.”
“Can’t do that, Minotaur.”
Drakes and Humans in the City Watch here only, by the Watch Captain’s orders. One of the Humans looked wary—but he had no bones in the matter, having been hired two months ago. The Drakes eyed the Raskghar with a lot more wariness than Calruz.
“Let me out. And I’ll put an end to my dishonor myself. You won’t have to guard either of us.”
Two hundred sick Raskghar versus a one-armed Minotaur? But then…if you’d seen Calruz fighting, you might wonder…
Even so, none of the [Guards] moved. And it was a strange thing. Beyond strange. But look what time and relativity did.
Here was the Minotaur responsible for so much death. And here were the Raskghar who were arguably just as responsible. But one had been prisoner for months. He was repentant—the same Minotaur who’d charged into the inn full of Crelers and routinely cleared monster nests with a rusted axe, hauled heavy stones all day…
The [Guards] did not like Calruz. But they weren’t the Gnolls who hated him and never got assigned to prison duty. He was familiar to them. And what’s more—an [Honorbound Prisoner]. They had [Appraisal] artifacts and Skills. They could read.
Compare that to the Raskghar. More…bestial than Gnolls. Larger, more primitive, some called them. Certainly with smaller head relative to body size, a more…
Earth Humans would have compared it to their version of Neanderthals versus Humans of their era. The Raskghar were coughing, weakened despite treatment—
But they snarled and sniffed the air and snapped at each other in their own language. The Watch was far warier of them than Calruz.
“Minotaur. You sure the bars can hold?”
One of the Drakes broke the silence to eye the Raskghar standing too close to one of the cell’s fronts. A [Guard] moved them back with a shout and a prod of the spear’s butt.
“They can bend iron. Not steel. I’m sure that one couldn’t. Tell that Human to stop that.”
“Why?”
“They’re too fast. They’ll grab the spear and yank her through the bars.”
The [Guardswoman] stopped. The others looked at Calruz. One of the Drakes coughed.
“You mean…into the bars?”
“No.”
The Watch slowly moved back from the cells. Calruz looked at the overcrowded prison.
“Hypothetically…if they were able to break the cells…”
The Drake glanced at Calruz. The Minotaur’s eyes flickered.
“I’d have explosive and Tripvine type weapons ready to throw. No one walks next to the cells armed with those. They can hear you—don’t go near for any reason unless you make them manacle themselves. Don’t give them anything to throw. I’d put [Archers] behind a magical barricade there. If they come out—abandon the cells. Throw potions and spells in and cast a cloud spell until we’re all dead.”
The Drake glanced at the silent Raskghar. They had heard that. He looked at the others.
Oh, how things changed. Slowly, he nodded.
“Move back. One patrol moves across the prison if need be; no more. Get the reinforced manacles; set of eight. Tell the Watch Captain we’re fortifying the entrance. I want fifteen potions from our armory with a blast-factor and…”
That was something. The Minotaur’s status was changed. But the proof of his failures lay in front of him. The whispering was starting again. He closed his eyes.
Never again. [Death Before Dishonor]. He clung to it.
 
—-
 
“…Someone’s got to entertain them! Despite this—this crisis.”
“We can decide the Raskghar issue now, Lism! Just call for a [Headsman] or let the Gnolls do it ourselves!”
Krshia snarled. Lism nearly—nearly snapped back.
But it was not a time for rage, but quick thinking. And since Krshia was the one beyond reason for once—he remained calm. Strange, how that worked when Lism was almost always ready to yell first.
But it was seeing her so furious and—worried—that made Lism hold up his claws placatingly.
“Watch Captain Zevara has them under lock and key.”
“For how long? There is only one way to deal with Raskghar.”
That came from Elirr. The Gnoll was hunched over in his seat, looking—well, ragged. Lism and everyone else in the Council’s room eyed him with concern. Even Tismel and Zalaiss.
“Elirr, you really needn’t be here. You could rest—”
Alonna began, but the [Beast Trainer]’s haunted gaze silenced that train of thought. And Lism understood that too, he really did.
Elirr—nearly eaten alive by those damn things, sacrificed and forced to live in a cage? The Drake shifted nervously.
“True. The issue of what to do with the Raskghar—we certainly have few options. However, killing all of them sounds a bit…”
Well, rational if you listened to the stories. Lism wasn’t in disfavor himself. But the objector in the room also happened to be Watch Captain Zevara. She folded her arms.
“That is an entire people, Councilman.”
“They are Raskghar. Not people!”
The Drake’s face didn’t move. Lism tapped a claw on the table.
“Watch Captain, this is not the Minotaur situation all over again. We have no doubt that the Raskghar killed Gnolls—that their—their basic nature revolves around the murder of Gnolls.”
“Yessir. However—that’s painting all of them with the same brush. Sir.”
Lism’s tail unhappily struck the carpets. He leaned forwards as Krshia made an inarticulate sound.
“They fed on our people in the darkness when we were hiding! They are monsters and if they are not slain—”
“What do you propose, then, Watch Captain? Do you suggest that we don’t hold the Raskghar accountable for their crimes? Hold them indefinitely in a prison which—you have intimated—isn’t large or sure enough for them?”
The Council fell silent once more. Jeiss was watching Zevara nervously. Her eyes flicked to him.
“Give me time, Councilmembers. I can expand the jail. And I certainly don’t intend to hold the Raskghar to anything less than another criminal. But I will not have people—Gnolls—march in there and execute them before they have a chance to be tried—”
“Tried—”
“—and duly sentenced under the law. Which is me!”
Zevara slammed a fist down and Krshia blinked. The Council fell silent as Zevara straightened and took a deep breath.
“My first duty is to the security of Liscor, Councilmembers. And as Watch Captain, I need to make sure no other Raskghar are coming from the dungeon! If this Nokha lives—I want to find her. With respect, the issue of the Raskghar can wait until the threat of the Raskghar is dealt with.”
Lism looked around. No one was happy with that, but Zevara had reminded them that she was Watch Captain. Unless they wanted to remove her, she didn’t have to be here, especially in a crisis.
“See to the security of the prison, Watch Captain. We’ll discuss the matter.”
The female Drake saluted and marched out of the room. An unpleasant silence fell afterwards.
“They have to die.”
Lism heard one of the Gnolls mutter that, but when he turned his head he couldn’t tell which one. Krshia was practically shaking in her chair—her paws gripped the table so hard he feared she’d crack the wood.
Elirr was just sitting. Alonna and Jeiss were whispering about security—and that was half of their problems.
“…Councilmembers? The delegation from Hectval is breakfasting. They’re wondering if—”
Liscor’s Council looked at the nervous [Clerk] who’d come to deliver the message. The Drake froze on the spot. Lism rose and placed his claws on the table.
“Thank you, Miss. We’ll attend to it.”
“Why now? First they delay arriving, then they don’t send word—”
Alonna muttered. Krshia snarled.
“This is not the time for it!”
No, it was not. However—this was the first Drake city besides Pallass to make contact with Liscor and Lism knew that Hectval was part of a larger alliance. More importantly, all the Drake cities would be watching this meeting.
“We have to deal with them. I don’t know why they’re here. But I suggest—”
“Lism. This Raskghar issue is larger than them!”
Krshia looked infuriated, as if Lism was placing the Hectval group over the rest. That was a Silverfang thing that had always annoyed Lism. She had priorities. If there was a large issue, you dropped everything and dealt with that. Lism on the other hand had projects. He was working on the [Carers] situation, expanding Liscor—
On the other hand, that single-mindedness had lost him several trade deals when she capitalized on things he didn’t. And it was a useful asset in the Council. If you worked with her right.
The Council’s heads moved to Lism as he raised a claw.
“I’m not suggesting we table the Raskghar issue, Silverf—Krshia. As I understand it, we have two pressing dilemmas. The delegation from Hectval cannot wait. But the Raskghar have to be monitored, the city calmed. I propose we split the Council. Councilmembers who wish to deal with the Raskghar—Jeiss, I think you’re one, Elirr…”
The Gnoll nodded shortly. Lism sighed.
“I’ll head the Hectval issue. Alonna? Tismel and Zalaiss too, I suppose. Councilmembers Krshia and Raekea, your preference. But we need to move quick! We’re supposed to have a reception. Entertainment!”
Krshia’s fur, which had been standing on end, began to lower. That was an interesting Gnoll-trait. She looked at Lism as the Council rose to their feet. Jeiss gave him a quick nod.
“Good thinking. I’m no good at diplomacy anyways. One thought: we could use our [Negotiators]…”
“All three are with the delegation right now.”
They should have had a lot more. And a staff—an entire group dedicated to events like this, not the Council! But how long had it been since formal diplomacy had been conducted? Not with the Human cities, with other Drakes!
The Blood Fields had cut off trade for a long time—the winter and late fall allowed it of course, but it was only [Merchants], seldom other people in any large numbers.
“I’ll go on-duty then, talk to people, make sure the cells are holding and see what the Watch Captain’s plan is. Anyone with me?”
Raekea and Elirr followed Jeiss. Krshia was about to, but then strode over to Lism, Alonna, Tismel, and Zalaiss as they conferred.
“…need to stall them. Tell Peslas to feast them and when they’re done, do a walking tour of the city? Yes, just a basic around-the-walls. Let them stare at the Floodplains for a bit. Find someone who knows Liscor’s history and give them a talk about the founding! And, Ancestors, keep them away from that Human and her inn! I’ll try and see what—Krshia? What is it?”
The Gnoll saw Tismel and Zalaiss head off with Alonna to buy Lism time. She stopped, breathing heavily. And they were alone for a second.
“You can handle the Raskghar. I’ll deal with the delegation.”
“If I trusted you to do it yourself—”
But her heart wasn’t in the insult. Lism patted Krshia on the shoulder. They both stared at Lism’s patting arm until he dropped it.
“Ahem. Well, I wouldn’t mind some help.”
“To get you started? You have no idea what to do about the delegation, no?”
Lism opened his mouth—and closed it.
“Er…entertain them? I was going to have Tismel rustle up some of his old [Councilmembers] for a get-together…something convivial.”
But he was a [Shopkeeper]. His idea of entertainment wasn’t some fancy party. Krshia’s face told Lism he was making a mistake.
“We need to consult someone who knows Hectval—or at least, other cities. Their arrival was very strange, yes?”
