Zevara slowly sat back in her chair, staring at Erin with that strange expression in her eyes.
“Speaking up for the Raskghar. Convincing the crowd not to storm the jail. Worrying about their…wellbeing. Ensuring they are not executed out of hand.”
The [Innkeeper] sat there, confused.
“Me?”
But then—she did see why Zevara and that Gnoll and the crowd would have thought that. Here was Erin Solstice, the Crazy Human of Liscor, the one who fought for Goblins, made friends with the Antinium.
“Do you agree that the Raskghar are not monsters but a people, Miss Solstice? It is not a view all Liscorians share. Even those on the Council. I reminded them that there should be justice. As with Calruz. Goblins, perhaps.”
“Yeah. No—no killing all the Raskghar.”
Her heart wasn’t in it. The Watch Captain looked at Erin strangely. The young woman felt self-conscious. She wasn’t on the ‘kill them all’ side. But it had never even occurred to her to stick up for them.
“I thought you’d have stronger opinions on the matter, Miss Solstice.”
The paper-shuffling thing seemed to be a self-defense mechanism for Zevara. Erin took a deep breath.
“I—agree with you, Zevara. The Raskghar aren’t all evil. Probably. It’s good that they’re not being butchered.”
“I see. And do you have any ideas about how to resolve this situation?”
“Me?”
Zevara slapped her papers down. A familiar snap returned to her voice.
“Yes, you! I asked you to come here so I could listen to your input about the Raskghar problem! I do not have a solution! But I hoped—for once—that you would! I cannot let them be executed en masse! That is not justice!”
“I agree with you, Zevara. But I don’t have any ideas.”
The young woman sat there, looking at the Drake. The Watch Captain calmed down a bit.
“But you don’t seem to care. Not about Raskghar. About Antinium or Goblins? If it were a Goblin tribe…but Raskghar don’t count?”
That stung a bit, and made Erin sit up. Because it was…true.
She looked in her heart for the outrage, the passion that would make her stand in front of the prison if it were Rags’ tribe and wave a flag and dare a mob to attack. Even idiot nobles being hunted.
And it was not there. It wasn’t hard to understand, either.
“Goblins…yeah. Goblins maybe. Maybe not the—the Goblins who killed people in Invrisil. But if Goblins were defending themselves? Yeah. But the Raskghar—hunted Gnolls. They ate them. That’s not the same, Zevara.”
“Of course it isn’t. I’d be the first to say so. And yet—I did expect you to defend them, Miss Solstice.”
“Me? They nearly ate Mrsha! They tried to attack my inn yesterday!”
Erin gripped the desk in fury. Zevara’s gaze didn’t move.
“Goblins killed Senior Guardsman Klbkch. They attacked you multiple times. Again, I am not saying it is similar. I am just asking why it is different, Erin.”
The Human sat there. There was something in Zevara’s gaze that bothered Erin more than the arguments. It was…disappointment. And it stung Erin. She tried to qualify her side.
“It’s because the Raskghar attacked. Not defended. They weren’t at war with other species. They saw Gnolls—and sacrificed them. It’s—it’s that. Goblins, Antinium—they’re people. They attack and kill, but that’s because they have enemies. Raskghar—it’s in their very nature to want to eat Gnoll’s hearts, right?”
“Indeed. They’re creatures of legend. I have appeals from two dozen Gnoll tribes to execute or contain them.”
The Drake nodded. Erin went on.
“So…yeah. That’s why. They kidnapped Mrsha, a child, and were killing people. Systematically, in those rituals. It’s not the same to me.”
“Of course. Incidentally, Miss Solstice. It’s said that Goblins are, by their nature, doomed to follow the Goblin King and destroy. The same could be said of the Antinium of Rhir. A relentless foe that—”
Erin slapped the table with her hands and stood up. Zevara looked up at her as the young woman took a deep breath.
“Don’t do that.”
“Miss Erin. Is your objection to the Raskghar personal? Because it was Miss Mrsha, your inn?”
It was. And both Human and Drake knew it. Erin Solstice turned away. When Zevara commented the other species Erin had stuck up for were the same, she had seen it too. Intellectually—Erin could admit it.
There were probably Raskghar who were not evil. But she saw their species as…evil. Dark. Where she had not with the Goblins and Antinium, it was true. She remembered the altar, the cage where Mrsha had been imprisoned. Where they would have dragged Elirr, Mrsha, every Gnoll they could find.
“The difference is that the Goblins, Antinium…it’s not so deliberate. They kill people like…warriors. The Raskghar? It’s like torture. It’s—wrong.”
She couldn’t explain it fully. Zevara nodded.
“But what if the practice of consuming Gnolls hearts is something they learn? Is it innate to Raskghar? That is what I have to know. Is a child Raskghar evil, Miss Solstice? Because we have many in our cells. And if I am not here—the rightfully grieving friends and families of those the Raskghar have killed will enter the jail and kill children and adults.”
She sat there, the one Drake who objected to the killings in a position of power to stop it. And she had called Erin Solstice here, for once not to berate her or stop her. But because she’d been hoping for an ally.
Ironically, the one time Erin had no sympathy to give. The [Innkeeper] stood up.
“I—I’m sorry, Zevara. But I agree with you. I’ll say as much! Talk to Krshia—”
“I don’t want or need that, Miss Solstice.”
“Well, what am I supposed to do?”
Zevara stood up too.
“Be Erin Solstice. The young woman who always had a solution. Who never backed down in front of injustice as she saw it. Give me—something. Because I need help.”
“I—I—I—”
Erin stood up. She pushed the chair into the desk, and walked towards the door. Zevara waited. Erin looked back at her.
“I—I—I’m sorry.”
She closed the door. Zevara did not yell or come after her. Erin walked down the stairs.
“Miss Solstice? Any order from the Watch Captain?”
They were all looking at her. Erin shook her head, mutely. She noticed this squad had Gnolls in it since it wasn’t on guard-duty. One of them raised a paw.
It was Tkrn.
“Miss Solstice, I know the Watch Captain probably had words with you…it’s not that we don’t want to uphold the law. But it’s Raskghar. Everyone knows someone killed by them.”
“I know.”
The squad waited. And since Erin didn’t say anything, Tkrn awkwardly went on.
“It’s just—we have family killed by the Goblins. And that’s why we’re not okay with Goblins, some of us. But we get they’re not all alike. Humans—some died at the Bloodfields. But the Raskghar—it feels different. That’s why—”
“I get it. I agree!”
They stared at her. Tkrn lowered his paw.
“Oh. Well—that’s why. We just wanted you to know that.”
Erin couldn’t take it. She left the Watch House. There were people outside too. Erin hadn’t heard it—Zevara’s office either had enchanted walls or they were thick—but they were shouting.
“Justice! Raskghar killed our families!”
One of them caught sight of Erin. It was a Gnoll. He lowered the sign, but didn’t walk away.
“I’m not wrong, Miss Human!”
He called out to her. Erin looked at him. The Gnoll was defiant.
“My daughter. She was fourteen.”
His voice cracked. He pointed towards the jail.
“They ate her. Why shouldn’t I want them dead?”
“I’m not—”
“If it was a Goblin, I deserve justice. Just like anyone else! I deserve—”
“I know! I agree! Stop it!”
Erin shouted at him. The crowd, the watching [Guards]…everyone fell silent. Erin looked around.
“I agree. Why do I have to object? Why do I…”
She looked up at the Watch House. Zevara was watching her from the window. Erin closed her eyes.
“Why do I have to be the moral person here? For them?”
She turned to the Gnoll.
“You deserve justice. Just not all the Raskghar. But you deserved justice.”
He looked at her blankly.
“Thank you.”
Erin stumbled away. Why was Zevara turning to her for answers? People expecting her to stand in their way or argue with them—why her?
Because, a guilty little voice whispered in her heart. Because you stood there too many times and did what you thought was right. Defying everyone else.
What made Raskghar different? So many things. And yet—it was all familiar to them.
Monsters. Could she call all of them monsters? Crelers? Because if Erin saw a Creler egg, she’d stomp it and then burn her shoe and the flagstones themselves. Crelers deserved no pity.
But Raskghar?
“Erin! Erin Solstice!”
Maviola found Erin, breathless, but vibrant. She was smiling.
“There you are! Have you heard about the Hectval delegation and the little party?”
“Hmm? Oh. No, Maviola. I haven’t.”
Erin mumbled. The [Lady] peered at her.
“You look put out. Well, I arranged a party in less than an hour. There will be Pallassian [Senators], a number of dignitaries—I did use your name to gather some of the Gold-rank teams.”
“Oh. That’s okay. It’s for Liscor, right? Thanks.”
The black-and-orange haired young woman hesitated. She had spoken about her accomplishments like it was a challenge and seemed disappointed that Erin hadn’t fired back. Maviola was acting weird, but Erin was staring at her feet. The [Lady] studied the Watch House.
“So—have you settled the Raskghar issue yet? That would tie the score, or so I think.”
She missed Erin’s head rising and the flash in the young woman’s eyes.
“Why me? Why do I have to solve it?”
Erin screamed at Maviola. The [Lady] actually took a step back in surprise. Erin threw up her hands. She noticed a hatted duo watching her from down the street. She screamed at them, and Maviola. Her voice was growing too loud—her Skill amplified it.
“Why do I need to solve every problem Liscor has? I’m not a Watch Captain! I’m not the person who made the Raskghar sick! I don’t even own a sword! Why me?”
She felt silly and stupid as she threw a miniature tantrum on the street. Zevara had ignited the guilt in her and Maviola and the others were making it worse.
After a few seconds, Maviola El cleared her throat. She looked at Erin kindly. Not unsympathetically. And also as if Erin was a brat Maviola was itching to smack.
“Erin, you are no [Lady]. Not of royal blood. Nor are you a leader of a city or own a large area of land. But you are a leader of people. Drakes have few nobility. But in northern Izril—this is what we do. The nobility. This is what we are meant to do. More than squabble and amass our fortunes. When there is a problem—the nearest [Lady] or [Lord] solves it. You have solved so many of Liscor’s issues, accidentally or intentionally. And you wonder why they look to you now?”
The [Innkeeper] hung her head.
“I don’t want to save the Raskghar. And that sounds wrong even as I say it.”
“That is the difference between upholding the laws and doing what you want.”
Erin nearly threw something at Maviola. Because she was right. It was how she said it that annoyed Erin so much. The Maviola who was old could say it more elegantly than the young one. The new one made Erin want to [Minotaur Punch] her for being right. No wonder she had made enemies.
“Okay. Okay…what do I do?”
Erin stood in the street and raised her head. Now it had been said—she could not unhear Zevara’s words. She had not asked for a response from anyone in particular, but Maviola decided she had the answer.
“Perhaps some magic fire to calm the crowd?”
The young woman cracked one eye open. Maviola smiled at her. The fact that it was the exact thing that Erin had been thinking—and also that it came from Maviola meant Erin now hated it.
“You can’t solve everything with fire.”
“It seems you have, with my Skill. Why not? You’d be amazed at how many problems I solved in my youth by burning something down.”
The young woman put her face in her hands. Is this what she was like to Zevara?
“I hate your Youth Potion. You need a new one.”
“Hah! You’ve just never met anyone with spirit.”
The young [Lady] slapped Erin on the back and grinned at her. Erin staggered, feeling the stinging pain. That had been on purpose. She told herself punching someone who was actually more than four times as old as she was, was not the right thing to do.
Even so—she balled her hand up—and saw Maviola was holding something.
A red flame. It was deep red, not like the red of a fire, but brighter than blood. It was beautiful—but even looking at it made Erin feel angrier. And she felt the emotion coming from the fire.
Fury. She looked at Maviola as the [Lady] held her fire made of memory and emotion.
“Try. We share the same fire, Erin. You can feed your anger into it. I’d conjure another one—but this suited you. You are my inheritor. I should have taught you this long ago.”
The [Lady] smiled. Erin looked at Maviola and grew calmer. She stared at the fire. It was…taking her anger.
“I didn’t know you could do that.”
“Of course you didn’t. You have a lot to learn.”
The fire jumped an inch in Maviola’s palms. Erin narrowed her eyes.
“Is now the moment to teach me?”
“If you want to create more flames. I don’t know what will fit, but I used a flame of happiness in your inn and it helped. Here—try this one and I’ll give you the others.”
Maviola offered Erin the flame. The [Innkeeper] sighed. She reached out for the fire, reluctantly. The [Lady] transferred it to Erin’s palms—
And the fire went out. The two stared at the spot it had been. Then Maviola looked at Erin accusatorially.
“You did that on purpose.”
“No I didn’t! Okay, I wasn’t feeling happy with you, but that should have…can you do it again?”
“Of course I can. Here.”
Maviola made another angry-fire. Erin glowered at her as the [Lady] dropped it in Erin’s palms.
“This time actually c—”
It went out the instant it touched Erin. The two stared at each other.
“You are doing it on purpose. Stop being petty.”
The [Lady] folded her arms. Erin threw up her hands again.
“Me, being petty?”
Then she realized what was wrong. Erin checked herself.
“No. Oh no. I’m covered in hate fire again! It’s all over me! No wonder I’ve been feeling terrible! How do I get it off? How do I—”
Maviola smacked Erin on the shoulder.
“You’re not on fire! I’d be able to tell!”
“Stop hitting me!”
Erin swung at Maviola and the [Lady] backed up. The two gave each other bad-natured looks. Maviola took a deep breath and visibly centered herself.
“I’m going to try again with calming fire. Calm. Perhaps you’re just not able to work the flame of fury at the moment.”
