Toren. Erin slowly rose. And she had her answer. In Liscor’s jail, there were two hundred Torens. Not in the same way. But Erin had, had to trust Bird. The singing, silly Worker was the smartest of them all.
Trust Zevara. Because she was right. The law existed to protect people. And you had to believe the Raskghar were people. Who would be tried. Erin took a breath.
And she felt lighter.
“So that’s how it is. It wasn’t in them all along. Silly Human.”
Lyonette’s back was to Erin. She was sweeping up gold leaf that had been dropped on the ground.
“What was that, Erin? Are they getting to you in Liscor? And who’s coming through the door? Is it—”
She heard a gasp. A small intake of breath. Lyonette du Marquin saw a glow illuminate the inn. The [Princess] turned.
Erin Solstice held a flame in her palms. She had reached into her chest and pulled it out. It had been there all along. She had found none in the Raskghar. Because it was not in them.
“Erin…what fire is that?”
The [Princess] lowered the broom. Erin, the [Innkeeper] cupped her hands slowly. The flame was grey. Not white. Not black. But perfectly, even agonizingly split between the two. Radiant. Yet—static. The flames looked cut out of the air, moving with an odd pattern, like stop-motion. Each flame as if it were a single image reformed in a slightly different spot and size a moment later.
What fire? What emotion? Lyonette opened her mouth to ask again. But she realized she didn’t have to. It burned in her. Erin lifted the fire. And she said—
 
—-
 
Maviola El sensed the fire like a spark in her mind. She entered the inn, panting. And there Erin Solstice stood. She turned—and Maviola gasped.
“What—what is that flame?”
“You don’t know it?”
The [Lady] shook her head. She struggled for words as she stared at the foreign fire.
“That’s not—I’ve never seen it before. How did you—? It shouldn’t be possible.”
She had never made the fire Erin was holding. Hers were emotions. They blazed across Maviola’s soul. But the one Erin held? The [Innkeeper] returned the [Lady]’s gaze.
“A different perspective.”
Maviola straightened. And she nodded, slowly. She pointed.
“That’s your fire. Yours and yours alone. I—don’t know if I could create it. Learn it? Perhaps. But I could never form the spark. How did you?”
The young woman looked down.
“It was in me the whole time. I just didn’t see it with the Raskghar.”
The flame flickered in her palms, growing larger. It was a single idea. But too complex for any one emotion. Maviola read the fire’s nature in a moment as Erin closed her eyes.
Mercy.
A word the Raskghar used but had no notion of. Yet—she did. The fire Erin Solstice held was grey.
Grey. Neither black nor white, but the most terrible of the flames Erin had ever conjured. It was not invisible hatred, eating away at your body. It was—
“Lyonette. I need to borrow your broom.”
Silently, the [Princess] held out her broom. Erin took it. The flames covered the handle of the broom, the brush end, slowly, as Erin ran her palm down it.
The fire caught and burned. The wood…began to disintegrate. Faster than hatred, or depression. Not as fast as happiness left. But a slow wane.
And the way the fire looked. It was that static impression of blades that made Maviola marvel. As if each lick of flame were…separate. Cutting, rather than burning.
It was a stick with a thousand blades of fire. Erin swung it. It was not a good weapon. But it did hurt. She lifted it up, and then shouldered it.
“Let them into Liscor, Lyonette. I’m going first. To make sure.”
She walked out of the common room and into the hallway. Maviola followed. The [Innkeeper] walked into the hallway, and then found a Hobgoblin. He was playing cards with two fellows with hats.
The Gentlemen Callers looked up. Wilovan and Ratici stared at the flaming broom. Numbtongue just grinned.
“Nice fire.”
“Thanks. I’m going for a walk, you guys. I don’t think there’ll be trouble. But there might be a mob and riot if it goes badly.”
Ratici opened his mouth. That didn’t sound like ‘no trouble’ to him. But his objections were forestalled as he looked at Erin’s face.
“Well then, I suppose we should accompany you. It’s getting late and it wouldn’t do to leave a lady unattended, wouldn’t you say so, sir?”
Wilovan adjusted his vest and looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin raised an eyebrow and grinned.
“Wilovan—”
“My dear mother told me never to get in the way of a proper woman, Ratici. And that advice seems to hold true here.”
The Gnoll watched Erin Solstice march into Liscor. Lyonette saw the two Gentlemen Callers and Numbtongue follow Erin.
Mercy. She was seen the moment she walked into Liscor, of course. By the Watch who went to find Zevara. The Drake was on a call. She lowered the speaking stone.
“Let her go.”
She exhaled and sagged onto her desk.
“Thank you, Erin Solstice.”
She would deny ever saying that, of course.
 
—-
 
More people saw the young woman marching with the flaming broom coated in mercy’s fire. It was so bright. Of all the flames Erin had ever made—it illuminated more with grey light than anything but glory. And it was a longer light.
“Stop. Don’t do this!”
The Gnoll who had lost a daughter barred Erin’s way. He looked at the fire she held. And he knew what it was. But—he put one paw out.
“Not for them. Please. Don’t do this.”
There was so little of it in him. Not for them. Erin Solstice nodded.
“Don’t worry. There will be justice. Trust me. I just want to see.”
“But you’re holding—”
The Gnoll looked at her uncertainly. Erin held the stick out. The edges were sharp enough to cut her—she wasn’t immune to this fire.
“It’s mine. But it’s not soft. See?”
It cut him too. The Gnoll lowered his arm. And Erin walked on.
She had been looking for it in the wrong place. Redemption from the Raskghar? She had felt it talking to Zevara. And she had some herself.
The crowd in front of the jail didn’t want to let Erin through. Even the [Guards] were uncertain. She turned to them.
“I won’t let them go free. I just want to see for a moment. They will not go free. There will be law. But that’s not going to come from me. I promise.”
It reassured them. A bit. Perhaps they would have not let her through if she was anyone else. But she had earned a chance. So Erin walked into the jail, bearing the waning torch.
The Raskghar in their cells looked up as the harsh light flooded into the prison. They looked uncertainly at each other.
Then came the Human. Asoma stared at Erin Solstice as she walked into view. She threw up her claws and covered her face.
“It hurts!”
Erin Solstice sighed. The broom was falling to pieces. But the flame still burned—radiant in this place. It was, to her, a harsh light.
But blinding to the Raskghar. Painful. She held up the flame and the Raskghar shied away, covering their eyes. They whimpered and whined, crying out in pain.
“It hurts!”
More than just them. Calruz stared at the flame that cut him just by sight alone. He knelt. The pain was welcome and bitter to him.
Numbtongue leaned against the prison’s entrance. He looked after Erin and waved at the [Guards] waiting there. They stared at the flames, almost missing him entirely.
“Why does it hurt? And why are you smiling?”
Erin Solstice had tossed down the broom onto the floor. The remnants of the fire burned away the wood. But she was walking back. And there was a faint smile on her face.
“It was the proof I wanted, that’s all. The fire.”
“Mercy.”
The Gentlemen Callers stood, listening. They had taken off their hats—a gesture that meant something else anywhere else. But they listened now, as the [Innkeeper] spoke to the Goblin.
“Because it hurts. If they were monsters, it wouldn’t hurt.”
“Oh. So what does it change? Can it make them…better?”
The [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“I don’t have that kind of power, Numbtongue. The fire’s for me, not for them. That’s sort of how it works. That is all I can give them. Give Liscor and Zevara.”
She pointed. A second commotion was occurring outside. Her visitors had arrived and Lyonette had let them into the city.
In the end, Bird was right. Erin had no good answer for the Raskghar. Neither did Zevara. But they could not stay here. Not in Liscor’s jail, where they were wanted dead.
It wasn’t even a nice jail. Sort of smelly, small, nothing to do, and the Minotaur had dibs. But Erin had been in a larger, nicer prison. Very secure. Lots of space.
An old Drake walked forwards, using a cane to support his weight. He was flanked by dozens of [Soldiers] in yellow armor. He nodded at Erin. And Watch Captain Zevara and the Watch of Liscor. When he spoke—it was in the same ringing tones with which she had heard him defying the Wyverns.
“I am Grand Strategist Chaldion. By my authority, and the consent of the Watch Captain of Liscor, I will take the Raskghar prisoners to Pallass.”
A roar of protest followed his words. The [Strategist] slashed with a claw and there was silence. He went on.
“Given the nature of the crimes the Raskghar have committed—they will all be tried and their guilt determined by magic and Skill and law. No one is above the law, and no one beneath it. The Raskghar will be imprisoned—and those responsible for their heinous crimes will be executed by the end of the week. The rest will be prisoners of Liscor and Pallass until their fate is determined.”
Faces turned back to Erin. The [Innkeeper] exhaled. Numbtongue let her lean against him. And the crowd’s objections—still present—were subdued.
They were going to die. And the sapphire eye of the [Grand Strategist] held little mercy in his own right.
“Some live, some die. But they do die.”
The Hobgoblin remarked to Erin. She nodded without saying a word. Numbtongue watched as Chaldion ordered the first mobile cells to be brought on Pallass’ side of the magic door. They’d load the Raskghar straight into them.
“Why did you work so hard to do it this way? Easier to just not care.”
The young woman looked up at the Goblin. And then sideways. The Gentlemen Callers heard her reply.
“So I could live with myself. Chaldion promised to give the children a chance.”
Wilovan and Ratici stirred. They looked at Erin. Then, slowly, the Gentlemen Callers put their hats back on their heads. They tipped them to Erin and bowed.
“It doesn’t seem that arduous now, does it, Ratici?”
“No indeed, Wilovan. Not if you meet the right sorts. Well done, Miss Solstice.”
She didn’t nod or shake her head. She just hugged Numbtongue. And then she went home. The fire still burned, though. The same light that had been there for the Redfangs, for Goblins and Antinium.
It lit The Wandering Inn that night. In a little lantern Erin had made, like her sad fire. She didn’t know what this one’s purpose was. Mrsha had tried cutting a carrot on it, but it just made lots of little cuts and wasn’t that great.
The little white Gnoll had been staring at it for a long time. Listening to what it told her. It was Erin’s special flame. And when she touched it—it cut her not at all. It was so warm.
Harsh, beautiful, depending on how you looked at it. The Gnoll girl curled up as she knew the Raskghar were gone. In the [Garden of Sanctuary], she sat on the hill—mostly empty now the crisis had passed.
The delegation remained. The Raskghar were still out there, but secured in Pallass prisons. Erin was drinking and playing cards with the Gentlemen Callers and Numbtongue.
The door to the garden opened. Mrsha heard ragged panting. A rough voice. Something ran at her and she turned—
Ryoka Griffin seized Mrsha up in her arms and hugged her. The Gnoll’s eyes went wide.
A Vampire and a Courier lay on the floor of the inn, covering their bruised noses. Mrsha hugged Ryoka back fiercely.
And then everything was really alright again.
