Mom now…her mom didn’t understand the joys of cold pizza over a morning game of chess. Whether that was in the morning or night didn’t matter mom! She wasn’t gaining weight!
Erin prodded at her stomach just in case. Decent, decent. Lasica could always make her famous weight-loss menu.
“The joys of a magical world. Hey, can you all help me bring the food out? No—you can finish your breakfast first—”
A dozen Soldiers walked into the kitchen. Erin sighed, but directed them with the goods into the common room. And then, after a moment’s thought, she had them roll one of the round tables into the garden and set up there.
That proved to be a good move because people were waking up—or hadn’t slept—and few looked like they wanted to leave. Erin let them handle the food, like Ekirra’s mother, who thanked Erin profusely until the [Innkeeper] shushed them both. Little Ekirra was still sleeping.
Bird needed his food so Erin brought it up to him on a plate.
“Hey Bird…”
He didn’t draw his bow at her. Probably because he knew she was coming. Bird sat in his tower.
“Hello, Erin. Is that food for me?”
She smiled at him. Bird was as calm as could be.
“Yes, Bird. I have some of that g—Saltbird you loved so much. And eggs.”
“Oho. A bird breakfast! This is good. Thank you, Erin.”
But Bird didn’t touch the food. Erin saw him looking around.
“What is it, Bird?”
Normally he’d descend on the food. The Worker sighed.
“My hands are full. I must remain at full-vigilance and I cannot eat just yet. I will eat when the sun comes up.”
“…But you have four arms.”
Bird nodded.
“And they are all full, see? I cannot load and fire with only two arms with any efficiency, Erin.”
He had two arrows in his spare hands, his bow in one hand, and another hand on the arrow nocked and ready to go. Erin knew how fast he could loose—he’d taken 1st place in an indoor archery range one time and really ruined the old champion’s day.
“Maybe you could eat with one hand, Bird?”
“But that would decrease my firing time by point…”
“Bird. Maybe it’s safe to be slightly less optimal?”
He considered this.
“What if you fed me?”
Erin passed him the plate. Bird put one arrow down and sighed.
“I will eat. But if we all die because there was an inefficiency in my fire speed, I will be slightly upset!”
“Okay, Bird. You go sleep when everyone’s up, okay?”
“Yes, Erin.”
 
—-
 
It amazed others how calm Erin was. The Raskghar were in Liscor. The killers who had eaten hearts of Gnolls, who grew smarter with each full moon and the two moons were both still pretty full!
And yet—she had done this. It was not that Erin was untroubled. But she was ready. Breakfast done, Erin leaned against a wall and decided—
“Interloper-people. Maybe I should grab one of the crossbows.”
She thought she knew who they were, but they were on the edge of her inn’s ‘radius’ of detection and there was enough reason to be suspicious. Erin looked around for a crossbow. Numbtongue had hidden two dozen around the inn.
“Right here. No. right…here? No?”
…And she realized she hadn’t any idea where his secret compartments were. He kept showing her and she kept glazing over the details. Erin peered at a chair leg. She eyed a loose floorboard—no? One of the Antinium stopped to stare at Erin climbing onto a table to inspect one of the beams in the ceiling.
“Anyone seen a crossbow hiding around here?”
She was just giving up on the crossbow thing. It wasn’t as if she was that great a shot compared to her aim with an acid jar, anyways. Then, Erin heard an angry voice outside.
“Get back here! Get back h—”
A bee flew out of the kitchen, carrying a trail of smoke. Erin and the Antinium stared as Apista buzzed back into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Carrying a full cigar. She had purloined it from the owner, who clip-clopped into the room a moment after her.
“You damned pest! That’s my—”
The drug-carrying bee disappeared into the Garden as Palt stopped. He saw Erin and coughed into a fist.
“Oh, hey, Erin..”
“Did you get that bee hooked on…?”
Erin stared at Apista and then at the Centaur. He raised his hands defensively.
“No! Probably not? I’m amazed it likes my cigars. But since it doesn’t pay—er, hi, Erin. Did you sleep well?”
“Mhm. Thanks for help with those [Calm] and [Soothe] spells.”
The Centaur’s face softened.
“My pleasure. How’s Imani?”
“Still asleep.”
The two stood together. Palt produced a cigar—a long, thin one this time. Bright orange. He lit a finger—and hesitated. He looked sidelong at Erin and she waved a hand.
“Go for it. Today’s a rough day, anyways. I could almost use one.”
She flicked the cigar he proffered her away.
“Almost.”
The [Illusionist] gratefully lit up. After a few puffs—the smoke flowed into a small ball over his head—he spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“Good thought you had with the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Ingenious, really.”
“Mm. It’s obvious. All my smart ideas are.”
Sleep in the Garden. Really—it just made sense. Palt shrugged.
“I didn’t think of it and no one else did. You know, I looked it up. Er—I was doing a bit of digging. With my faction…just out of necessity, you know…”
“Go on.”
Erin gave him a look as she decided she had room for like—half a pizza slice or something nice. One of the boiled eggs with pepper, maybe. Palt exhaled more smoke.
“It’s an Inheritance Skill. And since you probably don’t know—it’s a Skill that only one or a few people get at a time. There’s another famous carrier in Izril—well, I can name four total worldwide including you, now. Lots more in secret, perhaps.”
“What, the [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
Erin blinked. But she remembered what the Grand Mage had told her. An [Empress] had first owned this Skill. Palt nodded.
“It is—or was—a secluded place for those of royal classes. Occasionally others. A [Healer], an actual [Gardener]…you’re using it um, differently.”
“How so?”
The Centaur gestured at the door.
“They used it as a refuge. Not as somewhere where you’d let someone sleep. Mind you—it’s secure. The most secure place I could name. You could—well, build a room in there, couldn’t you? Live there. Unable to be harmed except by someone of exceptional levels. I know some people who’d pay you a thousand gold a month for that.”
Erin nodded absently. Then she looked at the [Garden of Sanctuary] and shook her head.
“But it can’t support everyone in there right now. It’s too small. And if the inn goes, so does it. Also…”
“Also?”
He prompted her after a moment. Erin looked into the Garden, where more people were waking up, then up at Palt.
“It’s a great safe-room. Even if it wasn’t designed like that. I don’t use most things like how they’re designed.”
She nodded at the magical door. Palt chuckled.
“True. But why not build a house in there or something?”
“Because the inn’s supposed to be a home. If I need to stay in the [Garden of Sanctuary], something’s gone wrong.”
She looked up at him seriously. Palt nodded after another long pull.
“At least it’s comforting to people now.”
“Yeah. Any word from Liscor?”
“I could check. But I just went outside to smoke. Numbtongue’s practicing with his sword.”
The [Innkeeper] glanced towards a window. The Hobgoblin had been on a hill blooming with flowers when Palt saw him.
“He’s fine. I think he’s just mad he didn’t get to cut any of the Raskghar. He feels guilty.”
“Not his fault. He can’t be here forever.”
The [Illusionist] was pragmatic. Palt trotted over to the bowls of soup, saw the floating acid-flies, and trotted back.
“Besides, Saliss of Lights handled the situation better than anyone else could’ve.”
Erin ducked her head. That was true too. He wasn’t here today—but she vividly remembered the [Alchemist] in the moments after the attack had ended.
Saliss had been posing with Ekirra and Mrsha while wearing the ‘privacy box’ in the garden. Comically. He’d reassured everyone that the Raskghar were dead, let everyone else run around and investigate—and played up the silliness for the frightened children.
He’d also killed over thirty Raskghar in less than a minute. Erin had seen the bodies—or what remained.
“And here I thought my acid jars were dangerous. Does he harvest acid too?”
“Maybe. But he probably buys and enhances it. There’s a reason why he’s called the most dangerous Named Adventurer for five minutes. Dead gods and hoof rot, I’d hate to be on his bad side. He’d do your curry trick with Isceil…only with acid.”
Palt wore the same expression Erin had had while thinking about her mother for a moment. Erin nodded. Saliss was capable of protecting anyone he wanted.
Protection, safety, it wasn’t the real issue today, was it? Everyone was vigilant but the Raskghar were detained! In jail! They were safe, and this was just worrying.
Because Nokha hadn’t been with them. Erin bit her lip. But would Nokha dare attack this inn? Palt could probably take her in a fight if he saw her coming.
Yet, it was the things you didn’t see coming. That went bump in the night if they were clumsy. The things you couldn’t predict. Erin was less experienced with that. Most of her fights had been fast, to the death, and immediate.
This was messy. Raskghar prisoners. Potential enemies skulking about. Erin shook her head.
“And why are they here? I had my suspicions and Numbtongue was…Palt? Can you walk out with me one sec?”
“Something wrong?”
The Centaur stopped smoking. He looked quizzically at Erin. She glanced towards a point on the far wall with nothing special in particular about. But she had that look that said she wasn’t looking at the wall.
“I don’t think so. At least, not with the Antinium around. Just in case.”
That didn’t reassure the [Illusionist]. He began muttering spell buffs and casting them on himself. He wasn’t Isceil, who’d been able to decimate an area with a single breath, or Montressa who could throw up barrier spells or Bezale—well, he was closest to Bezale and Ulinde. But he could cast a lot of enchantments on himself if he had prep time.
Even so, he was support. And he reminded Erin of that. She just shrugged.
“It’s probably fine. It’s not strangers.”
“And if it’s trouble?”
“Acid jar.”
“Ah…and if they block or dodge that?”
“You’ve gotta take modest risks, Palt.”
“I do. Gambling. Not with anything that might hurt so much as a hair on my body. Er—where are we going?”
Erin Solstice stopped outside. She stood in the grass, looking over Liscor. A summer day was beginning. The sun had yet to appear past the peaks in the High Passes but the air was fresh, the day as yet cool. The Flood Plains looked fairly lovely.
They were alone on the hill outside of The Wandering Inn. The city’s walls were fully-staffed and mage-lights were illuminating the ground outside of the city. Palt heard a distant call, identifying both of them.
High alert in short. The kind of thing that made him feel safe. Erin stared ahead. No one was in the outhouses. Numbtongue was by himself on that hill.
“This Raskghar thing’s scary.”
“Um. Yes, it is. But I have calming tonics and spells if you want—”
Erin glanced at Palt and he fell silent. She went on.
“It’s so dangerous. I’m so glad I’m being protected. By Antinium. And Numbtongue. And you, Palt.”
“Well, I—”
He fell silent again and stopped preening. Erin had given him another look. This time—Palt began glancing around with his magic, keeping his eyes on the city’s walls.
[Detect Magic]. Nothing but the walls…Erin’s inn was lit up and the door was blinding.
[Detect Heat]. Hm. Palt ran hotter than Erin, but nothing…was that a colony of rats just over there? Erin wouldn’t be happy about that. But nothing…
“I mean, I love the protection. Not that I, personally need it. You sort of wonder why everyone likes to protect me. Since the Raskghar attacked Liscor. And why now? It’d sure be great…if I had protection when the Wyverns attacked, y’know? But there are reasons. Still…I like knowing who’s protecting me, and why.”
The Centaur said nothing.
[Scrying: Palt Fenrisol]. Fun fact? Erin Solstice was invisible to [Appraisal] and [Scrying] spells these days, thanks to the ring Saliss had given her and…something else. Even the Elusive Lot had problems and they could scry past Palt’s defenses. But he saw nothing.
“Sure is a thing. Yup, yup. Ayup. Yuppers. Yeperoonie. Yep…”
The [Illusionist] heard a sigh.
“I think, comrades, that we’ve been made.”
A Gnoll, Drake, and five Human men rose out of the grass a foot in front of Palt. He freaked out.
“Burn my tail! [Haste]! [Shadow Leap]! Run for—”
He grabbed at Erin. She hadn’t been expecting that. Palt tried to turn and gallop into the inn as his spell snatched at him. But he tripped.
Erin and Palt flickered out of the air and crashed out of the doorway in a heap. Erin went whubpgh as Palt landed half on her.
Wilovan, Ratici, and the five Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings adjusted their hats and stared as Erin lay on the ground and Palt’s hooves waved frantically before he got up. The Gnoll tipped his hat to Erin after she’d stopped being squished.
“—Pardon about that, Miss Solstice. It seems we might’ve been a bit too conspicuous, as it were, and Ratici here misjudged how long your ear is.”
“What level is that Skill?”
The Drake groused. The other Brothers looked amused as they adjusted vests and straightened caps. Erin stared up at Wilovan as he held out a paw. The other Drake, the one with the cap, helped her up.
“Seems we have a bit to talk about, Miss Erin.”
“Yeah.”
Erin wheezed. She would have felt more triumphant if Palt hadn’t landed on her. That guy was heavy.
 
—-
 
Something was wrong in the world. Twenty minutes later, Erin Solstice was sitting in the inn across from the Gentlemen Callers.
Few people were in the inn. Temile had checked in from Invrisil and the door was currently ferrying people from Pallass to Liscor—but the inn wasn’t open.
Most of the people were in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and not coming out. They had their entertainment.
Joseph had a football, but he’d been told by Lyonette that if he so much as kicked it into a single one of the fragile Sage’s Grass plants she’d bury him headfirst. So the others were sitting, talking—but mostly, helping with planting some of the seeds or cuttings that Lyonette and Erin had been meaning to get to.
Weeding the jungle biome in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and arguing about what was a weed in the thick foliage. Ekirra and Visma were trying to get Mrsha to help them make a ladder to grab a ripe cocoa pod.
