What made him so angry was how confident this Raskghar was. How they all were. They didn’t fight, they just answered questions and expected to be cured. To be fed and protected from the angry Gnolls. Because that was the law and Nokha had figured out how to take advantage of it.
He wanted to toss them all in a pit with Shield Spiders until they told him—
“You’re losing control. Calm.”
Something cool touched Olesm’s head. A hand—and a gentle, blue flame.
Olesm blinked.
Maviola El held the flame out and the room grew calmer. Angry [Guards] stopped fingering their weapons. Her flame was blue, like the open sea, tinted a bit with green.
Calm fire. Not like Erin’s. But Maviola wasn’t Erin and her fire was different. She stood there, regarding the Raskghar.
The creature was more nervous of her than Olesm. Maviola walked forwards until she was at the bars.
“Maviola—”
She ignored Olesm’s warning. Maviola squatted down.
“Good slaves. Mercy. Nokha told you that you’d be safe here. We’d turn you into slaves, but you’d be saved and cured, didn’t she?”
The Raskghar didn’t respond. She was staring at the calm flame in Maviola’s palm. It winked out. Maviola snapped her fingers and a second flame danced across her fingers. It was red.
“But you don’t want to be slaves, do you? You just want to be cured. And Nokha was wrong. We’re not going to feed you. We just want to know where she is. If you don’t tell us—you’ll die. We don’t care if you live or not.”
Olesm felt a surge of annoyance at Maviola. This was his interrogation! He opened his mouth—and caught himself.
The red flame was fury. The Raskghar growled.
“Won’t kill us.”
“We won’t kill you? You stupid thing. You don’t matter. You’re not going to be a good slave, are you? You want to eat Gnolls. But that won’t happen. We’ll pluck your teeth out.”
“Won’t.”
The Raskghar bared her teeth; some had fallen out from her disease. She drew herself up. Maviola perched on her heels.
“Oh, really? Someone get me some pliers and rope. You made a mistake, you stupid Raskghar. Did you think we’d make you slaves without—”
The Raskghar leapt, but Maviola was already jumping back. The huge female Raskghar slammed into the cell’s bars. The gate shook, but the room was full of shouting [Guards] and the Raskghar froze as arrows were aimed at her head.
The magical fire winked out. Maviola stood up, dusting her hands.
“There you have it, Olesm. You were right. They are preying on your morality. If they think they’re in danger, I have no doubt they’ll try something.”
The Raskghar realized she’d been tricked, manipulated, and shrank back.
“Mercy?”
Someone spat at her. The Raskghar growled, but didn’t do anything. She feared Maviola more than Olesm. The blue-scaled Drake nodded at Maviola, the last vestiges of the emotions the flame had created in him going out.
“Thank you. But you shouldn’t have gotten so close.”
She winked and whispered.
“I had to give her an opening. Anyways, someone’s got to give you a hand. Just showing you a few tricks.”
She was so much different than she had been a week ago. More…active. Maviola wouldn’t have done that before. This Maviola was more willing to take risks.
And Olesm now had proof to give to Zevara that keeping the Raskghar around was not a safe move. As soon as they recovered he was sure they’d try to escape.
“Take her back to prison but put her in a separate cell. Let’s bring another Raskghar in and confirm the information. Then I’ll talk to Zevara…”
The Drake heard a familiar voice and sighed.
“Nephew! Nephew—a moment!”
“Uncle—”
Lism hurried into the Watch House looking for Olesm. Maviola trailed after the [Strategist] as the Watch ordered the Raskghar to put on the manacles and she complied, sullenly asking for food.
“Uncle—Councilmember Lism—this really isn’t a good time. I’m interrogating the Raskghar—”
“And I’ll leave you to it, Nephew. But I have a situation. The delegation from Hectval is here and we need to blow them away with a Tier 4 spell. A celebration! Something to really establish our diplomacy. At least something to break the ice!”
The Drake stared at his uncle.
“Delegation? Uncle, this is not the time for—”
A finger flicked one of his neck-spines and he winced. Maviola laughed, eyes dancing, and bowed as Lism and Olesm turned to her.
“Hello, venerable uncle Lism! I’m keeping your nephew company.”
“Ah. Miss Maviola.”
Lism eyed her. He didn’t like Maviola—well, he had a thing about Humans. And some Gnolls…although Olesm hadn’t heard him grousing about Krshia of late. And this wasn’t the time for that!
“Uncle, I’m sure the delegation is important, but this—ow, Maviola!”
She’d flicked his neck-spines again. The [Lady] shook her head playfully.
“Olesm, you’re a good [Tactician], and I love you for it, but you have yet to be a [Strategist]. Diplomacy matters! What’s this about the delegation?”
Lism hesitated, but then explained in brief the problem. Olesm rubbed at his forehead.
“Oh dead gods, inter-city politics. I know all about that. Just don’t offend them, Uncle. It might be a small setback, but we can have a substandard get-together and patch it up later. Just don’t let Erin get near them. Or the Antinium! Or…Ancestors. Maybe just lock them in the Tailless Thief until they get mad and leave?”
But Lism was wringing his claws.
“Nephew, this is the first Drake city to make contact with Liscor in ages!”
“Pallass was first, Uncle. And we’ve been in contact with Esthelm, Celum, Invrisil—”
“That’s not the same! This is a city like us. Come now, I know you can think of something!”
Olesm tried, he really did. But the Raskghar was too big.
“Er…have the Players of Liscor put on a show and turn the entire City Hall into a large festive area? We have large enough rooms. Make the entrance lobby up—give them some gifts like trophies from the dungeon, get some of Erin’s food—”
“No, no, no! You want to impress them, don’t you? Make them feel indebted?”
Maviola interrupted Olesm. She clapped her hands together, looking excited.
“Leave it to me.”
The two Drakes looked at her.
“Maviola, you’re not even a Drake.”
The [Lady Firestarter] winked at Olesm’s dubious expression.
“But I am a [Lady] and I know how to impress fellow nobles. I can help! Just give me the authority to use some gold, and one hour. Olesm’s right—we’ll turn City Hall into a grand reception.”
“Really? Er—Olesm, your Human friend…”
Lism tried to draw Olesm away, but Maviola just leaned into both of them and put her hands on their shoulders. The Drakes looked at her and she smiled impishly.
“I think she knows more than us, Uncle.”
“Very well. What do I do, then?”
“Get as many of the old Council and important Drakes as you can. No one under Guildmaster status. Tekshia Shivertail, definitely. Dress up—in whatever traditional Drake clothing you can. You get the gifts, too. And some good wine! Olesm, I’ll handle this! Keep dealing with the Raskghar!”
Then Maviola was gone. She was laughing as she ran from the Watch House. Having the time of her life. Lism eyed Olesm.
“Not that I mind your, er, choices, Nephew. And it’s not my decision, it’s yours—”
“Uncle, I like her. And it’s…”
Olesm bit off the word he was going to say. Temporary. Oh, Ancestors. But Lism just patted Olesm solemnly on the shoulder.
“She seems…nice. Quite spirited. Good to have someone like that in your life. I’ll er, get ready for the delegation. You continue keeping us safe.”
He hurried off. Olesm opened and closed his mouth. Who had replaced his uncle? He shook his head.
 
—-
 
The trust Lism put in Maviola El was surprising. And not. She was…not Erin Solstice. But sometimes you looked at her, especially if you knew who she was.
Erin Solstice would not have been the right choice for delegates from a touchy Drake city. But Maviola El? She understood diplomacy, politics.
And it was easy. Drakes, Humans—she had a simple three-step plan to throwing a proper reception.
Maviola raced into The Wandering Inn. She could have cartwheeled, despite the Raskghar, despite the mood of the city.
She was alive! She had felt young before, of course, rejoiced in regaining her body, her mobility and energy. But this? This felt like the moments after she had first taken the Potion of Youth, spurning Belavierr and riding off. She felt like she was bursting with energy. This was true youth that Saliss had given her. Blessed, beautiful.
She wanted to live forever like this.
“Lyonette! Octavia! I need you, quick, quick! And you, Palt, and Imani! There’s money to be made and people to impress! And I need one of the Players! And—”
And the inn was empty! Almost deserted. The Antinium stared at Maviola as she whirled.
“Where is everyone?”
In the Garden, of course. Lyonette stared at Maviola as she cuddled a still red-eyed Mrsha.
“Maviola? What’s wrong? Is it the—”
Mrsha looked up fearfully with the others. Maviola saw the anxious faces and smiled.
“Nothing’s wrong. Have heart! And help me out. I need to entertain some fussy Drakes from Hectval. Cheer up, little Mrsha. No one will harm you. See? Hey, Goblin! Catch!”
Her eyes blazed. And so did the fire she conjured. Maviola raised her hand and threw a ball of burning yellow-white. It landed in Numbtongue’s hands and he nearly dropped it.
But the fire was yellow, a pure thing like a dandelion, or the sun on a bright day. And it burned him not at all, but the fuel was him. He grinned—and the fire of happiness, a tiny thing but born of Maviola’s soul, burned a bit larger.
It warmed the Garden. Magic, a Skill. Those within it looked up—and the fire reflected itself in them. It gave to them and then took their energy.
“No one will harm you. Not in this garden! Not in this inn! Haven’t you seen worse? Haven’t you defeated worse?”
Maviola challenged them all. The people raised their heads. And they remembered.
Face-Eater Moths. Skinner! The siege of Liscor. Take heart. If the enemy camps outside your gates, be wary. But don’t despair. Not after all you’ve been through.
Lyonette blinked at the yellow fire. It was—like Erin’s flames, but Maviola conjured them more rapidly. Because it was her Skill. And she had experience and time, so much time to master her Skill compared to Erin.
Mrsha smiled and relaxed. And the [Princess] hugged her.
“Oh, so you believe a bit of fire more than me? How dare you, you silly little bean!”
The Gnoll giggled. Bean? She squirmed out of Lyonette’s grip to go apologize to Visma.
The [Lady] exhaled as Lyonette walked over.
“If you say I’m ‘like Erin’, I’ll have to slap you. Olesm says it all the time. I was here first. Erin copies me.”
“Erin’s not like you.”
The [Princess] remarked, her eyes on Maviola. She couldn’t have missed how Maviola had changed. But both Maviola, young and old were unlike Erin. Erin was concerned and had gone into the city.
Maviola ignored the shadows. She looked around and saw a Stitchgirl waking up at last after having been passed out well into the morning.
“Wuzzat? Did someone want me?”
Octavia yawned, and then was seized by Maviola. The [Lady] looked at her.
“I need some of your ingredients. Can you unlock your alchemy shop for me? I’ll pay you back. 12% over the market value!”
The [Alchemist] blinked. She had no idea what was going on, but the first words out of her mouth were—
“18%. And I want a receipt.”
“16.”
“17?”
“16, and hurry up!”
Octavia got up and looked around. Maviola was striding about.
“Imani! Palt! I need food! Liscor will pay for it all! We’re catering to a fancy party and you two have what I need! Can someone get a bag of holding and deliver it to City Hall?”
“What’s going on, Maviola? A party?”
The [Lady] winked at Lyonette.
“Just one of those Drake city things. I’m helping. Lyonette, can you get me in touch with the Players of Celum? And then I need to work on Pallass. Actually—I’ll do Pallass as soon as I deal with the food.”
The three keys to a good party were as followed for Maviola: fame, fortune, and exoticism. She’d never quite figured out how to get that last word to start with an ‘f’.
“You want us to cater for this reception, Maviola? I can cook—but I’m only familiar with Balerosian dishes.”
“Is it…safe, Palt? To go into the kitchen?”
“Perfectly, Imani. And I’m here.”
The Centaur reassured the young woman. Montressa snorted as she and Beza inspected Maviola’s fire.
“And that means…? Watch out for broken ribs, Imani.”
Palt glared as he ushered Imani out into the inn. Maviola was busy explaining.
“Your inn is one of the few places that has food ready to go, fresh. I need you to make some of the more elegant dishes—but they might not even touch them.”
“What?”
The Centaur was confused. Maviola rolled her eyes.
“Prissy Drakes, apparently. It’s there to be seen. The real menu is—Erin’s food.”
“But it’s from Earth! And it’s about as gourmet as my hoof in a pie!”
“Ah, but it’s now ‘Liscorian food’. It works! Trust me. We’ll get some of the ‘traditional’ foods from Peslas’ inn. I just need to make it fitting for the reception.”
Both Palt and Imani tried to stop Maviola as she yanked open cupboards, taking out a lasagna, pizzas—their natures as [Cooks] objected to this!
“Maviola, this is not great food. It’s enjoyable, but even the Drakes can probably tell that it’s not fancy!”
Her laugher was infectious. Maviola tossed them into the bag of holding and then investigated Imani’s latest creations.
“Don’t worry, you two. I need Imani’s fufu and her other dishes. They’re…mm…close to Chandrarian? We’ll call them that. Exoticism. And for fortune…Octavia?”
“What do you need, Maviola?”
The [Lady] rushed into the [Alchemist]’s shop. Octavia was all set with a notepad to take down the market-price of the goods she was selling to Maviola and Liscor at a very reasonable…17% markup. She saw Maviola hunt around, and then grab a single tube of—
Octavia smiled. Maviola walked back into the kitchen.
“This is how we make the pizzas and such ‘top-class’ and fit for a gathering.”
She held out a tube and Palt groaned. Maviola opened the tube and began to sprinkle flakes of gold onto the top of one of the pizzas. Imani looked like she was about to vomit.
“Stop that! It doesn’t taste good! What are you doing?”
“It’s gold leaf. It’s digestible. And believe me, this is what some of the nobility think makes food rich. Well, certainly expensive.”
