‘That is a lot of damned wights,’ Lyrical declared, floating alongside everyone else.

The land below was actually the land-to-the-left. A shelf of slate-like ‘flooring’, which was one of the ‘shells of Veird’ that the Main Roads followed, had been broken and left to lay on its side in these Slanted Roads. It wasn’t actually a ‘shell’. Like. Veird wasn’t built in shells. But the layers which the Main Roads sat upon, circling the globe, were sort of situated onto ‘shells’, in that the Main Roads sat upon those layers… in layers.

Anyway.

Jane was having trouble coming to terms with how large the infection of ephemewights was in front of her. So she reoriented her ‘down’ to face the ‘down’ that the fifty-kilometer-wide plate of stone was oriented on. And that helped. Flying sideways helped orient Jane’s thoughts better.

The rest of her team looked at Jane. Ravan began flying sideways, too, followed shortly by everyone else. When they got closer the gravity would switch to make this new angle seem more normal, but for now…

From almost horizon to horizon, the land below was awash in a hundred thousand lights that slowly rotated around a central beacon, like an image of the Milky Way Galaxy. Or maybe the Sombrero Galaxy. Either way, those were just the lights that Jane could see, and she knew that what was present was a lot more than what she was seeing. Once Jane got within actual range of the swarm for her [Eyes of Magic] to work properly she knew that swarm would come alive with ten times as many ephemewights.

That beacon was a good 25 kilometers away, and had to be a kilometer across itself. The edge of the swarm was 10 kilometers away. Each individual light looked like a humanoid or monster soul; a collection of arms and legs. Some were denser and brighter than others. Some were so large and airy they looked more like morning mist, than a monster.

‘It looks a lot bigger in person, too,’ Danaro added.

Hizogard smiled, sending, ‘That’s what he said—’

‘They already see us and are coming. Battle prep,’ Ravan took charge, ‘Ten minutes in, then we backtrack. Communication might cut, but I will work to reestablish. Keep your own eyes on everyone. Forward fly; meet the charge.’

The swarm was already flying their way, though they moved slow compared to Jane and her team.

Sitnakov dove forward, meeting the charge of the enemy and doing what he usually did, resulting in the complete annihilation of many, many monsters.

Jane was a shadow, striking out with her prismatic aura control, infusing her claws and some [Flying Striker]s with a basic elemental power. She was not using her [Greater Prismatic Body]. That power required 12-13 mana per second. Her [Greater Shadowalk], though, alongside her basic prismatic-flavored aura control, was only 2-4 mana per second. Jane’s Regen and Blood Mana was more than enough to make up for that constant drain. When paired with Danaro, who could actually heal Health Fatigue and Mana Exhaustion with his Blood Healing Domain, Jane was an endless storm of faint prismatic power, constantly whittling down the horde of ephemewights, without needing to care about endurance too much.

The ephemewights screamed in choral agony, waves of power filling the sky, washing across Jane and Sitnakov and all the rest of the team like an ocean trying to tear down a sandcastle.

Jane’s weapons vanished. She had expected this but was hoping that didn’t happen. Either way, her claws and all the rest of her continued to tear into the ephemewights, her prismatic Truth shifting her aura control without her input, flickering lines of fire and ice, and then light and magma and blood, across the ghostly forms of the ephemewight swarm.

With Jane’s eight eyes and her burgeoning mana sense she could see all of everything she needed to see. Her team was fine; Lyrical strummed a tune that shored up a defense for herself, Hizogard, Ravan, and Danaro, and the choral [Dispel] washed around them like a heavy, black mist. Sitnakov was about half a kilometer to Jane’s left, blending his way through the ephemewight congregation, blasting away all the monsters’ [Dispel] attempts against himself in the process.

Jane just let those choral disruptions wash across her reflective carapace; sure, her [Greater Shadowalk] faltered to an internal-only spell, and her aura fell out of her control, but all of that was temporary. When the wave of power passed, ebbing to something less than full strength, Jane forced her power against the constant undead song, and then once again began blending through the swarm. Jane met as much resistance against her power as she would running a sharp sword through a cheesecloth; barely any resistance at all—

‘Sitnakov is out,’ Ravan sent. ‘Pull out, Jane.’

Jane carved her way out of the swarm all around her, surprised to hear that Sitnakov was done already. It had only been two minutes, at the most.

The group pulled back and the ephemewights followed, but Ravan organized Jane to be between the team and the swarm, and Jane kept carving away at the uni-directional attack. After a good thousand kills, the whole swarm suddenly reacted, a massive pulse going out from the central beacon and illuminating the full, million-soul-strong swarm.

The entire swarm decided to give chase.

Ravan called for a larger retreat.

After retreating almost a hundred kilometers further away, the ephemewights finally flickered, their rage quieting. All but the largest, strongest ephemewights stopped their chase, falling back toward their rotating congregation. Jane easily took care of the large targets while Sitnakov and the rest of the team killed another 3 falseDarks that tried to take advantage of the ephemewight swarm’s attack against the team.

The team regrouped.

It was not a safe location, but they had power enough to stabilize here, in the middle of surprise-monster territory.

Ravan sent, ‘That matches what I heard of the swarm back in Downhere.’

‘Uh. So...’ Lyrical sent, ‘We almost died back there.’

Jane exclaimed, ‘What!’

‘You and Sitnakov could have gotten away, Jane.’ Lyrical added, ‘And we probably could have escaped through gravity diving once we were away from the swarm’s rock, but my countersong worked twice, and then it failed.’

‘A particularly strong [Dispel Song] from the swarm; yes,’ Ravan sent, ‘In my opinion we should simply mark this place down for an archmage-level purge, and even then such a purge would need to take place over days, or even a week, as they wait for the swarm to forget about the attacks used against them. We had to move on with the obsidian twisters and the umbral rivergrieves, so we’ll have to do that here, too. If we are agreed, then our party will go around the monsters and I will warn everyone else to stay away. We will likely draw the swarm as we pass by, since they are still watching us, but Jane can cover our escape, since her attacks are mostly unaffected by the swarm’s resistance-gaining power.’

A quick round of agreements went out.

Even Jane had agreed. She had not agreed to move on back when they were tangling with the umbral rivergrieves, because she wanted one for a Familiar Form to replace her own rivergrieve form, but that decision had almost cost Hizogard his life. Trying to push against the obsidian twisters had almost caused Lyrical’s death. There had been a lot of close calls like that down here, actually, and with Jane being the only one who could actually fight against these swarms, Ravan’s suggestion was prudent and wise.

But Jane had a suggestion, anyway. ‘If they follow us like that, perhaps we could taper them toward us —from a distance— and I can continue to slash and kill, and then you guys can support me for a while. I do not want to go into the center of the swarm again, but… Ah. That doesn’t float with you all, then?’

Sitnakov, Lyrical, Hizogard, and Danaro all looked unsure, though Sitnakov seemed like he might be willing to try.

But Ravan shook her head, sending, ‘As you have said sometimes Jane, ‘Discretion is the better part of valor’, and we shall be taking that advice.’

‘Fair enough.’

As the team raced around the swarm and Jane cut down the ephemewights who gave chase, Jane still felt her idea would have worked out just fine. But… She was part of a team. She was not a soloist. Not right now, anyway.

Jane’s thoughts returned to Ravan’s earlier comments about their team being overpowered.

Maybe they weren’t that overpowered at all.

They didn’t have an archmage, after all.

… Still awfully powerful, though. Each person on the team had a role, yes, but each person on this team could also be a team leader in their own right, raising up rookies to strength. Jane had even been a ‘Team Leader’ rank back in Spur’s army.

Hizogard had been an Elite of Ar’Cosmos, right alongside Lyrical. Danaro had grown into his power as a healer, for sure, so that was one powerful growth that had happened inside this team, but he was near the top of his game before this trip anyway. He had no real way to improve aside from simple battle experience. Ravan was a Mind Mage, so there wasn’t much more improvement that could be done there; Mind Mages were naturally strong in very specific ways, and to veer out of those ways was to lose power. And then there was Sitnakov. That guy could probably take on every single enemy they had faced, even the ones they had avoided, and come out strong on the other side. But he was holding back in every single combat. Why? Probably to let others grow strong at his side… Maybe.

Sitnakov obviously had limits, but Jane wasn’t sure if they had hit any of those limits, yet.

Jane still certainly had a long way to grow. She was the only one here without a Domain, and there were so many things still to learn about her prismatic aura.

Maybe she needed to go to Oceanside, or something? Get some real schooling from a master on the subject?

… Syllea was all about Mana Altering and prismatic spellwork, wasn’t she?

… It couldn’t hurt to ask, right?

Errr…

Or would that be weird.

Yes. That would be super weird, and also Jane would be leaning on her father’s power in order to make a connection like that. She was uncomfortable with that, and always had been.

Gods.

Jane’s father. The social worker who used to wave to muggers and try to make friends with gangsters, who almost got himself killed trying to help people in the bad parts of town…

Now a Wizard (or was he always?), a Dragon, a King, a Gatemaster, who had won a war against a foreign power with his own revolutionary soul magic (and a different war against others last year), with all those powerful allies, who were the gods, a minor flight of Benevolence dragons, and also the Inquisitors of Rozeta, and the Mind Mages. And he was dating the Archlich of Necromancy.

Jane still had no idea how to process all of that—

And oh yeah. He’s an archmage, too. Can’t forget that.

If their team had had someone half as good as Jane’s father, then they could have taken that ephemewight swarm, for sure. Too bad Kiri was all about the political life these days.

- - - -

Jane, as a human, stood upon Danaro’s Platform as they exited the Hole, flying onto the Surface, entering the Crystal Forest.

She was both the same woman she had been when she first went down into the Underworld with her team, and someone very different. She hadn’t gained much in the way of power, or Familiar Forms, or even anything as base as Experience. She did not even find her sword, which had been the main (stated) reason that their team was down in the Underworld, searching out the dark parts of this cultivated world…

But that right there: ‘This cultivated world’. Jane had gained a deep appreciation for that. The scope of Veird. The grandeur of it all. As Jane gazed across the rolling orange sands of the Crystal Forest, and at the depth of the Hole and the darkness below, and even at the bright blue sky above…

This world was amazing.

And it was so very broken.

Their whole team, aside from Sitnakov, was also staring out at the world, eyeing the brightness all around. They had been underground for a few months now, and they were all happy to be back above ground. Mostly. One person was eager to get back to the Underworld.

Sitnakov asked, “To Candlepoint, then? Danaro?”

Danaro breathed deep and kept his gaze on the deep, deep horizon, saying, “Give me a moment, Prince Sitnakov. I’m having a moment and I want this moment.”

Lyrical said, “It’s so much bigger than I remember.”

Hizogard chuckled, saying, “That’s what he said.”

Lyrical gave him a playful punch on the shoulder and Hizogard pretended to be hurt.

“We have more than enough time to take a slow trip to Candlepoint,” Ravan said, “But we’ll still have to [Teleport] to get there before sundown, so that Prince Sitnakov can take the Gate to Stratagold.”

“Oh yeah!” Hizogard laughed. “We can [Teleport] again!”

“Probably could have [Teleport]ed back when we were at the bottom of the Hole,” Sitnakov added, “But it was safer not to.”

“It’s all so connected, isn’t it?” Jane said, going in a completely different direction than the current conversation. “Like this Hole was actually an air vent before the destruction of Kendrithyst. The oceans have downspouts and upspouts everywhere, like the downspout at Archmage’s Rest and the upspout north of the Wastelands. The Main Roads are as much settlement zones as airways, and the Water Roads are the plumbing of Veird. Everything in this world is artificial, and yet, it always was, even before the Sundering. Wizards and others in the Old Cosmology made worlds, to ensure the survival of as many people as possible, and Veird is no different. But in this New Cosmology, Veird is a spaceship… Which I suppose is true of all planets with life on them, to a certain extent.”

Lyrical and Hizogard gave Jane a funny little look. Ravan nodded like this was normal information. Danaro eyed Jane a little, but said nothing.

… Maybe Jane had been a bit weird, she supposed.

Smiling softly, Sitnakov said, “If the Darkness doesn’t fight us on fixing it from now until your father’s [Gate]s open to new worlds, then maybe Veird can be what it should be again, instead of this cobbled mess of Slanted Roads and monsters breaking the infrastructure, and people searching for homes and finding only death.”

“How do you even go about fixing something like this?” Jane asked, happy that Sitnakov had picked up what she put down.

“With lots and lots of people working together.” Sitnakov shrugged, adding, “But that’s for other people to do. I kill monsters. But even that will come later! So how about we get to a bar and see about some drinks?”

