Jane sat with an elbow on the table and a hand held a bit away from her face, blocking half of the people around here from looking at her directly. It wasn’t effective. She ate another fry and then hid the other side of her face with her other hand. She hadn’t gotten to the sandwich yet at all, because here she was, freaking out in the middle of a food court instead of simply eating like all the other people around her—

Sitnakov smiled as he munched on a platinum-covered pastry. “Fame is easier when you accept it, Jane.”

Jane whispered, “It’d be fine if it was my fame.”

“Eh!” Sitnakov said, “You’ll get there eventually. Erick will voluntarily accept being stuck in his tower, unless someone forces him to go to war again, but you’re free to move about as you wish.” He grabbed another small metal-covered pastry, chowing down on it, the metal tearing and whining as he chewed. He smiled again, looking down at the dessert. “These are really good.”

Jane glanced at the pastry to distract herself. “That’s like… dipped in platinum, or something?”

“It’s actually shaved platinum and a bunch of other smaller metals, carefully wrapped into the shape of a pastry; nothing organic at all.” Sitnakov pointed to a different pastry, saying, “This one is a normal pastry dipped in platinum.”

So he was being pedantic for some reason. Okay. Whatever.

Lyrical asked, “Isn’t that… like. 10,000 gold in those five little pastries?”

“19,000, actually.” Sitnakov chuckled a little bit. “The increased cost is because it’s made by a 9 star Cook. We hardly ever get any wrought Cooks, too, so this is a real treat!”

Hizogard asked, “I thought wrought couldn’t eat metals outside of their own?”

Sitnakov smiled at that question, and went back to eating his ungodly expensive pastries.

Jane forced her hands down to the sides of her tray. She glanced around, returning a hundred similar glances in that moment from people who suddenly looked away, pretending they hadn’t been looking at her…

And then Jane used a knife and sliced off a third of her sandwich because it was too large to simply pick up and eat. In its smaller size, Jane easily bit into—

Meat melted into her mouth with the perfect amount of juiciness. It was a roast beef sort of meal, but layered with caramelized onions, spicy hot peppers, some sort of iridescent-white mayo, and so much melted cheese. Wagyu beef had nothing on this, or, perhaps, wagyu beef was exactly how best to compare this meat to others Jane had tried, back when she had stupid rich college friends who tried to show her the world—

And now Jane was mad again, for other people being better, or richer, or more skilled than her.

She still chowed down on the excellent meal, but she couldn’t help but feel inadequate in some way. It was an absolutely stupid reaction, for Jane knew she was good… for most definitions of ‘good’. She had saved countless lives of adventurers while in Ar’Kendrithyst. She had done the same for many, many people when they were down in the Underworld. But here she was, in the House that her father had built, in the center of her father’s Gate Network which would open the way to the stars…

Jane was not envious… Except when it came to accomplishments.

In that way she knew she was envious, for sure. And she hated that. It was not healthy. It was not who she wanted to be. Jane had done a lot of soul searching down in the Underworld, where they had been ostensibly searching for her sword. Jane knew what her problem was.

She wanted to keep her father safe from all the bad things of the world, like he had kept her safe. That’s who she had wanted to be when she was younger. But as she had grown older, that desire had soured. She saw her father being reckless with his own life, making friends with gangsters and other sorts, and he didn’t see a problem with this.

But Jane knew that, based on everything having worked out back on Earth, that her father had done right by a lot more people than just her. Erick helped everyone he touched. And yet, at the time, all Jane could see was the pain he had put himself through, the danger he had exposed himself to, all without taking any of the necessary precautions to stymie those dangers.

The only reason Jane had left home back then and signed up with the CIA training was in order to get as far away from her father as possible, while still maybe doing some good in the world. At the time, Jane was extremely aware of what it meant to be in the CIA, and at the same time, Jane had believed that extreme violence was the best way to actually cause real, positive change. Sure, bad stuff happened in the pursuit of that positive change, and when bad people were put in charge of enacting changes, you ended up with more racism and imperialism and danger, but if good people were in charge, then you ended up with good things. Jane knew she could never be one of those ‘good people’, but she could certainly be the arm of change for some of those good people.

She still believed that now, more than ever.

But…

There were complications, now.

For just like when on Earth, her father had done what he always did, and he had eventually become the same sort of person he always wanted to be while here, on Veird. He had become a source of great, positive change. Of course, he had also learned the lessons of necessary extreme violence, and Jane loved him for that, and yet…

Jane pushed aside those complicated thoughts.

Jane munched on her sandwich, delighting in the flavors of the roasted meat, melted cheese, toasted bread, and all the condiments… And she got her head back into the conversation happening all around her.

“… empty rooms are going to be for the Feast presentations, I think,” Hizogard said, inclining his head toward a series of rooms on the second floor that were currently filled with placeholder lightwards and advertisements to visit Portal, instead of actual businesses. “That’s what happens every Feast, right? The Shades give presentations of what they did that year? To further the Dark’s goals?”

“Correct,” Sitnakov said, rather seriously. “Hopefully, we come out of this not worried over the shit they’ve pulled—”

The air resolved four meters away into a blue-skinned incani with white hair and an androgynous dark-skinned human woman, both of them wearing dark and fashionable clothes. Both of them had eyes of brightest white.

Ah.

Shades.

Well okay then.

Jane was rather mad because she had been enjoying her sandwich quite a lot, so before anyone else could say or do anything, and since there was no doubt in Jane’s mind that these people were here for anyone but her, she spoke, “Shade Lapis, Shade Farix. To what do we owe this visit?”

A rapid hush had already descended all around them.

Farix spoke with a jovial tone, “We’ve been here for a day now and our host hasn’t even greeted us properly! And what’s worse, is that we’ve been asked to make ourselves scarce until he can return from the war. Bah! When is your father coming back, Jane?”

“It is my understanding that he will be here a few hours before sunset, but I haven't seen him myself yet so I don’t rightly know.”

Farix said, “Then we shall wait even more!” He vanished in a step of shadow.

Lapis remained. She said to Jane, “I found your sword.” And then she pulled Jane’s sword out of the shadows of her dress, holding it by its grip.

Jane was suddenly stunned, exasperated, surprised, and a touch angry.

The black adamantium blade was exactly as Jane remembered; a solid length of metal about a meter long, with a grip inlaid with runes, and runes running all up and down the length of the back of the blade. Runes for sharpness and prismatic power, mostly, but also the runes which would allow Jane to wield it telekinetically with her [Flying Striker] spell. Lapis lifted the blade upward, the black length of metal looking almost at home in the Shade’s grip. Then she set the sword down, tip first, onto the white ground. Jane expected the sword to pierce the eternal stonewood floor, because it very much could, but instead the blade simply hovered.

“I didn’t do anything to your sword, but I am the Shade of Enchantment, so if you want something done to it, bring it to tonight’s Feast. Happy Feast Day, Jane Flatt.”

Lapis vanished from sight.

Sitnakov moved his hand toward the blade. A decimeter before he touched the black adamantium sword, the sword unraveled. Spurts of prismatic light flickered as whatever magic remained inside the sword broke; the tool becoming nothing more than a twist of metal that fell to the ground in several spheres of different sizes. “That probably didn’t break every magic in there, but it got most of it.” He turned to Jane. “I’ll have a new sword made for you.”

Jane had no words. She sat there, stunned to silence.

She was angry, a little, because of course she was, but—

Hizogard proclaimed, “Whelp! Quest complete! I suppose.”

“Ending on a good note.” Danaro nodded… And then he added, “Mostly.”

Slowly, other people all around began to speak, to move on from what had just happened.

Jane could not, though. She frowned, then looked to Sitnakov. “It would have been monumentally stupid for them to trap that sword at all. 99% chance it was perfectly fine.”

“And yet, through my actions, none of us need to worry about that 1%.” Sitnakov said, “And come on now, Jane. The very fact that it would have been horrific for them to trap that sword, because to do so would cause so many cascading bad effects, is exactly what the Shades are known for. You see that, right?”

… Jane did see that.

“I thought adamantium was indestructible,” Lyrical whispered a little, while Sitnakov was talking, before slowly going back to eating her sushi.

Sitnakov reiterated, “I’ll get you a new sword, Jane.”

Jane picked her sandwich up, glaring at Sitnakov. “It better be an artifact-quality sword.”

“I can do that.” Sitnakov asked, “You’re not actually attending the Feast tonight, though, are you?”

Jane paused. And then she took a bite of her sandwich, not answering Sitnakov’s question.

Rather a lot more serious, Sitnakov said, “You should not attend the Feast.”

Jane finished her current bite and debated taking a second, but then she relented, “I’ve already been told by practically everyone I know that going to the Feast would be monumentally horrible, and likely put my father into some sort of difficult position, too. So yeah; I got the message. I won’t go. I wasn’t even invited, anyway, so I… Eh.” Jane dropped the topic, then said… “I would rather just kill monsters and not care about these politics at all. Simple problems with simple solutions are nice. I’m going to miss you all. It was… It was a really fun Underworld trip. Lot of simple problems of monsters were solved in the most simple and best manner.”

Lyrical, Hizogard, Danaro, and even Sitnakov softened, each in their own way.

Ravan nodded. “It was perhaps some of the best monster killing I have ever had the privilege to be a part of.” She tapped her giant backpack seated beside her, saying, “There’s still the matter of separating everyone’s personal stuff in order to actually end this grouping, but that shouldn’t take two minutes.”

Hizogard looked to Danaro, and Danaro looked back to Hizogard, and nodded. Hizogard said to the group, “It was nice grouping with you all.”

Lyrical sat a little straighter, smiling as she said, “I had a great time, too.”

And then Ravan said, “Everyone here is already at the peak of their efficiency. I believe that instead of getting back together after the Feast, a better plan would be for each one of us to try forming our own parties with suitable rookies, in order to increase the number of strong people in the world through those partnerships.”

Sitnakov scoffed. “All of you have a long way to go before I’d call you strong.”

Hizogard laughed. “Asshole.”

Sitnakov chuckled.

Jane nodded. “Broke my sword, therefore asshole.”

Sitnakov laughed, and Jane chuckled.

“So close to completing the mission! But then the metalhead ruins it at the end!” Lyrical said, “Sounds about right, tho.”

Sitnakov smiled, saying, “Useless Seeker! Didn’t even know the sword was in the hands of the Shades.”

Danaro said, “We could have searched for years and never found it.”

Ravan said, “But we did a lot of good down there. A lot of people will live because of the monsters we culled, and the major threats we ended.”

“Still kinda miffed about not getting to kill that ephemewight congregation,” Jane said, “Seems like we could have stayed for a few hours and gotten to the core, eventually.”

Sitnakov waved a hand, saying, “Erick could blast that whole thing to nothing with a wave of his power. Maybe he could even help take back the entire Slanted Roads. A lot of people could live in that space if we took it back from the Dark.”

“There are a great many ways to fix the world, Prince Sitnakov,” Ravan said, “And I would be there with House Benevolence many steps of the way.”

“I’m sure dad is busy with other stuff, but I can certainly… look into it?” Jane said, then continued to eat her meal.

Danaro spoke of how they had transformed the Healing Waters Cavern from a place of absolute danger into a place of healing. He wanted to get a Gate into that location. Those Elemental Healing waters would be fantastic for making [Greater Treat Wounds] potions, and [Regeneration] potions, and many other high-grade Healing Magic items, though he also reflected on how that Healing Cavern was a world treasure, and it could easily be ‘used up’ if it were to be taken for all that it was worth.

Lyrical spoke of the Thunder Caves, and how wonderful they were for her Sound Magic, while Hizogard reflected on the cutting forces of the obsidian storm caverns. Those cutting blades of glass had really helped him to figure out his [Domain of the Sword] a lot more than he had. Ravan was simply glad that people were safer down there in the Underworld due to their actions, as a team, culling monsters in the dark.

