Danaro perked up. “Yes! Let’s do that. We can say our goodbyes there.”

Jane stood up straight in surprise. But...

Right.

The team was dissolving.

Jane knew that already.

- - - -

The world resolved to sight again, but this time Jane jostled as the Platform bucked. She recovered, though, and so did everyone else.

“Whoop!” Danaro laughed a little. “We are on the Surface, aren’t we?”

Jane knew what was wrong, and so did everyone else; she had experienced it several times back when she was inside Ar’Kendrithyst, and even a few times with her father’s magic. She was slightly worried, but not all that worried, so she spoke quickly, “It’s either a [Teleport Lock] from a Shade or dad has put [Spatial Denial]s all across the area. Probably the second, and in preparation for the Feast.”

The trip from the Hole to the northern edge of Candlepoint was a trip of four-ish [Teleport]s in a southwestern direction, across endless sand-scattered lands. Danaro had said that he would be bringing the Platform into Candlepoint at the eastern gate, and he had even scouted the area ahead with a [Scry]. The ‘eastern gate’ was now a good distance away from where it used to be, but even so, the new location had people blipping in and out of it like normal. There shouldn’t have been a problem.

And yet, the Platform had blipped to here, to the edge of the Greater Candlepoint Area, where half the land was a mess of sparse greenery atop dirt and sand, and the rest was orange desert. Three walls of massive height separated the green spaces from the orange desert.

Sitnakov was calmly ready for battle, as he said, “We shouldn’t have hit a Lock.”

Ravan concentrated on a thought tendril as she spoke, “Jane’s second theory is correct. Our King has put up [Spatial Denials] across the land, only leaving specific travel lines open for [Teleport]s. We must go to ground and enter through one of the normal ways… Apparently this is rather new, and laid at the start of the war with the Cities.”

“Not simply for the Feast, then,” Jane said.

“There are layers upon layers of defenses and Spatial Denial mazes, but we should be able to get through.” Ravan turned to Jane. “Or I could seek permission from Mage Fulisade to ask Yggdrasil for a [Gate] on our behalf?”

Jane waved away that concern. “No no no. Let’s… fly forward. Uh. Warn them that we’re coming?”

Ravan nodded. “That is also acceptable, though we will be greeted by Enforcement’s stone guardians by choosing that option.”

“Then that is what will happen.” Jane said, “Please go forward, Danaro.”

“Slowly,” Ravan added. “Moving quickly like we did in the Underworld would be cause for concern.”

“Normal flight speed, then,” Danaro said, pushing the Platform to float forward. Soon, a slight tingle crossed Jane’s body, along with everyone else’s. Danaro shuddered. “I do not miss the feeling of a Lock.”

“At least in the Underworld it’s less noticeable,” Sitnakov said.

Lyrical said, “Spatial Magic doesn’t work in Ar’Cosmos, so we don’t need Locks, but the lack of Spatial Magic is more a matter of everyone knowing that if you try it, you might get bisected by a wall that you didn’t know was there. Not so much that it’s straight Denied.”

Jane would have spoken more on Denials, but she looked down and saw a fuzzed-out sort of magic that came together into a thin line of light. As the Platform floated forward, Jane saw more of those tendrils. Soon, ahead in the sky, was a spot of shadow with a handful more lines of light coming off of it, heading into other directions, toward other Nodes.

Jane gestured forward. “Those things must be the [Node of Renewing Undertow].”

There was a great deal of space between the Nodes, and between the [Spatial Denial]s that they supported, but there were enough Nodes and connections to mark out the blue sky with tiny threads, most of which existed in a layer of the sky about a kilometer above the ground. That major layer was cut into equal triangles by those lines of light. Flying right above those ‘power lines’ was a rather surreal experience, and no one spoke as they passed beyond the outermost triangles of spellwork. Here and there Jane saw where those Nodes sent lines of light into Super Large Area spells; those lines untwisting into impossibly thin threads that hooked into those massive, almost invisible spells. Jane could still see those big spells due to her [Eyes of Magic], but seeing those spells was more like seeing the world through a slightly different color; almost like looking at a person when they had an aura active. When she partial-[Polymorph]ed those Eyes away, leaving her with normal vision (still enhanced by incorporating her primal frost owl eyes, though), the world looked normal…

Normal for a prairie, anyway. Not normal for the Crystal Forest. It had taken Kiri and the Overseer of the Exterior and Enforcement a solid month to be able to clear out the mimics from this land and to then start growing starter plants. That had been a headache and a half, according to what Jane had heard from her father when she was down in the Underworld. But they had done it. They had cleared this land of mimics, and now, with rain spells, dirt-transforming [Stoneshape]s, and with constant vigilance at the walls to prevent reinfestation, the land had started to blossom into green—

A line of pale white undulated in the skies ahead.

—and Jane mentally added, ‘and with Benevolence Dragons to turn the land even more green’.

… Except that wasn’t a Benevolence dragon?

Jane almost opened her mouth to speak—

Ravan said, “Look lively. Overseer Burhendurur is approaching to greet and speed along our ingress.”

Danaro slowed the flight of the Platform and within moments Burhendurur floated before Jane and her team. It was a quick introduction, with the long, bone-white dragon properly greeting Prince Sitnakov and Jane, and then giving directions to Ravan. Apparently, Jane and her team would not be sharing a final meal in Candlepoint, but they would be able to grab something at the House itself.

- - - -

They could not fly across the Gate District, for that was heavily frowned upon. So Danaro guided the Platform to the ground level and flew forward, down a road meant for normal, magically empowered traffic, which ran beside another road meant for pedestrian traffic.

There was a lot of traffic here.

The land was made of massive orange stones, originally carved out of sand by Kiri, but there had been additions recently. Sitnakov mentioned that the sewer below the Gate District looked like it was fully operational, but that was far below the orange blocks and Jane couldn’t tell about any of that herself. She focused on the roadways filled with Platforms zooming across the stone, whizzing by, loaded with crates and baskets and all sorts of assorted things. There were also ‘shipping container’ like objects on some of those Platforms, and from what Jane was seeing most of those containers were coming out from the wrought district up ahead, but a few container-filled Platforms were exiting from Spur’s and ‘Weald’s’ and ‘Gambler’s Rest’s’ Gates, on their way down to the Underworld...

Or over to Portal, actually. If that’s what that other inhabited zone was. Jane had heard about that whole debacle from her father, but she did not know which district belonged to Portal. Ravan knew about the new location, though, and confirmed Portal’s District as Portal’s District.

Jane said, “It’s still really fucking weird that my father was able to work with them after what they did to Spur.”

Sitnakov laughed loudly and suddenly. And then Lyrical and Hizogard and Danaro chuckled.

… Jane realized what she had said. “It doesn’t matter that my father will try to work with everyone; It’s still weird, okay?”

Ravan said, “That’s what makes him a great man.”

Jane looked up at the House, saying, “It’s still hard to believe that this is where he is in his life right now— That this is where we are right now. That… That any of this exists at all.” She glanced up at the artful splay of Node lines encircling the ‘crown’ of the house, which spread up and out, all across the land like some sci-fi utopia's version of power lines, eventually connecting to every Gate and every magic hanging in the air. “He even managed a runic web without actually making a runic web at all. Everything is powered. Everything will not decay. And every single person can stand inside any of those little shadow-spaces and contribute to the whole.”

Sitnakov smiled wide, his eyes on the sky and then turning toward the wrought district, to the right. “It’s a miracle.” He smiled wider. “And it’s another miracle that I don’t have to be a guard for him anymore.”

Jane nodded. “Because he’s apparently a fucking dragon.”

Jane realized what she had said, again—

As Lyrical and Hizogard looked to each other, and with accompaniment from Lyrical’s strummer, then sing-songed, “A~ppar~ent~lyyyy~!”

Sitnakov, however, joked in a much more serious manner, “If he and Rozeta get together it’s possible that you and I could be cousins, Jane. Maybe technically step-siblings.”

“… That’s weird, too.”

Sitnakov patted Jane’s back twice, saying, “I know exactly how that feels.”

- - - -

They entered the House from the north entrance, walking on foot to the front desk which was an arc of white wood manned by four receptionists. A great big [Renew] symbol held on the large white wall behind the receptionists. Jane led the way past those receptionists and then through security, which was mostly people recognizing Jane and Sitnakov, and allowing them past without another word, and then into the food court beyond. The House was open to the public, after all, and many different people came here to eat at any of the 7-10 star restaurants around the open, central space of the House.

Jane walked past the obscuring wall that ran between the front hallway and the atrium, and then she saw the food court in all its glory.

Restaurants and shops and law centers and other businesses surrounded a massive open room of tables and chairs and meeting spaces, filled with people sitting and talking. In the very center of the room held a single Node that was also part art-piece, for that Node sent a beam of light straight up, to three very close Nodes, and then those Nodes sent up three beams of light to even more Nodes. Like a spider’s web spreading out, the entire ceiling of the atrium was a web of light, which coalesced through a hundred tangled webs-lines that went through open spaces in the windows that surrounded the entire cylindrical tower. Jane was pretty sure that those tangles were what produced the web of light that held like a crown outside of the House, that she had seen on their way into this place.

As she watched, a trio of people stepped close to the bottom-most Node, experimentally sticking their hands into the shadowy light at that Node. Trickles of power came out of those people and joined with the Node. The people smiled and they might have even laughed, but the atrium was full of people eating and talking so laughter didn’t carry far before it was drowned out.

Jane found herself by the railing, watching as the people down below experimented with allowing the Node to Drain their resources. She was pretty sure that she could see as power joined the web, like dewdrops falling upward on spider silk threads. Those dewdrops rapidly evened out to the point of invisibility amongst all the other power flowing in those lines.

Ravan, almost reverential, whispered, “I can feel the Peace on the air. Can’t you?”

Sitnakov said, “And the Prismatic Denial and the Spatial Denial and yes, even the [Zone of Peace].” He started walking toward the wide, wide staircase that led down into the main floor. “I’m going to the Wroughtery to see what they have on offer. Meet you in the middle? 30 minutes?”

A round of agreements went out and people started moving.

Jane moved a bit slower than everyone else; the grandeur of it all was still like walking through fantasy.

Eventually, though, Jane found herself on the main floor of the atrium, facing a place called the M Eatery. It looked a little less popular than the other places, but that was good, because Jane wanted meat and cheese and bread, and the M Eatery looked to have all of that based on the lightward displays outside, and on the food she saw people carrying out of the space.

Jane put her hand to the fanny-pack on her lower back and used her shadow to—

Her shadow didn’t move. At all.

Prismatic Denial. Right. Jane’s shadow didn’t respond. So she tried using her aura and… That somewhat worked. It was difficult, actually, to use her prismatic aura in the Prismatic Denial, but her power easily and automatically shifted to something esoteric. She manually checked her gold, for she knew that her meal would be expensive, but she had enough. She could have checked with her mana sense, and she had, but mana sense could be fooled, and she had learned not to rely solely on that power while down in the Underworld. Too many intangible monsters, and too many truly great illusions…

Jane was delaying.

This whole House was freaking her out a little bit, and some people were recognizing her, and that was uncomfortable...

She put one foot in front of the other and joined the line for food. Soon, she was ordering. She requested an orcol-sized portion of magical meat, for 25 gold, for there were only a few options on the menu today, for the Feast was tonight and they were preparing for that. She also got some fries and a large lemon soda. A soda! Sure, it was lemon/lime flavored, but it was still soda! And then she tried to pay, but the incani woman at the counter really looked at Jane.

The cashier asked, “Saaay? Are you—”

“So that’s 25 gold?” Jane asked, “Or do you take Mage Bank? Sorry. New to this here.”

“Oh my gods you are her—”

Jane whispered, “Don’t, please.”

The woman stiffened. A few other people in line were looking at Jane, with her big tray of food and at the weird interaction with the cashier. And then the cashier said, “I can’t take your money. Please. Enjoy your food. We’ve got big things planned for tonight and Darkness and Gods willing, it will be a great time!”

Jane put 25 gold on the counter and then she walked away with her tray, the weight of the massive meaty sandwich, the big basket of fries, and her large waxed paper cup with lemon soda seeming a lot heavier than it actually was.

- - - -

