Jane eventually said, “I liked all of it. Every day. Every danger. Every terrible night when one person was on watch and the rest of us slept. Every time monsters woke us up. Every gloom and bright-covered vista. The mushroom forests and the lightning spider cave. I loved Lyrical’s songs, and Hizogard’s sword fighting lessons. Danaro’s ability to heal everything and his cooking. Ravan’s steadfastness with the mission to do good down in the Underworld, and Sitnakov’s… Well. He’s probably better than all of us— And that’s fine!” Jane smiled softly, wiping away something in her eye. “It was great, and if we get to party again I will love every day of that, too— Ah.” She glanced around and tried to ignore the public nature of this place. “I probably could have said that in a more private setting than here in the middle of everyone.”

Small smiles all around.

Danaro chuckled, saying, “You’ll eat anything, though. How can you be a good judge of cooking?”

“I saw her try to eat a falseDark, once,” Hizogard said, teasing both Jane and Danaro, “It was probably better than your cooking, too.”

Danaro punched Hizogard on the shoulder.

Jane wiped away another something in her eye with the back of her hand. The food was probably too spicy.

Lyrical asked, “How did the falseDark taste, anyway?”

“Not nearly as bad as that Decay Spider.”

Danaro smiled, saying, “I thought spiders tasted good to other spiders?”

“Usually!” Jane said, smiling back.

- - - -

An hour later, Jane had finished stowing her shit back in her room, which was on a different [Fairy Stronghold] on a different branch of Yggdrasil. All of Yggdrasil’s glowing white branches now had a layer of moss and ferns and other green things growing on the top sides, blocking the white glows, and though that was a nice change it was one change of a hundred; too many changes around here. Jane had initially blipped right to where she expected her home to be, but instead of a house, she found herself on one of Yggdrasil’s wide, wide branches, directly on top of one of those fields of moss. The house was gone.

Jane had known that the house was gone, and that they had all moved due to some sort of incident with a person playing ‘steal from the Wizard’, but she had forgotten. And then she was there, where their home used to be. So Jane chanced a contact with Yggdrasil to figure out where the new house was, and was instantly thrust into a storm of a million words asking Jane about the Underworld, along with a bunch of other questions about everything from fish to river flows to what was her favorite monster. Jane had to ask about the new house several times before she actually got through to the big guy. It was only after Yggdrasil confirmed that Jane was Jane, and Poi telepathically spoke up for Jane (though he couldn’t help her more directly at the moment, he was busy), that Yggdrasil opened a [Gate] to the new house.

Everyone was busy with Feast preparations, and so her whole family wasn’t home —or able to be home— to greet her, or show her inside.

And so, here she was, alone for the first time in months, laying on her bed, staring at an unfamiliar ceiling…

She realized...

“None of them said it back. None of them said they liked grouping together… Did they? No… they didn’t...” Jane whispered softly, to herself, alone in her room as she thought about her final moments with her team. “Did all of them… hate it? Did they… Hate me? Oh… Oh.”

Maybe they did hate her.

Sitnakov was a prince, fulfilling his duty to his people. He didn’t actually want to be there with a team of ‘rookies’, playing around in the Underworld, fulfilling ‘low level’ quests in the search for a ‘princess’s’ sword. And then, when they did find the sword, it was because of a Shade, and so Sitnakov rightfully destroyed the sword. Jane wasn’t mad about that at all. But she was mad that Sitnakov was only palling around with rookies like Jane in order to get away from the tedium or guarding her father, by guarding Jane instead. Maybe Sitnakov didn’t like that, either?

It was all in an effort to look good in her father’s eyes, too, so that was bad.

Lyrical and Hizogard were both on the mission in order to guard Jane, too. Danaro was the same, and Ravan… Ravan might have been the only member of the ‘team’ to be there for the real mission of spreading the good word of Benevolence to all the world, and to clean up monsters in that spreading.

Even Jane was there in order to get away from the tedium of running a kingdom, though, so she didn’t blame any of them for that. They were all there for the right reasons.

It had been a great time.

It had been a great group!

Jane had been under no illusions about what their ‘mission’ really was in the Underworld; on the surface, it had been to recover Jane’s sword, but beneath that, it was a mission that served as proof that all the various forces of Ar’Cosmos and Stratagold and the Mind Mages and House Benevolence could work together to make the world a better place. And they had done that.

… But Jane had thought that they were maybe… becoming good friends?

… Or was that all a lie?

Or. Maybe not a lie. But more like a… A hope that never truly manifested.

Or maybe she was just being stupid and emotional and she was overthinking everything and everyone had had a grand old time and they’d group again for another party later—

Jane realized something.

Ravan had spoken about how every member of the party would better serve the interests of keeping civilization clear of monsters and preserving the light of life, if everyone in the team made their own teams of rookies, to raise up those rookies into power. This would multiply the number of people capable of fighting the big fights…

But what if Ravan’s real goal was giving Jane and everyone else there a mission that she knew would linger in the back of everyone’s minds, and eventually take root, because this current team was dissolving and it would never get back together.

There had been a lot of fractures all throughout the whole experience, after all. Little snipes between Hizogard/Lyrical (Ar’Cosmos), versus Sitnakov (Stratagold), or even Ravan (Mind Mages). Danaro (former shadeling) had distrusted Sitnakov and Lyrical quite a lot, at first, but then Danaro got together with Hizogard as boyfriends and there was some sort of lessening of hostilities there. Jane (of Erick-descent, and all that baggage) had gotten along well with everyone else, making dinner when they were on the road and cleaning up corpses so no one else had to, extracting cores and ensuring everyone got a fair share of loot. She had also saved every single person’s life in the trip, except for Sitnakov, at least twice. Or something like that. She had stopped keeping a real count of who-saved-who long ago.

Jane had thought that the group had been going very well, right up until now.

Right up until there were no monsters to fight, and all Jane had for company were the monsters in her head.

… Maybe she was being stupid. Wondering if people liked her or not seemed childish, and yet she knew that a lot of people did not like her for her; they liked her for her father. They wanted to be around her because Jane could speak nicely about them to her father and change their entire world for the better. This was the same issue that Jane had had a year ago, back when her father was going into his first Shadow’s Feast. Her problems with her father’s power had only gotten worse from there.

And yet, these were personal problems. Jane knew this. It was only her own fault that she felt this way.

She did not like feeling this way about her father. She knew it was destructive.

So why couldn’t she make herself stop? Why couldn’t she feel better about her father’s actions?

Why couldn’t she simply be supportive of him, as he had always been supportive of her?

Why did she feel the way she felt?

This confusion over her role in the world was odd. Ever since she had coalesced her Truth with the killing of that soul slime, all of her attacks, when imbued with her natural prismatic aura, always became exactly what they needed to be in order to inflict the most damage. Jane knew her Truth. She was who she needed to be for any given situation. So perhaps that’s why this whole situation with her teammates not actually liking her was throwing her for a loop. She could be reading too much into their collective failure to reciprocate her own words of ‘I enjoyed our time together, and would be up for it again in the future’. Or, she could be transforming a bit, internally, as she recognized that she needed to change. Their team had seemed like a wonderful place to be, for they seemed to be doing everything that each of them wanted to do, and they also seemed to be making the world a better place in the process, but now that was over, and so, Jane was here, thinking.

So perhaps the more important question was not about her mental state or about the status of her team, or lack thereof, but perhaps…

What sort of situation was happening now, that she needed to adjust to?

… A deeply political one, at least.

Now that Jane had an hour’s distance from the final group dinner, she realized that that final meeting with everyone had been layered with lies and small jabs and false smiles all around. Especially with Sitnakov. Jane still didn’t understand all of that but…

But more than that…

“All this thinking is foolish.” Jane sat up on the edge of her bed. “The Feast is tonight. I need to find Poi and I need to prepare with everyone else.”

She was probably overthinking the dissolving of her group, anyway.

Jane went to go find Poi.

- - - -

Jane soon found herself stepping through a [Gate], courtesy of Yggdrasil, into something of a control room, situated on one of Yggdrasil’s mossy branches. The room was abuzz with activity in a way so very similar to the last Shadow’s Feast, but so very different. A year ago Killzone and Spur held their normal response to the Feast with a main control room, but also with side rooms that could be manned in the case of emergency, or the necessity of a fallback option. What Jane saw now reminded her of that.

The room was an average-sized room of [Viewing Screen]s, with Burhendurur in mortal form standing in the middle of it all, watching people watch the world. There were many differences from Spur’s usual response to this event. These viewing screens had bones on their edges, and they were attached to the wall, showing that they were not simple lightward-[Scry]-[Force Wall] things, but instead some sort of more permanent magic. Probably easier to maintain the mana costs.

The room itself was rather smallish, at only ten meters square. Other rooms were likely similar. Lotta skilled mages here, though. Those resolutions on some of those screens were almost [True Sight]— Ah. They probably were [True Sight]-capable screens. Jane’s father only dealt in the best possible support for his House—

Poi stepped away from one of those banks of screens, and approached Jane. “Welcome back, Jane. You’re in time for some final organizations. Team leader position? Something else?”

“Team leader is great.”

“Good,” Poi said, “Because the team you went out with wants you back. Sitnakov had to go back to Stratagold, but everyone else is waiting for your return.”

Jane was stunned, again. Ah.

They did want her back?

They did.

Poi nodded, then looked up, saying, “Yggdrasil. [Gate] for Jane to Ravan, please.”

A ring of lightning instantly appeared next to Jane. On the other side was a prep room somewhere, with Ravan, Lyrical, Danaro, and Hizogard, sitting around, waiting in their armor, waiting for something to happen. Jane looked to Poi once more, nodded in deep, deep thanks, and then she went through the [Gate], back to her team.

The [Gate] closed behind her.

Jane smiled a little, happily saying, “Looks like we’re back together again. And so soon!”

All of them looked relieved.

Hizogard spoke up, “Assuming we survive all of this, I want about a month break, and then maybe we can think about more adventurers without Sitnakov.” He looked to Jane, “I didn’t want to say anything good about you back there, Jane, because then I would have needed to include him somehow, but I wanted to. I really enjoyed working with you, too. If you ever want me in a group, just ask, and I am there.”

“Me too. It was an absolute delight to group with you,” Danaro agreed. “But being around that guy was almost worse than being around a monster.”

“… What?” Jane asked, so very confused. “What’s wrong with Sitnakov?”

Lyrical asked, “Are you somehow fine with grouping with that man? Because if you are, then it doesn’t matter how much I enjoyed grouping with you, for I cannot group with you again. Stratagold and its people have murdered too many of my own people for me to look at Sitnakov without wanting to vomit.” She scowled. “That whole trip was a mental attack.”

Ravan sighed a little, saying, “We Mind Mages try to be impartial, Lyrical, but your people are also some of the worst holdouts for the worst magics this world has ever seen.”

Lyrical rolled her eyes. “I can deal with Mind Mages well enough, but Sitnakov was too much. The saying still stands; it was a mental attack to be around him.”

Jane was stunned, but Danaro and Hizogard both nodded, as though what Lyrical had said made perfect sense. Jane said, “I didn’t know that… I mean. Maybe intellectually I knew, but. Sorry. You couldn’t just get along with him— I mean. You did, and for months… Ah. Hmm.”

“He almost murdered your father in the Core, Jane,” Ravan said, losing whatever tension she had had when responding to Lyrical. She looked rather relaxed, actually. Jane glossed over Ravan’s words about the Core because Jane knew about all of that, and she had hated Sitnakov for a while too, but she had gotten over it, and so had her father. And Ravan’s new relaxed nature was throwing Jane for a loop. Was the Mind Mage truly less tense because she was no longer around Sitnakov? She had to be. Ravan continued, “Even past the Core, the wrought put your father on trial, Jane. That’s just… Unconscionable. For the sort of man he is? For the sort of good he had done at that moment in time? And especially considering what came afterward, with the [Gate]s and House Benevolence. The wrought are as inflexible as the metal they are made of, and it is only by the grace of Rozeta that they haven’t killed us all for our mortal foibles.”

