Weeks went by, and high summer with it.

David brought the newly created mana cores to his employees, whose reactions ran from hanging mouths to hyper-excitement to denial that these things even existed.

He tasked the magitech engineers from the group to figure out how to install the cores in magitools. The interface work took a few days, but the process turned out to be rather simple.

David, with Niala's permission, then had them convert Violet, his wife's personal messenger avilem, to mana cores instead of mana stones and crystals. That took them a week, but the end result was the first ever “unlimited” avilem.

Being the result-oriented band that they were, the enchanters even found time to rewrite the avilem's code so it would land and wait for its cores to recharge should it even run low.

The other project they were working on, what the group was now calling “Fractal runes” and “Fractal enchantments,” moved along at a good pace, mostly thanks to the fairy super-computer.

His employees would not stop singing its praises, though a few individuals were wondering if, maybe, the machine wasn't going to make rune-wrights obsolete. After all, what use did one have for slow people when a single machine could churn through a hundred wrights' work in an hour?

David assured them he had no intention of importing any more of these “computers”; their jobs were safe, and they could concentrate their efforts on solving the new kind of runes.

About a week later, he walked in on the five head enchanters huddled up, looking haggard yet fuelled by manic energy. They turned to face him almost as one, and their shared smile wasn't hard to decipher; they'd succeeded.

He was presented with a hand-sized metal plate, its surface looking scratched until he squinted and realized those were runes; tiny ones, engraved in strange geometric shapes that had no end or beginning.

Then, they slotted a mana core into a small indent made for it, and handed it to David, who went and pressed the plate's end against the nearest wall, feeding it a sliver of mana to activate its enchantment.

The layered runes glowed, and within a second they seemed to “infect” the wall as long flowing lines began snaking out from the metal plate, forming a sort of mandala that glowed the same multi-hued palette as the core.

The metres-wide magical art piece reached completion, and the enchantment activated. The wall erupted in bright, white light, blinding David before he shielded his face with his hand.

Pulling the plate away from the wall cut the enchantment right away, the light dying. He turned and smiled at the exhausted-looking enchanters.

Then his mood sobered; it was time to have a talk with the employees involved with the fractal runes, and tell them exactly why he had pushed them in this direction.

“You want us to make weapons?” The lead enchanter, Paul, asked. The shock in his voice was palpable, and his worried expression reflected on the others.

David nodded. “Yes, but before we go further, let me explain why.”

He let his gaze flow from person to person. Only once he knew he had everyone's attention did he begin, talking about his encounter with the different varieties of fel, up to the flesh blob that threatened to engulf an entire airship.

Understanding quickly dawned in most present, but Madeline, the second most senior enchanter, shook her head. “I think we all understand why you are asking us this, Sir, but none of us signed up to create lethal tools. Besides the obvious question of whether we are even capable of doing so, we also have to answer if we even should attempt.”

Her colleagues nodded in agreement as she continued. “It's a line that we only get to cross once, Sir. Once we do, we can't go back.”

David gave the woman a tired smile. “I know, and I agree with you. That's why I'm only going to accept volunteers. You're all free to refuse, and it won't impact your career at the Timeless Runeworks.”

The enchanters looked at each other. Ellis spoke up. “Sir, what kind of weapons are you looking for, exactly?”

David couldn't help but smirk. “Something you're actually very well acquainted with.”

That got him quite a few puzzled blinks.

After he provided more details and gave them assurances that the “weapon” would never be commercialized, nor would its schematics be distributed, only two enchanters wished to remain off the project.

David thanked them and let them return to their previous task. The rest, he put to work.

The weapon was an application of Cornelius' alchemical super-weapon, the pyressence. Niala had experimented with the substance in an effort to find an easier way to use it, but she'd hit a roadblock that she hadn't yet been able to work around.

Pyressence was very unstable once you added a bit of mana to it. The containment vessel on the Alchemical Star had been the way to keep it from conflagrating before a sufficient concentration was achieved.

When deployed by throwing a vial, even ambient mana was enough to make the splashed liquid ignite, producing an anemic flame that could warm you on a chilly day for a minute, but little else.

However, she'd had one partial breakthrough; applying the principle of transient compounds, she'd been able to keep the solution stuck in a feedback loop for as long as mana was injected into it.

The problem was that the loops broke instantly once the influx of mana stopped. The thing made for a poor grenade, igniting as soon as David would let go of the vial.

Using a heavy container with runes that would feed mana to its contents could work, but making it big enough to contain runes large enough to support an appreciable amount of mana quickly made it impractical to carry around.

It would still, theoretically, work if they were loading something like a catapult, but it greatly limited their use as a hand-held weapon. It was still their best version of the weapon, something that could be deployed from an airship easily enough.

Until David followed his hunch and tasked the enchanters with figuring out the impossible.

Now, the weapon could be a vial of Blast Pyressence, as Niala was calling the modified substance, coupled with a metal plate and powered by a mana core.

The vial would release its contents, and the plate would begin feeding it mana even as it created a bigger, much more resilient mana circuit to feed the liquid the entirety of a core's reserves.

Tests would need to be run, but given the estimated amount of mana held in a Mana core, a single Blast Grenade would probably be enough to destroy a city block if set to maximum.

Now, the enchanters only needed to figure out how to actually build the thing.

The next breakthrough came from Marshalla, who had spent the last few weeks obsessively testing the mana cores. Beyond the many pages worth of scientific data, the first discovery was that the mana cores were generating “pure” mana, the same kind as mana stones and crystals.

By itself, it was nice to know, but not terribly ground-breaking. The scholar had smirked and revealed the hammer blow; the cores had rudimentary mana pathways. She called them proto-pathways, speaking with the pride of someone who had solved an impossible mystery.

After a few questions from Niala's part, they understood the significance: a magivore could drain the mana from a core like they would any living thing.

But Marshalla wasn't done; the real discovery was the proto-pathways. They were toneless, which meant they could theoretically be used to replace damaged natural ones, or even possibly be used to “link” someone's pathways with an outside source.

The scholar was confident that should they manage to extract or replicate the proto-pathways from the cores, it might be possible to feed pure mana from a core to a non-magivore.

And that gave David some ideas. His team of enchanters were soon either going to love him or hate him.

As the weeks progressed, so did the hummers' personalities, and soon Niala learned that two of them had a fight.

They called it a fight, anyway, though it was little more than a heated disagreement on how to follow her orders. To her, it marked a turning point, and she decided to move them out of their temporary lodgings and into apartments proper in one of the blocks they had purchased.

She didn't force them, of course; they were given the choice, and told the offer would remain open forever. The members of the octuple were, at first, terrified of the idea. An octuple simply did not split up.

It took only a few days before one of them, Ariala, came to Niala, asking if she really could be relocated. Niala immediately brought the hummer to her new apartment, giving her a quick tour.

Ariala was clearly torn between her growing desire for privacy and the shame of failing the octuple.

Niala gave the woman a nice, big hug and told her that she was, in fact, being very strong, and that she was proud of her.

That evening, the catkin held a small welcome dinner in Ariala's new apartment, inviting along David, Linzy, Sybil, Sammie, and Rinka.

Niala wasn't sure the reign archivist would accept the invitation, but she felt she had to extend it. Deep wounds, like the ones Rinka kept hidden, could only heal when brought to the surface. She hoped that interacting with a hummer who was showing a nascent personality would help the woman move on.

She had been both surprised and relieved when Rinka showed up. In David's mind, the fact that his wife was cooking the dinner meant that anyone would attend; even a saint and a demon would put away their differences for the evening.

No matter the reason, the event began with some tension as Ariala kept the stony expression the hummers had arrived in town with. Then Linzy got a hold of some alcohol, and the assault of raunchy jokes began.

The goblin woman seemed to be on a mission to get Niala as tomato-red as possible. A remark about the catkin's habit of rubbing her face on David, and wondering where else she was rubbing her face when nobody was looking, got Ariala herself to blush.

Linzy and Sammie spotted it, and they pounced like hunting dogs who'd caught sight of a juicy rabbit.

Half a bell later, the mask cracked, and a sound that might have never been heard before today filled the space; a hummer's laugh.

It was a tiny thing, barely a few chuckles, but it left everyone silent.

And then Rinka chortled.

The rest of the evening turned out great. By the end, Ariala had even asked a few questions to the other guests.

Later that night, when David and Niala got back home, she broke out into a celebratory wiggle-dance. He decided to join in, followed by Lychee, who hopped around their feet, just happy to participate in whatever this was.

The celebration went all the way to their bedroom.

Niala was very happy when she finally fell asleep.

David channelled his mana through Empower Weapon and into the stick he was holding. The thin piece of wood glowed blue and turned rigid just in time to be swung at the incoming rock, smashing it apart and disintegrating into a shower of splinters.

He cursed, throwing the rest of the stick away as he ran around the moon chapel's glade. He picked another one up as he went, running Empower Weapon in it as well to bat away the next rock that Leandro threw at him.

He forgot to close his mouth this time, and had to spit out the woody bits.

“It's not working!” He called out between two lungfuls, his Marathon imbuement slipping into its fifth hour of continuous use. That was at least one power he had mastered out of the eight they had selected.

That said, he wasn't certain if Clean Lungs and Purify Blood weren't simply being overpowered by Niala's poisons but otherwise working fine.

His wife refused to let him train with any poison except the ones she brewed, and while she kept the effects superficial, they were Niala-brewed.

He also had no say in which kind of poison she was handing him, and there was no question that she was enjoying that part of his training. Apart from the innocuous chromatic skin potions that turned him different shades of red and green, He'd also had a squeaky voice, rose-scented musical flatulence, soft teeth, a beard that grew from his wrists, and so on.

Niala admitted that her favourite had been the bushy cat whiskers.

He shook the memory of being able to feel the wind through his nose and focused on the present.

Leandro kept him going for another half bell, throwing more rocks his way, and David decimating the local stick population along the way.

The large man dusted his hands and cupped them around his mouth. “Boy! That is enough! We need to talk about your technique!”

David sighed, let Marathon fade and headed toward his trainer at a trot. He spoke when he got close. “I don't know what I'm doing wrong. Can't we try with training weapons instead of sticks?”

Leandro shook his head. “If you are destroying sticks, you would destroy metal as well, eventually. It would simply take more time.”

“And that's not fine because...?”

“Because it indicates you have not mastered the technique, boy. We have had this discussion!”

David put his hands around his waist and stretched backward. “Yeah... I still don't get it.”

“Never mind for now. We shall revisit the technique's principles tomorrow; it is getting late.” Leandro said, looking at the lowering sun before returning his gaze to his trainee. “Have you given thought to your eventual expedition back into hummer territory?”

David pulled back forward with a small grunt as he felt something click back into place. “Hrng, yeah. We decided to keep it small. Me, Niala, Jordo, and maybe Sammie and Sybil if they accept.” He tilted his head. “On that topic, how is their training going?”

Leandro gave him a lopsided smile. “Very well. Sybil will never want for enthusiasm, while Sammie is secretly trying to surpass her while expending as little energy as possible.”

“Do you know why he's doing that?”

“Were I to guess, I would say so that he can keep her out of the trouble she puts herself in.” The large man said.

“Ah, yeah... that would make sense.” He frowned. “Do you think they're strong enough to accompany us?”

Leandro pondered for a second. “I would think so. Out of all the guards I have trained recently, and especially from your retinue, they are shoulders above their peers. Their only weakness is, as with all Azure Guards, their mana reserve. They have a good amount of it, but it will inevitably run out during a prolonged fight.”

David stared at him until the large man crossed his arms. “What is it, boy?”

“I might have a solution for that.” He answered, smiling.