Alden adjusted his expectations some more. Zeridee was in critical condition, an alien, and “the relative of a friend” of a knight. Sending her to a packed Anesidoran ER that was equipped primarily for humans wouldn’t have been great for anyone. That didn’t mean Demon Cube Hospital was open for business or would be opening for business…it meant it was open for select cases.

Maybe a red halo or two? Artonans. Me.

“Did other people even get rooms? Did they all go back to the island? Have I just been left alone on Matadero?”

He had slept for a long time, but surely that wasn’t a thing that could actually happen to a person?

He headed down a floor and found a section of the facility that looked a little more like a traditional House of Healing.

This place really is stocked, he thought as he poked his head into a storage room. So many supplies were waiting here, completely untouched. Boxes covered in logograms and sealed with wax. Stacks of blankets. Vials of “essential elements” from the Triplanets and Earth. There were even restraints intended for people who weren’t humanoid in shape.

This is all reserved for something really bad. Like hundreds of Avowed and wizards living here and getting hurt here for an extended period of time…with nobody allowed on or off?

Or with the rest of Earth in such bad shape it couldn’t supply the place.

He hoped they let him pick where his new tattoo went. If it was small enough, the bottom of a toe would be a great forgettable location.

Eventually, the smell of herbs burning and a resonant sound in the air—as if a gong had been struck a while ago and the remnants of its ring were lingering—led him to the healer and Zeridee.

The Artonan man was fully engaged in doing…a thing…and that thing involved painting himself and his patient both in what looked like blood while he sang a song over her body in a room full of potted plants.

Yep, I was ridiculous to think Kibby wouldn’t be stoked about me tasting her blood. I should have let her paint some more logograms on the cabinets. Done a little dance. My lack of showmanship had to be a real disappointment to her.

Alden only watched them for a second. He didn’t know how hard healing spells were, but he knew that if someone interrupted him mid-cast he might fail to properly direct his authority. He assumed the same thing applied to some extent to fully trained wizards.

So he left them there.

He went down another floor, still hoping to find at least one of the two Avowed he’d met last night. Instead, he found the morgue.

It wasn’t like Alden would have walked through a door labeled “MORGUE” and helped himself to a peek. But as soon as the elevator dinged, there the bodies were, in a place that had clearly been meant to treat the living just like the floors above. They were laid out on gurneys, tabletops, and the floor. Most of them were covered with cloths that glimmered with magic. The dead woman on the table beside the nurse’s station was stripped and surrounded by a trio of wizards.

“You see what I mean, don’t you?” one of them was saying, her voice irritated. “You’re giving them all the same nose!”

“She looks right to me.”

“If you can’t do it, put away your casting tools and call me over. Before this happens. Or I will tell your <<affirming>> school that Dam-trinta gave all the Avowed dead his own nose. And I will smoke <<forever root>> while they <<ablate >> your diploma.”

Alden started hastily pressing random elevator buttons.

Right as the doors were closing, the woman who had been delivering the admonishment turned around. Her brows lifted as she spotted him. “A human?” she said. “I thought the <<organizer>> said not to worry about any—”

Her words were cut off. Alden leaned against the wall and let out a breath.

How many bodies was that?

More than ten. Less than twenty.

Are the hallways and rooms down there full? Is that why they’re working on them out in the open like that? How many people must be dead?

The morticians, if that was what they were, had obviously been as surprised to see him as he was to see them. So that confirmed what he’d already ascertained for himself. Not a lot of humans in the hospital.

Not living ones anyway.

That could have been me.

Laid out there naked on a table, having his body made presentable for family. It would have given Connie and his friends some closure this time at least.

I need to get out of here.

******

The problem with trying to get some distance from the corpses was that Alden only knew of two places on Matadero. And one of them was the hospital with the corpses in it.

The other was the canteen.

Following his memory of the map, he left the hospital by means of a corridor that came to a narrow point just wide enough for a single person to pass before it broadened into a less claustrophobic hall that connected to the bottom level of Matadero’s residential section.

The place looked like a hotel lobby, if the hotel had given its design budget to someone who thought gray was a bold color.

He paused on his way through to watch a video montage that had been left playing on the screen in one of the seating areas. From the looks of it, everyone in the battle group that was currently supposed to be in residence here was engaged in an ongoing prank war involving a hundred kilo sack of rice. Alden watched as a Vocal Brute named Ramona Sahu distracted someone he vaguely recognized as an up-and-coming hero from Miami with a voice throw before she smashed him from behind with the rice bag.

There were about a dozen famous and semi-famous people laughing their asses off in the background while the victim groaned and started to clean up all the spilled grains. As the montage switched over to a scene with Ramona walking through a boobytrapped doorway and catching rice in the face, Alden shook his head.

The most powerful adults in the world are big dorks.

He wondered if they’d all left to help the island. It made sense that if it was okay for the knights to go help out now then it would be fine for the others to go, too.

He reached another elevator and took it down. When he stepped off, he found himself in a cafeteria that looked like it had been designed by the same person responsible for the lobby above. There was a kitchen—partially visible through a cut-out wall—at the other end of the room. Before Alden had made it three steps, a man wearing an apron over a t-shirt and boxers ran out to greet him.

Hey, I’m not the only one whose crisis wardrobe needs some work.

The guy had on bedroom slippers.

“English?” he asked. And before Alden could confirm, he was being peppered with questions. “Are more people coming? How many? Do they want supper? Breakfast? Something else? Is it mostly Artonans or are there humans with you? Is the island still there? Is everyone all right? Where—?”

“I’m sixteen, and I’ve been asleep for the past fifteen hours.” That seemed like the most succinct way to convey his cluelessness. “I’m Alden. I’m a patient in the hospital section.”

“There’s a hospital here?”

Alden nodded.

“Am I…supposed to be feeding patients?”

“There are only two patients that I know of for sure,” said Alden. “One of them is me, and the other is being healed. So just me.”

He was glad he hadn’t tried to order room service. This person would have been pretty confused to get a meal request from a hospital he hadn’t even  known was right next door.

The man sighed. “I’m Kabir.”

“Lute’s chef!”

Kabir looked surprised.

“Sorry. I know you don’t work for Lute. But Lute’s mentioned you. I’m his roommate.”

“Is he—?”

“Don’t know,” Alden said. “I’m sure he’s fine. He was on campus when everything went wrong.”

It had to be one of the best places to be.

“I’ve been here since everything went wrong. Cooking. Galecourse—Melanie Carisson, I mean—brought me in. I haven’t even left the cafeteria. Nobody’s come. Nobody. I was starting to think I was the only person here. On Matadero!” He laughed a little nervously. “That would be crazy. But here you are. Human. Hospital patient. Lute’s friend! I’ll feed you.”

In the kitchen, food covered every inch of the place. Paella, pastries, pre-packaged pudding cups. Alden opened a huge fridge just to see how far the madness went and found a hundred individually wrapped sandwiches stacked wall to wall on one of the shelves.

Kabir, a victim of circumstance, was the only person responsible for all of it. He hadn’t slept much at all in the past two days.

“..and so she asks me to make something with the special Artona III potatoes. They are not easy to use, but I said, ‘Of course, Ms. Velra. I can cook with these. Just in case the Generals agree to take a break and dine on Libra. It has never happened before even though she’s asked many times over the years, but I don’t point this out. I just cook pink potato dumplings with clam sauce.

“Strange recipe. I don’t like it. No one comes for dinner. So I put it away and prep ingredients for Chicken à la King before I go to my cabin.”  He frowned down at the skillet on the stove in front of him. “I think this needs fat, something creamy. Vegan. Almond butter will be nice for you.”

Alden watched curiously as the chef spooned a giant gob of almond butter into the skillet where his meal was happening. Fresh greens, mushrooms, and a lot of roasted garlic were in there already, gradually becoming a sauce thanks to starchy pasta water.

“Ten minutes after I fall asleep, the disaster starts. The next thing I know, I’m flying in Galecourse’s arms.” He started scooping linguine into the pan with a set of tongs.  “Everyone else leaves to go help Anesidora and find family members, but Ms. Velra suddenly says, ‘Oh, Kabir. You’ll stay here and cook for the wizards, won’t you? Won’t you?”

Mushrooms and noodles flew through the air and he caught them again in the pan.

“On the sixth tray of cheese muffins, I decide maybe there are no wizards. No Avowed. Just. Me. I put up a view spell at the elevator to watch for demons.”

But he kept cooking, thought Alden. “There’s no chaos here right now, so I don’t think you have to worry about those.”

“I’m a C-rank, you know. I’m not supposed to be here.” He glowered at Alden’s food as he tipped it onto a plate. “I bet they make me get a tattoo.”

“Oh, I’m thinking of getting mine on a toe.” He took the offering. “Thanks. I would have been fine with just the soup and the salad, but this looks good.”

Alden ate his meal at one of the cafeteria tables with Kabir looking on and bouncing a leg nervously the whole while.

“I’ve only seen four wizards since I left my room,” Alden told him between scarfing down bites. “So you might want to take a break from cooking. The place seems pretty abandoned. And it’s after midnight. I know that the time kind of doesn’t matter under the circumstances. But you should sleep.”

He started slurping on his bowl of miso soup.

“I think the idea was that Artonans would be coming here?” Kabir said. “That was what it sounded like Ms. Velra thought, but she was giving me instructions while she was bestowing wordchains on everyone. She was working so hard, she was sweating. It was very confusing.”

“We could ask the morticians, I guess,” said Alden.

The chef nodded. Then he looked up, eyes going rounder. “The what?”

******

Kabir was reluctant to leave the area he’d been assigned to.

“It’s Matadero. We can’t just explore,” he protested when Alden suggested they might as well go to the hospital together and find him a bedroom. And some pants.

“But I’ve already been that way,” Alden explained. “There’s really nothing you’re going to get in trouble for seeing as far as I can tell.”

The man shook his head. “I’m just going to stay here. I’ll make coffee cake. It goes with wevvi, doesn’t it?”

So Alden ended up alone once more, carrying a box of food he hoped Zeridee might get to eat. When he found the healer still in full mystical mode, he debated his options and chose to fetch his messenger bag from his room before coming back down. He positioned a chair at the end of the hall in a spot where he wouldn’t interrupt the healing process but also where he couldn’t possibly miss the Artonan’s emergence.

He’d decided not to go offer the morticians supper. He really didn’t want to find out all the details about their work or accidentally present himself as a volunteer to help them with it. He’d had enough of bodies for one weekend.

How many are down there? Are more still coming?

He shoved the questions away as well as he could.

Right now, Alden had no instructions to follow and no knowledge of what he should be doing other than keeping himself and a snake alive. He was in a hospital, technically waiting for further treatment. He suspected he’d fallen into some kind of cross-species organizational blindspot.

The Artonan had insisted Alden was his patient, so if the human doctor and Healer were still around, they hadn’t put him on their to-do list.

So he’s my guy.

His left hand was worrying him more than the other injuries. Not because it was worse, per se, but because he wanted it healed better than everything else.

All I can do is ask him about it. And until then…

He guessed it was all right to do what he wanted. And what he wanted, he realized after just a minute’s consideration, was to do his homework.

An essay on whether or not humans should accommodate unpleasant social customs when encountering other peoples, for Intro to Other Worlds. Recording himself trying some difficult pronunciations for his Conversation class. Analyzing the footage from his team’s obstacle course wins.

