Still, I wanted to help as her pain was white hot and deep as an ocean. It was like she was putting herself into her own personal hell, and I didn't know how to help pull her out of it. I had to say something though, so I put a hand on her shoulder,

"So, uhm, it's ok."

I cursed at myself, wishing I wasn't a fucking idiot.

Kessiah let out a sad laugh, "Thanks for trying. At least you didn't tell me to quit being a pansy about it."

"I'm sorry. I'm...not the best at this. My gut instinct is to tell you to quit feeling sorry for yourself and do something about your situation. That doesn't work for everybody though. Just, uh, focus on what you can do about it. The past, it's gone. You can do something right now though."

I stood up, trying to keep my words tactful,

"Besides, wallowing in guilt doesn't do much, does it?"

Fuck. I needed to really work on this. I was more like a drill sergeant then a friend.

Kessiah pulled herself together, and went back to deflecting with humor, "Thank you, sir for the pep talk. Real helpful."

"Well, at least I don't have to worry about being as charismatic as Yawm."

Kessiah propped her weight onto one hip, "Aye, stop doubting yourself. We're talking about how pathetic I am, not you."

I let out a reluctant grin, "Heh, if you say so."

Kessiah raised her hands, "For real though, I really could use some work. I was over a 1,000 levels above that bag of bones when he asked me to come to earth. Since then, he's a Speaker, and he's tripled my level already. At this point, I went from the weak link to just...ugh."

"The thing is, you can fix the levels pretty fast. Go clear dungeons or kill silvers. Problem solved. That's not where your problem is." I tapped my temple, "It's up here with you. It's like...you self destruct or something. You can't get focused ever since you tapped out against Yawm. Quit focusing on your failures and start working towards success. It's that simple."

Kessiah looked down while crossing her arms, "Yeah...I should do that."

I raised my hands, "Never too late for redemption. You got the talent. Get your shit together, and you'll be a world breaker. I mean that. I remember when you first used your blood arts. You wiped the floor with me. If you got a good handle on that and backed it up with some raw stats, you'd be formidable. If you added a Breaker class to that, and you'd be outright terrifying."

She looked up to me, "You're not fucking with me, right?"

"Look, we talk shit about you, but don't misunderstand the situation. You have potential." I poked her shoulder, "Go realize it."

I turned around, walking over towards our room, "I got to see what the hell is taking Torix so long though. Good luck."

Kessiah reached out, "Wait a minute. I forgot to tell you. Did you ever see the news?"

I let my hands plop against my sides, "What do you think?"

A tiny grin spread over her face, "Hah. Got you there at least." She raised her hands, "Anyways, Thisbey is using the bombing on our room to frame the gialgathens. It's causing some riots. You know, serious shit."

I bit my lip, "Fuck. It's one problem after the other."

Kessiah let out a hollow laugh, "You haven't heard anything yet. According to a rumor mill, there's been a revolutionary group going around clearing Dungeons. They're espens that are leveling up so that they can kill the gialgathens or some crazy shit. It's insane."

My eyes widened, "They're leveling to commit genocide?"

Kessiah took a sharp breath in, "Hey, I'm just the messenger."

I glanced down, "What the fuck is wrong with people?"

Kessiah shrugged, "Eh, pretty much everything. Just got to deal with it, right?"

I glanced down at her, "Yeah...That's right."

She pointed up at me, "Hah, that's something you told me forever ago. Anyways, thanks for the pep talk. I think it's about time I start kicking ass and taking names."

I raised my eyebrows while looking away, "It's about damn time."

Kessiah hit my elbow with a playful punch, but she ended up breaking one of her finger bones. She leaned over, grabbing her hand, "By Baldowah your skin is like...like I don't know. Jesus. Fuck."

I raised an eyebrow, "Why'd you say Jesus?"

Kessiah waved me off, "I don't fucking know. You always mention the guy whenever something bad happens. I figured it might help. If you're wondering, it didn't."

I raised a hand and pinched my fingers together. As I did, I telekinetically set the bones in her hand. Kessiah growled, "Aghhhhhh. Fuck you."

I gave her a grin, "Your welcome. For real, good luck with pulling it together."

She stood up straight, "You too. And uh...thanks. You know, for everything."

I shrugged, "Eh, I was helping myself most of the time. I wouldn't give myself to much credit."

I turned and walked off. As I did, Kessiah sighed and murmured to herself,

"Alright, Kessiah...you got to get your shit together. Come on. Come on. Let's do this. No more going to bars or lounging in bed...ok, maybe a little lounging."

I suppressed a laugh, walking into our room. As I opened the door, Torix was casting some green, healing magic over Althea. I raised an eyebrow as I closed the door behind me, "Is she sick?"

Torix shook his head, "Not exactly. I was more so checking her vitals for poisons and whatnot. After the fiasco at Rivaria, I've become more paranoid you see."

I tsked, "Yeah, so have I." I watched him use the green magic for a few seconds, "So uh, could you teach me that? I've been doing surgery with gravity magic recently. Turns out, it's not exactly the worst thing to use, but I'm pretty sure there are better tools out there."

Torix scoffed, "You're right about that." He opened his dimensional storage, pulling out a dusty old tome. He tossed it at me, and I snatched it out of the air. With my other hand, I pressed my fingertips together, compressing the erupting cloud of dust let off by the book.

I burnt it once I collected the lint. Torix ceased his magic and clapped his hands, "Bravo. You've become a fine mage, integrating such complex magic for miscellaneous tasks."

I raised an eyebrow, "Oh this? It's because of Force of Nature. Otherwise, I wouldn't have this kind of finesse. It's a pretty absurd skill, to be honest."

Torix nodded, "Most branches of magic are when taken to their extremes. Oddly enough, I don't know if you could even implement healing magic with your current limitations."

I raised an eyebrow, "What, why?"

Torix gestured towards Althea, "Helios's ice isn't what left Althea delirious like that. It was the side effects of mana toxicity."

My eyes widened, "I poisoned Althea with that little bit of mana?"

Torix sighed, "Indeed you did. You see, your health and mana are one. You can actually channel your mana directly into someone's wounds to heal them. The issue revolves around its effect on someone's mind."

Torix waved his hands around, "You deal with unbelievably high volumes of mana at once. You could deluge someone's central nervous system, completely overloading it and frying them as if they were on an electric chair."

Torix cupped his chin, "In fact, it could make for a devastating combat move. Your mana elicits violence and destructive impulses after all. Perhaps causing some infighting would be very difficult to stop."

I frowned, "It's motivating too. You know, energizing and all that."

Torix swung a finger, pointing a finger in the air at the same time, "Precisely my point. That rush of violence can leave someone in a state of comatose if you overdue the mana sent to them. In fact, imagine if you sent that kind of mana into Caprika. She's even flimsier than Althea. She might even have mutated into something like an eldritch. Perhaps even worse."

I grimaced, "So no healing magic then? Got it."

Torix tilted his head, "Hmmm. Not necessarily. You'd need some kind of limiter or the like; otherwise, you might send too much mana. After all, if you even sneezed, you might make someone explode. To be honest, you're not the best candidate for learning healing magic. Kessiah, on the other hand, would be quite adept at it."

I rolled my eyes, "Pff, Kessiah can't even get out of bed early."

Torix spread out his hands, "I wouldn't be so sure. Kessiah's Blood Magic lineage gives her a tremendous amount of manipulative ability with blood itself. That means she could create blood, take away blood, etc. It is potent for both healing and attacking in that regard."

Torix waved his hand in disgust, "That being said, she'd never take the time to learn it. Alas, for professor, there is no greater shame than wasted talent."

I shrugged, "Eh, I wouldn't be so sure. She might have finally gotten motivated."

Torix looked at me. He walked up and placed a hand on my shoulder, "If there's one thing I learned about her long ago, it's that she's a time bomb. The moment she gets herself together, she just implodes under pressure."

Torix let his hands down, "I believe it's out of a lingering sense of self-hatred after she accidentally killed her parents. Maybe she believes she's unworthy of her gifts? Maybe she believes she doesn't deserve happiness? It could even be out of sheer fear of her Blood Magic after watching it consume her family in front of her."

Torix looked down and nodded slowly,

"Hard thing that...to lose one's family that is. After I say it out loud, it makes more sense why she's struggling. It would be like if you killed Althea with your mana just now. It might be hard to use it afterwards, as you'd fear another mishap of the same vein."

He was right about that. I couldn't even imagine what that would be like. Maybe telling Kessiah to suck it up wasn't the right approach. I'd have to think about it later.

Torix counted on his fingers, "Anyways, can you reinforce the base by a bit? I've already planted many agents around the area, casted several wards, and I added a few choice traps at choke points. If you wouldn't mind adding a few extra runic repulsing spells around the area, it would give my mind a sense of ease."

I whistled, "Woah, that's quite a bit of security."

Torix's blue fire eyes flared red, "I was the one that defended us against most of the assassins that came at us before Yawm. I moved our base and our troops while cloaking us. I've gotten slack, so now twice I failed. Never again. Your assistance will help reinforce that."

I gave him a thumbs up, "I don't think you should take it to heart. It's everyone's responsibility to stay alive. Not just yours to keep them that way."

"Perhaps, but perhaps not. We each specialize in our own respective fields of study. My necromancy and troop management make me a natural information specialist. You're our vanguard in battle, absorbing enemy aggression and throwing their ranks into utter chaos. Althea's our assassin, jumping in and out of our plane much like Ajax did."

Torix looked up, "Hmmm, perhaps Kessiah could become our healer. After all, her aversion to combat seems consistent. Using her magic to help her allies might suit her better despite her rather coarse personality. Anyways, I set up a meeting with Kiki Mosk in an hour at the tournament site. He mentioned something about the interview, so I'm certain you didn't mind."

I let out a long sigh, "Of course not."

Torix laughed, "Excellent. I won't miss the interview, I promise. It sounds far too entertaining watching you out of your element."

"Thanks a lot. Real helpful."

"As always. Goodbye, Harbinger."

I rolled my eyes as I trecked out into the forest for a few minutes after. I carved runic inscriptions into a few stones nearby, charging them with mana. After I finished setting them up, I reinforced the base again, this time for security. I composed strips along the edges of the building.

It was crazy what I was doing when I thought about it. I tore my skin off, melted it with my life force, then used it to make a cool base. Odd.

After finishing the project, I sprinted off towards the stadium where the honoring of Lehesion took place. I came out of the trees from a different angle then our base was at. After all, I didn't know if Kiki helped the assassin. I didn't want to take any chances either way.

With the dilapidated ruins coming into view, Kiki waiting along the upper edge of the stadium. As I leaped up to him, he spread out his hands,

"Ah, if it isn't the man of the hour. Where did you and your compatriots head off to?"

I frowned, "Nowhere you need to know about."

Kiki gave me a warm grin, "Right answer. Trust no one. We can't afford to lose you! Our ratings have never been higher than this year. We've even got a reasonable following of extraplanetary viewers. You're that captivating. It must feel really, really great!"

I grumbled, "Yeah. That's, uh, great...Can you tell me what you want? I'm busy."

Kiki waved his arms, "Ah yes. I called you here to inform you about the interview's specifics. You've got three rounds left. Each of these next fights will take place at the stadium as the other fights did. The rounds will have you face to face with your opponent, both of you talking a bit of trash."

I rolled my eyes, "Oh come on."

Kiki waved a finger, "Now now, Daniel. You can make a huge splash in these interviews. This is a chance for people to get to know you after all."

"Something tells me people won't like what they hear."

Kiki cupped his hands together, "I wouldn't be so sure. You're an everyday man who's extraordinary at the same time. People love it when an exceptional individual acts as if they aren't exceptional. It doesn't remind them they're mediocre."

He spread out his hands, "Why else do you think everyone likes it when a celebrity is humble? It makes the star boring, but at least your average viewer won't be bombarded by cognitive dissonance. That's a big no-no."

"Uh...Yeah, sure."

Kiki clenched his hands into fists, "Just let everyone know the real Daniel. You'll do wonders I'm sure."

"If you say so."

