Blue blood. It surprised Uzine as much as everyone. It spilled out of his mouth like vomit…a pool of it. He spat a string of blood and stepped back. Then…Tyrion saw the Agelum bleed.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater looked up with Ser Greysten and saw Uzine bleeding. The Agelum lifted one hand and looked at the blood running down his body. A huge wound. But neither Greysten nor Rabbiteater had tagged him. So how…?
“Ah.”
Uzine looked at his hand and the fragile skin that had split from his knuckles halfway down his arm. He flexed his fingers, and Rabbiteater saw the arm wasn’t straight.
He’d…broken his own bones. To look at him—something was wrong with his lungs. The Agelum hacked up more bright blue blood.
“Summer’s…wrath. What is that?”
Greysten was staring at the blood. Rabbiteater had thought it meant Uzine was noble—blue-blooded. But it was clearer and clearer…
 
——
 
“That fool. He’s injured himself. Badly.”
Uzine was pursuing Ser Greysten and Rabbiteater, but he was bleeding a trail onto the grass. The Agelum stumbled, then tossed one axe aside. He’d clearly decided he couldn’t use that arm. Even so—his eyes were locked on the two.
He intended to finish them off. The Lucifen were in a frenzy, wondering how to explain this. A class? But the blood—
The Agelum grabbed Ser Solstice bare-handed, swatting the Summer’s Champion aside with a blow that damaged his other arm. Then his bloody arm began to squeeze.
The metal helm of Ser Solstice’s armor began to deform around the gorget. He was…crushing the [Champion]’s armor. Visophecin watched as he strode across the ground with Igolze and Azemith.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater couldn’t breathe. He was staring into those strange eyes. Too many pupils. Who…then Uzine whispered to him, as Greysten tried to get up.
“Only one Goblin who has ever locked swords with me has lived, Ser Solstice. He was named Greydath of Blades.”
Ah. That explained a lot. Rabbiteater grinned behind his helmet. He knew. The Agelum’s fingers tightened, and Rabbiteater saw spots appearing in his vision. He waited for the crunch…but then Uzine let go of him. Gasping, Rabbiteater swayed, and Uzine grabbed him.
“Igolze. Here’s your answer. Visophecin. I’m bleeding.”
Who were they? They smelled like oil and metal. Rabbiteater was gagging. He saw some slim figures with…grey skin stopping. Uzine was coughing, and they were fussing over him when they all went silent.
“I believe the point has been made. This duel is over. Summer’s Champion. It is my turn.”
Uzine turned his head, and Rabbiteater, clutching at the metal digging into his throat, looked up. He saw a white beard, two mismatched eyes of heliotrope and cerulean. A half-Elf, floating in the air.
“Archmage of Memory.”
“Where is Duke Rhisveri? If you would challenge anyone—challenge me.”
Someone was grabbing Rabbiteater, helping Greysten up. Ailendamus was retreating, even Uzine reluctantly being led away. Rabbiteater looked up and saw a too-young face. A clean-shaven man, without his beard. Tyrion Veltras hauled Rabbiteater onto his horse.
“Archmage—”
“Retreat, Lord Veltras. If we are to settle things, then I, the Archmage of Wistram, challenge Ailendamus’ greatest spellcasters. Send forth Duke Rhisveri.”
The air was…shimmering. Ailendamus’ cheering had gone silent again. The Archmage of Memory hovered there and looked at the army of targets as his eyes blazed with magic.
Even Tyrion Veltras decided not to argue. He rode away from the fighting with Rabbiteater as Ser Greysten was carried off by Talia and his people. Rabbiteater looked up at the man.
“You.”
“Ser Solstice—”
Rabbiteater tried to punch Tyrion in the face. The [Lord] blocked the punch, cursing, and behind them…
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin watched Eldavin standing there. This time, it was her heart that was breaking.
Eldavin, not Teriarch.
Half-Elf, not Dragon. The same man in some ways—so different in others. The ego was there, the personality was the same.
That brave warrior, sometimes a condescending, grouchy old man, often caring, fierce and despairing and intelligent.
But without the wisdom of aeons. A Dragon in a mortal’s body without his memory.
Out of his mind. Betrayed by Ryoka Griffin. But all he said…even after what she’d tried to do, all he said as he looked down at the three Lucifen—Azemith, Igolze, and Visophecin—was this. For the world to hear.
“What magic did you cast on Ryoka Griffin? I will have Duke Rhisveri answer for that and every transgression with his life. Send him forth.”
Ryoka was sick. Razia was silent, and the Wind Runner looked towards the Wyrm’s chambers. But Azemith just sneered back.
“We have not ensorcelled her, Archmage. You should know that. Or are our magics beyond yours? House Shoel will be your opponent if Duke Rhisveri is too busy to oblige you. I have something to settle with you as well. My daughter will wear your hand around her neck.”
Eldavin’s gaze flicked to her and Igolze, then past them. He lifted a finger.
“If Duke Rhisveri will not answer me, I see no need to delay this farce.”
“You arrogant—”
Azemith lifted a hand and wavered. Ailendamus’ forces looked up, and everyone from Baron Regalius to the Order of the Hydra gazed upwards. Those brave warriors who had mastered the art of swinging metal, fighting, putting their bodies on the line saw the contempt of [Mages].
They gazed upwards at a burning [Fireball] spell. Just a ball of fire ready to detonate. Sometimes as large as a basketball from a low-level mage with a small radius. Greater [Mages] could link and make one as large as a house.
These…these were masses of stone surrounded by fire. Hovering in the air as they appeared. One hundred, two hundred…
“[Meteor Storm].”
The Archmage of Memory silenced even the Terras faction as Ailendamus began to desperately spread out. He was glowing with magic. And still—Duke Rhisveri had not appeared. Igolze pointed a finger at Eldavin and wavered as he saw the Archmage aiming a wand at him. Even the Lucifen looked up in horror.
He was going to kill—
That finger began to crook downwards, and the burning meteors flickered—then a gloved hand halted it. Eldavin recoiled, and a carefully pointed smile and the red irises of Viscount Visophecin of Ailendamus met his.
“If Duke Rhisveri is unavailable…I am the head of House Shoel. Visophecin of Ailendamus. You have been most unwise, coming here, Archmage.”
Brimstone and fire. Metal and oil. Ryoka could almost smell it in the room. She had no idea what it was like standing between the two. The Lucifen stepped backwards as Azemith and Igolze hesitated. Visophecin motioned them back, and Razia murmured.
“Visophecin himself?”
The Devil and the memory of a Dragon in a half-Elf’s body regarded each other in dead silence a moment. Eldavin’s burning, contemptuous gaze met the pinholes of darkness amid red light. The appraising gaze of someone adding him up into a number to be subtracted into nothing.
“Stand aside or perish.”
The Archmage of Memory issued one curt warning. For the look of it. He was already drifting backwards, and the swarm of meteors had vanished. [Mages] cried out as their [Detect Magic] spells grew so bright they overloaded.
“They’re creating so much mana the air is transforming. Look at it!”
Ser Ilm shouted in horror and awe. He pointed at the wavering lines in the air. Rabbiteater, groggy, looked up and saw something akin to the lines of heat radiating up from the ground. Only…instead of heat, it was magic, and it made the entire world shimmer as if it were all a mass of colored lines.
Rabbiteater looked at Visophecin and Eldavin, then counted the Lucifen. He put his head back down.
“We’re in trouble.”
Unless the Archmage could take them all on? He looked ready to. Visophecin was adjusting the suit he wore, flickers of darkness magic and his own cloaked spells appearing around him. Eldavin was far less subtle. He was chanting and binding spells to himself by the dozens.
Two spellcasters far, far beyond this age faced each other as both armies drew back two hundred paces. They were casting as fast as they could, waiting for the other to attack.
Eldavin was the first to lose patience. He pointed a finger at Visophecin and spoke one word.
“[Disintegrate].”
A beam of nigh-colorless light ate away everything in its path. Visophecin was about three dozen paces away from the hovering half-Elf, but the ray crossed the distance faster than an arrow. For reply…the Devil leaned out of the way.
His eyes never wavered from Eldavin. The Archmage of Memory’s gaze flashed at the bored look on Visophecin’s gaze. So he crooked his finger.
“[Splinter Spell]. [Recast: Rays of Disintegration].”
The ray passing behind Visophecin stopped, hit something in the air, and shot back the way it’d come as if it’d passed through a prism. Instead of one—a dozen rays of deadly light criss-crossed the air. The Lucifen turned. He had a microsecond to react. Too slow to portal out, as many Lucifen would do. He raised two fingers, and a cloak of dark liquid-fire ran down, covering him.
A cloak of some magic shielded the Lucifen, and the [Disintegration Rays] vanished into them. Eldavin’s eyes narrowed.
“So you are as good as you claimed in the [Message] spells.”
‘Viscount V’ turned, and his eyes were so calm that finally, Eldavin saw the little core of rage buried deep underneath that polite expression. Something of Visophecin’s true nature leaked out in those blandly spoken words.
“I am often humble for the look of it. And you are underestimating me, Archmage.”
He clicked his fingers, and Eldavin exploded. Or—the air around him did. There was no warning. No [Fireball]. The contained zone of space that Visophecin had been outlining just ignited in a moment.
The explosion was contained within a flickering sphere of magic. It could contain air, the force of the spell—and the Archmage’s escape attempts. Visophecin stood there as Eldavin reappeared.
The Archmage of Memory’s robes were scorched. He himself…Visophecin’s bland look changed to one of…disquiet.
His skin. The shaking half-Elf was regrowing his skin. Had the explosion touched him? He’d survived the lethal attack that should have vaporized his bones. His body—Dionamella had communicated something was wrong with—
“[Doubled Spell]. [Finger of the Fire Giant].”
A pillar of searing fire, molten rock, and flame hit Visophecin’s position and gouged up a world of dirt. The Lucifen vanished as the black bolts of magic criss-crossed Eldavin’s position. The Archmage of Memory flew up, wings burning with a phoenix’s fire as one punched a hole in his body.
Then—then they began to do battle.
 
——
 
Of course, Ryoka Griffin was already running for Rhisveri. She had hammered on his door and was trying to break in. Razia was watching the fighting, calling out to Ryoka via a speaking stone.
“Ryoka, you cannot break in! Even I couldn’t—”
“What is he doing? I have to—Rhisveri! Rhisveri!”
Ryoka Griffin was howling at the Wyrm as she flew around the palace. The wind was on the rampage with her, but even when she slammed an entire ottoman into the gigantic double-doors so hard it turned the furniture into splinters, nothing happened.
So Ryoka Griffin dug into her pouch and pulled out the Faerie King’s obol. She would break in herself if she had to.
But she had no idea how the stones worked. In fact…Ryoka stared down at the runes and the magic stones and realized she’d been so busy investigating immortals, even her Faeblade…
She had never thought about what the stones did.
 
——
 
Were they just magic? Or were they actually…something more? They were certainly currency, and it was a practical thing to tie the currency to value. Like coins—before the advent of paper, gold coins were actually gold.
Of course, the modern civilizations made faux gold coins because gold was a precious metal. But Rhisveri could appreciate money. In fact, he had been deciphering what the obol that he’d made Ryoka give him did.
“So obvious. Each stone is a bit of magic. But those runes…they are words. Multi-faceted meaning like all these imprecise, conditional languages. Their tongue?”
The tongue of the fae, those far travelers. Of course…Rhisveri saw it now. Their language was magic. The words, the very words the fae used, their real tongue, not the language they probably condescended to use with Ryoka Griffin, was so charged with magic that if they spoke something, they manifested it.
When they said fire, fire might actually appear. No wonder when he had asked Fithea about them, she had claimed they didn’t lie. How could you lie when you had to speak truth in power? The stones were thusly…
“She paid me in words. Heh. Heheheheh. That’s hilarious.”
The Wyrm was laughing. He supposed there was a lot of sense to it. When you could speak the language of magic itself, you weren’t going to stoop to much less. He approved.
What he did not approve of…what had kept Rhisveri from appearing on the battlefield and was distracting him even now was the fae themselves.
This was the story of an impatient Wyrm. He had been ready to teleport to the front and sort out Eldavin. He had exiled Ryoka Griffin from annoying him—he had given orders to spare Tyrion Veltras, if only to spare himself the whining. Besides, hostages were worth more than a feud, and he had even considered that it might be wise to end the war after this.
However—he had never gotten a chance to teleport. Because something had happened. The obol of the Faerie King had begun shaking. And the Wyrm had known what that meant.
As Ryoka Griffin finally noticed the shaking obol in her hand, she and Rhisveri remembered that event they had almost forgotten with Eldavin and Dionamella’s death. The Wyrm’s cunning plan. His offer to the Faerie King.
The auction for the Scroll of [Resurrection].
It was time. Rhisveri watched Visophecin fighting as he cursed.
“How much longer? I hear you! I am ready! By your name, I invoke you not lightly, King of Faeries, but I will offer you the bounty of my treasures and a…fair share of its worth! Oberon.”
He hesitated. Even Rhisveri’s incalculable ego knew this was a dangerous thing. But the obol had been shaking for nearly an hour, and he wasn’t sure whether it meant the Faerie King was opening the gateway or if he were just heralding his arrival overlong. So he spoke again.
“Oberon.”
Then he felt it. Rhisveri gulped. It wasn’t in the bottom of the palace anymore, that old gateway. It was in the air itself. In fact…he sensed his barriers and protective spells on the verge of being torn apart. Hurriedly, Rhisveri cursed and canceled them. That damn Wind Runner would be here. Of course.
