Thump. Thump. Thumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthump—
Stopped. The Dragon looked around. Then he put his head down and closed his eyes. Never to wake.
The man lasted a little longer. Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory, hovered in the air, and Visophecin and the army of Ailendamus, gazing up at him in terror, saw a calm, terribly resigned look upon his face.
He touched at his chest and felt nothing there. He felt the last magic in him keeping him alive. But…there was nothing at the other end.
“What have I done?”
He looked at his hands. Then he gazed down at the armies. The half-Elf bowed his head and then shouted for the world to hear.
“People of Terandria. Warriors, enemies, mine. Hear me now. I am slain.”
Such calm words. Spoken like a warrior of old, informing them just so, for such things should be done right if at all. Eldavin’s head hung. He looked around, and his smile was bitter and tired and empty.
“Flee. Leave this spot. For I am dead, and where I fall—nothing shall remain.”
A single body fell from the sky and landed on the ground. Both armies looked, uncomprehending, at the half-Elf who lay there a moment. Then slowly got up and began to walk. The last vestiges of magic burned in him. A Dragon’s worth of fire. He began to walk away, looking at his body as it began to dissolve.
No one, not Visophecin, wounded, not Eldavin’s people, knew the whole of what had occurred. Only that the Immortals of Ailendamus wept, for they felt it. Despite being their enemy, one of their kin had died. They turned back to the mortals. And there was only death now. The laughing dead gods.
 
——
 
She had been defeated. She was not the most dangerous thing in the skies. Her heritage, the name of her species, her birthright, did not make her better than monsters or a Wyvern.
Rafaema didn’t care. She flew down to where she had seen Ressa, weary, humbled, bloodied, and battered beyond belief. She saw a body lying against the lip of a cave that had not been there a moment ago.
“Ressa?”
The Lightning Dragon bent over a woman in tattered [Maid]’s clothing. A hand jerked, and a broken blade halted in front of Rafaema’s face.
“It’s you. Isn’t it…?”
The woman wasn’t sure. She was staring around. The Lightning Dragon looked into the cave uncertainly.
“Is this…?”
“Go. I didn’t open it. Something…the magic went away.”
Ressa was staring into the cave. She was as wounded as Rafaema, if not more so. But she hadn’t entered, though the cave had opened a few minutes after the roar shook the High Passes. She was afraid to.
Alone, the Lightning Dragon slowly crawled forwards into the cave, limping slightly. She saw how plain the rock was, how shabby and dark this place was. A terrible place for an intelligent creature to live. A hideaway in the middle of nowhere, too small for her to spread her wings and fly.
It widened after a while, and she came to a brighter spot where someone had installed a modicum of civilization. Marble floor plucked from somewhere else, a lantern inserted into a wall…and a glowing barrier.
Something lay beyond it. The Lightning Dragon halted in front of the entrance and tried to see inside. She smelled a lot of metal, magic…and something she had wanted to see all her life. She heard a voice as she halted behind the glowing magic.
“Intruder. I do not know how you found this place, but that you have found it means you have, by virtue of extraordinary luck or intention, stumbled upon my domain. If you are hearing this…it means I am dead.”
The voice was deep, old, and…Rafaema stared blankly up at the magic.
“No.”
“That you have entered here is surely after my treasures. I regret to inform you, visitor, that since you are here, the likelihood is far greater that you have had a hand in my death. In which case, I must remind you: when a Dragon falls, naught remains. Perish, along with my hoard.”
“No. No—not after so long!”
The Lightning Dragon whirled, but a barrier had closed off her exit. Ressa’s head rose outside the cave as a shimmering barrier of impassible power closed off the cave. A Dragon’s last revenge.
Rafaema felt a spell activating behind her. But as she opened her mouth, blasting the rock and exit with magic, she felt the crescendo of vengeance halt, and the voice spoke again.
“Ah. One moment. My spell appears to have detected you are one of my kind. I suppose you may be the Dragonlords of War or Waves, in which case I would kindly ask you to trigger the kill-spell and off yourselves, you pathetic ingrates. I cannot imagine you bested me fairly.”
The voice hesitated, and a Dragon gulped as he recorded his last words. Rafaema listened to that voice as it croaked, a moment, then picked up again, almost whispering now.
“…But perhaps you are not. Perhaps you are one of my kind, be it Wyrm or Wyvern. Perhaps you slew me, and you deserve all the vengeance of mortals. No matter who it is though—my kin. I am tired of watching us die. Let me be the last. So. Enter. Be welcome. Remember, I was Teriarch. Dragonlord of Flame.”
Then the magic faded, and the killing spell dissipated. Rafaema stared blankly up at the ceiling. One overengineered final trap by a Dragon who had prepared for every eventuality. She stood there, mouthing that name.
“Teriarch.”
Then the light showed her what lay beyond. A grandiose treasury of countless artifacts; only the best, rarest, would do. The hoard of a Dragon. A hoarder’s hoard. The Lightning Dragon wrinkled her snout at it all.
What good were jewels and gold? Or even the fancy books, but…vainglory? Memory? To have and to hold was a Drake and Dragon conceit, but surely one tired of it.
Unless the objects were a memory unto themselves. Something that would not fade or die. A way to pass time. She walked forwards and halted.
She had almost missed him there. Taken him for a pile of gold because those burnished scales of brass reflected everything so beautifully, and he was curled up upon himself. Rafaema of Manus halted, and her breath stilled in her chest.
For there was a Dragon. A brass Dragon lay in his hoard, eyes closed. Lying on his side.
He was not sleeping. She ran forwards.
“No. No! Not after all this! I came as fast as I could. How can you do this to me? I was so close!”
She rammed into him, far smaller, and saw how old he must be. Rafaema put her head next to his chest but heard no sound at all. She knew…knew it had been just a few minutes ago. When he had roared and that heart had ceased.
Teriarch lay there, eyes closed forevermore. Rafaema looked at him and around this vast and lonely cavern. This hidden refuge with all the treasures of the world. And the one she had come here to find…gone.
The young Dragon did not roar or rage. She did not weep, either. She slowly crawled forwards. Looked up at the Dragon and curled up next to him. She lay there, wings covering her face, and didn’t move as the [Maid] followed her and wept.
 
——
 
The young woman wept too as she walked away from the dead Dryad. Towards the Wyrm. It was all over.
Teriarch was dead. But she still walked, leaving the Griffin and Titan behind to try to make sense of it all. They could have killed Fithea’s murderer, but they didn’t.
An entire glorious life, gone. Now—Ryoka Griffin understood. No. She was done with chasing prophecies. She knew the only thing she wanted.
She wanted that scroll. And she wanted…one more chance. So she walked, sword in hand, to challenge a Wyrm for a treasure. For a friend. A good person.
Erin Solstice? Teriarch?
“Why can’t they all come back? Why do I have to lose them all?”
 
——
 
The Wind Runner was one of every single person in the world, any world, that was and would ever be that would one day ask that question. Why now? Why not a second chance?
What would you give for that second chance? What would you do?
Challenge god or death itself? Make great war? What rule was so inviolate that you would not break to gain something like a Scroll of [Resurrection]? Assuming it worked?
They believed. The guests of the Faerie King, the denizens and refugees, all asked that question. Whether it was for them, for their loves, their family…
Whether it was a King of Chivalry who wished to change the fate he had left his kingdom. A lone Wyrm. One of countless billions who wept for someone.
A nation missing a hero. A friend looking for a friend.
They gathered. The Wyrm’s announcement, his auction had run through the realm of the Faerie King. So the day Oberon gathered them in his court—they were too many to fill any normal space in any building ever conceived.
Representatives of worlds apart disembarked great vessels. Fleets hovered, poised for…something. Mortals strutted, armed, into a gathering where Dragonfolk walked in mortal bodies and alliances had been struck.
All to one end to buy or…take what they wanted. Yet all those who had even a whit of intelligence looked at the being on the throne and the other empty seat and thought twice.
He was the Faerie King. Once, there had been a Faerie Queen, but taking up arms against him…
Oberon sat upon his throne, and he also stood at the gateways on those hills, surrounded by flowers. He stood amidst the offerings, the riches of lifetimes, material, and weapons of every make and caliber, secrets and objects worthy of stories—in many places at once.
It was all perspective, and his court, now the Winter Fae once more, stood around him. Only one being refused to change.
Melidore, the Summer Fae standing like one unfading bloom amidst the cold folk of the Tuatha Dé. Ivolethe was looking into that gap in reality.
“Your Majesty. Who will take the scroll? You must make a choice, or this Wyrm. And we must have our say.”
One audacious representative demanded, and the Wild Hunt stirred. The greatest warriors in the land of the Fae bared their blades, but they were facing multiple realities, and there were those who would challenge even greater foes than them.
There were gods seeking cures for even their kind’s death.
And then there was Rhisveri’s wide, self-satisfied smile. The King of the Fae opened the crack in worlds, and he was there.
“Ah, Your Majesty of the Fae. I present the object all must surely desire. A scroll to return anyone to life. I take it my payment is ready. How shall we begin this choosing? Shall we negotiate upon your fee?”
Oberon, the Faerie King, held the door open, and it was not a light thing to do. He stood there, the avatar of fall, a laurel of faded autumn leaves on his head.
…A crown made by the greatest smiths ever known across any realms on his head…
…Wearing nothing, his hair the only crown he had ever needed. The crown was him…
The Faerie King gazed at the Wyrm, and Rhisveri’s confidence faltered. The representatives of each nation were tensed, weapons drawn, preparing to argue or simply try and steal the scroll that sat in a glass case.
So small. Grand enough in its way; it felt like that first breath after drowning. It drew the eye, like a spark in the darkness of a monitor. It even filled the air with magic, like a heartbeat.
“I see it. That was made with more than mortal craft. That has the power of the divine in it. Then perhaps it is all we seek.”
A god in the court of the fae, a young one, leaned forwards and whispered. He looked around, and his expression wavered.
For there stood three Kings of Knights. There was Nama, holding her offerings. There was the Winter Court and Dragons and Wyrms and every visitor there was to the realm of the Fae and travelers from further still. A Phoenix with a handbag, a fleet from distant stars. Hundreds of realms.
“Er…ah…i-impressive.”
Even Rhisveri’s confidence faltered as he began to take in that gathering. Even that crack in the world wasn’t enough to show them all, and he was caught in the spotlight. He gazed at Sikeri and Wyrms larger and older than he had thought could exist. They could wrap around his world and squeeze it to pieces.
All of them wanted what he had. Still…the Faerie King did not speak. Rhisveri was just about to suggest they somehow expedite choosing the gifts when it happened.
“Your Majesty! We beg the right to offer this ‘Wyrm’ the first gift! Let us make a quick deal of it!”
A desperate diplomat threw the only card they could, and the court burst into arguments. Rhisveri licked his lips. He saw a Dragon roar and spread his wings, and it seemed like the violence might begin.
Then…then the Faerie King lifted one finger to his lips. He spoke one word into that gathering.
“No.”
The word ran through the realms of the fae. It silenced even gods, and it overpowered even the fiercest desire. Rhisveri’s wide grin faded. The King of the Fae looked at him, and the uncertain Wyrm wavered.
“Then…do you desire it yourself, Your Majesty? I will take your offer among all others if it is fair.”
The Wyrm had not missed that other empty throne. Every eye turned to the Faerie King uncertainly. Yes…if he wanted it, what could they do? This was his place. It might mean the greatest of wars, but he had need for that scroll too.
The Faerie King’s eyes locked on the scroll a moment, and everyone heard that whisper.
“Titania. Queen of the Fae.”
“Maeve. Queen of the Fae.”
A flower rested on that hill outside this gate. A terrible loss. Yet the Faerie King just shook his head, and a voice mocked Rhisveri.
“Aye, ye daft cunt. And you think your oh so powerful magic would bring back the Queen of the Fae herself? Was it made by aught that was more powerful than she?”
“E-excuse me?”
Rhisveri recoiled as one of the Fae turned to him. She sneered at the Wyrm. It was her counterpart, Melidore, who finished Ivolethe’s explanation.
“That scroll has the power of the divine behind it. But it cannot unmake a god. So how can it return one to life? Mortals, surely. Even those whom time will never touch. If one could so easily bring back the Queen of the Fae, she would live again with or without your bauble.”
Everyone exhaled in relief. Or was it disappointment? Then they looked at Oberon again. Then…why his words? Rhisveri’s tongue flickered out of his mouth, wetting his lips.
“King of the Fae, would you kindly, ah, elucidate us with meaning? I thought this auction was agreed upon.”
Rhisveri saw the Faerie King regarding him. He realized something, in the time it took for that look on the Faerie King’s face to change.
He had dared the Courts of the Tuatha Dé. He had cast his great treasure into the realms of every world with all the arrogance of his kind. Rhisveri had thought he had outsmarted the Faerie King. He had certainly thought he had bested Ryoka Griffin.
