She began to grin widely. Uzine actually stood up and walked over to a horse where some Agelum were mounting up despite their cousin’s objections. He swung himself into the saddle as the immortals muttered.
“A Goblin? Is it a trick?”
“We could unmask it. Not that it would do much other than embarrass the Order of Seasons.”
Visophecin himself was frowning as Ailendamus’ [General] began to give a speech. Perhaps it was better to keep the Goblin alive, then. Hadn’t Ryoka Griffin mentioned something about…?
Then he realized someone had broken the battle line. Someone was riding past the [General] of Ailendamus, calling out. That someone was a white-haired man sitting in his saddle, two axes held lightly in his grip.
“Uzine!”
Gadrea shouted, but it was too late. Before the Lucifen and immortals could call him back, the Agelum rode into the open between the two armies and shouted.
“Warriors of the Dawn Concordat. I challenge you. Send forth your highest-level fighter. I am Uzine of House Shoel!”
He rode forwards, holding one axe up, grinning that fearless smile of the invincible warrior. Visophecin covered his eyes.
Now he understood why Uzine had been so insistent. Lady Paterghost gasped in outrage.
“That fool! I was intending to—I shall reclaim him at once.”
She began to stride forwards, but the other Agelum stopped her. Visophecin motioned back the forces looking to him.
“No. Uzine has issued his challenge. He will never relent, and calling him back would cause an uproar. That fool.”
The Lucifen ground his teeth together. He was often annoyed or unpleasantly surprised by his cousin’s actions, but this…he could only wait and watch as the Dawn Concordat milled about and someone answered Uzine.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater didn’t know if this was going to be a good battle or a disaster. He knew which he preferred, but he had been listening. Tyrion Veltras, whom he did not like, had seemed more sensible than the other leaders, who had convinced themselves this would be another great victory and the end of Ailendamus.
The Goblin had seen tribes end, and sometimes it was a complete wipeout, but he didn’t feel like an entire nation would roll over after one loss. In fact…he was reminded of the term ‘counter leveling’ as he stared at the army they outnumbered.
The winner was always the winner right until they took a chance dagger to the throat. Even Gold-rank adventurers could be killed by lowly Goblins. Rabbiteater was nervous…and the sight of this old warrior did not help matters.
He looked ancient, and as if he should be in a [Healer]’s bed. But the intelligent members of the Dawn Concordat looked at that old warrior, Uzine, and remembered a truism.
Anyone who’d lived to get that old often had lots of levels. Not that they could read his class. In fact, his challenge had begun an argument, down to who, if anyone, should answer him.
“This is a delaying tactic for reinforcements. We need not honor it.”
A [Lord] of Calanfer opined. However, it had provoked the [Knights] and warrior traditions of each nation. Uzine had his challengers, and the Griffin Prince himself was ready to answer it. Of course, everyone looked to Tyrion Veltras, but the [Lord] was surprisingly reluctant to volunteer. Rabbiteater would have expected Tyrion to ride out with that stupid pointy stick and joust his opponent.
It was Greysten who rode forwards, ignoring the arguments. The Summer’s Champion raised his own axe, and the Season of Summer cheered as he rode across their lines, then towards Uzine.
“Uh oh.”
“Rabbit! Have a little faith!”
Talia hissed at Rabbiteater as he sat with the forces of Calanfer. Princess Seraphel, who had been entrusted with the banner as no one wanted her to actually do any fighting, rode a bit closer to hear Rabbiteater. The other [Knights] of the Order of Seasons, Meisa, Talia, Markus, Ilm, fell silent as the [Princess] looked at Rabbiteater.
“Ser Solstice. You have reservations? I have heard the Summer’s Champion is one of Terandria’s best warriors.”
“Mm. He’s good. But not the Spring’s Warden.”
Rabbiteater had fought the Spring’s Warden, and she was the duelist that Greysten was not. He tried to explain this to Seraphel, and the [Princess] frowned.
“So Greysten is a superior warrior in massed combat, rather than duels…but surely he can still best that old man?”
Rabbiteater gave Seraphel a long look.
“Old men are the worst. Scary. Doesn’t matter their level.”
“Why, pray tell?”
The Goblin rolled his eyes and spoke slowly, trying to explain it to the stupid princess.
“Old men are not afraid of dying. Nothing is scarier than someone with a death-wound.”
And that old warrior looked like he had a foot in the grave. Seraphel gulped, and they watched as Greysten approached Uzine.
The Agelum sat on his steed, perfectly straight, smiling as the wind blew across these plains. Ser Greysten saluted him.
“Ser, will you not consider retreat or parlay? Ailendamus is outnumbered. I would not like to spill your blood.”
For answer, Uzine just laughed at him. He threw back his head and laughed. He had no helmet, and his armor looked far lighter than Greysten’s plate decorated with the Season of Summer’s colors. Affronted, the Order of Seasons murmured, but Uzine just called back.
“You cannot spill my blood, young man. When you were crawling around as a babe, I had already put aside my blade for a wheelchair. I have known the Order of Seasons. And believe me: Summer fades.”
Greysten stiffened as Uzine invoked the very motto of his season. Slowly, he lowered his visor and offered the Agelum one salute. Uzine waited a beat—then he kicked his horse into a charge. Greysten answered him, surging behind his horse, axe raised. Neither was using a lance, and they were poised to hit each other; this was no complex duel of shield and lance and maneuvering. Both warriors clearly thought they could hit the other harder and faster.
The Dawn Concordat was still cheering when the two met, and the mortals got the shock of their lives. Greysten was fast, used a Skill, and his axe burned through the air as he summoned his aura to scorch Uzine.
The Agelum leapt from his saddle and came crashing down like a comet. Greysten saw the Agelum drop on him, both axes swinging, and raised his shield. Rabbiteater saw a flare of fire—but Uzine never flinched.
He dropped Greysten from the saddle, and the [Knight] landed on the ground then blocked an axe that hammered him down. He pushed himself up—and Uzine swung the other axe into his side. Again, Greysten blocked the blow, and Rabbiteater saw something impossible.
The Summer’s Champion went skidding across the ground. He caught himself, boots plowing into the grass and sending up a spray of dirt. But he had almost gone flying from the axe strike.
The Agelum advanced, grinning, as Greysten caught himself. Rabbiteater saw Greysten raise his axe and shield, and that uncertainty was enough.
“Uh oh.”
 
——
 
“That [Knight] is dead. And Uzine lectured me about going overboard. He’s going to put himself in a bed for the next three months.”
Ryoka jumped as Razia wheeled herself over. The Wind Runner turned. She had been transfixed by the fighting. She looked around.
“Razia—we have to stop this.”
“Stop what? Us answering the Dawn Concordat for Dionamella’s death? This war? Rhisveri could do it, but good luck reaching him.”
Razia was wheeling herself around one-handed. Ryoka was in her room, just outside Rhisveri’s quarters. Yet she couldn’t see the Wyrm of Ailendamus.
The double doors were sealed, and Rhisveri had secluded himself. He had no time for Ryoka; he was preparing for a battle with Eldavin. That he hadn’t appeared on the battlefield already probably meant he was waiting for his moment. Ryoka had been hoping to catch him; he had to lower his protections to teleport out, right? Especially if his main body moved…
She had been waiting for the wind to tell her when that was. She had been waiting for a sign. The uncertainty of it all…Razia had agreed to back Ryoka up. She was out of her mind with that same feeling in Ryoka’s heart. Both of them felt it.
Something was happening. Ryoka looked back to the scrying orb and saw an Agelum fighting. She didn’t know who the Summer’s Champion was. But she realized why the Goblin King had never killed House Shoel. The Lucifen had fought him with magic and trickery and their own vast powers. But when Curulac of a Hundred Days had come against them—the Agelum had taken the field. They were the warriors to the Lucifen’s magic.
Uzine was tossing around the Summer’s Champion like a pinball with each axe strike. Ryoka didn’t know how heavy each blow had to be to send the huge, armored man stumbling around or skidding to the side. She was impressed the armor was taking it.
The Dawn Concordat had gone silent. Ailendamus was just as quiet. They were in shock. None of them had ever known House Shoel had that kind of warrior. Except for the very same elites that Uzine had sometimes mentored. They watched their strange teacher fighting.
The Summer’s Champion was using his aura, and it was a mistake. He was setting the grass on fire. The heat was making the image of him ripple. Any other [Knight] not prepared would be roasting in their armor, sweating, feeling the metal burn as the Summer’s Champion cut the air with a burning axe and shield.
The Agelum was laughing. Ryoka had an image from her days in church before she had managed to get herself banned.
An Angel with a flaming sword…no wonder he didn’t fear fire.
The duel was short. Perhaps the Summer’s Champion deserved better, but Uzine just hammered him again and again with those axes. Greysten’s feet were mired in earth; his armor held, but he was a sitting duck. Two axes rose, and the shield blocked the blow, but it knocked him flat on his back.
“Is Uzine going to…?”
Razia just looked at Ryoka, one eyebrow raised. Ryoka’s mouth was dry as the Agelum strode over to the struggling [Knight], trying to stand back up. There was no mercy in his eyes.
First the Summer’s Champion, next the Dawn Concordat. Tyrion…Ryoka turned, but the wind told her the Wyrm was still in his lair. Then she saw someone break the silence of the Dawn Concordat. She saw a commotion, people trying to stop the strange, masked warrior with slightly battered armor and no crest or paint riding on Uzine.
Ser Solstice charged the Agelum to a howl of outrage from both forces. But Uzine just turned, grinning.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater knew he was in trouble. The [Knights] were screaming at him to come back, but he saw Greysten fall and knew the Summer’s Champion was a dead man. He also knew he was outmatched.
But he was a [Knight]. And a Goblin [Knight] saw nothing wrong in this.
“Fight me.”
He called to Uzine. The Agelum whirled.
“Ah. Ser Solstice. If there were one [Knight], it would be you. En garde!”
Rabbiteater swore as he leapt from his saddle. He raised his axe and shield.
“[Grand Slash]!”
He reminded himself he had new Skills, an aura. He opened up with his biggest Skill, and the Agelum…ducked it. Then he lunged at Rabbiteater, blades swinging, and the Hobgoblin had a thought.
Greydath—
It was a familiar feeling. He was so fast. Rabbiteater spun, put his shield up, and his feet left the ground. He touched down, skidding, sliding, and felt his arm go numb. Had that crazy old man just launched…? What was wrong with his eyes? Rabbiteater looked up and saw an axe descending towards his helmet.
[Long Backstep]. [Mistreach Cut]! [Lightsoaked Armaments]—[Radiance of the Dawn]!
His armor flashed. The shining light blinded his foes, not his allies, and the [Champion] leapt at the Agelum, [Greater Speed] making his Skills even faster. He missed as the Agelum knocked aside his axe. One of those long axes swung at his face.
“[Giant’s Parry]!”
Rabbiteater tossed the blade aside with his shield. Then he felt a searing line of pain on his chest. He looked down and saw the tip of the axe scoring his chest. When had he—?
It wasn’t deep. Rabbiteater raised his shield to use [Shield Ram]. He was charging forwards. The Agelum backed up, wrenched his axe free, and kicked Rabbiteater in the chest.
The Hobgoblin slammed into the ground, rattling around in his armor. He got up and saw that smile.
Greydath and this old man. I hate old men with white hair. The Hobgoblin checked himself. That—Uzine was impossibly strong. But something was wrong. He was so…
The Agelum twisted and dodged the Summer’s Champion’s slash. That was it. His eyes. He’d just seen that. And the counter he gave would have sheared Greysten’s head from his shoulders but for the armor.
“Rabbiteater! Back away! This is my d—”
Greysten roared a second before Uzine put the axes together and hit him like he was playing baseball. Rabbiteater began to back away—then saw the Agelum sprinting at him.
 
——
 
“My lord.”
“I see it.”
Tyrion Veltras was watching the fight. His hand was sweaty on his lance. Who was that old man? Tyrion Veltras a few days ago and twenty levels higher would have relished the chance to try that warrior.
This younger man felt…sweaty-palmed, and he hadn’t experienced that in decades. He was currently watching this member of House Shoel, a reclusive branch of Ailendamus’ nobility, take on…
The Summer’s Champion and Ser Solstice at the same time. They were both [Knights], and both were honorable enough in their way to demand a single duel. But neither one could back off.
They were fighting for their lives. They couldn’t even retreat—Uzine was hammering them both such that they had to fight or die. Ser Solstice was already bleeding, and from the way Ser Greysten was moving, it was clear he’d cracked some bones.
The Agelum was a whirlwind of battle. He fought like a [Blademaster]. Tyrion was trying to understand his class.
His eyes. He was some kind of peerless expert. Strong—[Greater Strength]? [Greater Speed]? Yes, like an ultimate barbarian, but he had the skill with those axes to back it up. Tyrion looked across the battlefield and saw more figures in…wheeled chairs?
Were they all as good as he was? Then he saw Ser Solstice go down.
“Rabbiteater!”
Dame Talia shouted an odd name, and Meisa, Markus, and half a dozen [Knights] rode forwards. This time, the Order of the Thirsting Veil rode at them, howling fury at this breach of conduct. It might be a battle if both sides clashed. But as the Agelum raised both blades to bring them down on Rabbiteater as Ser Greysten tried to cover his friend—something happened.
Tyrion saw it as clearly as everyone else. Uzine was laughing—then he was coughing blood.
