But he had never heard the Faerie King agree to an auction. He had just…inferred it. Believed that even the Faerie King would like the auctioneer’s fee for a treasure this great.
When he put it like that…the Wyrm realized the oldest truth of every dealing. No one ever got what they wanted from the fae. But they didn’t tell those stories in his world. And the one person who could have told him, Ryoka Griffin, he’d refused to listen to.
The Faerie King’s face slowly changed. Those distant eyes, the auspices of fall, twinkled. And then, the king with the crown, the king of the woods, the king of the fae—all his natures and perspectives…
Smiled.
And Oberon, the King of the Fae—vanished. The horrified Wyrm stared at the empty air.
“What…what…what?”
Yet the crack in the door remained. The King of the Fae just…changed where it was pointed to. His audience cried out in outrage and confusion. And then…stared.
They looked into a strange world, one with no real end or beginning. No light or air…more of a concept than anything else. Mortals shouted in horror, for they looked into an afterlife.
The ghosts of this world turned and gazed at that crack into the lands of the fae. And the guests of the Faerie King looked up and saw the ghosts; the dead gods were practically ignored. What they saw, what they screamed and clawed at their faces at the sight of, was them.
The Seamwalkers. They turned, that mass of things half-realized, consuming souls, and they were caught like the foundation of nightmares and insanity before the bright spotlight of the Faerie King’s eyes.
His guests turned away in horror. A Dragon spread his wings. He bellowed, a champion from another world, and breathed flame that could have melted any ring in the world.
“This world is infested! I see the death of reality!”
Another voice cried out, shaking. A goddess pointing down in horror, spilling the ambrosia of whatever they ate.
“The Ctheziborn!”
“The Rot Between Worlds!”
Suddenly, the Courts of the Faerie King were in uproar. Those who knew what they beheld shouted amidst those who had only legends or stories.
“I have never seen so many. That—that many could devour a thousand stellar empires given time. What is wrong with them?”
“They look hungry.”
Then some realized where they were. They blanched at the gateway. A trembling hand of the divine pointed through the crack.
“This was the hegemony of gods. Their grand…this was where they gathered and where that war took place. It is overrun. They are here.”
Five dead gods stared into that crack in the sky, uncomprehending. What was he doing? The Faerie King showed them all, pointing into the darkness of the afterlife as the ghosts turned. It was one of the Dragons who finally spoke, raising his voice amidst the shouting.
“I see it. I see it, now. This is the plague that threatens us once more? It is this you wished to show us?”
That head nodded, and the Dragon bowed. Slightly shamefaced—a courtier wrapped in the body he had assumed, rather than his full form.
“Your Majesty. We withdraw our complaint and beg the forgiveness of the Tuatha Dé. I see now that any object from that place would be—tainted. We take your warning to heart.”
His kin looked at him and then out.
Seamwalkers. They had many names, but they were all headed towards that crack in reality now. Clawing, drawing closer. And these were only the ones born of this world. At last…the court began to understand.
The Faerie King had a hand in a library’s worth of stories. A library without end, with shelves reaching up to the sky. Each book a thrilling story, a sad tale, an adventure of a million lifetimes.
A journey so long it preceded even him. He touched them all, and the possibly primate-based librarians could have organized every story by when he was there.
Oberon, in his many guises, across the many perspectives of him. The great warrior, the noble king, the petty immortal no better than those who came to his court. The inscrutable ruler of a dying land.
This moment—this Faerie King wrote an entry in countless stories. He pointed, and the worlds open to this moment, their representatives looked at the Seamwalkers of the Lost Realms. The rot of ages, doom of sanity.
The dead gods. The ghosts locked in strife and their own mortal frailty. As the young woman skidded into the room with the Wyrm, they caught a fragment of the Faerie King as he stood back.
He looked at the Wyrm and young woman, and one eye flashed with the heart of fall, the mischief of the fae.
Oberon…winked. Then he turned to his court of visitors. And Ryoka realized it really wasn’t about her after all.
Perhaps it was larger than even her. Like Cara, she was walking across an even larger stage for an audience of…
This was the day the Faerie King showed the gathered nations who had come for a drop of revival, resurrection, the death of worlds. This was the Faerie King’s trick, his warning to the realms who would heed it or fall screaming in their own time.
It was not about Rhisveri or Ryoka.
The guests of the Faerie King looked at each other, suddenly aware of how fragile the box of reality they existed in was. How hungry the things trying to get in were. They whispered stories, their own horrors. The slow ones finally picked up on the fact that no, they would not be bidding for the scroll. The Faerie King did not run auctions.
The Daoine Sídhe, the Tuatha Dé, whatever you wanted to call them, faeries, were laughing at them. A traveller from another realm with the light of the sun in his eyes bowed before Oberon. A god lifted a bow and a single arrow. Not in outrage, but supplication.
“Your Majesty. As you will it. Before this omen passes. I ask one thing.”
For they had seen the ghosts doing battle, the last stand and blight overrunning them. And the five dead things whispering their names as the fae denied them, shouting over their voices. The bright-eyed warrior’s eyes blazed with hatred. He met the Faerie King’s gaze, which twinkled as he waited.
“…May we offer one parting gift to this plague?”
Thus, the Faerie King sat on his throne as every head turned to him. Slowly, ever so slowly as he looked at them all, he nodded his head. So the god of the sun turned and put an arrow to his bow. He loosed it through that crack in the world, and it burned through a dozen bodies.
Dragons leapt into the air and breathed flames which roared through the doorways. Wyrms screamed insults that split the air and hurled acid. The Phoenix tossed the handbag.
It was not just in the court of the Faerie King; they might have hit each other if they were aiming for a single spot. The crack in the world was so vast entire armies were launching arrows through, close enough to hit a Seamwalker—far enough to call upon any weapon. The screaming battle that emerged through the crack silenced the ghosts.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice looked up as she saw what could only be a…ghostly fever dream? Who was the guy with horns? Was that a spaceshi—
She saw the world turn into a second dawn as countless weapons flew through the crack between worlds. Time itself bent, such that Erin watched a single arrow loose from a bow and saw an entire fleet turn and open up with multiple salvos.
It was too much to take in. She felt like she was staring through a kaleidoscope, watching multiple places at once. A panicking dignitary pointed through the crack in reality, screaming even as their forces unleashed all their weapons.
“THOSE ARE RADIOACTIVE NUCLIDE WARHEADS. ABORT! ABORT! THE FALLOUT—”
A crackling intercom raced through one of the thousands of perspectives. At the same time, Erin ‘heard’ the crackling intercom as a bridge crew communicated with each other.
“(Nervis-grain Railguns. Firing. Full volley.)”
Erin turned to Marquin, who was staring upwards in awe. She pointed at something which flashed through the crack in the world. Erin saw a somewhat familiar object burning gas and fuel in this strange place, angling towards its intended target, counting down a timer.
“Hey. Did that guy just s—”
The flash lit up the entire sea—and it was one of eight. Erin Solstice’s mouth stayed open as she looked around. There was no air to shockwave outwards, and that did really weird things to the physics. They were also really lucky that the ghosts had no bodies. The blinding light itself didn’t last long; the Seamwalkers burned and shrieked, but only three fell.
Three?
In fact…not all the weapons being fired through were helping. One of the Seamwalkers looked up at the bloom of nuclear fire from the warheads as if sensing something that made it…stronger. It kept walking a second—until a glowing arrow struck it.
A fragment of the sun, so microscopic compared to the large being that it surely didn’t matter. Yet it kept going, burning a trail through the chitin and shell. The Seamwalker halted and began to claw at the arrow. Then the radiating heat caused flesh to burst into flame. Parasites burned and the flesh began to bubble—then disintegrate.
Other Seamwalkers and ghosts fled the glowing shape a moment before it vaporized itself into a ball of fire to dwarf the first explosions. It consumed everything…then faded.
One arrow. One Seamwalker.
There were so many. Yet each horrified realm was unleashing their full might. The bridge crew were cheering as they watched trails of light following their volley. Holes the size of…Erin gazed up at one Seamwalker falling, riddled with so many impacts that it was torn to pieces.
“(Kills. Sixteen. Continue firing.)”
Then—the crisscrossing volleys of light focused on one Seamwalker, and Erin saw a mask of bone and dripping flesh stumble a bit—and keep walking. Thirty-two beams of light hit it. Then again, lightning-fast, and it rocked slightly. Then it walked forwards, slathering obliviously.
The cheering from that place stopped. The crew confirmed, victory turning to uncertainty in a flash.
“(…No damage? Repeat scans.)”
“(No result. We can’t see—it is rising.)”
One of the ‘dead’ sixteen was getting up. The holes blasted in its body were closing, and it looked around, confused, then kept walking. Another had been shattered to pieces, and each piece was crawling, even if it shouldn’t. A piece of head sprouted little ‘legs’. A mouth opened in what had been putrid flesh.
“(It…it cannot do that. They have no traces on any sensors. Collect a sample—)”
“(Denied. DENIED. Keep firing. Redirect to target quadrant A33—)”
Horrified visitors were watching their great weapons doing spit, while a bunch of ‘magic fire’ melted one screaming Seamwalker into its own juices. They were witnessing the Faerie King’s warning themselves.
And no matter how humble, or great, they took a moment to cast one ray of defiance, one shard of help into the void. A flight of arrows landed across a Seamwalker’s back, and it stumbled. Just…arrows. Launched by a group of wild men and women with pointed ears and dark skin who raised their hands in regret. Gazing in awe at the ghosts of their half-kin.
A god’s javelin, striking target after target until even the divine weapon faltered and shattered upon a crest of decayed ivory. A burning orb of light that washed away color and consumed two Seamwalkers.
If only they could have fought forward. But the volley was a single, glorious, immortal moment that was just that. Endless and ending.
As for the ghosts, Erin, Gerial, Cawe, the rulers of Terandria, even the Dragonlords, they watched a storm of fire coming through the crack in reality. A twenty-one gun salute from the other realms a million times over.
It took months and a heartbeat. Then it was done, the guns smoking, the last arrow shot. A crew of soldiers removed their helms to look at Erin Solstice. A god with the eyes of the sun bowed once. Erin saw a strange salute from a people unlike her in almost every way, their glowing flesh neither skin nor scale nor fur. They still showed her everything she needed to see with one gesture.
The Seamwalkers fell, burning, and the Faerie King looked out into the world. He gazed at Erin. He looked at Cawe. He stared into Kasigna’s eyes as the Goddess of Death cursed him.
Slowly, that head nodded, and the fingers closed the gap between worlds. Leaving only the memory of fall where he had been.
A single moment, a temporary hand interfering. Enough to slay a score of Seamwalkers. Not change everything. All he could do, perhaps. The largesse of a ruler who remembered his enemies and honored his oaths.
Still, the Seamwalkers advanced. Still, the dead gods came on, enraged now, cursing his name but not quite daring to use it.
It had done nothing. It was a kind gesture, a single arrow at the end of the world. Erin Solstice hesitated. Or was it? That crack the Faerie King had opened…
“A crack?”
Then she felt a tremor as the warheads of alien dimensions, magic, and the storm of attacks rippled through this realm. She saw Kasigna halt and raise her hands, as if she were a spider trying to repair a web. A mason trying to hold up a roof.
Then Erin Solstice saw it. A crack in reality. She felt the veil tear and thought she saw the Faerie King smiling at her. The ghosts looked up, and Marquin laughed.
“At last!”
The tear was even smaller than the door he’d opened. It was too small to flee through. But at last—after so long—
They all felt it.
