Flesh. No…stone? A piece of it fell from what had been a face. A rotten face, copied by something that had eaten the God of Time. Had almost…almost become something more. Greatest of Norechl’s kin.
However—even the Devourer of Time could not stand against all the ghosts assailing it then fight the Goddess of Death. In a war of gods, there was no quarter or mercy.
It was falling to pieces. It was dead—or Kasigna had dealt a deathblow. The ghosts sighed. They beheld her, walking after Tamaroth and Norechl.
“This is it. Ghosts—assemble. We must take the battle to each of them and buy time. Erin Solstice—you must flee to Izril. We can send a few to help protect you.”
Queen Marquin spoke, and the ghosts nodded. The [Kings] of Terandria glanced at each other. The King of Samal stalked forwards, blade in hand.
“Where do we gather? Assuming we have our chance—I will lead those who stand on the battlefield. Yes—let every [King] who would join me take up arms! Leave the blades to wound those six behind.”
He handed the heirloom to one of his descendants with a nod. The First King of Avel hefted his bow and did likewise to a [Princess].
A thousand [Kings] separated from the other ghosts for no reason Erin could tell. They were volunteering for something. Queen Marquin glanced at them, and raised her voice.
“If you will take the battle—then let [Queens] and noblewomen of Terandria’s thrones join me. We have a target. You have not; allow us our words.”
The [Kings] bowed their heads in agreement. Marquin turned to look at the dead gods.
“…Though we shall all fight in the end. If it comes to it, we will join the fighting and hold them back as long as we may and let a lesser number go.”
She pointed unerringly at Kasigna and Cauwine. The other ghosts, Dragons included, scoffed at Marquin.
“You cannot hope to hold her back more than a second, [Queen] of mortals! Kasigna cannot be stopped. She rules us all and claims this land.”
The Dragonlord of Gems cautioned Marquin. The Queen of Calanfer nodded grimly.
“Maybe not, but someone must make it. So harken to me, sisters of every age!”
Erin saw Marquin stride past her and address the [Queens] and [Princesses], even [Empresses] of Terandria. [Ladies] and every ghost in that gathering looked at Marquin. The First Queen of Calanfer, Marquin the Radiant, drew her sword and pointed it at Kasigna. The three-in-one had locked her eyes on Erin again, but Marquin barred her way, and Kasigna’s eyes narrowed. Calmly, the ruler of Calanfer spat on the ground and then turned.
“I call on every ghost with no words left to say to join me. We will only scream defiance into the jaws of despair. Come, you brave women from every age! Who will follow me and defy death itself?”
Terandria’s ghosts hesitated—then noblewomen stepped out of line as the [Kings] argued and formed their stand, to hold Norechl and Tamaroth at bay. The Dragons watched as [Queens] holding their gowns stepped out as if accepting an invitation to dance. Some strode out wearing pants and holding blades. [Princesses] adjusted their tiaras, and some accepted swords or said farewell.
A single ghost stepped across the divide as the ghosts separated by gender. Erin saw one of Samal’s ghosts leave the congregation around their founder and approach Marquin as she marshaled the army by groups. Marquin turned and caught a wary smile.
The prince of Samal bowed hurriedly, a locked scabbard hanging at their side. Literally—a little key was used even to draw blades in the Kingdom of Keys. Still, he addressed the Queen of Calanfer and the ghosts, who blinked at him in confusion.
“I ask to join your number, Queen of Calanfer. I was never born nor named to the right body, but I have been a woman all my days. They called me a [Prince], but my soul knew my nature. Will you let me stand by your side?”
Samal’s ghosts looked incredulous, and those who knew the prince of Samal called out in outrage, but Queen Marquin’s eyes simply narrowed. She looked straight into pale grey eyes staring out of one of the faces of a ruler of Samal.
Someone used to keeping secrets and finding answers. Hoarding keys in a land where they feared no violence or crime or monsters—only other people. A wary light of entreaty in those eyes.
Queen Marquin thought only a second. Then she reached out and grabbed the prince’s hand. She swung the ghost into place, and the ghost…flickered.
The memory of the ghost as they had lived faded away like an illusion. A young woman dressed in silver mail and holding a [Duelist]’s sword, notched—a keyblade of Samal—walked forwards.
A smile of relief spread across the woman’s face, and she bowed. She drew the sword from the scabbard after she unlocked it with a key taken from around her neck. Each step looked more relaxed, just like they had been when she walked from the place people called one of the world’s paradises. Someone who had picked up a sword and left the Kingdom of Keys to find themselves.
Then she turned, and her sword-arm, written with a dozen tattoos etched in ink that only shone under moonlight, a sygaldry of secrets, rose as she pointed back.
“I am Talient du Pelien, the [Princess of Heart’s Lock and Quiet Key]!”
More ghosts in that vast audience looked at her, and the disdain of some ghosts, even here, even now—turned to astonishment as more ghosts broke ranks. Some had never hidden. Others had never had the words to explain what they felt and been told they were wrong.
Some had been buried and lived where they chose and welcomed the others across the gap. An [Emperor] clasped hands with a ghost who started and blinked down at the truth they’d hidden even in death.
Samal’s [Princess] was just one ghost among many, and she stood behind Marquin as the ghosts of Terandria waited. The Dragonlords nodded to the rulers of Terandria, not even blinking. They didn’t see anything different. But then—they had a Dragon’s eyes. Not all had been so wise, among ghosts. But the Dragonlords just bowed as the ghosts assembled.
Marquin was pledging their stand to Xarkouth and the others.
“We will nominate representatives if we must hold them back. As soon as the first cracks appear—they will go, if the thousand of each are already gone.”
Dame Eclizza of Ailendamus stood behind the four rulers of Ailendamus in the deadlands who had served a Wyrm, knowingly or unknowingly. She was lamenting it.
“If only the Death of Magic had not slain me.”
One of the Dragonlords looked outraged. A Wyvern with bright, intelligent eyes snaked her head down.
“Is that bastard still alive? I thought he killed himself!”
Eclizza went pale and bowed.
“No…a Demon of Rhir, milady.”
“A what of what? You mean those Lucifen? A Daemon?”
“No, Demons. Horns, relatives of Devils? Succubi? Delightful…ahem. I thought they were long gone and we destroyed their plane.”
The Dragons were arguing about it, and Eclizza’s head sank lower. She clenched a fist.
“It was that damned girl. She must be the one who led us all to this. Duke Rhisveri will slay Ryoka Griffin at the last. The ghosts tell me she led the Archmage of Memory to battle. She is the one who nearly slew Princess Oiena—and she will be rightly destroyed soon enough.”
“Huh? Wait—wait. Say that again. Rabbiteater—Ser Solstice and Ryoka?”
Then Erin Solstice was there. Pushing through the chaos, shouting at Dragons, and elbowing aside rulers. She stopped in front of Dame Eclizza, and the ghosts looked at Erin.
“Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt? The Courier? You know her?”
Rhisveri’s brother and Eclizza peered suspiciously at Erin. The young woman’s heart was in her mouth. She looked around. Gerial was there, mouth open in surprise.
“She’s my best friend. What’s going on? I can’t—I know Ser Solstice. I know that Tyrion jerk too, but I can’t let—let Rabbiteater die. And Ryoka. Can’t we help? Where are they?”
Her voice rang out, the only ghost here with a connection to the living. Queen Marquin took Erin’s shoulder. She pointed down, and Erin looked around the flat, empty grassland. She stared around—then saw a palace rising behind her. Marquin spoke.
“Here. They are meeting in this very spot in battle. But we cannot see them or touch the living. I am sorry. If there were a chance…”
Erin fell to her knees. She looked around, searching with her hands, stumbling up to look for…she didn’t see the ghosts who might soon litter this land. The [Innkeeper] looked up and saw four gods step onto the shore.
Norechl, Tamaroth, Cauwine, and Kasigna. Marquin put a hand on Erin’s shoulder and urged her up.
“Time. You have somewhere to go.”
“But my friends are here.”
Erin looked around, and the ghosts gazed at her with sympathy. Erin clenched a fist.
“What is it the Gnomes told you to do?”
The Dragonlord, Saracandre, spoke for the others.
“Wait. Wait, as the Seamwalkers, Norechl’s get, and that Devourer of Time broke this place in half. Wait for cracks. But it seems the Goddess of Death holds this place together, even with Emerrhain’s meddling. It is not thin enough yet.”
Erin felt it. That fraying world of the dead…she saw the one woman holding it together. Gaining something close to life, an irony for her. The Goddess of Death. And the plans of the dead gods were coming to fruition.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin saw the armies meeting on the grasslands as yet uncolonized by Ailendamus. The Dawn Concordat didn’t flinch at Ailendamus’ numbers; they outnumbered the Kingdom of Glass and Glory.
[Hunters] from Noelictus who had circumnavigated the border or cut through Ailendamus’ territory. The Order of Seasons and the Season of Summer especially, led by their Summer’s Champion, Greysten.
The mysterious Ser Solstice, riding with his friends and Calanfer, marked by the blessing of Calanfer. The 4th Princess of Calanfer, Seraphel, and the Five Families of Izril led by Tyrion Veltras.
On the other side, Ailendamus halted, [Knights] standing in front of ordinary citizens, their nobility and their retainers prepared to fight to the death. But Ryoka only focused on one group.
The Lucifen and Agelum. Just one small patch among many. Yet that was where the immortals stood. Almost all of them. The Immortals of Ailendamus.
Rhisveri himself had not appeared yet, but he was preparing to. The Wyrm was just waiting for his opponent to show himself.
And there…he was. Ryoka’s stomach twisted up as she saw the blazing appearance of the Archmage of Memory as he teleported his entire faction and the flying, armored super-soldiers into the center of the Dawn Concordat’s army.
Eldavin, the Archmage of Wistram, was locked on Ailendamus, and his face was a mask of fury. The Immortals of Ailendamus met his gaze as the leaders of both sides called on the other to surrender.
The immortals on either side paid no attention to the words that were being spoken. They just watched each other.
The battle would be decided between them. And there was one Archmage and many, many of Ailendamus’ eternals.
“He does not look wounded at all. Perhaps we should have brought the Wind Runner after all.”
Igolze murmured to the others. Paxere’s teeth were bared, and it was Visophecin himself who replied.
“No. He has had every opportunity to relent. This, we shall settle. Has Rhisveri not arrived yet?”
“He claims to be attending to ‘business’. Which is an objectionable statement at this moment.”
Sophridel was cloaked by magic and standing behind the Merfolk. The Elemental of Masks’ bland tone made Visophecin frown.
“What business could delay him? Who is missing?”
“Hm. A few of the younger ones. We left Gilaw and Menorkel behind. Fithea is making sure Gilaw does not fly after us. I left Razia with the Wind Runner.”
“Sensible. Fithea need not see this. She has already been whispering that Ryoka has only brought death to us all.”
Some of them might die. The Dryad was a capable spellcaster, but…Visophecin adjusted his collar. He looked straight at Eldavin.
The Archmage of Memory waited. He was glowing with magic, and both armies were waiting for the signal to clash. Tyrion Veltras rode back, looking as grave as ever. Hiding the fact that he had lost…
“He’s lost his levels. He is trying to hide it from [Appraisal], but it’s clear as day. Dionamella has crippled House Veltras’ war leader.”
One of the immortals was peering at Tyrion Veltras. Lady Paterghost scoffed.
“I could take that fool apart with Nube. Prithee, allow me the right to challenge him.”
“Ignore him. Watch the Archmage, Lady Paterghost.”
“As you like, Viscount Visophecin. Where stands that other one? The [Knight] whomst may now be the Lightherald of Calanfer?”
“There.”
They saw Ser Solstice sitting on a horse among the Order of Seasons. The immortals watched him. Azemith consulted something she had been given.
“Ah. The [Knight] of Izril. Order of Solstice. I have intelligence on him. He is a metallic warrior—one of the Melded classes. Our information suggests he is perhaps a Steelfur Gnoll. I suggest rusting his entire body. I can do it once battle begins.”
The Lucifen smiled at the idea. The other immortals nodded or shrugged. It was the smallest group of twelve people in wheelchairs who stirred.
“Azemith, say that again? Who is that Ser Solstice?”
Uzine, Gadrea, and the Agelum able to move had been wheeled into battle, and they were causing confusion on both sides as soldiers wondered if they were nobles who were unwisely positioned in the battle lines. Some senior [Knights] recognized their mentors or trainers, but still worried.
“I said…that is a metal Gnoll, Uzine. He’s more metal than flesh under that helmet, which explains his durability.”
Azemith snapped, re-reading the latest intelligence report from their [Knights] on Khelt’s ship. She looked at Uzine, and the frail-looking Agelum, hair so pale that it was white, sitting in the wheelchair with a single long axe in each hand, wearing light metal armor burnished bright…gave her an incredulous look.
Uzine’s multi-pupiled eyes focused on Ser Solstice, and Gadrea scratched at her chin. Both Agelum exchanged glances.
“…That’s not a Gnoll. That’s a Goblin.”
“Huh?”
The Agelum peered at Rabbiteater as Azemith did a double-take. Uzine nodded.
“That is a Goblin.”
“Are you certain?”
Even Visophecin was taken aback. He focused on Rabbiteater, but the [Appraisal] Skills and other spells didn’t work on him. Gadrea just narrowed her eyes.
“…I can see his eyes through that visor. Crimson. His face is green. That is a Goblin. One wearing armor and tricking everyone. Or maybe they know.”
