After so long, an age of waiting, the first gods returned to Terandria. New strangers washed up on the northern continent. Would-be gods. Carrion of their flesh.
The dead lands that echoed Terandria did not change. They showed the slow change in geography, the advance and destruction of kingdoms, fields that lay fallow until they blossomed. An age of forests, and another when it was all ash.
Footprints of Giants. That was all the past. This land was unchanging, but the souls that battled for it were not.
Seamwalkers had broken the lines. They surged through Baleros as the Timewalker remained locked in combat with the God of Death. Ghosts fled to other bastions or fought and hid, but the armies retreated.
The havens for souls were diminishing. Izril was gone. Baleros was gone.
Chandrar was being consumed. One army of ghosts was bound at sea for Izril. The last two great havens were the Empire of Drath and Terandria.
Both were vanishing.
Laedonius Deviy stalked Drath, and no weapons or Dragonfire could stop him anymore. Seamwalkers battled great spirits everywhere, leaving gaps that the God of Dance, the God of Love and Meetings exploited, weakening points and letting the Seamwalkers advance.
As for Terandria…
The first Seamwalker crawled out of the ocean, its face twisted, tendrils probing. It had no eyes, but it had copied what it knew; a body, twisted, and claws grasping. But the face was maggots of flesh, probing, looking for something to eat.
Even for them, their biology revealed something of their nature. This was no creator; it had no digits to manipulate or design. It was an infestation, rot given form, and it sought something real. Something to lay the next spawn in. A putrid little nest.
It was crawling through Terandria’s north, a frozen land of high glaciers and mountains, heading into the heartlands of the south. Ghosts were fighting from cliffs, launching arrows, using their Skills, but the true weapons present here, the heirlooms of kingdoms, were few and far between.
The entity reached land. It crawled through snow it did not feel, between two cliffs of stone and ice. The Seamwalker was questing for souls, the half-food it desired. It was a newcomer; many had died before it, and it would devour its kin. More Seamwalkers were still climbing, drawn to the light like hungry moths with teeth to a flame they would devour.
The Seamwalker was pulling itself forwards, not used to land instead of dark waters where it could dive. It didn’t…understand why it couldn’t go up, and down was difficult. It never noticed the cliff-faces moving. The blank stone and ice turned into a frown.
The two Frost Giants moved, and they emerged from where they’d been hiding. They lifted no blades; they had none of the weapons they carried in life. So they grabbed the Seamwalker as it whirled. The shrieking thing tried to bite them, mouth-tendrils flailing.
One grabbed the left side—the other the right. They heaved and tore the Seamwalker’s arms apart. Then one picked up the bleeding, dying corpse and used it like a flail, bringing it down upon the lesser spawn.
The Seamwalkers coming through the glaciers focused on the two Giants…only to see more of their kin emerge from where they had been lying in ambush.
Giants using tactics from a different age. Hiding like mountains for decades until they emerged upon unwary foes. Sacrificing their bodies to let mortals or elements carve away at them, waiting for their moment.
They were not alone, either. Dragons flew the skies, battling the Seamwalkers who had learned to defy gravity, raining down their magical breath on foes. They carried passengers; mortals. Other species had joined together, old enemies and allies.
Halflings swarmed one Seamwalker, bringing it down to be hacked apart. Spider-folk skittered forwards under the wings of Harpies, some bearing Selphids and Fraerlings into battle.
Peoples that Erin Solstice had never met were fighting here. But the gods had arrived.
The first to set foot on Terandria was not Norechl or Tamaroth.
It was the shadows. The little nothings that had forgotten even their own name. So small that some couldn’t even devour the weakest of souls. Whispering. Trying to consume each other. Anything.
They could die. But the Seamwalkers chased shadows, and the six would devour them. So shadows fled onto Terandria, hoping, begging for life.
Three followed after. Tamaroth, God of Rulers; Norechl, God of the Forgotten; and Cauwine, Goddess of Last Stands.
Two had marked Erin for vengeance. The last craved only the worthiest souls, and all three were hungry. Between Seamwalkers and dead gods, Terandria would not last. They knew it, too.
So when Erin landed, screaming, with Gerial and Cawe clinging to her, she fell into a strange gathering of ghosts who backed away, alarmed and perplexed as they saw her rise. A man wearing a crown and a remembered suit of armor festooned with keys and locks, an odd look, turned to Erin in alarm. He half-drew a sword shaped like a key that looked as real as Dionamella had been. Real. The [King of Keys], ruler of Samal, the Kingdom of Keys, regarded Erin warily, but relaxed when it was clear she was no dead god nor trick.
“More escapees? What was that explosion at sea? You there! Rise! This is no gathering for you. Join the ranks and stand firm! Terandria will stand defiant to the last!”
He pointed the key-sword at Erin, Gerial, and Cawe imperiously as they got up. The [Innkeeper] said nothing at first. She was looking back.
Velzimri. She only turned when she saw a woman, a [Queen] wearing a gown made of icy cloth holding a stave at the ready. Cenidau’s first queen of frost, who had resettled those cold lands, held the staff, and Erin felt…cold. She shook her head, dislodging pale blonde hair, like light on snow in the earliest hours of dawn.
“Nevermind. They are nearly upon us. We must make our stand, as those Gnomes claimed. The living…”
They were arguing. At the last stand of their kingdoms, Erin Solstice saw thousands upon thousands of ghosts arguing. Each one was wearing regal clothes, expensive armor—okay, that one was dressed in rags like a [Prisoner] and still bore the manacles—but it was not hard to understand who they were.
Their appearances changed according to who they remembered being. Young to old—but most stayed old, because they had changed with the object that adorned their heads.
A crown. A circlet. A tiara—sometimes simply a locket, but mostly crowns, placed perfectly on their head, askew, refashioned into a helm for battle—but always the same weight.
A heavy duty they had accepted. A class. Erin Solstice looked around as she stood and found herself in the gathering of Terandria’s rulers. They regarded her with interest, looking to the battlegrounds as they held a council.
“It is not time yet! Hold them back another hour—I see three coming. And that one with the sword is so swift—she overran part of Drath already.”
They were arguing, watching the three gods advance. Cauwine was darting across the sea, and Erin Solstice saw a hundred men and women turn.
Each one had something. A sword, a bow, that staff in the grip of the [Frozen Queen]…the keyblade.
A real weapon. As real as the memory of Excalibur she had given to the ghosts to fight with. An echo of the real thing that existed in the living world. An heirloom of their kingdoms. Some were stronger than others; a few were faded or broken. But that was how Terandria had held off the dead gods, at cost, engaging them in battle.
Now, they were dividing their forces to hold the Seamwalkers back, but the dead gods were coming from the south, and so the relic-bearers had to choose where to fight. A [Princess] with a bow, one of Avel’s greatest archers, aimed an arrow across the sea. She loosed it—and Cauwine dodged. The archer cursed—and the Bow of Avel was snatched by one of Avel’s [Kings]. He put an arrow to the bow, loosed it—and hit Norechl in the chest.
The God of the Forgotten didn’t even stagger. It kept walking, tearing the arrow from its ‘flesh’. Upon seeing that, the rulers groaned. A [King] removed his crown to tear at his hair.
“We cannot hurt them any longer. Each soul they steal is empowering them. Even the heirlooms of our kingdoms weaken. We can only do what the Gnomes suggested. But the living kingdoms are making war on each other! That Wyrm-possessed kingdom and those new ones—the Dawn Concordat will spill enough blood to ruin one or the other. Damn their foolishness! Is there no way to send word?”
“There will be. We just have to wait.”
Another voice interjected, a fierce woman, arms crossed below what Erin couldn’t help but notice was a single breast. Her hair was bushy and brown, and she had muscle. She looked…oddly familiar? Was it the nose? The men and women arrayed at her back, a smaller group of royalty compared to the oldest kingdoms? That crest she had etched upon her armor?
The answer came to Erin Solstice as the [King] turned to her, exasperated.
“You have no bow, Queen of Calanfer. Nor any other blade.”
“I have my Skills, and we have a cause. We know what is going on. Wait. Have faith and stand with me. If need be, I will take Calanfer to halt them alone. We are needed here.”
She pointed down, and Erin Solstice looked blankly at the ground. Why here? She had landed well north of the shore. The [Innkeeper] gazed around and raised her hand.
“Excuse me. What’s going on?”
A few rulers glanced at her, irritated by the interlopers. One tried to shoo Gerial and Cawe off.
“This is a moment for the rulers of Terandria. Begone, ghosts.”
Another, a younger man with keen eyes, stopped a [Queen].
“No…wait. Where do you hail from? At least tell us what you have seen.”
“Baleros. I’m…we’re running from those guys. The two dead gods. Norechl and Tamaroth. They’re following me. I’m trying to get back to my body. Can you help?”
Some of the rulers gave Erin an incredulous look, but Cawe broke in.
“That’s right! We were in Chandrar—Khelt and the ghosts of Chandrar are still fighting. Baleros is lost. The Elf…Sprigaena is gone. That thing—the Devourer of Time is battling one of them, but the rest are coming here. This is Erin Solstice! She needs help getting back to her body. She’s not dead! Not entirely!”
The ghosts gazed at Erin. One shook his head, flipping hair out of his face. The [Prince] sneered at Erin.
“Ridiculous. I can see she isn’t fully dead—so what? One girl when all of our existences stand at stake? The Hundred Families are about to be erased! Here we stand, on the say-so of some little people claiming to be ‘Gnomes’ when they could be exceptionally short Dwarves…”
Someone stalked through the ranks of ghosts and slapped the [Prince] on the back of the head so hard that his circlet flew off. That strange [Queen] barked in his face.
“Enough whining! Don’t you remember? That’s the girl that Xarkouth spoke of! The Dragonlord who brought us news of other strongholds! Two of the six are coming after her? That’s reason enough to hear her out—or won’t you spit in the face of these monsters at the last?”
“I will slap them with a glove, but spit?”
A [Queen] looked horrified as she clutched her ruby-red dress she wore—no, wait. It was a pearl-white dress, just colored red because someone had stabbed her to death in it. The Queen of Calanfer rolled her eyes. She turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] blinked as the woman shouldered aside ghosts.
Even here…she stood out from the thousands of ghosts. She was one of the mightiest, and despite coming from a younger kingdom, they listened to her. Like the [Witches] that Califor had gathered, like Khelta, Nerrhavia, Velzimri, Elucina…here was one of Terandria’s legends. And Erin knew her. Or rather, she knew everything that had sprung forth from her deeds.
The woman put her hands on her hips and looked down at Erin. She had been wearing simple clothing fit for a casual day—now she wore glowing armor, battered from fighting and countless claw marks. She carried the memory of a sword that hurt the eyes, a second dawn.
“I am Queen Marquin, young woman. The first ruler of Calanfer, which stands to this day. And may be in danger of falling. But my kingdom stands, and so do we ghosts. How can we help you? What do you need?”
Erin Solstice gaped up at Marquin and boggled. She had not bowed to Khelt’s rulers at first; she had met the Immortal Tyrant, Nerrhavia, without so much as blinking in recognition. But…
“Marquin? Wait—as in the first queen of—I know Calanfer!”
“Yes, well. She is hardly the only ruler here. Greetings, young woman. I am the first [King of Keys], founder of Samal, the Kingdom of Keys.”
The man who had first spoken, with his weird armor of locks, brandished the keyblade and straightened importantly. Erin gave him a blank look.
“Uh…never heard of you. Hi?”
He wavered.
“But—Samal is still standing. I was assured of it. We are a paradise upon Terandria.”
“I’ve…heard of…nope. Cawe? Gerial?”
The two ghosts scratched at their heads. Gerial snapped his fingers a few times.
“Samal. Samal. Sammial? No, wait, that’s the son of House Veltras. It rings a bell.”
“I’ve heard of it maybe? Samal locks. Good shit. Tough as hell to pick. So that’s the [King] of the kingdom that makes them? Impressive.”
The [Pickpocket] Garuda blinked a few times, then gave the First King of Samal an approving look. He returned it with a look of horrified disappointment. A few other rulers called out hopefully.
“I am Avel’s ruler. Avel? Kingdom of Bows?”
“Desonis?”
“Lautiene?”
“Your kingdom was destroyed eight thousand years ago. No one cares or remembers.”
Queen Marquin of Calanfer’s expression was of a woman who was fed up with the pettiness of rulers even at the end of everything. She turned to Erin and saw the [Innkeeper] was agog, still.
“So you know my kingdom. What of it? We’re all ghosts here.”
“Yes—but I know—I know your daughter!”
Erin burst out. Queen Marquin opened her mouth, and her brows came together. She looked around, and the rulers of Calanfer, all who had ever died and not been too debauched—and all those who had died anywhere but Rhir—gathered around Erin. Most had red hair, or had styled it like that, and they had gotten less warlike after Marquin. Only her bright blue eyes were the same, and maybe her nose, the jaw which was certainly not weak…
Queen Marquin frowned at Erin Solstice.
“I don’t have a daughter. My son is there.”
She pointed to King Centis, the second ruler of Calanfer, who was eying Erin with as much confusion as Marquin. Erin waved her hands.
“No! Sorry! I meant—your granddaughter?”
Marquin raised a finger and opened her mouth, and an old woman in her seventies gave Erin a suspicious look.
