He spoke one last time, and his voice was a roar that faltered.
“Oberon!”
Rhisveri then felt it. The crack in reality. The auspice of fall, the cloying scent of atrophying life, the promise of the chill to come. A world in beauty and fading, from good to ill. From rot to new life of a different kind.
The Faerie King began to open the gate. Rhisveri braced, his claw hovering near the scroll. Riches uncounted. He waited for Ryoka Griffin as the doors to his throne room swung open. The wind had been blowing like a damned hurricane around his palace. Rhisveri turned his head.
“You might as well enter, Thief. You did introduce me—so you will witness my riches increase.”
He turned to the right and saw…no one. Rhisveri frowned at the air.
“Well, come on. Don’t sulk. Ryoka Griffin!”
She had to be just out of sight, right? The Wyrm peered down with one huge eye. He stared into the corridor and saw no Ryoka. She had just been there a minute ago…
Where had she gone?
 
——
 
It was then that Razia realized something was wrong. She felt that crack in the world.
“Rhisveri! What are you doing? Stop! Stopstopstop—”
It was adding to whatever was wrong! She felt a hole open, and she did not not know what felt to her of fall. Her bones were shaking. The Agelum looked around.
“What is this? Ryoka? Where did you go? What’s…?”
 
——
 
The ghosts felt it too. A crack opened in the deadlands. Their reaction was immediate. The five dead gods turned.
“Him again!”
Kasigna howled. Tamaroth saw the Seamwalkers turn, sensing something they had never felt before. Erin Solstice looked around.
“What’s going on? Why do I want pumpkin pie? What’s that?”
She pointed up at a crack so thin that no piece of paper or needle could have fit in the gap. So wide it let through another world. A paradox, a point of view. Above Erin, she heard a sigh of wonder.
“Oh. I had thought he would never return. Not after Titania. Yet he has ever honored his vows. It is him.”
“Who…?”
Queen Marquin looked up, and Erin thought she saw one eye of amber looking at her. The very embodiment of the fall. Two vast hands pulled a gate open, just a sliver, and waited. The Dragonlord of Gems breathed in wonder.
“The Faerie King.”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin felt the gates opening. She was running, running back towards Rhisveri’s lair. She had gone to find His Majesty, Itorin, and beg for his aid. But this…
Now? Now!?
This was the moment.
“Razia! Meet me at Rhisveri’s lair! We need to stop him! Razia—don’t worry, I’ll explain everything!”
The Agelum was silent. Ryoka wavered.
“Razia? Razia?”
She skidded around a corner and saw something that made her stop completely dead. Menorkel and Gilaw, who had been banned from going to war, much to one’s relief and the other’s ire, were standing over something. They looked…afraid. Searching around. Gilaw saw Ryoka and made a fist.
“Ryoka!”
“Razia? Where’s…?”
Ryoka Griffin looked down at what they were standing over. Her mouth grew dry, and she forgot even the Faerie King a moment. Because she was looking down at an empty wheelchair. An empty wheelchair and clothes that had just been on an Agelum.
“Razia?”
She—she had vanished. Menorkel pointed at her.
“I was just…she raced past us, and we went around the corner and…maybe she took off her clothes and left?”
Gilaw and Ryoka stared at the Titan, and Menorkel looked around. It was a bad hypothesis, but what else could explain this?
“Well, what happened?”
Something bad. Ryoka looked around, then began to run.
“Rhisveri. I have to go. They’ll know what I’m supposed to do. Ivolethe will.”
She was about to run down the corridor when an aged, cracked voice interrupted her.
“What to do? Why do you think you have to do anything? What have you done to Razia, Ryoka Griffin? You’ve brought only chaos and danger and death.”
Ryoka turned and flinched as a Dryad hobbled forwards. Fithea’s gnarled body, once blooming, had turned to stone. She was petrified wood, two faded yellow lights burning in old stone. She knelt by the wheelchair, looking down in confusion as Menorkel and Gilaw, her wards, joined her.
“Ryoka didn’t do anything, Fithea. Razia just…”
“I’m sorry. Fithea. I am. I…”
Ryoka began to trot away as the Dryad bent down to touch Razia’s clothing. She was just trying to do the best she could. She had done some good. She befriended the Lucifen, she had failed to save Eldavin. She had gotten Sammial home and survived Rhisveri’s wrath. She didn’t know she was fated to make a difference. She just—wanted to help.
She was running towards Rhisveri’s rooms when Gilaw barred her way. The Griffin had not transformed to her true self, so she was a tall, twenty-something warrior with dark skin and a mane of black hair who glared down at Ryoka and made one huge fist.
“Staeeeey heeeeere.”
She pronounced the words with difficulty. The young Griffin saw Ryoka back up. The Wind Runner raised her hands.
“Gilaw. Please…”
Ryoka didn’t want this. She had always loved immortals. She just wanted to impress them and learn about them. Why was she so afraid she was doing nothing when the worst was happening? She heard Fithea calling to Gilaw.
“Gilaw, get out of Ryoka’s way. She has brought death to Ailendamus’ immortals.”
“I’m sorry. Fithea…”
Ryoka turned as Gilaw stalked out of the way. She couldn’t explain how true that was and not…that they were all part of something terrible happening that had never quite died. Those six coming back. The Faerie King’s warning. She saw Fithea raise her head and look at Ryoka. The Dryad lifted a hand as Gilaw hopped aside.
“Thank you, Gilaw.”
Ryoka blinked at Fithea. Then the wind howled. It blew her to the side, and she stumbled. Then she looked down at the arrows made out of wood sticking out of her left leg and stomach.
“Fithea?”
Menorkel’s head turned. He saw the Wind Runner waver—then the wind slammed her into the wall. It stopped the floor of the palace from smashing her flat as Fithea dragged up a slab of stone and slammed it down.
Ryoka was fumbling for a potion. The arrows were digging into her. Trying to grow into—she was screaming as she dragged a potion out, tearing an arrow from her flesh. Ryoka smashed the potion against her skin as the wind threw her away from another spell. A spire of stone blossomed beneath her and would have skewered her like a rat, but for another last-second dodge.
“Fithea! What are you doing?”
Menorkel was screaming in horror. Gilaw had frozen, eyes wide, looking at the Dryad. The old immortal was pointing, and another shower of arrows flew at Ryoka, and the wind snapped them in midair. She frowned as Ryoka began to heal.
A wall exploded, and the shrapnel cut Ryoka’s back to pieces. But the potion was still working on her, and it was one of the best potions House Shoel had. Fithea hissed.
“There was an age when healing potions were not so plentiful. When those would have been death-wounds in battle. Gilaw, Menorkel, stand aside.”
Fithea was trying to kill her. Ryoka realized it as she drew the Faeblade. She leapt from another spire of stone, cut apart an axe made of wood slashing for her face with the Faeblade—she was dodging, reacting on instinct.
Fithea was trying to kill her. Ryoka understood something at the speed of thought. The trap for her. But why…?
She was weaving, the air helping her dodge the sprays of stone and arrows Fithea was conjuring. But the Dryad was an expert from an older era; while Ryoka was busy weaving through the air, a little loop of vine caught her leg. She came to a halt as the wind cracked her entire body in the air. Dazed, Ryoka dangled there. Then Fithea pointed, and the vine slammed Ryoka into the ground. She was covered in vines in a second.
“There. It would have been so easy had you died to that spell. Now, I must take Gilaw and Menorkel and the worthy and leave. You are as troublesome as Rhisveri claimed.”
Fithea watched as the Wind Runner gasped up at her. Ryoka’s body was screaming at her.
“You? You?”
Why? How? What had she done to Fithea? Anyone would have made more sense to Ryoka. Even Rhisveri or Visophecin.
But the petrified Dryad looked triumphant. No…that faded yellow light in her eyes grew bright, dangerous, and Fithea’s voice rose. The Dryad was…trembling. Her body was old wood, so old it had gone to stone and then been covered with moss and lichen. A parody of the bright being born of great forests.
She was the last of her kind. A Dryad who had despaired at ever seeing her people blossom, who had taken in other immortals. A lonely being who had craved even the memory of true earth magic in the obol.
So why was she smiling? She came forwards.
“You brought death here, Ryoka Griffin.”
“N-no. I…”
Then something about the way she said it caught Ryoka’s ears. Fithea said that word so longingly. The Dryad bowed her head.
“I have heard her voice. Faintly at first—then louder. Death whispers in my ear. A story so old that even the oldest forests only whispered it when I was a sapling. Yet Death walks this world again. The Maiden, the Mother, the Matriarch. Kasigna.”
Ryoka’s ears burned at that word. Did she just…? Ryoka flashed back to the gathering of the fae, Oberon’s warning. She felt a terrible dread creeping up her body. Her right hand hurt. She felt two fingers, burning.
“No.”
“Yes. There are things older even than I. And she has told me her return is nigh. For you, for your little life—she has sworn to return my kin. Nothing is beyond her.”
The Dryad was laughing and weeping tears like sap. She had gone mad. She had spoken to the Goddess of Death, strongest of the six, and been promised the souls of her kind. Rebirth.
Gilaw and Menorkel had no context for any of this. They only saw Fithea putting a finger on Ryoka’s body as the vines began cutting Ryoka apart.
“Fithea! Stop, stop!”
Menorkel tore forwards. The young man ripped the vines free, crying out in pain as they cut his hands. Fithea turned to him.
“Menorkel! Stop! She is bound for death!”
“Fithea…that’s a monster. Don’t listen to her.”
“Be silent. You are a mortal. You don’t know whom you speak of. She is a g—she is one of the…she is the—”
Fithea struggled with that word. Gilaw was hesitating, looking at Ryoka and her gentle, if stern mother. She had never seen Fithea like this; the Dryad’s legs were spattered with Ryoka’s blood. Menorkel tore Ryoka free of the coffin of vines, and Fithea looked at him.
“Menorkel, enough. My forests, my people—enough.”
“Fithea, I w—”
Ryoka saw a spire of earth hit Menorkel. A wall of the palace collapsed inwards, and she stared at the hole in shock.
“Menorkel?‘
“Meni?”
Gilaw croaked. Fithea looked at the gap in the wall and turned to Ryoka. She was shaking, now.
“My forest. Die for my forests, Ryoka Griffin. You are a traitor to the oldest powers.”
Ryoka Griffin felt sick. She looked at Fithea and shook her head. Her hand hesitated as she held the Faeblade.
“Fithea. The gods are dead. They must stay that way. This is wrong. Menorkel…what have you done?”
She aimed the Faeblade at where Fithea’s heart should be. The Dryad reached out—and the blade of concentrated light shattered at a touch.
“I will not be alone any longer. You are the wind in the trees, Wind Runner. I was the land itself.”
The earth opened up beneath Ryoka, and she fell towards a world of spikes, stakes of wood and stone. The wind dragged Ryoka up, but Fithea clapped her hands, and the wind—faded.
“You are not the only one who knows wind magic.”
Ryoka fell, screaming, and Gilaw grabbed her. The Human girl looked up into a gigantic beak as claws seized her. Two black wings opened, and Fithea shouted.
“Gilaw! Stop! Let her drop! Kill her!”
The Griffin hesitated, but she disobeyed her mother. Fithea pointed a finger at Gilaw as she tried to fly out of the palace. Gilaw stared with wide eyes. Ryoka croaked.
“Fithea. The door is open. Don’t…”
She saw the Dryad hesitate. That finger wavered—then Fithea fired a lance of wood through Gilaw’s wings. The Griffin screamed. Ryoka saw it. She grabbed the Faeblade.
“Fithea!”
Her scream was despairing. The Dryad watched her adopted daughter fall, and the ground opened to swallow them both. She was now weeping sap as red as blood from those hollow eyes. And her mouth was open. She was trying to smile.
“My home.”
A hand caught Gilaw before the ground could swallow them. Gently, a giant’s hand…a Titan, a young one, cradled Gilaw. Ryoka looked up, and her eyes went round.
Menorkel was crying too. But the other hand rose and struck Fithea. The entire palace shook. Ryoka saw Menorkel trying to lower Gilaw down—then the world exploded into root and vine. It raced up his entire body. The entire hidden wing of the palace was covered in green. It swallowed the Titan, and Ryoka saw Fithea emerge.
Her stone body was cracked, but the Dryad was unleashing her magic. It covered everything—a wave of green that ate into the palace, swallowed people.
“Fithea!”
Menorkel was being brought down by thorns and roots trying to strangle him and Gilaw as he shielded them. Ryoka leapt from the Titan’s arms. She flew towards Fithea. She had only the Faeblade in her hands.
“Fithea, the gate is open! The land of the Fae! Don’t do this!”
“The land of…”
For a second, the Dryad hesitated. She looked around, and that conviction wavered. But then she looked at her wards, immobilized, being choked, the palace she had helped build engulfed in leaves. When she looked at Ryoka, there was an insanity in her eyes.
“But that is me, and I will be alone, even if my kin are there. I was promised everyone. Death is kind.”
“She lies. Fithea. Don’t make me do this.”
Ryoka held the Faeblade in hand. Fithea just looked past her, at Menorkel, as a wall of red plants the color of the Bloodfields sprang up around Ryoka and her.
“Your sword can cut nothing of magic. Don’t cry, Gilaw, Menorkel. No one will die again. We will be Death’s chosen. Even Rhisveri is nothing compared to her. The day of her return will be soon.”
Ryoka looked at Fithea, and her own tears were running down her face. Fithea turned to Ryoka and aimed a finger at her, ignoring the Faeblade. She didn’t care for it; she had seen it break, and it was a thing of technology, not the Faerie King’s obol. She controlled the wind, the earth, and she was a spellcaster second only to Visophecin and Rhisveri.
She looked at the bright pink light of the Faeblade. Then the yellow glow of her eyes flickered in confusion.
“What is…?”
The Faeblade ignited. It was not light which sprang from the handle. It was…fire. All the heat in the world, maybe plasma. Maybe just directed flame.
