Ryoka had changed the output of the Faeblade according to the manual. The creators had designed it to kill any number of threats. Now it spat heat, and heat, mere flame, was worthless in space unlike light. But in this world…
It could destroy an Archmage’s enchantments. The hardlight, which was useless against anything made of magic, was different from flame.
A burning, bright pink sword of flame shot out and touched Fithea’s chest. It burnt her body of old root and stone black in a second. Fithea gasped—then she shrieked.
“Fire? Fire—”
Ryoka Griffin saw the petrified stone refusing to burn. Then the flames found their way into a heart of wood deep in that body of stone. Proof that the Dryad was still there. That there was a seed of something glorious deep beneath the stone and death. The tears baked on Ryoka’s cheeks as the Dryad put up her hands.
Around Ryoka, the green world screamed, and Gilaw looked up as the Wind Runner stood there, flaming sword in hand. She saw an ashen body collapse. The Wind Runner fell to her hands and knees. She looked at what remained of the last Dryad. Then at Gilaw and Menorkel.
She would never forget how they stared at her. The Wind Runner got up to run away, to run to Rhisveri—then she stopped. She walked towards them.
“Gilaw. Menorkel.”
They flinched. Ryoka felt sick. She was shaking in horror. She felt that crack in the world and knew there was no time. Something was happening. In the distance, she heard more screaming as people saw the sky explode. Visophecin and Eldavin were fighting to the death.
But she stood there one second and knelt by the two. Looked into their eyes.
“I need to tell you something.”
Before she ran, the Wind Runner had to stay. She looked up and saw the trap closing.
The dead gods’ plans.
 
——
 
The Lightning Dragon had battled the Wyvern Lord in the skies for an hour. She didn’t know where Ressa was. She and the Wyvern Lord had fought each other, the monsters of the High Passes…
And when Rafaema looked in his eyes, she saw more than a monster. Not the same knowledge as another Drake, but an intelligence far too keen.
The young Dragon landed on a crag of rock melted by lightning and covered with ice. The Wyvern Lord roared a weary challenge to her as his pack watched.
“Enough. Why are we fighting?”
He hissed at her, and she looked at him with no knowledge. And yet…Rafaema saw how he warily circled her, hissing, staring at her. She realized—it was her.
Like when she and Cire had first met. This was his land. And she…she looked at the Wyvern and wondered if he were like her.
The Wyvern Lord watched suspiciously as a young Drake appeared, concealing her true nature. She held up her claws, and he inhaled warily.
“Stop. Here. Here. Will this do?”
Slowly, Rafaema took something from her belt and tossed it down. She offered him her sword. The Wyvern sniffed at the sword suspiciously, then growled at her. Rafaema hesitated—then she produced her bag of holding and emptied it onto the ground.
Gold pieces fell by the hundreds into a pile. The Wyvern’s eyes blinked at it, then at Rafaema. She waited—and it flicked a tongue out.
“No.”
A growl was her only answer. Rafaema stared at the Wyvern Lord and then slowly unbuckled her plate armor. She removed it and stood in her clothes, glaring at him. Then she tossed her vambraces, gloves…and the last five bottles of frozen healing potion down.
The Wyvern Lord considered Rafaema, then snorted. It gave her a wide, toothy grin, and she hissed at it. But then she warily changed back.
The Lightning Dragon and Wyvern Lord looked at each other, and he flapped a wing and went to inspect the spoils of his victory. She gave him a narrow-eyed look and slunk away. Just like when she and Cire had fought…
Winner took all. But only possessions, not life. The two, Wyvern and Dragon, looked at each other and saw two of a different kind. He ducked his head uncertainly, and Rafaema flew down, painfully, but alive. They could find some common ground and respect.
Not elsewhere. When the first drops of blood fell, they wouldn’t stop until one or the other was dead. That was pride and rage and…
Hatred.
Rafaema heard a sudden sound ring out in the High Passes. It was a terrible roar that filled everything. Monsters ran; the Wyverns took flight in alarm. The Lightning Dragon spun. She dove, searching, calling for Ressa. Hurry—she followed the source of that sound. It shook the air. It was so familiar…the Dragon forced her torn wings to flap harder, fly faster. Everything in her soul was telling her—
Hurry.
 
——
 
Eldavin and Visophecin were killing each other. The Lucifen and Dragon were equally matched at first. Or so it seemed to the armies watching their duel.
Portals opened, spitting dark magic everywhere. The Lucifen was calculation and hidden traps, dark magic and order. Eldavin was elemental rage incarnate, endless spells firing, maneuvering as he flew across the battlefield.
Teleportation magic. The portal magic of the Lucifen, Eldavin was flying with fiery wings.
A glorious battle?
One of them would die. And with each second, the two grew more desperate, more vicious. Visophecin’s polite mask slipped as he was engulfed in flame. He walked out of it, burning, and Eldavin snarled as a hole opened in his side. But his body knit.
“That’s not regeneration magic. Something’s wrong with his body.”
The Lucifen were watching Visophecin fight. They were some of the few who could understand the scope of the magic. What they saw was the Dragon’s simulacrum. A beheading couldn’t kill him; he was healing, closing every wound.
Paxere was shaking with nerves.
“Is Visophecin—losing?”
That was inconceivable. Even Rhisveri had to use his true body to fight Visophecin. But the half-Elf was doing it. Uzine was letting Gadrea bandage his wounds, which refused to heal even with potions. The Agelum were watching grimly.
“He fights with more skill than even the Goblin King’s best [Mages] did. Who is he? Visophecin…he’s losing.”
“How?”
Gadrea just watched as Visophecin darted into another portal. Her eyes swiveled around at the watchers.
“—He’s in the open. He can’t drag this into his domain. You Lucifen fight better in your space. And he can’t reveal all his tricks here.”
In their pocket domains, in the places they owned. Visophecin was fighting with illusions on. But the greatest difference between the two were their bodies. Eldavin was healing. No—the center of it all was…
“His mana supply. How much power does he have? Only Rhisveri has more. And he is…”
Sophridel was wondering. They were all coming to a conclusion. Only a few beings could do this. Ryoka had told them that Eldavin was an immortal, like them. But this was…
The world split in two. Visophecin created a void which contracted into a hole in a moment, eating space. Eldavin dodged it and replied with a complex shower of [Valmira’s Comets] that changed angle, homed in on Visophecin, ricocheted—
The Lucifen walked like he was waltzing, twirling, knocking spells out of the air. His clothing was damaged, but he didn’t speak a word, just fought. Then—he stepped in the wrong place, and Paxere realized what Eldavin had done.
“No! He’s put him in the ritual spell! The one that got us!”
The Lucifen looked up as a pentagram traced itself on the ground. Eldavin came to a halt.
“[Pentagram of the Five Alchemies: Annihilation].”
Five spells: a wall of blue fire, a whirlwind of steel blades, a geyser of poisonous water, a lance of wood, and a blade of diamond formed that familiar pentagram, trapping Visophecin inside. The Lucifen spun as the pentagram flashed, unleashing the apex of magic on him.
—He had heard of this. Paxere had told Visophecin about the spell. The Lucifen’s eyes darted around. He picked a spot.
Wood, fire, water, metal, earth—each one arranged in a pentagram of weakness and strength. Visophecin cast a spell.
“[Body of Mithril].”
Then he leapt at the weak point—the lance of wood, which shattered on his metal body. The elemental ritual wavered, and the magic locus was broken. Visophecin escaped and looked up straight into Eldavin’s face.
“[Spear of the Lightning King].”
The Archmage of Memory hurled the bolt of lightning down, and the force of the impact knocked the front rank of Ailendamus’ forces down. The flash of lightning sent a charge through every piece of metal in ten miles.
He had expected Visophecin to try to break the [Pentagram of the Five Alchemies] by embodying one element. That did not mean you escaped; you left yourself open to another weakness.
The Dragonlord of Flame had fought a thousand battlefields, and the knowledge was half instinct in him now. He looked down…and faltered.
Visophecin was alive. The Devil stood, one arm shielding his face. The other arm had been blown off his body.
The Lucifen shouted in horror, and the Agelum rose. Visophecin stood there, looking at his missing arm.
The arrogance of immortals. Eldavin had not expected one of the Lucifen to match him this long. Visophecin…even knowing Eldavin was one of their kind, he had not expected to lose. He looked at his arm, and his eyes glowed red.
“Oh no. He’s losing his temper.”
Gadrea muttered. The younger Lucifen’s heads swung to the Agelum. They had never seen or heard of Visophecin—
Eldavin showered the Lucifen with more spells, trying to erase him. The cloud it kicked up was settling, and the Archmage of Memory was panting when something emerged from the smoke.
It was…not the Visophecin that Ailendamus knew. The one-armed man who had gone staggering into the cloud was gone.
A Devil emerged, skin dark with soot. Horns and bright red eyes over a pair of clawed hands. Sharp teeth—he was taller, and his missing arm had regrown.
“He’s activated his Warform! Cut the scrying spells! Tell them it’s a shape-changing—”
The Lucifen and other immortals severed the link to Wistram as Eldavin flew back uncertainly. The true Dragon might have remembered this, but the Archmage of Memory…
“What are you? Something born of Rhir? A Demon?”
Visophecin spoke, and his voice was like the tolling of a death sentence. It had no empathy, only a boiling hatred.
“No. Not so kind. [Law of the Lucifen: Cease Breathing].”
The spell engulfed Eldavin and the Dawn Concordat’s forces in a vast bubble of dark command, like an aura. Men and women grabbed at their throats and choked. Even Eldavin himself, eyes bulging in fury.
Visophecin pointed, and a hundred portals opened up, spitting bolts of death magic into the Archmage from every angle. Eldavin’s mouth opened in a wordless roar, and the world—
—Shattered—
“Did he just break the law of…?”
The Archmage of Memory flew at Visophecin and received a slash from those wicked claws as the two closed ground and began firing spells point-blank. But now Gadrea was mustering Azemith, Igolze, and the oldest of their number.
“We have to grab Visophecin. He cannot sustain his Warform for more than a few more minutes. He is losing.”
Visophecin was no Agelum. Even empowered, he was losing to the Archmage of Memory in hand-to-hand combat as Eldavin summoned a blade from Drath and drove it into Visophecin’s shoulder.
Yet even now—the Devil raised one hand, and his kin halted. He was shaking with fury, but there was a cold logic in those eyes.
He was trying to wear Eldavin down. Visophecin had realized he was outmatched. The half-Elf had shattered one of his domains with pure mana. Now—he was trying to exhaust Eldavin so they could kill him. They needed Rhisveri or to attack at once.
Eldavin had taken the opposite approach. He intended to kill Visophecin rather than let him escape, rid Ailendamus of their best spellcaster.
More magic. He drew from what he now knew was his true body. Not just scraps or enough to fuel one spell. He pulled everything he could. Tapped deep into the heart of the slumbering Dragon’s reservoirs.
“[Vortex…of…Annihilation].”
He had Visophecin as the Lucifen fought. Eldavin was dragging him upwards, and he was going to erase the Lucifen with pure magic. No teleportation. No tricks or games, just overload him with more power than Visophecin had left.
He pulled at it, and the magic filled him to the brim. Yes. Yes! The Archmage’s eyes were burning as Visophecin howled—
—And in Wistram, the God of Magic’s spell activated. The Dragon had pulled enough magic for the spell to activate. Bereft of the God of Magic to activate it himself, it had lain there. Waiting. Waiting…
Now it cast itself, and the magic reached out across the world and found something. A spell so complicated that even Visophecin and Eldavin, locked in combat, both hesitated a moment.
What is that? The greatest spellcasters saw something settling over Eldavin. Reaching into him—but not fighting him for control of his fake body. It was going after—
The link.
The link that only Eldavin should have known was there. The Archmage of Memory’s eyes went wide in a sudden terror. The magic homed on the link between Dragon and simulacrum. And it—made—
Eldavin suddenly lit up with magic. The Lucifen shielded their eyes. He had been about to obliterate Visophecin, but this made even them halt in terror.
“The magic!”
A [Mage] went blind in agony, clawing at their eyes. Eldavin screamed in confusion. More magic than he had ever dreamed of was flooding him! Then—it was gone. Drained, he felt his body—
Magic surged through him. He was overwhelmed, exploding with it—it was gone—like a flickering bulb, he was filled and emptied of magic as it raced through the connection between him and his body in a moment.
“What is h—”
Flicker. Flicker. The magic was passing through him and his true self. Every second. Every half-second—exploding through his artificial body. Racing through the Dragon’s beating heart.
A Dragon was a magical being, but nothing could withstand that. Nothing was meant to take that much power and—it flashed between them. Ten times in a minute as Visophecin flew back. Twenty times. Eight times a second.
A spell from old ages, when simulacra had existed. Magic woven by the greatest expert there was or ever would be. A spell from the God of Magic to rid himself of a dangerous element he could not predict in his great game.
A simulacra-killer. It was aimed at one thing. Forcing the spell to overload both bodies until the one thing that could give—
Eldavin, Teriarch, opened his eyes. A Dragon in his cave opened his eyes, and the brilliant brass scales that had not seen light in so long flashed. He raised his head as an Archmage clutched at his chest, screaming. The Dragon roared, and the High Passes shook.
Then the sound faded. That heart that had beat for so long.
