“…Cenizy? She was born nearly six thousand years ago.”
“No! I mean—your great, great…I know one of your descendants! A [Princess] of Calanfer! She’s my friend!”
Oh. The ghosts finally understood why Erin was so excited. Queen Marquin the Radiant, founder of Calanfer, hero of the Creler Wars…gave Erin the most blank look that the [Innkeeper] had ever seen in her life.
“You know a descendant of mine, whom I have never met. Very well.”
The young woman faltered. Yeah, when you put it like that—she saw Marquin’s impassive face twitch. Then the Radiant Queen grabbed Erin up in a bear hug and squeezed.
“Hahaha! Now there’s a coincidence! Then you are twice well-met, Erin Solstice. Come, vaunted rulers. Here is a girl who has a road back to life—have you nothing to give her besides indifference and scorn? She can be one of our ways to warn the living. Put aside your differences and help her. Where do you need to be?”
She swung Erin around as the [Innkeeper] yelped and found herself actually being held up by the giant woman. She was like—like—Lyonette, fussy Lyonette, was descended from her? Marquin was more like Jelaqua’s mom! Or…Erin Solstice saw one huge eye wink at her. Gerial and Cawe stared up at Marquin as well.
She was so cool. Even so, the other ghosts were unconvinced Erin was the person they should throw their last efforts behind. A ghost adjusted the sword he held as he stared into the dark waters.
“Even if she is a girl with a body—should she not cede it to one of us? I volunteer myself. Why would two of those six be after her?”
Marquin’s smile turned into a scowl as the rulers began to bicker again, half against stealing bodies, the other half arguing over whomst it should be. Erin copied her thunderhead expression—these were not great ghosts on the whole, and she was glad she’d gone to Chandrar instead of Terandria if this were what they would have been like.
Then a voice cut through the arguing royalty. Erin Solstice heard a familiar sound.
Wingbeats. She looked up and gasped, and Gerial smiled in relief. A gigantic ghost landed, scattering the rulers, some of whom shouted in instinctive alarm.
“Dragon! Dr—”
Xarkouth, the Dragonlord of Stars, the Void Dragon, landed, panting. His eyes flashed like the constellations, and he bellowed.
“I should have known that when the world ended, I would find Humanity here, arguing to the death! My kin fall from the skies and wait for the final flight, and the greatest Elf to walk the lands of the dead has fallen in battle. Here you are, without even the courage to aid a single ghost. Erin Solstice! You should be at Izril!”
“Xarkouth!”
Every head whipped from Erin to Xarkouth as Marquin strode forwards.
“Dragonlord. What is happening on the other continents?”
“Baleros is gone. But you knew that. Drath is falling. Is it not time for the Gnomes’ plan yet?”
“Not yet.”
The Dragonlord uttered a curse that hovered in the air, spelling itself out and turning the air foul around it.
“—in a Wyverns’ craw—very well. Erin Solstice, I have word from Khelta. They are reaching Izril. But we barely escaped three of the six at sea. It seems we must prepare for battle. Rulers of Terandria, this girl must live. The [Witches] and royalty of Chandrar demand it. As well as the Gnomes and the Dragons. She is another blade of defiance, and it was she who blew that horn.”
The ghosts had been glaring at the Void Dragonlord, offended by his presumptuous demands. But that last bit—more than the people vouching for her, more than what Erin represented, changed their mood. A [King] turned to Erin.
“You blew that horn we all heard? How?”
“Um…I stole the horn. Sort of. From the dancing man.”
“You stole…? Wait. Are you some [Thief] of ages? That would be mete company.”
A [Queen] peered at Erin over a hand-fan shielding her face. Xarkouth looked amused as Erin hesitated.
“Um. No. I’m actually a…[Innkeeper]. A magic innkeeper, though.”
“An [Innkeeper].”
The First King of Avel’s face was completely blank, but Marquin just laughed, throwing her head back.
“Now there is a story. An [Innkeeper] who defies those six?”
She turned to Xarkouth, and he rumbled.
“It seems she has managed to make dread enemies of at least three. The faceless one, the bearded one, and the three-in-one all hate her with a passion.”
One of Desonis’ [Queens] bared her teeth.
“Now there is a fine quality. It seems this girl has good taste in enemies. By that standard, she is welcome in our number.”
Like that, Erin Solstice found herself in a gathering that grew as more figures flew downwards. She looked up…and her mouth went dry.
“Oh wow. Um, Xarkouth? Did you call your friends just to find me?”
For answer, the Dragon just snorted in amusement. His scales were as dark as space itself, but they shimmered as they caught the light. His eyes, mismatched like all Dragons’, were miniature constellations. He looked up, and his voice was soft as he raised his head.
“Now you sound as arrogant as Khelt’s rulers. They did not come here for you. This is just a fitting place for us.”
The rulers of Terandria backed away as figures began to descend. Each one was the brightest, realest of their kind flying across the waters. They came in every shade, some trailing their very natures behind them like the Djinni.
Fire, burning from the very wing beats of a Dragon who shined brighter than actual gold. Erin looked up, and her hair blew, and she felt a breeze across her face—a Dragon shot down like a comet.
The Dragonlords—and Dragonladies—the rulers of Dragons landed next to Xarkouth. Some were wounded. Some were missing. But the survivors descended, folding their wings, calling out greetings to ghosts they recognized, challenges to old enemies. Nodding to their foes, putting aside old grudges.
Not just Dragons. A Wyrm slithered out of the ground, baring her teeth as she gazed around. A Wyvern wearing a crown strutted into place. A Dragon scoffed at him as he passed and got a wing in the face. Erin saw more relatives she didn’t even have names for. Dragons of kinds from different mythologies, one like a snake, long, flying, a mane of beautiful hair blowing in the breeze.
A Dragon who swam out of the sea, fins and gills and all. In fact, in this great gathering, Erin saw one more shape she recognized slithering forwards. A pair of Wyrms wanted to rebuff him, but a slightly smaller one spat at them.
“Excuse me—I am clearly important enough to be here. It is my brother who rules Ailendamus. Move aside. Hello. Have we met?”
Rhisveri’s brother preened at his head as a female Wyrm gave him a long stare. Undeterred, he sidled over to one of the Dragonlords of the Earth, and she rebuffed him with a single slap of the tail.
Queen Marquin sighed as she looked at the Dragons.
“More than I have ever dreamed of. This is fitting company, eh, pompous cousins?”
She looked around, and not even the rulers of Terandria could gainsay that. The Dragons glared at each other, but they turned to Xarkouth.
“Something is wrong. Are the Gnomes mistaken? I thought now would be the moment—but we cannot tarry any longer. Those gods are eating our kin, Xarkouth.”
One of the Dragons said the word! She was one of the oldest, and even the other Dragons deferred to her. Her scales looked like someone had cut pieces of gems into their shape, and they rippled, semi-transparent, showing her beating heart, even veins. The Dragonlord of Gems, who had once founded a tiny Walled City, surveyed the ghosts, and her eyes fixed on Erin Solstice.
“A living child. I thought you had promised to return her to her body.”
“Those six interfered. Dragonlord Saracandre, I present the mortal who was worthy of a Gnome’s attention. I think…I think they succeeded in trapping one of the six.”
The Dragonlord of Gems bowed her head as she looked at Erin.
“Yes. I think so too. The God of Magic, Emerrhain, is no more. Once again, they have bested even we Dragons in cunning. So for the last of Gnomes, we fly. I saw Sprigaena vanish. We are fading. Is this foolish little war still going on in the lands of the living? We cannot tarry. The Dragonlords gather to attempt to kill one of the gods. It will be in vain, but we will scorch one to ash such that they remember it. I cannot decide between that arrogant Tamaroth or Norechl who has tainted this land.”
She…knew their names. She knew them, she remembered the Gnomes—even the other Dragons stirred at her use of the forbidden, unspeakable word. Gods. The rulers of Terandria were certainly taken aback. Saracandre looked about, and Marquin was brave enough to speak.
“Dragonlord Saracandre! I speak for Terandria—a war is occuring in two places to our knowledge. The Meeting of Tribes in Izril where Drakes and Gnolls fight each other, and here in Terandria. The kingdom of Ailendamus versus an alliance of other kingdoms.”
“Gnolls and Drakes do not surprise me. That is our sin of old.”
A Dragonlord with scales the color of pearls lowered his head, looking tired. One of his eyes was like a flame in reverse, deepening in color from a brilliant white on the edges to the heart of burning red. Another Dragon snorted. His voice crackled like the lightning around him; every time his wings moved or he twitched, electricity earthed itself, emitted from his scales.
“I flew over Izril, and the ghosts of Chandrar assured me they would deal with it. Can we do nothing?”
“Not without—”
The Dragonlord of Lightning flapped one wing.
“Yes, yes. Shut up, oh mighty King of Avel. I cast the blame of this at Wyrms. Truly, a Human was more worthy of inheriting a Dragonthrone than petty Wyrms. Possibly the last Wyrm had to create a conquering nation.”
“And how is that worse than Humans or your precious Drakes who are oh so wise? Berithseid?”
A Wyrm hissed back at the Dragonlord of Lightning. Erin saw Cawe slap her forehead with one wing.
“Oh, wonderful. They’re arguing too. We just had to be stuck with the most petty ghosts in all the dead lands.”
Her voice was a bit too loud. Every single Dragon and ruler turned and glared at the [Pickpocket]. Cawe went pale under her feathers and hid behind Gerial.
“The little Garuda speaks truthfully. I will not be shamed before my cousins. Well met.”
Another Dragon spoke, and Erin gawked at a Dragon with feathers. Not scales—feathers. Cawe’s beak opened so wide it looked like she was trying to swallow her face.
“Wh—who are you?”
“Dragonlord of Feathers.”
The…Dragon?…rumbled back with amusement. She had a beak rather than a snout, and Erin Solstice had no idea if she was some hybrid or…
“Dragons. Wyrms. I joined you all in hopes of doing something. Who and what matters in the land of the living? Speak quickly—the dead things are upon us!”
A fierce, cawing voice broke in. Erin turned and saw a bright, blue bird speaking. The Phoenix spread her wings, and Erin made a few incomprehensible sounds. Every head turned to those in the know.
“My brother, Rhisveri, is the Wyrm who is raging against the Dawn Concordat. I gather a great mortal died and he intends to wipe them out. I have two ghosts to illuminate us. I spoke with this ‘Great General Dionamella’ ere she fell—she had an all-too-high opinion of Rhisveri, but I know the facts.”
The Wyrm hissed. He moved his tail, and a pair of ghosts who had been riding on his back jumped down. One, Erin recognized. She was…that Great Knight.
Great Knight Eclizza of Ailendamus and a half-Elf who had been in Dionamella’s bodyguard when Lord Swey killed him both bowed to the assembly.
“Great ghosts! I regret to say that Rhisveri, the Wyrm of Ailendamus, does rule the nation. He will not halt; he has called on Lucifen and Agelum, immortals like the last Dryad, Sophridel the Elemental of Masks, and more to wipe out the Dawn Concordat.”
A Dragonlord oozing venom with every word spoke, her scales foul and pitted.
“Pity. One army’s loss is not a terrible shame. We have done all we can.”
“It will be more than that, milady.”
The half-Elf bowed, shamefaced. He turned to the ghosts.
“The Lord of House Veltras and a number of nobles of the Five Families ride against Ailendamus, as well as a [Princess] and many brave [Knights]. Even Izrilian champions—the Order of Seasons, a Ser Solstice of Izril, the Goblin Slayer, is poised for combat. They may not be of high level, but their loss will provoke a feud with no end.”
The Dragonlords and rulers conferred, murmuring.
“Order of Seasons…I know them. Who are the Five Families?”
“Possibly new. Another great slayer of Goblins?”
“I am still not even sure what or where this Ailendamus is. If we can do nothing, we should better fly against our foes.”
They shook their heads. Eclizza looked helpless as she cried out.
“But Duke Rhisveri—the Wyrm is a kin of yours, great Dragons! If you could but talk to him—”
“He cannot hear us.”
Rhisveri’s brother hissed softly. One of the Dragonlords snorted at him.
“Come now. Wyrms can see the dead, and our kind too if they but look. Have Wyrms of the modern era atrophied such that they have failed even that?”
A gigantic Wyrm who was far, far larger than all but three Dragons slapped the ground warningly with her tail and reared up over the Dragonlord of Waves.
“Speak cautiously, little Dragon. Those are my children you speak of.”
He hesitated and ducked his head.
“…Beg pardon, Great Wyrm.”
Erin’s head swung from face to face, and then Rhisveri’s brother spoke, his eyes fixed on his…
“Rhisveri has always been able to see ghosts. But he shields himself in his palace. I…may have haunted him for a decade.”
The Dragonlords groaned. Erin Solstice waved her hand frantically.
“Excuse me, did someone say a ‘Sir Solstice’? Who’s killing Goblins? Is that a coincidence or…? No, wait a second. Isn’t that—”
Her eyes went wide with alarm as she remembered a pseudonym that a certain person was using. A guest of her inn. A beloved friend. Her Goblin.
Rabbiteater. He was going to war against Ailendamus? He was going to fight a Wyrm?
Xarkouth fixed Erin with a gaze.
“All connected.”
He murmured, but the Dragonlords were arguing.
“In that case—do we try to break into his palace? The Seamwalkers are tearing this place apart, but the world is still not thin enough. Those armies…we will sacrifice our strength. Is it a worthy end?”
They had some great plan, and because they mentioned Gnomes…Erin knew it might work. Yet the conclave of ghosts fell silent, and Queen Marquin pointed one finger.
“I do not know, but look. Our time is up.”
They all turned and saw something falling. It was…
