Ali was out of range of the blast wave this time, so she got to watch the effect of the compressed shockwave in action. A powerful surge of brilliant white-orange burst outward from the elemental’s body, like an outgassing of flame, followed by a detonation reminiscent of an empowered fireball triggered by its core of fire mana. The explosion instantly compressed the flame into a dense shockwave that blasted outward in a giant sphere around the elemental, picking up and tossing everything within its radius.

Mato slammed up against the wall, bouncing off the rock and landing back in front of the Living Flame. The two acolytes she had assigned to him were standing opposite him inside the tunnel, and they too were picked up and slammed into the wall, despite the hasty barrier she summoned to protect them. But her plan had worked, both were battered and burnt, but still in range of Mato when they landed. Mato’s Shard of Flame went flying right across the room, landing almost on top of her mages and archers, and the sudden presence of the flame aura caused a second ripple of holy magic spells to cascade across the room. She didn’t need to check; she could already recognize the efficient restoration magic that would heal each of them for the next thirty seconds.

“Mato, can you shift it to the other side next time?” Ali called. If he could arrange to have the Shard blasted away from the group and down the tunnel, that would save a lot of healing. She got a loud grunt in response. Not sure if that means yes or no…

Ali checked in with all her minions regularly, making certain they were topped up and standing in smart positions, and she assisted them with her barriers through several explosions while they wore down Malika’s Shard of Flame. Even though the second shard was tossed into the room a few more times due to the explosions, only once did it get close enough to potentially heal the other one with its aura, and Ali intercepted that with a barrier mid-flight, making it land short of the target. She ignored the shield and fire-tornado, allowing the Living Flame to regenerate fully, focused entirely on keeping everyone alive and her unfortunately low-leveled attackers on target.

How much faster would this be if my mages or archers were at the same level as the Hobgoblin?

With a soft chime, Malika’s Shard of Flame guttered and dropped to the ground, and Malika was about to charge into the fray when Calen called out. “Wait, Malika! Explosion in ten, go in after.”

She paused outside of the range of the blast wave, and Ali found herself with some downtime, so she flew over to the fresh corpse of the Shard of Flame to deconstruct it for some mana. She wasn’t exactly low, but it never hurt to have more.

“Explosion!” she yelled, seeing the dense formation in her mana sight.

She caught a flying Kobold Acolyte that had been a little out of position when the explosion went off with a quick barrier, guiding it back to the ground while switching one of Malika’s ones in to keep Mato healed.

This part was likely to be the most dangerous of the entire battle. Malika had backed off and caught the Shard of Flame as it landed in the middle of the room, but Mato had been hitting it for quite a while, so it charged back toward him, forcing Malika to chase it down into the double flame aura, and without much resistance. Her healing magic began to flicker continuously.

“Devotion,” Ali instructed, triggering empowered healing to try and smooth over the transition.

Malika’s punches were a rapid strobe of white light as she went all out with her combinations, trying to peel the Shard of Flame off Mato with sheer fury and speed.

“Ten seconds,” Calen called out. Malika’s punches accelerated to a blur and her magic switched to a bluish color as her punches began to steal the creature’s mana, in an attempt to get its attention faster. Five seconds to go, and she still did not have it.

“Explosion!” Ali called out as the mana surged through the Living Flame. Malika landed a strong kick which flashed blue, and the Shard of Flame turned and punched her right as the blast wave exploded outward, picking up both Malika and the Shard itself, and flinging them across the room. Malika halted herself in midair, pulsing her heal as she sprinted downward to the ground and stood in her spot. The Shard of Flame returned to her, not Mato.

She did it!

“Nice,” Calen yelled.

Ali gave Malika a few more seconds to secure the elemental before instructing her minions to attack. Lightning bolts cracked, bone spears flew, and rogues stabbed. The darkly gleaming shafts of dozens of Eimuuran steel arrows filled the air – they were the only ones Ali could make that didn’t spontaneously combust in the intense heat down here.

“Explosion!” Ali checked on her Acolytes, but they seemed to be ok on mana. Four of them seemed to be the magic number, and she was pleased she had decided to spend the mana on the extra one. Off to the side, the Living Flame encased itself in its shield of flame and a tornado of fire as it regenerated. She ignored it again and focused all her attention on the Shard of Flame.

It took several cycles of explosions before the Shard of Flame finally expired, collapsing into a core of slowly dying flame.

“Wait or go?” Ali asked. There was only one more explosion before the next shield and she wasn’t certain if it would be better to wait it out or begin their attack earlier.

“Go,” Calen answered immediately.

She didn’t question his decision, sending her minions in immediately. In cases like this, it was better to be coordinated than right. If Calen was mistaken, it would still be fine, provided they were all following the same strategy.

Malika began draining its mana and all her minions attacked. Everyone was now within the blast wave range, so Ali kept most of her barrier magic in reserve, moving in closer so she could protect whoever needed it.

“Explosion!” she yelled, protecting three of her acolytes with barriers to reduce the damage and downing a Potion of Fire Absorption as she opted to take the blast herself.

The wave of flame smashed into her body with a deafening crash. She felt something crack within her chest, with a simultaneous stabbing pain that seemed centered on her heart. Her skin blistered and blackened from the heat as she was tossed high into the air. She cast Minion Teleport, switching places with an airborne archer, using the versatile skill to arrest both of their momentum. She summoned a quick barrier each to return them to the ground without breaking more bones in the process. As soon as she got back into range, one of her acolytes cast a restoration spell on her and the warm soothing sensation of holy magic filled her body, repairing her burns and cracked ribs. By the time she was back on the ground and creating barrier shards, she was mostly healed up.

Nasty! Those elementals could certainly dish out the damage.

As soon as she was back in position, the Living Flame used its tornado of fire to regenerate its mana. The whole cave was filled with dazzling white illumination, and Ali didn’t need to turn to see that Calen had used his Righteous Fury. She simply made as many shards as she could and attacked the flame shield without holding back.

With the two extra elementals killed, this had turned into the same fight they had learned while clearing this cavern – with the exception of the resources already spent. Once Malika ran it out of mana, it would be easy.

“Explosion!” she yelled, hoping this would be the last one. But right before the fiery core detonated, the Living Flame lashed out and hit Mato with a brutal punch of flame that burned through his hide. A loud crack and a stumble told her that it had broken his leg, causing him to roll on the ground. Normally not a big problem, it would be healed rapidly, but at that very moment, the Living Flame detonated its blast wave, flinging Mato and all the melee up out out into the room beyond, leaving Ali staring down the gigantic elemental through her now entirely inadequate-seeming barrier.

The Living Flame turned toward her, drawing back a massive arm of flame.

Oh, crap…

Malika failed to execute her dodge, and the blast wave of flame impacted her face and chest with crushing force, tossing her into the air like her weight was insignificant. She pulsed her Healing Mantra automatically, feeling her ribs snap back into place, but right then she registered what she was seeing down below.

Mato was flying off in a different direction, no longer beside the Living Flame, and none of their melee team had avoided the explosion. But Ali was all alone facing the Living Flame from behind her golden barrier as it swung about to face her.

Ali! She poured stamina through her Divine Step skill, halting her momentum with an abrupt, bone-jarring stop in midair, and sprinted downward as fast as she could move, pushing her skill to the absolute maximum.

The Living Flame swung an arm that was bigger than Ali’s entire body, smashing the barrier into a spray of golden glitter and shards, leaving her completely defenseless. The second arm swung, smashing through a second hastily summoned barrier at the instant Malika landed. Burning stamina, she dove between the massive descending blow and the diminutive form of the Fae, choosing deliberately to block instead of dodge.

The monstrous elemental’s strike crushed her raised forearm, burning through flesh and exposing the bone as the flame tore past her block searing her face and chest. She gritted her teeth, poured her stamina into healing, and unleashed a jab with her good arm, powered with her mana-draining Soul Strike. She struck again and again in rapid succession, urgently trying to gain its ire before it could even react. With each strike, she earned deep searing burns from its retaliatory fire, but the next strike was aimed at her instead of Ali.

“Run, Ali!” Malika shouted as she broke into a sprint, taking several steps through the air to get up and around the giant Living Flame, turning it to face the wall of the tunnel again. She blocked another hit, feeling her flesh crisping and tearing from the heavy searing impact that knocked her flying. Her body slammed into the wall before she could halt her momentum and several ribs snapped, and something in her spine crunched.

Fuck, and that was a blocked hit. Ouch.

She healed herself and simultaneously felt several holy magic spells landing to top her back up. Her wounds closed almost instantly, flesh rapidly regrowing under the onslaught of holy magic. She pressed her lips tightly together and unleashed the full punch sequence of the seventeenth form – or, as her father had once called it, ‘Scorpion Strikes.’

She dodged, and then luckily dodged a second attack before the third struck home, unblocked. Her body smashed into the floor, crushed by the impact with her shoulder and arm burned almost clean off from the sheer intensity of the flame.

How the fuck does Mato do this every time? The onslaught of healing spells rapidly rebuilt her body and she scrambled to her feet trying desperately to dodge the next attack.

And then he was there, the giant bear, fur burning and claws striking with palpable force. He roared, but the Living Flame somehow resisted his Taunt.

“Ease up a bit and let him take it back,” Calen said. “Everyone, hold off attacking. I think the explosion is an aggro dump.”

Malika ignored most of Calen’s analysis, focusing all her energy on anticipating the ridiculous strikes and dodging or blocking everything she could while the battlefield became strangely calm as most everyone stopped attacking and just waited. She did ease up on her punches but suffered from not being able to steal health on every strike, but every few seconds her mana and stamina ticked up just from standing in the strangely rejuvenating flame, and she immediately turned all of it into healing.

“Explosion!” Ali yelled.

This time she deliberately did not dodge; she did brace in anticipation, though. The detonation slammed her against the wall, and she bounced off the jagged stone, careening off the Living Flame and rolling on the ground. She healed the crushing damage to her body once again, but with a glance, she could tell Mato had regained control and she breathed a sigh of relief.

Slowly, she settled into her normal role, punching the monster and draining its mana. But her racing heart had not nearly calmed down by the time the elemental finally collapsed.

Soul Monk has reached level 46.+10 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 25.Soul Strike has reached level 27.Healing Mantra has reached level 30 (+2).Soul Armor has reached level 23 (+2).Enlightened Evasion has reached level 28.Divine Step has reached level 25.Second Wind has reached level 13.

Oh, I leveled up. She collected the Essence of Living Flame the elemental had dropped and sat to meditate next to the core, healing herself as usual. She spent one point on vitality and one on strength and then considered the rest of her attributes. Making her decision, she allocated three each to dexterity and endurance, reserving the final two for wisdom. But her notifications were not done.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Rezan JinSoul Armor has reached at least level 20.Wisdom has reached 200.Endurance has surpassed 160.Tanked at least three different elementals.Studied the defensive magic of the Nine Paths of Ahn Khen.Meditated on the nature of elemental damage.Survived losing more than half your life to a single elemental attack. Soul Armor gains Poison Resistance.Soul Armor gains the Wisdom trait.Soul Armor – level 23Requires: No body armor or shield equipped.Mana: Your soul reinforces your body increasing your natural defenses. Reserve: 10%Armor +503 [skill x 7 + endurance x 2]. Poison Resistance +876 [skill x 12 + wisdom x 3].Soul, Melee, Defense, Endurance, WisdomSoul Armor gains Fire Immunity.Soul Armor gains the Wisdom trait.Soul Armor – level 23Requires: No body armor or shield equipped.Mana: Your soul reinforces your body increasing your natural defenses. Reserve: 10%Armor +503 [skill x 7 + endurance x 2]. You are immune to Fire damage.Soul, Melee, Defense, Endurance, WisdomSoul Armor gains Magic Resistance.Soul Armor gains the Wisdom trait.Soul Armor – level 23Requires: No body armor or shield equipped.Mana: Your soul reinforces your body increasing your natural defenses. Reserve: 10%Armor +503 [skill x 7 + endurance x 2]. Resistance +561 [skill x 7 + wisdom x 2].Soul, Melee, Defense, Endurance, WisdomChoose one advancement.

