She sat and stared at the notifications for a long while, letting the complex torrent of emotions cascade through her. Ever since asking for Rezan’s advice, she had been studying – meditating – in fire, lava, and poison, and yet nothing had seemed to help. But now, down here in the mines, after risking her life, her skill had finally advanced.

“You ok?” Ali asked, coming over and sitting down beside her.

She nodded and shifted over to give her a little space where she could sit without being in the fire of the elemental core.

“Thanks for coming to rescue me,” Ali said. “That thing smashed my barrier like it was nothing.”

“It hits really hard,” Malika agreed.

“Oh, I know. I nearly died every time I saw your health drop like that,” Ali said. “I’m grateful that you saved me, but I don’t want you to die doing it.”

“Hopefully next time it won’t be so scary,” she said. “Here look at this.” She shared her skill advancement choices.

“Holy… fire immunity!” Calen exclaimed. “Do you know how strong that is?”

“Congratulations,” Mato said. “But you really shouldn’t have shared that advance.”

Malika snapped a confused look at him. “Why wouldn’t I share?”

“Now they know you can tank better; they will keep making you do it,” he told her in a mock-conspiratorial faux whisper. “Better to pretend you don’t have it!” It was only then that a big grin cracked the deadpan look on his face.

She swatted him on the shoulder, half annoyed that she hadn’t caught onto the joke quicker, but honestly, she was just excited that she now had resistances. With their group makeup, they had easily fallen into the pattern of letting Mato tank everything because his class was so well suited to it. When they had first started out, she had done a lot of the tanking, and her defensive skills had grown rapidly, but with her current role of mainly healing or extra damage and the occasional mana drain, her defensive skills had lagged somewhat.

It was only here in the mines that they needed two tanks, and Ali’s Forest Guardians were not suited to the fire affinity dungeon.

She was also glad that Rezan had been right, and not secretly pranking her. Not that he would do something like that, but there had definitely been times when she was sitting in the fire that she had considered he might have been.

“So, which one are you going to choose?” Ali asked.

And that was really the question. The requirements for the advancement told the story of her struggles, and the offerings matched the poison clouds and fire she had been meditating in as often as she could.

“I’m not sure,” she answered finally. All three of the choices dramatically improved her armor by tying it to her endurance attribute. The poison resistance used an extremely high-value formula, scaling by three times her wisdom and twelve times the skill level. But it would only affect poisons, leaving her just as weak in this dungeon. On the other hand, the second choice was full fire immunity, which probably wouldn’t work against evolved monsters far above their levels, but still, it was a ridiculous ability. And the last option offered her magical resistances similar to her armor value.

“Fire immunity,” Calen said. “You could simply grind on fire elementals forever and level up super-fast.”

“Don’t you think that would be too specialized?” Ali countered. “After all, how often do we really choose what we need to fight?”

“True, but she could probably solo a Living Flame with that,” Calen added.

“Probably not,” Malika said, but the idea was certainly attractive. Definitely one of the Shards would be no problem with fire immunity. “The Living Flame hits with physical and fire, and the explosions do some physical damage too. I don’t think I could break the shield by myself before it fully regenerated.”

“You’re right, the general resistance is probably the smartest choice, but still… immunity to fire is ridiculous,” Calen said.

That’s really what it is, she thought, recalling the Nine Paths of Anh Khen had a lot to say about smart skill choices. In cases like this, the breadth of applicability for her Soul Armor was the strongest feature. With all three defensive stats, she would become a far more versatile fighter, able to tank when needed, and able to survive against any foe, regardless of the kind of damage it used.

“I’ll take the general Magic Resistance one then,” she said and committed her choice. Despite knowing what would happen, her eyes still widened at the sight of her magic damage reduction jumping to over thirty percent.

“Want to try the double Living Flame group next?” Calen asked.

“See, I told you!” Mato exclaimed.

***

Name: Malika YuRace: HumanTitles: Street RatActive Buffs: Perfect Body, Soul Armor, Enlightened EvasionClass: Soul Monk – level 46- Martial Artist – level 25- Soul Strike – level 27- Healing Mantra – level 30- Perfect Body – level 18- Soul Armor – level 23- Enlightened Evasion – level 28- Divine Step – level 25- Second Wind – level 13- Clarity – level 12- Soul Sight – level 9General Skills- Dancing – level 9- Calligraphy – level 3- Lockpicking – level 5- Appraise – level 14Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Ahn Khen- Bloodline (Ahn Khen): +45% to range and power of Bloodline skills- Mana (Affinity): Soul- Relentless (Class): +100% to Stamina Regeneration- Relentless (Class): You can pay for any abilities with stamina instead of manaPatrons & Tithes- Mentor: Rezan JinAttributes- Vitality: 81 (+12)- Strength: 82 (+54)- Endurance: 176 (+72)- Dexterity: 328 (+173)- Perception: 32- Intelligence: 22- Wisdom: 204 (+84)Equipment- Head: Ruby Hairpin – level 40- Hands: Wraps of Accuracy – level 17- Feet: Pathfinder Initiate Boots – level 40- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30- Ring: Seal of the Quartermaster – level 40Armor: 513Physical Damage Reduction: 28.48%Evasion: 852Dodge: 39.81%Resistance: 569Magical Damage Reduction: 30.64%+20% to Fire resistance.+6% to Accuracy rating.+10% to Movement speed.Health: 810/810Stamina: 1056/1760 (704 Reserved)Mana: 2040/2040

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
