Waving the boy in question over, she grinned as Rain ran to embrace her, fondly remembering a time when her presence terrified him. It warmed her heart to hear of the blossoming romance between him and Mila, Rain a welcome addition to her family. “Good to see you again boy, you've grown. I wanted to hand you the Token myself, but your sister insisted on the honour. I trust you will not bring shame to your Mentor. Now, come greet your Martial Uncle, my second Disciple, Tong Da Fung.”

Rain's look of shock quickly turned to mischievous smile as he clasped his fists and bowed to Fung. “Officer Brother Martial Uncle. Congratulations! When did this happen?” His voice dropped to a whisper, trying to hide his next words from her. “And my condolences. I pray for your survival.”

Fung laughed heartily, usually a cold, proud young man. Their friendship meant more to him than Rain realized, few people willing to befriend the Magistrate's son without an ulterior motive. “After Du Min Gyu refused to take me as a student, Mentor took pity on my lowly self and accepted me as her Disciple, pulling me back from the brink of despair. My luck is strong, rejected by a tiger only to be chosen by a dragon. I caution you carefully Officer Brother Martial Nephew: my strength has progressed in leaps and bounds since we last met. As your senior, I cannot allow myself to remain beneath you.” Their smirking devolved into outright laughter, their new titles hilarious to the both of them.

Composing himself, Rain put on a serious face, looking around at all gathered. “It's great that you're all here, my family and loved ones. I have an announcement.” Pausing while his family gathered, he lifted Tate into his arms and hugged the child close and took Mila's hand. “I would like to ask Mentor to arrange my betrothal to Mei Lin. I have discussed the matter with Mila, but before anything, if anyone objects to this matter, please speak.” Turning to face her, he bowed once, bowing a second time to her husband while still holding Tate like a shield, Tali clapping happily as she hopped around him. “I apologize if you feel I am mistreating your daughter, I know how precious she is to you. It is not that I find her lacking, I love Mila, but I also love Lin. I will strive to make them both happy, and would never intentionally hurt either one of them. I ask for your blessing in this matter, and will not go ahead without it.”

Glancing at her husband, she saw his pouting lips and smouldering anger. Quickly putting an end to it, she pinched his cheek. “Oh husband, you grow more cantankerous with age and dote too much on Mila. We knew this would happen, little Lin staked her claim on him long ago. Rain holds sufficient prestige to have more than one wife, and if our daughter has no objections, how can we? We raised her well and she would not make this decision lightly.” Patting Rain's cheek, she smile and gave him her blessing, and after a pointed elbow from her, so did her husband, giving the boy a hearty hug and a whispered threat. It was unnecessary, Rain would not treat Mila badly, the boy cared deeply for his family.

Another advantageous union, perhaps she should find a wife for Fung. The Ong girl was unsuitable for him, a pretty flower with prickly thorns. Nevertheless, with three Warrant Officers, each one destined for greatness, the People were rising in prominence. Huushal, an unstoppable powerhouse and beloved of the People, Fung a brilliant politician and commander, loved by the people of Shen Huo. Standing above both for now was Rain, a budding genius healer and exceptional duelist, a young hero worshiped by the citizens and, according to Gerel, a talented and creative leader. Add in Mila and Adujan, as well as several other budding talents, and they made an excellent team, a formidable generation of talents. Truly, great heroes are born in times of turmoil.

Of course, nothing would come to pass should they die young. Life was uncertain, and battle a cruel mistress, she had done all she could to prepare them for the trials ahead. The raw materials had emerged from the flames, withstood the battering of the hammer, and now it was time for them to be tempered, away from her protection. Only by spreading their wings would they learn to fly. She hoped to see them return to her, soaring majestically through the skies, but like always, she hoped for the best and prepared for the worst, ready to catch them should they come crashing to earth below.

She had done all she could, the rest was in the hands of the Mother.

Chapter Meme
