Thanks, buddy. Ren thought, and looked around. He was still surrounded by women, and they had cuddled in even closer while he had slept.

“Good morning.” Ren said, and Andrela, the one with her head on his chest, lifted her head slightly to look at him.

“Good morning.” Andrela said and smiled sweetly at him, with not a trace of sleep in her voice.

“Already?” Lusinia said and let Ren's leg go and rolled over onto her back. “I need more sleep!”

Ren chuckled and felt Frikara move and looked at her. Her face was flushed slightly red, and Ren wasn't sure why. He was tempted to concentrate on the shared Aura and find out what she was actually feeling; but, he left it as a mystery and kissed her cheek instead. Her face flushed a deep red, and she averted her eyes from his. Ren smiled at her acting so shy after how brazen she normally was, and looked at Verwynn on his other side. She had managed to hold his hand the entire time, and was looking at him with hope in her eyes. He opened his hand and she let it and his forearm go, and he caressed her cheek. She closed her eyes and sighed.

“I feel a little left out.” Navruth said and smiled as she sat up and stretched. Ren lifted his leg and used his toes to caress her cheek, and she laughed. “You did not just use your foot to do that!” She said and grabbed his ankle with both hands.

“Hey, you chose the leg to cuddle last night.” Ren said and chuckled. “You shouldn't complain if you get touched by the foot.”

Navruth moved the foot towards her face and stuck the big toe into her mouth. Ren looked at her with raised eyebrows, and she pulled it out and sighed.

“Nothing, huh?” Navruth asked.

“Nope.” Ren said. “I can't even lie and say it felt good.”

Navruth looked at the bottom of the foot and used her fingers to scratch it, but didn't get any reaction. “You're not ticklish there, either?”

“Not really.” Ren said.

“I'm sorry.” Navruth said and sighed at her failed attempt to make him happy, then placed a kiss on the sole of his foot to apologize. Ren reacted immediately at the ticklish sensation, and laughed. The personal maids froze at the sound he made, then Navruth kissed his foot again to make sure that it had really happened and wasn't just a fluke.

“That... that tickles!” Ren said, and laughed.

Navruth and Lusinia exchanged glances and nodded slightly, then they attacked both of Ren's feet with their lips and tongues.

“Ha haha hahaha!” Ren laughed as they tickled his feet with their mouths and he squirmed around on the bed. He was pretty strong by this point and he didn't want to move too much; just in case he might flail about and possibly hurt someone. “St... st... ha ha ha!”

Andrela was still on his chest, so she could feel all of his movements and how he was trying not to move around. She saw his underarms were completely unguarded, so she drove her fingers into them and started tickling him, too.

Ren laughed and laughed because they were merciless in their attack, and didn't give him even a second to tell them to stop. This went on for several minutes, and then the tickle attack slowed down and then stopped.

Ren's laughter faded away, and he relaxed as Navruth and Lusinia let his feet go and Andrela moved her hands from under his arms and folded them across his chest, then rested her chin on them to stare at his face.

“I hope you're not mad.” Andrela said, sheepishly. “We've been trying to come up with something to do for you, and all we could think of was to make you laugh.”

Ren concentrated on the Contact Aura, and his personal maids gasped as his Aura merged with theirs and then the shared Aura was flooded with how happy Ren was.

“By... by the gods...” Andrela said, completely amazed. “How... how can you feel so happy?”

Ren smiled and put a hand on Andrela's back to give her a little hug. “I just woke up in bed, with 5 women, who's only concern was to try and make me laugh.” He said and smiled. “Why wouldn't I be happy?”

Andrela didn't know what to say to that.

“None of you mauled me while I was asleep, either.” Ren said and grinned. “That definitely put me in a better mood.”

“Ren.” Frikara said and he looked at her. “We might say-”

Someone coughed and interrupted her, and she smiled.

“Okay, I might say things that...” Frikara sighed. “I do say things that might have given you the wrong impression.” She said. “I want to have sex with you.” She glanced around at the other personal maids. “We all do.”

Ren could feel their desire; but; it was tempered with a large amount of patience.

“Despite what I imply with my words, I would never try and take something like that from you if you won't give freely.”

“That's right.” Lusinia said and smiled. “Don't get us wrong; we'll tease and play with you as much as we can.”

Navruth nodded slightly. “Just having a man around that respects us as women...”

“...has been a gift from the gods.” Verwynn finished for her.

“We'll keep fighting the urge, even though you're so hard to resist.” Andrela said and blushed.

“Thank you for keeping up the fight.” Ren said to her, and looked at the others. “I appreciate it.”

“We know you do.” Frikara said, because they could feel his appreciation.

Ren looked back at Andrela. “I'm sorry, but you have to move.” He said. “I have to get up and make breakfast for everyone.”

“You can stay there.” Frikara said and got up. “We're having leftovers.”

“What about...” Ren started to ask about Orimihr.

“We knocked on the wall and slid several plates of food out under the door yesterday.” Lusinia said. “He tried to talk to us, but we wouldn't listen or respond.”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “I thought we could all get along.”

“He worked in the Lodur mines for 5 years.” Frikara said, and Ren felt her anger rise. “But that doesn't excuse his rude behavior towards Andrela.”

Ren was about to ask why they focused on her when the rudeness was directed at all of them, then he felt a strong protective feeling flood the shared Aura. He smiled as he understood that she was the focus of the group, that she was the one that they all looked after, and he looked at Andrela. Her face was a deep red, because she could feel how much they all wanted to protect her.

Frikara handed out 4 plates of food from the icebox to the other maids, and took one herself. Andrela moved down slightly and put her plate on Ren's chest, and the other 4 maids laid down around him close to his head.

“I think you forgot a plate for me.” Ren said.

“I didn't.” Frikara said and smiled, then Ren felt a bit of playfulness enter the Aura. “I figured we could all share.”

“Open wide.” Andrela said and held out a small piece of meat for him to eat between her finger and thumb.

“I don't think...” Ren tried to say.

“Good.” Navruth said. “Don't think about it.” She smiled. “Just lay back and enjoy it.”

Andrela was still holding the piece of meat by his mouth. He could feel how much she wanted him to eat something from her plate first. Ren opened his mouth for her, and he felt her burst of happiness as he accepted her offering. He chewed it up and swallowed, and another hand was by his face with another small piece of food.

“Mine next.” Frikara said, and Ren ate her offering, too. Each of the personal maids took turns feeding him, and he ate everything they gave him while they ate themselves. They used their fingers to eat and feed him, and it was quite messy; but, they enjoyed themselves the entire time and Ren couldn't help himself and enjoyed it, too.
