“Hmm... I agree with Councilman Lei, although I do believe Tongzu's ineffectiveness merits review. Let us weigh the benefits against the costs and see if it's time for the Council to cut our losses and send the former war-hero into early... retirement.” Xiaobo removed his sandals and placed his foot on the table, rubbing it in plain sight. Full of vile and disgusting habits, the man used them to discomfort his opponents, making them focus on the display instead of thinking on his words. “Also, how does this Jorani keep finding out about our shipments? Even dressing our guards in Imperial Armour didn't work. Even more pressing is this report from the fisheries. The villages are uniting to renegotiate their contracts, meaning costs will rise in the future. What if all the villages along the Xiangmi River follow suit? I say we break and go over our options, before reconvening in say... five days?”

They argued over the time frame and, after a lengthy debate, settled on three days. Yong coughed and returned to pertinent matters. “And what shall we do in the interim? The Mother's Militia has cost us more than just coin, he's declared outright war against the Council. We lose face each day they still live, and we've yet to make a single shipment to Shen Yun, the fines continuing to increase each day.”

“Major Yuzhen's sights have locked onto the Spectre, greatly desiring the renown that will come with his death and she refuses to return to deal with Jorani. We can only take matters into our own hands. A trap perhaps? Plant a spy among the Militia's ranks and have him deal with Jorani. Poison, or a dagger in the night, target the head and the rest shall fall.” Chun Lei beamed at him and Yong's eyes narrowed in anger.

Fuming, he stood and screamed, “You grease-stained whore-son!” before launching himself at Chun Lei. Guards from both sides intervened and the meeting devolved into insults and veiled threats while Xiaobo sat at the side. Normally, Yong was far more adept at handling Chun Lei's constant barbs, but losing his brother had rattled him. He'd sent little Ban to his death, and for what? That bastard Jorani would pay for this...

Afterwards, they ended the meeting with no course of action besides hiring more former bandits as guards, a failing measure seeing as the Militia continued to grow, their reported numbers close to a thousand now. The Council's reputation would soon plummet from their failed deliveries, and their partners in other cities would start reconsidering their ties. Worse, after paying for guards and transport, it was impossible to earn a decent profit from this venture, hardly worth all the pain and effort. It'd seemed so easy at first, a simple jaunt to Shen Yun with the supplies and they would be paid almost thrice their worth, fifteen times the Council's purchasing price. Yuzhen agreed readily to so many of their terms, an amateur in the world of finance and negotiation. How the Tiger of Finance Shing Du Yi had managed to raise such an incompetent successor was baffling.

Clarity struck him like a bolt of lightning and he turned around and hurried back to the meeting room, hollering at his slaves. “Go and reconvene the Council immediately! Tell them it is of the utmost importance.” They'd been played! Huffing with exertion, he clenched his meaty fists and imagined himself throttling Yuzhen to death. He was certain it was her, how else could everything work in her favour? That missing Bekhai runt was likely working with Jorani, his disappearance an excuse to lead from the shadows.

Now all they needed was proof of Yuzhen's guilt, and they could call for an Adjudicator. He longed to see the look of fear in her eyes once she realized her mistake. She never should have crossed the Council and underestimated Chao Yong, Chief Councilman of the Eastern Prosperity Alliance. Not only would he avenge the death of his little brother, but he would wring every concession he could from Shing Du Yi before anonymously submitting proof to the Disciplinary Corps. It would be a great pleasure to watch that vixen bitch hang for her crimes. Stealing Imperial Supplies was high treason, her death warrant all but signed.

Smiling for the first time in days, Yong sat inside the meeting room and waited, humming a tune as he calculated the ideal demands to send when blackmailing the Marshal.

Things were finally making sense once more.

Chapter Meme
