He met her eyes seriously. “It involves the Insights I’ve wanted to keep secret. We’ll talk about it tonight.”

Her mouth twisted into a complicated expression. “Dragon’s breath.”

“We must move,” Khachi interrupted, looking around wildly. “We may find more soldiers.”

Aarl snorted. “More monsters, or more soldiers of Esebus. I don’t want to face those weapons. Not even as a game.”

“I can shut them down,” Nathan said confidently. “I could have swatted the soldiers out of the sky and disabled their weapons. But Khachi’s right. We don’t want to get spotted.”

They proceeded, keeping a wary eye out. It was a good thing too, as Sarah rounded an outcropping and froze, holding up a hand for all of them to stop. She waved Nathan forward, and he peeked his head around the rock next to her.

Ahead of them was the end of the valley they’d been flying down, where they would have been forced to ascend over a pass to get to the next valley. There was a dungeon there, a cave entrance that looked suspiciously like a giant open mouth, complete with stalagmites and stalactites for teeth. A group of about thirty men trudged towards it, equipped with ragtag arms and armor. A few hundred feet above them floated a trio of figures in winged armor that positively radiated magic.

Sarah’s voice was quiet, even though none of the figures were closer than four hundred feet away. “Slaves?”

Nathan hissed a breath out between his teeth. “I think that here they’re ‘indentured’. But yeah, pretty much.”

“What do we do?” She asked.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 80122/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5525/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 6

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
