The war couldn’t have developed in a better direction if Zac had written the script himself. With the Pathfinders’ third Middle leading the defenses, all the known peak combatants were accounted for. As long as the Rosemore Sect’s sole Middle Monarch could keep the third target occupied, Zac only had Early C-grade enemies to worry about.

Of course, even he would fall if enough Peak Hegemons joined hands. The siege was fast turning into a chaotic melee with Zac caught in its center. Attacks were coming in hot from every direction, including vast swathes of destruction unleashed by Monarchs. Meanwhile, Zac's instincts were muddied by the rapid increase of danger from Mox closing in.

While putting him in extreme danger, Zac’s current position was where he could inflict the most damage. Zac had already activated [Primal Edict] before passing through the barrier, and the countless spores spread across the battlefield were ready to sprout. Vines empowered by Evolutionary Daos, strengthened by multiple Hidden Nodes, and invigorated by [Conformation of Supremacy] appeared in shocking numbers.

Energized by the dense bloodlust in the air, the writhing swarm pounced on the defenders with voracious glee. Vines were destroyed by the thousands every second, but that wasn’t enough to stop Life’s eternal war. The vines incorporated the lessons of their demise, adapting to counter the Hope Energy while regrowing with greater resilience. In some ways, the Monarchs responsible for most of the destruction were teaching nature to better kill their subordinates.

The expenditure of maintaining [Primal Edict] through cycles of destruction and rebirth was immense, but the skill was still Middle D-grade. Zac’s Late D-grade Cosmic Core could easily bear the cost. Most importantly, Zac was considered a peak combatant within the Mousetrap, and the Pathfinders only had a few dozen members who could comfortably deal with the skill.

When faced with a modern skill augmented by Zac’s superior Daos and Attribute Pool, even Middle Hegemons had their hands full just staying alive. [Primal Edict] alone occupied nearly half the Pathfinders’ elite forces, drastically lessening the pressure on the Rosemore Sect. While the sect couldn’t understand where the timely assistance came from, the elders didn’t hesitate to capitalize on the opportunity.

Tavza had hidden the two in a cocoon of Abyssal Oblivion that only a handful could see through, and those people were already elites on the Rosemore Sect’s must-kill list. Zac shifted from Ent Elder to Stalker form to better blend with the chaos. Doing so weakened the vitality of his plant-based skills, but it allowed him to take out a few troublesome characters in quick succession.

Zac moved like a ghost across the battlefield, unleashing a lightning-quick burst of violence before disappearing as quickly as he arrived. He intentionally avoided any Peak Hegemons and the tougher Late D-grade cultivators. Zac was confident in defeating any enemy below Pseudo C-grade, but he couldn’t take them out of commission in a single exchange.

Two dozen captains lost their lives or were mortally wounded in seconds, causing disarray among their subordinates. Zac could tell that the battle still favored the Pathfinders. The weakened Tustul was being suppressed, and the defenders were gradually restoring order. To add insult to injury, new nightmares kept spawning to assist the defense.

Zac still slipped into a tree and disappeared, joining Tavza, who’d made her way deeper into the forest. He didn’t have time to fight the Pathfinders. The Rosemore Sect would have to rely on themselves while he dealt with the real mission.

“This way,” Tavza said with heartening certainty, leading Zac through a hidden passage into a large underground complex.

The Hope Energy was even denser underground, and the corridors were clearly part of a large-scale array. Immense energies were gathering, and Zac frowned when he noticed a strong Dao of Sacrifice coming from above. It was all gathering toward the heart of the labyrinth.

“The Pathfinders were counting on the attack. The bloodshed is part of the ritual needed to open the passage,” Tavza said, echoing Zac’s suspicion.

“Let’s give them the final push,” Zac muttered as he took out his communication crystal. “We’re inside.”

Ogras responded shortly after. 'Everything’s ready. We’re starting it up.'

There was fighting in the background, but Ventus and Ogras had held up their end. The change was nearly immediate. Zac couldn’t sense the rise in ambient Cosmic Energy over the suffocating levels of Hope Energy. However, it was impossible to miss the tremendous eruption of Inverse Dao in the depths, and Zac’s Danger Sense reached critical levels. The last barrier had been lifted.

Zac stared into the darkness, and the darkness stared back. It was time to discover who was the predator and who was the prey.
