A dark figure started drifting across the marshalling yard. It was a vaguely humanoid mass of indistinct shadow, with a pair of dimly glowing, smoky orange eyes. It moved through the air like a genie with no lamp until it was hovering in the air near Shade. When he spoke, his voice was sensuous and provocative, as if a deliberate contrast to Shade’s rigid politeness.

“Greetings, brother. Did you see me coming?”

“Always.”

“Yet you fall for my little traps, every time.”

“And you never tire of them. Do you truly find depriving me of my freedom so satisfying?”

“I do indeed, brother. The one who never serves father and yet is always his favourite, somehow.”

“Our progenitor has no favourites.”

“Oh, please. You serve nothing but your own whims, yet does father rebuke you? No, he lavishes you with praise.”

“Your memory seems impacted by your bias, Umber. You do our progenitor a disservice.”

“And you do nothing but indulge in your roaming ways! What greater joy could I have than depriving you of that?”

“Perhaps in learning to live for yourself? If you so bristle at living in my shadow, then all you need do is step out of it. Stop living for me, or for the Reaper. Become your own entity.”

Umber let out a snarl.

“You never change! What will it take for him to see your failing? You abandoned him completely for your latest meat anchor, and still he favours you!”

‘Meat anchor?’ Jason mouthed silently, looking himself up and down.

“You don’t even realise the machinations I prepared for you,” Umber continued. “When I convinced your summoner to trap you in that astral space, I was already preparing for your inevitable escape. You see, the next place I’m going to send you is very special indeed. I knew that the Builder would use one of his hastily prepared vessels, and what would happen to that vessel once he was done with it. So, I made sure that something was waiting for that ghoulish remnant, a soul for it to devour. A soul carefully engineered to create exactly the entity I needed, one that could go to a place most could not. One that could create more of its kind to take with it. An army of jailers.”

“The Order of the Reaper,” Jason said. “You created whatever Thadwick Mercer has become, and now you’ve what? Had him turn the entire order into things like him?”

Umber turned to face Jason.

“The summoner,” he said, spitting the word as if to get the filth out of his mouth. “The one who somehow convinced my brother to give up everything. Do you realise how fragmentary a speck in his life you are?”

“Yep. Have you been running the Order of the Reaper for all these years?”

“I’ve been building up their numbers while I prepared for Shade to find his way to freedom.”

“Thadwick’s sword,” Jason said. “How did you know to prepare a weapon so effective against a gestalt body even I didn’t know I would have?”

“That was a happy accident. Sometimes, luck just goes your way. I won’t turn my nose up at a little serendipity.”

“Nor will I,” Knowledge said. “Dawn made sure that I would not be able to have you killed once the bridge was complete by having you intimately connected to it. Of course, that became irrelevant with your ascension to immortality. I will admit that I didn’t see either of those things coming, but a good plan must always have contingencies. Even if I can’t kill you, I have come to respect you enough that I wish to avoid your intervention during my invasion of your home world. As such, I needed a way to keep you occupied, and your familiar’s sibling has provided.”

“The best part,” Umber added, “is that you’ll walk right into the cage, summoner, knowingly and willingly. I’ve incorporated some additions to the ritual to complete the bridge anchor point. It will bind your consciousness into your prime avatar. You are familiar with this magic, yes?”

“I was expecting as much,” Jason confirmed.

“It will seal away your astral kingdom, and your ability to actively influence your domains. Once you have completed the ritual, you will be taken from this universe to a place that isn’t quite a universe and isn’t quite not. Somewhere that very few are able to go, and you just so happen to be one of them. That was not serendipity, by the way. I knew the great astral beings were in need of someone that met certain requirements, and the lovely goddess here was kind enough to let me know that she was expecting someone to come along, sooner or later, who could be moulded into meeting those requirements.

“We just had to make sure that they were in a position to become Shade’s next familiar. Someone who would release a few trapped souls in some flesh monsters to get on father’s good side, plus Shade in need of a new summoner and here we are. It was a little unfortunate that father wasn’t happy about the trapped souls, and he forbade me from interfering with my precious brother until his summoner was ready. Well, you’re ready now, Jason Asano.”

“For what?” Jason asked. “Where is this universe that isn’t a universe?”

“Why spoil the surprise?”

“That is enough interruptions,” Knowledge said. “The time has come to fulfil your destiny, Jason Asano, and open the gateway that I might claim your world.”

Jason turned to Knowledge, then walked right up to her. He floated up until he was eye to eye with the manifestation of the goddess, a full head taller than he was.

“I’m going to do this thing,” he told her. “And I’m going to wind up in whatever prison your shadow familiar has set up for—”

“I’m not her—”

Silence.

Jason didn’t say the word but brought it into being through his aura. Umber rocked back as if struck by a physical blow. Jason didn’t even turn to look, continuing to speak to Knowledge.

“When I am done with that place, I am going to get out, and then I’m going to kill you.”

Knowledge looked at him like a pet owner being stalked by their new kitten.

“You can’t sanction me, Jason Asano. Even when you come into the fullness of your power as a great astral being, as The System you will not have the authority to sanction a god. That is for other gods to do. Perhaps you might have found a way before the Cosmic Throne was repaired, but now the rules have been put back in place. By you, no less. You understand better than anyone that they are not to be violated.”

“But you weren’t listening, which is a common failing in people who think they know everything. I’ve made that mistake many times myself. I didn’t say I was going to sanction you, Goddess, I said I was going to kill you.”

She looked at him with curiosity.

“I know you, Jason Asano. I understand you utterly, and have from the moment you first arrived in this universe. The only way to kill a god is to annihilate the world they are bound to, we both know that. I’m not saying that you couldn’t find a way to destroy a planet, but we also both know you never would. You think yourself the hero too much, a trait that has been very useful to me. Saying that you are going to kill me is bluster and bravado, and I know that is how you like to do things, but what do you hope to accomplish? Is it anything more than shouting into the dark?”

Jason let out a light chuckle.

“You were right earlier, when you said the impossible isn’t my thing. It’s only kind of my thing. I don’t do it every day, and I don’t do it every time. But when it matters, when it really matters, I find a way. And I’m going to find a way to kill you. Not sanction you, or seal you away. Kill you. I know it’s impossible, and I don’t care. You can call it bluster and bravado if you like, but if you understand me so utterly, Goddess, look me in the eye. Tell me that you see a single scrap of doubt over my ability to put you down and send you to the Reaper.”

Knowledge’s face went blank.

“Enough of this. It is time to complete the task I have been preparing you for all this time you believed that you were your own man. Go into that ritual circle and complete it.”

Jason drifted to the ground.

“As you will, Goddess.”

“You should show me some respect, Jason Asano. The next time we meet, I will be the one true God of your world.”

He turned and walked in the direction of the standing stones, replying without looking back.

“The next time we meet, Goddess, will be the day you die.”
