Watching Gerel frog-march Rain away, Adujan pouted as she waited, vexed beyond all compare. Two months of separation, and at their fated reunion he barely flashed her a smile before gawking at that hussy, Yuzhen. The nerve of that idiot!  “Yan-Yan, don't frown so much, Daddy says you'll get wrinkles.” Lin's adorable figure popped out in front, feigning an exaggerated frown before smiling sweetly, and Adujan had no choice but to mirror her smile. Little Lin was too adorable.  Resisting the urge to squeeze Lin's cheeks into paste, Adujan turned to the Medical Saint and bowed slightly, unsure of how to act around the beloved healer. “Ser Taduk, if you will follow me and Kyung, we will bring you to Teacher Du.”  Leading the way from Shana's back, she kept her eyes open for any sign of threat. If not for Ghurda showing her the dangers, she would have been unaware of the Society presence around her, their enemies waiting in the shadows for a chance to strike unseen. The entire journey was nerve-wracking as she started at every errant soldier who rushed past, every leering face that stared too long. With no Sentinel escort, it was in her hands to keep her charges alive, with only Kyung to watch her back.  Not halfway through her journey, she spotted a familiar face and breathed a sigh of relief, Du Kang Bing marching towards them on foot with a squadron of soldiers. Falling in beside her party without a word, The Colonel took command, leaving Adujan free to relax. A handsome man with a square jaw and broad chest, he was young for his rank, only just past 30 years, a good sign. Every one of Teacher Du's students rose quickly in rank, her decision to leave the village validated once more.  As soon as they arrived, she brought Ser Taduk and Lin into her teacher's room, wincing at the sight of the frail old man, no sign of the heroic elder she had met only weeks before. His malady had worsened quickly in their few days apart, his face a pallid colour, eyes sunken into his flesh, shivering in his chair while sweating next to a blazing fire. Rushing to his side, she wiped his brow with her handkerchief, his skin hot to the touch. “Teacher Du, I've brought Healer Taduk, I told you about him, remember? He's known as the Medical Saint, I'm sure he can help you.”  “Bah, I'm sick not senile, I can still remember things.” He waved off her ministrations, irritable at the concern, but she knew he was only ashamed of his weakness. It mattered little to her, so long as he lived, his mind sharp and eyes unfailing. A gruff, pragmatic man, his actions were ever at odds with his words, always making sure she was well cared for in their travels, greatly concerned with her safety, she had grown fond of him in their time together. It would be too unfair to lose her Teacher after only two months together, her strength growing by the day under his tutelage.  “Hmm... Tell me, you feel cold?” Ser Taduk stepped in with a knowing look on his face, taking Teacher Du's wrist to check his heart. “Any tightness in the chest, difficulty breathing or nausea?”  “Bah, what makes you qualified to treat me? I for one have never heard your name, and the most famed healers of the Central Province have treated me, doing nothing to help me.” Puffing up, her teacher seemed a shadow of his former self, painful for her to see. “Charlatans and frauds, taking money time and time again, yet doing little but offer stopgap measures.”  “He's complained of all but nausea in the last few weeks.” Adujan chimed in, matching her teacher's glare with a look of indignation. “Stop being so crotchety and let him help you.”  Muttering loudly about her bullying the elderly, he sat in contemplation for a moment before finally speaking up again. “I've had constant bouts of nausea the last few days, can barely choke down soup and congee.”  “Well, that's to be expected. You ran out of Dream Smoke, correct? How long ago?”  “... Two weeks, but what does that have to do with any of this?”  “Did you run out because you brought too little, or because you smoked it all too quickly?” Not waiting for an answer, Ser Taduk continued. “All of your symptoms can be attributed to withdrawal, Dream Smoke is highly addictive, and not the best choice for pain management, but I don't think your healers had much choice, as you don't seem to be the best of patients. Once you ran out, your body began to crave it, resulting in your current suffering.” He lectured sternly on the dangers of addiction and the irresponsible habits of Teacher Du for having succumbed to it, the old man shuffling in discomfort at Taduk's scolding.  After he started to repeat himself, she interrupted Ser Taduk, saving poor Teacher Du. “How can it be treated?”  With an aggrieved expression, he reached over to pinch her cheeks gently. “Simple enough to treat the symptoms, and they will go away on their own in a few days.”  “Hmph, so you say my suffering is all because of my so-called healers. What did I say, charlatans the lot of them.” His anger was clear as he struggled to stand, his determination surging now that he knew his malady was temporary. “Come, we have work to do, I must salvage my reputation.”  Rolling his eyes, Ser Taduk pushed Teacher Du back in to the chair with little regard. “Your reputation can wait, you still have other injuries correct? My student says you favour your right hip and knee, are there any other injuries?”  “You can fix those too? I was told it was cartilage damage, unable to be healed. Something about lack of regenerative capabilities and materials.”  “You let me worry about that, although I will insist on an oath of secrecy. Better for me if no one knows I healed you, I get enough demands as it stands.”  Dragged out by Lin, they sat down in front of the door to make sure Ser Taduk was not bothered. The adorable girl clutched Adujan's arm and rested her head, looking up sweetly. “How have you been Yan-Yan? Has he been treating you well?”  Flushed with delight at her teacher's imminent recovery, she clapped her hands in joy, beaming at Lin. “Oh, it's been wonderful, I've learned so much. Every day I progress in what feels like leaps and bounds, despite only an hour or two of practice. What's more, when I arrived here, I got to ride alongside the Banner!” She described the frantic, organized chaos she had taken part in, fighting beside the heroes of the village, to be relied upon by them. If it had been Rain next to her, she could have gone into great lengths about the strategy and coordination involved, how it had opened her eyes to a new level of warfare besides a sprawling melee, but since Lin was not a warrior, she glossed over the gory details.  The little lady Lin was sharp, however. “You're thinking about Rainy, ya?” Her knowing smile sent a blush to Adujan's cheeks, ashamed at being caught out so easily. She didn't really wish to go into it with Lin. They had never spoken about him, and if she were of mind to, Lin could denounce Adujan for trying to lay claim to him, when he was already spoken for. Mila was different, she likely had the little lady's approval before trying to win over Rain, but Adujan was just an outsider.  As if sensing her thoughts, Lin embraced Adujan, snuggling in close and hiding her face. “Don't worry too much Yan-Yan, that's just how Rainy is. I can't keep him from falling in love and I think you're a good match for him, you're both alike in so many ways. If anything, I should be asking you for permission to marry him, he cares about you more.”  “I don't know about that. Did you see how he stared at Yuzhen today, completely ignoring me? I don't mind if he has a wandering eye, Mother knows I do as well, but he's never looked at me like that, with lust and desire. We shared a tent for weeks and he didn't even try to sneak into my bedroll or anything.” She would have rebuffed him of course, but it would have been nice to have him try. “He sees me as a friend, not a lover.”  A small sound of frustration emerged from Lin, her face still buried in Adujan's shoulder. “It's the same with me, he keeps saying I'm like his little sister, it's so annoying!” Unable to help herself anymore, Adujan extricated her arm and took the sweet girl in a full embrace, kissing her on the cheek. Too adorable.  The two of them chatted away the afternoon, venting their frustrations and sharing plans, falling asleep at their post after some time. Awakened by the opening door, she barely managed to keep herself from falling back into the room, lifting the sleepy Lin up with her as she stood to greet her teacher. Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on Royal Road. Storming past her with renewed vigour, Teacher Du marched out of the room and down the hall, hollering for Kyung to bring him a change of clothes, his limp not slowing him down at all. Emerging from the room with a tired expression, Ser Taduk smiled at the two of them, taking his sleepy daughter into his arms.  Her teacher's scolding jolted her out of her fugue. “Girl, why are you not preparing? Dress yourself, there is work to be done.”  Glancing out the window at the darkness, she asked, “It's the middle of the night, shouldn't you rest? The trial is in the morning.”  “No time for that.” She could hear the life in his voice as it echoed down the hall. “I have a reputation to salvage!”  Smiling gratefully, she bowed deeply to Ser Taduk before running off to prepare, excitement bubbling up within her chest. While injured, Teacher Du matched the Chief Provost in might, so how strong was he now that Ser Taduk had healed him?  She looked forward to finding out, taking pride as the student of Du Min Gyu.

