Resting her head upon her husband's broad, muscular chest, Akanai listened to his slow and steady heartbeat, strong and vital, interspersed with his rumbling snores. Smiling to herself, she immersed herself in the memories of their time together, centering herself for the trials ahead. This overcast dawn was the calm before the storm, in more ways than one, and she would savour every moment of peace available.  Theirs was a story of rivals turned lovers, almost a century in the making, but their love was all the stronger from their shared trials. A different time that had been, an era of turmoil and disorder, the Empire reeling from a massive incursion of Defiled and civil strife, the Emperor's assassination causing widespread panic. The village directors had gathered and unilaterally decided to close off the borders, and as a foolish child, she ran away from the orphanage, making the journey to Shen Huo on foot to join the army. Nationalism and personal pride had trumped common sense, leaving home to raise her status high enough to be 'worthy' of her lover, a journeyman blacksmith, warrior of renown, and child of luxury.  Her letter did little to dissuade him from following, charging after her like a madman, his fury a spectacle to behold. Too late to stop her, he joined the army to stand at her side, leaving behind everything he held dear. Together, they fought for decades against both Defiled and rebels, until the province was safe and they returned home to be married. He never spoke of his adversity, never blamed her for becoming estranged from his parents or for missing their funerals, but it wore heavily on her. It was not until they adopted little Mila that she truly understood the love between family, and it plagued her to have been the cause of her husband's distress. Snuggling closer to him, she wrapped her arms tightly around his ample body, enjoying the warmth for one last moment before she woke. Gingerly stepping out of bed, she donned her leather armor, flexible and form-fitting. A double layer of Megalodon leather, the inner lining stitched together with Terror Bird feathers, it too brought back memories, of taking the pup out on his first real hunt, chasing the massive, aquatic predator that was terrorizing the coastal cities. He was a child then, barely older than Rain was now, spoiling her with how easily he learned and obeyed, a model disciple turned Hero of the Empire.  Rain however... He was  talented in his own way, but a difficult student that confounded her. If it came down to the third match, could the boy be relied upon? According to Du Min Gyu, Jia Zian was a formidable opponent, with the ability to manifest his aura. While Mila was an accomplished warrior, she lacked the experience and mindset necessary to face an opponent of Zian's caliber, Rain a far more suitable opponent for him. Tempered in battle, the customarily meek child sought out the challenge of combat with unexpected enthusiasm, his fatalistic mindset allowing him to attack even a Demon without regard for personal safety. Was she truly left with no other option, or was Rain up to the task? Her mind occupied by these thoughts and more, she strode towards the mess hall, pausing at the sound of sparring, a twitch in her forehead causing her to change course. Surely it wouldn't be him...  His weapons in hand, Rain sparred ferociously with Gerel in the courtyard, several Sentinels spectating as the two pure-blooded clansmen exchanged blows, the lanterns lit and hung to better see them in the murky morning gloom. Stepping forward to berate both idiots, a raised hand intercepted her before she could act, the pup smiling up at her briefly before turning his attentions back to the match. “Let them continue for now.”  “This is foolish, the boy needs rest. He spent half the day running and the other half binding his weapon. Has he even slept ?” Despite her desire to end to the proceedings, she stood back and respected the pup's wishes, inwardly lamenting the horde of idiots surrounding her. Studying the match closely, she was shocked to see Rain so savage, striking to kill with his Spiritual Weapons, his face lit up in undisguised joy as they sparred. Gerel responded calmly, dealing with the attacks passively, smiling in turn at the young man trying to take his life.  Soon, the momentum shifted and it was Rain who retreated from Gerel's advance, the heavy longsword scything through the air, only to be met briefly by sword and shield. The attacks were sent sliding away, an almost gently, throwing Gerel off balance as he attacked. “Oh? Impressive.” Soft blocking, using the opponent's force and momentum against them, the boy had yet to firmly grasp the concept, but the core idea could be seen in his movements. “An Insight from his binding ceremony?”  “Possibly, but he did not say, only that he couldn't sleep, but Gerel was happy to wear him down. They've been at this for two hours now, and the boy seems on the verge of a breakthrough.” Pride was clear in the pup's tone, a witless smile upon his face. “As much as he needs rest, I am loath to stop him, especially since he so rarely finds Insight. He relies on hard work and repetition, unable to easily accept the gifts of the Mother, too skeptical in nature.”  Remaining silent, she continued to watch while gauging his strength. Even with a single arm, Gerel was a fearsome combatant, and his frustration was beginning to show, unable to disarm the boy without causing injury. The boy displayed signs of fatigue but continued to move well, carefully gauging the timing of each parry, feinting effectively to keep Gerel on his guard for a counter attack. After a few more minutes, she turned to the pup and spoke, leaving no room for debate in her tone. “The Trial is in six hours, have the boy rest for at least four, even if you must knock him out yourself. We may have need of his strength.”  Leaving to eat a quick breakfast before returning to her duties, her shoulders felt lighter than before, a burden lifted from her. The boy could be relied upon, so long as he found some time to rest and eat beforehand, but there was more to be done, plans to be laid and battles to be won, and then the trials could begin.  Pausing once more to consider the alternatives, she wondered if this was the best option, to openly fight with the Empire in turmoil. She cared nothing for the opinion of the masses, only that the People survived and thrived. Retreating home cost her little, although it left her allies exposed, they would not suffer too greatly for her absence. Should she have given up long ago, only drawn here by her wish to find vengeance for little Mila?  Once again hearing the clanging of weapons, she shook her head, her decision made. The arrow had been loosed, their course set. In a few short hours, the trials would begin, and she would cut down all who stood against her, until she could no longer stand.  Such was life, tribulations without end.

Chapter Meme
