“Oh, hey, is that why you’ve been seen around Myntheria so much? Ambitious catch, you’ll be the envy of half of the City of Arts if you succeed! Wait, but there’s also word about you and that loathsome outcast sculptor—don’t tell me?!” The curvy woman abandoned her duties to bounce in front of Ranthia, impatient for details.

“No! Right now, they’re just friends! Just like you!” She wasn’t even surprised anymore at the potency of the city’s rumor mill. The City of Arts skewed ‘young’ amongst elves (as in many of the elves of note were merely twice to thrice Ranthia’s age), yet they gossiped just as viciously as elderly wives struggling to fill their free time after their children move out of the household.

“Oh. Well, you have time to show at least one of them your charms, I suppose. I would ask you to leave me out of it. I know I’m pretty much perfect, buuuut…” Bereft of gossip, the woman chose to sulk.

“Yes, yes, you would perish without a steady diet of manflesh. I mean, sooner or later I’m sure I’ll seek out whatever casual fun I can get, but I’m not looking for anything serious. I’m actually here waiting for someone—we were formally pledged, backed by contract, to one another back outside of Remus. And we hoped to renew that once she concludes… a business venture.” Ranthia hesitantly explained.

“Oh. Oh, honey…” Anthelleon radiated sympathy.

“It’s fine, I can be patient.” Ranthia poured as much emphasis on the word as she could, just to make it as obvious as possible that she truly was fine. After all, everything honestly was fine—she had no reason to worry about anything! “I don’t know how long I’ll have to wait, but Avyna’s worth it. And it’s not like our contract precludes us from having sex with others while we’re apart. I just haven’t been in the mood as of yet.”

Not that the contract was in effect at the moment, but Ranthia fully intended to live her life as if it was. Because it would once again govern her life someday.

Even if her 116th birthday had already come to pass without word from the woman she loved.

Silence lingered after Ranthia’s earnest proclamation about the reality of her state of affairs. Even once they (finally) crossed through the bramble, they remained silent—six times over, Anthelleon seemed to fail to work herself up to saying something—until they drew close enough to the alleged nest that their continued silence was a necessity.

It was only when they were in close proximity to the nest that they encountered an obvious problem: they lacked any means of communicating nonverbally. Ranthia’s (mostly remembered) Ranger hand signs were meant to be a secret language that wasn’t obvious to the casual observer and Anthelleon’s own gesticulations just looked like efforts to make pantomimes of lewdness. After several moments of silent frustration, Anthelleon chose the most expedient solution:

“Attack!” The woman shouted as she burst through the bushes. Panes of solidified wind formed over her weapon as she blurred into action.

Ranthia was hot on her heels, a first step into a chaotic dance meant to carry her to the surreal quirk of the landscape.

There were precious few rocks in the forest that surrounded the City of Arts, and even amongst those, Ranthia could count on a single hand the number of stones that she’d seen that were larger than her combined fists. Yet in that clearing, there weren’t many glimpses of the forest floor—it was almost entirely covered in a variety of shapes and sizes of rocks. It was as if every last large rock from the entire forest had converged at a single location. Or, more likely, it was the result of a powerful classer removing a notable section from one of the adjacent mountains and launching it into the distance for some reason or another.

Whatever the cause, the reality was that there were at least thirty-two silver-tongued serpents of sizes ranging from ‘ordinary snake’ to ‘thicker and longer than some of the trees surrounding the clearing’ (and young trees were rare sights in the ancient forest!) sunning themselves on the rocks. The larger, higher-level serpents were the first to react and lifted their heads to warily watch the incoming women while they hissed their challenges.

Anthelleon had offered to split the bounty with Ranthia for two reasons. First, the venom of silver-tongued serpents was dangerous—even to elves—even before the System’s influence. Anthelleon self-professed that being bitten more than once might leave her too afflicted to defend herself in battle, which meant that she wanted to split the focus of such a large group. The second reason manifested itself right as they reached the first serpents: a number of the smaller serpents began to flee.

As they’d previously agreed, Anthelleon focused on those. Ranthia wasn’t entirely certain of how much her friend knew about her own capabilities, but she wasn’t about to hold back. She tapped [Scattered Reflections] at speed to generate an image in front of each of the eight largest serpents—with [Submind] tasked with evasion and harassment—while she threw her knives at the nearest pair of mid-sized reptiles.

Sure, she could (probably) use [Reflections of Reality] to escape to a fresh body if she was bitten, but even if the Skill rewarded her for risking her life, she had no intention of doing so. Her third class and [Sustained Chaos] gave her the means to eradicate the creatures from afar and it was better to fight sensibly where she could.

[*ding!* You have slain a [Silver-Tongued Serpent] (Poison, level 297)!]

[*ding!* You have slain a [Silver-Tongued Serpent] (Poison, level 185)!]

Ranthia called her knives back to hand with a touch of [Adamantium Chaos] and continued to dance amongst the serpents as she dealt death from afar. Aided by [Divine Eyes in the Void]’s warnings, she trusted her own judgment for which snakes to eradicate as she flung her pair of formed knives over and over. Her reserves were kept as bracers for self-defense—she fully intended to give any of the big serpents a mouthful of her forearm if they turned on her. But [Submind] was exceeding her expectations against the simple cunning of the silver-tongued serpents; the beasts remained unerringly focused on their evasive, aggravating opponents.

By the time Anthelleon finished purging the little runners and came back, Ranthia was ready to coordinate with her to see the largest serpents slain. Anticlimatically, it was a total non-event—few serpents ever even acknowledged the threat the women posed before the moment of their death. It wasn’t entirely surprising, admittedly. Ranthia’s images had bled and harassed them, and the snakes lacked the intelligence to use the System to discern the true threats to their survival.

[*ding!* Your party has slain a [Silver-Tongued Serpent] (Poison, level 964)!]

“Huh, I really was expecting those last few to be a handful.” Ranthia finally loosed the comment that’d been on her tongue while Anthelleon dismissed the conjured Brilliance that was lodged inside whatever was left of the creature’s brain.

“Damn if that wasn’t easy. You, my friend, are basically the ultimate weapon to use against these loathsome pests!” The woman barked an ear-grating laugh to vent her lingering nerves.

“Nonsense, I would have struggled to bring the biggest ones down cleanly. Their hides were tough enough that I’m not confident I could have killed them with a single throw—even if I used both knives. Your reach and power were the only reason we ended this so easily.” Elves were basically the same as men and women of the Legion—an earnest compliment went a long way toward keeping them happy.

“True… Well, I say we make for a more than decent team! And that is a fact you can take to the Vault of Truths!” Anthelleon’s tone suggested the name-drop should have had weighty meaning. “Now we must collect the silver tongues from our kills to serve as proof of our deeds before we burn the rest. But be wary, the venom is still potent, even in death, and some of the loathsome creatures may yet bite, even without the spark of life. However, even with the risk we require as much tongue as we can gather, lest anyone accuse us of trying to turn in multiple tongues cut from a single mouth.”

Ranthia rolled her eyes at the elf and knelt down while her knives crumbled into adamantium sand. With hands clad in a protective layer of unyielding magic metal, Ranthia wrenched the largest serpent’s mouth open and grabbed its tongue. Once she held it taut, her image leaned in and deftly sliced through the feeble meat. Ranthia held up her bloody prize, even as her other images mirrored the action with tongues harvested from the smaller serpents that were in clear view from her [Divine Eye]’s current vantage point.

“Wanna just collect ‘em from me as I go?” Ranthia offered.

“…Yeah, I’m definitely going to look for you first any time I’m forced to ally with another Hunter to handle the quarry. Look forward to it—you and I, we’re going to find an opportunity to hunt something so legendary that your wayward woman will hear about it, no matter where she lurks!” The platinum blonde declared, raising a finger dramatically toward the sky.

Ranthia appreciated the sentiment, she truly did—but she would have preferred it if her comrade had actually started collecting silver tongues as Ranthia’d asked her to!

[*ding!* [Sustained Chaos] has reached level 754!]

[*ding!* [Companion Bond between Ranthia and Clover] has leveled from 193 to level 197!]
