Liscor was a fairly safe city, but there was always crime. And being a [Guardsman] meant you learned a lot about people. Tkrn could recognize faces and recite crimes, both petty and…not. It meant a lot of the Watch formed friendships within the Watch. And it also meant his disgrace cut deeper. Tkrn looked sideways at Klbkch, wondering if the Antinium would accept his opinion.
“Senior Guardsman, your orders?”
“Attempt to pick up the scent, Guardsman Tkrn, Guardswoman Jerci. I will canvass the street. Guardswoman Jerci, observe how I work.”
The Gnolls nodded. They listened and sniffed hard, but the [Thief] was canny. A fellow Gnoll knew how to disguise their scent. Meanwhile, Klbkch was stopping Drakes and Gnolls. His questions were short and polite.
“Good morning, sir. We are in pursuit of a criminal. Did you observe a Gnoll male, about nineteen years of age, blonde fur, exiting or entering this alley?”
“Good morning, ma’am. No, you are not in any trouble. I would simply like to ask—”
“Have you smelled any Gnoll bearing flowers in the last ten minutes, Miss?”
Gnolls and Drakes shook their heads. One had smelled flowers, but they’d been lilacs. Klbkch returned to the two [Guards].
“Very well, let us analyze the situation. I was lied to thrice in my questioning, but no incident pertains to the theft in my judgment. The [Thief]’s proximity to this area indicates to me that he is attempting to unload his items as quickly as possible, hence a [Fence] or other contact in the area. Given the nature of his goods, I believe there are four [Fences] in Liscor who would do business with him. We may pursue each [Fence] directly and follow any rumors of a [Theft], or attempt to locate nearby criminals; the Gnoll [Thief] may have made use of a safe house.”
Both Gnolls blinked at him. Tkrn was impressed, but used to it; Jerci looked amazed. Klbkch glanced at Tkrn.
“Guardsman Tkrn. Your opinion?”
“I—I think the Gnoll’s in hiding, Senior Guardsman. He knows Relc goes to The Wandering Inn and if he thinks Relc’s on his tail, he’s not going to try to sell quickly.”
“I agree. Guardswoman Jerci? State any thoughts you have without fear of judgment.”
“Um—um—is Relc with you, Senior Guardsman Klbkch? I thought you two were partners.”
Klbkch shook his head.
“Senior Guardsman Relc is enjoying his scheduled vacation due to scheduling conflicts. Very well. In that case, I accede to Guardsman Tkrn’s line of reasoning. One moment. Before we leave, let us conduct one last search of the alleyway. Tkrn, instruct Guardswoman Jerci about bolt hole and invisibility protocol.”
So saying, Klbkch’s antennae began to wave, and he stepped back. Tkrn stared, but then he turned to Jerci. She gave him an unfriendly look. Tkrn tried to smile.
“Invisibility protocol is searching the alleyway in case we think our quarry is invisible, Guardswoman Jerci. We move so they can’t slip around us section by section. Like—”
“I know how to do it.”
Jerci ignored him trying to show her. Tkrn’s tail drooped. Silently, he moved like she did, keeping his arms outstretched, low to the ground so that he wouldn’t miss the [Thief] if they were crouching. He really doubted the [Thief] was stuck to a wall and above them, but he checked high too as he moved slowly down the alleyway.
“No sewer entrances. No disguised bolt holes I can see, or hidden doors.”
“There wouldn’t be any here. Right?”
Jerci looked scornful. It was Klbkch who spoke up; his antennae were still moving in an oddly rhythmic fashion.
“Advanced [Thieves] may make use of completely invisible rooms, trap doors, and so on, Guardswoman Jerci. The Watch actively pursues such hideouts, but they are known to exist. The suggestion is improbable given the estimated level of our [Thief], but not impossible.”
“Oh. Sorry, Senior Guardsman.”
“I am not the one you should be apologizing to.”
Tkrn glanced up at Klbkch. Jerci blushed beneath her fur and muttered something that sounded like an apology to Tkrn. The two Gnolls returned to the Antinium, and he nodded.
“We will abandon direct pursuit of the [Thief] for the moment. Junior Guardswoman Jerci, if need be, we would call for backup in the form of a [Guard] experienced in tracking at this stage, but there are other leads to follow. I have a lead. There is a meeting of…criminals two blocks southeast. Follow me.”
Tkrn and Jerci stared at Klbkch. Jerci glanced at Tkrn, and he shrugged, mystified. How had Klbkch known that? But then again, why not? Klbkch was a Senior Guardsman, and that meant he was the best the Watch had to offer.
He had information sources, experience, and a professional demeanor. He was also the fourth-best [Guardsman] in the city when it came to combat prowess. And that had been before he’d changed bodies! Tkrn had seldom worked with him, but now he saw why the Antinium was so well thought-of.
“How do you know about the criminals, Senior Guardsman Klbkch?”
“A [Guard] will cultivate their information sources and Skills, Guardswoman Jerci.”
That wasn’t an answer, Tkrn realized. But then Klbkch was raising a hand, slowing as he came to a series of older buildings. This was close as Liscor had to a slum; some abandoned buildings that hadn’t been repaired, owned by [Landlords] who didn’t care so much as long as they got something for their properties.
The door Klbkch had stopped at had no lights from beneath the cracks, nor sound from within that Tkrn could hear. Nevertheless, it was the one. Klbkch turned his head and drew a single finger across his mandibles. That was code for ‘silence’. Jerci and Tkrn fell silent. Tkrn tapped his side.
Ready for combat. But don’t draw. Tkrn grabbed Jerci’s paw and shook his head. She tried to glare, but she was suddenly nervous. Klbkch signed they should hold back. Then he turned to the door, and knocked on it.
“Liscor’s City Watch. Senior Guardsman Klbkch, to investigate a crime. Open the door.”
His voice rang overly loud in the streets. Tkrn uneasily looked around. He realized this small street was empty; the residents had cleared out in front of the Watch. The hairs all over his body tried to stand up. The Watch ruled in Liscor, not crime, like in some cities. Even so, you could get jumped…
The door remained closed. Klbkch made a clicking sound.
“Refusal to cooperate with the Watch is a felony. We are aware of your presence. All six of you. Two Gnolls, four Drakes. If you do not open this door within five—”
The door opened. A big Gnoll appeared in the doorway. Not he—she. Tkrn gulped; he noticed the steel-clawed knuckles on one paw. A Gnoll wearing that could shred anything she swung at.
“We haven’t done anything.”
Klbkch didn’t step back. He pointed at the claw-knuckles.
“Open display of a weapon is forbidden. Please remove the knuckles now. You are not under arrest…Miss Bearclaw. Nor are your associates. I am inquiring into a theft unrelated to your activities.”
The Gnoll stared. She looked over her shoulder, and Tkrn’s sharp ears heard a muffled curse from within. Bearclaw backed up. Her fur was dark brown mixed with red. It wasn’t neatly combed, and Tkrn thought he saw long, uneven patches amid the fur. Scars, hidden by the fur. Lots of them. Tkrn was thinking fast as she narrowed her eyes.
Bearclaw. She looked like trouble, so she had to be a career criminal. Not some [Thug]. The Watch would remember someone like her—she had to be new to Liscor.
New indeed, because she looked like she might go for Klbkch rather than drop the knuckles. She sniffed and her eyes fell on Tkrn and Jerci. The presence of two other [Guards] didn’t seem to faze her, but she was wary of Klbkch. The Antinium watched her, hands on his waist.
“Miss Bearclaw, I will give you five seconds to comply. Remove the knuckles. Now.”
“Bearclaw—”
A voice from within. The Gnoll whirled, snarling.
“Fine.”
She slammed the door. Tkrn exhaled, looking at Klbkch. The Antinium glanced back. He nodded at Jerci, who looked very nervous.
“My assumption was inaccurate. I would have called for backup if I was aware of Miss Bearclaw, Junior Guardswoman.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman? Should we—”
The door thrust open. Bearclaw loomed again, but bereft of the metal knuckles. It didn’t fill Tkrn with comfort, but a Drake was standing behind her. Tkrn recognized the Drake.
“Mister Soot.”
Klbkch greeted one of the city’s more notorious [Fences]. The ashy-scaled Drake glared at him.
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch, we’ve done nothing wrong. We’re just having a civilized meeting. What do you want?”
“Simply an inquiry. Something was stolen at The Wandering Inn thirty minutes ago. A Gnoll [Thief], blonde fur, young. We would like to know where he is.”
“What’d he steal?”
Bearclaw grinned, exposing her teeth behind Mister Soot. The Drake nudged her, then he smiled unconvincingly at Klbkch.
“I’m certain I have no idea where the [Thief]—”
“Mister Soot. Any help you would be willing to give our investigation would be welcome. Lies are a waste of time.”
“I’m certain—”
“If I am not satisfied with my answer, I may find a reason to enter your abode and look around. Purely on the grounds of furthering my investigation.”
Bearclaw’s grin turned into a snarl of alarm. Mister Soot paused. He stared at Klbkch and then at Tkrn and Jerci. The Antinium lowered his hands a tiny bit towards his sword hilts. The Drake inhaled, then snapped.
“Alright, alright! You didn’t hear it from me. Where’d you lose him?”
“Thericiam Avenue.”
Tkrn breathed. Mister Soot glared at him. His eyelids flickered.
“Try Saucy’s Bar. That’s all I know. Is that enough?”
“Yes.”
“Then get o—”
The huge Gnoll slammed the door before Tkrn heard the rest. Jerci and Tkrn winced, and Klbkch stepped back. He looked at them.
“Saucy’s Bar?”
“Saucy, the Drake owner?”
“Ah, of course. Miss Saurisi. Very well, patrol, with me. Guardswoman Jerci, don’t look back over your shoulder.”
Klbkch strode down the street. Tkrn was only too happy to follow. His [Dangersense] was going off. Indeed, Klbkch wasted no time. When they were six streets away he paused and turned to them.
“That was an error on my part, Guardswoman Jerci. I did not intend to take you into such a dangerous encounter. I had assumed Mister Soot was meeting with his associates. I was unfamiliar with this Miss Bearclaw. Guardsman Tkrn, did you take note of her scent?”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman. I have it.”
Tkrn rubbed his nose. Klbkch nodded briskly. At this point, the young Gnoll burst out.
“What was that back there, Senior Guardsman?”
She was shaking with nerves. Jerci looked at both [Guards]. Klbkch’s head turned to Tkrn.
“This is speculation, but I believe Mister Soot was welcoming Bearclaw into Liscor. I would mark her as a wanted criminal. Would you agree, Guardsman Tkrn?”
“Oh yes. She looks like a Plains Gnoll. Criminal. Did you see her scars?”
“Indeed. It was my miscalculation, and I placed both of you in danger. Had Senior Guardsman Relc been with me, we would have attempted to question or apprehend Bearclaw over pursuit of the [Thief]. Given your presence, I decided to pursue the safer lead. We will begin an investigation of Bearclaw at once, however, upon our return to the Watch barracks.”
Jerci gulped. She was beginning to realize how close they’d come to a fight.
“W—should we have called for backup?”
“Right there? With two Gnolls? They’d have gutted us before a patrol got here.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Even if we sounded an alarm after retreating, we would have no time to pursue Mister Soot and his associates. By now, they will have vacated the room and left us no trace.”
“How did you know they were there, Klbkch?”
Tkrn looked at Klbkch. The Antinium turned his head.
“I had a piece of information, Tkrn. But we are wasting time. To Miss Saucy’s. Relc and I will find Bearclaw another day.”
“Could you take her?”
The Gnolls followed Klbkch. The Antinium looked back at Tkrn and nodded.
“I would not wish to place you two in danger. Mister Soot is also armed. The situation did not favor us. That was all.”
Jerci’s eyes went wide. She stared as Klbkch walked faster, leading the way to Saucy’s Bar, a place Tkrn knew fairly well. The Gnoll whispered to Jerci.
“He’s the best [Swordsman] in the city. Even better than Jeiss is with his blade.”
“Guardsman Tkrn, gossip is frowned upon.”
“Sorry.”
 
——
 
Saucy’s Bar was another test for Klbkch’s patrol. It was a dive, and it could have held any number of people who wouldn’t be fans of the Watch. So Klbkch ordered the Gnolls to stay outside with instructions to blow their whistles if they heard a commotion.
“I can’t believe he’s going in alone. Is he crazy?”
“He normally goes into places with Relc. They could tear this bar apart together.”
But alone? Tkrn had to admit, he wasn’t sure if Klbkch was insane. He listened, hearing Klbkch’s voice from within and a flustered female Drake. Saucy herself. But there was no fight. Klbkch walked out five minutes later.
“I have a name and a location. Reric Feltpaw. He lives nearby. He entered this bar fifteen minutes ago and attempted to locate a buyer for the flowers he stole from Miss Solstice.”
“Wait, he did? But that’s so stupid.”
Klbkch shrugged slightly.
“It appeared to be a spur of the moment theft. This [Thief] was also unprepared to make his sale. Intriguingly, we may have prevented said sale by encountering Mister Soot; he is the nearest [Fence] capable of taking the goods.”
“And he sold this [Thief] out rather than get involved himself.”
Jerci’s eyes widened in comprehension. Tkrn nodded, spelling out the rest.
“Especially because Bearclaw would have started a fight and he’d have been arrested on attempted murder charges.”
“Exactly. Our fortune was in locating Mister Soot after losing the trail, Junior Guardswoman Jerci. Had Relc and I been in pursuit, he would have attempted to succeed in the foot chase, and we would have confronted Bearclaw. But in regular patrols, I would caution you to avoid such situations without a superiority of force. This is a representation of Watch work, not an example to be followed. Is that clear?”
“As glass, Senior Guardsman. What do we do now?”
Jerci smiled, relaxing at last. Klbkch opened his mandibles and raised them slightly.
“Now? We apprehend the criminal.”
 
——
 
The door to Reric’s apartment was closed and locked. Tkrn shrugged; he could hear movement inside. No doubt he was being smelled and heard from within. He took a deep breath, then pounded on the door.
“This is the Watch! Open up!”
