“I knew a Lizardgirl back in Baleros. She could take selpage—that’s a drug, pretty illegal and dangerous—and go for over an hour on one dose. And enhance the effects. Some even use it in battle or…I just smoke. There are some downsides to a few…a lot of the really good—strong ones. Whatever. I know what I thought. Miss Solstice, if I could buy—”
She folded her arms and shook her head.
“Two thousand gold pieces.”
“For one planter box!?”
Palt seemed incredulous. Some of the patrons sniggered; they’d heard this before. Erin glared.
“For one bulb. Not the entire flower.”
“What? But that’s—fine.”
Dismayed, Palt realized there was a history here. He let it go reluctantly, but he was determined to wear her down. If he could have just a few to try—but maybe another day. He turned back to Erin as she sat down.
“My apologies, Miss Solstice. I’m happy to talk about my classes and clear up any misconceptions you want. Or make you a small gift—it’s completely fine. I have something to chew if you—”
She gave him a long look.
“Let’s just talk about Pisces’ fine, okay?”
“Absolutely.”
 
——
 
The two began talking, and the inn’s patrons went back to their drinks since the Centaur wasn’t going to explode or do anything interesting. But after the regular flow of the inn resumed, someone stood up.
The Gnoll sitting across from Erin and Palt. He wasn’t a regular and he was young. But he’d come to this inn twice now for a purpose. He’d been intending to go after something else, but Palt’s brief exchange with Erin had changed his mind.
In fairness, it was odd no one had come here already. But the inn held a lot of dangers, Relc being a big one. The Gnoll sidled over to the windows with the plant boxes, very casual about how he moved. He’d already paid for his drink, and he was loitering, waiting for a moment.
He was also afraid of Apista, so he went to one of the planter boxes away from where she was clinging to the glass of a window. The Gnoll [Thief] waited for his moment, and then swiftly, his hands blurring with speed, ripped out two pawfuls of the flowers and stuffed them into a belt pouch.
Apista saw him. He was quick, but she saw everything through her compound eyes. She might have stopped it, but she was experiencing a high that Palt would have failed to even see if he’d looked up on his best day. She wondered what a nose felt like.
The [Thief] hurried away from the box and towards the door, and then caught himself. He moved slowly, casually. And at her table, Erin’s head turned. She stared around, focused on the planter boxes, and her eyes narrowed. But then Erin made a mistake. She’d sensed the theft, but not the thief, so she came to the wrong conclusion. She turned and glared at Palt.
“You thief! You stole my flowers!”
“What? No I didn’t!”
At the table, the Centaur leaned back as Erin made a fist. The Gnoll [Thief] jumped and hurried for the door. Erin was grabbing at Palt’s shirt, and he was protesting—and then Mrsha sat up. She threw her cup, bouncing it off Erin’s arm. The [Innkeeper] turned, and Mrsha pointed.
At the dirt trail and the Gnoll going for the door. Erin’s eyes went wide.
“[Thief]! Someone stop him!”
Her patrons looked up. A Drake—the [Veteran] with half a tail, Menolit, grabbed for him, but the [Thief] dodged around him. He scrambled for the door, setting it to Liscor. Erin was charging towards him with Ishkr and Lyonette had grabbed Mrsha as she ran out of the kitchen, but it was too late. The Gnoll disappeared through the door.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin watched as Erin paced around the inn. She was talking fast, grabbing potions out of her emergency supply box and setting them on the table.
“We’re going to need Mrsha, Lyonette. I promise she’ll be safe! We’ll get the Horns to go with her when they get back. Or—or Moore and Seborn and me!”
“Erin.”
“Then again, that’s way too long! We need to go now! But maybe—is Bevussa or anyone else at the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Erin, listen—”
“Ishkr can’t fight, so it’ll be me. Bird, too—if we go now, it’s only him and Palt. But if it’s us three—”
“Erin!”
Lyonette shouted. Erin stopped and turned back. The Centaur [Illusionist] blinked. Bird was flexing his bow, and Erin looked up. She opened her mouth as Lyonette held Mrsha, and the [Princess] glared at the young woman.
“Erin, what are you doing?”
“Going to catch that thief! I can’t let him get away, Lyonette!”
“Right. But why are you doing it?”
“Because I have to. Look, it’s fine. Palt says he’ll come—”
“If I can smoke one of the flowers. Just one.”
“—and Bird. And I’ll be safe! You can go to the Adventurer’s Guild—or Drassi. We’ll put the flower boxes upstairs for now and—”
“Just call the Watch. You don’t have to do this yourself and make a huge…”
“Erin Solstice!”
Lyonette’s second shout stopped Erin again. Lyonette fixed Erin with a look as Erin glanced up.
“Erin, this isn’t your job. Call the Watch. Don’t go out and start trouble with…this!”
The younger woman waved at the potions on the table, the frying pan, kitchen knives, acid jar…
The [Innkeeper] paused. She stared at Lyonette. And a metaphorical light bulb went off behind her eyes.
“Oh. I forgot I could do that.”
Lyonette sighed. But she nodded in relief.
“Okay. Ishkr? Go find a [Guard]. Everyone else? Back to your seats! I’ll move the flower beds upstairs.”
Everyone stared at her. The guests sighed. Someone muttered from the back.
“This inn’s no fun anymore.”
“I heard that!”
 
——
 
“There has been a crime committed in the establishment known as The Wandering Inn. A [Thief] has stolen an item of indeterminate value—golden flowers which are suspected of magical properties. Estimated value per flower may be as high as two hundred individual pieces. The [Thief] is Gnollish, young, male, light blonde fur. He has a seven minute lead and his threat rating is deemed negligible. As Senior Guardsman, you two will follow me, with additional reinforcement if necessary, is any of this unclear?”
Klbkch turned and regarded the two Gnoll [Guards] standing before him. Tkrn and a female Gnoll, both members of Liscor’s City Watch, shook their heads. Klbkch spoke crisply as Erin hovered behind him.
“In that case, we will begin our pursuit. Rest assured, Miss Solstice, we will do our utmost to recover your stolen goods.”
He nodded to the [Innkeeper]. She smiled, seeming relieved.
“Thanks, Klbkch! Mrsha says she can smell the flowers. She thinks she can track the trail. If you need to—”
“Rest assured, Miss Erin. The Watch has ample ability to track the quarry ourselves. This is not a matter in which we would endanger civilians.”
Klbkch gestured at the two Gnolls. Erin nodded.
“Okay. Cool?”
She looked like she wanted to follow the Watch as they marched out of the inn. Tkrn was just relieved she hadn’t noticed it was him. The Gnoll’s ears were flat; Mrsha had been staring at him when he’d reported to the scene of the crime. The worst part was that she’d looked afraid, not angry.
“This is your second week on the job, is it not, Junior Guardswoman Jerci?”
The Antinium addressed the female Gnoll as they emerged onto the street in Liscor’s city. The female Gnoll jumped and glanced up at the Antinium. Warily; that showed she was new. She had an earring in her right ear and she’d dyed her fur black, creating artful slashes down one arm.
None of that was against Watch regulations, but it definitely made her look young; no one who served in the Watch long bothered with dyes since it would just get messed up. And the earring would catch in a fight. Tkrn would have warned this female Gnoll, but—he hesitated as she snapped a salute.
“Yes, Senior Guardsman Klbkch. I just completed my mandatory training, sir!”
She stared down at the Antinium, clearly uneasy at working with him. Not afraid; Jerci was clearly a native of Liscor, but it was one thing to know the Antinium were in your city, and another to interact with one.
Until recently, Klbkch had been the only Antinium who had a name. Or spoke. And Tkrn still remembered the rules about Antinium he’d been taught. Don’t ask their names, tell them what to do—don’t go near the Hive entrance for any reason.
But the times were changing. Klbkch nodded briskly.
“In that case, I will attempt to educate you while we begin pursuit. Junior Guardsman Tkrn, will you begin locating the [Thief]?”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman!”
Tkrn snapped to attention. He flushed as Jerci glanced sideways at him. He inhaled, trying to find the [Thief]’s scent in the air. He could smell the soil from Erin’s pots, and the flowers, but he wasn’t as good as a Plains Gnoll, much less a child like Mrsha. Even so.
“The trail’s there, but faint, Senior Guardsman. This way.”
He pointed. Klbkch nodded.
“Junior Guardswoman Jerci, do you confirm the scent?”
“I do, Senior Guardsman.”
Jerci nodded, not glancing Tkrn’s way. If she was leery of Klbkch, she didn’t even acknowledge Tkrn’s presence. She was a fellow Gnoll, but she refused to so much as look at the other Gnoll. Tkrn lowered his head.
He was in disgrace. Most people didn’t know why; they wouldn’t have guessed it, looking at him, as he led the way down the street after the [Thief]’s smell. But Tkrn felt like his crime was written in paint on his face.
During the last days of Liscor’s election, Tkrn had been—he’d participated in, but tried to halt—he’d been party to the torture and attempted murder of a prisoner. Calruz, the Minotaur. The incident had been largely hushed up, but all the Gnolls knew. And so did the Watch. The [Guards] who had participated in the crime had all been fired—save for Tkrn. And the civilians had been jailed, ironically in the very prison that had held Calruz. It wasn’t the hardest sentence, but some [Guards] who’d served in the Watch for as many as eight years had been let go.
Tkrn was the one exception, and some days he felt like he’d have preferred to have been fired with the rest of them. But he’d tried to stop the torture and the execution at the end. And protect Mrsha when she’d appeared in the prison. When the [Guards] had resisted arrest, he’d helped take them down. That was the only reason he still had a job. The only reason, Captain Zevara had said.
Honored Krshia had appealed his case personally. Even so, Tkrn’s pay was almost nothing for the next month, he’d been demoted to the lowest-level of [Guardsman]—like he was a new recruit, and he was on his last chance. He couldn’t even resume his regular duties, hence being assigned to today’s patrol under Klbkch’s direction.
The Antinium strode down the street, following Tkrn. They were moving fast; not at a run, but almost. Tkrn shouted.
“Watch in pursuit! Clear the way!”
Pedestrians obligingly stepped out of his path. He scented the air—this time, Jerci pointed.
“That way.”
She glared challengingly at him. Klbkch turned to Tkrn and the Gnoll nodded. He hurried down a side street, and glanced sideways at Jerci. The female Gnoll he was working with was new. She kept staring at Klbkch when she thought the Antinium wasn’t looking. And glaring at him. He wanted to say something, but she’d rebuffed him twice when he’d tried to talk.
Klbkch was the first to speak as they entered another street and headed left.
“Guardswoman Jerci, what is your combat rating?”
“Um, basic, Senior Guardsman. I have no classes outside of [Guard] and [Soldier] at Level 1.”
“Understood. If there is combat, place yourself behind Guardsman Tkrn or I.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman. W-will there be fighting?”
She looked nervous as she put a paw on the baton she’d been issued. Tkrn had a sword and a club himself. He knew she had to be nervous; the Watch drilled their new recruits until they were decent enough to swing a baton, but until Jerci had a lot more training, she wouldn’t be ready to take on anything stronger than a Shield Spider. Hence why Junior Guards weren’t allowed to patrol outside of squads.
Klbkch shook his head briskly.
“Doubtful. The [Thief] is not likely to put up resistance.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman. May I ask a question?”
“Go ahead.”
Up another street. Tkrn’s eyes narrowed. They were heading southeast. And if he was right, the poorer area of Liscor.
“Why aren’t we running, Senior Guardsman? This [Thief] could be far away.”
“Yes, Junior Guardswoman Jerci. But Liscor is a finite space. We will not rush into a trap, nor exhaust ourselves if a chase is needed. The [Thief] will not flee out of any gate, and so they will eventually be found if the scent trail endures.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman. I see. And if we find him? I’m not issued with a truth stone, and the [Guardswoman] who taught me said we needed—”
“I have the [Detect Guilt] Skill among a few others. It is useful in determining guilt. However, my ability is easily foiled by high-level criminals. Regardless, we are allowed to make arrests based on our judgment.”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman.”
They were all basic questions. Stupid ones, really, the kind that Tkrn had asked in his first year of training. He glanced back at Klbkch.
“This way, Senior Guardsman.”
The Gnolls moved fast, and Klbkch followed them with ease. He wore two silvery swords at his side, and his movement was graceful. He stopped as Tkrn came to an alley and swore.
“Guardsman Tkrn.”
“The trail goes into here, Senior Guardsman. But—”
Tkrn gestured. The alleyway had only one end. But no one was there. Tkrn advanced, paw on his club, but he knew what had happened already. Seeing the small mound of soil just confirmed it.
“The [Thief]’s scent-duped us, Senior Guardsman.”
“I see. Do you have any direct clues?”
“None. Not a bit of fur or anything.”
Frustrated, Tkrn studied the alleyway. Jerci looked confused as she stared at Tkrn and at Klbkch.
“Scent-duped…?”
“Colloquial slang, Junior Guardswoman Jerci. Gnoll [Guards] use it to refer to a [Thief] who has dropped a scent-bomb or used some other trick to eradicate their smell. Or created a false trail.”
“This one wasn’t false. But he got rid of the soil and dropped something on him. Probably a smell-destroying potion.”
Tkrn rubbed his nose. Why did [Alchemists] sell them? Oh, right. Because living with horrible smells in a city would drive Gnolls crazy otherwise. Klbkch studied the alleyway and then walked out into the street. Some of the residents looked sideways at Tkrn and Klbkch and accelerated their pace.
