He heard a sound, an indrawn breath, and then flurried movement. Tkrn stepped back, ready for the door to burst open. But Reric didn’t come out the front.
He went out the window. There was no crash of glass. In fact the Gnoll quickly and quietly slipped out the window into the alleyway, neatly evading Tkrn—
And running into Jerci and Klbkch, who were poised at the alleyway. The [Thief] saw Jerci as she sprang out, and he dodged around her with an oath. Klbkch stuck out a foot, and Reric went flying.
“Next time, Guardswoman Jerci, I would advise you to rush him. You may apprehend the [Thief] now.”
“Yes, Senior—”
Jerci fell on the [Thief], tackling him and placing a knee on his back. By the time Tkrn had raced to the alleyway, the [Thief] was groaning and kneeling, Jerci on top. Klbkch nodded to Tkrn and addressed the fallen Gnoll.
“You are under arrest for petty theft. Junior Guardsman Tkrn, Junior Guardswoman Jerci. Are you confident in your ability to transport the prisoner to the barracks?”
“Yes, Senior Guardsman!”
Tkrn saluted as Jerci looked up. She stammered an affirmative, and Klbkch stepped back.
“Then do so with the correct protocol. From the beginning.”
He didn’t leave, but he watched without lifting a hand to help or saying a word, his arms crossed. Tkrn cuffed the Gnoll, showing Jerci how to make sure he didn’t get away before they could place his paws in manacles. He called out an explanation to the few citizens who wanted to know what had gone on, collected Erin’s flowers from Reric’s belt, and then Jerci and Tkrn marched the [Thief] towards the Watch house.
Klbkch watched, nodding as Jerci helped Tkrn. He only corrected them once.
“Junior Guardswoman Jerci, protocol for [Guards] in the City Watch is to allow as few [Guards] as necessary to accompany the prisoner. Your position should be back and to the side, to better react and watch for other possible crimes or interferences with Junior Guardsman Tkrn.”
“Oh. I—where do I go?”
Flustered, Jerci moved back. Klbkch pointed and she stood there, flushing. She reached for her baton, then looked at Klbkch questioningly.
“Should I draw my weapon, Senior Guardsman?”
The Antinium shook his head patiently as Tkrn wrenched up the [Thief]’s arms, cutting off a whining protest.
“This is only a precaution. If you believe you are in any danger, Junior Guardswoman, you should immediately request backup and hold your position or secure a safer location depending on the threat presented.”
“I see, sir. Then…”
Jerci glanced at Tkrn. He stared at Klbkch, but the Antinium had gone back to observational mode. Well, Tkrn had handled arrests. He shot a glance at her over his shoulder as Reric whimpered; they were heading into populated streets and some of Liscor’s citizens were staring at the [Thief] as he was marched forwards.
“Guardswoman, will you clear the way?”
“Oh. Right. Um—Watch delivering a criminal! Stand aside, please!”
They made good progress after that. Tkrn watched with some satisfaction as Reric was thrown into the holding cell and he presented the flowers that had been the object of his desires. Klbkch was filling out paperwork with the [Guardswoman] in charge. Beilmark. She was on desk duty, which was rare for a Senior Guardswoman, but Tkrn supposed her partner, Jeiss, was on the Council duty.
“We are also reporting the presence of a possible career criminal known as Bearclaw. I estimate her to be anywhere from Level 20 to Level 30 and quite dangerous. She was armed with a claw-knuckle and meeting with Mister Soot down Greas street.”
Beilmark swore and growled.
“Soot’s got her? Dead gods, of all the times for Relc not to be your partner! What do you think, [Thug]?”
“Possibly. But she seemed to be a leader of sorts. She may be attempting to secure some item. Or form a gang. I did not wish to attempt to apprehend her with Guardsman Tkrn and Junior Guardsman Jerci present.”
“I’ll alert the patrols. Does one of you have her scent?”
Tkrn gulped.
“I do, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark.”
The Gnoll woman eyed Tkrn, and his ears flattened. But Klbkch spoke crisply.
“Is that all, Beilmark? I must sign out; my shift is ending.”
“Oh, that’s all, Klbkch. I’ll take this to the Captain. She’s not going to be pleased about this.”
“Is her mood that much worse than usual?”
Klbkch was undoing his Watch armor. Beilmark grinned, familiar with him.
“One of the Wistram [Mages] came by. The Human with a gift for the Watch Captain.”
“Ah. Well, perhaps the knowledge that this Bearclaw is linked to Mister Soot will calm her. He would be implicated with her crimes if the link can be found.”
“That’d make my day. What was the meeting about?”
“Arming his associates with wands. And some of the illicit substances imported by Palt the Centaur. Dreamleaf. Not worth pursuing.”
“You sure we can’t get him for that?”
Klbkch paused and shook his head.
“The Watch Captain will not wish to fight Wistram over the issue. I would keep it between us.”
Beilmark sighed.
“Go on, then.”
Klbkch returned to Jerci and Tkrn. The female Gnoll was staring at him, and she jumped to attention as he addressed her.
“Guardswoman Jerci, do you believe this patrol was instructional?”
“Yes, sir! I learned a lot!”
She bared her teeth in a Gnoll’s grin. Klbkch smiled slightly, then looked past her.
“Good. And in the future, Junior Guardswoman Jerci, your companion, Junior Guardsman Tkrn, would be more competent than I in law enforcement as it pertains to Gnolls. He has served in the Watch for over a year and two months. You may ask him about such details on your patrol. The Market Street patrol, Guardsman Tkrn.”
It was one of the easier patrols where the worst was [Pickpockets], arguments, and petty theft. But Tkrn stared at Klbkch along with Jerci.
“Patrol? But Senior Guardsman, two Junior Guards can’t patrol by themselves…”
The Antinium shook his head. Beilmark was looking up from her desk, and Klbkch raised his voice, addressing the Watch in the barracks as he stared at Tkrn.
“Junior Guardsman Tkrn. Your demotion does not affect your competence. Watch Captain Zevara had found issue with your understanding of the ethics of your duties, not your ability to carry out orders. Continue your patrol. I must sign out.”
“Thanks.”
Tkrn whispered the word. Klbkch nodded at him and returned to the desk to fill out his name and time. Tkrn stepped back and looked at Beilmark. She raised her eyebrows and waved him out.
Klbkch strode out of the Watch barracks, done with his shift. Jerci and Tkrn followed. And that was it. He hadn’t said a word about the jail incident like Beilmark and Jeiss had. Or…anyone else. Tkrn stared longingly at Klbkch’s back. He’d even stood up for Tkrn.
Jerci looked just as impressed. She followed Tkrn as he walked down the street, nodding to people who called out to him. She was so distracted she forgot herself and spoke to him.
“Wow. I thought he was supposed to be part of the worst Senior Guard pairing in the city.”
Tkrn grinned absently.
“That’s Relc you’re thinking of. It’s because Klbkch is his partner that they work. And to be fair, they’re the best at taking down dangerous problems. That’s normally how they’re assigned. Relc’s like…the Watch’s not-so-secret weapon.”
He saw her glance sideways at him and then bare her teeth in a challenge. Tkrn’s heart sank, but then Jerci jerked her head towards the street.
“Well? You’re my senior. Explain things since we have to patrol together.”
They began to walk together. Tkrn found himself talking to Jerci. She was still snappish, but she was asking questions now, all the ones he remembered wanting to ask. Most were familiar and she ended up taking her ear piercing out, but then she threw a new one at him.
“What about the inn? The inn. Everyone tells me there’s special protocols I should follow.”
Tkrn blinked. Then he grinned. He shook his head. Jerci looked suspiciously at him.
“What’s so funny?”
“That’s just a joke they play on the rookies. There’s no special protocol. She’s just…Erin, yeah? You see that Human do anything, you call it in. And no one goes to the inn without a full squad’s worth of support if there’s trouble. Usually we just send Relc in. With that said, there’s lots of competition for patrolling the area around the inn so we won’t be able to get that slot.”
“Why?”
“Free. Food.”
“Oh.”
“You and I should go to the inn after your patrol ends. You’re new, so she’ll give you something on the house. If you ask right, and it’s not Lyonette, she might even give you something to take back and share with your friends or family.”
Jerci brightened.
“Really? I hear it’s expensive.”
“For some of it, like ice cream, yeah. But regular food is good and cheap. And there are plays. Want to go?”
“I—sure. Hey. Listen. Everyone’s talking about it, but no one has the full story. So—can I ask what really happened in the prison?”
Tkrn hesitated and his stomach twisted as Jerci looked at him. But it was the question he had to answer. No, one he wanted to answer. And no one had asked until now. He took a deep breath.
“What really happened? Short is I screwed up, no? I mean, yeah? Long of it is hard.”
“Well, we’ve got a patrol. Tell me. It was about the Minotaur, right? And the Raskghar.”
“Yeah. All the old Gnolls are really upset about them. And I—I made a mistake. Because I was listening to them and I didn’t behave like a [Guardsman] should. What happened was this.”
Tkrn began to speak as they walked along. It hurt, like plucking a thorn, but the pain was cathartic. He saw Jerci glancing at him, listening. Judging, but listening. Tkrn walked through Liscor, listening to the city about him, and wondered what crazy thing that Human would do next. But then, Erin wasn’t all of Liscor. Bearclaw, Klbkch, the Watch—there was more to life than her. She just made things even more interesting.
Tkrn exhaled. And he felt a bit better.
