The Gnoll cub brightened up. Erin frowned.
“Well—maybe a bit for Mrsha. And I guess since you’re still back, you can have as much as you want. What am I saying? If you don’t throw it up, you can have all you can eat, Bird! I’ve never seen a fat Antinium. Except for your Queen.”
“She is very fat. Yay. Yay!”
Bird’s voice rose along with his hands as he threw all four up. Giggling, Mrsha copied him. Erin laughed in delight.
“Bird, you’re so silly! Even more than I remember! Were you always like this?”
“Silly?”
“Yeah. Why’re you so silly and not serious like all the other Workers?”
Erin meant it as a joke, but Bird took it seriously. He tilted his head thoughtfully and then replied.
“Of course I am silly, Erin. And I must be silly, not seriously happy or fun, but dignified. If it was not good and fun to be silly, and if silly was not silly, I would not be.”
For a second Erin and Mrsha stared at him. That almost made sense this time. At last, Erin got up.
“Okay, you win. Bird for Bird! I’ll be back in a few minutes. Grimalkin—”
“I will be here. We’ll continue our conversation when you return. Will you send a pitcher of water to the table?”
“Done!”
Erin left. Grimalkin got his water and drank half the pitcher in one go, pouring it into a cup and downing it to Mrsha’s amazement. He was explaining the benefits of proper water consumption and the dangers of overconsumption when Erin came back out. She’d diced the bird into cubes and scrambled some eggs into the dish. And seasoned it! She pointed out the red pepper flakes, the onions, and other seasonings to Grimalkin. He just shrugged.
Mrsha wagged her tail as Erin gave her a teensy portion and Bird got the rest. He happily began shoveling the food into his mouth; it was a mound of meat. Mrsha tried to make her portion last; Bird let no one steal his food if it was made out of bird. She chewed one soft cube happily as Erin turned back to Grimalkin.
“Bird, I take it back. That’s a lot of meat. I left half of the bird in the kitchen if you’re still hungry, but I don’t want you spoiling lunch! You can eat it later if you want. Now, Grimalkin, you were talking about Wistram.”
“Right. As I said, I’m not helping you with the [Mages]. Wistram takes care of their own and weighing in on this bounty with Pisces is not in my interests. The Academy can put pressure on Pallass if they so choose. Which they will, and which is why I won’t entangle myself further in this mess than I already have.”
The Drake spoke crisply, patting his mouth with a napkin. Erin’s face fell.
“What? But come on, Grimalkin! You saw those jerks!”
“I told you. The Watch should have handled the situation. And legally, the Wistram team is now cleared of all charges. You can try to clear the bounty placed on your friend’s head, but I can tell you now: Wistram Academy won’t hear your request without a lot of internal support. Which you don’t have. And your unique brand of…persuasion is unlikely to work on the Academy.”
Erin folded her arms, frowning. Mrsha copied her.
“But they’re jerks!”
“Which means what, exactly, Miss Solstice? I’ve heard Miss Montressa’s complaint, and it is valid. Your friend Pisces Jealnet is a wanted criminal. A petty one, so Wistram is clearly biased, but they have legal right to pursue him, if not for the charges involving accidental slaughter and false claims to being a Wistram [Mage], which I notice they’ve amended. But he has committed crimes.”
“Yeah, but they want to put him in a box and imprison him! Maybe kill him!”
“That is what foreign powers do, Miss Solstice. Walled Cities are the same. Realistically, the only way you’ll be able to force this team to abandon their pursuit is to convince the members to abandon the cause and retract the bounty—or put Wistram in a position where the public opinion is against their handling of the case. They’ve already offended Liscor, which does help you, but the Academy will weigh that against getting their way.”
Erin drummed her fingers on the table as Grimalkin reached for another egg. She passed him a saltshaker and he briskly salted and peppered the egg before eating half in a single bite.
“I don’t like it. And yeah, you’ve said that my feelings don’t matter! I got it! How can Wistram bully Zevara and Liscor, though? It bothers you, right?”
“Insofar as I dislike the practice. But Pallass has done the same. Do I believe it’s an overreach of Wistram’s powers that other nations and cities will take notice of, especially in light of Tiqr? Yes, of course. But right now, they can still do as they please.”
Mrsha fidgeted. This conversation was hard to follow, but she appreciated being able to listen to it. Erin absently patted her head. Bird was ignoring both as he hummed about bird meat under his breath and ate.
“How do they get away with it? I mean, being so powerful?”
Grimalkin paused.
“In general? Wistram is a powerful institution, Miss Solstice. They have a huge amount of magical talent, high-level individuals, artifacts, and a superior defensive position. They are a nation, albeit tiny in terms of landmass. But they have countless political allies, alliances, and respect for their position. Of course, they’ve amassed this by taking rare and powerful artifacts and spellbooks wherever they appear, buying, or…acquiring what they want. Usually, they follow legal routes, but they won’t hesitate to use their influence, as in this case. You see?”
Erin frowned darkly.
“Seems shady. And no one’s stopped them?”
Grimalkin smiled, amused.
“Miss Solstice. Wistram Academy does what any nation does, as I said. It’s why they’re the premier magical school. Fissival does exactly the same sort of thing; it’s just that Wistram does it better.”
“So why’d Wistram beat Fissival? Is it older?”
“No, actually. But it eclipsed Fissival because…the Draconae Scholarium is a Drake institution, Miss Solstice. And it is also a Walled City and geographically bound to Izril. Wistram is far more open, and while hardly apolitical, it doesn’t represent one species’ interests above others. With that said, the Academy is mostly invested in itself, but I’ve reflected on the benefits. I still prefer Fissival and I’ve no intention of becoming a member of Wistram, but there it is. Are your questions answered?”
“I guess. Thanks for giving it to me straight, Grimalkin. You sure you won’t…?”
“No.”
Erin sighed again. She’d had Grimalkin in this morning for consultation, but not too fruitfully by the look of it. Mrsha looked at Bird, wondering if he had any thoughts. He whispered to Mrsha, but not too quietly.
“Do you think there are magic birds at Wistram?”
Grimalkin and Erin both looked at the Worker. The Drake glowered. He still didn’t like any of the Antinium. He reached for his last egg, checked himself, and spoke.
“Antinium. Are you as simple as you seem to be or are you as deceptive as Miss Erin? Because I’m rapidly losing patience either way.”
Bird looked up at Grimalkin. Erin glowered, but the Worker replied cheerfully.
“I am as simple as I choose to be. I am a Bird, and I am free to be me.”
Grimalkin stared at Bird. Then he rose and popped the last boiled egg into his mouth.
“Well, I’m done. Miss Solstice, I have to get back to work. I’m quite busy at the moment with the weights and my students.”
“Oh. Thanks. I mean—thanks for coming out here and explaining, after helping with Pisces’ bones and everything. I wish you could…never mind.”
Erin got to her feet. The [Sinew Magus] nodded at her as he walked over to the magic door. Mrsha followed her conversation from the table with her ears.
“Don’t take it the wrong way, Miss Solstice. But there is very little incentive for me to make an enemy out of the academy. Your leverage of friendship has limits and I’d caution you to avoid putting them in danger too.”
“I don’t—why do you help me, then? Are we friends?”
Grimalkin paused by the door as he reached for a cloak. It was raining in Pallass.
“You intrigue me, Miss Solstice, but we’re not friends. I hardly know you. But I am grateful for the information you’ve given me. And it’s in my interests to keep up a good relationship. I’m certain you have more to tell me that you’re holding onto. A better way to implement the treadmills you talked about, for instance. I’ve tried to make a magical one, but mass-production is different. Well, that only matters in places where mobility is restricted, so it’s low on my list. Nevertheless, if you’d present me with something worth taking on Wistram Academy for, I’m willing to do all I can.”
Erin blew out her cheeks.
“I—no.”
“In that case, it’s a pleasure, Miss Solstice. I must be off. Grimalkin entering Pallass!”
The Drake thrust open the door after nodding to Erin. The [Guards] on the other side shot to attention.
“Magus, sir! You’re cleared for entry!”
He left. Erin wandered back to the table and sat next to Mrsha. She sighed and the Gnoll patted her leg anxiously. Erin forced a smile.
“It’s okay, Mrsha. I didn’t expect Grimalkin to do too much. He said he wasn’t going to move the moon—moons—for me. Which is fair! I ask a lot. I still have to thank Seborn and Moore for getting hurt to help me; I’ll make them something tonight. Grimalkin has a point. I just wish…”
She hesitated. Mrsha looked around. There were a few Gnolls in the inn, but none seemed to be listening to their table. Adults had trouble focusing on individual conversations if there was a lot of background noise; Mrsha could generally tell if they were listening in. Her ears were still really good.
She covertly made a special sign; an orb with her paws. It meant ‘Earth’. She pointed at the door, flexed an arm, made her question-gesture, and waited. Erin took a second to unravel what Mrsha had said.
“Oh? Give him what he wants from…home? I thought about it, but I don’t know if I know—well, there are a few things. Monkey bars, burpies, all kindsa stuff. But I don’t want to give him too much. So I guess…I’m going to try other stuff first, okay Mrsha? But I’ll do it if I need to. The Horns can also deal with it; we’ll play it by ear.”
Mrsha nodded. Erin sighed and looked at Bird. He glanced up. The Worker stared at Mrsha and Erin as he chewed, then spoke.
“Garry wished to come to be employed as a [Cook], but the Queen refused. I am supposed to tell you, Erin.”
She blinked at him.
“Thank you, Bird.”
He nodded and went back to his meal. Mrsha pushed back her empty bowl. Now she wanted to run about! Maybe play in Liscor? She conveyed that to Erin, and the young woman nodded.
“I can take you to the playground! We’ll do that, Mrsha! Or—darn. I have to cook. Lyonette wants those cookies done. Drat. Oh well; I’m banned from playing in the playground anyways. Drassi! Can you take Mrsha into Liscor to play?”
The Drake [Barmaid], [Gossip], and now [Bartender] looked up as she mopped up a spilled drink. She brightened and came over.
“Sure can, Erin! Hello, Mrsha! You want to go to the climbing playground? Ooh, or the flat one?”
Mrsha nodded eagerly, and Erin smiled.
“Have her back by lunch, alright? And, uh, can you find out what the Wistram [Mages] are doing? Keep asking about them?”
The [Gossip] laughed, amused.
“Erin, Erin…I’m already doing that! They’re the talk of the city! Do you want to know what they’re doing now?”
“Wait, you already know?”
Erin stared at Drassi. The Drake nodded.
“They’re doing business. They’ve set up—well, the Minotauress, Bezale, has. The others are going around to do their business.”
“In Liscor? Business like what? Don’t people know what they did? Why’re they giving them money?”
Erin was outraged. Drassi rolled her eyes.
“Erin, they’re [Mages]. From Wistram. And each one’s a specialist! They’re selling good stuff! Hey, I can get you something if you don’t want to talk to them. I just want to take a look.”
Erin paused. She looked at Mrsha and the Gnoll sat up with interest. Erin hesitated, then looked at Drassi.
“…What kind of stuff?”
 
——
 
Montressa du Valeross inspected the walls from the battlements, trying to ignore the glares she was getting. It took a long time, but she did a thorough job and turned to the surly Drake [Strategist] at last.
“I don’t see much degradation of the spells, Strategist Olesm. As you said, the gates’ wards have been breached, and the spell’s frayed on the stonework there. I’ll recommend the [Enchanter] make an early visit this year to repair the damage done. I can give you an estimate if you’d like?”
“That would be welcome, Lady du Valeross.”
“Montressa, please.”
The [Aegiscaster] smiled at Olesm as she began to quote numbers. The Drake didn’t return it. He scribbled down the information on a bit of parchment without a word. Montressa bit her lip.
“Is there anything else?”
“Nothing, Miss Montressa. The city thanks you for your help.”
“In that case, I’ll continue my work. If you have any need of our assistance, let us know.”
Olesm nodded stiffly. He accompanied Montressa down the steps and saw her off at street-level. She knew he was watching her back as he left—and a few [Guards] were tailing her as she walked down the street. Montressa tried not to grimace as she rejoined her team. Isceil was there, wearing a surly look.
“Well?”
“I did the inspection. I made my recommendations. That’s it. They don’t like us, but at least we’re still allowed to do our consultation work.”
“For free.”
The [Oldblood Magus] growled as he walked with Montressa. The young woman sighed.
“We don’t charge for inspections, Isceil. We’re trying to generate some goodwill, which is why I didn’t take you on the walls. Are you done with business for the day?”
“Nearly. I’m preparing the gift now.”
“Did you do much business?”
“Some. A bit of gold. But there aren’t many Oldbloods in the city, so I don’t have much to earn. Bezale’s still down selling her scrolls. Ulinde’s gone off, and Palt’s selling his…stuff.”
“I told him not to! The Watch will come down on him like—we’re not causing more trouble!”
Montressa glared. Isceil raised his claws.
“He says he’s just sticking to legal stuff. He checked with the Watch. Don’t bite my tail off!”
Glowering, Montressa kept walking.
“Let’s find Beza. I have to fix two wards today. If you help, I’ll give you a quarter of the fee.”
“I might. How bad is it?”
“Broken runes. Spell burnt through part of a matrix. It’ll take like an hour to fix both if we work together, I think.”
“Hmpf. How much do I get?”
“One gold coin and two silver?”
“Pass.”
