It had been a long time. And much had happened. But as always, the inn stood. The building had weathered grief and turmoil. And again, they returned. Rebuilding in a place that seemed filled with strife at times.
But that was the nature of the world. And many who had come here still saw this place as safety, comfort. And perhaps that was because the young woman who had built this place remembered what it meant to live in a place where danger was a still-more distant memory. If so, it was her ambition to bring that here. And she failed again and again, but never stopped trying.
Perhaps it was vainglorious to dream of it. Perhaps the lighting of a candle in the darkness just attracted things from the shadows. But he didn’t care. He had been so long from this place, his home.
And now he was back. Bird sat in his small, new tower on top of the inn and smiled. His tower was nothing more than a few planks nailed together; the inn had yet to be rebuilt. He could sense other Antinium burrowing around the base of the hill, enlarging the very foundation the inn would be constructed on first. But it didn’t matter. Bird had his tower. He was home.
And he was happy. Two days had passed since the [Mages] from Wistram had arrived. And the third day passed like this: Bird sat in his tower. And he was not alone.
A Gnoll cub sat with him, watching the sun rise. Mrsha wagged her tail, keeping inside the confines of the ‘tower’. She had been warned very strictly about climbing out on the roof. Bird glanced at her.
Mrsha was not a bird. But she was small as some of them and she tended to attract some of them. He had hoped some of the Razorbeaks—what Erin called dino-birds and he called scale-birds—would try to carry her off. But they were afraid of him and stayed far from Liscor and the inn. Even so, he liked the young Gnoll’s company.
“La, la, la. Singing in the day makes birds happy. I am a peaceful Bird, and I like birds.”
The Antinium’s voice was soothing. He was Bird. And that meant he was both [Bird Hunter] and [Singer]. His voice carried out across the Floodplains. And while the lyrics were nonsensical, silly, they were also soothing. Mrsha leaned against one leg, listening. She relaxed just listening to Bird. And he sang.
In the beautiful day, the cheerful little ditty lured movement towards the inn. Animals poked their heads out of the grass. Squirrels, some grasshoppers hopping frantically away from said squirrels, and in time, birds. They were wary, but the singing didn’t bother them like most artificial sounds.
They knew, in a primal way, the danger of course, but the area around the inn was verdant with life. There were bugs and animals to feast on! The nearby city kept this place free of dangerous monsters, and for some reason, only birds were absent from the nearby environs. Which meant their prey tended to flourish in this region.
A few smaller birds flew about the inn, chirping warily. But the song continued, a happy tune. So the birds flew lower. Some began to hunt their breakfast. And others began to sing along.
Abruptly, the song stopped. There was a twang, a squawk, and the sound of desperate wings. More musical twangs. From her tower, Mrsha watched birds drop out of the sky. She looked up at Bird. He began humming happily.
[Lure Song]. [Prey Sense]. The Antinium Worker had leveled up in his unique specialization. So much so that it was now common for regular [Hunters] to go west out of Liscor because no one was going to catch much with Bird around the inn. The Antinium waited, but the birds, having seen their distant comrades disappear, decided not to come over again. Bird nodded to himself.
Mrsha stared at the ground. There were four dead birds, but Bird didn’t seem too interested in grabbing them just yet.
“Miss Erin tells me if I want them cooked, I must get them at once before other things eat them. Like bugs and little worms and other things. But I like keeping some in my room. They are nice when squishy.”
Bird looked at Mrsha. The little Gnoll wrinkled her nose and shook her head. Bird tilted his.
“No? But squishy is good. Sometimes they are runny.”
Mrsha mimed gagging. Bird shrugged.
“Runny can be good.”
He watched Mrsha make a complex and nuanced thought in sign language about getting sick. The Antinium paused.
“I will go pick them up later. But there are many birds and I do not want to miss one. See?”
He pointed. In the distance, Mrsha saw birds. But flying far, far out of bowshot, even for Bird. He aimed an arrow with two of his arms as he spoke conversationally to Mrsha. Two more were holding arrows. She had seen Bird fire and regular [Archers] couldn’t keep up with how fast he could shoot with four arms. And a good [Bowman] could shoot fast.
“Those birds are very far away. I have [Long Range Shot] and [Homing Shot], but sometimes they dodge. See?”
So saying, Bird casually drew back and loosed. Mrsha’s keen eyes saw an arrow speeding across the ground at a bird nearly three hundred feet distant. It was an impressive shot, even with a Skill! She lost track of it for a second, but the bird it was targeting dove, and the homing missile flashed over its head.
“See? The arrow curves, but I missed to begin with. I asked Halrac and he said I needed to predict better. And shoot faster. So they must be closer. I am a poor [Archer]. Yes. Halrac is very good at shooting. So was Badarrow. I miss Badarrow.”
Bird complained cheerfully, as if missing a three-hundred foot target moving on the wing by barely a foot was something to be ashamed of. Perhaps it was, for him. The Worker watched the bird he’d shot at flee and pointed with an arrow.
“That is a red-bird.”
The red-crested robin flew low across the Floodplains, in fear for its life. Bird’s hands twitched, but it was too far away, too wary. Mrsha nodded. After a moment, she patted Bird’s quiver. He handed her an arrow.
“I make them myself, see?”
Mrsha eyed the arrows. They were wood, pointed tips crudely sharpened. Some weren’t even straight. And they were fletched with beautiful feathers. She stared accusingly at Bird. It hurt the Gnoll to see. Bird happily took the arrow back.
“Miss Erin says I may buy arrows with my salary. That will be nice. I have many feathers, and sometimes the [Fletcher] asks to buy them. But I need feathers for my arrows and my new fortress of fluff, so I have not been able to sell them. If I may buy arrows, I can then sell feathers. And buy more arrows.”
Below, the little Gnoll opened her mouth. Bird’s logic made Mrsha long for the ability to speak—or to burrow her head into a pillow for a second. Instead, she peeked over the edge of the tower as Bird pointed. He was showing her distant birds; they had an excellent view from the roof of the inn.
“There are scale-birds in the air over there. They are hard to shoot with my arrows. Which is why I wish for new ones. I must use [Piercing Shot] or hit them in the eyes. That is hard. Ooh. There is a big-bird. See? That is a blue-bird. And another red-bird! That is a green-bird.”
Mrsha stared at the Cyprail Grasstalker, which she recognized by its camouflaged appearance, but also by the distinctive two pale white-yellow, long tail feathers on its backside it would wiggle in the grass to attract smaller birds or insects—upon which it would turn and consume its prey. She looked up at Bird. The [Archer] nodded solemnly, watching it.
“It is a green bird. That is why I call it that. It tastes good. Sometimes there is a second lunch inside of it, still wriggling. It is a nice bird to shoot because it hides and holds still if you do not watch it. All you have to do is turn around and go pew. See?”
The Gnoll cub nodded as well. She was learning a lot today. Not about names, but watching Bird turn his back on the Grasstalker, wait for five minutes as the bird hid itself in the grass, and then whirl and nail it from eighty feet away with a perfect shot was an education in itself.
Mind you, he cheated; he had a little bit of glass which he’d stuck some black cloth to, to make a crude mirror. But that was a lesson in hunting every bit as good as a proper Stone Spears [Hunter] from her tribe! She watched as Bird hummed.
“That is a good bird. I will eat it. Let us go get birds!”
Mrsha nodded eagerly. But then Bird eyed her.
“I forget. You are not allowed to go running about. So I will go instead.”
Mrsha’s face fell. But Lyonette had given orders. And not even Bird would overrule her.
Carefully, the Antinium left his tower and walked over the inn’s roof. He had a little ladder he’d installed. He could have just gone down through the inn, but he claimed this was easier.
Mrsha privately thought he just didn’t want Erin fussing over his ‘squishy birds’ when he brought them into his room. And to be fair, it wasn’t as if his room was unclean! Bird was very meticulous in storing his things. And if the ‘squishy birds’ attracted bugs, well…Bird ate them.
The Antinium came back with five dead birds. He pulled the arrows out and Mrsha sniffed his kills. Bird nodded and offered her a white tail feather.
“This is good. Everything is good. Should we eat now?”
Mrsha’s wagging tail made the Worker’s mandibles open and rise in a smile. They headed down into the inn. Mrsha listened to the hustle and bustle coming down from below. The inn was lively, the [Actors] were preparing for tonight—she hid behind Bird as they came down and she saw/smelled the set.
They had their new play all ready. It was The Shining, adapted for the stage. Mrsha had seen it once, despite it being shown at a time when all good Gnolls should be in bed. She’d snuck down to listen to the late-viewing, intrigued by Lyonette and Erin’s injunction against watching. The audience had been enthralled, and the [Actors] had done a good job.
Too good. Mrsha hadn’t been sleeping well. And she’d stared at her door all night, waiting for the crazy Human to batter it down with an axe and put her head through. Lyonette had noticed Mrsha’s sleeplessness of course, and Mrsha had got a scolding.
At least now the [Actors] were just setting up. But Mrsha hid behind Bird as he trundled into the living room. There were also more people than usual; word had gotten around and the morning crowd was lively, asking if they could get an earlier performance or if the Players of Celum would be putting on the show multiple times so they could show friends or family.
“Bird! Mrsha!”
And in the inn, there was Erin Solstice. She was attending to the tables, or rather, relaxing with some of her guests while the staff did most of the attending. But she saw Bird and Mrsha and got up. The Worker waved at Erin and presented his somewhat gruesome armful of corpses.
“Hello, Erin. I have come down for food. I would like to eat this bird, please.”
Erin blinked as he waved the Cyprail Grasstalker at her. She looked down at Mrsha and the Gnoll immediately hid behind her legs; she’d spotted the [Actor] who played the crazy Human. She knew it was an act, but she still got nervous. Erin bent down and gave Mrsha a little cuddle, then she stood up.
“No problem, Bird. I’ll have it whipped up in no time! Fried? Maybe. I just have to prepare it. Ew.”
She sighed, eying the bird. Then she brightened.
“Oh, wait! Ishkr! I need you to pluck and gut the bird!”
Ishkr looked up. The Gnoll didn’t sigh or complain. He just trotted over.
“Yes, Miss Erin. Do you want the other birds prepared too?”
“Bird?”
“No. I will put them in my room.”
“Bird. I told you about letting them rot!”
“I…won’t let them rot?”
The Worker turned his head, avoiding Erin’s narrowed eyes. The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“Just the big, green one, Ishkr. Can you let me know when it’s ready to cook? And keep the feathers! For Bird.”
“Yes, Erin.”
The Gnoll took the bird outside. Erin turned happily back to Bird.
“Come on, Bird. Sit down! And you too, Mrsha. Are you still afraid of Temile? I told you, he’s playing Jack! And you shouldn’t have watched! Do you want Temile to come over? No? Okay, then sit with me.”
She sat down at a table where a huge Drake was eating breakfast. He glanced up over the six eggs and rash of bacon he was eating by himself, but made no comment. He stared longer when Bird sat down. Mrsha patted the table, smelling the air, reassured in Erin’s arms.
The young woman shook her head as Ishkr trotted back in with the plucked bird and a pawful of feathers. He dropped the feathers off at the table and Bird sorted them into one of his belt pouches. Then Ishkr took the bird into the kitchen for further preparation. Erin looked around.
“Did you know that you have to remove the entrails from stuff? Otherwise you get what they ate. Like, bugs and stuff. I had no idea before I started cooking.”
Grimalkin looked up from his seat and gave Erin a look. So did half the Gnolls in the room, including Mrsha. Erin spread her arms innocently.
“I didn’t know! I had this horrible incident where—well, never mind.”
“Miss Solstice, you sound like a Drake from one of the Walled Cities at times. Where did you grow up exactly?”
The [Sinew Magus] eyed Erin over his breakfast. She waggled a finger at him.
“Aha! Not telling! You’re not getting me so easily, Grimalkin! How’s the food?”
“Decent, thank you. I do appreciate quantity over quality given how much I eat, so your inn is helpful in this regard. And your refusal to answer questions about your home just proves how significant the information is. Thank you.”
Erin paused. Her jaw worked. Mrsha sniffed the eggs indignantly. Decent? Grimalkin noticed her glare.
“Miss Solstice is a good cook. But she’s hardly an expert. She can fry an egg almost perfectly. But I don’t believe she knows her way around seasonings. Stop giving me that look. Ask Miss Lasica for her eggs and you’ll know what I mean. I’m not being disparaging. Just honest.”
Mrsha turned up her nose. Erin winced. She patted Mrsha’s head soothingly.
“Don’t be upset, Mrsha. Grimalkin’s just honest. Like a pan across the back of the head.”
“I try not to twist the truth just to stroke other people’s ego. We should understand our capabilities and limitations realistically, Miss Solstice.”
“Miss Erin, the bird is ready for cooking.”
Ishkr poked his head out of the kitchen before Erin could reply. She looked up and turned to Bird.
“How much do you want, Bird?”
Bird waved a hand eagerly.
“I would like the bird, please, Erin. And two unborn birds.”
Grimalkin paused, his mouth full of a boiled egg. Erin blinked at Bird.
“But you already had breakfast, Bird. You want to eat the entire…bird?”
He nodded seriously.
“I desire to be spoiled greatly. Please assist me in this endeavor. I believe Mrsha would also like spoiling if there is enough to be shared.”
