“We’re getting Pisces. Agreed?”
Beza and Isceil nodded. Montressa took a breath.
“In that case, we’ll debate how to go about Miss Solstice. But the Horns of Hammerad are easier. When they leave Liscor’s jurisdiction, they’re fair game. And guess what? I heard they’re working a job in the Bloodfields.”
Beza’s brows rose.
“Really?”
“Oh yes. In fact, they’re doing the job for Liscor.”
“We can’t go after them there! That’s just as bad, Montressa.”
Isceil argued. Montressa looked at him.
“Of course I agree with that. But they’ll be away from the inn. So if we had a plan—”
She looked at the other two. Beza frowned, eying her waiting customers.
“We’re debating this. Palt and Ulinde will have something to say. It’s all so damn complex. Excuse me! I’m sorry for the delay. One minute please!”
She poked her head out of the magical veil of silence. Isceil frowned.
“Beza’s right. It’s hard. The Bloodfields. Well, I’ve always wanted to see them. How dangerous is this job the adventurers are taking, Montressa?”
“Just escort. I’m going to ask more tonight. But I want to consider it. Or even…well, we’ll talk it over. Where’s Palt and Ulinde?”
“He ran off. Still blubbering about the Halfseekers. As for Palt? You know him. He finds his customers in alleyways.”
Montressa frowned, still worried.
“Just so long as he doesn’t get arrested.”
“Him? Never.”
 
——
 
Palt had lost the [Guards] following him. It wasn’t hard. Just a few good illusion spells and he vanished, his scent disappeared, his tracks in the dirt disappeared, and the [Guards] who followed him found out they’d been tailing an illusion for the last three minutes. It would have been longer, but the fake Palt had walked through someone.
It didn’t matter. The Centaur was an [Illusionist] and he was good at his job. He was also considering the Erin problem. Not the Pisces one; he was done with being kicked in the face and he had no personal hoof in the [Necromancer] situation. But Erin? His faction was very interested in acquiring at least one Earther.
The Centaur considered the issue. He was part of Montressa’s team and she was a friend. He’d known Calvaron vaguely, and gotten to know Montressa when she and Beatrice formed their secret-broker duo. She was a good sort, but the Pisces incident had cast a shadow over her career. Being friends with two former students, one of whom had been a [Necromancer] and responsible for all those deaths had made her an outcast.
Well, Montressa was haunted, but Palt was still loyal to the Ullsinoi faction. And they wanted an Earther. If he, Palt, got her to join them on his own, that would be a huge feather in his cap.
“Or a cigar in mouth. Hey, you lot. Anyone want tobacco? Dreamleaf? Dreamleaf’s illegal here, right? I’ve got warded packets; smellproof.”
The Centaur looked around. He was not, contrary to what Isceil thought, in an alleyway. Who did business there? In a city full of Gnolls, that was a stupid, stupid idea. He couldn’t believe his team hadn’t even gotten rid of the blood smell. Palt had, and he’d assumed they’d been smart enough to do the same. But then, none of his teammates ever danced with the law. And Palt could do a jig, even with four hooves.
“Hey. I’ll take some of the dreamleaf. This is really, really good.”
A Gnoll drifted over to Palt. She looked really happy; she was trying one of his rolls of the potent stuff. It wasn’t marijuana or whatever the Earthers called it. Palt had talked with some of them, and apparently you smoked the buds of the plant they liked. With dreamleaf, you smoked the leaves; you could roll one up and smoke it. And you dreamed really nice things, hence the name.
“How much do you want?”
“How much for…for ten of these puffers?”
Palt frowned.
“Eight silver per. So that’s…four gold.”
“Four gold? I can’t afford that!”
The Gnoll looked dismayed. Palt sighed. It was sheer robbery, he knew. You could get like ten dreamleaf leaves per silver piece in the right spots in Baleros. But he was far from Baleros, and his supply was limited, so it was actually reasonable in that sense.
“You won’t get better prices anytime soon. Worse, in fact. And you can smoke one of them all day. If you make it last, one can do you for a week. Just smoke it before you sleep. How many?”
“…Two. For the pouches. My brother’ll smell it otherwise.”
The Gnoll fished in her money purse. Others drifted over. Drakes, Gnolls—rich and poor alike. Palt had a select clientele and they knew how to find him. The little apartment he’d convinced the owner to let him use for four joints was cramped, but that helped.
He was sharing his goods, giving free samples, and enjoying himself. In truth, most of his income came from people with coin, but Palt wasn’t about to let poor folks miss out on what he had to offer. He’d been poor, once.
Now the Centaur decided it was time to wrap things up. Before he announced he was leaving in fifteen minutes he took a huge drag on his spliff. He inhaled the smoke into his lungs, and then exhaled, thinking of a Skill. He blew a cloud of smoke and everyone in a fifteen foot radius shared his vibe. And they were good vibes.
Palt was a [Smoker]. Most people knew classes were more than a casual hobby; your class had to define you in some small way for you to obtain it. You had to want it. Even so, they would have doubted you could make your life revolve around smoking or imbibing substances.
They were wrong, of course. The Centaur did good business after that, waving away the pleas for him to stay. He trotted out of the apartment, telling his clients they had ten minutes before his spells wore off to make themselves scarce. He even used a spell to erase the odors and smoke clinging to fur and scales in the room. Nothing like getting half the people arrested to make a bad name for yourself.
“Let’s see. Nice gold profits. Wonder how Beza made out. I’ve got to get more stuff. I can get more for sure in…Oteslia. Damn. Drake cities suck.”
Palt trotted down the street, heading towards the western gates. His [Guards] still hadn’t caught up with him, and the [Illusionist] enjoyed imagining their irritation. Still, he was mostly thinking about good impressions. He had to make them. Palt was ambitious in his own way, and if he could…
It was a shame Erin Solstice didn’t smoke a thing. Not a thing! She’d refused the bag he’d tried to give to her, kicked him out of the inn for his role in abducting her friends. He couldn’t fault her for that, honestly. But a bit of help would have…helped a lot in making amends.
“Would it be a bad idea to accidentally blow some smoke around? Yes. Probably. That’s a good way to lose all your teeth, Palt.”
The Centaur wasn’t taking Erin Solstice lightly either. Some of his customers had stories about her. So this time, Palt carefully entered Erin’s inn and watched, invisible and scentless and soundless.
She still noticed him. That was the fascinating thing; he saw her head turn as he followed a pair of laughing young Drakes into the inn. She had to be high-level. Higher than any other Earther. He trotted over to one side, watching.
“Nice inn. Friendly young Human. Why couldn’t we have stopped here first? Dead gods. Let’s see.”
Palt was timing how long it took Erin to locate him. She went back to speaking with the Antinium for a minute, an absent frown on her face. He shuddered, eying the Antinium, but Palt tried not to judge. Friendly. He wanted to be Erin’s friend. He fished in his belt pouch.
Two minutes. After two minutes, Erin Solstice got up and began wandering her inn. She definitely knew something was off. Palt knew he was teaching her to locate him a second time, but he just needed to know how good she was the first time. Just in case. After a minute, she began homing in on him. Before she could figure out more, Palt coughed and sent a [Whisper] towards her.
“Miss Solstice. It’s me. Palt. The Centaur. Can we chat?”
She jumped, and her eyes narrowed. Palt appeared in a corner of the room, and she stared at him.
“You! You can’t just—”
“Miss Solstice, please! I’m just trying not to be killed the instant I walk in. Which I understand is a possibility. Before you say anything—may I offer you this? It’s a gift, but a better one than last time.”
The Centaur came forwards with something in his hands. Erin blinked down at it.
“What’s this?”
“Saffron. Cinnamon. Nali-sticks. Some turmeric…I thought it’d be a small addition to your kitchen.”
“What? Saffron? What’s nali?”
Erin’s aggrieved expression turned to one of curiosity. Palt quickly explained, his heart beating faster. He finished with presenting the bundle to her in a flourish.
“It’s just a small gift. A small apology! From me, on behalf of my friends, but mainly me. May I at least stand in your inn?”
He looked entreatingly at Erin. She frowned, her mouth open.
“I—you can’t buy me off! I’m not forgiving you for what you did to Selys and the Horns—”
“Not at all, Miss Erin. Not at all. I take full responsibility. If they come in, I’ll leave. But can we speak? We’ve gotten off on the wrong hoof. I disagree with Montressa going after your friend without alerting the Watch or talking it over. She was sure he’d run for it—and she’s afraid of him. Terrified. We talked about the nightmares?”
“Yes. Yes we did.”
Erin narrowed her eyes at him. But Palt was hopeful; she’d sought him out the first time. After a moment, she jerked her head to the kitchen.
“Come on. You can put the spices in there. That’s a lot of saffron. Isn’t it expensive?”
It was a lot. Palt’s heart sank when he realized Erin had no idea how much the gift was worth. Then again, maybe that helped. He trotted after her, trying to be affable. He wished he could smoke, but she had a Gnoll cub and they were sensitive to smoke. She was sniffing at him with curiosity; she probably smelled all kinds of things on him, despite his spells.
“It’s a bit. But I know good spices are hard to get around Liscor. It’s from my own stash, Miss Solstice. I carry a lot of…herbs.”
“I bet you do. But you can’t smoke saffron, can you?”
Oh, my dear Human, if only you knew the things I’ll smoke. Palt kept his face straight.
“That’s not generally how I use it. But I’m a bit of a [Cook]—amateur, only six levels. Where should I put it?”
“Over there. And if you turn invisible again, I’m throwing a pan next time.”
“Duly noted. I apologize again.”
“And you are leaving if the Horns come in. Or Selys. Or Seborn and Moore. But you can sit at a table. Do you—do Centaurs have chairs?”
Palt frowned.
“Not generally, no. I’ll sit on cushions or the ground. Thank you for your hospitality, Miss Solstice.”
She eyed him up and down.
“I wouldn’t give you any, but Wistram’s trying to bully Pisces. Or get him killed. So we’ll talk. You’re the only [Mage] I’ll talk to out of your stupid team.”
The Centaur heaved a sigh of relief. Success! He followed Erin to a table and sat down with her. He was going to be the most charming, helpful, and friendly he could be. He spread his hands.
“Anything you want, Miss Solstice. I’d like to solve this myself. If you have any questions to begin with—”
He stopped and stared as something buzzed past his head. Palt’s head ducked so fast he nearly slammed it on the table.
“Miss Solstice! There’s a huge bee in your inn!”
“What? Oh, that’s just Apista.”
“An Ashfire Bee?”
Palt stared at Erin in horror. He looked at the bee, noting the enhanced stinger on its backside. No one he’d talked to had warned him about that! He shouldn’t even be surprised, but he eyed it nervously.
“Don’t worry about it! She’s a pet. One of my [Barmaids] owns her. See?”
The Ashfire Bee landed by a window on a box of flowers. Palt nodded shakily. He turned back to Erin, trying to collect himself—
And then his head slowly swung back around towards the box of flowers. They were yellow, golden, short. Palt would have dismissed them outright, but something in him took notice. An aspect of his class. Not the [Illusionist]. Not the [Cook]. But the [Smoker].
Palt stared at the flowers. Erin was saying something.
“So, look. About the bounty. Is there any way you can get it removed? It’s not fair, and it’ll get people going after Pisces. Hello? Hello. Are you listening to…”
The flowers. Palt stared, forgetting everything for a moment. He stared at the bright yellow buds, golden, watching the Ashfire Bee sip from one. Every instinct in Palt’s body was telling him to smoke them. Or maybe boil them in some peppermint oil extract. You could take them in droplets or—or maybe some goat’s butter. Yes, heat them up and bake them into…
“Hey!”
Erin poked Palt. He jumped.
“Don’t kill me! Yes! What? Oh!”
He stared at her. The [Innkeeper] stared at him, then followed his gaze. Palt grinned shakily.
“I apologize. I was distracted. But those…flowers. They wouldn’t happen to be interesting in any way, Miss Solstice?”
“Oh no. Oh no. Not again. Those are my flowers. You stay away from them! They’re mine!”
Erin shot to her feet. Some of her customers looked up, amused. A Gnoll sitting next to them glanced up as she shook a finger at Palt. He raised his hands.
“Miss Solstice! I’m just asking. I have no idea what they are. But…I, er, would like to find out.”
She narrowed her eyes at him.
“Because you’re a stoner.”
He had no idea what the word meant—well, he was pretty sure—but she said it like it was an insult. Palt sighed.
“Miss Solstice, there’s nothing dangerous about what I do. I smoke good things.”
“You do drugs! Drugs are bad! Mostly!”
Erin seemed uncertain about her own point, but Mrsha was watching. Palt spread his hands.
“Some. But the ones I smoke are usually just good. They make people feel better. And if some people do stronger stuff—well, it’s usually only them it affects. Is there anything wrong in making someone feel good?”
“Well—that’s not the point! I don’t want any in my inn—except for the flowers—and alcohol and—”
Erin hesitated. She looked at Palt.
“Those are my flowers. And dangerous. Actually dangerous, I think.”
“Miss Solstice, I am a [Smoker]. If you’d let me, I’ll take any risk. And I’ll pay you handsomely for the flowers. Beautifully, even.”
Erin stared at Palt as he gazed at her, seriously as could be. She raked her hands through her hair. This is not the conversation she wanted! But she had to ask.
“There’s a [Smoker] class? Seriously?”
Palt nodded. He couldn’t take his eyes off the flowers.
