Montressa sighed again. That was good money! But not for a [Mage] from Wistram for an hour’s work. Today was business for the Wistram team, which meant they all had something to sell. Their services. If you were specialized—or just knew a bunch of spells most [Mages] were incapable of—you could make good money wherever you went.
Each had something to sell, but not all of Montressa’s team made the same amount of money. She was an expert in wards and protective spells, so her income was steady, low, and predictable. Montressa fixed things. Most spells, be they wards, runes, or any sort of enchantment, like the ones on Liscor’s very walls, would degrade over time.
Montressa wasn’t good enough to fix Liscor’s walls, but she could mend most common wards. It was a common practice for Wistram [Mages] stopping by a city, and people had sought her out as soon as they’d known she was offering the service; she might be the only able [Mage] they’d see in half a year, or the entire year.
“At least they’re going to see us, despite the incident with the Watch. Drakes take that seriously.”
Isceil offered the first positive comment in two days. Montressa glanced at him. She felt as annoyed and angry as he seemed. She tried to erase the expression from her face. Make a good impression.
That was part of the strictly-worded orders she’d had from the Revivalist faction. They’d bailed Montressa and her team out of their trouble, but the [Mages] were in hot water back at the academy. It was part of why Montressa was charging low for her services and trying to be pleasant to Liscor’s inhabitants. She nodded to Isceil gratefully.
“True. And your remedies for the Oldbloods have to help. How were your customers?”
The Drake’s indignant posture unstiffened a bit. He nodded at Montressa.
“Grateful. They always are. It was mainly just medication for their problems. A Frostling needed a warming tonic; scale rot on some of the old Drakes. A few have bad symptoms, like the Drake you met who kept wheezing. I sorted them out.”
Montressa nodded, genuinely curious. Isceil was an [Oldblood Magus], so his specialization was in the powers of his species. He had no wings, but he’d been born with the ability to breathe frost, a breath attack courtesy of his Dragon-heritage. She knew it made his body temperature lower than normal, and she’d seen him walking about in winter with barely any clothes on. But the same symptoms meant he couldn’t handle heat well without cooling himself. And other Drakes experienced even more drastic symptoms.
“Is it all due to them having Oldblood traits?”
“Some of it is. Shortness of breath, coughing—that’s generally some form of dragonbreath gone wrong. Some people don’t even know they have the problem. But scale rot’s general; you just get that when you get older. The really bad stuff is when dragonbreath goes out of control. That’s how you get Scorchlings or Frostlings like that kid. They heat up or get too cold and they don’t have the resistance you’re supposed to have.”
“So what happens?”
“They get frostbite. Or their scales burn off them. It’s better if there’s someone like me around, but we can’t fix too much. At my level, anyways.”
Isceil kicked across the street, looking upset and muttering. Montressa nodded.
“What happens if it’s lightning? Or acid? Sorry, am I asking…?”
“Yeah. What happens with lightning is they have heart attacks. Or they have fits. And acid? Their stomach melts. Best case is they have ulcers. Worst case is that the baby in the mother dissolves and takes her with it, Montressa.”
Isceil glared at her. The [Aegiscaster] raised her hands. She’d put her staff and lightning orb away; it seemed provocative.
“I’m sorry. I know it’s serious.”
The Drake calmed down after a few more seconds of walking. He muttered as he felt in his bag of holding.
“It’s fine. Non-Drakes don’t know about it. Sorry I snapped. Anyways, I got most of the bad ones; anyone who’s been alive this long knows to seek me out. I’ll see if anyone else is waiting. But I have that tonic for the Watch Captain.”
“Zevara. I’ll deliver it to her if you don’t want to.”
Isceil nodded and handed her the potion. It was sealed in a dark flask; it must be light-sensitive, Montressa guessed.
“She hates my guts. The instructions are right there; she’ll know how to use it.”
“What’s her problem? Coughing?”
“Bad lungs. She can breathe fire, but her lungs can’t take the smoke she’s generating.”
Montressa shuddered.
“Yeah. I’ll get it to her. Where’d Beza say she was setting up?”
“Trader’s End. This way.”
The two [Mages] found the Minotauress at work in the busy street full of [Merchants]. Unlike Ulinde and Montressa, the other three [Mages], Isceil, Beza, and Palt, were all specialists whose craft meant they had products they could sell.
By now, Montressa had stopped at a few dozen settlements while travelling to Liscor, and she knew how much all of her friends made. Isceil had been virtually cut off from any income while coming south, aside from doing generalist work, but Beza and Palt had made money. And of the two, Beza made the most.
“Twenty [Light] scrolls, then. Look, they’re cheap, so I’m giving you them practically at a loss. They’re not worth the parchment they’re made on! This is what the light spell looks like—that’s what you get. I’ll have them by tonight. But I’m not making sixty of them!”
They could hear Beza’s impatient voice haggling with a [Merchant] before they even saw her. The Minotauress had been selling her products all day and yesterday—to [Merchants] and [Traders] more than pedestrians. She was a [Spellscribe], and her scrolls were in high-demand. They were single-use spells anyone could activate.
The only thing that kept everyone from having scrolls was how expensive even a single one was. Montressa eyed the gold the [Merchant] reluctantly passed over. Isceil snorted.
“A gold piece for a [Light] scroll? You’ve got to be pulling my tail!”
“It’s nearly that just to make one. Beza’s got to use magical ink, and the parchment has to be the right quality too.”
“Even so, who’s buying one of those?”
“Anyone who wants a pretty [Light] like that.”
Montressa nodded to the [Light] spell that Beza was showing around. It was a pretty prism made up of different colors of light all joined together, slowly rotating around in the palm of her hand. Isceil raised his brows.
“What’s that for? Dinner parties?”
“Something for the rich. And it does look good. I wonder how she figured out that design?”
“Probably traded it for a few secrets back in Wistram. Hey, Beza! You done?”
The Minotauress was noting down the order on a piece of paper. She looked up and nodded to Montressa and Isceil.
“You two. I’m up to my horns in orders; I’ll be here a while still. Did the City Watch let you onto the walls, Montressa?”
“Barely. How’s business?”
“I’m making money. People don’t get many scrolls here, so my stock of low-level spells and convenience spells is all sold out and I’m backlogged for the next three days. My higher-tier scrolls on the other hand…I had a buyer, but he’s not taking any!”
Beza waved a disgusted hand at part of the stall she’d set up. There was a small rack of scrolls the Minotauress watched like a hawk, and a [Trader] perusing them with interest. A few adventurers were also present, murmuring and checking their coin purses as they debated.
Montressa recognized the different auras of bound magic in the scrolls. Few people were interested in the combat-variety of scrolls Beza had to offer, but that was what the [Spellscribe] specialized in.
“You seem like you have a good number of adventurers.”
“They buy one or two scrolls tops. Even Gold-ranks. I sold a bit, but I want a big order. But the one [Merchant] who could buy from me won’t. He’s over there.”
She pointed. Montressa looked past a wagon at a [Merchant] who was attending to his own wares. He was eying Beza’s selection, but he hadn’t come over.
“What’s the problem?”
“I don’t know. I’m going to ask. Watch my stall for me?”
“What if I have to sell something?”
“Sell it!”
Beza thrust her bag of holding at Isceil. He swore and pushed his own into her hands.
“Don’t do that! You know someone can’t have two bags of holding at the same time!”
“Quit whining. The holding enchantments won’t react that fast.”
“You want to risk it? Because every time you do that, we risk all imploding—”
Montressa slapped a hand over Isceil’s mouth as Beza strode away. The [Trader] gave her a wide-eyed look and edged backwards. Montressa followed Beza as the Minotauress strode over to the [Merchant].
Even in business, Beza was straightforward, but she adopted a somewhat humble manner. Which meant she didn’t grab the [Merchant] by the collar, but instead stopped and nodded brusquely at him.
“Merchant Farri Slightly? My name is Bezale of Maweil. I am a [Spellscribe], a graduate of Wistram. I notice you haven’t come over to inspect my wares. Is something holding you back?”
The [Merchant] looked up at Bezale and smiled. Politely, Montressa, thought. He held out a hand and took the Minotauress’ crushing grip with barely a wince.
“Miss Bezale! It is a pleasure. I regret to say that I’m not in the market for your scrolls at the moment. I do know of you; my contacts spoke of your scrolls, quite glowingly. One can never have too many [Stoneskin] and [Haste] scrolls and they sell like mad among adventurers.”
The Minotauress gave him a mystified nod. She was quite proud of the scrolls; even in Wistram, scroll scribing was a rarer specialization. And it was hard for most [Mages] to scribe a higher-Tier spell. Generally, the thought was that you had to be capable of casting two tiers higher than the spell you wanted to scribe; it was why Tier 5+ scrolls were rare as could be. Montressa was curious why this [Merchant] wouldn’t have jumped at the opportunity to do business as well.
“Exactly! And I have more spells on offer too. Tier 4 scrolls! You won’t have an opportunity like this any time soon. We can do business, unless there’s a problem?”
The man didn’t look poor if all the auras coming from his cart were any indication. Farri smiled, but again with that reserve and spread his hands apologetically.
“Mage Bezale, I must confess, I’m in a tricky position. I had every intention of placing a large order with you, but I’m afraid recent events have forced me to rethink the opportunity.”
Beza’s jaw worked for a second, and she glanced at Montressa.
“May I ask why?”
“It really is a personal matter, Miss Bezale. I wouldn’t wish to—”
Farri caught himself.
“Actually, I think it would be fair to say. I’m certain my client would wish you to know. And it is a client that I don’t wish to offend, Miss Bezale. And Lady du Valeross, is it?”
He bowed to Montressa. She nodded at him, confused. But she had a sinking feeling.
“That’s correct. Who is your client?”
The [Merchant] gave her a larger grin.
“Ah, well, she’s new to her money, but I value my relationship with her. I have no doubt she’ll be a valuable customer in years to come, and I wouldn’t want to offend her in any way. And I’m led to believe she would be very upset at my doing business with Miss Bezale here.”
“And your client’s name is…?”
“Miss Selys Shivertail. Owner of the Heartflame Breastplate. I…understand you had an altercation with her?”
Farri leaned against the side of his wagon. It was a bit unprofessional, but there was a glint in his eyes that told Montressa that she wouldn’t be shopping at his cart. Beza wavered.
“Wait. She was the Drake…?”
“Did someone say the Heartflame Breastplate? I’ve been dying to take a look at it! It’s here in Liscor, right?”
Isceil appeared next to them, tail wagging eagerly. Montressa felt a lump in her stomach. She turned to Isceil.
“Uh—Isceil. Remember the Drake that Palt, uh—remember her? Turns out that was the owner of the Heartflame Breastplate.”
“And the niece of Zel Shivertail. And the granddaughter of the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild.”
Farri threw in helpfully. Beza closed her eyes. Isceil’s tail stopped wagging.
“Her? But she was with that bastard Human—”
“Merchant Farri, we had a reason for the incident in question. And we paid off our fine with the Watch. I am extremely sorry for Miss Shivertail’s involvement, but we were pursuing a wanted criminal. If we can still talk about the possibility of—”
Beza looked desperate, but Farri was just shaking his head.
“Miss Shivertail is a valued client. And I’m afraid I can’t consider the possibility of business, Miss Bezale. I do wish you a good day! But if you’ll excuse me…”
He ushered the three [Mages] away from his cart. Bezale stepped back. Isceil looked at Montressa, shock written across his face. The [Aegiscaster] felt it herself.
“The Heartflame Breastplate? And that—she had it? The one who was screaming at us?”
“I wanted to see it. I heard you could rent it! My faction wanted to see if she’d consider any offer for it…Archmage Naili is not going to be happy.”
“And I’m out hundreds of gold pieces! Possibly thousands! Damn, damn—”
Beza stomped back to her stall, furious. She whirled as her friends followed her.
“That [Necromancer] has been nothing but trouble, Montressa!”
“You knew we were going after him! Don’t blame me!”
“We should have contacted the Watch!”
“That’s what I—”
Isceil faltered as Beza and Montressa glared at him. He raised his claws in a conciliatory manner.
“Okay, look. We all made mistakes. But what are we going to do? We can’t go after that Pisces in the city—”
Montressa wove a [Hush] spell around them. She glared, turning her head in case one of the [Guards] could read lips.
“We’re going after him, Isceil. And we’ll get him. He won’t stay in Liscor forever. We grab him, and we get the door and Miss Solstice. Those are our orders.”
Beza folded her arms.
“We do that and the City Watch will be all over us. And that damn Drake with the spear’s dangerous. I don’t agree that kidnapping her is in our best interests, Montressa.”
Montressa glared up at her.
“How would you do it?”
“Get the [Necromancer] outside the city. That’s simple. Liscor can’t force us to give him back. The Academy will back us on that. Convince Miss Solstice to come with us.”
“Fat chance of that. That damn Human fleshbag threw curry in my eyes! Do you have any idea how much it hurts? I’m with Montressa, let’s kidnap her.”
“You want to try that with Grimalkin of Pallass around?”
The [Mages] fell silent. Montressa glared, clenching her fists.
