“There’s an easy way to tell, although it’s odd. Normally, a spell that messes with the head will remain concealed until the victim is aware of it. And naturally the magic prevents them from realizing something’s off. But if you think there’s a spell on you, this should work.”
Ceria explained as she raised her hand. Her fingertips were glowing green. Across from her, Pisces closed his eyes as his fingertips glowed blue.
“[Detect Magic].”
Pisces and Ceria cast the spell at the same time and glared at each other. The room suddenly lit up.
Ryoka and Erin gasped as Val suddenly exploded in colors like a Christmas tree. Magical auras swirled around him, concentrating on spots about his person. His pockets, places at his belt—
“Tree rot. You were right, Ryoka!”
Ceria pointed at Ryoka. She looked around, and noticed a shining coming from her as well. It was hard to see, but there was something…swirling around her head? Something bright, like a halo of smog. Erin stared at it.
“Hey! Your belt is glowing too!”
It was true. Some of the potions on Ryoka’s belt were glowing faintly, but one of them—the orange-pink potion Teriarch had given her was shining with light. Val whistled.
“There’s some magic here.”
Pisces and Ceria had their own aura of glowing colors as well. In fact, only Erin and Olesm were without their aura of colors. The inn was full of magical auras shining from different locations. Val, Ryoka, Ceria, the chessboard, Pisces…
“Well, there’s something strong affecting you, that’s certain.”
Both mages canceled their spell and the inn faded back into the normal range of colors. Everything suddenly seemed drab and ordinary. Ceria stared at Ryoka’s head, and shook her head.
“You’re enchanted. And with something so powerful that I don’t know that I can do anything about it. Sorry, Ryoka.”
“I know I can’t do anything about that.”
Pisces sat back in his chair, wide-eyed. He took Val’s drink and drained it.
“That’s Tier…6 magic? Tier 7? Who did you anger so to make them use that on you?”
“I have an idea. Damn.”
Ryoka sighed, frustrated but vindicated. She was right. And maybe the faeries were…nah. It couldn’t be. But how could they tell?
Val frowned at Ryoka, and then fished in his pockets.
“You’re just full of surprises, aren’t you? Hold on; here. Take this.”
He took something out of his pocket and showed it to Ryoka and the room.
“I’ve got a powerful charm I use to ward against that kind of magic. It’s worth several thousand gold pieces, so it should remove anything that’s affecting you.”
“Oh! I know those!”
Erin peered excitedly at the charm dangling from Val’s hand. Ryoka recognized the object as well. It was a dreamcatcher, a circle in which someone had woven threads together in a symmetrical shape, like a spider’s web.
The only difference here was that this dreamcatcher was a far smaller version of the ones Ryoka and Erin had seen – barely longer than a thumb. And the frame was made of metal, not wood. But the threads were beautiful, each one a shimmering line of color that made a tantalizing pattern in the center of the charm.
“Here. Just put it against your head and it will dispel any magic on you.”
Val handed the dreamcatcher to Ryoka, and she looked at it dubiously.
“Are you sure?”
He shrugged.
“It’s not a one-use item, and if you’re enchanted, you’ll need something powerful to remove it. Consider it a favor from one Runner to another.”
“Huh. Uh, thanks.”
As soon as she accepted it, the small charm began buzz. Val nodded.
“You’re under the effects of something.”
Ryoka lifted it up, and suddenly the buzzing became a low whine. Val frowned.
“It shouldn’t be making that sound. Wait a—”
Too late. Ryoka pressed the charm against her head. She felt the metal warm, and then it cooled. Ryoka lowered the charm, and stared at it, bemused.
“I don’t know if anything hap—”
Something clicked in her head. It was like Ryoka suddenly going through déjà vu, only a thousand times stronger. She blinked. Memory, forgotten memory rushed into her head. Along with a word.
One word, echoing in her head.
Dragon.
The whine coming from the dreamcatcher suddenly turned into a shriek. Olesm clapped his hands over his ears and Pisces and Ceria ducked.
The dreamcatcher exploded, throwing Ryoka backwards. Val moved like a whirlwind, and Erin gasped as fiery fragments disappeared inches from her face.
Ryoka was catapulted over the top of a table, knocking Pisces’s empty plate off. She crashed hard to the ground as porcelain shattered under her, and felt something wrench in her shoulder.
“Ryoka! Are you okay?”
Erin crouched next to Ryoka, peering anxiously at her friend’s face. Ryoka was alright, albeit bruised and dazed. But she didn’t respond right away. Her eyes were flickering. The dreamcatcher had worked.
She remembered. She remembered everything.
