She was a Queen, and he was not. In theory, that meant that he would obey her every whim. But theory is a poor substitute for reality, and the Antinium had long ago learned that a single entity could not be trusted to make the best choice every time.
So the position of Prognugator had been established, and much work had gone into their being. Each Prognugator was able to assist their Queen by handling the lesser affairs of the Hive, and even caution her if they believed she was in error.
Such incidents were rare, but they spoke to a system that worked. And yet, this particular Antinium was neither Prognugator nor another Queen, and still he had authority of his own.
Klbkch, newly reincarnated Revalantor of the Free Antinium, was technically above the rank of Prognugator. He could ignore even his Queen’s instructions, such was the nature of his duties.
Still, there was a difference between willful disobedience for a higher purpose and rebellion. Klbkch still obeyed his Queen’s orders in normal affairs, and she could question his actions much as he could hers.
Such as now.
“Glass windows? Why, Klbkchhezeim?”
Klbkch lowered his head as he knelt before his Queen.
“I deemed it a necessary expense, milady. The Hive can easily afford the cost, after all.”
“‘Can’ does not mean ‘should’. Moreover, you were rebuilding an inn that the human destroyed herself. Why waste the Hive’s resources on such a trivial thing?”
“We have more than enough funds to spare.”
This was true, but what of it? The Queen knew their Hive had enough gold to buy windows for much of Liscor. They provided valuable services with their Workers, although they took care not to take away too many jobs from the local citizenry.
In fact, they regularly under-produced when providing services. The Antinium’s Workers could construct and deconstruct buildings overnight if they so chose. They were efficient, tireless, and didn’t need to bother with measuring tools or work from a blueprint.
It would be a simple matter to take over much of Liscor’s industry, but that would invariably lead to economic disaster. And the Hive was meant to work together with other species, not drive them apart.
So while the Free Antinium occupied a vital slice of the economy, they still left plenty of work and opportunity for business with other species. They bought many goods—food, crafted items, and clothing, despite having little need for any of it. The Hive could produce all of the Antinium’s needs, but no one had to know that.
None of that justified needless waste. The Queen stared hard at Klbkch.
“Explain. Is this a gift to be offered this human child, or a bribe of sorts?”
“A gift, my Queen. Goodwill offered so that she might assist us with our tasks.”
“Hmf. I see.”
Klbkch spread his hands. He had only two, which bothered the Queen still. But it was something he had requested, and the efficiency of his new form would become evident in time.
“We need Erin Solstice far more than she needs us. And I believe her help should not be coerced. Small gifts and assistance rendered may benefit us in the long run.”
“The fact that it is her, a single human who has achieved the dream of the Antinium bothers me deeply, Klbkchhezeim. Why her? Why now? Why, after so long does it appear to be so simple?”
Klbkch tried to calm the agitation he sensed in his Queen. He spoke calmly and clearly.
“Perhaps because we have been foolish and adopted the wrong approach. We had no idea how to go about accomplishing this impossibility. And perhaps—because Erin Solstice is no ordinary human.”
“I see.”
The Queen did, and in more ways than just what Klbkch said. She knew he was keeping a secret from her regarding the human known as Erin Solstice. She did not care. Klbkch was loyal and if she did not trust him implicitly, he would not have lived past the day. He just irritated her sometimes. But then, they’d been a pair, the two of them, for longer than she could remember. It was just their way.
“The new one, Ksmvr. He struggles to take up your mantle.”
“Is that surprising? He is new. Give him time.”
“I would have killed him for his failure before.”
“He did not know. I have rectified his thinking. And a Prognugator is needed in the Hive.”
“Mm.”
The Queen shifted. There was much she didn’t like about the current situation. That was odd, considering that they had finally achieved part of the Antinium’s dream.
“What else goes on in the world above?”
Klbkch nodded. He paused, thinking. A Worker would never pause, and neither would a Soldier. But neither truly thought. Thought was something the Queen had learned to value above all else. She waited, patiently.
“The Listeners to the south also report a group of Gnoll warriors heading towards the city. They are led by a high-level warrior, and all belong to the Silverfang Tribe.”
“Interesting. The same tribe as before? Gazi the Omniscient slew the last group of warriors. What merits such great need that they would risk a second party?”
“Erin Solstice, perhaps. Or maybe a confluence of events.”
“Hrm. See to it they do not disturb the plan.”
“Yes.”
“Anything else?”
“The Listeners report a Courier has come delivering a package from the north. He is already in the city, asking after the Drake named Olesm.”
“At least this does not involve Erin Solstice.”
Klbkch paused again, and then, for the first time in years, the Queen heard humor in his voice.
“Not quite, milady. He asks after the best chess player in the city. He believes that is Olesm, but…”
The Queen shifted in her spot in the cavern, moving her bloated body. Her voice rose, and the Soldiers standing guard at the entrance to her room stirred.
“Why does the world turn upon one small human? What makes her unique!?”
The wrath of his ruler did not faze Klbkch, and his voice cut through her ire as he raised it.
“Perhaps because she is part of a grander picture, my Queen. One I have not put together yet, but it includes Erin Solstice. And she is not alone. Ryoka Griffin, Erin Solstice…they are pieces. I believe they are connected with the other anomalies found by the Hives.”
That stopped his Queen. She paused, and took in the silent messages he sent her across the telepathic link.
“It must be discussed. Find out more. I will speak with the others. In the meantime, others come from three Hives. They will wish to see the Abber—the Individuals. Ensure all five come to no harm.”
“With your permission, I will send them to the inn—under guard—with other Workers to continue learning to play chess.”
“Do so. Do what you must, Klbkch. I will keep the affairs of the Hive in order, regardless of what must be done above.”
“Thank you, my Queen.”
She sighed. She’d lost her closest confidant, her second feeler and her blade and shield. Her duties weighed on her more heavily.
But. But this was a time of change. A time of glorious revelation and success. She could feel it in her core. Just a little longer, and perhaps…
“They will be here soon. Do what can be done with this innkeeper until then.”
“Yes.”
There was nothing left to be said. The Queen raised a languid feeler and paused. A final thought made her speak.
“…Are you quite sure she has no more of those acid flies?”
“Yes, milady.”
“What a pity.”
 
—-
 
Once upon a time, there was an old city. A millennia ago, it stood tall and proud, a kingdom rich in both magic and wealth. But like all things, it eventually faded. The people’s hearts grew small, or perhaps the rulers grew arrogant and cruel. Eventually, the city fell to corruption from within.
They sealed their doors, and built terrible weapons. The survivors created traps to protect their wealth and loosed monsters in the walls of their homes. They sealed away the most powerful of their relics, daring any to claim them from this place of death.
Or something. Erin wasn’t too sure on the exact details, but the ancient ruins were apparently a big find, and everyone was excited and terrified.
Excited, because you might find the one ring of power in the ruins. Terrified, because Sauron himself might be down there, ready to poke your eye out.
Either way, the story made no sense.
“How the heck do you forget about an entire city?”
Olesm shrugged helplessly as he considered his next move. Erin waited to see whether he thought losing the bishop or the knight was a better idea. True, traditional thought on the matter said that bishops were more valuable over time, but the knight could threaten her king. Until she took it out with a little trap with a knight and her queen, that was.
“It surprised the Captain as much as everyone else. I mean, it was a fluke discovery. We were looking for something that might identify the species of monster Skinner was, and then we found a nearly complete map and some ruined texts in a book.”
Ceria watched as Olesm carefully saved his bishop from certain doom. Erin snatched away his knight and began advancing on Olesm’s king as they talked.
It had been a long time since either Olesm or Erin had played chess. So both had taken the time to play a few games after they’d established that a second Skinner was not about to rip their faces off.
Really, Olesm could have waited until tomorrow. But since sleep was pretty much out after Ceria’s nightmare, they’d stayed up, fortified by hot food and games of chess. Well, Olesm and Erin played chess. Ceria just watched.
“You’d think someone would at least remember, right?”
“I don’t know. It was a long time ago, and I suppose if the ruins were never found people would just forget. It could have been thousands of years old. Some of the ruins people find date back to the time when Elves still roamed the earth.”
“Really?”
“Yes. Zevara says—well, she’s worried whether this is a magic dungeon or just an old one. Skinner sort of points to it being magical, which would be trouble.”
“Um. Aren’t all dungeons magical?”
“No…at least, a lot of dungeons have magical things in them it’s true, but a magical dungeon has some kind of source of mana. It—well, Ceria, can you explain?”
“Yeah.”
The half-Elf nodded. She went to fold her hands behind her head and stopped.
“Magical dungeons are special because they essentially don’t run out of monsters. And they’re a completely different magnitude of dangerous than a non-magical dungeon.”
Erin captured one of Olesm’s pawns and he groaned.
“Why?”
“The mana in the dungeons attracts nastier monsters. Plus, it might make them stronger. Add that to the fact that whatever’s producing the mana is usually incredibly deadly, and some dungeons never get fully cleared. The nearby cities and nations just post guards and hire adventurers to keep the monster populations on the higher levels in check and pray nothing really bad comes out.”
“Sounds awful. And there’ll be more things like that Skinner?”
“The tombs were more like a non-magical dungeon, despite the undead. So, no. The rest of the dungeons might be far worse.”
Erin shuddered.
“Is there any good news?”
Olesm shook his head, but only because Erin was about to checkmate him.
“Maybe. It could be good for business. When adventurers hear there’s a huge dungeon here, they’re going to flood into the city.”
“I thought they did. Then they ran away.”
“Those were Bronze and Silver-rank adventurers. But a confirmed magical dungeon this old? It’s going to pull in Named Adventurers and Gold-rank adventurers, possibly even from other continents.”
“Whoa. Sounds good. And bad.”
“Mhm. Am I in checkmate?”
“In two moves you are.”
Olesm sighed and tipped over his king. He looked at the board sadly and shook his head.
“I thought the few levels I gained would make a difference, but that’s not the case.”
“You’re getting better.”
Erin reassured the Drake. She glanced out one of her lovely glass windows and frowned at the sky. It was getting light outside.
“Hm. Odd. I thought I’d get a few more visitors by now.”
“Visitors? Do you mean the Antinium? Or the Goblins?”
“No, I meant visitors. Guests. People I don’t know who want to buy lots of food and give me money.”
Erin sighed. She glanced out the window. The city was visible in the distance, but she didn’t see any people heading her way.
“You see, I was selling those hamburgers all yesterday and I was sure everyone would come rushing here tomorrow to buy more. But maybe they’re all not hungry? Or still sleeping?”
Olesm fidgeted as he reset the board.
“Oh. About that…”
Someone pushed open the door. Erin turned around, beaming.
“Hello, welcome! Come in and—oh. It’s you.”
Pisces kicked snow in from outside as he stumbled into the warm room. He looked around distractedly, and then lurched over to Erin.
“Ah. There you are. Your inn moved. Why did it move?”
Erin scowled at him and wondered if this was a sign of how her day would be. Pisces was not her favorite guest. In fact, she’d prefer to have almost anyone in her inn but him.
But she paused and reconsidered as Pisces approached. He seemed thinner than normal, and his robes were even dirtier than normal. When had she last seen him? A day ago?
No—not since they’d come out of the Ruins with Ceria. Normally Pisces appeared at her inn every other day at the minimum. Where had he been?
The mage’s messy hair was a sparrow’s nest, and his eyes were bloodshot. But he was grinning manically as he approached. He held something clasped between both hands, and Erin eyed it warily.
“Pisces. Why are you here?”
“I’ve just made a tremendous—no, exceptional achievement in the field of necromancy. I have formulated a new branch of magic, by myself.”
He glanced around and only now seemed to notice Ceria and Olesm.
“Ah. Springwalker. Drake. Greetings.”
Ceria raised one eye at Pisces. She didn’t seem surprised by his disheveled state.
“Pisces. What madness have you cooked up this time?”
Erin wasn’t sure she wanted to know. But Pisces was clearly eager to show her. He opened his hands.
“Behold!”
He lifted one hand to show Erin what was on his palm. Erin blinked down at something small and—crawly?
“Gyaaah! Spider!”
She flipped his hand up and the spider landed on Pisces’ face. He screamed.
“Get it off!”
The small spider scuttled off his face and onto the ground. It sped towards Olesm and the Drake yelped and toppled out of his chair. But the spider ignored him. It sped up a table leg and crawled underneath the bottom of the table to reach the top. There it paused, silently facing Olesm.
“Spider! Squash it!”
Ceria caught Erin as she raised the chessboard to smush the horrible thing. The half-Elf held her back as Pisces got back up off the ground.
“Don’t hurt it! It’s my creation!”
“What?”
