The people who lived here kept their flashlights in the pantry, which was not one of the first places Alden had looked, but at least once he found them, all of them worked.

I owe them for three flashlights, the socks and shoes, and a cherry cola, he thought when he was done with his quick supply run. And one door.

He’d used his crushing spell on the knob to get inside, and he was carrying the pieces away with him. If the house survived the night, he thought the presence of a perfectly pancaked doorknob would be more suspicious than no doorknobs at all.

As he set out, he marked a new building he wanted to head toward. It had two flashing antennas on the top.

I can do this. It really can’t be that far until I find people. Lots of people.

Humanity, not just isolated daredevils or murderers.

He’d been periodically peeking at the scratchpad Liam had given him, hoping that the man had found his sister and she’d activated the other half. So far there had been nothing.

Ten minutes later, as he was checking a car parked on a curb for keys, the sound of water reached him. Alden lifted the flashlight and spun in circles.

Where is it? And where is it headed?

This street seemed fine.

Just as he was realizing that the source of the noise must be more distant than he’d feared, the flashlight beam illuminated the car, and he stopped, staring at the raindrops on the hood that hadn’t completely dried from the last drizzle.

They were oozing slowly in the direction he wanted to go.

That’s…not great.

I can’t knowingly head toward what’s got to be a growing problem. But I shouldn’t backtrack either.

A sheet of paper—a flyer torn from its home no doubt—fluttered past him. Alden hesitated for a few seconds more, trying to think around his nerves, then he set out at a diagonal, hoping that would take him forward without putting him in harm’s way.

“Zeridee, Tiny Snake, we’re still moving. That’s what counts. Our night has already sucked enough now, and it’s time for it to get better.”

Talking to his passengers was as good a way to stay motivated as any.

The diagonal path he’d set took him back onto streets strewn with evidence that flooding had taken place. The debris grew thicker and thicker, and after a careful examination of some very still water that had collected on the lid of an overturned garbage can, Alden decided it was safe enough to switch back to a more direct route.

Not long after that, in a place where the debris from some large movement of water had been deposited in a huge drift, he found the bodies.

******
