“The screens on these new models automatically recognize you once you give them permission to id you as the current user, and any messages you’ve received will appear in the inbox. You get to hold it for three minutes and send as many messages as you can in that time.”

Challenge accepted, thought Lute, the fingers of his right hand already flickering over the device’s keypad.

The inbox was showing up as empty. He hated that. He’d really thought one of them would have gotten their hands on a phone by now, but maybe they were in the same situation as him, stuck waiting in line for someone at a shelter to share.

“When you get done, it’s best if you tell the phone it can deliver your messages to me for the night,” said Vandy. “That way any that have come in will pop up automatically whenever I hold it, and I’ll send a runner to find you as soon as I get one for you. Otherwise you’ll have to wait for another turn to check the phone yourself.”

“Okay. I’ll give permission. I actually thought it would take much longer for my turn to come, though,” he said, finishing addressing a general “alive and well” message to his parents and, for good measure, Aimi. “You have so many names on the chart. You’re moving through them really fast.”

Vandy glanced up at him and then back down. “No. We’re already behind schedule. You were just on a shorter list because I assumed you were trying to get in touch with your parents.”

Lute sent a message to a couple of people his dad sometimes hung out with, asking if they’d seen him tonight. Then he started one to Aunt Hikari.

She was so responsible that she’d definitely answer if she happened to see it.

Next I’ll do Roman. He likes to gossip so he might know things

And then I’ll send something to the guys.

What Vandy had said suddenly registered, but he didn’t want to waste his time with the phone to ask questions. Just as his three minutes were approaching their end, the device pinged, and Lute’s thumb shot down to accept the message.

Oh. Haoyu’s just sent me something.

That’s a really long text. Wow.

“Haoyu wrote me a book,” he said. “I can’t read it in the next four seconds.”

“Haoyu texted you?” Vandy looked up. Then down. Then around. “You can have it for one more minute.”

Lute raised an eyebrow. She’s breaking a rule.

He was one hundred percent sure she was doing it for Haoyu, not for him. But he read the message gladly.

They all got off the bridge? Since when were they on the bridge?!

And it doesn’t sound like Alden and Lexi are with him. But he says they’re all safe.

Haoyu had signed the message Foe Cooker.

Clinging to the phone for a bit longer after his extra minute was up was tempting, but Lute passed it back.

“Why was I on a short list?” he asked. “Aren’t most people here trying to get in touch with their parents?”

“Yes,” said Vandy. “But I made a separate section of the chart for people who had more reason to be worried about family members.”

Because they’re not Avowed? I think…that was thoughtful of her.

“They’re probably fine,” he said, as much to himself as to her. “I don’t know exactly where they are, but the System is teleporting people away from dangerous areas, right?”

Everyone on campus had just been told to walk to shelters since they had the high school and uni gyms.

Vandy exchanged a look with Olive, who was sitting beside her, wearing a pink jacket backwards.

Their faces…

“What?” Lute asked.

“The System’s the one in charge of teleporting people,” said Olive. “It’s doing it in an unexpected way. Not like most people are thinking it should. Either it’s in serious emergency control mode or the Artonans are…I guess there’s not a real difference.”

“Are you saying it’s not teleporting everyone out of dangerous areas?”

Vandy set aside her pen. Lute was now officially afraid of whatever she was going to say.

“Its teleportation priority order seems to be based on several different factors according to what we’ve heard and the messages we’ve been receiving. All non-Avowed below the age of twenty definitely received the highest priority.”

“Right,” said Lute. “Like Apex emergency priority.”

Vulnerable people first.

“But after evacuating minors, its second priority seems to be something more like combat force preservation,” said Vandy. “Balanced with consideration for an individual’s immediate risk but not as much as we might expect.”

“We just took a message from someone who said if you reject your teleport, you don’t get another no matter how much trouble you get yourself into,” Olive piped up. “And then you have to consider how the System is teleporting around all of the people who are fighting the ocean and performing in-person rescues.”

“Back up,” said Lute. “What does combat force preservation mean?”

Vandy looked uncomfortable. “It means what it sounds like. But don’t worry. There are tall buildings and shelters all over the place. Any inland skyscraper should be an excellent evacuation spot.”

There is no way, thought Lute, that my parents fall into any category that Vandy Carisson might call a ‘combat force’.

“Almost everyone,” said Vandy, “will be fine.”

******

******

“This is a loooong walk,” Natalie Choir said, trying to hold a small pink umbrella over herself and Hadiza at the same time. “Whew. Okay! I’m sure we are just about to reach Bunker Street. Yay! Stay positive! Hadiza, are your feet all right?”

“They have been better.” Hadiza was looking down at the high heels she’d worn for their Friday night out. “My skill makes them beautiful. Not comfortable.”

“You can take them off soon. Emilija…um…Go, Emilija! Good Emilija! Smiles!”

Emilija sighed. “Go, Natalie,” she said in a heavy accent, twirling her own umbrella a little. “Good Natalie. Smiles.”

Natalie held a hand up for a high five, and Emilija obliged her before turning to Hadiza and giving the Nigerian girl a pained look.

“She thinks you are someone who gets too loud when nervous, Natalie,” Hadiza said. “I can tell by her face.”

“I’m going to learn Lithuanian after this!” Natalie announced. “It’s the obvious thing to do.”

New Sybaris was near the coast. The whole district had cleared out and headed inland when the sirens started. The Rabbit girls had all three been told to head to the same place to seek safety.

“Timer,” said Emilija quietly.

“Mine’s longer now, too,” Hadiza said.

“Mine, too. Again. But I wasn’t going to mention it this time because we are almost there. I can practically smell Bunker Street from here.”

They were in a throng of people waiting to cross a street with a less auspicious name. The traffic had stopped obeying lights in some places, which wasn’t helping when it came to getting around.

“Left,” said Emilija.

The other two looked at her.

“Left?” Hadiza asked.

Emilija pointed left, made a walking motion with two of her fingers, then pointed straight ahead.

“We’ll follow you,” Natalie said. “Lead, lead!”

Emilija set off, and they hurried after her. Not long after, a man walking on the sidewalk behind them suddenly let out a relieved sound, and as they all three turned to look, he disappeared. The black umbrella that had been in his hand hit the ground with a clatter.

Hadiza mumbled something.

Emilija said, “No fair.”

It was what they had started saying every time someone was teleported away to instant safety.

“No fair,” Hadiza agreed.

“No fair. But free umbrella! One for each of us.” Natalie thrust the pink umbrella toward Hadiza and ran over to pick up the one the man had dropped. “This is a big one. Would either of you like it?”

At that moment, their interfaces flared:

[Local Update: Bunker Street shelter at capacity. Head north to Norsehorse Condominiums.]

Natalie bit her lip. “That’s…new. Not bad. Just new instructions.”

Hadiza was glaring at her own notice.

Emilija’s hands were clenched at her sides. “Why?” she whispered.

“It says it’s full,” Natalie said.

“Why?” Emilija demanded, throwing aside her umbrella to stare up at the sky.

“She probably wonders why we were sent to a shelter that would be filled before we reached it,” Hadiza said. “I wonder too.”

“Maybe the System made a mistake?”

“Does it do that?” Hadiza asked. Then her eyes widened. “Emilija? Emilija! Where are you going?”

Emilija had taken off running.

“That isn’t north!” Hadiza called.

She and Natalie chased after their friend down the street, then across it onto another, both of them arguing with her and yelling at her. She yelled back one and two word answers in English that didn’t do enough to explain what the matter was.

Then they started to hear the sounds of the mob.

Emilija slowed down. The others did as well. They passed a sign that said Bunker Street Entry 2, and their own fight was forgotten as they were met with a much more serious one.

“What is this?” Hadiza breathed.

They stood on a one-way lane that intersected Bunker Street. A horde of people, shouting demands and swearing in a dozen languages, stood between them and the entrance to the bunker that the street had been named for. A section of the street itself had lifted like a hatch to reveal a wide ramp that led down below the surface. Men and women with red rings of light over their heads were trying to push the crowd back from the opening. Someone shot a spell at a man who’d scaled the massive hatch from behind, and he fell, bellowing.

Natalie shrieked, then covered her mouth with her hands, backing away.

She bumped into Hadiza, who never even blinked.

[Warning: Hazard in your area. Do not interfere with Avowed on assignment. Avowed on assignment are indicated on your interface.]

“We don’t stay here,” said Hadiza suddenly. She grabbed Emilija by the arm. “Come with us. Let’s go.”

Emilija was gazing at the bunker. Her chest was heaving. Her eyes started to water.

“What’s wrong?” Natalie asked. “Emilija, what’s wrong? We just need to keep walking. We’re getting farther and farther from the coast with every step. It’s all right.”

The older girl said something in Lithuanian, her voice shaking.

Hadiza and Natalie looked at each other.

“Timer,” said Emilija, wiping at her eyes and spinning around to start back the way they’d come.

“Did yours change again?” Hadiza said.

“No timer for me,” said Emilija. “None. It’s gone.”

******

******

Alden was exhausted.

He knew because he’d started stumbling. First over one piece of rubbish he’d misjudged, then another.

The next street will be clear. The next. Keep going, he told himself. You can take the stimulant when you get just a little farther. Don’t want it to wear off.

At least it’s not that LeafSong shit that almost blew up your heart.

Rrorro had literally healed his heart. That was sobering. He usually thought about other things she’d healed because those sessions had happened when he was more coherent and in more pain.

But a heart is a pretty important body part, and mine had to be healed. Let’s not do that again.

His Artonan tablet was in his hand, screen pointed toward his feet. It didn’t actually have a flashlight feature, so he’d set it to play one of Kibby’s saved videos as bright as it could.

“Alden,” she was saying, “when we see each other again, how different will you be?”

It was one of her sweeter messages.

Kibby had many modes—scientist, moralizer, reminiscer, teacher. This particular mode was different, and it didn’t crop up as often in the videos as it had in person, which was a great thing. But Alden still found its reappearance touching.

“For example,” said Kibby, “you might grow even taller than Distinguished Master Ro-den. You might also grow to have different opinions about people. Even people you know very well. Like me. Do you think those two things might happen to you?”

So sneaky Kibby. I will definitely never know which question you actually want answered if you distract me by mentioning me growing even taller than Joe.

“Humans become adults more quickly than Artonans,” she said. “Maybe you are becoming different faster than you realize. I think you should think about it and you should tell me your thoughts.”

My thoughts are that every time you worry about something so silly I have to increase the size of our someday matching tattoos by ten percent.

“I will never have a different opinion about you,” Kibby said. “But that doesn’t mean that you’re the same.”

I think I don’t like how I answered this message. He’d reassured her that he’d never stop liking her and she wouldn’t find his personality that different when they met again, but he’d been less open than he might’ve been if they were face to face. A little too aware of the fact that others might see it. I’ll redo it as soon as I don’t look like hell.

He trudged on until he finally made it to a street that looked normal. Except for the power being out and the place being abandoned.

It had taken forever. As his reward, he gave himself the stimulant. He felt better instantly. Not wonderful, but well enough to keep going.

With his newfound energy and his auriad, he broke into a house that looked like it belonged on the cover of an architectural magazine and ignored the high-pitched screeching of an alarm while he committed burglary.

“I should have done this before I even left Punta de la Luna,” Alden said to Zeridee and the snake while he sat on a bench at the foot of a king sized bed and put on thick socks and a pair of boots.  “Hindsight. In the future, we resort to crime faster.”

He stuffed the sandals into his bag in case something happened to the boots.

