He assumed most of the newest first year hero class, including his roommates, had gotten stuck at Rosa Grove when everything went wrong.

“If that place was underwater, the whole family neighborhood would be. That’s just not possible,” someone said.

“No. Re-read the System update. ‘Observed effects include: forced submersion—usually but not always of elementally defined objects, rapid motion of submerged materials, sudden influxes of water in limited coastal areas.’”

“What are you saying?”

“A building is an object. It would be like what happened to The Span.”

A girl’s voice chimed in. “I just talked to someone in the bathroom who was there. She only just made it back to campus.”

“In Nilama?”

“At The Span!”

Lute stepped aside to let a group of older teens enter the room where the discussion was taking place. A moment later, his ears picked up on another conversation happening behind him.

“You’ll let me know if they reply back, won’t you, Vandy?”

“Of course I will. Just don’t leave the building. We need to keep track of everyone.”

“I’m after Heloísa.”

“No, Sanjay. You’re after Olive. She put herself on the list before you did. It won’t be long.”

Lute turned. He could only make out a slice of Vandy Carisson’s face and torso, thanks to the gaggle of people standing around her as she sat with her back to the wall.

He moved closer, trying to see around the backside of an appallingly lazy guitarist he knew from a shared class.

Vandy had claimed one of the only outlets on the hallway, and she’d plugged in one of those power strips that was made for infogear. Three of the latest model phones were linked to it by their tiny chargethreads, and all of them were currently being held by people who were texting on them. With one hand, Vandy was passing a fourth phone to that Adjuster girl who could make illusions of herself; with the other, she was writing in a spiralbound notebook.

“Heloísa, now that you’ve had your turn, would you go ask the instructors and the helpers if they have any messages that should be sent?” she asked an athletic girl who was wearing sneakers with pajama shorts and a hoody. “Since they’re so busy, we can do it for them. Just make sure you get names and enough information.”

Vandy ripped some sheets of paper out of the notebook and passed them over.

“Thanks for the mission!” Heloísa sprang up from her squat on the floor and raced off.

Lute took advantage of the gap left by her absence to slip even closer to Vandy.

Are all the phones hers? Where did she get so much infogear?

She’d never carried the stuff back at Paragon, and he couldn’t imagine why she would suddenly have started once she got her own interface.

Vandy was wearing her gym suit. Lute wondered if it was for safety, or if she’d run out of the dorms in such a hurry that the unitard was more appropriate than whatever she’d had on.

Her brown hair was uncharacteristically unkempt, and strands were escaping from a cloud-shaped barrette to fall around her cheeks as she focused on the chart she’d made inside her notebook. There were a ton of names on it already.

One of the phones chimed, and the boy holding it passed it to her.

Vandy read the message, wrote it down in the notebook beside someone’s name, then passed it back.

Why couldn’t someone else have set up a calling service? Lute wondered.

She wasn’t a person who would refuse to let him use the phone just because she hated him, but he still wished he didn’t have to ask.

“Hi, Vandy.”

Her pen stopped scratching at the notebook. Her eyes met his. “Lute.”

“Are you sharing your phones? Do you mind if I borrow one to see if I have a message?”

Cyril had bought himself an infogear watch months ago, after moving out of the apartment Jessica had provided for him while Lute was growing up. The place was empty now. She had left messages suggesting Lute could have it.

He had never answered them.

When Vandy didn’t reply, Lute added, “Not right now or anything. Put me at the bottom of the list?”

She made him wait an awkwardly long time for an answer. Just as he was growing afraid that she might actually refuse, she nodded. “All right. Stay nearby. I’ll call your name when it’s your turn.”

“Thank you. I appreciate—”

“I’d like a wordchain,” she interrupted. Her voice was matter of fact. Mostly. Lute thought he was probably imagining the edge.

“Right…”

She didn’t mean it in a bartering way. Did she?

“Do you mean I can’t send a text if I don’t…?”

“I’d like to be able to focus better,” Vandy said, still staring at him. “I’m finding it difficult to concentrate on what matters right now. I will, of course, pay back the debt at a later date. And I will give you money. Isn’t that how it usually works?”

Matadero. Her mom. She probably is finding it difficult to concentrate.

“I don’t actually charge people for that kind of arrangement…I’d do it. I really would. But, the thing is…”

He didn’t blush. Blushing was for people who hadn’t spent months learning to control their facial expressions with their self-mastery chain active.

“I can’t actually target people right now,” he confessed. “The System assist is off, and I never learned how to do it without it.”

Because why would I have needed to?

“That’s ridiculous,” the lurking guitarist scoffed before Vandy could reply. “I can still target things. He’s lying.”

Lute actually had no idea what the dude’s Avowed powers were. He also didn’t care.

“Good for you,” he said cooly. “Why don’t you try to target the right notes the next time you play instead of publicly humiliating your instrument? The System is no longer assisting me with targeting. I can’t figure out how to do it without the System’s help. Therefore, I am not currently performing wordchains for other people.”

“Why would the System—?”

“It’s none of your business. I’m talking to Vandy.”

Her brows were drawn together. “Why would the System deny you targeting assistance?” she asked.

Lute groaned. Internally.

Externally, he cultivated a persona of patience and earnest apology.

“You could do so much with your skill to help people tonight,” Vandy said. “I’m surprised you haven’t been called for duty.”

“Well,” said Lute, mentally cursing at his grandmother and his tattoo for not allowing him to fully explain, “it’s a complicated situation.”

Take it up with the Palace of Unbreaking! Chainer is theirs, and they do not want me to get panicky and cast chains on entire buildings full of humans who might bite it or shirk debt.

Not without some form of pre-payment anyway.

The only other explanation he could think of was that it was the System itself that didn’t want to play with Chainers right now.

It wasn’t just targeting that was down. Mass Bestowal was a package that came with other significant System assistance. Some of the old people had trained themselves to do things without its help, but even if Lute had been trying to learn how, he should be a decade or three away from getting there.

“I assume if the crisis continues for long enough, and if the System actually needs me, I’ll be able to do more,” he said, hoping that satisfied Vandy.

They had a staring contest.

She doesn’t look very satisfied.

“If you can’t do it, then—”

“I will try for you. I tried for some other people tonight.”

“—then it’s okay,” Vandy finished.

Oh. She wasn’t going to refuse after all.

Lute watched her write his name on the chart. There was an odd feeling in his gut.

Is your mom all right, Vandy? Do you know?

He didn’t think he was allowed to ask her that.

“I’ll try,” he said. “Mental focus? There’s one I like for that. I call it ‘zone in’ because the real name is such a pain…never mind…just a minute.”

He pressed his hands together, crossing just the ring fingers over each other in the first sign. The wordchain was one he knew well enough to cast without too much thought, so he tried to think about targeting while he whispered the words.

For all the good it’ll do. He’d tried on more than a dozen people already. More than once on most of them.

What in Apex was targeting anyway?

It was a brain button Lute could click on his interface. He had learned to do that mentally.

It was a word he could say. Or pointing with a finger. It was Hey, System, help me aim at Vandy Carisson.

When the System was ignoring you, there was none of that.

So what was there to do other than…stare really, really hard at Vandy who is staring really, really hard at me and think about pointing my magic and my soul and the attention of a wordchain at her.

Go get her, chain. Ignore me!

I am a mighty Chainer, and I command you!

Lute had made one interesting discovery because of this situation. The wordchains didn’t seem to affect him when he was trying very hard to give them to another person this way. He’d accidentally hit himself with a single energy chain he hadn’t wanted, but other than that, they’d just failed.

This one was going to fail, too.

I feel bad. Chainer could actually be impressive at a time like this, but it’s just not going to be.

Vandy was still looking at him. She’d always had striking eyes. He’d thought she was pretty that day she’d made him hand over the dice to Carlotta. He still thought she was pretty now.

What an annoyance.

Finding someone hot when you had mixed feelings—heavily leaning toward bitter and embarrassed—about how they’d treated you for years and how you’d treated them in return, was stupid.

Being a teenager was stupid.

That stray draft that blew some of Vandy’s hair toward her mouth, making her tuck it behind her ear again as she moistened her lips with her tongue was extra stupid.

Lute finished the chain.

Sorry, Vandy. I tried my—

“You did it after all,” said Vandy. “Thank you. That’s better. I’m sure I’ll be much more efficient now.”

“Did it work?” he asked in surprise.

“Yes,” she said, already focused on adding a new column to her chart. “Although the System didn’t ask for my permission or inform me about what wordchain you were casting. Isn’t it supposed to?”

That’s…very interesting.

“It usually does.”

She nodded. “It’s good that it worked. You should consider what you might have done differently this time from your previous attempts. You’re very powerful, Lute. You have a responsibility to take things seriously.”

He stiffened, then his muscles loosened up a second later thanks to the self-mastery.

I wanted the horny killed, and she did it just like that. Remarkable.

“You do always want everything to be taken seriously, don’t you?” he said. “All right. Glad it worked for you. Say something when it’s my turn to use a phone. I’ll hear you.”

He strode off, trying to look unbothered. Probably succeeding.

She’s just doing her version of the right thing, like always. It’s good that she doesn’t realize she made you cry the last time she suggested you might take being an Avowed seriously.

Her mom’s on Matadero. Give her break.

The mood fell away from him as he walked down the hall. It was the wrong time to be hung up on such a small thing. Something had gone seriously wrong. The System was issuing disaster alerts.

It was impossible to feel personally endangered when he was surrounded by bright lights, instructors, and hundreds of teenagers—many of whom were more excited and intrigued by the drama of what was happening than frightened. But there were still some quiet, worried faces around him. And every time Lute saw one it made him feel the knot in his own chest more acutely.

He didn’t think anything bad could’ve happened to his parents. Not really. Evacuations were happening all over Apex and F-City. The System was helping. Adult Avowed were helping. Most of the hero program faculty and Principal Juma from Sciences were out there right now. There were hyperboles on duty. There were wizards.

It’s fine, right?

He’d feel a lot better after he’d used the phone.

Mom can probably get her hands on infogear, too. Even on a night like tonight. She’s good at things like that.

He found a patch of wall to lean against and tried to figure out how he’d targeted Vandy Carisson. Is it because she’s an S, too? I don’t think that should make a difference, but maybe it could.

Beside him, two girls were having a conversation about how the tips of the Apex crescent were being completely emptied of people.

“My Grandpa has a house in Punta de la Luna,” said a girl.

“That place is so nice. They have big yards. And the boardwalk,” her friend replied.

“Dad said Grandpa called him from the train, fiery mad that some speedster had told him he had to leave. He said they were just going to let the whole place go to the fish, and what did that say about the fighting spirit of Avowed?”

“Is your grandpa a superhero?”

“No. He’s a Morph actor. Have you ever seen Love Across Dimensions? He plays all the characters. Do you think they should really just let whole neighborhoods go like that, though?”

“Well, it’s a tiny area surrounded by ocean on three sides. I just hope they get everyone out before—”

“Lute,” Vandy said from the other end of the hall, “it’s your turn next.”

He was able to pick out her voice even though she hadn’t spoken that loudly. Surprised and relieved his chance had come so much sooner than he’d expected, he headed back toward her.

When he reached her, she passed him one of the phones. It was warm from being held in so many hands.

