Teepo, how many bushels are there? Ren asked.

“826.”

“I'll take 199 bushels, so there won't be any chance you might not have enough.” Ren said and stored them. They took up only a single slot, thanks to his Improved Storage, and he smiled at the woman. “Now, about the price...”

“I told you, we've only been growing to eat. I have no idea what to charge you.”

“I have some idea.” Ren said. “You can get a good meal for about 30 copper in Aurora, or an expensive meal for a gold and 50 silver.”

Both the girl's and the woman's mouths dropped open in shock, and Ren almost laughed at their identical expressions.

“Depending on how you use the vegetables, you could get maybe 10 meals out of each bushel.”

“T-t-ten meals? At 30 copper each?” The woman couldn't believe it.

“Now, that's with a huge population and a high turnover.” Ren said. “Out here, with a small population and no other income...”

The woman sighed and nodded. “They are only worth what someone is willing to pay for them.”

“With that reasoning, I'm hoping to bring more people into the county.” Ren said. “So, to be fair, I can only give you 10 copper per meal.”

The woman stared at him. “Are... are you...” She took several deep breaths. “That's... My Lord, I...”

“With 10 meals per bushel at 10 copper each, that's 1 silver coin per bushel of vegetables.” Ren said. “I know I'm undercutting you a little; but, I'm still assuming that I can sell the meals.”

“But... but...”

“Do you have a coin pouch?” Ren asked, and the woman shook her head. He took one out and put 199 silver into it. “There you are.”

The woman just stared at the coin pouch and didn't want to believe it. She held more money in her hands than she could have ever imagined. Ren felt her disbelief and pat her arm without touching her skin.

“Just equip it.” Ren said and she did so, then she gasped when the illusion of it not being true disappeared.

“You... you really gave me almost 2 gold coins.”

“Oh, right!” Ren said and took out another 10 silver. “I forgot the tip.” He said and handed it to her. “Thank you for letting me buy so much.”

“Y-y-you're w-welcome.” The woman said, quite shaken.

“It might not be the last time I come to see you, or send someone else to you to buy more.” Ren said. “Have a good day, Mrs. McCallister.”

“I... I will.” The woman said. “Thank you, My Lord.”

“Let's get back to the Main House, Russell.” Ren said and took Russell's arm.

“R-right.” Russell said. “Bye, Kallie.”

“Bye, Russell! See you later!”

Ren and Russell ran back to the Main House and went into the Mayor's office.

“Did they have enough food for you?” Patty asked.

“More than I thought, and the potential for a lot more.” Ren said. “Now I need meat.”

“You'll have to go down to the far corner of the county for that.” Patty said. “We needed them as far away from the food crops as possible.”

Ren nodded. “I saw the animal count.” He said, then looked at her. “Did my suggestion work? Feed the chickens more grain to make them happier and they lay more eggs?”

“It worked like a charm, especially with all the extra wheat we harvested.” Patty said and smiled. “What's it like to be right all the time?”

“Satisfying.” Ren said, and she laughed. It was unrestrained and delightful, and Ren basked in the emotions from her because he couldn't remember if he had heard her laugh before. He couldn't absorb the emotions, since he wasn't touching her; but, he liked them nonetheless.

“You have a nice laugh.” Ren said when she stopped, and her face flushed a little red. “Don't be embarrassed by that.” He said. “I just can't remember hearing it before, and I wanted you to know I liked it.”

“T-thank you.” Patty's face went a deeper red, and she looked at Russell. “T-t-the Bautman farm.”

Russell nodded and led Ren outside, then he ran at full speed. Ren kept up with him easily, even without the extra boosts from his armor and rings.

I really should fix the rings. Ren thought. I have to pull them apart and enchant the small diamonds again, though. He sighed, then thought of something. Hey, maybe I don't. He smiled and ran behind Russell. That might just work.

They arrived at the animal farm half an hour later, and Russell knocked on the front door.

“Yes, what... oh! Hi, Russell!” A young girl said when she opened the door.

“Hi, Sam.” Russell said.

Okay, this is getting ridiculous. Ren thought as Russell and the girl exchanged pleasantries, and he felt the mutual attraction between them. Yeah, I'm definitely going to have to message the tech guys about this.

“Mom!” The girl said. “Someone's here to buy meat!”

A woman came out to the front door and saw Ren behind Russell and gasped.

“M-my L-lord.” She said and gave Ren a curtsy.

“You don't have to do that.” Ren said, and she nodded. “I'd like to buy some meat.”

“We have quite a lot still on the hoof, but we don't keep a stock of raw meat.” The woman said. “It goes bad too quickly.”

“That's understandable.” Ren said. “Are any of your cows and pigs for sale?”

“About a third of the herd is available for butchering.”

“Excellent. I'll take 3 cows, fully butchered and cut into proper pieces.” Ren said. “What about the pigs?”

“I'm sorry, My Lord.” The woman said. “All the pigs are spoken for.”

“Oh.” Ren said, sadly. “I really like bacon.”

“There's always hope, My Lord.” The woman smiled. “The sows are coming up on breeding time.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes. “I can buy future pigs?”

The woman nodded. “Each breeding season the local families bid on the ones they want; but, the last time we were light on both feed and room, so the yield was lower than normal and it was only pick and take this time.”

“Then give the pigs more room.” Ren said. “I want you to increase the yield.”

“My Lord, it doesn't quite work that way.”

“Then I want my own separate pig growing section.” Ren said. “I'll give you another plot of land for it.”

“M-my L-lord, are you... you... can you do that?”

“Grow what you want for the town, and make sure that they have enough to pick and choose like you always do; but, I want you to double it.” Ren said. “How long does a pig take to grow?”

“With food and space, it can be at butcher size in just over 3 months.”

“What's butcher size?”

The woman looked at Ren like he was crazy, and he held in his laughter. “Usually 250 pounds.”

“Two hundred... and fifty... pounds.” Ren blinked his eyes at her. “That... that's like 30 pounds of bacon per pig!”

The woman chuckled. “That's a really good guess, actually.” She said. “There's about 23 to 26 pounds, depending on if its male or female.”

“Ma'am.” Ren said and stood up straight. “Mrs. Bautman. Please extend your pig farming operation to double it's capacity.”

“But...”

Ren opened the Land Owner menu and entered the name Bautman, and the outline for the land they used appeared. “Yes, I see. You've been hemmed in by the land border.” He looked at her. “How much more land?”

“Ah... another acre would suffice.” The woman said, and still didn't quite believe it was happening.

Ren extended the entire edge of their land by an acre into the bare land beside her farm. “You now have another acre along the entire length of your land.”

“Wh-what?”

“It's only unused land and doesn't look suitable for grazing; but, I'll fix that with some well-placed irrigation.” Ren said. “Do you need a corral built or anything? A barn? A feed station?”

The woman just stood there and stared at him.

“I'll build it all for you, Mrs. Bautman.” Ren said. “Just tell me what you need to make my bacon!”
