“I expect him to try something more normal at first, but yes, a worship-based, nature-of-mana lateral attack will likely be the main attack. He wouldn’t bring people from side realities unless he was going to use them. Could just be a show of civilization-building, though.” Erick added, “Could be making hostages.”

“Will you attempt to save them if they’re real?”

Fallopolis had asked the question innocently enough, but there was a reason Erick had raised the point himself. He and she were playing small roles right now, for all the other people behind them, watching from Veird, praying for miracles in Veird’s favor.

Those people focused on Erick’s one known weakness; he tried to save everyone. Erick almost wanted to deny that, to lie and say he would annihilate everything down there without remorse. And yet, to say that was just as callous, and would cause a morale drop on this side of the war.

So Erick said, “I have long ago chosen who to care about when it comes to infinity, Fallopolis, and the people I care about are here. We will be saving our own, first.”

Fallopolis was serious right now, but she allowed herself a small relaxation upon hearing Erick’s words. She didn’t grin, but her voice was lighter as she said, “You know? I still have that little Blessing of Minor Truth you gave to me so many years ago. It is a true comfort knowing that you’re telling the truth.”

Erick allowed himself a smile. “All these years later, eh?”

“Of course. I told you I would cherish it forever, our Fire of the Age, and I will.”

Erick lightly teased, “You told me you’d come up with a new name, too.”

“Ha!” Fallopolis said, “I might need to actually start working on that promise—” she waved a free hand at Fenrir. “—as soon as this trash is done with.”

“I’ll hold you to that, Fallopolis.”

Fallopolis bowed in the air and then flew backward, before vanishing into the shadows of the sky of Veird.

The Valkyries waited down below, in squads scattered around the entire Silver Surface. Most of them would head left or right or up or down, if they needed to. Killzone and Sitnakov were ready, wherever they were. The girls and Evan and Poi and Rizala were down below, at the main Blue Corps base and at secondary communication bases, though only very few people were at the main Blue Corps base; it was too much out-in-the-open, and too much of an obvious target. Ophiel was ready in Benevolence Itself to do rapid portals around the world, if needed, and Kiri was ready with the same. Teressa and Aisha were inside Benevolence Itself, looking at the Sky, prognosticating. Dariok was there with Teressa.

Teressa gripped Dariok’s hand in her own, and they watched the Benevolent Sky together.

Yggdrasil and the gods were down there, wherever they were.

Waiting.

Erick was the spear.

Darkness swirled around Erick—

… And he felt the weight of a world, or rather, ten million worlds, mark him with an indelible future.

… He checked his Status, and yup.

There was a major change.

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 789, Veird]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 913.71m per day / 10,575.34 per second , [Darkness Level = 62.3x Ascension baseline]

Body: 1453

Mind: 1971

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+9,624.08, -9] Basic upkeep

Mp: 2.9t/∞, ↑ [+3,278.25, -3] Basic upkeep

Hp: 2.8t/∞, ↑ [+3,172.6, -3] Basic upkeep

Pp: 2.9t/∞, ↑ [+3,172.6, -3] Basic upkeep

Resons: 1.9t [+951.78 = +105.75]

He had bounced up to 62.3x Ascension Baseline.

That was double what it had been a week ago.

“… I think those people down there on Fenrir are worshiping me, too.” Erick frowned. “Well that’s weird.”

Yggdrasil whispered in his ears, “That is correct. I’m still siphoning your divinity due to our Pact, but everything else is still yours. This does confirm the main thrust of Nothanganathor’s lateral attack. No one else is being affected by it, because we accounted for it, but you are outside of the Script, and so you are affected, somewhat. Know now that there are probably versions of Veird’s gods down there, but they are Fractal versions. They are who their believers believe them to be, and nothing else. They have no Mantle of the Dark to make them more than ghosts of collective imagination.”

“Ghosts, eh?” Erick chuckled darkly. “I can already see myself venturing down there to kill those god ghosts, looking like Melemizargo the whole time, trying to ‘kill the gods’ like what people thought he was trying to do for the longest time. How’s that for Fate working reality over.” He sighed as he stared at Fenrir’s surface, saying, “Jane is supposed to be the one fighting the gods.”

… Oh shit, she probably heard that.

She was probably dying of embarrassment right now.

“Time is an ouroboros, father,” Yggdrasil said, saving Erick from his own words. “If you live long enough, you will see patterns repeat in everything. Thus is the nature of this Fractal Universe, and Life Itself. Children grow and live lives the same as their parents, or perhaps circumstances skip generations, or around, and then they have children of their own that go out and live lives that the parents prepare them for, but that they can’t really prepare them for because life, no matter how much it looks the same as what came before, is not really the same at all.” He added, “But if you live truly long enough, then you can see the real patterns emerge, and know that yes, time is an ouroboros.”

Erick smiled at that. “And so is [Renew].”

Erick expected Yggdrasil to say something more.

But then reality clicked.

Erick wasn’t sure how he knew what he knew, but he knew that Fenrir had finally time-locked with Veird.

And then Oozy Stormcaller stood twenty kilometers outside of the Edge of Veird.

Erick had no reaction except to simmer with rage.

Oozy wore red robes that held like ribbons upon his body, flowing down and billowing, almost like seaweed in an ocean, or mermaid hair. He raised his hands left and right, and called out,

“Did you have fun?

“Did you prepare enough?

“Was the reprieve enough for you to come to some correct decisions?

“Or are other measures necessary?”

Erick responded with a sky full of [Luminous Beam]s that started off as normal lines of light that then turned absolutely apocalyptic right past the Edge of the Script, where quasar-like particle streams touched the scant little atmosphere that existed out there. Oozy was atomized under so much nuclear fire.

When the space beyond the Edge cleared of explosions, the sky remained clear for a full two minutes.

And then Oozy reappeared, flying out from Fenrir at the speed of lightning, which was still sort of slow at these sorts of distances. It was fast enough. Oozy hung in the air, his ribbon-like robes turned into a cape, revealing red plate armor, with his helmet hanging off of his belt and his red hair waving in a nonexistent breeze.

He said, “We magnanimously give you a week to make a better decision, and then we kill you all.” He put on his helmet, his eyes flickering with Red lightning beyond the black eyeslits in that red metal. “Make bad decisions, please. I always wanted to kill everyone I ever knew.”

And then he vanished.
