“The Orrery of Rozeta,” Jane said, as she spoke of the image behind her. “It’s been confirmed by Rozeta herself.” She flipped to another Red glint, and this one was less well-known, but Erick recognized those dark streets anywhere. “And this one is Death Throne, in the south. We haven’t put any names to any other of the locations, for all the rest were too crowded with Red to see what was happening, but these were the first two to come out, and we’ll likely know the rest as soon as the Red pulls back some. We’ll know more in the following week, because the Red Glints are expanding faster and faster. Fenrir is catching up to our time differential.

“In 14 days, we expect Fenrir to fully match our timeframe. The Shelter of Veird doesn’t need to be broken at all by Nothanganathor, or dropped by us, because Nothanganathor can simply match our speed.

“As for what is to come:

“We believe that Nothanganathor has stolen parts of Veird and is setting us up for some sort of ‘attack of our own’, or perhaps a lateral attack of some sort. That’s the bad news. More bad news is that many people who have been Erased or which we have killed appear to be coming out of those Red glints. We’re not sure what is happening there, but here is an example of something we can point to and see for what it is:”

An image appeared of a lich and a woman, walking along in a castle in Death Throne. There had actually been a bunch of examples of what Jane was showing, but she chose to show this one.

“This is Lich Toenail and his human slave wife Contay. Toenail was one of the main forces behind the eventual Redding of the Fractured Citadels and central Quintlan, because his current wife, Contay, was taken from him by the Red. Here he is, with her once again. So he got what he wanted, even though we killed him, and Quilatalap personally oversaw his containment, and we all oversaw his Sundering.

“More bad news:”

Jane switched lightward images to show the Orrery, where Teressa stood with Dariok and Lenitha, frozen in Red time, smiling as they looked up at the Orrery floating overhead.

Teressa and Dariok were in the audience, too, sitting beside Erick. Dariok had come back to real life just the other day. Lenitha was with Ophiel in Benevolence itself. Lenitha had no idea about all of this, but Teressa and Dariok knew of what was going to happen at this presentation as of hours ago, when all of this shit first appeared in the sky, so they had put their daughter into Benevolence. Lenitha was having a good time with Ophiel.

Jane said, “If Nothanganathor is bringing Erased people back to life, then that is what he is doing, but we doubt that any of these people coming out of the Red were ever Erased at all. We believe these are side realities brought into this one. Whatever the case, we will keep you all apprised as we strive to understand what is happening, but for now, we’re treating these people as versions of ourselves taken from other Veirds that Nothanganathor has consumed.”

The audience was rife with small words and disbelief and worry and scoffing and open hatred.

Jane let the audience calm before she continued.

Jane continued, “The good news is that the Red glints are still holding across the Orrery and Death Throne, and all the other lands that we can’t really see yet, so they’re still time-locked, even if Fenrir is speeding up to catch up to Veird’s timeframe. We expect all of that land to remain time-locked, until Nothanganathor delivers some sort of ultimatum. And then he’ll release them for whatever reason, or he’ll do something else.

“And that’s the state of the War.”

Jane called for questions.

People instantly started talking over each other.

It was organized chaos, and Erick helped to manage that chaos, but he was mostly outside of the command structure of the Blue Corps. This was Jane’s show. Erick’s forces only personally consisted of the Valkyries, and Shivraa, the minotaur Harmi, and a relatively new wrought Valkyrie named Phillal. The Valkyries were already in attendance, and hearing what they needed to hear with regard to this public information session.

Erick soon found himself speaking with King Alfonin Stratagold and the human adamantium king of Titanite, a man by the name of Somov Titanite.

Sitnakov was over with Jane, talking to some people from Nelboor, that included Nirzir.

Alfonin asked Somov, “Have you taken Killzone back into your Heavies?”

“No,” Somov said, looking at Sitnakov on the other side of the auditorium. “Though we have spoken with him about old times. He saw his parents for a brief minute. When this is over and we have won, we will consider more unification.” Somov looked up at Alfonin, his face going unreadable. “Titanite wishes to reforge bonds anyway; to put aside all distaste and rivalry.”

Alfonin said, “Stratagold accepts.”

Somov nodded, and then he looked to Erick. “How goes Phillal’s introduction to the Valkyries?”

“She’s adjusting well. She has a good head for Geode culture on her shoulders, and she’s a fantastic war dancer, so her introduction to the collective has made the whole organization stronger. We should be able to work well with all ground-based forces from the Geodes.” Erick added, “But according to what we’re seeing, I doubt this will be a normal war at all.”

Alfonin asked the big question, “When he comes to you with an ultimatum, what will you say?”

“That he can die in fire, as he deserves.”

Many people around the conversation of kings, not involved directly but listening anyway, relaxed at Erick’s brazen declaration.

Somov nodded in approval.

Alfonin smiled. And then he moved on, “We would like to offer a few more soldiers for the Valkyries, for Titanite can’t be the only ones to step forward. Phillal is one of Titanite’s best dancers and weavers, but we have Rubikia, and she’s been dancing around opponents of all sizes for a thousand years, including Phillal.”

Somov was a little miffed that right after asking to reforge bonds between Titanite and Stratagold that Alfonin would try to move in on Titanite’s establishing ties to the Valkyries, but then Alfonin mentioned Rubikia, and even Somov had to agree that it was a good idea.

Erick said, “I remember her at Bright Tea all those years ago. I’ll be glad to have her. I remember she trounced Sitnakov rather well.”

Rubikia was one of the main defenders of Stratagold, and Erick was happy to have her. But all that Erick really knew about the woman was that she was made of hellite, and that she was incani-shaped, and that she was accomplished at war. The only real question of her was regarding her base nature; her hellite body. Erick had no idea how that would interfere with her… taking the Valkyrie Class? Or was she going to ask for a real Blood Resurrection as a Valkyrie?

Erick didn’t want to ask those questions in public, though.

Somov said, “She’s as good of a fighter as she is a dancer, and being of hellite caste should make her into a formidable Valkyrie.” He added, as a question, “Or would that interfere with the Exalted nature of part of that magic?”

Erick said, “I was just wondering that myself. I will have to speak with her later.”

“We don’t foresee it being a problem,” Alfonin said.

‘Later’ turned out to be an hour later, and Rubikia had already gotten a Status Reset through Rozeta, and she was ready to pledge herself to House Benevolence and Erick himself. That was enough for her to be offered the Quest to take the Valkyrie Class, which, for her, was just a simple ‘do you want to do this’ sort of Quest. She said yes.

Rubikia transformed, her hellite body burbling into Carnage and Blood and then flashing outward into bright pink metal.

She was still made of hellite as a Valkyrie, but she was now 4 meters tall and with floating wings made of bone-swords. She loomed over Erick for a brief moment, and then she got down on her knees, to pledge, “My life and my swords for the good of all, and every individual.”

“I accept,” Erick said. “Welcome, Rubikia.”

Shivraa, also as a Valkyrie, but just a bit shorter and mostly made of pale purple bloodice, also accepted Rubikia’s pledge, saying, “Welcome to the front lines of the war, sister.”

Erick let them get acquainted. He had other places to be.

- - - -

Erick stood upon the inverted land of the Outer Core, where continents stretched up and around the blue Core of Veird, up there in the center of the clear sky.

Rozeta stood with Erick, and said, “The personal Script is not ready, nor will it be ready for a very long time, and I’m handing the project off to Ezekiel. He has come a long way with tinkering and runecraft. Further than you, by far, and Gnowmi is assisting him with that.”

“… Okay… That wasn’t what I wanted to hear, but you have big reasons for delaying the creation of personal Scripts, I assume?”

“Yes.” Rozeta said, “Personal Scripts have to be personal, for I wish to make them into Ascension machines. Quite simply: To tie the Personal Scripts to divinity would be a failure of foresight. One only has to look at what happened to the original Goddess of Knowledge to know that this would be an unwise tying-of-power. A mortal working has a much higher chance of existing long, long after everything is done.

“That was the original philosophy behind the original manaminers, oh so long ago, and it proved prescient. Much of Knowledge is like that; to tie what a Personal Script could be to me would be to deny the Truths of others.

“As for making Valkyries immune to the vagaries of inclement Authority, you have already done that. I’ve tweaked a few things to shore up their Class to allow them to survive outside of the Script. That particular power will be going out to everyone, thanks to the [Spellsurge Weave] that can allow them to connect, even when they are outside of the Authority of Veird.”

Erick relaxed. “That’s good. That’s all we really needed, anyway.”

“Don’t let anyone stay out in space for an extended period of time, though. The basic system to allow spaceflight is just that; basic. Those who prove good at spaceflight can stay out there longer.”

Erick smiled. “Heard and understood.”

And then Erick waited.

… Rozeta breathed in, then out, and said, “Kirginatharp awaits your Benevolence on the other side of the Outer Core.”

“Thank you,” Erick said. “I’ll raise him up to a dragon again, if you want… But by your expression, that sounds distasteful to you?”

“Everything about this particular thing is distasteful, Erick.” Rozeta said, “But we’re in a war for survival, and I will need to protect my son myself. It will be difficult and… and I fear I will be unable to do that. I already lost one son to the Red. I cannot lose Kirginatharp, too.”

“I’m fully fearful of losing any of my kids, too. Hopefully most of the fighting will take place outside of Veird.”

Rozeta breathed, and then she nodded.

She opened a portal to the other side of the Outer Core.

They stepped through, and the two of them stood in the front yard of a mansion set back from a cliff, facing an ocean. Kirginatharp stood beside a stone table in that front yard. Erick’s purple lightmask-enchanted teapot sat on the table, steaming away, and three cups of tea sat waiting for them. The whole place reminded Erick of Windy Manor, at Oceanside, where he had lived with Poi, Teressa, Kiri, and Rats, and spent his semester learning magic at the arcanaeum.

It had been a long time since then.

Kirginatharp tensed as he saw Erick. And then he spoke first, “I had hoped to ease into… to talk for a while, and to mull over how much I was going to lose in the [Reincarnation], but it appears I would rather get this over with fast.”

Erick said, “Thank you, Kirginatharp, for allowing the removal of your Dragon Curse.” He turned to Rozeta. “Could you put up an absolute multiversal shift, to keep this part secret here from the other realms of Veird?”

Rozeta and Kirginatharp both paused as they looked at Erick—

Rozeta raised her eyebrows, as the Knowledge of what Erick wanted to do appeared to her. “Oh…” She considered. “It is done.”

A barrier flashed across the entire cliffside.

There was a conversation.

Erick tried to forget it as much as he could, and he didn’t have a clear idea of what he wanted to do, anyway. That might have been enough to prevent inclement prognostications from interfering in that plan.

- - - -

Preparations were done as much as they could have been done almost two weeks ago, by now. Or maybe even months, really.

The world was ready for war.

Fenrir was not ready for war at all, but it could be, soon. The people down there were locked in Red, but some of them were troops standing in formation.

Erick hovered in the sky, at the closest point between Veird to Fenrir. He was still inside the Script, but he was only ten kilometers from the Edge. From horizon to horizon, Erick floated between two worlds.

Veird was layered with silver trees and white light.

Fenrir was several orders of magnitude wider, and much, much further away. Civilization after civilization lay somewhat hodgepodged together down there on that green, blue, and cloud-covered surface… Once you got past the Red that covered everything. Red sparks clung to every surface, rippling and layering and containing the people in a [Time Stop]. But the clouds kinda moved like clouds should move. Or at least the upper clouds moved.

Veird and Fenrir were basically on the same time, and would be moving at exactly the same rate in about ten minutes, according to the maths.

Erick watched the clouds down there roll by, like threads of white upon the incredibly large surface—

Fallopolis stepped to stand beside Erick, her white eyes shining as bright as Melemizargo’s. The Champion of the God of Magic was looking good in her chosen form; like a warrior grandmother, with armored robes and her big black kendrithyst staff floating beside her, ready to be grabbed at a moment’s notice.

Fallopolis said, “This is going to be a lateral attack.”

Erick had his own guesses, but he asked, “What are you thinking?”

“An attack along the fundamental natures of magic itself.” Fallopolis said, “Probably divinity-based; A twisting of the gods of Veird through mass worship. We’ve already shored up the Script to prevent that, but attack and defense are an ever-evolving war of trial and failure, and the people down there are copies of us up here.”

