Transient disappeared while the island around me dimmed to dusk. I sat up and stretched a bit, my legs asleep from all the sitting. After rolling my shoulders, I raised a palm and channeled that mindset of victory for all. In my hand, the swirling piece of white mana returned, ebbing outward with air. I directed more of it before engulfing the training room in a windstorm.

My control of the new mana collapsed, converting into ascendant mana once more. Sparks of arcane lightning ripped out for a moment before I quashed the ball in my hand. I sighed, but learning a new mana type would take time. I was lucky I progressed this quick already. Without Transient’s tips and tricks, I'd never have broken through all the plateaus I faced in the same time frame.

Making progress in the new skills front was going far better for me, however. I learned water creation after a while by submerging myself in the fake ocean around me. Immersed in the element, I used the feeling, sensation, and weight of it to produce the same material. This method of placing myself within an element worked wonders.

Now, an average person probably would wince at setting themselves on fire to learn about it. For me, it was run of the mill though. Hell, I'd jump in a damn volcano if it helped me learn skills faster. At this point, I had a no-fucks-given attitude to a bit of discomfort.

That's why after discovering this new method, I talked with Transient about letting me manipulate the projection around me. The sardonic little orb had no problem with it even if he doubted my intelligence the entire time. Armed with some agency, I created an icy wasteland, burning hellscape, and a windy skyline.

Using origin mana, I composed each of these elements of ice, fire, and wind. Fire was the easiest since it was similar to my Star Forger skill sorta. Wind was quite tricky just because it was so light and airy. I couldn’t get a firm grasp of the concept, probably because I so far from it in composition now. Eh, I couldn’t know for sure.

What I did know was that I was a motherfucking, full-fledged sorcerer now. Hell yeah.

I wouldn’t be trapping souls or creating void ice anytime soon, but fire breath was in my grasp. It wasn’t nearly as powerful as my mythical or legendary skills though, and my control of the elements was rudimentary at the moment.

Still, it was pretty cool.

The next logical step was creating these elements using the better quintessence mana. That would take a bit of time, so I left that for tomorrow after Transient helped me with the odd energy. I decided on combining these elemental skills into a unique ability instead. In my mind, that revolved around the skill Energy Creation.

Energy Generation(lvl 21) - From your mind spawns the forces of nature. +21% to spawned energies. +21% to intensity of spawned energies.

This was the skill I gained before producing fire. At first, I attempted creating two materials that combust with each other, but that was impossible. My finesse with Matter Generation was nonexistent. I produced random stuff at random rates in random places. For now, It astonished me just how useless the skill turned out to be.

It enabled me to produce water and wind though, and that’s why I believed Energy Generation was key to an elementally inclined unique skill. Before I set to work, I chuckled at myself. My thoughts right now were nostalgic to me; it reminded me of when I first joined Schema’s system. Gaming the system, theorycrafting skills, it was all a lot of fun then and now.

This was different from before, though. Unlike my work with my other abilities, this was an endeavor of curiosity. I wasn’t forced to learn this to live. I was doing this for the sake of doing it. That lack of restriction was like a breath of fresh air, my responsibilities leaving my mind. After taking a literal deep breath, I relished in that feeling.

It made my mind wonder about other possibilities like what I would’ve done if I didn’t spawn in a dungeon. I might’ve just dicked around, discovering new skills to learn that were fun to practice. That’s probably what the average person was doing on Earth right now. I stared off in the distance as I envisioned a group of high school guys firing ice bolts at each other.

Sounded like fun.

I shook that out of my mind and refocused. With a practiced motion, I slid my hands outwards, taking a flowing pattern of movement. Two spheres of water appeared at the edge of my left palm before I transferred my right hand’s mana to ascendant. Using the violent force in right palm, I fired the water ball forward before freezing it into ice using my left hand.

It was like learning to write with my left hand. It flexed mental muscles I didn't know I had. I managed it though, a lance of ice piercing into the sand. I grabbed it, spinning it like a movie. It snapped in my hands as I swung too hard. Fuck. I let out a few more colorful curses before lifting the halves of an ice spear and melting the ice under a plume of fire. I kept doing so until it evaporated, turning into a ball of mist. I shot out my hand and launched a gust of wind.

It shot across the sand. The mist sunk into the ground before I lifted my left hand, creating tiny shards of ice. For several hours I continued this melding of elements, attempting creative combinations. It was a great mental break from the mindless grind that Transient's exercises had become. Before that plasma ball arrived, I got what I was looking for.

Unique Skill gained! Fire Creation, Ice Creation, Water Creation, Wind Creation, and Energy creation fused together into the unique skill Elementalist! 215 tree points awarded. Elementalist is unique among unique skills. It can absorb other elements that weren’t involved in its creation, further strengthening the skill!

Elementalist(lvl 10) - You wield the elements with deadly intent. +10% to elements intensity. +10% to elements purity.

It was an excellent skill, albeit lacking in raw might. I was pretty sure that with time, it would become a force to reckon with. The tree points, in particular, were excellent. I opened my tree menu, finding 986 unused treepoints. I placed them into my Sovereign skill tree, but I didn’t get any bonuses from it. I tsked in disappointment before moving on.

I spent the rest of the night attempting to form earth magic. Despite getting numerous hot mud baths and getting stuck in quicksand pits later, the skill didn’t click. Oh well. The next day, I learned a bit more of the ins and outs of quintessence mana. It was the mana of victory from what Transient told me. Leaders used it for the enhancement of their armies more often than not.

Ascendant mana seemed capable of the same purpose, but I had already understood the drawbacks quite well involving that bloody mana. Ascendant mana did motivate troops to fight, but it also drove them to feed. Just as the wolfs and hornets devoured each other, so would a horde of my forces. Quintessence was altogether different, however.

Sheathing an army in armor, giving them swords of ice, or arming them with ammunition, quintessence did it all and more. The benevolent nature of the mana helped with keeping soldiers in the general’s repertoire as well. Primordial mana was potent as well for this purpose, though few enjoyed being controlled.

In a way, quintessence was the mana for getting and making an army.  Ascendant mana was more for people that wanted to be a one-man army instead. To each his own.

I wanted both. With that in mind, I wrestled with quintessence all day. As the sun went down and Transient left me, I created a condensed sphere of quintessence in my hand. I dipped it into a pile of sand I made earlier. The sand shifted into limestone before standing upright. A tiny, sandstone golem walked up from the ground, about a foot tall.

It blew my mind. With ascendant mana, I enraged the beast, making it clobber a few buildings and trees apart in the simulator. I created a golem of wood minutes later, calling it Mini-Yawm, and I had them fight one another. The wooden one lived up to its predecessor’s name, throwing the sand golem aside after tearing its brother apart.

Mini-Yawm beat its chest for a moment before staring up at me. It lacked eyes, though it sensed its surroundings. The wood golem ran up and hit the side of my leg, doing nothing more than breaking its fists. I leaned over and reached out a hand to it. The crude, wooden puppet smushed its blunt hands against my fingers.

I frowned before waving Event Horizon over the tiny construct. It evaporated into the air as I took a breath. These were extraordinary, life-altering powers at my disposal now. It kind of creeped me out, but mastering them might prove vital further down the line. With that in mind, I tore strips of my armor off. Once I gained a large pile, I telekinetically lifted it into a humanoid.

After carving a variety of elementary runes onto the creature, I gained the rough approximation of a bodyguard. Well, at least in theory. It might end up like the plague of crabs earlier. I waved my hands back and forth before emptying my mind. As I filled it with thoughts of triumph, quintessence channeled through me. I directed it further, the mana encompassing my being in its entirety.

A rotating sphere of the pale aura generated around me, the pressure building. The runic markings over my armor glowed a bright white, contrasting my armor’s grim appearance. After maintaining this high octane amount of mana, I finally felt comfortable with the sensation.

I attempted to reach out with my aura. The white cloud expanded outward from me in a smooth expansion. As I did, a snowy sort of tint ebbed over my surroundings.

At the same time, it lived up to being the mana of victory. The energy invigorated me like liquid power. I trembled as my abilities extended. My eyes sharpened. My thoughts cleared. My body loosened. My skin hardened. I expanded in both mass and potential. Even my mana quaked in an uproar, bursting into the air with a crescendo of might.

I was no longer covered by a condensed ball of wind. I walked as a living hurricane, a boundless storm shifting around me. The energy filled and fueled me, giving me the urge to create. I wanted to paint, sing, even build a house brick by brick. It didn’t matter what it was, I needed to make something that would last through the epochs of time.

As the new sensation normalized to me, I glanced around. The sand island blew apart from around me. I lifted my hands, channeling quintessence to reform the island. The golem behind me absorbed the energy, its markings growing white. The rough joints straightened out, becoming straighter. The jagged edges smoothed, gaining a subtle sheen.

My eyes widened as the thin, wispy bodyguard gained life and an improved body. With the same white glow in its eyes, it glanced around, confused about what was happening. Before anything else, I analyzed the structure.

Dimensional Golem(lvl 500) - This dimensional golem is created by a living multiverse, acting as a fragment of its body given free will. Though unintelligent and weak, this being holds tremendous tenacity, proving difficult to kill even for those twice it's level. This comes down to the composition of its body.

The foreign matter is both stable and volatile, proving an adequate defense and offense all at once. The armor can infect any that touches it, slowly absorbing the life force of its would-be attacker. This allows this golem to become a robust and worthy competitor given time.

You can kill this with ease given your abilities.

I eyed the creature, stepping closer to it. It peered back and mimicked my motions like a mirror. Staring down, I tapped my chest for a moment. Maybe I couldn’t use origin to make better material for golems, but I had the best golem material right here. An endless army of mindless subjects was at my fingertips. Before I carried out my evil laugh, the golem attempted taking a step.

It fell sideways, the ground quaking beneath it. Unharmed and undeterred, it attempted standing up. As it fell sideways, and I understood a simple yet profound fact - making golems was hard. Sure, its level wasn’t the worst in the world, but it was just about useless. The simple runes I composed on the creature barely let it move, let alone fight back.

I cupped my chin, thinking of more advanced algorithms to give it specific movements. After a few minutes of brainstorming, I cursed. This shit was impossible. There was a reason fully robotic guards weren’t possible for the most part. Programming combatants were often times much harder than just training real people instead.

Due to all the complications, I put off pursuing this kind of study until later. I waved Event Horizon over the creature, expecting it to just evaporate. It took a step back, its knees wobbling under strain. The white light dimmed before the golem crashed to the ground in pieces. It was a haunting sensation. Till now, I hadn't used the revamped Event Horizon on a creature that could withstand it whatsoever.

This one lasted a few seconds, and its health was actually high enough to withstand my aura for even longer. The reason it died was from the mana drain. It and I experienced the new mana drain on Event Horizon for the first time.

It was an absolute, destructive mind obliterator. It subjugated its victim by eliminating the ability to even think, let along fight back. It really did embody a physical manifestation of oppression, the pitiful golem's pure mind crumbling before its body did. To me, it was somewhat horrifying watching such an innocent intellect be dismantled under the heel of Event Horizon.

I stared at my hands. I was a monster.

