My own words echoed in my ears as my face deformed into a grimace. It was deep scowl, the kind of reaction one has to the piercing screech of nails on a chalkboard. Something infuriated me as of late, yet I didn't comprehend the exact reasoning behind it. I was called into a battlefield with no time nor resources to prepare. I fought until I fell from mental exhaustion, my responsibility to my favor fulfilled. It didn't matter. I failed.

I tapped the glass before lowering my hand. At this rate, I'd shatter the panel. The trouble involved with fixing it wasn't worth venting my irritation. As that deep-seated fury rose from my chest, that armored idiot popped in my thoughts once more. As he passed, Lehesion crossed my vision as well. The fight on Giess flashed across my eyes along with my genocide of the gialgathens in Rivaria. I killed them so that we could fail the battle. The more I dwelled on it, the more mistakes I made during the conflict.

I misused my portals from the beginning. If I had simply used them well enough, then the damage to that monstrosity would've been infinitely higher. Managing my mental stamina would've changed the outcome of the fight as well. I exhausted myself casting imposing but ineffective void ice magic. Sitting behind the other combatants and assisting with portals might have turned the tide.

My thoughts devolved further as I returned to tapping the glass in front of me. That pitiful attempt at battle was my favor to Daniel for saving my sister's life. It was a disgrace to the empire and the royal family to repay meaningful assistance with that display of incompetence. My incompetence.

My tapping turned to thudding on the transparent panel. I even lost a Sentinel since I didn't evade Lehesion's strikes. My combat skills devolved to such an extent that sacrifices were needed to simply keep me alive. Pathetic. Imbecilic. Inept.

My tapping strengthened, cracks spreading through the panel of glass. Despite this complete and utter failure, I received no consequences. My position was absolute; my past actions ensured that I was untouchable. My deficiencies merely resulted in that Harbinger's guild suffering severe losses. I grimaced at my fractured reflection.

If there were no consequences for me, then why did that event haunt me so?

I turned back to my AI, Eva, while rolling my head to alleviate the tension in my neck. My duties would distract me from the wandering thoughts that plagued me as of late. I snapped my fingers, several orange screens appearing. I found the tint easier on my eyes.

Considering I stared at these mindless numbers and charts more than I stared at the physical world, minutia like the tint of a screen took precedence all of a sudden. It reminded me that I focused more on trifles like this than my own abilities in battle.

Eva spoke up, interrupting that string of thought,

"Helios, it's good to see you. What do you need assistance with?"

"I wish to speak with my father. I need his guidance."

Eva answered, her voice easy on my ears. Of course, if her voice weren't natural to hear, I would've long ago gone insane standing in this office.

"He is currently busy suppressing a rebellion on his world."

I glanced up, peeved but undeterred. Of course he was preoccupied with his own mismanagement of his own affairs. This must be the sixth rebellion within the last decade. A few changes in his enactment of imperial policy would rectify the issue in an instant. Instead, my father wallows in incompetence. Typical.

His softness would be his undoing. If a leader grants his underlings an ounce of independence, then those underlings shall starve for more. Repression is often times freedom in these instances. It prevents the imbeciles and ignorant masses from causing their own undoing. Rebellions cannot be tolerated after all, and those that commit treason will be treated as traitors.

And traitors are to be crushed under the Empire's heel. Their blood paves the way to a brighter future.

I silenced that rush of thoughts, however. More pressing matters were at hand. I said,

"Then call Caprika instead."

"You seem disappointed. Would you rather I call the Emperor?"

I raised a palm, snapping my words like a whip. "No. I will not waste his time on my emotions. He's more important tasks to indulge in, as do I." I clenched a hand into a fist,

"But focusing on my responsibilities is difficult when my judgment is impaired. This must be dealt with despite my own misgivings."

Eva replied after a pause, "Of course, Helios."

As Eva called Caprika, I took my mask off for a moment. I pinched the bridge of bone between my eyes, attempting to silence the sea of thoughts rushing to the surface. It was all so tiresome, so I suppressed them while dragging my hand down my face. I put my mask back upon my face as Caprika appeared in a video chat.

She tilted her head, her red mask still being worn. Unusual.

"Oh, this is new. My older brother is asking me for assistance? How quaint."

"Quaint indeed. Perhaps I should ask someone else then? They may mock me less and offer better counsel."

Caprika leaned back, "Wait, you're serious about this? I-I'm sorry. I thought you were calling to scold me."

"No. I'm asking for your viewpoint. Nothing more."

Caprika gulped before sitting up, straighter, "Then what is it, brother?"

I stared at the claws of my hand, a bit of shame welling from my chest from directly speaking out my thoughts,

"I've found my emotions difficult to handle as of late. I'm quick to anger and slow to contentment. It's a bother. Perhaps you may understand it better than I." I glanced down to her,

"After all, you've more experience in regards to handling difficult emotions."

Caprika fumbled for a moment, composing herself. I suppressed the urge to roll my eyes, granting her a few moments to think. She raised her hands, gesturing like salesmen giving a pitch as she spoke,

"I don't fully understand why, but it could be resentment to your failure in regards to Lehesion. If you're ashamed of your performance, I assure you, no one imagined that beast would live up to the legends told about-"

I seethed, "That is not what angers me. It would never."

Caprika trembled, a shiver racing up her spine. I winced at my lack of self-control. Scolding her felt like whipping a child. She was still my little sister, after all. One victory did not shift the long history between us, one where I succeeded, and she failed. In my eyes, however, none of that history mattered. To me, she was my superior at this point in time.

I leaned back from my screen, shaking my head, "I...excuse my outburst. That may well be what's infuriating me considering my reaction just now. Perhaps your insight was worthwhile as a verification of sorts."

Caprika took a deep breath before leaning towards her screen, "Are...are you alright? It's not like you to ask me for help, and it's even more unlike you to lash out like that."

I scoffed, "That is precisely why I called you. You're supposed to assist me in the matter, not point out the obvious to me."

She stayed silent, keeping eye contact though I couldn't see it behind her mask. From all the years I'd known her, I built up a vague understanding of her facial gestures despite the veils between us. Right now, she showed genuine concern to the extent that it oozed from her like juice from a smashed fruit.

It was humiliating.

I composed myself before answering. Showing more weakness would only exacerbate the issue.

"Your insight has been more than enough to rectify the issue. I'm merely optimizing my mental state for my continued performance. Nothing more."

I stared at my palm as I spoke, inspecting the runic work of the Emperor. It calmed me as Caprika nodded,

"Of course. You assisted me in more ways than I care to mention, and returning your backing means quite a bit to me. If that requires being a shoulder for you to lean on or an ear that listens to you, I'm at your beckoning call. Simply ask."

I let my hand down, peering back down to her, "I see. Thank you for the sentiment. I must go now. Thank you for your time and consideration."

Caprika leaned back, "That's rather formal of you. It isn't as if we're merely business associates."

I raised a hand over the exiting command for the chat, "I'm an ice mage. What else would you expect? Goodbye."

I closed the call, glancing back at my daily duties. They involved the maintenance of Belka and Meliton, the planets I ruled. Every bit of it bored me, but finding another competent soul to manage these affairs was far more complicated than merely completing the tasks myself. The Emperor was fortunate to find me. I lacked the same luck.

A few hours passed as I found myself fumbling with the simplest of tasks. Managing planetary interest rates, ending geopolitical disputes, even planning various educational reforms, they all eluded me. After a few minutes of work, I closed the holograms along with Eva. I turned back to the city and gave my situation some thought.

Considering my coarse reaction to Caprika's suggestion, she was correct even if I attempted denying it outright. Now that the source my malaise was known, aligning my actions to remedy the situation was simple.

Ending Lehesion took priority. The question was thus:

How do you kill the unkillable?

An interesting question. I steepled my fingers.

I had interesting answers.

**********************************************************************************************************

With my eyes closed, I sat with my legs crossed. For the thousandth time, tranquility washed over me, keeping me calm. As I opened my eyes, I imagined Althea in my mind. I wanted her to succeed on her own terms. I remembered the bit of joy I got from watching Kessiah finding her way. I envisioned a weakened Torix needing my help.

With all those thoughts driving me, I channeled my mana into my palm. I honed in on that sensation of warmth and comfort from their company. I focused on helping them with whatever it was they needed. As I took a deep breath, a mental image of Althea stuck out in my mind. Every time I thought about her, I wanted to protect her.

These thoughts even carried some guilt. I focused so much on my own progress that I seldom helped them with their own. The only glory I could claim from helping them was leading by example. That only got me so far in my book. Healing techniques, utility magic, even defensive auras, I never even attempted to gain any of that.

With relentless perseverance, I kept the single-minded pursuit of self-empowerment. It hasn't failed me yet, but it might have failed those around me. That might of been why Torix ended up being consumed by the Hybrid. After the lengths he took to help me, I resolved to make the same lengths in assisting him. After all, he was the main reason we killed Yawm. He saved my damn home planet and then some. The guy deserved my respect for sure, and I owed it to the guy to help him out a bit more than I had.

Despite this wave of remorse, I quashed any guilt in my mind. Feeling wrong about my past never helped me or anybody for that matter. Doing something about it, on the other hand, could help out quite a bit. Those thoughts inspired me. I could remake Torix’s armor better than before, make it more foolproof. Who knows, maybe I could even get Chrona to teach him primordial mana. His summoning would be even better then.

In a way, his victory would be my triumph, just as his failure was my defeat. If I was going to run an organization, that’s how I had to think about everyone under me. Focusing on only myself wasn’t an option anymore.

As those thoughts welled in my mind, the blue mana in my palm shivered before reforming into a transparent, white orb. It swirled over my hand, mirroring a tiny hurricane. It carried the same potent volatility of ascendant mana, but it didn’t spark outward with arcs of electricity. It radiated out air, enough to blow my hair back.

Unique Skill gained! The normal skills, Augmentation, Augmentation Manipulation, Origin, Origin Manipulation, and Serenity combine into the unique skill Quintessence! 118 tree points rewarded!

Quintessence(lvl 10) - Most divert their attention to themselves, pursuing narcissistic endeavors. You divert outward, avoiding the pitfalls of ego. +10% to ease of Quintessence creation. +10% to the potency of Quintessence mana.

My hand wobbled beneath the mana, the energy threatening to ebb outward into my surroundings. I laughed at it before glancing back up at Transient,

“Aye, I did it...Finally.”

Transient made a satisfying bing noise, “It only took 242 hours of virtualized time to complete!”

The bing wasn’t quite so satisfying anymore. I frowned, “Thanks for reminding me.”

“There is still plenty of time left in your time dilation period; eight days remain.”

I scratched the side of my head, “I’m grateful and all for the help so far, but wasn’t this supposed to take like three days?

Transient bobbed in the air, “Yes. Your situation isn’t a normal one, however. Most compendium’s taught skills that are combinations of already learned skills. They borrow more from existing unique and mythical skills than your current virtualization is. Unlike their learned skillsets, yours is much more expansive in nature.”

I raised my eyebrows, “Why?”

“To utilize the most effective form of long term growth for you given your unique parameters. Tolerance to time dilation to this extent is exceedingly rare. We can achieve more than usual, given the circumstances. This means we will be incorporating the learning of skills that will enhance your long term potential.”

I nodded, “Ahhh, yeah, that makes sense.”

Transient dimmed, the ethereal energy ball fading, “We will continue this session tomorrow. Be ready.”

