Next time I would just kill the damn thing. Until I could control my creations, I'd stick with simple stuff instead of making golems. This was just too much for me right now, and that was saying something. After all, I'd put myself through grueling torture while training. Doing that to newly formed life though...It was different. That's all I'll say about it.

I was still driven, however. I shook off that guilt before moving on. There was no rest for the wicked after all. Before going back to my skills, I opened my status to investigate the new aura.

Dimensional Wake - Your reach as a dimension is manifested by an aura, currently known as Event Horizon. Depending on your current mana type, this aura can be altered to one of six mana types: Origin, Dominion, Augmentation, Ascendant, Quintessence, and Primordial.

The Rise of Eden(Quintessence) - This aura enhances your ability to create and augment all forms of life, matter, and energy. It also instills the urge and inspiration to create in all those within the aura, spurring them to action. This dimensional aura also enables the construction of various effects depending on the mutations used on oneself. This gives this version of Dimensional Wake tremendous versatility.

Current Radius: 501 ft/152 m | Size of the aura can be increased by your mass

Creator of All - This aura enhances all acts of creation, growth, and empowerment within its radius of any kind. Doubles experience gain. Skills level twice as quickly. Augmenting auras enhanced by 50%. Imperfections reduced. The potency of quintessence is enhanced.

Perfection - Augments the raw base stats of allies within the aura by 40%. Your own base stats are increased by 30%.

A Magnum Opus - Creates an aura of intense motivation and the desire to create in all its forms. This kind of creation can be immaterial, involving skills, ideas, and pursuits.

The descriptions were stunning but straightforward. The most apparent benefit involved the general stat enhancement. The sheer volume of mana was awe-inspiring from it. Including all my modifiers, it over doubled my mana regeneration. It was so potent, I would use quintessence as my new baseline mode. It would make my runes fill out even faster, which was always good.

It wouldn’t take that many enemies before Event Horizon exceeded the potential stat boost though. At the same time, this was a better solo strategy, giving me a bit of flexibility. The aura itself was also perfect for crafting in general. Using quintessence for Star Forger sounded like a recipe for unbelievable items.

If I wanted to become a one-man army though, Event Horizon was still my best bet. The new mana drain was particularly potent on it, muting enemy minds proving valuable. As for a charismatic general I needed to be, quintessence fit the bill for now.

Well, as charismatic as I could be at least. There was only so much that stats could fix after all.

I rolled my shoulders, getting back to work. I spent the rest of the night training Elementalist within The Rise of Eden. It added to the impact of elementalist quite a bit, turning fire into an inferno and waves into tsunamis. As the sun rose up again, Transient arrived along with a new task.

“You seem different.”

I glanced down at my palms, a white glow ebbing from the cipher on them, “Eh, it’s nothing much.”

“Noted. We will be moving on to the Mutagenesis skill line. This series of skills is far more geared towards your base nature, which will speed up the learning curve substantially. Outside of the formation of the mythical skill itself, the creation of quintessence was the largest hurdle involved during your stay here...Most likely.”

I let out a sigh of relief, “Thank god.”

“Don’t thank god. Thank Schema.”

I rolled my eyes as it continued,

“Mutagenesis is composed of five baseline skills, Mutation, Growth, Deconstruction, Auto-Cannibalism, and Anatomy. We will begin by learning the Auto-Cannibalism skill.”

I winced, “Sounds fun.”

“It isn’t as unpleasant as one might believe.”

“Please don’t tell me it involves eating myself.”

The AI bobbed up and down, “It does but in a practical manner. You won't be required to devour yourself. A longer, less direct method has been created for the learning of the skill. Allow me to explain-”

After a long lecture, I got the basic idea behind the skill. As I began mutating myself, the ability to degenerate the changes from mutagenesis was necessary for several reasons. Practicing alterations, eliminating changes, and restoring myself were several of them. The reason I didn’t learn Deconstruction instead was that Auto-Cannibalism had a recycling component to it.

While deconstructing changes wasn’t the worst way of getting rid of mistakes, it wasn’t as efficient as auto-cannibalism. The only reason to learn deconstruction was to dismiss any life I happened to form with my origin mana once I was done with it. Having that level of control over another life kind of shocked me, but it wasn’t all that different from Event Horizon in effect.

It still felt like I shouldn't be given tools like this. I swallowed that unease and kept trucking on.

In fact, Event Horizon covered all the bases Auto-Cannibalism and Deconstruction attended to. That choking aura used ascendant mana as a battery, however, which made it unusable in The Rise of Eden. It was a quirky conundrum, making my life more complicated than it needed to be. Either way, I ignored Transient completely before tearing off my own limbs and devouring them. Boom, I gained the Auto-Cannibalism skill.

Transient said it was unconventional. Eh, maybe.

After gaining that in mere minutes, I created a couple dozen water elementals. Like tiny, uncultured children, they wandered the temporal dilation chamber. I practiced disconnecting the mana I placed within them from the materials composing their bodies. It was dark work, leaving quite an impression on me. There was something innately twisted about giving life then taking it, even if it was on a scale this small.

The more I did work like this, the more I understood how someone like Yawm came to be. This was corrupting as the eldritch. Creating and killing life reduced the sanctity of life itself. It numbed my basic sense of ethics and morality. As I took each of the little lives away, it didn't bother me as much as the last one did.

That bothered me more than an eldritch chewing my face.

Still, I did the work that had to be done. It wasn't like I would be doing this forever, and my mind was more stable than stone. I wouldn't let this series of exercises leave me warped.

I pushed through a sense of nausea from the spells. It took four or five hours to gain Deconstruction, mostly from my own misgivings with the skill. The progress was at light speed compared to gaining origin mana though. After that awful affair, Event Horizon would be my go-to for dismissing my creations. It was less...personal that way.

We moved on to Anatomy. It was one of the most effortless skills to gain since my first few skills back in Bloodhollow. After reading three hundred pages of an anatomy book in an hour, I learned the ability. Easy peasy. It surprised me how quickly it all came to me and how quickly I read as well.

I remembered taking anatomy back in high school. I got my ass kicked by that class. The memorization aspect of it was so simple now, it seemed like child’s play. Even more so, the more complex bits about how various systems worked together on a conceptual level, that just zipped into my brain. Of course, I wasn’t an expert. You wouldn't see me handling a tricky diagnosis like pulmonary embolus. I'd fuck that up with something more common like pneumonia. That kind of expertise would still take time, diligence, and experience, but I was on the road to that level of understanding.

My progress stuck out to me just because this was one of the subjects I studied from my previous life before Schema. It was difficult, arduous, and complicated once upon a time. It was so easy now by comparison.

I was no longer a troglodyte in regards to my smarts. Yay.

After finishing that anatomy booklet, I moved on to the skill Growth. Before Transient even attempted giving me a primer on the topic, I expanded myself using the skill Mass Manipulation. Transient chided,

“That isn’t growth. You’re simply expanding the distance between the atoms of your body. Growth is different. You don’t shift the density of your atomic structure. You add atoms to it.”

I raised my eyebrows, “Like getting fat?”

“No. This skill is a simple skill used by many to create a more imposing presence. You use origin or quintessence mana to create more of your own body. While very dangerous to learn for most, it should prove quite simple for you considering your circumstances.”

I cupped my chin, “Why is it dangerous?”

“Mold origin mana into your body. The answer shall present itself.”

I narrowed my eyes, “Huh...ok.”

I shifted my mode of mana, blue lines glowing across my helmet and runes. I saturated my blood a bit with origin mana before my vision blurred. Falling to my knees, a wave of nausea suffused me, and I wretched. The empty gag followed the vomiting of an eyeball a moment later. My own eyes widened with horror as I leaned back from the squirming eyeball. As it glanced at me, a far stronger urge to hurl deluged from my gut.

I upchucked a waterfall of eyeballs. They crashed into the ground, a massive pile forming beneath me. The fleshy spheres swelled from my eyes, under my skin, in every inch of my body. They soaked into my bones and blood, growing from my body in an abominable mass.

Before drowning in detatched eyeball, I shifted Event Horizon over my frame. The flesh dematerialized in an instant, the pressure dissipation from around me. As I gasped for unnecessary air, I glanced up at Transient. The AI chirped with a bit too much glee,

“That is why it's dangerous.”

I shook my head before banging my chin once. The whip sharpened my thoughts as I stood up. I glared down at the energy ball as ascendant mana coursed through my veins. Red mana leaked from my frame, my armor grinning with red leaking from it. I reached out, molding the lightest touch of Event Horizon over the little ball of aether.

It trembled, the mana composing its body draining. As Transient groaned in torment, I leaned over to it,

“Thank you for explaining why origin mana is dangerous...Do you feel that?”

It shivered, dimming as I seethed,

“That is why I’m dangerous.”

I stopped the aura and stood up again, "One lesson for another. Now, would you mind telling me what to do next. This time in detail?"

More subdued, the AI continued, "Of course. My apologies. Let's continue."

I raised a hand, channeling origin mana, "Let's."
