Even her arms. She looked at them. Silver and steel; metal flesh. Yet she could feel if she closed her hands. Pain was gone, but sensation remained, albeit a bit dulled. She had seen the other adventurers glancing at her arms during the planning session. Yvlon felt like she stood out compared to all but the most noticeable adventurers.
So much better than her numb, tingling arms, leaking blood and pus, ruined by the injury at Albez. So much better; she was so much stronger.
Yet if Yvlon could have traded these arms for her old ones…she tried to forget about them. She didn’t hate her arms. Not exactly. It was just that if she had confided in her team, which she should have done, but had been too busy, too ashamed to say out loud, she would have simply said that she no longer felt…entirely Human.
More like a half-Golem or something. Yvlon knew Ksmvr admired the ‘upgrade’, but she felt a terrible feeling of unease, of wrongness, that intensified the more people stared, or the longer she looked at herself in a mirror.
Ceria has a bone hand. Live with it. Focus on the battle. Yvlon shook her head. Silver and steel be her guide; she would need every edge in this coming fight.
She was looking for Pisces, Ceria, and Ksmvr, when she heard the clash of metal on metal, and shouting. Yvlon turned her head. She had an unpleasant feeling, which intensified when she saw the crowd and the flashing silhouettes of two adventurers.
“Oh no.”
The telltale, white robes made Yvlon break into a run. She pushed through the crowd, easily shoving adventurers aside to stop the duel as two Humans fought, swords in hand.
“Enough! This isn’t the time for fights! Leave him—”
Pisces put up his rapier at the same time as the other man lowered his weapon. He too carried a rapier, albeit slightly altered, with a loop hilt instead of Pisces’ swept hilt guard, and he had a little parrying dagger in the other hand. A silver bell rang as he put up his blades.
Yvlon halted. She had been ready to grab both blades to stop what she assumed to be a duel Pisces had landed in—by his tongue or his class. However, Pisces looked amused, and the other man did too.
“What’s going on?”
The [Necromancer] cleared his throat as adventurers chuckled.
“Merely an exhibition, a training match of skill, Yvlon. I appreciate you coming to my aid…but that was not required in this case. May I present [Fencing Instructor] Tomoor d’Silaw, Silver-rank adventurer, who has elected to participate in the raid?”
“Lady Byres.”
The man gave Yvlon a flashy bow as he stowed the parrying dagger. His rapier traced the ground in a fanciful pattern. As he rose, his free hand smoothed at his lips, touching an extremely small and well-maintained mustache.
Yvlon blinked.
“Oh. Not a duel?”
“A match between [Fencers] worthy of the silver bell, Miss Byres. Adventurer Pisces had mentioned he once carried one, and I had to see if it was true. Well, I think it is! I would award it myself if I faced him on the practice courts.”
Some of the other adventurers murmured. Pisces had been doing well until Yvlon barged in. Tomoor looked at the [Armsmistress], now embarrassed.
“Your teammate is quite skilled, Miss Byres. Practically an imitation of Perril Chandler—which of course, is why I’m here. That historical broadcast was inspiring. I decided to come out of retirement and show my students some true fencing.”
He struck the air with his rapier, smoothing his mustache again. Yvlon nodded, looking at Pisces. He smiled.
“Well then. Er—sorry to interrupt. Apologies. I thought—”
She backed up. Pisces smiled at Tomoor and flicked his rapier up.
“Do you know Chandler’s Rebuke, Instructor Tomoor? I’ve never actually learned it.”
“We could give it a shot. I’m no [Mage], but—shall we continue? My advantage, I think…”
The two began dueling again, in front of the interested crowd. Among the watchers, Yvlon noticed, were other melee-experts. Not Briganda, but the kind who liked the finesse and technique of weapons. Briganda was very good, Yvlon knew, but she wasn’t a…student like some were.
One of the watchers, for instance, was Pekona, the [Blade Dancer] of Vuliel Drae. She eyed Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] nodded shortly; she still remembered Vuliel Drae’s mess up.
Not every adventurer you had to drink with and clap on the back. You just had to fight together. If Todi was here, Yvlon would have stayed across the camp from him.
Was he here? It might not surprise Yvlon at this point. Todi’s Elites weren’t risk-takers, but they might think this was a raid worthy of the risk.
She saw Revi, walking away from a fire with some roasted strips of meat on a stick. Adventurers were cooking, and the [Summoner] had just bartered for some food.
“Revi. There you are. Have you seen any of the other teams? Also—is Todi here?”
“Todi? You think he’d risk his neck, even with this crowd?”
Revi snorted. After a second, she handed the smallest wood skewer to Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] took it.
“No, Todi’s not here. However, I’m surprised at how many teams did show up. Did you see Arcsinger’s Bows and Eldertuin? I think we might have a shot!”
“He’s not going in as deep as everyone else. He said so straight out. It’s a—favor. Of sorts. Ryoka Griffin asked him to participate, so he’ll guard our flanks. He’s not charging with the treasure-grabbers, though.”
Revi wrinkled her face, but she was impressed.
“Ryoka got Eldertuin the Fortress to join a raid? She is so weird. How many connections does she have? That’s Runners for you.”
Yvlon nodded. It had surprised her too. Which reminded her—she dug in her bag of holding.
“Thanks for the food, Revi. If you see Griffon Hunt—pass these out.”
She counted about a dozen small objects into Revi’s hands. The Stitch Girl had to dump some of her food in her bag of holding.
“What’s this? What’s—is this baby corn? Why does it look weird? It’s red! Blue!”
“I have no clue. Eldertuin was passing it out. Apparently it’s baby corn from some [Corn Farmer]. Spicy, sweet—”
“Oh, yum! Thanks! Er—have another skewer.”
The two were chatting when Yvlon saw someone coming their way. She almost missed him because he wasn’t reclining on the golden palanquin, but Prince Zenol still looked eerily beautiful.
Not attractive to her necessarily, just beautiful. There was something too unnatural for Yvlon’s taste about his skin. To describe the effect silk had on Stitchfolk was to make comparisons with the adjectives, ‘supple’, ‘flawless’, ‘soft’, and other such descriptors.
In short, he had no pimples, pock marks, freckles, or other skin blemishes, and he moved with ease, his body being constructed out of one of the best materials for his people. He was rather like Ceria, in some ways, although the half-immortal effect of half-Elves was different than physical artifice taken to its limit.
Either way, he stood out, as did his natural superior attitude and expensive cloth-armor clothing. Yvlon recognized enchantments, but it was still arrogant to walk around as if he was dressed for a party, except for the single curved sword at his hip.
She was not about to bow to the foreign [Prince], but Zenol’s effect on Revi was dramatic. She instantly turned and bowed, deeply.
“Your Highness, Prince Zenol! We’re honored by your presence, sire.”
“Ah. You must be Revi Cotton of Griffon Hunt. Lady Byres. I had hoped to meet your Antinium comrade before battle began. I am curious about the Antinium.”
“Prince Zenol. I don’t know where Ksmvr is, but if you would like, we can find him together.”
Yvlon was a [Lady], but she refused to dance on his protocol. Nor did Zenol insist, but Revi clearly knew more from Chandrar than Yvlon.
“Let us find him, then. I understand your entire team is unusual. A half-Elf with a skeleton’s hand, a [Necromancer] worthy of a silver bell; he duels fairly well, even by Nerrhavia’s standards. An Antinium from the Hives, unique, and yourself. May I inquire as to your unique arms?”
“You may.”
Yvlon saw Revi tagging along behind them, and realized she had fallen behind. She turned to gesture, and Revi shook her head. She mouthed something.
“Ah. [Summoner] Revi, join us. We are in Izril, so such protocols from home do not apply.”
“Of course, Prince Zenol!”
Revi hurried forwards. Yvlon eyed Zenol. The Stitch-man shrugged in reply to the unsaid question.
“She is Cotton. I am Silk. I am also one of Nerrhavia’s [Princes], no matter how many of us there are. We would not walk together unless she was in my service. Even then—it would be highly unusual.”
“I see. What brought you from Nerrhavia’s Fallen all the way here, Prince Zenol?”
He smiled, arching a brow as he looked at Yvlon.
“Certainly not a desire for respect or awe, if that is what you are asking, Lady Byres. I had considered posing as a mere commoner, but I doubted I would fool anyone. I came to prove myself. For adventure, rather than luxury. This raid called to me.”
He gestured and Yvlon glanced over her shoulder and realized the six palanquin bearers were silently trailing them. Two were rough, big Stitchfolk; Hemp. The other three were Cotton, with the last being Silk.
“My team, and my servants. I know what some of the other teams surely think of me, but rest assured. When we join in battle, I will not fall behind any other team. Nerrhavia’s pride is with my group.”
“I don’t doubt that, Prince Zenol. I’m just taken aback by your customs. Forgive me if I indicated otherwise.”
The Stitch-man glanced at Yvlon and actually stooped slightly, as if to see her face from a different angle.
“…You don’t, do you? Well, that is a refreshing change. May I ask about your arms, if it is not offensive? You must understand that it fascinates me to see someone who can change their skin as we do; I imagine Dullahans think the same.”
They did—Yvlon shifted uncomfortably and shrugged.
“It’s less glamorous than you imagine. I injured both arms badly. My armor melted into my bones when fighting a Flame Elemental; I was practically crippled until I consolidated a class and…”
She gestured. Zenol nodded, raising his eyebrows.
“Quite fortuitous. Was it simply a great stroke of luck? I do know of [Injured Warriors] who gain Skills to make up for lost limbs, but this is far rarer.”
“Not—exactly. I had uh, kept my arms functional with help. My teammate, Pisces—he is a [Necromancer], so he reinforced my bones, enough to keep me fighting.”
“Ah. Now there is a secret worthy of a class. I thank you, Lady Byres. You do me honor with your trust.”
Did she? Revi looked agog, like she was meeting a huge celebrity, but Yvlon wondered if she had said more than she should. Well—good for [Necromancers]. She walked with Prince Zenol until they met Ksmvr in the animal-pile.
Prince Zenol was haughty, but like the others, he seemed like a real adventurer the more they talked. If he showed no wounds, well—when Ksmvr inquired, the [Prince] instantly turned.
“We do not need healing potions in the same quantities, but we are quite willing to throw ourselves into the Village of the Dead to find the treasure and escape. I have prepared emergency-limbs of course. See?”
One of his people produced nearly a dozen perfectly-sewn silk arms, legs, even organs and other body parts. All of them looked like cloth—until they were swapped into the body.
“How sensible. I wish I were capable of modular reattachment. My missing arm has been most inconvenient. See?”
Ksmvr waggled his stump of a fourth arm.
“True, true! It is refreshing to see Antinium understand the superior nature of Stitchfolk bodies!”
Prince Zenol laughed, quite taken with Ksmvr. Ironically, the [Prince] from Chandrar had less reservations about talking with Ksmvr than Izrilians. He even asked the floating questions no one had dared to utter.
“So, are more Antinium willing to adventure? Or is your Hive as monolithic as I’ve been told? Will they be continuing the Third Antinium War?”
Ksmvr tilted his head.
“That is not my decision to make, Prince Zenol. However, I will happily talk about my Hive in some respects if you will inform me about Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s inner functionality in great detail. Otherwise, it would appear you are asking for information with no compensation, a very unfair stance.”
“By the sands—”
One of the servants took offense to Ksmvr’s familiar tone. Zenol just lifted a hand.
“Well said.”
Revi nodded emphatically behind Prince Zenol, and Yvlon saw that three more Stitchfolk adventurers from abroad were also watching him, trailing about, offering sycophantic comments.
It was so unlike Revi she had to pull the [Summoner] aside as Ceria walked over.
“Is that Prince Zenol? Oh no. Someone stop Ksmvr from establishing dominance.”
Yvlon ignored the joke—which was growing tired after a thousand times, like the ‘is it war?’ joke that Pisces and Ceria loved bantering about. She turned to Revi.
“Revi, why are you bowing and scraping to him?”
“Because he’s a [Prince], Yvlon! You’re telling me—oh, right. Izrilians and their thing about monarchy.”
“You’re not even from Nerrhavia’s Fallen, though! I remember you telling me you were from the western coast!”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] pointed out. Octavia was from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Revi gave Yvlon a roll of her eyes.
“So? Nerrhavia’s Fallen is a superpower! It’s one of the String People nations. Besides which, it doesn’t matter. If Prince Zenol really, really were to like me—he could elevate me to Silk! Or beyond!”
Ceria made an ‘oh’ expression. The cloth-caste system of the String Folk. Yvlon nodded slowly.
“Well—he’s not going to notice you if you just smile like that and echo his every word. Be more…Revi. That’ll get his attention.”
“And get her kicked all the way down to Hemp.”
Ceria joked. Revi gave the half-Elf a look.
“Don’t joke. It could happen.”
“Tree rot, really? I had no idea…”
Explanations about String Folk society were cut off as someone materialized and grabbed Ceria’s arm.
“Excuse me, Captain Ceria? Adventurer Arcsinger would like a word.”
A Human man, one of Arcsinger’s Bows, made all the adventurers turn. Yvlon raised her brows. Ceria turned at once.
“Of course. Does she need anything?”
“She’d like a word. Privately?”
Yvlon and Ceria nodded. The man glanced at Yvlon. He hesitated.
“Privately, Captain Ceria? Between half-Elves?”
The [Armsmistress] frowned, but she nodded and stepped back. She waved at Ceria, who looked at her.
“Go on. We’ll talk to Prince Zenol. Find out what she wants.”
 
—-
 
