“If we are going to raid this dungeon, let it be done properly! Team captains, and the leader of the Horns of Hammerad, shall we convene? There, I believe.”
He gestured at an open spot higher up, and the palanquin spun, neatly moving past the adventurers. Ceria glanced at Pisces.
“Looks like we’ve got some characters already. Let’s go?”
The [Necromancer] nodded as individuals or teams began sending their leaders forwards. Ceria looked around, breathing faster, now. All of them and she was in charge. She felt the pressure rising.
Then—she saw the pair of Named-rank adventurers walking out of the crowd. That was when Ceria knew they had a chance.
 
—-
 
Named-rank Teams were not Named-rank adventurers. However, both had to be exceptional, beyond exceptional to acquire either title.
Ceria knew both, of course. One in particular. Who had not heard of Elia Arcsinger? It was interesting, then, that Arcsinger’s Bows was not a Named-rank team. However, she had never lost her designation since she had slain the Goblin King.
The second adventurer she had never met, but heard of. Eldertuin the Fortress, whose old team had contained two adventurers who later became Named-rank. The very same man who’d taken on six Trolls during a bloody battle at the same time and survived!
Even [Prince] Zenol bowed to them, although he did not leave the palanquin. The other team-captains looked just as impressed. Then they turned to Ceria and her mouth went dry.
As Pisces had said though, that was why Yvlon was there.
“Captains, adventurers—Adventurer Arcsinger and Terland, welcome. We apologize for the disorganization. Most of you came in at the same time. Let’s get everyone settled, then we can discuss the plan of attack.”
Everyone nodded. Ceria saw that Elia was accompanied by three of her team; most had only come representing their entire team or themselves. Even so, it was a huge group on the hilltop.
“Where are we camping?”
“Just line up your camps. It’s not hard. Individuals take that section…we’ll space ‘em out and break the gridlock. I’ll grab the teams nearest the front.”
Jelaqua pointed impatiently, gesturing around the already-established encampment. However, half a dozen adventurers protested instantly.
“Hold up, I have alchemical supplies I need to keep away from fire at all costs.”
“So? Keep away from fire. I’m allergic to dogs. At least three teams have ‘em, so I need to get upwind of wherever they’re going.”
“Hah! Have you seen adventurers when they drink? A stray [Spark] spell some idiot casts gets near me and there won’t be a raid!”
Yet another Captain raised a hand and spoke, shamefaced. Ceria was raising her hands helplessly when she spoke.
“Look—two of my people are sick. It…might be just an infection, but it could be uh, Yellow Rivers. We didn’t see it coming in—”
Yvlon’s head swung around. Every other adventurer recoiled instantly.
“Are you insane? You ‘think’ it’s Yellow Rivers? What possessed you to come here?”
“We’re not sure! But if there’s a [Healer]—”
“Excuse me, I snore loudly. So maybe I should camp away from everyone else? I know what you’re thinking already, but trust me, it’s loud—”
The mere act of getting teams to settle down and unpack was already beyond Ceria’s expertise. Even Yvlon looked harassed.
“Which team is sick? Okay—get yours out of the way, now. As for anyone with allergies or complaints, line up and we’ll deal with you after—”
Again, Ceria heard the clap of Prince Zenol’s hands. All the adventurers winced and some swore at him. However, the haughty man—no, Ceria realized with a start, Stitch-man—just pointed one elegant, supple hand of skin made from silk.
“I believe that adventurer is the one we need, Captain Springwalker?”
He looked at her. Ceria blinked at him, and then turned. She spotted the person he was looking at. She was…a Garuda?
Yes! No. Ceria was instantly confused because the description was right, a feathered, avian, female adventurer—but the details were wrong.
Head shape, the length of her talon-claws, even her plumage! She wasn’t a Garuda at all. The Bird Beastkin bowed, extending a wing-arm with the feathers pointed downwards, executing the bow like a bird pecking seed.
“Excuse me. If there’s no [Strategist] leading this raid, I volunteer my abilities. Strategist Soew, at your service.”
She tilted her head. Unnaturally far right. Everyone shuddered and Ceria saw the beady eyes, so unlike a Garuda’s more Human-like ones, regard her. A curved, smaller beak, pale feathers…oh yes.
The Owl Beastkin adventurer looked at Ceria for a nod, and then lifted a wing.
“Every adventurer team or individual with complications, please raise your hand. Good. You may lower them. Gold-rank team Captains, please raise your hand, yourselves included, please, Captain Ceria. Good. Teams with experience in repelling ambushes, fast-mobilization capabilities, or trap-specialties, raise your hands. Good…[Mages], or those with them in your team, raise your hands. Good.”
She made them lower their hands each time, but it was done in seconds. Ceria didn’t see the point, but she started as Soew’s head turned all the way around like she was a Selphid or Dullahan. The Owl just blinked, counting hands, and then asked the next question.
She began writing on the clipboard she carried.
“Good. I believe I know the organization of teams. I will have a layout in five minutes.”
Her claw-hand darted across the clipboard with amazing speed, holding a quill delicately. Ceria stared. Someone else murmured incredulously.
“That fast? Why the hell do we need to lay out the camp?”
“Have my Izrilian counterparts never partied with a [Strategist], before? They are quite common on Baleros, and Chandrar of course learns effective strategies.”
Zenol spoke from his elevated position at the questioner. His tone managed to be sneering and lecturing at the same time.
“Strategist Soew remembers the data she collected in an instant if she is a half-decent [Strategist]. She will space the camp out to take care of individual issues—and keep the most battle-ready teams to the edges, as well as [Mages] far enough away that their magic-casting does not interfere with each other.”
As Soew worked, Ceria saw two thirds of those present scowling at Zenol—aside from two more Stitchfolk, who looked awed by his presence. He was not making a good first-impression.
Or rather, he was making a Pisces-type impression, which was probably why Ceria wasn’t actually taking as much offense as most of the others.
It could well be said that Yvlon was exactly the type of person Pisces-attitudes nettled most, so her scowl was just as pronounced as she opened her mouth. Ceria broke in, looking directly at the [Prince].
“Thank you, Captain Zenol. You’ve been most helpful in getting us organized. I can see there are a lot of teams here, and I thank you all for coming. However, we’ll have to get organized quick for the raid. Thus, I’ll ask Soew, Named Adventurers Eldertuin, Elia, and a few of the leaders I know to make initial plans, and then call a larger meeting to brief everyone. So—don’t clap your hands any more. My ears hurt.”
She pointed at Zenol, and the [Prince] raised his eyebrows. Several people laughed, but he nodded.
“As you wish. If you would care to avail yourself of my expertise?”
Ceria looked at him. That was another Pisces-type line. If she said yes, half the other team-captains would want to put forwards their experience. If she said no?
“We’ll reach out to all experts. After I consult with the others.”
He nodded slowly, not looking exactly pleased, but gestured and moved his palanquin back down the rise. Ceria was breathing hard, but to her surprise, Jelaqua clapped her on the shoulder as the other captains went to see where Soew wanted them and headed to shout at their teams.
“Nice job. No wonder you’re the Captain.”
Yvlon was nodding too, much calmer. Ceria smiled, pleased by the compliment. There now. That was something she could do better than Yvlon! After all, she’d known Pisces far longer.
The secret was to ignore the haughty sniffing and see if he was being actually helpful, or just in the mood to be a prat. If reasoned speech didn’t get [Prince] Zenol to be helpful, Ceria’s next instinct was to drop-kick him out of the palanquin. She turned to the few adventurers left. Friends and Named-rank adventurers—and the [Strategist]. Ceria smiled.
“Okay. Hi, I’m Ceria. Should we get started?”
 
—-
 
Now.
Rags sat in The Wandering Inn, inspecting it, seeing how it had changed.
…Well. It was nothing like the inn she remembered. She’d heard the other one had been exploded. The skeleton—Toren. That made sense to Rags. It had always been suspicious.
So much changed, from floorboards to the three floors, the tower, the magic door, the occupants, and the trapped hallway.
However, the uproar was familiar. Some things never changed, and that was reassuring.
Rags, who had no last name, and who had been given her name here, was just one extraordinary visitor that day. Those were just the visitors, too.
The inn had long had special guests.
The owner of the Heartflame Breastplate, for instance, who was dragging the scrying mirror to a better place to watch from, cursing.
“Is it not on the news? Someone has to—where’s Drassi? Is she on air? It has to be on the news!”
“What’s happening? Are the Horns going to get Erin’s cure?”
Joseph crashed down the stairs. The [World-Renowned Coach], arguably one of the most well-known faces in the world. He jogged past Rags, then jogged backwards.
“…Uh.”
The young man gazed at Rags, clearly certain that she wasn’t one of the two Goblins he was familiar with in the inn. She was still standing in the common room, taking it in. At last, she decided she had to say something.
“Hi.”
“…Hi.”
Joseph waved. He walked past her, glancing over his shoulder twice. Rags’ matter-of-fact greeting made it hard to cause a fuss, though.
Calescent was rubbing his hands together, sniffing the air, although it seemed like a half-Elf was doing it rather than the Goblin [Chef]. They were both somewhat portly, Calescent being of the opinion that a [Chef] got to eat the food they cooked before the people they served, but as bodyguards went, he barely lagged behind Redscar or Snapjaw.
Guests new and old. One of them peered down at the Goblin, blinking. There was no way. Yet he was certain it was the same one from the High Passes. The gifted amateur! A Goblin Chieftain, in the inn!
Niers Astoragon was fuming—or had been from yesterday’s events. It had seemed like a tricky day—and it looked more and more tricky, but interesting, rather than just difficult. He glanced around as a running pair of paws heralded two more arrivals via the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Rags whirled as bright sunlight spilled into the room. Calescent had the knife out again—no one else even noticed. Mrsha bounded out the door, spotted Rags, and slowed. She had heard Selys shouting about the Horns, but the appearance of—
Pebblesnatch?
Mrsha’s first reaction was to think it was the little Goblin [Cook]! However, this Goblin was noticeably taller, her skin was green, not grey, and she had armor and stuff! Mrsha froze.
Goblin in her inn? A new one? She had no idea what the half-Elf—waitasecond, he smelled like a Goblin too! And spices! She backed up as someone else ran after her.
“What Horns? Is it dessert? Village of the Dead? That is in the north. Stupid Mrsha-child, explain—”
Ulvama froze in the entrance of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Rags’ brows rose higher. She glanced at the little Gnoll girl—yes, Badarrow had mentioned her. Then at Ulvama.
“Rags?”
The [Shaman] screeched in surprise. Rags nodded.
“Me. Hello, Ulvama. You—are Mrsha.”
She pointed and the little Gnoll recoiled. Selys was looking at Rags again.
“She’s here. She’s—Ishkr? Kevin? No—none of you know who she is, do you?”
Kevin, Ishkr, both of whom were moving the scrying mirror, realized Rags’ presence and hesitated, shaking their heads. Rags nodded to herself. She nudged Calescent.
“Take off your ring, Calescent.”
“Hm. Fine.”
He did. The Goblin [Chef] appeared and Mrsha recoiled, jaw open, with everyone else. Rags saw Ulvama’s jaw drop, although she had sensed the illusion. The [Chieftain] was starting to enjoy herself.
—Then she glanced sideways. Niers’ hair rose. He’d been waving at Mrsha of course, but she hadn’t looked up once. She was avoiding him, the dratted girl.
Rags spun, and the giant black crossbow rose in both hands, appearing from her bag of holding like a [Magician]’s trick. The tip of the bolt glowed, and her hands sparked with fire. Calescent had a kitchen knife with red dust in his other hand, held up to his lips to blow across the room. Both Goblins had turned to look sideways.
“’Scuse me, Miss Selys. We apologize for this, as it were, but we noticed one of the visitors had opened the side-door. Little scamps might have left it ajar; is she alright to come in?”
Crimshaw leaned on the door frame of one of the hallways adjoining the trapped entranceway. He didn’t quite touch the blackjack at his side. Nor was Rags aiming at him, but the tip of two smaller crossbows pointing at her from the second open door’s crack.
“It—she’s fine! She’s fine! No one shoot!”
Selys had frozen upon seeing the three Brothers. They relaxed, and Crimshaw took his hand away from the blackjack. He tipped his hat to Selys and then Rags and Calescent.
“Good to know, Miss. Thought it might be, but we wanted to be sure.”
They were good. Rags had barely noticed after Niers, and had the three Brothers really wanted to attack—
Ambush specialists. Niers nodded to himself. He still didn’t know quite where the two Gentlemen Callers were or why they’d abandoned their posts, but the Brothers were doing good work. In fact, they’d done more than he had asked even yesterday…honorable men. He waited, still trying to make sense of this.
As for Rags, she put the crossbow down and gestured at Calescent to do the same. He was clearly uneasy at anyone sneaking up on him, but obeyed.
The Goblin [Great Chieftain] was purely approving, however.
“Better security, good. I always thought it was bad here. I could have destroyed the inn with eight Goblins.”
Her perfect intonation and speech made Selys start again.
“You can talk!”
“I could always talk. Ulvama, stop staring. Where is…Numbtongue?”
The [Shaman] made a choked sound. Rags looked at the faces, and then strode over to a table. She sat down and pointedly looked around.
“I would like a Blue Fruit juice cup, and some spaghetti, please. Also, a chessboard.”
