Mrsha had thrown the gold coin at Rags’ head with all her might. Rags put a claw to the spot, as she slowly rotated. Her crimson eyes flashed and Mrsha backed up a step—then menacingly made two fists. She jabbed as she stood on two legs, like Ryoka had shown her.
Niers watched Mrsha the Boxer shadow-punching the air, daring Rags; he’d already slipped away before she even grabbed Rags the first time. The Goblin couldn’t spot him, but she might be able to if he was too close. He saw Rags’ eyes narrow—then she snorted and turned away.
“Children.”
Mrsha’s jaw dropped as Rags walked out of the room, closing the door behind her. Technically, Rags was the child! Mrsha was several times her age—although Rags looked older, and she was a good bit taller. She grabbed the doorknob, twisted it furiously…
…And rattled the door. It was locked! Rags had somehow shut it from the outside. Mrsha exploded in fury.
The Horns of Hammerad appeared on screen below as Rags emerged from Bezale’s room, having given up trying to copy making scrolls. She had taken a good look at the [Spellscribe]’s supplies, though. Interesting. So that was how you wrote them.
On the scrying mirror, Yvlon raised a sword and pointed as viewers began tuning in. Rags looked down the hallway.
Let’s see. Joseph? Probably not useful. Maybe one of the soccer balls for little Goblins. Can probably figure out how to make them without copying, though. Still need acid jars too. Seed cores, maybe, for blue fruit in the High Passes. Who is ‘Hexel’? Wait—[Architect]. Blueprints! Good to copy.
She looked around for any better options; she knew she might be running out of time if that little Gnoll tattled. Her eyes travelled down the hallway. It stopped as she saw the first door on the left.
Erin.
The nameplate shone. The door was a bit ajar. Rags looked at the door. Her feet began to take her in that direction—then she backed away. Not yet. Not—she’d rather steal all of Bird’s feathers in front of him than—
Rags saw the flash of light and heard the scampering sound. She whirled—stared at the door open right in front of her in the middle of the hallway, where a wall had been—
Mrsha’s flying kick took her into Rags. The two tumbled across the hallway as the Gnoll exploded into a wild frenzy of punches and kicks.
Headbutt! Bite! Ryoka punch! Relc kick! At first, Rags was just stunned—then Mrsha’s teeth sank into her arm. She growled and punched back. Not hard enough to hurt the little girl, but—
Her fist sank into a wall of fur. Rags stared at the overgrown little Gnoll, who now looked like a sheep, she had so much fur on her.
[Fur of the Fortress]! Mrsha ignored the punches and kicks as she whaled on Rags. She punched the Goblin in the nose. Thief! Mrsha the Vigilante would not allow this! She would—
Rags lifted her up and threw her down the hallway. Mrsha’s eyes went round as she flew. Rags had [Lesser Strength], after all, and she was a warrior. She growled, feeling at the broken skin on her arm—
Mrsha never hit the wall. She flew through into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and rolled. Then she charged towards the door and head-butted Rags from the side.
“What is—”
Rags was stunned again from the teleportation ability of the Garden. This time she began punching Mrsha in earnest. The two rolled across the ground, throwing elbows, punching each other—Mrsha with her fur, Rags with her armor.
The little Gnoll was losing badly, and hadn’t ended up on the ground because Rags had not hit her as hard as she could. However, Mrsha was strong and her Skills meant it was…
Was…
…Like watching two kids fight. Niers Astoragon stared at the little fight between the two and walked downstairs to observe the raid on the Village of Death. He didn’t have time for this.
Rags was getting angrier by the second. She couldn’t toss Mrsha off her; the Gnoll kept leaping back on and grappling. And she didn’t want to hurt this brat, but she was going to!
Dead gods, is this what Erin replaced Goblins with? Annoying Gnolls and stupid Centaurs?
Mrsha had Rags in a choke-hold. Rags actually felt her trying to cut off her wind-pipe. Enough was enough. Rags got up, and ran them both into a wall. Mrsha oofed, but she refused to let go, mad with fury. Rags repeated it, smashing both into another wall. She charged a third time, so hard something would break if that stupid little—
They ran into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Rags and Mrsha fell apart, tumbling to the ground. Rags looked about. What—what—
The garden lay around her. She was in a stone garden section, the stones piled up in cairns, next to a mushroom biome. A pond in the distance; arid ground to her left. And there, on the grass hilltop, bloomed yellow flowers and Sage’s Grass.
High above, on a hill shrouded in mist…Rags’ eyes travelled upwards. She saw a figure raise his head. Numbtongue opened his eyes and looked down at—
Mrsha snarled. The guttural sound made Rags whirl. She saw Mrsha crouching, ready for round two. This time though, she had reinforcements.
Beaver gang. Beaver gang! Four huge Fortress Beavers, heavier than adults, imposing, advanced on Rags. So did an angry bee, who’d dropped the Fraerling off and then came to join the fight. Mrsha punched one paw into the other. They were gonna—
“Enough.”
Rags pulled out her crossbow and aimed it at the first Fortress Beaver. With her other hand, she conjured a [Fireball].
The Beavers halted. Mrsha threw her paws up. Rags growled. She aimed over Mrsha’s head to fire—
And her finger failed to pull the trigger. Something—Rags blinked.
The [Fireball] winked out in her claw. The same force that had separated her and Mrsha made her lower the crossbow. Rags stared as the Beavers uncertainly backed up too, unable to charge. She looked at her crossbow. She had the distinct impression that even if she managed to lift it and pull the trigger, the crossbow would explode before it fired.
Mrsha and Rags reconsidered as the presence of this place weighed down on both of them. Mrsha snuffled as she felt at some bruises, despite her thick fur coat. Rags stowed the crossbow, eyed Mrsha, then tossed something on the ground.
“Stop bothering me.”
The healing potion rolled onto the grass. Mrsha eyed it, turned her head up, and glowered at Rags. She padded off to get one of Erin’s potions from the emergency boxes. Rags glowered at the bee buzzing in her face.
You want to fight? Just try it! She waved at Apista, trying to get the Ashfire Bee out of her face. Everything here had Erin’s attitude. Which was to say, zero sense, a hundred percent willingness to scrap.
She was about to follow Mrsha—or figure out how to get back to looting the inn—when she heard a voice. It croaked from disuse, and the figure had stayed here, for all he ate and slept elsewhere. Disbelieving, the voice of a dead Goblin.
“Chieftain?”
Rags turned. Pyrite stood there. P—
No. Who was this Goblin? She recoiled from the far slimmer Goblin, far younger, holding a strange sword made of glass, a guitar strapped to his back. Yet—the Goblin looked at her, and his lips curved upwards, and how he stood, even his voice echoed—
“Pyrite?”
She whispered, Mrsha, the beavers, everything forgotten. The Goldstone Chieftain looked down at her as Mrsha turned. He walked down the hill as Rags ascended. They met among the dead Faerie Flowers, the red, growing Sage’s Grass.
“You’re dead.”
Rags stared at the Goblin, speaking almost accusingly. Pyrite shrugged.
“Mm. Yes.”
“How?”
Rags’ voice quivered. She reached out, not wanting to—wanting to touch him. She saw it. She knew it. Him. Yet not him. This body was a vessel.
“The world is strange. Rags. Chieftain. It is good to see you.”
The other Goblin slowly reached out. He touched Rags’ shoulder, blinking.
“You are taller.”
“Pyrite. I’m—I’m sorry.”
The [Great Chieftain]’s voice quivered. She looked up at him, and saw the moment he died. Laughing in the face of the Human [Lord]. Doing what mattered most, as he saw it.
Mrsha stared up at the two Goblins, wrath forgotten. Suddenly, the little female Goblin looked so old. Older than Mrsha. Old, and sad, and…like Relc. Like so many warriors, like Zel. Like…
Pyrite’s claws tightened around hers. His lips moved upwards.
“Why? I won. You lived. And—I got to see you again.”
“I—”
The grip tightened. For one second, Rags felt the warm grip. She looked into Pyrite’s eyes. Then—the crimson gaze unfocused.
Numbtongue’s grip loosened. He let go, stepped back, shaking his head. He caught himself—looked down.
Rags met the [Goblin Soulbard] for the first time in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Tears in her eyes. She didn’t wipe them away. She looked at Numbtongue, seeing him now.
“Numbtongue?”
“Yes. That’s me. You’re…Rags. The Ch…Badarrow’s Chieftain.”
He croaked. He swayed on his feet, surprised and unsurprised. Tired. Somewhere—the Horns were braving death. He didn’t want it.
He had too many ghosts already. They whispered. A ghost of a Goblin Lord sat in his head.
Do I know her? Do I…?
A broken fragment of memory. Sitting with…with…a giant? His brother, and this Goblin? Talking? Arguing?
The ghost of Reiss spoke, but it was broken. Half-lost. Numbtongue heard Shorthilt too, and Pyrite.
Barely remember this Goblin, when Chieftain Garen was alive. Remember Redscar? He serves her? Is she good at fighting? 
The whisper of the Goldstone Chieftain.
She looks older. Taller. More tired. I wish I had not died. Who will support her now? She is so young. She will be a better Chieftain than I.
Three ghosts. Too many. He wanted no more, even if the others were unseen. He felt them weighing him down.
“Numbtongue. Badarrow told me about you. Your brother—Rabbiteater—went to Terandria.”
“I know.”
Numbtongue’s eyes closed. He had seen his brother, as Drassi delivered the news. Rags looked at him. She looked around the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“There is much to say, Numbtongue. Many questions. Is—is Pyrite gone?”
“No. Here. Only for a minute a day. A minute, ten seconds.”
Numbtongue touched his breast. Rags looked at him.
“How?”
“[Soulbard]. I don’t know.”
He shrugged, helplessly. Rags looked at him, searching his features, his thinner frame for…something. Some hint of the dead.
“Is Garen there? Eater of Spears? …Anyone else?”
“No. Just Shorthilt. And Reiss.”
Her eyes went wide. Numbtongue croaked, his voice rasping, unused to water. He saw Mrsha shyly climbing up the hill. She waved at him.
“Reiss is broken. I—no more ghosts. They are all gone.”
“I see.”
The two Goblins were strangers, they realized. Perhaps, for once, true strangers. Neither one was just a Goblin meeting another.
Once, Garen Redfang had sent some of his warriors to kill an [Innkeeper] when Rags had just met the Redfangs. She did not remember who had left. Numbtongue barely recognized her.
Badarrow’s Chieftain. Rags had heard the pause. She didn’t question it, but she did study the other Hobgoblin, seeing how worn he looked. How sad. This was his place, though.
They had history here, the [Bard] and the [Chieftain]. Yet neither had been here while the other was present.
Until now.
There was so much to say. So much to ask. Rags only had one question, though. She looked at Numbtongue, and saw he carried Pyrite’s last will. He had borne it, and the grief, the loss, the feeling of meeting her walked in him as much as her.
It was time. Rags closed her eyes, then looked at the Hobgoblin [Bard].
“…Do you know where she is?”
Numbtongue’s eyes widened. He turned, looking up, past Rags, and then back at her.
“Yes. Come. This way.”
Mrsha saw Rags follow the line of his vision. She saw Rags’ breath catch, saw her eyes fix on the top of the hill shrouded in mists.
So, the [Chieftain] of the Flooded Waters tribe climbed, following the [Bard]. She had come here, to the first real home she had ever known too late to stop tragedy.
Far too late. She had spoken, shaken hands with a Human, tipped the server, eaten pasta and drunk blue fruit juice at a table, just as she’d dreamed. Reality, though, was nothing like what she had wanted.
Too late. This wasn’t even the same inn. It had changed beyond almost all recognition. Rags walked through statues, stopping, reaching out with trembling fingers. She knew them all.
She walked past her family, her tribe, her friends. Past Reiss, Garen Redfang, footsteps trailing. Stumbling.
The Goblin was too late for it all. However, she stopped, and looked down at the frozen bier. The little Gnoll and Hobgoblin stepped back, leaving her alone.
At last. She realized something.
She was not too late to talk to Erin Solstice. It was just different. That was all.
Rags bowed her head, and began to speak.
 
—-
 
An [Innkeeper] sat at the table, eyes wide, doing that shocked expression she did so well. Erin Solstice and surprise, a classic combination.
Of course, there was a chess board between them. A game in progress. Now and then, one of them would move a piece, but neither was concentrating as hard on that as the conversation, each other.
She was probably losing. However, Rags lifted the new invention and eyed it.
“Greasy.”
“That’s the first thing you say?”
Erin threw up her hands in exasperation. Rags frowned, and prodded at the bread and oil gathering on the plate.
“What is this supposed to be? I always wanted to ask; I never could. You fed me strange things.”
The [Innkeeper] huffed, a bit indignantly.
“Hey! I did my best with a limited budget! You ate it! You liked it as I recall!”
The Goblin raised her eyebrows. She was still shorter than Erin, even with boots, but she was catching up. It had seemed like yesterday that Erin Solstice, the Destroyer, as she was known to the Flooded Waters Goblins, was a giant compared to the non-Hobs.
“What I ate was bugs, mud, and sometimes blue fruit. Everything tastes better.”
“Er…fair. That’s a grilled cheese sandwich, by the way. With ham. It’s good! You’ll like it, go on.”
Erin watched as Rags dutifully took a bite and swallowed. Rags nodded.
“Good.”
“See? So…”
Erin trailed off. She looked at Rags. Marveling, studying her.
“You can speak now! And you just tipped Toren a gold coin.”
The skeleton walked past Rags, chattering his jaw at some unspoken grievance—perhaps the tip had been too small. Rags smiled.
“Do you?”
Erin spluttered. But eventually, she settled back down.
“I’m…you can speak. Fluently, I mean. When did you learn that?”
“A while ago. I’ve been practicing. To speak to you. How am I doing?”
“Good. I mean—amazing. Not that I didn’t know you were really smart. It’s just…you have a tribe now? You’re all grown up.”
“You haven’t changed.”
