All ranged-adventurers and [Mages] would advance slower, with a rear-guard keeping an escape route and reinforcements for a retreat.
Simple. They didn’t have time to coordinate and the idea was to hit the Village of the Dead so hard that even the immortal undead with their unnatural regeneration wouldn’t have time to catch the real players.
What Ceria did in the meantime was meet the other adventurers. Perhaps persuade some of those now uncertain to stay.
Ironically, the best person to start the introductions and foster some goodwill was Pisces. As the adventurers were talking about teams who would not participate—the Yellow Rivers team had two infected members, so they couldn’t heal and were thus liabilities—he sighed.
“If we are trying to preserve fighting strength, who was that fool who got their foot run over? I could see if I can mend the bones overnight. At least well enough to stand on for a [Mage] or [Archer].”
“What? You? That clod-foot is one of mine. What’re you going to do, though? Cut her foot off and animate it back on?”
The [Mercenary] captain squawked. Pisces gave her his best sniff.
“I am a [Necromancer], madam. Not some [Saw Doctor]. Among my manifold talents is the ability to mend bone. [Necromancer]? Bone? I can do what a healing potion cannot, and have her walking in a hundredth of the time. If you’d consent to letting one of my kind touch her, that is.”
The [Mercenary] hesitated, not least because of his tone, but as luck would have had it…
“Are you a good [Necromancer], like Perril Chandler before some ass ruined it?”
She quipped. Everyone turned to Pisces. He…
Nodded.
“Say rather, Miss [Mercenary], that I was a bad [Necromancer]. Until I met a good person.”
His tone was distant. He looked at Ceria and she bit her lip. Smiling, holding back the pang in her chest. The [Mercenary] captain didn’t know what to make of that.
“For the [Innkeeper] of Liscor.”
Ceria looked at the Captain of the Lifwail Blades. The Drake shrugged as heads rose, including Elia Arcsinger’s and Eldertuin’s.
“That’s why we’re here. If you don’t know—ask someone who wants to explain.”
 
—-
 
More than one team was here for Erin Solstice. However, what surprised Ceria was that more than one team was here because of them. Before she met the Pithfire Hounds, who had asked to meet them, citing a certain Wind Runner as the reason for dragging half a dozen Silver-ranks south, another team captain asked to make her acquaintance by name.
“Captain Ceria of the Horns of Hammerad. I am Dorgon of Maweil, from the House of Minos. My team and I wished to speak to you about one of your former members on the eve of battle.”
Ceria’s skin prickled. Accordingly, frost raced up her arms, instead of goose bumps. It melted as she turned and saw the slimmest Minotaur she had ever met in her life, and there had only been half a dozen at most.
Dorgon looked slender compared to Calruz, Bezale, and most of his kind. Not malnourished or even thin, just not with the bulky muscles Ceria had seen the other Minotaurs sporting. On the other hand…he had two shortswords, or rather, a combined shortsword-swordbreaker and a traditional shortsword.
“Dorgon of Maweil? I greet you—er—”
Ceria tried to remember the phrase Calruz had sometimes used.
“From…the House of Minos’s shores…uh…”
“…to wherever we land. By honor we stand.”
He finished the phrase as two more Minotaurs walked over, clasping his hands together. He bowed and Ceria did too. Dorgon gestured.
“This is Wered of Hammerad. Also of Maweil is Thoven.”
They greeted her as well. Wered was an [Armorbreaker], a specialist who carried a long, heavy maul. The entire purpose was to smash armor to bits. Thoven was interesting. He carried some kind of insane…
“Is that even a bow?”
“It’s called an X-bow.”
The Minotaur gestured to the crossed bows, which met at the center. It was like if someone fused two regular bows to form an ‘X’. Ceria had no idea why this would make it better. It looked either silly as hell, or intimidating, since they were both oversized longbows and the draw on the combined weapon had to be comparable to a ballista or something.
“My team is known as Maweil’s Reach. We are Silver-ranks.”
“You’re Silver?”
Ceria didn’t believe it. Even when he’d been ‘Silver’, that had been because his team was Silver-ranked and Calruz was stronger than a number of Gold-rank adventurers even without gear. Dorgon’s lips quirked.
“It is customary to work your way up through the ranks, and my team has only been adventuring for nine months. The House of Minos does not issue adventurer rankings.”
“I…see.”
Calruz had complained about that, or so Ceria recalled. And it was Calruz she suddenly thought of.
It was for Calruz that they were here. Dorgon led her to their outdoor camp, and treated her to a drink that tasted stiff, but had no alcohol in it.
“We don’t care to dull our senses so close to the battlefield. If you have wine…”
“I’m fine. How can I help you?”
The Minotaurs exchanged glances. Pisces was off mending bones, Yvlon planning, and Ksmvr was ‘establishing dominance’ elsewhere. Besides, Ceria was the one they wanted to see.
“We had heard that a member of our people disgraced themselves at Liscor and was continuing to be held prisoner. We even received an appeal from him to…adjudicate. That is not our role, but we had considered making the request when he heard his old team was mounting a raid.”
Wered spoke, as this seemed to concern her as much as Dorgon—her being from Hammerad. Ceria’s blood chilled.
“Did you come to settle a score? Or…to find something?”
“We came to see what sort of legacy Calruz of Hammerad left. As for his fate—we hope it will be resolved here.”
“How so?”
Dorgon put down his cup, wiping the Nolemn from his mouth, whatever the drink was called. He looked at Ceria directly.
“You are aware that the House of Minos offers honorable deaths to those who disgrace themselves? Calruz of Hammerad’s crimes as reported would not merit even that. Treachery, betrayal, consort in murder and kidnapping…”
“That’s not the whole story.”
“We are aware.”
Dorgon shrugged. He looked at his companions. Wered took over.
“There is another adjudicator who is actually able to give rulings who may go to Liscor. If so, Calruz of Hammerad will have his fate. We would like to intervene, however. Your raid was as bold as we could have hoped. You truly intend to strike the heart of this death-zone, despite the peril?”
“Yes.”
Ceria’s heart began to beat faster now. The Minotaurs exchanged a glance.
“Then we shall participate. And if your team succeeds, or if you all fall—we shall bear witness. If you act as we think you will, we shall petition the adjudicator to remand Calruz of Hammerad to our care. He will find the honorable end he seeks with us.”
For a second, Ceria was just flabbergasted. It was what she wanted and exactly not at the same time. In the end, she looked at Dorgon.
“How would that even work?”
“Aside from the city’s laws—which we would have to appease—the conduct of Calruz’s companions would speak to itself. If they conduct themselves with honor and appeal for a chance for him to redeem himself, despite being, no, especially because their captain was wronged by him, that should influence the adjudicator’s decisions. We may even have a mandate to appeal for this ourselves. I believe you would do so.”
Ceria nodded slowly.
“That…I would. Not for Calruz to die fighting monsters, though.”
“We must all die some day.”
Thoven spoke, taciturn, adjusting his X-bow’s strings. Ceria saw the Minotaurs nod. Wered reached out, and Dorgon offered Ceria a toast.
“Death before dishonor.”
He held the dark ochre drink out to Ceria. The half-Elf looked at it, and then at them. She opened her mouth, then—smiled. She took the cup, lifted it, and spoke.
“Let’s not die and get lots of loot.”
She downed the cup. The Minotaurs blinked at her, astounded, angry—then they guffawed with laughter.
 
—-
 
Ksmvr was walking around the adventurer camp, aware of the socialization going on. Contrary to Ceria’s expectations, he was not ‘establishing dominance’.
Rather, he was watching other adventurers talk, greet each other, laugh, get drunk, argue over old grudges, all rituals in the prelude to battle.
He was alone, however. Many stared; few talked to the Antinium.
That was only what Ksmvr expected. He knew the reputation of Antinium. He was alone, Hiveless, but for his team. But for Erin Solstice and few others. Ksmvr was grateful for that. Better to have three people than zero. The math checked out.
So, as he walked, Ksmvr thought about this battle. Like the last one with the Adult Creler. Survival was not guaranteed. It was far from likely.
His goal for the battle was simple. The Horns should succeed. They would not relent until their objective had been achieved. It was an Antinium sentiment, which he understood.
Casualties were likely. Almost certain. Therefore, if a member of the Horns of Hammerad perishes, it should be because I am already deceased.
A simple goal. Ksmvr mused as he walked, until he was accosted by an unusual sound. An attack vector focused on him.
Casually, Ksmvr swung around, having anticipated adventurer hostility. Three of Crossbow Stan’s weapons aimed at the running shape of—
“Makki! Stop, stop! Don’t shoot!”
The giant wolfhound dog didn’t hit Ksmvr, but darted around him, sniffing. Ksmvr looked down at it. He lowered the three crossbows as the Silver-rank team stopped.
The Pithfire Hounds gave Ksmvr the same goggle-eyed look as most adventurers. However, one recovered enough to point; he wore red robes, embroidered with decorative flames.
“You must be Ksmvr, of the Horns of Hammerad! Sorry about our dog—she’s going crazy with so many things around. I’m Levil—uh—”
“Ah. You are the Pithfire Hounds, a Silver-rank team based in Reizmelt and affiliated with Ryoka Griffin. Known for your use of combat-dogs.”
The other five adventurers blinked as they skidded to a stop. A much larger dog than even this ‘Makki’ halted next to their side. The animal sniffed and regarded Ksmvr more warily, but it was clearly well-trained.
“Mousey, feteh.”
The Aldasian Warhound relaxed at once. Ksmvr was fascinated.
Obviously he knew this team. He had committed every team participating in the raid to memory; no doubt Ceria, Pisces, and Yvlon had done even more research.
“They’re friendly. Um—sorry about Makki. Makki, come here!”
The dog bounded over and Ksmvr nodded.
“I have taken no offense. However, I would encourage you to watch your dog near more volatile adventurers.”
Levil nodded. He stood there hesitating, in the way Ksmvr realized people did when they had no easy segue into conversation. So he provided one.
“I am indeed Ksmvr. Are you looking for my team captain on urgent business regarding the raid?”
“No—er—that is, we’re committed. We don’t have anything important; the [Strategist] already took our warhounds into account. We’ll be fighting on the flanks, except for Levil, who’ll be raining spells from afar. We just wanted to introduce ourselves because we heard the Horns knew Ryoka. That’s why we’re here.”
“Ah. I have met Ryoka Griffin.”
“Great! Well, she saved our hides and got us Mousey here, so we’re in her debt.”
“Indeed. This parallels our experience with Ryoka.”
Levil’s mouth worked. Ullica, the other [Mage], looked somewhat taken aback. Ksmvr gave them nothing to work with—until he looked down.
“Makki!”
Bram whispered, but the dog was sniffing at Ksmvr, unable to credit this Antinium even among the varied smells she was encountering. At least she wasn’t growling or seeing him as a threat.
The foreign Antinium adventurer looked down at the dog. After a second, he bent and the Pithfire Hounds tensed.
Ksmvr began petting Makki, hesitantly, then stroking her head. The dog leaned into it, and Ksmvr spoke as the adventurers watched, fascinated.
“Pet, pet. Good dog.”
Petting dogs was not like petting horses. Ksmvr was amazed by this novel experience. He only looked up when he heard a sound.
Levil was grinning.
“You like dogs, um, Adventurer Ksmvr?”
“I do not know. I have never met a dog before in this proximity. Am I petting it right?”
“You can scratch behind her ears or rub her belly.”
“Fascinating.”
It dawned on Pithfire Hounds that Ksmvr was not exaggerating. Apart from seeing them from afar, or perhaps eating one if the Antinium had ever included dog in their nutritional paste—unlikely, as Liscor didn’t sell much dog meat—Ksmvr had never met a pet before.
Then Mousey walked over at a whisper from Levil and Ksmvr pet two dogs. And scratched a belly.
As it turned out, not only was Ksmvr fond of patting animals on the head, he was in fact, a superior petter since he had three hands and could therefore provide a 50% increase in ear scratches compared to other species.
Ceria found Ksmvr sitting on the ground, surrounded by four dogs, a hunting hawk, and a magical cat familiar, having broken through the species barrier with the power of petting animals. He looked up as he scratched Makki behind the ears gently.
“Captain Ceria, I have discovered the therapeutic benefits of petting animals. I suggest we incorporate this into our team’s strategy.”
The half-Elf blinked at him. Was…that Ksmvr’s way of asking for a dog? Then she shook hands with Levil, who looked at his opposite, the half-Elf [Cryomancer] surrounded by her aura of cold, with some amazement.
 
—-
 
Yvlon Byres walked out of the short strategy meeting feeling confident…in that no huge mistakes had been made. Soew was a decent [Strategist] and hadn’t come up with some convoluted plan.
Fight the enemy in a multi-pronged attack, with a few signals for fall back, rallying, danger—but don’t complicate things. Let the teams do what they did best. Arranging it had still taken nearly three hours, but they were done.
Aside from getting to the Village of the Dead tomorrow and setting up, they could rest. Yvlon intended to find the other teams she knew and talk—before tomorrow.
What had surprised Yvlon was that she had been nominated to start the attack. Obviously Soew would help coordinate, but the raid needed a leader and since Ceria had left, they’d asked her to begin.
“No speeches are necessary. They often don’t have much of a morale effect unless you have a Skill. Just send us into battle, Adventurer Yvlon.”
She would do that. Yvlon felt her body tingling.
