A little girl lifted a stick in the grassy playing area outside of an old, weathered keep and shouted at the group of children armed with buckets, sticks, and other toys, some even carved to look like the real thing.
The woman stared as a silvery arm lifted an actual sword, the edge gleaming with magic and enchantments. Below the hill, the first wave of close-combat adventurers tensed. She looked around, at friends and people she had met today, armed with weapons and armor, each piece of which had seen battle, drawn blood and blocked killing strikes.
It was a strange thing to realize a dream. Even a child’s dream. Both child and woman inhaled. Gold-blonde hair shone in the sunlight. The setting sun had just passed midday. Her heart was beating too fast.
A [Marksman] grimly set an arrow to a bow behind her. A half-Giant waited, leaning on his staff, armor gleaming on his shoulders.
In her memory, Yvlon Byres waved her stick and shouted.
“Charge! For the glory of House Byres!”
The adult looked ahead and wondered if she would die. How high would the toll be? Nevertheless, she looked at her companions. The half-Elf and young man standing together, faces shining in the light of the magical circle one had drawn.
The Antinium looking up at her, waiting. Calm. Trusting.
“Forwards.”
The first wave of adventurers began to march forwards. A few began to run, but the rest advanced at a trot. Faster. Towards the village in the distance.
At first, nothing lurked in the empty streets. The windows were shuttered; closed where they were not broken. Then, the first silhouette appeared.
Glowing eyes. The putrid smell of rotten flesh. A Zombie lurched forwards. One, then a dozen.
Then a hundred. Then they filled the streets.
Yvlon Byres was striding down the small incline. She began to run, to join the front. Adventurers passed next to her. A Selphid grinned as she hefted the flail, wearing a Raskghar’s body. A Minotaur nodded at her and she saw a younger woman, saluting him with her sword—
The adventurers closed as the first volley of arrows and spells hit the undead. Then, they shouted, they screamed and howled challenges, oaths to defy death. Louder than the girl could have ever imagined, with a sincerity that made Yvlon’s skin chill. She lifted the sword as a burning skull swung towards her.
The [Armsmistress] swung her sword and beheaded the undead. She ran into the first streets of the Village of the Dead. She turned as the first undead vanished before the charge and raised the speaking stone to her lips as she readied her sword, already cursing.
“Silver and steel—Ceria, Pisces, team leaders, get ready for a fight! There are thousands!”
She lifted her sword and plunged forwards into a sea of glowing eyes and rotting limbs.
 
—-
 
Then.
They were a day later than planned. It looked like a day and a half, to judge by the uneven concert of wagons, horses, and even a moving palanquin assembling by nightfall.
“We’ll never get it organized before midday.”
Ceria groaned, pulling at her hair as she saw the arrivals crowding up, looking for places to settle, some greeting each other by name or introducing themselves—in the way of the others, by the by. Shouts, jovial greetings, and the scream of someone getting their foot run over filled the air about three miles away from the Village of the Dead.
Pisces winced at the high-pitched scream, but kept honing the edge of his rapier with a whetstone. He blew, inspected the edge, and sighed.
“One supposes we might have organized this a bit better. However, the response is gratifying.”
And unexpected. Ceria bit her lip. She counted at least two hundred adventurers, and more were still coming in. She had—hoped—for fifty. That would have been monumental, for what might well be a suicide-attack.
This was a circus. It was getting worse by the moment. The two Horns watched from their elevated campsite—right until someone shouted their names.
“Ceria! Pisces! Get down here and help out!”
“Some days it occurs to me she’s the real leader, you know.”
Pisces rose with a sigh. Ceria nudged him with an elbow.
“What about me?”
“You would be the cover to the true leader. A masterful plan. Lure in the enemy or deceive hostile clients with your…nature. Masterfully conceived, although I admit this was an accident.”
Ceria raised her foot, and decided that they didn’t need two broken bones before the battle, so she did not kick Pisces down the hill. His chatter was just a sign of nerves, anyways. If he got sincere—then she knew they were in trouble.
“There you two are. Come help me sort this out. Did someone actually just shatter their foot?”
Yvlon was looking around, as agitated as Ceria. An Antinium waved three arms behind her.
“I will inquire, Yvlon!”
“No, wait, Ks—”
Too late, the [Skirmisher] leapt into the air, as light as a feather, impossibly high for someone without Skills, magic, or wings, heading towards the screamer. Heads turned and Ceria heard a chorus of oaths or gasps as people saw the only Antinium adventurer in existence.
“Damn it.”
The half-Elf swore mildly. It didn’t occur to Ksmvr that he might make the problem worse by offering a friendly hand.
“I’ll get—”
Yvlon checked Ceria with one hand. Since it was Yvlon, and her arms were the Silversteel metal, it was like being stopped by an iron railing. Ceria went oof.
“You find the other team leaders and organize this mess. I’ll get Ksmvr.”
Protective of her friend as ever, Yvlon jogged towards the now audibly louder shouting. Ceria looked after her.
“Wait, but you’re good at that! Wait—”
“The true team leader departs. Alas.”
Pisces looked at Ceria. She rounded with a glare on him and the temperature dropped several degrees. He shivered and she glowered.
“Gah! I can’t even control my aura! How am I supposed to herd adventurers? It’s worse than cats!”
Yvlon and Ceria both bore new effects of their class, and the inadvertent abilities and side-effects weren’t under control yet. Pisces, by contrast, had less noticeable changes, although he demonstrated one now, easily flicking two fingers and warming the air around him.
Stronger magical powers and a plethora of new spells. Ceria suspected he’d gained some kind of [Student]’s Skill or how else would he have practically doubled his library of spells? Even Ksmvr was more grasshopper than Antinium these days.
Her musing was interrupted by a familiar voice.
“Well, you might have organized more than shouting, ‘come here and let’s raid a dungeon’. That’s how old adventurers used to do it, I’ll grant you, but a good raid is generally put together. Dead gods, I heard Liscor’s crypt raid was better than this. Fingers stitched it doesn’t go that way, huh?”
Ceria whirled. There was only one person who could fit Pisces-level snark into a greeting.
“Revi! Typhenous, Halrac, and…Briganda!”
She turned and threw her arms around the Stitch-Girl, who staggered slightly, but grinned despite her words. She recalled the last, newest member too as she hugged Revi.
“Ceria! Ah, you’re cold! It’s like being hugged by a Frost Golem—stop, enough! Pisces, was that Yvlon and Ksmvr I saw?”
She pointed and Ceria nodded. She turned, hugged the old man who was stroking his beard and giving Pisces a smiling nod of greeting, and was seized by the tall woman with the shield.
“You remember! Good to see you again, Ceria! Cade says hi—or he would if he was older. Where’s the arrogant, sniffing [Necromancer]? There he is.”
The [Shield Maiden] slapped Pisces on the shoulder, not put off by him. The only person who didn’t hug or exchange physicalities was Halrac. The [Marksman] and [Veteran Scout] held out a hand, which Ceria shook.
“Ceria.”
“Halrac. You came.”
He shrugged, as if it were nothing. The look he gave towards the adventurers, and the village in the distance, belied the action.
“We promised we would. So that’s the Village? What are the odds it has something to cure Erin?”
“High. It’s all but guaranteed according to Pisces’ source. If it’s not the cure—it can be bartered into one.”
The [Veteran Scout]’s eyes were grey and green, and more of grey than anything else. Ceria had forgotten how intense his stare could be when he was angry or serious. He swung his gaze towards Pisces.
“How likely is it that the bartered cure works?”
“I would stake my life on it. This is not a bet, Captain Everam.”
Pisces and Halrac regarded each other for a second. They had never been friendly, but Halrac nodded briefly.
“Good.”
The half-Elf smiled, but she didn’t have time to do more than turn from Halrac when another arm grabbed her.
“Ceria! It’s a mess out there! Reminds me of half the raids I’ve been to on Baleros! Look at you—we just parted and we’re back together! Plus—we’re cold-skin buddies!”
Jelaqua swung Ceria around and then put her down. Ceria stared up at the Raskghar, grinning in a jaunty, friendly way, and the familiar voice, if not tones, of Jelaqua Ivirith.
“Jelaqua, you made it! And you brought friends!”
“Of course we did. Anyone got a plan for sorting them out, or do we let them do it themselves? Ah, they’re big adventurers, they’ll figure it out. Seborn, Moore, Ulinde! I found the Horns! Where’s Pisces?”
She grabbed the [Necromancer] and rubbed his hair while putting him into a headlock, despite his fervent objections. Ceria was beaming as she saw a shadow slip past a knot of adventurers.
“Seborn.”
“This is a mess. Ceria, ah—Griffon Hunt beat us. Halrac, let’s get our camp next to the Horns’ before it gets taken.”
“Mm.”
The [Veteran Scout] seemed just as willing to leave the adventurers in chaos to their own devices. Jelaqua was not.
“No, we have to have order. Ceria’s in charge—we’ll grab some other team leaders and figure this out.”
“Wait, I’m in charge? We’re just—”
Jelaqua and Halrac looked at Ceria.
“You called the raid, you’re in charge. Unless you delegate. Where’s—there’s Moore and Ulinde.”
Again, the two Horns and other adventurers turned, a smile on Ceria and Pisces’ faces. However, it faded as they saw the cluster of adventurers break apart and a huge figure stride past them.
Moore was taller than the Raskghar, taller than even the trio of horned bull-people. The gentle giant Ceria remembered though…
He strode through the crowd and they moved out of the way or had their feet stomped. Behind him trailed Ulinde, towing a trio of horses. Jelaqua glanced at Ceria.
“Moore’s…”
She needed to say no more. Ceria did not run to hug or shake Moore’s hand. She looked up as the [Green Mage] stopped.
“Moore.”
“When are we attacking?”
He looked like he hadn’t slept well. He looked like he hadn’t existed well. Not since…
It hit Ceria again what they were doing. What had happened. It had been over a month now. She’d counted the days.
Over one month since Erin died. Didn’t die. Got shot—one month with no cure. Well, today there would be one. They were going to raid one of the most infamous death zones in all of Izril. Either get something they could trade for Erin’s recovery…or die trying.
Memory flickered in her mind to a similar time. Yet this was not for glory or treasure alone. They had lost a lot, gained a lot since then.
There was no [Innkeeper] either.
The three teams caught the mood and sobered. The Horns, Griffon Hunt, and the Halfseekers looked at each other.
“No Silver Swords? We’ve been travelling together, but I didn’t get word they were coming and I’d have expected to hear Falene and Dawil fighting by now. This is Ulinde, by the way. Which…you know.”
Jelaqua gestured to the last arrival.
“Ceria. Pisces.”
The Selphid [Spellslinger] looked uneasily at the two, but Ceria and Pisces just gave her cool nods, recalling the first time they’d met. Pisces answered for Ceria.
“They’re not coming. They were too far and had a prior engagement.”
“Shame. Nothing like a [Knight] to hide behind.”
Seborn muttered. Typhenous and Revi nodded. Jelaqua exhaled.
“That’s all the teams from Liscor, then. Except for one. We got the Flamewardens. Moore [Messaged] you, right, Ceria?”
“Yep. How did you get them?”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss. Don’t gawk; it’s a long story. We’ve got other teams like the Lifwail Blades, Gemhammer, the Pride of Kelia, and uh…Vuliel Drae. Among others—”
At the last name, Pisces and Ceria, who had been smiling more and more, frowned.
“Couldn’t you have left them behind? How many Silver-ranks are there? I asked for Gold, Jelaqua. We can’t protect them and if it turns bad—”
The Selphid raised her paws defensively. The Raskghar body looked down at Ceria, seriously.
“I know, I know. Look at it this way, though, Ceria. There’s strength in numbers. A hundred Silver-ranks with bows is better than twenty Gold-ranks with swords…better than ten Gold—better than five Gold-ranks with swords! I would have turned them down, but once I realized how many were coming, I decided it was for the best.”
The adventurers looked around. It was true. The cluster of adventurers had converged on the spot almost at the same time.
Oh, two dozen teams had arrived early, and met with the Horns, somewhat dubiously until the numbers swelled. In fact, three teams had left—and two had come back, shamefaced, once they realized this raid had a lot of teams coming.
A huge caravan had arrived from Invrisil, however. Thanks to her friends. Yet it seemed like there were other arrivals that were complicating the influx. Jelaqua clearly had no idea who some of the teams in the traffic jam were.
“Let’s go sort this out. Where’s Yvlon?”
She grabbed Ceria and Halrac and began towing them into the chaos. However, as they were about to start pushing in, someone stood up and…clapped their hands.
Ceria heard the sound over the arguing, the shouting, the broken-foot screamer, and the braying of animals. Also, to call it ‘clapping’ was also a disservice to the sound. It rang, it echoed. It was loud and had a sound beyond mere auditory power.
Clap. Clap.
That was what it sounded like. The adventurers turned, half with hands to their ears. What they saw was a haughty expression. The young man lounging on the palanquin borne by six men or women looked around.
“I am [Prince] Zenol of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, by my royal name and accomplishments, Gold-rank Captain of Nerrhavia’s Champions Abroad. I demand order! Who is in charge here?”
He looked around and his gaze found Ceria’s almost at once. She blinked up at him. The [Prince] inclined his head, which surprised her and Pisces, who was already scowling. He snapped his fingers.
