If he’d been giving odds in his actual job, it would have only been around 4/10, or 6/10 if the bet wouldn’t bounce back on him. He was relatively certain, though.
Nevertheless, he flinched like a pre-graduate in his [Spy] training school when the magic lantern by his desk went dead. So did half of his warding runes.
He wasn’t trying to hide—at least, his presence.
“Lord Astoragon?”
Master Merxel spoke, relieved to find his voice smooth. He spread his hands, looking around. His bodyguards knocked on the door; Merxel raised his voice.
“Leave me! Until I call—remain on alert.”
Then he waited. After a second, someone spoke.
“Not going to run or have them here?”
The [Spymaster] licked his lips.
“There are a number in my home. Professionals. They know you might be the principal threat. You have your enchanted sword, and your considerable Skills, Lord Astoragon. I would not put you as a man who bets, however.”
“No, I don’t. I didn’t think you were, either, Merxel. But here we are. Where is my bag of holding?”
Where was he? The [Spymaster]’s head searched the darkness. He had [Cat’s Eye Vision] of course, among others, but the Fraerling was too small. He was invisible and the effect of his voice bouncing was disconcerting.
“Lord Astoragon, I swear on a truth spell that I intended no harm to that girl. I just wanted to—talk to you. Reasonably. I am not your enemy! I have not sold information on you, nor was I intending to capture you! You know me—I do not like risks that involve your life.”
“No, I suppose you don’t. Why the guards?”
“Any number of reasons, sir. Which you can imagine. Every Great Company has a bounty on you, and countless individuals want you. Living, dead, torn to pieces, stuffed—”
“I imagine. One question, Master Merxel. If you’re my ally, where’s my bag of holding? Where’s my gear? Put it on the table, walk out of the room, and I’ll reward you with all my gratitude.”
Master Merxel closed his eyes.
“Lord Astoragon, I don’t have it. I entrusted it to the Merchant’s Guild for safekeeping.”
“Then you gave it to the bastards!”
The voice echoed, now. He was using some kind of trick. A way to throw his voice to make it—Merxel had had enough. He drew a dagger and wand.
“Lord Astoragon, I faced every remaining [Assassin], [Rogue], and [Mercenary] for hire in the entire region if I didn’t do something with it! That is not taking sides! We can make a deal. I have magical contracts—”
“You knew I’d want it back. All you had to do was hold your nerve, Merxel. Was that really so hard?”
A…note of emotion entered the voice. Merxel put his back to the wall, away from any vents or anything but solid stone.
“Lord Astoragon. Don’t do this. I might have retired, but I was still a good [Spy]. I have my bodyguards—I’ve prepared for this.”
“Merxel.”
And there he was. He stood on Merxel’s desk, his sword in hand, crossbow in the other. A toothpick. Merxel stared at him. Niers Astoragon looked at the [Spymaster] and shook his head.
“I’m well aware of how good you were to survive. I just wish you had kept your spine. Master Merxel…tell me something. Which do you think is more dangerous? A [Strategist] with no army? Or a [Spy] in the open?”
The [Spymaster]’s lips moved.
If only it was a prayer. He looked at Niers as his arm tensed.
“Which reason is it?”
The Titan looked at him.
“Does it matter? Pick one.”
 
—-
 
Mrsha the…Poor Infiltrator waited around a corner from Master Merxel’s home, and then, when the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings found her and ushered her back, in time-out in her room, and then, without dessert that night.
She was without an appetite, anyways. She was so worried about Niers, and kept getting Liska to open the door.
When he did return though, it was a shock. The Titan walked into Mrsha’s room and she…looked at him.
“Merxel was no good. I had a talk with him. He’s not willing to help. You did very well. I’m sorry he nearly grabbed you; he’s a smart man.”
The Titan smiled at her. Mrsha inspected him from head to toe, sniffing. He was exactly the same as last time. Exactly the same.
Except for the blood. Mrsha the…
Mrsha the…
It was supposed to be a grand adventure. A game. Only—the little Fraerling wasn’t funny anymore. Mrsha smelled him and he realized she was doing that.
“Ah—well—”
He didn’t come up with an excuse she would have believed. Niers cursed as Mrsha backed up, smiling uneasily. He thought soap would have worked. Even with Merxel’s cologne…
 
—-
 
Now. 
Mrsha saw the Titan tilt his head back and think. Niers Astoragon wasn’t sure how to proceed. She was just a kid. He did not actually interact much with children.
Oh, young students of course, but they came to him as geniuses. Perhaps—that was the way to go.
“Very well. I did kill him.”
He spoke, and saw her hair actually rising. Apista buzzed down and perched on Mrsha’s head, now regarding him dangerously. Niers spoke, quickly, urgently, but as if he was lecturing her.
“I had to. Merxel knew you were working for me, and he was willing to give my bag of holding away. If there was a chance—they know I’m in Invrisil, but they would have known from Merxel anyways, I’m afraid. I killed him. I kill people, Mrsha. I am not a nice man. I am…the Titan of Baleros. With all that means. Do you understand that?”
She nodded, slowly, crouched. If she ran, it was over. Niers pointed towards the door.
“I want to help Erin Solstice. I want to help you. You have seen monsters and bad people, I know. You told me about Hectval, about the dungeon. I can help. I am the highest-leveled person you have ever met. Now, I made a mistake with Merxel. I won’t do it again. Nor will I put you in danger if I can help it. If your friends are raiding the Village of Death—they are in trouble. I know that spot. I’ve been there. They are going to die unless they fall back. Understand?”
Mrsha looked at him, eyes wide. Niers spoke, very carefully. He had toured the world in fame after becoming one of the Four Great Companies’ heads. He had met the King of Destruction, albeit in his slumber. That had been one of the most dangerous moments in his life, wondering if the [King] would order Orthenon to murder him.
Visiting the great mysteries and dungeons of the world had been another. Niers remembered when he felt the prescience of death hanging over his head, even with Foliana or his best [Soldiers] or escorts.
When he was about to descend into A’ctelios Salash’s guts. 
Viewing the Last Tide from countless miles away.
Observing what came beyond the edge of the world.
Standing in Nerrhavia’s Tomb.
Meeting the Minds of the Selphids unannounced.
Entering the Village of Death…
Actually, there were a number of incidents. The Village of Death hadn’t been as certain as other places—because he’d pulled back. He’d wished he had a navy and the ability to pull together an army from the Forgotten Wing company with all the preparation he could muster, even grab Tulm for the promise of glory and Named Adventurers.
Nothing short of that would have tempted Niers to go in there. He looked at Mrsha, made his voice as reassuring, commanding, as possible.
“I can help them. You need to help me. Agreed?”
He stuck out a hand. Mrsha wavered—then slowly took it. Niers exhaled in relief as she took him back to the inn.
One down. Now, if I can just shake this feeling of dread—
Something’s coming. What the hell is making me so nervous around here?
A [Strategist] feared the uncertain far more than the certain. Niers’ skin was itching. His left earlobe tingled, as it sometimes did.
Skill tells me there are two damn attacks incoming on this rough position. I don’t give a single one of Foliana’s nuts for that. What the hell is making me nervous?
 
—-
 
Then.
“So, what’s the plan?”
“Run screaming into the Village of Death, hit everything you see with [Fireball], freeze what tries to get up, snatch the loot, and run out?”
Soew laughed politely, and one of the three members of Elia Arcsinger’s team, the younger half-Elf, her daughter, laughed too.
The laughter faded when they realized Ceria was serious. Some of the other thirty-some adventurers and captains in the tent looked unsettled, but Jelaqua grinned.
So did Eldertuin. Well, it was a smile.
“You must not be serious. Is this what we’ve come here to do? I thought you had a plan. I might have organized a better strategy myself!”
[Prince] Zenol was more forthcoming about his objections. He was one of the thirty who’d been selected for a second, more official war-council. Those present were all able to contribute something, whether by friendship like Halrac or Jelaqua, magical knowledge like the [Mages], Zenol’s combined rank or status…
Elia Arcsinger had brought three teammates and no one had objected since it was…her. Besides that, however, no one else but individuals or Gold-rank captains were present.
“It’s the plan we were going with. Big distraction, smash and grab. Classic adventurer style. We would have done it by ourselves, but then all you showed up. We didn’t expect so many.”
Ceria looked around, embarrassed, but determined to be truthful. Pretending to have some big plan was even more sure to backfire than this.
“You were going to go in, all four of you?”
Elia Arcsinger’s daughter was young. Like—super-young. As in, short of thirty years old, which meant she looked closer to sixteen, sure, but as half-Elves went, Ceria wanted to stick a practice wand in her hand and put her in school.
She acted like a Gold-rank, though, which is what she was. Her name was Capoinelia, and she was outspoken. Also, incredulous.
“Yes. We were.”
Yvlon spoke up. All four Horns were there, even Ksmvr. Most of the Izrilians regarded him with deep distrust or nervousness; Zenol looked fascinated, as did Soew and the non-Izrilians. Which fascinated Ceria; they knew the stories, but Antinium were still just a different species to them.
“Well, we need a strategy. We’ll just get in each other’s way otherwise. Also, we need to discuss treasure allotment, payment for wounded or the dead…injury and consumable compensation.”
A Gold-rank folded his scarred arms, looking around the table. There were lots of nods. Ceria’s heart sank.
She knew those terms. Treasure allotment was the classic fight after the dungeon crawl. Payment for the wounded or dead? Standard. Injury and consumable compensation, though—that wasn’t what the Horns did.
It was for teams who wanted repayment for every healing potion, magical arrow, and even wounds taken. She spoke, calmly.
“That’s easy, Captain…?”
“Mehoff.”
“Mehoff, thanks. Treasure allotment is equal split with all teams and individuals based on your total levels.”
“That’s—”
One of the team-captains trailed off. Halrac broke in, his voice gravelly, frowning.
“It’s fair. We’re not wasting time on this.”
His voice was the voice of one of the veterans, and a lot of the other captains backed him up. Some looked disconsolate, but it was standard.
Level-based treasure sharing was simple. Your total levels were added up—you just had to give the level under truth spell, no details—and that was your ‘share’ out of the total. It meant a high-level team benefited more than an individual adventurer of course, but on the other hand, you couldn’t get a numbers-advantage in claiming loot. It was not perfect, but it was roughly fair.
“Just so long as we get something. I knew one adventurer who had 20+ levels of [Cook]; every time he got a level-share deal, he always told us his cooking was an essential part of adventuring.”
One of the captains joked. Everyone laughed at that old joke. Ceria smiled.
“Only combat classes. As for payment for wounded or dead, we’ll take it out of the total. Fair’s fair. Injury and consumable compensation though…no. We’re not paying for it. The Horns can’t guarantee it. This is a raid on a death-zone. You know what that means.”
She looked around and some faces sobered. There was an oath from the side. One of the [Mercenaries] pushed herself up.
“Hold on. I came thinking this wasn’t another suicide mission. Rumor made it sound like this had a chance! You’re just going to charge in there? That’s it?”
Ceria met her eyes.
“That’s it. Sorry if you bought into the hype. The Horns are going in. Everyone else distracts; those who volunteer help us break into the center, or the treasury, grab what we can, and run.”
“Why would anyone buy into this plan? Aside from the fact that so many other teams are doing it?”
Prince Zenol inquired mildly. The others were looking shaken. Ceria looked at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] was ready—
It was Pisces who spoke up. The [Necromancer] was leaning against one of the tent poles. He spoke, aware of eyes on him. Everyone knew his name, ironically, from the bounties.
Pisces Jealnet. [Necromancer].
“You will buy into this plan because we, the Horns of Hammerad, want that treasure. We want a Relic-class object more than anything. That is our claim. One Relic-class object; healing preferred. Everything else, divided. We will sell our gear to make up for the loss if we must. When the raid starts, we will go in, alone if we must. And to reassure you, Miss. We do not intend to leave until we have one.”
The tent fell silent. Halrac looked at Pisces, then Ceria and Yvlon. The two women nodded. After a second, someone spoke.
“I believe this is what is referred to as ‘dominance’. Wherein we establish our superior commitment. Hello, I am Ksmvr.”
He waved all three hands. Someone started laughing again.
It was Eldertuin. He seemed the most down-to-earth of the two Named-ranks. Elia was standing like a statue, poised, her hair gleaming, holding the golden bow that Ceria had seen in illustrations. Eldertuin had massaged his back, shifted, and smiled at their plan.
“Spoken like any crazy adventurers I partied with. I came here to join in. So let’s make a plan and anyone who wants to backs out. Don’t waste this team’s time.”
Ceria bowed slightly to him. He nodded back. Prince Zenol smiled too.
“And here I thought the only adventurers with spine were those who had it stitched into them. Let’s begin.”
 
—-
 
The planning of the raid on the Village of the Dead wasn’t actually where Ceria stayed long. She let Soew and the most able-minded group talk it out with Yvlon, who actually had a better head for strategy, not field tactics.
It wasn’t going to be that elaborate anyways. They’d attack from a few angles, but one main direction so they could reinforce each other. Multiple ‘spears’ would jab in, each one led by the treasure-team, which was comprised of mobile forces or volunteers, like Ceria.
