Yet they had no idea what was happening. There was nothing on the scrying mirror showing the battle. It was not news until someone decided it was.
Rags listened to the explanation about the scrying mirrors, the arguments—they were looking for a ‘Drassi’. She was still hung up on the magic door, and the fact that it led to Pallass.
The Goblin was…avoiding…one thing by inspecting the inn. In fairness, though, there was a lot to inspect, and a lot of people to see and meet.
For instance, who was this [Mage] who practically spilled onto the ground floor? And the Minotaur? Rags stared at her chest.
…Nope. She was fairly certain the last Minotaur had not been female. Memory played tricks on you, but she was sure she’d have remembered that.
Bezale propped Montressa into a chair, but the [Aegiscaster] was so sloshed she fell out of it. She had not taken being expelled from Wistram well. However, she sobered as she heard about the Horns.
More people were returning, some in a hurry. Palt and Imani trotted in, talking to each other.
“Just once, I’d like a peaceful day. I swear, it’s whenever we plan on something—it’s like the inn knows we’re trying to relax.”
“Stop complaining, Palt. We had a good…three hours. We’ll take off another day.”
They had flowers in their hair. Rags stared, and Selys broke off asking about Drassi long enough to look at them.
“Flower tour. Garland braiding. Where are the Horns? Why aren’t they on television?”
Imani brushed at a scented flower that Palt had put into her hair as he plucked at a long-stemmed flower behind his ear. They both stopped when they saw Rags. She blinked at them.
“Who is that? When did another Goblin arrive?”
Palt exclaimed. Rags snorted.
“I was here first. Who are you?”
“Imani? This is Palt. Er, hello.”
The [Chef] stuck out a hand. Rags inspected it, shook it gently. There went her first handshake with a Human. She raised her eyebrows at Palt. And here was her first Centaur.
“She’s a [Mage]. Why does every second Goblin I meet have magic in them? Flame magic. Uh—Palt. Hello?”
The Centaur trotted over and stuck out a hand. Rags shook it, sniffed. He had a distinct whiff about him that reminded her of a Goblin [Shaman].
Speaking of which…Ulvama was still staring at Rags. She poked Rags; the Goblin slapped her wrist.
“Stop that.”
“You are the Chieftain of the tribe Badarrow was in? And Snapjaw?”
“Yup.”
“Chieftain in the High Passes?”
Rags saw Palt look at her as Imani headed for the kitchen, unsure of what to do, but certain people would want food at some point.
“Somewhere like that.”
“Take me with you.”
Ulvama saw Rags glance around the inn, practically ignoring her. The [Great Chieftain] looked at Ulvama coolly.
“I’ll think about it. Want to give me a name?”
Having thus rendered the [Shaman] speechless for a moment, Rags was well-placed to hear a scream from the kitchen and see Palt gallop to Imani’s rescue.
He nearly ran her over. The [Chef] emerged, backing away from Calescent. Rags scowled at the Goblin [Chef], who was holding up his claws.
“Just looking! Very nice. Very good food. Not enough spices.”
Rags gestured warningly. If Calescent started a fight or got them kicked out…of course he couldn’t resist slipping into the kitchen. Imani leaned against Palt, as Calescent spoke quickly.
“Just want to see! Am [Chef].”
“You’re a [Chef]?”
Palt’s eyes widened. Calescent huffed at him.
“I am [Spice Chef]. Calescent. And you are [Chef] here? Very nice food. Have recipes? Hello.”
“Oh, hello.”
Imani blinked as Calescent beamed at her. The Goblin gestured to the kitchen…Rags missed the rest. Because, at last, she saw a familiar face coming down the stairs.
“Is that Rags?”
Bird peered at her as he walked downstairs, holding his bow. Rags vaguely remembered the Antinium. She nodded.
“Hi.”
“Hello. You have been gone a while.”
The Antinium sat across from her as Ulvama’s head went from Bird to Rags.
“Mm. I was busy. Where…where is Erin?”
Bird’s head tilted.
“In the [Garden of Sanctuary]. You have not seen her?”
“No. I heard she died.”
“She is not dead. Only frozen.”
“Mm. I heard that too. You…you’re from the chess club. The Antinium who makes birds on chess boards.”
“Yes. You are the small Goblin who killed Skinner.”
Kevin had returned, panting, having not found Drassi. He looked up as Rags nodded.
“The Antinium who died. How many survived? Anyone else?”
“Pawn, Garry, Belgrade, and Anand. But Anand has gone elsewhere, with Klbkch. So has Relc.”
“…Good.”
“Is it?”
Bird tilted his head back and forth again, and eventually shrugged. He looked at Rags as someone approached.
“Er—your order, Miss.”
A plate of spaghetti and blue fruit juice. Rags looked at Ishkr. She nodded, slowly, and fumbled something out. She put a gold coin down.
“Here. A tip.”
“Er—thank you.”
The Gnoll was taken aback, but he didn’t turn down free gold coins. Rags poked at the spaghetti, and instantly smelled a lot more effort and nuance than Erin’s boiled pasta in water. It even had meatballs and a sauce. Bird raised a hand.
“Ishkr. Ishkr. I will have two fried birds, and one boiled bird baby, please. Also, also I would like the oranged juice. I will not tip you in worms this time, I promise.”
Ishkr went to get two chicken wings and a boiled egg. He and Rags sat there for a moment, and eventually Rags looked up.
“Good to see you alive.”
“Yes, thank you. Have a nice day.”
They began eating amiably as Ulvama’s mouth opened and closed. Inside the kitchen, Calescent was watched warily by Palt, but all the Hobgoblin did was rub his hands and chortle as Imani presented him with a cookbook and some of her best creations.
Calescent obligingly handed over his personal spice blend in return. Palt made the mistake of sniffing it; he sneezed into the bag, sending a cloud of spice into his eyes and nose and went blind and deaf for the next ten minutes.
 
—-
 
When Drassi arrived, Selys shot to her feet.
“Drassi! The Horns are—”
“I heard. I’m on the job.”
The [Reporter] had been found by Joseph, and she whirled to go back to the door. Joseph went to sit down—she yanked him up.
“Oh no. You’re coming with me. I need reinforcements if we’re doing this.”
“Me? What am I supposed to do?”
“You’re the [Coach]. Kick a soccer ball into Sir Relz’s monocle or something. Just—”
They ran through the door. Rags sat back down, a touch disappointed. She wanted to know about these Humans. Of course, Badarrow had relayed some of the confusing tales about the Humans. Maybe now was the time to…
She found herself going into the basement, then upstairs, leaving her meal half-eaten. Ulvama stayed behind; Mrsha had appeared with a little book of questions for the [Shaman] to answer about Rags.
Rags toured The Wandering Inn, now from floor to floor. She walked up to Bird’s tower, nodding at the fortified sniping vantage. Badarrow had said it was good.
The trapped hallway spoke to her too, although she would have made a pit trap and rock-fall trap too at the very least. Rags even discovered one of the concealed crossbows as the Brothers glanced at her.
“Know a Whet? [Rogue]? Sells stuff?”
She looked at Crimshaw. The man’s eyes widened.
“…I might know the gang of which you’re referring, miss. Big market folks?”
Rags nodded. She showed him the ring, which had a cunning insignia carved into the jade piece. The Brothers looked at each other.
“That would be—the Wharf.”
“The what?”
Rags vaguely knew the word from her lessons, but it sounded different the way they said it. The Brother—Crimshaw—looked at Rags.
“The Wharf isn’t one place. It’s a gang. You want something nice? Odds are, you got it from the Wharf, Miss. If your gang—tribe—is dealing with them, you’re in other territory. Word to the wise? Watch where you step. They work in dark waters.”
The Goblin considered this gravely, and nodded.
“Thanks. Who are you?”
The Brothers looked at each other, then grinned and tipped their hats. Rags walked away, shaking her head. Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings? She would have to ask someone what ‘Serendipitous’ meant. Hatted?
At this point, Rags listened to Montressa talking drunkenly to Bezale.
“I should’ve given them the Shock Orb! They’re mad! Mad! [High Mages] have died trying the Village of Death!”
“If they had a cannon or something—would they make it? Not that I know how, but—how bad is it?”
Kevin had no idea, but he was talking to Montressa and Bezale. Now Rags had a lay of the inn and the people, she was recalling some details.
She didn’t see the Players of Celum, who were famous and had ‘plays’, which Badarrow had recalled to her, but she did know Kevin.
Bicycles. Snapjaw had been agog over them. Rags narrowed her eyes. She looked for Calescent, but he and Imani were tending to the Centaur writhing on the floor. Well, that and Selys watching the news were good cover.
“—a real [Comedian] in our next segment. I understand he’ll be telling jokes about—excuse me?”
Drassi charged into the room. Rags blinked; it had been less than ten minutes since she’d left!
“[Reporter] Drassi, with breaking news! Noass, shove off! You too, Sir Relz! We have an emergency broadcast! Someone get me the Village of the Dead, Horns of Hammerad—[Scrying] spells on Ceria Springwalker! That’s C-E-R-I-A—”
The two Drakes rose to their feet as a Human skidded into the room. Sir Relz objected.
“Drassi, you cannot just interrupt—what news is this?”
“It’s a raid on the Village of the Dead! Dozens of teams, two Named-adventurers! Out!”
It looked like a fight on the scrying orb, as Sir Relz and Noass began to argue and staff behind the scenes rushed forwards. The two [Commentators]—well, Sir Relz was still a [Commentator], Noass had morphed into a [News Anchor]—weren’t objecting to the breaking news story, especially since both knew about the famous location.
They just wanted to be the ones to cover it. The breaking news alert sounded as Selys clasped her claws together, tail swishing across the floor. Noass and Sir Relz wanted to be the two speaking and thus leveling and attracting attention, though. They were forcing Drassi out of the studio—right until Joseph kicked a soccer ball and it bounced across half the staff trying to push Drassi out.
Chaos. Entertainment! The inn was in uproar. Mrsha stared at Drassi, cheering as she took over the desk with Joseph as a surprise co-anchor. Only when someone pulled at one ear did she look around.
“She’s gone. After that Goblin, Rags! Hurry!”
Niers whispered in her ear. He held on as Mrsha sniffed and went up the stairs, after Rags. The Titan was fairly impressed. The little Goblin knew the first rule of taking advantage of distractions: don’t get distracted yourself.
They caught up to Rags in time for Mrsha to realize that Rags was more than a visitor. She was also a pragmatist.
As in, she was going into each room and walking out with objects. She had found Montressa’s room, and had the Shock Orb in her claws and was doing something to it when she saw Mrsha.
“…Mrsha. Right?”
The little Gnoll stared at her. Rags waved.
“Hi.”
Unconcerned, she went back to…breaking the mage’s artifact? Mrsha craned her neck, outrage warring with curiosity.
Somehow, Rags had found how to open the thing! She was inspecting the insides, muttering, eying the sloshing liquid within without upsetting it, looking at the crystals…she abruptly closed the orb up, rolled it back into the room, and strolled out. Mrsha had no idea what Rags had done, but the small Goblin looked exceedingly pleased with herself.
Then she looked around and found Kevin’s room. Rags pushed the door open—just in time for Mrsha to bar the way. Mrsha scrambled around for pieces of paper in her notecard collection and finally found a disused one.
“Thief!”
She held it up accusingly. Rags read it, eyed Mrsha.
“You can’t speak.”
Mrsha shook her head. Then she waved the card at Rags, realizing, belatedly perhaps, that Rags might not be able to read. Rags raised her brows, proving she could.
Mrsha realized what Rags had done! She was stealing the Shock Orb! Oh—not the thing itself. However, Mrsha was smart. She’d seen the evil Drakes and Gnolls that Erin had warred with whenever she made something and realized the Goblin was doing the same thing, only more ambitious.
Rags was stealing the idea of the Shock Orb! She’d memorized what was inside, to try and recreate later. It would be hard, but no one would know she had been here except Mrsha the Thiefcatcher. And here was a [Thief] of…a [Thought Thief]! An ideas-stealer, the worst kind of thief!
The [Great Chieftain] raised one eyebrow as Mrsha translated the angry diatribe to pain-staking scribbling. It was quite good handwriting, albeit in cursive.
“…therefore, I declare you a scurrilous thief of other people’s hard work and invention, a plagiarist and a rogue! I insist you stop at once!”
Rags eyed the writing, then regarded Mrsha’s furious little face. She thought for a moment, then replied.
“Badarrow told me you steal food. The word is…”
She stared up at the ceiling. Snapped her fingers twice.
“…hypocrite. Yes, that.”
So saying, the Goblin pushed past Mrsha, hopped up onto Kevin’s desk, and took one look at his blueprints before checking for the most up-to-date ones, and grabbed them and the gear samples on his desk.
“Interesting. Iron? Steel. But why…ah. It goes together like a puzzle. Clever. So clever!”
Rags sniffed the metal, found a piece of paper, and began making quick-copies of Kevin’s work, as well as a tracing of the gear and its teeth, then the other samples.
Mrsha howled in outrage. She watched as Rags neatly stole everything Kevin had worked so hard on. She grabbed at Rags’ arm once; the Goblin just tossed her off impatiently. Mrsha pounded the floor. This would not stand! This was worse than a food-thief! The ideas-thief had to be stopped. She ran to spread the alarm downstairs. Kevin, Montressa, come quick! Thief! Th—
She was going for the door to raise the alarm when Rags grabbed her tail. Mrsha yelped, and saw Rags’ other claw descend—
“There. Be quiet.”
Rags dumped eight fat, gold coins into Mrsha’s paws. The little Goblin straightened, and decided to raid Bezale’s room next. Did she feel bad about the thefts?
…Not really. She did obligingly dump a pile of gold on Kevin’s desk, like Montressa’s. She needed anything she could use, though, and those gears were fascinating, just like the bikes. She was walking past Mrsha when something pinged off the back of her head, hard.
