Elia Arcsinger was more mysterious than Eldertuin to Ceria. For one thing, the half-Elf [Archer] had a longer career than even the older-looking Eldertuin.
Well, she was a half-Elf, and ten years ago she had rocketed to her world-famous status. Before that she had been an adventurer…actually, Ceria didn’t know more than that.
She knew what every half-Elf knew about one of their people’s Named Adventurers. Elia Arcsinger, Kingslayer. Known for her [Line-Ender Shot], which had been granted to her when she slew the Goblin King in the final battle.
Goblinbane! Her team crushed Goblins wherever they went, rooting them out and preventing the threat of a Goblin King from ever resurfacing while Elia lived.
That was…less reassuring than it used to be, now Ceria had met Goblins. However, she still felt the awe of Elia’s fame hanging over her. She had said very little during the strategy meeting, only giving assent a few times. Her daughter and the other two teammates she’d brought had made more comments.
The [Cryomancer] had taken it to be Elia being naturally aloof, as someone with her fame might be. Or—a kind of female Halrac, all focus, not deigning to speak unless she had to.
The truth was that Elia Arcsinger was actually rather retiring in person. She greeted Ceria with a light kiss on each cheek, exceptionally familiar, and smiled.
“Sister, come in. Thank you for meeting me in private.”
With that, she ushered Ceria into her private tent. Her team’s camp was spaced away from the others, as befitted a Named-rank team. They had everything one might expect of a team with a Named-rank adventurer. High-quality, spatially enchanted tents. Luxury wherever you went! Ceria saw a four-poster bed in one of the other tents.
“My daughter’s. We could skip inns and just live in them, but one grows accustomed to living in style.”
Elia explained. Her tent didn’t have the huge bed, but it did have a number of amenities, including a vanity. Ceria found herself sipping from some high-quality wine and staring.
“T-thank you for inviting me, Adventurer Arcsinger.”
“Elia will do. We are half-Elves far from home. I don’t know if I should call you ‘sister’, but I hope we can work together.”
The Named-adventurer smiled and Ceria nodded, already charmed. Elia’s golden bow was propped up next to her bed, and the adventurer still wore her enchanted leather armor.
“How can I—that is, my team—help you, Ad—Elia? Miss Arcsinger? Is something wrong with the battle? Do you have any insights?”
The Named Adventurer shook her head. She sat, sipping the wine, and made a face.
“I was going to talk about home first—oh well. I…er…wished to talk to you about our role in the battle before we began.”
Ceria nodded as Elia fiddled with her cup and a bowl of snacks from home; very subtle, delicate, edible…leaves. Elfleaf it was called, because half-Elves ate it. It was a connoisseur’s dish. Ceria hated it unless you dumped sugar or syrup on the stuff. Elia bit one delicately, chewed, and came out with it.
“…My team will be participating in a ranged capacity. Some of my warriors will be fighting on the flanks, of course, but I myself will not be joining the first wave.”
“Oh—I think Yvlon mentioned that. Of course not. You’re an [Archer] even if you’re…”
Elia held up a delicate hand. Ceria hesitated and then felt the oddity. Elia took another sip of wine.
“What I meant, Ceria, was that my team will not be advancing…quickly…at all. We will of course provide all the firepower we can, but we will not advance into potentially dangerous engagements. I hoped you could communicate this to Strategist Soew.”
For a while, the [Arctic Cryomancer] thought she was misinterpreting. After three minutes, she realized she was not.
Elia Arcsinger, unlike Eldertuin, who’d been open about his position and willingness to commit, was also not like Prince Zenol or the Minotaurs, who were both in the front waves. She danced around it as Ceria said she could place her elsewhere.
“We should be in the first wave. However…”
She wanted to be in the front, but not be in the front. Ceria heard a familiar voice in her head, making an offhand remark. When she had asked Grimalkin if he had Elia Arcsinger on a list of people who could best him in combat…
“I—I can tell Soew to work with your team’s placement, Elia. But can I ask why…?”
The older woman gave Ceria an embarrassed smile. A slight flush entered her pale cheeks and she shifted. She turned, glancing at her bow in her seat.
“It’s not what I’d prefer, of course, Ceria. I know a Named Adventurer should be first into the charge, and I’ll be loosing every arrow I have to keep us alive. However…it’s my team. You know Arcsinger’s Bows aren’t Named-rank, despite having me in the team?”
“I—do.”
“It’s because our combat capacity is lacking. Slightly. We are good at fighting Goblins, as you might expect. However, I don’t often commit to high-level engagements…because of my daughter. You understand?”
Capoinelia? Ceria’s eyes widened as she understood. Elia nodded, glancing at the tent flaps, and lowering her voice, although Ceria was sure they were warded.
“She’s not even thirty. I imagine you found her…young. You grew up in the villages, didn’t you?”
“Yeah. She seemed—well, really young. But she grew up…”
“On the move. I was an adventurer, she was a baby when I slew the Goblin King. She grew up with me as the famed Named Adventurer. I’m afraid it’s warped her perceptions of this life.”
Elia shrugged regretfully. She gestured to the expensive tent.
“She’s never had to sleep in the mud, and her first bow was enchanted. She’s certainly Gold-rank—but I don’t want to put her into a situation where she might advance into trouble. You understand?”
Ceria did. Her heart fell as she realized Elia was asking her to…no, they’d still be loosing arrows. She smiled, keeping her sinking heart from showing on her face.
“I understand, of course, Elia. I’ll speak to Soew now.”
“Stay, please. I would like to chat of home. How long has it been since you left Terandria?”
Ceria wavered, and then sat. Elia was charming, and not at all haughty due to her fame. Aside from her request, Ceria would have loved this talk.
Aside from the request. She might have asked Elia about the famous shot, about her daughter and Goblins, but they never got to that point.
Capoinelia burst into the tent as the two were laughing over half-Elf villages.
“Mother! Mother, come quick—”
She saw Ceria and stopped. Elia rose, already going for her bow. Ceria had her wand out.
“What’s wrong?”
“It’s the camp! Just hurry!”
Ceria sprinted out of the tent with Capoinelia, Elia delayed by grabbing her bow. What Ceria saw was shouting, a commotion—everyone was clustered around something. She pushed through the crowd as adventurers saw her, or heard the other half-Elf.
“Move aside! Arcsinger’s Bows! Elia Arcsinger is—”
“Ceria, there you are!”
Someone found her. Jelaqua, towering above most in her Raskghar battle-body, grabbed Ceria. She was pulled into the center of the spectacle.
“It was a damned accident! It’s not—what does it mean?”
An Oldblood Drake, one of the Lifwail Blades, was standing with his team, arguing with team Captains. Eldertuin himself was kneeling, inspecting something. As Ceria appeared with the Horns, they spun.
Keldrass, whom Ceria had not seen yet, was blinking down. He looked at her.
“Ceria. What did you do? Is this why you were so confident?”
“It has to be. Hah! We have a chance!”
Prince Zenol’s eyes were wide and gleaming. He was inspecting the same thing; Ceria smelled something foul, and the acrid stench of burnt flesh. He glanced up at her.
“What did you do?”
Eldertuin was quieter. He looked just as incredulous as some of the other team captains. Ceria didn’t understand why, until she heard the Lifwail Blade’s member explaining.
“We were just trying to see if the legend was true and you couldn’t fly over the Village of Death. We were scouting—one of the bastards was there and I breathed fire on it, alright? I thought it wouldn’t matter…”
They were all crowded around a corpse. A corpse from the Village of Death? Ceria was appalled. They were going to start the raid early—
Then she realized something. The smoldering, burning corpse wasn’t moving. The zombie or Ghoul or whatever it had been…wasn’t getting up.
The unnatural healing, the regeneration that had doomed entire armies trying to enter this death-zone? The body lay, burnt, motionless. No magical light showing in its eyes.
“…It’s not undead. It’s just a body.”
Pisces straightened. His eyes were wide, but he tried to hide it as every adventurer slowly turned to Ceria. Her heart was pounding, and she looked at him. His eyes flickered. Yvlon, Ksmvr—all glanced at him, and then looked at Ceria.
“What did you do?”
Revi breathed, awestruck. Ceria glanced at Pisces before fumbling for words.
The next day—the raid on the Village of the Dead began. This time, everyone woke and assembled, marching the three miles to the death-zone, to the undefeated landmark of necromancy, feeling the same thing in the air. A chance. An opportunity.
Hope.
 
—-
 
He felt fear.
Fear, because it was too soon. Too soon for the Horns of Hammerad. Fear and uncertainly. For even the Necromancer, Az’kerash, of whom so much had been said, had no idea how the undead had stopped rising.
The broadcast of Grand Magus Eldavin had revealed to the world the truth of Perril Chandler. How he had risen and fallen.
…An incomplete truth. If Az’kerash had dared, he would have been the angry caller denouncing the inaccuracies, the parts of the story left unspoken.
It was largely correct. Sort of. If you ignored real details the story simply skipped over. The arrogance of a storyteller who hadn’t been there, only seen from afar.
However. Although he had been obsessed with the telling and retelling and reactions of the world, however inaccurate, Archmage Chandler, Perril Chandler, the Necromancer, Az’kerash, was focused on this raid.
He should have stopped it. It was too soon. The Horns of Hammerad had no chance whatsoever of penetrating the Putrid One’s lair to retrieve his treasury. In fact, Az’kerash had taken reassurance in that fact…until now.
His—obfuscation—of the truth regarding his ability to cure Erin Solstice had been the root of it, Az’kerash could see in the clarity of death. However, the issue had snowballed into a far greater problem without him knowing.
The Necromancer had been content to let young Pisces and his team try, fruitlessly, to raid the Village of the Dead, gambling on them failing.
He had not expected this many adventurers coming for the raid. However, he had been sanguine right up until the second unexpected event occurred: the incredible reanimation field of the Village of Death vanishing without a clue as to why.
“What happened? Is it some kind of—of resonance effect? Did the Demon’s ritual drain it, destabilize the magic?”
The only correlation Az’kerash had was the events around the Summer Solstice; there was no way for him to know what had truly happened. Now, he was worried.
Even with Eldertuin and Elia Arcsinger, he had been confident the raid would fail, breaking on the first layers of undead, who would hold back even an army thrice this size by sheer numbers and regeneration alone.
However. What had been an opportunity to level, however embarrassing to the Horns’ credibility was now turning…dangerous. If the undead did not come back, then the possibility became very real that the raid would begin to succeed. Which meant they’d reach the stronger undead. And the true parts of the Village of the Dead.
Az’kerash had once made it there when he had first come to Izril, by dint of his incredible magical powers in death. He had made it into the heart of the Village of Death…and left. Because he had not been confident enough in his ability to defeat what lay beyond unprepared, alone.
The possibility of the Horns being obliterated now warred with a second possibility. What if they…succeeded?
Az’kerash did not sweat. If he could, though…he inspected the frozen beaver thawing in the summoning circle. A thousand attempts, a thousand failures. He needed more books on this kind of magic. He needed…time. Yet he understood perfectly why the Horns were rushing, into what had been certain doom until this night.
They wanted her back. They were taking on this threat because they were desperate. Because they could not wait.
Too soon. Too hasty. Too reckless. Az’kerash lowered his head.
“Uh oh. I sure hope my friends won’t get into trouble. That’d be—sort of bad. Especially since I uh, I’m alive. Yup, yup.”
His head rose as an unfamiliar female voice spoke. The Necromancer’s head turned.
A young woman walked forwards, inspecting the scrying spell and beaver critically. She shook her head, her light brown hair a bit tangled, her hazel eyes concerned.
“I’d better get my kitchen knife and acid jars. I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. Nice to meet you.”
She stuck out a hand at Az’kerash. The Necromancer watched her with his black eyes, white pupils locked on her face. Erin stared at him, and slowly withdrew the hand.
“Okay, be like that. It’s cool. It’s chill. I’m Erin Solstice. Insert dialogue here. Chess!”
She threw up her arms. Then—jerked. Her head drooped, the arms sagged. Az’kerash sighed.
“…This isn’t going to work.”
He waved, and the zombie shuffled off. Appearance was spot-on, but even with direct control, he couldn’t simulate the personality well enough. He tapped two fingers together, thinking. If it succeeded…
The problem was that he couldn’t even argue whatever the Horns might grab wasn’t worth it. Because if the Helm of Fire was in the Village of the Dead, it was certainly worth his time to collect. One of the great treasures of Drake-kind?
The Necromancer tried to figure out a way to save the Horns, or sabotage them, or fulfill his vow into the night. Come dawn—he watched as they assembled.
They attacked at midday. Then, the Necromancer watched for a different reason. Perril Chandler sat, looking at the woman with arms of silver, the half-Elf, the young [Necromancer], the Antinium alone.
Brave, young heroes. He wanted them to live. He wanted them to succeed.
He…
Watched.
 
—-
 
Now.
Somewhere far from here, the Horns of Hammerad had begun their assault on the Village of the Dead. Ceria had sent Selys a [Message] before the attack had begun.
…So had Pisces. That was how she knew. Now, she waited in The Wandering Inn, having told Lyonette, Ilvriss, as many friends as she could name of the Horns’ actions.
