She had waited a long time to say that. Shame, shame. She sat as the inn began to buzz twice. Calescent sat down next to her as Ishkr rushed into the kitchen.
Mrsha gazed at Rags, awed by the fascinating Goblin. She spoke better than Ulvama, as well as Numbtongue! She was so small, too! So amazing! She had a huge crossbow! She knew Selys? Did she know…know Erin? Was she coming to stay at the inn?
So many questions. Mrsha would have loved to inspect the two and find out more, and she was about to when something hit her on the head.
A tiny pebble. She glanced up, and a figure motioned. Mrsha…hesitated. The Fraerling pointed to the open door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] where they could talk and a bee buzzed down, carrying him. He gestured as only Mrsha saw him clinging to Apista’s back.
Curiously, Mrsha did not race after Niers. She looked at Rags, then after the Titan, and padded slowly into the garden. She met Niers around the pond and Fortress Beaver’s dam.
“Hey. That Goblin—you know her? What is this raid on the Village of the Dead? Has someone gone mad?”
Niers was sitting in the lee of some branches, looking at Mrsha urgently. The Titan, Apista perching on the twigs above…
Mrsha stopped eight paces away from him. The [Strategist] looked at her, impatiently, then he noticed Mrsha had stopped. He caught himself, smiled, beckoned.
“Come on, Miss Mrsha. We have to work together, right? I need your help. Come on.”
He gestured, and she took a few more steps forwards, but halted again. Mrsha smiled uncertainly.
She drew no closer. Niers closed his eyes, and exhaled. Damn it.
In the inn, Selys was staring at the scrying mirror, but there was no Drassi, only Noass and Sir Relz. Kevin had gone running to find her with Joseph, yet for now, it was just…news.
“We’ll be bringing you coverage of Ailendamus’ march to the sea—or rather, through Pheislant! Their armies are trying to encircle the Dawn Concordat. But first—obituaries. [Marshal] Vexu’de of the Trick Temple company has passed away of old age at 54, due to complications with the Yellow Rivers disease, along with [Princess] Itere, aged 72, of natural causes. They will be missed. It always struck me as odd, Noass, that a [Princess] remained one into their later years.”
“Titles, Sir Relz. Age does not change the dignity of one’s station one whit. Only circumstance. The only other obituary sent in today—and we are encouraging all those individuals of a certain level or note to be reported, although we cannot report every passing, sadly—is a Master Merxel of Invrisil, a well-known [Spymaster], who was found dead in his home this morning. The Watch is investigating…”
Mrsha looked at Niers and the Titan’s smile never wavered. She padded back a few more steps.
 
—-
 
Then.
Mrsha trotted past Joseph into Invrisil. It was easy. Mrsha the Daring knew all the ways to get to Invrisil. She could use the door—but why bother when Liska was responsible for it?
She didn’t care if Mrsha went to visit the Wailant farm, or Celum, or…anywhere. She was cool like that. Ishkr, now, he was tricky. He kept tabs on Mrsha, but he had discovered that Mrsha could never be contained.
Not with the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Lock her in a room and she’d be out before you turned the key. In some ways, Erin’s great protection for Mrsha was also the biggest impediment to keeping her safe. Ishkr usually managed it with threats and promises of cutting Mrsha’s dessert privileges, which were already in arrears.
However, Mrsha risked his wrath this time because she had a higher calling! The Titan was riding on her head! He needed her help, and Mrsha the Mercenary was sure she’d be richly rewarded when he got to Baleros. Maybe…he’d even help with Erin?
He’d gone into Erin’s room and sat at the big, magical chess board this morning. Niers played blankly with the chess pieces, moving each around bodily, as they were nearly his size.
“I…sent it to her. If I can help, I will. I need your help, though. It might be dangerous, but I swear on my company, I will keep you out of trouble if I can. Would you help me?”
What was Mrsha the Brave to say to that but ‘yes’? Erin would have!
To her disappointment, though, all Niers wanted her to do was go to some stinky house and let him do some investigating. He even knew the address, which was no fun.
However, it was hilarious to walk around Invrisil and realize no one knew the Titan of Baleros was on her head! Mrsha swaggered about on two legs, making an effort to show off for Niers.
He was so small, and he was a [Strategist] so his stealth-Skills plus Mrsha made it so no one would see him.
“Not even a top-class [Rogue] can easily spot me—I’ve hidden on countless battlefields. I learned it from my [Rogue] friend, actually. Three-Color Stalker?”
Mrsha was agog, of course, and Niers had told her some stories last night. She proudly walked him to his destination, mind racing with what might happen. What adventure would Mrsha the Great and Terrible get into this time?
 
—-
 
Then.
Nothing, as far as Niers was concerned. He watched, clinging to the somewhat bumpy ride despite Mrsha’s best efforts, as she carried him through Invrisil. For dangers to her, from carts or pedestrians, to actual [Thugs], [Kidnappers], and all the unsavory things that might befall a child in a big city.
He had no intention of letting a child get hurt. Nor was he putting her in danger. Niers would easily cop to the fact that he’d gotten her on his side by telling her some glory-stories of him as an adventurer and Foliana, but that was necessary.
In truth, he’d have been happy to ride Apista around, but an Ashfire Bee was even more obvious than a white Gnoll. If she wasn’t killed by some [Bug Exterminator] in the first half-hour…
Well, his plan was simple. No more games. Niers had elected for the fastest route to helping himself, Erin Solstice, and his company. He’d asked Mrsha to ferry him to Master Merxel’s. If the [Spymaster] hadn’t lost his step, he’d know where Niers’ gear was—or the Gold-rank team that stole it. At the very least, he could get Niers in touch with his company.
Alas, it was not to be. One look at Master Merxel’s house and Niers smelled trouble.
He couldn’t have said why it was. It was not some advanced [Dangersense], an intuiting of political trouble or betrayal—Niers had never wanted and thus never gotten such Skills, trusting to his instincts. He could have used one for Peclir Im, of course, but his intuition was still good.
It was something in how the bodyguards outside of Master Merxel’s house stood, perhaps. A bit too attentively compared to the last time Niers had been there. The sign saying ‘not accepting visitors’ on the door?
Let’s see. If I thought Merxel was on my side, I might be encouraged by this. Yet if he was, I’d expect him not to show a sign I was missing. This almost seems like he’s waiting for me to show up.
He could just be paranoid for his own safety, I suppose. Perorn must have raised hell.
Nevertheless, Niers’ paranoia did not get where it was by having him walk into possible traps. Bad for your health, that. So he leaned down and whispered into Mrsha’s ear, knowing how good her hearing was.
“Mrsha? Listen. It looks like Master Merxel might be…compromised. So I need you to help me.”
She nodded eagerly, and then caught herself. Niers sighed again, but he didn’t put her in trouble. Rather, he made use of her natural abilities.
“Walk past his house. Walk! Listen for anything inside…I’ll slip off and go through a window. You just have to wait—um, at that café down the street, okay? Do you have gold?”
Mrsha patted her money pouch, looking indignant. Did she have money? She was excited, but Niers knew it was safe.
She wasn’t going to hear a thing. No [Spymaster] wouldn’t ward their home. Niers would be the one crawling through the vents, no doubt having to fight the [Spymaster]’s wards. Damn, damn—well, he had some tools.
His enchanted sword, the lifeblood of his fighting capabilities right now, his torn armor—and a crossbow.
He’d made a miniature one out of scraps Mrsha had brought him. It had all the power of a Fraerling-sized crossbow, unfortunately, but it could launch a toothpick through your eye. Niers had met many creatures and people over his career, and a lot of them couldn’t deal with that easily.
Besides that, he had a climbing grapple, and about ten feet of very fine twine, all cumbersomely strapped to his back. His damned bag of holding was lost, and that was one of the things he needed. Plus his Signim. If he had both, he could stand in Invrisil and shout for Perorn to pick him up. Well…maybe not that, but if he had his gear, his chances of survival were ten times higher.
The plan was good. Mrsha was sauntering past the two bodyguards in front of Master Merxel’s house, casual as could be, and Niers had left her back and was creeping across the street by the gutters when the door opened and Master Merxel appeared.
“Ah—excuse me? You two—excuse me, little girl?”
Niers’ heart sank. Master Merxel smiled as Mrsha froze, every trace of guilt on her, and turned. His two bodyguards—and two more from within the house had already slid past her, though. The [Spymaster] adjusted his spectacles and frowned at her.
“Don’t be worried! Mrsha, is it? From—The Wandering Inn? Hello! I am Master Merxel. [Spymaster].”
He beamed. Mrsha stared up at him, glancing at the huge, subtly armored men. Niers cursed as he crouched around the corner of Merxel’s house. What the hell was the [Spymaster] doing?
He was searching for Niers! The spectacles had to be vision-amplifying and he was squinting at Mrsha. She had an anti-appraisal ring, but Merxel had stopped her on…what, a hunch?
“I don’t suppose you’d like to come in? I have sweets! I’d just like to talk to you. I know this is very surprising, but have you met a…little man? Did someone ask you to come by this place, by any chance?”
Mrsha backed up, shaking her head instantly. Merxel was looking at her. Niers stared—then slapped his forehead.
You idiot, Niers Astoragon!
In that moment he realized two things. Merxel was not on his side, or if he was, he was hedging his bets. Second? He was under the assumption Niers was going to come calling and he’d been waiting.
Why had he singled Mrsha out? Firstly—Niers suspected anyone slowing in front of Merxel’s home or giving it more than two looks got this treatment. This though, was Niers’ fault.
Mrsha? A white Gnoll from The Wandering Inn, where Merxel knew Niers was bound? Idiot, idiot, idiot! The [Spymaster] wasn’t a fool!
Worse, he seemed to be sure Niers was here, so he turned to Mrsha.
“Come in, Miss. You are not going to be hurt. I just need to speak to Lord Astoragon. If you can hear me, sir? I’d just like to talk.”
I’ll feed you your eyeballs on toothpicks if you harm her, Merxel. Niers swore silently, but Merxel was gesturing and his bodyguards were going to grab Mrsha! Then, it was a hostage situation where—
Mrsha was looking around to run, but one of the [Bodyguards] was too fast. She was grabbing for a wand, baring her teeth to bite, when someone coughed.
“Pardon me, sir. But it seems to me that if the young miss doesn’t want to go with you, it would be ungentlemanly to insist. Insofar as my thinking goes, a fellow asking a child to go eat snacks in his home was already ungentlemanly, and the rest was ‘icing on the cake’, to use a new expression, as it were.”
Master Merxel and the four [Bodyguards] stopped. They turned, and Niers’ tense chest unconstricted as he saw a group of four men sauntering down the road. Looking as if they’d gone for a stroll.
A Brother on the stroll with his hat off was not a relaxing sight at all, though. Four of them, led by Crimshaw, were walking towards Master Merxel.
He uttered a curse under his breath, before swinging around.
“Master…Crimshaw, is it? Master Met. Master—”
“Master Merxel. Good evening to you. And you, Miss Mrsha. Although I suspect no dessert’s in order, as I don’t believe you told anyone where you was going.”
Crimshaw smiled brightly as he looked at Mrsha. She’d gone still at the sight of the Brothers. Crimshaw gestured.
“Might want to run back to the inn before you get in trouble now, wouldn’t that be wise?”
She hesitated, half-looking towards Niers, catching herself, and then nodded. She scampered forwards. One of the [Bodyguards] moved as if to grab her—
“Do not.”
Merxel breathed. The Brothers had…tensed…as the other man moved. They stood in the street.
“Gentlemen, I can assure you—”
“Not interested.”
Crimshaw broke in. He nodded to Mrsha, fleeing down the street at full gallop.
“The girl’s off limits. Now—I’m sure you had an excellent reason, Master Merxel. However, if it was diamonds for dust, it would not be a good enough one. She is off limits…and if we find a fellow asking after her, that fellow will vanish. Understand?”
“I understand, Master Crimshaw. But listen—this is about the T—”
Crimshaw was suddenly in Merxel’s face. He’d moved so fast the [Bodyguards] were still twisting, shock on their faces when the Brother hissed—and he was not the gentleman with the hat.
“Do you see a hat on my head, Merxel? We are done making mistakes. The first man who so much as sneezes at that girl ends up in pieces in the sewers—along with his entire crew. Understand?”
Merxel was smart enough to know when to nod and back up. Pale-faced, he and his [Bodyguards] stepped back. Niers himself exhaled slowly.
The odds were Merxel paid for top-quality [Bodyguards]. Even some of the best if he was worried about Niers, and there might have been more inside. None of that meant he wanted to deal with a Brother with their hat off. They were perfectly willing to fight to the death in the street, and having your teeth smashed into the curb by a boot was not a pretty way to die.
It was also astonishing to see them go to the Tier 9 option this fast. They must have taken Erin’s death as a true failing.
Could he trust them fully? Niers considered it, but then disregarded the notion. He was not someone for whom he could rely on their sense of honor with. People of his level were on the same level as a Face off the street for the Brothers, which meant their strict code of conduct was more negotiable.
Even so…when the Brothers went off to make sure Mrsha was fine, Niers slipped into Master Merxel’s home. The man had gotten unlucky with the Brothers. He’d had good fortune to get Mrsha while Niers wasn’t thinking straight. Sadly—that was all luck would have to say here.
 
—-
 
Master Merxel sat in his office, trying to fold his hands together. He was ready. He knew it—or suspected.
