Erin laughed. Rags smiled too. She looked at the [Innkeeper] as Erin pulled the chair closer, reaching for a chess piece and…
…She was smiling. Her arms were folded, yet the broken, splintered wood still stuck out, bloody, in her chest. The clothing and skin frozen, a light frost wafting onto the grass. Rags continued after a moment.
“I practiced every day. To speak to you. It was very frustrating. Yet I had to practice because I wanted to explain—I wanted to tell you how I felt. To complain.”
She waited. Yet her dream ended there. Rags sat down.
“I brought you a gift. I was going to bring you a frying pan. Made by Goblins. I thought you could throw it at something. I didn’t expect this.”
The hill was silent. Rags slowly put the pan, balanced for throwing, smaller than most, next to the bier. She saw flowers, unfaded despite the time, a little doll, letters…
She looked at Erin again. Her eyes lingered on the blood.
“I was going to complain. Insult you. You were so—silly. Stupid. Arrogant. After I was nice, I was going to start being mean. Checkmate.”
Erin said nothing. Rags went on.
“I would have said, after you were smiling—‘but I am angry at you.’ And you would have said, ‘huh? Why me?’, or something silly. And I would have explained.”
Her voice didn’t quiver. Rags went on, playing out the ideal conversation.
“How dare you? That is what I would have said. How dare…you. You would not understand—but I would explain. How dare you be kind? After what my Chieftain tried to do to you, after what we tried to do. We tried to kill you. Goblins killed your friend. One tried to attack you in your inn…and after all that, you gave us food. You stopped that Drake, Relc, from killing me. You gave us food, you protected us when no one would—how dare you? That is not what Humans are supposed to do.”
She looked at the frozen young woman in ice and shook her head.
“You don’t understand. Why is that a bad thing? Everyone should do that. Then I say—yes. Yes, but no one does. My life was so simple. Humans were bad. Humans killed or, or did worse. Drakes, Gnolls—everything is my enemy. But you—you were kind. Now, every time I have a sword and see a Human, I wonder—is this Human nice? Is this a person, not a monster? How dare you. You made my life so complicated.”
She looked at the sky, through the hole in the dome. At her armor, her sword by her side.
“I was nothing. I was going to die nothing. Now, I am the [Great Chieftain] of my tribe. Now, I think about right and wrong. I do bad things to survive. I am afraid of killing Humans. Because of you. How dare you?”
Her voice rose.
“How dare you give me a chance? Make me—put me in this place, where I have to think? Think, day, night, worry about right and wrong? Everything was so easy. How dare you do all that? And then…”
She looked at Erin.
“How dare you die? Die? After all you do? Die—you’re not supposed to. You matter too much to them. To us. Why…”
Her voice trembled. Rags trailed off. She closed her eyes, mastered her voice. She breathed in, and out.
“I came here to shout at you. For being a silly Human who doesn’t think about what she does. Except you do. You were kind. Now, here I am. I wanted to say that. Other things, too. Ask you for advice. But you’re frozen now. I don’t have time to talk to ice cubes.”
She stood, brushing off her armor. Rags looked down at the [Innkeeper].
“They’re fighting for you. Your friends. I am going now. I will come back, when you get up. Your friends…if they don’t make it, if they don’t find a way. I will. I came to say that. Next time—you can cry.”
The little Goblin walked down the hill, her back straight. She never looked back. The little frying pan slowly grew colder as it lay against the bier, covering itself with frost.
Rags went to watch the Horns of Hammerad. She hadn’t said nearly all of what she wanted.
Thank you. I’m sorry.
So much more. Nor would she, if she had a hundred years. She didn’t talk to ice.
When Erin Solstice woke up—she’d come back.
There.
It was a promise.
 
—-
 
Adventurers ran towards the distant, humble collection of wooden buildings, decayed by age. The first wave broke through and saw what lay beyond.
Undead came to meet them, dying, failing to rise. No one knew why, although some believed false truths, half-truths.
Pisces and Ceria stood together and watched Ksmvr join the second wave. The [Skirmisher] leapt over the roof of a building, drawing an arrow, loosing it, even as he vanished.
“Almost…”
The magic was building around them. The [Necromancer] and [Cryomancer] held hands. Ice and death flowed together.
Pisces was concentrating on the spell, breathing hard. Ceria’s breath was more shallow. She felt her muscles tensing. Almost time…
Something rose behind them, and adventurers cried out. A [Scrier] spun, gaping, yet neither half-Elf nor Human looked back. They only had eyes for their team, and the Village. Pisces turned to Ceria.
“Ready? Let’s get the loot, not die, and etcetera?”
He smiled, but his hand tightened on hers. Ceria waited a moment, then she grinned. She let go of Pisces’ hand.
Her wand rose, and she drew the dagger in her other hand. Pisces lifted his rapier.
“Nah. It sounds worse the more I hear it. How about…death before dishonor?”
She turned. The third wave of adventurers parted as the ground shook. The two Horns of Hammerad ran forwards, ahead of it. Ceria shouted—or was it Pisces?
Both.
“For the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. For The Wandering Inn!”
They ran into the Village of the Dead, laughing like silly fools.
