“Ah. Excuses. The Culturist’s only weakness.” Hymn chuckled dryly. Shiv gave him a single-finger salute."This is likely going to be an extremely painful affair for you. But on the bright side, you can't die. And you don't really need to win, ultimately. You just need to prove fascinating enough for him and stop him from breaking you." The Headmaster eyed the Deathless. "Frankly, you don't even need to fight him alone, though I suggest against involving anyone else. He will not have any issue murdering your friends or loved ones just to agitate you. In fact, if you can drag Udraal into this now, I recommend it.”

“We can’t get to Udraal,” Adam said.

Shiv was about to say something, but suddenly a dastardly scheme took shape in his head—a scheme of deep revenge. So far, having his enemies deal with each other was becoming a very consistent strategy for him, and he saw no reason to stop now.

"Shiv, why are you smiling like that?" Adam asked, slightly worried.

"Tell you after," Shiv replied.

Hymn promptly ruined Shiv's surprise by throwing his head back in a laugh. "Oh, well, that might work," he said. "Quite the devious scheme of retribution, intending to lure the Giantsbane over into the Tutorial and have her fight the Culturist on your behalf."

Shiv sneered at the elf. "I don't want her to fight him on my behalf. I just want her to be the ugly surprise. And if everything goes south, maybe I get to knock her off as a problem."

"I wouldn't be so sure about that, boy,” Hymn said. “Jessica Hawgrave is a hardy Legend that has survived a great many things. This might go the opposite way of how you think. She and quite a few orcs have history as well, you know.”

"Yeah, well, I’ll figure out how viable this plan is soon. I'm probably going to have a conversation with her before we do this, though, as the Deathless. There are a few things I want to clear up with her before we get bloody."

"Shiv, you can't possibly be thinking about going out to meet her as yourself," Adam said, eyes wide.

"I’ll have an escape strategy. I know where she's staying right now. She should know exactly what happened to Heather before everything goes down. In fact, I want to find out more about her grandson as well. I..." Shiv smacked his lips uncomfortably. "That concerns you too, Uva. I'm gonna have to tell you something that you might not enjoy hearing."

"What?"

"It's got to do with your mother and the one who killed her. I think we found him. And I think he’s Jessica Hawgrave’s grandson." Shiv breathed in deep before he got to the next part. “Alsoyourmommight’vehadavampirelover.”

The entire right side of Uva’s body twitched. “What.”

There was no avoiding this, and Shiv was a “rip the blade out and deal with the pain kind of guy.” “His name is Tulveg. He’s a Legend that was exiled from the First Blood. We ran into him trying to assassinate the guy who killed your mom. I got a vision that confirms Tulveg knew her. And was probably in a relationship with her. He was there right after she died. He’s… with us. If you want to talk with him.”

Uva said nothing. She just stared. Her mind grew unnaturally silent. Adam shook his head at Shiv and facepalmed. After a few seconds of unresponsiveness, Hymn walked over and waved his hand in front of her face. “Sister Uva? Are you well?”

“I…” Uva swallowed. “I…”

Shiv winced. “Sorry. Too much at once?”

“Just give me a moment. Just a moment.”
