I finished my war cry before falling back onto my knees. I glanced around at the destruction. Six blocks were leveled, piles of rubble all that remained of them. Gaping holes littered several stores nearby, and a few houses stood on their last legs.

Of in the distance, Torix’s jaw slowly reformed. His fire eyes were glowing, more like coals than flame. Kessiah was covered in the blood of the eldritch. The wounds on her were few. During my fight, I kept my strikes intent on killing the eldritch armor more than her. She wouldn’t die like she was. There would be plenty of scars though.

Hod might be dead somewhere off in the distance. I was too tired to stand and find out. He was probably just knocked unconscious. Since the eldritch had been Dakhma, we would all gain a ridiculous amount of experience. Before checking out my attributes and levels though, I opened my notifications. Something I’d been working towards for months finally showed up.

Legendary Skill Unlocked! Combines the three mythical skills, The Coming Tide, Volatile Carnage, and Boundless Storm into the single legendary skill called, Force of Nature. Half of remaining skill points in these three mythical skills are rewarded. Total Bonus tree points from fusion | 1352 | Below is a list of the legendary skills other bonuses.

It was by far the longest notification for a skill I had ever received. I must have learned the skill when I felt like everything synced up all of a sudden. After reading over the bonuses of the skill, there was a few solid bonuses to exploit.

The extra attributes were a pleasant surprise considering no other skill gave them. The classes and titles might come in handy later. I would have to wait for those until after facing off against Yawm. They might help me figure out what I’ll be doing after killing the monster.

The extra bonus for magic was an awesome surprise as well. After doing a quick bit of math, I could make molding gravity and telekinesis manaless once I had 10,000 skill points in Force of Nature. Easy peasy. Considering the skill didn’t become harder to learn with level, that might be possible.

Curious about what the skill said, I checked it out.

Force of Nature(lvl 7) - You are nature given fury. Enhances all techniques and application of skills within this ability, including: Close Range Combat, Runic abilities, Telekinesis, and gravitational magics.

Bonus Attributes: 5 Strength, 5 Dexterity, 2 Constitution, 2 intelligence, 1 Perception

Ability Bonus: 5%

Mana Cost Reduction: 1%

First up was the person beside me. Kessiah was still breathing, and after checking her pulse, she was stable. Moving wasn’t so difficult anymore, so I walked over and inspected Torix. He seemed fine, the dim lights of his eyes growing. I paced over towards the house Hod was lodged in.

Low and behold, Hod was fine. Both his wings were broken, and a crack ran up his metal beak, but he would live too. I walked over, tearing off strips of my armor. Getting the armor off was a struggle, but I managed it. I bent Hod’s wings back into shape, using the armor strips as splints. Hod screamed whenever I realigned his bones, but after that he settled down.

I carried him towards Torix, setting them beside each other. Keeping watch of them would be easier with them all beside each other. Since I had some time to think, I poured all my excess mana into the eldritch rune on my arm. It was like agony from way back in BloodHollow all over again.

It made my ridiculous mana generation useful, so I counted my blessings. Once my mana was channeling, I walked over and picked up Kessiah. With telekinesis reinforcing my feet, I carried her over without digging into the ground. I set her beside Torix and Hod before flopping backwards.

I pushed my back off the ground, my legs flat against the ground. I turned to Kessiah, seeing her carbon fiber pouch unharmed. It was a tough damn compound. I grabbed it from her side. I opened it, finding red dungeon cores inside them. I stuck my hand into the pouch, a jolt of lightning radiating up my arm.

I ignored the feeling, absorbing cores as I waved my hand around. I needed these things anyways. Considering I already saved Kessiah’s life twice, I figured I deserved a few dungeon cores anyways. I needed the extra skill points for investing into my new legendary skill too.

Up till now, I saved my skill points for whenever I reached 90+ in a normal skill. Since the least 10 levels were ridiculously difficult to get, they acted like an easy way of avoiding that crawl. This new legendary skill gave some really nice bonuses though. Combine that with the uniform leveling difficulty, and there wasn’t any reason not to invest the points now.

With that in mind, I checked out the number of skill points I had stored up. I found 919 waiting for me. It was a ridiculous number for any skill to reach. I poured them all into Force of Nature. After hitting finalize, I noticed a difference in strength and my reaction speed. It wasn’t an enormous shift by any means, but I appreciated it nonetheless.

I created a gravity vortex over my hand. Unlike the attribute bonuses, the difference in the magic was enormous. I put it over me, channeling a bit mana into the vortex. A moment later, I floated off the ground. I shifted the field of gravity, trying to keep it in front of me. It made me fly around.

One second I was stuck to the ground. The next, I dashed through the air like a bird with no wings. It was like falling in a direction. The sense of levity leaving me, the rush of air on my face, it was exhilarating. I dashed over the pile of rubble for a few minutes, savoring my new ability before settling back down.

I tried the same thing with telekinesis. I grabbed a rock ten feet away and lifted it. It wasn’t much heavier than normal, if at all. I stood up and walked beside a car. I bent down and lifted up, lifting the car up with a telekinetic wave. There wasn’t any desperate struggle. The mental link stood strong and steady, not wavering.

I set the car down before running over and sitting down beside the others again. Not going off and testing out my new abilities was hard, but I discipline myself. There would be time for that later. Besides, there was a massive payload of attribute points waiting for me.

I gained a little over 400 hundred levels from killing Dakhma/eldritch abomination. I glanced around, analyzing the other’s levels. Torix gained over 400 levels. Kessiah and Hod gained 300 levels. Torix was level 1702. Kessiah was 2521. Hod was level 1703. I grinned at Hod being one level higher than Torix. The undead necromancer just couldn’t catch a break.

The boost meant the next follower wouldn’t even be half as difficult. I intended on making a team and a mission for handling it anyways. I wasn’t about to let our group almost get decimated like that again. Torix was right about him having to handle all the logistics. It wasn’t fair to put all that on him.

This influx of attributes would help with all that. Before distributing my attributes, I opened my tree menu. I got an enormous amount of tree points from completing my legendary skill. I could finish Obliterator in one fell swoop. That’s what I did.

You’re horizons are ever growing. If you make a habit of exceeding your limits, then limits cease to exist. Others will box themselves in. Their limits act as comfort, like the walls of a house. You tear those walls down, and you see the world for what it is.

2,000/2,500 milestone reached! II Obliterator unlocked (Tier 4) +100% of total experience gained for levels and skills. This bonus is multiplicative with previous bonuses, not additive. +8 attributes rewarded for every 5 levels over level 1,000.

A boundless sky and a fruitful earth. It is yours for the taking.

2,500/2,500 milestone reached! II Obliterator unlocked (Tier 5) +100% of total experience gained for levels and skills. This bonus is multiplicative with previous bonuses, not additive. +10 attributes rewarded for every 5 levels over level 1,000. Doubles damage when in rifts.

The bonuses were tremendous, as they should be. Doubling my damage in rifts would help if I ever went back and tried killing Etna. It might be a little bit before I could make that happen. With the Obliterator tree finished, I opened my trees menu and checked those out next.

III Vicious(Kill a monster after fighting for over an hour. They must exceed your level by 1000. You must be over level 1000 to unlock this tree.)(0/250) | Killer of Titans(Kill a monster with over 1,000 times your own mass. Constitution over 1,000. Star Matter perk unlocked.)(0/1,500) | Bounty Hunter(Finish an A tier bounty)(0/500)]

The stat trees were interesting. The best bang for my buck would be Vicious, since it increased overall damage. Considering how cheap the points were for the tree, it was an excellent investment. I selected and finished the tree.

Monsters are real, and they look like people. One of those people happens to be you. III Vicious(Tier 1) Unlocked! +3% damage.

Some would say you are the wolf that wears the sheep’s skin. If a being dares to come too close, you tear off your skin and show your fangs. Vicious(Tier 2) Unlocked! +6% damage.

The change occurs in an instant. One moment, you’re as amiable as a gentle giant. The next, and you become the wrath of untamed anger. Vicious(Tier 3) Unlocked! +9% damage.

These two faces of yours compose the whole of who you are. You are neither completely passive nor utterly aggressive. You show the side that needs to be shown. Vicious(Tier 4) Unlocked! +12% damage.

And may mercy be given to those who unleash the monster lying just beneath your skin. Vicious(Tier 5) +15% damage. +5% damage when losing health.

The tree was a basic stat booster, like I expected. Schema’s system was likely balanced around everyone having it, or at least hard asses getting it. The extra damage while losing health was particularly good on me because I was always losing health. With the other Vicious trees, it added up to a 40% bonus in damage all the time.

It was a rock solid addition, especially considering how few points it took to gain the tree. I looked at it like a bargain. With the tree finished, I looked at the trees left. Bounty Hunter looked interesting, but it probably relied on finishing bounties and getting money. Considering I fought with my fists and my armor was my skin, buying things wasn’t going to be the most useful.

With that in mind, I poured all the rest of my points into Titan slayer.

To find a true warrior in the vast cosmos is a rarity. Most prefer tackling a problem from an angle or trying to avoid it altogether. You have chosen to face challenges head on, even when they are larger than life. Killer of Titans(Tier 1) unlocked! +20% to total mass. 2% of total level is given as free constitution.

In the truest sense, you’ve chosen density and size over all else. This road rewards you with skin like metal and bones unbreakable. You’ve discovered the secret of being invincible. Killer of Titans(Tier 2) unlocked! +40% to total mass. 4% of total level is given as free constitution.

If your body is invincible, then it becomes the ultimate weapon. You are a walking wall, an immovable object. Whether wielding gravity or fighting with your own hands, you unlocked the might of a titan. Killer of Titans(Tier 3) unlocked! +60% to total mass. +6% of total level is given as free constitution.

And with the might of a titan, you have chosen to stand on the shoulders of giants. Unlike others, they are not giants that you use. They are corpses you created by sheer size alone. Killer of Titans(Tier 4) unlocked! +80% to total mass. +8% of total level is given as free constitution.

After I finished reading all the notifications, I couldn’t believe them. Whenever I hit finalize on my screen, I would double in weight. Considering the bonus from my legendary skill too, I would be like a different person.

Anticipation for that moment filled my head as I checked out my status screen. I had a lot of attribute points, over 2500 of them. You heard me right, over 2500. Since I had such a well rounded build, I poured every last single one of them into endurance. This amount of extra stats made me nervous. I was a little scared even. I finished getting the points into endurance before hitting finalize.

There was a massive influx of vitality. It was like I could stay in the vacuum of space and be fine. It was like knowing you could walk on the sun and not burn. My body would sustain me indefinitely. I was an immortal being, something that required apocalyptic damage to even harm. Kessiah’s Blood Arts couldn’t even scratch me anymore.

Size came next. It was a flood of mass, a colossal increase that made me writhe on the ground. I drug my hands through the dirt, unable to handle the sheer increase. My blood leaked through my armor, my skin bursting against it. It was like a crab stuck in a tiny shell. I shifted my armor a moment later, expanding it by will. As I did, my body filled into the new frame.

I crushed into the ground, digging into the earth. I weighed too much, like the dirt couldn’t support me anymore. I sunk into it, the dirt wrapping around me. My senses enhanced, along with a surge in strength and power. I couldn’t control my descent during my metamorphosis. That’s what it felt like. I was being recreated.

Even though there was no air to breath, I didn’t feel out of breath. It was like I didn’t need air anymore. Sliding down to the center of the earth wasn’t what I intended on doing, however. I extended the reach of telekinesis, giving myself some footing. I pushed myself out of the ground. Once I was finally out, I took a step.

