“It appalls you. But consider that it would have worked. Make a mockery of his protection by heaping a village of corpses up and Flos Reimarch would take the bait. You could bait him to attack or defend. You never considered it. Because you are a good king. I would have enraged the King of Destruction, were I you. And I would have used poison.”
Raelt hung his head. It was true.
“So my decision? I am not asking you to choose, Quarass. But what would you do if you were me? Not King of Jecrass. But…a ‘good king’. One who’s conscience will weigh heavily on him no matter what he does?”
Either way, good people died to no reason. The Quarass thought for a moment. Then she stood up. She beckoned, and Raelt walked over. He leaned down and she whispered in his ear.
He expected some sage advice. Some platitude. But the Quarass just whispered to him.
“Whichever answer you can live with. Look ahead, and see how fate branches. Whichever route you can accept—which you will not wail and bemoan the rest of your life—that is the one to choose.”
Raelt straightened. He looked down at her, and the Quarass smiled. He felt…lighter. It was obvious, but when she put it like that—he knew. He had known.
“Thank you, Quarass.”
“I shall be on my way. You have much to do, Raelt of Jecrass. And I must go north. Farewell. I hope we will meet again.”
She nodded to him. He bowed, and the girl slipped from her seat and walked, barefoot, away. Geril escorted her, looking at his [King]. Raelt of Jecrass stood there for a second.
Then he walked away, to make his decision.
 
—-
 
“We are prepared to sign the contract. Publicly.”
Queen Yisame stood in the room, visible on the scrying mirror. High King Perric from the scrying orb. The Speaker of Trees in another, smaller mirror.
“Before Wistram?”
“Before Wistram and the world. My armies are preparing to advance. We’ll sweep across the border and into Belchan and liberate it.”
Perric waited in front of a grand table with two of his [Generals]. He had a [Mage] from Wistram ready to broadcast the announcement and he was royally annoyed—because Queen Yisame would sign first. He had argued that point the last hour, but it was done.
Raelt nodded. He took a breath as his version of the contract was laid before him. One of the [Mages] in Queen Yisame’s court coughed.
“We need a [Mage] to begin the broadcast on Jecrass’ side, your Majesty. And a ten minute wait for the event to be introduced…”
“Ten minutes? For those Drakes from Pallass? I will do it myself!”
Perric scowled. Raelt saw the Wistram [Mages] conferring and hurrying about as the other rulers had that pained look of people trying to be important while having no idea what was going on.
He smiled. And bowed to Queen Yisame.
“Your Majesty, that will not be necessary. I have made my choice. Jecrass…will not continue war with Reim. I intend to sign his contract.”
Perric froze with one hand on the table. Yisame looked at him. The Speaker of Trees sighed.
“Ridiculous! You cannot back out now! My armies are on the move!”
Perric shouted. Raelt ignored him. Yisame looked gravely at Raelt.
“I understand your friend—Lyfelt of Belchan—will die as part of this contract. And other innocents.”
He nodded slowly.
“Yes, your Majesty. I will bear that responsibility. But I weighed each choice. And I can no longer ask my people to fight the King of Destruction. They have suffered too much. I…am sorry.”
Her eyes flickered. For a moment, the Stitch-Woman looked at Raelt and he saw some kind of understanding in her eyes. Then she stepped back as one of her attendants flicked a fan across her body and face.
“If that is your will, King Leysars, we shall abide.”
Her mirror turned off. The Speaker of Trees nodded.
“You have made your choice, King Leysars. We will not begrudge you it.”
He bowed and Raelt nodded. The last was King Perric.
“Raelt. You cannot make peace! I will not allow it! Reim will swallow Jecrass whole! Don’t be a coward!”
The man raged at Raelt. The [King] of Jecrass looked at Perric.
“You know, Perric, you’re in no position to give me orders. And I rather disliked you anyways. This conversation is over. Goodbye.”
“Raelt! Don’t y—”
The King of Jecrass turned off the mirror with some satisfaction. Then he sat back.
He was shaking. But it was done. And it was the right decision. The Quarass…it had been Jecaina as well. Wondering if she would have to fight. Warden Dulfe, Winta…
They had sacrificed so much. For nothing? Raelt shook his head. He would make sure it wasn’t for nothing. But it was enough. He…he hated Flos for what he had done. But the man had made war for the Gnolls. Raelt hated Flos for his strength, his armies.
But he wasn’t a man Raelt loathed. That was a crucial difference. Raelt had tried to kill him twice.
“Enough is enough. I’m sorry, Lyfelt. I’m…”
The [King] had the hardest task of all now. He sat there for a moment. Because next—when he rose—he would have to wait the night away until Orthenon came by at midnight. And until that moment—he would have to tell his friend he was letting him die.
When he rose. So Raelt sat a while. Wishing he could weep, rather than feel relieved.
 
—-
 
It was over. The black screen on the scrying orbs around the world suddenly turned back to Noass and Sir Relz launching into their next segment.
“—sorry for the technical glitch, folks. Just a minor…minor event on our end. Now, er—I think—think we have a guest—”
The Drake was clearly frazzled. But recovering, looking for a guest—
“—yes! Er—you there. We have an excellent [Sweeper], a real tale of the common working—Gnoll. You sir, what’s your name?”
A rather bewildered Gnoll was pushed in front of the camera. Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Claiven Earth, Medain’s armies were given the order to stop mustering.
It was ov—
High King Perric’s fist smashed the scrying orb. His magical gauntlets absorbed the backlash as the contained magic detonated.
“That worthless wretch!”
He bellowed. His [Generals] ducked as he hurled the props he’d been holding, one of them the royal scepter of Medain, across the room. They backed up towards the doors.
“Your M—”
“Get out!”
The High King raged. The [Mages], his officers, all fled. The seething man stood there, gripping the table hard.
The nerve of Raelt of Jecrass! That pissant little [King] wasn’t in the position to give orders!
High King Perric wore, for anyone counting, a record twelve artifacts on his person. Each perfectly balanced so that the magical leakage was at the threshold. In his estimation, which he had made widely known, his artifacts and levels as a [King] placed him at the rank of Named Adventurer.
…But the Adventurer’s Guilds outside of Medain had refused to grant him that title. It was one of the things in life that eternally infuriated Perric.
He never forgot such slights. He was [High King], and knew what was due to him. Wistram, Jecrass, the Adventurer’s Guilds…
And Raelt Leysars. Perric strode back and forth. He was no fool. He knew what this meant.
Raelt was doing this to spite him. It was obvious. The [King] was going to kneel in order to give Flos Reimarch an undivided south. And who was next?
Medain. Perric cast his eyes across the war maps. The King of Destruction’s peace or not—it was obvious. Medain was too rich, and it would provide the King of Destruction with a coastline at last! He’d find some reason, moan about his worthless refugees, and then attack.
“If that damn coward hadn’t decided—”
It had all been lining up! Perric’s armies would have swept in and taken parts of Belchan and Jecrass, fortified the passes, and let the Claiven Earth and Nerrhavia’s Fallen batter at Reim before advancing. This had been perfect.
Until Raelt had caved. Now, Perric was looking at a defensive war. He didn’t like it.
“Unacceptable.”
The man considered his options. He had to worry about the damn half-Elves to the west, sometimes enemies. Weak coastal nations to the east. Jecrass and Belchan had been weaker, but stubborn neighbors forever. But Reim was a powerhouse. And…
“Your Majesty?”
The [Servant] flinched as he looked up. One of his many wives. The Lizardwoman. She pointed, terrified.
“The—ambassador is here again. The House of M—”
“They do not have my permission! Tell them to begone! I will not be disturbed!”
Perric thundered. His wife fled. He looked down at the map.
“Pests!”
Everyone thought they could just march across his land. The King of Destruction’s decree about his ‘refugees’ had incensed Perric. But this was not the time for a direct war. Flos was…not a better [King] than Perric. Maybe higher in level—for now—but Perric was younger, and he had greater vision. Flos was a savage. Perric would eclipse him—he just needed more vassals like the Seven.
No, no, no. Perric was the one true [King] among all these half-baked men. And a true [King] did not allow his plans to fold so easily. Perric’s eyes narrowed.
He’d suspected Raelt might surrender. He had a few tricks left.
High King Perric had been an adventurer. And a good adventurer always had contingency plans. You looked at the weak points of your opponents. And Raelt was his opponent. So—then.
“Servant!”
The door opened. Perric turned.
“Send a [Message]. How many Gold-rank teams are stationed in Jecrass’ capital at this moment? Find me the most mobile one. And tell them…”
He had another plan. The High King gave his orders then sat back. He ordered some wine, suddenly in good spirits. Yes, this was salvageable. All they needed was a few hour’s head start. And then…he chuckled.
“Get me the Wistram [Mages] and tell them they must remain within the capital. And send a [Message] to Queen Yisame and the Speaker of Trees.”
Raelt Leysars was about to change his mind.
 
—-
 
The mood in the capital was quiet. Jecaina Leysars walked down the streets, restless, prone to prowling as everyone who knew her was well aware.
She didn’t know what tomorrow would bring. Peace—hopefully. But what then? Lyfelt—her father’s friend—would die for that peace. And so many people had died.
If they ceded part of Jecrass, what happened? Jecaina felt miserable. And useless. Never mind that she had dueled her father, she wished she was a better [Princess].
A commotion made her raise her head. By law, the capital was under martial law. Most of the civilians had been evacuated, in fact. But [Soldiers] were soldiers. And given that there were multiple foreign forces in the capital—brawls or arguments were common.
She suspected two nations of causing the most trouble. So Jecaina was prepared for the rowdy group of adventurers shouting, clearly drunk, in a standoff with some wary City Guards.
“No real [King] would run away with his tail between his legs! Jecrass—Jecrass—the King of Duels is nothing more than a coward. The King of Adventurers wouldn’t run!”
Jecaina’s hands clenched as she saw a Gold-rank adventurer, swaying and sneering into a Watch Captain’s face. The man was scowling, hand on his belt—but away from his club.
They were Gold-ranks. And this was a City Watch. For all intents and purposes, it was like watching adults being confronted by a gaggle of children.
Unfair. And the others were shouting insults. Jecaina had no idea why they were here—this was far from the entertainment district. But they were waving mugs and laughing as they called out insults.
“We came here to fight, not run away!”
Another called out—then they caught sight of Jecaina as she strode forwards. The [Duelist Princess] had her rapier on her, but she didn’t draw it.
“What is going on here?”
“Your Highness!”
The Watch Captain looked both alarmed and relieved. He gestured at the team of Gold-ranks—the Silvereyed Sables, if Jecaina remembered correctly. From Medain.
“This lot showed up and started a ruckus just a few minutes ago. Started insulting his Majesty—”
“Insulting? Hah! We’re just telling the truth!”
One of the Gold-ranks called out. They laughed. If they recognized Jecaina, none of them showed it. One of them swayed against her companion and he buffeted her. She straightened slightly, rubbing at her ribs, then slouched over again.
Jecaina eyed them.
“You’re the Silvereyes, right?”
“That’s right. And who’re you?”
“I am Princess Jecaina Leysars of Jecrass. By my father’s order, this city is under martial law. Drinking and disorderly conduct are unlawful. Go back to your abode.”
“And why should we? What’s the point? There’ll be peace tomorrow. Peace, bought by your father selling out his nation! Like the coward he is!”
The leader of the Silvereyes pointed at Jecaina. She felt a flash of heat run through them. Her hand reached for her side and they tensed.
“Your Majesty—”
The Watch Captain was alarmed. Jecaina forced her hand away from her side. She remembered her father’s warning. But—it was hard to take that from them.
“Your team is willing to insult Jecrass’ crown, when your [King] hasn’t even deigned to declare war? Moreover—his contribution to the war is half a dozen Gold-rank teams who haven’t stayed in any battle till the end before fleeing!”
The Gold-ranks flushed. The [Captain] opened his mouth hotly.
“We fight smart! If Jecrass was half as intelligent, it wouldn’t need to throw away your ‘elite’ [Trick Riders] like flies before muck!”
This time Jecaina’s fury turned her pale. The [Trick Riders]? They were beloved of Jecrass! A class that could level in times of peace or war—their performances were famed! And they had fought Mars, Orthenon—charged into battle without fear!
“How dare you? You haven’t sacrificed anything! You walk around, putting on airs—I thought Medain sent adventurers, not cowards with egos like Drakes!”
The Silvereyes glowered. There was a bark of laughter from the [Guards]. The leader put a hand on his side. He carried a shortsword and small shield.
“Those are fighting words. Put your money where your mouth is, ‘Princess’. And we’ll show you exactly how good we are. Come on, unless you’re afraid of taking a cut from a real warrior? Where were you when we were fighting?”
The [Princess] drew her sword before she could think. All her frustration, her guilt, was brought out by that mocking statement. The [Guard] stirred.
“[Princess]! Your father—”
The Watch Captain stepped back as two of the Silvereyes drew their weapons and blocked him. The leader challenged Jecaina, steps unsteady at first, but then surefooted.
“Come on! Neither of us needs to get hurt! Unless you’re not a quarter of the fighter your father ‘claims’ to be!”
