The [Storm Sailor], Inky, saluted. She shouted at the [Captain] busy coordinating the loading of cargo and people.
Captain Lasc, aboard his repaired ship, turned.
“You want to dance with Lord Seagrass, the Undersea Crews, and half the [Pirates] in the sea, Second Mate Inky? This is steady pay and until we get everything re-enchanted and the crew up to snuff, I don’t want to hear complaining! Get back to work!”
Inky grimaced. She waved Trey onwards.
“I knew I should have jumped ship at Zeres! Would’ve been more fun than running a passenger barge!”
“Hah! On your toes, Inky! I heard one of the ships going to Wistram got attacked by a Sea Serpent once! Had to be bailed out by the Archmage of Lightning herself!”
“What, only one?”
The [Storm Sailors] laughed in good humor as Trey walked down the deck. So this was the Emerald Signet? The same ship that had been in the scrying orb? That Fetohep had been on? He’d told Trey all about it.
Trey wondered what telling Inky and the Captain would have netted him. A drink or a boot off the ship? Either way—it didn’t matter.
“Troy Atlas?”
A second [Mage] was waiting belowdecks. Troy nodded and she pointed.
“Take a room. It’s shared space until we get to Wistram. And that’s four days if we get the right current and with wind spells; twice that if we run into delays.”
She had a bored expression, like the other recruiter. Trey looked at the identical cabins.
“Which one…?”
“Any empty one.”
The [Mage]—a Drake—gave him a disinterested look. Trey was doing his best not to stare at the spines on her neck or her scales, which were a pale purple. He looked around, and before he could pick at random, someone stuck out a hand from one of the open cabins and waved.
“Hey, we’ve got room for at least one more in here.”
The [Mage]’s head snapped up.
“That’s not necessary, sir. We can arrange for a private bunk—”
“Oh, go on. No sense in making other people double up, is there? Long as he’s alright with my friend—hey buddy!”
Someone called cheerfully. Trey stepped forwards and saw a young man lounging on a bed as something rustled around below the bunk. He waved as the Wistram [Mage] bit her lip and swished her tail.
“You afraid of dogs, mate?”
“Er. No?”
The stranger gave Trey a thumbs-up. He had an interesting accent. For instance, ‘go on’ had been turned into ‘gwan’, and…Trey’s eyes flickered towards the worn jacket and clothing. And the logo in colors this world didn’t possess.
“Mister—Mister Flynn, there’s really no need—”
“’S fine. Don’t worry about it. Hey, nice to meet you. The name’s Flynn. Flynn Patel.”
The young man offered a hand. Trey shook it, glancing at whatever was rustling under the bed.
“—Troy Atlas. Nice to meet you.”
Flynn had darker skin than Trey’s, and tanned. He was more muscular as well and older. He had left his hat on the bunk. His eyes looked Trey up and down.
The young man knew he had no signs of Earth on him from his clothing. He carried a magical staff, the one taken from the [Geomancer], and Fetohep had gifted him a shirt and trousers that were both enchanted. He looked like the son of a lesser noble house, and he even carried a few other magical artifacts.
“Nice staff. What, are you a student for this Wistram Academy?”
“That’s right. I’m an aspiring [Mage]. Aren’t you?”
Trey knew the answer before Flynn grinned and sat down on the bunk. Trey would have to sleep above on either side of the small cabin; someone had messed up the bunk opposite Flynn’s.
“Not exactly. I’d love to learn magic. But uh—I was recruited. I don’t know a lick about magic. I’ve been roughing it around here for the last few months. Say…Troy Atlas. That’s an interesting name.”
“Really?”
Trey gave Flynn a blank look. And his heart began racing. Here it was. What did he do?
Gazi had given him a set of goals, a lot of minute details, but from here on out—Trey was on his own. She couldn’t help him—at least—not like this. So he had a decision to make.
“It’s not that unusual a name. Where I come from.”
Trey sat back as casually as he could. Flynn studied him as the rustling thing under his bunk made a weird, growling noise.
“Really? Everyone I’ve met is Zenra Silk, or Meura Hemp.”
“You mean, Stitchfolk. That’s common in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Flynn Patel is sort of interesting too.”
The young man ducked his head. Now he was watching Trey.
“Well, my mother’s…from another country. India. Ever heard of it?”
Trey feigned ignorance. His heart was beating out of his chest. But—it was also fun. He kept the smile from moving across his face.
“No…no, not really. Is that on Terandria or Izril? Baleros? I haven’t been to the other continents before.”
He saw Flynn deflate. He sat back against his bunk, shaking his head.
“Nah, further than that, friend. Way further. Never mind. Sorry, thought you and I might have been from about the same place. So you’re a student?”
He looked at Trey, still polite, even if his hopes were dashed. Trey nodded.
“That’s right. I’m hoping to learn more magic. I’ve got a few levels in [Mage]. I’m a [Sand Mage], actually.”
Flynn sat back up.
“Really? Know any spells?”
“A few. Not many I can show you here—oh! But I can show you a few tiny sand-Golems. Here, give me a sec.”
Trey fumbled with his bag of holding. Flynn leaned forwards and Trey couldn’t resist. Now. He glanced up.
“So. Flynn Patel. When did your family move to Australia?”
He saw Flynn blink—and then his eyes went round. His jaw dropped. He stared at Trey’s face, and Trey burst into a shaky grin of his own. Flynn punched Trey’s shoulder and then shot to his feet.
“I knew it! You bastard, you had me thinking—god! Hey! Hey, I found another one!”
He shot to his feet and went to the door of his cabin. Trey heard him shouting as the young man called out to the female Drake.
“Hey! I found—”
And here we go. Trey took a breath while no one was watching, then put an astonished look back on his face. It wasn’t too hard. And it was a common emotion.
The Drake [Mage]’s exasperated look became one of shock and excitement as Flynn pointed at Trey. She nearly dropped the clipboard as she hurried over to him.
“Another one? Are you from—America?”
The Drake stared at Trey with a far different expression than before. Flynn shook his head.
“Naw. He sounds like the United Kingdom, am I right? I’m from Australia! Melbourne, myself!”
“Er…yes. I came here because I heard about the football game—and other things. I uh—thought there was a chance…does Wistram have more people from Earth? Home, I mean?”
“I need to send a [Message]. That’s—you’re absolutely right, Mister Atlas. Just sit here and we’ll take you to more of your people. Please—be careful about what you say. And you, Mister Flynn.”
The Drake gave the young Australian man a look. He was too jubilant to notice. He dragged Trey back into the cabin.
“I knew it. No one has a name like that. How’d you find out? Where did you land? No—wait. Have you met anyone else? I’ve been searching for my mates, but no one’s heard of them.”
Flynn looked at Trey as the young man sat down. Trey took a deep breath.
“I’m from Hellios, actually…”
“Where?”
“North of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. North of Reim.”
“Reim, Reim…that’s the kingdom everyone’s talking about, right?”
Trey nodded. There was a lot of catch up on, but he was appraising the outcomes of his decision at the same time as his conversation. He’d been meaning to reveal himself when he got to the isle; that was step two of the plan. But this was more natural.
The ship had moved into a slow, swaying progress out of the harbor and was picking up speed as the two finished understanding where the other had come from. Flynn shook his head, grinning.
“So, you helped this fellow out and this—this [King] of Khelt gave you the fancy items?”
“Something like that. What about you?”
“Me? I’ve been running about Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Working as an adventurer, hunting, even making things. Anything to earn enough money to survive. It was tough, the first bit. I had to beg for water, but I got my feet under me. I was just trying to make money and get to Silver-rank when I saw the game on television. Soccer. I asked at the Mage’s Guild and they had me on a ship before I could blink!”
The football game. Trey sighed. Flynn seemed in good spirits for someone who’d had to survive on his wits alone, even fighting monsters the last few months.
But perhaps that was because of his companion. The snuffling under Flynn’s bunk turned into a shape at last as Flynn broke out some dried meat and shared it around. It was spiced, and made Trey’s mouth water pleasantly. And drawn by the smell, a long-nosed dog wuffed by Trey’s foot.
“Gah!”
“Oh, don’t mind Pricky. She’s just hungry. Here you go, girl. Troy, meet my partner and the only reason I’m still alive. Pricky, say hi.”
Flynn offered the meat to the strange animal that came out of the bunk. Trey looked down and saw…well, he thought it was a dog.
It looked like one. A longer muzzle, almost like a triangle, and small mouth. The dog was just a bit below midsized, with a dark brown coat. She looked fairly strong and she had sharp teeth. But what was confusing about her was…her hair.
It was spiky. There was just no other word for it. The hair seemed to clump together into tufts that looked sharp to the touch. And as Prickly noticed Trey, the hairs stirred and rose a bit.
“Er—Flynn? What is that?”
“Her? This is Pricky, a Needlehound. It’s like if a cactus crossed with a regular dog. She’s the first friendly animal I met. Was dying of thirst in the heat. I gave her some water and then—bam [Beast Tamer]. I was looking for a Pokeball at the shops, you know? Go on, give her a scratch. Prickly, this is a friend. Friend.”
Flynn laughed. He carefully smoothed Pricky’s fur one way, telling Trey to carefully touch her. Trey did so—and he found the fur was soft. It moved around his fingers.
“Her hair’s like a porcupine, only a lot more complex. If she’s mad or doesn’t like you—they turn into spines. She just has to rub you wrong and you’re in trouble. They can get sharp; she brought down this Bicorn by jumping on its back and just shredding the poor bugger. With me and anyone else though, there’s no reason to worry.”
Pricky was the one on the opposite bunk. That was out of necessity; even as her master, Flynn couldn’t sleep with her without the danger of her accidentally triggering her needle-hairs in her sleep.
“I hope this ‘Academy of Mages’ has enough room for her to run about. I hear it’s just one island. But I couldn’t leave her behind. I’d have gone mad without her looking after me, monsters aside.”
Flynn rubbed her ears affectionately. The dog rolled over, making a ‘frrrfhh’ sound in the back of her throat.
“So you just heard about Wistram?”
The [Beast Tamer] nodded. He seemed excited by the prospect of going there.
“It’s a relief there’s somewhere we can go. And—I’m hoping to find some friends there. Or news of what the hell happened on Earth. Where did you come from?”
“England. I was just…walking down the street with my—myself. And then I was here.”
Flynn glanced up.
“Huh. Did you hear about other people going missing? Was there any—sign?”
“No. Not at all. I just—appeared suddenly. What about you?”
The smile went away from Flynn’s face. He sat on the bunk, folding his hands between his legs as Prickly went back under the bunk. There was food, refreshments, anything the two young men wanted thanks to the Wistram [Mages]. Trey was certain they’d be four to a room and less well-attended if they hadn’t been from Earth.
“…I didn’t know what the hell was happening. But yeah. There was a sign. See—the thing is, I’m not sure if they’re here. Or…alive. But I was with my friends when it happened. A small group. I saw ‘em go. I was going to take a piss and I’d just come back when I saw someone vanish.”
Trey blinked. He hadn’t met anyone else from Earth.
“Vanish?”
“Yup. Just there one second. Gone the next. You’ve not seen anyone else. But—his name’s Daly—he was just gone. No sound, nothing else.”
“What happened next?”
Trey leaned forwards, urgently. Flynn shook his head.
“I started shouting and asking if anyone else had seen. No one else had even noticed. They just thought Daly had gone off somewhere. I was trying to explain when I saw two more go. Then people began shouting. I ran about, trying to find them. I was just going for security when—”
He raised his hands and lowered them.
“In the middle of an airport. Fucking hell, man. There must have been cameras! But no one came after me. And I’m not sure—you arrived in Hellios? How far north is that?”
“A long ways.”
Flynn nodded absently.
“That means they could be anywhere. Or…they ran into something nasty. I saw some real monsters out there. The [Mages] don’t know. But if there’s a chance…and I can get help, I’m going to find it at this Wistram place. Hopefully.”
He looked up at Trey, serious now. The young man slowly nodded.
Flynn was odd to Trey. Older, but younger at the same time. He had been an adventurer, treated this world like it was part-game. Trey had seen a war. And fortunately or not—he’d arrived in the King of Destruction’s throne room.
Even their motivations for going were different. But they were going together. Trey sat in the cabin, as Flynn asked him questions about magic, his experiences. The young man practiced lying on his first person who wasn’t Mirin or Palke.  And he felt himself leaving Chandrar and everyone he knew and cared about far behind. Heading across the sea.
With a purpose, though. A great one. Trey closed his eyes.
Wistram Academy awaited.
 
—-
 
Trey Atwood, Teresa Atwood, Nawalishifra, Fetohep of Khelt. One left Chandrar, and the others in their way lived and shaped it, however small. Yet their fates were tied to one man, one kingdom.
The next day, Teresa Atwood rode north at all speed. It would take her several days to return to the front. But that was fine.
The war was paused. Jecrass and Reim had halted the conflict that had raged across Jecrass and Belchan’s borders until Raelt had pulled his armies back, ceding the south and west of his lands to Reim’s advance. More than that—after his second attempt to bring the King of Destruction down, he had sent a [Messenger] under the flag of peace.
He had asked the King of Destruction his terms for Jecrass’ surrender.
