Raelt held up a hand. The others were poised around the Gold-rank Captain. To cut at Jecaina. The heartless monsters. Could the arrows bring them all down before…?
The Captain glanced over his shoulder. The first [Lancers] streamed towards him, less than a hundred paces away. He laughed as he saw the [King of Challenges] just standing there. Jecaina’s hand bled, limply, as the unconscious [Princess] lay there.
“Let’s go!”
He turned, racing towards, the High King’s army. Jecrass’ forces hesitated. Waiting. Looking at their [King].
Another impossible choice. Her hand or…? Raelt heard horns blowing. The King of Destruction’s army, far behind. Perhaps—perhaps—he looked over his shoulder.
At Flos Reimarch. The King of Destruction was watching through the scrying orb.
“Wait, Raelt. Wait, and I will give you your daughter.”
He spoke, as if to convince Raelt, though no spell connected the two. High King Perric was shouting.
“Turn your army and fight him! We have her!”
The first [Lancer] reached the Gold-rank Captain. He reached for Jecaina. The Gold-rank [Captain] gasped with relief. He lifted the [Princess], lifting his sword away and Raelt made a sound of despair. He saw a flicker—
The [Lancer] disappeared. The Gold-rank adventurer blinked. He stared forwards.
The warrior’s armor was split in twain, as was his body. He slid from the horse. And there was silence.
 
—-
 
“Mars?”
Teres turned in her saddle. She poked at the [Vanguard], Mars the Illusionist. Mars blinked back at her.
“What?”
Flos Reimarch looked ahead.
“Orthenon?”
 
—-
 
The Steward slowed.
“What?”
 
—-
 
“Who—”
The Gold-rank Captain reached for Jecaina. Then he saw what had split the [Lancer] in twain—moving. It was…
An axe. It rose into the air, red with blood, dripping gore and floated backwards. Spinning back into the hand that had thrown it. And then the hand moved and threw—again.
The adventurer next to the Gold-rank Captain vanished. She made not a sound. He spun, tracking the weapon as it flew back.
“I’m warning you! I have—”
“[Perfect Throw]. [Homing Arc].”
He heard the distant voice. The adventurer tried to duck. The second axe took him off at the chest. Blood ran down onto Jecaina’s face and woke her up. She stirred, then cried out in horror.
“No—”
The last adventurer reached for her. And the axe struck again.
Medain’s forces fell back, crying out. The [Throwers] were from so far away! And the angle—it came from neither the King of Destruction’s forces, nor Jecrass’. Or Medain’s.
High King Perric’s head slowly turned. He traced the arc and saw a figure standing on the dunes. The sun rose as the figure hurled the axe, clearing the area around Jecaina.
“Honor shall be upheld.”
He stood on the dunes. Behind him—the evening sun set and set the sails aglow. The Minotaur raised his hand and the axe flew into it. He pointed.
“Advance.”
More figures marched over the dunes. Away from the warships in the distance. Unwelcome guests.
“But I didn’t give them permission to land.”
High King Perric spoke distantly. The Minotaurs ignored him. They marched forwards as Raelt’s army pivoted. Medain’s forces moved towards Jecaina. Jecrass met Medain.
The Minotaurs moved past the battle.
“Do we interfere, General? The artillery is assembled and ready to fire.”
The second thrower spoke to the commander. The Minotaur raised his horned head and glanced at the conflict. He shook his head slightly.
“We have given the King of Jecrass his opportunity. Our foe lies ahead.”
He pointed. The King of Destruction’s army.
 
—-
 
Orthenon slowed. His hand tightened on the spear he carried.
Flos Reimarch’s smile faded away. He looked ahead. Mars shifted. She looked…nervous. The King of Destruction stared ahead and Teres remembered the stories of how his conquest had…ended. She heard his voice.
“Minotaurs.”
