Vampires were dying. It would be wrong to say they’d been betrayed, though perhaps it felt like it to them.
Tricked? Yes. Deceived, certainly. They had been outwitted. Cornered and routed in a war, through a medium they had no idea they were even fighting in.
The cunning of House Byres, their foes—had done the work of a million silver blades. It had been so effective that the attackers had forgotten that they were even driving their enemy to death.
But no one was admiring the genius overlong. Ironically—only the Vampires and one young woman who was their ally even knew what was happening. And those who were old enough to remember when the plan had been put forwards, of course.
He had been there. But he was gone. On an adventure to the home of [Mages]. So the question now became, simply—what was the future of Vampires? Obviously they were a disparate group, full of individuals. But, as a whole, was there a smart move? A logically sound escape?
Where, if not Izril, could they live? That was one of the questions Vampires asked in the days that followed. However—to those who remembered, like Himilt and Bamer, some options were instantly off the table. The trouble with being a Vampire…was that you had a history.
 
—-
 
“Vampires?”
His eyes narrowed. Or rather—golden flame reduced, like distant twin suns, into pinpricks. Fetohep of Khelt turned his head. And expressed his thoughts about Vampires thusly.
He rose from his seat, a chair placed so that in every room of his palace, the ruler of Khelt would not be without a throne. The Human standing before him saw the Undead King of Khelt rise, and turned his emaciated head towards the night. His voice rose and the legions of armored undead around his palace stirred.
“Vampires? Fetch me my armaments of the sun! Bear unto me proof of their existence and I shall arm the armies of Khelt with precious wood and silver and pile the sands with the corpses of the bloodstealers until even the most depraved of [Warlords] would turn away and beg for mercy.”
He almost began to pace, so caught up in the brief flash of fury. But then Fetohep caught himself and looked towards the intruder in his domain. His guest.
“Where did you see their presence, Teresa Atwood?”
He regarded the young woman, freshly bathed and free of the stench and dirt of battle—for the moment. She had arrived and just been ushered into his presence. She waved her hands at him frantically.
“No—no! I didn’t see Vampires! I just asked about them!”
“Oh.”
Fetohep hesitated. Then he sat back down.
“I see. But the fact that you speak of such filth tells me you know of them. From…your world? Have they invaded there?”
“No. They’re just a my—well…I thought they were just stories.”
Teresa didn’t know what was true anymore. She looked at Fetohep.
“So…Vampires are real?”
“Were real. Perhaps their taint lives on.”
Annoyed, the ruler gestured and his goblet was filled with the essence of mana and death. Teres was given a sweet wine as she sat. Fetohep of Khelt rested a hand for a moment over the edge of his dining room throne-chair.
“You come to me asking of their nature, or their history, Teresa Atwood? Naturally, I am the most logical choice, even beyond the Quarass in this regard. For that perspicacity, I shall entertain a brief conversation on the subject of…Vampires.”
Teresa opened and closed her mouth, but before she could get in a word in edgewise, Fetohep went on.
“Yes. They existed. Yes. They were a scourge upon Chandrar too. But Human memory being what it is—what do you perceive to be a Vampire, Teresa Atwood?”
“Um…pale. Sunlight kills them. Strong, fast, they…can heal from terrible wounds? You can’t even kill them without silver, or a stake to the heart, or garlic…”
Fetohep had been waving her on. He stopped her there.
“False. Garlic is anathema, but hardly their death. And a lesser Vampire could be slain without their greatest weaknesses. Still—close enough. What else?”
“Vampires need blood to live. They…can turn other people into Vampires. Actually, they can turn other people into slaves, or Vampires. They can command animals, turn into mist, bats, uh, hypnotize you with their eyes. They have no reflection…”
That was about the most obvious stuff. Teres tried to think of anything else. And because she was standing in front of the King of Khelt whom she did not like—and the feeling was mutual—she added one more ‘fact’.
“Oh, and they sparkle in the sunlight. Just—glitter away.”
Fetohep paused in drinking from his goblet. He eyed Teres’ straight face.
“…That is not my understanding of a Vampire’s powers. But your grasp of their basic strengths and weaknesses is acceptable. They do indeed have abilities beyond their—species. A Vampire appears at first glance to enhance and give strength to anyone who accepts their ‘gift’. The allure has drawn more than a few like you to them, begging for their version of immortality and power.”
“And that’s a bad thing, right?”
Teres sighed. There was always a catch. Always! She was ready for a big speech about it. Fetohep just shrugged.
“Perhaps only to those Vampires prey upon. I am not one to speak. Khelt’s rulers persist thanks to our bargain of undeath. A Vampire is—by some measures—a superior being. Their weaknesses multiply, but so do their strengths. Such is the allure of their power—especially when honed by blood—that even the Quarass sought to drink of their strength in several of her incarnations.”
“Really? Then why do you seem to hate them so much?”
Teres sat forwards. Okay—Vampirism wasn’t off the table! This might be a productive day after all. Fetohep looked at her.
“Simply that such a race is superior, Teresa Atwood. And like every species thus empowered—they have ruled this world. When Vampires claimed their eternal night, they devoured the people of Khelt like every other. You have seen war. You have seen slavery. Vampires would make slaves of the world. They delighted in suffering.”
“…Oh. But—but they didn’t succeed, right? I’ve been studying history. Orthenon’s taught me when he had time. I know about the old empires. Every species seems to have done it. Half-Elves, Selphids, Minotaurs…Drakes…”
“Not all species. And it is important to remember, Teresa Atwood, that not all empires were of the same length or atrocity. If my ire is directed to Vampires—it is because I have read of their wars of conquest. They held Chandrar only briefly. And they never will again, so long as I exist or Khelt remembers the past.”
Fetohep rose and looked out the window. Teres sat back. If there was one thing Fetohep was good at—it was storytelling.
“What did happen, then?”
The [King] hesitated. But it was late, and while he could have performed any number of functions, Teresa was the only outsider to Khelt present. He would have still usually dismissed her.
…But Trey Atwood was gone. And he had told Fetohep it was a true parting. The Ruler of Khelt was just—bored. So he answered Teres’ question.
“At the height of their power, Vampires did try to claim each continent in turn. Rhir proved inhospitable for their kind. Terandria fought bitter, unrelenting wars as Vampires corrupted even their lines of kings. They infested Izril, ruling that continent in force. Baleros and Chandrar—less so.”
“Why Baleros and Chandrar less?”
Teres imagined the vast land of Baleros, from the jungles to the plains and frozen north. Fetohep tapped a finger against the glass, dislodging a tiny desert-moth drawn to the light of his chambers. His servants stood silently, waiting on his every desire.
Dead gods, he was so bored.
“Dullahans proved too obdurate as blood-slaves and they built their bodies out of silver. Centaurs suffered, as did Humans and Lizardfolk especially given their numbers, but the Naga and greater Lizardfolk united their peoples against Vampires. However, it was Selphids who truly drove them from the land. One parasite was enough.”
He waited for Teres to remark on this bit of irony, or ask a question. Trey would have. But his sister just went ‘mhm’ in a slightly disinterested tone. She was not half the guest her brother was.
Still, she was listening, so Fetohep moved through his palace and issued an order. Within the palace of Khelt’s vaults, silent guardians stirred, heeding his will.
“Chandrar fared better than Baleros, in truth. The scourge of Vampires came here and they began to corrupt, for a while. Chandrar is possessed of less vegetation, and despite the searing sun, the nights suited their kind well. However, the Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar numbered nine in those ages. When the true corruption of Vampire’s power was revealed, the armies of Khelt fell upon their kind with Germina, A’ctelios’ hordes, and every other nation in Chandrar.”
Teresa sat up slightly.
“What, just like that?”
“To trivialize a vast, unrelenting war that makes a mockery of Reim’s petty conflict with Jecrass? Yes. Such is a summary of history.”
The young woman stuck her tongue out at Fetohep’s back and folded her arms. It felt like sitting in the company of one of her teachers, every second. Only, her teachers hadn’t threatened to cut off her head when they were mad. Most of them.
“Just like that.”
Fetohep stared out the window of perfectly blown glass. Not one imperfection would have been tolerated, not in Khelt. Not a single bubble or distortion. His gaze flickered.
“Let me tell you what ‘just like that’ looked like, Teresa Atwood. When the world rose against Vampires, the Quarass of Germina was possessed by their power. Her Champion of Ger sacrificed his life to convince her of the corruption of such power. Thus awakened, she understood the need to rid her nation of this influence. In herself—no less. So she drank poison that would have blackened the insides of Dragons and flew to the greatest of their lairs. There—she poisoned their bloodwells with her own ichor. She let the lesser spawn die by the thousands, and fought for hours against her kin until they brought her down and tore her to pieces.”
Teresa gulped. The little Quarass had done that in her past life? Fetohep looked over his shoulder.
“That was the prelude. As the Quarass was reborn, she led a true army from Germina and proceeded to stake and eradicate every last Vampire in the lair left alive. To warn the others, she had the rest executed by burning them from the toes upwards in molten stone. You would do well to remember that the next time you annoy her.”
Teres decided she didn’t want the snack the servant was offering her—a fancy version of a sundae, with a hand-baked wafer and whipped cream made from a magical cow or something. She always felt like she gained weight when she visited Khelt.
Fetohep turned forwards, slightly pleased by her reaction.
“So ended Vampires. They were driven first from our continent, then Baleros and Terandria. Izril was last. If there are Vampires—they shall not gain a foothold again so long as I live. We suffer no more overlords. Why do you ask? Have you proof of their existence?”
Fetohep ended the little history lesson there. He turned to look at Teres, expectant. Concerned, as a ruler. Surely something had prompted this question. Some sign.
Teresa Atwood shrugged.
“No. I just thought it would be cool. How about werewolves, then?”
The ruler of Khelt stared at Teres. After a moment he shook his head and looked past her.
“…Where is your sibling? I find his company far more agreeable.”
“On special business. Don’t ask me where. I’m not allowed to say. Flos didn’t even have him fight in the war—not that he needs to. We’re in peace talks. Which is why I’m here. He told me to take a break and placate you.”
Teres folded her arms. Fetohep eyed her.
“In that, the King of Destruction miscalculates both our natures greatly.”
“You said it. Okay—question. I know you’ve probably forgotten, but…what’s the most attractive species in the world? I’m just curious. Or—the most sensual or something?”
“Centaurs.”
Teresa blinked. She peered at Fetohep, but his poker face, as it were, was invincible. She had no idea if he was messing with her or not.
“Would you like me to summon a Centaur for companionship to see the truth of my statement? There are a number within Khelt.”
“Wh—no!”
Fetohep nodded.
“Then come with me. I think there is something that may interest you, for whatever reason you brought Vampires up. Servants, leave us.”
He led Teres out of the dining room. The young woman walked down the vast hallways as lights grew to illuminate their passage.
Down she walked, down staircases and ramps. The King of Khelt ignored her questions and proceeded at a steady pace. He walked past hundreds of paintings of the most important figures of their age, each created by the greatest [Artist] of that era. Some stared after Teres, or moved.
The King of Khelt passed by an artwork that spanned an entire hallway so vast that it took Teres twelve minutes of jogging to get to the other end of. It was so cold—but she could have walked into the painting and made a snowball. She wished Trey was here; it wasn’t fun by herself.
Down, they went, taking a magical elevator that passed by a suite that one of Khelt’s kings had filled with treasures to impress one of his guests and found too odious to remove. Down, past—
The point was they went a long ways. Until they passed by a set of vast doors so tall that Teres nearly hurt her neck trying to stare up.
“Where…where are we?”
“The armory of Khelt. I have had a weapon forged for battling Vampires brought out. Now—I shall show you its function. This way.”
A pair of undead guardians with glowing eyes put something around Fetohep’s form. A…crystalline armor set, hollow, made of some strange material that let Teres see what looked like a swirling mass of storm clouds compressed to a razor’s thinness inside the armor.
Fetohep led her back to the elevator. Teres groaned, and he looked at her as he stepped onto the floating platform.
“We will take the direct route back, not the scenic one. To the rooftops.”
“The scenic—”
Teres’ stomach stayed on the armory floor. The rest of her shot up with Fetohep on the magical platform.
Fetohep stepped out onto a balcony, one of many on his palace’s roofs. This gave him a commanding view of his magnificent city of wonders and the vast desert beyond, some of it turned green by Khelt’s vast water stores. Teres hugged the ground behind him.
He was quite pleased by that.
“Now, look up, Teresa Atwood. You asked a question only out of curiosity. But here is my answer. If there were Vampires who dared to try to invade Chandrar once more, I would slay them thusly.”
