“I did. I wish he hadn’t come.”
Raelt’s forced smile fell away. He stood there, tiredly.
“Me too, Jecaina.”
What was he to say? Raelt wished he’d actually taken a wife, been married. Jecaina, his adopted daughter…he felt like he’d failed her. Especially now. What kind of a kingdom was he going to leave her?
Raelt cast about. And because he didn’t know what to say—he felt for his side.
“Are you free? Let’s go to the practice courts.”
She blinked at him. Jecaina wore her own dueling sword, a copy of the one Raelt carried. She’d…stopped wearing the silver bell, Raelt realized. He’d been used to hearing it chiming wherever she went.
“Now? Do you have time?”
Raelt did not. He had to decide whether the King of Destruction was to be accepted, or the contract of war. He hadn’t really expected the others to agree. But they had.
“Of course. Just for a bout or two.”
They walked down the hallways of the palace, father and daughter. Like this—they could pretend it was peace. Raelt nodded to servants who bowed to him, staring as if they hadn’t served him all his life.
King of Duels. The man who’d fought the King of Destruction twice. Stabbed him through the heart.
Jecaina had the same look in her eyes when she stepped onto the empty practice courts. Raelt drew his sword.
“Do you have the deflection bracers on?”
It was a magical artifact [Fencers] and [Duelists] used. It could deflect a few strikes. It didn’t really work in combat; if anything touched you, it depleted the magic. But the ones Jecaina wore could deflect two to five strikes with the practice rapiers.
“Yes.”
Raelt put his own on. He took a position across from Jecaina. The rapier felt light in his hand as he drew the parrying dagger he used. He didn’t care about the audience of servants, soldiers, and so on.
This was his life. This was what he was good at. Every day he practiced lunges, or thought of swordplay while sitting on his throne. And—what a waste. It hadn’t protected Jecrass. Hadn’t slain the King of Destruction. He had given all he had to his daughter.
And it was just this. She walked across from him, her body balanced, moving on the balls of her feet, watching his posture, the way he held her sword. This was all—
He stepped in. Normally Jecaina would first, but she was hesitant.
[King of Challenges]. She deflected his first thrust wildly, as if expecting him to have the strength of a Minotaur. Raelt slid forwards as Jecaina tried to bring her wide blade back. He caught her slash with his parrying dagger, slashed once.
“Point.”
A cut across her chest. The audience sighed. Raelt looked at Jecaina as she took a few breaths.
“Breathe. You’re off today.”
“You—but you’re so much better.”
She made him smile. Her father looked down at Jecaina and shook his head.
“You’ve never said that before!”
“But you dueled the King of Dest—”
Jecaina made a startled sound and leapt back as Raelt slashed at her face. She backed up and her body took over as Raelt slashed furiously.
One, two, three, four—Raelt felt every heavy swing deflected and then Jecaina lanced at his chest. He knocked the blade down, stepped back.
“Jecaina. It’s me. I might have leveled—but you’ve dueled me since you were a girl. Nothing’s changed. See?”
He stepped forwards, this time Jecaina stopped overthinking her blade. The two danced backwards, first Raelt on the attack, then falling back as Jecaina began using her flurry-Skills.
It was familiar. Raelt was concentrating hard and not at all. He was aware, for instance, of the audience growing excited. Both he and Jecaina practiced an aggressive style. There was little waiting; the two knew each other so they didn’t test each other but went into bursts of attack and defense.
“Point!”
Raelt felt a cut across his upper arm as his guard lowered. People cheered; Jecaina lowered her blade.
“You let me have that.”
“I was careless.”
“But you have a golden—”
Raelt looked up. So that was why she felt off. He shook his head.
“It’s just a metal, Jecaina. You knew I was good. And bells—more than a few [Fencers] with the golden bell have lost to a bladesman with silver, or nothing at all. In a battle, you can’t ever tell.”
“Then—am I good at fighting?”
The King of Jecrass looked at the [Duelist Princess].
“Of course you are.”
“But you won’t let me fight.”
“Yes…because it’s too dangerous.”
“But—”
“Jecaina. If you had a gold bell, I wouldn’t want you to fight. You don’t need to. You’re Jecrass’ [Princess]. You don’t need to be me.”
“I want to. I want to fight. I don’t want to be here—being useless!”
She slashed viciously, through the air. Raelt realized he’d done her a disservice. He shook his head.
“Jecaina. You’re not weak. But war isn’t fencing. It’s not a tidy duel. It’s too easy to die. That’s why I have a bodyguard. More than that—if you were captured—”
She deflated.
“I know. It’s just…everyone else is fighting.”
“Let’s have another bout. I have time.”
He glanced at the sky. The sun was setting. Yisame was no doubt waiting for him, and Perric and the Speaker of Trees.
Well, to Rhir’s hell with them. This was more important. The two went three more rounds. Raelt scored three more points; he didn’t hold back. It was what Jecaina wanted; she looked satisfied, even though she’d lost each clash. The last one had been close.
“So—if I had gone to Terandria, do you think I’d have done well?”
Raelt was sipping from some water. He blinked at his sweaty daughter. The courtyard was protected from some of the rain, but it kept blowing in and making the ground slippery.
“Terandria? You’d do terribly there, Jecaina.”
“What? But you said—”
He grinned and stepped. A fencer’s lunge. Jecaina yelped as he struck her stomach. He’d nearly speared her through the gut.
“Bracer’s dead. Grab a new one.”
She stomped off as Raelt took another sip of water. When she came back, Raelt shook his head.
“Terandrian [Fencers] and [Duelists]—have a different style, Jecaina. Point-based. It’s similar to how we fight, but they use lighter swords. Much lighter, for the…sport of it. It’s not meant for combat. You’d lose in points due to the style of it. I taught you to win a fight, not a competition.”
“Oh. But why learn a sport?”
That was what Raelt had thought. He shrugged.
“It’s more for the nobility. No risk of injury. Fencing…fencing isn’t a good style for mass battles. We require space, where most [Soldiers] fight in close formations, with armor, shields—that’s why people call [Fencers] snobbish, or outdated to actual combat. A nobleman’s Skill.”
“It worked pretty well against the King of Destruction.”
He smiled.
“True. Now—if you want to win either sport or a fight, you need better footwork.”
“It’s good enough!”
“It’s predictable. You always circle left. See? Now show me some unpredictability…”
 
—-
 
It cost him an hour. But it was worth the price of it to see Jecaina smile, to feel light and free. Raelt wiped at the sweat and rainwater on his brow.
“Thanks, father.”
“We’ll have more chances to practice soon. Stay out of trouble until then, or I’ll take away your foil.”
He lied to her. He wasn’t sure. But it was worth it to see her smile. Raelt watched her walk off to get clean. He probably didn’t have time to. Well, it wasn’t like the others could smell him through the scrying mirror.
Time to decide. Raelt…closed his eyes. War or peace?
“Geril. Where is…Lyfelt?”
The [Prime Minister] and his family were a guest of Raelt’s. A guest…but Lyfelt was under guard. He could neither run nor be harmed. Raelt had intended it to protect his friend from the wrath of his people. But now—it felt like he was holding Lyfelt to die.
“In his quarters, your Majesty.”
“I should talk to him.”
It was a bad idea. Raelt felt he’d be swayed to continue the war. But he was compelled to.
And—damn it. He had been right. This entire war’s start felt like ages ago, but he had been right! Flos Reimarch had been prepared to execute innocent people! Over an atrocity, yes. The death of those poor Gnolls. But he had still been wrong.
Yet, that felt like an old reason. They were past it. Now it was war. Raelt sighed.
“Take me to…”
“Your Majesty! A visitor has come to the palace!”
Raelt turned. A [Servant] was hurrying towards him. Geril intercepted him.
“Who? The King’s Steward?”
Had he gotten word about the secret pact? Raelt’s heart began to race. But the visitor’s name astounded both him and Geril.
“No, sire. It’s—the Quarass of Germina.”
 
—-
 
The Quarass of Germina walked through the palace’s gates, unmolested by the guards or anyone else. She left her escort behind and walked forwards. She had given her word she had come in peace, and Raelt had allowed her entrance.
After all—the Quarass had sworn it by Ger. And as she walked through the palace of Jecrass, she received a far different welcome than she might have gotten in Reim. If Trey Atwood had been there—he would have understood at once.
It was the distance of friendship, and history. The King of Destruction respected little of tradition. It was why he clashed with Fetohep, and treated the Quarass as a wary ally. Reim had dealt with Germina from a remove for most of his reign, an uneasy subordinate given the last Quarass’ personality.
But Jecrass had long been neighbors to the Shield Kingdom of Germina. So as the Quarass walked through the palace, she was besieged.
By [Servants], folk, old and young. They came to her, begging, offering praise, looking for…
“Great Quarass—my son walks with a limp, and he’s but six years. His leg was twisted in birth. Is there any way to fix…?”
“Quarass, the brewing of the draught to stop bleeding—my mother knew it, but the recipe was lost in a fire. Is it…?”
“Should we be growing yellats again this year or another crop? We’ve had smaller harvests each year for the last four, but…”
The girl walked among them, dressed in fine clothing, but so young. Until you looked at her eyes and saw the old being looking back.
It could terrify or disturb. But that force was a kindly one, here. She spoke to an old, perplexed [Nursemaid], repeating the list of ingredients for the birthing tonic. She turned to the [Farmer].
“You have taken too much from the fields. Plant beans, or a leafy product instead of yellats for at least two years. As for you, your son’s leg can be corrected, but it requires a [Healer] experienced in realigning flesh. Try…”
That was how Raelt found her. Dispensing Germina’s greatest treasure, her wisdom, to his people.
“Quarass of Germina. I greet you in the name of Jecrass. I regret that I did not have time to prepare a proper reception. We are at war. May I ask why you have come?”
The [King] sketched a wary bow. The Quarass inclined her head to him.
“King Leysars, I come in peace. Not at the command of the King of Destruction. Indeed—I only seek to rest here an hour or two at most before continuing my journey.”
“Where to, Quarass?”
“Northwards. I have no stake in this war. But curiosity and the bond between Jecrass and Germina compelled me to seek you out. Will you offer me the shade of your roofs?”
Raelt flushed and nodded.
“The shade of Jecrass and its rivers bid you welcome, Quarass. Geril, make her escort welcome. I will receive the Quarass…on the balcony.”
The girl gave him a small nod. Geril nodded and hurried off. The King of Jecrass bowed and gestured. The two walked together. It was the first time Raelt had met this Quarass. But she was always her. Just different.
The balcony was a small place, fit for receiving other dignitaries. The wind could be chilling, but the rain was kept out by a small enchantment and it was pleasant.
Rain fell across Jecrass as the two sat there. It was a bit cold, so Raelt called for a coat of fur; the Quarass was dressed for a ride.
“Your presence, Quarass, is welcome. As always. I ah—offer my condolences for your death. And congratulate you on your rebirth.”
She flicked her fingers delicately. The girl was so young. But the Quarass spoke as she had when she was an older woman.
“My death was fortuitous, but thank you, King Leysars. You have my sympathies for this war. Will your daughter be joining us?”
Raelt hesitated. Jecaina would want to ask a large number of questions neither he nor the Quarass had time for.
“No…but if you’d permit it, Geril would be a welcome accompaniment. And I offer you refreshments, of course. Will you take a meal? Or simply a drink?”
It was an infraction for another ruler to have a servant present as company, but not with the Quarass. She smiled.
“Geril? Yes, it would be welcome to speak with him a third time. And I would be gratified to eat.”
“What will you have?”
She pondered for a moment as a third chair was brought in. And there Geril came. He bowed and she smiled up at him.
“Geril. You have aged well. As boy, then man, now older. It is well done, your service to Jecrass.”
“You honor me, your Majesty.”
The old retainer had a small but delighted look on his face, a rarity. It was the kind of compliment you had written on your tombstone. Because the Quarass had known Geril across three lifetimes.
“I think I shall have estreke almeat.”
“A fine choice. I’ll have some myself, Geril. Not much…”
Raelt was not hungry. And he was a bit surprised by the Quarass’ choice.
“It’s a rather plain dish, your Majesty…”
She smiled and Geril laughed.
“It is traditional for the Quarass to order it.”
“Really? The last Quarass—”
The current Quarass of Germina made another flicking motion with her fingers. She sighed.
“The last Quarass broke from many of Germina’s traditions. I must apologize for her actions. The Quarass you see before you now, Raelt Leysars, is the one I would have preferred during the King of Destruction’s reawakening.”
He nodded. There had been two Quarasses; although he had been too young to remember the first one. But the second had risen to power under…shady circumstances. The old Quarass might have not died of old age.
“The last Quarass was difficult, if you’ll excuse me, Quarass. Much cruder and less gracious. I did not care for her one bit and I was quite relieved when I heard you had changed.”
“Geril!”
But the young Quarass just nodded and sighed.
“Thank you, Geril. I recall all her memories. It was unfortunate—her killing the second-Quarass-before-me. By poison.”
Raelt coughed on the sip he’d just taken from a goblet.
“Er…I had heard such.”
He didn’t know all of what made the Quarass the Quarass, but he knew enough. She nodded.
