“It was troublesome. Not only did she inherit her mother’s disaffection for her, the Quarass-before-me was also a fool. Addicted to a few of Chandrar’s drugs and without the will to quit them.”
“Terrible, I’m sure.”
She smiled at Raelt’s uncertain look.
“The Quarass is always the Quarass, King Leysars. But half of what I am is who I was before I became me. Do you understand?”
He did, in a way. The current Quarass gestured to herself.
“What does this Quarass seem to you, King Leysars?”
“I’ve known you only for a few minutes, Quarass. But—more confident than the last one. Certainly more daring.”
That pleased her. The Quarass steepled her fingers and nodded.
“Yes. Braver, certainly. It was pure chance that this child became me. But fortunate. Did you know—before I was summoned, this child had one event of note in her life? One night, as her father slept, she, waking by chance, saw a poisonous viper that sometimes plague Germina’s houses. It was prepared to bite, and her father would not wake. So she found her father’s dagger and killed it. It bit her four times and but for the antidote, she might have died.”
It was strange, to hear the Quarass talk about the girl she had been. Raelt listened raptly as the Quarass pulled up her sleeve and showed him faded scars on her arms.
“That was the caliber of the girl who became me. And no one but her father knew the story of it. Pure chance. That is the flaw of the Quarass; the true character of who becomes me is never fully known.”
“I see. So in the case of the previous Quarass…”
“If I was a fool, a fool I remain, even with my memories. It is why a wise Quarass decides her successor. Chance led Germina poorly in the Quarass-before-me. This time I hope it has been more gracious.”
Both Geril and Raelt nodded. She was as fascinating as ever. Even the previous Quarass, as haughty as she had been, had captivated the room. Raelt turned.
“Ah, the estreke.”
It was a common dish that the Quarass had ordered. Popular, certainly, and tasty. Raelt liked it himself, but you’d never see it at a banquet.
Estreke almeat. It was a dish of nomads, popular among [Shepherds] and the like. They took stringy, tough meat from lamb, or beef, generally, even horse, and cut it into small strips to be grilled. Then, a heavy cheese sauce mixed with melted butter was poured on top.
For the taste, the pure quill of it—rich demáy root-tree juice mixed in to give it that succulent flavor, all over yellats for the spice and filling. Cheap—plentiful, and the dish could go with flatbread as well on the road.
The three were offered a single pot and they dipped bread as they ate. The Quarass had a good appetite, but she looked wistful as she chewed.
“Delicious as always. I have gone to many nations, but this meal is best eaten in Jecrass.”
“You’ve had it before, Quarass? Er—”
Raelt saw Geril cover a smile and flushed. That was a stupid question to ask the Quarass. She just smiled.
“It brings back fond memories, King Leysars. The first nomad-kings of Jecrass offered me this very dish when we met. Ever since, I have tried to eat it with the ruler of Jecrass once.”
“I see. Well, I am honored…”
Raelt chewed slowly and savored the bite. It did fill him up; he realized he’d eaten poorly—that was to say not at all—this morning.
“May I ask now, Quarass, why you have come? Even on a journey, it is unlike you to intercede in a moment like this. We might well be under siege come the morrow.”
She gave him a knowing look.
“Or at peace. You stand, Raelt Leysars, at a crossroads. And this Quarass would like to speak, whether it changes nothing or everything. But before I speak of that—let us sit. And remember peace. Such things are best savored with meals.”
She was right. Raelt ducked his head. It was Geril who spoke up.
“Ah, peace, Quarass? I remember it fondly. Jecrass under the King Raelt and his father has been kind to me.”
She nodded.
“There have been far poorer days Jecrass has known. I myself recall the horse fairs with great fondness of these last few decades.”
Yes. Peace. Raelt closed his eyes. In peace, Jecrass looked so different from now. Today—it was all just moving battle lines, fortifications, armies fighting.
But without war, Jecrass was wonderful. He complained about the River Wardens, oranges, and rebellious daughters…but the King of Jecrass knew the good parts as well.
Horse fairs, with mundane and magical beasts attracted visitors from across the world who bid on the best animals. Jecrass, fed by rivers and storms like these, was a wonderful land to ride about in. Snow would even frost the ground lightly in the winters.
“I suppose there won’t be time to visit Hellios or Germina come fall.”
He spoke regretfully. The Quarass nodded.
“Not for some time to come.”
It was tradition, when no wars were taking place, for Belchan, Hellios, Jecrass, and Germina’s peoples to cross borders and trade with each season. Each nation had a specialty; for instance, summers belonged to Jecrass in bloom. Magical goods came from Belchan and they had one of their large winter celebrations each year.
In fall, it was best to go to Germina, to trade for pieces of art. Ger’s mud-brick city was beautiful then, and you could wait there for a chance to petition the Quarass for a bit of wisdom. In the spring, go to Hellios for the Celebration of Stone—to find the best [Masons] or [Builders] with their designs…
Raelt had taken Jecaina as a girl to Belchan to watch the mage-lights. That had been her first sight of real magic, back when he was a new father and she was toddling around.
Those were good years. Now—he opened his eyes and saw the distant smoke from Flos’ war camps. And—the Quarass.
She was just watching him. Her conversation with Geril had ended as he thought.
“You remind me of the past, Quarass. Do you think it’s wise that I sue for peace?”
The Quarass gave Raelt a small nod.
“You may think so, King Leysars. But I only wish to give you…perspective. Those years were indeed bountiful. But as I say—Jecrass has known poorer. Neither you nor Geril remember the Creler Wars. But it was a bitter time indeed for Jecrass. Many took root in the soil. The horses and horsepeople died in droves, unable to flee the swarms.”
Raelt shuddered. Crelers were still a threat, albeit mercifully rare.
“What of Germina? I know the Shield Kingdoms fought back…”
She made a bitter face.
“Complacency drove every nation to folly in those times. Yes, Germina rallied. But it was a bitter lesson I learned once more. My poisons did little to the spawn of Rhir and they taught me there was more to learn of corrosion and decay. If I had been wiser…I would have prepared. Before every great war, there are usually signs. Had I heeded them, I would have risen to the occasion as I had in lifetimes before, forged Germina into a weapon. For the darkest wars require a light for others to rally around. That is my purpose.”
She spoke strangely. Raelt looked at her.
“You speak as if there is another war coming, Quarass. Jecrass is at war. And Germina lost its war with Reim.”
She smiled thinly.
“True. Both our kingdoms have known Reim’s strength. But that—is not what I refer to. With respect, Raelt Leysars…this is not the war that I dream of.”
She looked past him. Raelt’s hairs stirred and Geril looked troubled. A greater war than this? One that made her think of the Creler wars…
“Then what? If a dark war needs a light, someone to rally around, is Flos Reimarch that [King]? Is that why you made peace with him?”
She flicked her hands again.
“I had little choice in that. I speak of the future and past, Raelt Leysars. Not always of the present. Since that is what weighs on you—yes. Let us speak of peace and war. Medain, the Claiven Earth, and Nerrhavia have reached out to you to continue your war.”
Raelt’s hand jerked on his goblet. Geril sat up.
“Have you—have you told—?”
The Quarass looked levelly at Raelt and shook her head.
“I have neither told Flos Reimarch nor concrete proof of this. It is just…familiar. Have they given you assurances of their determination?”
Raelt’s mouth worked. The Quarass knew. Even without inside knowledge? He hesitated, and she touched her chest and made a small sign.
“I swear by Ger not to reveal what I know. I am, in this moment, the Quarass of Germina, Raelt Leysars. If you seek my knowledge, ask. If not, I will go.”
He hesitated. But then nodded.
“A contract. I forced them to agree. They will all sign a magical contract to go to war. Declare war. If they do—I will turn down the King of Destruction’s peace offer and continue to fight.”
“Your Majesty…”
Geril was troubled. But he had no counsel to give. Raelt stood up and walked to the balcony. The rain trickled down an invisible barrier.
“What would you say to that, Quarass? It might destroy this nation I was given to rule by my father. But Lyfelt need not die for it. Innocent people might not need to die for it. And—that was why I started this damn war! What was the point, if I make peace?”
He clenched a fist. Staring west. The Quarass sat at her table, dabbing at her mouth. Raelt waited, almost hoping she had no wisdom. But what she said was this:
“You still believe you can win.”
Raelt jerked. He turned back and saw her looking at him. That knowing look pierced him through.
“You believe you can defeat the King of Destruction. That is why you waver, Raelt Leysars. You possess the will to fight.”
“I—if Jecrass kneels—”
“Is it your nation and people you fear for, or your pride?”
“Quarass!”
Geril made a choked noise. The girl did not look at him. She sat lightly, meeting Raelt’s dark gaze.
“This is not an insult, Raelt Leysars. But a question. The world beheld that the King of Jecrass was no mewling lamb but a wolf with a golden bell on the day they called you King of Duels. Even the King of Destruction was surprised. Yet the one who was surprised most, I think, was you.”
He hesitated.
“I—was. By myself. I didn’t think I had it in me. Am I hungering for war?”
She tilted her head left and right, shook it.
“Not precisely. But war burns in your blood. You have an aptitude for it. And young men, even at your age, are loath to quit when blood is spilled. But you are also correct—the war can yet be won. Yet does ego force your decision, or your crown?”
“Your Majesty. I…I wish you had not gone to Terandria.”
It was Geril, who spoke up unexpectedly. The old retainer looked at the Quarass and Raelt and spoke. He heavily gestured towards Raelt’s crown. Raelt blinked.
“Why, Geril?”
“Your father, wanted you to be safe, sire. While the King of Destruction marched, he sent you to learn fencing, to be safe abroad. It was…a father’s concern.”
Raelt had considered the same to Jecaina. He nodded, uncomprehending.
“It made me the fencer I was. Was that wrong, Geril?”
“Perhaps he should have let you join the King of Destruction’s army. Or stay in Chandrar, at least, your Majesty. You might not have discovered your strengths so late. Perhaps—you might have been a [King] as great as Flos Reimarch, able to stave off his advance then. Forgive me. It’s an old man’s thoughts.”
Geril shook his head, troubled. It troubled Raelt too. He turned away.
“I’m not set either way, Geril. Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Medain, and the Claiven Earth…the King of Destruction never took the Claiven Earth and Nerrhavia joined him rather than fight overlong. What do you think, Quarass? If I force them into signing a contract…could they disobey it? A clear, magical injunction to make war?”
That was his fear. He looked back at the Quarass. She raised her brows.
“The clear wording? No. But there is war and war, King Raelt. They could send only half an army. Still—the King of Destruction would not take it lightly either way. That would give Jecrass hope.”
Raelt nodded. It was Flos’ reaction that he was counting upon. You couldn’t make war lightly against him. The Quarass tapped her glass with a nail and it was refilled. She drank, went on.
“However. If you ask my knowledge—I think all three nations will make war with great effort. They will send proper armies and do great battle against Reim.”
“You think so?”
Raelt and Geril looked at the Quarass, with hope. She looked over her cup of juice at them levelly.
“Of course. If they sign—they will make such war. But. King Raelt. They will make furious battle here. Because you are what will halt the King of Destruction’s advance.”
And then he saw it. Of course, Medain’s armies and the Claiven Earth would fight. And the war would spill over their borders. But here—it would be here.
“Jecrass will be torn by this great war. You may win or lose. But it is because you are King of Duels, the ruler that can stop the King of Destruction even at great cost that they count on.”
Could he bear that? That…Raelt looked over his city, his palace. They would have to abandon it the first day, retreat, fight defensive battles until the other armies struck. Even then—it would be a long war of retreat and advance. Could he order Jecrass forwards?
“What is my other option, Quarass? Give up a third of my kingdom? Become a subordinate? Let Lyfelt and the others die? What would that make me?”
“A [King].”
She spoke severely. Raelt turned.
“A good [King] lets innocent people die?”
The Quarass slapped the table.
“For your nation? For your daughter and line? A good king would have damned ten times their number to death if it was for the best. Did you make war, King Raelt, for principle or practicality?”
“Principle.”
She nodded. The child waved a hand at him.
“That is where we differ. You are a kind [King], Raelt of Jecrass. That is good for peace. But war? When this conflict started, do you know what I would have done?”
“Tell me.”
Raelt gritted his teeth. The Quarass pointed south.
“I would have not fought the King of Destruction so. I would have taken ten thousand, twenty thousand of my fastest [Riders] and sent them south. To Hellios, Germina, and Reim most of all. Split them up, sent them in every direction to avoid detection.”
Raiding parties. The Quarass’ eyes glittered as she leaned forwards.
“I would have sent Jecrass’ cavalry forth scorching villages, towns, inciting cities to riot. Anywhere that did not declare against the King of Destruction I would have erased and slaughtered, to force the King of Destruction to defend as well as attack.”
“You would have slaughtered innocent people.”
She nodded.
