That was the kind of news that made Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Medain, and every other nation opposed to the King of Destruction extremely nervous. Undesirable news, to say the least. However, it wasn’t being reported loudly from Wistram News Network. A glorious battle against the odds was good television. The peace negotiations—no.
That was how the Academy felt, at least, and they controlled the broadcasts. So attention across the world was turned to the incident in Baleros, football, and so on. That didn’t stop reality from occurring, of course. It just changed public perception.
Suing for peace. Jecrass was on the back foot and everyone knew it. The instant Raelt had begun the negotiations, the auxiliaries and irregular forces including the mercenaries from other nations had all but disappeared. Some remained in the cities, but they refused to fight.
Reim could have advanced and pressed the negotiations as they laid siege to the capital. But they didn’t. Fortuitously—a rainstorm had battered the north, coming off the coast of Medain. And the unexpected days of downpour upon Jecrass’ flatlands had stopped Reim’s army in their tracks.
“Rain!”
Flos of Reim laughed as he looked up at the sky. It was bewildering for Jecrass’ forces, but Reim’s army, from the far drier nation, had stopped just to admire the weather. They had helmets collecting rainwater, or were just watching the rainbows created as droplets fell from the skies.
Rain was something to be marveled at, not fought under. It was a difference of cultures, even between two close Chandrarian nations. Indeed, Flos was frankly envious of Jecrass, which had grass to graze on and feed the horses and cattle it was so known for.
“I forget, sometimes, how much water these coastal nations get. Medain is rich with water; King Perric has never faced a drought.”
He took a sip of water, letting some of it run through his hair. He shook himself as Teres shielded her face. Four days later, and Reim was still enjoying the water.
“You should come to England. I’ve had enough of rain. It gets dreary.”
“Would that I could get tired of it! Ah, well, if I conquer Baleros or Izril, I’m sure it will lose its appeal.”
The King of Destruction sighed. He motioned Teres over.
“I see your time with Fetohep has done you well. Is that new clothing I see?”
“Yes. He gave it to me as a gift.”
Nothing less than the finest clothing in Teres’ wardrobes. In fact, shockwool cotton had gone into her dress. Far from creating more static, it ensured she’d never shock herself accidentally. And it was very comfortable.
Flos just nodded. He pursed his lips and frowned, dragging each word out.
“Fetohep is generous. There. I said it. That—delightfully stubborn pile of bones has his good qualities. I’m glad he released you to me in time though, Teres. I want you to be here when we take Jecrass.”
“So it’s a done deal?”
Teres was surprised. She hadn’t gotten much news on the road from Flos’ escort. He ran a finger down the map in his tent. Mars, Death Commander Ytol, everyone was there, if not in the tent. Zamea for instance was sitting in the rain, grumpy because there was no covering fit for her. Parasol Stroll was endeavoring to cast a mass-shield spell over the half-Giants’ heads.
“If Raelt wants to pursue the war, I’ll happily march on the capital and destroy it. But it seems his backers have disappeared. And our strength is concentrated here. He did very well keeping us from advancing, but if it comes to it—I will take Orthenon, Mars, Zamea, and the bulk of our army and smash his capital. Then we can do the dreary fighting across Jecrass. I’d prefer to avoid that. And I think—so would Raelt.”
Teres nodded. She had a vague grasp of the strategy involved now, and even if she didn’t—she’d seen what happened when all of the King of Destruction’s commanders joined him in the same battle.
“So what do we do while we wait?”
“Relax? Play this football game? I keep kicking the ball too damn hard. I’m more interested in this ‘baseball’. From Earth. But the [Tailors] have yet to create a uniform that suits me.”
The King of Destruction clicked his fingers impatiently. Off the battlefield, he was prone to his flights of fancy once more.
“We stopped for the warm rain and to give the army a break. Relax, Teresa. Orthenon is conducting the negotiations. If you’d like—we can plot which nation is most likely to declare war next. I’m hoping Medain will. Then we can swing north, take Medain, and deal with the Claiven Earth before Nerrhavia moves.”
He cheerfully tapped the two sprawling nations on the map. Teres raised her brows.
“Just like that? From Jecrass to Medain?”
“Jecrass was a surprise, Teres! Medain won’t be that hard if we play it right.”
Mars laughed. She was good-naturedly sitting and checking her weapons. Today, she had a flashy mohawk; a new illusion based on Earth’s styles. Colored bright purple, though.
She was a contrast to Death Commander Ytol. One-armed, and one-legged, his punishment for ‘desertion’, the man bowed to Teres as if she were of Mars’ rank.
“Medain is a powerful coastal nation ruled by High King Perric. But his army is reliant on adventurers, many of them Gold-rank.”
“The Kingdom of Adventurers. You know, I’d love to explore some of their magical dungeons. A shame they’re almost completely explored. The monsters respawn, but the treasures do not.”
Flos sighed, his eyes twinkling. Teres raised her brows.
“Didn’t you say that the Gold-ranks are really strong, your Majesty? You’re only as strong as a Gold-rank adventurer without gear. And a ‘High King’ sounds better than a…[King].”
Half of the vassals in the room coughed or looked scandalized. Mars and Flos just laughed. The King of Destruction ran a hand through his wet hair.
“True! But adventurers are limited in number. Kill twenty and two hundred run for their lives. If it comes to a fight—and I think I can insult Perric enough that he declares war on us—we’ll just kill a few teams and the rest won’t stick around. More to the point—Medain’s army isn’t half as mobile as Jecrass. It’ll be one big battle where we kill the High King. He’s strong, and he was a good adventurer. But he’s about…Raelt’s level of [King].”
“Really? But—”
Ulyse of Parasol Stroll coughed into one hand.
“Lady Teres, High King is a name given to King Perric because he rules over a defacto, smaller kingdom. One of his coastal holdings. It is a more powerful class…but not by that much.”
“Indeed. Before this battle, I’d have put Perric far above Raelt in levels and strength. Now? Raelt might be the better fighter of the two, and Jecrass’ people have fought like Manticores, each and every one!”
Flos’ eyes glittered. He looked out of his war room tent and shook his head.
“Medain isn’t a nation I fear. The half-Elves of the Claiven Earth? I’d rather settle with them than have to take their forests. Without the Mad Ones or Amerys or the Order of Glass—I’d hate to fight in the trees without a way to rob them of their cover. Have you ever seen half-Elves melded into trees loosing arrows at you in the middle of a fog from all sides? Disgusting. We might have to see if your world has any useful tricks to fight that kind of foe.”
He shuddered. The others nodded and Teres sighed, nodding. She looked outside at the rain.
“It is beautiful. Why were you so surprised by the rainfall?”
Flos just shrugged.
“I don’t know Jecrass well. I knew it had a good number of rivers, but I didn’t think it got storms like these.”
That surprised Teres.
“But it’s only two nations over! Surely you’d visited…?”
He shook his head.
“As a boy, perhaps. But I started my war of conquest early. Jecrass became a vassal-state of Reim without resistance early into my campaign. Its warhorses fed my armies—a fine boon. But I didn’t stay here at all. I could tell you more about the west, or south where I had difficulty and spent years on campaign. It is a beautiful land. I wish Raelt and I had not come to blows. But we have. And now we shall be done with it. One way or another.”
He leaned on the table, then. And his brow darkened. Teres caught her breath, because she remembered.
“The—negotiations. Are you still asking for the same thing? Belchan’s…?”
Flos looked. He met her gaze coolly. And he shook his head a fraction.
“The Prime Minster? Those who slew the Gnolls who came for my protection? Teresa Atwood. We have gone to war over our differences, Raelt and I. Those are the first of my demands. Now I ask for far more. I will have it—or I will march on his capital. But do not think of it today. Come. Let us sit in the rain.”
 
—-
 
Surrender was different from peace. And the terms of defeat—Raelt had fought wars against Medain, other nations before. He knew how to sue for peace, negotiate.
But he had never…surrendered. And he found it simpler and harder before. Because he had little to negotiate on.
“Prime Minster Lyfelt’s head. All those in his government responsible for the safety and conduct of the King of Destruction’s refugees…? That’s too open-ended. How am I even supposed to decide who that is?”
“That is his Majesty’s will. If you would like me to, I will name each position.”
“And they die.”
Orthenon, the King’s Steward, nodded. Just a slight tilt of the head. He did not blink, or give any sign that it bothered him. Raelt sat there, thinking.
It was just him and Orthenon in one of the small guest rooms in Raelt’s palace. It was…too small, too quaint to hold Orthenon, the Left Hand of the King of Destruction.
But that was how it worked. Raelt had sued for peace, and Orthenon had come himself as the King’s emissary. If he feared treachery or poison—well, Raelt was the one who had more to worry about.
That was the first way surrender looked different from a peace treaty. Orthenon had refused lesser negotiators. He wanted to speak to Raelt alone. Also—this wasn’t as much a discussion as a one-sided offer.
“This is not negotiable, King Raelt.”
The man knew that. But his crown felt so heavy. He had gone to war for this. Because it was wrong.
But now—it was his entire kingdom or the same. Raelt had seen the writing on the wall as Warden Winta died. He could fight—and send his people to the slaughter. Or sue for peace.
“We are running out of time, your Majesty. The contract has been waiting the last four days.”
“I know.”
Raelt murmured. They had worked on this for four days while the rains began. He would not get a fifth. Raelt knew that perfectly well because he had called for the rains. Not with a Skill—he hadn’t been fortunate enough to get them. But he’d requested a favor and Queen Yisame had granted it.
To buy time. To negotiate. He could still back out. Raelt read down the agreement. The…personal demands were at the bottom. The rest was simpler, and he and Orthenon had dickered on the points, but the Steward had mainly only consulted Raelt.
It had been refreshingly simple. Jecrass would cede nearly a quarter of its lands, mainly the borders, to Reim. It would become, in effect, a vassal kingdom, bound by the magical contract to pay tribute. It would not be allowed to declare war, a portion of its resources, soldiers, sent to Reim for a duration of fifteen years, pending renegotiation…
It was really, a very neat contract. Raelt was surprised at the generosity of some of it. For instance—he got to live if he agreed to the peace. Jecaina wouldn’t be held for ransom.
“King Reimarch trusts me a great deal to let me live.”
Orthenon’s eyes flickered.
“His Majesty respects valor in combat. The magic will bind you, King Raelt. The exchange of hostages?”
Hostages. They were dead. Lyfelt, his officials…Raelt looked up. This was where the ‘negotiations’ got hard. Because he had no cards to play. Nothing to threaten Flos with and both men knew it. However—
“Not his family. Or the families of the officials.”
“Excuse me?”
The Steward’s face was cold. Raelt inhaled slowly. He pressed two fingers together.
“Not. Their families. They’re surely innocent of his Majesty’s wrath.”
“This is not a negotiation. His Majesty—”
Raelt actually raised his voice to the living legend sitting across from him.
“I am aware of his Majesty’s fury. However. I would remind King Reimarch that he did not demand their families at Belchan. Nor could Lyfelt’s family conceivably be held to blame; how could they have known?”
That was a new addition to the terms. Orthenon frowned.
“His Majesty did not consider slaying each family member outright. But they will foment rebellion against him.”
“I’m aware, Steward Orthenon. But they will be twice as likely to attack Reim in captivity, even if they are not slain. For the—the appearance of it. Let me take charge of them. I will prevent them from seeking retribution.”
The Steward frowned darkly. He stood up, and walked to the windows, regarding the rain. Four Scrolls of Weatherchange had done that. A small fortune, to awe Reim’s armies.
“…The contract will need to be amended. The section under ‘Obligations of the Crown’.”
Raelt nodded and took a breath. And he remembered as he haggled with Orthenon over the terms that Lyfelt died. His officials died, the instant Raelt signed.
It was a bloody peace worthy of the King of Destruction. But what choice did he have?
As Orthenon left that evening to collect his ruler’s will, he turned to Raelt.
“The contract will be signed by dawn tomorrow, your Majesty. Or King Reimarch will break off the peace negotiations. I will return before midnight at the latest with the final draft.”
“I understand.”
Raelt met the man’s eyes. Then he let Orthenon leave. The trembling servants stepped aside as the Steward left the palace and rode like an arrow towards the King of Destruction’s camp, just visible in the distance.
Then Raelt went to consult his other option.
 
—–
 
“If I refuse the contract, it will be war unrelenting. He is within range of my capital. Within a day, it will be a siege—and since my walls are not exactly those of the Blighted Kingdom or a Walled City of Izril, it will be fighting in the streets by noon at the latest! And still, you won’t guarantee a declaration of war?”
Raelt looked at the three figures in the mirror that could convince him to continue the fight. One was a half-Elf, the Speaker of the Trees for Claiven Earth, someone Raelt didn’t know. It didn’t matter—the position wasn’t permanent among them.
The other two were rulers. One was High King Perric of Medain, haughty as he sat in his throne. The second? Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the major power to the south of Reim, surrounded by a war council.
