Jecaina hesitated. The Gold-rank looked more sober by the second. And even if he was a hothead and drunk—he was good.
She could beat him, though. He was still overconfident and Raelt had taught her everything she’d known. She had beaten Gold-ranks in duels before. She stepped forwards—
You don’t need to be me.
Her father’s voice halted her mid-step. Jecaina hesitated. She bit her lip—hard. Then she lowered her sword.
“What’s wrong?  Come on, coward! Or is the King of Duel’s daughter going to run away from a challenge?”
Each word pricked her like a nettle. But Jecaina slowly rammed the rapier back into its sheathe. The Silvereyes stirred. She shook her head slowly, looked at the Watch Captain, and stepped back.
“I don’t need to prove anything to you. Nor is this the place.”
She took a few breaths. It was hard—but this felt right. It had felt good to challenge the Nerrhavian [Charioteers]. But this—she looked at the uncertain Gold-rank Captain.
“If you want to challenge me, do it when there isn’t an army on our doorstep. As [Princess] of Jecrass, I order you to stop disturbing the peace or you will be arrested!”
He wavered. His team looked at each other and a few cursed, throwing down their mugs. Jecaina blinked at the hollow sound they made. And she wasn’t certain what came next.
But the Watch Captain was smiling. He bowed slightly to Jecaina, a man who’d had cause to report her more than once.
“Well done, your Majesty. You heard Princess Jecaina. Clear off or this will involve the army and your superiors!”
The rest of the [Guards] nodded. Jecaina felt…taller. She nodded and saw the Gold-rank Captain look at his team of eight. He swore under his breath as he lowered his sword.
“Okay. We do this the hard way. Now!”
Jecaina saw his hand flicker. She blinked—and was diving.
“Get down!”
The Watch started as the [Mage] among the Gold-ranks lifted his staff. Jecaina saw a flash—
Lightning crackled across the street. It struck the [Guards], arcing across Jecaina for a moment. But her ring protected her. She felt the Watch Captain cry out as they hit the ground.
Felt, but did not hear. Her ears were suddenly stuffed with cotton. Jecaina got up, and saw the Gold-ranks charging.
“What are you doing?”
She tried to scream at them. Jecaina drew her sword, slowly, as all nine attacked the remaining [Guards]. She slashed at the Captain, and he backed up as she cut him across the collarbone, cutting through his armor with her enchanted sword. But—she spun left, and then saw the two [Riders] coming down the side street.
A second Gold-rank team. The Watch Captain stared down at the arrow in his chest and tried to stand. Jecaina looked around. She slashed, backing up, trying to shout—but there was no sound.
Her father was right. Battles weren’t duels.
The Gold-rank adventurers fought for a minute. The [Princess] was good. But they were used to fighting all kinds of foes.
The third arrow dropped her. One had taken her in the leg, and the other two were sleeping arrows.
“That did not go according to plan!”
One of them spoke as the [Silence] spell wore off. The leader of the Silvereyes swore.
“Shut up. Hide the bodies. And ride! We need at least six hour’s head start! You lot—start spreading the story.”
The second team nodded. The Silvereyes raced for the covered wagon and set the horses into motion. The fastest mounts they could get. The rest took to the horses and rode out of Jecrass’ gates.
No one stopped them or checked the wagon. It was just another disgruntled Gold-rank team leaving for Medain. The Captain of the Silvereyes watched his teammate tending to the wounded [Princess]. Her refusal to fight had been a surprise, but it had worked out.
“Pick up speed!”
“[Eleventh Hour Wheels]!”
The [Driver] called out. The Captain felt the wagon pick up speed.
High King Perric had his [Princess]. They were going to be rich.
 
—-
 
Princess Jecaina was gone. Now came the question: who would notice her absence?
Raelt Leysars of Jecrass…did not ask about his daughter. He sat in the private, guest quarters with Prime Minister Lyfelt. As his friend wept and begged. Why would Raelt have worried about his daughter?
General Lael and Geril were next. The [General] was busy overseeing the army. If they went to war—but they wouldn’t. She felt relieved. She wasn’t drinking—yet. But when the treaty was signed and the King of Destruction’s army was marching off, she was going to drink for the next month.
She had leveled, but she never wanted to experience this kind of war again.
“General Lael. Do you know where Princess Jecaina is?”
She turned. Geril had walked into the war room, looking for the [Princess]. The old retainer was past his bedtime, but he was checking Jecaina’s haunts.
Lael usually suffered the [Princess]’ presence, but she informed Geril that she wasn’t here.
“Why?”
“Oh, the servants said she went for a walk in the city but hasn’t returned.”
“She might be drinking or out with her friends.”
Geril sighed. It was a common pastime of Jecaina’s. She was a good [Princess]; she made the rounds of the city, speaking to soldiers, being there, seen, while her father fought the war. But a young woman was still restless and had to be doubly upset that she wasn’t allowed to fight.
“Most likely.”
“We have a surplus of hands. I could inquire after her.”
Lael offered. Geril hesitated.
“It’s not necessary. She does hate to be monitored. But maybe…”
He lapsed into silence. Lael turned to a junior officer.
“Just send a [Message] to the Watch or the [Commander] in the city.”
They waited. A response came back after about ten minutes.
“Apparently, the [Princess] was involved in an argument with a Gold-rank team. Flawless Riposte. About the honor of Jecrass. That’s what a Gold-rank team is saying.”
“Argh.”
Lael closed her eyes. Geril shook his head wearily.
“I will find her—his Majesty doesn’t need to know until—”
“Ah, General?”
The officer clarified. Lael nodded.
“There was an altercation. But it didn’t come to blows. They’re all at a tavern. The [Princess] is, ah, carousing with the team. They settled their differences.”
“Oh? You have eyes on her?”
The officer conferred.
“Everyone can see her toasting Medain and talking, [General]. The Gold-ranks have bought the pub so no one else is allowed in. Should I…?”
“No, no. It was just an old man’s worry. I thought…that’s far better.”
Geril shook his head, clearly relieved. Lael nodded.
“Just keep an eye on the pub. If there’s a fight, let me know. You should rest, Geril…”
“I’ll do that. I don’t know what kept me up. Just a [Retainer] being fussy…”
The old man let Lael usher him out of the war room. He tried to tell himself his nerves were just that. Jecaina was fine. Meeting Gold-rank adventurers was, for a spirited girl like her, exactly the thing she needed to relax.
He went back to his room and had troubled dreams. Troubled—but he asked no more questions of her. Neither did Lael. Which meant the Silvereyes had an hour after leaving Jecrass’ gates.
Two hours.
King Raelt left Lyfelt’s rooms as the man screamed at him to ‘get out’. He leaned against a wall. It was late. Orthenon would be coming. He thought—briefly—of finding Geril or Jecaina.
But they would be asleep. So the [King] ordered a cup of goat’s milk and went to the practice courts to wait.
Three hours.
Four h—
 
—-
 
The Quarass of Germina was riding north. Covertly. Aside from Jecrass’ ruler, no one actually knew she was heading north. Flos Reimarch might know her general whereabouts—but Medain’s ruler did not.
And she intended to keep it that way. Her business was private. The Quarass was yawning.
“Damn children’s bodies.”
She remarked. Her escort said nothing, but was attentive to her needs. The Quarass was considering dozing for a while and bemoaning that a flying carpet was too obvious when she saw the wagon pass them on the road.
“Ger’s vipers!”
One of her bodyguards swore as the wagon thundered by. A small group of [Riders] shouted for Germina’s small group to get out of the way. The Quarass twitched her reins, calming her horse. Her eyes flicked to the wagon.
And she had several thoughts. She recognized the magical nature of the artifacts so placed the adventurers at once. And she identified their accents. Medain. Her eyes narrowed as she sensed one last thing.
An aura. Faint, but coming from the wagon. Disturbed. And certainly out of place. Moreover, the speed, the way the adventurers were shouting…
She had seen the like before. A thousand thousand times. The Quarass drew herself up in the saddle.
“After them! Stop that wagon!”
Her bodyguard jerked into motion. They were Germina’s people and asked no questions.
“Halt in the name of the Quarass!”
The [First Warrior] roared. He spurred his horse and the adventurers looked back to see Germina’s warriors coming after them.
“Dead gods damnit! Go, go! [Lightning Bolt]!”
One of them shouted. The [Mage] shot lightning backwards. The Quarass saw the magic—reflexively raised her hand to catch and redirect the magic, and remembered.
She couldn’t cast that kind of magic right now.
“Quarass!”
Her bodyguards threw themselves forwards. One blocked the spell with a magical shield and the bolt dissipated. The rest streamed after the adventurers.
“Protect the Quarass! Slay them!”
The Quarass, cursing, saw her people covering her. She heard screams, more crackling lightning—then it was over.
One of the adventurers, the [Mage], was down. A spear had gone through her chest. Another adventurer had been de-horsed and had surrendered. But the rest were fleeing, having stymied Germina’s riders. A group of her people were pursuing—but the adventurers had too large a lead.
Enchanted wagon wheels. The Quarass eyed the pursuit and calculated the odds of the [First Warrior] taking on the rest of them. Virtually…
“Pull back!”
She raised her hand and the order was relayed. The warriors fell backwards. The Quarass studied her side’s casualties and the last adventurer.
“Don’t kill me! Don’t kill me! I’m working on behalf of Medain’s crown!”
The woman was babbling, terrified. The Quarass pointed down as she rode her pony forwards.
“You. Who was in that wagon? The [King] or [Princess]?”
“Wh—I don’t—”
The adventuress turned pale. The Quarass read her expression and cursed.
“Send a [Message] to Jecrass at once. Tell them—their [Princess] has been kidnapped!”
She whirled. Her escort swirled. The Quarass looked ahead. She hadn’t predicted this. Her knowledge wasn’t infallible. But she knew men like High King Perric. This…she shook her head.
This was a stupid move. It threw everything into chaos. If she had not been here, it might have worked. Now? She saw the [Message] go out, flitting towards the sleepy [General] Lael and the restless [King of Challenges].
Raelt Leysars heard the frantic shouting. He blinked a few times, a cup of goat’s milk in his hand. Then he dropped it.
And went insane.
 
—-
 
High King Perric was having a grand time. The wine was good and it had been nearly four hours since the abduction had gone off. The plan was perfect.
“You see? A day’s lead will take them far out of reach. I have an escort waiting at the border in any case. King Raelt will declare war come daybreak. I will demand his presence…in three more hours.”
Three more hours and they’d be all but uncatchable, even by Jecrass vaunted horsemen. After all—Perric didn’t have to have the [Princess] here to enforce his demands. Once they were across the border, she’d be within his grasp anyways.
He was speaking to one of his top [Generals], going over the plan. The man nodded. He cleared his throat nervously.
“What if the [Princess]—er, that is to say, what if Princess Leysars is less than cooperative, sire?”
The High King gave the man a blank look over his goblet.
“So? She is a political captive. She will remain here as a guarantee of Raelt’s continued fighting. And if she objects—in my experience, even the most stubborn woman teaches herself courtesy after a while.”
“Do you intend to marry her, High King?”
“Perhaps.”
Perric would think on it after another cup of wine. Everything was going well—
Right up until the [Servant] broke his good mood.
“Your Majesty. The Silvereye Sables report a clash with strangers on the road!”
“Who?”
The High King frowned. The [Messenger] had no answers. Just that two were dead. But the wagon was intact and the [Princess] secure. The Silvereyes were accelerating and begging for an escort.
“Brigands, perhaps, your majesty.”
“Hmf. The reinforcements at the border will kill anyone who interferes. If they come under attack—sally forth and reinforce them. But covertly! Dead gods, you fools. This has to be—”
“Your Majesty! Jecrass’ army is on the move! King Raelt has left the capital and he is riding at the border! He—he’s declared war!”
Perric dropped the goblet.
 
—-
 
“What?”
Flos Reimarch blinked blearily at Teres, who’d come to wake him.
“The army’s moving!”
She had seen it from afar as the [Scouts] sounded the alarm. In the distance, thousands, tens of thousands of [Riders] were streaking from the capital.
“That makes no sense. Prepare for battle. If he thinks a sneak attack will work, we’re dug in…”
The King of Destruction was confused in his sleep. But as he rose and burst from his tents, his eyes narrowed.
“That’s not an organized formation. Orthenon! What happened to the negotiations?”
“I haven’t left.”
The Steward rode towards Flos. He had been preparing to leave. The King of Destruction whirled.
“Someone find out what is happening. I…”
His eyes turned towards the capital which was blowing horns, and the army shooting north. His head swiveled and he grinned, his teeth shining by moonlight.
“I sense something interesting. An opportunity.”
 
—-
 
“Perric!”
Raelt howled. He had never hated a man before. Disliked them. His River Wardens—who had turned out to be brave. He thought he had hated Flos Reimarch.
But no—this was hate. Raelt shot across the ground, his horse riding full-tilt.
“Your Majesty! Y—”
They were riding around him. General Lael, Geril—they were trying to catch up. Raelt had been first out of the palace and the city gates. Only the [Trick Riders] and those with riding Skills were catching up.
“Faster! Find them!”
The Quarass’ [Message] had lit his blood on fire. An adventuring team, a Gold-rank team had kidnapped his daughter! They had four hours nearly on him and they were making for Medain’s border.
