Each one ruled a nation more powerful than Jecrass. Each one had an army of note. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was of course a major power of Chandrar, vast and influential, ruled by String People.
The Claiven Earth by contrast was small, reclusive—but incredibly dangerous. The half-Elves had settled their nation long ago, coming from Terandria, even growing a forest along the coast. Even the King of Destruction had chosen to make peace rather than fight them to the last during his first rise to power.
And the last—Medain. Raelt knew the ruler, High King Perric, and the country very well. Medain was an aggressive coastal nation. The Kingdom of Adventurers, who possessed a strong army supplemented by active and retired adventurers. It was he who led the discussions.
“Jecrass cannot make peace, of course. Reim’s ambitions must not be tolerated.”
He said it as if he were giving orders to Raelt. The ruler of Jecrass said nothing. High King Perric drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne.
“You have petitioned our nations for reinforcements, King Leysars.”
“Not petitioned, your Majesty Perric. Demanded.”
The man’s eyes narrowed. He and Raelt glared at each other. Not once had Raelt used the ‘High King’ title; he refused to give the larger man even that small satisfaction.
High King Perric had tried to invade both Jecrass and Belchan in years past. More than that—Raelt just detested the man, who had been a Gold-rank Captain before taking the throne. He had an ego to match Flos Reimarch.
But he might save Jecrass. Deliberately, Raelt looked past him towards Queen Yisame and the Speaker of Trees.
“And not from one nation either. If I am to refuse the peace treaty, I must have reinforcements from all three nations at once. Nothing short of that will stop the King of Destruction. As I have said, your Majesty.”
He nodded at Yisame. She stirred, looking guilty, but one of her members of the war council spoke.
He was perhaps an [Earl], or some equivalent rank in Nerrhavia’s fallen. But he looked down his nose at Raelt as he spoke for the [Queen].
“Her Majesty has provided her assurances that reinforcements shall arrive, King Raelt of Jecrass.”
“Assurances I have received before.”
“Nerrhavia has sent countless chariots—”
“Not an army.”
Raelt ignored the man. He looked past the String People at the half-Elf standing alone. The Speaker of Trees inclined his head.
“Our archers failed to meet your expectations, King Leysars?”
“They performed to the best of their abilities, Speaker of the Trees. But—it was not what was needed. To fight the King of Destruction, I need three armies. So yes! It is not enough! I need an army. And if I am to turn down the King of Destruction in this hour of peace—there will be no second agreement. All three nations must sign a pact of war. A contract, to come to Jecrass’ defense!”
The other rulers stirred. Raelt clenched his fists. He had gone back and forth with them on this point and none of them wanted this last bit.
They were happy to talk. They had been talking since he’d announced he was suing for peace. None of the nations wanted that. But a formal contract, sealed by magic? They’d have to fight with him in an actual war.
There was still a chance. High King Perric shifted in his throne.
“I see no reason to object. Medain has abstained from the hostilities so far because the conflict did not threaten our borders. But I would be willing to march on Reim and curtain the King of Destruction if I had a sufficient reason.”
There he went again. He never said ‘no’, because that was cowardly. But he always demanded the other two nations agree. So—Raelt turned to the Speaker of Trees.
“The King of Destruction is not that easy a foe. The Claiven Earth do not prefer to die on foreign soil. However…his conquest of Belchan and Jecrass would give him too much power. It depends on whether unity can be reached.”
The Speaker of the Trees glanced sideways. And it rested on Nerrhavia.
Nerrhavia, was the problem. The war council was murmuring, one speaking to the [Queen]. Yisame had said not a word. She raised a hand and one of the other Stitch Folk spoke up.
“King Leysars, her majesty of course agrees Reim must be stopped. And Nerrhavia’s Fallen is prepared to act in concord with other nations.”
Raelt waited. But that was all. He narrowed his eyes.
“Medain has already given its assurances. King Leysars, it falls to you to rebuff the King of Destruction. Since we are all in agreement…”
Perric scowled at the scrying mirror. They were dancing again.
“I want a contract of war. Spelling out your determination in ink and magic, King Perric.”
The King of Medain’s’ eyes flashed. He leaned over his throne and snapped.
“For a nation so pressed, you are in little position to make demands, Raelt—”
Enough. Enough of it. Medain, Perric, was not the problem.
Raelt spun. He pointed directly at Queen Yisame, addressing her and to hell with the niceties of it all.
“Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen! I have yet to hear you speak. Let alone receive even your assurances that if I go to war against a foe I cannot defeat, Nerrhavia will come to my aid!”
“King Leysars. Her Majesty—”
Raelt looked at the Stitch-Man.
“Be silent. I am addressing Queen Yisame.”
He looked at the woman. She blinked uneasily as Raelt turned towards her.
“Your Majesty, Are we [King] and [Queen], or ruler and vassal? Because I am unaccustomed to speaking to those lesser than me as if they were equals.”
He heard a squawk from the Stitch-Man, the [Earl]-[General] or whatever his rank was. Yisame actually jumped in her seat. She blinked at him—and then she rose to her feet.
“Your Majesty of Jecrass. We give you our solemn word that Jecrass shall not stand alone. Surely that is enough?”
She implied that a formal contract was rudeness, with the hint of incredulity in her voice, the way she looked at him. So well he almost believed it. But he had known Lyfelt and while the [Prime Minister] had not been a woman, he’d played the same game.
“Your word, your Majesty?”
Raelt laughed, and he heard the note of hysteria in it. He shook his head.
“I took you at your word when I began my war against Reim. You sent me charioteers who refused to obey orders, gold, [Mercenaries]—all of which I thank you for—but you sent me no armies. Nothing capable of pushing back the King of Destruction. Now—you say to me that Nerrhavia’s armies will be there, on the field.”
He pointed out his window, at the distant speck of Reim’s armies.
“Where were you yesterday, Queen Yisame? Where was Nerrhavia in the days before that? When I struck the King of Destruction’s heart, and his armies stopped, the battle might have been won if Nerrhavia’s armies stood with us. Your word, Queen Yisame, is not enough.”
He stood then, weary, and looked at his audience.
“Either I have an assurance that Jecrass not fall alone, or I will accept Flos of Reim’s bloody treaty, though I will condemn a foolish man, a shortsighted man, but still a halfway decent man to death, and all those who served under him.”
They stared at him. King Perric’s eyes burning with annoyance, Yisame’s shocked, the Speaker of the Tree’s considering, weighing. Each one turned to regard the other.
“A moment, Raelt of Jecrass. We must confer.”
Yisame broke the silence. The mirrors flickered out. Raelt sagged.
This was it. It felt like only a second passed—though it might have been minutes—before his numb mind was awakened. There stood Yisame, Perric, and the Speaker of Trees, united. He looked at their faces for what he thought was a simple answer.
And they surprised him. Yisame smiled down at the [King of Challenges] and she gave the most miniscule of bows.
“King Leysars of Jecrass. You will have your treaty.”
He blinked, stunned. But then High King Perric was announcing he was having the treaty drawn up and the Speaker of Trees was nodding. It was done.
 
—-
 
Now he had two options. Raelt excused himself as the other three rulers began spelling out the exact terms of the war. It was rude—but he was beyond rudeness.
Two paths lay in front of him. One was peace, the death of his friend and innocent people and vassalization.
The second was a war, with three nations at his back. A more unclear future. Raelt studied the rough of the contract.
Did Jecrass have the strength for it? Certainly—it would be a long and bitter war, even if won. He would have to abandon the capital; the King of Destruction would hit them within hours of his peace treaty being refused.
But it could be done. Raelt walked through his familiar palace. All the corridors which had been so small and pressing and familiar when his only worry was fighting Medain or Hellios, and dealing with his treacherous River Wardens.
It was treachery that weighed on the mind. Raelt didn’t trust Perric, and he wasn’t sure Yisame could be fully trusted either.
“But a contract. They have to obey.”
Raelt murmured. Three nations fighting Reim…
The palace was quiet, to Raelt. Like when he had challenged the King of Destruction—it wasn’t that no one was speaking or moving. Rather, it was full of commotion. People receiving the contract, issuing orders regarding the army stationed in the capital, servants hurrying to and fro—
People afraid, seeing the King of Destruction poised to attack. But Raelt walked in silence. Only one thing mattered.
“…majesty. Your Majesty.”
A voice interrupted him. Raelt turned and saw Geril. His old, trusted retainer was tentatively plucking at his sleeve.
Raelt realized he was walking down the Sunset Retreat Corridor, absently tracing the path he used to take to throw oranges at people. And Geril had found him. He must have been speaking for a while and Raelt hadn’t heard.
“Geril? What is it?”
The [King] turned blankly. The old man hesitated. The stress of war had worn Raelt. People no longer approached him as easily and they looked—nervous when they looked at him. Or awed, like Jecaina and some of the River Wardens.
The [King] finally looks like a King. Raelt found it a bitter irony. Geril ducked his head.
“Your Majesty, an incident in the capital. A small skirmish between our people and some of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s warriors.”
Normally, it would have been a diplomatic incident and a headache for Raelt. But the war had stripped away those kinds of duties. Today, he just gave Geril a blank, even peeved look.
“Over what? Why are you coming to me about it? Have one of the River Wardens arrest or discipline whoever it is.”
The retainer hesitated.
“Sire. The instigator was, ah…”
He turned and Raelt saw a sullen young woman being escorted by some of Jecrass’ [Trick Riders] towards him.
Ah. You couldn’t discipline someone above your rank.
Princess Jecaina of Jecrass had a scrape on her cheek and a banged knuckle. Raelt listened, with that pained feeling of a father as Geril explained.
“Six [Master Charioteers] were drinking, sire, and Princess Jecaina objected to their remarks. She…challenged them to a duel. Then, when they refused, started a brawl with several of her friends. [Soldiers] nearby joined in, as did more of Nerrhavia’s soldiers…”
“How many wounded?”
“In need of healing potions? Only—six.”
Six? Jecaina flushed. She burst out.
“They were insulting you, father! And the crown!”
Raelt looked at his daughter.
“Insulting me?”
Geril flushed. So did Jecaina. She looked away from Raelt.
“They said—they said no real king would have given up the battlefield. As if you hadn’t been fighting the King of Destruction for nearly a month! And they called you a coward!”
“I gave up the borders. They’re Nerrhavia’s people. Free to say what they want. Isn’t…isn’t [Master Chariot] a noble title, Geril?”
“Those awarded the class usually are of the lowest noble rank in Nerrhavia, sire. It’s an extremely negligible title as Nerrhavia counts them—”
“Wonderful.”
Raelt’s head hurt. He looked at Jecaina.
“You’ll make an apology to Nerrhavia’s [General], Jecaina. Geril, find whoever that is. Anyone hurt? Heal them up and keep them separate.”
“Father!”
Jecaina pursued Raelt as Geril bowed. The King of Jecrass let his daughter follow him. That roaring was back in his ears—but he heard her.
“Jecaina Leysars. Why did you start a fight with our allies?”
She gulped as he looked at her.
“But—but they insulted you. The honor of Jecrass, father…”
The [King of Challenges] gave her such a blank stare that Jecaina trailed off.
“Have you been hanging around the River Warden’s children again?”
“Only a bit. With—I’m not allowed to fight. So why not?”
“Because you’d die.”
Raelt muttered. He saw Jecaina turn red. She stared furiously at him. Again, Raelt gave her a long look and Jecaina hesitated.
This wasn’t how their father-daughter talks normally went. Normally it was Jecaina who had no time to talk to Raelt. This time…
“Nerrhavia’s chariots are part of our army—for now, Jecaina. If they decide to ride off because you insulted them—”
“They insulted us first! And what good have they done? It’s only a fraction of the army Nerrhavia could have sent! You said that y—”
“Jecaina!”
Raelt grabbed his daughter’s shoulders. She stared at him wide-eyed. Raelt gave her a tiny shake. He released her, and took a breath. He tried to think, to explain.
“I understand. I understand you’re angry. I don’t appreciate being called a coward. Even to my back. But you cannot challenge random [Master Charioteers] to a duel and cause a brawl! You are a [Princess].”
“But our honor…”
Raelt tasted the word on his tongue.
“Honor. Jecaina, if honor could be besmirched by words, no one would have any left. I know you’re trying to defend me. But Jecrass doesn’t need a—a [Warrior Princess]. It needs you to be a calming influence. Someone to look up to. I thought…you did well when I was gone.”
His daughter looked up at him.
“I did?”
“I heard from Geril. You—you went to wounded [Soldiers] and helped raise spirits. I was proud of that. This? You don’t need to defend me, Jecaina. There’s nothing Nerrhavia’s soldiers can do to me that exceeds what Reim’s might.”
Her head lowered. Raelt looked at his daughter and felt wretched. Here he was, giving her a lecture on failure. He looked around.
“…I know I haven’t had much time to speak. My every waking moment’s consumed with these negotiations. The Steward, the other rulers…”
He had a thought and forced a smile.
“Orthenon, the King’s Steward in the palace. At least you got to see him, eh?”
Jecaina had dreamed of meeting the King of Destruction, of pledging her sword to him. Raelt saw her look up. But none of that old enthusiasm was there.
