“Teepo and Artemis.” Ren said and activated his Hail of Arrows ability as the pair flew up into the air a couple hundred feet. They turned slightly to point in the right direction, then Artemis unleashed a deluge of full power Mana bolts that were magically increased by ten for each one fired. Ren took out the All-Seeing Mirror and enlarged it as he asked for the spot the catapults used to be. Both Tatya and the large man were surprised that only several dozen craters with wood pieces and goblin bodies could be seen.

“Anything else?” Ren asked.

The large man blinked his eyes for a moment, then he smiled. “We can't confirm it; but as far as we know, their magic user and maybe their leaders should be in this area.” He pointed to his map a quarter of a mile away from the ridge. “Their groups of troops will have leaders as well; but, these are the ones we need to remove to cause as much havoc as possible to break their formations.”

“I'll go there right away.” Ren said and stored the mirror, then unhooked Princess from the large covered cart and stored it.

“Be careful of their suicide goblins.” Tatya said and touched his cheek.

“Their what?” Ren looked at her in confusion.

“They sneak in goblins that can detonate themselves when close enough to an enemy.” Tatya said.

“You're kidding!” Ren exclaimed, and both she and the large man shook their heads.

“It's why single fighters don't stand a chance against them sometimes, because if they do manage to get one in close...”

“...the single fighter would be at a loss and they would still have a large number of troops to keep fighting.” Ren said, then sighed. “I know it makes sense to them, but...”

“They're almost mindless, King Ren.” Tatya said. “If their leaders didn't push them to fight, they would only eat and sleep.”

“Then why...”

“Resources, of course.” The large man said. “The more land they control, the more of themselves they can grow and take over more land.”

“Wait, did you say grow?” Ren asked.

“No one is really sure how they come to be.” Tatya said. “All we know is that even after a large scale battle, like this one that covers several miles of open terrain, there are just as many the next time they decide to try to expand again.”

“I guess they would have to grow or summon them.” Ren said.

“Unless they have birthing clans set up to give birth to as many of them as possible.” Teepo said. “They would have to mature fast after that, though.”

“That's a disturbing thought.” Ren said.

“LOOK OUT!” A man's voice yelled, and everyone turned to look where the shout came from, and just then Ren felt something enter his Aura. Then several more somethings entered, and a whole bunch more right after.

“I've got this.” Ren said at the familiar feelings he felt and ran over to the spot, and Tatya and the large man were close behind him. It was a bunch of spiders. They were about 5 feet long and 2 feet tall and easily crawled over the barricade, then started to jump onto the Pervarians that were trying to defend the staging area.

Ren activated his Ultimate Terror ring and funnelled it through his Fear Aura and concentrated on the spiders. “STOP!” He commanded, and every single spider stopped moving.

The tiny goblins riding them whacked them with sticks to try and get them to move, and Ren felt pain from a lot of the spiders.

“Don't hurt them!” Ren said and took out his handgun in a flash and fired, and a micro-portal opened up in front of the barrel, which split the bullet into a hundred fragments as micro-portals appeared in front of the small goblin's faces. The bullets entered their vulnerably soft eyes and exploded out the backs of their little heads. The bodies flopped down and slid off the spiders, because they were no longer capable of holding onto the straps.

Ren cast Minor Healing on all of the spiders to fix the damage they had suffered. “Come here.”

The spiders quickly swarmed over the defenders who tried to attack them, now that the spiders were vulnerable.

“Don't attack them.” Ren commanded, and the defenders stopped mid-swing and he felt them become disgruntled. He ignored that as the spiders came over to him, and Teepo counted them as he and Artemis flew down to Ren.

“There's 20 of them.” Teepo said and landed on his shoulder. “I think they are a fast attack squad, like the ones the Dark Elves used.”

“But a lot smaller.” Ren said and pet the spider behind its eyes, and he felt its need. “Aww, they starved you so you would fight harder, didn't they?” He asked and walked into the middle of them as he felt agreement from all of the spiders. He equipped just the middle part of an armored bodysuit to leave his arms and legs bare. “Then touch me and I'll feed you.”

They practically jumped onto and over each other to get a leg onto him and he laughed.

“Easy, now. I just healed you.” Ren said and felt their amusement. “Okay, a good fear feeding. Just a second.” He thought about waking up from a terrifying memory while in the hospital and made a little reservoir with it, then let it flow out to them. All of the spiders shivered at the pure fear he fed them.

“What are you doing?” Tatya asked as she felt Ren's fear.

“It's not their fault that they like and feed on Fear.” Ren said. “It's also not their fault that they get used and abused to try and get that Fear so they won't starve.”

“How would you know that?”

“I'm the Royal Consort to the Queen of the Dark Elves.” Ren said and held up his right hand and showed her the spider emblem. “She has a lot of spiders in her lair.”

“I thought that was just a personal mark or something.” Tatya said.

“It is a personal mark that I received from her.” Ren said and his pet spider crawled out of his hair. “So that's where you were hiding.” He said and picked it up. “My Queen, would you like some liberated goblin spiders to add to your collection?”

A portal opened up nearby and Ren looked at the spiders.

“You can go and live a good life in the underground, and you won't have to worry about starving again.” Ren said and pointed. Several spiders jumped through the portal right away, and a few were a little hesitant to go, then jumped as well. Half of them kept touching him, however. “It's all right. If I meet any more of your brethren, I'll send them along.”

A feeling of acceptance came from the rest of the spiders and they went through the portal.

“Thank you, My Queen.” Ren said.

The portal disappeared and Ren tucked the spider back into his hair. Tatya and the large man, as well as several dozen Pervarians, stared at him and didn't know what to say.

“Oh, you can move now.” Ren said absently to the Pervarian defenders. They relaxed and rubbed their arms where they had held their weapons poised for attack. “How long will it take you to get your forces into position?” He asked the large man.

“Uh... maybe... 10 minutes.” The large man said.

“I can be a distraction for at least that long.” Ren said and laughed, and they felt his amusement. “Hey, Princess! Let's go!”

Princess was there in an instant and Ren equipped his platinum armor as he scratched her chin.

“Ground assault this time.” Ren said and he felt how happy she was at getting to ram something. He climbed up and sat down on her saddle, and Artemis floated beside him. “That-a-way!” He pointed, and Princess ran over to the large barricade.

“NO! Don't destroy our only...” The large man stopped talking as Princess ran up and over it as if it was open ground and Artemis flew beside her.

Smashing sounds and the terrified screams of goblins were heard soon after.
