Jane and Wesley hovered high above the battlefield, just out of range of the demon’s aura Trait as they recovered. Jane had two hands stuffing food into her jaw, which was hanging wide open like a snake’s, and the other four hands were on Wesley’s back, helping him restore some of the mass his body had lost in its starvation. Neither spoke, both watching the muddy water, where the demon had disappeared.

After nearly half a minute, there was finally a change as Yona suddenly teleported back aboveground, flopping onto a floating log. Her body was destroyed, both legs missing below the knee, and her arms were so ruined they looked like they were made of rubber. Her clothes were completely destroyed, but her body was so ravaged and caked in gore that nothing sensitive was visible. Not immediately, at least.

Jane left Wesley temporarily, swooping down to grab the tree Yona lay on top of out of the water before flying back up. By the time Jane returned to the sky, Yona’s arms had started to pop and straighten back out, and her legs grew back out. As the rest of her body started to take its proper shape, Wesley averted his gaze. Jane did not, her avian eyes focusing intensely on the process, trying to figure out what had happened.

The ordinary-looking beastwoman was no more. Even healed, her body had been warped almost beyond recognition. Jane had been paying enough attention to know what she had done, but vaguely being aware of it and actually seeing the results were two entirely different things.

Her muscles had ballooned to multiple times their original size, making all her limbs thicker, and her torso broader. Jane suspected that the bones beneath had been similarly thickened, and the organs inflated to support it all. Her build currently supported raw strength and nothing else. It looked like she wouldn’t be able to touch her own knees, much less her toes, but that same form was what had allowed a mere Platinum ranked Adventurer to rip chunks out of the walking calamity with her bare hands.

Jane was both impressed and concerned. What she had done over the course of the battle was nothing short of impossible, at least for an ordinary person. There had to be some absurd combination of Traits and Skills to have made it all work, but at the core of it all was Devour.

Devour was not illegal, but almost no one ever took it. It was indeed powerful, but it was nearly impossible to get value out of for the vast majority of people, and was generally considered a Skill for monsters only. In fact, that perception was so strong that Jane found herself astounded at how Yona was using it.

How did I never think of it?

It was so simple. So easy. Jane usually spent weeks to months building up compressed mass, and she had spent most of it already in this battle, healing from wounds and making up for the demon’s aura Trait. Devour would make it so much faster. No more waiting for her body to process things. No more being limited by what she could fit in her stomach. She could kill a monster, and then just devour it and add its mass to her own.

I thought she was naive, but she actually might be a genius.

Yona’s style of vivitecture was very different from Jane’s, and Jane still preferred hers, but she could very much see what Yona was going for. Instead of storing the mass in her body, she stored it in her Inventory, summoning it as needed. She relied on agility and teleportation for combat, but if needed, she could go full hulk like she had just now. And it didn’t need to be permanent, unlike Jane’s modifications. It was not Jane’s style… but it was a very good build.

And to think I wanted to make her learn my style, she thought with a dry chuckle. Even at my age, these young’ins still find ways to surprise me.

Yona’s body soon repaired itself enough that she could move, and the moment it did, Yona sat straight up, looking around with wild eyes. She clutched at her throat for a few seconds, then a gob of mud appeared beside her, and she gasped for air, her breath ragged. She took a few seconds to catch her breath, then her stomach growled, ands he locked eyes with Jane.

She’s feral, Jane realized.

The look in her eyes was not that of a person, but of a starving beast, and Jane immediately knew what was going to happen next. Before Yona could make a move, Jane flared her mana, and made a rapid shift to her intimidation form. Yona flinched, shrinking back slightly before turning her gaze to Wesley. Wesley did not look back, but he must have sensed her, because the shield strapped to his back was suddenly full of mana, and his own mana flared, cowing Yona once again.

Yona glanced between them as her stomach growled again, but as the seconds passed, the look in her eyes grew less wild. Soon, something new appeared in the air, this time a food. It looked like some kind of meat and sauce mixture wrapped in a thin flatbread. Yona devoured the entire thing in a single bite, barely chewing, then summoned two more, and a cup filled with a thick orange drink. By the time she finished these, her eyes had mostly returned back to normal, and she was looking around in surprise, suddenly aware of where she was.

“Shit,” she muttered. “Sorry.”

“What happened?” asked Jane curiously.

“Uhhhhh…” She paused, as if listening to something. “It was the demon meat. It’s got the Famine Trait, so consuming the meat makes you really hungry…”

“Hmmm, I see,” said Jane. “That makes sense.”

“So, uhh… What happened? What’s it doing?”

“Not sure,” answered Wesley, eyes still gazing downward. “It hasn’t moved since it went under. I would assume it’s trying to recover and plan. Do you know who that drow was that merged with it?”

“Metztli,” replied Yona. “Leader of the cult thingy that summoned the demon.”

“I see,” said Wesley, nodding grimly. “There should not have been any drow remaining in Elyria, yet one was running a cult here for half a decade and no one noticed. That does not bode well.”

“No it does not,” agreed Jane.

“By the way, Yona, while we’re waiting, you should put on some clothes.”

“Huh?” asked Yona. “Oh, shit.” She looked down at her body, eyes widening. “Oh, shit!”

Shut up! Stop laughing!

“You look like someone put boobs and cat ears on the hulk!”

I said shut up!

Abby does not shut up. She keeps laughing, completely insensitive to the horrendous state of my body and the fragile mental state it has left me in. I vaguely remember doing this to myself, but what the hell was I thinking? I mean, the answer is that I wasn’t thinking, but still, how could my subconscious betray me like this? Jane is helping to deflate me, but it’s a long and slow process, and I’ve got nothing but a blanket to keep me covered in the meantime.

A new group of presences enters the range of Food Sense, and my eyes widen.

“Wesley, stop them!”

Wesley puts his hand on the hilt of his sword. “Aren’t they your Party members?”

“I can’t let them see me like this!”

Wesley seems to internally debate for a few seconds, then lifts his hand from the sword, settling into a more relaxed pose. That son of a bitch!

“So, you were hiding your true form all along.”

“I can’t believe you didn’t trust us.”

“Shut up!”

“Did you really think we wouldn’t accept you for what you were?”

“We don’t discriminate.”

“Human.”

“Elf.”

“Dwarf.”

“Beastfolk.”

“Walking brick walls.”

“We–”

“I said shut up!”

The twins stop talking but there is a powerful smug aura emanating from them that I can feel. Lauren is standing beside them, holding a hand up over Chad’s eyes. It’s an unnecessary gesture, because our pure and gallant tank is already averting his gaze, but I appreciate it. I’d appreciate it a lot more if she wasn’t also dying in silent laughter.

“How much longer will this take?” I ask Jane.

“Just a few more minutes. I think I’ve got it. You should follow me with your own mana so you can see how it works.”

I try to ignore the others’ laughter, focusing inward as Jane’s mana guides mine toward reducing my bodily mass. I could probably have done it alone, but the modifications I subconsciously made to my body were so extensive and complex that Jane warned me away, saying I could cause problems if I didn’t do things correctly. She wanted to study it all first, then do the deflation more systematically.

For the next few minutes, she and I work on removing all the excess flesh and bone from my body, returning everything to its normal size and shape. Jane talks through some of it, saying to go with the flow, and take it slow and things like that. She says that my soul remembers how I’m supposed to look, so I don’t need to consciously shape my body back the way it should be. I just need to work on pulling away the excess, and let the body naturally form on its own.

That said, she also recommends not completely reverting. The extra mass all came from the demon, whose body is much stronger than mine. I lose a lot of that strength by converting it to my own body, but it’s still better than before, so we keep some of it. My bones and muscles look the same, but they’re just a bit denser and stronger than before. Maybe a couple thousand stat points stronger. They don’t reflect in my actual stats, since Jane says it’s similar to exercising to increase muscle mass or something like that, but I definitely feel it.

The whole time, there is no movement from below. Metztli stays underground, not moving, and not really doing anything else. I can sense some vague mana fluctuations, but what that means is not clear, and neither Jane nor Wesley seem to find it overly concerning. Not yet, at least. They’re both keeping an eye on it, but neither of them have done anything yet, an I’m not entirely sure why.

Finally, after an agonizing five minutes, the deflation is done, and all that extra flesh is in a glob floating behind me. I grab it out of the air and stick it into my Stomach for later, then toss on a new outfit. This time, it’s just my cheapest outfit, since I don’t trust this one to stay intact either. Then, I turn to the rest of my Party, who are talking to Wesley.

“...to pieces again,” he says. “If we can do that, we should be able to reduce it down to something more manageable. We have some backup on the way to assist with that.”

“Backup?” I ask.

“Endir, the Hidden Sage,” says Wesley. “A powerful elven mage living in Dryadil. He’ll bring– Oh, look, there he is now.”

I look where his finger is pointing and spot seven specks in the distance that are rapidly growing larger. Even as they get closer, though, they still are strangely round, and don’t seem to be getting any defining features. They definitely don’t look like people.

Then, they reach us, and I realize why they don’t look like people. It’s a bunch of wizards in wide-brimmed hats, and they were flying head-first, so all I could see were the hats. Six of them are dressed in white, and look young. Young for elves, so they’re probably all pushing 100. The seventh is dressed in black, and looks much older, with long gray hair and a wrinkled face. He looks like he should have a beard, but he doesn’t, which I assume is because he’s an elf and elves think facial hair is barbaric or something.

“Jane. Sir Wesly.” He nods to each in turn. “What’s the status?”

Jane fires off a quick report of the battle that just happened, giving the demon’s known abilities, and what did and didn’t work against it. Endir nods along, gazing down at the swamp with a thoughtful expression on his face.

“No resistances?” he asks.

“Not that we saw,” says Jane. “But we only saw a few weaker Adventurers firing from a distance. Fire and lightning both deal damage, though the attacks were too weak to say if it truly has no resistance to them.”

“I see. And these others?”

“Yona might be able to be useful,” said Jane. “But I can’t vouch for the others. I plan to send them to the back when the fighting starts."

“Actually, are those mana batteries?” asks A, nodding in the direction of the floating wizards. I don’t see what she’s referring to, since the mages don’t seem to be carrying anything, but Endir nods.

“They are.”

“Can I borrow one?”

“What for?”

A shows off another creepy smile as she produces Zorg’s gun from her Soul space, then explains how it works. The old sage nods as she goes over it, then points to one of the white-robed wizards, who floats over and takes A’s hand. Mana flows out of him and into A, and then out of A and into the rifle in massive quantities. The wizard gets fully drained once, then downs a mana potion to do it again. After this, he switches out and another takes his place. Three of them spend their entire mana pool three times before the rifle stops accepting mana. The wizards looked neutral at first, but after this, they now look terrified, giving apprehensive side-eyes to A’s gun.

“Incredible,” says Eldir. “That will certainly be useful. And you can use it from well outside its aura’s range too. Excellent. If you can hit its legs, that will make everything else much simpler.”

“That’s the plan,” says A, nodding.

“Once we have it down, we can dismember it,” he continues. “I will work on disabling the severed limbs, and once it is hobbled, we can work on sealing it away again.”

“Sealing again?” I ask. “Not killing?”

“It’s Immortal,” he says, looking at me like I’m stupid.

“Yeah, but–”

I stop myself. Should I tell them I can kill it?

“Up to you. It will raise questions, but if you’re determined to kill her, you’ll have to, or they won’t let you try.”

“Not only is it Immortal, it has the Independent Limbs Trait,” he continues, talking slowly like he’s speaking to a child. “We have to seal it away. I put in a request at the Magic Society to see if there are any disintegration specialist mages, but I am not aware of any at the level needed. Sealing is the only option we have as of right now, and I have already summoned a sealing expert from Ocula.”

“Well–”

I never get to finish my sentence, because at that moment, the turbulence below us suddenly spikes in intensity, and the water starts bubbling. We all look down as the demon starts to re-emerge from the water again, this time, coated in thick stone armor.

“Positions!” commands Wesley. “If you can’t help, get out of the way!”

“Okay, I think I have a way to kill her!” I say as everyone starts moving. “Just try to separate the little body from the big one!”

The others give me a strange look, but Jane just nods seriously.

“We can try.”

After that, no one says another word. Wesley and Jane descend back to the ground, my Party floats high and far as A lays prone with her gun, and Endir and his wizards back up just a little bit, the old sage gathering mana in a wooden staff in front of him. The mana forms into a drill-shaped projectile so powerful it seems to warp the air around it, then fires out so fast I can’t see it, crashing into the demon’s shoulder and shattering a stone platelet.

And with that, round two begins.