As the increase continued to ramp up the acceleration, the air also started to heat up considerably, shortly before the tungsten ball and front of the claws began to glow bright red from wind whipping across them.

Good enough. Tala grabbed the thin rope that she’d tied to her belt and which led to the other tab on the claw, and pulled.

The claw moved back, opening and dropping to the ground with a ringing, bouncing series of impacts. In those impacts, Tala thought she heard the subtle sound of bending metal, but she was otherwise distracted.

The instant it was freed, the sphere plummeted across the intervening space, crossing the ninety feet to the target faster than Tala could track.

The sphere must have slammed through its target and continued on to the back wall, because it struck with an impact that seemed to shatter the very air within Kit.

Tala was thrown backwards, blasted out of the door at the end of the hallway and into darkness.

* * *

-Ding-

-Unbelievable. How often must you lose consciousness?-

Tala groaned, sitting up.

-Loss of consciousness detected due to full-body exposure to a pressure wave and the following impact with the magically reinforced gate of a dimensional portal. Discrete regenerative systems activated to their fullest capacity to restore consciousness and mobility.-

“I thought you were unavailable.”

-Well, apparently you losing consciousness overrides anything else and brings me back to perform my most basic function. Please stop interrupting. I’m just getting to the good part.-

“Really?”

-Stop talking out loud to yourself, it makes you look crazy. Reinitiating mental delve per last recognized command. All other functions will be offline for the duration.-

Tala sighed, blinking to clear her vision and looking around.

A cloud of dust surrounded her, seeming to be billowing out of the wall nearby, even as it was settling down.

In addition to her slight disorientation due to losing and regaining consciousness, she felt the aftereffects of a lot of her bones being rebuilt. Several of her organs seem to have been ruptured as well, though they were back in order when she checked on them. Well, that’s a successful test, and a successful proof that I shouldn’t do such tests in enclosed environments. She really did need to make Kit bigger.

She staggered to her feet and over to the archway, which was all that was left of the doorway into Kit.

She placed her hand on the doorframe and dumped power in. Kit was near empty, likely due to internal damage.

Well, I now know what it takes to break through Kit’s door. It seemed like she’d been thrown against the door with just barely more force than was required to break through it, as she’d woken up in the middle of the alley, and the wall that had been across from Kit’s opening was undamaged.

As she considered, though, that wasn’t a good measure of how much it would take to break in. A blow from the inside, pressure from the inside, was far more destructive than the same force from the outside.

“I’m sorry, Kit. I didn’t mean to cause any damage, let alone this much.”

Kit did not respond, but it did continue to greedily drink in the power that she provided.

Tala noticed that all the dusty air had been pushed out through the arch, leaving the air within Kit clean and clear. “Good to know.”

As she recharged the storage device, a few small items clattered seemingly out of nowhere, through the archway.

Tala quickly identified the items as the remains of the sphere, knife, and claw.

The sphere was little more than twisted splinters of tungsten, still glowing with heat.

The knife was handle-less, the blade kinked and distorted, likely from bouncing around inside of Kit after it was struck.

The claw was bent and twisted, but not shattered. Oh, right. It was picking up the same speed, and then dropped to the ground. It effectively skipped across the floor within Kit, while already hot. That’s what bent it.

Tala was left feeling incredibly grateful that she hadn’t tested the idea anywhere in the city. The cost to repair the damages would have been exorbitant.

Even now, she was standing in an alley, and getting strange looks as the dust settled enough for people to see her from the streets to either side.

With nothing else that she could do, she pulled Kit free of the wall, hanging it back on her belt as a pouch, and left out the less trafficked side of the little space between buildings.

Note to self: This works and is incredibly effective. However, it is not for use in tight spaces.
