“Only because you have yet to pay the bill, sweet girl. You find it worth the headache, but what if you find yourself still here in five, ten, or fifty years down the line? Hardly worth it then, I would say, so swallow your ire and answer me this.” Leaning back on her hands in a slack posture Alsantset never imagined the Chief Provost would use, Grandma smirked and asked, “What sort of questions have you been musing over these past few days? The intrinsic association between each individual milestone and how to bring them all together? Or perhaps the distinction between Chi and Heavenly Energy and the vast disparity between their power? No, you are not as greedy as the boy and know to set your sights lower, so you must be troubled by something closer to hand. Did your father and brother speak of something else they should not have, something not covered by the primer? Emotional Aura or Domain Plating perhaps?”

Humbled by Grandma’s insight as much as she was ashamed at how easily she was seen through, Alsantset’s cheeks flushed as she lowered her head and nodded in quiet acknowledgement. She’d settled on Domain Plating because it seemed like the most useful, versatile, and achievable skill available to her, as it made more sense than beating her head against a brick wall and trying to grasp the Mountain Collapsing Stomp which she had long since failed to comprehend. Domain Plating would allow her to utilize the same familiar Chi skills, only more effectively, which in her eyes offered the greatest benefit for what should have been the lowest cost, yet understanding and comprehension were still beyond her reach. Even more infuriating was the sense that she was close to a breakthrough, so close she could feel it in her heart and soul both, yet she always fell short of a real answer when it came time to sit down and deliberate the fruits of her labours.

All of which came pouring out before Alsantset could stop herself, all her pent up frustrations erupting in a single petulant tirade more befitting of a woman half her age. It was all Grandma’s fault for being so reassuring and steadfast a presence, a larger than life figure who Alsantset suspected would make her feel like a child no matter how many more decades she lived. “You say you feel close to a breakthrough?” Alsantset nodded, and Grandma nodded along. “More than once?” Again, Alsantset nodded, to which Grandma responded with a girlish tilt of her head, an almost mocking gesture as she asked, “And what did you do each time after that feeling passed without achievement?”

“I sat down to catalogue the experience and determine where I went wrong.”

“As the boy would, yes?”

A seemingly innocuous statement which Alsantset absently agreed with, but then she caught the glint in Grandma’s eye. “...You mean to say this is not my way, but little Rain’s?”

“So quick to catch on, unlike the pup and the boy.” Offering her a grateful smile, Grandma continued, “Talking with you is like a breath of fresh spring air after spending the winter cooped up inside. You have touched upon the crux of the issue, though I would not phrase it in such definite terms. It is not your way now, but that does not mean you cannot benefit from the boy’s methods, or that it will not become your way in the future.”

“I do not understand.”

“Nor do I, not entirely, but I work at it each and every day.” Reaching up to gently brush Alsantset’s tiger ears, Grandma sighed and shook her head. “Did you know I was the third person to ever hold you? The first was the midwife, while the second was your birth mother, who personally handed you over to me, a healthy, red-cheeked babe with half-lidded eyes you could barely keep open.” Reeling at the implications of such a statement, Alsantset’s tail lashed in agitation as she furrowed her brow and glared, but Grandma would have none of it. Quieting her anger with little more than a passing glance, Grandma continued, “You had a wail that could wake the dead and a burning desire to use it, but Sarnai was adamant to take you as her own. The pup didn’t find out until after the fact, but he fell in love the moment he laid eyes upon you and held you all throughout that first night. Though I was still being mule-headed and unwilling to formalize our family ties, I still took an interest in your upbringing and watched you grow into the fine young woman I see before me today, yet even then I am still amazed by how far you have come on your own.”

“I was never on my own,” Alsantset declared, her lips pursing at the implication. “Mama and Papa were always there for me, and now I have Charok, little Rain, and my sweet babies both.”

“True enough girl, true enough.” Nodding in silent apology, Grandma’s smile was still warm as ever, which made it difficult to argue with her. “I should have specified I meant solely on the Martial Path. Your parents trained you, but neither one ever took you as their Disciple or sought out a Mentor to guide you. Do you know why?”

“Because Papa wanted to Mentor me, but Mama said his methods were too barbaric.” Which also ruled out Grandma, who’d Mentored Papa, while Mama never wanted Alsantset to be a Warrior in the first place. Mostly because she was afraid to lose her precious daughter, not necessarily just in battle, but to battle as well. After all, Papa was always off chasing one conflict or another, so if Alsantset turned out the same way, then Mama would have no one to keep her company at home.

“Merely an excuse,” Grandma retorted, and Alsantset heard a ring of truth in the statement, not that she suspected Grandma would ever lie. “The simple fact of it is that anyone with eyes could see that you had no need for a Mentor, because you were wholly capable of forging a Path all on your own. Why waste the effort guiding a student who needed no lessons to succeed? Any Mentor risked doing more harm than good by interfering with your natural instincts and Heaven-sent Insight, so the pup and his rose let sleeping dogs lie and it turned out for the best.”

“Until now.” Slumping her shoulders and leaning ever so gently against Grandma, and to her surprise, the stoic, standoffish woman embraced her without hesitation, so warm and natural Alsantset wondered how she could have ever suspected her Grandma was cold and uncaring.

“Yes, because the pup forgot himself and let you read the boy’s primer.” Feeling her tense up, Grandma chuckled again at Alsantset’s protective nature and shook her head in commiseration. “This is not to say either of them are to blame, or even yourself for your curiosity, but he should have better stressed the fact that you should only ever use little Rain’s advice as working examples of the Martial Dao rather than a hard and fast guide to adhere to. What works for him will not always work for others, especially not someone as different as you.”

Which of course made sense, and Alsantset herself had even realized it earlier herself, only she failed to act on the information and change things up. “Then what should I do instead?”

“Now that is a question I have no answer for.” Rubbing her shoulder in soothing reassurance, Grandma shrugged almost imperceptibly and added, “Though I will say you seem overly rushed of late, almost desperate to force your progression. I remember when you were younger, you possessed a burning love for the Martial Dao, one only surpassed by your love for your family, yet these days, I see no sign of that love for the Path anymore. Perhaps that is why you feel you lack direction, not necessarily because it is true, but because the world feels perfect when you have love enough.”

To think that Grandma was such a hopeless romantic, but Alsantset loved seeing this tender side of a woman she wholeheartedly admired. “Then you think I should what? Give up my pursuit for power and wander aimlessly along the Dao?”

“Silly girl. When did I say this? I am simply telling you what I have observed, that you are a woman who follows her heart in spite of what others might say. Is this not so? Take your husband for example, who you married in spite of the pup’s disapproval, or the boy you rescued despite knowing all the risks and challenges taking him in would entail. More than one older Warrior cautioned you against adopting children so early, for doing so could slow your progression along the Martial Dao, yet you paid them no heed and found two beautiful babes to love and call your own without compromising your own ambitions.” Pulling away to force Alsantset to look her in the eyes, Grandma straightened up and took on the aspect of strict disciplinarian and authority figure as she said, “You are Alsantset of the People, a woman, warrior, daughter, and mother who has always forged her own Path, so what need have you of direction? You know the way forward. You only need follow your heart.”

“She speaks truth.”

Starting at the sound of an unfamiliar voice, Alsantset turned to find a beautiful stranger standing across from them, with arms crossed and lips pursed. Even before noticing the orange and black markings on the lashing tail behind her, or the folded ears emerging from tufts of white fur twin to Alsantset’s own, she knew who this stranger was upon first glance. She’d always known her mother lived in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, yet this was the first time she’d laid eyes on the woman who birthed her. It pained her to admit they were strikingly similar in more ways than one, and not just physically either. The clipped tones, the standoffish posture, the way they hid their nervousness by tensing up as if preparing for a fight, even without the telltale tiger markings denoting the two of them as a matched pair, Alsantset would have instantly recognized this woman as her mother.

No, not mother, but dam, a woman who gave birth to a child and threw her away soon after, someone wholly undeserving of so sacred a title as mother.

“And what would you know of me?” There was no heat in Alsantset’s voice, only cold disdain, for the similarities only served to fuel her contempt for the woman who birthed her. When she was younger, Alsantset would have given anything to meet this woman, but that all changed the moment she held her own children and wondered who could be so monstrous as to abandon so precious a pair. Though Alsantset would never know the joys of giving birth, she could never imagine giving away any child to someone else to raise, not after they’d looked her in the eyes and smiled so sweetly. “No, I care not what you know, for you are a stranger to me,” Alsantset hissed, and to her surprise, the Ancestral Tiger flinched as if struck by a stray rock, but the floodgates had opened and there was no stopping now. “You gave birth to me, but I do not even know your name, or the name of the man you laid with, so what makes you think I care for what you have to say now?”

The Ancestral Tiger met Alsantset’s eyes and found nought but fury within, but her gaze held more than a hint of pain and regret. Too little too late, but that didn’t stop the woman from responding. “Hate me for the weakness which led to your birth,” she began, her voice barely more than a whisper. “Hate me for lacking the strength to overcome my instincts and raise you as a mother should. Hate me for remaining absent all these years and never once revealing myself to you. This is your right, and I do not hold it against you, but no one can know you better than I. Not the parents who raised you, not the husband you adore, not even the children who love you or the younger brother who idolizes you so, for none of them understand the struggles you face each and every day.” Breaking eye contact so quickly Alsantset was left glaring at the back of the woman’s head, she held her tongue as the Ancestral Tiger gestured at the soldiers camped all around them. “The Empire demands their people revere Martial Warriors as people who are more than mere mortals, yet they are all still human yet. Their struggle for identity is a difficult one, yet yours, infinitely more complex. Even in anger, you cannot deny that my blood flows through your veins, which means that aside from your complex human emotions, you have a bestial nature to account for as well, one which drives you in ways even you cannot explain. They are two sides of the same coin, your human and bestial nature, yet different enough to complicate matters and make it seem as if the whole world has gone mad around you.”

