That was something little Rain never seemed to understand, the pain and anguish his death would bring to so many others, because if he did, then perhaps he would stop being so reckless and spendthrift with his life. The stupid boy was still in love with death, or at least with the idea of dying for a noble cause, always ready to sacrifice himself should the occasion ever demand it. He did it time and time again, such as when he charged a Demon with naught but a mundane spear, or when he jumped the line to be the first and only duellist to fight in the trials against the Society. Then, in Sanshu, he nearly drowned to death because he leaped into the water feet first in an effort to single-handedly put an end to the Butcher Bay raids, while his tireless efforts on the front lines in Sinuji spoke volumes to his grit and dedication. Even his marriages could barely keep him away from work for more than a month at a time, yet for all his perceptive talents, he failed to see the toll his choices took on his wives, parents, and Alsantset herself, to say nothing of poor Tali and Tate. The two of them were only ten years old, and yet sweet Tali had already taken it upon herself to help her beloved uncle by mastering the Dao of Cooking, while silly Tate worked himself to exhaustion pushing ever forward on the Martial Path just so he could join the fight that much sooner. Every time Alsantset told either one of them to rest easy, they’d grimace and mumble something about how ‘Uncle Rainy’ needed their help or had accomplished more in less time, despite the absurdity of such a comparison. There was no one else like little Rain, not in the last ten thousand years, so saying her children would never match up was not selling their talents short. Little Rain was simply an exception and an outlier, so any comparison was foolish at best and detrimental at worst, for success could be measured as nine parts confidence and one part everything else.

Even knowing this however, Alsantset herself was unable to avoid making the same mistake as her children, for she wanted nothing more than to stand at little Rain’s side and help shoulder the burdens he’d taken on. Gone were the days when he relied on her for everything, which was a bittersweet realization at best, for Alsantset did so love coddling her precious and precocious little brother. Now he was a man standing on his own two feet, with wives and responsibilities aplenty, a man who’d left his older sister far behind in his dust in every facet save age. Alsantset couldn’t even boast of being a better parent than him, because even though he had no children of his own, he’d been more of a second father than uncle to Tali and Tate both, not to mention how well he cared for his staggering collection of useless pets.

For this and many other reasons, Alsantset had spent the last two years living in Central honing her Martial abilities without rest while keeping well away from the public eye so as not to embarrass Papa and little Rain both. The rumour mongers were never kind to either of them, and a failure of a daughter and older sister would only add fuel to the fire, so Alsantset did everything she could to avoid attention including moving out of the Citadel to live among the Sentinels instead of enjoying the luxuries of wealth like little Rain, a point of contention she avoided ever bringing up. Though still better than most nobles, it seemed almost scandalous for him to rely so much on servants to keep his household in order, though she understood that a man of his standing could hardly be seen emptying his own chamber pots. To be fair, Mila, Yan, and Mei Lin were also to blame considering their complete and utter lack of domestic skills. If they were back home in the village, Alsantset imagined her sister-in-laws would be knocking at her door daily for help managing their household, though there was an equal chance that little Rain would simply have shouldered everything himself and left his wives to languish in their inadequacies.

Then again, Alsantset herself was also guilty of taking advantage of his good nature, for she’d been more than happy to let him handle all the more unpleasant tasks when he still lived with them. She couldn’t remember the last time she’d cleaned out the quin stables, and to this day, Charok still didn’t know how to change a diaper or swaddle a baby without making a mess of things. Little Rain just always seemed so happy to help, it was difficult to refuse him even if he asked, and most times she would simply go to do a task and find that he already had matters well in hand.

Difficult not to envy him for his talents and work ethic, so long as one did not think too hard about how he came to acquire them. Recently, she’d been given an even more comprehensive look into her younger brother’s mindset through reading his compiled notes on the Martial Path, and what she found there was both interesting and disturbing to say the least. Little Rain had a way of looking at the world and stripping it of all magic and mystery, equating the Energies of the Heavens with water flowing downhill and a Martial Warrior’s Core to a waterwheel making use of natural forces. An apt comparison once you examined it further, but Alsantset’s first reaction had been one of abject horror as he debased and profaned the mysterious workings of the Mother Above. The more she read however, the more little Rain’s words made sense, and as she rode alongside Grandma and little Mila towards Tang Zangli, she continued to read and reread his primer on the Martial Path in an effort to glean something useful from it, but scholarly pursuits had never been her strong point. It was all good and well to understand the relationship between the Core and the Energy of the Heavens, and that the Core, Natal Palace, and Domain were intrinsically linked in more ways than one, or any number of seemingly obvious conclusions that Alsantset herself had never pieced together on her own, but while little Rain’s primer on the Martial Dao covered a wide variety of topics and raised many interesting questions, it fell woefully short when it came to usable answers. It was nice to know that the Natal Palace exists in the Core, and the Domain is merely an extension of them both, but what use was this information in terms of practical applications? Despite little Rain’s conjectures regarding the manifestation of one’s Domain, he had no ideas as to how to accomplish such a staggering feat beyond a few superficial observations.

More interesting were his recent discovery of Domain Plating, a concept which Papa thought Alsantset might be ready to tackle herself, which was mildly infuriating to say the least. All her life, she’d been the apple of her parents’ eyes, a woman of phenomenal talent and dedication standing at the forefront of her peers, yet now she’d been reduced to taking scraps of advice sown in the wake of her little brother’s tumultuous path as he blazed a trail unlike any seen ever before. Pride was meaningless in the face of Martial progress however, so Alsantset contented herself with being happy for her younger brother’s accomplishments while hitching herself to his coattails in search of benefit, but thus far, all she’d found were headaches and disappointment. Contrary to Papa’s expectations, Alsantset found no success with Domain Plating even after discussing the matter with him and Little Rain many a time before embarking on this crusade West, and now, more than a month later, she was still stuck in the same rut as before. Insightful though little Rain’s primer and advice might be, his experiences were too far removed from her own for her to glean much from his explanations, like listening to someone with a heavy accent speaking in unfamiliar vernacular and coming away with a seemingly understandable but utterly incomprehensible statement.

Yet despite the lack of success, Alsantset continued to study the primer whenever she could. After seeing her quins and Sentinels bunked down for the day, she found herself with a few precious minutes to spare before retiring to her tent, so she settled down in the sand to meditate on her thoughts. Spacious though the canvas shelter might be, it was no match for the comfort of a roomy yurt, but you could fit more tents on a single wagon and mobility was of the utmost importance on this foray into the Western Province. Still, the tent provided shelter from the sandstorms and sweltering noon-day heat, which was why the army travelled by night instead. Even the quins refused to move at any pace faster than a crawl during the hottest hours of the day, and much preferred burrowing themselves under the sand to seek solace in the cool temperatures underneath.

A sight little Rain would no doubt love to see, the noses of his beloved quins poking out of the sand as they slept away the hottest hours of the day. Suret enjoyed it so much she even burrowed in the sand at night, though Alsantset suspected it had more to do with the delectable snakes and scorpions she snatched up along the way. Unlike the quins however, the sand and heat made Alsantset’s life miserable in many ways. The sun had yet to exert the full force of its fury upon the world around them, meaning it was merely dry and uncomfortable rather than sweltering and unbearable, but that would change soon enough. Adjusting her leathers to try and shake loose the grit nestled within, she tried to remember what life had been like when she hadn’t been plagued by sand embedded in every nook and cranny of her existence, but her memory failed to convey just how wonderful a sand-free existence truly was.

“My fortune for a bath.” Leaping to her feet at the sound of the familiar voice, Alsantset turned and greeted her Grandma with a military salute while cursing herself for behaving like a fool caught in some act of malfeasance. There was nothing wrong with sitting down during rest time, yet somehow, Alsantset felt like a shirker and slacker both when faced with her Grandma’s domineering presence. Even though Akanai was now a part of her family, Alsantset’s stomach still turned and churned whenever she was alone with the formidable woman, but not without good reason. There was just something about the Lieutenant General that demanded not just obedience, but respect and deference as well, a hurdle little Rain had long since overcome but Alsantset had yet to even try. “At ease, dear girl,” Grandma continued, smiling as she brushed sand from Alsantset’s cheek. “I’m not here as your commander or even as a Lieutenant Colonel, but rather as your Grandma and friend.”

In testament to Alsantset’s nervousness, her first response to so endearing a statement was to blurt out, “Why?”, and she regretted it even as the question left her lips.

Thankfully, Grandma took no offence and merely chuckled as she sat down in the sand and gestured for Alsantset to join her, which she did without thinking twice. “I have not had much chance to speak with you of late, but I noticed you have been distracted these past few days. Copper for your thoughts?”

Smiling at how even Grandma was using little Rain’s curious sayings now, Alsantset forced out a breath to shake off her nervousness as she recognized the older woman’s attempt to bond with her. They were a curious pair, both Warrior women with families they doted upon, but they had yet to hit their stride and settle into their new family roles. Appreciating the gesture for what it was, Alsantset threw caution to the wind and decided to move forward as if she were talking to Mama or Papa instead. “I lack direction along the Martial Path and have been working to correct this by reading little Rain’s primer, but while it has cleared up many issues I did not even know I had, it has offered precious few answers and left me reeling in uncertainty.”

“Bah. So the pup let you read it did he? Of course he did. He always did have trouble seeing the world through any perspective besides his own, and could not imagine a world in which his daughter failed to follow suit.” Hearing her papa disparaged set Alsantset’s hair a bristle, but Grandma merely laughed and patted her arm like one would a child. “Full of fire and vinegar you are, so similar to the pup and his rose both. Far more mature and dutiful however, as it took them decades to outgrow most of their childish antics while some still plague them yet. Oh the stories I could tell you would have their cheeks burning with shame, though I suppose I should leave them their dignity as parents for a few more years yet.” Oh how Alsantset yearned to hear more, but Grandma fell silent with a twinkle in her lovely blue eyes, not quite as clear and vibrant as Papa’s but still striking nonetheless. Though centuries of life divided them, physically they looked only a decade apart in age at most, and Alsantset only hoped that she would age so gracefully as well. Small wonder Mama saw herself as old and haggard, for few could compare with Akanai’s gorgeous and apparently unchanging appearance, a boon and burden Alsantset herself would also share.

It pained her to think her beloved husband and brilliant younger brother each only had another century of life at most, while she herself would live for four more after their passing, but at least her beloved babies shared her long lifespan, as well as Papa to boot. Besides, Mother willing, Charok and little Rain still had many decades of life in them yet, so there was no point getting all melancholic about their deaths just yet. “I have benefited much from reading little Rain’s primer,” Alsantset declared, but even she could hear the petulance in her tone as she strove to defend Papa’s decision without confrontation. “And I would daresay that the benefits outweigh the costs.”

