Turning back to face her, the Ancestral Tiger found her confidence and declared, “You follow your heart because it is in your nature to do so, but not your human nature. A tiger does as it pleases, without regard for anyone or anything which might stand in its path. When your actions match your desires, no obstacle can bar your way, for that is a tiger’s determination. This is not to say you must give yourself wholly to the tiger within, but rather strike a balance between your human and bestial nature, a balance you found early in life and have kept to all this time. You chose your path, your mate, your children, your sibling, all decisions you made without need for consideration, because you knew it to be the right decision. Any step you take is the correct one, so long as it is taken for the right reasons. You are far less conflicted than I, less so than most half-beasts of any background, and this has brought you far along your Martial Path. Even without my advice or the advice of... your grandmother, you would have found the way forward on your own, but with trials and tribulations abound, I revealed myself in hopes of saving you some time. I see now that this was a mistake.” Pausing before turning away, Alsantset caught a glimpse of what might have been regret before the Ancestral Tiger disappeared from view, leaving behind one last statement that lingered in the air. “My name is Machali, a name given to me by your father’s father, and one I cherish deeply. Should you ever wish to speak with me again, your parents and grandparents know how to find me.”

And then she was gone, leaving Alsantset with a bellyful of anger and just a hint of shame for lashing out like an aggrieved child. It was clear Grandma felt the same way, but rather than say anything, she merely rubbed Alsantset’s back in a soothing motion that calmed her nerves and robbed her body of strength. “That was... unkind of me,” Alsantset admitted, and Grandma had the good grace not to outwardly agree. “You said she handed me to you herself? Was it...?” Easy? Difficult? Was Machali angry, saddened, or relieved? Did she kiss her goodbye, or was she glad to be rid of her burden? So many questions all asking the same thing, but Alsantset lacked the courage to voice it.

“Her tale is not mine to tell,” Grandma replied, hugging Alsantset tight, “And in answer to your next questions, no, I was not aware of her presence or her intention to reveal herself to you, and had I known, I would have persuaded her to do so in a different manner.”

So taken aback, Alsantset pulled away and asked, “You think I should get to know her? Why? So I can tell her she made the right decision in abandoning me?”

Uttering a sigh, Grandma added, “I understand your anger, sweet child, but know that I also sympathize with Machali, which is already more than I should say.” Shaking her head at Alsantset’s silent plea to continue, Grandma screwed her lips into a pout and added, “If you want to know more, speak to her yourself, but regardless of your decision, you would be a fool to disregard her advice. I myself only recently arrived at the same conclusion regarding finding Balance amid our conflicting natures, so her advice might well save you centuries of time and effort.”

Not the answer Alsantset wanted, but it was the only answer she’d get as Grandma fell silent and refused to say anything more. She was stubborn like Papa in that way, which was both endearing and infuriating to see, so Alsantset gave up and fell silent to reflect on this unexpected meeting today. “Why now?” she asked, not expecting any answer at all. “After so many years of silence, why did she choose today of all days to approach me?”

“Perhaps not so quick to catch on after all.” Shooting her a glance rife with muted disappointment, Grandma gestured around the camp the same way Machali had and said, “Look around girl. Where do you think we are? What awaits us at our destination? Even Divinities are not free of the trials and tribulations of life, for though they wield power unmatched, they too are still mortal yet.”

A chilling reminder of the stakes at hand, and Alsantset took a deep breath to calm her nerves. Then another, and still one more as she came to grips with the implication that no matter how hard she struggled and fought, all her efforts might well be overturned if an Enemy Divinity was opposed to the outcome. Despite that, she would still fight, because no one could dissuade her once her mind was made up, not even a Divinity, and she’d long since decided on this issue. She was Alsantset of the People, here to support her little brother, Falling Rain, and drive the Enemy out of the Western Province for good.

So woe betide anyone who stood in her way, for this tigress would permit no obstacles to bar her Path.

Chapter Meme
