In Rhir, Tom the [Clown] was a [Hero]. Two classes of arguably different natures. Although he would call them the same.
He was mad. Laughing, sequestered in his room when not killing things.
And beloved. Beautiful women threw themselves at him. People had copied his face paint. He, more than the others, was an icon to the people of Rhir. And the Blighted King had made him—a celebrity.
He might have children. On dark nights—and they were all dark—Tom would fall asleep laughing. And that was Tom, not him.
The [Clown] rarely joined Richard and the others. For all they were guests of Lord Hayvon Operland at the moment, he sat in his rooms with groupies mesmerized by the [Clown]’s mixture of darkness and glory for slaying the Demons. Or alone, giggling at the ridiculousness of it all. What he had turned himself into.
He only came out to eat, and then—seldom. Or to watch broadcasts on the scrying orb. Today, Tom was having an interesting day. He’d begun by smashing every mirror in his room, the ones he talked to other-Tom with, scaring the ladies he’d slept with out of the room.
This was Tom’s tragedy. Self-made. Something part of him luxuriated in. Enabled by the system and himself. And the Blighted King saw a useful, if erratic piece on the board. He saw potential. He made plans that would shake the world to its core. The errant, traitorous [Mages] had been recovered. The magic could be wrought again. And this time—the Demons would die. Rhir would know peace.
…And you know what? It mattered. Oh, the machinations of the Blighted King and the Demons influenced the world. But today—they were small. They would do nothing so significant as the events unfolding elsewhere in the world. They were not all-encompassing.
 
—-
 
In Izril, a Dragon walked through Celum. In disguise, using a magical avatar, but he walked. And he saw a young woman, an [Innkeeper], and a City Runner embracing. This was their story, a reunion so long in coming.
Away, hundreds of miles away. Running in shame, for the deaths she’d brought to Liscor. And back again. Ryoka squeezed Erin as tightly as she could, lifting the [Innkeeper] up from the ground. And Erin hugged her back, so strong for someone her size.
“You big dummy! You can’t just run away. We missed you so much. I’m so sorry I told you leave. I didn’t mean it! I say stupid things!”
Erin shouted into Ryoka’s chest. The City Runner felt tears in her eyes.
“I’m sorry. It wasn’t you. I just—brought too much. I had to change. I tried. But I missed you all. I’m so sorry for leaving. I had to come back. I…had to stop running away.”
“Don’t go again.”
The young woman squeezed her friend tightly. Ryoka smiled. She was embarrassed, knowing people were watching. But she didn’t let go.
“Not anytime soon. Erin. Erin—”
“Mm. Shut up.”
For a while, they stood like that. The wind blew around Ryoka, merrily sending giggling children spinning about. Forgetting the tragedy around them for a while. True magic.
At last, Ryoka heard something. Rumbling. It came from Erin’s stomach. The young woman started. Ryoka heard a reciprocal growl. She let go of Erin, laughing.
“I haven’t eaten since…yesterday night. And that was only a snack.”
Roast beef and tea. It was probably haute cuisine for someone from the United Kingdom if you added sauce and potatoes. And yes, that was complete shade. Ryoka stepped back, or tried to.
Erin refused to let go. She dragged along the ground as Ryoka edged back.
“Erin. I’m not running away.”
“I don’t believe you. You have to come with me. Mrsha misses you. So do the others. They’re all here.”
Mrsha. The City Runner tensed. And mortal fear flooded through her veins. Fear, and guilt.
“I know. I’m not going to run.”
“Liar. Come on.”
Erin’s arms tightened. She began to drag Ryoka in a bear hug. It was comical, the short [Innkeeper] dragging Ryoka’s lanky body behind her. It made people laugh—or it would have, if anyone in Celum had been in the mood for it.
Do not forget that the Bloodfeast Raiders had been here. Ryoka’s smile flickered, looking around.
“Erin. I did…come at a bad time. Maybe Celum was always going to be attacked. But I was here when it happened. When I left, it was because I couldn’t do anything…”
“Shut up. I’m not letting go. My inn is safe. You can’t go. I’ll bite you if you try to run.”
She raised her face. Ryoka saw tears, and Erin gnashing her teeth threateningly. The Runner tried to pry Erin off her, and then gave up.
“I’m not. Fine. I’m heading towards your inn. Where is it?”
“The magic door’s in the center of the city.”
“Okay. Let go.”
“No.”
That was how Ryoka Griffin ended up trudging down the street as she dragged Erin behind her. Even in the desolation, the people of Celum turned and stared. The young woman was holding onto Ryoka’s waist and refused to let go.
As Ryoka struggled, cursing Erin, and trying not to laugh, she passed by a paragon of the half-Elven form. The Dragon stood, watching her and blinking.
It was hardly an auspicious moment. The two locked gazes. Ryoka’s jaw dropped. Teriarch blinked at her.
Perhaps he had envisioned some grand moment where he revealed himself. If so—he had failed to land the legendary aspect of it. The Dragon eyed Ryoka. She stared.
“T-Teri—”
“Hello, Ryoka Griffin. I believe our business is unfinished.”
The Dragon’s heterochromic eyes glinted in the rising daylight. Ryoka was at a loss for words. Teriarch drew himself up—and he was taller than her, powerfully built. He pointed at Ryoka’s chest.
“Child, do not mistake me. I am Grand Magus Eldavin to you. And we will speak further. I do not leave a debt unpaid. You and I will—”
“I knew it. Who’s this? Doesn’t matter. You’re not getting away!”
Erin Solstice stood up. Teriarch broke off and eyed her. The [Innkeeper] made a hyeup sound, and lifted Ryoka up in a bear hug.
“Erin! Stop!”
Ryoka immediately began to struggle. But her [Lesser Strength] and occupation had made Erin strong enough to lift one Ryoka. She began carrying Ryoka down the street. Teriarch stared at Erin.
“Hey, whoever you are. Sorry, I’m borrowing Ryoka. You can have her later.”
Erin grunted, red-faced. Ryoka stared helplessly at the Dragon. Teriarch’s mouth was slightly open. He stared at Erin.
“Do I know you…?”
“Probably. Get in line!”
Erin shot over her shoulder. Faced with that, the Dragon had no choice. He began trailing after Ryoka. The young woman might have noticed him, as striking as he was. Hair like white silver, beautiful, robed. Also—somewhat unsteady on two feet.
But she was focused on Ryoka. She put down Ryoka after one street because Ryoka was heavy, but she didn’t let go. She linked arms with Ryoka, afraid her friend would disappear.
Not again.
And Ryoka Griffin felt it too. She looked back at Teriarch, the Dragon, once. Then she looked ahead, and took a deep breath. For there were things in this world more important than Dragons.
The Brass Dragon had the surreal experience of being ignored. He trailed after Ryoka, opening and closing his mouth, caught in the Solstice Effect™, as first observed by Magus Grimalkin.
Just like that, on a day following magic and tragedy, Ryoka Griffin returned to The Wandering Inn.
 
—-
 
Mrsha du Marquin woke up with a start. She sniffed the air, rolled out of her bed, disoriented. She distinctly remembered serving people food and drinks last night. But now it was bright! The Gnoll sniffed her empty mattress, noting a distinct lack of Lyonette. She put two and two together as the child looked about.
She must have fallen asleep last night! Sometime before midnight! And they’d put her to bed! Mildly outraged, Mrsha raced at a wall. Before she collided head-first with the wood, the Garden of Sanctuary opened.
The white Gnoll raced onto the grass and then did a u-turn. She charged at the door again, and it revealed the common room of The Wandering Inn. She raced forwards on all fours and looked about.
“Mrsha! Ancestors! You scared me out of my scales!”
Drassi jerked and narrowly avoided a collision with Mrsha. The Drake was yawning, but she was already serving weary guests at this early hour. Adventurers, Celumites, people from Esthelm, Liscor—all of them were wearily sitting about the inn.
Lyonette du Marquin herself, Mrsha’s mother, was still at work. She wobbled as she put some food in front of a starving group of [Guards].
“On the house. That means ‘free of charge’. Thank you for all your hard work.”
The surprised group of Gnolls and Drakes looked up. Some murmured thanks, appreciatively digging into the rich food, loaded baked potatoes with topping of sour cream, sauce, fried Rock Crab meat, pig bacon, butter…
The kind of meal that sat in your stomach and walked you straight into bed. Some of the Watch was so tired they couldn’t even eat—at first. But the food reinvigorated them and they dug in. Lyonette smiled. Then she felt something small leap onto her legs.
“Mrsha! You’re awake?”
The Gnoll rubbed her face into Lyonette’s side as she climbed up. Lyonette grabbed her with both arms and hugged her.
“Hello, dear. Did you sleep well? You worked so hard last night. I’m fine, really.”
Mrsha looked up anxiously at Lyonette. The [Princess] had rings underneath her eyes. But she was smiling.
“Truly. I’ll rest after we find Erin. She’s been up all night, too. Do you want breakfast? Then you can help out. I’m sure we need it. I could use some food, too.”
Mrsha nodded. She raced into the kitchen as Lyonette put her down. She was going to help! Lyonette looked hungry, and there was nothing better than a fat fish for breakfast. In Mrsha’s opinion. With butter and nice and hot from the oven? Oh, how delicious! Mrsha would bring it for Lyonette since she was being helpful.
The Gnoll ran into the kitchen and saw a group of Humans clustered around the cupboards. She stopped, nearly slamming into them. She saw Joseph, Kevin, Galina—five out of the seven, minus Leon and Imani. They were clustered around a counter and eating.
“Joseph, stop drinking! You’re sick.”
Rose hissed at Joseph as they ate the fish and a casserole for breakfast out of one of the cupboards. Joseph was drinking.
“I. Need. A. Drink. Or don’t you, after last night?”
The young man from Spain on Earth, growled at Rose. He was having a morning cup of gin and blue fruit juice. Which was really, very tasty. But possibly not the best for you. His hand practically shook in relief as he took a huge gulp of the drink.
Mrsha just—stared. Kevin was salting the fish and yawning.
“Anyone know where the ketchup is? Why are we eating a fish?”
“I couldn’t find any of the other food. Just eat. We’re staying out of Lyonette and Erin’s way—oh.”
Rose caught sight of Mrsha. The little Gnoll stared at the Flatfish—one of the native, biting fish from Liscor’s streams and rivers that liked to jump and try to bite you—being eaten by the group. They turned, guiltily.
“Uh, hey! Mrsha—”
The young woman got no further because Mrsha charged her in ire and frustration. The Earthers yelped as an enraged Gnoll cub attacked.
And Mrsha was heavy. She could and had beaten Elirr’s dogs in sheer strength competitions—well, all except the warhounds. She pummeled Joseph’s lower back in a rush of furry punches. The young man yelped. Mrsha leapt and did a sideways kick like Garia had taught her at Kevin’s leg.
“Ow.”
The young Californian man rubbed his leg. Mrsha opened her mouth and he warily moved back. Rose snatched her hand back from trying for a pet and Galina and Troy, who’d been quietly having breakfast, edged back.
Mrsha snapped a few times, and the Earthers warily retreated. But she couldn’t really punish them because her blessing was gone! Lyonette had given it to someone else.
“Mrsha! What are you—oh.”
Lyonette hurried into the kitchen, and stopped. The Earthers hesitated.
“Um—sorry. We woke up, and we didn’t want to be a bother. So…”
Lyonette eyed the five diners, who had not only managed to pull out several drawers in hunting for utensils and cause a mess, but were neatly occupying half of the inn’s kitchen just in case anyone wanted to bring out food to the actual customers. She put her hands on her hips, took a breath—
And sighed. One week had passed, well, roughly a week and a few days, since the seven had come to The Wandering Inn. And their acclimation had been rough. Lyonette spoke firmly—she might have been more kind if Imani had been among them.
“I appreciate the effort. But why don’t you all eat at a table instead? We can bring you food. But Mrsha and I need to get at the cupboards. Mrsha, stop punching Kevin’s back. I’m sorry, Kevin.”
“Actually, I don’t mind. It’s like a back massage. Sorry about the trouble.”
Kevin obligingly stood up. Joseph nearly hid the gin and blue fruit behind his back, then tried to pretend it was just blue fruit juice. Lyonette wasn’t fooled, but she forbade comment. Rose ducked her head guiltily. Galina looked at Mrsha.
“Hi!”
She smiled at Mrsha. The Gnoll gave her a narrow-eyed look back. She waited until they were gone and then looked at Lyonette. It was a look with so many words packed in that Lyonette didn’t even need to read Mrsha’s sign language.
“I know, dear. But they’re guests. Erin’s guests. Try to be nice. Anyways, I’m sure Erin will turn them into flying Garudas or something in a few days.”
The [Princess] saw Mrsha giggle at the thought. Smiling, the [Princess] picked Mrsha up and put her on the counter. She massaged her lower back with a sigh.
“There now. Let’s see what we’ll have for breakfast. Not the cake, Mrsha! That’s special…maybe a little slice. You and I have been working hard. Ooh, a quiche? Did Erin make that? No—it’s got seasoning and little spinach baked into it. And bits of meat! Garry must have, when he came over. Why don’t we have that, and some bread? Get us two plates…”
In a few moments, Mrsha was happily dining on Garry-quiche and Palt-bread in the common room. The Centaur could also cook, and he had lent his expertise—as well as his spells to the inn.
In fact, there he was. Wearily trotting down the stairs.
“Morning, all.”
The Centaur yawned, and then did a double-take as he saw Montressa and Beza sitting in the common room. They had helped in Celum as well, conjuring water-based spells to put out the remainder of the fires. But they were here again.
Watching the Earthers like hawks. Mrsha sighed as she saw Montressa not-quite-looking at Rose and the others. She had to watch Montressa. Mrsha briskly pointed two furry little fingers at Montressa, then at her eyes, copying Erin’s gesture. The [Aegiscaster] blinked at the warning gesture.
