But. What of the rest of the inn? Ekirra stared at the wall where the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] had been. He sadly kicked his little red ball and it bounced off the wall.
“Mrsha’s mean. I hate Mrsha.”
He announced. Visma looked up and nodded distractedly; she was playing with Mrsha’s makeup set. But Ekirra wanted to play with his ball. Even if Mrsha had seven. Or was it eight?
His mouth began to tremble. Drassi picked up the ball.
“Ekirra, Mrsha is doing something very important today. Ryoka came back, and she and Mrsha need to spend time together. They’re…the best of friends.”
She hesitated, not knowing if stuffing your face counted. But the part about Ryoka was true. Ekirra stamped his foot.
“I’m Mrsha’s best friend!”
“Right, right. But—what if we play ball?”
Ekirra looked up at the Drake. He kicked the ball to Drassi. She awkwardly kicked the ball back. Ekirra’s ears and tail drooped. Drassi was slow.
At the same time, someone else was not having such a glorious day. And that person was Lyonette du Marquin. She paced back and forth.
Ryoka. Why did she have to come back like that? Why did Mrsha have to—no, it wasn’t about Mrsha. She was Lyonette’s darling child. Too generous by half.
But Ryoka? She just waltzed back in, and everyone forgave her. And maybe there wasn’t much to forgive. But Mrsha?
She had left Mrsha. Lyonette’s hand itched to hit Ryoka again. Just for that. How many nights had Mrsha woke up crying for Ryoka? How dare that—that—
And Mrsha was with Ryoka. Which—was fair because they hadn’t seen each other. But not with Lyonette. The [Princess] knew it was irrational. But part of her rage came from fear. She was Mrsha’s mother. But would her daughter go with Ryoka?
To distract herself, Lyonette busied herself with the affairs of the inn. And they were legion.
“Where’s Erin? We’re moving through people to help in Celum. Some Antinium—although it’s…difficult…to justify them in the north. But they build like no one else, and Celum needs rebuilding.”
Olesm was looking around as he wearily supervised the streams of people moving through the doorway. Lyonette stared at the crowded trap hallway and realized they needed a bigger waiting area. Perhaps before the trap hallway? With refreshments, tables? Wait, that was called an ‘inn’. She looked at Olesm.
“You’re letting the Antinium go to Celum?”
The [Strategist] grimaced.
“I…am. No one builds like Antinium, and we needed them to excavate.”
“Besides, they’re not all alike. You watch your enemies.”
A Human [Lady] appeared behind Olesm. Maviola El was smiling. Lyonette actually smiled at Maviola. After a week of her visiting the inn—they were something like friends. Although Maviola made Lyonette feel decidedly younger. But they’d had talks, gone to the public baths together—
Olesm nodded, smiling foolishly at Maviola. They were both managing people. He cleared his throat and went on.
“…Even with them, though, rebuilding Celum will take time. And it’s not our job. Liscor’s help only goes so far—Celum will have to pay for at least some of it. And the people might not want to stay there. Many have already been put up in Liscor and Esthelm and that might be permanent…”
The Human population in Liscor had sextupled overnight. There was so much change in the air. Lyonette nodded.
“Whatever you need, Olesm, we’ll try to help.”
“Food and drink is enough for now. And your beds!”
“Comfy. And your Skill is very useful. I mean, Erin’s.”
Maviola smiled. The two had literally fallen asleep the instant they’d returned, but thanks to Erin’s [Twofold Rest] Skill, they were already fairly alive. Lyonette smiled.
“It’s very useful. The door’s yours today. Let me know if—”
Crash. All three jumped. They heard a sound from outside. Then a voice.
“Oh shit. Sorry!”
Lyonette’s tentative smile snuffed itself out. She knew that voice. More importantly—she knew the scenario. She strode outside. And there they were.
Okay, what had happened was that the seven Earthers—well, four of them—had been outside. And the city of Liscor was sending supplies towards The Wandering Inn from the gates as well as the magical door. And perhaps one of them had got in the way because they hadn’t noticed the carts coming up the hill. Leading to one of the drivers swerving and the entire cartful of nails spilling out.
Nails. In the grass. Mrsha ran about there. Not that she’d be doing that for…Lyonette closed her eyes as the Gnolls and Drakes argued.
“Dead gods.”
“Ah.”
Maviola eyed the Earthers. This had been Leon’s fault. But there was Troy, Galina, Rose—all of whom guiltily turned about as Lyonette walked outside.
“Sorry, Lyonette…”
“Someone please cast a—metal-grabbing spell? Anyone?”
Lyonette beseeched Montressa, Bezale, and Palt. The three [Mages] groaned, but began levitating the nails out of the grass. Lyonette turned to the others.
“Please don’t get in the way of the traffic.”
“Sorry. Leon wasn’t looking where he was going—”
“You shoved me!”
Leon accused Galina. Lyonette sighed. Then she heard a voice from above.
“That’s true. Totally Galina’s fault. Right, Bird?”
“I saw it all, Kevin. This is Galina’s fault.”
Slowly, Lyonette looked up. Kevin was sitting on the roof, next to Bird. Joseph stopped drinking as she looked up at them. The [Princess] began to twitch.
“Please get down from there.”
“But Bird’s up here—”
“Bird does not fall.”
Lyonette could just imagine one of the two Earthers falling, needing a [Healer], and ruining her day. Again. She looked around.
“Where’s Imani?”
“In her room. Too many people.”
Kevin called down. He stood up, and Joseph did too. The young man was drunk though, and wobbled, flailing his arms. Lyonette and everyone below ducked as he wind-milled his arms.
“Fuck—”
Bird and Kevin grabbed him. All three teetered on the edge of the roof. Lyonette put her hands to her mouth. Oh no. Bird!
They stabilized just in time. But the call was literally them balancing on the edge. Sheepishly, Kevin and Joseph came down. Joseph looked embarrassed, his flushed cheeks red.
“Sorry—”
“Stop drinking.”
Lyonette snapped. She was in no mood to be kind. It had been…one week. And the Earthers as a whole were driving her insane.
As individuals, they were actually okay. But some of them got on her nerves more than others. Imani? Lyonette had all the time for Imani. The young woman could cook, and she helped out when she wasn’t suffering panic attacks.
But the others…Rose liked to think of herself as a leader. When this was Erin’s inn and Lyonette ran it. Joseph had a drinking habit he refused to quit. Kevin was Kevin. Which wasn’t always bad. Leon and Troy saw everything as a game, and were always debating things from their world. ‘Are Gnolls like Wookies?’
Galina kept trying to pet Mrsha.
Small things. But they added up. And as a whole, the seven could cause more trouble than Erin and Saliss rolling barrels full of cheese down a hill. Lyonette was just done. She looked at Joseph. And her ire wasn’t without company.
“Sober up. There’s a time for drinking. A city is destroyed, and you’re causing trouble?”
Palt snapped as he trotted by the Earthers. He’d taken on some of the burden of managing them—and fighting Montressa and Beza off them. He tapped Joseph on the face.
“[Remove Intoxication].”
The young man stopped standing so unsteadily. Some of the flush went out of his cheeks. Suddenly faced with stone-cold sobriety, Joseph rubbed his face. He needed a drink.
“Why don’t you all go inside?”
“We can help clean up.”
“You’ll step on a nail. Why don’t you go inside? You can help serve tables, or clean up, or—play with Ekirra.”
They were bad at serving things too. The Earthers looked at Lyonette’s face and went inside, arguing quietly. She rubbed at her head. She had a migraine.
“I wish you the best of luck. I’d trade with managing relief to Celum—but I don’t want to.”
Olesm commented. Lyonette smiled for a second. Maviola put a hand on Lyonette’s shoulder.
“Be kind to them.”
“I know. It’s not their fault they’re…”
Useless. Lyonette knew their history. Held prisoner—or as ‘guests’ of Magnolia Reinhart and being waited on hand-and-foot. They were like a lot of the nobility or monarchs she’d known, with less than 10 levels in anything. Like her, really. But she hated seeing herself in them.
But the [Lady] of House El shook her head. Maviola looked at Lyonette.
“No. Be kind to them, Lyonette. Not gentle. They may be poor embers, but everyone has a spark. You just need to find it. Magnolia tends to no flames. But they might surprise you.”
“They do every day.”
Lyonette grumbled, but the words gave her some pause. Maviola always talked about fire. It was her motif. But she was also right, usually.
Everyone has a spark. Thoughtfully, Lyonette looked back into the inn. She heard the others arguing. Then a crash as Joseph tried to put the bottle of gin back and knocked something over. Lyonette’s grabbed at her hair. Maviola hesitated.
“…Sometimes the spark is well-hidden under all the ash. Good luck.”
 
—-
 
Fix them. Find their inner fire. Turn crap into gemstones. Who could do that to this lot? This sorry lot that even Montressa and Beza weren’t sure would add much to their reputations if they were brought back to Wistram?
“I am so sorry—”
Joseph backed away as Lyonette stared at the broken bottles of liquor. She saw Ekirra precariously near to a few shards of glass. She lost her temper.
“Erin Solstice! Ryoka Griffin!”
She shouted into the Garden of Sanctuary. Even Lyonette was banned for the moment, but she could make the door appear. Erin, Ryoka, and Teriarch all looked up from their movie-watching. Mrsha was sniffing the air and scenting Goblin and bee.
“What’s up? Oh no. Is it…”
Erin’s face fell into a look of dismay and annoyance. It was mirrored by Ryoka’s as she saw the mess. Lyonette put her hands on her hips. She stared at Ryoka.
“Your guests are causing trouble. Thank you ever so much for sending them, Miss Griffin.”
Ryoka turned red and shuffled her feet.
“I’m sorry. I—there weren’t many places they could go. And I thought…”
“They’ve been here one week. They have no classes worth mentioning. No talents. What are we supposed to do with them?”
“…Keep them here? Alive?”
Erin and Lyonette looked at Ryoka. The City Runner blushed again.
“I’m sorry. I don’t know! It was that or send them to Laken. And knowing him…no, I don’t know him. They’ve had a rough time in their own way, Lyonette, Erin. I just thought of you all. I’m sorry.”
Lyonette had no idea who that was. She sighed, rubbing her forehead.
“What are we supposed to do with them? Ryoka, you found them. How do you manage them?”
The young Asian woman hesitated.
“…Don’t kill them?”
She had no idea. They had gotten on her nerves, as well as Alber and Fierre’s. Let alone Madain—okay, he’d had fun drinking with Joseph and the others. So both Ryoka and Lyonette looked at Erin.
“What?”
The [Innkeeper] looked blank. Lyonette put her hands on her hips.
“Do something. Make them…better.”
“Me? How?”
The two exchanged a look, Ryoka and Lyonette in sync for one moment.
“Erin, you could turn a Creler into a house pet. Can’t you—you know—unearth some goodness in them?”
The [Innkeeper] made a face as she eyed the quarreling six. And Lyonette saw her shuffle her feet.
“I dunno…”
Even Erin was tired of them. In a rare moment of uncharitableness, the young woman scowled. She could do something. But today?
She looked up the hill where Mrsha was pouncing on Numbtongue. Movies, Ryoka—not today. Not now. She looked at Lyonette.
“I don’t wanna. You do it, Lyonette. Please? Just for today.”
“Me? I’m not you, Erin. I can’t—you have to make them better. Please?”
The [Princess] pleaded. But the [Innkeeper] shook her head. She looked at Lyonette, seriously.
“Lyonette. I don’t make people into anything. I just find what’s there. It’s not me. You can do it too. I’ll help. But please—just for today?”
She linked arms with Ryoka. The City Runner opened her mouth. The [Princess] glowered. Then she sighed, looking at Mrsha laughing and bouncing on the prone Numbtongue.
“Fine. I’ll try.”
Grumpily, she stomped off. Erin winced, as she saw Lyonette begin ordering Kevin to stop picking up the glass with his bare fingers. The door shut.
And Lyonette was alone.
 
—-
 
Find what they had inside them. Maviola had said it, then Erin. Perhaps they were right because the two were alike. But how was Lyonette supposed to do it?
Perhaps…perhaps by doing what had been done to her. Lyonette took a breath.
“Kevin. Joseph! Troy, L—where are they?”
“I think they went to their rooms. To stay out of the way.”
Galina replied. Lyonette just stared at her. She swung around.
“Kevin, Joseph. Why don’t you help me unload the wagons?”
A delivery of food had come up the hill with the goods. The two young men looked at each other. Ishkr and the Gnolls and Drake staff would normally take care of the work. But Lyonette decided this would be good. She looked at the two young men.
Joseph groaned, but nodded. Kevin just gave Lyonette a thumbs up.
“Cool. Be happy to.”
She blinked.
“Really? I mean—excellent. We’ll just store all the dried goods in the basement. Come on.”
They trooped outside, navigating between the waiting people going through the magical door. The cart wasn’t that big. There were just some heavy bags of flour, perishables—
“I’ll take the eggs and such. You can get down to the basement?”
“I’ve been there. Yup. Lift!”
Kevin picked up a bag of flour. Joseph tried to do two, then put the other down. Lyonette sighed. She took the eggs into the kitchen. Then came back and saw…
Kevin and Joseph working. It was nothing special. They grunted as they navigated around people, didn’t smack into Ishkr cleaning up the glass or alcohol, dodged Ekirra kicking a ball and Drassi chasing after it, panting…but they carried the heavy loads down to the basement.
They weren’t exactly strong. Your average male Gnoll could do two bags on his shoulders. But they were around a Drake’s strength. And both were actually decently fit, not overweight. They didn’t hurry.
But to Lyonette’s surprise, they got the job done. Kevin was actually more motivated than Joseph, who had gone from pleasant intoxication to something of a hangover. The young man was from…California. Erin had described him as a ‘stoner dude’. Which was uncharitable, but Kevin had that vibe, Ryoka and Erin could agree on.
