“…I am Grimalkin of Pallass. Who might you be?”
“I am T—Grand Magus Eldavin. I apologize; I have just arrived in this inn via Celum. I was inspecting this…door. And you are a [Sinew Magus]. Fascinating. I didn’t think that anyone in this world still practiced physical enchantments anymore.”
The half-Elf’s eyes lit up on seeing Grimalkin. He inspected the Drake, much like a [Scholar] looking at a particularly interesting sample. Grimalkin huffily drew himself up.
“My field is underappreciated, but I’ve been working in it for the last three decades. Who might you be? Grand Magus Eldavin? I don’t recall hearing…”
He paused, narrowing his eyes. The Drake actually…did…remember that name. somewhere. They’d never met; he never forgot a body type. But didn’t Wistram’s roster include…?
The Grand Magus’s eyes flickered.
“I was formerly of Wistram’s Council of Magi. But I have not been to the Academy in over a hundred years. I do not recall your name. But I have been—sequestered of late. Tell me—does this doorway lead to Pallass? Unsecured?”
Grimalkin opened and closed his jaws. Over a hundred…? Half-Elves. He nodded, brusquely, eying the hallway behind the Grand Magus. He would have stepped through and told the man he was busy—but Grimalkin was reluctant to do so. He answered politely, instead.
“We are in a holding cell. Hardly unsecured.”
“If you say so.”
The half-Elf’s brows rose with clear disdain for the ‘holding cell’. Grimalkin bristled—although he saw the point—then stopped. He looked Eldavin up and down.
“You, sir, have excellent musculature. I’m sorry, but I have to bring that up. I’ve hardly ever seen such optimal distribution of muscle mass in most [Warriors], let alone a fellow [Mage].”
“Oh? Well, thank you. It isn’t much.”
The Grand Magus seemed pleased. He regarded his body as if he hadn’t even noticed. Grimalkin’s attention was drawn to his midsection. He could see the abdominal muscles there.
“Do you…exercise, sir?”
“Not often. I seldom leave my c—research laboratories. Did you say your name was Grimalkin? Ah, of Pallass, yes. Interesting. You’ve written a number of papers…”
The half-Elf was suddenly distracted, as if he in turn was recalling information—or probably, consulting magical notes. Grimalkin bowed his head slightly. He walked into The Wandering Inn, motioning at the Pallassian [Guards] behind him.
“You…don’t maintain your form, sir? Perhaps you have another class? [Blademaster] or…?”
Half-Elves were an eccentric lot. But Eldavin just shrugged. He stroked his beard, eying Grimalkin up and down.
“Not at all. My…class…is solely that of [Grand Magus]. Hrm, yes. I maintain my athleticism via spell, naturally. Exercise, however commendable, is too much of a waste of time. How fascinating. You are certainly a specimen of physical prowess yourself.”
Grimalkin’s jaw dropped. He replied, faintly.
“You maintain your form by spell?”
“Obviously. Form-shaping spells, spells to build muscle—”
The Grand Magus waved the idea away as if it were too elementary for consideration. Then he noticed Grimalkin’s stare.
“Er…they are elementary, aren’t they?”
“N—I mean to say, I prefer working out physically, but—they are not in my lexicon of spells, Grand Magus.”
Grimalkin replied weakly. Eldavin frowned and scratched at his beard. He muttered into it.
“Dratted hair. I should have gone bald…is spellcraft really that behind? Physical enhancements were far more complete in my day. Do you not know any form shaping spells?”
“…I have a few Skills. Sir. Uh—may I ask what your business is here?”
Grimalkin found himself humbly squaring his shoulders. The [Grand Magus] couldn’t be serious. But—half-Elves. He had white hair, which meant he was at least two hundred years old. Feor wasn’t nearly as old-looking! Or in such exemplary shape! Eldavin just waved this off. He eyed Grimalkin worriedly, coughed into one hand and replied with an innocent tone.
“Purely a coincidence. Young…Drake. Form shaping is the fundamental nature of necromancy and flesh magic. Blood magic to some extent, but that is too sacrificial…ah, but I recall now. Your academic works are quite interesting. Hardly novel, but studious. Well done.”
He nodded to Grimalkin in a grandfatherly way, smiling proudly from one [Scholar] to another. The Grand Magus went on as Grimalkin had to lean against a wall.
“It doesn’t surprise me that you lack form shaping spells. Exercise is all very well, but for we mages, well, it can be a waste of time, can it not? When a spell can do the work of running up and down a mountain…we may lack Skills, but we have sorcery. I would advise you to travel a bit. Inquire into A’ctelios Salash, other colonies of necromantic or blood magic. Khelt as well…they have experts in the field. The [Flesh Shapers] of A’ctelios are quite adept.”
“I…see. But surely exercise has its own merits? Sir?”
Grimalkin saw someone coming through the door behind him. Watch Captain Venim, to investigate these claims that a Drake had been part of the Bloodfeast raiders. But suddenly that was a secondary concern to Grimalkin. Even Erin herself—no—wait. The Solstice Effect. This must be…
“May I ask how you came to be here, sir? Did you meet a young woman? Erin Solstice?”
“I may have. The name is familiar…hm. No, I am just here out of curiosity. As to your question—exercise is a physical virtue. It builds willpower, muscle memory—but sorcery compensates for the sheer…muscular growth and such. As I’m sure you know. Like the [Shapeshifters] of old would tell you, the body is eternally mutable. Still, a valiant effort on reintroducing the physical school of magic.”
He patted Grimalkin on the shoulder. The Drake looked at Eldavin. Reintroducing? He blinked a few times.
“I—yes, sir. C-could I trouble you for more of an explanation on—everything?”
Eldavin’s face grew troubled, and suddenly, wary.
“Er—of course. Quite something to meet another [Mage] here. Ahem. Indeed. But this is all public knowledge, surely.”
“Not to me. Are you…familiar with my studies on Drathian cultures?”
“…Pills? I have no objections against using their tinctures. Quite remarkable, aren’t they?”
“Yes, yes. Er—apologies, let me get a notepad…”
The half-Elf found himself sitting in the common room as the suddenly very polite Drake hurried to escort him to a table. Pulled out a chair, ordered food, asking the Dragon what he wanted.
“I could sit for a few moments.”
Teriarch muttered through Eldavin’s voice, enjoying the attention. He chuckled as a menu was brought over.
“How delightful. What is this? Hamburger? Is it…pork? I should enjoy myself, yes. And how cheap.”
He was looking at the ice cream’s prices. And the young Drake was so attentive. Teriarch decided he could pontificate about the basics of physical magic. He stroked his beard, and then looked up.
“…Is that Drake naked?”
Saliss danced past him, laughing. He looked around, merry. And then the Named Rank Drake did a double-take as, through a window, Mrsha leapt off the roof.
 
—-
 
“Mrsha! Come back!”
A dozen people ran after Mrsha. But she was running. She leapt out her window, ran down the edge of the roof, then jumped down. She landed with a splut on the ground, ran past the outhouses. The largest one opened. And Moore walked out, adjusting his belt.
“Moore! Stop Mrsha!”
Erin shouted from the roof. The half-Giant looked up, saw Pisces and Ryoka leaping off the roof—and then Mrsha running around him. He bent down, and grabbed Mrsha.
“What’s wrong, Mrsha? Are you being naughty?”
The half-Giant looked anxiously at Mrsha. He saw her wriggling, desperately trying to get away. Then he looked up. His jaw dropped.
“Ryoka Griffin?”
His grip loosened just enough for Mrsha to crawl over his hand. She leapt away and Moore grabbed for her and missed. Mrsha ran down the hill.
She didn’t know why. She just knew—it was too much. Ryoka was there. But she had been gone. She had left Mrsha, and Mrsha had just stopped remembering her. Crying at night, thinking Ryoka had left her because she was a Doombringer.
Happy and sad. So strongly of each that she couldn’t bear either emotion. Mrsha leapt down the hill. She heard Ryoka call out after her, but she was going to run to the cave and hide forever—
The wind blew. Mrsha, leaping down the hill, felt it blowing around her. It tugged at her fur. And then—howled.
A gale of rushing air howled around Mrsha, drowning out the howl in her head. She blinked, eyes wide, as the wind slowed her fall. Then—began to blow her up.
It was so powerful. The Gnoll felt herself flying up. She heard Moore’s exclamation of surprise. Mrsha turned in the air, flailing her paws in confusion. She felt the wind. She was a [Druid], and the wind was part of nature.
But someone was calling out to it. Asking—pleading for it to carry Mrsha back up the hill. So strongly—more strongly than a spell. Mrsha looked back.
And there was Ryoka Griffin. She walked towards Mrsha, holding a bit of ice in her hand that refused to melt.
A memory. Mrsha looked at the tears in Ryoka’s eyes. The angry slap marks on her face where Lyonette had hit her.
The City Runner caught Mrsha gently. The wind blew around them as Erin, dangling from the roof’s edge as Yvlon held onto one arm, stared. Pisces, who had been poised to grab Mrsha, looked at Ryoka, stunned. Her friends saw the Wind Runner of Reizmelt clasp Mrsha to her chest, and only then did the little whirlwind dissipate.
“I’m sorry, Mrsha. I’m so sorry for running away. It was all my fault. I didn’t want to hurt you. But I shouldn’t have gone without telling you.”
It came out of Ryoka in a rush. She hugged Mrsha tight—and then released her. Ryoka held her apart from her body, as if fearing the intimacy.
Mrsha looked up at Ryoka. She smelled of blood and ash. And something foreign. Gold? She smelled of beef and tea and sweat, and the wind. And of guilt.
She looked like sorrow. She looked tired. Older. And so very sad. Mrsha balled up her little paws into fists. She raised one and Ryoka waited.
But Mrsha had felt bad when Lyonette hit Ryoka. She couldn’t. She didn’t know if she wanted to. She wanted—
The little Gnoll’s eyes filled with tears. Where have you been? She tried to ask Ryoka that. But the City Runner didn’t understand her sign language. She just bent over Mrsha, repeating the same words.
“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry…”
She could be so angry. She deserved to be angry. Mrsha looked up at Ryoka. And she felt it. All the loss—of Ryoka, the one who had saved her from the Goblin Lord—leaving her. When she needed Ryoka.
As much as Lyonette. As much as Erin. She had a mother. But Ryoka—there were no words that described what they were to each other. They had been there when Mrsha’s world ended. And Ryoka had left.
Her anger was righteous. Justified. But—oh, how could you be so angry at someone—
And love them so much? Perhaps it was that. Mrsha reached out. She took Ryoka’s cheek, and pinched it gently. Just to make sure Ryoka was real. At the same time, Mrsha pinched her cheek. She felt the small bit of pain. And knew.
Then she decided what she wanted to do. Solemnly, the little Gnoll put her paws on Ryoka’s shoulder. And looked up at her. The silly, crying Runner looked at her. Mrsha looked into Ryoka’s eyes. She shook her head. She pointed at Ryoka, sternly.
You are not forgiven. You did a bad thing.
The young woman understood that, or enough. She waited. Mrsha looked at her. Then she said the second half.
I’m happy you’re back.
She hugged Ryoka, squeezing her arms around Ryoka’s neck and shoulders. Burying her head in Ryoka’s chest. And crying too.
She came back.
Erin, dangling from the roof, watched as the little Gnoll hugged Ryoka. She started hiccupping with emotion. At the same time, she heard a sniff from above.
Yvlon’s eyes were swimming too. Ceria looked a bit emotional, but not close to tears. Yvlon on the other hand?
“Yvlon, you’re getting emotional.”
“No I’m not. It’s just—touching. Why aren’t you crying?”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] raised one hand to object to Ceria. The other went to wipe at her eyes. To do that—she absently let go of Erin.
“Aaah—”
The two adventurers heard a thump from below. Bird peered out of his third-floor tower.
“Oh. Miss Ryoka. She is back. Are you alive, Erin?”
He heard a curse from below. Bird nodded and sat in his tower, humming. All was well in the world. Or it would be. The [Hunter] looked up at the sun as he put an arrow to the bow. And he sang, his cheerful voice lingering as those below rejoiced.
“La, la. It is a glorious today. All our friends come back from far away. Unless they are dead. But they are alive in my head. Today, our friends come back to the inn. So I will sing. Happiness is today. Tomorrow may be sad, but I do not think of tomorrow. So I am always glad.”
 
—-
 
There was so much to say. So many reunions. And Mrsha would not let go of Ryoka. Like Erin—only, the Gnoll had more perseverance. She sat on Ryoka’s shoulders, paws tight around Ryoka’s head. Refusing to let go.
No one could blame her. And if—Lyonette notably, and Griffon Hunt were cooler to Ryoka, many were not. And there were stories to tell.
“New arms. Same Yvlon.”
The [Armsmistress] smiled as she flexed one arm. Ryoka just gaped as Yvlon dragged over a table one-handed. She looked at Ceria. The half-Elves eyes were different.
Ksmvr and Pisces were the same, at least. But so much was changed. Octavia bounced around the table.
“Ryoka, hey Ryoka! Guess what?”
“Hi, Octavia. Who is…this?”
“This is Numbtongue! He’s a part of the inn. You never met him! You missed—the Goblin Lord and…Numbtongue, this is Ryoka.”
“Hey.”
The Hobgoblin stared blankly at Ryoka. Her mouth opened and closed. She had seen Laken taking Goblin prisoners with all that entailed. And Erin had—she looked at Erin.
“Is this—uh—is—is this a Toren scenario, Erin?”
She tried to be oblique, but Erin’s face instantly fell. The others winced. Numbtongue gave Ryoka a cold look. The [Bard] thought about it, raised a finger, and walked off. He was rather pleased about that. Mrsha smacked the back of Ryoka’s head.
“No, it’s not. But you warned me about Toren. Numbtongue’s cool. I—met Toren again. Right before the inn was destroyed.”
“What?”
Ryoka sat up, alarmed. Erin tried to explain.
“Don’t worry. He’s dead. I’m almost positive—we found bone dust. And that was when the inn collapsed…oh. You didn’t know about that. But that wasn’t Toren, that was the Crelers.”
“The what?”
