Ryoka did. Garia’s clothing was more revealing. She looked—confident. Definitely fit, although she had been before, just not…like this. But she was so changed. Ryoka felt uneasy. This was the work of the system. She forced a smile and Garia didn’t seem to notice.
“That’s…great. Really—”
“Hey! Get off the field!”
Wailant shouted at his daughter and Ryoka. Garia tugged Ryoka to one side.
“Come on. We have to talk.”
And there was another team. Fals and Wailant and Numbtongue passing the ball to each other. Selys was cheering from the walls.
“Go Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] was one of the better players on the field. He wove around Beza, kicked the ball—Selys jumped up and down, cheering. And Hawk glowered. He looked at Selys—then at Pisces. His eyes narrowed and his rabbit ears lowered.
“Hold on, I’m going to play.”
He leapt from the walls. Pisces, running with the ball again, saw a flash. The Courier was there, standing in front of him. He snagged the ball, kicking it away from Pisces. And then he ran after the ball, faster than it was moving, and kicked it a second time.
It went straight past Yvlon. The crowd went wild as Pisces and Hawk looked at each other silently. Selys bit her tongue from the walls.
“Oh wow. This is going to be the game of the day!”
Joseph looked at Hawk, who had to be on the team now. Bevussa was looking about. She pointed.
“Hey! We want Typhenous for goal keeper!”
She caught Typhenous, who was shutting down almost every goal with his semi-legal Forceshield he’d borrowed from Ksmvr. The others protested.
“If you get him—we want—Numbtongue! And you! That Gnoll!”
Ceria, with Ksmvr, Yvlon, Pisces, Joseph—feeling distinctly understrength against the dream team of Relc, Jelaqua, Bevussa, Hawk, Seborn, Typhenous—pointed at one of the faster Gnolls.
Wilovan looked up. So did Numbtongue. They walked over and the Gnoll adjusted his hat.
“I must confess, I’m new to this game, Miss. But if I’m called upon, a gentleman doesn’t refuse a lady’s request.”
He smiled toothily. Ceria blinked at him. Typhenous paled as the teams took shape. The first kick came from Yvlon—Bevussa kicked the ball straight at Hawk. The Courier kicked the ball at the goal—then blazed forwards and kicked the ball again.
It went straight past Moore, who’d taken up the position. Hawk raised his hand and the crowd cheered. Selys just glared at him from the walls.
“Show off.”
“It looks like our B-team might be failing against so many fast players! That’s Hawk up the there—”
Drassi was waving her tail back and forth as Relc tried to tail-slap the ball. He shouted in pain.
“Oh, Ancestors! My tail!”
Even so, his team scored again. Jelaqua raced past Ceria, headed the ball towards the goal—and Seborn appeared out of the air, kicked the ball, and vanished again.
“Seborn! This isn’t fair!”
Moore protested as the other team scored. There was another groan.
“We need reinforcements! Who can we get to help?”
Ceria looked around. Yvlon shook her head.
“I’m too slow. Get—Briganda? Halrac? Halrac! Switch with Moore!”
The [Scout], sitting on the walls, shook his head. The B-team looked around. Ceria spread her arms.
“Hey! Give us Relc!”
“No way!”
“Do you wanna play?”
Erin was sitting on the walls. The Dragon looked at her. Grand Magus Eldavin just sniffed.
“I don’t like running about. However, I am enjoying myself. Another bucket of…this.”
He handed Erin an empty popcorn bucket. She looked at him and sighed.
It looked like it was going to be a one-sided game on the B-team’s side. Pisces was glaring at Hawk, ready to take on the other team. But Ksmvr looked around and brightened.
“Ah. Quality members of our team. Captain Ceria, please remove yourself.”
“Ksmvr!”
The half-Elf looked at him, hurt. The Antinium innocently spread his three arms.
“But Captain Ceria, we wish to win—look.”
Here. They. Came. Bevussa looked up.
“Uh oh.”
Grimalkin of Pallass looked across the games. He wrote a little note.
“Incredible. I nearly have all the pieces—are you quite well, Saliss?”
“Never better.”
The nude Drake folded his arms. He looked around for Teriarch. The Dragon gave him a nod. The Drake sniffed, then his eyes lit up.
Wing Commander Embria looked across the field at her father. 4th Company stood on the walls. Those of them not queued to play.
“Go, commander!”
They cheered. Relc pointed at his daughter.
“Hey! You’re supposed to be on my side!”
“It’s looking more even…and who is this?”
Someone tapped Pisces on the shoulder as the [Necromancer] tried to figure out how to stall Hawk, who was faster than even Bevussa.
“Excuse me. My wife insists I show off. May I join you?”
A somewhat resigned man smiled at Pisces. The [Necromancer] jerked back—and then eyed Thomast up and down. The [Chevalier] stared at a screaming [Lady] on the walls.
“Thomast! Win for me!”
Bethal Walchaís shouted and screamed. Maviola’s eyes narrowed.
“My money!”
She ran off. And the game began. Hawk sprinted at the ball—and Pisces and Thomast appeared in front of him. The [Chevalier] smiled—and a copy of him appeared. Hawk blinked and it vanished. The real Thomast somewhat awkwardly kicked the ball, blurred after it, and shot it at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin and [Chevalier] eyed each other—then Relc ran over Numbtongue.
“Foul!”
The cry went up and Joseph had to explain what a penalty shot was to everyone. Drassi ran down the stairs and Sir Relz and Noass followed.
“Excuse me! This is our broadcast—we haven’t even named this game! Excuse me, young Drake!”
The [Commentator] finally wrestled the orb away from Drassi. He turned back to the audience and gave them his best smile.
“Now, with some proper, relaxed commentary…Miss? May I ask you your thoughts on the game? What is this sport called, perchance?”
He walked over at a slow pace to Erin, who was cheering. Instantly, [Messages] of complaint began flooding the show and Drassi would soon have the scrying mirror again. But by now, people were watching. They saw Erin shouting.
“What? Oh—this game is called soccer—”
 
—-
 
“Football!”
Daly, the Bushrangers, and every member of the United Nations screamed. They stood around the scrying orb, pointing.
“It’s football! It’s one of us!”
Paige was screaming. She looked at the viewpoint switched to Joseph, the ‘creator’ of the game. Geneva was frozen as Paige hugged her, forgetting their enmity. Daly just stared as the game began.
“Fucking hell! Look at them go!”
The Garuda was diving out of the skies, kicking the ball her teammates launched up. And the ant-man was leaping after her, like a grasshopper. A young man in robes shot after the ball, disappearing and reappearing five feet ahead with each step. He beat a rabbit-man to the ball, passed it.
“Joseph! Go!”
Drassi shouted. Siri grabbed Kirana’s shoulder.
“Joseph.”
“I have his name. I am sending a [Message]. Or should we wait?”
Ken looked at Aiko and the others. They were all consumed. Luan’s hands were clenched.
“Go for it!”
He shouted at Joseph. The young man was charging down the field. And there came that giant of a Drake. Relc had dodged Grimalkin and the Gecko was speeding at Joseph.
Stronger, bigger, faster. How did you beat that? Perhaps—with practice. Skill. Joseph turned. And the ball moved as if it was glued to his feet. He went around Relc, who charged right into Numbtongue.
“Foul again! B-Team has the ball!”
The female Drake called into the scrying orb. But it wasn’t her that they were looking at. Across the world—those Earthers with access to a scrying orb stared.
 
—-
 
“That’s soccer.”
Richard commented. He heard hysterical laughter. Tom was laughing. Lord Hayvon was speaking urgently to one of his servants. Richard looked at the others.
“They’re out there.”
The [Knight] stood up.
 
—-
 
“How did Montressa and Bezale not report this?”
Nailihuaile shouted at the others in her faction. She pointed at the scrying orb.
“There they are! Tell them this is a disaster! We want them contained! I want them here—now!”
“Football!”
Aaron stared longingly at the pickup game. He itched to play. Look at them move!
“Straight up!”
Saliss shouted. He booted the ball up as the naked Drake wove around the others playing. Bevussa wove. She kicked—Aaron heard an exclamation. The Garuda fell to earth.
“Oh no! I think Bevussa’s injured! Hold on! We’re getting closer!”
“She’s just faking it.”
The other Earthers in Wistram were clustered around the scrying orb. Shoving even the [Mages] out of the way to see. Elena was nodding—and then she inhaled. Aaron turned pale.
“Ooh.”
The Garuda’s foot was broken. Her light bones had hit the soccer ball at the wrong angle. Her team urgently waved.
“[Healer]! Healer!”
“Clear the field! Healing! Emergency! Emergency!”
A team of Antinium raced across the field, holding a stretcher. Pawn led a group of Painted Antinium. The Archmages were having conniptions. Feor strode towards Nailihuaile, pointing at Pawn as he put a hand on Bevussa, carrying her to safety.
“Why are they in Celum!? They cannot have Earthers. Archmage Naili, Archmage Viltach, I propose we order all agents to make sure the guests are taken.”
“Agreed. And Grand Magus Eldavin—perhaps that’s why he’s here.”
Viltach stared at the game of soccer. Plans were running through Wistram. But they were only parts of what was happening.
 
—-
 
“Oh shit. They’re not faking.”
Greg stared at Bevussa being carried off the field as a very fit young Runner took her place. Garia Strongheart took over for Typhenous, who was exiled for reasons of using the Forceshield. She waved at Ryoka.
“Hey Greg? Shut up. We’re watching.”
Cara, the Queen of Pop, stared at the scrying orb in their trailer. She looked up.
“Joseph in Celum. Or Liscor. He’s there. Send a [Message] spell before Wistram gets their fucking fingers all over him.”
The world was coming together. And it was all turning on the Human, the Crazy Human of Liscor. Obviously—
Joseph. Who else could it be? The young man kicked the ball at Garia. She turned, set herself—and punched the ball.
 
—-
 
It was already going fast. Garia hit it perfectly. The [Martial Artist]’s blow made Orjin smile. Pomle’s warriors were clustered around the one scrying orb in the entire nation.
“Ooh.”
Salii winced as the ball shot forwards. It hit Pisces in the chest as the [Necromancer] raced forwards. The young man looked like Palt had kicked him in the chest. He landed on his back and stopped moving.
“He just broke three ribs. Fractured, at least. Good punch.”
One of the other [Martial Artists] commented. The stretcher came out again.
“Good job, teammate!”
Hawk ran over, beaming, to high-five an aghast Garia. Selys shouted insults at him. But the goalie’s actions were fair. Even Pomle watched.
 
—-
 
“Maybe protective spells on the players?”
Montressa was debating with Typhenous and Bezale. She was laughing, hair mussed up. And Beatrice saw her friend—Montressa—waving at Ceria.
It was all coming together. Like a tidal wave, the world was turning. And it might not have been his fault.
But there sat the Dragon. Magnolia Reinhart would see him in the scrying orb. Wistram would wonder. He sat there, setting fire to the best laid plans.
Maviola El laughed. She had chased Bethal down and after a scrap—had her money. And perhaps Bethal’s. The other [Lady] had lost the brief tussle.
Although both had wounds. Maviola had a cut on one cheek. Bethal had nails like razors. The [Lady Firestarter] laughed and laughed. This was worth it! All of it!
“I have to play with Olesm. This game. How have I never heard of it? How—”
She turned. And then her face went gray. Maviola stumbled, felt a pain in her arms, legs—her heart was beating too fast. She looked down and her hands were wrinkled.
“No—”
The [Lady] reached for her belt. Her hands were shaking. She plucked a glowing viridian vial from her belt. Opened it. Drank, begging the potion to—
The shaking stopped. Maviola lay on the ground, licking the vial, letting every last drop fall into her mouth. She stood up, panting.
“Three weeks.”
That was all she said. Her heart began to beat normally again. She took another breath. Then walked out, to make the most of her time. It was worth it.
Ratici emerged from The Wandering Inn to see Wilovan running. The Gentleman Caller was a big Gnoll. But he moved with an agility that fooled even Relc. He kicked the ball—and Garia kicked it back. The [Thug] dodged the deadly projectile as it shot down the pitch. He caught his hat.
“I say, what a lovely sport this is.”
He was smiling. The others were laughing. Erin clapped her hands—and Ryoka grabbed her. The City Runner’s face was white.
“Erin.”
“What? This is great! Garia’s so good, Ryoka—”
“Erin, this is being broadcast. Live!”
Ryoka pointed. Erin turned. Only then did she see Sir Relz, Noass. She hadn’t realized. No—she’d been on the scrying orb. But she’d been so caught up in the excitement and they’d been here before. She didn’t see the problem at first. Ryoka put it into clarity with one word.
“Wistram. This is soccer! Football! Damn it, whichever! They know!”
Erin Solstice went pale. She looked at Joseph.
“No. But—”
Like this? She’d been careful! She’d tried to be! She’d made deals with Montressa, and Beza—
But both [Mages] were speaking urgently as they raised their fingers to their temples. And they were looking around. Montressa met Erin’s eyes.
The air froze between them as Montressa looked away. Erin stood up. Suddenly—she was afraid.
“What do we do?”
“It’s too late to stop the broadcast. Erin, get out of sight. I can’t be heard! If they hear my voice—”
Ryoka was panting with nerves. What did this mean? What would happen? She hadn’t even witnessed the kidnap attempt of the Horns of Hammerad. Erin had. She clenched her fists.
“No. What do I do? What…”
She looked around. Suddenly afraid. Not knowing what she could do against this. The Academy. The sudden revelation. She turned. Ryoka was looking for help. Perhaps Fierre could…?
Erin ran too. Looking for someone to help her. For Grand Mage Eldavin, or—
And there he was. She looked for him, and he was just standing there.
Having a quiet rollup as he watched the games. A smile on his face. Palt turned as the [Innkeeper] ran up to him.
“Palt!”
He looked at her. The words spilled from Erin’s mouth. Her fears, the Earthers being revealed. The Centaur looked at her.
