Ekirra was very proud of the ball, when he didn’t think about how many balls Mrsha had, and how special they were. His face alternated between happy and hurt as he thought about the inequalities.
“Huh. That’s a lot. It’s a great ball.”
“Yes it is! Do you want to play? She’s bad.”
The Gnoll practically pleaded. He pointed at Drassi. The Drake stuck her tongue out.
“Brat.”
“Where’s the shop that made the ball? Can you tell me?”
Joseph felt at his coin pouch. He’d sold the steel sword he’d been given. But he still had…Ekirra shrugged.
“It’s down Sailtclaw way.”
“…Where’s that?”
“If you go left when you go through the door—then you go straight, and then left—and then past the shop that smells like fish—”
Ekirra had terrible directions. But Joseph listened closely. He stood up as Drassi hopefully turned to him.
“Hey Joseph, if you want to help out, I could really use someone to play with Ekirra…”
“Sorry, I’ve got to go. I’ll be back in a bit.”
The young man hurried out the door. Drassi stared at his back as Ekirra wandered over to Visma, who was applying makeup. Drassi threw up her hands and looked around.
“Useless Humans! I told you. It fits, right, Ishkr? Ishkr?”
“Keep playing.”
The Gnoll advised Drassi. The Drake groaned. But she was wrong. Because one of her ‘useless Humans’ no longer looked quite so useless. He walked through Liscor, to a shop that sold leather balls stitched together of all sizes. They were light, and if this world hadn’t yet managed to create ones as lightweight as home—they could at least inflate a few bladders and slap some leather around them.
The young man looked into the shop and the Gnoll [Leatherworker] looked up. Joseph stared at the display. He felt at his belt pouch. And—he had to make one more little mistake. He winced.
“…Can you charge it to The Wandering Inn?”
 
—-
 
Lyonette got the Street Runner’s bill about the same time as Joseph got back to the inn, holding a large ball. She snapped.
“Joseph! You cannot buy—what is that?”
She stared at the large sphere in Joseph’s arms. It was the largest ball the shop sold. Lightweight. Joseph bounced it. Not as bouncy as…but it was nearly the right size.
“I’ll pay you back. I’ll work. Sorry. I really am. But I had to get this.”
“A ball? Mrsha has tons! Just borrow one of those!”
“They’re too small. This—is perfect. Hey, Ekirra. Do you want to play?”
The Gnoll looked up. Lyonette hesitated as she saw Joseph bouncing the ball on the ground. And she sensed it. She closed her mouth, looked around.
“Not inside.”
“Right. We’ll break everything. Is there anywhere flat to play?”
Joseph looked around distractedly. Lyonette had to think.
“…Not in Liscor. There’s the diamond, but they’re playing baseball there. The only other place is in…”
She hesitated.
“Celum. We could send you through. But Ekirra should stay here…”
“What if we’re just outside the walls? Is that okay?”
There were adventurers and all kinds of people in Celum. Lyonette slowly nodded. She was exasperated at Joseph. And yet—he slammed the ball down and it popped back up to his hands. Ekirra’s ears perked up at the sound. Even Visma looked up from playtime.
“Are you…going to play a game? Like baseball?”
Lyonette asked casually, over the thumping of her heart. Joseph smiled.
“It’s a game. But it’s way better than baseball.”
 
—-
 
There was something logical about it. Just…it made sense. From baseball to a little Gnoll, and a Human and a few watchers from the inn, including Lyonette, watching them standing in the grass outside Celum.
Parts of it were burned. And the city was destroyed. Joseph looked at the ruined houses. He couldn’t fix them. He couldn’t even fix his habit.
But this? This he knew. He kicked the round ball and it rolled across the grass, under a summer’s sun. Ekirra picked it up.
“No, kick it back. See?”
Clumsily, standing on two legs, the Gnoll tried. Joseph made an encouraging sound as he ran to catch the ball with one foot. He kicked it back. The Gnoll ran on all fours after it.
“Don’t touch it with your hands! Paws! Whatever. You have to kick it! Or use your head if it’s in the air.”
Joseph called back. Ekirra’s ears perked up. There were rules. The young man knew what he was talking about. Ekirra leaned back and gave the ball a mighty kick.
He was small. But he was still a Gnoll. Joseph saw the ball flying and his eyes widened. He moved—not with a [Warrior]’s battle-honed reflexes, but with something else.
Lyonette saw the young man turn, run, and intercept the ball with his chest. It bounced off, he caught the ball on one foot, and lobbed it back.
“Nice kick!”
Ekirra’s tiny mouth gaped open. So did Lyonette’s. That was so—natural. And Joseph had done it? But he was grinning.
“Hey, how’d you do that?”
Drassi protested weakly. Joseph saw another ball coming his way. He blocked it with a leg, gave it a kick back—so Ekirra had to chase after it, laughing. He grinned.
“Pass me Ekirra’s ball?”
Drassi tossed it at him. Joseph rolled it onto one foot, kicked it up. He gently kicked the ball as it came down, kicked it up, juggling it.
“I played all the time back home. There’s a game that uses a ball just like this. See?”
He kicked the ball back into Drassi’s claws. The Drake nearly fumbled the catch. Ekirra blasted the ball at Joseph. He had to shoulder-block it with a grunt before it hit Lyonette.
“Not so hard! Control! Let’s play!”
“How?”
“Well—we’ll go towards a goal. Let’s make one.”
The Gnoll’s ears perked up. He stared as Joseph outlined a goal against the wall.
“You shoot here, see? And I’ll block. I can use my hands if I’m a goalkeeper.”
“Okay. I shoot! Aha!”
The little Gnoll kicked. The ball soared—and Joseph dove. He blocked the ball as if his life depended on it. Ekirra saw the ball flying and ran after it.
“Nice try!”
The Spanish young man was grinning as he got up. He blocked a shot coming at the goal with his foot, booted the ball back across the field. Now Ekirra was barking with delight.
“That looks like fun. Can I try?”
Drassi perked up. She hurried over and Ekirra passed her the ball. Drassi gave a wild, but terribly inaccurate kick. The round ball bounced off one of Celum’s walls. And the sproingy sound it made—
From inside the inn, Ishkr’s ears twitched. A few Gnolls looked about.
There was a logic to it. Drassi swore as she rubbed at her feet. Joseph worriedly checked the ball.
“No claws! You’ll burst the ball. Use the inside of your foot, like this. See? You want control.”
He demonstrated to his audience. Ekirra passed the ball back. Drassi missed the ball and gave up.
“I’m not good at this game. I’ll go back to the inn and work if that’s okay.”
“Can I…trade places?”
A voice made Lyonette turn. Ishkr was watching. His tail was wagging ever so slightly. His eyes were fixed on the moving ball.
Baseball, now, baseball had a ball. And catching and throwing and hitting the ball. So of course Gnolls loved it. But Drakes loved the idea of stealing bases and controlling territory just as much. This game had…chasing.
“Sure. If that’s okay, Lyonette?”
Joseph looked at the [Princess]. She nodded to Ishkr, who never asked for breaks unless he really needed them, unlike Drassi.
“Go ahead, Ishkr. Take an hour’s break.”
“I never get an hour’s break.”
Drassi grumbled. Lyonette rolled her eyes. But she saw Ishkr take off his apron and hurry outside. Then there were three.
“There are two goals. And you try to score. You can’t go outside the lines. We don’t have a field, so let’s just play. Try to score a goal.”
“A goal! I want to kick!”
“Try passing it. So I can’t tell where it’s coming from.”
Joseph saw Ishkr pass to Ekirra, and then saw the wild kick. He was too slow to dive—but the ball missed the goal. Ekirra ran after the ball.
And there was that sound again. Leather hitting stone. More people turned.
“I’m going to kick it back! Look how far!”
The little Gnoll was having fun. Joseph shouted as Ekirra booted the ball back.
“Go back! I’ll kick it to you. You think this is far? Back! Further back!”
The Gnoll ran back. And then again, growing more excited as Joseph made him go…well…a field’s length a way. A hundred meters. Or in American feet—pointless.
Because Joseph was from Spain, which used proper measurements. Joseph backed up. It was going to be a stupidly long kick. He had little faith in his abilities to make a controlled shot. But a wild one?
He did a run up and kicked the ball as hard as he could. To his surprise, it was almost on target.
Okay—it was off by about thirty degrees. Terrible for a pass. But the ball flew. Ishkr’s head craned and his mouth opened. He began to run, instinctively pursuing the ball.
Yet it was little Ekirra who ran. Howling in delight as the ball flew hundreds of feet into the air. And heads in Celum turned, wondering what strange bird that was. People heard the laughter, the delighted howl.
Logic. Spontaneity. As Joseph called for Ekirra to kick the ball back and the Gnoll tried to repeat his feat, he realized there was an audience.
“What is this? This isn’t baseball.”
A Drake spoke, almost accusatorially. A group of people from Celum—mostly young men—were gathered on the walls. Joseph waved at them.
“No, it’s not. This is football.”
“What’s that?”
The young man grinned.
“Come down and play!”
The people on the walls hesitated. They looked as the ball soared through the air and Ishkr performed the first header in the entire world, bouncing the ball at Joseph. The young man ran after it. And then more people hurried out the gates. And there was a team.
A game.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice felt her eyes bugging out after Contact. Two movies in a row were overtaxing her eyes, which were unused to the silver screen after so much time.
“Maybe a break?”
“But this one says ‘Star Wars’.”
The Dragon pointed at the screen. Ryoka burped; she was full of snacks. Numbtongue was gobbling food, having been revealed by Mrsha. The little Gnoll was lying on her back, stuffed.
“I think we can watch later, T—Eldavin. If you have time.”
“Certainly. Can I replay that scene from earlier? This is so fascinating. What is ‘Solitaire’?”
Erin just shook her head. Who was this guy? Why did Ryoka trust him so much? She stood up.
“Let’s go outside. Lyonette might be killing the others. And I need to pee. Numbtongue, can you pick up Mrsha?”
“I can—”
Ryoka stopped as Mrsha rolled into Numbtongue’s arms. The [Bard] smirked as he put her on his shoulder and marched down the hill. Ryoka followed, awkwardly wondering what to say to the Goblin. Why did Mrsha like him—?
The Wandering Inn was empty when Ryoka and Erin and Numbtongue entered it. The young woman looked around, frowning.
“Where’s everyone? In Celum?”
She spotted a baseball glove on a table and her eyes widened.
“Oh, no way! Lyonette got the others to play baseball!”
“You brought baseball here?”
Ryoka yelped. Erin beamed. She threw open the door to her inn.
“Yup! We even have a baseball field—huh?”
She pointed at the baseball field. It was just outside of Liscor. And it was…
Empty. Erin turned to Ryoka.
“But…baseball? Where’s everyone, then?”
The City Runner shrugged. She wasn’t psychic. But Mrsha’s ears heard something. She pointed and Numbtongue turned his head. He’d heard it too.
“Lots of people cheering. Magic door.”
He pointed. Erin and Ryoka looked at each other. They walked back inside, and heard the same sound at last.
The sounds of hundreds—thousands of people shouting. In the distance, a whistle being blown. The two exchanged a glance. They walked through the door. And for once—Erin Solstice and Ryoka were too late.
Because the game was already underway.
Outside of Celum, under the sun, a team of players was running after a ball. Ryoka saw Joseph running after a large leather ball. He kicked it—and it flew.
“Don’t let him score!”
People were shouting from the walls of Celum. The ball flew towards a net. A literal fishing net attached to a wooden frame. Someone was standing in the goal posts.
Moore. The half-Giant was nervously shielding his face and the goal. But before the ball could get there, it had to get past the other team. And as it flew, someone kicked it out of the air.
Bevussa knocked the ball down. It hit the ground, and her team rushed after it. But a [Necromancer] appeared in a burst of speed. Pisces [Flash Stepped] as he kicked the ball ahead.
“Stop him!”
He was too fast! He ran around Ulinde, wearing a Gnoll’s form, and Ishkr. But then—his shadow moved.
Seborn Sailwinds leapt out of Pisces’ shadow. The [Necromancer] jerked—too late. The [Rogue] kicked the ball straight up.
“Bevussa.”
“Got it!”
The Garuda kicked the ball in the air. It soared over Joseph’s head. Straight towards the other goal. He saw the other team charging after it. But the goalie—Ceria—caught the ball.
“Throw it back!”
The half-Elf reversed the ball. But her throw was weak. It barely went anywhere. She cursed, charged out of the goal—
“Relc kiiiiiiiick!”
And the Gecko of Liscor shot forwards. He kicked the ball and it blasted past Ceria as she dove for her life. Ryoka heard groans and shouts.
“Springwalker, you idiot! You block the ball!”
Pisces shouted at Ceria. She pointed and he dove as a clump of snow shot at him.
“You try it!”
“3-2! Throw the ball back!”
Ekirra ran around the outside of the pitch, after the ball. He threw it back; Mrsha’s eyes widened as she saw his ball being played with in a smaller, kids-only game to the side. She immediately began to wiggle off Numbtongue’s shoulders.
“No way. Is that Joseph?”
“That can’t be Joseph. He’s not drunk. He’s actually moving.”
Erin and Ryoka looked at each other. And now—more people were calling out.
“Substitution! Let us play! Losing team out!”
Kevin jogged onto the field. Joseph gave him the ball and the young man grinned. Ceria threw up her hands.
“If you’d let me use [Ice Wall] again—”
“That’s cheating.”
“Yeah! Play us! No one can beat the Gecko! Yeah!”
Relc posed in the field to cheers. The new team formed up. Humans from Celum,—Kevin, Jelaqua, Bezale, Elirr—
Erin had to sit down. And she realized—many people were. Those not in Celum—no—most of the city was taking a break—were sitting on the walls. Eating.
Forgetting, for a moment. There was something blissful about focusing on the game. Kevin was pointing.
“Okay, go!”
He kicked the ball to the other team. The other players charged. Bevussa kicked the ball out of the air.
“Foul! Hey, she’s too good!”
