The Horns complained loudly as they pointed at Bevussa. Joseph was scratching his head. Football had not been designed with flying players in mind.
“Maybe—but the other players can use their Skills. See? Oh wow—”
He pointed. The ball had been caught by Kevin. He carried it up the field. And Relc was charging at him.
“Oh heck.”
Kevin kicked the ball to Jelaqua before Relc ran over him. The Selphid charged.
“Rampaging! Whoo!”
She shot forwards, faster than anyone. She booted the ball towards the goal. Moore looked up. No one was there. Jelaqua had missed—
Beza appeared out of nowhere, shedding her [Invisibility] spell as Bevussa and a Human ran after the ball. She smirked—and the Minotauress [Spellscribe] kicked the ball.
Right between Moore’s legs. The half-Giant was too slow. The others applauded and laughed.
“Invisibility is cheating!”
Relc howled in disgust.
“Not if you can use Skills! Losers out!”
Kevin shouted right back. Erin exchanged a wondering glance with Ryoka. Teriarch wandered out of the magic door.
“Where has everyone gone?”
Then he saw the game of football. Erin pointed at it. Palt was running down the field, trying to kick the ball, but the Centaur’s legs weren’t exactly good for the game. Still—he was fast. And there was Halrac. Palt passed to him—the [Scout] kicked the ball. And refused to run.
“You coward. This is a game!”
Revi jogged past him, panting. She’d switched out her body for a more athletic Revi. The [Scout] grunted and walked into the soccer goal to play defensively. Typhenous stroked his beard.
“I might want to play. What are the rules about—”
Jelaqua kicked the ball wildly and everyone ducked as it soared over Celum’s walls, just missing the spectators.
“You could break someone’s neck!”
“Sorry! This is so fun! Hey, are there more of these balls?”
The Selphid was laughing. And more people began calling out, wanting to play in their games. Joseph looked around.
“Do we have any more balls? This size?”
“We can make them. What’s special about them?”
One of the [Tailors] from Celum called out. Joseph pointed.
“It has to be lightweight. Strong—hey! Kick the ball back!”
He shouted at the people on the walls. Someone shouted.
“Coming back!”
The ball flew through the air, high into the sky. People ran after it—
And then something hit the ball. Everyone looked up as the ball fell out of the skies. It landed on the ground, suddenly, deflated.
There was an arrow in it.
Everyone turned to the Antinium on the walls. Bird held his bow behind his back.
“…I thought it was a bird.”
“No!”
Joseph was heartbroken. The other players clustered around as Erin promptly confiscated Bird’s bow and put him in no-hunting timeout for three days. But then a group of [Mages] strode up.
“Quite the pickle, yes? But if we cast [Repair]—hm. That fixes the tear.”
Typhenous tapped the ball. The rip repaired, but the deflated ball didn’t fix itself. Montressa rolled her eyes.
“You’re talking to an [Aegiscaster], Mister Typhenous. Allow me.”
She poked her wand into the ball, whispering a spell to cut the fabric. Then she blew air into the ball.
“[Orb of Air]. That makes it tight—”
“Hold on, too tight and it’ll blow!”
Joseph cried out. Montressa smirked. The inflated ball began to glow.
“[Fortified Material: Steel]. Don’t worry, it makes it strong as steel, not as hard. If you would?”
“[Repair].”
Typhenous tapped the ball. It fixed itself. Then, Montressa bounced the ball. It was more buoyant than before. The [Aegiscaster] looked around.
“We can make it better. [Featherweight]!”
She touched the ball. And when she tossed it at Joseph, it flew. He grabbed the ball. Then kicked it straight up.
Everyone stared up into the sky. The ball soared up…Ryoka’s head stayed back.
“Holy shit.”
“That’s too light! Oh my god.”
Joseph was laughing with shock and awe. Montressa shrugged.
“I can adjust how light it gets. Isn’t lighter better?”
“You could kick that a thousand feet! Joseph, why can’t we play with one of those? Can you make more, Mons?”
Kevin excitedly looked at the [Aegiscaster]. She puffed out her chest.
“Sure. Just get me a ball and I’ll enchant it! It won’t last unless I do rune work, but—go ahead!”
A second ball was produced. The first one began flying about, with the [Featherweight] enchantment removed. Erin laughed as she saw Halrac grumpily block a ball.
“Go Halrac! This is a game!”
“Dead gods, we have to broadcast this! Anyone have a scrying orb?”
Someone exclaimed from the side. Erin didn’t hear, nor did Ryoka. They were following Mrsha onto the field, laughing. But so it began.
One event after another.
Wilovan, watching from the side, found himself being tugged into one of the scrimmage games. Joseph was organizing the tournament. The top players from each team would keep playing each other. Bevussa, Jelaqua—Pisces smoothed his hair and nudged Ksmvr. Yvlon decided she was better as a goal-keeper.
The games began, three at once. Wilovan refused to take off his hat as he and Ryoka took a team against Relc, Olesm, Krshia—
They were all there. Maviola was laughing as she ran over to join Olesm’s team. Everyone was focused on the games. And Sir Relz was interrupting Noass’ broadcast on art.
“I think we have a new broadcast. Excuse me—if you’re just watching, we have—what is this? Something from Celum? Not the Bloodfeast Raiders—”
Ratici quietly stood in The Wandering Inn. Alone, but for a few staff members hurrying into the kitchen. He walked upstairs, not invisible or camouflaged.
Just casually. As if he belonged there. The [Thief] adjusted his cap as he found the room he’d scouted out.
“Here we are, sir. Are you listening?”
“Yes.”
The voice was tense from other end of the communication spell. Ratici bent over the board. He concentrated.
“Let’s see, sir. You vouchsafed the combination to me as something like this: Pawn to A1—Knight to E6—a curious combination, sir. What’s a pawn?”
“The…small pieces. Do you not play chess?”
The voice was frustrated. Important, but Ratici liked to chat, even to the rich and powerful. He wasn’t lesser than them. The [Thief] bent to his task, speaking casually.
“Insofar as I have time off, no, sir. Not my sort of game. Ah—there we are.”
He heard a sharp breath on the other end. The board’s pieces were rearranged to a completely innocuous pattern, like a chess game someone else played. But—the key to the pudding was something on the other end, Ratici was certain.
“Tallman, sir?”
“It—it’s a match. It’s good. And you’re sure that this—this—room belongs to her?”
“Young woman. Female. Human. ‘Bout twenty years old. [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice. Yes, sir. Her room. We’ve checked multiple times.”
“I see. Thank you. Your job is accomplished. Dead—thank you. And this is without a doubt?”
“Unless someone can fool my associate’s eyes and mine, it would be apparent that this is the case as evidenced by our eyes, sir.”
Ratici’s voice was patient. On the other end, the Titan of Baleros was silent. He stared at the magical chessboard. A copy of the one he had hired Ratici to change.
“…Put the board back to its original spot. You’re—the payment will be sent at once. Until I get there, you’re hired. Escort duty.”
He whispered. Ratici frowned.
“Begging pardon, sir, but my companion and I don’t take that sort of request—”
“I’ll double your fee.”
“Well, on the other hand, we always like new experiences. Let’s say we’ll keep an eye out, howsabout that?”
“Done. Just—good work. Remove yourself before you’re detected.”
Niers Astoragon sat back. He stared blankly at the board as Ratici hung up, grumbling about paranoid employers.
“It is true.”
He hadn’t believed it. But the Titan of Baleros…looked at the board. His hand was shaking as he reached for a glass of water.
“Time to go.”
That was all he said. And he began making plans. Until Peclir Im knocked, with a scrying orb in his hands.
“Sir? You may want to see this. Another ‘event of interest’ around Liscor.”
Niers Astoragon looked up.
“What? But I didn’t—what event?”
He looked into the scrying orb. And saw a pair of very familiar Drakes, speaking in front of…no, they were outside! Sitting on a table on a wall. And below them was…
“If you’re just tuning in, this is Sir Relz and Noass, from Pallass! Only we’re in Celum and broadcasting what I understand is an impromptu game outside of Celum! Shattered by a Bloodfeast Raider attack, these plucky Humans are raising spirits with a game of ‘kick the ball’.”
The other Drake coughed, adjusting his monocle.
“I think it has a name, Noass. Let’s see if we can talk to some of the people. You there! Miss! Can you tell us what this delightful pastime is?”
Drassi looked up. She had been cheering from the walls. The [Gossip]’s mouth fell open.
“Oh. Ancestors. Are you—how are you here? Dead gods! Sir Relz and Noass! I love your show!”
The two Drakes preened as the young [Gossip] ran over. Noass smiled at the audience.
“We came from Pallass directly. Miss, this game?”
“Right, right! It’s so amazing, isn’t it? Look! That’s my favorite team, there—”
Everyone in the world saw Pisces kicking the ball. Bevussa dove for it, but an Antinium leapt. Ksmvr made Bevussa recoil as the [Skirmisher] kicked at the ball.
“I can fly. Whee.”
The Antinium landed. The ball shot towards Halrac and Revi ran after it, battling with Kevin.
Sir Relz’s monocle nearly popped out of his eye.
“Good gracious! This is nothing like that game of—er—‘base the ball’ we observed a while ago. That was before we were doing these broadcasts, viewers. And Celum—or the area around Liscor has two such games?”
“Yes! Look at them play!”
The Drakes craned their necks. The two looked at each other. They were [Commentators]. And this deserved…Sir Relz cleared his throat as he smiled.
“I believe, Noass, this is what we were made for. I’m observing two teams here. Is that the Horns of Hammerad I see?”
“Yes, Sir Relz. Newly minted Gold-rank adventurers. After slaying that Adult Creler, battling…er…Griffon Hunt? I need to consult my notes, but certainly good adventurers! Oh—sorry—”
The ball flew down the field. Drassi danced from one foot to another as the [Commentators] fumbled for their notes. Noass raised one finger.
“As I understand it—they’re down one member. That Human…no, not part of their team.”
He squinted at Kevin. The young man had the ball and was passing to Relc. The watchers cheered as the Drake ran with the ball, roaring and swinging his fists at Pisces as the young man tried to take it.
“That would be…the Gecko of Liscor. Ah, retired, but let me just provide some historical context here…”
Relz saw Pisces take the ball. He was trying to explain about Relc’s career. Drassi eyed the two Drakes as they stumbled. She saw Noass pull out some notes. And then—she shoved Sir Relz out of his seat.
“Pisces has the ball! ”
“Young woman! We are the [Commentators] here—”
Sir Relz gasped. Drassi ignored him trying to get back into frame. She spoke urgently to the viewers, tilting the angle to get the game as Pisces raced down the field. Her speech was urgent, rapid, keeping up with the action.
“Pisces has the ball, long shot to Ksmvr, he’s taking it around Moore, and he shoots—no! Halrac’s blocked the ball! He’s tossing it back and here goes Relc again! He’s kicking from that far? Oh Ancestors!”
The ball smacked Yvlon in the chest. She went over and the audience exploded. So did Drassi, fighting the two other Drakes off.
“Goal! That’s 2-1 for the teams! And on the other field—is that Typhenous? He’s way too old to be playing goalkeeper! Someone stop him!”
She pointed. An old man had walked into the goal and was confidently leaning on his staff as Jelaqua took the ball down the pitch. The Selphid was too excited to notice him.
“Maughin, watch me!”
She was Rampaging. And she’d raced past the other players. The Selphid kicked the ball past Ryoka like a cannon’s shot. Straight at Typhenous.
“Oh no—”
The Plague Mage’s eyes glinted. He raised a hand. He was holding something.
A magical buckler.
“Forceshield.”
A small barrier of rippling air appeared. The ball hit the buckler and bounced backwards. Jelaqua gaped.
“Foul!”
Half the stands booed. The [Mage] laughed as he planted his staff in the ground. Drassi was shouting.
“It’s good! That has to be fair if they’re using Skills!”
“Cheater!”
Ryoka howled, but the wind was blowing the ball back through the air. She looked around.
Mrsha was kicking the ball, running after it on all fours, but she was less adept than the Human children her age on two legs. Ekirra on the other hand—was scoring another goal. Ryoka ducked as someone shouted.
“Incoming!”
This time it was Keldrass who set up the shot. The Drake was wearing the Heartflame Breastplate in the other goal. He hurled the ball back and a Gnoll blasted it at Typhenous. The [Mage] blocked it. He grinned. The goalie duel began in earnest as both sides abandoned going for defense and began taking shots at both goals.
Drassi kept commentating, belting out names and shifting from game to game. Noass and Relz fought her, but the [Gossip] was living her dream. Her trying to push them over the side of Celum’s walls and Relz dangling from the walls as Noass held on—was a backdrop to the games.
And more and more people were coming.
“Dead gods, are we late? I told you we had to cut the date short, Hawk!”
Selys Shivertail appeared out of the magic door, panting. She ran up the walls and gasped. Hawk grumpily followed.
“But we were having such a pleasant time—whoa.”
They stared at the games being played. Selys brightened.
“Amazing! Erin? Erin! Did you do this?”
“Not me! It was all Joseph! And Lyonette! Look!”
Joseph was organizing the next game. On one side was Bevussa, Jelaqua, Seborn, Relc—the most athletic and nimble players. Pisces was on the other side. And there—jogging onto the pitch and throwing Ryoka into a massive hug—
“Ryoka!”
Garia hugged her friend, lifting her up. Ryoka stared. Who was this?
“Do I know you?”
“It’s me! Garia!”
“Garia? But you look—”
Her friend looked unrecognizable. Ryoka stared at Garia.
“I have the [Martial Artist] class. And [Weight Control]—the Skill. I owe it all to you, Ryoka!”
“But—how—I just taught you one punch and a kick!”
“I know! You have to teach me the rest! Look at me!”
