The Dragon looked down at the two bowls. Erin was offering buttered popcorn with salt, and nutritional yeast, her personal favorite in one. Ryoka reached for the non-yeast bowl. Erin had gotten the edible yeast from her local [Fermenter], but that wasn’t the problem.
“You’re disgusting. She’s disgusting, right, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll ignored Ryoka. She was already chowing down on the yeast-bowl. Ryoka shuddered. After a moment, Teriarch copied Mrsha and took a yeast-bowl. Which left Ryoka as the only voice of popcorn-sanity.
“This is so great. I’m going to scream when I see Donk—”
“Silence. I require commentary from only one source.”
Teriarch pointed casually as the opening narration began. Erin, affronted, slapped at her mouth and then punched Eldavin’s shoulder. The Dragon’s head swiveled around.
As the two engaged in a pushing war, Ryoka felt Mrsha’s eyes lock on the images on screen. They hadn’t—talked. Not really. Just hugged. Mrsha couldn’t talk. But Ryoka, so caught up in the other introductions, had yet to speak to her.
“Mrsha.”
The Gnoll’s ears flicked up. Ryoka took a breath as someone kicked an outhouse door open. She tried to whisper into Mrsha’s ears as the song of the decade of the century began playing.
“I just wanted to tell you. The reason I—”
A furry little finger nearly went up Ryoka’s nose. Mrsha pressed it against Ryoka’s lips as the song began playing. She stared—and then began giggling. Erin and Ryoka stared at Mrsha. And then Erin began laughing too.
Shh.
The little Gnoll didn’t want to hear the reasons. Or excuses. She just sat there, resting against Ryoka. And the young woman closed her eyes and realized how much she’d missed.
The silly little movie began to play. Teriarch suspiciously looked at the other three giggling and laughing females. Then he began to smile and get into it. Until the false Dragon appeared.
And all was right in the world for a little bit.
 
—-
 
Of course, they noticed. Even Mrsha noticed. Moore, not exactly the most suspicious character, noticed.
Who was Grand Magus Eldavin? He had come out of nowhere. And he knew Ryoka Griffin.
Was he that Grand Magus, who Montressa was raving about being a former high-mage of Wistram, excellent in magic but who had retired rather than be part of the rat race? Did he really have an abode in the High Passes?
It explained so much. The implications were shaking everyone to their core. They had seen past the veil. Grimalkin was practically frothing at the mouth with all he’d been taught.
The Wistram [Mages]? Ironically, after that first outburst of [Messages] back to Wistram, they were paralyzed. Even as Archmage Naili and their faction leaders demanded an explanation, the Wistram [Mages] were suddenly afraid. You didn’t want to get in the way of a serious individual, especially retired Council [Mages].
Ah, what fools they were. The Drake wove his way through the crowd. Of course, he’d come as soon as he’d heard about the Bloodfeast Raiders.
To kill them.
But he’d been too slow. If they’d attacked Liscor, perhaps he might have made it. As it was—he felt useless. The Humans in their city were dead. He’d walked around—but there wasn’t much to be done.
Just rebuilding. And Saliss of Lights did not rebuild. He was good at destroying.
So the Drake had come back to The Wandering Inn on a hunch. For here, the magic happened. Octavia caught him as he reentered and listened to the gossip.
“A Grand Magus? Ryoka Griffin. Interesting. Barefoot Runner? I wonder if she’s a nude buddy?”
The Drake grinned. Then Octavia waved her arms, desperate, nearly in tears for anyone’s attention.
“Master Saliss! Master Saliss, I did it!”
“What? Hi, Octavia.”
The Stitch-girl [Alchemist] was too excited to stand on ceremony. She tried tugging Saliss to her workshop, newly built.
“The mold! I think it worked! It killed the bacteria stuff! Can you see? Please? Lyonette gave me—it’s secret—but it helped me! Please, Master?”
“Octavia, I’d love to.”
Saliss brightened up. He had yet to complete his tests on the magical flowers Erin had given him in such profusion—and Xif was indeed crying himself to sleep—but this was new too.
Erin’s inn had a magic Saliss wanted to bottle. He envied her. He knew something about creating miracles, but she had more talent at it than him. His idea of a ‘miracle’ was destroying a lair of Crelers and killing an Adult by himself to save a town.
There was some magic there, and it was necessary. But he liked hers better. Saliss turned as the door to the inn opened.
Two doors. Ekirra raced into the room.
“Mrsha! I have my ball! Let’s play! Let’s play!”
He howled around—and then saw all the adults. Ekirra would be sad, because Mrsha was in the Garden of Sanctuary, watching Shrek, and they had on their lineup Contact, Star Wars, all three episodes—
In grainy resolution, yes, but Kevin had okay taste. Mrsha was at that moment amped up on the movie. And the adults, Teriarch, Erin, and Ryoka were entering the inn.
“Sorry, Ekirra. Mrsha’s a bit busy—can we let him play? Ryoka? Eldavin?”
“I have little time.”
The Dragon huffed. Saliss narrowed his eyes as Octavia tried to talk about ‘multiple test cases’ and ‘cultures’ and so on. He fixed on Ryoka—then Eldavin.
“Now that’s odd.”
“Aw.. But Ekirra—can he watch?”
“No.”
Ryoka and Eldavin chorused at the same time. Erin saw Ekirra looking up pleadingly.
“Is Mrsha busy?”
“I’m so sorry, Ekirra. Maybe another time? We can—let you have fun. But it’s so busy…I’ll tell your parents. Or—you can have a snack!”
The little Gnoll had sat down and opened his mouth to howl. He perked up, though.
“…Ice cream?”
“Yes! A snack! Mrsha can play in a bit. Maybe we’ll let her not watch Contact. That’s not for kids, right? I mean…I’ve never seen it.”
Erin whispered to Ryoka and Teriarch. The City Runner looked at Erin.
“You’ve never seen…? I guess Mrsha doesn’t need to see it. How about we…? Mrsha…?”
Unfortunately, Mrsha refused to be distracted from her newest obsession, even for her best friends. Erin sighed, but she signaled to Drassi she needed reinforcements.
“Mrsha’s busy. Can you entertain Ekirra and Visma?”
“I can try. I mean, there’s two of them. Do I get paid overtime?”
“Yes!”
That was all background. Ekirra pouted and cheered up as Erin promised him and Visma treats since Mrsha was ‘busy doing very important things’. She wished Eldavin would relent, but the Grand Magus was very stubborn. Erin edged over and kicked him in the butt.
“You’re sorta mean.”
The Dragon whirled about. He gaped at Erin as she walked off, satisfied that justice had been wrought.
You could almost forget that Celum lay in ruins. Ekirra’s parents certainly didn’t know, or care. Celum was elsewhere. And Erin had managed to distract herself.
But the city still lay in ruins. Justice…the [Alchemist] watched Ryoka and Eldavin. His [Eyes of Appraisal] did nothing. He was not content.
And the two made him curious. Ryoka now—she could be one of the weirdos. But a [Grand Magus]…no. Either he was magically warded, which made sense—but why was he here?
Saliss didn’t believe in the Solstice Effect. He believed everything had a reason. So who was this? He stood up.
“Hey, Erin. Who’s that?”
“Oh? That’s Eldavin. Ryoka’s friend.”
“Really? Interesting…”
The Drake’s eyes narrowed. He looked at Erin. Who had ties to the Antinium. He liked Erin, he really did.
But he was also Saliss of Lights. He had killed more Antinium than she could imagine, on border wars no one talked about.
Casually, the Drake moved forwards to intercept Grand Magus Eldavin. In a truly Saliss-way. But as effective as Erin could be. He felt—wary as the half-Elf kept asking Ryoka about what kind of demented idiots came up with Dragons like that. Not that Saliss could hear him.
Someone was making Saliss’ senses tingle. Not a [Dangersense]—but instinct. It told him he was…outclassed. The Drake didn’t like the feeling.
He did his best. The Named Adventurer bared his teeth in a truly friendly smile as he gyrated his hips. Ryoka turned. She stared down at the nude Drake.
“Oh my g—”
She was not prepared for Saliss. The Drake winked at her as he struck a pose. Ryoka recoiled. Then she looked him up and down.
“…You have to be Saliss.”
“My earholes are burning! Did someone mention me? Saliss of Lights! At your service!”
The [Alchemist] bowed. Teriarch and Ryoka stared at his nudity in the fullness. They were not prepared for this. Even the Dragon stared. He was technically nude in his cave but—
“Saliss of Lights? The Named Adventurer?”
Ryoka was aghast. He was important! But the Drake just sidled up to her.
“They just call me that. You’re Ryoka Griffin, right?”
“Um—yes.”
“Cool. City Runner? I always need people to deliver my stuff without getting robbed or killed. I’m a friend of the inn. And you are…Grand Magus Eldavin.”
“Correct. You are naked.”
The Dragon stared at Saliss. The Named Adventurer was impressed he didn’t stare down. It took force of will to even avoid glancing. Ryoka had already looked down three times before jerking her attention up.
“Naked is a way of life. I like to show everything. You’re a City Runner, Miss Ryoka? What class?”
“Oh—I uh—”
“No class?”
The Drake winked at Ryoka’s face. The City Runner blinked. Saliss laughed.
“Don’t worry. I’ve met people like you. There’s one in Zeres, actually. Important people. Interesting.”
“I uh—that’s—how do you—”
Ryoka gave up. She backed up. Put one hand over her mouth, went to see Mrsha.
Cautious. There was something there. Saliss smiled toothily as Eldavin held his ground. All you had to do was ask. Grimalkin didn’t get that. Just keep asking Erin who she was—not that Saliss cared. But this one? He leaned forwards.
“Psst. Who are you?”
And there he made his one mistake. The Named Adventurer looked in the Dragon’s eyes. And with a single question he tried to cut to the heart of the mystery.
But the Dragon looked back. And he was more than anything Saliss could have guessed at.
He was a soldier of a thousand armies, a general, a leader, a hero alone.
A poet, a scholar, a writer and bard who remembered works untold.
He had been a king, a ruler, a servant, a protector, and just himself and knew the value of each.
He was a Dragon. And Saliss had forgotten—when you looked at someone. They looked back. Saliss was just so good at being the Named Adventurer—even Erin didn’t know him.
People forgot how good a Dragon’s eyes were. Far better than any [Alchemist], or even a Skill.
The Dragon slew the [Alchemist] with a single question. He scrutinized Saliss, perplexed. And then leaned forwards and whispered.
“Why do you hide your true form, girl? Alchemy-wrought it may be, but it shines truer than your false skin.”
Saliss’ smile winked out. He stared at Teriarch, and the blood drained from his face. He looked around—but no one had heard. Yet the Dragon looked at him. And Saliss staggered backwards. Teriarch waited, calmly looking at him with ancient eyes.
He could not know how much his words hurt. How deeply they reached and shattered something deep in Saliss’ soul. Forever changing him. Unearthing her with a single question.
How much it wounded, how reassuring it was. Her true form. The words were spoken with such conviction that Onieva believed them. Like a light in her head that no self-doubt or lesser phrases could ever erase.
No one could know—but perhaps the Dragon. He, who had seen it all. Perhaps he did know. Or it might be ignorance. But something like understanding shone in his eyes. Lacking judgment.
“Why are you wearing an illusion?”
The two eyes stared at Saliss. And the Drake was left exposed. Before the burning gaze. It broke Saliss of Lights in half, when armies and monsters had not.
With words.
She walked away, weeping. And all those who looked at Saliss of Lights were struck silent. But that had been it. She hadn’t been a match.
No match for a Dragon at all.
Teriarch stood there, watching Saliss go. His face was conflicted, in the moments when Saliss walked away. Guilt, sadness—comprehension—the Dragon turned and walked backwards to the Garden. He had not lied to Ryoka.
He was a Dragon. And he changed the world just by being. Not always for better or worse. But changing nonetheless.
Once you met the Dragon, you couldn’t ever go back again. The Dragon looked at Saliss and whispered a silent blessing, worthless as it was. The Gods were Dead.
Then he went back and watched a movie about faith. Contact. And knew it for what it was. One of the few people besides those from Earth who could—would see the truth.
 
—-
 
It was a glorious day. For all the City Runner raged at the Minotaur’s flaws—and her own. In between the slaps. It was the kind of day that you lived for.
Even the small things. Like Erin tripping up the hill with an armful of snacks to watch Contact. Teriarch sitting on the grass, grumbling about clothing, feet, and hair. The Dragon brightened up as Erin put down the food.
“Here’s snacks! No one get fat! I mean—today’s special. So it doesn’t count.”
She reassured herself as she took an experimental corndog and a handful of frenched fries. The Dragon licked his lips as he reached for a chocolate square. He looked down as someone plomfed into his lap.
Mrsha stared up at Teriarch. He stared down.
“Get off my lap, child.”
She slowly took the chocolate square he had been reaching for. Without breaking eye-contact, she put it in her mouth. The Dragon’s eyes narrowed. He reached for a fry.
Mrsha stole that too. The two stared at each other. Then Teriarch snatched with inhuman speed for a corn dog. He had it in his hands—Mrsha leapt and bit the lower half.
“I’ve killed for less.”
The Dragon whispered to Mrsha. She smirked as she chewed. Bring it. They began fighting over the food. After half a minute, Teriarch tossed Mrsha off the hill and into the pond. It was a mighty throw. He began levitating the food high overhead as Mrsha raced up. In response—she head-butted him in the chest until Erin and Ryoka came to break up the fight.
Seeing all the food there—was tempting. It made Apista vaguely hungry. But she had flowers. On the other hand…Numbtongue, hiding on the hill and watching the movie behind the audience felt his stomach growl. But he was totally willing to watch in hunger; the movies were amazing and the volume was turned up enough for him to hear.
That was the kind of day they had. Cuteness, sorrow, threats of violence over food—The Wandering Inn at its finest.
