The Dragon harrumphed, clearly relieved. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Oh! Sure! I have tons of private stuff. Private rooms, a private garden! Oh wow! I forgot to show you my garden! Ryoka! Mrsha, we have to show her!”
Mrsha perked up. She leapt off Ryoka’s shoulders for the first time. Teriarch stared at the Gnoll and she sniffed at him for a second. Then she raced off the table and towards a wall. Ryoka turned her head. She saw a magical doorway appear as if it had been there the entire time. Her jaw dropped.
“No way.”
Eldavin-Teriarch stood up too. His eyes narrowed.
“Fascinating.”
He glanced at Erin. Her anti-[Appraisal] ring might have as well been toilet paper in front of a tidal wave. The Dragon murmured under his voice, in his cave in the High Passes.
“Ah, Level 40, of course. Spatial Skills.”
Then he did a double-take.
“Is she engaged to a Wall Lord of Salazsar?”
The Dragon opened his eyes wide. Ryoka’s friends were—fascinating. Just as well he’d stayed! He had to ask about that!
The Dragon eagerly made his way after Ryoka as Erin tugged her to the door. On the wall, he had to swat the other [Mages] aside.
“Grand Magus, if I could just have a word—”
“Young [Necromancer], I have a predisposition against the field of necromancy of late. I have no interest in teaching you.”
“If I could just ask—”
“Sinew Magus, we level by experience, not by having our claws held. I suggest you educate yourself in the ways of other species. Drake magic is commendable, but too cloistered.”
“I’m uh, Revi—”
“A [Summoner], yes, Miss? And what of it? Begone, begone.”
“As a fellow mage of years—”
“How old are you, eighty? Kindly master a longevity spell and talk to me in a hundred years. Thank you.”
Dragons. They could savage you with words. Ceria opened her mouth, saw the Dragon glance at her. Of course, to her, he was only a half-Elf.
“Child, you are far too young to be out here. Perhaps consider studying for another two decades?”
The last comer was Moore. And the half-Giant flinched, rather than be casually split in twain by Eldavin’s words. The Dragon paused as he saw Moore.
“A [Green Mage]? And a half-Giant?”
“A poor one.”
Moore muttered into the floor. Teriarch looked at him. And smiled widely.
“Farwalker, you are far from your clans. Are you a half-Giant alone? Your blood runs thin.”
“Yes, Grand Magus. I am short—my parents left me behind. Out of necessity. I was Terandrian.”
The half-Giant looked at Teriarch. The Dragon reached up, caught Moore’s arm in a crushing grip as the [Green Mage] tried to bow.
“Then walk with pride. Your blood runs in the very mountains. Walk well, child.”
Moore looked at him. And his head rose. His spine straightened. He bowed deeply to Teriarch. And the Dragon looked at him and smiled. He bowed his head once. From one of the oldest races to another.
No more. He walked past Palt, Ulinde, Bezale, and Montressa. They were all quietly screaming into a [Message] spell.
“Yes! Grand Magus Eldavin is here! The Grand Magus from Zelkyr’s era! Tell the Archmages! He’s still alive! He’s in this inn—oh, Dead Gods, he’s looking at us!”
Bezale nearly swooned into Montressa’s arms. Or rather, onto her. The Grand Magus huffed.
“Children. Not a decent one among them. Except perhaps the Sinew Magus and the half-Giant.”
He paused in front of the door. Ryoka stared into the Garden of Sanctuary.
“It’s…magic.”
The White Gnoll raced about the grass, laughing silently as a bee flew around her. The [Garden of Sanctuary] bloomed. And Erin Solstice spread her arms.
“Ryoka! Come on! It’s safe here! Just you—”
Ryoka hesitantly put her hand on the doorway. And for a second there was resistance—
Then it was gone. The City Runner stepped into that magical little world. Mrsha ran up to her, holding tiny little blooming flowers. The City Runner began to smile. She inhaled the scents of nature.
“Ah. The [Garden of Sanctuary]. How long has it been since I’ve seen it?”
The Dragon breathed. His eyes misted over as he put a hand on the doorway. He frowned as he walked forwards and smacked into the opening. Eldavin glowered.
“I come in peace. I bear no hostility towards the owner—let me in.”
Erin Solstice, laughing as Ryoka stared about and Mrsha tried to tug her up to the hill full of statues—stumbled. Something was pushing against her head! She looked about.
“What the—”
The Grand Magus was frowning thunderously as he pushed at the door. Erin saw the opening shuddering. She felt the inn—resisting. She was too.
“Wait! Stopstopstop!”
The young woman ran at the opening. Just in time—she felt the inn shake for a second. But then the Grand Magus was pulling his hand back. He hadn’t managed to get in. But he’d been trying.
“Why am I blocked from entering?”
“It’s just for friends! I’ll let you in! There! Come in! Don’t break my door! Jeez!”
Erin put her hands on her hips and glared at the half-Elf. He stared at her, haughty as Pryde. Haughtier, if that was possible. Then he ducked his head, almost abashed.
“I—appreciate the honor, Miss…Solstice?”
“It’s Erin. And don’t you do that again! Aw, but you’re okay. Come in! You and Ryoka can talk here.”
“I’ll come too!”
Half the [Mages] in the inn shouted at once. They streamed after Eldavin and smushed into the door. Erin winced. She saw Pisces clawing at the invisible barrier and called out.
“Sorry, guys. Just Ryoka and Eldavin for now.”
“Grand Magus Eldavin.”
“Did I say your name wrong? Sorry.”
Erin looked blankly at the half-Elf. He hesitated.
“Er…no. It is just that—never mind. Ahem. You are quite something to own a [Garden of Sanctuary], young woman.”
“I am?”
The [Innkeeper] looked confused. The Dragon looked her up and down. Almost—haughtily, he replied. Ryoka was staring at Gerial’s statue on the hilltop as Mrsha stood solemnly by her side, holding her hand.
“It is an honor. One that comes only to those who have experienced—loss. Who are worthy of it. I am surprised you have the Skill.”
Erin Solstice ducked her head slightly.
“…Yeah. It is something.”
“It is not to be taken lightly. [Empresses] have owned such a Skill—to give them places to reside. Memory resides in this garden. If you are so cavalier about it—”
“I’m not.”
The young woman whispered. The Dragon snorted—in his half-Elf form it came out as a sniff.
“Your attitude gives me little to believe in. A Skill of this worth is not something—”
“I don’t take it lightly.”
The young woman spoke. And the Dragon halted. He looked at Erin Solstice. And saw her eyes locked on his. Erin’s voice was quiet.
“I would never take it lightly.”
The Dragon looked at her. He glanced up towards the hill, and froze, slightly.
“It has not changed since I last walked here.”
That was all he said. Teriarch looked at Erin. Then he bowed, truly, bending his waist.
“May you be always worthy of it. Your name, again, young Human woman?”
“Erin Solstice.”
He nodded to her.
“I will remember it. Perhaps…I will hear it again. The [Garden of Sanctuary] would not belong to anyone less.”
He turned away. Then his shoulders hunched. He looked back at Erin, urgently. And his voice lowered.
“It was first created by Empress Sheta of Iltanus. There is only but one. Tread these grounds with respect. If you will allow me—I will walk here.”
“…Of course.”
Erin nodded. And the Dragon began to walk. He put his hand against the walls covered with ivy. They had just begun to grow when he first…and someone had removed many plants, changed the cliffs that had been…there. But the hill was the same. The lake smaller, but…he walked for a while.
Marveling, and closing his eyes. Remembering a fluttering Harpy, full-grown, leading him about it for the first time, telling him where she would plant flowers. And though they were different, they still bloomed aeons later. The Dragon walked, until Ryoka and Mrsha came down from the hill, wiping their eyes.
Then he nodded, once. And looked at the young woman who stood there, basking in the sun.
“Very good. You have my thanks, Erin Solstice. That which is glorious should not be lost.”
He turned away. Erin blinked. She had to ask Ryoka—was Eldavin always so—sanctimonious? But she sort of liked him.
 
—-
 
Ryoka had been crying a lot today. She wasn’t sick of it—but it was a lot of tears. And happiness. In the end, she sat with Teriarch. Solemnly, she looked at Erin.
“Can I tell her…?”
“No. It is your choice. But my nature is secret. Sacrosanct. If you would honor aught about me, honor that.”
Ryoka bowed her head. She rested in a patch of grass and resisted the urge to rip it up as they spoke.
“I won’t, then. But Erin is a good person.”
“That I know.”
The Dragon was…more subdued. If he had been caught up in the energy, the thrill of being praised in his disguise as one of the foremost [Mages] in the world, he was—older now. The [Garden] had left its mark on him.
But it wasn’t a bitter sadness. Just nostalgic. Painful and glorious, like meeting Calruz. Now, the Dragon looked at Ryoka. And smiled. And she shivered because she meant something to the Dragon.
That was a kind of immortality. The young woman ducked her head.
“Thank you for coming after me. I didn’t ask about Ivolethe. Can—I meet her?”
“Of course. There are opportunities. The soonest comes in the middle of summer. You are running out of time. But ere the winter passes, you will have another chance. But you must make it. I can only tell you what might be.”
The Dragon kindly replied as he lay in the grass. Not sitting, or even politely laying like a corpse in a coffin. But stretching out, languorously rolling about. Silly in a half-Elven magus, but exactly like a Dragon might laze about a bed of flowers. Ryoka nodded, serious as she could be.
“I’ll do it. Whatever it takes. Just—please tell me.”
Teriarch sat up and shook grass out of his hair. Below the hill with Sage’s Grass, Mrsha was running about, playing tag with Erin and Apista.
“Before that. You have a debt to me, Ryoka Griffin. And I will remain a while, out of forbearance for your obligations. For a small time, in this form. It has been entertaining. But I require your attention.”
Ryoka’s heart began to pound. She owed him…? She took a deep breath.
“I—I’m not sure what that is. But anything you want, I’ll do. If I can.”
The Dragon nodded. His eyes narrowed at Ryoka and she felt a chill.
“In that case—this, I demand of you, Ryoka Griffin.”
He raised his hand and whispered a word. Something materialized out of the air and onto the grass. Ryoka blinked.
A laptop sat there. It was glowing, battery recharged by magic. The screen shimmered and Kevin’s stickers on it—showing pictures of him skateboarding, surfing, were copied down to the exact detail. Teriarch poked the screen.
“This.”
Ryoka wasn’t sure what she was seeing at first. It…looked…like a paused movie. Showing a farting Ogre bathing in swamp water. But that couldn’t be right. Ryoka felt at her neck.
Hm. Heartbeat’s fine. She checked her wrist, although that was more inaccurate. Because she was convinced she was having a stroke.
“Um…that’s a movie.”
“It’s offensive. Disgusting. What is that abomination?”
“That’s—an Ogre.”
Ryoka stared at the character on the screen. Teriarch wrinkled his nose.
“It’s hideous.”
“Well, you say that. But this is just the opening.”
“This is nothing like that other ‘movie’. That one had class. It captured the plight of Dwarves. It was elegant! This is—an abomination. That’s not even an Ogre.”
“Yeah, well—you’ve gotta watch the rest. He’s not that bad. He’s got layers.”
The Dragon stared incredulously at Ryoka. She weakly looked at him. She was definitely having a heart attack. And this was all just hallucination. The half-Elf avatar folded his arms.
“I insist you explain the thought that went into this.”
“Okay. Wait—you came all this way to ask me to commentate over it?”
“I will not watch this filth without an explanation.”
Teriarch looked at Ryoka. She looked at him. She had an urge to laugh completely at odds with his serious expression.
But look again. The old Dragon glanced at Ryoka’s face. Then at the frozen figure on the screen. his lips quirked.
“…I suppose there is something amusing about it. But I do require an…interpreter.”
He said that. But what Ryoka heard was something different. She looked at the old man still lying in the cave. And she smiled.
“On one condition.”
“No more artifacts. I told you—”
He growled. Ryoka looked down the hill.
“No. They get to watch. I’ll tell them you know about—home. But they have to watch.”
Mrsha’s ears perked up as she raced about. She looked up suspiciously towards the two sitting on the hill and the laptop, smelling of smoke and oil and other stuff. Erin looked up as Ryoka waved at them.
“Oh—very well.”
The Dragon gave in only after a moment. With a harrumph he sat back. And Ryoka called out.
“Mrsha?”
The little Gnoll looked up at her. For a second she hesitated. Then she ran up the hill.
 
—-
 
Ryoka didn’t know what she said to convince Erin. Nor did she really care what Erin thought, even after Ryoka’s preaching about telling no one about Earth.
She just sat there, as she moved the cursor back to the opening. Teriarch harrumphed as Ryoka showed him more computer functions. For some reason, this offended him.
“You can rewind the story to the beginning!?”
“Um. Yes. What’s the problem?”
The Dragon paced back and forth.
“It’s—wrong! This is a narrative! The audience should not be allowed to control how it is presented! Not for a work of art!”
Ryoka eyed the Shrek movie as Mrsha bounced up and down in her lap, staring at the screen. It was art. But…she’d never heard a Dragon say that unironically.
“Don’t start it yet! Oh my g—I mean, dead gods, I have to see it! I’m getting popcorn!”
Erin screamed as she ran out of the doorway with salted and buttered popcorn in a huge bowl. And that was Erin. She could adapt to meeting Grand Magus Eldavin and watching Shrek without batting an—
Okay, even Erin had blinked a few times. But she was all-in. She huffed up the hill.
“Can we invite anyone? Are you sure we can’t?”
“Absolutely not.”
“Even Ekirra? He and Visma are coming to visit—okay, okay! I’ve locked down the Garden. This is so great. Here. Bowls. Eldavin, here. Do you like yeast?”
“…What?”
