But they’d been warned off of trying to poach the Earthers. Lyonette eyed Palt and the other two Wistram [Mages].
“Palt, thank you for the help. We have breakfast—”
“I can serve myself. You look dead on your hooves. Er, feet. Is Erin back yet? I might go fetch her. You can die for lack of sleep.”
The Centaur had retired earlier in the night. He nodded to Lyonette and carefully trotted into the kitchen. Lyonette sighed. So did Mrsha, as she cut up the quiche to share—two thirds to Lyonette, one third to Mrsha. Lyonette needed to put weight on her skinny body.
She liked Palt. He was a nice horse-person. She thought he would be good if Erin liked him. But that was uncertain. Mrsha approved of Palt, though; he always gave her scraps when he was cooking and he smelled nice. Always of something interesting.
“Hello. We are awake. Comrade Pisces is still asleep, but we would like refreshments!”
A voice rang out from the stairwell, following Palt. Mrsha saw Ksmvr, Ceria, Yvlon, and Griffon Hunt all coming down the stairs. She smiled as she saw Ksmvr.
“Oh, Ksmvr! Everyone!”
The other adventurers nodded to Lyonette. But before she got up, Drassi was intercepting them.
“Hello! Thank you for all the hard work, Ceria, Halrac—did you change your stitches, Revi? I love the red. I can get you some food. Lyonette, eat with Mrsha!”
The [Princess] sat back with a groan. Mrsha happily offered her a bite of quiche. Lyonette laughed, bit the morsel on the fork and offered Mrsha a bite.
“You’re so nice today, Mrsha! Well-behaved. Is it because of the cake?”
She teased. Mrsha wagged her tail, happily. She just wanted to help out Lyonette since she was so tired! (She’d go find Erin when Lyonette was asleep.) The Gnoll was a big girl and she had to make the inn better.
She spotted a few more people rousing themselves as breakfast’s smells and atmosphere brought the dead to life. In this case—Wesle, yawning and scratching at some stubble. The [Actor] wasn’t performing, so his voice wasn’t the usual echoing, deep voice of the stage. He and Jasi had been in Celum, trying to inspire the residents.
“Can I have something to eat?”
He croaked as Jasi woke up from her nap on the stage. Only those two had come from Invrisil, to save as much mana for teleportation between Esthelm, Celum, and Liscor as possible. They’d actually slept in the old stage-area after coming back for the night.
“Thank you so much. I can—”
“I’m here. Anything to eat, Mister Wesle, Jasi?”
Ishkr arrived just in time for his morning shift. The normal Gnoll briskly came over and Wesle looked about. Jasi yawned as she leaned on his shoulder.
“Do you have any tea?”
This was The Wandering Inn. As Mrsha persuaded Lyonette to sit, relax, ignore Joseph surreptitiously pouring more gin into his cup, and just eat breakfast, more people came into the inn.
Relc and Embria from Celum, having helped secure the area. No Halfseekers, but they’d promised to come as soon as the magical door wasn’t so occupied. People coming from Liscor, asking to be teleported to Celum to look for their families—Celumites who’d been housed in Liscor since their homes were burned.
So much to do. So many faces. And Mrsha the Brave and Merciful was going to help. She would get Apista and they’d find Erin in Celum. She was busy trying to push Lyonette upstairs after breakfast.
“Mrsha! I’m fine, really. I need to wait for Erin.”
The [Princess] was yawning, smiling at Mrsha’ anxious entreaties that she should sleep. Drassi called out, helping Mrsha.
“You should rest, Lyonette. The Horns can get Erin.”
“Well…I suppose I have been up a while. But—is everyone settled? We’re going to be busy all day sending people to Celum…”
The [Princess] wavered. But sleep called to her. Ceria waved a hand as Pisces stumbled down the stairs.
“We’re good, Lyonette. You rest! We’ll drag Erin back.”
“I can do it.”
Palt announced, dining on some lettuce and spicy salad dressing for breakfast. Lyonette smiled.
“We’ll help too!”
Rose announced loudly. Joseph waved, now content with two shots of gin in him. Kevin nodded and Lyonette—winced. Growing less relaxed.
“I’m sure you will. Maybe I should stay up…?”
“We have this, Lyonette.”
Drassi firmly helped push Lyonette towards the stairs. The [Princess] looked down at Mrsha’s anxious face, and smiled.
“Oh—fine. Go look for Pawn too, will you? He’s been out all night with Yellow Splatters, helping build and dig…”
Mrsha rolled her eyes, but she nodded. Apista was flying out of the Garden of Sanctuary, and Lyonette was laughingly going upstairs.
At that moment, the door to the hallway opened. Mrsha, busy pushing Lyonette, heard a gasp and Lyonette stopped on the stairs. The white Gnoll caught a whiff of something and turned.
Erin? And someone…her eyes went round. She looked at the tall figure, the young woman with black hair coming through the doorway.
Ryoka Griffin saw the new inn as a blur of faces, color, for one moment. She stopped, dizzy and the familiar unfamiliarity of it all. Then she saw the white figure on the stairs.
“Mrsha?”
The City Runner froze. Erin, pushing Ryoka into the room, looked up. She saw Mrsha’s little head turn. Her brown eyes were wide as could be. Stunned. Shocked.
“Ryoka?”
Pisces dropped his toast. Ksmvr dove for it. Yvlon and Ceria just stared. Halrac, Revi, Typhenous—
Relc blinked a few times. Embria just scratched at her neck-spines, uncomprehending. Montressa’s head shot up with sudden interest. Drassi looked about, wondering what was so important. Palt blinked at Ryoka and then narrowed his eyes.
“Um. Hello, everyone.”
Ryoka looked about. She looked at Mrsha. The little Gnoll was just frozen there. Caught in another world, remembering all the times Ryoka had been with her. All the times she had been gone.
She had never even said goodbye to Mrsha. Ryoka’s eyes locked on the girl, and her stomach clenched. Joseph nearly did a spit-take on Rose, but gulped down his drink instead. Rose’s jaw dropped.
So many people, all of whom knew Ryoka. Whose stories intersected. At that moment, Garia Strongheart was jogging towards Celum from her farm. Octavia Cotton shouted as Lyonette’s blessing burned in her mind.
“I’ve done it! I did it at last!”
She ran around her shop, screaming in delight. And then—she opened the door to The Wandering Inn, ran down the hallways.
And saw Ryoka. The young woman stood in the doorway, looking about. Unable to say all the things she needed to tell the others in front of her. Mrsha stood on the stairs, afraid to move. Not sure if she was happy or—multiple emotions ran through her at once.
Someone moved, though. As Erin halted, next to her friend, Lyonette turned and walked down the stairs. Disbelieving, she looked at Ryoka Griffin. She walked up.
“Ryoka?”
“Yes. I’m—”
Lyonette du Marquin, Princess of Calanfer raised her hand and slapped Ryoka. The sound made half the inn flinch. It was a [Flawless Attempt] at a slap, and it had all the force behind it Lyonette could muster. Ryoka actually spun a bit with the force of it. She caught herself, felt her skin burning. The [Princess] looked at her, disgust in her eyes.
Not all reunions were happy.
 
—-
 
In total, it was five. Five slaps—even if they weren’t all backed by a Skill. They were more like punches near the end, until a shocked Erin, Yvlon, and the others managed to pull Lyonette off Ryoka.
The City Runner sat on the ground, her head ringing, cheeks red from the blows. She hadn’t tried to dodge or step back. And in some ways—that was better. She hadn’t expected it from Lyonette, but it made her feel as though she was getting what she deserved.
And yet, it solved nothing. Lyonette was forced off Ryoka as Erin shouted and waved her hands. Those who knew Ryoka flooded forwards; people who only had a vague understanding of the moment, like Wesle, Jasi, and the others held back.
But each person who did know her—took something different from the moment. Lyonette was furious, but she calmed quickly from her rage at seeing Ryoka just—walk in. Without warning Mrsha or Lyonette or anyone.
The emotions weren’t so complex in others. Ceria threw her arms around her friend, and Yvlon grabbed Ryoka in a one-armed hug. Ryoka gawped at Yvlon’s arms. Because, of course, she didn’t know what had led to it.
That was pure. But some, like Halrac’s team, stood back. Not angry—just cool. Appraising. Remembering the circumstances surrounding Ryoka’s disappearance, perhaps.
Regrika Blackpaw. The death of Ulrien, Brunkr…
So many old failings, stories, buried threads unearthed by her return. Yet, the little white Gnoll standing on the stairs was one of those to whom it mattered most.
The Dragon saw that. He was unaccustomed to being a bit-player, but he had followed the two into The Wandering Inn. Now, he muttered to himself.
“A door? Didn’t Reinhart say something about…? This? Truly? This is the fantastic artifact that…?”
He was catching up on world news, plucking the scrying spells out of the air and copying them as he watched the events unfolding in the inn. And of course, analyzing the people and things within the inn.
“It’s just a teleportation spell on a door. Someone’s mangled the enchantment. I grant you, it’s a decent idea, but can’t they just recast…or is this an artifact? This?”
Affronted, the Dragon poked the door, eying the mana stones that were crudely forming locational anchors. He heard a voice.
“Excuse me! Don’t mess with the door please. Thanks!”
Drassi bustled by Teriarch. He stepped back.
“How dare you—I mean, er, my deepest apologies, child.”
The Drake [Gossip] eyed Teriarch. She smiled, briefly.
“Sorry. We’re just transporting people to and from Celum. I need to change this to Liscor…”
Teriarch watched as she adjusted the dial, and then opened the door.
“Hello! Essential travel only today! Who’s for Celum? Come in, come in! Make a line—we’ll get people from Esthelm before transport to Liscor. Thank you! You can ask questions later—we’re a bit busy.”
Teriarch glanced down the hallway as people—Gnolls, Drakes, but mostly Humans, flooded past him. He was a bit…overwhelmed by all the mortality about him. He glanced into the common room. Of course, it was far away, but his eyes were superior. He saw Ryoka stammering to the others, heard her voice perfectly.
“I—I was in Reizmelt. I didn’t intend to come back, but…”
“Look at the child, you fool.”
The Dragon murmured into his beard. He plucked at it. Stupid hair. What was the point? But his image of Grand Magus Eldavin had a beard. The little Gnoll child was practically burning with her emotion. And Teriarch, the Dragon, had a soft spot for children.
They were all children to him. The Dragon looked about. This was a reunion for Ryoka Griffin and he was loathe to include himself in it. He had tact. But he had witnessed the destruction of Celum.
“Mortal grief.”
The Dragon tried to justify it. But he watched as blank-faced people stumbled through the doorway. Drassi adjusted the door, opened it to Celum and they poured through.
Bereaved, lost. He had seen it a thousand times. He watched the Drake let people through to Liscor, and then shut the door, promise to open it in ten minutes, hurry off. The Dragon looked back at Ryoka.
“Mrsha?”
The young woman just stood there, amid her friends. And they fell silent. The little Gnoll child looked at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitantly opened her arms.
“Mrsha. I’m sorry. I—”
She ran. Dashing up the stairs, howling with a sound that had no translation in any language. Except, perhaps, betrayal, grief, loss. Ryoka ran after her, and Lyonette, and Erin.
The Dragon turned away. Why was he here? It had just been a passing fancy. And clearly—he had forgotten how mortals worked.
Ryoka Griffin had been so—grateful to meet with him. But she had a life. Mortals always did. The Dragon shook his head. He debated just—cutting the supply of mana to this simulacra. Going back to sleep.
But he could at least stay awake after going to this much effort. The Dragon huffily examined the door.
“It really is just a…spell. Elegant. ‘Signed by Warmage Thresk’. Who? Hmf. I suppose ingenuity knows no limits. So each of these is a location. This one…”
He eyed a crimson mana stone. It was…pulsing.
“Shamanic magic on the other side. Odd. Ah, I see. The teleportation spell has limits. Of course it does. I’m amazed anyone repurposed this as an artifact. Why not just cast [Portal] and have done with it? Children. They don’t even have the ability to—unless this was improvisation? By an [Innkeeper]? Yes, yes. I sense the leyline of magic here. That makes sense.”
The Dragon happily investigated the door, turning the dial, sensing a connection out of range somewhere to the north. He itched to fix the stupid enchantment. If you just tweaked it a bit, added a few levels of spellcraft, you could practically double the range, create a permanent—
“No, no. This is entanglement.”
The Dragon caught himself as he began to sketch a prototype for an efficient door on the wall. He hurriedly stopped, adjusted his robes. What was he doing? Putting effort into this door? He might as well create a Fissival-style teleportation network. Change the world. What had Griffin said again?
“Half-effort. A modicum of effort. I am just here to rest and…watch a movie. Why is that creature an Ogre? Has the creator never seen an Ogre before? Or is this in some hideous world where Ogres have been so mutated that they’re green and…were those ears?”
The Dragon shuddered. He had seen monstrosities, and this one wasn’t the worst. But it was too disturbingly—person-like. He needed Ryoka to explain it.
But she had a life. The Dragon was an outsider. He sighed as he stood in front of the magic door. Perhaps Reinhart…? But she had made her oath. Teriarch absently twisted the dial to a yellow gem.
“Now, this cannot lead to where I think it is. They didn’t disable the teleportation web just to—”
The door opened to Pallass. Teriarch saw a huge Drake, arms folded, standing in the transit cell. Grimalkin of Pallass recoiled slightly, seeing the tall half-Elf standing in front of him.
“At last! I sent you two [Messages]—oh. Excuse me.”
The Drake blinked at Teriarch. The Dragon blinked back. His first impression of the [Sinew Magus] was that someone had taken a bundle of muscles and attached a Drake’s head to it.
“Excuse me?”
The half-Elf [Mage] turned his head slightly, a superior look in his eyes. To Grimalkin—it was like running into one of Fissival’s lead [Mages], or an Archmage all of a sudden. The Drake’s mouth moved. He could sense the magical acumen in the person standing in front of him.
