Ryoka half-shouted. The others smirked at her face. Then Ceria turned pale.
“Oh dead gods. You don’t know anything. You’re so behind!”
“I know that. I’m sorry—”
“She doesn’t know anything. Pisces!”
Ceria grabbed the [Necromancer]. Pisces sniffed, looking amused; he’d already caught up to what Ceria was thinking of. Ryoka blinked.
“What have I missed?”
Erin began to count on her fingers as Mrsha rested her chin on Ryoka’s head.
“Oh, the Goblin Lord’s army nearly destroying the city. The Raskghar, the dungeon always attacking us, Pawn and his Painted Antinium—there were Wyverns at Pallass, but that was this other thing…we have a door to Pallass, by the way. And Invrisil. Krshia’s a member of Liscor’s Council, and so is Lism, that jerk. Oh, Magnolia came by with this [Druid], we made chocolate—I have a magical garden—and magical fire—”
Ceria broke in, urgently.
“Calruz.”
The City Runner had been trying to ask questions. But that one word silenced her. She turned to Ceria. Erin’s eyes went round.
“Oh. Yes.”
“Calruz?”
Ryoka breathed. It couldn’t be. But—Ceria was looking at her. And she and Olesm had survived…Ryoka was suddenly on her feet.
“W-what about Calruz?”
The half-Elf [Cryomancer] took a few breaths. She looked about—Yvlon steadied her. Then she looked at Ryoka.
“He’s alive. In Liscor’s jail. He—”
Ryoka’s ears rang. She leaned on the table. Listened as Ceria told her—something. Then she looked up.
“Where is he? He’s in Liscor?”
The others looked at each other. Erin nodded.
“I see him…sometimes. Mainly to throw bread at him. I threw a bagel last time. He’s got two rats. He’s…”
“I have to see him.”
The City Runner got up. Mechanically, she listened. Then—since Mrsha wouldn’t let go, she began running. The magical door was occupied? She ran down the hill, out of the inn. Mrsha clinging to her head as Erin and the others tried to chase her.
 
—-
 
“Hold still. You’re wounded.”
“I’ll heal.”
“Not if your rats eat you, you won’t. This costs the Watch nothing. Shut up or I’ll waste healing potion on you.”
Calruz sat in his cell. Zevara was touching his cuts with a rag dipped in healing potion. He was cut about—bleeding or scabbed in dozens of places.
“I am fine. I’m grateful.”
“You walked into a Face-Eater Moth colony and killed them all with a rusty axe.”
The Watch Captain would have sounded almost admiring if she wasn’t sternly speaking to a prisoner. Calruz smiled.
“None of them were big enough to kill me. I’m too—high-level. I’m grateful to be of some use.”
“Well—you cut down on the Watch’s injuries. So be quiet.”
The two fell silent. Calruz sat there. Zevara was half-passed through the door to his cell; the magical field didn’t affect her. Only him.
“You shouldn’t be so close. I could attack you.”
“You could.”
The Drake paused as she inspected his cuts, healing with the potion coating the wounds. Undeterred, she motioned for Calruz to raise his arm.
“Well?”
He asked after a moment. Zevara glanced up. She was totally unafraid by the suggestion. Rhata sat on Calruz’s head, tail curled around one horn. The Minotaur waited.
“Isn’t this a risk unbecoming of a Watch Captain?”
“It would be. If my prisoner was anything less than honorable. Turn around; I need to see your back.”
The Drake briskly mopped at a wound on Calruz’s leg. He winced. Then he heard a commotion.
“Hey! You can’t come in here! Wait—”
Shouting at the entrance. Zevara spun. She grabbed for her sword.
“Wait here.”
Tensed, the Minotaur saw her stride down the jail. After a minute—he heard an exclamation. Then, pounding footsteps, slapping on the stone floor. The Minotaur waited. Who was…?
The sound was familiar. His eyes widened. A young, Asian woman ran down the jail, stopping when she saw his cell. Her hair was mussed. She was panting. Her face was pale, and she had lost two fingers on her right hand. The wind blew, bringing the Minotaur the scents of summer. It entered his cell, whirling around him, making his two pets hide.
A little white Gnoll clung to Ryoka’s head, a bit motion sick from her run. The guards and Zevara, who had let Ryoka in, followed, but held back.
“It can’t be.”
The two said it almost at the same time. Calruz slowly rose, staring. Ryoka looked at him. At his missing arm, the scars, the painful humility written across every line of him. She breathed in heavily.
“Calruz?”
Her voice broke. The Minotaur looked at that familiar face. From before Liscor’s dungeon. He stepped forwards, bowing his head. It hurt for Ryoka to see him more than any other. Because they were back then.
The City Runner remembered an angry young woman, so ungrateful for all she had been given. Self-destructive, lashing out at her friends.
Her regrets…her hand trembled as she put it on the magical barrier. Calruz reached out with his good hand and copied the gesture, ignoring the pain as the magic seared his flesh. They looked at each other, Ryoka, and Calruz.
And Mrsha, staring at Rhata on Calruz’s head. Four of them, rather. Five if you counted Haldagaz nibbling at the rag soaked in healing potion. Ryoka slowly sat, the energy pulled out of her. She looked up at Calruz and smiled.
“It’s so good to see you again.”
The [Prisoner] looked at Ryoka. And then he began to guffaw. He sat down, laughing for the first time in forever.
“My friend. It is good to see you again. Where have you been?”
Ryoka Griffin opened her mouth. She searched for an answer that would make sense of it all, apologize—and there wasn’t one. But then she looked at Calruz. And a twinkle entered her eye. She grinned at him.
“Running.”
 
—-
 
You could write a hundred thousand words about the moment where Ryoka Griffin met Calruz of Hammerad again. A story in itself, of her asking, judging, and understanding all the Minotaur’s sins. And he—hers.
Mrsha as well, seeing the two little rats hiding behind Calruz. Listening, and learning the kind of lessons neither Lyonette nor Erin could teach her.
A lifetime of stories, from the Horns, to Calruz, Erin’s triumphs and travails, learning just who Numbtongue was and why it mattered—let alone his ghosts—and that wasn’t even going into Ryoka’s stories.
Catching up, laughing, mourning those lost—it could be a million words, easily. And even if every moment of those conversations was set down, you’d still miss Octavia, who couldn’t get a word in edgewise.
And there was still more. So, when all that was said and done, Ryoka Griffin looked around. Her nose felt sore from blowing it so many times. Mrsha had just wiped her nose on Ryoka’s hair. It was…congealing.
That was when she saw Teriarch. The Dragon, as a half-Elven [Mage], sat at a table. Amusedly watching Grimalkin demonstrating workout methods.
“But why would you bother, young Drake? Change your form with spells. I admire the willpower it takes. However…you are no [Athlete], but a [Magus].”
Grimalkin’s face fell.
“But surely the effort means something, sir? If a spell can achieve what months, years of calculated exercise can do, what is the point?”
Teriarch’s eyes glittered.
“The point? The point is that mastery of magic achieves the same goals. Is it any easier to study for three decades to achieve such convenience? Or do you wish to protest the power of magic?”
The muscular Drake struggled with his response. At last, he spoke in a strangled voice.
“No, sir. It is just—difficult for me to accept.”
The Dragon’s face softened.
“Young Drake. You are being foolish. Magic—nay, this world is unfair. Skills and spells derived from Skills make mockery of hard work already. Unfairness is a part of life. Your efforts are not in vain, though. Your study of this—weightlifting will improve all those who do not reach the mastery of magic. That is your great worth. Believe me, it will matter. I should know.”
“Yes, Grand Magus. I am humbled by your words!”
Grimalkin bowed, claws behind his back. He was so respectful, more than Erin could remember him being to anyone, even Chaldion. Teriarch sipped from his cup with good humor.
“Excellent. Keep studying, and you too may achieve the rank of [Archmage]. You are a tad bit too ignorant in other schools of magic yet, but one may hope you become an [Archmagus of Strength] yet. I personally recall—hmm?”
The Dragon broke off as Ryoka approached. Mrsha stared at Teriarch, sniffing the air as the City Runner cleared her throat.
“Ter—”
“Grand Magus Eldavin.”
The half-Elf smiled, warningly. Ryoka saw the Drake glance up; he was no idiot. He scrutinized Ryoka as the City Runner nodded.
“Sorry—I was delayed. I…had to come home.”
“So you told me. I am contented. This outing was not entirely in vain.”
The Dragon smiled to himself. Ryoka eyed him. No, not in vain at all. He had a pile of plates.
…Like in TV shows, or movies, where you had a tower of plates for comedic effect? That was reality here. Between him and Grimalkin, there was a pile of dishes and Drassi came over to take them away.
“Er…Grimalkin, Mister Eldavin, do you want more food?”
“I am content.”
“I as well.”
Grimalkin picked at one tooth. Drassi nodded, a bit awestruck. Six hamburgers, two slices of lasagna, three entire pizzas, a milkshake, ice cream, seven chocolate squares, fries of course, complimentary with each course, blue fruit juice, goat milk, a quiche, saffron rice, a supreme meat sub split between the two, a spaghetti pot—
And they’d paid for it. Drassi had insisted after the second course, having learned her lesson with Rose and the others. Teriarch had footed the bill; Grimalkin had gladly offered, but the Dragon wouldn’t allow the ‘young Drake’ to do so. Ryoka eyed the Drake trying to take the dishes back.
“I’m uh—grateful. Exceptionally, Grand Magus. I know it’s an imposition. But could we delay speaking a moment longer?”
“I am not made of time, Ryoka Griffin.”
Sternly, the Dragon raised one finger. Burped. He eyed the menu.
“…But I could remain a moment longer. Perhaps a curry, next? Magus Grimalkin?”
The muscly Drake actually looked sick as he put one claw to his mouth.
“I may be ah, reaching my limit, Grand Magus.”
“A shame. You should master a digestive spell. A’ctelios! Only, bring your own food. Go forth, young Drake!”
The Dragon was having too much fun as he shook a finger at Grimalkin. Ryoka saw the Sinew Magus’ face—and then Erin’s. She looked delighted.
“Hello! I’m Erin! Are you Ryoka’s friend?”
The [Innkeeper] beamed her way over. And the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn met the Dragon. They stared at each other.
“Do I know…you?”
“Um. Maybe?”
Erin frowned. The two blinked at each other. And then Pisces’ jaw dropped.
“The [Mage]!”
“You attacked our wagon!”
“Hey! You’re that jerk with the iPh—”
Ryoka slapped a hand so fast over Erin’s mouth that she went over backwards. The Dragon watched Erin topple over. His eyes lit up.
“Oh. You! That nosy little Human who bypassed all my wards and—”
He coughed as everyone looked at him. Grimalkin was scribbling furiously. Teriarch coughed as he finally remembered where he saw Erin. And he gave her a look of respect.
“Well met, Erin Solstice. I am Grand Magus Eldavin, indeed. I am—acquainted with Miss Ryoka Griffin. We have had business together. And we have more still. I trust I am not trespassing?”
“No. Make yourself at home! My inn is your inn. I mean, it’s my inn. But you’re welcome in it. Wow. You’re that guy with the spells. Pisces and Ceria are such huge fans. Right?”
“Er—Grand Magus?’
The [Necromancer] came over, practically fawning over Eldavin. The half-Elf looked up, perplexed, as Ceria crowded behind him. He wasn’t the only one.
Moore practically shoved Jelaqua out of the way. So did Revi, and Typhenous.
“Grand Magus?”
To make a baseball analogy, it was like a bunch of sandlot baseball players meeting an all-star champion. A Grand Mage was only below an Archmage in rank. Of course, it could be ceremonial—but Grimalkin looked like he was an excited pupil in his favorite class.
“I am on something of a break. My business is with Ryoka Griffin. Hm. Yes, I recall you. Bronze-ranks? I’m pleased to see your magical acumen has increased. Have you reached Silver-rank, by any chance?”
And that was Teriarch. He politely, even in a complimentary way, crushed Pisces and Ceria’s egos. Ceria stammered.
“No—well—actually, we’re Gold-rank. We haven’t studied as much—but we killed an Adult Creler—”
“Really? Miracles exist, then! Fascinating! And you—young woman? Your arms are fascinating. Are these all your friends? Silver—er, Gold-ranks? The same level of proficiency, certainly.”
The Dragon luxuriated at being in the center of attention. But he was focused on Ryoka. Disconcertingly so, actually. He brushed away Revi’s stammered attempts to get him to drink with them.
“Ryoka Griffin, it is past time we talked. Of high-importance, in fact. But perhaps—privately?”
He cast his eyes around at the other fawning [Mages]. Dismissing them, even Grimalkin. Erin blinked.
“Your friend’s sort of big-headed.”
She whispered in Ryoka’s ears. Too quietly for any but Ryoka to hear, surely. But Teriarch’s eyes still narrowed. He looked at Erin and she beamed innocently at him.
“Hey! Great to meet you! We have private rooms! Eldavin, huh? You’re like—the third half-Elf I’ve ever met. Where have you been? I didn’t know a Grand Mage lived in Izril.”
Teriarch coughed.
“I—ah, prefer solitude.”
“No kidding? So you’re in hiding?”
“…Yes.”
“So, this is like a big deal that you’re out here. Hey, how did Ryoka meet you?”
The City Runner wondered if kidney-punching Erin would cause that much of a distraction. Teriarch narrowed his eyes.
“I travel quite often. My abodes are hidden. I have long since abandoned Wistram and politics. My meeting with Ryoka Griffin was coincidental.”
“Oh. So when she went to the High Passes, you’re the person she was delivering for?”
Say this for Erin—she wasn’t an idiot either. She just lacked—the ability to keep things secret. The other [Mages] turned into wax works. Grimalkin’s quill nearly caught fire. Teriarch just looked at Erin. At a loss for words.
“[Group Memory P—]”
He hesitated. Then put down his hand as he subvocalized it. He might fail—so far from his actual body. Grumpily, the Dragon gave Ryoka a look.
Do something. Ryoka Griffin looked around desperately.
“Um, Erin, Grand Magus Eldavin is a private client. We have a relationship—I’d hate to compromise it. Can we—be more private? He has pressing business. And I’m wasting his time.”
“Hmph. Exactly.”
