He edged backwards. Prost let him go. He turned to Durene with a sigh. She waved at Jelov, then looked around. Miss Xathy was still staring, basket of greens in hand. The woman was short, rotund, with an apron on her front. Durene smiled at her and then at the small gaggle of women, all of whom bore baskets filled with edibles taken from the wilderness.
“Pleased to meet you.”
“Ah—you too.”
Miss Xathy bowed very nervously to Durene, and another woman thrust her basket behind her arm and nodded.
“Durene? A pleasure to see you. And about time you put Jelov in his place, Mister Prost. He’s been here every morning when you’re not in sight, selling his little ‘trinkets’. He’s got ten times what he gave you stashed away.”
Prost grimaced.
“I’ve no doubt, Miss Hecla. I’ll see to it. But we have more work to do. There’s time enough to make Jelov cough up what he’s taken.”
The sharp-nosed woman nodded.
“Indeed. And with that, let’s get this sorted and see what we can make of it, ladies! Durene, again, a pleasure.”
She turned, summoning the crowd with her. Durene stared at her as the woman, tall, straight-backed, wearing a new-looking dress with no embroidery, marched off. Short Miss Xathy gave Durene another long look before scurrying off.
“Do I know that lady? Miss Hecla?”
Prost paused. He stared at the women’s backs and nodded after a moment.
“She knows you. When the Goblins were attacking, I think your group was the one that saved her and her husband when they were fleeing on the road. They lost everything save for the clothes on their backs. She’s a right sort.”
“I don’t remember that either.”
The [Steward] looked up at Durene and shook his head.
“No wonder you don’t. Hundreds of people know you and Emperor Laken for what you did. Still more came here just hearing about a safe haven. More still don’t know you or His Majesty. But that’ll change. He’s coming back. Until then—I’m keeping them all busy. Not one person doesn’t do work here. Building, foraging, making goods to sell, sewing clothes—everyone contributes. Even idiots like that [Painter], Calic.”
Prost sighed. He looked tired as he rubbed his neck. He turned to Durene with a smile.
“It’s good you’re back. I don’t know where you’ll fit in, but we can use you, Durene. I’d think it over, but I have to keep moving. Your cottage is right where you left it—we haven’t been able to get near it. Not with Bismarck and Frostwing guarding it.”
“Bismarck? And Frostwing? Laken didn’t take them with him?”
The man paused and shook his head.
“He didn’t. I think he thought you’d be here. They’re alive. Healthy—that bird’s a menace now. But I haven’t been able to see to them. Ah, dead gods, Durene. There’s so much to do.”
He sighed. And as Durene looked at him, she wondered how hard it had been. Part of her felt sorry for Mister Prost. Another part remembered the man who used to watch as the children threw rocks at her. And who told her to keep away from Laken.
Perhaps Prost remembered that too. He looked tiredly up at Durene.
“Things have changed, haven’t they, Durene? You know, I never apologized after the avalanche. I used to think of you as…well, I remember you digging up snow and pulling people out. Now look at you. You were fighting for us against those Goblins.”
He gestured at Durene, and his eyes went to the visible section of scar on her chest. She raised a hand to cover it instinctively. Durene paused. Her throat worked for a second.
“Thanks, Mister Prost. But I lost that battle. I let everyone down.”
He looked surprised.
“Says who? That [Healer]? She saved lives, but she’s no—”
“No. She didn’t say it. I just know.”
Durene hung her head. Prost reached out, hesitated, and then grabbed Durene’s arm with a firm grip.
“No one thinks that. We all know you fought—hells, girl. When they brought you in, I was ashamed I wasn’t fighting myself. I always thought of you as invincible. We should have made you armor. Given you something other than a club to fight with! We thought our army was invincible because we beat the Goblins all those times before. I guess that was a wake up for everyone. His Majesty included.”
Durene nodded slowly. She felt a lump in her throat. And Laken was…
“What was that about, Mister Prost? Back there? Is he really bringing Goblins to Riverfarm? Why not kill them all?”
She clenched one fist. Prost hesitated and shook his head.
“I don’t know. But if Emperor Laken has his reasons, he has his reasons. And we’ll find out what they are when he arrives.”
“And you’re fine with that? After what they did? Why won’t Laken just get rid of them? You said he tried to make peace with that Goblin Chieftain! Why did he—are you really alright with this?”
Durene couldn’t understand. She waited and saw the older man hesitate. His jaw clench. But his voice remained level.
“I don’t know. And no, Durene. I’m not fond of the idea of Goblin prisoners. But if Emperor Laken says so, he says so.”
“Really? You’re not going to have words with him?”
Durene was, right when Laken got back. She was…angry at him. He should have been here! She had stepped forwards months in time, and she’d thought—she understood he had gone south, but if he could have been back? If he’d delayed to keep a bunch of Goblin prisoners? Again, Prost hesitated. But this time, he met Durene’s eyes.
“No. I’ll hear him out. That’s all.”
“Really?”
The [Steward] nodded once.
“He found my daughter in snow ten feet deep. Ten more seconds, another minute—and I’d never have heard her voice again. If His Majesty says jump, I’ll ask why because I’m his [Steward]. And then I’ll do it. If he wants Goblins prisoners? He has them. That’s all there is to it.”
He turned his head. And it was that simple. For him. Durene clenched her fists. She didn’t think it was so simple. But Laken wasn’t here. And she…
“What do I do now, Mister Prost?”
He looked back at her.
“I don’t know. If you need rest—”
“I don’t.”
“Then I could use you in dozens of places. Farming, cutting wood, hauling, building—anywhere you want to be. But maybe you should visit your cottage, Durene. Check on Laken’s animals. You don’t have to do everything today. You just woke up. And if you really need help, Lady Rie or I will be about.”
“Rie. She’s helping too? You trust her?”
Durene muttered resentfully. She knew it was petty, especially after the way Rie had greeted her with such relief. Again, Prost shrugged.
“I don’t know if she’s here for more reasons than wanting to become part of whatever this is. It’s hard to imagine a [Lady] living as she does. But she does. And I’ll say this, Durene. Lady Rie’s one of the reasons why Riverfarm’s still working. She’s been buying supplies, using her connections—and managing the half of the village I can’t. I’m grateful for her.”
He met Durene’s eyes, and she had to look away, embarrassed and ashamed of herself. At last, Prost checked the sky.
“I have to go. I need to organize more people to the farms. To feed two thousand…we have to plant and harvest as fast as we can. Durene, I’ll leave you. But maybe there is somewhere you need to go first.”
“Where?”
“The cemetery.”
Durene froze. Prost looked west.
“I say that. But it’s more like a memorial spot. Not many graves. Still, there’s markers…it’s that way. By the old village. Seemed like a good spot to place it.”
He pointed. Then he looked at Durene and walked off. And the half-Troll girl followed his gaze and began to walk. All the strangeness of waking, the bitterness and confusion of Laken being missing and doing strange things with Goblin prisoners—all of it became background.
She was there again. Walking side-by-side with men and women from Riverfarm and every village, city, and town in the region. A woman with a pointed hat aimed her wand at a ruined city. Durene saw the ranks of Humans moving faster. Then running. She heard a roar and echoed it. And from the city they came, thousands of green bodies, shrieking in their high-pitched war cries, fighting in the mud and gore. And Durene charged, swinging her club—and the dead fell. Goblins and people.
There they were. Buried in rows, in a place where a village had stood. Side-by-side. Neatly in death. Not how they had fallen. Durene halted as she left the neat, organized dirt roads of the village. Someone had cleared the spring growth from the ground in the immediate area, but sprouts still bloomed, poking through the soil.
Rows and rows of them. The grave makers had been planted. But Prost was right. Few had been dug. The markers were what mattered. And they were neatly tended to, the flowers still fresh. The grief hung in the air, and the cemetery itself was quiet. Durene walked forwards silently.
This was Riverfarm. The original Riverfarm. She remembered it. This used to be the southern end of the village. But it had been buried in snow after the avalanche. Only near the end had they recovered the deepest bodies. No one had wanted to rebuild here.
And now—the graves were quiet. Durene supposed they were visited, but Prost probably did keep everyone moving. So if the cemetery had visitors, it was later. She looked from gravestone to gravestone, reading the markings written in ash on wood, or in the cases of stone, carved there.
Names. Sometimes with a [Class] and levels attached. Other times just left so. Sometimes with a few words, written in memory of the deceased. Or that the person had said in life. Rows and rows. So few that Durene recognized. Too many that she did.
 
Nielfra Grassc. [Huntress]. Died fighting Goblins.
Thel Grassc. [Hunter]. Died fighting Goblins.
Inmki. Aged 41.
Sadil Prowli, beloved child.
Grimby, the Woodsman of Windrest.
Ellric Edsmund, died in the Battle for Lancrel.
Rachella—
Fin—
Vellima—
Haskel—
Aberal—
Tchronson—
 
Name after name. Each grave tended to. Some by family and marked with care. Others placed there with respect, if not love. Durene walked past marker after marker. And, horribly, she felt nothing for so many.
She had not seen them buried. She didn’t remember them. They weren’t of Riverfarm. And Durene hadn’t known them except for a passing face, a jest, a flash in the battle. But—she bit her lip until it nearly bled. They had answered Laken’s call. They had come to fight Goblins.
Then she saw a name she did recognize. Lamily, Daughter of Riverfarm. Died fighting Goblins. Durene paused. Lamily? She remembered a woman, always grumpy, nowhere near as pleasant as her name indicated. A widow, a [Farmer]. Skilled enough with a pitchfork to kill a Corusdeer that went on a rampage eight winters back.
Dead. Durene hadn’t even known she’d died in the battle. She bent, trying to imagine the woman’s lined, angry face. She’d been at the battle? Or had it been earlier? In the first battle for Riverfarm against the Goblin raiders?
Durene couldn’t remember. The deaths felt so long ago. And she felt—lost.
She was a stranger to Riverfarm. Some of the faces felt familiar. Prost did. Rie did. Ram—and yet, the village was bustling. It wasn’t even a village anymore, was it? Durene hadn’t seen more than a fraction of it. And yet, it had streets and hundreds of familiar faces.
Her home was gone. And it had gone in the days where she’d slept in fever and madness. And Laken was missing.
Durene slowly bent in front of Lamily’s grave. She felt so tired. And adrift. It felt like nothing was real. She wanted to lie down and sleep again, and if she slept long enough, perhaps, perhaps Laken would be back. Time would flow backwards, and she wouldn’t feel so lost. Durene bent to sit on the thin layer of grass. Then she saw something fluttering down out of the sky.
The half-Troll girl looked up. A bird flew out of the sky. Not a robin, though, or a forest bird she was used to. It was a crow. No—a raven. It flew down, cawing. And Durene saw it land on something in the graveyard.
A bit of blue poking up above one of the headstones. Durene frowned. The strange blue thing didn’t match the rest of the solemn place. The graves were stone or wood, grey and brown and sometimes even white stone, but never blue. And the brown earth, the green shoots of grass and occasional flowers—
Blue? Durene took a step towards it. Then she saw the patch of blue move. It rose and became a pointed cone. A hat. And the raven, pecking at it, flew up and alighted on a gravestone. Durene saw someone stand up from where she’d been kneeling. And she saw a pale face. Spectacles. She recognized the person who turned to look at the raven.
It was a [Witch]. Wiskeria. Seeing her, Durene felt a shock. Because Wiskeria, at least, hadn’t changed.
She was the same as Durene remembered seeing before the battle. The same, from her clothing to the spectacles on her face, an oddity in Riverfarm. The same, but her face was shadowed. Her expression clouded and upset. Her eyes red-rimmed. So she wasn’t the person Durene remembered. Nor was her voice as she shouted at the raven.
“Begone! I told you twice, no! Tell her no! Tell them all I said no!”
The raven cawed and flew up as Wiskeria pointed a trembling finger at it. It flew around her head, making loud, shrill sounds. It alighted on another headstone. And then, to Durene’s shock and horror, it spoke.
“Wiskeria. Come. Come!”
The voice sounded like a raven’s caw, but the words were undeniable. Durene froze, her eyes wide in horror. What kind of animal was this? Some kind of [Beast Tamer]’s special pet? Like Laken’s? But Wiskeria just shook her fist at it.
“No. And no again! I said no! I won’t go. I have duties here. I can’t leave! I don’t care what the others say. Tell them no!”
“Come!”
The raven was insistent. Wiskeria glowered. She grabbed a piece of soil from the ground. She hurled it, and a shower of dirt sent the raven flying.
“No! Begone and tell her no!”
This time, the bird took flight. Wiskeria glared as it flew off. Durene followed it with her eyes and then saw the [Witch] walking towards where the raven had been. Durene walked closer and saw Wiskeria was bending over, brushing at some dirt that had gotten on top of a grave. She was so engrossed she didn’t notice Durene at first. Then she looked up. Durene was hard to miss.
“Durene?”
Wiskeria’s pale face went paler. Durene looked down at her. The [Witch] was thin. Thinner than Durene remembered her. But still the same.
“Wiskeria. It’s me.”
Durene felt silly saying it out loud. But Wiskeria seemed as shocked to see Durene as the half-Troll girl was to see her. The [Witch] opened her mouth and hesitated. She looked at Durene’s tunic, and her eyes widened as she saw the scar on her chest.
“Your injury—”
