Day 51 – Durene
 
Fifty-one days. At first, Durene couldn’t believe it. But when she stepped into Riverfarm and looked around, she had to accept it. The village she knew was gone.
Riverfarm had always been a village of a hundred people, sometimes more, sometimes less. A family moving out of the village was serious business. And while the avalanche had effectively cut Riverfarm’s population by a quarter even with Laken’s miraculous intervention, it had still felt small, even with Windrest and the other villages’ inhabitants joining it.
Durene had been inordinately proud of the first row of houses that had been freshly built by Riverfarm’s folk under Laken’s guidance. She had been there as he designed the village’s layout with Prost and Lady Rie. And hadn’t that been amazing? Designing how a village should be built rather than just letting folk build where they pleased?
But it had order, function. Laken had shown Durene how it was better to have organization, to allow for wells to be dug so water could be drawn to fight a fire or so old folk wouldn’t have to walk far for it. And Laken was perfect for the job because his [Emperor]’s Skill allowed him to ‘see’ the landscape and plot out the village even better than Prost could with maps or a vantage point.
The irony of a blind man being the one to understand how a village should work had been lost on no one. And yet, that had been the excitement of the future. At the time, Durene had vibrated with energy imagining how Riverfarm might one day look. But now? It lay before her.
The street of houses was neat. Swept of debris, but made of stone. The paving of the road would come later. First, houses had been essential. So these had gone up. One after another, all built the same, but spacious, each one able to fit a large family quite comfortably. They had no glass, and the materials the builders had access to were just wood and stone.
But they were comfortable. And each was still new, the newest having gone up yesterday. It wasn’t hard, even. As Prost led Durene down the street, the girl stared at a line of men and two women hauling materials to the next plot of land. The foundation was already laid; now they were placing their equipment just so, bringing in the sturdy beams from which the house would be supported.
“It’s not hard to do. I know it’s a sight—imagine [Builders] from Riverfarm being able to put up a house in less than a day. Or two or even three houses in a day! Well, we do have a very large crew, but even at the beginning, it was easy. After the first house, we just had to copy what we did and do it right. It became so smooth that it’s almost boring. Emperor Laken was right—teaching everyone how to do a part of the house makes it dead easy.”
Prost pointed as a pair of workers rolled over two window frames in a handcart.
“Someone does the window frames, or prepares the roof tiles, and so on, and someone else brings them here. All the [Builders] on the site have to do is put things together one after another. We can go even faster, I think, but we haven’t made everything perfect.”
“It looks fast enough to me!”
Durene stared. Prost grinned excitedly. He cupped his hands as the two [Laborers] hauled off the window frames from the cart with a grunt and carefully placed them in the collection site.
“Hey! What’s taking you so long? We want to get four houses done today! Or are you all asleep on your feet?”
A few good-natured curses answered Prost. Some of the men and women looked up and spotted Durene. They waved, a few cautiously, and Durene smiled, recognizing one of the men from Riverfarm. A few gave Durene a very long look, but their comrades whispered to them, and they relaxed. Someone, a woman with a bandanna over her head, spat out a nail and pointed at a beam.
“We’re waiting on ropes to pull that load-bearing beam up. Some of ours are getting frayed, and I’m not going to see if it snaps.”
Prost grimaced.
“Fair enough. You have enough hands?”
The female [Builder] grinned as she hammered a floorboard into place.
“Why? You want to help, Mister Steward?”
He laughed and strode forwards. So did Durene. She eyed the beam and saw it was indeed a chunk of wood. But…
“I reckon we could do this without any ropes, Mister Prost. A few hands and I can push this up myself.”
She casually flexed one arm. She still felt groggy, but this looked simple. The [Builder] dropped her hammer as Durene approached. Perhaps they’d mistaken her for a man at a distance, but up close, Durene’s skin and height were unmistakable. One of the unfamiliar men backed up as he saw Durene.
“Dead gods—”
He reached for his belt. But the Riverfarm man pushed past him, beaming.
“Durene! You’re awake! I thought you’d be abed forever! How’re you? Come here, girl.”
He reached out. Durene smiled.
“Hullo, Mister Ram.”
Ram, or Ramel, laughed as she gave him a light hug. He grunted, and Durene realized she was squeezing—but she’d always liked him. He’d been decent to her even before Laken, even if he seldom came to Riverfarm. The [Rancher], who also had a few [Carpenter] and [Hunter] levels, smiled up at her and then turned to the others.
“Come on! This is Durene, our Emperor’s, uh—fiancée? She’s a [Farmer] and a [Paladin], whatever that is. We don’t need to wait on ropes, Miss Beycalt. Three or four hands plus Durene should do it.”
He waved at the reluctant others. Some of the folk who clearly remembered Durene stepped up. The female [Builder] in charge, Beycalt, raised an eyebrow.
“You’re sure?”
“Never surer. Come on, you three. We’ll do it.”
Prost answered for Ram, and the two men stepped over. Durene saw the reserve in the other faces, so she kept the smile on her face and squatted next to the end of the beam. She put both hands under the end as Prost and Ram and three others did likewise. Durene counted.
“One, two, three—lift!”
She lifted upwards slowly. The men grunted, and the beam came up. It was probably the worst way to lift something like this, honestly—the other end of the beam was level, which meant the lifters would have to struggle as the end they were lifting grew higher. If they weren’t strong enough—or even tall enough—to get it up, it might fall. But that equation didn’t account for Durene.
Up the load-bearing beam went. Durene lifted it over her head, bracing her legs, pushing up. It was heavy, but she was strong. She was a [Farmer] with the [Enhanced Strength] Skill, which already made her very strong. And she was bigger than any man here. She kept lifting and realized that Prost and Ram were struggling to reach over their heads.
“Hold on! We’ll get around the bottom—”
Ram shouted. Durene just laughed.
“I have it!”
So saying, she pushed, and the beam went vertical. A gasp went up from the other builders, and Beycalt blinked. Durene caught the beam before it could overbalance.
“Where do you want it?”
“Here!”
Another man pointed to a spot where the wooden beam was ready to be driven deep into the earth. There was even scaffolding set up to let a man hammer it deep with a maul. Durene wrapped her arms around the beam in a bear-hug and lifted it. She saw two men grunting and lifting as well—it didn’t feel much different to her. Huffing, Durene shuffled it over.
“Dragons take me! Is she carrying that by herself?”
“Stand clear! Durene, put it in the hole. Nice and gentle—”
Durene obeyed Ram’s words and edged the bottom of the beam into the waiting foundation. The [Builders] moved around it, steadying it, tamping earth and making sure it was steady. Then a man with a mallet climbed up and began to drive it deeper, solidifying it until even the most powerful of impacts wouldn’t so much as budge it loose. Prost and Ram wiped their brows as they stepped back. They looked admiringly at Durene.
“I forgot how strong you were, girl. Hell on Rhir, you didn’t even need us, did you?”
Ram slapped Durene’s back cheerfully. She grinned.
“It was nice support, Mister Ram.”
He laughed and slapped her back again. Durene smiled and found the [Builder] woman was staring at her. She dusted off her hands, a bit embarrassed. It was a familiar look in Beycalt’s eyes. One of amazement—and fear. Durene supposed it would have taken all the people here to move that beam without her. Especially since they’d have to crowd about and get in each other’s way to lift it.
The woman hesitated, but then she put down her hammer and stood up. She walked over to Durene, hopped off the foundation of the house, and held out a hand.
“Did I hear Mister Prost right? You’re Durene?”
“That’s me.”
Durene lightly squeezed the woman’s hand. It was gloveless, but the woman’s calluses were nearly as tough as Durene’s own skin. The [Builder] gave her a firm handshake.
“Pleased. I’m Beycalt Newman. Only, without a man, and [Forewoman] of this lot. And I do recognize you, come to think of it. You were with the army at Lancrel.”
Durene’s smile slipped away. Around her, Ram, Prost, and the other [Builders] went quiet. One of them took off his wicker hat. Durene nodded.
“I was. I’m sorry.”
Beycalt frowned.
“For what? I saw you smash at least thirty Goblins before we got away. You’ve got my thanks.”
She nodded to Durene. Speechless, the girl looked at Prost. He cleared his throat.
“We all owe you thanks, Durene. You and the brave lads…and lasses that fought there. Heycin, you were there, right?”
One of the men in the back nodded soberly.
“[Archers]. We got out fine. It’s good to see you, Durene.”
“You too.”
Durene waved at him. She vaguely recalled his face. But somehow, suddenly, she felt like she knew him as well as Ram. He nodded respectfully to her. The others looked from Durene to Heycin. Prost again broke the silence.
“Durene’s just been on her feet this morning. She’ll be getting her strength back. We probably shouldn’t have tested it—but she might come back this way if she’s needed. Then you lot won’t have any excuse to slack off, heh?”
That got a laugh. The [Builders] split up, getting back to work, and Ram waved at Prost and Durene before trotting back to lay the floorboards down with Beycalt. Durene stepped back, feeling…odd. Like someone still dreaming, really. She walked back with Prost and distinctly heard some of the men whispering and eying her.
“She’s the fiancée of this blind [Emperor]? Are you sure this place is…”
“Some kind of—”
People forgot her ears were every bit as good as theirs. Durene turned her head, blushing, and Prost noticed. He frowned back at the men, who went quiet under his gaze. Prost led Durene back down the street.
“Ignore them. They’re new. Most of the folk who came to Riverfarm were forced out of their homes by the Goblin raids. When they sacked the city—remember? Most of them fled to their families in nearby towns or villages, but some came back with us.”
“Riverfarm’s huge now. This is one street?”
“That’s right. One of our residential districts, according to Laken’s plans. We prioritized those—along with pastures, which were dead easy to fence off, and farmland. Our [Farmers] are sowing as fast as they can. Once we have the houses, we can worry about putting buildings further out and all the other non-essentials.”
Durene and Prost both nodded at that with a [Farmer]’s appreciation for crops first. All you needed was a bed and some land. The rest could come later. She looked around. The streets were full of people. Some waved and called out to her, but many stared at Durene as if she were a monster. Prost briskly shouted at them, waving them on, pausing to greet some people—introducing them to Durene.
“Miss Xathy, is that the harvest from the [Foragers]? Good haul! Place it with our other foodstuffs in the warehouse; don’t let people pick at it or you’ll have nothing left! It’s not snacks, folks, it’s dinner! Mister Calic, I told you, you’re an [Artist] when we need one! Right now, we need a [Painter], so slap a coat on those houses and don’t talk about decorations or I’ll have you working as a [Laborer]! This is Durene. Our best fighter save for maybe Beniar. She just woke up—you remember the announcements?”
A crowd of women holding baskets had paused in the street to stare at Durene. They were about fourteen in number, and a man with a bucket and paintbrush, who’d been arguing with a [Builder], turned and jumped as Prost shouted at him. He opened his mouth, saw Durene, choked on his spit, and backed up. The women stared up at Durene as they paused. Prost opened his mouth and then snapped at someone behind the [Painter] and women.
“Jelov! What are you doing?”
He bellowed at an old [Carpenter]. The old man uneasily started and tried to hide behind the small crowd. When he realized he wasn’t able to, he crabbed over. Durene stepped beside Prost; she knew the [Carpenter], and he had a tendency to lubricate the air when he spoke.
“Doing? Just getting rid of a few try-pieces, Mister Prost. Er, Steward Prost. I’m having a little break—”
“—Selling miniature totems as good-luck charms? I told you, we need to replace those totems the Goblins burned. It’s been fifty days, and you still have fifteen to go!”
Prost’s frown was thunderous. Jelov groaned. He held out his hands imploringly.
“I can’t work on the large pieces all the time, Mister Prost! My mind wanders, so it does. And the little ones are so well-loved—they take me only a few minutes each!”
“And they net you a tidy sum. I told you that no one’s earning money in Riverfarm. Not yet; we’re pooling it and buying what we need. Do I need to shake what you have stashed away out? Turn it over, man!”
Prost growled. Jelov whined, but he reluctantly held out a pouch filled with bronze and copper coins. Disgusted, Prost emptied it into his money pouch.
“Prost! You’re hurting me! It’s just a bit of coin—half the folk who came here have their own money stored away! You’re not asking for their coin. And I work twice, no, four times worth what I’d charge for eating or sleeping!”
“Yet. And I’m not charging them for food or rent. They work, they eat. We don’t have the resources to let them buy everything. Or are you going to pay for the house you live in alone? Or the wood we buy you? The tools Mister Helm forged for you ahead of everyone else?”
The [Carpenter]’s eyes slid sideways as Prost raised his voice.
“Well—I do suppose—I should get back to work. I have lots of work to do! I suppose an old man can’t take his time, can he? No. And when he goes out, he’s yelled at. I can’t wait for His Majesty to return. He was understanding of old folks’ needs…good to see you, Miss Durene!”
