Durene reflexively covered the wound. Then she stopped. Wiskeria had been the one to save her, according to Pirose.
“Yeah. I was asleep. Sick, apparently. I’ve been…asleep.”
“I know. I kept coming to see you. Do you remember?”
“No.”
“Oh. Well…it’s good to see you.”
Wiskeria tugged on the brim of her hat. She looked around almost unsteadily. Then back up at Durene.
“I’m so glad.”
She reached out and caught herself, withdrew the hand. Durene blinked. Wiskeria wasn’t like this. She remembered a confident, no-nonsense person. Not whoever this was.
“I’m glad to see you too. What was…that?”
She pointed vaguely in the direction of the raven. Wiskeria turned her head.
“That? Oh—a message. From a…friend.”
“Really?”
Durene had no idea you could train ravens to send messages. But then, Wiskeria was a [Witch]. Wasn’t that what they did? Durene knew of [Witches] as scary, mysterious people. Riverfarm had never had one around, but you heard rumors. But Wiskeria had been so normal when she’d shown up as part of the Celestial Trackers that Durene had hardly given it a second thought, what with everything else happening. Now?
“I’m glad.”
Wiskeria repeated herself. She wavered. And then she looked around.
“Sorry. It’s such a surprise. I’ve been…did you just wake up? Are you here to pay your respects?”
“I guess. I mean, I am.”
Embarrassed, Durene realized that must have been why Wiskeria was here. And the [Witch] seemed so solemn, so pained, so sad that Durene felt callous by comparison. Wiskeria nodded a few times.
“I’ve been here. Most days. Thinking about my—what happened. I try to do it now, when no one’s about. They come after sunset. The families, you know.”
“Are all these people who died in the battle?”
Durene gestured around the graveyard. Wiskeria shook her head.
“They’re also your folk who died before that. But most of them come from the battle. This isn’t all of them either. The rest were buried in their homes. If they still remained. I…I saw to that.”
She bit her lip and looked down. Durene stared at her. She looked around the cemetery again.
“What have you been doing? Besides this?”
“Besides…?”
Wiskeria looked blank. She stared around and shook her head.
“Laken’s gone. I haven’t gotten any orders from him. Well—Rie and Prost keep in contact. But he’s coming back. With Goblins. You heard about that?”
Durene gritted her teeth.
“I did. What do you think about it?”
The [Witch] shrugged her shoulders listlessly. She shook her head.
“I hope he comes back. Riverfarm’s growing. And it’s difficult now. There’s so many new people. Did you see…?”
“No. I just went down one street. Then Prost pointed me here. I had to get away from it all.”
Another nod.
“You’ll see it tomorrow. Or the next few days. It’s amazing. But Prost and Rie have everyone doing jobs. Farming—there’s nearly a hundred people working the fields. They’re huge. So big that we need people with bows shooting down birds and animals trying to get at the seeds. And [Woodcutters], people quarrying stone—it’s incredible. But problematic. There’s crime now. [Bandits] have started raiding the area with Laken gone. As well as [Thieves] in the village. Town.”
Durene’s eyes widened. Bandits? Laken had helped crush a few groups early on, but the Goblins had scared most of them away. She looked at Wiskeria.
“That’s awful. Are you having trouble finding them?”
“Me?”
The [Witch] looked blank for a moment. Durene nodded and frowned.
“You’re our [General]. What’s the army doing? Are we putting out traps or hunting for them or what?”
Wiskeria was just shaking her head.
“No. No. I’m not—I quit, Durene. I stepped down. I’m not in charge of anything anymore.”
“What? Why?”
Thunderstruck, Durene’s jaw fell open. The [Witch]’s face was covered by the brim of her hat. She looked at the graves, at the sky, and then shook her head again.
“I shouldn’t be leading. I was the one who got everyone killed during the battle. All these graves? They’re because of me. I feel terribly bad about it.”
Terribly bad. That was underselling…Durene felt a flash of anger, then wondered how she’d even say it. She saw Wiskeria lift her head—and then realized the [Witch] was crying.
Tears ran from Wiskeria’s eyes when Durene could barely weep. They trickled down her face, and Durene panicked.
“Wiskeria! Don’t cry. It wasn’t your fault. It was a bad order; Rie told me all about it. Laken didn’t want you to attack.”
That had been a shock too. Someone had betrayed Laken. Knocked out Nesor to send a [Message] telling Wiskeria to attack the Goblins. The [Witch] nodded, tears falling from her face. But her voice was oddly steady.
“I know. But I obeyed it. I made the wrong choice in the moment, and but for House Veltras, we would have been wiped out. Lord Tyrion saved us. This was a disgrace. All the dead—my fault.”
She gestured around at the graves. Durene swallowed.
“That wasn’t your fault, Wiskeria.”
The [Witch] paused. Tears kept falling, but her voice was still steady.
“That’s kind of you to say. Few people agree with you. It doesn’t matter either way; the army’s disbanded. The remainder is sticking close to Riverfarm. We have a mounted group—the adventurers and [Soldiers] patrol around Riverfarm. But there’s no need for an army.”
Durene snapped.
“There’s every need. Laken’s bringing back Goblins. Hundreds of them!”
Why was no one talking about that? Wiskeria just shook her head.
“He has his reasons. Whatever they are. When he comes back, he can appoint a new [General]. I’m just staying to make amends. There’s not one [Alchemist] among all the people of Riverfarm; they all were lured to other cities. There’s an [Herbalist], but she’s Level 9. I’m helping until Prost can find or train someone up. By the way, have I been crying too long?”
“What?”
Wiskeria touched at her eyes.
“I weep for the dead. I have been, since the battle. I did not when I was still acting as a [General] because you shouldn’t in a position of command. I can and do as a [Witch]. Too much? I suppose it is.”
And like that, the tears stopped. As if they were something you could just…begin and end when you pleased. Durene recoiled a bit as Wiskeria produced a handkerchief and wiped her face.
“How did you do that?”
“What, cry? I let out my grief. Well, tried. I don’t know how to mourn; I have never lost anyone under my command before. I failed as a [General], Durene. I was arrogant. I thought I could fill the role, and look what it cost. I’m…ashamed.”
She pulled down the brim of her hat and seemed to deflate a bit before Durene’s eyes. The half-Troll girl didn’t know what to say. Wiskeria seemed genuinely sad, but she was also—
Everyone surely expressed being sad differently. The [Witch] stared at Durene’s scar and then looked around.
“I’m going to clean up. Then gather some herbs. It’s good to see you, Durene.”
“You too?”
The [Witch] nodded, ignoring the question. She walked off. Durene let her go. She stared around the cemetery. And the sense of wrongness intensified. Durene hurried away, stepping carefully between the graves. Everything was so wrong. The village. Wiskeria. All of it. She didn’t head back to Riverfarm. Instead, she climbed, up, towards the forest. And her home. Her and Laken’s. On the way, she looked back once.
Riverfarm had been a group of farms by a river. Small enough to miss in the shadow of the mountain, and it was a small mountain compared to any of the High Passes. It had been a collection of spread out houses connected by a small street.
Now it was a town. Neat rows of carefully laid houses stretched down a main street, and the residential district was already nearly four hundred houses large. Massive warehouses had been formed in another district to hold food. Fires and lights burned in the town, and hundreds, thousands of shapes milled about, forming queues for supper.
Across the river, Durene saw farmland. Not the patches a single [Farmer] or family could tend to, but a vast swathe of converted farmland, enough to feed tens of thousands if it all came to seed. The landscape had changed. A forest had vanished to make way for the houses. The uneven meadows across the river were all tilled soil. Durene stared. And then she turned away and went home. It had to be the same. Let one thing be the same. One—
The cottage was as she’d left it. Durene nearly cried with relief at the sight of the humble hut. The thatched roof was still there, unlike the rooftop tiles used in Riverfarm’s houses. Her garden was there, messy, overgrown—it looked like animals had torn it apart. But the fencing was still there, broken in only one spot by something heavy. And her door, her shuttered windows—they were all there.
“Home.”
Durene’s eyes filled with tears as she stumbled towards her cottage. She just wanted to sleep there. She could think about Laken being gone tomorrow. She could face everything. But now—she reached for the handle. Then she heard a shriek. Something hurtled at her from the evening sky. Durene instinctively held a hand up. She felt something rake across her arm, stinging her skin.
Something screamed in her ears, then flapped up. Durene swung an arm, and the thing retreated. It darted forwards to peck again and then—abruptly—halted in midair. Durene stared. She saw a flash of vibrant blue feathers. Two staring, yellow eyes. And a shape she half-recognized. The half-Troll girl lowered her arm.
“Frostwing?”
The bird screamed. It was a familiar sound, the obnoxious complaint the bird always used to utter when it demanded food. But it was louder. And Frostwing was fully grown. A huge bird, nearly as large as an eagle, spread her wings and glared at Durene. There was a fierce, predatory look in her eyes. As Durene hesitantly reached out, Frostwing pecked.
“Ow! Frostwing, it’s me!”
The bird halted, baring its talons as it perched on Durene’s cottage. She seemed to know Durene, but she was hesitant. Durene was as much a stranger to Frostwing as the bird was to her. Slowly, Durene held out a hand.
“Frostwing? It’s me. Durene. I live with Laken. You remember him?”
The bird reacted to Laken’s name. It half-pecked at a finger, then slowly hopped forwards. Durene felt the bird latch onto her arm and winced, but only a bit. Frostwing’s talons were sharp. Slowly, carefully, Durene brought her close and raised a hand. Frostwing flinched, but Durene’s fingers were gentle as she stroked the bird’s head. It stared at her, trembling. And Durene felt her heart hurt.
“Have you been here while I’ve been asleep? Did no one look after you? How could Prost? How could they?”
The bird didn’t reply. Durene looked around. The cottage was tended. But why hadn’t anyone taken care of her garden? She’d planted during the winter. They could have looked after it. And there was a hole in her roof! Why hadn’t—
Then she heard the shuffling. Something grunted. Durene whirled, and Frostwing took off, screaming in alarm. Something was lurking around the side of her cottage. Durene hesitated. Her heart pounded in alarm—then she caught herself and made a fist. She strode forwards, ready to swing—
And paused. A large, green-furred bear blinked up at her. He was a giant, larger than any regular black bear and even brown bears. His fur was thick, the moss-green color that gave his species its name. The fur was dirty, and Durene could swear there was even a mushroom growing among the hairs.
But the bear seemed placid and content. He clearly recognized her because he came snuffling up to her, padding forwards with a tread heavier than even Durene’s. He leaned against her and sighed. Durene looked down.
“Bismarck?”
 
Day 52 – Durene
 
It was raining when Durene woke up. That didn’t bother her. The steady funnel of water pouring through the hole in her roof, on the other hand, definitely did. At first, Durene’s sleepiness conflated the water with her own bladder, and she got up to pee. And then she saw water soaking her floorboards and shouted in disgust.
A bird screamed. Frostwing took off, flying about the cottage in alarm as Durene, muddled, rushed about for a bucket to contain the water. But after she saw her warped floorboards, she realized it was no use. The hole had been here for weeks, and her floor was ruined.
“Damn, damn—Frostwing, shut up!”
Durene shouted at the bird. Mercifully, Frostwing shut up. She stared as Durene, swearing, found a dusty hammer in her toolbox. She didn’t bother looking for her scrap wood—she just yanked up a floorboard and stomped outside. Durene had a ladder she kept for repairs of her roof; that at least was in the right place. The problem was that someone was in the way.
Bismarck, the bear, was snoozing in a den around the cottage’s back. He’d apparently fallen in love with her woodshed. And her root cellar. The bear had torn the door off her cellar and combined it with the woodshed to accommodate his bulk. Durene was too annoyed to be impressed with the Mossbear’s intelligence. She prodded at him.
“Gawl.”
Bismarck’s annoyed growl was deep and rumbling. It was the kind of sound that would have scared the urine out of anyone who heard it and saw his huge eyes open and his mouth reveal a row of teeth. Bismarck growled in annoyance and then looked up into Durene’s wet face and her glare.
“Move.”
He blinked, got up, and shuffled out of the way. Durene scowled at the broken back of her ladder. But half of it was working, so she propped it up, climbed up four rungs, and started pounding nails into her roof.
“Lousy—stupid—Frostwing, be quiet!”
The bird was protesting its captivity. Durene hammered the last nail into place, decided that was enough, and stomped inside. A glaring bird assailed her with more shrieks. Durene nearly shrieked back.
“I’ll get you some food! Be quiet!”
And Frostwing was. The bird watched as Durene cast about the cottage only to realize that she did not, in fact, have any food. Anything she’d owned was long-since rotted. But Durene was saved from being screamed at by the sight of a basket filled with…food?
She peered inside. Dried meat, half-eaten, moldy potatoes, and fish bones peeked out at her. Durene recoiled from the smell, but Frostwing alighted on the basket and tore at it. Durene stared at it and then at the shutters that had clearly been opened to let it go through.
“So that’s how they fed you. Left it and ran? And what are the potatoes for? Bismarck?”
