“Agh. I know we should have kept it up. But those two scared everyone away—it’s good to see you managed to get to Frostwing. Poor bird.”
Prost nodded at Frostwing. The ‘poor bird’ eyed the man, then casually raised one leg and evacuated her bowels onto Durene’s shoulder. Both girl and man stared at the bird. Frostwing rubbed her beak affectionately on Durene’s cheek. Durene threw up her arms.
 
——
 
Some things were new. Like a town full of staring people. Other things never changed. A cottage was a cottage. You fixed it up the same way. Prost was only too happy to direct Durene to whatever supplies she needed, and an ecstatic Chimmy was brought off dish-washing duty to help out. The [Steward] also showed Durene to some spots she could be helpful, like [Woodcutters] excavating stumps to make more farmland.
“Honestly, you’ll be useful in any spot you want to go, but I’ve no notion of ordering you about. You’re still waking up, and you’re…you. You do what needs doing. Cottage first, and then wherever you need to be.”
The [Steward] nodded deferentially to Durene. She felt odd, seeing the [Woodcutters] looking at her and appraising her. Everyone jumped when Prost gave the orders—he and Rie ran this place, but he wasn’t going to give her orders? Embarrassed, she pulled at a tree stump and yanked it and a mountain of dirt up. Of course, that made the [Woodcutters] just stare harder. It was a rare sort of girl who could pull up an entire root system one-handed.
Cottage first, with food, nails, a cart of wood, a replacement ladder, and broom. Durene spent six hours fixing up everything, giving Bismarck a permanent home, and relocating Frostwing’s nest, much to the bird’s displeasure. The Mossbear hadn’t moved much since Durene had left him there; indeed, he seemed content to just laze about and eat.
“I suppose that’s heaven for a bear. But you need to work. Do something!”
Exasperated, Durene stared at Bismarck. He just opened one eye and huffed. She could sense the contentment rolling off him. This was the life. Glowering, she poked him with the broom handle until he moved so she could sweep his pellets out of the way.
But mainly, Durene was just glad to be doing something. Her work on the cottage occupied most of her day, and only when evening fell did Durene realize she had nothing more she really needed to do here. She looked at her repaired home, shook her head, and then thought of Riverfarm. Immediately, the mountain of problems crashed down on her shoulders—and she knew that she didn’t know all of what ailed the town!
“It’s too much. How can I help? I can pull some stumps up or hit a [Thief]. But I’m not Rie. Or Prost. Or even Beniar.”
Durene sat outside, feeding Frostwing a snack. The bird shrieked happily, and Durene winced. She looked down at her hands, then thought about something.
“[Bandits]? Prost might be right about needing a City Watch. But [Bandits]? That’s too much. Beniar and his [Riders] can’t handle [Bandits] alone, can they?”
Maybe they could. Or maybe they couldn’t. But imagining him and his few dozen riders (had they expanded or lost members since the battle?) faced against another enemy like the Goblins gave Durene shudders. That decided her. Rather than go and help out, she put away her tools, let Frostwing hop on the cloth shoulder pad that was extremely washable, and set off in search of Wiskeria.
 
——
 
She found the [Witch] in the same place she’d found her yesterday: in the graveyard. This time, Wiskeria wasn’t alone. Black shapes had descended and landed on the gravestones all around her. Not ravens either. This time it was crows. A murder of them.
“Wiskeria. Come!”
Durene froze as she stepped into the cemetery. The voice issued from dozens of beaks, a cawing, calling sound. The only sound in that silent place. The crows’ beady eyes locked on the [Witch] dressed in the same blue robes and hat as yesterday. Wiskeria stood among them, her back straight.
“No. I told you, no. Tell your mistress that. Tell them! Mavika! I won’t go! I know you’re listening! Tell them! Please!”
The crows didn’t like that answer. They took wing and flew around Wiskeria in a tight circle.
“Wiskeria! COME!”
“No!”
She shouted at them, but that only enraged them more. A crow darted out. It snapped its beak, and Wiskeria ducked. Another struck her hat with talons. A third struck Wiskeria from behind, and she staggered. Durene, frozen, gasped; blood was running from the back of Wiskeria’s head. A crow darted again at Wiskeria’s cheek and drew blood; the [Witch] jerked. If she hadn’t, the beak might have struck her eye.
“You can’t force me! I know the rules! I have to make things right here!”
“COME! WISKERIA.”
This time, the cawing voices were blended. And the voice that spoke didn’t sound like a crow’s mockery of language. It sounded…different. Not Human. But not an animal’s sound either. A mix of the two.
The circling crows tightened around Wiskeria, biting, clawing. She shielded her face.
“I—refuse—”
She sank down as the claws dragged at her robes, and the murder of crows descended, landing, pecking. It was at that moment that Durene couldn’t hold back. She surged forwards, shouting and waving her arms.
“Hey! Get lost! Begone!”
The crows turned on her. It was so fast that Durene only saw them covering Wiskeria then flying at her face. She shielded her eyes reflexively and shouted as dozens of beaks began hammering at her skin. Her body was tougher than Wiskeria’s, but the screaming birds were terrifying. Birds didn’t act like this!
“Get off! Get—”
Durene flailed, but although she struck a few forms, the birds refused to abate. Wiskeria was shouting something. Durene felt a flash of heat, and a crow screamed. They turned on both girls. And then, above them, Frostwing shrieked and dove.
The press of bodies broke up at once. The crows fled as Frostwing, shrieking louder than Durene had heard her yet, smashed into a crow. They turned to mob her, but Frostwing was quick! She struck with talons and beak and flashed upwards, nearly as fast on the ascent as diving. The crows tried to follow, but Frostwing dove again, and the crack as she struck a second crow sent the bird crumpling on top of a grave, neck twisted.
That was enough. Or it would have been if birds were like people. Kill or hurt a few people in a gang of bullies and the rest might flee. But the flock—no, Durene remembered what they were called.
The murder of crows saw their second brethren fall and mobbed Frostwing. Then the younger bird was shrieking, dodging away from a sea of beaks and talons.
“Frostwing! Here! Here! Help—”
Durene was swatting at crows as the bird flew into her arms, and she shielded Frostwing from the merciless beaks. They were sharp! Durene shouted and closed her eyes, but her skin was too tough for the flock to get at. But they were landing on her, trying to kill Frostwing—Durene flailed one hand, knocking several off of her hard enough to break their bones, but these were insane—
She was about to break into a run when a voice snapped.
“Mavika! I said—enough! Upon my hat, send your crows away. Or a flock I’ll slaughter this very day.”
The voice was Wiskeria’s. And Durene heard a loud cracking sound—then another. She opened one eye open as the murder of crows suddenly became panicked cawing. What she saw was Wiskeria. No longer shielding her face, but brandishing a length of cloth.
And she was using it like a whip! Cracking the wet cloth so fast through the air it sent two crows to the ground, stunned—and Wiskeria put her foot on one’s body very lightly so she wouldn’t kill the thing.
“My friend doesn’t know your ways. Don’t make this personal.”
Wiskeria stared at the crow’s beady eyes—then lifted her foot. Whomever she was talking to, or maybe the flock itself, decided it had had enough.
The crows fled. Frostwing, victorious, screamed and tried to pursue them, like the idiot she was. Durene grabbed her, and Frostwing squirmed—then decided she wanted to savor her kills. She alighted, tearing at one of the two dead crows she’d savaged.
Shakily, Durene lowered her arms. Her skin was cut, but not even deep enough to draw blood. Wiskeria, shaking her head, was bloodied. Red ran down the back of her head, but she wound the bandage around it.
“Wiskeria—”
“I’m fine. I’m fine. I just need a bit of healing potion. Not even that. Sorry you were involved, Durene. That’s Mavika. She’s almost as bad as my mother.”
The [Witch] shakily readjusted her hat. She looked at the crows that Frostwing was tearing into and shook her head.
“I didn’t think she’d go that far. And two of her crows are dead. She’ll be furious.”
“Who will? What was that?”
Durene was still shaken from the attack. She stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] inhaled, but to Durene’s disbelief, she didn’t seem shaken so much as upset.
Two similar emotions, but the fear, the surprise? It wasn’t there. Wiskeria. She nodded off to one side.
“Let’s clean up the feathers. And the birds. I don’t want them staying here if someone comes to look.”
A few minutes of picking up feathers later—Frostwing took the bodies—the two young women stood on the road to Durene’s cottage. Wiskeria was still breathing heavily. So was Durene for that matter. The [Witch] shook her head as she watched Frostwing cleaning her bloody beak.
“Dead gods. I knew that birds like Frostwing were hunters, but I didn’t know they could kill one of Mavika’s flock.”
She seemed very impressed. Durene was still on ‘shock’ and began to blurt out questions.
“Mavika? Who’s that? Does she own the birds?”
Wiskeria nodded.
“That’s right. She sent them to get me. Or threaten me, really. She’s not happy I’m not agreeing to join her. I know I should, but right now—I can’t. Something must have happened if she’s trying to form a coven. She’s a loner, you see. But she wants me because…well, I think she wants to mentor me. It’s not like I matter at the moment. Maybe it’s prestige? Either way, she doesn’t take ‘no’ for an answer.”
“Coven?”
Durene was lost. But the word was…familiar. In a vague way. Wiskeria nodded. She took a breath.
“Durene. You know that I’m a [Witch]?”
“Of course.”
“Well. I’m supposed to be part of a coven. That’s a group of [Witches] that meets every few months. It’s…well, I suppose you could say it’s part of my class. I know most classes don’t have that, but we do.”
“A coven. I think I’ve heard of them. I’ve never actually met a [Witch] before you. And you’re not like—”
Durene closed her mouth. Wiskeria smiled shortly, eying her as she dabbed at the blood on the back of her neck with a wet handkerchief.
“What? Like all the stories?”
“I don’t know many.”
Durene lied. She knew a few, even though she didn’t go to Riverfarm. But they were all old stories, like the [Witch] who gave a hero an enchanted brew to help him fight the evil [Warlock]. Or the [Witch] who poisoned the fair [Damsel] until a [Knight] or [Prince] could wake her with a kiss. But she didn’t mention that. Nor did she need to. One quirk of Wiskeria’s lips said that she saw through Durene’s lie.
“Everyone has stories about [Witches]. I’m afraid we’re common in old stories.”
“Are they true?”
Durene blurted that out. And she saw Wiskeria hesitate.
“Most of them are. I can’t fly on a broom, for instance. At least, not the brooms in Riverfarm. I can do a number of things. Cast spells, like that fire I threw at the crows, brew things, and so on. But I’m afraid a lot of stories are exaggerated. Or about high-level [Witches]. I’m neither.”
“Oh.”
It was a bit rude to talk about levels. Embarrassed, Durene studied her feet. She wore nice, sturdy boots most of the time, but she only had one pair, so sandals were her other option. She could make them herself, and her feet’s soles were tough.
She didn’t want to make Wiskeria feel bad—not that Durene had many levels either! But Wiskeria was more matter-of-fact about it. She just looked regretful, so Durene pressed on, trying to be mindful of Wiskeria’s feelings.
“The crows. Do they belong to the [Witch]? Mavika? I heard of [Witches] owning black cats.”
“Some own other animals. It’s part of our class. Mavika’s a strong [Witch]. A great witch, some say. I don’t know if she’s there with the greats, but she’s certainly among the strongest of this era. And she can make her crows talk or carry messages or do things. It’s not like being a [Beast Tamer]. But she’s powerful. I don’t want to make her mad, but she’s insisting I join the coven, and I don’t want to. I also don’t have to, no matter what she thinks.”
Wiskeria answered slowly, and Durene opened her mouth. Wait, go back. ‘Not a great witch’, but also ‘strongest of this era’? It seemed like a contradiction in terms!
It occurred to Durene she knew less of Wiskeria than she thought. The [Witch] had been part of a Silver-rank team, though she hadn’t been a full-time adventurer, and she had made Laken’s acquaintance, and he’d made her a [General], a job Durene thought she’d done amazingly well for someone just given the class.
But Wiskeria’s nature as a witch? Durene pressed on, fumbling for information.
“Why do you need to go to a coven in the first place?”
That seemed to be the wrong question. Wiskeria looked a bit insulted and tugged on her hat’s brim.
“I am a [Witch], even if I’m low-level compared to most. Witches have to have a coven. It stands to reason.”
“What reason?”
Another shrug.
“A witch should not be alone. We’re too few. And our power isn’t in just casting spells like [Mages]. Or—or potions or animals or any one thing. We’re strongest in our coven. Besides, those are the old ways. And [Witches]—we’re all old ways. A witch who isn’t in a coven is surely a bad witch. The worst of the worst. And I don’t want to be that.”
Wiskeria murmured to herself. She seemed to be repeating something from memory. Durene just blinked at her. There was a faraway look in Wiskeria’s eyes. Then she shook herself.
“…But I don’t have to have one right now. Witches can wander, and you have to fit in. Mavika knows that, but she insists because she thinks I need it. Or it’s just her. She’s really into the old ways.”
“I saw that. But can’t you go? It’s not as if…well, it’s not as if you’re being a [General] here, are you?”
Durene hesitated before saying that, but she did say it. Wiskeria tensed up, but Durene didn’t look away. Wiskeria took a deep breath.
“I told you—”
“Beniar says he can’t handle everything alone. We need an army, Wiskeria. Remember the Goblins? What if they come again?”
