Mister Prost’s wife paused as she put the blue robes in a pile of strongly scented clothing. Some of the other [Washers] doing the ceaseless job of scrubbing the clothing by the river looked up. A shadow flickered over Miss Yesel’s face.
“Wiskeria? Of course I can get some robes. Is she staying at your cottage?”
“That’s right. Is that a problem?”
“No…”
Yesel drew the word out as she found some robes for Durene. And the look in her eye told Durene the answer was yes. She had much the same expression she used to have when she’d see Durene in the village. Come to think of it—the woman treated Durene with respect, but she hadn’t ever apologized like Prost had. Maybe for her there was nothing to apologize for. Either way, Durene didn’t feel as comfortable around the woman as Ram or Prost.
“It’s good that you did the delivery. Not that I’d turn anyone with such dirty clothing away, much less Wiskeria. But she isn’t much beloved in Riverfarm. Of course, a good number of those Lancrel troublemakers can’t stop running their mouths, but even Emperor Laken’s folk…”
She meant the original three villages that had come together under Laken’s banner. Durene nodded, but without any agreement.
“I understand that. But Wiskeria did her best. She was tricked! And it wasn’t her fault. We all fought. If we’d been—I’d been…”
Durene fell silent. Miss Yesel opened her mouth and cast a glance over her shoulder. Some of the [Washer] women were silent or as pale-faced as Wiskeria had been in the graveyard. She clapped her hands briskly.
“Time’s been enough for maybes and if onlys, Durene, my dear. You did your best, and no one faults you. Or Miss Wiskeria. It’s just as it is. Take some robes from that basket. We have enough, and I’ll settle the complaints.”
She helped Durene find some green robes that would probably clash with Wiskeria’s blue pointed hat. But Durene didn’t bother arguing. She was walking away from the river when she saw a woman in a dress sweeping towards her with a burly man at her side.
“Durene! I hoped to see you! Do you have a moment?”
It was Lady Rie. Durene hadn’t seen her for a long time. Two days, in fact. The [Lady] briskly walked over despite the dress she wore. Her shoes were fancy but built for walking, and the dress she wore was green and had some kind of cobweb pattern in white near the bottom. It suited her very well, and the envious looks the other women gave her was proof enough. Durene didn’t care. Laken liked her.
And it was a mark of the changing times that Durene’s first response wasn’t to stiffen when Rie appeared, but actually relax and want to speak with her. The half-Troll girl eyed the big man accompanying Rie. He was…
Rie noticed Durene’s look. She turned to the man.
“This is Geram, Durene. You remember? My captain of the guard in my estates. He’s escorting me as my…assistant at the moment. He’s quite good at commanding attention.”
Geram, big, brawny, and unfortunately bald, was certainly all that. A former [Fistfighter] of some renown, his scarred knuckles were a work of art in themselves. And a threat. The man eyed Durene at the same time as she appraised him. And he didn’t seem to like what he saw. He bowed slightly.
“Miss Durene.”
“Ah, Geram. I think Durene is quite safe enough for me to talk to. Go find Nesor and make sure he’s not being bombarded with requests for [Message] spells. I told him to keep up.”
The woman politely turned to Geram. He hesitated, but then inclined his head. He strode off. Durene turned to Rie.
“You’re worried about being attacked?”
Rie smiled. She had a lovely mouth, lips colored green to match her dress today. Durene wondered who she was making the effort for. Rie nodded in the direction Geram had gone.
“Not at all. But a [Lady] must be protected. And there was that incident with Master Elmmet the other day. Terrible business.”
She raised her voice slightly. Durene noticed some of the [Washer] women nodding, others hesitating visibly. Rie glanced at Durene and then pointed delicately further upstream.
“I wouldn’t want to trouble Miss Yesel and the women about their work, though, Durene. Would you like to chat?”
“Of course.”
Durene walked up the river a bit with Rie. This was an open spot; she could see [Farmers] in the distance, working with plow horses to cover more ground while other [Farmers] checked the crops. They were indeed already sprouting, and so quickly! Durene felt a flash of excitement. Rie just regarded the farms with a critical eye.
“Not bad. We’ve harvested once, and I hope to do it again. It’s eased the pressure of feeding everyone, but even with our current fields, I’d like to double what’s there.”
“Double it?”
Durene’s eyes widened. She imagined how much food the current acreage could produce. Enough to feed old Riverfarm for a year, probably! But Rie just sighed.
“This is probably enough to feed the current Riverfarm and have some left over, but what about later in the year? To sell? To stockpile? We need runes of preservation or some other storage system, or simply to acquire cats and weevil-proof a storehouse. But this is simply not enough any way you look at it. Unless you think a [Farmer] can make these fields twice as productive with the right Skills?”
“I—maybe. I wasn’t a good [Farmer]. I had good Skills, but I only had a small garden.”
Durene shook her head. Rie sighed.
“Well, Riverfarm is my responsibility, and Mister Prost, who knows a lot about farming, shares my opinion. And food is but one of the resources Riverfarm lacks. I can make up for whatever shortcomings there are in our resources with my estates’ income, but I will be glad of some assistance from His Majesty. When he finally returns.”
She pursed her lips, not bothering to conceal her displeasure. And Durene, unwillingly, felt a jolt of pleasure at Rie’s expression.
“You think him taking so long is bad too?”
“Taking Goblin prisoners? Not joining Lord Tyrion and the other nobility, who have already returned to their estates? If there were a map of the wrong decisions to make, I’d say Emperor Laken had charted us a splendid course on it. But he must have his reasons, not least because he’s abandoned you in your time of need.”
Rie looked directly at Durene. The half-Troll girl flushed, with pride or embarrassment she couldn’t say. Rie was so direct!
“I—you didn’t act like this before.”
“Before, I was content that things were going well. This is not the time for petty games. Or haven’t you noticed how perilous Riverfarm is? I’m sure Prost is aware, even if he downplays the situation.”
Rie’s voice was low. Unconsciously, Durene bent to address the considerably shorter woman.
“I, uh, did. Do you mean you lied about not needing a bodyguard?”
“Of course I did. Go around unescorted? When the first bands of people started arriving, I told Geram to watch me day and night. Many are simply desperate for a place to live. That is bad enough, but some are dangerous. You’ve heard there have been fights.”
“Prost…mentioned it. But I thought—”
“The folk of the city the Goblins sacked—Lancrel—regard their destroyed city as Emperor Laken’s fault. In his absence, several members of their ruling council seem to believe they deserve a voice in how Riverfarm is run. But for my presence and Mister Prost’s respect, I think they would try to replace him. By force.”
“What?”
Durene felt a chill. She looked back towards the village, as if she could see the Lancrel people. Then she remembered the ones who stared at her and called her a monster. Rie nodded tightly.
“Are you surprised? People who have lost power want it back. Desperately. And the only things holding them back from behaving…well, my position as [Lady], the unity of Riverfarm and the country folk, and the presence of Beniar and his Darksky Riders are keeping order. But one disaster can fan the flames…this business with Master Elmmet may be a problem in itself.”
“He’s a [Thief]. I saw him changing his appearance. I didn’t know he could even do that.”
Durene shuddered. Rie just scowled.
“Level 30 [Thief]. Probably [Master of Faces] as a Skill. The problem is that his people don’t want to admit he is the scum he’s proven himself to be. They dislike being forced to work with ‘common’ [Farmers]. At least, the former upper classes do.”
“So kick them out! They don’t want to work? They can leave!”
Durene’s sharp tone made Rie smile. She flicked a lock of gleaming, dark purple hair out of her eyes. That was another thing Laken had never noticed because Durene had never told him. She wasn’t sure if Rie dyed it or if it was one of those rare hair colors that was the byproduct of some magical accident or bloodline, but a sultry, smooth-skinned [Lady] with purple flowing hair and impeccable dress sense was too much for Durene.
“If only it were that simple, Durene. I’m afraid that even if a revolt didn’t start if we attempted to oust the dissidents, they would quickly turn into a hostile group. As bad as—no, worse than the [Bandits]. And I fear more Lancrel folk are flocking to Riverfarm, not least because many are already here, but because some see the opportunity this group does.”
“They want Riverfarm. That’s so—”
The [Lady] was nodding.
“It’s not all of them. Many are content to work here. It’s only a small core, a hundred, perhaps two, that are truly incorrigible.”
“In—what?”
“Impossible to work with. The rest are just frightened. They believe what the others say, that the Goblins were a ruse or manipulated by Laken to attack the city. Rumors of his ability to find monsters on the road have sadly been turned against him. Obviously, he didn’t protect cities who didn’t declare themselves for him, like Lancrel! And—there’s you. And Wiskeria, I’m afraid.”
“Because I’m half-Troll, and Wiskeria’s the one who lost the battle.”
Durene folded her arms, but she wasn’t mad. Rie was speaking the truth. And it was refreshing. The [Lady] nodded, tapping one foot. Geram had returned with the pale, nervous Nesor, and the two were patiently waiting by the [Washer] women, some of whom were admiring Geram or teasing Nesor.
“Prejudices. I’m sure I don’t have to explain to you. It doesn’t help that Wiskeria is also a [Witch]. Riverfarm has never had a [Witch], or so I understand. But they do crop up across the continent in remote villages for the most part. And their reputation—”
“Poisoned apples?”
Durene snorted. But she saw Rie’s gaze flicker in the direction of Durene’s cottage.
“That is the least of it. I’m sure Wiskeria is honorable. She was not the traitor. That—[Maid] of Magnolia Reinhart was. But her class is…well, I had reservations when I learned she was Emperor Laken’s [General]. I trust his judgment. But [Witches] in general…”
Durene opened her mouth, and then she thought of the crow’s head from yesterday. She closed her mouth. Rie flicked her eyes to her, then looked around.
“I don’t want to keep you too long. The washer ladies will be suspicious if we chat overmuch anyways. But I do wish to speak with you, Durene. If you could convince Wiskeria to take on her role as [General]—”
“You want her back?”
“Do I want an army? Yes. And I should very much like to arm you, Miss Durene. It may agitate some of the Lancrel folk, but they will think twice about anything when they see you fight. Moreover, it might discourage these [Bandits] who are raiding. They’re desperate—most likely hungry as opposed to avaricious—but they’re no less deadly.”
“I’ll see what I can do. But I need to talk to Mister Helm for armor and the like.”
Durene refused to ask what avaricious meant. She could guess. Rie smiled and laid a hand on Durene’s shoulder.
“It is good to see you awake. And I hope you can rise to your class in Emperor Laken’s absence. I will call on you later. Until then—I have to work against Lancrel by keeping them squabbling with each other. And busy.”
She swept off. Durene stared at Rie and rubbed her arm. Rie’s hands were soft. She must use oil on them or something. The half-Troll girl watched her rejoin her companions, and then realized she was still holding Wiskeria’s robes. Guiltily, Durene hurried back towards her cottage.
 
——
 
Rise to her class. She was a [Paladin], but she didn’t feel like one. Durene sighed as she strode up the cottage’s path. She wondered if, sometime soon, Riverfarm would put dozens of houses along the lonely walk. It certainly seemed like the village was expanding, and while they hadn’t gone up into the beginnings of the mountain’s foothills, there was only so far you wanted to expand across the flats and forests, right? Unless they were going to build walls to keep it all safe?
Laken would know. Laken would know so much. And without him here, Durene felt like she wasn’t doing anything of value. She was lost without him. And that fact bothered her. He had changed her life as easily as she had ripped that door out of the wall. Now that he was gone, Durene didn’t know what to do with herself.
“Something. I can help without him. I have to. Otherwise, Riverfarm might not be here before he gets back. I have to do something. But what? I’m a Level 16 [Paladin]—what can I do? Fight? Fight what?”
The girl stomped up the hill. Then she heard a shout from the cottage. A female voice, raised—and a male one. Durene stopped, and then she charged up the hill.
Wiskeria was shouting and Frostwing was screaming when Durene got to her cottage at a run. But the scene wasn’t what she expected. A young man wearing a Runner’s insignia was cowering in the door of her house, ducking behind the door as an enraged Frostwing besieged him. She couldn’t get past the door, but Bismarck was snuffling around it, looking peeved. The young man was shouting at Wiskeria.
“Please, Miss! I’m begging you, just send a response! Say yes, and I can go! If not—”
“My answer’s no!”
“Please! I can’t go back to her without an affirmative! Do you know what she’ll do to me if I don’t say yes? The last Runners who got on her bad side—”
He yelped as Bismarck nosed closer to the door and pulled it closer towards him. Wiskeria shouted back.
“Is it worse than being eaten by a Mossbear? Tell her no! I’m not going!”
The City Runner wavered. But he didn’t budge. His eyes were so fixed on Bismarck that he didn’t spot Durene. When he did, his face went pale.
“Oh, dead gods—”
“Hey! That’s my cottage! Frostwing, stop! Bismarck, get back!”
“Durene? Where are my clothes?”
Wiskeria bellowed from around the cottage. The City Runner peeked around the door.
