The [Witch] tugged distractedly on her hat, then adjusted her spectacles.
“I know that. I know. But I just—I can’t do it. I thought I could, Durene, but I can’t act as a [General]. I guess you do need years of training. I was so overconfident I got people killed. I thought I had the talent to just pick up the job. If need be, I could step into the role, but only if need be.”
“If need be? You mean, you’re waiting for a disaster!”
Durene’s brows shot together. Wiskeria raised her palms defensively.
“I don’t want to! But I’m the only [General]. You’re right. But no one would trust me! Don’t you think I know that too? If I’m needed, I’ll do what I can. Until then—”
“You should take command now! We need you! Laken needs you! Prost could use someone to chase down [Bandits], to help—”
Wiskeria raised her voice.
“I can’t. Durene. I can’t do it. I tried my best, but I was too low-level. Too inexperienced. I’d repeat the same mistakes, and none of us want that. Here I thought I could do everything, just like a story from when I was a child. I’ve been thinking on my path forwards. What I did wrong. Whether I want to continue trying to even be a [General].”
The [Witch] sighed and hung her head. That made Durene angry.
 Not just because of how self-defeating Wiskeria sounded, but because—and Durene had just realized this—it wasn’t guilt she was hearing. There was some, but mostly, Wiskeria sounded angry at herself. That she had failed to lead the army, make the right decisions.
The dead almost sounded like an afterthought. She had cried in front of Durene, but not wept. Her voice was steady—unnaturally so. Just like when she talked about her mistakes, and now, after surviving a crow attack, which had Durene rattled—Wiskeria’s voice was closer to matter-of-fact.
So Durene snapped at her.
“Well, what are you doing? Sitting in a graveyard, fighting with crows?”
“Well, if I go into the village, I get pelted with rocks, by that Rehanna woman most of all. Everyone’s filled up with sadness, but I don’t want to take it from them. I’d let them throw rocks to make themselves feel better, but I got tired after the fourth time, and I don’t want to put Mister Prost to trouble. Tensions are already high enough.”
Durene felt struck, as if she had felt the stones hitting her—and she had, hundreds of times. She knew exactly what that was like. Children, or even parents, hurling a rock at the ‘Troll’. And yet—Wiskeria didn’t look half as upset as Durene, who seized Wiskeria’s shoulders.
“Don’t let them throw rocks at you!”
“So I should break their arms? That wasn’t my first thought.”
Wiskeria eyed Durene dubiously, and the half-Troll girl spluttered.
“No! Shout at them! Get Prost to arrest them for a day or something! I’ll stop them! No one will throw stones at you, or I’ll—I’ll—”
She let go and clenched a fist, unable to articulate what she’d do. Then she worried about what might happen if she lost her temper. Then she decided she didn’t care.
But Wiskeria’s smile was just crooked, and again, not angry. She shrugged.
“Eh. They have bad aim. Again, I did get their family members and children killed. Some people deserve to have rocks thrown at them, Durene.”
“Not you or me.”
The Troll girl’s eyes were wide, and her throat was tight and burning. Wiskeria blinked, glanced at Durene, and her eyes softened.
“Oh, Durene. Not you. I meant me. I’ve done enough to deserve it, both now and in the past. I’d offer them my hand if I didn’t need it, or a pint of blood, but it doesn’t work like that. You don’t deserve stones. Don’t be so sad and ashamed. I deserve them.”
Her yellow-green eyes seemed to shine with such conviction and—sincerity that Durene hesitated. The bond she’d felt with Wiskeria changed. They were both strangers, but Wiskeria…Durene grabbed the [Witch]’s shoulders again. There it was, the dissonance.
“Wiskeria! Aren’t you sad? Why are you talking like that?”
Durene shook Wiskeria, and the [Witch] seemed genuinely upset.
“What? What? I did! Am I not sad enough? Do you need more tears?”
“No, it’s how you talk! You’re not even crying right—look, you’re doing it again!”
“I am crying!”
“Yes, but you’re not actually—”
Frostwing screamed, and both girls jumped. Durene realized she was shouting. Wiskeria had been too. Tears were running from her eyes, but she flushed now, and the [Witch] covered her face with her hat.
Durene felt at her red cheeks. But she stared at Wiskeria, and once more, the tears stopped. Wiskeria stood there, and Durene panted.
“Why aren’t you crying right?”
It was the strangest thing. Was Wiskeria even sad? The [Witch]’s cheeks turned redder, and she almost jerked her hat down to cover her face. Then she looked up and met Durene’s eyes.
An outcast [Witch]. A half-Troll girl. Strangely, they got along. Strangely, Wiskeria talked to Durene, and she spoke now, uncertainly, even shyly, as if confessing something.
“I’m sorry, Durene. I—I never learned how.”
“To what?”
“To cry. To mourn properly.”
“What are you talking about? It isn’t something you learn.”
Durene was annoyed by the response. But Wiskeria just looked at Durene sadly.
“Well, I suppose that’s the problem. My mother never taught me how to weep. I am sorry, you know.”
The [Paladin] stood there, unsure of how to even respond. So she awkwardly nodded her head and changed the subject.
“How long until the coven?”
She meant to ease Wiskeria out of the conversation, but Wiskeria took a shuddering breath—then switched to more casual conversation so fast Durene was left startled. Maybe it was just her way? It was unsettling, though, as Wiskeria replied with a tilt of the head.
“When the two moons are full. We meet then, so it’s not every month. But it’s easy to tell if you know the stars. This time it’s in—”
“Six days.”
Wiskeria broke off. She stared at Durene.
“That’s correct. How do you know that?”
“When the two moons are full, right? I’m a village girl. I know how the moons work.”
The half-Troll girl shrugged. Wiskeria nodded slowly.
“Then that’s when. Don’t worry. Mavika won’t force me again. Not after losing two of her crows. Some of the others might try, but I can say no.”
“If you say so.”
Uneasily, Durene looked back in the direction of the graveyard. Then back at Wiskeria.
“Are you sure you won’t…?”
“I’m sure. If I thought I could, I’d try. But I see how they looked at me. I promised Laken—Emperor Laken, that I’d be his [General]. But until he comes back and decides what to do with me, I’ll stay here. And…help.”
Unhappily, Wiskeria gestured around. Back at the graveyard. Durene realized that was why it was so clean. And she saw, in the distance, the first family walking into it, heads bowed. Mother, two sons, a man, perhaps an uncle or grandfather. But from the way they walked, no father. Wiskeria bowed her head silently. She looked so thin, so faded standing there. Durene couldn’t help it. She transferred Frostwing to her other arm and reached for Wiskeria.
“Do you want to eat at my cottage tonight?”
“What?”
The [Witch] looked up. Durene pointed.
“It’s just up the way. I don’t know what you eat. In the village? It must be harder.”
“I don’t eat there. I forage for myself. It’s not hard.”
Wiskeria muttered. Durene stared at her. She knew there were…roots and berries and such, but she doubted Wiskeria could land more than small game with so many people and [Hunters] about. No wonder she was so thin!
“Come with me. I’ve got food from Prost. We can eat there. And you can sleep in my cottage.”
“I can’t do that.”
“Why not? I’ve got…one bed. But I can sleep on the ground!”
“I have a tent.”
“Then put it up in my garden. Bismarck snores, but you—I can roll him over. Come on.”
Bullying, cajoling, and then switching back to bullying, Durene got Wiskeria to show her the small tent she’d pitched not far from here. Durene yanked up the pegs, grabbed the tent and Wiskeria, and practically carried both under her arms to her cottage.
There she made food. It wasn’t much; just a stew with some meat. Stews were big in Riverfarm, owing to how many people there were. But there was a loaf of fresh-baked bread that everyone, including Frostwing and Bismarck, wanted a piece of.
They didn’t talk about their fight or anything else for a while in pursuit of dinner. Wiskeria ate almost as hungrily as Durene, and the girl was glad to see some color enter Wiskeria’s pale cheeks. She refused Durene’s bed, which was just as well; the tent would only fit Wiskeria. The [Witch] went to bed silently as Durene washed up and Frostwing lay in her nest, pecking at one of the crows’ heads. Durene shuddered when she came back from letting Bismarck lick her pot clean.
“Frostwing, get rid of it. Come on. Be a good girl.”
The bird didn’t want to give up her prize. She pecked at Durene, and the half-Troll girl, grimacing, picked up the head. She carried it outside, ignoring Frostwing’s scream-crying. Durene walked away from Wiskeria’s tent, in which the [Witch] seemed already asleep, and pitched her arm back. The crow’s head was wet and slimy in her grasp. And as she aimed, she felt its beak move in her grip.
“Wiskeria. Come.”
Durene dropped the crow’s head and shouted in horror. The head landed on the ground. She saw the staring eye turn up at her. Something looked through the disemboweled head. The beak opened.
“Wiskeria! C—”
Durene’s sandal smashed the head into the ground. She stomped twice more, feeling the fragile bones and skull crunch. Durene didn’t care. She stomped again and again until, panting, she stared at the mess on the ground. The fragments of beak made no sound.
Shuddering, Durene backed up. Her skin crawled. She walked back into the cottage and grabbed a shovel. With it in hand, she went back and dug up some soil. When the hole was deep—four feet—Durene tossed the remains of the head inside and covered it, pressing the earth down. When that was done, she went back to the cottage.
“What was that shout?”
Wiskeria poked her head out of her tent. Her hat was off her head for once, and her expression was bleary. She must have woken back up. Durene eyed her face and opened her mouth.
“It’s n—”
She began to lie. Then she remembered that a disembodied crow’s head had come to life in her hands and talked to her. So Durene pointed back at the patch of soil.
“One of the crows’ heads—it came to life and said your name. In my hand. I smashed it.”
Wiskeria’s sleepy gaze sharpened. She stared at Durene. The girl shuddered and wiped her hand on her tunic. The [Witch] was silent.
“Well? Is that other [Witch] of yours—is she going to do anything?”
“I think that was it. She can probably still use crows when they’re dead. Or it was some other spell. Crows…well, some of us know necromancy too.”
“Necromancy? You mean you use the undead? Like the Necromancer? From the stories? Az—”
Durene recoiled in horror. Wiskeria shook her head rapidly, noting the shock on the half-Troll girl’s face.
“We’re not [Necromancers]! Absolutely not! No [Witch] I know has any levels in [Necromancer]! Don’t badmouth our craft!”
She pulled her head into her tent. Durene exhaled in relief. She got back to bed slowly, wiping her hands many times. Frostwing snoozed in her nest, and outside, Bismarck’s gentle snoring was even comforting. It was only after Durene was dozing off that she realized that Wiskeria hadn’t really answered her question at all.
 
 
Day 53 – Durene
 
The next day drizzled for a bit before Durene woke up, but the sky was clear when she got up. She knew it had rained from the smell in the air, though, and Wiskeria’s wet tent. It was waterproof, so the wan [Witch] had gotten her sleep. She met Durene in robes much like yesterday’s. Exactly like yesterday’s, in fact. Durene eyed them.
“Don’t you have other clothes?”
“I have another change. But I lost most of my things when we fled the Goblins. It’s fine. I cleaned the blood and the rest off with a cleaning charm.”
It was true, the robes were clean. But that didn’t disguise the fact that they smelled lived-in. That they had no holes was a frank miracle. Durene decided what Wiskeria needed was new clothes. The [Witch] disagreed.
“It’s how I dress! It’s how all [Witches] dress! My mother made this for me!”
“Okay, fine, no replacements, but they smell! And you need a bath! You don’t need to borrow my clothes! Just get some new ones! I’ll get them for you! I’ll even get more robes!”
Wiskeria eventually agreed when she realized Durene was close to stripping her and throwing her into her tub herself. But she was adamant on one point.
“Not my hat! My hat stays where it is! A [Witch] has to have her hat!”
Durene agreed to leave it. She helped Wiskeria fill the tub from a stream with cold water. Durene was about to suggest letting the water warm in the sun when Wiskeria poked her wand into the tub. Durene saw a flash of light, and the water became steaming. She narrowed her eyes at Wiskeria’s smug expression and thought of all the cold baths she’d had to endure.
Silently, Durene handed Wiskeria her soap and slapped Bismarck when he tried to eat it. The Mossbear, affronted, stared at the naked Wiskeria, who covered herself protectively, and at Durene. Seeing nothing of interest, he went back to sleep.
“I’ll get someone to clean your robes. And be back with new ones.”
“What? No, they really don’t need more than a wash. Durene? Durene!”
Wiskeria yelped and grabbed for Durene, but the girl was already trotting away. Durene turned and waved with her other hand as Frostwing decided to sip from Wiskeria’s tub rather than accompany her.
“If someone comes, uh, hide in Bismarck’s fur! Or dance around naked! Isn’t that what [Witches] do?”
“Stupid girls do that! No [Witch] I know will dance about naked anywhere! In a forest? Do you want insects biting you everywhere?”
The [Witch] shouted back. Durene, smiling, just headed into Riverfarm.
 
——
 
“Wash? I can wash this. But—ergh! I’ll have to put it in the men’s pile. It’s too foul to go with the good linens.”
Miss Yesel recoiled when she saw and smelled Wiskeria’s robe. It turned out that Wiskeria either couldn’t smell or didn’t know that her cleaning spell only got the outer side of the robe. Durene wrinkled her nose.
“That’ll be fine, Miss Yesel. Can I have some, uh, robes? I need them for Wiskeria.”
