One of the [Woodcutters] shouted. The people in the street looked around. Durene’s head swiveled, but the hooded man was gone.
“I thought I saw—but he’s nowhere.”
A woman looked around, wide-eyed. Durene cursed. Had the man vanished? Used a Skill? She turned desperately and saw Chimmy running after her with the breathless [Trader]. They stared around, horrified, at the crowd devoid of hooded figures. Durene clenched her fists helplessly—
And then a shriek tore the air. Everyone ducked as Frostwing, enraged, hurtled out of the air like a blue bolt of lightning. She landed, tearing, pecking, at the very same woman who’d seen the [Thief]!
“Frostwing! Stop!”
Durene shouted and began to run forwards. But before she could reach the bird, the woman ducked away, cursing. And her face, her entire body—blurred. The hooded figure ran backwards, shielding his head, cursing at Frostwing.
“That’s the [Thief]! Get him!”
The [Trader] howled. Now, the entire street grabbed for the [Thief], but he ran through them, shoving, ducking Frostwing, running faster than anyone could catch up. Durene swore as she ran after him. If she could throw something—he was nearing a break in the crowds, and she had a feeling he was going to make a break for it! He was too quick—
“Watch out! Make way!”
A voice roared to Durene’s left. She drew up as she saw a figure racing at her from the right. A mounted figure. The [Thief] spotted the armored shape rushing down the street on horseback too late. He turned, darting back towards Durene, but the horse galloped into him and tossed him to the ground like a sack of flour. He made a pained cry—the [Rider] turned, leapt from his saddle, and grabbed the [Thief] before he could get back up.
One hand thrust his face into the ground, the other raised a gauntleted fist. As Durene reached the pair, the armored man swung a fist down, and the [Thief], struggling, went limp.
“Got him! You bastard, we finally got you!”
The armored figure crowed as he hauled the man up. He yanked the hood off and then swore. Durene, staring, saw the armored helmet go up. A shock of black hair emerged, and a young face. Beniar, sweaty, hair-tangled, stared in surprise at the man’s face.
“You? You’re our [Thief]? You bastard!”
He shook the unconscious man. Then he looked up and saw Durene. His eyes widened. Beniar dropped the [Thief].
“Durene!”
“Beniar!”
She reached out. The Silver-rank adventurer strode past his snorting horse and grabbed her up in a hug as fierce as her own.
“Durene! Dead gods, it’s a relief to see you! I heard you were up, but I didn’t dare visit—that [Healer] swore she’d stab me if I got near you with a potion again! I’m so sorry! I thought—how are you?”
“I’m fine! Fine!”
Beniar eyed Durene’s chest.
“The infection? It went away? Wiskeria said I shouldn’t pour a potion on it, but I thought—dead gods, she nearly killed me. Everyone did!”
“It’s fine. You didn’t know. I would have done the same thing.”
Durene touched her chest. Beniar’s expression twisted, but then he looked down.
“And here you are! Catching the damn [Thief] who caused us so much trouble for weeks!”
“He did? I mean—I was just there. I saw him grab that [Trader]’s bag. Why are there thieves in Riverfarm? We have nothing to steal!”
Durene was shocked. The adventurer, no, the [Cataphract] just shook his head. He adjusted the full-body plate armor that was a symbol of his class; his steed was likewise enveloped in mail. He cut a fearsome sight, as did the [Riders] who only now caught up to them. Durene saw a band of fifteen riding down the street—seven the way Beniar had come, eight the other way. Clearly, this had been a trap.
“You got him, Beniar? Who’s that? Durene?”
One of the [Riders] called out. Then she slid off her horse. More of them exclaimed, and Durene saw familiar faces, adventurers and [Soldiers], coming off their horses. They surrounded Durene and then stared and swore as they saw the [Thief].
“Master Elmmet?”
“The very same. This bastard’s our [Thief]. I’m sure of it!”
Beniar scowled and kicked the comatose [Thief] in the stomach. Hard. The man groaned; Durene winced.
“What’d he do?”
“Only steal from anyone with coin for the last two weeks! Look—he’s got a face-changing Skill! I swore I saw a young man just a second ago.”
Beniar crouched down and showed Durene the man’s face. Durene saw dark brown hair and a beard. She frowned—she could have sworn the [Thief]’s face had been younger, clean-shaven, and light blonde!
“I saw a woman before Frostwing attacked him.”
“That’s how you ratted him out? I was just mounting up with the patrol when I heard the shouts. Lucky!”
Beniar whistled. He looked up as Frostwing, screaming, her beak bloody, swooped down. All the [Riders] ducked, and two horses reared; Durene caught Frostwing on one arm and reached out.
“Good girl. Good Frostwing. You were amazing. Stop screaming? Please?”
Miracle of miracles, Frostwing did. She inspected the [Thief], looking very pleased with herself as she cleaned her beak on her plumage. Beniar whistled.
“Frostwing. I haven’t seen her since…yesterday. Prost makes me leave the food out. Durene, did you see Bismarck? That huge bear’s camped out behind your cottage!”
“I was there last night. How come no one fed Frostwing? Why didn’t she go with Laken?”
“It was too dangerous, according to him. They were fighting Goblins. He thought you’d be on your feet in a week. But for me, you would have. And after that—I tried feeding her, but she tried to savage me! But for the armor, she’d have taken chunks out of me. You know she’s been hunting too? I saw her kill a fox just last week!”
Beniar reached out to Frostwing. She obligingly pecked at his face, and he backed off. Durene soothed the bird again.
“I just woke up, Beniar. This is so much to take in—you know this [Thief]?”
The adventurer, reminded, scowled and looked down.
“Know him? He’s a big shot from Lancrel. Ah—they’re one of the big groups that came to Riverfarm when you were asleep. Those bastards are always saying they should have more of a say. They want to vote a [Mayor] in place of Prost—they keep saying that as if we don’t have an [Emperor]! But they’ve never seen Laken. His Majesty. Apparently, this fellow was part of their leadership. Well, looks like he was just a dirty [Thief] again!”
He went to kick the man with a big windup, and one of the [Riders], an adventurer who’d been part of the Celestial Trackers, stopped him.
“Save it, Beniar! Let’s get this idiot tossed in the pillory or to Lady Rie or Mister Prost. They can sort it out. Elmmet’s one of Lancrel’s big leaders. [Thief] or not, they see you kicking him and there will be another fight.”
“So? We’re keeping order! They want a fight? Let them get some swords and we’ll have it out!”
Beniar snapped back, but his hot-temper cooled as he looked at Durene. He spat on Elmmet and shook his head.
“You’re right, Alvais. And we have to patrol. One—no, two of you take Elmmet straight to Prost. Anyone asks, you don’t answer! Don’t stop until he’s there and in chains! The rest of you, mount up! We need to sweep the road! I’ll get the gold back to Trader Gellid, but we need to check the roads before he takes them. Those [Bandits]…”
The other riders nodded. They began mounting their own horses as Beniar strode over to his. He paused, then turned back to Durene.
“Sorry, Durene. But we’ve got to ride. There’s a [Bandit] group hitting the roads, and without Laken, we need to escort everyone there. I’ll catch you tonight, yeah?”
“Of course. It’s great to see you, Beniar. But—[Bandits]? [Thieves]? What’s happened?”
Durene waved at the limp man being hoisted over a saddle horn. One of the [Riders] shouted for the crowd who’d gathered to watch to make way. Beniar glanced at the sea of faces, and Durene, turning, caught them as well. She jumped to see how many were just…watching. More people than Riverfarm had ever held were staring at her and Beniar. And the [Thief]. Frostwing flapped her wings uneasily. Beniar nodded at the crowd.
“That happened. It’s crazy. Once that Lord Veltras showed up, things quieted down. But people just kept pouring in. Without a home. And with Emperor Laken gone, everything’s a bit…off, you know?”
Durene nodded quietly. Beniar put his helmet back down and shook his head.
“When he gets back, everything’ll be alright. Until then—I’m glad you’re back. Talk to Prost and see if you can join up with us. We could use your strength, Durene.”
“Fighting? Wiskeria told me she resigned. Where’s the army?”
Beniar paused. He slid his visor up and looked soberly at Durene.
“Besides the militia? We’re all of it. We need Wiskeria back. I can’t do this alone. Tell her that, would you?”
He nodded at Durene. Then he turned and galloped away. Durene watched him go. Then she found Chimmy in the crowd. Beniar wheeled his mount and roared.
“Darksky Riders, with me!”
They galloped off. Silently, Durene let Chimmy lead her back, and the crowd, moving out of her way, decided to get to their jobs as well. The girl found her father seeing to the [Thief]. The two [Riders] were hauling him to a house, and Prost’s disgusted look turned to one of relief when he saw Durene and his daughter.
“Chimmy! Durene! I heard about the thief. It was Master Elmmet all this time? Disgusting. The man was a [Councilman]! That disgusting, Creler-sucking—and what’s worse, Lancrel’s folk are already saying he’s been set up!”
He swore, and Chimmy, listening, glowered just as fiercely as her father. Prost noticed her watching and turned red. He coughed.
“Chimmy, thank you for bringing Durene to me. Go back and help the [Cooks] now, or your mother and the [Washer] teams. There’s a good girl.”
“Aw, Da! But I could help Durene out! She doesn’t know where to go, and I—”
“Back to work, Chimmy!”
The girl went, sulkily, pausing to wave at Durene. Prost closed his eyes. He looked tired, and the sun was barely up. Durene looked in the direction of the [Thief].
“That was really a [Councilman]?”
“City folk. They don’t know their own neighbors.”
Prost sighed disgustedly. He ran a hand through his greying hair then looked at Durene.
“I heard you helped catch the [Thief]. Thank you, Durene. We don’t have much, but what we do have, that bastard took. He stole gold from people who had only that after losing everything, raided our stocks until we started putting locks up and guards…it’s a nightmare.”
He passed his hand across his face.
“At least this stops one of the problems. There are more [Thieves] than him—and fights. Dead gods. Someone died in a brawl a week back. It’s madness, Durene. But Beniar and his [Riders] keep the peace.”
“I met him. He said he’s all that’s left of the army. Is that true?”
Durene anxiously looked at Prost. He nodded.
“Did you hear? Wiskeria resigned from being a [General] after the battle. Not that I blame her—she stays out of Riverfarm for the most part. Most people understand she wasn’t to blame, what with whoever sent that [Message], but there’s a lot of folk who’ll throw stones just as soon as look at her.”
“We need an army. If we have [Bandits] and—and [Thieves], we need more people! I’ll help! I just need a weapon and my shield.”
Durene looked at Prost. He half-nodded, then switched it to a shake of the head.
“Wiskeria won’t budge. And we don’t need more [Soldiers], Durene. What we need—according to Lady Rie, that is—is [Guardsmen]. A proper City Watch, according to her.”
“Well, maybe I can help. If there are thieves stealing from your warehouses, point me to them. I can stand guard. Give me a club—I’ll just use a fist.”
Durene made one. Prost eyed it and shook his head again, brisk.
“They’re [Thieves], Durene. Not brigands or murderers. If you hit one of them—remember that fellow who was robbing houses around Riverfarm a while back? He tried your cottage, and you caught him.”
He looked at Durene, and her face went slack as she remembered.
“Four years ago. Yeah, I remember. I hit him.”
“More than once. He was half-dead when we found him. Broken bones in his face; even the [Healer] thought he might not make it. I know he was a [Thief], but dead gods, Durene, I was terrified of you back then. I wouldn’t want people to think of—well, with so many not knowing you—”
Prost stumbled over his words, looking at her carefully. The half-Troll girl just stared back. She touched her chest slowly.
“Scared of me? Back then—I was terrified, Mister Prost. It was a [Thief] with a dagger! He tried to stab me, and I was so scared I kept hitting him—maybe you thought I went too far, but I was so frightened! I cried for three days and didn’t leave my cottage once after he was taken away. And no one came by to tell me he was gone.”
“Oh.”
The [Steward] stared up at Durene. His jaw opened, and he worked it soundlessly. Closed it. His voice was strangled.
“That’s odd. I don’t remember that. We were so focused on whether he’d live or die that…”
He looked up at Durene, and an expression of shame flashed across his face.
“I’m sorry. Dead gods, I never thought of that. Back then…”
“You didn’t call for me unless you needed me to lift something. I get it.”
Durene crossed her arms. On her shoulder, Frostwing screamed softly. Prost hung his head.
“That’s the truth. But hear me, Durene: if we were unkind, it’s nothing compared to these city folk. They bother me, some of them. Lady Rie’s good at handling the Lancrel lot especially—they look up to her, but it only goes so far. We are in control. But until His Majesty gets back, neither Rie nor I want to upset this lot. The people who know His Majesty are about a third of Riverfarm now. And there are good people among the new ones. But…”
“I get it.”
The girl exhaled slowly. She’d seen the looks she’d been getting. Prost patted her shoulder.
“Don’t worry, Durene. There’s plenty of need for your strength outside of keeping us safe from [Thieves]. I’ve got two dozen former [Sentries] and [Watchmen] and so on guarding what needs guarding. Shame more of them didn’t come to Riverfarm, but I suppose they thought there were no jobs for them here. Hah! That’ll change. But for now, we could use your help building houses or clearing new ground.”
Durene forced a smile onto her face.
“Sure. I’ll be glad to. Although I need some time to repair my cottage if I’m living there. It’s a mess. Water’s damaged my floor—and Frostwing and Bismarck have torn it apart.”
