“Please, Miss! I’m terribly sorry. But I’m a City Runner on delivery! I have to have this [Witch]’s response or—”
Durene vanished around the cottage’s side. A few seconds later, a dripping, scowling, but very clean Wiskeria stomped back around. She yanked the door open.
“I said no. And you can’t get another answer from me. Tell Witch Oliyaya that I will not be attending her coven’s meeting, either. And I’ve already told Mavika the same. If she threatens you, run away.”
“That won’t save me. You know what she’s like, don’t you?”
“Her hexes wear off. And she doesn’t hex people for doing their jobs. Just be polite.”
“Polite?”
The young man groaned. Wiskeria was unsympathetic.
“She won’t hex you. Now, get out of Durene’s cottage before she feeds you to her bird. Or her bear.”
The City Runner looked up at Durene. He stared at Bismarck and at Frostwing, perched on Durene’s shoulder. He gulped. Then got up and ran for it. Frostwing took off, and Durene called her back—after she’d dive-bombed the City Runner’s head.
After he was gone, the two stood alone at Durene’s cottage. Wiskeria adjusted her hat and smoothed her green robes, which didn’t clash that badly. She looked reproachfully at Durene. The half-Troll girl had the grace to look ashamed.
“I didn’t know someone would find you here! What did he want?”
“The same thing as Mavika’s crows. I told you, my fellow [Witches] can’t force me to do anything.”
Durene nodded, but she was still a bit wary. She glanced down the road.
“Is it really alright to say no? That City Runner looked—spooked. Are you sure this…Oliyaya won’t do something more serious?”
She was remembering the crow’s head from yesterday. Durene wiped her hand, and Wiskeria noticed. She shook her head.
“She’s not Mavika. She threatens and bullies, and that’s about it. She looks scarier than she is. He’ll be fine. And I’m clean. Thanks for the clothes. What took you?”
“Lady Rie wants you to be a [General] too. She said…”
Durene relayed the encounter. Wiskeria looked grim, but all she did was adjust her spectacles and tug her hat lower in response to Rie’s assessment of the situation.
“I…understand. And I agree. But I’ll just fan the flames if I return to my job. I’m trying to let people grieve. Not throw my failure into their faces. Maybe I can work with Beniar in private. Maybe. If you’re willing to get him to talk to me—if he’s around the village—I can try helping out a bit. But Durene, I’m a [General]. Level 12. That’s high for how fast I leveled, but I have two good Skills I can use in a battle. I’m no trainer of armies. All the stories I know are hard to implement in practice.”
“You’re still the only one good at tactics and other stuff. You helped kill the Goblins. Remember Laken’s poison traps?”
Wiskeria nodded slowly. She sighed.
“That was his idea. But I did make the cauldrons. It’s just—I’ll try, Durene. I’ll try.”
That was better than her attitude yesterday. Durene smiled encouragingly. Wiskeria almost smiled back. Then both girls heard pounding feet on the road behind them. Wiskeria scowled.
“I told you—”
But it wasn’t the City Runner. A young woman, perhaps a former Street Runner herself, pounded up the slope to Durene’s cottage. She stopped, panting, and waved at Durene.
“Miss Durene? Lady Rie’s calling for you!”
Durene frowned. So soon?
“What? Why? What’s the emergency?”
“It’s Emperor Laken, Miss Durene! He’s sent a [Message]!”
The girl froze. Wiskeria looked up at her. Both took off running so fast that the Street Runner was caught off-guard. She ducked as Frostwing dove past her. And even Bismarck roused himself. But that was only to pad eighteen steps down the slope, then decide to go back and have a nap.
 
——
 
There were four people who gathered in Mister Prost’s house. Wiskeria, Durene, Lady Rie, and Mister Prost. Wiskeria and Durene were the last to arrive. Durene had run all the way here, but even trying to hurry, they attracted a lot of attention. And the sight of Wiskeria entering the village had provoked even more hard stares than Durene herself.
She hadn’t been lying. But Durene didn’t care. She strode into Prost’s living room, which, under Miss Yesel’s influence, was already homelier than most of the bare rooms. Prost and Rie were reading something as Nesor trembled in a seat behind her.
“Well? What did he say? Is he coming back?”
“Durene. And Wiskeria. This is a pleasant—”
Rie broke off as Durene strode past her. Nesor leaned back as Durene turned to him and Mister Prost.
“Well? What did he say? Is he still talking?”
The [Lady] cleared her throat softly.
“Nesor is in contact with a [Mage] with Emperor Laken. Someone in a Mage’s Guild, in fact. He’s transcribed the message. If you’d care to—”
The slip of parchment made Durene hesitate.
“I—I can’t read that.”
She flushed. Prost cleared his throat, and Rie blinked.
“Of course. Then—allow me.”
She unfurled the slip and read in a clear voice.
“We have passed the town of Greenforge and are continuing north and west. Progress remains slow. The road is secure, and my companions maintain their escorts. We estimate two weeks remaining at most.”
She looked up. Durene and Wiskeria stared at her. Rie sighed.
“The issue is the prisoners. That’s what’s holding them back. The wagons break down, and their captives are not cooperating. Nor is Tyrion giving them any aid now the army has disbanded.”
“That’s it? That’s all he wrote?”
Durene demanded, incredulous. Rie looked down.
“Oh no. He also writes, The situation in Riverfarm is understood. Ask Wiskeria to resume her place if she is willing. I have faith in her. If the situation worsens, I trust in your judgment.”
She tsked.
“I wish he had more advice to give. But then—I suppose even his options are limited. Couldn’t he—no. If he could ride ahead, there would be no point. It’s a miracle that his allies are staying with him so long.”
“Allies?”
Durene felt a pain in her chest, a sinking, weighted feeling. She looked around dully, as if the answer would make this confusing, painful message make sense. Prost nodded.
“Lord Yitton Byres and Lord Gralton Radivaek. They’re riding with Emperor Laken. They’re his companions.”
He pronounced the names with some satisfaction, and even Rie smiled. Durene was just blank.
“They’re [Lords]? Are they important?”
“In the grand scheme of things? The Byres family is small, but notable. They have a silver business that has waned and waxed over the years, but Yitton Byres is as honorable and trustworthy as any [Knight]. More so, in fact. I would consider him a perfect ally, although he isn’t powerful per se. But the respect he garners is value enough. As for Lord Gralton…that shocks me.”
Rie tapped a finger to her lips.
“He’s mad. Eccentric? No. Just mad. More dog than man, according to some, but he’s not only powerful in wealth, but a fierce fighter. With his estates backing Laken—”
“They’re important. Fine. But what else does Laken say? Anything? Does he know about…me?”
The word felt almost plaintive as it forced itself out of Durene’s chest. Rie stopped smiling. Prost and Wiskeria turned to her.
“I…he was informed that you were on your feet. Yes. He writes this at the end. Ah…I am relieved Durene is well. Tell her I am coming home as soon as I can. I am sorry I wasn’t there sooner.”
Durene waited. But Lady Rie rolled up the parchment as if that answered that. The girl looked at her, and her heart hurt.
“That’s it?”
The [Lady] blinked.
“It’s quite a lot. He’s paying for each word at costly rates for such quick sending. Nesor is, of course, free, but Mage’s Guilds cost coin. As for the rest—yes, he doesn’t mention the details, but we have corresponded before. And I think he is being cautious. He may even be using a different location than the one he mentioned out of caution.”
“Caution?”
Wiskeria looked up, frowning underneath her hat. Prost nodded. He spread his weathered hands on the table.
“We don’t know if someone’s following Emperor Laken or might set a trap for him. Lady Rie’s worried about Magnolia Reinhart—”
“As we all should be. Laken is firmly against her, as are many peers of the realm. She is already acting. Riverfarm may not feel the immediate effects of her [Trade War], but she is hardly toothless in other areas. And there is still the issue of the saboteur. The one who knocked out my [Mage], Nesor, and gave the wrong orders to Wiskeria.”
Rie drummed her painted fingernails on the table. Durene looked from face to face. Prost was nodding, and Wiskeria looked grave.
“So that’s his message? Carry on until he returns?”
“It’s two weeks. I think we can manage that.”
Prost was cautious. Rie nodded.
“If we use that information to reassure people—no, he might be closer than that. Remember, he is speaking in an abundance of caution. If need be, I could see him riding closer to us. And if he gets even closer, Beniar and his riders can of course ride to meet him. We should plan on that, in fact. And in the meantime—”
Durene’s fist smashed down on the table. Nesor jumped out of his seat. Rie stopped. Prost and Wiskeria recoiled. Durene stared down at the splintered wood, then looked up.
“That’s it. That’s all he said?”
They stared at her. Durene took a shuddering breath.
“After I’ve been asleep for fifty days? After he was gone—gone!—capturing Goblins instead of killing them? When Riverfarm is falling apart and there are [Thieves] and—and—he can’t say anything to me? To me? And he can’t think of a way to save Riverfarm?”
The others were silent. Prost opened his mouth, but Durene glared at him, and he didn’t speak.
“He’s always had an idea! He’s always cared about Riverfarm? Who is this? Why isn’t he back? Why isn’t he telling us what to do? Carry on? Wait? You.”
She pointed at Nesor. He turned dead white and recoiled from her finger. Durene shouted at him.
“You—send a [Message] back to him! Tell him what I said! Tell him—tell him we’re not waiting! Tell him he should be back now and damn the Goblins! Tell him I’m here! Tell him to talk to me! I want him to say something! We’re in trouble, and we need help! What do we do? What do—”
She broke off, her chest heaving. The room was silent as Nesor, eyes wide, put a finger to his head. Durene’s eyes were bright, and she was blinking rapidly. Next to Rie, Prost coughed quietly into one hand.
“It’s not…that bad, Durene. The Lancrel folk are agitators, some of them, but it’s not got beyond a few fights between our folk and theirs. No one’s armed among them; Beniar’s Darksky Riders could rout a few hundred in moments.”
“At night, they’re practically unstoppable, especially in pitch blackness. I realize I warned you of the risks, but Laken’s aware of the dangers, and I’ve told him we can handle it.”
Rie’s quiet voice made Durene blush. But she kept looking at Nesor as he closed his eyes. She knew she was upset. But Laken’s reply had hurt her. It wasn’t just that she was far from him. It wasn’t just that he’d decided to take Goblin prisoners or that he’d left Frostwing and Bismarck. Or that he wasn’t here when she needed him to tell her it was alright, that losing the battle wasn’t her fault.
It was simply that she wanted to see him again. She missed him. Riverfarm, her world, wasn’t the same without him.
In the silence, as Durene snuffled and tried not to cry, Nesor opened his eyes. He spoke, his voice flat, without intonation, reciting the words one at a time as he caught them tens, perhaps over a hundred miles away.
“I’m sorry, Durene. I’ve made a lot of mistakes. The Goblins are not all evil. I’m afraid. Terribly afraid they’re people. In which case I’m more monster than they are.”
Durene’s eyes opened wide. She opened her mouth, but Rie silenced her.
“He can’t hear you.”
Nesor went on, blindly speaking word after halting word.
“And I’m sorry I wasn’t there. I am coming back. Protect Riverfarm while I’m gone. Please. I know it is dangerous. So watch your back. Wiskeria, I am relying on you. You. And Rie. And Prost.”
The three looked up, old man, [Lady], and [Witch]. Wiskeria looked down and fiddled with the brim of her hat. Prost nodded, straightening his shoulders. Rie just sighed. The voice paused and went on a final time.
“Perhaps there is a storm coming. I feel the danger. So. Durene. I am sending you the only aid I can. I hope it arrives. You will know it when you see it. I love you. And I will be back soon.”
Nesor closed his mouth. The spellbound gaze faded from his eyes, and he blinked rapidly. He looked up, and his nervous, warbling voice interjected into the silence.
“It—uh—the connection broke, Lady Rie. I think that was all of it.”
“Thank you, Nesor.”
Lady Rie looked at him with a reassuring smile and then at Durene. At Prost and Wiskeria. All of them were silent for a bit. Durene wiped at her eyes. And somehow, she felt better. The words had been in Nesor’s voice. And they had come from a long ways away. But she had heard him. He was coming back.
“Help. He said he was sending help? What did he sense? Trouble?”
Rie mused out loud, troubled. She turned to Durene and Prost.
“Emperor Laken said you’d know it, Durene. You and only you, it seems. What is it? Do you have any idea?”
Silently, Durene shook her head and shut her eyes.
“I have no clue.”
And she didn’t. Not one thing came to mind. But she knew it would solve everything. It had to. Laken was going to help save Riverfarm. Whatever aid he was sending would come, she was sure. And it would make all the difference.
If it didn’t? Durene opened her eyes with calm, clear resolution. She would protect Riverfarm. And this time, she wouldn’t fail. She clenched her fists and felt the storm coming. In the distance, the rains began to fall again.
 
——
 
And not too far north, and a bit to the east. The rains were already falling, already pouring down on the thick roof overhead. The [Message] spell had come in hot and heavy, and the person it was addressed to leaned on the desk, eying the contents of the message. And the reward. The [Receptionist] at the Runner’s Guild in Walta checked the authentication from the [Mage]’s Guild and nodded.
“The seal is backed by House Byres and House Radivaek. You may claim it upon receipt of…Lady Rie Valerund’s personal seal. We may subject you to truth spell as well. Will you take the delivery?”
