It had been quite a sight.They all sat around a tiny crackling fire that Delem made out of the logs nearby as if they were put there for just that purpose. They might well have been.Aneya felt this place was... different. A new Dungeon often felt like a hazard, a mine left to be filled with monsters or a tiny tower with a few floors of traps. She had started at the bottom like the rest of the Moons but... she had grown up raised on battle stories.Not that they were handed to her...“Little Annie, fetch me another drink. I’m telling your brother about the time I wrestled a bear on the last trip.”“Oi, you can’t say that to her, she’s a wee lass...”“She’s going to take over the place... Aneya hasn’t shown interest in anything.”“Aneya, I know you wanted to go on that trip, but your brother-”She eyed the fish she had been nibbling. Despite her being the one to declare them safe as a subspecies of the local fish... there had been some unique fish in the pond. Aneya didn’t dare fish for them.She didn’t know the rules.Would catching them turn on some hidden timer? Would it make them fight something like that Muffet Spider? Aneya couldn’t risk it.She wouldn’t risk her team when they wanted to relax. Not Delem, not Gonga... not Kemy. She eyed the young girl as she fiddled with the ear muffs, her own fish already gone.Kemy was a growing girl, it made sense. Aneya handed her stick over to the girl.“These fish taste terrible - Kemy, can you take this,” she huffed. It took will to give up the food, but Kemy looked unsure before she beamed at Aneya.“Thank you, but are you sure you won’t go hungry?” Kemy pressed. Aneya snorted aloud.“Kemy, hun, I know how to conserve energy and survive off of water for weeks. Eat the fish,” she turned to face the pond to cut off any arguments. Her stomach protested but the tight leather armour she wore was a good muffler.Kemy hadn’t eaten much last night at the inn - the village had spooked her too much - and Aneya knew the girl would not waste a gift, even if it was a slightly chewed fish. Aneya was a fighter, she could last the journey until they got back.If worse came to worst, she would catch another fish when they weren’t looking.For now... she set her face into a confident smirk that put Kemy at ease when their eyes met again. She watched Gonga patrol around the pond, his curiosity mostly drawn to the duck at the far end of the body of the water.The Pond room was nice.It wasn’t uncommon for Dungeons to have places of beauty. Something about what mankind couldn’t own and build on gave them a hidden mysterious vibe. Aneya knew that even in the most famous and explored Dungeons... there were most likely some hidden pockets of mystery that the Dungeons kept from them.The ceiling was covered in glowing moss that made it look like a twinkling sea of stars had snuck in the entrance with them. Soft grass grew in patches. Odd rocks made for good seats and the lapping of fish broke what could have been a creepy silence.The duck was the oddest fixture and honestly Aneya was getting bad vibes from the thing. However as she stared at the creature, something caught her eye.She stood and went to stand close to Gonga.“Is that a key?” she pointed to a hook set into the wall above the duck’s alcove. Gonga narrowed his expression before nodding.“Looks like it. What do you think? Trap?” he asked, eyes never moving.Aneya pursed her lips as she slightly moved back and forward.“By trying to avoid traps last time, we set off another trap or penalty. Fishing didn’t set anything off but... maybe going for the duck could be a trap. ‘Be happy with fish and don’t eat the duck’ kinda thing,” she suggested. Gonga frowned.“I’m not the most... in-the-know guy but this Dungeon is kinda thinking ahead... and that spider ain’t no common mob or trap,” he grunted. Aneya had to agree with that. Gonga nodded at the pond.“Water is also super rich in Mana. All my energy is back after eating that fish. A Dungeon with a Mana Spring that has things living inside it that aren't monsters? That’s pretty... odd,” Gonga added.Aneya blinked, returning her gaze to the water. Gonga was right.Mana rich environments made monsters, or the chance for them to appear, rise vastly as a rule of thumb. The Dungeon should have no trouble changing these fish into lethal creatures if it wanted.If... it wanted.“The dungeon kept the harmless fish,” she noted, then looked around the area at the other odd feature that seemed to crop up far more after the Spider room.The Mushrooms.Different colours and shapes.A few of them even seemed to... glow like stars trapped within a thin cage. Aneya had not been confident enough in her poisonous fungi lore to risk eating them. She was much better with hunting than foraging.“Could be a special case. Dungeons are never the same. What has this one shown so far?” Aneya muttered to herself.This was something she prided herself in. Being able to think and see things. Any decent adventurer that became a Dungeon wanderer knew the key to venturing into the unknown was seeing the signs.So, Aneya tried to understand what they had seen.The Spideroom had tiny potentially deadly spiders and a tree with berries near the center, as if to show a reward... Gonga’s burning it had made something worse appear.Did this Dungeon work on bad behavior, punishing the idea of sins?It had beautiful nature and did not react when Aneya fished for what was needed... was it against greed? Against humanity’s nature to ruin whatever mystery they stumbled upon?Two rooms wasn’t enough for Aneya to readily read signs, let alone predict behavior. Though the actual signs around the place in and of themselves were weird.Either the young Dungeon had been spurned and hurt by people not liking its... theme... or it was already more aware than a two-floored should be and had its own ideas.Living close to Durence... Aneya couldn’t discard either theory just yet.“Gonga, grab the key,” Delem called as he carefully put out the fire. As the flames died down, the atmosphere seemed to feel a little... less restful.Less magical almost.Gonga grinned.“If some squid comes out of the water and grabs me, do that cool arrow trick for me?” Gonga winked at Aneya. She rolled her eyes.“Try not to cause two disasters in less than an hour,” she retorted, but her hand rested on her bow to show she wouldn’t let him down.The giant of a man peeled off his shirt and robe to reveal a heavily toned torso. Gonga was no library dust bunny. Aneya knew the man would be deadly with an axe or a spear, but she also knew Gonga.So as Kemy picked up his clothes... Aneya notched an arrow just to be ready.She could almost see the bottom of the pond but who knew what could be just under the sand? What monster might just look like a rock?.Honestly, Aneya wanted to know what the deep blue glowing rock near the back of the pond was. It looked like a fallen star that pulsed with navy light.Gonga slowly waded in and then he swam over to the alcove. Aneya followed the progress with the arrow nocked tight.Her fingers were steady...She had held this pose for much longer... under much worse circumstances. Nothing would touch Gonga without feeling her sting.“Please watch over him...” Kemy prayed.Nothing would make Kemy’s heartfelt words become wasted.Gonga sat on the edge of the alcove and plucked the key without any issues. The duck next his large frame looked smaller than ever. Gonga grinned and he petted the duck.The thing opened one red eye and Aneya felt her heart drop into her stomach.“Think this little fella would be a nice supper or a mascot?” he called over as he slipped into the water, splashing the duck as he caused a slight wave.The duck opened both eyes and its head slowly turned to look Gonga’s back. Kemy suddenly began to shake as the duck’s shape became blurry, almost leaving a dark orb with deep red eyes.Gonga glowed with a similar dark red aura for a moment.Aneya felt unsure of what to do... shooting the thing was the most obvious answer but Gonga had upset it first.It didn’t exactly feel like that rated an arrow to the beak...Gonga didn’t even seem to notice the effect but he suddenly went pale for a moment before he howled.He reached out and pulled himself on to dry land where he batted at something small that was using a tiny claw to snip at Gonga’s...Aneya looked down at her feet with a thin expression, her heart slowing down to a more normal beat as Gonga was screaming as some little crayfish tried to remove his ability to have kids.Kemy screeched and began trying to kick it off in a panic which seemed to do far more damage than the crayfish.The duck watched the scene as it preened.Yeah... Aneya was keeping her arrows away from that thing.Delem just watched this all with wide eyes.A single box appeared before Gonga. They all bent down to read it as the man curled up to stop Kemy from ‘helping him’.“Finish the Dungeon under... the Dark Drake's... curse?” Delem mumbled. Dark Drake?They all looked at the duck which was still looking at them. The red eyes invited them to incur its wrath as well.“I’m cursed?” Gonga said after a moment.Curses... Aneya’s threat rating of this dungeon went from a 4 out of 6 to ‘Run away’.Magic was not her expertise, but even Aneya knew how a curse required so much magic that it affected someone’s life every moment. The power to sustain such a curse... was monstrous.Both in reasoning and the required amount of energy.Kemy bent down and had one hand grasping the amulet around her neck.“Kemy, don’t push yourself!” Aneya warned but the girl was muttering already.“Goddess above, hear my plea... strike this trick from this man... heal his woes from trouble...” she prayed. The young woman’s body became infused with a golden aura.The power of the Goddess of Truth surged through Kemy and her eyes snapped open as the golden light swallowed Kemy’s normally sweet expression.A Priestess of Truth had taken Kemy’s place. The tone of her friend became authoritative and commanding.“I banish this curse! I free you!” Kemy yelled as her power surged. A ripple of gold rolled over Gonga.The black aura rose once more from Gonga’s skin to fight back against the light. To see her friend filled with her Goddess’ power always sent a shiver down Aneya’s spine. This was different than Gonga throwing fire about or her bouncing an arrow off of trees blindfolded.This power was dangerous.To be a priest or priestess was to be their instrument on this world. A frail young girl like Kemy could be a judge, jury, and executioner if the power of her faith was strong. It changed Kemy whenever she used it.The golden aura bathed over the dark one but there was a ripple before the dark shadow totally faded. It seemed to crack and Kemy was knocked on her rear, the trance fading as the holy power left Kemy’s body.Gonga’s curse, whatever it was, looked much weaker but it remained...“I, Kemy, order you to... stop...dancing!” the girl mumbled as she stared up at the ceiling with distant eyes.“Is she alright?” Gonga stood and winced as sparks of faith washed off his skin as they failed to find a devotee.“The same as always when she uses too much power. Give her a minute,” Delem said calmly as he put his jacket under Kemy’s head.“Please don’t pet anything or set anything else on fire without permission,” Aneya turned to Gonga. The large man nodded.“This place is scary,” he agreed in his own way.This Dungeon was bizarre, scary, and not a place that should be giving them trouble for the levels it supposedly had.“We should leave for the day,” Aneya stated as Kemy slowly came around.“Kemy will be fine and Gonga will listen a little better from now on. Every day we stall, the more likely the news will spread. If we can at least find the boss room, we can hold seniority for a while,” Delem disagreed. His tone held understanding for worry but his eyes seemed to be focused on something else.“There’ll be other Dungeons. Something that can curse-” she began but Delem put a hand on her shoulder.“This Dungeon is all about scary shit when you don’t respect it. Every room... every scrap of info can push us ahead in the game. This curse? Knowing about it gives us an edge,” he reminded her then he seemed to smile.“And you know that if you try to leave because Kemy used her power, she’d be upset,” he added.This was... annoyingly true.She watched the duck as the others left the room.It looked far more awake.It was watching… Kemy.Aneya glowered at it.“Touch her and I’ll serve you on a skewer,” she growled into the room. She fully expected it try to curse her or glare back, but it merely ruffled its feathers and began to swim around in slow circles.Whoever gave this Dungeon such a beast... Aneya was going to punch him.---Quiss watched as Ruli picked herself up from the ruined tree that she had been punted through.“Can you stop? Between you, the lumberjack and now us... Durence is going to run out of trees and Dabberghast will get pissy,” he called. The red eyes and snarl was all the answer he got. Quiss blinked and a shield of white flames made the woman side step and give him time to point a finger at her.“You’re beginning to piss me off,” he warned and Ruli side kicked the shield so hard it went up in smoke.“Move before I use you to beat people up,” Ruli growled.Quiss eyed the blackened area and odd pieces of glass that had been dirt and soil. The crushed rocks were all Ruli’s fault and Quiss would stick to that story.“They’re just harmless kids... well young adults. They gotta experience Dungeons. You can’t just keep a Dungeon to yourself!” he tried to reason.“You sound like my mother when I brought home a Chimera. I won’t... remove them. I’ll just watch them so they don