d her through some mushrooms instead.Aneya saw dancing caps and her vision swam for a second as her head rattled, her chest and back protested against her moving too much.Ignoring that, she found her bow and arrows. She saw Delem being savagely kicked away with a single hoof, her leader rolling hard as he had the wind knocked out of him.“DELEM!” Kemy yelled as she grasped her amulet but Aneya knew her remaining use of her Goddess’ power was low. She hoped the girl saved it for a much needed heal if it came up. Gonga roared and his staff wedged the boar slightly up but the animal did something very odd.It’s head, which was near the ground, reached over and snagged one of the glowing mushrooms that looked like a star with its tongue. Aneya was about to take her shot, but the boar’s eyes lit up in a magical manner and the damn thing fired lasers from its eyes.Gonga, thankfully, was knocked back rather than burned to a crisp but the mage of the group yelled as the black mark on his chest burned where he had been hit.Her arrow flew true and struck hard into the back leg of the boar. It howled and turned its furious glare her way, but she took a risk and climbed the mushrooms for some space. She’d take some toxins over being gored to death.Her ‘tree’ was knocked violently as the boar crashed into it and Aneya had to jump to another one quickly. Another arrow was shot in a hurry as she landed but it landed in the thick hide, doing almost nothing.“Get back to the entrance! Both of you!” Gonga screamed, holding his staff.“Let us try before you resort to more explosions!” Delem ordered. The large mage nodded quickly, not arguing with the leader. Delem pulled out a sword that was almost blended into the drab clothes he wore.“Gonga, lend me your power!” he asked. Aneya kept leading the boar on a chase as she leapt from mushroom to mushroom, peppering her arrows into it.It was nothing more than a distraction but Aneya knew a plan when she heard it.Gonga’s chanted loudly and instead of the messy fire that Gonga favoured... he waved a hand over Delem and the man’s sword was covered in a shimmering blue flame. When Delem swung it with a quick test, it left behind a blur of blue in its wake.Gonga had a rather firm grasp of the basics of fire magic. Enchanting weapons was just something he didn’t use much when he could just blow things up, but with the number of mushrooms here... Aneya would rather not see what a smoke made up the sheer variety of mushrooms here would do.Delem watched as the boar turned to him, Aneya guessed it was getting bored chasing a running target like herself.“Come here... and leave my team alone,” he beckoned with his blade. This angered the animal, as if furious a stranger would dare to order it about.It smashed its foot into the ground as it began to build up a charge. Delem’s stance changed subtly as he palmed his sword to his side, eyes never faltering.The boar let loose with a war cry of a challenge and rushed forward again, the ground below it’s body exploding at the force. Aneya had another arrow ready but she knew better than to shoot now, it might do more harm than good if Delem was ready for the attack.The boar’s tusk looked like it was about to touch Delem. Their eyes meeting as close as they could get... then Delem shifted, sliding to the side of the boar as the tip of the blade dragged along the boar’s side, the fire leaping eagerly onto the musty hair of the beast.Sparks caught and the thing went up in a crackling inferno.Aneya felt her pride at Delem rise once again. The man’s talent showed once again why he was the leader. Delem watched as the blade lost the fire after one attack. The boar stumbled as it roared with fury, the fire gathering on its back.It seemed to fall to the ground for a moment as the flames reached their peak. Aneya jumped down and readed her arrow as Delem moved to quickly end the creature. They had won, there was no need to make the thing suffer. No one here enjoyed that kind of sick thing.The sword swung down with a hint of finality.---She eyed the screen. She just couldn’t look away.“They... unlocked a... Mini-boss?” Delta choked as Sys beeped cheerfully as the conditions were revealed.“Oh. That’s sort of unfair...” Delta pointed out as she saw Boary’s form explode out with enough force to send the sword flying out of Delem’s hand.

The size and shape were pretty much the same but the mane along her guardian’s back was made of flames, rather than hair. The boar snorted out black smoke, and as it neared a Gutrot mushroom, the thing exploded with a small boom.A chorus of singers hit notes that reflected how demonic the scene looked. Delta had to ban Maestro from using songs from that game.She didn’t want to encourage the atmosphere!

Delta stared as any mushrooms that Boary neared were ignited. The starlight mushrooms let out dazzling sizzles, the Gutrots exploded... the delicious mushrooms smelled really good...Still...Delta could only watch helplessly as her awesome mushroom grove suddenly went from mystical wonderland to hellish inferno as Firemane charged with twin snorts of fire shooting out of his nose.--Mr Mushy walked cheerfully through the tavern. He had spent a good afternoon helping his brother make music... but now... he wanted to go pet Boary and relax while he waited to see the new people!Mr Mushy hoped they would like some pots... maybe he could show them the nice mushrooms that grew in his home?He was sure they would like that, that and his friend, Mr Boary! He closed his eyes in pleasure and excitement.He couldn’t wait!----
