’t fuck up. That’s good right? Knowing how not to fuck up!” Ruli tried to grin but her demon fangs were a little longer than usual due to her frustration.“I don’t think dragging them about and hitting them until they agree not to do anything is helping,” Quiss answered dryly.“Okay, make you a deal. If we both go to the Dungeon, you can stop me stopping them from fucking up!” Ruli nodded.Demon energy made this woman so much more pig-headed than normal.“I don’t want to go back in the Dungeon. It’s been three days since I was in there and I really really don’t want to see what Delta has done now. A few new torches... a couple of bats, no big deal but oh what’s this? Delta might have done something to her storeroom!” Quiss said hotly.--Aneya turned the key on the door which opened to a wide space with many shelves. A table of food nearby invited them to feast as barrels laid about filled with novice arrows and other items.Interesting room but she couldn’t see why it’s key was guarded by the Duck.Speaking of, Kemy gently petted the duck as it rested in her arms.The damn thing had tricked Kemy into thinking it was sorry.Kemy also had the willpower of a wet piece of bread when it came to animals. Short of throwing the duck away and making Kemy cry, Aneya had to deal with it...She moved near the shelves and saw jars of honey... bundles of dried flowers... more odd pots... a couple of pig iron swords and shields. It was a mix and match of potentially useful things and maybe junk.Like the apple and candy bar.That was a little odd.“Could be trapped,” Delem offered. Aneya didn’t see wires or pressure plates. Magically... she had no clue.“Mr Duck, what do you think?” Kemy asked brightly. The duck eyed the room.It quacked once.“Mr Duck doesn’t think so,” Kemy announced. Aneya blinked once very slowly.“Kemy... we’ve been over this. The talking cat you met in that one town was an exception... not the rule. You can’t speak animal,” she reminded. Kemy looked sad but the duck quacked again. This cheered Kemy up.“Ducks are so cute,” she smiled.Not that duck, but Aneya was getting distracted. Gonga was fishing in a barrel for loot but Delem was hovering near the feast table where another box was open. Aneya looked at Delem who was eyeing it.“I know we should take things slow but this thing says we just have to catch something called ‘Merry’. No fail condition... could be easy and add some treasure under our belt,” he mused.Aneya looked around the room.That... didn’t sound so bad. With no protest from the searching Gonga, who had a wooden helmet fall on his head, and the distracted Kemy, who was still talking to the duck... Delem accepted the challenge.That was when the mouse appeared.---Quiss was a little pressed for options. His usual idea would be to blow the area to little bits but being close to Durence and Delta... he had to be reasonable.If you discover this tale on Amazon, be aware that it has been unlawfully taken from Royal Road. Please report it.He watched as Ruli wrestled with the giant flame serpent that drooled molten slag.That should at least buy him a few minutes. He pulled out a flask and took a deep drink. If he got drunk enough, he’d stop caring about everything so much and feel better. Until then... he watched Ruli rip her way out of the snake’s stomach with a howl of victory.That was when it split into a bunch of smaller snakes and Quiss took another sip.--There was a beep and the mouse vanished with a cheeky wave.Aneya twitched as she felt the honey from one of the jars in her hair. Gonga was buried somewhere under the fallen shelves of apples and pots. Delem had ended up hiding under the feast table and Kemy watched with wide eyes as oddly everything in the room fell short of her spot at the door or was strewn around her in a lucky streak. The duck, which was fast asleep in her arms, still managed to look smug.“I might have been a little has-” Delem began but Aneya’s furious gaze silenced him as a splat of honey fell onto her boots.The shelves seemed to mostly tip backwards and made the back wall of the place untouchable due to the sheer mess. Lucky for them it fell that way and not the way out.Aneya slammed the door shut and locked it after shoving her party members out of the damn room, throwing the key down the hall with a snarl. She lead the way down the hall, looking for traps, as the only other way soon led to a new room that made Aneya’s rising temper reach levels that caused even the duck to stare at her.“Mud?” she hissed.---Quiss picked himself up and sighed at his flask, now empty. That wasn’t even close to getting him sloshed. He watched as Ruli cracked a small fire snake like a whip as she advanced on him.“Reminds me of the few nights me and you got frisky,” Ruli snarled but her eyes were alight with excitement. Quiss sniffed as he snapped his fingers, making the weapon vanish.“Yeah, I was thrown through a wall then as well,” Quiss remembered. The sad fact was that Ruli’s focused destruction had an edge over Quiss’ area denial powers. She could keep punting him towards Delta and Quiss wouldn’t be able to do anything about it.Well, he could, he just didn’t want to.“Ruli, are you calming down yet?” he called and the growing horns on her head answered that.Well, that left Quiss few options, didn’t it?His hands held a single spark of fire that turned silver. Ruli froze.“Yo..you’re using that?” she asked, taking a step back. Quiss smiled with a raised eyebrow.“Not yet but I can,” he admitted. Ruli’s red eyes narrowed. Her clawed hands balled up into fists.“I ain’t no tree, I can take a few hits,” she warned.The almost bored air suddenly turned harsh as the two friends looked at each other. A demonic shadow with glowing red eyes that seemed to dim all light around her faced off against a man whose skin was slowly being covered in silvery veins that almost reached his eyes.“Oi!” the word caused them both to pause.They turned to see Haldi walking up the path with a sullen young man at his side.“You two knock that off! Friends should be drinking together or having unexplored romantic tensions over the course of an adventure. Not wantonly blowing up the landscape!” the elder man chided. The silence made Quiss want to groan but Ruli cleared her throat.“Haldi... I can’t romance Quiss. I need a warm bed and passion, not a wet blanket and a lecture,” she huffed.“And I need someone who isn't a psycho,” Quiss stated bluntly which Ruli took no offence to as she almost agreed with him.“Ah young love, isn’t that right, Fromage?” Haldi asked his young companion. The man looked at them and Quiss could swear he almost heard a... sad breeze of all things.“I have never known love,” the man pushed his hair to the side and gazed with deep pain at them.Quiss blinked.“We got some nice ladies who’d be up for it. Got a few men too but they can be a bit weird,” Ruli offered.The man seemed to struggle for a moment.“Fromage came to visit me. He’s a friend of a friend. He tends to… do things,” Haldi actually frowned which was weird coming from the man.“I defy expectations,” Fromage said, his hair doing some weird thing in a wind that didn’t exist.“We’re off to the dungeon!” Haldi explained.“We got greenhorns in... Might not be the best time,” Quiss announced. Haldi’s face froze for a moment before he smiled again.“So soon, thought we’d have more time! Ah well, come on Fro, another day!” he said then eyed the two of them.“You should let the kids have their fun, nothing ruins a good adventure like a mother hen,” the white haired man suggested, eyeing Ruli in particular.Ruli looked aghast at the idea she would either care or be responsible.Quiss was fine being a stick in the mud and going home if he never had to cross that stupid mud room again.Fromage looked at the direction of the Dungeon.“Our fate will bring us together… soon,” he called. Quiss had no idea how someone could speak in italics with words without air quotes but the young man managed it.“He’s a worse nerd than you,” Ruli grumbled. Her eyes darted to Delta’s Dungeon in the distance and a touch of concern actually showed.“Go home Ruli, I gotta make sure they aren’t breaking any laws and all that,” Quiss sighed, knowing full well he was going to regret this.A pause stretched on for a moment.“Thanks... just make sure Delta is... alright. Next round is on me,” Ruli said, eyes averted as she followed Haldi back into town. Quiss gave her huge back a strange look.“Weird woman,” he grumbled.He’d take a nap outside and if the group wasn’t back in an hour... Quiss would pop his head in.That seemed fair.Not a lot could go wrong in an hour.---Everything was going wrong.Aneya watched in dismay as Kemy cheerfully jumped to her left and not Aneya’s.Making it across had been easy enough for her nimble form but the others...Gonga dripped with mud at her side while Delem was untouched. Kemy was about to fall forward into the mud as the platform of the room tilted dangerously. The motion caused a wave in the mud to bounce back off the walls and lift the platform up with oddly focused force.Kemy let out a scream as she was sent flying clear to the other side.Aneya could only stare in shocked surprise as the girl crashed into her. The last thing she saw was the smug Duck on the other side, watching this unfold before it turned, waddling back to the Pond room.Then she saw the ceiling.“Woah, that was some good luck, you nearly crashed into the wall!” Gonga praised. Delem helped Kemy up and Aneya just lay there... exhausted after four rooms. This Dungeon was murder on her nerves.She reached under her back and hoped the pointy thing sticking out at an odd angle wasn’t her spine.A broken arrow from her quiver dangled loosely between her fingers.Aneya was both relieved and... yet, this arrow pissed her off more than the rat, the duck, the spider, or the mud. Aneya guessed it was one of those ‘last straw’ things she had heard so much about.“I hope we can see Mr Duck before we leave!” Kemy chatted to Delem as he opened the wooden door leading into a small corridor. The wet earthy smell was actually stronger on that side of the door.Considering Aneya had just dealt with a pit of mud... this wasn’t something she wanted to smell.The number of mushrooms in this hall was almost worrying.Did this place like mushrooms or something?Delem lead the way and soon the answer became... abundantly clear.This Dungeon loved mushrooms.The wide open forest space before them did not have trees or flowers, but mushrooms that brushed the ceiling as clusters of different mushrooms gathered like bushes or thick walls, hiding anything in shadows.Kemy looked up as she slowly spun.“I’ve never seen mushrooms so big!” she gasped in delight. Aneya lightly tugged her away from standing underneath one of the tree-like mushrooms. Being covered in spores or poisonous dust would be a bad thing.“I’m keeping my hands in my pockets here,” Gonga muttered. Those words were nice to hear. Some of these fungi looked odd.Several black ones looked oily, which were a cause for concern. Some species Aneya just didn’t know but nothing in nature that turned black was usually good. Other mushrooms were some of those odd ones that had a glowing stalk inside the gap that made them look like stars.Delem eyed the space as he carefully tread forward.“Something smells good,” he blinked in confusion. He bent down to peer at a mushroom that looked like its stalk was made of golden butter and had pepper sprinkled over the cap.“I never knew mushrooms could smell good uncooked,” Gonga blinked. Kemy tugged on Aneya’s arm.“Look at that one!” she said and Aneya’s eyes landed on the most uncommon sight in the grove. A mushroom with a pale white cap that looked soft like silk. A green light shined from under the cap as the edge of the cap grew into tiny threads. Underneath the mushroom the earth looked... rich.Kemy carefully bent down and Aneya spoke softly as if to not make the immobile mushroom run away.“I saw a herb like that... it gave off a green light and its leaves were like silk bandages... but that’s an Aider Breath, a herb,” she said as Kemy waved a hand over the mushroom. A slight golden power flickered off her fingers.“It’s... nice! I think... I don’t think its hiding anything evil,” Kemy announced as she plucked at it with a smile.The problem was that the slight mound of earth the mushroom grew in shuddered as Kemy began to struggle to yank the thing free.“Kemy, back away!” she warned but Kemy’s strength proved to be a winner as she tumbled back with the mushroom in her hands. The slight popping noise was loud.QThe dirt before Aneya shuddered violently and began to rise. The dirty brown earth shifted to reveal not actually dirt or a mound but the unamused face of a big and now awake boar.The mushroom Kemy had yanked free had been... growing... on the boar’s rump. The boar eyed the broken stalk where the mushroom had been sprouting from.No one moved as it turned its dark eyes to Kemy.“I... didn’t... mean it?” the younger girl offered. Aneya was going to assume the snorting nostrils and stamping feet meant that yanking a growing mushroom off of one's body probably hurt.The boar gave a huge stomp forward and the running speed Aneya was worried about began to build up.Aneya reached down and yanked her friend to her feet.“Back to the door!” she barked the order out as she ran the other way, trying to draw the monsters attention. It mostly worked, the addition of Delem and Gonga rushing in helped too.The boar charged at her and Aneya’s fiddlings with an arrow nearly caused her to be rammed through with a tusk but the boar lowered its head at the last minute and headbutte