Deos presented him and his opponent as a pair of young fighters on their first contest. The two were almost mirrors of each other. Both young, both casters. The fight started as a study in academic combat. The two stood where the fight started and built up from there in a tight exchange of carefully planned counters. The fight was clean but unequal. Rakan had two concepts to the opponent’s one, which he used sparingly. A devastating counter swung the fight in Rakan’s favor, then it was only a matter of time until he finally cornered his opponent to polite applause. Rakan fought patiently and carefully until he won.

The rest of the team made sure to congratulate him when he returned. Viv was proud and made sure to let him know.

“So you will let me fight in the deadlands next time? With the army?”

“You will train with them first. You think you can just show up and throw fireballs at the front rank? You need to know where to move, when, and where to aim.”

“What she means is yes, and we will prepare you,” Sidjin assured him.

“Don’t count on me. I’m a duellist, not a revenant hunter!” Sonagi added.

“But you used to smell the same,” Rakan countered.

Viv left Rakan bicker with the others. The youth seemed much more relaxed now. Things were looking up.

The last fight of the day would oppose Medjin to the lone armor-clad knight Viv had never seen without the helmet down. His opponent was Medjin’s first, the red mage she had met in the study and who had been quite rude. As a lone contestant, the armored one had to defeat every opponent on the enemy team.

It turned out immediately that this man was an anti-mage. More precisely, he canceled magic around himself. The first red bolt to reach his silent form just… fizzled.

“Very few people follow this path and for good reasons,” Sidjin said. “It takes a good attunement and a lot of suffering to negate magic around oneself, which means that one must sacrifice the path of the mage. Even then, their defenses are not perfect.”

This was demonstrated quickly by Medjin’s first. The fire mage had anticipated the combat, it seemed. The sand moved under his feet, carrying him away just as his opponent charged and swung where he had been. The knight was not just resistant but fast too. He would have been deadly against an unprepared mage. Unfortunately for him, the red mage was not unprepared. Pits opened under the steel-clad feet of the knight and his aura did not prevent the displaced material from crashing against him, on the contrary. The anti-magic field weakened the edge of the pit as soon as he approached. With a powerful jump, he still escaped from the trap. Meanwhile, the red mage kept moving around. He spread flames around himself as he went and Viv studied his technique with great attention.

Some mages cast spells from one or two colors at the same time, but this one was different. There was red but also brown and gray. He was creating a fiery storm that surrounded the plated man without touching him. Nevertheless, the blur of superheated air showed that if he could negate mana, it could not cancel its effect on reality after the spell finished. The firestorm also masked the red mage’s movements. Viv could see where the red mana was concentrated, but the knight did not.

He still lasted for a while. At some point, he even played for time, perhaps hoping that the red mage would tire. Instead, the area of effect only increased as fire fed fire. The traps and constant attacks tracking him eventually took their toll. He eventually surrendered.

The crowd felt a little less enthused about this victory. Viv assumed they wanted to see at least one caster brought low. Viv would have liked to see more of Medjin’s team’s capabilities, personally. The lack of information was just frustrating.

She hoped it wouldn’t bite them in the ass.
