"Borderlands, huh? Earth was assimilated by Schema only a short while ago, so borderlands make a lot of sense terminology-wise. Are the lands closer to Schema's center called the heartlands then?"

The light hopped about.

"It's nothing to be too concerned with. Now, which mythical skills did you want to fuse together?"

I settled my minds onto the conversation.

"You're not going to talk at all about where you came from or how?"

It giggled.

"Nope. Now, skills, or I'll simply leave."

I scoffed.

"Calm down there. What's your name?"

"Entity-381-8029-sclDc."

I raised my brow.

"I'm Daniel Hillside."

"Yes, you're this supposed Harbinger I've heard about. It's of no concern for me."

The entity's body vibrated.

"Any further attempts at meaningless chatter will result in your forfeit of the compendium's bonuses."

I took the entity's word for it.

"I want to fuse Matter Conversion, A Manifold Mind, and Temporal Compression into a single skill."

"Hah! That is such an interesting and novel combination. In fact, it's not possible!"

I furrowed my brow.

"There are skills that Schema cannot make?"

"Indeed. That will result in a skill that isn't considered something a sentient can learn. You must first shed your mortal coil, so to speak."

I smiled.

"I did that a while ago."

"Oh, but you haven't. Not even in the slightest. To the contrary, you hold your mortal limitations quite dear according to my current data and personality evaluations."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Ah, how unexpected. The compendium isn't working as advertised."

"Oh, it is. You're not able to learn that skill until you get rid of what you mortals refer to as 'baggage.' It's a strange concept I've never dealt with, considering I've only been alive for a few moments with a preprogrammed personality!"

I took a deep breath and closed my eyes.

"Then what is it going to take before you'll let me learn that skill?"

It hovered close to my eyes.

"Find what makes you fear your potential and handle it."

"What does that even mean?"

It fizzled out of existence as it laughed.

"If anyone would know, it's you. Good luck, little cataclysm."

The temporal rush faded, and a system prompt appeared.

The legendary compendium could not be used at this time. In order for you to find a means or method of using this valued resource, you must search within yourself. That is to say, we don't know what's going on, and good luck figuring it out on your own!

As the shifting temporal flow faded, I peered up and took a deep breath.

"Well, it looks like my old man's causing problems even years after he's been out of my life. I should've seen this coming."

I frowned.

"I have to find Neel and take him up on his offer."

My runes hummed as energy flowed in mass into them.

"It looks like we'll be going on a manhunt."
