Both of their enemies had shifted positions, and there was a soft clang as Aarl’s blade met a curved saber. Amoh’s other hand flicked out, and Aarl was doused with liquid that hissed against his fully-sealed armor. Sarah unleashed a fusillade that Amoh blocked by manifesting a shield of shadow. But she’d mixed in an enchanted rifle shot that penetrated that shield and took a chunk out of his arm. That drove him back long enough for Aarl to accelerate away and douse himself with a torrent of high-pressure water from a dimensional bag.

Meanwhile, Khachi had successfully tracked Ogarius’s next move, and Stella was bombarding him with lasers that were being eaten by flickering distortions in the air. She moved onto lightning bolts, but those were also being absorbed by the shimmering haze. Khachi was throwing more spears, but the Questor was moving quickly, using short-range teleports to stay ahead of the strikes.

Nathan could have tipped the balance of any of the fights, but his attention was split too many ways. He was worried that if he focused on any of the other Questors, he’d miss Badud’s next move. Giving Badud time to prepare a killing blow was inadvisable, and Nathan needed to be ready for it.

I need to find Badud and deal with him, so I can tilt the balance here.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 872

Bottomless Stamina: 84165/88200

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 644

Regenerative Focus: 4109/6540

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 6

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 8

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 7

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 7
