Jessica crouched low beside Iris as they peeked over the cliff, looking down at a Grubboar grazing on one of the few patches of greenery in the Redmaw Peaks. The canyon opened below them into a small flat basin, surrounded on all sides by jagged stone. She scanned the surrounding ridges, checking that the rest of the party was in position.

“You are waiting for orders?” Iris asked.

“Yeah,” Jessica whispered to her. “Draven is going to start things off, and then we’re supposed to just follow his lead.”

“A level 12 monster. It is comparable to the Colossus… but it doesn’t look nearly as strong.”

“Well, that’s just dinner. And the Colossus was classified as a great monster. I think that means they’re a lot stronger than normal monsters at comparable levels.”

“We should lead the war band. Not that one.”

“Uh… This is just a hunting party. And maybe one day?” Jessica grinned. “Let’s just play by the rules for now. It’ll matter more in the long run if we show we are not full of ourselves and willing to listen to those who may know something we don’t. Think about how Saelin has been acting. Do you think anyone wants to listen to her after that?”

“This is a good point…” Iris agreed, though the way her ears folded down, Jessica could tell that she was not entirely happy about it. “But I still want you to lead.”

“We’ll get there, Iris. One step at a time, okay?”

Jessica spotted Saelin, poking her head up on the other side of the canyon just enough to get a better look. Draven and Korrin were down below, each hiding behind different rocks and carefully checking that the monster wasn’t onto them before they moved in closer.

Jessica had to say they both did seem quite skilled. They didn’t rush, just took their time and didn’t take any chances of scaring the prey off.

Jessica looked further down the canyon, and as Draven had said, if the monster ran, it had plenty of runway and could be hard to catch. Even worse, while chasing it, they wouldn’t be able to scout the area ahead, and the monster could end up unintentionally running them right into a pack of Drakewolves.

Saelin had complained that killing Drakewolves is the reason they’d come here in the first place, but Draven insisted that they still had to be careful and take the fight on their own terms. They needed to be the ones doing the ambushing, not getting ambushed themselves.

Draven quickly jogged from cover to a new vantage point in striking distance from the Grubboar, but he accidentally kicked a pebble along the way, which caused the Grubboar to lift its head. Its massive snout sucked in and out audibly as it smelled the air.

Jessica’s attention drifted closer to the strands of her own hair stirring softly in the wind. The breeze was blowing toward Draven and Korrin, which meant it wasn’t carrying their scent to the Grubboar. Draven had explained that wind direction was something else to consider while hunting, and frankly, it was something Jessica had never even thought about before.

“You know, maybe we can learn a few things from him,” she whispered to Iris. “You have to admit that wind thing was pretty smart.”

“Perhaps… Yes, it is worth keeping in consideration,” Iris admitted.

Draven looked back to Korrin and made a hand gesture, then glanced up the sloped canyon walls, first to Saelin and then to Jessica, making sure everyone was in place.

The plan was he and Korrin would run for it and hopefully wound it before it tries to flee. Korrin was mainly there as backup because the Grubboar was strong enough to cause injury in a one-on-one fight. However, if the Grubboar chose to run, it would be up to Jessica and Saelin to jump down from their vantage points and intercept it.

Jessica looked to her left and right, considering all the massive rocks around her that she’d just be barely able to lift. Could always just hit it in the head with one of those, she thought.

Then her gaze swept to the opposite side of the canyon, where Saelin was clearly staring right at her.

Just pay attention to the hunt… Jessica thought, and dropped her eyes away from Saelin.

“Hey Iris, I had an idea,” Jessica said. “When me and Saelin make our move... it probably isn’t necessary for you to attack it head-on as well, so why don’t you fly further down to cut off its path just in case it gets past us too?”

Iris gave her a look, but then her white eyes narrowed softly in approval. “This is a good plan.” She looked down the canyon, considering it, then briefly glanced back at Jessica as an afterthought. “Good girl.”

Jessica winced behind her mask. I really need to talk to her about not saying that to me anymore…

Then, all at once, Draven made his move, running at the Grubboar spear-first, and by the time the beast was able to register what was coming at it, Draven had already managed to stab it.

It squealed in pain, reeled around, and then kicked its back feet out powerfully, but Draven dodged backward, just barely managing to avoid the strike.

Korrin was quick to follow up, and as the Grubboar positioned its legs down again, Korrin slashed his spear across its flank, causing it to squeal and stumble.

The boar had a moment of hesitation as both Korrin and Draven charged for their follow-up attacks, but it seemed to decide it was outnumbered and would be better off running.

“Okay, Iris, looks like we’re up!” Jessica said as she popped out of hiding.

She swung her legs off the side of the cliff and did her best to keep her footing as she ran down the sheer drop. There were plenty of places to plant her feet, so it wasn’t too hard to make it down, but she still had to be careful because if she were to misstep, she’d be tumbling down the hill quite fast. She didn’t even want to think of the insults Saelin would send her way if that happened.

She made the last hop down to solid ground just as Saelin did, then ran to cut off the Grubboar’s path. Jessica reached the right position first, spear held out in front of her, ready to use her duelist skills to avoid its charge and counter with her own strike.

Saelin, however, didn’t take position beside her. She surged past Jessica instead, charging the Grubboar head-on like she meant to stop it by herself.

Jessica’s posture slackened as Saelin slashed her swords in an X, cutting across the Grubboar’s nose before spinning sideways as it squealed and tried to bash her with its head. Her blades swept wide with the motion, landing a couple more strikes against its flank as it barreled past her.

“Oh!” Jessica had gotten distracted by watching Saelin’s movements, allowing her own stance to falter. She quickly tried to recover, but the Grubboar was already barreling toward her.

Her spear came up just in time to slice across its face, but she kicked herself inwardly because had she been ready, she could have jammed her spear right under its throat and deep into its chest.

That’s okay, it’s hurt badly between the four of us, and Iris can finish it!

“Iris now!” Jessica called, just playing into the perception they were trying to establish that she was indeed the one in control.

Iris swooped down with a beam of light erupting from her eyes, hitting the Grubboar right in its face and causing it to squeal in agony once again. This time, it seemed disoriented as its path arced, and it stumbled. Jessica pumped her fist, ready to congratulate Iris, but then she heard Iris say, “Attack faster! Jessica!”

“Sorry!” she muttered, and then wished she hadn’t said that out loud, hoping Saelin didn’t hear her.

She got her legs moving, but it was already too late. Saelin jumped high into the air as the Grubboar arced toward her, and she managed to land on its back. Then she placed both swords on opposite sides of its neck like she was hugging it with her blades, and then she slashed outward with a spray of blood. The Grubboar fell face-first into the ground, skidding against the dust and still struggling. However, when Saelin lifted her blades again and this time stabbed them both into its body, right between her own legs, it gave one last sputter, then fell still.

Iris soared down and landed in a trot at Jessica’s side, while the two boys walked over. “Good work, everyone,” Draven said, looking at them each in turn. Well, he looked at everyone other than Iris, Jessica realized with a bit of disappointment. She knew they just saw her as an animal, and Iris didn’t actually care herself, but she was as much a part of that kill as any of them.

Then Saelin swung her legs off the Grubboar’s back, flicked her blades at her sides to fling off the blood, and spun them back into their sheaths with a whistle.

“A little slow to act, Wyrmscar,” Saelin said, the hollows of her mask locking with hers.

Don’t take the bait, don’t take the bait, Jessica thought.

“We killed it, didn’t we?”

“Yes, but with such strong words from you earlier, I’d expected more.” She turned away before Jessica could retort, nudging the massive corpse with her boot and looking down at it.

Jessica sighed, knowing she couldn’t actually argue with that. She had been a bit slower, and if she had paid just a little more attention to her own part in the fight, she could have jammed the spear under the Grubboar’s throat before Iris ever had to get involved and before Saelin could show off with the killing blow.

“Her mount set you up for that kill, Saelin,” Korrin argued as he pulled out his dagger, then kneeled by the monster and started slicing its skin. “Had she not done that, the kill would have been out of your range.”

“And as I said before, it is thanks to the beast there that Elva is worth anything at all,” Saelin said, nodding down to Iris.

“Her name is Iris,” Jessica said.

Korrin continued cutting into the Grubboar’s hide. “Either way, the Hell Hound’s attack confused it long enough for you to close the distance.”

“Saelin’s not wrong,” Draven cut in.

Jessica winced, thinking, Come on, I thought you were on my side!

He looked at Jessica and continued. “You became distracted by what your party was doing and forgot to focus on your own role in the exchange. This fight ended well, but if you or one of us were to be injured after that moment, then it would be your hesitation that was to blame.” He then raised his voice to the rest of the party. “And these words go for us all. Simply killing our foe isn’t the mark of a successful hunt. A successful hunt is one where we achieve victory and grow while taking no losses of our own. That includes not needing to rely on using healing potions. But most of all, we have to survive.”

He’s really taking to the role of party leader, Jessica thought, watching as he then went over to the Grubboar and pulled out his own dagger. I guess I kind of have to respect him for that... She looked at her open hand and then closed it into a fist as her gaze drifted down to Iris. Next time I won’t hesitate. I owe it to Iris as well to do better.

Then when Saelin joined the boys in cutting up the meat, Jessica realized she was the only one not joining in. Oh crap! I’m not doing my fair share!

She came over, pulling out her dagger, but she was unsure about how to cut, and she was more worried about doing something wrong, so she just stood there, watching the three of them, all of them clearly had done this before, but Korrin seemed the most skilled as he quickly cut off perfect steaks one after another.

She crouched down beside the others and awkwardly held her dagger over the carcass. The smell of blood was thick now, mixing with the dry, dusty scent of the canyon.

“…Uh.”

Saelin glanced at her briefly.

Jessica’s fist tightened on the hilt of her dagger. She looked at Korrin, who already had the cleanest pile of steaks set off to the side, and she asked, “Can you show me how to do it?”

He looked up.

“I… cut up my own meat when I was hunting with Iris in the woods,” Jessica began. “But, you all are doing it skillfully, and I don’t want to make a mess of your work.”

“Of course, Elva Wyrmscar,” Korrin said and nodded back behind his shoulder. “Just watch from over there, and I’ll explain what I’m doing. You can help on the next cut.”

Jessica let out a breath of relief that nobody laughed at her or insulted her for not knowing how to do it. She had at the very least expected a comment from Saelin, but it seemed the girl had at least some tact.

I am a few years younger than everyone here, or at least Elva Wyrmscar is… I guess they’d have to be pretty big jerks to give me crap over something I’ve obviously not done before.

Korrin sliced his dagger carefully beneath the hide as he spoke. “With removing the hide, the trick is not to force the blade too deep. You’re separating more than cutting. See?”

Jessica stepped around behind where he had indicated so she could get a good look at what he was doing.

“If you go too deep, you ruin the hide and waste meat. If you angle wrong and hit bone, you dull the blade,” he explained.

After adding a hefty slab to his mile, he went over to the Grubboar’s butt, which was nice and meaty. “Try it over here,” he said, holding out his own dagger.

“I don’t think I’ve learned well enough from that brief demonstration,” Jessica warned.

“It’s okay. This is more meat than we can eat before it spoils anyway. And besides, I have the butcher class. I have skills that let me make such clean cuts.”

“Oh,” Jessica said.

Saelin asked, “I wouldn’t think you’d take such a class, Korrin.”

“No, I hadn’t originally planned to go full-on into the warrior life. I was going to leave that to my brothers while I stay closer to home and look out for the rest of my family.”

Jessica tensed just before she made her first cut. “Family?” she asked.

“Two younger sisters. And my mother. This mask had belonged to my eldest brother; one of my sisters may take my other brother’s if she decides to become a warrior as well.”

“Oh…” Jessica said quietly, her grip on the dagger slacking.

It was Valrok’s fault that Korrin’s brothers had died. And yet... he was being kind to her? Jessica didn’t really understand why. She somehow managed to beat him in a duel, and she said some words that he apparently appreciated... but... shouldn’t it have required more than that? Shouldn’t he hate her? Saelin hated her for far less. And Draven... she wasn’t sure what to make of him yet.

“Why do you hesitate?” Korrin asked.

Jessica blinked behind her mask. “Huh?”

Korrin gestured to the dagger in her hand. “You stopped before the blade touched hide.”

“Ah! S-Sorry, my brain just buffered a little there. I-I mean uh— I was just thinking. About where to put the knife. In the giant monster pig.” She winced at herself as she felt all three of them staring at her strangely. “Anyway! Here I go!”

She tried her best to shake off the embarrassment as she began cutting.

Saelin and Draven gave each other a look, and Saelin used a fist to make a knocking gesture on the side of her own head, probably referencing Elva’s Direwing fall. Draven nodded.

At least I have something to blame my stupid crap on, Jessica thought ruefully as she pushed the dagger through the meat. Even back on Earth, she had a habit of letting her mouth go on autopilot with babbling nonsense while another part of her brain tried and failed to tell herself to just shut up.

Guess some things never change…

She forced herself to focus on getting the knife under the Grubboar’s skin and then cutting it free of the flesh as Korrin had shown her. She made a bit of a mess of it; it certainly wasn’t as clean as his. But still, he nodded approvingly. She then worked on cutting into the meat and trying to make steaks the way he had, which, to be fair, she didn’t do too bad a job of. It was better than the messy strips she had cooked when it was just her and Iris in the woods, but not nearly as nice as his.

A short while later, the carcass had been reduced to little more than bones, scraps, and stringy bits of meat still clinging stubbornly to the skeleton. They wrapped the cut steaks in a waxed bag Draven produced. Besides all of that, there was a small pile of wasted bits lying around that Jessica noticed Iris was eyeing. Korrin noticed as well and asked, “Can I give her a scrap?”

Jessica looked at Iris.

Iris said, “I will bite him.”

“She’ll bite you,” Jessica said, reaching for one of the scraps herself and tossing it to Iris. She plucked it out of the air and devoured it with a few quick chomps.

Draven examined the sky, noting how it was getting dark. “I know a good spot to set up our camp. Everyone, follow me.”
