It was on days like this a man felt alive. Tyrion looked as relaxed as Pellmia had ever seen him. In his element. It was rare to see him not…so stiff. Even smiling.
They said of him, behind his back, that every time Lord Tyrion smiled, spring was delayed another month. Or that every time he smiled, a Kraken stirred.
…That was cruel. Injust. Lord Pellmia had known Tyrion as a boy, and more as he grew older. He had always been like this, but there had been a time when he smiled more. When he laughed and when he hadn’t been stone. He thought…he had seen that again.
The [Lord] spent so much time looking at the forest trail that Tyrion eventually cleared his throat.
“Pellmia? Will you be staying?”
Pellmia stirred. He glanced at Tyrion, and shook his head.
“I should like to meet the Wind Runner, but I won’t impose. Tell me, Tyrion. What are your impressions of her?”
He listened, carefully, as Tyrion’s brows knitted.
“She is an extraordinary Courier. I’m in her debt. She has been honest and straightforward as one can ask for, and she is certainly fast. Her ability to command the wind is impressive.”
He replied after a moment. Pellmia nodded.
“Not to mention her magic sword. And your sons like her?”
“She…has a way with them. Sammial and Hethon respect her, which is rare. I find her curious. Brave. Refreshing.”
It seemed Tyrion had gone one word too far, because he turned his head slightly and regarded the distant riders. Pellmia sighed, and smiled.
“Striking too. Is she from Baleros, Drath…? Ah, well, that doesn’t matter, does it? It’s a rare sort of woman, whom you take to. It was like that with both my wives. I still miss Eiress.”
His first wife, another casualty of the March of Roses. Tyrion dipped his head silently. He waited for Pellmia to make sense, but the [Lord] just hummed under his breath.
“Tyrion, it’s out of concern, not anything else, you understand.”
“…I’d hardly take offense to you, Lord Pellmia. If I did, I’d state it directly.”
Pellmia waved a hand.
“Consider it advice. I know it has been a while and well, the young man I remember had a certain charm—but all the tact of a lance to the chest. It’s my experience, and that of Keireen—who sends her regards—that you need to make an effort.”
Lord Tyrion’s eyes flickered.
“About…? And how so?”
Pellmia blew out his cheeks. This was harder than he thought. Taking aside a younger [Lord] was easier than a man Tyrion’s age. He wished he’d gotten backup—but imagine six [Lords] all riding together and gossiping like girls? No, no. He pushed on.
“Activities, Tyrion! A Courier is not, well, not like regular women. Some might be impressed by House Veltras’ amenities here, but you must admit, for someone of her means and travel, this area can be quite dull. I’m sure Miss Griffin might appreciate more interesting pursuits?”
“Hm. It’s true we haven’t offered her much as a guest. She’s been working.”
Tyrion nodded to that, since that was the first understandable point Pellmia had made. The [Lord] exhaled.
“Exactly. Well, Keireen was of the opinion that if the Wind Runner was sticking around, that’s already a good sign. Did she take the Courier-jobs for a song?”
His daughter had told him to ask about that. She was very sharp—Tyrion frowned.
“Too cheaply. She felt it was a debt.”
“That’s excellent. Now, you should reciprocate. Dead gods, Tyrion, I’m sure neither of us wants to list off suggestions! What about a visit to one of the larger cities, though? You two can zip across Izril. A tour of one of the islands by ship? It will peter out unless you show her more than your regular façade. Enough people think you’re disinterested. I know you well enough to know when you like someone, but someone who hasn’t your measure doesn’t.”
Tyrion thought about this. Was he coming off as standoffish? He nodded slowly.
“Salient points, Pellmia.”
The [Lord] nodded, relaxing.
“Good, good. Be straightforward. I’d say—just tell her you want her to stay around as well. Straight-off, before she heads away. Keireen told me to tell you—well, be direct so you both know where you stand.”
Lord Tyrion hesitated.
“Surely that’s too much to ask, Pellmia?”
“Not for this! She has to make up her mind. She’s a young woman, but you are Lord Veltras so I’d give you a good shot. I’m on your side. Just be direct—I’m not sure if mentioning how your sons like her would help, but it certainly doesn’t hurt they adore her! That’s all. I’m not speculating into the rest—just set the stage. Tell her you’d rather she hung about. Visited, if a permanent room is too much. Don’t bring out the wedding ring until—”
The [Lord] of House Veltras had been half-nodding, frowning at Pellmia, but listening right until that last bit. Then he stopped dead on the forest trail.
“Wedding ring?”
Pellmia was checking the notes Keireen and his daughter had helped him write. Maybe he should just give it to the man; Tyrion liked written instructions.
“I know it’s been a while since Salva, Tyrion. However, you have to consider your sons too. When it’s…just pure luck like this, you need to strike. As I said, I’d offer you both a chance to avail yourself of my House’s entertainment—”
There was a difference between willful ignorance or playing dumb and sheer density. Lord Tyrion was in the rare, authentic case of the latter. All the pieces of the conversation finally fell into place. Lord Pellmia went on. Tyrion had to speak three times to interrupt him.
“Pellmia. Pellmia. I think you’re mistaken. I wasn’t aware this was a conversation about…courting Miss Ryoka. That—was not what I thought we were talking about.”
Lord Pellmia stopped. He stared at Tyrion. He rode on forwards, turning to stare at Tyrion with mouth open for so long his horse walked him into a low-hanging branch. Even after it smacked him in the side, he just kept staring.
Dead gods. It was worse than Pellmia thought. How had the man ever managed to marry Salva? Well—it had been mutual. She must have had to chase him down with a net, poor woman…
“Lord Pellmia. If we are discussing…courtship, I fear you may be misinformed. There is nothing between Miss Griffin and myself, and I have certainly not intimated otherwise. Nor do I typically—seek out advice. If I did, I am certain I would appreciate this information. However…”
Looking exceptionally uncomfortable, Lord Tyrion spoke stiffly. You could actually see him drawing back, visibly growing distant. Pellmia looked at him.
“Tyrion Veltras. I see I have been presumptuous. For that, I apologize.”
The [Lord] nodded, relieved. Lord Pellmia Quellae, of House Quellae, the [Lord of Orchards], who had nevertheless proven himself in war, twice-married, with a son and daughter from his first marriage, respected by his people, friend and supporter of House Veltras, fixed Tyrion with a keen eye.
Like the man was a piece of fruit from the finest trees, which were worthy of royalty. Pellmia spoke slowly.
“I have been presumptuous, Tyrion. So, let me be clear. I am speaking, as I have been speaking this entire time, about Ryoka Griffin, the Courier, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, and yourself, Lord Tyrion Veltras of House Veltras…and giving you advice about entering a relationship with the young lady, courting her with the intention of marriage if it should prove both you and she care for each other. Marriage, as defined by you marrying her and making her your wife. A relationship, which I would hope stems from mutual attraction and leads to…”
Lord Tyrion had slowly been flushing throughout Pellmia’s speech. He cut Pellmia off.
“Lord Pellmia. Speculating about Miss Ryoka Griffin and myself is not something I would welcome. I appreciate your concern—”
To his astonishment, Pellmia cut him off.
“Tyrion, I have never thought of you as a fool.”
“Thank y—”
“Except in terms of love and relationships. I grant you that I may have been wrong in where you are if you’ve never considered the Wind Runner…and if you got to her staying under your roof, that’s an incredible amount of misunderstandings which I shall laugh about all the way back to my home. And then for the next month. However, to save you from yourself, I must ask you. Are you certain that there is no chance, not one for all the good reasons we’ve listed, that Ryoka Griffin would ever, ever be someone you’re interested in?”
He waited. Tyrion’s jaw worked. Pellmia just stared at him. You heard rumors about other [Lords]…or [Ladies]. Such as Ieka. They said…well, that was gossip. But Tyrion?
Lord Tyrion’s first response was to excuse himself from Pellmia and his delusions. The man was growing senile. Also, he was being highly rude. He was…
The [Lord] rode in silence as he was about to voice this. He—hesitated. Now he looked at it from the outside, some of Jericha’s comments, not to mention Ullim’s, took on a different light.
Had he been giving off the wrong impression to everyone? The thought was mortifying. Then Tyrion wondered.
Had he been giving the wrong impression to everyone? Or just himself?
He remembered riding after the Wind Runner. It was a single moment, as he stared up at the sky, on her first true flight. He remembered seeing her laughing as the wind blew. His heart…soaring.
In that moment, Tyrion Veltras had met someone faster than he was. Someone who could fly. Savior of his two children.
In all that time, a voice whispered to him, did you really conduct yourself with only impartial respect and admiration for Ryoka Griffin? Truly?
Tyrion Veltras hated lies. Which included the ones he told himself. He looked at Pellmia as the proverbial scales fell from his eyes. And out of his ears.
Salva. Suddenly, Tyrion felt guilty. Suddenly, he was conflicted about his sons, his dead wife. About loyalty to her, about his actions. He would not have been if Pellmia was wrong. Unfortunately, it seemed Lord Tyrion Veltras was interested in Ryoka Griffin.
It was a huge shock. To himself most of all.
Pellmia saw it all in a second. An unguarded look on Tyrion’s face. The [Lord of Orchards] smiled. He turned his head, but Tyrion saw the gesture. The younger [Lord] struggled to speak.
“I…believed you were wrong at first, Lord Pellmia. Which may have been true. Up till now. Perhaps you were simply—forward. I would like to speak further. If we may.”
Lord Pellmia just nodded. He and Tyrion rode along. Speaking more openly. So, there it was.
Jericha lay on her back, eyes open wide. Struck, like a hammer. Well, she had fallen off her horse after riding into a branch.
 
—-
 
Of course, that was all just Tyrion. Ryoka Griffin was oblivious to the conversation as she stood with Hethon and Sammial in a field.
An empty field recently harvested of wheat. This was like Earth—only the rows were dug by hand, and they weren’t so packed. It was far smaller than a combine-harvester and mechanized industry could create.
However, Skills and magic made the field beautiful in other ways. Taller wheat, more lovely, of a greater quality.
If there was an analogy for the split between worlds, perhaps that was it. This world had less, but the less could be more special. However, people were still people between them.
Kids were kids.
She had thought, as they walked about, as Sammial and Hethon got on their wind sail-craft and let the wind blow them around, how to tackle this.
The truth was—giving kids a genuine lesson was hard. It was easy to say something high-minded like they had to take lessons and social responsibility and so on. Easy to say—but Ryoka thought of how she’d take it. She would probably look up at her older self, lecturing her about all this, then do a spinning kick to Older Ryoka’s leg.
Kids weren’t idiots. They were young, and maybe less intelligent in some ways, but they didn’t buy bullshit. So, after Sammy and Hethon had tired themselves out a bit, Ryoka walked with them and they found themselves in the field.
“Nice place, isn’t it?”
Ryoka looked around. The glory of nature, a beautifully-harvested field as the wind blew on a summer day. In moments like this, a woman—people—felt alive.
Hethon and Sammial nodded.
“Miss Griffin…”
The older young lordling hesitated. Ryoka was smiling. She turned her head and he stared up shyly at her. If other people admired Ryoka for many reasons, Hethon’s were maybe simpler in some ways…but that wasn’t the only reason! He tried to stop imagining walking in on her in the bath. Stupid Sammial—he’d kicked his brother hard when he heard about that.
“What is it, Hethon?”
She looked so peaceful, Hethon wasn’t sure if he should say it.
“Um. You know this is a field they’re reseeding, right?”
“Hm? Oh, yeah. Are we not supposed to be on it?”
Hethon hesitated.
“No, I don’t think the [Farmer] cares. But they’re reseeding it. So…it’s fertilized. You’re standing in manure.”
Ryoka’s face went slack. She stared at her feet. Her bare feet; Hethon and Sammial had shoes.
Ryoka Griffin began swearing and ran out of the field. Hethon and Sammial had to laugh. This was why the Wind Runner was great. Every second was like this.
At least she didn’t have Nama’s footwraps on. Ryoka sighed. Jericha said they were highly magical. She wiped her feet on the grass for about three dozen yards and then turned to the boys.
Her element of wonder had been partly lost, but the wind blew around them as always. That was beautiful. Ryoka was going to have a second bath later.
Yet in this moment, she turned to the kids. She composed herself, and launched into her speech.
“I need to talk to you guys about the [Tutors]. I know it’s not my job and I’m not Tyrion or Jericha or Ullim, but I have to.”
Hethon and Sammial looked at each other. Hethon glowered at Sammy. What had he done now? Sammy avoided his older brother’s look.
“I know I shouldn’t leave tutoring. I’m sorry, Miss Ryoka. I won’t do it again.”
He recited it by rote. Ryoka knew every line Sammial was spouting off, from the hundreds of times she’d said variants of it, sincerely, insincerely…
Perhaps he even meant it. It didn’t matter, though. Even if Sammial resolved to change his ways and never use his aura on a [Tutor] again, that wasn’t the problem, was it?
Ryoka had thought long and hard about her past, and the problem wasn’t just being tutored in something you didn’t like. She shook her head.
“You know you shouldn’t do that, Sammial. We had a talk and I’m sure you’ll try. But…that’s not the problem, is it?”
Both boys looked at her. Ryoka went on, searching for her words. Speaking to little reflections of herself.
