“Ah. Regular then. Want a bite? A drink? The rest of the family’s out hunting.”
Buscrei’s nod took in the entire area. The marshlands around the Vail Forest and the ‘city’ of Oswen was to the west and south, where coast intruded into land. It bordered the largest forest in Izril’s north, and thus the people had both sea and land and that medium in between to find any number of ways to make a profit.
Dyes came from here, as well as hunting produce, the staple of House Veltras’ income along with timber and other such goods.
“You’re very kind, Lady Buscrei. I can wait for the rest of your family if you’d like…I’m authorized to take back letters or correspondence to any other of House Veltras on the way back.”
Buscrei’s eyebrows rose.
“Really? Round trip, eh? Well, they won’t be back for hours. They’re out hunting, like I said.”
She pointed again. Ryoka glanced around.
“…Where? I can meet them.”
The [Hunting Lady] gave Ryoka a blank look, then smiled sardonically.
“You’ve never been around here, have you? I’ve no clue. They could be thirty miles that way—or twenty that. I think most’ll come back to eat by nightfall, but it’s as far as I know. If you want to wait, there’s beds and food. Or I can send you off soonest. Which’ll it be?”
“Oh, well…”
Ryoka wasn’t sure, but an impulse and her burgeoning social abilities told her that Buscrei was serious.
“…I’d take something to eat. And drink.”
The [Lady] headed inside and Ryoka followed her to find well, more of a hunting lodge than anything else. This wing of the Veltras family wasn’t Tyrion’s military-style keep. They lived off the land, contributed to House Veltras’ defense, and didn’t bother with continent-wide dramas.
“Let’s see. Nope. All of that orange’s juice we got has gone bad. I have water, purified water, Oyster Juice, beers, wine, Velrusk Claw…and fifteen stronger spirits. Which one?”
Apparently, runes of preservation weren’t everywhere, or some juice had been stored faultily, because the woman came up with a large amphora, opened it, and immediately poured it out the window into the marsh below. Ryoka blinked as she walked onto a lovely fur carpet…a former bear…took in the fine wood, the spacious, comfy place she wouldn’t mind having, and saw the [Hunting Lady] waiting.
She had to ask.
“Uh, what’s Oyster Juice? And purified water? You mean the regular water’s…?”
“Not from the marsh direct if that’s what you’re asking. Do you think we want to drink that? We have wells.”
Buscrei clarified. Ryoka hurried to deny she had been wondering exactly that. The woman found two cups and poured two liquids in, before placing them on a counter. She got something for herself; the purple Gnoll drink, Velrusk Claw.
“There. Oyster’s Juice is a local nickname for some strong stuff. Made with some part of oyster…I think. Tastes better than the name, and it’s cheap.”
Ryoka took one sip and her expression made Buscrei laugh. Sour alcohol was not something Ryoka enjoyed. However, she gamely tried another sip and saw the point.
“Purified water’s pure. More’n magic can do. That’s just…water with nothing in it. This is special stuff. Tastes good, right?”
“It’s sweet!”
The purified water tasted very good. It was not ‘spring water’ from actual mountain runoff or whatever Earth’s bottled water companies advertised. This tasted, well, pure. Good. Buscrei grinned.
“Local specialty. We sell a bit to [Merchants] and [Captains] who can transport it, but it goes bad quick. Some dust gets in, or idiots store it in metal tanks or containers or even leather and it’s regular damn water.”
“How do you get it? [Druids]? I just visited um—”
“Setth?”
Ryoka nodded as Buscrei named the [Lord] who had local [Druids] in his forest-keep and local town.
“Yes. Lord Setth.”
She’d seen how careful that community was to work with nature. [Druids] helped maintain the orchards and make sure the flocks were healthy and happy, not just farmed out. They still exported some meat as well as animal products; they didn’t cull animals though, only when they were suffering, so it wasn’t high-quality meat.
Still, the [Druids] had a lot of abilities like knowing how to fight infection, purify water, keep bugs away, and so on.
However, Buscrei shook her head. The second family of House Veltras on Ryoka’s journey found some more dried meat—which turned out to be from a crocodile or alligator variant, cooked and spiced on a stick—for both of them as Ryoka sipped the water and Oyster Juice.
It was rather nice, and they went back to the balcony for the unparalleled view. She spoke, instantly familiar and sociable. The exact opposite of Ryoka, in short.
“We don’t have that many [Druids]. Lots of Drowned Folk and they have some [Mages]…nah. It’s from one of Oswen’s treasures. You know we have hot springs?”
Ryoka nodded. She’d tried to do some reading on the fly, but the wind made that impossible. She had still read when she landed to talk to Lord Setth. Oswen, among fishing and hunting opportunities, had famous hot springs.
“Well, among ‘em is the one we let people use once a month. Rest of the time, it’s for bottling the pure water. Unicorn horns in the bath and other purifying stuff.”
“Oh. Wow.”
In many ways, Oswen paralleled Desonis. However, the [Knight] culture wasn’t there, and the people were right alongside a forest.
If Ryoka had seen them riding crabs around the marshes, she would have really thought this place was uh, a look. That would just be silly, though.
…They rode water-sleds pulled by an otter-dog crossbreed. Ryoka coughed half her mouthful of Oyster Juice over the balcony when she saw that and Buscrei laughed her butt off. The swift-paddling dogs and returning hunting party looked up as she drew her longbow, and loosed an arrow in an explosion of sound.
Ryoka saw a huge goose or some similar bird drop out of the sky near the Humans below as a flock flew across the skies. The [Hunting Lady] didn’t bother to aim for the rest. She bellowed down.
“Grab the bird before the predators get it, you lazy salt-slugs! And get up here! We have a Courier for company! It’s that one that helped Tyrion out!”
Among the many facts about Oswen that Ryoka learned over her night’s stay, they had adapted to hunting from the comfort of their houses quite well. Obviously they didn’t shoot if there was a chance they’d hit the other houses or people, but if they did hit a bird on the wing, who wanted to climb all that way down, grab a bird out of the marsh, and get back up?
It would be lost to giant leeches, scavengers, or any number of things if you were too slow. Hence there were entire jobs that would cater to people like Bird.
Kids in otter-dog sleds raced out to grab prey and deliver it for a small fee. It was just one entertaining thing in this part of Veltras’ lands.
The rest was obviously Buscrei’s family, which was a large, boisterous lot. Exactly the opposite of Tyrion.
“He’s the main head. Life’s no fun. Small wonder his family’s been in charge for the last few generations. We had a family head eighteen generations back. I heard she hated it. Did a good job, though. We’re all [Hunters] so we’re good with bows.”
“Longbows. Short bows, compound, recurve—the only group who’s ever outshot us are Gnolls in competitions, and we win just as often. We train [Archers] too. Don’t tell me Tyrion wants more?”
“No, I uh—”
Ryoka sat among the family at dinner. Nearly two dozen people wanted to talk to her. Buscrei and her husband, their kids, relatives and their partners…
She winced and heard a curse as someone shouted in glee and then there was a scream and noisy splash from outside. Buscrei went to a window.
“If you broke the Wind Runner’s glider, you’re paying for it!”
The [Hunting Lady] bellowed at some of the young adults, who had tried to glide with said device after Ryoka lent it to them.
“It’s fine. I can fly without and get it fixed…”
“Flying. Never was interested in that. Still, you helped out Tyrion in a bad spot. We had to shoot a few [Assassins] threatening us. One of them exploded one of our homes. Bastards.”
Lord Somost, who’d married Buscrei, clapped Ryoka on the back. He was a former [Captain], and fit right in. The others nodded and leaned in, and Ryoka ducked her head—only to be slapped on the shoulder again by the oldest daughter.
“So? Tell us, how’re the kids? Better? Has Tyrion finally unhitched the iron rod from his back, or is it still stuck up his ass—”
Buscrei clocked her daughter with a roll. Ryoka hesitated.
“I have the update here—”
She’d been trying to hand it out the last two hours, but the family was impatient.
“We don’t care about that. That’s just regular updates and news from Tyrion and his lot. As interesting as dirt most of the time. How’re the boys? He never writes about himself or them. Sammial still mouthing off?”
They were fun, rowdy, and Ryoka found herself sharing anecdotes. They wanted to know about the Village of the Dead of course, and her sword she wisely refused showing them, as it wouldn’t work and they’d probably hurt themselves falling over each other to see.
It was a welcome distraction from figuring out how to rescue Ceria and the others. At least they were alive. Except for Pisces—no, he was alive too.
For once, Ryoka was doing her job. Which was delivering the packet of letters from Lord Setth to the others, as well as Tyrion’s update to all his family.
“I’m also going to other members of House Veltras. Next on my list is uh—Lord Swey?”
“Oh.”
The group chorused. Buscrei grinned.
“Mountains and climbers. Higher up than we are, even. Nightmare for City Runners to climb that way up; he’s on a plateau and there’s no way down except rope-elevators in one spot. Climb up yourself everywhere else. He’ll love you. You can just fly up! Sure, we have letters. Let us write them if we’re sending them in days instead of weeks. Alright, what’s the boring update?”
They did Tyrion Veltras a disservice, although perhaps it was only in this case. The scattered members of House Veltras usually just got requests for a certain number of [Soldiers] here—updates on casualties, general movements and income lost and gained, acknowledgements for issues in their domains from Tyrion.
Boring stuff, as they said. Very military, and organized—just not personable. House Veltras liked to consolidate power around its leader and let the rest of the family manage their domains without needing to worry about larger affairs.
It was a fair system, but for once Ryoka had news. One of the sons grabbed the sheet and blinked twice at it.
“Gelato? He’s giving us the recipe for that stuff? You hear that? We can sell the damned stuff back to those arrogant [Merchants] on ships! How do you make it? Ice? Damn.”
“What else does he have? Plans for those trebuchets? I’d take a few and put them high up. No?”
“Er, no, L—Buscrei. However, Lord Tyrion is asking who wants the Players of Celum—the [Actors]—to tour through their lands? There’s a roving troupe, not the main ones, and he’s paying for it.”
“We want it!”
Half of the [Lords] and [Ladies] chorused instantly. Buscrei eyed Ryoka.
“Tyrion wouldn’t pay for a [Bard] unless it was to cheer his [Soldiers] up. How’d he get the Players?”
“Well, it’s an offshoot. Jasi, Wesle, the um, main cast is heading north from Invrisil. There’s a theatre there, and one in First Landing maybe. The other group is accepting a route and I—they were talked into touring House Veltras.”
Ryoka may have had a hand in that. Which the [Hunting Lady] realized at once. However, she let that slide, somewhat to Ryoka’s relief. She was sharp, but she also didn’t press.
The Courier spent a night in company, although she was covered by otter-puppies when she woke up. They had apparently decided she was a comfy pillow. The entire group saw her off with hastily-written letters and an entire canteen of Oyster Juice…and one of purified water.
That was fun. It really was. Ryoka didn’t stay for an entire day at every location; she managed to hit three more spots before resting. Most of House Veltras did offer her the opportunity to stay the night or longer.
Lord Swey practically begged her to let him jump off the high plateau, another strategic fortress that an army would have nightmares assailing, and glide into the forest below. She let him do it once, and then his kids—then flew off before she spent the entire day watching them crash into tree canopies, funny as it was. She did need her glider intact!
Not all of House Veltras was like those two. Some were like Tyrion, more formal and silent. They occupied keeps in the forest, along it, the much smaller plains to the south, and of course, coastal fortresses. House Veltras had the Forest of Vail and the west of Izril; where Reinhart had more central holdings and some of the other Five Families stayed in the north, they had become people of this land. Not one didn’t know Ryoka’s name, and most thanked her for her role in the Assassin’s Guild affair.
 
—-
 
“No [Healers] of ours could help the lads. They would have tried and we were trying to see if a Drowned Folk [Healer] or someone from abroad would help out. We buried two of ours. Warnings from the Guild. Glad they’re wiped out.”
The more reserved [Lord] of House Veltras was Lord Dereic. A Drowned Man.
Something about sea and salt, or perhaps the fact that they had lonelier, less hunting-friendly keeps on the coast made his branch of the family closer to Tyrion’s in nature.
Lord Dereic was part…well Ryoka thought it was just one of many varieties of fish. He had fish’s scales and gills, and actually had trouble breathing like Sammial in pure air.
However, he was the only Drowned Person in his family; he had embraced the gift of the sea in a catastrophic sea accident. His sons were Human, and if they had been born of a union between a Drowned Person and him, rather than the other way around, their bloodline of succession would have been called into account.
He thanked Ryoka, and showed her the graves of two of House Veltras’ members who’d been killed as warnings. Ryoka bit her lip and didn’t know what to say.
Just a reminder, perhaps, that a lot had happened she hadn’t seen. Ryoka wasn’t sure what she could tell Lord Dereic, especially being a survivor who had no real right to her luck—that so many had died helping to get to the finish line.
Wisdom was, perhaps, in knowing there wasn’t any right thing to say. The man shook Ryoka’s hand as she left, and then stepped into the sea.
