“What about Pebblesnatch? Go to the Unseen Empire. Get more Goblins. A small tribe!”
“So you say again and again. I have been there. Goblins should not die…needlessly.”
Rags folded her arms, beyond reluctant to contemplate fighting that [Emperor] once more, or even risking it.
The debate continued as Mrsha the Hustler groaned internally. Was she going to have to parlay with Kevin or Joseph, or hold onto the goods until she could visit the city? It was a hot item.
…As in, if Imani told Ishkr, he might confiscate the cigar. Or she might take it out of ‘concern’ for Mrsha’s well-being. The law was just an excuse for petty thievery. Mrsha’s eyes narrowed as she thought about how much she’d lost to authority over the…weeks.
Let’s see. Mrsha ran down her client list as she sat, ignoring Rags kicking her towards the edge of the hill.
Kevin would trade you snacks and other nice things, but he had his own supply. Joseph? Not as interested in that as a drink, and Mrsha didn’t want to push his habit. She was a conscientious supplier. A real shame, because a Joseph-autograph was a good commodity these days.
Temile. Ah, if Temile were here, Mrsha could have gotten something nice. Like an [Actor]’s hat or prop-dagger for a day. A real shame. Grev could actually parlay the cigar into gold or other things too, and he had his own autograph collection for trades.
No, no. Who else? Well, among the buyers out there—Hexel and Elirr were one of the city-picks since Krshia was gone. Not that they had much that Mrsha wanted; they were too ‘responsible’. The rest of her clients weren’t into this particular good. Montressa and Bezale could get it direct, Ekirra and Visma weren’t in the market, and so on.
Could she give the cigar to the Antinium? Mrsha felt bad doing that though, because they didn’t have much to sell, and trading a cigar for something that was probably their only possession in life felt…uh…bad.
The only Antinium that Mrsha could realistically trade with were Belgrade for straight up money, Bird for feathers, bird-meat, often rotten, or with Garry. Garry was good. He offered straight, solid desserts and didn’t ask many questions.
…The problem was, you had a 50% chance a Garry-treat had bugs in it and Mrsha didn’t like those odds.
The last group Mrsha could fence the cigar to were the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. There were always three or four in the hallway, and they were nice. But…Mrsha thought of the encounter on the street.
She wasn’t sure if she was ready for the big leagues. Fencing to Crimshaw was a last-ditch resort.
Mrsha was just considering going back and exchanging her cigar with Palt for a more acceptable, longer-term commodity with less value but more keepability like some Nali-sticks. She had been known to eat her supply and it was nice to have an easily-cashable item like that lying around.
That was when a new client entered the scene. Calescent tapped Mrsha on the shoulder as she was about to roll down the hill.
“Mm. Trade?”
The [Chef] from the underground caught Mrsha’s eye as she sat up. He reached into a pouch and produced a small bag. Mrsha sniffed it, sneezed hard, and sniffed again.
Oh wow. She’d hit the goldmine! Or rather—spice mines! Calescent was offering her pure, high-quality spices for the cigar.
And that wasn’t a euphemism! Mrsha didn’t have to think. She held out the cigar, took the small pouch, and shook hands with the Goblin. He nodded to her. Mrsha handed him a card. Then she turned.
All four Goblins, even Numbtongue, leaned over to read the card over Calescent’s shoulder.
 
Nice doing business with you. Remember: we never met. I was never here. Burn the card.
 
Rags looked over. Mrsha nodded to her once, coolly—then began somersaulting down the hill and giggling.
 
—-
 
That was fun. Humble as it may be, Mrsha thought it was a good use of time. If you died tomorrow…at least you could say you had fun.
Plus she’d gotten ahold of a weapon, trading item, and flavor! All in one! She knew that Calescent’s spice-blend came in a few types:
Death spice, which had no flavor besides pain. He coated his weapons with that or tossed it into people’s faces in battle.
Flavor spice, for cooking. Hot! But delicious. Imani had actually bought some in bulk.
This stuff now…Mrsha peeked into the bag and decided it was a variant on flavor-spice. Calescent had obtained ingredients from Octavia and Imani that a Goblin had trouble finding, and was mixing up a new batch of experimental stuff. He could, of course, conjure some spice each day from one of his Skills, but he still had to experience new spices before he could make it his daily bonus.
Spice was worth a lot more than Dreamleaf to Mrsha. She even knew what she was going to do with it! Mrsha the Spicy narrowed her eyes. Life couldn’t all be fun and games. She had enemies. Erin had enemies.
Today…was a reckoning twice-over. As you ate food and suffered—and when you tried to pass it on the toilet. She smiled evilly to herself. Some Gnolls…yes. Some Gnolls just wanted to watch your insides burn.
 
—-
 
Liscor was quiet. It was raining. The skies opened up, as if weeping for what could be avoided.
If only Gnolls and other species were kinder. Mrsha shook her head and lit a match. She pretended to puff on the wooden straw, then gave up and blew out the fire because it made her cough too much.
“Mrsha, what’s that about? Is that another story from the inn? A movie? You promised to show me, remember?”
Ekirra whined. He was so innocent. So naïve. Yet innocence could hurt. Mrsha saw he was still wearing his football jersey. The Little Crabs’ star striker. He smiled at her, oblivious to the way his comments about Mrsha and Visma being terrible at football could hurt.
You wound me, my friend. I wish I could be the bigger Gnoll. However. You have only yourself to blame.
Mrsha didn’t reply to Ekirra’s questions about the movies on the laptop and other devices. He went back to licking his lips.
“Thanks for the new sandwich, Mrsha! Imani made it? It smells good!”
He began gobbling it down. Mrsha leaned back against the wall and tugged the hat down over her eyes. She waited.
“It’s…really tasty! Sort of hot.”
Ekirra’s voice changed from excited to puzzled. A strangled tone entered his voice.
“It’s really spicy. Mrsha, do you have any water? It’s hot! It’s so hoth! Wather! Ow! Ow—”
She saw him bolt around, rolling on the ground, pawing at his mouth. Mrsha tilted her head up and stared at the sky as Ekirra howled.
To all those who have hurt me, I’m sorry. For what I’m going to do to you.
That had been just a pinch of Calescent’s new blend. Visma glanced up from where she was making sandcastles as Ekirra ran, crying, to his big sister to beg for water. Poor fool. Water just made it worse.
The Drake girl gave Mrsha a slow nod. Mrsha nodded back. She walked back in the rain, feeling neither proud nor sad. It had to be done. She greeted her bodyguards as they waited for her in the rain.
Palt and Imani stared at Mrsha. Palt’s mouth was hanging open. Imani closed hers.
“Alright. That’s enough movies for you.”
What? No! Mrsha’s face fell and she waved her arms frantically. Imani just shook her head. Palt leaned over.
“Was she copying another of those movies?”
“Scene-for-scene. I am going to kill Joseph and Kevin. That one’s about crime.”
“Ooh. Why don’t we watch it later without kids?”
“Stop it, you. Maybe tonight. Let me see if anyone has it. Who’s cooking?”
Mrsha stomped past the flirting couple, who’d taken her into the city at her request for this mission of not-mercy. She glanced past her two principal bodyguards for the second pair lurking in the street.
Credit where credit was due, Crimshaw and the other Brother of Serendipitous Meetings looked rather disturbed by Mrsha’s reenactment of a scene they probably knew fairly well. She nodded at them and they stared at her as she walked past them. One of them turned to the other.
“Crimshaw, it occurs to me in this moment that we might be a bad influence on the kids, as it were.”
Crimshaw nodded, eying Mrsha. She was already thinking of her next target. Ekirra would live. She’d taken it easy on him; it was just a lesson in manners.
Her real enemies were in this very city. Polluting the air with their breath. They were an infestation, with respect to Antinium of course! They had to be dealt with. Still…it was going to take more work than a casual sandwich-hit. She needed a team. Mrsha strode back to the inn—or would have, but Palt and Imani stopped to admire a rather catchy tune.
“Oh, it’s a song-crystal! That’s from—Palt, that’s from you-know-where! It’s a good song!”
“I’ll buy it for you if they have any in stock. You know they lose their song after a few months at most, though, right? But for you, I could copy it…one moment.”
They paused at the booth by the streets. Mrsha saw Palt trot over, buy one from the [Trader] who was selling song-crystals playing, and present it to Imani with a flourish. From the Singer of Terandria herself.
Mrsha had not realized how cutesy the Palt-Imani couple was. She put her paws on her hips. She needed a better, more dedicated crew to the art of vengeance. Even Selys was better than this! And Drassi!
Well…good for them, Mrsha supposed. They were one of the few couples she knew. Hexel and Elirr, Imani and Palt, Wailant and Viceria—okay, she knew a few.
Jelaqua and Maughin, now…they were just as bad. The adventurers were returning to Pallass or Liscor, some of them, but they weren’t here yet. Mrsha shook her head. A shame. She’d have more clients, more agents to work with. Still, she thought she had a decent team so far.
 
—-
 
“You want me to what? Absolutely—wait. Say that again? There are Thronebearers of Calanfer in Liscor? Damn—I need an encyclopedia or something. All my notes are gone!”
Niers Astoragon cursed. He stared at Mrsha, perched on the branch as she scribbled. The Titan of Baleros and Apista both read the card. Niers snorted as Mrsha waited. She had to sell this hit. She had prepared ample recompense and he owed her!
“I do not owe you a prank. I owe you a lot more for helping me out, and feeding me, but this isn’t one of those things.”
The Fraerling countered, having read her card. He eyed the slice of lemon meringue pie that Mrsha had carefully saved from her dessert plate.
“…And tempting as that is, I don’t think angering a bunch of [Knights] is wise. Why are they after your mother? She really is the [Princess] of…? Dead gods.”
Mrsha stared indignantly at the Titan as he rubbed at his face. Niers glanced up and read her card.
“What? No! Of course I didn’t believe you! No offense, but when you tell me a [Princess] of Terandria is your mother, and is also in a dedicated relationship with an Antinium, I tend to raise my eyebrows. Let me get this straight. She’s not your mother biologically or there’s a huge scandal here and a very odd timeline. She is a [Princess], and…dead gods.”
Niers Astoragon sorted out Mrsha’s admittedly somewhat tangled story, and this time had to believe her. There were Thronebearers of Calanfer in the city and while they hadn’t tracked Mrsha down to The Wandering Inn, she feared their collective stupidity could only last so long.
Especially with Ser Dalimont on her trail. Why, he might be doing something as reasonable as stopping the others from directly trying to grab a little Gnoll girl in public! They’d be arrested as [Kidnappers] by the Watch if they tried that. He might be doing something like…asking about Mrsha without causing a scene!
They had to be taken out. Or rather, punished since their quarry wasn’t even in the city! Hence, Mrsha pointed out to Niers, her plan.
The Titan just stared at her.
“I thought my life was strange.”
He muttered and rubbed at the stubble on his face. He sighed…then seemed to take in her first request again. Niers eyed her detailed plan and his lips twitched.
“What do you mean, ‘Calescent’s doom-spice’?”
Mrsha offered him the pouch. Niers took one taste of a fleck of red and his face turned a matching shade.
“Cats and spiders! That’s hot! A Goblin made that? You want to put it…hm. That’s just cruel.”
However—he was grinning. Mrsha’s eyes lit up. She hadn’t been sure, but as the Titan began to laugh, she realized it was true.
He did enjoy a good prank. Niers took her plan note-card and eyed it.
“It’s a risk. Especially if they have detection-Skills. I’d have to go into the city, and that bee—what’s your full plan?”
Mrsha rubbed her paws together and smiled evilly as Apista settled on her head.
 
—-
 
So it was that later that day, Mrsha carefully adjusted the hat on her head. She delicately cut into the bloody steak, served rare. High-quality meat.
But bloody, like the blood on my paws. And in their poo if it goes really bad.
“Mrsha, why in the name of the Ancestors did you want to eat at this restaurant so badly?”
Selys looked miffed. Drassi just nudged her friend. She was still a bit hoarse from her screamed-coverage of the Village of Death raid. The [Reporter] was also getting a lot of attention and they’d been seated at a prominent table.
Heck, Drassi’s fame was why they’d gotten the restaurant in such short order. It was one of the better ones in the city. Selys was the reason they could afford it.
“Don’t object, Selys! I’m perfectly happy to let Mrsha choose where she wants to eat.”
“Just because you’re not paying for it. Oh—fine.”
Selys grumbled, but she looked a bit happier than her moping-self ever since she’d gotten the [Message] from Ceria. Mrsha nodded. This served multiple purposes! Cheering up the two Drakes, and—she glanced sideways. Palt and Imani were making eyes together at a separate table. Drassi and Selys nudged each other and laughed.
Mrsha had suggested that too. It was a properly lateral Erin-move. A bit of kindness, and a treat for the two.
It helped assuage the pain in her heart, as if small kindness could make up for what she was about to do. 
Mrsha the Penitent patted at her mouth with a napkin, although she had yet to actually take a bite. Selys broke off laughing with Drassi.
“Ignore her. She’s been like that all day.”
Imani stopped talking with Palt long enough to call over. Mrsha ignored all the adults. They were not aware of the situation.
She slunk down in her chair, her hat tugged lower over her features, knowing she was being watched. A group of four [Knights], not in their armor, but still dressed in the same flashy colors and metallic cloth were dining together. She heard their conversation.
“…just sitting there. If that isn’t a sign, Ser Dalimont…”
