It was then she realized he’d come out of the water to talk to her, as much as it pained him. So she was twice-honored.
She covered all of House Veltras’ main members in just a week of flight. Which was amazing if you considered the distances involved. So much flying wore Ryoka out. She had to burn mana to fly if the wind wasn’t right, and she was gaining ‘flight muscle’ as she thought of it. Optimizing her speed, building her endurance.
Ryoka worried she’d lose her actual leg-muscle from flying so much. However, she just couldn’t deny that she was faster in the air than on the ground.
To make up for it, she did a wind-run, letting the wind blow her and running the way back. She loved doing a huge jump with the wind. She could cover sixty feet in a single jump.
That was hugely fun. The only dampener on Ryoka’s mood was a lack of more knowledge about the Horns’ whereabouts—and she checked at every Mage’s Guild—
And thinking of Erin. And Mrsha and the inn.
She had to visit. Now she could fly, there was no excuse not to. That was with the caveat of course that would still take nearly a week to fly to Invrisil, but it was exceptionally fast given how many hundreds of miles that was! Ryoka estimated that if she could fly at full mana-burn, she could get to Invrisil in three or four days from House Veltras’ keep.
That was over two hundred miles a day. The only thing faster was being on a magical bike plus a [Haste] potion. Then you could do a 24-hour run if you also got a maelstrom and gale-force winds for the last bit. Ryoka would pass on the crossbow bolts through the back, though.
She had to visit Mrsha, soon. If Lyonette was gone and Erin…Ryoka was guilty. However, it was her guilt keeping her here too.
The keep of House Veltras did look a bit dour and even small after seeing all the relatives. However, the instant Ryoka landed, the old [Majordomo], Ullim, was already striding out to meet her.
“Finished already, Miss Griffin?”
“Yep.”
The old man shook his head, as a few [Servants] hurried forward, offering a towel for Ryoka’s sweaty face, a drink, and on. She awkwardly tried to accept it so they went away faster.
“I should expect nothing less from a Courier. Even so, that’s astonishing. It takes a month sometimes for a letter to reach the family at regular speeds—and that’s with a City Runner to each branch!”
“Oh. Well—happy to help.”
“It is a great help, Miss Griffin. Lord Tyrion did not expect you back so soon—he is performing a tour of the north. I shall send a [Message] at once. Lord Hethon and Lord Sammial are at their lessons, but they would no doubt be delighted to speak to you if you are willing?”
Ullim was a curious man. As self-effacing and considerate as Tyrion and Jericha were…generally not. He was clearly the glue that kept this branch of House Veltras together. Ryoka smiled.
“I’d be happy to. Although…do you need me to send any more correspondence? I can hit a city close by and return by the evening.”
He shook his head instantly.
“You have done more than enough, Miss Griffin. Lord Tyrion has no outstanding messages that require physical delivery—a [Message] will do.”
Not for recipes for ice cream and personal correspondence, of course. Ryoka had done a confidential delivery usually entrusted to good, reliable City Runners or Couriers.
Moreover, she’d done it fast and cheap. It was a favor to House Veltras. Ryoka relaxed, nodding.
Guilt. That was why she was here and Mrsha might understand that. Ryoka did send her a [Message]-letter trying to explain. What had she written?
 
…very sorry, Mrsha. I will come back as soon as I can, but there’s something I need to check while I’m near a port. Um. Boats and ships and stuff.
I also have to stay because I owe Lord Tyrion and House Veltras a debt. People died in the fighting because I asked him to send an army to fight. I need to repay that if I can, even a bit.
 
Hence her delivery-run. It was a matter of honor. Mrsha had written back she understood…in her stylistic way.
 
…Whereupon I find myself disappointed by your pressing need to honor your affairs, Ryoka, I shall await your egress with much anticipation and conduct myself with all due diligence until such time as…
 
It came to something, Ryoka decided, when a kid could use the word ‘egress’ such that even Ryoka herself didn’t know if it was correctly applied.
The point was, she’d helped. In a small, non-dramatic way. It was so rare that Ryoka gave herself a pat on the back.
Then a bath. No hot-springs with Unicorn horns for her, but Ullim had some water hauled in and heated in a copper bathtub.
Ryoka would have refused for the servant’s sake, but since this was a magical world, it wasn’t the laborious, painful way of doing it in the dark ages—or even until plumbing.
A [Servant] did haul water out of the well, and the bath did need to be heated. However, rather than many buckets and a cauldron of boiling water or even one under the bath, they took a single Bucket of Holding, which Ryoka hadn’t known even existed, tossed it in the bath, and activated a heating rune.
Hot bath. Plus, some alchemical shampoo for a proper bubble bath and Ryoka was sinking into a haze of lovely golden bubbles. It felt great. She hoped she could do Tyrion a few more small favors, then excuse herself to visit Mrsha via Invrisil. That would keep him from making her take sword lessons and Jericha pestering her about…everything that was Ryoka.
They were aware of all Ryoka’s secrets, and only Tyrion’s own sense of propriety stopped Jericha from holding Ryoka upside down and shaking her until the truth fell out. Ryoka was just thinking of a good favor to do—maybe deliver some of his letters to Invrisil? She could combine that with a return to Lady Buscrei, maybe!
Mrsha might love one of the water-sleds. Or—or what about some other souvenir? A little bow? Wait—Lyonette would kill Ryoka if she gave Mrsha that, if Mrsha didn’t do it by accident…
Ryoka sank back further, letting herself drift off in the bath. She was close to napping in the lovely heated tub.
…Which was, of course when Sammial kicked open the door.
“You’re back! I’m bored! Oh—”
He saw Ryoka look up from her thankfully heavy cover of bubbles. Sammial stared at her. Ryoka’s frown returned.
“You’re naked! I’ll come back later!”
Sammial strode out. He didn’t close the door. He shouted into the bathroom.
“Hurry up!”
Ryoka Griffin was beginning to understand why some people hated kids. She groaned.
 
—-
 
In fairness, the reason Sammial was fine walking in on Ryoka was probably that he’d do the same to Ullim or Hethon, those being the only two people he regularly interacted with. Ryoka somehow doubted he’d try the same on Jericha…or knowing Sammial, he had.
One female figure in his life, and Jericha was still technically an underling to Lord Sammial. It wasn’t a good relationship.
Ryoka had already observed Sammial did not respect boundaries or privacy or…respect. Heck, Erin would have noticed it straight off.
The problem was that while it was easy to call Sammial an annoying, entitled brat…he reminded Ryoka of herself at his age. Not that she walked into bathrooms all the time, but the similarities were there.
Often-busy parents, being raised by an Ullim and Jericha…no one to stop her or really hold her to account or teach her properly.
As Ryoka cut her bath short, she remembered that Sammial had [Tutors] and both he and Hethon took regular lessons as a [Lord] was supposed to. The problem was…
“Lord Sammial. You cannot walk into a bathroom with a woman—anyone present! You are supposed to be at your lessons!”
Ullim was remonstrating with the boy. However, the [Majordomo], stern as he was, ran up into a problem. Which was Sammial stomping his foot and his eyes flashing with his quick temper.
“I hate my boring lessons! I told my [Tutor] I wanted to see Ryoka! So I did!”
Ullim turned to Ryoka—then the [Tutor], who stepped out of the room, looking harried. The man whispered to Ullim and Ryoka caught it.
“…cannot keep doing this. I’m sorry, Master Ullim, but…”
The old man whispered back, clearly trying to soothe the agitated [Tutor]. Ryoka didn’t understand it—until she realized.
Sammial’s aura. In any other world without magic, you could still discipline a kid—not hit them, but control them and physically stop them from doing something.
In this one? Sammial could actually overpower adults who couldn’t match his aura. A prodigy at a young age. But uncontrolled. It just made things worse.
So, seeing this, and how Sammial walked away from Ullim and towards her, clearly aware he was in trouble but avoiding it until someone—his father—took him to task at last, what was Ryoka Griffin to do?
She saw it all. She saw herself in the issue. She could leave it be. Or…she could be Ryoka. Only—how good was Ryoka at teaching other people in a positive way?
Uh…
Well, she had history with Sammial. Ryoka nodded to him as the [Lord] stopped, eagerly.
“You’re finally back! I told father I wanted to fly with you! You took too long! Are you staying for a week? Can we have fun?”
His words spilled over themselves in their eagerness to come out. Ryoka bent down.
“I am back, and I don’t think Lord Tyrion wants to risk his son falling out of the skies. I nearly crashed twice. Birds are terrible. I don’t think I’ll stay for a week, but I can have some fun…after you take your lessons.”
Sammial’s face instantly fell and became hostile and grumpy.
“I don’t want to. Lessons are boring and my teachers are stupid. You’re way more fun. What if you teach me?”
The [Tutor] twitched behind him. Sammial had no volume-control. Ryoka sighed. Let’s see. Imagine she was talking to mini-Ryoka. What would Ryoka say…?
I’m going to kick your ass, you entitled brat.
No, wait. Don’t imagine you were talking to yourself or you’d just want to hit yourself. The trouble was…Ryoka tried again.
“Lessons aren’t always fun, are they? But you can’t just walk out of them. They teach you things you need to know.”
“Like what? Math?”
Sammial scoffed. Ryoka bit her lip. Despite all the assurances of her teachers, not once had she actually used calculus to her knowledge, and she was in another world where she was arguably placed to use it the most!
“Look, I’m not going to argue with you about math, Sammial. If you can’t do basic math, you’re not going to have a good time paying for things…let alone keeping a budget. That’s not the point. Remember our conversation about how you can’t push people around. Especially people like me?”
She gave him a meaningful look. Sammial hesitated.
“Yes, but—”
“—but it seems like you’re still doing it. Sometimes we have to do things we don’t like. Especially if it helps us out. What if these were…sword lessons and you refused to learn how to defend yourself?”
He thought about it. Sammial stared doubtfully up at Ryoka.
“…I’d be like you with father?”
Ryoka’s face went slack. Yep. She hated intelligent kids..
“Well…who’s taking lessons because your father was right?”
Sammial’s face twisted up. He opened his mouth, closed it, and grudgingly looked over his shoulder.
“Do I have to go back and learn now?”
Ryoka smiled, breathing out…right up until Ullim winced.
“Your tutor has taken the day off, Lord Sammial. I ah, also cut Lord Hethon’s lessons short…”
Hethon came out of a room and spotted Ryoka and Sammial. The Wind Runner sighed and Ullim looked at her apologetically, albeit impressed. He clearly hadn’t expected her to talk Sammial around.
A muddled victory. Ryoka gave up. She’d talk to the boys. So she jerked a thumb towards the door.
“Alright. Don’t mess with your [Tutors]. That’s my advice, Sammy. Especially if you want to go and have fun with a Courier. Let’s go outside.”
The boys cheered and followed Ryoka outside. Ullim smiled gratefully at Ryoka and she nodded back. She just…well, it was interesting. Mrsha needed her.
It seemed though, that if you thought of Mrsha, you also needed someone for Sammial and Hethon. It was not Ryoka’s job, nor did she know if she had the right to try and help.
…She was going to do it, obviously. She just wasn’t sure.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion heard Ryoka was back via [Message] spell and cut short his tour of a northern fort.
They’d killed another [Assassin]. The hunt was ongoing, and he had come to commend the [Soldiers]. Contrary to his relatives’ opinions, he had given them all time off and paid for entertainment.
He was good at, well, leading, managing, and training armed forces. A very narrow skill-set compared to all the ones you might hope for in life. Or maybe the problem was in what Lord Tyrion himself prized…
Well, someone came to pay him a visit as he was riding back. Jericha signaled Lord Tyrion and he slowed to join and ride next to the slower group.
“Lord Tyrion! Dead gods, but it’s hard to catch you. I was riding straight ahead, but I realized we’d miss you unless we angled…”
Lord Pellmia puffed from riding hard in the saddle the last few miles. Tyrion nodded to him.
“Lord Pellmia. I apologize; I wasn’t aware you were in the area. How can I help you?”
Direct as always. Formal as always. Pellmia fished for a handkerchief, glancing at Tyrion’s escort.
“Would you mind if we ride—slower—together? In private?”
The other [Lord] instantly nodded. His people fell back, including Jericha, and the two rode in the center of their formation, out of earshot of their guards.
“Tyrion, it may be presumptuous of me, but I heard about the Wind Runner flitting about House Veltras’ lands, and I’ll be damned if I didn’t think…well. Don’t bite my head off, but I assume you’re hosting her as a guest?”
Pellmia came out with it after a moment. Tyrion nodded.
“She has been most helpful. A guest at the keep. My sons respect her, and there is always work for a Courier…”
“Not to mention that damned Kaalblade or whatever it was she was swinging around? I nearly lost my jaw, watching her slay—it must have been sixty Wyverns!”
“Indeed. A magnificent weapon.”
“I would love to see it. And speak to her briefly. One always needs a trusty Courier.”
Pellmia nodded a few times. Tyrion gestured ahead.
“We are riding back. I can send word to Ullim to prepare guest rooms.”
The older [Lord] hesitated. He was clearly torn, but eventually slowed to stare up at the trees. They were passing around one of the smaller forests, grown from the Vail Forest itself.
Sunlight dappled leaves overhead. The breeze was blowing gently, rustling the world around them. The sound of the horse’s hooves, the smell of nature…
