“…do not stand up. If the girl runs, there will be a scene. We are meant to be covert…!”
The Thronebearers were eating at this fancy restaurant. Little did they know…it would be their last meal. For the day. Maybe for two days if they were really traumatized.
The staff were so enamored of Drassi they didn’t even make Mrsha take off the hat and oversized jacket she’d been wearing around. The [Reporter] had already signed a few autographs, and the owners themselves had come over to talk to her.
Perfect. All was in order. Mrsha closed her eyes. She had no direct link with her agent, but she knew the plan was underway. She waved for one of the [Servers] as she wrote on a notecard. Drassi and Selys were discussing the location of the Horns, the treasure, before trying to have a meal without talking about it…
Unbeknownst to them, her agents were in play. Two of them, moving through the back of the restaurant. 
They had investigated the kitchen through the window, and of course, she was working with professionals. Niers Astoragon, the Titan, was no stranger to staying hidden. Of course, the danger was anything that might hurt a Fraerling of his size.
Hence, his backup. Apista the bee, who could deliver him at heights above most dangers. They were her A-team, but the Titan would have never gone for this operation if Mrsha hadn’t been able to persuade him of the safety.
How would he get the pouch of spices into the entrée of soup for the [Knights]? Let them assume he could pinpoint the bowls for the [Knights]—no hard task for a [Strategist] used to keeping track of a battlefield, who could easily manipulate things as well—how would he deliver it without everyone seeing a tiny man or bee buzzing around a kitchen?
Well. Mrsha had a few options, but since Ulvama didn’t know about Niers, one of the easiest ways—getting the [Shaman] to cast a spell—was out. She’d come up with a more convenient solution that Niers had been blown away by.
Something tapped Mrsha on the head and she heard a familiar buzz. So did Selys and Drassi. They looked around.
“Does that sound like a bee to you, Drassi? Reminds me of Apista.”
Selys frowned. She looked around, but Apista was already flying away.
“I heard it too!”
Drassi’s head turned, but the [Reporter] couldn’t see Apista, or Niers. They were already returning to the inn.
Invisible. And it didn’t even take a full invisibility-potion to do it. For people their size? Only a bit.
Oh my, but where could poor little Mrsha get an invisibility potion without having to buy it? Mrsha rubbed her paws under the table, keeping her face straight. How handy of Octavia to have a few of the latest products, courtesy of Saliss of Lights.
Come to think of it, Saliss would have been all on-board with this plan. Mrsha closed her eyes and thanked her spiritual mentor. Niers had participated, for the rest of the invisibility potion. He saw the utility in it, and Octavia’s shop.
Mrsha? Mrsha only saw the dead. She looked at the [Knights] as the [Server] hurried over.
“Can we get something for Miss Mrsha? Another drink? Is the steak not good enough?”
 
The steak is fine. Please, send this over to that table, directly.
 
Mrsha held up a notecard. The [Server], bemused, took the object Mrsha handed her. Selys and Drassi frowned and glanced at the table of Humans.
“Do they know you, Mrsha? They’re staring at us.”
“Maybe they’re fans of yours, Mrsha. What was that?”
Mrsha the Studiously Innocent just shrugged, watching as another [Server] came forwards with four bowls of soup. Right on time, she saw her message being delivered as the [Knights] sat with their soup.
“That Gnoll asked me to send this to your table, Sirs, Madams. Please, enjoy.”
Ser Dalimont blinked. The other Thronebearers stared at Mrsha, then the object the [Server] had taken from her serving tray. It was…
A little flower. Not a Faerie Flower; they were dead. This one was white. White as Mrsha’s fur. The Thronebearers blinked.
“What does that mean? It’s flower-language, perhaps? Is it some kind of code? It looks vanilla-white to me. Are any of you up-to-date on flower-language in the courts?”
One of the Thronebearers of Calanfer picked up the flower. Ser Dalimont and Mrsha gave the man a look of incredulity. The others stared at Mrsha.
“We must talk to her. After our meal, Ser Dalimont. But let us not keep food waiting. To glorious Calanfer, and the Dawn Concordat! May it stand against wretched Ailendamus, and we return in glory and success!”
The female [Knight] toasted and the others rose, decisively. Some of the other diners looked around, but they drank, sat, and began to sip from the bowls. Mrsha saw the curiously dark liquid pass into their mouths, and then a few more spoonfuls into the hungry [Knight]’s mouths before their good-natured comments and expressions turned to puzzlement. Then, to horror.
The white Gnoll closed her eyes and sat back in her chair. She sliced another bit of steak and inserted it into her mouth as the cries of pain began, the uproar, the ill-advised drinking of water. Selys and Drassi started, and some of the other diners got up, looking warily at their soup.
Only Drassi, the former-[Gossip] put it together fast enough. And perhaps Ser Dalimont. However, if he could have spoken past his swollen lips, Mrsha would have been impressed. The power of Calescent’s new blend was that it didn’t burn for a little bit. When it did…
Mrsha folded her paws on the table and patted her mouth again. Ah, but it tasted like ashes. Like blood. Can my conscience ever let me enjoy another meal in peace?
She hesitated. No, wait. Mrsha licked her lips. That was really good steak. She began to gobble her food, appetite restored. To the side, the [Knights] collapsed, lips puffed up, eyes streaming with liquid as the staff assured the customers that this—this was some kind of accident! What was wrong with the soup? One tried a spoonful and fell victim too. Another death on Mrsha’s conscience.
It had to be done. Somewhere, the Titan of Baleros was laughing. Mrsha did not laugh. She finished her meal and sat there, in silence, contemplating her sins. Perhaps—yes, perhaps when no one was looking, when the [Healer] had been summoned, the soup disposed of, and two of the [Knights] actually had to be led out of the restaurant, they were so blind—perhaps then she allowed herself a small smile.
One did have to have fun.
Imani and Selys, who had both been watching Mrsha’s expression, silently looked at each other and agreed Mrsha would never be allowed to watch a movie about crime ever again.
 
—-
 
When had it been that they realized destiny threw them together? The odd twists of fate that had meant the two would meet, here of all places? So far from home.
Yet from the start, they had too much in common. Such that while it seemed complex, coincidental beyond belief, when you looked back it seemed as if the world had meant for them to be together.
Two star-crossed lovers, united by adversity and their mutual bonds.
…Wait. What did lovers do again? Maybe it wasn’t lovers. Neither one had the class.
Two star-crossed friends, united by adversity and their mutual bonds.
Were they friends? That was a…first. Yet if this was friendship, it was closer than anything either had known. They might have skipped past friendship towards something else. Not lovers, not friends.
The skeleton held the slime in his arms as they sat together in silence. Silence—yet a communion of similar beings. Neither one with proper voices.
Neither one alone.
When was it that they realized both had been created by Erin Solstice? Toren wondered. Of course, he’d ‘technically’ been assembled by that [Necromancer]. Pisces. The person who had made him, accidentally or not, had been Erin.
Like Healing Slime. Did that make them brothers? Siblings? Toren wasn’t sure what he or the slime were.
One was undead, the other was a blob. It didn’t matter. They were here, and they stayed together, like the last two [Sailors] in a shipwreck at the edge of the world. Toren had never cared for anything like Healing Slime before. Not a weapon, not a place, not…
A person? Maybe. Erin Solstice was too complicated, though. Love and hate intermingled too much. The realization she had never seen him, history—
Healing Slime was simpler. The feeling in Toren’s head was strange. He was a [Carer]—but more than that? It was like opening a door. Once the door had been opened, it could never be fully closed. He felt.
Something like the idea of warmth when he held Healing Slime. Something deeper than the fear of death when he thought of the Chosen finding Healing Slime. Toren listened, unsettled of late.
The castle of Az’kerash was…off. Distinctly off. The mindless undead held their positions as always. The semi-conscious ones like Crypt Lords? Well, Az’kerash didn’t generally animate such undead, considering them somewhat annoying.
Those that were present, by natural animation or leftovers from other projects, were in hiding. Eleven had been destroyed. The Chosen were venting their frustrations on lesser undead—and only the ones who could think, were expendable. It was no fun attacking puppets.
Hence, Toren hiding here, in the closet with Healing Slime. He might have taken his chances to find it food—but not today. Not this week. The Chosen were beyond agitated. It did not take a genius to figure out why, but Toren had still had to think for a bit.
“Emiress! Delighted! You know, we haven’t seen each other in years. Don’t flatter me; I just have good makeup. I’d pay for a Potion of Youth if I could afford it—”
“—Just a disgrace. Hrr. Yes. Drakes like that were why we fought. I see no mentions of this on Wistram News Network, yes? But then from the [Mages], what else would w—”
“—checking in for unusual [Slaves] this week—”
Az’kerash sat in his private chambers, dark eyes flickering as over a dozen voices spilled around him. He was stretching himself to his very limits, even for a mind like his. Holding a conversation with so many puppets, keeping each one animated, lifelike?
He was searching. Searching for the whereabouts of the Horns of Hammerad, as he had done since they had vanished.
No—that wasn’t accurate. Az’kerash had already located three. The half-Elf, the Antinium, and the woman with metal arms. Each one he had pinpointed, via listening in on [Message] spells, keeping tabs on the news.
The one he wanted, nay, needed to find was missing. Increasingly, the Necromancer was focusing on Chandrar and his limited networks there. Searching for [Slaves].
He was not the Wistram of today. If he could not locate Pisces Jealnet via his name and Az’kerash’s scrying spells, then something was blocking the spell. Which meant only one thing.
The worst of all scenarios was that. For more reasons than Pisces’ safety alone. He could be compelled—by the right class and level—to say everything. Thus, the Necromancer searched. Purely out of self-interest.
…No. Not even the Chosen believed that. They looked at their master, fearing to disturb him and saw the way he searched. The way he had raged and grown silent. The emotions they had scarcely seen in him, suddenly so common.
Concern for the living. The Chosen, like the children they were, felt the first uncertainty in the truth they held: that they were all that mattered in the world to their master, their parent.
Because they feared, they rampaged. Tearing apart undead, venting their anger in minor ways. Hoping, perhaps…
Toren heard the thunderous pounding of a huge shape. The Healing Slime shivered, then both went still as something—almost certainly Venitra—pounded past.
“Where is the skeleton?”
She was searching for him. Venitra loved nothing more than to bully Toren, who was the most living thing here, apart from rats or birds or the rare, poor animal that wandered into the enchanted forest.
If she caught him, she’d pull his bones off one by one like last time. Or grind them to powder. Toren couldn’t regenerate fast anymore. He was worried he’d die if too much of him was destroyed. And then what would happen to Healing Slime? Even if it turned into Speed Slime, it would never survive.
Toren had his steel longsword in the broom closet. However, he was well aware that the Level 28 [Skeleton Knight] and Level 13 [Sword Dancer] classes would not avail him against Venitra. She had been created to kill Gold-ranks, and she could do that before activating the enchantments on her body.
She was superior undead. Toren patted Healing Slime and felt worried. He needed to feed it soon, but his [Dangersense (Ward)] told him it was too risky. It had been close, some times. Ijvani had been about to find the slime when Toren distracted her.
In fact, the Skill was buzzing again. Toren hesitated. They had to leave the closet. Venitra wasn’t st—she was stupid. However, even an idiot like her realized Toren hid and she’d check the closet eventually.
So Toren opened the door and crept out with sword and slime in his ribcage. It peeked out, the glowing body and core swiveling with Toren’s head for one of the Chosen.
Coast is clear. Go, go, go! Toren sprinted down the hallway. He flattened himself against a wall.
Target secure. Hostiles?
He poked his head around the corner, drew it back. He only needed one look; the undead saw all, heard all.
No Chosen. Move out! He charged down the hallway, ignoring the Bone Crawler on the ceiling; it was just one of the guard-undead. Toren flung open a door and did a flip into the room, landing on his feet—
Healing Slime made a warbling sound as it bounced out of his ribcage. Toren turned back and hurried to help it reform and scoop itself up. It smacked one of his hands gently, upbraiding him for doing the flip.
Sorry! Toren patted it on its ‘head’. He could tell what Healing Slime was thinking, a bit. So could it. Was it the bond of such created beings such as they? His [Limited Telepathy] Skill from his [Carer] class?
One never knew. Toren looked around. At least that [Witch] wasn’t there. He feared the Chosen for their brute maliciousness—Belavierr was different. You could not run or hide from her.
Toren found himself in a dilapidated sitting room, long clogged with dust. He saw old bookshelves, table, couches…some kind of social chamber.
Perfect. Toren just needed a secondary hiding place within this area…he was heading over to the fireplace, hoping there was a working chimney he and Healing Slime could wedge themselves in.
Then something came out from under the door.
The skeleton whirled around. He had wedged a chair under the handle and locked the door! It did little good against this undead.
Nearly flat as paper. Sliding under the crack. Then—unfolding himself, rising.
