Devail had no bones. However—he looked like a Drake. He had scales. Skin…sinew. No bone, but the way he had been made meant he could still fight like a [Fencer]. Which is what he was.
One of the newer creations of Az’kerash turned the empty sockets of the Drake-suit it wore towards Toren. Glowing lights appeared in the sockets, mimicking eyes.
“There you are. They are searching for you. Ijvani, Venitra, Kerash, Bea.”
Toren froze. Healing Slime quivered as it fled behind him. Toren lifted the sword. Devail studied him—
Then sprang forwards, drawing a rapier from his bag of holding. The [Skeleton Knight] slashed in alarm. What was—
The tip of the enchanted rapier pierced Toren’s hand and flicked the sword from his grip in the same motion. Devail flashed sideways, stepping with unnatural grace and speed. He saluted the air, a [Fencer]’s motion.
“Disarmed.”
Toren’s longsword clattered to the ground. The skeleton raised a hand, fearing the worst, but Devail just held the posture—then put his rapier away.
“I have disarmed you.”
He informed Toren. The skeleton’s jaw opened and closed.
No kidding? Devail looked pleased with himself.
“I have never failed to disarm a foe other than Az’kerash, our master.”
Good for you. Toren wanted to roll his eye-flames. Devail was new. He lacked the original Chosen’s maliciousness. He studied Toren and the Healing Slime, looking…curious.
“What is that?”
Healing Slime. Toren pointed. Devail tilted his entire body back and forth as Healing Slime peeked around Toren’s feet.
“Is it alive? Should I kill it? I have been told by my…our…creator. Father, that my sword should only be bared for a worthy cause. Even if that is only self-defense. Is this a worthy cause?”
He recited the words without understanding. However, there was curiosity there. Toren waved his hands frantically. No, no! Devail looked at him and to Toren’s relief…nodded.
“I will ask for clarification in my next training spar. I should…not tell the other Chosen where you are?”
Toren nodded. Devail considered this. Then he nodded again.
“A worthy cause. By my sword, I swear.”
He produced the rapier, saluted Toren, and then slithered under the door. The skeleton stopped shaking in his…bony feet.
What a relief. Devail was one of the three reasonable Chosen. The other being Maviola…’s undead copy, and Wesixa.
Well, Wesixa creeped Toren out. She had inherited too much of the spider she was made of, and liked to sit in silk-nests in the ceiling and stare down at you and ask why you were running around.
Stupid kids. Az’kerash and Belavierr were geniuses of magic and creation. Terrible parents. Even Toren could tell that. He began to unwedge the chair from the door, beckoning to Healing Slime. It was curious why he wanted to leave!
Toren’s opinion, which he communicated as best he could to Healing Slime, was that Devail was not to be trusted. Even if he swore, he could let it slip. Besides—Toren threw open the door.
“‘There are better places to hide.’ I told you I could hear it, Kerash.”
A voice spoke Toren’s inner-thoughts. He froze and saw two glowing flames in a skull coated with dark, magical iron. Ijvani and—the giant Draugr-type Gnoll—
Kerash. They stood together in the doorway.
Toren didn’t freeze or start. Those were glandular, living-reactions. In one move he whirled, grabbed up Healing Slime, and charged for the window. He jumped to burst out of it, hoping the fall wouldn’t hurt Healing Sl—
“[Chains of Steel].”
Ijvani pointed and long chains of metal shot forwards. They wrapped around Toren and caught him, mid-jump. The skeleton fell, struggling, pointing. Get to the window! Get to—
Healing Slime wavered. Its glowing form changed purple, into the Potion of Speed. It rolled towards the window, back to Toren, struggling to get free—
Kerash stomped Toren’s head in. The skeleton went limp and the Gnoll nodded in satisfaction.
“It ran from us for three days. Let’s break it into pieces. Call Venitra and Bea, Ijvani. What is this?”
The Draugr’s head swung around. Ijvani glanced at Toren trying to reform its head. She exclaimed.
“That is the slime! I thought it was dead! My slime. This lesser undead stole it!”
Her head rotated on its neck to glare at Toren.
Not yours. Terrible owner. Leave it alone. The skeleton was repairing himself as fast as possible, but it wasn’t the instantaneous process it used to be.
Ijvani listened to Toren, one of the first beings ever to hear him. She heard him out, and then pointed a finger.
“[Lava Orb].”
She tossed it on Toren, then turned back to Kerash, who was slowly cornering the zippy-slime.
“It is mine, Kerash. Do not break it.”
“You break yours. It is not Oom. It was not created by Master. Therefore, I am bored. Let us see how many times it can divide, like the others.”
“Hm. That would be fun. Ah. Venitra, Bea. We found the skeleton. And look.”
Venitra and Bea appeared in the doorway. They glanced at Toren with malicious satisfaction—only a bit disappointed he was burning, writhing on the floor already dealt with—then looked at the Healing Slime.
“It lives. Is that your slime, Ijvani?”
“Yes. This thing took it.”
Ijvani glanced at Toren. All the skeleton’s nightmares were coming true. Venitra smiled, and it was an ugly expression, as beautiful as Az’kerash had made her features.
“I want to kill it.”
“Not you. You do it too fast. Let me touch it, Ijvani.”
Bea pleaded. Ijvani shook her head. However, not out of an abundance of love for the adopted slime that was ‘hers’.
“Both of you kill things too fast. Master is busy. It should take at least an hour.”
“How? I want to do it, Ijvani.”
Kerash argued. The four Chosen moved, cornering the Speed Slime, enjoying how it raced about frantically.
“I am going to smash it.”
Venitra declared, eying the other Chosen. Instantly, they turned on her, glaring. Venitra, undeterred, strode forwards, raising a fist—
Toren leapt at her. The skeleton slashed with his enchanted longsword.
No! The skeleton slashed and struck Venitra, from her face down her chest.
His Skills. [Sharpened Edge], [Lesser Strength], the basic enchantment on the sword—
…Left not a mark. The sword skated off Venitra’s bone body and she laughed. Then grew angry.
“You dare attack me?”
She swung at him. The skeleton threw himself under the fist. She kicked—and he swerved around her leg.
[Perfect Dodge]! Toren saw Venitra whirl, going for her sword and shield at last. She struck out with a precision blow, and slashed through Toren—
No. The image wavered and vanished. Venitra staggered as the slash went across her arm and torso.
[Mirage Cut]. Toren’s best move. The other Chosen went silent.
A flawless attack! If she had been alive, the Chosen would have been twice cut. If she had been…
Toren saw Venitra stare at the tiny, tiny hairline cut across her body. It began repairing itself even as she looked down. By the time her head rose, a fraction of a second later, it was gone.
However. Venitra’s sword went through Toren’s ribs before he could block. She tore upwards, then began to stomp on him, bellowing.
“You dare to injure me? You worthless little skeleton!”
She was so enraged she had crushed half his body to dust when Ijvani spoke.
“Venitra, the little slime escaped because of you. Leave the worthless undead alone. I want to find my slime! It is alive.”
Venitra whirled. Distracted, the Chosen had let Speed Slime dart past Bea and it was fleeing. It would have stayed, but Toren had told it to run.
It was…the Chosen looked at each other.
“I will kill it first!”
Kerash bounded out the door. Bea, Ijvani, and last of all, Venitra were hot on his heels. She gave Toren’s skull a kick and shattered it across a wall. Toren slowly, slowly reformed.
Healing Slime was going to die. He was helpless. Now they knew, it was going to…
When he finally reformed, five minutes later, Toren knelt, head in his hands. Literally. He stared at himself. No, no. Not this. Not the only other thing that mattered in this damned castle. Why were all his levels not enough? Why was it so unfair?
As unfair as the adventurers fighting the undead. Or vice-versa. Unfair. A word Toren was realizing.
It was unfair because Healing Slime had done nothing wrong and the Chosen were murderous monsters. It was not right.
It should not be. The skeleton remembered another voice.
A Human woman’s words. An [Innkeeper]’s speech for the Goblin, for the Antinium.
His head rose. His purple flames burned bright.
Toren ran. Not for Speed Slime, or to fight the Chosen. He did what he had always done.
He ran away.
 
—-
 
It took them twenty minutes to corner the slime. They got in each other’s way. It was a game.
All games ended eventually. They cornered it in the huge ballroom, where the Necromancer had once danced. An echo of Silvaria of old.
Four of them. They trapped the slime with magic. Then…as promised, they began to kill it.
Slowly. A slime could regenerate if it had liquid and whatever it was made of. So, they took pieces away. Saw how long it could keep itself alive.
Cruelty. It was alive, they were dead. There was something in them that longed to kill, but it was their personalities that made them prolong it.
The Healing Slime could not speak. It just made a kind of keening sound as it was sliced up, piece by piece. The Chosen were laughing, arguing. Bea reached down for Healing Slime.
“I want to see if my touch changes it. Please, Ijvani?”
“Oh, very well.”
The [Skeleton Mage] allowed Bea to touch Healing Slime directly at last. Bea tugged the gloves off her hands. The Plague Zombie was rot and pestilence. She reached for the slime, wondering if its body would save it.
A sound from the other end of the ballroom made the Chosen turn. A clank, of metal on stone. More than that? A voice reached across the room. Or rather, a thought.
Get away from Healing Slime, you bag of pus.
The Chosen turned. Healing Slime saw/sensed a figure, standing at the other end of the ballroom.
The skeleton.
He had run away as he always did when the going got tough. Run from death.
This time, he had returned.
“Did that little undead just insult you, Bea?”
The Chosen were not impressed. If anything, they were amused. Bea’s eyes narrowed as she turned. Venitra whirled. She was still angry about the cut. She was going to destroy Toren once and for all. She was…
The undead saw a figure walk forwards. They heard…a sound, echo through the ballroom. Not the usual click-clack of Toren’s bony feet. This time?
They heard a clank. Metal on marble. They looked at Toren and didn’t see the slim skeleton. They saw a figure wearing armor that glowed a pale blue over a bronze-color, but far deeper, crossed with red and even violet.
Adamantium armor. Enchanted. On its head sat a helmet made of Wyvern scales, the plume a Phoenix’s feather. His boots left a trail of black flame. His gauntlets were edged with crystal.
The skeleton was carrying a shield as transparent as glass—no, made of a prismatic glass. He had a sword that glowed with anti-light.
The Chosen stared at Toren as the [Skeleton Knight] walked forwards. The only part of him even visible was his skull, and the two burning purple eyes.
He was wearing artifacts. Enchanted weaponry and armor, each one so vividly powerful it made the air around him shimmer. The skeleton was staring at the Chosen with a malevolence they had never sensed from him before. Anger.
“He—that thing—he has taken Master’s artifacts!”
Kerash spoke at last, voice disbelieving. They all knew these weapons.
They were the artifacts in Az’kerash’s vault, in the castle armory! The artifacts the Necromancer had acquired or bought, including the relics he recovered and sometimes sold via his puppets.
Blades his enemies had raised against him, the armor of foes, waiting to be repurposed. Bea shouted, outraged.
“You cannot touch those treasures, you—you worthless undead!”
Toren didn’t reply. He was staring at Healing Slime. The air around him was humming. He felt the buzz in his very bones.
There was no going back. He had taken each treasure from the armory. Now?
The Chosen began to stride towards him, their victim forgotten. Healing Slime rolled around, recollecting the parts of itself. It heard Toren’s voice.
Run. It looked back and saw Venitra charge, snarling, furious. She swung her sword down with the same force that had once killed Ulrien. A killing blow, as fast as lightning with the [Haste] enchantment.
Toren raised his shield. The sword of bone struck the glass shield and—fractured. The glass cracked.
The entire world around Venitra, cracked. Lines of force splintered around her, tearing the ground, her body with the same force. Her blow, crisscrossing and duplicated dozens of times.
The bone woman reeled. Toren grinned. So that was what it did. He whirled.
“Thief!”
Kerash raised his axe. Toren swung his sword. They locked blades. His anti-light blade met Kerash’ weapon. Neither one broke, but the shockwave knocked both back a step. Toren saw Kerash whirl the weapon up and activated his helmet. The Wyvern-scale helmet seemed to flex and come alive for a second—
Then the [Skeleton Knight] exhaled a plume of magical fire that covered Kerash. The Gnoll Draugr howled as real pain engulfed his body. He swung his arms and Venitra, still staggering, flinched from the closest copy to the Dragon’s fire she had ever seen.
“Kerash! You—you thing! How dare you! [Chain Lightning]!”
Ijvani blasted Toren. Her spell hit Toren’s adamantium breastplate and bounced. Toren turned as the skeleton ducked the lightning bolts flashing back towards her. He stared left.
Bea touched his arm, and rot and pestilence invaded. Past armor. Transmitted by the air itself, and magic. She…stared at Toren.
The skeleton, fully-dead, stared back. He carefully raised the gauntlets on one arm, lined with crystal, and activated them. They exploded, the embedded crystal shards tearing through her. Bea screamed—then screamed again as he put the sword in her chest.
The world was humming as Toren whirled. He raised the glass shield and blocked another spell. The enchantment didn’t activate; it must only be for melee contact.
The Chosen stumbled away from Toren. Kerash, still burning, howled.
“Kill it! I burn! I feel pain!”
“Destroy it!”
Venitra screamed, her body fractured in places, but healing. Ijvani raised her staff uncertainly. Bea stepped back, gasping.
“He wounded me. Master’s body…”
The Chosen were around Toren, four versus one. The skeleton didn’t care. He opened his jaw, laughing at them.
“Stop…stop that. You are not allowed to mock us. We will kill you. Fear us.”
Ijvani sounded uncertain. Toren just looked past her, at Healing Slime.
