The little slime, peeking around one of the grand, open passageways into the battleground. Watching the skeleton.
Devail, Wesixa, and Maviola all peeked in too. They saw the Chosen spread out, aware of the actual threat to them. Toren laughed at them. Then—he reached for his side and plucked the first glowing scroll from the bag of holding.
“You can’t use th—”
Venitra shouted before the first Tier 6 spell went off.
 
—-
 
Az’kerash was so preoccupied with his investigation, composing a lengthy apology to the ruler of Khelt and a request, bidding on the items from the Village of Death, that he only noticed the sixth tremor in the room and audio cue.
He glanced up.
“What is that…?”
The roar of a spell going off made the Necromancer refocus on the present. He began cutting puppet connections, moving them to places where he could leave them for a second. A Naga swept herself into a private restroom stall as more parts of Az’kerash refocused.
Archmage Chandler leapt to his feet, mind racing. An attack? He began chanting spells, cursing his negligence. Why hadn’t his Chosen alerted him? No—if it was a strike team. Who? Magnolia Reinhart? Teriarch?
Who could—
“Arise for me, reaper of souls. Champion of bones, to follow my enemies to their graves…”
A spell-circle appeared and a figure emerged from the ground. A bone-warrior, clutching a reaper’s scythe, which shot after Az’kerash.
He cloaked himself in darkness, binding glittering spells to him, all the while cursing. Belavierr? Had she betrayed him? If not, the lack of her presence….
The Necromancer shot down the hallway, abandoning running to levitate forwards at incredible speed. The undead in each hallway came alive as he found the source of the fighting.
The ballroom. He aimed three dozen spells as he burst into the room, the firepower enough to immolate even a Named Adventurer—
The Necromancer saw the Tier 6 spell at first. Well, one of them.
[Ice Spikes] were shooting down from the ceiling in a constant barrage, like hail. Larger [Ice Spears] also landed, blasting the enchanted marble to pieces. Targeting the four enemies designated.
Well…trying to. One was cowering behind a pillar. Az’kerash recognized Bea, with huge wounds in her chest. She wasn’t dead, obviously, but a glowing javelin was embedded in her stomach, growing barbs into her flesh, nigh-impossible to remove.
Another of his Chosen was staring at her shattered legs, stupefied. A hammer’s blow had cracked the entire floor, caving it in and taking Venitra down.
The last two were fighting—or trying to. Ijvani was casting spells, but the ice-storm was targeting her and someone had taken half her ribs out, melting them with a sword swing. The last, Kerash, was stumbling away from a…skeleton…in armor…
The Necromancer stood there as Toren rampaged. He was winning! The artifacts and scrolls had brought the Chosen low. He heard the shrieking hum in the air, like their voices. It was coming from all the relics he wore, but he had Kerash running! He’d tossed the sword aside, gone for a mace that had shattered Venitra’s legs as it caused a meteor-strike of a blow, and had switched to a hand-axe to fight Kerash.
Revenge for Healing Slime! Justice for skeletons everywhere! No more! Never again! Toren saw Kerash backing up; the hand-axe left glittering cuts in the air that only faded after ten seconds or so. Each one could cut or block blows.
Awestruck, the newer Chosen and Healing Slime saw Toren walking forwards. He raised the axe, to hack Kerash down as the Chosen stumbled. The Draugr looked up, an unfamiliar expression of…panic…in his eyes.
“Enough!”
The voice thundered through the ballroom. Toren whirled. He stopped as he saw the Necromancer, Az’kerash, standing there.
Toren quailed. For a second, he looked at Az’kerash, missing the quizzical expression on the man’s face. Toren had known it would come to this. He slowly turned, planting himself, ready to face the final boss. He adjusted his helmet.
I won’t lose! Not for Healing Slime! Fight me, you…fleshsack!
Az’kerash’s mouth moved for a second.
“Fleshsack…? Healing…?”
He saw the skeleton advance, hammering the axe on the shield. The Necromancer felt Toren’s defiance. Pride. He refused to let his friend die. He would rather fight. He wouldn’t fail! Couldn’t!
The hum in the air reached a crescendo. Toren felt all his gear vibrating and wondered if that was a new eff—
The skeleton exploded. Healing Slime, Devail, Wesixa, Maviola, Az’kerash, and the other Chosen saw two of the artifacts on his body glow, and then burst as the magical resonance finally broke.
Like all good adventurers learned, so many clashing magical enchantments…Az’kerash threw up his hands reflexively to shield his face. Not that his cloak of darkness let the shrapnel touch him.
He saw Toren’s bones and the remaining relics spray across the room in a flash of light and sound.
When the dust finally cleared, Az’kerash looked around the trashed ballroom. His injured Chosen. He blinked at least two dozen times. Then finally walked over and pointed to a scrap of bone.
It reformed into a skeleton’s head. Two glowing, purple eyes appeared and stared up.
The Necromancer of Terandria looked at Toren. Toren looked back.
Uh oh. Not according to plan. Toren tried to form a fist.
Across the room, a single digit curled up. Toren mentally shrugged.
Well, it was a good try. He waited for the inevitable. Then his eyes brightened.
Oh! He was leveling up into a new class! And he was gaining in [Carer]!
Sweet. Just in time for oblivion.
 
—-
 
“If I understand this correctly, you, my Chosen, were slowly killing this slime—Ijvani’s slime—and had been destroying Toren without mercy or reason. Whereupon, at last, he fought back.”
Az’kerash’s voice was not as icy-cold as it could be, the Archmage Chandler’s stinging tone he used to lecture students and fools. It was…
Well, more disappointed. Which was worse. The Chosen stood there, shuffling their feet, looking away.
“And you lost to a single [Skeleton Knight]. No…a [Relic Guardian] now, isn’t it? That a skeleton could reach that level…”
Az’kerash eyed Toren. Only the skeleton’s head and upper torso were repaired. He had been a basic skeleton, a [Skeleton Warrior]. Now? He was a kind of undead that would have fit among the Village of Dead’s elites—if only the lower echelons.
Toren waited, apprehensive. Healing Slime was sitting on a side-table next to Az’kerash. Toren was afraid—but Az’kerash had studied it, produced some Sage’s Grass, and watched it consume that and a healing potion with interest.
“A Potions Slime. Dangerous. Unique. Ijvani, how many of your slimes have you deliberately killed?”
“I…some, Master?”
Ijvani had learned to lie. Which was growth…but Az’kerash’s look was displeased.
“He defeated you all. Four of my Chosen.”
He repeated it, with glum tones.
“He had your possessions, Master! He—it was cheating!”
Venitra protested, voice weak. She pointed at Toren accusatorially then flinched as Az’kerash looked her way. The Necromancer looked at Venitra, clearly confused.
“Then, Venitra—why did you not retrieve armaments in kind? You, Kerash, Ijvani, Bea? That would have equalized the odds instantly.”
The Chosen looked at each other, astonished.
“But Master, you gave us all the weapons we need, and our superior forms. Why would we stoop to using other tools?”
Bea replied. Az’kerash stared at her, and then began to massage his forehead with two fingers. He spoke without looking up, as the four wayward Chosen waited uncomfortably.
“…I have neglected your instruction. It is my error. You do not understand…kindness. You must. You are all superlative; not perfect. Even Cognita armed herself when the need arose. Have I really not improved on Zelkyr’s instruction one whit? That is—not a welcome thought—”
Toren was rather liking all this. He grinned—until the Necromancer swung his head around to regard him.
“Ijvani, Bea, Venitra, Kerash, you will all be punished. You must be, but more importantly, taught. I would not punish you for losing a battle, but torture…?”
He stared at the ceiling.
“It is not…no. I would do anything in my battle against the living. That you, unbidden, elected to do this out of a desire for entertainment is…wrong. I will rectify this. However. It seems I have neglected one other too long. Or rather, two.”
He turned to Toren and Healing Slime. The skeleton waited. Healing Slime…he’d done his best. He didn’t flinch from the Necromancer. Az’kerash bent down, looked Toren in his skull’s eye sockets, and nodded.
“My Chosen. If one of you harms either Toren or the slime in any situation outside of practice combat, in any real sense, I will be upset. I am already upset—I will be even more so if either one is hurt. Is that understood?”
All the undead nodded apprehensively. Az’kerash didn’t look away from Toren.
“As for you, Toren. I am minded to give you a purpose, if this is what happens when I neglect you. Your body cannot keep up with your levels. Thus, once repaired, I think…yes. You may be a fine instructor to Devail and Wesixa. Perhaps Maviola too, if Belavierr allows it, and the new Chosen.”
Toren stirred. The Chosen were astonished. Outraged! Hurt?
“Master, am I not a flawless [Duelist] already? I disarmed Toren.”
Devail pointed out, confused. Az’kerash turned to him.
“You are a superior fighter, Devail. However, there is more to battle than mere form. Toren is the living embodiment of that fact. You would do well to learn from it. As for the Potions Slime, well…neither potion is particularly valuable, but it may roam about. They do grow stronger with time, so perhaps after a century and enough nourishment…”
He was sighing as he went to contemplate the damage to his castle. Toren blinked, his flames turning off and on as he stared at the Necromancer’s back. He looked at Healing Slime and the Chosen.
Him? Teach? It was certainly an upgrade to be recognized at last for his amazing qualities! Toren grinned…and kept his thoughts from leaking, for once.
He’d done it. He’d beaten the other Chosen. If he could do that…the Necromancer was locking up his vaults since Toren had ruined at least two artifacts and a number of scrolls.
However, if Toren could do that? He looked at Healing Slime and it peeked back at him. Toren finally began to envision a plan. If he could beat the Chosen, maybe they could escape. He gave the Necromancer a big smile when Az’kerash turned back towards him.
Perril Chandler eyed the innocently-grinning skull. He tapped it on the forehead and attached a tracking spell. He was going to have to find a use for it. Then he sighed, and began trying to raise his children again.
Where was Belavierr? Not that he really wanted her nurturing touch. Az’kerash began to regret that he’d never had a partner in life—not…well, not in a marriage, raising a child. He felt like he needed someone else to help him. Maybe he could make an undead for that…?
Az’kerash wondered if it was a faux pas to ask Fetohep for parenting tips for the undead.
 
—-
 
It was an enduring truth that the loudest, the minority, the individuals, defined ‘everyone’ in a group, species, or what have you. It was just something you lived with.
For many, Sir Relz and Noass were the faces of Drakes since they had their news segment. Drassi was the female Drake. Imagine the misconceptions that arose from that? Personalities, viewpoints, and the fact that both male Drakes occupied higher social and economic circles aside…not many Drakes wore monocles.
In the same way, Magnolia Reinhart was not all Reinharts. Which didn’t mean the other Reinharts were better…but this generation was notoriously reclusive, happy to indulge themselves. Magnolia was still synonymous with House Reinhart though, because she was the head of their family.
It didn’t mean they were better or worse necessarily…although you heard things about what the Reinharts got up to in private. However, to extend the analogy was to realize that Lord Tyrion Veltras was not all of the Veltras family.
You just seldom saw the others in the news. In fact, that was because they were somewhat reclusive too, albeit in different ways.
The [Lady] of House Veltras spotted the Courier coming in and watched for the last five minutes of descent. Ryoka Griffin was exceptionally grateful the woman didn’t raise the huge longbow and take aim.
She landed on what could only be described as an actual tree house. As in a house…built onto a tree. It was high off the ground, as were most of the buildings. They had the fabled tree-civilization, although it was mostly Humans.
And the ground, rather than being a pristine forest, was more of a marshland. The trees were like mangroves; huge root structures that allowed the people to build on the impressive plants.
Ryoka had expected a forest-keep or something, but she realized that there wasn’t much need. This area of Veltras lands was pretty safe from monsters and [Bandits]. If they wanted to try and climb up while all the people shot arrows through their heads, they could try. A flying attack was more dangerous, but one look at the [Lady] and her bow and Ryoka doubted she’d have much trouble fending off Wyverns or Griffins.
The Griffin in question landed and the woman continued eating the snack she’d fetched. Some kind of meat-on-a-stick variant. She regarded Ryoka in silence as the Courier caught her breath.
“So you’re that Courier what helped Tyrion, is that right? I thought he’d send word cheap, but I guess this is easier if you’re about, isn’t it?”
That was what she said. However, the drawl that came out of her mouth was so hard to parse that Ryoka took a second. She heard something like:
“So yer tha Courier what helped Tyrion issat righ? I though he’d send word chep, but I guess thisis easier if you’re about innit?”
She had a thick accent, but Ryoka nodded after a second. She bowed.
“Ryoka Griffin, Courier, Lady Buscrei Veltras.”
The woman shrugged.
“If you’re going to bow, be my guest. Not how I do things. Nice flying. Can anyone do it or is it only with a Skill and magic?”
Ryoka hesitated. The woman glanced at the glider, ignoring the usual questions or comments Ryoka got.
“Um—you can glide with my…glider, but you need an updraft to keep flying.”
“Huh. Wouldn’t mind gliding off, even if I have to haul it back. Well, ‘salright. I’m Buscrei Veltras. [Hunting Lady] of…here.”
She waved the stick around to take in the marsh-settlement. Ryoka nodded, hesitating again. Buscrei eyed her.
“You looking for all of us, or is it just letters? Anything important?”
“No—I’m just delivering an uh, update from the Veltras keep?”
