“It’s just—not fun. That’s the problem, isn’t it? Day in, day out, having to take lessons when you could be having fun? Not…getting to enjoy yourself sometimes? Wanting—more.”
They gave her a strange look. For a moment, Ryoka feared she was talking out her butt, that she was completely wrong.
But that wasn’t why Hethon and Sammial stared. To them, it was as if the Wind Runner were staring right through them. She went on, encouraged by their looks.
“Sometimes—I’m sure you get angry. Really angry. Only, you can’t shout at the adults. You get in trouble.”
“I shout at adults. All the time, sometimes.”
Ryoka nodded at Sammy as he vouched that obvious truth.
“Do you feel better? Or do you feel bad? I bet…you don’t feel great, especially if you use your aura on them. I know, because that’s how I felt growing up a lot of the time.”
She closed her eyes, thinking back.
“I remember I wanted more than just being taught lessons and someday growing up and getting a job. I wanted—well, to be special. And I was sure, deep down, I wasn’t. Not really.”
When she looked at them again, the two boys were giving her the same look. It was possible that no grown up, no one ever, had ever spoken to them halfway as deep as this before.
It was uncomfortable to Hethon, hearing the Wind Runner talk like this. Uncomfortable…and appealing. He felt that this was honest; knew it was. Understanding someone? A kind of intoxication of its own.
The Wind Runner looked at him, then at Sammial.
“Sometimes you have to do things that suck. Like learning math, history. Sometimes it’s your teachers that aren’t fun, and sometimes it’s you. Your attitude. I think, though—you can change what’s terrible. Especially you two. If you don’t like a [Tutor], is there someone who’s a better teacher?”
The boys looked at each other.
“Jericha’s more fun to teach magic. And we like her more, but she’s always busy with father. I hate math, but Ullim is better since he lets us help with the budgets. But he’s busy too, so we have [Tutors].”
Ryoka exhaled.
“We could…ask them to take over. Or your father?”
Hethon and Sammial looked apprehensive.
“But they’re busy.”
That’s probably what they’d been told every day of their lives. Ryoka folded her arms.
“Probably. I bet your father would still think you were worth them spending time teaching you, as much as they can. The problem is he has to know they’re the best. That you need them.”
It was hard to talk to distant parents. Hethon and Sammial looked at their shoes. Ryoka saw them stare at her feet. She shifted them.
“What if I ask for you? Would that help?”
Shyly, Hethon looked up at her and she saw the answer in his eyes. Sammial bit his lip, but then peeked at Hethon, at Ryoka, and nodded.
“That would be better.”
The Wind Runner smiled. She hadn’t actually expected to hear them say they just wanted more time from both adults, but it made sense. She went on.
“There are other things I learned when I was growing up. I took lessons in martial arts.”
“Martial arts? Like punching people?”
“Something like that. There was this school—well, it was good for me to practice something. You don’t have to do that, but it helps. Believe me. I sort of wish I’d played a musical instrument too…”
She had been thinking of all the things that could help two lonely boys. She knew they were destined to be [Lords] and she couldn’t do anything about that. But—kids to play with? They stayed at the keep, even before their father had been protective of them.
“You two shouldn’t stay here all the time. I know it’s House Veltras’ keep, but there’s no one like you. Your age, I mean.”
“There are the servants and city-kids. They play with us sometimes.”
Sammial pointed out, just to be contrary. However, Hethon knew they never acted around Sammial and him like they did when the two weren’t there. He looked at Ryoka, hungrily. How did she know what they wanted?
She met his eyes and he felt a shock. The wind blew around Ryoka, picking up a bit.
“Wouldn’t it be great to have a lot of friends, though? I—don’t know the perfect spot. But there’s one or two I can imagine. I’ll ask your father. What about visiting your relatives, like in the marshes? Lady Buscrei and her family in Oswen?”
“They don’t like us. I hate them.”
Sammial wiped his nose on his sleeve. Ryoka coaxed him.
“I don’t think that’s true. They were asking about you. Give it a shot? You could go sledding with the otter-dogs. Or what about staying in that town with [Druids] and learning from them for a while?”
The two boys imagined that. Their faces lit up. Ryoka looked at them and wondered why Tyrion, Jericha, Ullim, had never envisioned the same.
Perhaps because it was Tyrion. Had he grown up like this? It explained…a lot. Just practice courts, armies, the keep—she shook her head.
“I’ll talk to your father and Jericha and Ullim if you want me to. Okay?”
They nodded. Ryoka smiled. One last thing. She bent over.
“Great. In that case—I’ll give you one last thing along with talking to the adults. A little trick in case you get angry again, or frustrated. It helped me.”
Their eyes brightened. The vision of better education was hard for boys to understand, especially if they only knew this life. But a trick? From the Wind Runner?
“Is it a spell? We can’t cast magic properly yet, but I can use my aura! Hethon can’t!”
Sammy’s older brother shoved him and Sammy shoved back. Before they could escalate, Ryoka put a hand between them and shook her head.
“Nope. It’s just a trick in case you’re really angry and you have to do something. Instead of using your aura or punching someone—has anyone told you if you’re angry, you should punch a pillow?”
Sammy and Hethon eyed Ryoka.
“No…father says take it out on a practice dummy. Jericha says ‘let it go’, but she says stupid things sometimes.”
Sammy retorted. Ryoka exhaled.
“Yeah, neither one worked out for me. I used to go for a run, so that’s like the practice dummy. I went for a long run. But also: if I was ever really angry, I went to a field and screamed. Loud as I could. As long as I wanted, until I felt better.”
Well, not a field, but her room with music on full-blast, somewhere private…the boys looked at her oddly. Maybe anger-management techniques weren’t the best to lay on them. Then Sammy grinned.
“I like that. I can just scream?”
“If it beats hitting someone, yeah. Want to try?”
Sammy thought about it. Hethon was fidgeting. Sammy though—he just inhaled, tilted his head back, and shouted.
“Aaaah! Aaaaah! I HATE MATH!”
Ryoka and Hethon laughed. Sammial shouted until he was red in the face, and he had a fairly prodigious voice.
“I DON’T LIKE YELLATS! I WANT TO RIDE A HORSE! AAAAAAH!”
“Good job!”
The Wind Runner laughed, her eyes sparkling. Hethon watched her side-long, as Sammial yelled until he was hoarse. Then his younger brother laughed.
“I feel better! Thanks, Miss Griffin! My throat hurts. I want a healing potion.”
“Er—I can give you some—”
Ryoka fumbled for her potion, but Sammial was already talking again. Hethon envied that.
“If I get Ullim and Jericha to teach me, will Father teach me how to use a sword? And if we visit other places in House Veltras…oh! Look! There’s father! Can I ask him now?”
He whirled. Somehow, incredibly, Sammial pointed into the distance. Ryoka and Hethon’s heads turned. They saw…the open road. Nothing.
Aura. Hethon felt the twinge of jealousy he normally felt and pushed it down. Ryoka blinked. She frowned—looked at Sammial’s confident face and finger, and glanced up.
“Wait one sec.”
So saying, Hethon felt a gust of air and threw his hands up as dirt and debris flew into the air. He saw Ryoka shoot into the sky. Open-mouthed—until he got some dirt in it—Hethon saw her hover, then descend in a swooping arc.
Sammial whooped with delight and Hethon felt as astounded as he had the first time he’d seen it. So amazing. Better than being a [Lord].
“You’re right, Sammial. Your father’s coming. We can talk to him—”
“I’ll tell Ullim first! And that father’s coming!”
Sammial dashed towards the keep. Hethon knew there was no real need; he saw some [Soldiers] detach themselves in the distance and follow Sammial.
They had been there the entire time, watching from a very polite distance, but Tyrion was not about to entrust his son’s wellbeing to any one person, even Ryoka or Jericha or himself.
It saved Ryoka from immediately having to chase after him. She adjusted the wind-suit, and looked at Hethon.
“Hey Hethon, have I said anything wrong? You can tell me if I made a mistake.”
“Um. No, Miss Griffin.”
Hethon mumbled. He felt suddenly shy without Sammial to talk on. He wished he had talked to Ryoka as much as Sammial. Hethon cast around for something to say.
“T-thanks for teaching me about the anger trick and talking with father. Sammy liked it.”
“And you?”
Her green-eyed glance made Hethon shrug. He felt it was too…piercing.
“I’m fine. I’m not as angry as Sammial is.”
Ryoka stared ahead without speaking for a moment. The wind blew around them, carrying the scents of the world to them. She looked at Hethon again.
“Uh huh. You know, Hethon, you both remind me of how I was, growing up. Sammial’s me when I was really young…you remind me of when I was a bit older. You’re not angry at all? Not a little bit?”
Hethon flushed.
“Maybe a little? Sometimes?”
“Sure you don’t want to scream?”
The boy turned redder. Ryoka stared at him—and realized how embarrassing it probably was for someone like her to ask Hethon out of the blue to scream in the middle of a field.
She blushed a bit herself.
“Sorry. I just realized it’s super-awkward to ask.”
“Just a bit. Do you…actually do it?”
Hethon glanced up at her and she grinned despite herself. Ryoka hesitated.
“Well—yes. All the time when I was younger.”
“Do you do it now?”
The Wind Runner was embarrassed to realize she hadn’t. Were there things to make Ryoka angry at this moment? Upset?
Absolutely. She regarded Hethon…and realized she didn’t want to scream with Lord Tyrion about to arrive, the [Soldiers] watching, and him.
“Um. It really is amazing Sammial can do it by himself, isn’t it?”
They both grinned. It was all Sammy.
Well, crap on her feet. Here she was offering advice she wasn’t taking herself. There was a word for that: hypocrite. Also, idiot.
The Courier gazed at the young [Lord], at the empty field, and then at the wind blowing the wheat stalks from the field around and the distant forest too.
She had an idea.
“Hey, Hethon. It’s super-embarrassing to shout when anyone can hear you. But…what if we both agreed to do it? I’ll make the wind howl, so there’s no way anyone can hear us. If I did that—would you feel like trying it?”
The boy—or was it young man, already?—stared up at Ryoka. He hesitated. Then he nodded and grinned.
“How loud will it be?”
“No one will hear a thing, even me. Swear to it. Courier’s honor.”
Ryoka offered tentatively. Hethon nodded again. So the Courier and Hethon faced away from the keep. They took a few deep breaths.
The wind began to pick up. At first, slowly. Then it grew stronger. Hethon heard the wind whipping at his clothes and ears. Then it grew louder. Louder—he glanced up at Ryoka and she was grinning. It was just stupid, but Hethon began laughing as a whirlwind blew around them.
Louder. It became a howl unto itself, the whirlwind even blocking the world out. Now? Hethon looked at Ryoka, shielding his face.
He saw her screaming something into the vortex. He heard not a thing. Hethon’s eyes widened.
No one would hear what he said. In this moment, he would never be heard, and he could be sure of that when he never could before. Thoughts that had only been in his head…he could speak them.
Shout them. There was an amazing sense of relief, desire, he felt at that idea. To say something as loud as you could and know you’d never bother anyone? Never be heard?
In the roar of the wind, the calm, exhilarating eye of this storm, Hethon Veltras opened his mouth and gave voice to something. At first, it was a shout. Words of anger, loss. Longing.
Then it grew louder. He screamed with all the passion in his lungs, and it stopped being words. He was sure Ryoka was doing the same.
They shouted in pure silence, in the maelstrom of noise and wind. Shouted, until they lost their voices. Until they were laughing. Maybe even crying for a second.
No one would know. It was their secret.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin screamed for the Horns of Hammerad, about her worries, her guilt. Her loss. For anger, and even childhood. She never heard what Hethon said, but when the wind died, and as they met each other’s gazes again, they were both laughing.
The wind had messed up their hair. They were a bit breathless, exhilarated, hoarse—but Ryoka thought the young man looked at her with newfound familiarity. She stuck out her hand, and he shook it, smiling.
“Miss Courier? Is everything alright?”
A [Soldier] approached. They’d come close, as the maelstrom began. Ryoka started guiltily, but Hethon spoke for her.
“Miss Griffin was showing me a whirlwind. I asked her to.”
“Ah, very good, Lord Veltras.”
The man instantly bowed. Ryoka saw Hethon’s face take on…she shook her head as the bodyguard fell back. Too much power for kids.
However, perhaps she’d helped with his burden. Hethon looked lighter as they walked over to meet Sammial. She nudged him.
“Just ask if you want to do that again. That was a relief for me too. I’ll just do that from now on.”
He nodded shyly. That was how they met Lord Tyrion Veltras.
He was riding in the company of Lord Pellmia, Jericha and the others. He eyed the breathless trio, hair standing in crazy ways. Lord Pellmia glanced at the Wind Runner as she greeted them, abashed. He smiled.
“A pleasure to meet you again, Miss Griffin. We are all in your debt. I don’t know that you’d recall, but we met at the…party in Riverfarm? I am Lord Pellmia of House Quellae.”
The Courier didn’t remember clearly, but the name and face were familiar when he said it. She smiled and was surprised when they shook hands instead of her bowing.
“It’s very nice to meet you again, Lord Pellmia. I’m uh, sorry about the wind, Lord Veltras. Your sons were having fun. I’ve delivered the letters, as requested.”
“Thank you, Miss Ryoka. You have been exceptionally helpful, with both Hethon and Sammial and House Veltras’ affairs.”
Tyrion dismounted, nodding to her. Pellmia was smiling. Good with kids.
