Ever since Erin had died, every day was like the last. Not the ‘last’ as in ‘the same as every day’, but like the last days ever. The days after the biggest storm you could imagine. The day after Ryoka Griffin had run away from the Goblin Lord and the Stone Spears Tribe had died, even if some survived.
Like that. It made Mrsha realize that time was a strange thing. Little things were important. Time with people mattered. Things? Things came and went.
The Gnoll girl had always sort of felt that the world would keep on going, things would stay the same. Like that strange ticking thing Kevin had just made.
He called it a ‘metronome’. It went back and forth, this little wand-like hand. Tick, toc, tick, toc…Mrsha’s head followed it left and right.
She had thought the entire world in the Stone Spears tribe would last forever. She knew people died…but the idea that everything could disappear in a single night?
The world was fragile. People were too fragile. So…time mattered. Mrsha wished she’d spent more time with Erin. Maybe asking her questions. She realized it now—now that her time was out.
She wanted it back. Mrsha thought that this revelation about time changed a lot. Why did she waste it on silly things, like getting angry when Ekirra kept telling her how much better at football he was, and proceeded to beat both her and Visma two-on-one?
Mrsha still wanted to beat him up and toss his ball down the well, but she felt it was a waste of time. She was learning…she needed to do things that mattered, just in case she couldn’t. In case she died tomorrow.
It was something the Antinium knew. Mrsha realized that was why they acted like they did. Pawn, Bird, Belgrade, and the rest.
Even Mrsha didn’t run around happily every time she ate eggs. But Bird ate like each one was the first and last meal he’d have. He hadn’t forgotten that once, not too long ago, a certain Worker had never been able to eat such food, and have such delights.
Bird was smart. Mrsha was getting smarter. She thought Bird had it worked out; how to live. Other people like Selys and Olesm and Lyonette worried all the time. Sometimes about important things, but each day, even if they were bad ones, Bird always found something happy. Well—since he had stopped staying in his rooms.
Mrsha the Hugely Introspective sighed as she watched the metronome. She knew that spending fifteen minutes staring at it was probably a waste of time, but she couldn’t look away.
Tick, toc, tick, toc.
“I don’t get it. It’s annoying the hair off me. I want to break it. How does Mrsha stand it? And what’s the point?”
“I told you, it’s Kevin’s prototype. Don’t break it; he worked really hard on it. It’s for keeping the beat. It’s a prototype for a clock.”
Two voices were speaking just behind Mrsha. The first’s was surly.
“Hmph. For singing? You’re telling me you’re fine with that sound?”
A sigh, and then Imani patted Palt on the arm.
“Can’t you cast a [Silence] spell or something to block out the sound? I thought that’s the entire point of being an [Illusionist].”
“Well, I—”
Palt stopped. Mrsha turned her head and saw the Centaur, unable to come up with a smart response, click his fingers. The sound and image of the metronome apparently vanished, because he said nothing else. Imani smiled.
“And…does that look good? I can’t tell.”
She pushed over some fabric and a piece of paper. Palt glanced at it.
“Ooh! Very nice! If I were you, though, I’d add a symbol on the apron. Right there.”
“Which one?”
“Mm. Liscor’s crest? Something stylish. Just so they recognize it’s ‘you’. I have my own logo on my goods. Haven’t you seen them?”
Imani frowned. Palt handed her a cigar with a wounded look. At this point, Mrsha left the metronome instead of winding it back up. She padded over and saw Imani and Palt sitting together, next to the fire.
It was raining. So, Mrsha had learned their planned outing was cancelled. Undeterred, the two had another stupid couple-thing: designing an outfit for Imani and Palt to wear as cooking-instructors.
Both of them liked designing ideas and Palt had found some fabric for reference. They weren’t going for the monochrome white [Chef]’s outfit with the poofy hat from Erin’s stereotypes. Imani wanted something where you didn’t sweat to death in a hot kitchen. Stylish, even.
Palt was showing Imani a copy of the cigar he was smoking; it had a miniature, very stylized horse with a wizard’s hat and wand in the background in a tiny circle.
“See? It’s a stamp…well, I can do a magical tracing. Something like that.”
“You made it yourself? You’re so good with designs!”
“Why, thank you. I had it commissioned.”
Palt looked pleased. He put an arm around Imani’s shoulders and they hugged, both smiling happily. The two paused as Mrsha loudly gagged and made a throwing-up sound.
“Mrsha, don’t you approve of our love? I expected this kind of thing from Lisms and…Lisms, but from you?”
Palt looked wounded. He put a hand over his heart. Mrsha, outraged at being compared to Lism, shook her head violently and began to scribble. Imani began to giggle as Mrsha shoved a notecard towards them. She bent over and read out loud.
“To Palt: Wherefore, and due to my good grace and manners, I will not reply in kind for your dastardly insult in comparing me to that Drake, I still insist you withdraw your scurrilous comment or—pfft—”
She and Palt began laughing so hard they collapsed against each other and Imani nearly fell out of her chair; Palt was just sitting on the ground at the lowered table.
Outraged that her literary acumen was being used as entertainment, Mrsha pounded a fist on the table. She looked at the guffawing two, and decided she’d had enough of them. Mrsha the Serious snatched Palt’s cigar and leapt onto the floor of the inn and began huffing her way towards the closest wall.
“Hey! Mrsha, what are you doing? That’s not for children! Palt, stop her with magic.”
Alarmed, Imani stared at Mrsha, stuffing the cigar into her personal bag of holding. Palt was still chuckling. He glanced at Mrsha.
“I wouldn’t worry.”
“Palt.”
A warning tone entered Imani’s voice and the Centaur sat up straight. He clarified, hurriedly.
“I’m sure Mrsha doesn’t actually use them. I think she trades them. Don’t give me that look, Imani. What’s the harm in letting a kid do some good, old-fashioned bartering? I did it when I was her age…”
Mrsha walked into the Garden of Sanctuary. Sure enough, Palt was right. He was rich enough that he let Mrsha walk off with a cigar now and then—especially for ‘services rendered’.
That used to be Mrsha helping smooth things over if he annoyed Erin. Or nudging Lyonette to help him, or distracting her. Or—one time—persuading Nalthaliarstrelous to sell Palt some of the plants in his garden.
Anyways, the point was that when she got her paws on one, a Palt-cigar was worth some serious Mrsha-money.
Not actual gold; Mrsha had little use for actual gold since even the most accepting [Shopkeepers] still asked too many questions if Mrsha wandered up to the counter and tried to pay with five gold coins for a hundred cookies. She’d gotten in real trouble the one time she tried to stand on Visma’s shoulders in a big coat and they’d thought she was a [Thief]…
If she wanted something, Lyonette was the intermediary—or Selys. In fact, mostly Selys because Selys would buy you something if you presented her with an eloquent argument. Like bursting into tears and then hugging her after she caved.
No, Mrsha-money was the real deal. The uncut, straight, drug-equivalent for children.
Mrsha sidled into the [Garden of Sanctuary], looking for a mark. She could usually find one in here, or the city. Her usual fence was buzzing around as usual, but seemed to smell Mrsha had something good today.
Apista the Ashfire Bee made an Apista-line towards Mrsha, eagerly buzzing around her. Mrsha held up a paw—then put it palm-up and made a beckoning motion.
Hold up. What do you have for me?
The bee dithered. Mrsha produced the cigar and Apista buzzed around it, trying to grab it and fly off with it. Mrsha swatted at her gently. She knew Apista would just set it on fire and spend the rest of the day clinging to the ceiling and fanning her wings if she handed it off. She wanted to see what Apista had to offer first.
Apista was a good fence. She had a wide selection of Mrsha-goods, but her availability was the issue. You could trade a third of a cigar for a cookie, filched from the kitchen. Or other snacks! Mrsha had even gotten Apista to secure one of The Wandering Inn’s small cakes for sale one time. It had ‘fallen off the table’ and Erin was none the wiser.
However, it seemed her new job working as bodyguard and taxi for Niers meant Apista was broke today, and Mrsha didn’t offer credit. She stowed her cigar as Apista buzzed around unhappily.
Mrsha the Drug Dealer sauntered onwards. Was this how she wanted to spend her life? Slinging contraband around? Well…it was sort of fun. She went back and gave Apista a big hug—gentle, but big. Apista fanned her wings and her proboscis tickled Mrsha’s arm. Mrsha patted her on the head—but didn’t give her the cigar. Love was love.
Business was business. Well, if Mrsha didn’t have luck on her first client, her second might be more…interesting.
The white Gnoll glanced around, and then shuffled over to one of the people in the Garden of Sanctuary. She shuffled for fifteen feet…then gave up and walked all the way to the jungle-biome. She padded up to a tree, climbed the ladder she’d dragged over, and once she was up high enough, knocked on the little hollow in the tree.
“What is it?”
The Titan of Baleros had been working on something with paper and ink of his own. He blinked as Mrsha offered the cigar. Niers frowned as he stared at Mrsha’s haul.
“What is that? One of that Centaur’s cigars? That damn thing is as big as I am. Is it a gift? Hey!”
The ‘hey’ was because Mrsha jerked it back. She waved the product at Niers meaningfully and went to write down an explanation.
Niers Astoragon saw Mrsha, clinging to the wide branch he was on, fumble for her notepad and quill while her good paw held the cigar. Which left…how many paws to hold onto the branch?
Whump. He winced at the sound and peered over the edge. A minute later, Mrsha sniffed as she climbed back up and held out the card, glaring at him and defying him to comment on the tears in the corners of her eyes. She hadn’t cried!
“What’s this? ‘I’ll give you the cigar for goods and services in kind…?’ Who taught you to write like that?”
Niers eyed Mrsha, somewhat disturbed. The Gnoll tapped the card. He shrugged.
“I could offer you credit once I get back to my company, but I’ve got nothing. What?”
He stared as she pointed.
“No, I’m not trading you my sword for it. Not even loaning it! How much of an addict do you think I am, anyways? You gave me a bit of that Centaur’s stuff. It’s strong and I could smoke one cigar over a month! Two months!”
Mrsha sighed, glared, but descended the ladder. The problem with small clients was that they had limited demands.
Back to the search for a profitable buyer. Mrsha the Palt realized there were some other prospective people in the garden today. She headed out of the jungle, picking burrs off her fur with annoyance, and saw them on the hill.
Ulvama, Rags, Numbtongue, and Calescent were in deep discussion. Well, Rags and Ulvama were. Calescent was more quiet, and Numbtongue was…gloomy. Their conversation was quiet, but audible to anyone in the garden with Gnoll-hearing.
“We are safe. For now. Adventurers know where we are. So? The High Passes are…high. Teams are not as dangerous as armies. Until we give them a reason, they will not come.”
Rags was speaking, holding a council with the two foreign Goblins. Ulvama glanced at Numbtongue. He didn’t reply at first. His head was bowed; he looked comatose. She sneered at Rags.
“So? They will come. They always will.”
Rags met the [Shaman]’s gaze.
“I know. When they do, I will be ready. I told you: right now, two things I care about. Finding a way to help Erin, if Goblins can. And finding the answer of this.”
She held up the thing around her neck. A key on a chain. A simple, ordinary key that was not magical to Ulvama’s gaze. Nevertheless, all four Goblins looked at it. Ulvama’s gaze was greedy—and nervous.
“What do you think?”
Rags turned to Numbtongue. When the Goblin’s head rose, it was his voice that replied, but changed subtly. Pyrite spoke.
“Good plans. Big plans. Like clouds.”
He gestured up at the sky overhead, visible through the garden’s circular opening. Pyrite went on, and even Ulvama listened quietly.
“Clouds are hard to see. Does Chieftain have plans like rocks? What happens tomorrow? What happens now?”
The Flooded Waters Chieftain nodded slowly, appreciating Pyrite’s response. She spoke, slowly.
“I have seen this…adventurer raid fail. Maybe the Horns are alive. Maybe not. We cannot help them. Maybe the other teams will trade that helmet for a cure. Maybe not. After listening, I have a plan. It is dangerous. It may endanger the entire tribe, but if I think it will help—”
She fell silent, the troubled look on her face turning to…irritation. She glanced sideways, and all four Goblins turned.
The little Gnoll girl nudging Ulvama and proffering the cigar froze. She raised her paws, backing up. She wasn’t trying to interrupt! Just strike a good deal!
Ulvama eyed Mrsha with resignation. Rags glowered. Calescent sniffed interestedly. Mrsha saw good business opportunities here. Goblins always had great merchandise.
The trouble was, Numbtongue was out of the game, being mostly depressed and sitting about. Rags? The Goblin Chieftain was on Mrsha’s blacklist, but Ulvama was good.
She had good trades, after learning that if she tried to steal Mrsha’s goods, a certain beaver-gang would pay her a visit in the middle of the night. As in, they’d get into her bed and sit on her. Despite her lack of a job, she did have services to offer.
Mostly, paint. For a cigar or some good snacks, or some intermediary work with Octavia, Selys, and so on, she’d draw on Mrsha’s fur with her odd-smelling paints and enchant the Gnoll for a while.
That was quality Mrsha-goods. Mrsha had become Mrsha the Speedy for a day—and then she’d gotten Ulvama to offer a bulk-discount and she, Ekirra, and Visma had all been the Chameleon Trio in a game of hide-and-seek in the park. Their opponents and detractors had claimed magic was cheating; Mrsha thought they just didn’t know how to leverage connections.
However, it seemed Ulvama didn’t have time for Mrsha because she chased her off, swatting with her staff.
