Edmund emerged into howling wind and biting chill.  The world shined white all around him, a flurry of snow blown about by the unceasing gale obscuring all but a few feet ahead.  All Edmund’s eyes could make out were two steep hillsides walling him in, forming a path ahead and into the blizzard.

He slid his hand into his satchel and rooted around, only stopping when he managed to slip his finger through the rough stone of his swelter ring.

The chill vanished.  The snow blow ceased stinging against his exposed skin.  Frost stopped collecting on his eyebrows and lashes.

The wind kept on, its gusts filled with humid warmth in lieu of oppressive cold as the enchanted ring heated the air around him.  As Edmund blinked he noted a sphere around him, as exactly eight feet in all directions from the ring on his finger, the snow on the ground and flakes in the wind alike melted away.

In its place he found himself treading upon a muddy field of wet grass, brown and limp and dead for the winter.  The sole of his boot slid against it, lacking for traction against the wet surface.  Edmund supposed it was better than slipping on solid ice, but not by much.

Curiously enough, the warmth of his aura seemed to dry and even char the dead grass, at least if the tendrils of smoke that rose from beneath his feet were any indicator.  The rushing wind tried and failed to disperse the fumes, instead simply spreading them through the air in a complex whirlwind of a pattern.  Edmund opted to ignore the smoke for the time being.

His eyes unable to glean much beyond his sphere of warmth, Edmund scouted with his cloudkith sigil, squinting down the path ahead and into the clouds above.  No apparent danger lurked in the sky, its only feature the bright light of a false sun filtered through the diffusing effects of the ongoing blizzard.  Ahead he found yet more path, along with what appeared to be a small alcove in the hillside.  Before he could move to approach it, Liam appeared.

“I like what you’ve done with the place,” Liam said, glancing distastefully at the quagmire the melted snow had given way to.  “Remind me never to throw you a bone again.”

Edmund blinked.  “A bone?”

“Oh, you know, a favor?  A treat?  A nice thing for a friend?”

“We aren’t friends.”

“Clearly,” Liam said with a dramatically dismissive flourish.  “The moment I try and do something nice for you, you turn it into a swamp.”

Edmund reached through the slot in his helmet to rub the bridge of his nose.  “What are you talking about?”

“Look around you!  It’s your perfect floor!  No meddling delvers, environmental hazards you have answers to, and plenty of targets for all that fire magic of yours.”

Edmund’s head jerked sharply towards the path ahead at the mention of targets, ready for a swarm of monsters to appear at a moment’s notice.  None came.

“Oh, relax,” Liam said.  “Nothing’s coming to kill you, not until after.  That’s part of the deal.”

“After what?  What deal?”

“What do you think?”  Liam walked past Edmund and began off down the path.  “Follow me.”

Edmund paused for a moment, squinting after him as he watched the avatar step into the blizzard.  With a sigh he pulled his shield from his back and slid his arm through its straps, readying himself for any unwelcome surprises.  Up ahead, the loud and clearly intentional sound of Liam clearing his throat echoed through the air.

Edmund followed, trudging through the mud as his swelter ring melted the snow beneath him.  He contemplated removing the enchanted ring, but determined the wider visibility to be worth more than the minor loss in traction, even if it made a mess of his boots.  Besides, Liam had mentioned targets for fire magic.  It stood to reason anything weak to fire might’ve found the heat of the swelter ring an adequate deterrent.

He found Liam standing proudly in front of the alcove he’d noticed earlier.  As far as Edmund could tell, there was nothing special about it, just a two-foot-deep space dug out of the hillside.  He looked askance at Liam.  “Is… is this it?”

“Not… quite,” Liam said, his gaze fixed on the space before him.  With a snap of his fingers, a layer of dust broke away from the top of the alcove, raining down through the empty space before suddenly stopping midair.  The falling soil came to rest as if on an invisible surface, one bearing the shape of a familiar symbol.  “You know what this means?”

Edmund scowled at the outline of a ring with a diagonal, point line through it with recognition.  “Oblivion?  You got me an offer from Oblivion?”

Liam beamed.  “You’ve heard of it, then.”

“Heard of it?  There’s a Thrax-damned church!  They used to chant hymns loud enough to keep me up in the alley I used to—”  Edmund cut himself off.  “Oblivion’s far and away the most powerful eldritch icon.  It bid on me?”

“It’s here, isn’t it?  Like I said, you’re a hot commodity.  Not the hottest, of course—well, yes the hottest if you’re wearing that ring I gave you.”  Liam shook his head.  “You know what I mean.”

“I have no idea what you mean.”

“Just that you’re popular with the celestials, but not the most popular,” Liam explained.  “I wouldn’t want you to get a big head about it, after all.”

Edmund exhaled.  “It’s Amelia isn’t it?  She’s the most popular?”

Liam blinked, surprise apparent on his face.  “That was fast.”

Edmund shrugged.  “She’s a princess, a potential future queen.  She could set up a church.  I imagine that’s worth more than any single delver could ever be.”

“Before you get too into the weeds on the value of churches, why don’t you commune with Oblivion and take a gander at its offer.  You might find it relevant.”

Edmund allowed his gaze to linger on Liam for a moment, more for the sake of refusing to immediately do as he was told than any true desire to analyze the avatar’s face.  Once he’d made his point, Edmund knelt before the alcove and placed a hand on the invisible shrine.

The world vanished.  No wind buffeted his back.  No mud clung to his knees.  No moisture crept through his armor.  No chill nor heat nor comfortable warmth kissed his skin.  No breath filled his lungs.  No sights met his eyes.

Edmund existed in nothingness.  He didn’t stand.  He didn’t kneel.  He didn’t sit.  He didn’t float.  No forces exerted themselves upon him, and he in turn had nothing on or through which to impose his will.  For a terrible moment, he bore no purpose, had nothing he cared about and nobody who cared about him.  For a glorious moment, he knew no suffering, carried no wounds or torturous memories.

For a moment, Edmund knew Oblivion.

Until the smoke crept in.

He knew not what cracks in the nothingness through which it had slipped, nor from whence it came or where it went, but come it did.  Its acrid stench assaulted his nose, dried his throat, reddened his eyes.  Most of all it reminded him of the world at large, of all the love and the pain and the violence and the beautiful misery that awaited his return.  It was with a wistful eye that Edmund read his offer.

Offer Received - Pact of Oblivion

Receive access to the Eldritch base Aspect, with abilities tied to the power of Oblivion and resonance determined by your personal affinity with Oblivion.  Oblivion pledges to revoke 61.47 percent of its power from its church to empower this Aspect.  In exchange for this portion of its strength, Oblivion asks a 2% tithe on all coin earned, a twice-yearly holy task, and a one-time holy quest.

Edmund dismissed the offer and pulled his consciousness away, yanking his hand from the shrine and returning to the real world.  The smoke remained.

“Well?” Liam asked.  “Is that a good offer or what?”

Edmund furrowed his brow.  “It certainly asks less of me than the Great Silence did.”

Liam grinned.  “I did say they wouldn’t send you offers they didn’t think you’d agree to.”

“But something in there worries me,” Edmund continued.  “The pact mentions revoking a big chunk of power from the church to give to me.”

“That’s a good thing, Edmund.  You want power.  It’s kind of the whole point.”

“But it doesn’t say anything about me keeping that power,” Edmund countered.  “What’s to stop Oblivion from taking it back the moment I say yes?”

“The same thing that stops any celestial from diluting its pacts with more pacts.  If Oblivion gets a reputation for stiffing its followers, people will stop pledging.”

“But it’d already be stiffing other people to empower me.”  Edmund shook his head and placed his hand back on the shrine, returning to the nothingness just long enough to give his answer.  “No.”

The altar crumbled to dust before him as he pushed himself to his feet.

Liam gaped.  “That was a good offer!”

“Then get me a better one.  One that says in writing they can’t screw me over, or at least one with a celestial I can trust not to.  Revoking power from others doesn’t make for a good selling point.”

“Alright, alright, back to the drawing board.”  Liam sighed.  “Just be careful not to establish a reputation for being picky.  The price of a shrine placement starts to plummet if the bidders think you’re going to turn them down.”

“Why would I care how much they pay you?”

“Because you like being in my good graces?  Because I’m good to my friends?  Because I can’t reward you with unique artifacts I don’t have?  Remember, I can make your experience down here a lot less pleasant than it’s been so far.”

“I’ll accept a pact when I get a good offer, not before.  Now go start your bidding war.”  Edmund waved him off.  “I’ll just be here, risking my life, like always.”

Liam patted him on the back, the avatar’s hand somehow becoming corporeal just long enough to complete the patronizing gesture.  “I’ll leave you to it then.  You have fun!”

Edmund opened his mouth to answer with the scathing retort he absolutely had prepared, but before he could even draw breath, Liam had vanished.  Taking one last glance at the now-empty alcove, Edmund turned to set his sights on the way ahead.

The path between the hills stretched no more than five feet across, leaving Edmund just enough room to maneuver a spear without allowing much space with which to flank him.  Better still, if he stood at the pathway’s center, the heat aura from his swelter ring covered its entire width, effectively walling off his six from anything vulnerable to the swelter.

Liam’s words about throwing him a bone echoed in Edmund’s mind, reinforcing the necessity of the enchanted ring.  Even though it melted the snow beneath his feet, changed the raging blizzard into gentle rainfall, and turned the hillsides into funnels directing mud and snowmelt towards him, Edmund kept it on.  At the very least, it kept him warm, a bit of utility he hadn’t expected the ring to provide, but one he appreciated nonetheless.  For all he knew, without it he’d be halfway to hypothermia.  He just had to keep moving lest he flood the pathway with snowmelt.

He didn’t make it far before the wolves came for him.

Edmund didn’t hear them coming, his sigil-enhanced hearing failing to pick out the nigh-imperceptible crunch of snow beneath paw over the roar of the wind.  They appeared first as shadows in the white out, silhouetted outlines that he sensed rather than saw.  Edmund stilled, peering ahead through his cloudkith sigil as he waited to see what they would do.  His boots sank into the mud as the snow melted around him.

In a smooth, unthreatening gesture, Edmund pulled his shield from his back and looped his arm through it, keeping his spear in pieces for the time being.  Better to leave his hands free, he figured, until he knew more about his foes.

All five of them stepped into view at once, their outlines suddenly fading into visual detail as they emerged from the storm.  It was only then that Edmund realized that their similarity to wolves began and ended with their shape.

The beasts stood over five feet tall, on four legs and paws as one might’ve expected from a canine.  They had the same snouts and brutal incisors and pointed ears, all larger than any mundane wolf.  The creatures lacked, however, a number of traditionally canid features, such as fur, or flesh, or bones.

Before him stood five giant wolves carved of clear ice.  In lieu of fur, a chaotic mess of pointed shards sprung from their backs, solid and still and tilted back just enough to provide a sense of motion.  Their tails hung limply behind them, similarly crafted of downwards-pointed icicles that looked like they could pierce flesh with the slightest bit of pressure.

The snowfall that struck them didn’t collect on their icy bodies, but instead seemed to disappear into them, merging with the creatures to become a part of the greater whole.  Smoke drifted from the damp and dead grass beneath Edmund’s feet to give the beasts a name.

Frostfang Packhunter

The wolf closest to Edmund let out a bone chilling howl, a sharp and scraping sound that seemed to resonate with three dissonant tones at once.  Its pack mates followed suit, joining in the haunting and threatening cry with howls of their own.  A single wolf, the leftmost of the group, charged in.

Edmund braced himself, lowering his shield as he willed the segments of his spear to leap from his body and reform into the eight-foot weapon in his waiting right hand.  His challenger’s mark burned on his arm as the wolf pounced, leaping from the blizzard at Edmund’s waiting form.

It didn’t live to make contact.

The moment the frostfang passed the threshold from the blizzard into the rainfall around Edmund, its features began to soften.  Its pointed spines dulled.  Its tail homogenized.  Its teeth melded into a single, dull mass.  Water droplets dripped from its figure as it flew through the air, leaving a trail of mist in its wake.  By the time it collided with Edmund’s ready shield, the beast was no more than a lump of misshapen ice, cracked and melting in the sweltering heat.

It shattered against Edmund’s shield, a million tiny shards flying through the air in a glimmering display of beauty before they too melted away into naught but falling water.

The remaining wolves howled with rage.

Edmund, at least, realized what Liam had meant about this floor being a favor to Edmund.  The swelter ring alone kept its primary monsters at bay.

The wolves prowled closer, realizing the fate of their pack mate and toeing the line of Edmund’s aura in response.  One by one they triggered his challenger’s mark, and one by one their teeth grew sharper, their spikes longer, their howls more dissonant.

