Casting his attention to the leviathan below him one final time, Edmund made use of his capped-off mana pool and executed his escape plan.

He cast Magma Fissure.

He never saw the crack open up in the monster’s flesh, nor the magma that rose up to fill it.  He saw only the bubbles as the water around it vaporized, exploding into a cloud of bubbles.  The force of the explosion launched him upwards, the steam singeing his skin even as it carried him to safety.

He mistimed step two, his back slamming painfully into the ice faster than he’d expected.  The steam faded away, robbed of its heat by the frigid waters.  His swelter ring went to work melting the ice, but a fog had already spread across Edmund’s mind.  He wouldn’t remain conscious for long.

Edmund Broke Through, shattering a great hole in the ice as he launched himself from the lake and into the blizzard air.  He landed back down on the packed snow with a crunch.  Sharp pain shot up from his left ankle.  He managed a single breath.

Before Edmund could even get a look at his grossly-twisted joint, the ice melted around him and he fell, once more, into the lake.  The buoyancy of his charbone leggings and boots pulled his legs up as the weight of his metal gear tugged his upper half towards the lakebed.

Edmund frantically swam to right himself, gasping for air as his face finally broke the surface.  His ankle throbbed as he tried to kick with it.

Taking in a gulp of air, Edmund resubmerged to examine his injury.  Gritting his teeth, he yanked on his left foot, popping the joint back into place.  Edmund surfaced with a scream.

He tread water there for a few exhausting moments, fighting to maintain consciousness as Perseverance tended to his wounds.  Whenever he swam up to the edge of the ice, it melted before him, clearing the way yet effectively trapping him in the water.  Edmund knew he could climb up if he removed his swelter ring, but that’d leave him soaked to the bone in the middle of a blizzard.

So on he swam.

Minutes or hours—Edmund couldn’t tell—blended together as he tread water for what felt like an eternity, progressing forward only as fast as the ice could melt around him.  He tried all manner of ways to speed his progress, but all efforts to climb on top of the ice ended with it breaking beneath his weight before he could take a step, while any attempt to swim under it required he stop and melt the ice anyway so he could come up for air.

Break Through proved an effective method for trudging through the ice, but he could little afford the stamina it cost, not if he had to tread water for much longer.  Most of his effort went towards keeping himself upright, fighting off the buoyancy of his legs compared to his metal upper armor.

When at last he collapsed upon the muddy shore next to the exit, Liam was waiting.

“Well?  Did you have fun?”

“Please tell me—” Edmund managed through panting breaths.  “Please tell me I don’t have to swim to the bottom of the lake to get my loot.”

“No, no, it’s right here.”  Liam replied, affectionately patting a second loot chest that had arisen.  This new one shined a metallic pale green, built of the rare metal Edmund had come to know as mithril.

He lay there for another few moments, catching his breath and thinking through the absolute chaos of new and unpleasant sensations he’d just experienced.  Mostly, he felt tired, though he knew he’d have nightmares of healing through the drowning for weeks to come.  That was assuming, of course, he made it more than a week without some new horrible experience with which to form nightmares.

“I hate it here,” Edmund breathed.

“You love it here,” Liam chimed.

Ignoring the avatar’s comment, Edmund forced himself to his feet to approach the mithril chest, eager to see what kind of reward he’d earned for felling the leviathan.  Inside he found a small pile of gold coins—eight in total—and a leather belt crafted of dark blue scales.  Apparently, Liam had noticed when the leviathan had smashed his chitin chain.

Edmund picked up the scaly garment, admiring its metallic sheen as he read its name in the smoke.

Belt of the Slumbering Deep

Provides major protection against piercing, ice, and water damage.  Allows buoyancy control of anything looped through it.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to wrap the belt around his waist and loop his sword through it.  He would’ve been happy with a piece of plain leather to hold his weapons, so one with a myriad of resistances, no vulnerabilities, and a buoyancy enchantment to boot was a valuable prize.  The eight gold—enough to more than double his previous fortune—wasn’t so bad either.

As he turned back to face the obnoxious avatar, Edmund noticed that rather than flashing his usual prideful smile, Liam gazed at him expectantly.  Catching his meaning, Edmund shut his eyes and envisioned his constellation.  Sure enough, an image of a dark scale had appeared, flickering unstably beneath his sigils.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.

Edmund paled as he realized the cause of his newest sigil’s insubstantiality.  He’d known for some time sigils capped at three, and thus that he’d have to give one up if he wanted to take another.

Thrax, did he want to take the slumbering deep.

Regeneration while sleeping held questionable value, but the greater health regeneration outshone even his level nine Perseverance.  Water breathing and the various perception options all seemed narrower and generally less powerful than his cloudkith sigil, but would be nice nonetheless.  Even a shadow of the absurd regeneration he’d seen from the leviathan would’ve been worth it.

That left him the question of which sigil to abandon.  He dismissed the azure fox outright, its windsteps and enhanced hearing alone more than worth the sigil slot, even without its potential to grow.

His rootmother’s sigil provided zero combat utility, but the limited water and food he’d purchased for emergencies wouldn’t get him to the next hub.  He knew he’d have to replace the sigil eventually, his dependence on Liam providing him soil from which to draw nutrients a weakness he couldn’t abide forever.  Edmund swore to himself then and there he’d purchase at least a month’s rations when he got to the merchants on the twenty-fifth.

His cloudkith sigil made the most sense.  It was his only sigil without a trailblazer bonus, and while a poor replacement, the weak dark vision from the slumbering deep would at least soften the blow of the loss.  It felt wrong, abandoning his cloudkith sigil just after it’d proved essential to clearing the floor, but to be truthful, he’d only used it a few times since earning it back on the ninth floor.  He’d make do with his other perception abilities.

The moment the thought struck his head, the image of cloudkith conjurer faded from his mind’s eye.  The blue scale solidified in its place.

Edmund blinked his constellation away to find Liam still staring at him.  With a sigh, he spoke.  “I took the sigil.”

“That doesn’t sound like a thank you.”

“That’s because it isn’t.”  Edmund stepped past him to gather up his satchel from where he’d left it.  He paused at the lakeside to rinse as much mud from his gear as he could, managing to clean up fairly well if he ignored his boots.  Those would have to wait until he found another source of water.

Liam blinked.  “I’ve been more than generous.”

“And I’ve been more than entertaining,” Edmund snapped.  “That’s what you want from me, right?  Entertainment?”

“You don’t have to be rude about it.”

“Last I checked, there was nothing in the dungeon accords about exchanging pleasantries.”

“There’s also nothing in the accords about offering advice or useful information, and yet I keep doing it,” Liam said, a sharpness to his ever-casual tone.  “The next time you receive a pact offer, I’d advise you take it.  Bidding has already slowed down.  Celestials are dragging their feet.  I’ll drag things out as long as I can, but that means it’ll be a few days or weeks before you get another offer.”

“I want the right offer, not the soonest offer,” Edmund said.  “I’ll wait.”

“Great, you should just know that the more specific your requirements, the less powerful you can expect your pact to—”

“I’m aware,” Edmund cut him off, stepping past the avatar again.  Without looking over his shoulder, he approached the exit and addressed Liam one more time.  “Don’t pretend you aren’t profiting from my selectivity.  I know every round of bidding’s a payday for you.”

Liam didn’t speak.

“That’s what I thought,” Edmund replied to Liam’s silence.  “I’ll see you on the next floor.”  Without regard for Liam’s thoughts on the matter, Edmund pushed past both the dungeon’s warnings and the sharp memories of his experience beneath the frozen lake, and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 19

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 7 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 7 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 8 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 10 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 14 - See beyond reality.  Touch the unreal.  Shape your world.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 3 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.
