Twenty-four hour cooldown.  Absorbs a single instance of a thermally-aligned offensive spell thrown at the wearer.

Edmund blinked at the strange talisman, trying to decide how useful it would be.  Thermally-aligned seemed like a simultaneously too specific and strangely vague condition, but the ability to absorb an attack—even only one per day—sounded incredible.  Any foe that wielded ice, fire, heat, frost, magma, and more would be effectively unable to sneak attack him.

He slipped it around his neck without hesitation, the second chance it offered—even in narrow conditions—well worth a floor’s loot.  At first he tried slipping it under his cuirass, but the curved point of the frostfang dug painfully enough into his chest that he opted instead to let it hang loose.  The thing seemed sturdy enough to survive a bit of bouncing around.

Once the two gold pieces had joined their compatriot in Edmund’s satchel, he shut the chest and sat atop it before closing his eyes to envision his constellation.  Two potential strategies offered themselves.

If his ultimate goal was to level-up Madness as quickly as possible, the optimal choice would be to spend his next three Aspects on combining War with each of the tier twos of which Madness was a part.  On the other hand, the resulting tier threes would be less powerful than the potential higher-tier confluence he could form next if he took a base Aspect immediately.

As Edmund recalled, conventional wisdom leaned towards always forming all available confluences with two tiers of one’s highest before selecting a new base Aspect.  Since The Breach sat at tier five, he imagined most scholars would’ve told him to make every tier three he possibly could.

Edmund dismissed that bit of conventional wisdom right off the bat.  Even if he decided to combine War with Madness’s confluences, he had no intention of making the other tier threes.  He’d already decided confluences that didn’t include Madness weren’t worth his time.

He wondered if his unique situation counteracted the thinkings of the scholars.  He saw the immediate benefit to upgrading Madness as many times as possible, but he also figured a significant chunk of the reason one might make every possible tier three was in search of more resonance.  Edmund had already found his resonance.

The list of tier twos with Madness he’d gotten from that scholar back on the tenth floor popped into his mind, each more interesting than the last.  He knew, intellectually, that picking a base Aspect would weaken him, that until he’d formed multiple high-tier confluences with it, it would be an incredibly inefficient selection.  Still he wondered what a tier six might look like.  Still he dreamed of what The Philosopher might become if he could just skip straight to leveling it up.

Edmund sighed, torn between what he knew he should do and what he wanted to do.  In the end, surviving today took precedence.  It didn’t matter how powerful his tier six would be if taking a subpar Aspect cost him his life before he even got there.

That left him with three options, or at least the decision of the order in which to select them.  Obsession seemed the obvious choice.  Smoke Lash, while powerful, had turned out to be more situational than Edmund might’ve liked.  The Recluse proved similarly problematic, its upside hard to quantify and its downside, while pleasant, a significant issue on more populated floors.

Obsession’s downside he’d yet to truly face, and likely never would.  Edmund had no intention of pausing his downward progress, nor of allowing anything to distract him from the vengeance he so righteously sought.  With one last cycle through it all to confirm the soundness of his reasoning, Edmund selected Obsession and War, and formed their confluence.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Edmund squinted as he read and reread the description, noting its similarities to War.  For an Aspect called The Warmonger, he supposed that made sense.  His newest confluence provided a much stronger version of the boon War did, with the caveat that he had to be the aggressor.  He figured that’s what it meant to prove one’s obsession with war.

A quick glance showed that none of the four component Aspects had changed other than their increase in level, though he held out hope that Madness would get a new piece of text when it hit level fifteen on the next floor.

The sensation of the loot chest slowly sinking into the mud pulled Edmund from his thoughts.  He blinked away his constellation to return to the world at large, pushing himself to his feet as he set his sights on the frozen lake.  A part of him wanted to leave it, let whatever sleeping beast lie and simply move on to the next floor.  It would’ve been easy.  The exit was right there.

But Edmund couldn’t do that.  His experience fighting alongside the Durne brothers had only reinforced the fact that he’d come to the Depths under leveled for its challenges, and that he needed every advantage he could gather.  At the moment, his next advantage lay underwater, beneath a foot of ice.

His swelter ring still resting comfortably on his left index finger and his satchel safely stowed on the shore, Edmund stepped away from the swampy yet stable bank by the exit and into the lake.  The ice cracked and melted around him as he waded in, slow but unyielding in the face of mud and slush.  The water itself, which he knew to be frigid elsewhere and scalding near him, felt comfortably warm against his skin, a perk of his swelter ring for which he’d be eternally grateful.

Only once the water level reached his chest did Edmund complete the plunge, ducking his head beneath the fresh water to glimpse through its dreary depths.  Darkness reigned.  As well as the false sunlight managed to pierce the clouds and the snowfall up above, the thick blanket of snow and ice proved too much a challenge for it.

Were he not underwater, Edmund might’ve finally found a use for the torches he’d bought.  Instead he relied solely upon his cloudkith sense and his best interpretation of the faint vibrations that tickled his ears.  The latter proved that something lurked beneath the ice.  The former revealed nothing.

Edmund stood, his head breaking the water’s surface as he came up for air and to reevaluate.  His first conclusion was that he didn’t need to bother irritating his eyes by keeping them open underwater—the darkness rendered them useless anyway.  The next matter at hand was to wonder if he really intended to swim, blind and immobile and unable to breathe, into a frigid abyss where Thrax knew what awaited him.

Of course he did.  How did he expect to overcome the Eternal Depths themselves if he couldn’t even handle some not-so-eternal depths?

The layer of ice atop the lake gave him pause, less a barrier than a hindrance to his escape.  He’d have to wait near the surface for his ring to melt the ice before he could come up for air, or else find some other way past it.  Edmund had a few ideas.

He took a few moments to breathe, deep, slow, belly breaths with the intent to slow his heart rate as much as possible.  Once he’d calmed himself as best he could, Edmund filled his lungs one last time and took the plunge.

Time slowed as the water enveloped him.  Every crack in the ice above, every eddy in the water from his arm strokes, every pulse of blood past his ears seemed to come in slow motion, their tones deepened and muffled and stretched as he heard them.

Edmund kicked further down, following the slope of the lakebed.  Unlike beneath the snow, the ground beneath the lake played host to no life.  No grass—dead or otherwise—no algae, no seaweed populated the lake floor.

A deep and distant groaning sound traversed the waters to reach his ears, coming from everywhere at once as it bounced around off the silt below and ice above.  Instinctively, Edmund raised his head to look for its source, his closed eyes accomplishing absolutely nothing as his cloudkith sense did all the real work.  He found nothing but dark and empty water above and lifeless dirt below.

Until the lifeless dirt burst up towards him, a cloud of mud blooming around him in all directions.  To anyone else, it might’ve proved a distraction.  Edmund’s cloudkith sense couldn’t tell the difference between lightless water and muddy lightless water, peering through both without difficulty.

The ground itself slammed into him, crashing abruptly into his horizontal form with unceasing force.  He sensed rigid scales the size of dinner plates up against his armor.  Beyond that he knew nothing of the beast.  His cloudkith sense couldn’t pierce a layer of compact mud, let alone solid objects, leaving him with the size and shape of the creature’s scales and not much else to go on.

Other than its size, of course.  Across the diminished ten-yard range of his cloudkith sense, he sensed only the beast’s back.  A row of raised ridges he took for its spine stretched down to his left, yet in both directions he only sensed where the monster’s back just began to curve down into its sides.  Whatever had slammed into him stretched at least sixty feet wide and some unknowable distance long.

Edmund was going to kill it.

Water rushed around him as the leviathan moved, inertia sweeping Edmund across its back as he failed to find a handhold.  He scrambled for his spear tip as the monster moved beneath him, palming the topmost segment with his right hand.  With an overhand swing, he slammed the metal tip into the creature’s back.

It skidded off, scraping against the hard scales with barely a scratch.

The blunt mound of the leviathan’s spine slammed into Edmund’s left side.  A great crack rang out, deep and echoey beneath in the dark water.  No pain accompanied it, forcing Edmund to glance down to find the source of the noise.

His belt floated off him, the weight of his sword dragging away and up against the beast’s back.  Edmund scowled as his chain of the lesser cave mantis fell away, its chitin links smashed to shards.

Snatching his sword by its sheath, Edmund drew the poisoned weapon.  Clasping both hands around its pommel, he plunged the short sword into the leviathan, aiming its tip at the seam between two scales.

The force of the blow pushed Edmund up and away from the monster’s back even as the sword sank into its flesh.  Edmund yanked on the blade to pull himself back towards the beast, achieving his goal at the cost of withdrawing the steel from the wound.

Before his eyes the injury knit itself shut.

Edmund might’ve muttered a curse had he the breath to spare.  Instead he considered fleeing, his lungs already aching for air.  He might’ve made no progress towards killing the thing, but he’d at least found it—not that something so gargantuan would’ve been easy to miss.

As he thought to kick off from the creature’s back, the site of the wound caught his attention.  While the gash had knit itself shut so fast barely a drop of blood had escaped into the water, a narrow scar remained.  The flesh sat raised ever so slightly, leaving a visible gap between the monster’s scales.

Edmund had his opening, one he’d surely lose in the beast’s enormity if he went up for air.  He’d just have to be quick about it.

Reversing his grip on his sword, Edmund grabbed the propped-up scale to secure himself and slammed scorpion’s sting into the exposed flesh.  The blade slipped in to the hilt, just shy of parallel to the monster’s skin.

Only then did Edmund activate Rend.

The short sword cleaved free of the leviathan’s back, taking a chunk of flesh with it.  A three-foot gash remained, several inches wide and several more deep.  This time, Edmund didn’t let it regenerate.

Tossing his sword to his left hand, he jammed his right into the wound, curling his fingers sharply into the cords of muscle below.  The flesh regenerated around him, but Edmund didn’t mind.  He had his handhold and his opening.  All that remained was for his right hand—or more accurately, two of its fingers—buried in the leviathan’s back, to do its job.

Edmund reached his will through his two fingers of the crimson hand and began to pull.

Clarity, energy, and vitality flooded into him.  Every wound on his body healed shut.  Every ache drained away.  Every sore muscle recovered entirely.  Toxic carbon dioxide leached away from his body and into the water around him, banished by the healing effects of the crimson hand.  Soreness and byproducts of anaerobic respiration pooled around his pores to be swept away by the fresh water around him.

His lungs still burned, still screamed for oxygen, but down here there was no air to be found.  Instead, Edmund breathed in the leviathan’s very life force.  What a monstrous life force it was.

The dark shadows that had begun to gather in the corner of Edmund’s vision vanished entirely as the flood of mana and stamina banished his body’s instinct to pass out from the lack of air.  Time slowed.  Excruciating moments passed as Edmund existed in an unnatural state of simultaneous suffocation and perfect health.

A deep and dull roar echoed through the frozen lake, its pain and rage distorted in the dark water.  In a single move the beast jerked itself downward, the motion far sharper and more sudden than should’ve been possible for a thing its size.  Displaced water rushed past him in a great torrent, tearing his hand from the monsters back, reopening the wound in the process.

But even as his hand came away, the life drain continued.

Barely perceptible to his cloudkith sense, two tendrils of smoke—an impossibility underwater—stretched from Edmund’s fingers into the leviathan’s open wound.  Life force streamed along them, one healing Edmund and the other charging up a Blood Bolt.

New pains came and went as cells healed that didn’t need healing, over-recovering until new tissue grew where it didn’t belong, only to be killed off again as his body recognized the danger.  Blood leaked from his eyes and nose as his body produced more than it needed or could even hold.  Cancerous cells exploded in population and died off just as quickly, forming lumps and bruises and growths upon his skin that peeled off or healed over as the leviathan’s monstrous life force overwhelmed him.

Only once a veritable cloud of blood and skin and bile and pus hung in the water around him did the torrent finally cease.  Edmund didn’t stop to wonder if the beast had finally died or if his connection to it had somehow severed.  Already the lightheadedness returned.  Already his lungs ached.  Already his body threatened to pass out.  He needed air.

