They sang out once again, their frozen canid throats joining together in an eerie mishmash of dissonance and harmony.  The blizzard answered.

Wind buffeted Edmund, blowing against the sail-like surface of his shield.  He held himself steady, leaning into the gale to maintain his footing, even as the force of it drove him back.  He planted his feet in an attempt to stand his ground, but the quagmire of his own making offered little traction.  He slid backwards, uneasy and off balance.

The wolves pressed forward, keeping just outside the range of his aura as the unnatural wind forced Edmund back.  To what end, Edmund couldn’t guess.  They threw no projectiles and made no charge, no doubt kept back by his heat.  He wondered if, unable to kill him themselves, the wolves hoped to force him back through the entrance or simply stop his advance through the floor.  Depending on their level of intelligence, perhaps they thought they could overpower or tire out his swelter ring somehow.

The blizzard above him sharpened into a deluge, the falling snow melting as it fell into a downpour of rain.  Edmund wondered if he’d have been facing deadly hail without his swelter ring.

Either way, the wolves had made their pitiful attempts at killing him.

It was Edmund’s turn.

Shifting his spear over to his shield hand, Edmund launched a Firebolt at the rightmost wolf.  The projectile flared brightly as it shot through the heat aura, steam bursting out in a cloud around it as it vaporized the falling water.  In the brief second after it escaped the effect of Edmund’s aura, the chill seemed to take hold, diminishing the vigor of the flames.  It traveled less than a foot into the blizzard before it struck its target.

The Firebolt extinguished immediately as it crashed into the frostfang’s jaw, sending shards of ice and water and steam blasting out in all directions as the very hot met the very cold.  The vapor crystalized midair, glimmering brilliantly in the diffuse false sunlight for a few wondrous moments, painting the air itself in stunning beauty even as the wolf collapsed beneath it.  All that remained of its head were the very tips of its ears and those spines furthest from the point of impact.

Two down, three to go.

Out of curiosity more than anything else, Edmund struck next with a Magma Fissure, cracking open the earth beneath the wolves.  They yelped and leapt back, far too nimble to fall into such a trap, but the waves of heat radiating from the spell dealt damage enough.  By the time the wolves collected themselves behind the great wall of steam the magma generated in the blizzard, several inches had melted from their legs, leaving them to walk on dull stumps rather than clawed paws.

Edmund blinked with a moment’s surprise as the Magma Fissure left him with less of a mental fog than it normally did.  He recognized Obsession’s work, noting a month must’ve passed if it’d begun improving his mana pool.

Opting not to push his luck, Edmund dispatched the remaining wolves with yet more Firebolts, taking out the first two with a spell each, but requiring two casts of the fiery projectile to land a hit on the final frostfang.  He came away from the encounter cursing himself for missing a spell but otherwise stunned at how easily he’d won.

Refusing to allow the simplicity of the fight and Liam’s comments about an easy floor to drag him into complacency, Edmund stopped for an hour to regenerate his mana, taking the opportunity to lay his bare hand against the muddy ground.  After the all-metal seventeenth floor, his body needed the nutrients and moisture his rootmother’s sigil provided.  Edmund wondered if the ready access to fertile soil had also been a part of Liam’s so-called favor.

He kept his spear divided and attached to his body as he set out once more, deciding a free hand with which to throw Firebolts was more valuable than a melee weapon within the confines of his swelter ring.  The path wound to and fro for another hundred paces without incident before the hillsides retreated and the floor opened up before him.

Edmund’s cloudkith sigil couldn’t see more than some thirty yards ahead—a good twenty more than his eyes could pierce the blizzard—but what he did see held three determining characteristics: empty, white, and incredibly flat.  The steep snowy hillsides that constituted this floor’s walls jutted out in both directions, disappearing into the whiteout before they gave any hint of turning back towards each other.

There was only white.  A pristine blanket of soft snow stretched wide across the vast space, entirely devoid of flora, fauna, or terrain of any sort—at least as far as Edmund could sense.  The clouds above shone blinding alabaster beneath the false sunlight, as the endless snowfall and powder blown in the gale painted the air itself in glimmering pearly hues.

He realized his dilemma the moment he saw what lay ahead.  Still he approached, wanting to confirm his suspicion before taking action one way or the other.  Sure enough, the moment he left the sheltered path for the open space, the muddy ground took a downward turn, and the snowmelt pooled around his feet.  He took two more steps to cement his conclusion, finding, as expected, that with each the ground grew lower while the water level remained constant.

Edmund gazed out over the frozen lake and pondered his course of action.

He couldn’t travel straight across, not unless he dared remove his swelter ring or else go for a swim.  Fighting off the uncomfortable impression he’d be going for a swim whether he wanted to or not, for the time being he’d keep his options open.

Traversing along the lakeside made the most sense.  If the water was shallow enough, he could keep his heat aura active, and if not, at least he’d have a hillside to his back at all times.  That way, the frostfangs or whatever the hells else was out there couldn’t flank him as easily.

Edmund selected the rightward bank, keeping the wall to his right to leave his shield between him and the open space as he traveled.  His ring still on, he set off.

The frozen lake extended all the way to the very base of the hillside, leaving Edmund standing on a treacherously steep surface either above or below the waterline.  Worse yet, the slope rejected his bids to climb it, growing suspiciously slick whenever he attempted to put weight on the higher ground.  He tried once to ascend by slamming his two pointed spear-pieces into the earth like climbing picks, but the moment he tried to pull himself up, an obviously supernatural gale of wind would come and force him off.

“Okay, okay,” Edmund muttered, knowing Liam—present or otherwise—could hear him.  “No climbing the walls.  Got it.”

Keeping off the hill proved little better, as his boots sank deep into the soft silt, the mud clinging to his shins and ankles with a vengeance.  Given the option between facing the frostfangs and the chill of the blizzard unprotected or trudging at a snail’s pace, a sitting duck for anything that could attack through his heat aura, Edmund chose to face the cold.

His ring stored safely in his satchel, he set off once more along the bank.  The thick layer of snow crunched beneath his feet, the top inch or so flattening readily while that beneath it held hard-packed and firm.  From the cross sections he’d seen as his ring had melted through it, he stood upon just over a foot of snow and another of solid ice.

He kept his eyes and cloudkith sense peeled for any sign of attack, but it was his ears that first caught wind of danger lurking in the whiteout.  A multi-toned and dissonant howl echoed somewhere in the blizzard.  Two more answered from somewhere else.

Whether he’d heard two groups coordinating an assault or one telling the other to back off, Edmund readied himself for battle.  With his ring no longer keeping him at range, Edmund reformed his hyper-magnetic spear, pushing his hand past the second loop of his shield to grasp the weapon.  It would be of little use there, and with his shield hand busy his defense would be less stable, but he’d be ready to switch from lobbing spells to deflecting attacks at a moment’s notice.

The wolves came six at once.  They appeared in his sphere of perception in perfect sync, forming a semicircle around him to trap him against the wall.  Edmund’s first instinct was to reach for his swelter ring and accept his immobility in exchange for its protection, but he realized the wolves could just back away and return to strike him the moment he tried to climb out of the ensuing morass.

Instead, taking care to avoid sudden movements as the wolves growled and postured, he slowly withdrew the ring from his satchel and palmed it.  It’d make for a good last resort should he have need of one.

Even as his challenger’s mark activated, Edmund figured he wouldn’t.

Edmund struck first and with fury, launching a Firebolt for the rightmost wolf.  The beast died before it could even let out a whimper.

Three of the remaining five charged in at once, the other two lingering behind as they opened their icy jaws to unleash their signature howls.  Edmund’s next Firebolt ended the righthand attacker before it could take a second step, leaving him to grab his spear with his main hand and brace himself for contact.

The wind struck first.

A single gust of startling power slammed Edmund from behind, striking the back of his shield like a sail and yanking him forward and to his left.  The force and direction of the gale brought his shield slamming directly into the pouncing leftward wolf, crushing its jaw with a great crack.  It let out a whimper and limped away.

His spear managed no such luck.  Edmund had more than enough combat experience to keep ahold of his weapon and maintain its direction, but the act of stumbling in the wind broke the stability of the stance behind it.  The hard body of the third wolf slammed into his unstably held weapon and knocked it aside.  Its tip scratched against the ice, but dealt little damage.

The frostfang slammed into Edmund’s chest, bowling him over and onto his back.  His spear fell from his grasp, rolling away on the flat surface of the frozen lake.  Deadly fangs clamped down upon his helmet, scratching and crushing at the ebonsteel.  Edmund’s ears rang with the horrible sound of sharpened ice scraping against metal.  His helm dented and warped with the force of the assault, but saved him from physical harm.

It didn’t stop the chill.

Everywhere the wolf’s maw touched, sharp and biting cold spread through the ebonsteel, first numbing and then burning and then numbing again the tender flesh beneath.  Edmund struggled wildly to throw the beast from him, kicking and bucking on instinct more than anything else.

Normally in such a situation, he might’ve reached for his sword or slammed at the thing with his shield or thrown a spell at point blank range, all of which might’ve worked, and all which might’ve exposed his bare hand to further injury.

In this situation, he slipped his finger through the swelter ring.

The wolf leapt back immediately, a high-pitched yelp escaping from its lips.  The snow beneath Edmund’s back melted away, soaking through his cuirass and leggings with water that felt warm to him but he knew to be scalding.  He struggled to push himself to his feet, fighting against the slippery surface and unpredictable gusts of wind that sought to destabilize him.  By the time he made it upright, the wolf had collapsed into a rapidly-melting lump of ice.

Only the two that’d stayed back to howl at the wind remained.

Edmund launched yet another Firebolt, ending the first survivor before it could raise its voice again.  The final frostfang stepped back, realizing by its pack mates’ deaths the futility of direct assault.  Edmund had no intention of letting it escape.

His last Firebolt struck the beast in the behind, blasting its rear into steam and melting away its tail and hind legs.  Still it scrambled away, scrabbling desperately at the snow with its front paws.  Edmund pulled the ring from his finger and climbed back up onto the ice.  He calmly collected his weapon from where it’d fallen, trudged into the blizzard, and shattered the beast’s head with the butt of his spear.

No further howls echoed across the frozen lake.

Edmund returned to the relative safety of the hillside before allowing his heart rate to slow.  He shivered violently against the chill, his face aching where the wolf’s teeth had touched his helm and his entire body growing numb as the frigid air assaulted his wet armor.  Edmund stepped as close to the hillside as the treacherous surface would allow before returning the ring to his finger.

He lingered there for some time, sinking into the mud and allowing his feet to grow thoroughly soaked in the shallow water as he enjoyed the ring’s warmth.  He waited as the swelter banished the chill from the air and Perseverance restored his frostbitten flesh, allowing his body to dry out as best it could in the ongoing snowfall.  Only once he’d recovered to his fullest did Edmund set out once more.

His precaution proved for naught.  No monsters made themselves known, no traps threatened to injure or restrain him any more than the biting chill or clinging mud, and no secrets lay hidden in the hillside.  Edmund walked for what must’ve been hours, stopping with regularity to don the swelter ring whenever the teeth-chattering cold grew too much to bear, before the hillside finally opened up to reveal a wooden door with a veil of darkness behind it.

A chime rang out.  A glimmering red chest arose from the frozen ground.

Edmund let out a curse.  He knew he wasn’t done, that the exit and a piece of loot and a new Aspect weren’t all this floor had to offer.  The obviousness of it all pained him.  Liam had even made a point of letting him know this would be a particularly easy floor for him to clear, as if he’d somehow take the dungeon at its word.

Liam’s statement that he’d been doing Edmund a favor by offering an easy floor bore the direct implication that he shouldn’t question why it was all so easy.  Implications, as Edmund had learned, didn’t have to follow the strict rules outlined in the accords about the dungeon lying to its delvers.  Thrax, Liam might as well have shouted that some great challenge awaited him if he could manage to find it.

Edmund knew exactly where to look.  The Eternal Depths hadn’t built an entire frozen lake just to stop him from abusing his swelter ring.

He went for the loot chest first, swinging open the metallic vermillion lid to reveal two gold coins and what appeared to be a frostfang tooth on a string.  Edmund read its purpose on the rising smoke around him.

Frostfang Talisman

