“I don’t think it will be so changed,” Aarl said. “We haven’t been gone so long, and Litcliff looked as it did before. Well, accounting for the rebuilding.”

“They would not mimic any changes in Gemore,” Khachi said. “Not after the mark we left on the city. But I approved of the new rulers. It seems a more welcoming city than the one we left.”

“Or just more terrified,” Sarah suggested with an amused tone. “They knew who we were.”

Stella chuckled, but she addressed Aarl. “Hear me, Gemore will be very different. You’re not accounting for the magnitude of the Insights we left behind. I’m expecting walls of metal and towers of lightning. Guns the size of stalkers and alchemical tanks the size of houses.”

Aarl shook his head. “In time, yes. But it hasn’t even been a year. We’re going to get home right before the solstice.”

“Assuming there is one,” Sarah said darkly. “We don’t know if the solstices have been changed. Failing to defend the seal is how the blights start. I don’t know how those will change after what happened at the conclave."

They all fell silent at the familiar wound that was Nathan’s absence. With time and distance it was no longer raw, and the Questors had reassured them that he’d succeeded. Davrar was different now, in ways too grand to be easily seen. But whatever “uploading his consciousness” meant, it hadn’t obviously changed Davrar’s behavior. They had seen no sign of their friend since that day in the conclave when he’d dissolved into nothing.

They travelled towards Gemore, moving much faster than on their outward journey so many months before. It had taken them days to reach the coast from Gemore. Now it took them hours to make the return trip borne on Stella’s winds.

“Lots of craters,” the mage remarked, pointing down at a battlefield. It looked like there had once been a dungeon down there, but now it was a pile of shattered rock surrounded by a field of craters.

“Do you think…?” Aarl started, but Sarah interrupted him.

“Smoke,” the sniper said, pointing ahead in the direction of distant Gemore. Old Gemore wasn’t even in sight yet, much less the settlement at its heart, but there was a tiny smudge on the horizon that Sarah's enhanced vision had classified as a pillar of smoke.

“Let speed find our steps,” Khachi chanted, the golden light that always spilled from him growing in intensity. But Sarah spoke again before he could continue the prayer. She’d looked down the length of her rifle, using her skills to get a greater magnification. "False target. It’s fires of industry, not fires of destruction. Dragon’s breath, that's a lot of industry. I think Stella wins the bet.”

“Ha!” she crowed. “By the dawn’s light, I’m glad to hear it.”

“No need to slow down,” Aarl said. “My heart will be glad to be home.”

The Heirs passed over the ruins of old Gemore, not bothering to land to take the spatially compressed transit roads. They could now fly at similar speeds, and being in the air gave them better sightlines. “More craters,” Sarah remarked. “Look, the rubble around the transit roads is cleared. This looks like a battlefield for wizards.”

“Small wizards, perhaps,” Stella said smugly. “My craters are a fair bit larger.”

“The placement is more important than the size,” Aarl said, continuing a long-running joke.

Khachi groaned. “I never thought Nathan a great wit, but our jokes were better when he was here.”

It wasn’t long before the city itself was visible to the unenhanced eye, and it was certainly different than they’d left it. The old walls had been tall stone constructions at the bottom of the mountain, the final line of defense in the heart of Old Gemore. Since Gemore’s founding, they’d been further enlarged with scavenged stone. But that wall had been dismantled at some point in the recent past, replaced by a new one farther out. But contrary to Stella’s prediction, it wasn’t a shining wall of metal. It had metal support pillars and watchtowers, but the bulk was still composed of ancient stone blocks. Extending from the top of each tower was a metal spike that occasionally sparked with electricity.

“It’s close enough. Stella still claims victory,” Khachi declared. Aarl huffed, though he couldn’t really disagree. He’d predicted that all of the changes of Gemore would be smaller in scale, new classes and new weapons, not entirely new construction.

The Heirs didn’t feel like testing if those sparking towers could hit air targets, and landed at the front gate. Something else that was new was a line. It appeared that one place Gemore had decided to be conservative with was the thorough checks for parasites, cursed items, and undue mental effects that happened at the front gate. But there’d never been enough traffic in the past to cause problems.

But that appeared to have changed, and the Heirs joined four other parties waiting to enter Gemore. The people being checked out right now looked like they were from one of the villages, though they carried guns of a new design. The second group was from the empire of Agmon across the sea of grass, a group of genteel orcs dressed in fine clothing and guarded by a set of dour legionaries. The third group was an Adventuring party from Gemore itself, also mostly carrying guns, though one of them seemed to be wearing a steam-powered armored suit that towered nearly fifteen feet tall. Then the final group was from Giantsrest or Halsmet, with some of the group dressed in the unmistakable black armor that had once marked the slave-elites of Giantsrest.

Most of the parties recognized the Heirs, cheering as they came in for a landing with “Hail the Heirs!”, “Giant’s blood, they’re back!”, and other similar words. Each of the groups made their greetings, and the Heirs exchanged them happily, recognizing some fellow adventurers from their same training crop. Aarl knew some of the slave-elites, having worked with them in Halsmet. They were here as part of a regular trade route across the mountains, which mostly consisted of enchanted items coming from Giantsrest and manufactured goods flowing back.

The delegation from Agmon eyed the Heirs with uncertainty, and almost objected when the other parties ushered them through to the head of the line. But their attention lingered on the openly displayed artifacts each of the Heirs carried, as well as the other markers of extremely high level. Like Stella’s faintly glowing eyes, Khachi’s ever-present glow, or the way that Sarah and Aarl’s every move was supernaturally fluid.

The guards sized them up, and the leader sighed. “Anything I should be concerned about?” She addressed the question to Khachi.

“I swear on my power that we are not ensorceled, cursed, or possessed in any relevant way. We have several magical items of vast destructive power, but our own personal power is also sufficient to destroy the city, so I do not think them exceptional.”

The normally unperturbable guards were certainly perturbed by that statement, but they waved the Heirs through regardless. “You know better than to sell anything like that. We’ve sent messages up the hill. Head straight to the council. They’ll be ready for you as long as you don’t run.”

The Heirs thanked the guards, bid farewell to the other Adventurers, and entered the city they’d travelled to the ends of Davrar to protect.

“It seems smaller than before,” Aarl said.

Khachi nodded. “Indeed, but it is still home. I hope that we can guide Gemore to its own end, to rival those great metropolises while maintaining its inherent nature.”

Aarl snorted. “I meant the wall. It’s not nearly as thick as the old one.”

The Heirs came out into the city of Gemore proper and stared around at the new construction. The construction of the new wall had granted the city some extra real estate, and it was all filled with new construction in a style that used a lot of metal, including some large, boxlike structures that appeared to be entirely made of rolled steel plates. This was where all the smoke was coming from, pumped through large smokestacks that released the fumes high into the air. There were air enchantments up there to channel the pollution up and away from the city, leaving the fitted stone streets shaded but remarkably clean.

“Huh,” was all Stella said as she watched a large carriage trundle by, loaded with huge metal plates. It was driven by some kind of bucking steam engine, closely watched by the driver who occasionally smacked it with a wrench. “This is more than I expected.”

A sardonic new voice called out to them. “An encroaching Ending encourages adoption of novel Insights. You left us with a dungeon of them.” The speaker was Sudraiel, looking older than ever as she limped down the street supported by her spear. The guildmistress of the Gemore Adventurer’s Guild had always been old, but it looked like the last year had been hard on her, with the liver spots large on sunken skin. She gave them a quick once-over, frowning. “Nathan?”

She winced at Khachi’s shaken head. “Ah, that’s a surprise. My bones said he’d survive the Ending itself. But you went on a quest that most would call a prophecy of death. That you come back at all is a welcome light.” She jerked her head back up the mountain that served as the foundation of Gemore. “Come, the council is assembling.”

“He did what none of us could -” Stella started, but Sudraiel waved a hand to interrupt her.

“Don’t tell this story twice. Let me describe what you’ve returned to. Gemore is much changed since you left, and I thought I could be a fine guide.”

“When did you enlarge the walls?” Sarah asked, accepting Sudraiel’s change of subject and joining the old woman as she strode unevenly into Gemore.

“Not long after you left, we realized that applying all of the new Insights from that book of yours was going to require a lot of new construction. So we built the new steelmill outside of the walls and used the first few runs to build the new ones, using the stone from the old walls. Now we’ve got a few dozen mages with metal mana, and they can assemble a building in days if the material is provided. Halsmet is eager to provide ore in return for food, and the influx of dimensional bags from Giantsrest is making the logistics easy.” She gestured around as they walked, naming a few buildings as they passed them. “The steelmill is over there. The monsters have also been less aggressive, the last few months.”

The steelmill was an agglomeration of buildings that looked like it had been expanded again and again, and carried no less than four massive smokestacks. Sudraiel explained it with a practiced patter. “It’s as much magic as it is metal. Fire enchantments for the forges, air magic to ensure the bessemer works well, charcoal for carbonizing the metal.” She sighed. “I know more about metal than I ever meant to learn.” Then she gestured to the next building over, which looked ike it had been blown up and repaired several times. “The experimental workshop.” She said it with the tone you use to describe a monster that devours children.

“I swear doom on those fools and the demands of their experiments. River mud to improve tempering, bluestone and Edrani construct wreckage for new alloys. They’re using electricity mana for arc-forging now.” Sudraiel shook her head in exasperation. “But they invented the new armored suits, and the leveling speeds of those inside are blasphemous. They’re burned by their own fire often, but every day the dawn falls on new Insights. I always imagined my Archive as a hallowed place, with young adventurers coming to learn secrets of magic and martial prowess in quiet contemplation. But now it's a place for arguments over elemental composition and engine pressure tolerances.”

She indicated the next building over, which was dominated by tall metal tanks. “The chemical works. Poppy is happy, and he’s got his own brace of students.”

“What are they making?” Sarah asked, suddenly interested. “Gunpowder?”

Sudraiel scoffed. “We have a new edge to hold now. Some months ago he perfected a recipe similar to what Nathan named cordite, and we make it in massive amounts. We use it to crack annoying dungeons, but Halsmet wants every pound for mining.”

Khachi seemed worried by all of this. “We named several worries in our book. Things that could cause problems. I worry at the cost of such rapid change.”

“Ah, it’s as if you’ve listened in on the council meetings,” Sudraiel said dryly. “Yes, we debate it daily. But houses are built, monsters are killed, and all thrive on the bounty. We require that people do not inflict their costs on others. It’s a dungeon of fools, but it hasn’t been so bad thus far. There’s a waste heap out in the ruins of the city that worries me, but I keep being reminded that we can just have Archmage Hibril disintegrate it if necessary.”

Stella blinked in surprise. “He ended up here? That archmage that Nathan crippled?”

“He did, and he brought the entire town of Azamar with him. They arrived not long after you left. Half left for the villages, but the rest built their own homes over hence.” She gestured towards a tall set of buildings built into the mountainside, steel jutting from the stone and faced with glass. “They’ve brought incredible glasswork to us, and Hibril teaches classes on every aspect of magic.” Sudraie cocked an eyebrow at Stella. “Your parents are farting ice about it, but they’re not going to deny the Insights of an archmage.”

“It’s quite a tally of deeds,” Aarl said, marveling at all of the activity and change. “At this rate, you’d have beaten the Ending on your own.”

Sudraiel caught his turn of phrase and hissed out a surprised breath. But instead of following up, her smile turned down. “Don’t foresee the dawn. You handed us a tome of Insights that brought us here in a frantic year of building. But all of the easy treasure is picked. The last few months have been slower, and the future will be slower still. We are a town of engineers working on inherited knowledge, not scientists discovering things anew. People venture into the realm of the unknown, but rarely find success. There are passages in the Liber Physicae that nobody understands, and we have a list of questions for Nathan that would make a book of their own.” She pursed her lips and sighed, obviously lamenting that Nathan wouldn’t be returning to provide answers.

“We could help,” Stella offered tentatively. “We did help write it, and probably have a better basis than most.”

