Erick pinged intent-filled mana into [Lightwalk], trying to ‘see through his feet’, for the next minute, but got nowhere. He would come back to this, later.

Taste would have to be scrutinized later, too. How would he do that, though?

Hearing worked perfectly fine, but he was not really hearing with his ears, was he?

… He turned on [Hunter’s Instincts].

He tasted the air floating through his body, smelling baking bread wafting up from downstairs. He knew Kiri was working on something in the kitchen, so that made sense. Erick heard heartbeats nearby; only two of them. One belonged to Kiri, the other to Poi. Erick’s head guard was standing outside of the open door to this room, exactly as he had been since Erick started his experiments.

But stronger than taste and sound, Erick saw all around him as though he was a light slime; 360 degree full, clear vision.

Erice drew his senses back to himself, and smiled. He even saw himself smile, like he was both inside his body, and outside, at the same time.

“Gods,” Erick said, “That’s trippy.”

He dropped [Hunter’s Instincts] and was suddenly back inside his ‘body’.

“Also trippy,” he said, to himself. He pulled up his Status, just to see if he could. It came up easy enough. He put it away, saying, “No accidental [Hunter’s Instincts] [Lightwalk] spell.” He decided, right then, that he was going to try for just such a spell, just to see what he would get…

… When he understood what he was going for better; later.

He flexed his shoulders, and paused to marvel at how he didn’t actually flex his shoulders at all. He just moved a lightward version of himself around a bit, mimicking what he would have done if he had a real body. Ah, well, whatever!

He popped 10 intent-filled mana into [Lightwalk], trying to move across the room.

He splattered against the wall five meters away, briefly turning into a puddle of light, before plopping back into the air just before the wall. It was only slightly embarrassing. Reorienting back to the room, he experimented with amounts of mana and the distance it would gain him. One point of mana, gently cast, moved him forward at a slow, walking pace. Two points of mana was running. More mana was required to change direction, but that was also trivial; Erick’s mana never went much under ‘full’. Soon, Erick was rushing around the room, silently flying fast and reckless. He would have been puking if he were in his normal body.

He was disoriented, for sure, and he silently crashed into walls over and over again, but he took no damage, and there was no pain.

Erick continued to zip around. And then he canceled the spell, running full tilt forward, just to see what would happen. He instantly realized his mistake. He crashed into the stone wall with a loud whap.

He opened his eyes to see Poi standing over him, holding the rod of [Treat Wounds].

“You’re already up.” Poi said, “Only one use of the rod, too.”

Erick tried to smile, but ended up groaning a bit. He sat up. He breathed. Whatever pain there had been, quickly passed. He said, “I’m fine?” He declared, “Of course I’m fine.”

Poi asked, “Having fun hurting yourself?”

Erick laughed, and that briefly hurt, but no part of him felt injured enough to need a [Treat Wounds]. He stumbled to his feet, saying, “It’s kinda fun. Yeah. But it’s time to take this experiment outside.”

- - - -

Erick and Poi blipped into the center of an unimportant and unremarkable stretch of the Crystal Forest, where the agave were few, the mimics were of average density, and the sun beat down from a clear, blue sky. A hot wind blew into Erick’s clothes, as Ophiel blipped into the air above. Erick began using [Lightwalk].

In this bright, windy place, Ophiel trilled to ride the breeze, and Erick discovered a quick truth about [Lightwalk]; it was easier to walk around in the sun. So easy, in fact, that he was doing just that. Without spending mana to move.

He walked across the sand, and it was almost as though he was in a real, physical body. He wasn’t, of course; he was in the wardlight-esque form of [Lightwalk]. But he could touch the ground, and feel the sand move at his weight. He could pick up the sand, too. He took an experimental step into the air, and then he was walking on air; simple as that.

Ophiel tried to land on his shoulder. It did not go well. The little guy planted his lower wings onto nothing, settling down into a surprised flute fall through Erick’s body that became an intensely confused guitar solo and a sudden expansion to full, three-meter size. Ophiel loomed over Erick, who just curled up into the air, laughing. Wing pokes failed to find purchase on Erick; Erick was an ephemeral being, right now.

At Ophiel’s loom, Erick realized that being under his [Familiar]’s shadow was like being back in the room of the house; he needed to use mana to move.

Ophiel dropped down into his tiny self and cried in flutes—

And that would just not do! Erick quickly gave Ophiel [Lightwalk], and had him cast a [Prismatic Ward] into the air, enveloping both of them, and Poi, placing the three of them inside the Restful air. Ophiel could play around with the spell now, too, and just retreat to dense air if he needed to Rest.

Ophiel shifted into a being of light and air, then poked at Erick with his tiny wings. This time, the poke landed. Ophiel crashed into Erick’s chest, trilling in happy harps and satisfied violins, as Erick held him in a tight hug.

“There, there.” Erick said, “See? It’s just a new spell.” He offered, “Go play. See how you like it.”

Ophiel took off to play in the air.

Erick looked over to Poi, and said, “I ate half the horn and got [Lightwalk] but I couldn’t stop myself from eating the rest, trying for some better skill.” He added, “Sorry, Poi. I should have saved it for you.”

Ophiel darted through the light. He cast no shadow while in lightform, but he carved no air, either. A quick burst of annoyed flutes told the world he did not like that, at all. He turned off the new spell, ending his own lightform experiment with another unhappy spurt of flute sounds.

Poi said, “Experiments cost money, and since you created a light slime dungeon, that horn is not so precious that it needed to be used in the best possible way.” He added, “I don’t have an Elemental Body skill, and I don’t want one, either; but thank you, anyway.”

“You don’t?” Erick floated through the air, saying, “It’s really quite strange.” He asked, “How do you hurt someone in a [Lightwalk], anyway?”

Poi said, “I can show you if you want. It shouldn’t hurt.”

Erick said, “Lay it on me.”

Poi nodded, then said, “This is just [Lightshape].”

Poi stepped to Erick and tapped him in the chest. Thump thump.

“Okay.” Erick floated backward a step, frowning, saying, “You were able to touch me. That’s different.”

“That’s not what happened. I made you solid.”

“… There’s a difference?— Oh wait. Yeah. There’s a difference. No body to harm means stuff like Decay magic and Burning magic can’t stick. I didn’t drop [Lightwalk], after all. You were just able to touch my projection. Or rather, you made me solid.” Erick asked, “But what does that mean in a fight?”

“Against those monsters without means to damage or control light, it means you take a great deal less damage. In some cases, you take no damage at all. Against those with access to light-disrupting attacks, it means you take a great deal more damage.” Poi added, “I have heard that with training you can evade opposing light-based effects by not being where the attacker thinks you are, but mostly, [Lightwalk] is best used to evade and flee, and only when necessary. As soon as an attacker knows that you’re capable of [Lightwalk], they can attack you inside that [Lightwalk]. The outcome is usually rather bad.”

Erick’s eyes almost went wide, but he schooled his expression to a simple smile; he almost wanted to say ‘that was the most you’ve ever talked about magic, Poi!’, lest the man never say anything again. Instead, Erick changed the subject, “Are they ready for rain at the lake, yet?”

Ophiel turned into light and settled down onto Erick’s shoulder, trilling in tiny violins.

Poi looked to the air. He said, “No. They’re still working on de-glassing the land around the city. It might take a few more days before they’re ready for rain.”

“Hmm...” Erick looked to Ophiel. He said, “I’ll go help after I’m done here.”

The first thing he did was use [Lightwalk]s pseudo-[Teleport] to better understand that functionality; doing so was simple enough. All he had to do was throw anything over 15 mana into the spell and he moved from one location under the sun, to another, fifteen meters away. He blipped back and forth like that, more than a few times, experiencing the spell, imbuing varying amounts of mana to see how far he could get with one [Lightwalk] blip. Soon enough, he was blipping a hundred meters at a time, back and forth, up and down.

When he was satisfied with what he was seeing and feeling, Erick settled down near Poi and summoned a second Ophiel. He sent the first Ophiel into the air as Erick stayed on the ground, in normal form, to take direct control.

Setting up the superposition experiment he had created on Oceanside was simple enough.

After a dozen tests where he shut down his senses and felt the mana around him and practiced being in two places at once, thanks to the extra senses that [Hunter’s Instincts] helped him to understand, Ophiel blipped in a manner that was entirely different from a normal [Lightwalk] blip. When Erick came back to himself, he had a notification waiting for him.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Blink, have this instead:

+1 point!

He said, “Special Quest Complete! That was easier than I thought it would be.”

Poi just nodded.

Recreating [Teleport] would likely be a great deal more trouble than [Blink]. When he was experimenting with [Lightwalk]’s pseudo-[Teleport] range, he dumped a thousand mana into the spell but still only managed to travel a hundred meters. Maybe there was a range limit when it came to working the spell how Erick was working the spell, or maybe there was an exponential growth curve to blipping mana costs? It was hard to tell which theory was more true.

And then there was the matter of splitting his senses between two locations 1000 kilometers apart. Where would he even start with that requirement? Through [Scry], perhaps? But that would make a tier 2 spell, wouldn’t it?

Erick quickly came to the realization that there was a reason [Blink] and [Teleport] were both Basic Tier spells, even though you needed the first before you could buy the second. Recreating [Blink] had been easy; barely an inconvenience. Recreating [Teleport] would take a lot more experimentation.

Maybe he needed [Greater Lightwalk]? Or maybe not? How had Everlin Etherspray done it? She was the air elementassi who had created the first spatial magic for the Script, but she had died in a time of turmoil, along with every other Half on Veird. She left few legacies behind.

… Apogee had probably tracked her life? Maybe? He was a Spatial Mage, after all. Had he done that in order to try and find a way back home?

… How far had he gotten in his search?

Erick had to go see about the lake and the ranch, anyway. Maybe Apogee would be there, clearing glass?

How long would it take for Apogee to open up about his experiences as a Spatial Mage? Could Erick even get him to do that? Apogee was obviously reluctant to talk about his planar experience, but maybe he’d be okay talking about his spatial magic?

- - - -

Erick expected Apogee to be there, working among the black, spiked and puddled glass north of Spur, but he was not. Plenty of other people were. Dozens of platforms floated over the dark land, each of them carrying two or three people. By Erick’s estimations, one person had to be controlling the platform, but everyone on the various platforms seemed to be working on the glass below. At their passing, black glass turned to dark sand. Maybe it’d turn back to orange after some rain?

Not all of the land here was the same. In one part of the land a chunk of glass the size of a small house had been lifted from the rest. It was here that Erick found the organizers of the cleanup effort, all floating on their own platforms around the large protrusion; Mage Guildmaster Sirocco Zago, along with several other people that Erick had seen before, but couldn’t quite remember. Erick floated his platform, including himself and Poi, to the grouping. As he got closer, a woman there noticed him, then spoke to Zago.

Zago turned and waved at him, calling out, “Hello, Erick!”

Erick floated his platform to the meeting, saying, “Hello, Sirocco. So we’re just turning it back to sand?”

“Mostly: Yes.” Zago stepped to the edge of her platform, nearest to Erick, as she gestured to the large, uneven ridge of black glass behind her. “Except for the larger prominences like this one, it’s all getting turned to sand.”

Erick looked at the black glass protrusion again. It was kinda artsy? Maybe that’s why they wanted it? He asked, “What’s going on with that one?”

“Some of these larger pieces might hold enough remnants of the Red Dot to allow us to understand the Red Dot. It destroyed souls, after all, and not through any necromancy, but through pure power that rewrote Reality into Fire.” Zago waved a dismissive hand through the air, saying, “But that’s for the [Dispel] mages. They’ll give us some insight into unraveling that spell later, I’m sure. That’s not my field of study.”

Erick looked to the people near Zago. A few of them were silently stealing glances Erick’s way, but two people only had time for each other, and the rock. One of them was a pale orcol woman, while the other was a dark wrought incani man.

Erick said, “I heard there was some difficulty with [Dispel]ing the Red Dot.” He asked, “Was the Red Dot just too expensive?”

The wrought must have heard Erick, because he spoke up, “No.” He interrupted his conversation with the orcol woman to turn his attention to Erick, saying, “It was a 10,000 mana spell, at most.”

The orcol woman argued, “It was not that cheap.” She glanced toward Erick, saying, “25,000, at the least. It was the spell of an archmage of some sort.”

“A savant, perhaps. No one I ever heard of,” said the wrought.

Zago said, “Archmage Flatt. May I introduce to you Ranari Irinsi, and Hadragog Newfield.”

Erick said, “Hello.”

