After a minute, Liquid sent, ‘Report.’

‘What do these belong to?’ Jane sent along an image of the arms. ‘I can’t remember—’

‘Come to Spur immediately, Jane. You’re in danger. Come to the Courthouse right now! My office!’

Jane and her cargo of six shaggy silver monster arms left the field in a blip of dark blue.

She was already freaked out; didn’t have to tell her twice to leave the scene.

- - - -

Three quick [Teleport]s landed Jane in Liquid’s office. The matte-grey wrought stood next to her, alongside Guildmaster Mog and a priest. Pure worry crinkled Liquid’s dragonkin face, but at Jane’s appearance, and at the dropping of six shaggy arms into her office, Liquid put on her business face.

Jane said, “Hello. I’m not sure what I’m doing here. Uh.” She looked around. “Hello, Guildmaster.”

Mog nodded at Jane, but it was not a happy nod. It was a look of worry and concern.

Liquid pointed to a chair. “Sit, Jane. That’s an order.”

Jane’s eyebrows went up, but she sat down in the chair, as ordered.

Mog looked down at the arms. She said, “They really are reacher arms, aren’t they?”

“It appears so.” Liquid stepped over the arms to stand next to Jane.

The priest moved with Liquid to stand next to Jane. She muttered about checking Jane over, so Jane let her. The priest asked Jane to stand and shuck her clothes, so Jane did as she was asked. The priest began poking around at Jane’s body, looking for something.

Liquid frowned. “Nothing? No wounds?”

Jane almost said something, but Liquid interrupted her with a stern look. Mog conjured heavy metal gauntlets then began setting the arms across the floor into orderly lines, instead of in a pile.

The priest spoke with practiced authority, “She was definitely touched. No doubt there. But it’s mostly gone, now.”

Liquid asked, “Anything else?”

The priest stepped back from Jane, saying, “The wound was suffered in a different form, and not treated. Probably her spider form.” She pointed to Jane’s side, near her hip. “A leg was torn off.”

Jane looked to her side. Her skin swirled on her hip, like an old wound. Her eyes went wide. “What the fuck.”

“You’re okay now, Jane,” Liquid said, her grey eyes turning softer.

The priest said, “You can put your clothes back on, now.”

Jane conjured dark blue cloth armor around her body. It might have been a bit more sturdy than normal, but that was only because Jane was feeling a bit more vulnerable than normal.

Mog pointed to one of the tiny hands on the shaggy arms, saying, “This is one of Erick’s rings.”

A small panic filled Jane’s head. She touched her fingers. “One of my rings is gone.” She looked up. “What happened?” She tried to remember… “I’m not sure where I was.”

Mog stood tall, saying, “You were attacked by moon reachers. They’re one of the monsters in the Wyrmridge mountains that people are warned against. There’s no way you didn’t know about them, so don’t think that this was a matter of going off unprepared. You were prepared. But moon reachers have the ability to make you forget the important details about them.” She said, “They relentlessly track down any people they find. The only way to survive them is to run at first glance, and to not stop until you’re back in a city. The only way to fight them is with a lot of mental defenses, and an uncommonly strong attack.” She gestured to the arms, “How did you manage that?”

The priest said, “She was touched, Guildmaster. She doesn’t know.”

Liquid said, “Thank you, Sister. You can go, now.”

The priest did a small curtsy and left the room.

Mog watched the priest go, then turned to Jane, “You have no idea how you survived, do you, Jane?”

About a hundred thoughts swirled in Jane’s mind as she sat on the chair in Liquid’s office, while Mog stood over six shaggy silver arms and Liquid stared at her. All of those thoughts were at odds with each other, but the one that came out of Jane’s mouth was, “I don’t even know why I’m here.”

Liquid sighed.

Mog turned directly to Jane, and spoke in a low, calm voice. “Your short term memory has been afflicted by a skill called [Thought Fog]. Moon reachers passively emit the skill. Mostly, it just makes their victims docile as they can’t see the monster for what it is. Most people never survive their first encounter. [Thought Fog] has a compounding effect, and because they hunt in groups it can get pretty bad. If they touch you, that’s even worse. Most survivors report that they didn’t even realize they were missing limbs. If a victim doesn’t get away after the first touch, they probably aren’t ever getting away. Moon reachers like to taunt their prey until their prey can’t even move, for all their thoughts are dust and air. Then they kill their victim, and take trophies from the corpse.” She looked down to the arms on the floor. “There are about a hundred rings here, and I doubt you got all their arms, meaning this pack has killed at least a few hundred people.”

Liquid added, “I’m guessing 500 victims, at least.”

Jane looked around the room. Her thoughts seemed cloudy. “… What?”

Mog spoke to Liquid, “It’s going to get worse before it gets better.”

Liquid nodded, saying, “I know.”

Mog turned to Jane. “When you’re cognizant, ask your father to [Withering] the area where you were. They might still be there.”

Jane paused. “… What?”

Mog turned to Liquid, saying, “She’s vulnerable right now.”

“I know.” Liquid said, “She’ll be staying here at the Courthouse for the night with me.”

“… What?”

- - - -

Jane woke on a cot, facing a wall of books and knickknacks. A small spike of red-purple kendrithyst caught her eye; it sat in a glass holder, and there were no characteristic shadows inside the glittering mass of stone.

Memories of last night came to Jane like hazy clouds as she rolled over, tossing off her covers. She sat up. She paused as she saw Liquid, sitting behind her desk, in her office, working on papers.

“Good morning,” Liquid said, as she scratched a quill across paperwork, not lifting her face to look at Jane. “Do you need to use the facilities again?”

“What happened to—”

“I’m not answering that question. If you can’t remember, then you’re not ready for the answer.”

“… Is there a way to [Dispel] [Thought Fog]? [Cleanse]? Does that work?”

Liquid’s quill stopped. She set the feather into her inkpot, then lifted her head to look at Jane. “You’re back.”

“I think so.” Jane got out of bed. She tugged her conjured clothes back into place, saying, “Moon reachers. I managed to slice through six arms.” Jane looked to a nightstand next to her cot; her other ring laid there. She said, “Mog took the rings, and with Felair’s help, she’s trying to connect them to whatever living people they can connect them to, but they don’t expect any results.” She grabbed her own ring and put it back on her finger. It was still plus-10 All Stats. “That feels better.”

Liquid asked, “Are you going to go back there?”

“Yes.” Jane said, “Now that I know what—”

“Jane.” Liquid stared at her, saying, “Felair came in here while you were sleeping, and at both the discretion of myself, Killzone, and Silverite, you were [Witness]ed.” She said, “You knew what the moon reachers were the first time you saw them. You saw the rings on their fingers. You realized what it meant. You saw these reachers multiple times. But something held you back. That ‘something’ was their [Thought Fog]. You were immune to most of it, most of the time, thanks to being either a spider or a slime every time you went out investigating the scent of carrion on the air.” She said, “But you got sloppy as their Fog began to accumulate. You even used a [Drain Ward] against them.” She frowned. “That’s sloppy.”

Jane took Liquid’s complaints with poise and calm, though inwardly she panicked, as memories of the past two weeks began to surface.

She had seen the moon reachers multiple times. She instantly recognized their long, shaggy silver bodies. They were a major threat to anyone traveling anywhere near the Wyrmridge. If crafting a base in the volcanic grounds of Firemaw Mountain was possible, Jane would not have camped in the woods.

But she did camp out in the woods, and she took every possible precaution to make her base as safe as possible. In the end, it didn’t work. They tracked her down, and they almost caught her. She had even used a [Drain Ward] against them! All that did was drain one percent of Health per second or less. That was practically nothing.

Cold sweat trickled down Jane’s neck.

And then cold anger welled in her heart. Those monsters needed to die.

“I can see you have made a decision.”

“Yes, Ma’am.” Jane said, “I’m going to go back and kill them all.”

Liquid nodded, saying, “Then you must prepare. Rest in town for at least another day; you’re still suffering from [Thought Fog]. You’ve been under their influence for at least 15 days, Team Leader. Then, when you go back, you must remain in a non-human form at all times. We’ve set their severed arms aside in a [Preservation Ward] in case you decided to do this. All you need to do is scatter the arms around your last base. The Reachers will smell their arms and they will come to you.” She stressed, “If they touch you, even the resistances of your shadow spider form won’t protect you. If you are successful and you decide to take one of them as a [Polymorph] form, be aware that [Thought Fog] is a result of their diet, in a way similar to the anti-spellcasting venom of the shadow spider. You won’t get [Thought Fog] unless you’re constantly eating people brains in a moon reacher’s body.”

Jane stood straight. “Yes, Ma’am. Thank you for watching over me, Ma’am.”

Liquid said, “Oddly enough, the reachers didn’t seem to react to a [Drain Ward]. This isn’t usually a valid tactic, but some monsters are so unclean that a mundane [Drain Ward] feels normal.”

Jane already had that idea, but she kept her mouth shut.

Liquid added, “Sorry about violating your privacy with the [Witness], Jane, but I’m happy to see you working as hard on [Fire Body], as you did with [Shadowalk].”

“Thank you for taking care of me when I was in such a sorry state, Quartermaster.”

“It’s what we do here.” Liquid said, “I would have done the same for anyone, and I’m sure you would have, too.” Liquid said, “Off you go, now. We’ve had people stationed outside of your house, but they’ll let you in. Get some proper rest before you get back to saving the world.” She added, “And there’s no way to [Dispel] or [Cleanse] a [Thought Fog]; it’s an area mental attack that lingers on the wind, where a single second of exposure will eventually lead to disaster. Even if you [Dispel]ed a large area, there’s eight of them. They will overpower your efforts to [Dispel].” She said, “Dismissed.”

Jane nodded, then turned and walked out of Liquid’s office.

- - - -

The walk home through town felt slightly surreal after having been in the wilds for a month, especially as memories, half-forgotten, came back to her, like remembered dreams. Firstly, she remembered that she had thousands of golds worth of rads scattered in three bases—

Four bases. She had to move to evade the moon reachers three times. The first base was only three meters below the surface. Jane woke up to a shaggy silver arm and tiny hands reaching through the curtains of her four poster bed. She panicked hard, and instantly vacated that base.

Her next base was thirty meters down. The reachers still found her.

And then again. And finally, one last time.

As the sun beat down from the clear, eastern sky, hot and bright, Jane felt cold in the light. She breathed harder as she walked crowded streets, trying to keep her eyes forward.

She found herself at ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’, just as they were opening for the day. Rendar Skytouch, the redscale husband, was already behind the grill slinging meat over the fire, while Julli Skytouch, the bluescale wife, stood behind the register.

Julli looked at Jane. She asked, “Honey. You don’t look so good.”

Jane came back to herself. She was standing on the customer side of the cash register. She was the only one in the store right now. Jane tried to force a smile. It probably came out wrong, because Julli’s face turned sad. Rendar looked away.

Jane sniffled, quickly rubbing her eyes on the back of her cloth armored arm, as she said, “Uh! Sorry. I’ll have a cheesesteak. Fries. Lots of fries.” A spike of panic hit Jane. She stepped away, saying, “Sorry. I forgot. No money.” She touched her neck. “My badge is gone.”

Jane remembered losing her badge in her first base. How the hell could she have ever gone anywhere without her badge! Jane cursed under her breath, turning away, muttering apologies.

Rendar called out, “It’s on the house, Jane!”

Jane froze in her steps.

Rendar said, “You and your father have paid us more than enough for a few freebies. I know just how you like it, too. So go ahead and take a seat.”

“He’s right.” Julli agreed as came out from behind her counter and moved toward a table, saying, “Come on over here and sit down. You’re the only customer here right now.” She sat down on one side of the table, gesturing to the other half of the two-seater, saying, “Your father is starting up the rain soon enough. That keeps most people busy for a good two hours.”

Jane breathed in and out. She stood straighter, and moved over to her seat. She sat down.

Julli called out to a kid behind the counter, “Boy! Get the woman a water.”

