She knew exactly how to deal with the moon reachers.

- - - -

The moons hung high in the sky, illuminating the dark forest. Shaggy silver legs carried shaggy silver bodies across the land, while tiny black eyes and well developed noses searched for more food. Six of the eight creatures were unbalanced; one arm of each of them was shorter than normal, but they were regrowing. Prey had hurt them days ago. Each of them were grumpy about it, but they ate and ate, and their arms were coming back.

A light in the forest caught Leader’s eye.

Prey. Fun prey? Oh. Yes. Fun prey. Prey that runs and does not see. Prey that sits around a warm fire and does not know they are dying, one by one. Leader led the way toward the light, so the rest followed.

Killing time, tonight. Ripping and tearing time. Feasting time. The Hunt was on.

And then Leader caught a scent. And then everyone caught the scent. It was a hurting scent. It was a familiar scent. Calm rage spread among the reachers. They knew this prey. They smiled, revealing their bodies as little more than pits of teeth.

As the group neared, their skin began to itch. It always itched, though. They didn’t care. The Hunt was on!

- - - -

Jane watched from the firepit as the moon reachers drew close. She had set out the arms hours ago, next to one of the reacher hunting paths. It was pretty damn obvious where the reachers hunted, once Jane’s mind wasn’t foggy; they were as tall as the trees, but the canopy was not open around here. They had to move through normal, open air, until they spotted prey.

Moon reachers were a simple monster, in a way, if you didn’t fuck up the initial encounter.

The reachers walked toward faux-bonfire Jane, glowing away as the firepit, hiding herself in plain sight while they stood completely exposed. Jane had constructed a ring of benches around herself and populated those benches with sleeping bodies made of [Stoneshape]. The reachers stayed outside of that ring, moving slowly, their arms and legs draped to the ground.

Jane counted eight reachers; six of them with uneven arms.

The final one stepped around Jane’s fire pit. The eight monsters completely encircled her and the fake bodies. As the first one reached down to a stone fake, Jane dipped a tendril down into a radiating tunnel she had carved hours ago. Her bonfire-like body did not move on the surface, but she didn’t have to. She cast herself down those tunnels. The effect was immediate, and bright.

Forty meters away, in every direction, fire burst from the ground and set the forest ablaze, ringing the whole camp, except for the direction toward the reacher’s main walking path.

In a bright second, the forest became an inferno. Jane helped it along, all the while unmoving, all the while keeping her senses on the moon reachers. The monsters screamed, mouths dropping wide open, as fire licked up their long legs, and long arms.

Jane stirred the fire into a storm of flame.

The moon reachers tried to flee, but Jane had picked this part of the forest well. The trees in every direction were dry, but thick. There was no easy escape except the way they came in, and when they all went that way, it didn’t take much but a few good [Stoneshape]s to trip them into each other. Those long limbs were quite a detriment when so many were trying to escape in the same direction at the same time.

Silver fur burned quite well.

Jane fed the flames as the moon reachers collapsed to the ground. They died in fire, one by one, each pinging a notification for 95%. It didn’t take long for all eight to die. It was a good kill.

Jane lifted herself from her bonfire position, and began cleaning up. Fires dimmed under Jane’s command. [Drain Ward]s were dismissed. Half-burned trees were smothered, and left to recover if they could. Soon, the fire was gone. The forest crinkled and cracked as burned wood began to cool.

Jane left the barbecue’d moon reachers for the forest to clean up; she didn’t want them. All they had going for them was their [Thought Fog]. Otherwise, they were pitiful forms. They couldn’t even run without getting tangled in their own limbs. Jane did take a look at their hands, though. They had a lot of rings on those fingers. It took her a while, longer than the actual kill, but Jane pried the rings off of those fingers with [Telekinesis], and gathered them up.

With one final look around, and finding the threat eliminated, Jane wrapped the rings in a ball of stone, held the stone in her body, and dipped into shadow. She popped up into her last base and transformed from flame ooze, to spider. She picked up her belongings and loot and wrapped them in silk, before traveling to her other bases, picking up more of the stuff she had forgotten about, from clothes to rads, thanks to the moon reachers.

Back at her first base, Jane picked up her badge, and looked at it for a moment. It was nice to have it again. It was just crazy, pure and utter nonsense, that she had forgotten about her guild badge. She slipped the badge into a silk bag, and left the forest a blip of dark blue.

Firemaw Mountain was over and done with. Thank the gods.

Somewhere between the mountain and home, Jane transformed back into a person. She put her own rings back on and wrapped herself in [Conjure Armor]. She paused. She sat down on the sand in the dark, glowing night. Moons and stars hung overhead, while crystal agave and mimics glittered all around.

She took out the rings she had salvaged from the moon reachers. They were a pile of burned and blackened metal and gems. They were the trophies from hundreds of kills.

Jane sat there on the sand, under the sky, with the rings cradled in spider silk in her lap.

Eventually, she closed the silk bag. The ring bag went into a larger bag, containing hundreds of rads she had gathered from slimes and otherwise. The rads would go to her bank account, but the rings would go to the Adventurer’s Guild, either for Mog and Felair to try and link to families, or to shore up the Fund. Whatever they chose to do with the rings would be fine.

She had gotten more than enough from her trip to Firemaw Mountain.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 63, Class: None

Exp: 994,394,128,177,124/1,061,020,985,772,300

Class: -/-

Points: 15

HP

2941/3000

3000 per day

MP

3117/4200

3000 per day

Strength

30

+20

50

Vitality

30

+20

50

Willpower

50

+20

70

Focus

30

+20

50

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Jane heaved the spidersilk bags onto her shoulders. She continued to blip south; headed home.

The unicorn would be next.
