Flaming Steps, spreading fire, faster movement, burned self so not great

Flame Shield, hovering reactive shield

???, forgot this one, too

Blessing of Fire, natural fire didn’t hurt self anymore, clothes still burned away, infrasight appeared for the first time

Flame Sustain, stabilizes fire to not need fuel

Flame Armor, wrap self in reactive flame, clothes burned away, vision turned to infrasight

Fireblend, meld into natural fire

Every skill was useful enough on its own, but Jane ‘lost’ each previous one as she went up the chain; the boxes themselves transformed, and the past went out of reach. Mostly. She could still [Strike] by using her whole slime body, and the effect was almost the same as [Flame Strike], but it was decidedly not [Flame Strike]. She still technically had the [Blessing of Fire] in [Fireblend], too, but she did not have [Flame Armor]. Jane actually liked [Flame Armor]. It was useful in every form and still functioned as armor, though she couldn’t use her rings in any of her fiery forms; they’d melt and break.

Jane had researched [Shadowalk] a lot since gaining the skill, and then gaining [Greater Shadowalk]. But looking over this list, and remembering all that research into [Shadowalk]…

There are quite a few shadow abilities before [Shadowalk] that Jane never got a chance to play around with. But as Jane looked over the list and imagined comparables… [Greater Shadowalk] was better than a theoretical [Fire Body], by far. No doubt about it.

Jane still needed to get [Fire Body], though.

And also… maybe…

An idea appeared. Slimes were rather bumbling, slow things. But another kind of monster was not.

Jane looked over the board, then hurried out of her house to do some research.

Her first stop took her to the Armory of the Adventurer’s Guildhouse. When that validated half of Jane’s budding theory, a trip to the Mage’s Guildhouse came next. Then came a quick trip through the Crystal Forest to kill some mimics, to pick up some rads to pay their library fee. After Jane was actually allowed to read the books, she discovered that her growing idea was a thing which many mages did, though the best course of action was different in every case. The books even gave a guide on how to do exactly what Jane was planning, alongside enough warnings to upset the courses of most people.

Jane was not like most people, though.

She went to the Courthouse, next. She only had to wait several minutes for Liquid to call her into her office.

Liquid sat behind her desk, her grey metal dragonkin-shaped arms forming a pyramid, her hands covering her mouth. She was obviously upset. She looked at Jane, and dropped her hands to her desk. She said, “Report.”

“I will not be engaging the moon reachers right away. I have another plan I must implement first.”

Liquid frowned a little. “And?”

“It’s technically highly illegal in Spur, but polymages do it all the time. Do you want me to continue explaining?”

Liquid sighed. Her eyes seemed soft, as she said, “No. It’s a good idea. Just be careful. Those things can get out of control. If I suspected you didn’t have the control needed for success, I’d call you foolish and kick you out of the Army, but you’ll probably be okay.” She asked, “Do you want the arms back, now?”

Jane smiled, softly. “Not yet, ma’am. This should take me a day. I’ll be back for them tomorrow.”

Liquid frowned. She said, “Good luck, Soldier. Dismissed.”

- - - -

It had taken her all night, and she had to defend her catch from five lava elementals so far, but Jane was ready. She stood nude under a sky of black ash, on a land of black sand, over a pit of bumbling flame slimes larger than most. Over forty slimes plopped around in that depression, occasionally sending up brilliant flashes of light and fire as they fought each other to get out of the hole. Some of them had probably already eaten each other by now, but that was okay. Jane’s rings and bag were already set to the side, under a protective layer of stone. Jane was ready.

Now was the time to evolve.

In a dark blue twist, Jane transformed into a slime, her bones becoming gel, her skin becoming fire, every part of her becoming something else as she fell into the mosh pit, and started eating. Daggers of shadow weakened her opposition, spilling flaming radiance across the pit with each new attack. Jane gobbled up that radiance, rolling over her neighbors, consuming, eating, growing.

She was too full after five slimes, but she kept going, past the point of gluttony. If she were human, she would want to puke, but she was not. She kept going. Fifteen slimes and their cores became part of her growing body. She felt like a blob, and she looked like one, too.

This was okay. The books all said this was a terrible experience. Like the worst overeating Jane would ever know. The writers of those books had access to magical healing, though. They never had to suffer through weeks of rehabilitation from a gunshot wound, or broken bones. Jane had.

Jane would have smiled if she had a mouth. Instead, she just lifted up a pseudopod and slammed it down on a slime, crushing and consuming it all in one blow. The depression full of forty slimes was soon down to half-size; half of the depression filled with Jane, the other half with slimes scrambling to get away from the blob monster. Jane paused. She took a moment to steady her churning not-stomach; Flame Essences floated around in her slime. Jane added those essences to her skill, then telekinetically ripped out the rad fragments inside of her. As [Fireblend] swelled under the influx of new essences, Jane flung the rad fragments out of the depression.

Jane looked upon the rest of her horrible feast and said a silent prayer to Phagar, sorry that she had to kill such cute little things, but Veird demanded hard answers to harsh truths. Jane lifted up another pseudopod and slammed it down on another flame slime, cracking the smooth volcanic ground underneath.

Huh. Eating that one wasn’t so bad. Jane paused. She ate two more, easy as another shot of tequilla after she’d already had four. The next seven slimes joined her collective without the slightest discomfort.

Ah. This was the change.

Jane quickly ate the remaining slimes like they were candy and she was starving. This was certainly the change. Jane had to control herself, now. She had to find balance, and calm. She spat the extra rads out of herself, then settled into the depression like 400 gallons of sapient, flaming napalm.

She held her senses around herself, holding her mind steady as bright, hot pains lanced through her hot-tub sized body. She hummed an ‘ohm’ with her entire self; vibrating, practicing transcendental meditation, holding onto herself as strange desires and crushing needs washed over her mind like so many hurricanes passing overhead.

She hummed, and she waited, as pain struck, and transformations happened, both within, and without. Soon, the pain began to pass. The need to eat became a distant desire; one she could control. Gentle nudges began throughout her entire gooey body, almost exactly the same as with Ramizi’s [Polymorph] Potion.

That man made really good potions. Much better than the shit she bought—

A spike of pain flared across Jane’s core.

Jane went back to meditating, back to letting her thoughts touch upon her mind, but gain no purchase. Another spike of pain came, but smaller this time. Then came another, but it almost wasn’t worth calling a pain at all.

More pain came, but it was unremarkable. More desires came, but they were ethereal, unsubstantial things, compared to Jane’s true goals.

Ash fell from the sky; black snow that traveled in swirls and gathered in drifts. A layer of black soon covered Jane’s glowing surface. She vibrated her ‘ohm’, scattering her ash blanket to the edges of her pool-like self. Soon, the only visible part of her was a circle of gentle yellow and orange, surrounded by black. It didn’t take long before the deluge of ash covered even that part of her, fully blocking her sight of the outside world. She didn’t mind. Her ‘eyes’ were already closed.

Jane meditated away the pain. She let her worries pass her by. Trials and tribulations vanished from her mind. She existed, and that was enough.

After a while, she stopped vibrating. After even longer, somehow, she slept.

- - - -

Jane woke up at the bottom of a hollow, black space. A beam of sunlight shone through a crack in the ceiling, to touch upon the wall just above Jane’s glowing, yellow body. She burbled, waking all the way up, expanding her senses outward, and inward.

First, she noticed her core was gone. This was good: this was normal. She wasn't a flame slime anymore.

As she looked upon her immediate area with perfect clarity, better than she could have ever hoped to see the world as a flame slime, she checked her recent notifications, and [Polymorph].

Polymorph, instant, 500 MP ~{Favored Spell}~

Change your physical body.

Familiar Forms: 3/10

~Jane Flatt

~Shadow Spider

~Flame Ooze

Special Action!

You have successfully transformed a Familiar Form!

+5 points!

Jane relaxed into herself, happy with her progress.

Fireblend, instant, close range, 5 MP per second

Become one with fire.

That one was still the same, though.

Jane stretched upward, extending a long length of yellow goo up into the crack above. The ceiling broke at her touch, crashing down all around her like so much ash. Jane moved together, avoiding most of the downfall as the thin barrier fell, revealing a cloudy, sunlit sky. With a long tendril extended, Jane moved out of the depression with ease. She hauled herself onto the surface, and looked around with full vision, in every direction all at once. Flame oozes had really good sight; almost comparable to shadow spiders.

As Jane looked out across the volcanic land, she saw flame slimes rolling around in the ash, both as yellow balls, and as pockets of radiant heat. She stared at one slime in particular, watching how it moved, waiting for a reaction within herself.

But as she waited, nothing happened. She wasn’t hungry, looking at the flame slimes. That was good news. She did not seem to inherit the need to feed common to all oozes; the books had warned against that. As Jane spilled and swirled around, testing herself, testing how she could move, she felt even better about her decision to go for a transformation. She certainly moved around a lot easier as a flame ooze. Before, she plopped and rolled. Now, she moved.

Jane slammed a pseudopod forward, then dragged herself forward. She pushed herself up onto one pseudopod, then fell forward. Soon enough, Jane figured out how to ‘walk’ as an ooze. It was half a jump forward, half catching herself as she fell. When she had that motion understood, she picked up the tempo.

She launched herself forward, then caught herself, then did it again. She chained the motions together. Soon, she ‘ran’ across the land; a flame ooze on a mission of self discovery. If she wanted to, she could move faster than this, though.

Jane dipped into [Greater Shadowalk], wrapping her natural radiance in shadows. Like a candle hovering behind smokey glass, ooze-Jane slipped into the darkness all around. And she hunted, and she found her prey.

Like a volcanic eruption, Jane burst out of the ground around the unsuspecting flame slime, swallowing the entire orange beach-ball in one great, glowing gulp.

A notification appeared.

Flame Body, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the flame.

Jane laughed in great gurgling, splattering guffaws, though if there were any onlookers, they probably only saw a monstrous flame ooze burbling and splattering a bit more than normal. Laughter and speech didn’t seem to work as a flame ooze. Oh well! When normal communication wasn’t possible, that’s what [Telepathy] and [Prestidigitation] air-writing was for.

Ah. Well. [Telepathy] didn't seem to work as an ooze. It didn't work as a slime, either, but Jane had hoped that she could use it as an ooze, but apparently oozes were also mindless creatures! ... Duh.

- - - -

Explosions rocked the Firemaw Mountain as a flame ooze crawled across the surface, launching fire in every direction, only to disappear in one pool of fire and come out the other. It played around with lava elementals, taunting them to unwinnable fights, before it ate the elementals. It played around in ash drifts. It bounced across lava flows. It danced into a pool of lava a hundred meters across, heedless of the heat, for the flame ooze was hotter than lava, by far.

The flame ooze dove into the lava, only to find the lava much denser than it imagined. It did not get far.

Something shifted, and the flame ooze dove into the lava, then came back up, chased out of the molten rock by surprise lava sharks. The ooze came back and killed three lava sharks, and then ate them.

The flame ooze spent a great deal of time on the ridge of the main caldera, next to its much smaller flame slime cousins, staring at the hundred meter tall fountain of lava that always spewed out of the Great Firemaw. And then the ooze rolled down backward, following the example of its smaller brethren; slime after slime after ooze rolled down the sides of the main volcano like snowballs in winter.

For a few adventurers, who were there, and who were scouting for trouble with [Scry] before they decided to try the Firemaw Mountain, seeing a hyperactive flame ooze was more than enough reason to leave the volcanoes well enough alone. They would come back to Firemaw Mountain some other day, hopefully after the flame ooze had moved on.

- - - -

Jane finished playing around with her new spell, and her new oozy body. [Fire Body] wasn’t very useful outside of her flame ooze form, but the two abilities together were a revelation.

