Jane fixed that with a quick [Polymorph]. As she moved her body back into human-position, she moved her bag from around her thorax to around her waist, and her rings from the hooks of her spider feet, to around her fingers. [Polymorph]ing items around from human to spider and back again was not an easy thing to do. Jane had messed up more than a few times in the beginning, but she had eventually gotten the hang of it. Using her flame slime body with items was completely out of the picture, though. Jane had tested that out with scraps of cloth and wooden bands, and burned everything, every time she tried.

Her flame slime form was great. Being a flame slime let her eat other Flame Essence monsters without burning herself. But it was impossible to wear her rings or hold her bag when she was basically a ball of gelatinous fire.

But for now, she was human again. She tossed her bag onto a conjured table, then conjured a luxurious cotton nightie onto her body, then cast an air conditioning [Ward] into the room. She moved to the bed. Every muscle ached, but it was a good ache. Jane was tired, and sleeping right now was a great idea.

First things first, though. Jane conjured drapes of bells and aluminum cans across the entrance to the room, and then a tripline leading to more cans, and an [Alarm Ward]. As a final touch, she spent 3500 mana to craft an [Absorption Ward] across the whole space. She looked upon her work, and decided it was good. It was nice to have 4200 maximum mana. Her dad’s rings were certainly pulling their weight. They made her Status look rather nice, too.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 59, Class: None

Exp: 556,127,118,562/154,800,875,592,000

Class: -/-

Points: 3

HP

2127/3000

3000 per day

MP

52/4200

3000 per day

Strength

30

+20

50

Vitality

30

+20

50

Willpower

50

+20

70

Focus

30

+20

50

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

The results of her Flame Essence hunting were doing alright, too.

Fireblend, instant, close range, 5 MP per second

Become one with fire.

She could move around inside fire like she could with [Shadowalk]; she just couldn’t ‘fire teleport’ yet. [Fireblend] was no [Fire Body], but it was close. Probably.

Months ago, Jane had gotten [Shadowblend] from eating the shadow spider, and after that, it took her a month of eating shadowolves in Ar’Kendrithyst to get [Shadowalk]. If [Fireblend] was the same as [Shadowblend], then it might hold to the same pattern. Jane did not want to hunt flame slimes for another full month, but she was going to hunt them for a few more days, at least. Flame slimes were much easier to eat than shadowolves; all she had to do was eat the core.

Ahh. Speaking of a core. Jane had almost forgotten...

Jane dismissed her nightie, and set her rings on a suddenly conjured night stand.

She briefly [Polymorph]ed back into a flame slime, once last time for the day, and felt around inside herself for any rads. As her orange and yellow goopy body plopped to the floor, she plucked out tiny fragments of crystallized mana from her wiggly self. The fragments were nothing even remotely dangerous, but eating cores meant eating rads, so it was better to be safe than monsterized.

Monsterfication was a process, anyway; Jane was only worried about becoming a monster in the way that one worries about breaking a bone, but Jane had broken a fair amount of bones in her time on Veird. So Jane plucked rad shards from her body, and felt better about herself. It was better to be safe, than sorry.

She [Polymorph]ed back to human then conjured another cotton nightie as she put her rings back on. With one final [Cleanse] refreshing the air and herself, Jane crawled into bed and wrapped herself in her fluffy comforters. She telekinetically shut the drapes on her four poster bed, then closed her eyes, feeling a bit safe.

Safe enough for being on the edge of a forest of monsters, anyway.

- - - -

Jane woke to a mental poke.

‘Hey, Jane!’

Jane blinked hard as she pushed her covers away. She stretched long, as she telekinetically pulled back the velvet covering of her four poster bed. Light streamed in from the room; her wardlights were still active.

She sent, ‘Hey, Dad.’

‘Did I wake you?’

Jane slipped out of bed, and decided it was time enough to get up. She dismissed her bed and her nightie, then conjured her armor. She pulled her hair back into a clasp and began to get ready for the rest of the day, as she sent, ‘Yeah. But that’s not your fault. My nights are kinda messed up. Hard to tell what’s night and what’s day recently. The clouds have gotten so thick that they block out the sun.’

Worry tainted Erick’s voice, ‘All that smoke! I know I asked you before, but are you breathing alright? Are you really okay up there?’

‘Yeah.’ Jane did a few stretches as she sent, ‘I’m breathing fine. I wear a mask and goggles. It gets bad sometimes, but I have [Greater Treat Wounds] and [Cleanse]. They’re more than enough to deal with a little bit of smoke. And besides: When I’m a flame slime, the need to breathe is non-existent.’

‘I’ll take your word for it.’

Jane changed the subject, ‘How’s Oceanside? Any changes in the past week?’

‘I’m still loving it. I told you about dungeons, but I think I like making places like this a lot more than I thought I would.’ He sent, ‘Still working on that Mana Sense, though. Calloway says that a good Mana Sense is crucial to making the best dungeons. Are you trying to get Mana Sense? It should work well with [Hunter’s Instincts]. Teressa is coming with me now to some private tutoring with Rue, and both of them already have [Hunter’s Instincts]. I’m still working on combining my own physical skills.

“But anyway. Rue confirmed my theory that the flow of battle you sense with [Hunter’s Instincts] is very similar to the flow you get in a fight with a monster with Mana Sense. Teressa is all fired up to learn the skill, and she’s already made some headway. I still can’t clear my head to save my life.’

Jane stretched as she listened to her father. When he was done, she sent, ‘I can’t clear my head, either. Besides, I have [Eyes of Magic] as a spider.’

‘That doesn’t let you see around corners.’

‘… True.’ Jane sent, ‘Eh. I’ll work on it. I’m working on Flame Essences right now. I got up to [Fireblend] the other day.’

‘Really! That’s great!’

Jane smiled as she walked around her room, and her father’s love trickled through their telepathic connection. She had gotten [Fireblend] a lot more than a few days ago, but she waited to tell her father about it until she needed a confidence boost. Apparently today was that day.

He sent, ‘Does that mean another full month of hunting slimes for [Fire Body]?’

Jane’s joy doubled. Her father had never really paid attention to all the make-believe magic she had loved back on Earth, but now he was focused on every nuance of real magic on Veird. He had listened to her talking about her magic, he was able to connect one piece of magic information with the other, and he had gotten over a lot of his reluctance to kill. Erick had changed a lot since the both of them fell to Veird.

They had both changed a lot…

Well. Maybe Jane hadn’t changed. Not really.

Jane smiled as she sent, ‘Maybe it’ll take a month. Maybe not. I won’t stick around for that, though. The skills are fundamentally different. Shadows don’t always reach each other, so you can’t move around a battlefield very well unless you have [Shadowalk], or you cast a [Shadoward]. But fire tends to spread. [Fireblend] is good enough for a fight in a forest of flammables.’ Jane added, ‘So it’s only a few more days of this and I’m gone to the Sovereign Cities west of the Wasteland Kingdoms. It’s Spring, and the Unicorn Hunts are starting soon.’

Worry filled the connection, as Erick sent, ‘Have you tried your flame slime against mind control effects yet? I mean the real stuff, too. Not the spells you tested with Liquid’s help.’

‘Not really. But I’ve read up on the requirements to join the Hunt, and they’re either a slime body, or the acceptance of a cut-off collar. Most people take the collar but I won’t be doing that.’

‘I’m glad you’re not taking the second option, but I still worry. I’m also proud of you, Jane.’

Jane smiled.

Erick sent, ‘Will they allow you to eat the unicorn afterward?’

Jane frowned, suddenly unsure. ‘Maybe. All I want are the heart and the brain, but I’ll be in a group and the things are so damned valuable that it might be a problem. But even if they don’t, I’ll still gain the experience fighting a unicorn that I can use to hunt down my own unicorn later.’

‘Fair enough.’ Erick paused, then suddenly said, ‘Oh! Right. I remember now what I wanted to say. Just today, I read in Hocnihai’s book on [Prismatic Ward] that he used a unicorn horn to contemplate how to connect all the pieces together.’ Erick sent, ‘I don’t know if it will help, but you should get one and see if you can get [Prismatic Ward].’ He added, ‘I’m still working on that one.’

Erick continued, ‘[Reflection] is a pretty great spell, too. I got a version I’m happy with a few hours ago. It took a few tries because I tried Hocnihai’s methods, thinking of magic as bouncy ball, and it worked well enough. But then I started to consider a dual Particle-Energy theory of magic, where mana is both particle and light. And then blam! A great version! I didn’t tell anyone about the Particle-Energy theory of mana, and it might just be my own experiences reflected upon the mana— That happens with almost all tiered magic according to Rue. Anyway. Here:’

Pure Reflection Ward, instant, Personal Ward, 10 mana per second

Reflect spells cast upon you.

Erick sent, ‘It’s not very useful in that I already have a [Personal Absorption Ward] active all the time, but it’s good for Ophiel. He can’t really use a [Personal Absorption Ward], anyway.’  He added, ‘And it’s a bit wonky in that it doesn’t seem to reflect all spells equally and it doesn’t work against most of the damage done by physical spells. Like— [Stone Blade] uses real stone alongside the magic that animates the stone. So [Pure Reflection Ward] will reflect the magic in the [Stone Blade], but not the actual blade itself. Kiri got [Stone Blade], by the way. We sparred with it, experimenting and what have you, and the [Stone Blade] did 0 spell damage and broke half the time —likely due to reflecting damage upon itself— but Kiri was still able to get [Strike] damage through, though that, too, was considerably less than it should have been. Probably because the weapon had lost much of its structural integrity.’

Jane had conjured a plush chair to sit in while Erick talked. She smiled a little, knowing that her father was gaining a lot of defenses. Maybe she should get [Reflection], too. Her [Personal Ward] was great, but she couldn’t recast it in the middle of combat like Erick could. All Jane was missing was [Rebound].

She had the extra points… hmm...

She sent, ‘[Melee Reflection] would also reflect the physical [Strike] damage, too, wouldn’t it?’

‘According to Hocnihai, yes.’

Jane bought [Rebound]. She was down to two extra points, now.

She sent, ‘You’ve sold me. I just bought [Rebound]. It won’t be useful outside of special circumstances, but I can see it being very useful in those special circumstances.’  She stood up, saying, ‘I’m going to try for Mana Sense and [Prismatic Ward] when I have the time, but I’m not so sure I can make them. I gotta go, though. It’s nice talking to you. I love you, Dad.’

‘Love you too, Jane. If you can’t keep safe out there, be sure to give ‘em hell!’

Jane laughed, then sent, ‘I will. Talk to you later.’

Her connection to Erick broke like the skin of a drying soap bubble; slowly, then all at once.

Jane paused in the center of her stone room. There was something else she needed to talk to her father about, wasn’t there? She thought for a moment. She almost called him back; Ophiel was likely still in range. But. Meh. Whatever. Whatever it was must not have been important.

Jane wrapped herself in shadow, and zipped through her base’s tunnel, past mossy silver boulders nestled against the roots of the tree that hid her sanctuary, into the afternoon forest, where the sun came in sideways and light barely penetrated the canopy.

Zip, zip, zip, and Jane stood under the dark clouds common to the volcanoes, with nary a tree in sight. She would have built her base at the volcano itself, but this place was full of monsters, and lava. The lava wasn’t that bad, but lava elementals were. There weren’t that many monsters in the nearby forest, anyway. Something was probably eating them all; likely wyrms.

- - - -

With a two-meter wide [Cooling Ward] attached to her hair-clip and a two-meter wide [Weather Ward] attached to a [Conjure Item] bracelet, as well as a facial wrap and goggles, Jane was protected from the worst of the heat and ash that felt from everpresent, sky-choking clouds. Lightning flickered tiny sparks inside those clouds, but the rains of yesterday had long since fallen. Ash filled the air, now, and not much else. Occasionally Jane flashed a [Cleanse Aura] out, but mostly, she hunted.

