The boy rushed over to a fountain in the corner of the dining room and took a cup from a nearby stack. He began filling the cup from the fountain. Jane breathed out relief as the boy set the water in front of her. She took a sip. It was nice.

Julli watched the whole time. She said, “You haven’t come in lately.”

Jane laughed, genuine. “Out hunting monsters. Sorry about that.”

“No need to be sorry.” Julli said, “People gotta kill monsters if any of us are gonna make it in this world.” She asked, “Were you… Did you have a team—”

Jane shook her head, saying, “No. No. Nothing like that.” Jane said, “This was all… Just a… A very, very close brush with death. Prolonged and… worrisome. Monsters are… They’re all rather terrifying, aren’t they.”

Julli nodded slowly. “That they are.”

Jane said, “Thank you. I’ll find the money and pay you back—”

“Ain’t no need for that. Not right now. Honestly, Rendar made me feel bad that I didn’t offer you a free meal first. I feel bad enough taking your money anyway. You and your father are making this town pretty damn wonderful.” Julli said, “I heard how you rescued the Champion and the Prince. That’s mighty fine work.”

Jane stared at her cup of water.

The horrors certainly seemed to compound, didn’t they?

Julli said, “You seemed to do okay after that horror show.” She spoke softer. “So seeing you like this is mighty terrifying.”

Jane suddenly sat up. She looked around. Rendar glanced out the corner of his eyes at Jane, while he chopped up meat on the grill. The boy watched Jane from around the edge of the cash register. Julli stared directly at Jane, like she was waiting for bad news.

Jane breathed again. She said, “Sorry. It was not my intent to cause alarm.”

“No offense taken.” Julli said, “But it would be really good to get that question answered.”

“Moon reachers,” Jane said, suddenly.

Julli’s eyes went wide. She whispered, “Not around here—”

“Not around here at all.” Jane waved a hand through the air, toward the north. “They’re in the mountains. East of Firemaw Mountain. I just… Apparently they’ve been hunting me for two weeks. I only managed to evade them because of… I’m not sure how.”

Julli sighed out. She put on a smile, and it might have been genuine. She said, “Those things are horrible. I’d take the mimics and the wyrms and the Blood Clouds of the Crystal Forest any day of the week. You can run from that shit. Can’t run from monsters as hidden as those fuckers.”

Rendar walked toward Jane’s seat, carrying a huge basket with a sandwich full of dark meat and gooey white cheese, and a large amount of fries. He set the meal in front of Jane, saying, “Moon reachers are awful. Best way to be sure those bastards are dead is spell them from above. Don’t even bother coming at them from the ground.”

Jane smiled at Rendar, saying, “It’s an idea.”

Julli stood up, saying, “Go ahead and eat. We’ll leave you to it. Water’s over there, you know.”

Jane smiled at the sandwich, saying, “Thank you.”

As Rendar and Julli went back behind the counter, and customers started to appear, Jane ate her sandwich in the corner, and looked out across the dining room. More memories surfaced.

She had been damn lucky. She had been damn arrogant. The first time she saw the reachers, she had thought them a wonderful opportunity to test the mental defenses of her slime and her spider. Both of her alternate forms resisted [Thought Fog] completely, but as time went on, she had made a mistake. [Thought Fog] hung in the air like a poison, even after the reachers had gone. She must have been exposed between [Polymorph] forms, and from there it was all downhill.

As Jane ate her sandwich and her fries, an awful thought nipped at the back of her mind. Was exploring the world on her own a mistake? The answer was probably ‘yes’.

Nope.

Jane threw that thought away. Sure. She was vulnerable out there all alone, but only because she got cocky. She had thought, that just because she was able to kill almost everything she saw, that this ability was good enough to put her at the top of the food chain. She was wrong. She made a mistake. She had been exposed to a gradually worsening poison. She survived only through the barest amount of luck, and a great deal of her own hammered-in instincts.

Having [Hunter’s Instincts] on almost all the time helped a lot out there. [Greater Shadowalk] provided eyes in every form, and easy travel wherever light glowed incomplete. Her shadow spider was fantastic for practically all sneaking and fighting, too. Jane was capable of taking on the world, she just needed more experience.

She needed [Aura of Freedom] from a unicorn, and also her class. Then she would be a lot safer from creatures like moon reachers.

Jane finished her sandwich, and devised a plan. She bused her own table, said ‘thanks’ to Julli and Rendar, and began to walk home. The sun hung higher in the sky. Silver clouds hung to the west, raining onto green land.

Jane walked across the flat orange stone of the Human District, feeling better, even as more forgotten memories popped up with each passing minute. Most of those resurfacing memories pointed toward the validity of the idea that Jane had just messed up, and more than once. If she had turned into a slime at night and slept in a crevice somewhere on the volcano, she would have never encountered the moon reachers. Sure, a lava elemental would have likely come along, but Jane could handle one of those. If she had remained as a spider in her underground burrow, she would have never been afflicted with [Thought Fog]. Sure, it wasn’t comfortable, but it was okay.

Jane had messed up, pure and simple. She had thought it okay to spend the night in the forest, as a human, instead of as the monster she needed to be whenever she was outside of civilization.

She reached her house. A pair of orcol guards stood beside the garden. Jane knew them from the army. As they greeted her, she greeted them. They were staying in the guest rooms on the first floor, keeping an eye on the house while Erick and everyone else was away.

That was fine with Jane. She left them to their duty and went inside, after thanking them for looking after the house while everyone was away.

- - - -

Erick had been right. [Reflection] was a pretty easy thing to make after considering all the facts and going off the idea of a dual Particle-Energy Theory of Mana. And after spending several hours leveling [Rebound], of course. Just to make sure she was doing it right, she even searched the Script for [Reflection]. She found nothing. [Reflection] was just one of those hidden skills.

Jane stood in her tower as the sun began to set outside, and stared at the blue box in front of her.

Pure Reflection Ward, instant, Personal Ward, 10 mana per second

Reflect spells cast upon you.

“Huh. Nice job, Dad.”

As though summoned, her father’s voice tickled the back of Jane’s mind.

‘Hey, Jane!’

Jane laughed loud.

Erick sent, ‘You seem to be happy. Good news?’

Jane sent him an image of her [Pure Reflection Ward], adding, ‘I just got this, right as you called.’

Pure joy rolled through their connection, as Erick said, ‘That’s pretty great!’

‘It is pretty great.’ Jane looked out at the darkening sky, and sent, ‘How late is it over there?’

‘Eh! Time doesn’t matter. I couldn’t sleep— Wait a second. Are you back in Spur? I see the tower floor in that image.’

Jane smiled, glad she didn’t have to tell him. ‘Yeah. I am. For a little bit. Had a close call, so I’m taking it easy for a few days.’

‘… What happened?’

‘I don’t really… I would like to talk about it after the problem is solved. But...’ Jane asked, ‘Could you look up ‘Moon reachers’, for me? What’s the best way to kill them? I’ll be here for a day, but I’m going back to the Wyrmridge tomorrow to kill the group that hunted me.’

‘Okay...’ Erick’s voice held a frantic edge.

‘Just. Please. Dad.’

A moment passed. Erick said, ‘Hold on.’ A moment later, his voice came back full of false cheer,‘There’s a library in this house and...’ Erick sent, ‘Where were they...’ He paused. He sent, ‘Ah ha! Here they are. Great library… this place...’

He went quiet.

Jane waited.

Erick sent, ‘Oh my gods, Jane. These things—’

‘I know, Dad. I know. Just…’ Jane suddenly regretted telling him anything at all. She should have kept her mouth shut. She should have—

‘[Polymorph] into a creature that is at least partially immune to mind magics, then nuke them from the sky. Fire helps.’

Jane smiled softly. ‘Someone else told me almost the exact same thing, not hours ago.’

‘It’s a good way to fight. But hey! [Pure Reflection Ward] will help!’

‘Not really.’ Jane sent, ‘[Reflection] doesn’t work on mental magic. Only magic that actually hits you.’

Erick spoke as though with cheerful authority,‘That may be true of [Reflection], but I practiced [Pure Reflection Ward] with Poi and it reflected his [Mind Spike] right back at him.’ Erick added, ‘It doesn’t work so well on area spells, or on spells with physical components, but it does work against all targeted magic.’

‘… I’m going to try it right now, with [Telepathy]. Contact me until you can connect again.’

Jane severed their mental link, then turned on [Pure Reflection Ward].

Erick sent, ‘Testing. Testing. I am the very model of a modern major general—’

‘The skill is active but I’m still connected.’ Jane dropped the spell, then sent, ‘I’m not taking the chance of a partial success against [Thought Fog], since [Thought Fog] is both targeted, affects an area, is insidious, and the least crack in my defenses will mean… It won’t be good.’

A long silence held between Jane, and Erick.

‘I understand.’ Erick’s voice was hard, as he said, ‘You’re right.’ He sent, ‘I know you’re going to say no. But will you allow me to help you with this? These monsters are not in Ar’Kendrithyst. I can kill them with Ophiel and a Domain, without you putting yourself in danger.’

‘… I…’ Jane steeled herself, and sent, ‘You can’t rescue me every time I’m in danger, but it’s nice to have the offer. Thank you, but no.’

After a long pause, Erick sent, ‘… Okay.’

‘I love you, Dad.’

‘I love you, too, Jane.’ Erick quickly sent, ‘I have to go. I’ll talk to you later, okay?’

‘Okay.’

Their connection popped. Jane leaned against a wall and slid down to the floor. She sat there for a while with an ache in her chest, thinking that she had really hurt her father. First she spilled the beans on the moon reachers, then she denied his help. Maybe she shouldn’t have told him anything, like normal.

Jane let her mind wander, trying not to think too deeply about anything at all.

The line between not-thinking because it was too painful, and not-thinking because she decided to meditate, was a fuzzy thing. She crossed that line, sitting there on the floor with her eyes closed and her shoulders relaxed.

Memories of nerdy discussions with her ‘adventuring squad’ back on Earth played through Jane’s mind, from how best to beat a wizard with too much time to prepare, to arguing over house rules and combat, to how to stat-block a god. Where would you even begin? Life in a fantasy world came up rather often, too. More than once, they spoke of dealing with traumatic stress. How would you do it?

How would one deal with the stress of actually living in a world where monsters ate your neighbors and your family? Where beasts could show up and destroy everything you ever loved in a single, blood and fire filled night? Jane had answered ‘Medication and booze!’ The response from the rest of the group had been a shout-down. There was likely no real medication in Generic Fantasy World A, or whatever, and booze was a self-destructive cycle. They discounted the possibility of magical mental healing, right away, for what could it really do except erase memories, or lessen the impact, both of which would fuck you over in the long run. So what were the options? Not fight? Run away? No, those weren’t valid responses to terror knocking on your door.

Meditation came up as a solution. It didn’t work for everyone, but it did work for some people.

Because of that conversation, and because she knew she would eventually be getting into some majorly traumatic shit some time in her life, Jane went out and took a transcendental meditation class offered at her college. That was just last year. She didn’t get far with it; meditation seemed rather pointless at the time. But here and now, on Veird and feeling like the walls were closing in? Now was the time to try again.

So Jane sat there, eyes closed, and mentally made the ‘ohm’ sound, without worry for whatever notions would crop into her mind, or whatever terror she might feel. Occasionally, she opened her eyes, just to make sure she was still alone. But then she went back to her silent mantra, filling her head with a cleansing sound, focusing on nothing in particular.

After twenty minutes, Jane didn’t feel much different, but that was expected.

She opened her eyes. She stood up. She breathed, and then she went to make dinner for herself.

- - - -

The next day Jane went back to her tower and put up some blackboards. She needed to do some thinking. Her [Fire Body] had gone through several upgrades by the time it reached its current level. Those upgrades were now listed on the board in front of her.

Flame Touch, burn minor size

Flame Strike, weapon of fire, not great

Inflame, make a fire bigger, useful but not great

???, forgot this one.

Flame Breath, almost died using it the first time

