“My soon-friend, I will make a place for you in the ceremony of that day.”

“Then I’ll be there.” Alden swore it as firmly as Stuart just had. “No matter what.”

“This coming weekend will be Welcome End,” Stuart continued. “It’s a time of celebration and socializing focused on the declared who will soon become knights. We’re approaching the end of summer. Most people choose to have their first bindings during the period just after Welcome End and through early fall. Until recently, I was planning to do that, too. Mine would have been ten days from now, on the anniversary of Father’s first binding.”

A bubble of fear formed in Alden’s gut.

“But I agreed to the delay my family wanted,” Stuart said. “So it will be half a year. The second and fifth Rapports are in the southern hemisphere, so they’ll be having their end of summer then. I’ll do it with their declared.”

“You have to go to another Rapport instead of being at home? Just because of that agreement?” Alden found the idea much more enraging than he would have expected. “Stuart, that’s not fair to you at all!”

“No,” Stuart said, eyes widening. “I’ll be at home. But I wanted it to be the right season somewhere on the Mother.”

The wind had picked up enough to blow a crispy piece of plant across the walkway beside them. It was brown, dry, and dead. Alden watched it.

“That’s a long time and no time at all,” he said finally.

Stuart tilted his head. “I’m not sure what you’re thinking. Will you tell me?”

“I’ll finish the most important part of my choosing season before you do it,” Alden said. “That’s what I’m thinking.”

“My first binding shouldn’t influence you. Your choosing season is your own.”

“I’ve chosen to let it influence me. Don’t worry. I’m trying to do what’s right.”

They found the alcove and arrived back in the art’h summonarium not long after that. The moisture in the air and the decent temperature were so welcome that Alden could have melted onto the floor and slept with minimal encouragement. But he had one more responsibility to consider.

“Where’s Kon?” he asked. “Is he with some member of your family, or did he go back to Earth? I expected him to send me at least one message to let me know what was happening here.”

“I should have shared the update I received with you,” Stuart said. “I’m sorry. That seems obvious now, but I was tired. He wasn’t here long. Olorn Mom gave him a gift, and they sent him back to Anesidora.”

“All right…I’ll go collect my suitcase and head to Anesidora, too. And you need to get some rest.”

******
