A meaty arm clamped around his waist and threw him off-balance, the downed assailant not as unconscious as he’d thought. Snarling in anger, Baledagh abandoned all mercy and stabbed the man clean through the face, spraying blood all around as he withdrew his sword. The dead man’s efforts were not in vain as they bought enough time for the wiry soldier to arm himself with a hidden rapier. Thrusting out, the wiry soldier put the full weight of his body behind the blade, showing no thought of retreat or escape and boldly putting his all into this one attack. At the last possible moment, he unleashed his Aura, a wave of daunting panic crashing into Baledagh even as the cold, naked blade pierced towards his head.

Clever. Even if Baledagh had an Aura to counter him, the assassin hoped the momentary delay would be enough to take his life.

Two months ago, it might well have.

Drawing on his rage, Baledagh howled as his Aura erupted outwards, a wave of pure, unadulterated blood lust pushing back against his foe. Leaping back, he smashed the rapier aside  before reversing his strike, victory already his. The soldier had no method to defend and he knew it, completely vulnerable after his all-or-nothing attack. There was no shock or hatred in the wiry soldier’s eyes, no fear or regret, only bitter shame written across his face as Peace’s Honed edge clove clean through his neck.

Heart pumping and chest heaving, Baledagh struggled to control his rage, staring at the surrounding slaves and daring them to make a move. That’s where the unseen assailant had come from, one of the bamboo cages. Caught by his Aura, the slaves were helpless before him, sheep ready for the slaughter, and it’s what they deserved. None of them had warned him about the ambush, standing silent while these men tried to murder him.

Forcefully exhaling, Baledagh shook his head and grinned wryly. He couldn’t blame this on the Spectres, these thoughts were his own. Rehabilitation was a slow process, but dark thoughts didn’t make him a monster. So long as he didn’t act on them, then thoughts were all they were. Striding out into the busy streets, he raised his voice and shouted, “Could someone call the guards? There’s been an incident.”

Traffic paused as every eye turned towards him, their faces blanching in terror. One person turned to run and in the space of a few heartbeats, the street was empty and devoid of life. Glancing down at his blood covered body, Baledagh chuckled beneath his breath.

Right. Blood.

His goal accomplished, Baledagh stepped back into the store and waited for the guards to arrive. While he didn't know why these soldiers tried to kill him, he wasn't too concerned about it.

Great men will always have enemies, and Brother was undoubtedly a great man.

Chapter Meme
