Slipping into his soul, he entered his storage facility, his avatar warping in front of a tank holding rank-four potential.

As general procedure, he kept a thousand units of each rank up to the mid-twenties on hand should it be needed. A thousand units at this rank equated to 16 kESS, which wouldn’t be enough for the core to recover its mana if it did it at the same efficiency as a person. Fortunately, the quantity of essence in the tank was less important than the fact that it was plumbed into his distribution system.

Taking a moment to purge the lines of higher-rank potential, Rain switched over the feed, then returned to his body and began to vent.

Slowly, mind.

More than able to keep up, his refinement stack kicked on, drawing from his vastly larger stockpile of chaos to refill what he was losing. Carefully monitoring the flow of essence around him, Rain smiled as he saw that the potential wasn’t degrading back to chaos as it would have outside. It seemed the lair had no problems with taking its essence prechewed. With no direction from him, the energy began wafting toward the core, gathering around it in a misty cloud only he and Sana across from him—by her awed expression—could see.

“Anything with Mana Sight?” Rain asked without looking away.

“I can’t tell,” Bluewash said. “If it’s regenerating, it’s not fast.”

“It will probably take time,” Rain said, cutting off the flow. He didn’t want to give it more than it could handle. “We’ll watch it for a few minutes, and if we still can’t tell by then, we’ll come back tomorrow and look.“

“We done after that, then?” Carten asked, tapping the spare tank he held. “Really don’t want to have to use this.”

“Almost,” Rain said, scratching his ear as he considered what else they could try. Before he got very far, he froze as a powerful soul jammed itself into his awareness. He turned just in time for his hair to be blown back by the thunderous gale of Velika’s arrival. The former Citizen wasn’t wearing an Ascension coat, but she had the single pip of an Aspirant pinned to the collar of her tan linen shirt along with her specialist’s cross. Both were jarring to see.

He still hadn’t gotten over the fact that she’d asked to join. Or the fact that he’d allowed it.

“You’ve been avoiding me,” Velika said, her voice sounding normal with the air she’d carried from outside. Her tone, though, was utterly frigid, and her scarred, gold-level soul was bubbling with repressed rage.

Rain calmly removed his regulator. “Hello Velika. You look better, and your speed seems to be recovering.”

“I look like shit, and I feel like a wheeled mule,” Velika said. “What’s wrong with your voice? And why is mine starting to sound just like it? Fucking Arcane lairs.”

“Bad air,” Rain said simply, choosing discretion over reminding her that she wasn’t supposed to be in here. There were multiple signs. And guards. And procedure. He gestured with his regulator. “It’s not toxic, but you’ll suffocate without one of these. We can talk outside.”

“Fine, then,” Velika snapped. “Now, though. Not tomorrow or next week or when it’s convenient.”

“After you, then,” Rain said. He glanced aside to see both Carten and Sana trying to hide behind Bluewash, which was going about as well as you’d expect. He held back a sigh. “Good work, everyone. Looks like we’re done for today.”
