“Set the bone, clean the wound, and let them heal naturally. Use anything but magic!”
Geneva snapped back. Thirty minutes after her speech—which had taken thirty minutes of repeating instructions about how to contain the Yellow Rivers disease—she was arguing with the [Healers]. They looked discontent.
“But that will take months! Without a potion—”
“Even a drop makes the infection worse. Do a drop test first. If the potion has no visible effects, they are infected. And they have to be quarantined—”
“And what about the broken leg? So they’re sick with a broken leg and ill? And we can’t use a potion? Surely there’s some medicine. I hear someone had wonderful success with a poultice of Sage’s Grass and—”
“It doesn’t work.”
Geneva snapped at the Lizardwoman [Healer]. The woman looked affronted.
“How do you know?”
“I’ve tested it.”
“Well, my friend says it worked on—”
“It does not work. Nothing works on this disease so far except keeping your patients hydrated, clean, and rested! There is no magical cure. A poultice will only make things worse or do nothing!”
The [Healers] murmured, discontent, doubting. Geneva scowled at them. Idiots! They relied on magic. They didn’t know the first thing about germ theory. She saw one of them raise a hand.
“Okay, I understand not poultices and potions. But I have some lovely magical crystals that—”
The [Doctor] slammed her hands on the table. The [Healers] fell silent. Geneva Scala breathed in, slowly.
“There is only one way to treat this illness. Listen closely. If you suspect someone of being sick, perform a drop test with a healing potion. Only then—”
 
—-
 
Some people listened. All the [Midwives] Geneva talked to were much more receptive than the [Healers]. They promised to take care—especially if the mother was in childbirth. They’d call for her to operate without potions if need be.
The Yellow Rivers disease was spreading. Geneva saw the signs everywhere. Closed brothels, or ones operating and advertising the condoms and that they’d been checked by The Last Light. The plague hadn’t spread yet.
But it was going to. That was how it worked. That was what ‘exponential’ meant. Only, who knew that word in this world? And it was going from port to port since Fezimet wouldn’t close Talenqual, let alone the other cities.
“We need a cure. I’m sorry, but I need you all to pull longer shifts. I’ve got some more volunteers—[Midwives], more of our company. But I need to come up with a cure. Fezimet has —graciously—ordered some of the lower-level [Alchemists] to find a penicillin substitute. But making sure it works without serious side-effects will take time. I need to split my attention between testing and the clinic. I will come here every day, but you will all be in charge.”
Geneva gave a speech to her [Nurses]. All nine of them stood in front of her as she stood. Somewhat unsteady. They nodded seriously. Geneva wobbled.
“Thank you, sincerely, for everything. Anyone not working can go rest.”
That came from Okasha. Geneva sat down as the others filed out. The clinic had six more cots in it. And Geneva had just paid for the building next to it—a shop—to expand her business. The owner had sold her the rights. The [Shopkeeper] had been terrified of the illness anyways and Fezimet had ‘insisted’.
Geneva was too tired to worry about the ethics. They needed the room. She sat down. Was the world…spinning? She only realized someone was talking into her head after a few seconds.
“Geneva, you’re been in charge and awake for nearly nineteen hours! Give me a turn. You’re exhausting yourself again! There’s all this ick in your system—you keep trying to make too much stomach acid as well! You need to rest. It’s been over a day since we slept!”
Okasha was worried. Geneva jerked upright.
“I’m—fine. It’s not your time off, Okasha. We don’t have time for that.”
“I didn’t ask for that. I just said—”
“My Skills are nearly recharged, Okasha. I’m doing the rounds. I can rest afterwards.”
Geneva got up. She looked around, muzzily. Maybe it was time to sleep? She’d use her Skill, then walk to the company, sleep for six hours. Four? That should do it.
She was just getting up when she heard a commotion outside the clinic. Geneva poked her head outside. And she saw a crowd of infected people arguing with Aiko.
“Let us in! We need The Last Light’s help!”
A Centaur was arguing with Aiko, pointing at an infected sore on his arm. He wasn’t badly off; nor were the others. Geneva recognized some of them. They all had minor symptoms. Aiko was trying to bar the door.
“We cannot take you all! Geneva will see you! Please—hello, please wait! We cannot—”
“You can’t not treat us!”
Someone called out. Geneva was hurrying towards them when it happened. Someone pushed Aiko out of the way. She went down with a cry. Geneva heard her glass mask break.
“Aiko!”
Blake saw and rushed forwards. But the crowd of patients rushed forwards, going for Geneva. She shouted. Aiko was being trampled! They were—
 
—-
 
Two hours later. Geneva Scala was still awake. She looked down at Aiko.
The young woman had cuts on her face from the broken glass mask. The clinic was being expanded next door; Geneva heard one of the [Builders] begin to knock the wall in. She sat, feeling Aiko’s head.
Despite the glass shards which Geneva had been forced to pull out manually—without painkillers—Aiko’s face wasn’t healed. No healing potion had been used.
She had a fever.
“Our suits didn’t work properly. Or she was infected when she was trampled.”
That was Blake’s conclusion. Geneva just shook her head.
“The incubation isn’t that fast. We didn’t use a potion; she was already sick. The suits aren’t perfect. We knew it was a risk.”
“You’re not sick. And you’ve treated the most people.”
“I have a resistance Skill. But I’m at risk, still. So is anyone else. Let the staff know. Aiko will be under my care. It’s early-stages; she wasn’t badly hurt. She will be fine.”
Geneva looked up. Blake looked at the cuts on Aiko’s face. The Yellows River bacteria ate away at open wounds. He hesitated, and then adjusted the glass mask on his face.
“I’ll let the others know. I’m staying.”
“Thank you.”
Geneva just sat there. Looking at her friend. Aiko had been the first [Nurse]. Now, she was breathing heavily as sweat beaded on her forehead. Geneva had administered a sleeping agent; she had that at least.
“Everyone, stay back! If you are sick, you have to take care of yourself! Anyone with serious symptoms will be treated! Do not approach!”
A voice bellowed from outside. Geneva looked up. It was Daly’s voice.
The Bushrangers were standing outside of the clinic. They had arrived to break up the mob and were now standing guard. They had their crossbows out and loaded. To get the others off them, Daly had shot one of the sick patients through the leg and his team had used force to pull the others off her.
He was standing outside when Geneva exited the clinic. She looked at him.
“Daly.”
“How’s Aiko?”
He turned to her, worry in his eyes. Geneva shook her head.
“Her wounds aren’t serious. I’ve applied my Skill; the cuts may scab over before…the bacteria begins to mortify the wounds. Why are the Bushrangers here?”
“As security. Fezimet will send some of his [Guards] tomorrow. We’re here tonight. We’ll trade off in shifts.”
Geneva stared at the crossbow the Australian man was holding. A bolt was loaded, although the safety was on. Daly saw her look.
“Desperate people, Geneva. We won’t fire if we don’t have to, but people need to see us.”
He hesitated as he met the [Doctor]’s gaze.
“I know you don’t like the idea. But sometimes [Doctors] need people to guard their backs. Or manage difficult patients, idiots, and so forth.”
She looked at him. And her temper boiled over. She was tired. And Daly had injured one of the ill people badly enough that they were now in one of the new cots. She leaned forwards and hissed at him.
“And what is the powder for?”
The adventurer’s eyes flickered. He looked at Geneva.
“If the idiots bring War Walkers. There are some people who’d slaughter saints, Geneva. You know that. Look—let’s not talk about it now. You need rest.”
“Not yet. Don’t touch me. You’ll get infected.”
Geneva jerked back. Her protective armor moved as she walked back inside the clinic. She was sweating too, from the heat. She sat back next to Aiko. And kept working, ignoring the voice in her head.
 
—-
 
“Stop. You’re not well, Geneva.”
Three more hours later, Geneva was checking patients at the door to her clinic as the Bushrangers admitted them one by one. Okasha was pleading with her. Geneva had stopped listening.
“Next!”
A young woman said something outside. There were complaints, but the Bushrangers didn’t let anyone in. A woman came from the side, through the clinic.
“I said, no one enters that way—”
Geneva shot to her feet, angry. She saw Paige, without the protective gear, standing in the center of the clinic. She didn’t approach Geneva, who had some of the infectious material on her armor. Geneva opened her mouth, but someone else spoke for her.
“Paige! Talk some sense into Geneva!”
It was Okasha. Geneva closed her mouth with a snap. Paige nodded.
“I’m going to do just that, Okasha. Geneva—you need to sleep. You’re dead on your feet and you’re compromising your own systems.”
“I’ll rest…later. I need to keep checking people. Keep them calm.”
Paige exhaled slowly.
“Let one of us take over. We can at least repeat what you told them.”
“No. I have the Skills. I can manage it. I’ll take a stamina potion.”
Geneva shook her head a few times. Paige opened and closed her mouth. And then the [Engineer] glared.
“Geneva, let one of us take over. Rest! You know, we can help too. We might not be [Doctors], but if you tell us what to do, we can try. You don’t have to stop the entire Yellow Rivers plague on your own. You don’t have to be the actual Last Light of Baleros.”
The [Doctor]’s head jerked back.
“I never said that.”
“No, but you act like it. We’re not idiots. We can take over. You need. To. Sleep.”
“Not yet. There are patients waiting outside. I’ll—set up a second inspection station. But put some gear on! Training someone to always be here is a good idea. But give me two more hours. I can use my Skill on Aiko again…”
Geneva began to turn back to call for someone else. She had to keep working. This was a crucial moment. Sleep? She could sleep once people were calm. Once Aiko was stable. She could not lose anyone. She—
Something was wrong. Geneva wasn’t moving. She tried—and realized her body had locked up.
“Okasha? Something’s wrong.”
“Paige is right, Geneva. You need to sleep. I can’t let you do this to yourself. We’re going to bed, Paige.”
Geneva got up and began to walk to the changing room. The [Doctor] spoke.
“No, we’re not. Stop that. Okasha? Okasha.”
A voice whispered in her head.
“I’m putting you in the box. This is for your own good.”
Geneva shouted, but it was internally.
“Don’t you dare, Okasha! No! Don’t you d—”
 
[Doctor Level 34!]
[Skill – Disease Detector obtained!]
 
—-
 
Geneva woke up with a start. She looked around, saw daylight shining into her room. Only—the sun had gone backwards in the sky.
How long had she slept? The [Doctor] began to scramble out of bed.
“Okasha! What did you do? What did you do?”
She shouted. There was a yawn in her head.
“Morning, Geneva. We were asleep. Wow, is it tomorrow? We must have slept for over—”
The woman shot out of her bed. She looked around wildly.
“You put me to sleep? What did you do when I was out?”
The Selphid’s voice was defensive.
“Nothing! You just went to sleep. That’s all. I told you, you were being unhealthy. But you didn’t listen.”
“Never do that again! You have no right when I have patients that need tending to!”
The Italian woman snapped. She looked around. She was in her underwear. Okasha had changed her clothes, put her in her private room. Geneva began to reach for her clothes, tug them on.
“Hey! I’m living here too! Your body was failing, Geneva. You need to sleep. I can’t keep doing this. Don’t ignore me! We need to work together, okay? You leveled up, didn’t you? I bet you did! Geneva!”
The [Doctor] was cursing. She had to get to her clinic, check on Aiko! She reached for her socks.
And her hand wouldn’t move. Geneva Scala froze. Then she sat back and sighed. Her mouth moved.
“Okasha?”
“Yes?”
The Selphid replied with Geneva’s voice, altering it slightly. Geneva had to wait for her to finish to respond.
“Stop taking control of me. I have to go to work.”
“Oh yeah? Well, perhaps you could thank me for looking out for you? I have to help too.”
“I—thank you?”
“Yes. And agree that you need sleep. Every fourteen hours. Agreed?”
“If there’s a patient—”
“Let the nurses handle it! Or a [Healer]! But that’s the rule. Understand?”
“I—can’t agree to that. I’ve sworn an oath.”
Geneva’s hand rose and jabbed herself in the chest.
“Well, that oath doesn’t involve killing yourself. Those are the rules. If you don’t agree, we can sit here.”
The woman’s mouth moved for a while. But she didn’t move. At last, she spoke in a strangled voice.
“Fine. I agree.”
She smiled for a moment.
“Good! Then we can go.”
Geneva didn’t move. After a second, the [Doctor] spoke again.
“Okasha?”
“Where’s my ‘thank you’?”
“…Thank you. Please let me go to work.”
“See? Was that so hard? You can be polite! And so can I!”
The body began to move as Geneva willed it. Slowly, she reached for her socks. Okasha went on, inside her head.
“You don’t appreciate me. I’d just like to be thanked for the hard work I do. Is that so much to ask? I should have veto rights as well.”
“But it’s my body.”
Geneva replied slowly. Okasha’s pause was long. Geneva’s mouth moved as the Selphid replied.
“You mean, our body.”
 
—-
 
The Yellow Rivers disease landed in First Landing, Lailight Scintillation, and two Terandrian ports in three more days. Geneva knew because she was listening.
Or rather, Okasha was. The Selphid listened to gossip during her four hours off. Which now occurred every day.
They had negotiated. Okasha had stopped the bargaining on that point. Four hours, each day was ‘her time’. Of course, she let Geneva make suggestions.
And all ten hours Geneva got before they had their mandated sleep was spent at work. The plague was moving faster, so she was at her clinic, consulting other [Healers]…
