Until Okasha had leveled up. And gained a new class. Her new class—which both she and Geneva had been perplexed by was—
[Inner Friend].
And she had a new Skill. This place Geneva was in—this was a Skill. It allowed Okasha to separate Geneva’s mind from her body, place her in a spot where she could think and devote her entire brain to simply…thinking. While Okasha took over.
The Skill was named [The Thinking Room]. No, that wasn’t quite right. It was [Host: The Thinking Room].
Because it was a power a Selphid only had when they inhabited a living body. Okasha was the first Selphid in current memory to gain a class like this.
Geneva went back to thinking. And time did indeed have no meaning; because in this room, the thinking box as she and Okasha referred to it—she was disconnected from the outside world. Geneva only checked back into reality after a while—and realized she was leaning against a [Storm Sailor], recalling her own encounter at sea.
“Okasha. What time is it?”
Geneva saw out of the corner of her eye that the sun was quite low. The Selphid didn’t reply at first. She was all-consumed with spinning the yarn.
“Okasha—”
“And then I—hold on.”
Okasha broke off as the [Storm Sailors] snorted and nearly fell over laughing. She whispered into the box.
“What? I’m having a great time!”
“It’s time for me to get to work, Okasha. Give me control.”
“What? No, it’s not! It’s—aw, Creler eggs.”
Geneva-Okasha turned her head and her face fell at the sight of the fading sun. Geneva, in the box, insisted.
“You promised.”
“Five more minutes?”
“No.”
“Oh—fine! But let me excuse myself!”
Grumpily, the Selphid turned and began explaining that she had to go. Geneva, in the box, watched, annoyed, as Okasha had to stand a round. The [Storm Sailor] let her go, laughing, and Geneva staggered out.
“Fine, take your stupid body back.”
Geneva-Okasha muttered. Geneva was suddenly back in her body. She wobbled, and nearly ran into a pair of [Sailors] who were laughing on their way to the door.
“Okasha! Get rid of my intoxication!”
The [Doctor] gritted her teeth and whispered. Inside her body and now just aiding Geneva, the Selphid grumped back.
“Fine! Fine! Your stupid liver’s working, but I’ll go kick it. There!”
Geneva felt her head clearing at speed. Accordingly, her bladder. She looked around. The [Sailors] blinked after her. One of them checked her mug.
“Dead gods. She looks different all of a sudden. What’re we drinking?”
The woman from Italy walked out of the bar. Her facial muscles ached from keeping up her ‘Okasha’ face. And she needed to pee. But Okasha dutifully suppressed both feelings, relaxed her muscles. Geneva felt fresh, despite having been up since dawn. More Okasha-help.
“Now back to work. Bleh. Have fun treating disgusting patients all night. You know you need to sleep? It’s not good for your body. I worry about you, Geneva. Your smile muscles are all rusty, too!”
Geneva ignored Okasha’s voice. She walked on, looking for a place to pee, and heading back to the United Nations headquarters. Her mind was echoing all the thoughts she’d come up with in the thinking box.
Check the petri dish. Hotspots of diseases. Spread of disease based on calculations—funding is—
It did help her refocus. Even so, as Geneva walked, she was glad to be in charge. Okasha had her needs. But Geneva needed to save lives. And they were in a pandemic, a growing one. She was sure. Okasha had her needs, which was why Geneva had allowed it until today.
“But it’s going to get worse. I can’t allow it for the foreseeable future.”
“Hm? What was that?”
“Nothing.”
Geneva walked on. She got back to work. And—in her mind, the place Okasha couldn’t read or reach, only her body—Geneva was a bit relieved.
She’d tried to take back command while she was in [The Thinking Room]. Several times, actually. But if Okasha knew it or not—Geneva hadn’t been able to.
 
—-
 
“Hello, Geneva! Have you eaten? Have you slept? The Bushrangers are back—”
Kirana welcomed Geneva as the [Doctor] unlocked the door. The woman shook her head.
“It’s me, Kirana. Not Okasha. She ate. I’m well awake. Is there any tea? Did we discover coffee? I’m going to be working in my clinic. I’m just here for—”
She backed up as she strode past the [House Manager]. Geneva paused. And Okasha, inside of her, winced.
“Uh oh. Angry juice incoming! Stop squirting that. Stop that. Stomach acid here, ew, ew…ooh! I remember eating that…”
She squirmed around in Geneva’s body, suppressing the natural fury coursing through Geneva. Kirana winced.
“Yes. They got back a few hours ago…”
“Did they find anyone? Is anyone hurt?”
“No—they were dead. And no one was hurt.”
“Oh.”
Geneva Scala paused. She looked at Kirana.
“It was someone from your group, wasn’t it? I’m sorry.”
Kirana only nodded soberly. It was—amazing. Painful, how someone could be used to death. Geneva wished she had the background in therapy to know what to say. Even her bedside manner was—that of a battlefield surgeon.
“I’m sorry. I’ll…see the Bushrangers later.”
She had no desire to see Daly, or Siri, or anyone else in the team. Geneva headed towards the stairs.
In one of the four houses the United Nations company now occupied, there was a sealed room with a reinforced, air-tight door. Geneva didn’t like having it with an actual population of people living nearby, but it was that or the clinic.
And the clinic could be broken into. Had been, three times, by [Healers] hiring low-level [Thieves] to snoop around and steal Geneva’s scalpels and other tools, looking for her ‘secret recipes’. Rather than let them walk off with something truly dangerous, Geneva had agreed to install this door.
So this house was reserved for business, entertainment—Paige’s workshop. Not with many beds in them. Just in case.
Just in case, Geneva would burn the entire house down if she thought there had been a breach. But she needed to do her research somewhere. She marched up the stairs. And on the way met another distraction.
“Geneva! Hello. Are you fed? Rested? I haven’t seen you all day. For two days, actually.”
Luan smiled on the stairs. Geneva sighed. Why did everyone greet her like that?
“It’s me, Luan. Not Okasha.”
He gave her a strange look.
“I know. That was obvious.”
She blinked a few times at him. He touched his face, turning it into a semi-permanent cross between a frown and a dour stare. Geneva hesitated.
“I don’t look like that.”
“Yes you do.”
Her mouth answered for her. Kirana and Luan jumped, but grinned as Okasha’s voice spoke. Luan nodded.
“Hi, Okasha.”
“Hi, Luan! You wouldn’t believe who’s in the harbor! I met some [Storm Sailors] who were at the battle at sea!”
“Really? What—”
“I’m working. Okasha can tell you later, during her time off. Luan, I’d love to chat. I hear the Bushrangers are back without incident. Good. I wish they’d found someone alive, I mean.”
Geneva brusquely overrode her mouth. She walked past Luan. The South African man eyed her.
“The person who died was Dev. An [Explorer]. He was in The Dyed Lands. He had a journal. Kirana thinks he might have found some interesting plants or animals.”
The [Doctor] stopped on the stairs. Luan glanced at Kirana out of the corner of his eyes. And then Geneva was striding back down to them.
“Anything useful? Plants? Animals? Even toxins? Let me see the journal.”
Kirana showed it to Geneva. The [Doctor] flipped through it.
“Can you read it?”
“Yes. There’s some notes about helpful things. For healing. Daly even brought back some of Dev’s supplies. We are looking through them—”
Geneva nearly dropped the journal. Her head snapped up.
“You have some of his equipment?”
“Yes, and—”
“Don’t touch any of it! You have no idea what could be in his gear! Parasites or poisons! Where is it?”
Luan and Kirana glanced at each other.
“Paige has—”
Geneva was up the stairs in a flash. She strode over to the [Engineer]’s door and began hammering on it.
“Paige! Open up! Do not open those samples without—”
The door opened at her touch. Geneva strode in and saw Paige.
She was wearing a huge suit of…well, armor. Protective gear. Treated leather with glossy resin, foul-smelling but all-encompassing. She even had a glass mask, carefully made to allow her to see without letting anything actually touch her face.
“Oh.”
“Geneva.”
Paige’s voice was cool. She was investigating the contents of a satchel. Geneva saw large pots of paste, some crumbling red powder—
“You have the protective gear on.”
“Yes. And you’re in the room unprotected. Didn’t you see the sign?”
Geneva backed up. The sign on Paige’s door read, ‘DO NOT ENTER’. The [Doctor] hesitated.
“I was concerned—”
“Parasites? We had the jars frozen once they arrived. And Daly and the others kept them securely contained in bags of holding. Nothing was opened; they still want to be tested. And I’m investigating. See?”
She held up a magnifying glass. More crude glass, like the mask she wore. Paige glanced at Geneva.
“Good to see you. Hi, Okasha.”
“Hi, Paige.”
Geneva waved at Paige. Then she slapped her other hand down. She backed up.
“I’m…getting to work. Sorry about…”
“Shut the door, please. Thanks.”
The [Doctor] closed the door silently. She turned to Kirana and Luan. They were eying her.
“I’ll check Paige later. Something could still be living in the room. We’ll still sterilize—”
“I put down poison and the room was secured until you opened it.”
Paige shouted from inside the room. Geneva’s mouth closed. She turned.
“I’m getting to work. I need to be at the clinic tonight. I’ll talk to you later, Luan, Kirana.”
“Sure.”
The two chorused. Geneva hesitated. She disappeared into her secure laboratory, next to Paige’s. Luan studied it.
“In retrospect, it was a mistake to put their rooms together, yeah?”
“But if something gets loose, we can explode Paige’s workshop. Or if it explodes, it kills the germs.”
The [House Keeper] countered. Luan smiled crookedly. He glanced up at Geneva, and then turned to Kirana. The young Indian woman was leafing through the journal.
“Is there anything Geneva can use? She’s stressing about the Yellow Rivers plague. It’s getting bad. We could use a win, Kirana.”
“I don’t know. I don’t think so. He used this…paste for his cuts. In one of the jars. I will tell Paige. But it stopped bleeding. Not cured sickness. He was sick here. See?”
She showed Luan a dated entry. He nodded, although he couldn’t read.
“Anything interesting?”
“Venoms from a…purple place. Daly will want them.”
“Tell Geneva.”
“She won’t like it.”
“No, tell her because the venoms might be a cure. Or useful in her research. I think that’s how it works.”
Luan shrugged helplessly. Kirana nodded. She read a few more bookmarked spots.
“There is…one more interesting thing. Monsters aside. But I have to ask Daly. This Dev. He was alone, right?”
“Yup. He never made it out.”
The [Rower] leaned on the balcony, suddenly tired. He looked at Kirana. She was younger than him by…seven years. But she felt older. They were all growing up. Still, he and Geneva were the oldest. Adults. But for all Luan admired Geneva—she could be less mature than the nineteen year-old young woman from India.
Kirana nodded. Her eyes flicked across the page. Then she showed him something else.
“Here. Something strange. Right on this day. He met someone in The Dyed Lands. Someone—scary.”
“Scary?”
Luan frowned. There was a picture. A woman, standing in the doorway. All shadow, but Dev had captured some features. Not enough. Just enough to make Luan…uneasy. The [Explorer] had captured his mood.
“Another [Explorer]?”
Kirana read on.
“No. She got past all of the—traps. And she left no footprints. Dev was afraid. It says the woman offered him something. Wanted Dev to take her hand. He thought—”
She hesitated. And then closed the book abruptly. She blinked a few times. Luan looked at her. Kirana had suddenly gone pale.
“What?”
“Nothing. He just wrote that he thought it was a bhoot. Or—something worse.”
“A—bhoot?”
She looked at him.
“A…ghost. Or a—”
She searched for a while. Then she put the journal away and didn’t open it any longer.
“A devil.”
Luan felt his skin crawl. You could laugh at something like that on Earth. In the daylight. But in this world? Here? Nothing was off limits.
People said the gods were dead. So—sometimes, Luan stayed awake at night and wondered. If the gods were dead—
What killed them?
“Did he take the hand?”
That was all he could think to ask. Kirana shook her head.
“No. He wrote that he did not. The—woman vanished. No footprints. Dev died months afterwards.”
So no correlation. Luan sighed. But Kirana still looked bothered. That story would bother Luan too, if he let it. He needed a drink. He sighed.
“Maybe it was a [Rogue], or high-level explorer. Or a nightmare?”
“Maybe.”
“When did it happen, anyways? Daly can ask that [Adventurer] he met if she knows anyone like that.”
Kirana cracked the journal open. She frowned at the date.
“In the middle of winter.”
Luan was walking down the stairs. He stumbled. Looked over his shoulder. Kirana blinked at him.
“What?”
“…Nothing.”
The man felt his skin turn icy. And something was crawling down his back. He hesitated, and then shivered. No way. But—absolutely. His hand itched. Luan kept walking, hurrying for the kitchens. He’d have a drink, ask later. In the daylight.
He was relieved, though. Luan had assumed it was a dream, a nightmare at sea, while rowing. But that made it seem—
He was so glad he hadn’t touched her hand.
 
—-
 
“Geneva, I’m really worried for you. You can’t keep working like this. I can remove fatigue from your muscle, but not that brain-thing! You can’t keep doing this!”
An hour later, Geneva sat in her laboratory. It wasn’t sterile, white tiles, stainless steel, or anything as good. The floorboards were wood. She’d installed a metal door, made the room airtight as possible. That meant she had to open a window, but she kept it closed when she was working with anything serious.
And she too had protective gear on. Geneva had designed it herself. There was no plastic in this world, so she had to rely on resin layers, cleaning…
Soap, rather than antiseptic. Fragile glass, and a rear vent for oxygen rather than an actual tank. It would keep out liquids, but not gas.
It helped for the Yellow Rivers treatments. Geneva checked the setting sun. Nearly time to get to the clinic. She heard the voice again.
“Geneva? Are you listening?”
“What?”
