The [Doctor] snapped irritably. She heard Okasha’s voice in her head.
“I’ve been talking for the last thirty minutes! You’re not listening again! You’re tired. Get some rest.”
“I can keep going. Thanks to your breaks, I need to make up time.”
“You also need to sleep.”
“Not yet. Be quiet. I’m testing the cultures.”
Some things she’d reclaimed from her world. The glass petri dishes and cultures inside made Geneva’s skin tingle. She wasn’t qualified for this. But she was more qualified than anyone else in this world. She stared at the growing yellow amid the red. Cursed.
“Nothing’s killing them. Nothing—has Ken gotten those [Alchemists] to work on an anti-bacterial yet? Don’t they know how important this is?”
“No. He’s trying, but not many of them like working with mold, Geneva. We’re all trying. Did none of the treatments work?”
For a moment, Geneva thought the voice was coming from Okasha. But it wasn’t. She looked up.
“Paige! Stay—”
The young woman was wearing her protective gear. Still, Geneva glowered.
“I told you never to open this door when I’m working! It was locked! How—”
“Kirana has the key. Anyways, you said it wasn’t airborne.”
“As far as we know. It’s mutated once. It can do it again. What’s that?”
Geneva pointed. Paige had two substances in crude, earthenware pots. She offered both to Geneva; one was a purple, viscous substance that made Geneva’s instincts instantly wary. The other was a reddish paste, mixed with green.
“Samples from our [Explorer]. One was an ointment he used on himself. Stopped the bleeding.”
“A coagulant?”
“Yup. And the other’s a venom. He coated a spear with it. Thought it might be useful.”
Geneva studied both. She reached for the samples.
“I could—add them to cultures. See if they work. I doubt they will.”
“Try it. The venom might be overkill, but if you could…I dunno, dilute it?”
It was worth a shot. Geneva nodded. She eyed the pots.
“I want those stored in a sealed container.”
“Yep. Just take a sample of each.”
Paige held them out as Geneva found a tiny spoon, took a sample of each, and smeared them into the other petri dishes. Paige sealed both pots and then eyed the dishes.
Geneva had eighteen, each with yellow spreading across the red cultures.
“What’s the verdict, Geneva?”
The [Doctor] paused, but she replied, stiffly avoiding Paige’s eyes.
“See this? This is the Yellow River strain. I’ve cultured it—which means it’s bacterial.”
She lifted the petri dish. It was open, and Paige saw the telltale, sickly yellow pus growing amid the red. She made a face.
“That’s disgusting. How is it growing? What’s the medium?”
“It’s a combination of blood, some tissue mixed with the sugar jello—the sample grows best on that.”
Geneva saw Paige eying the culture. She spoke on, hurriedly.
“It’s mine. Not from anyone else. I had Okasha extract it from me. But it’s all dead matter; a virus wouldn’t survive. Bacteria would.”
“So that’s why you need the penicillin so bad?”
The [Doctor] nodded.
“To be precise, we need an anti-bacterial agent which works on a broad spectrum. Penicillin is one example. The odds are that this world will have another variety that we just don’t know about. Now—I need to take this dish to my meeting.”
“Didn’t you say you never wanted this taken out of the lab?”
Paige saw Geneva place the petri dish in a larger glass container and seal the lid. The [Doctor] nodded brusquely.
“I did. But the Yellow Rivers disease is already in Talenqual. And unless we get the support of The Featherfolk Brigade, it will spread. We need action from every major city in the region. Lockdown of the ports! More [Healers]—”
She slipped and the glass container skidded across the desk. Both women lunged for it—Okasha grabbed the case. Geneva steadied herself.
“You’re tired.”
Paige breathed out shakily as Geneva’s hand slowly put the dish back on the counter. Geneva inspected the container for cracks.
“I’m fine. I slept last night.”
“You say that as if that’s unusual. Geneva—can we talk?”
“About what? How to most effectively use your powder bombs? Make an IED. Those kill very effectively. You can leave them in the ground for generations. Landmines that blow up children.”
Geneva snapped back. Paige turned pale. She straightened abruptly.
“I’m trying to talk this over. Unless you think the Bushrangers should take on giant serpents and Crelers with crossbows?”
The [Doctor] looked up.
“I’m not saying that. But when do they start using them on other people?”
“Probably around the same time those people try to kill us. Geneva, you can weigh in on this. We can figure out something—”
“I told you what I think.”
“We can’t stop it. Geneva, I’ve seen [Fireballs]. So have you. They’re worse than grenades. And that’s a Tier 3 spell. I’m not saying I like it. But when Daly asked, I agreed. Because it’s not a gun.”
“No, it’s a bomb. I don’t have time for this, Paige. I can’t stop you.”
Geneva stood up abruptly. She stalked past Paige with the secured sample and then turned. She poked at Paige through their protective gear.
“I can’t stop you. But I’ll never approve of it. You know it’s wrong.”
The Australian [Engineer] exhaled loudly. She saw Geneva open the door and walk out; the lab was secure. Paige shouted after Geneva.
“I know it’s not perfect! But I’m trying my best! I’m trying to talk, to be reasonable! So is Daly! You’re the one who says ‘do it my way or fuck off’! What would you have us do? You know, Geneva Scala, you’re not the only person who’s right in this world!”
The [Doctor] never replied. But Okasha whispered in her head.
“Ooh. She’s got you there.”
“Shut up, Okasha.”
 
—-
 
The clinic. Geneva marched in, ignoring the looks people gave her. In her protective gear she was like a [Knight]. Only, one whose protection was against malady, not spells or swords.
“Aiko. Sorry I’m late. How are the patients?”
“Geneva! They are—good?”
A [Nurse] hurried over. Aiko Nonomura, a young Japanese woman, was clearly tired. But she and another [Nurse]—one of the young Indian women—were both in the protective gear.
Luan’s gold had paid for more than just the new headquarters. So had condom sales. Geneva put down her burden as she looked around. She heard voices from further in her clinic.
“Any new cases?”
“Many. We had to turn away…all but three. The ones who were worst. They—are—good.”
The word ‘good’ was clearly up for debate. Priya, the [Nurse], was pale. She had volunteered for this job, despite her main class being [Cook]. But Geneva had needed the hands.
“I’ll check on them, then. Can they still eat? Take liquids? Dehydration is what will kill them. The bedpans—”
“Washed. What is that…container?”
Aiko gagged and Priya shuddered. Geneva nodded.
“I need to speak to Fezimet tomorrow. That’s a sample of the disease. Don’t touch it. Wait, you’re going off-duty, aren’t you? Remember, wash down the gear. Take isolated baths—if you have so much as a fever or poor digestion, I want you to quarantine—”
The two exhausted [Nurses] were nodding wearily. They knew the procedure, but Geneva had to be sure.
“In that case—go on. I’ll need Zane and you, Aiko, tomorrow morning. Priya, can you manage the evening? Good. Get some rest—and thank you so much for working so hard.”
Aiko smiled wearily.
“You are welcome, Geneva. You have to rest too, alright?”
She patted Geneva on the shoulder. The [Doctor] nodded silently. She hadn’t thanked the two. She’d forgotten to. It had been Okasha who’d done that. With her voice.
Silently, the two [Nurses] left the room, heading to the chamber Geneva had made for them to clean themselves before leaving. That left the [Doctor] to make her rounds.
“No new C-sections. No patients with major maladies besides the Yellow Rivers patients. And…”
Geneva walked into her clinic. She looked at the first patient, on the bed. The Lizardman was looking up at her. His bandages were clean. But he had flushed scales. His temperature was far too high.
“Miss Geneva.”
He sighed as he looked at her. The [Doctor] sat down.
“How are we today, Teqis? I’m sorry I couldn’t arrive earlier.”
“Better. I’ll be better. The two lovely [Nurses] were—wondrous to us. There are three more.”
He turned. Down the clinic, separate cots had been set up. There were twenty two patients in the clinic now. It was overcrowded. But each patient was running a high fever. Had diarrhea—
And the open, growing, pus-filled wounds. Usually on their genitals, but now—spreading to other areas. They were regularly cleaned, but Geneva saw a telltale yellow and red dripping from Teqis’ clean bandages.
Only, it had stopped when the [Doctor] walked in. For a moment, there was relief. The Yellow Rivers disease halted in its consumption of skin, spreading through the immune systems.
“[Malady’s Cessation]. The Skill will get you an hour of time. I want you to rest, drink more fluids—hopefully you’ll begin fighting this off. You can recover, Teqis. You’re in your second week; this is when your immune system will begin fighting off the disease. I want you to remember that.”
The Lizardman’s eyes were watery.
“I will. My family stopped by, and I was feeling better.”
Geneva’s mouth opened worriedly. The Lizardman went on, hurriedly.
“They weren’t allowed in. But I could shout to them. It is better than the first week, [Doctor]. Thank you. I might—you’re our savior.”
He gestured around the clinic. The other patients were sighing, as the Skill helped them. For an hour, they could recover, fight back as the infection halted. Geneva clasped Teqis’ hand.
“I’m not doing enough.”
“Nonsense. You’re the Last Light of Baleros.”
He laughed weakly. Geneva looked around.
“I have to talk to the others, Teqis. But I’ll be here most of the night. One of the [Nurses] will come in to help; if you need anything, just call.”
“I will. Thank you.”
The Lizardman lay back, closing his eyes. Geneva walked on. The next patient was a Centaur, Biha. A Dullahan—two more Lizardfolk—
“Am I late? Sorry, I had to change into the gear.”
A [Nurse] walked in an hour after Geneva had seen to all the patients. Blake, another volunteer, paled as he inhaled the odor in the room. Geneva’s Skill had ended. The [Doctor] looked up.
“It’s fine. See to the patients. I’ve changed the bedpans—”
One of the symptoms was diarrhea.
“—but we may need more water. Remember to add the lemon and sea salt and honey.”
Blake was nodding. To replenish electrolytes and other elements, Geneva had come up with the drink along with the food they fed the patients. It saved lives.
“I’m heading out. I need your help scrubbing me down—then I’m going to visit the other patients. Do you have a list?”
“Here. They added twenty entries today alone.”
Blake handed Geneva the list. Okasha made a sound.
“So many…”
The [Doctor] didn’t blink.
“I’ll visit all of them. Just change the bandages. Send a Street Runner if there’s a complication. Remember, the poultice—”
“Yes, [Doctor]. We’re running out of ingredients and honey.”
“Tell Kirana to buy more.”
The [Doctor] walked into the changing room. Blake followed her, and helped her rinse off with soap and water. It sluiced into a drain; the septic tank would need to be emptied in time. Geneva needed to take precautions about that too.
Then she walked out of the clinic. In the street, people turned and stared. Some whispered. Others backed away. But more waved and called out.
“Miss Geneva! Miss Geneva! My son—”
A Lizardwoman was waiting for Geneva. One of many. They pushed forwards and Geneva held up a hand.
“Please! Don’t push. I’ve told you—keep your distance! Are you washing your hands, Miss Vioneq?”
The Lizardwoman wrung her clawed hands.
“Yes—but my son—”
“I’ll see to him. Stay back. Once I begin treating the patients, do not touch me. Stay back, and keep clean. Remember what I said: the disease is spreading through liquids, now. Boil your water. Wash your hands regularly. Do not touch your mouth or nose. Or—nose holes.”
The crowd backed up. More called out to Geneva. She walked past them, in her protective leather armor. It was brown, rather than pearly white, but it had one mark of her profession. A red cross, painted on the back, underneath the resin.
The Last Light of Baleros. That was how they greeted her these days. A sick Lizardboy, with the early stages of the disease. Someone with a high fever and diarrhea—no pus. That only occurred if they had open wounds, thankfully.
Geneva made her rounds. Her clinic was far, far too small for the amount of patients with lesser ailments. But she stopped there, using her Skill, advising the families on what to do. Wash hands, do not allow the disease to spread.
It was a disaster. Geneva was making her nightly rounds; she had done them this morning, before Okasha’s silly break. And the people were listening.
But Talenqual was a Lizardfolk city. Which meant tightly-packed, social, wood housing that was sprawling rather than vertical except for the richer parts of the city which were built with stone. The exact sort of place a plague loved to spread.
And Geneva was one [Doctor]. Alone. She kept walking, her feet growing tired despite Okasha’s best efforts, into the night. She ignored her fatigue. But she had a nursing staff of less than ten, with volunteers. She had four suits of the protective equipment made and the rest were delayed for ‘real’ orders by the [Armorers]. No one was paying attention to this epidemic.
Except for her. And that had to change.
 
—-
 
Siri, the Swedish [Ranger] and member of the Bushrangers found Geneva in the clinic the next day at dawn. Geneva Scala was sitting in a chair, next to the contained petri dish. Snacking.
“Stay past the line.”
The [Doctor] pointed. Siri stopped at the yellow line that had been painted on the floor. No one was allowed past except people in protective gear or patients. She saw Geneva bite into a white stick, chew, grimacing.
“Nali-sticks? I didn’t know you liked them, Geneva.”
Siri indicated the white sticks Geneva was eating. They were concentrated sugar, the kind that gave you an insane rush of energy. So sweet they were addictive. The [Doctor] glanced up.
“You’re right. I don’t like it that much. It’s far too sweet, even by our standards of candy. But it’s quick energy. And…”
She grimaced. She needed them. And someone else loved them.
“Nali, Nali-stick! Gotta have my nali-sticks!”
