The United Nations company was split. And even Ken couldn’t fix it. As Siri washed herself, carefully enjoying the hot water someone had to haul from a well to their building and then heat, she felt it in the headquarters.
The company was larger than ever. More people from Baleros were being found with each week. Or—their remains. But they’d expanded, and they had gold. Lots of it, actually.
Well, for a given amount. As adventurers, the Bushrangers were still poor. And the United Nations Company was similarly insolvent by that standard. But if you measured by the layperson’s income?
They were doing well. Well enough to afford good meat, food, four nice houses (even if Miss Hastel, the Centauress [Landlady] was giving them a discount), and a lot of amenities.
Even a [Repair] spell from one of their new [Mages]. Myron, from Greece. The United Nations company had lighting—someone had actually installed a flashlight in one area, just hanging from the ceiling since it was free light so long as you cast [Repair] on it. They had laptops for movies, which were on rotation that everyone shared, bug-free housing, beds for all—
And they were divided. The Bushrangers enjoyed a good welcome, because they were hard-workers who pulled in a lion’s share of coin for the company. Paige and Daly—did not.
They bore most of the blame, even though Siri was always burningly aware of the charge of black powder that Paige had given her. It could and had blown up larger monsters; it was weaker than modern explosives from Earth, but it was still capable of tearing stone or hides apart.
And that bothered some people. Anyone from Earth who was leery about bringing well, firearms to this world. Who saw that was going from self-defense or the need to make money like the Bushrangers did to importing dangerous technologies.
And none more so than Geneva Scala. She hated the weapons. And half of the United Nations company was on her side. The other half saw it as necessary, or, if not okay, understandable. You needed bombs to kill an Adult Creler.
But both sides were split. And that night, Siri found herself eating with Paige and a smaller group, not including Luan; some of the Bushrangers were eating with what would be Geneva’s side.
Daly hadn’t come back yet. He, as the instigator of the entire split, was aware of the rift he caused, and stayed with Edima, who was aware of the schism, but blissfully unaware of the details.
“Some of the others want me to stop producing the bombs. But I generate black powder every day. That’s my Skill. Besides—I agree with Daly. Even if I think we should have told Geneva. At least no one’s tried to sabotage me. Mainly because they might upset the black powder. That’s what I hint, anyways, although I have it safely stored.”
Paige was speaking to Siri. The Swedish girl rolled her shoulders. She was still uncomfortable herself. It had been months since the reveal. And still—
“How are you dealing with Daly?”
“We’re not happy. But we settled it.”
Siri folded her arms. Paige nodded. Daly keeping the secret about the bombs so long was what Siri had been most annoyed by. Paige hesitated.
“Anyways. That’s not something that should overshadow your return. I’m sorry we missed that [Explorer]. What was his name?”
“Dev.”
The Australian woman hesitated.
“We’ll add it to the list.”
The others looked up. The List. Ken had proposed it. It was a list—the definitive list as best they could make it—of everyone from Earth.
Living and dead. Ages, names—homes—and next of kin. Even phone numbers, email addresses. In case someone got home. Or in case someone found it.
It was reassuring, in some way. Horrible in another. Not that Siri thought about her family much. Not unless—
The Swedish girl found herself lifting something. Her arm. The inside of it was tattooed with silver. The names of her family. Her brother.
Sometimes she forgot she had a brother. Siri stared at it as Paige averted her eyes, digging into the food. Luan had a tattoo just like it, in gold. It was a growing trend among some of the company. Tattooing the names so that they wouldn’t forget.
“…So. Luan’s back. He’s resting up. Sorry about the locked doors. But Blake and some of the others are keeping a guard out.”
Siri glanced up.
“We need a guard? For what? Crime?”
“No, Luan. You know that bounty? Word’s gotten out. He can’t walk down the street without a few [Toughs] threatening to beat him up. They won’t tangle with our crossbows, but some of them even try to attack his boat at the harbor. It’s locked away, but—damn that Xol or whoever it was.”
Siri grimaced. So did Paige. For whatever reason, Xol of the Iron Vanguard had possessed an unusual grudge against Luan after the events of Daquin. Enough to put a fifty-gold bounty on Luan’s head. Not to kill him—but to beat him up and trash his boat.
“It’s getting to the point where Luan’s been suggesting we let them rough him up. But we don’t know how serious they’ll get. The last group had knives out; Kirana chased them off with a crossbow.”
The Swedish girl laughed and choked on her food. Paige grinned, but she was worried.
“Anyways, the Runner’s Guild won’t remove the bounty. No one wants to offend The Iron Vanguard. But we’re keeping Luan with bodyguards. No one wants to make an open enemy of Geneva either, so it’s only idiots and desperate people. For now.”
The [Ranger] nodded. Siri shifted in her chair as Paige brought out something. A hand-crossbow, small, but made of steel. And wood, but the bow was spring steel. One of the Bushrangers whistled.
“Nasty.”
“I’ve upped the range and punching power. This hand-crossbow isn’t one of the torsion ones that the Greek-lot helped me make; I’m still improving it. But we might actually be able to mount a mini-ballista on a wagon. I’ll let you know. Quallet’s bought three dozen already.”
“How’re Gravetender’s Fist doing these days?”
Paige smiled as Siri investigated the crossbow.
“Well. They’re healthy, which is better than some other companies. They won a battle. Crossbows at range; the enemy never even closed. Quallet pays for my new designs.”
The United Nation’s company had many sources of income. The people working jobs, but also—Paige’s crossbows. Luan’s deliveries. The Bushranger’s missions. But also, and disconcertingly, the primary income was—
“And we’ve actually got the manufacturing up to…speed. We’re pulling in gold for Geneva’s condoms. If you can believe it, it was more than you hauled in last month. And her clinic is earning tons of money—”
The others groaned or laughed. Siri shook her head. That was her. Geneva. The Last Light of Baleros. Say what you would about the others—she was their icon. People didn’t make enemies of their company because of her. They did favors, like Mexy, because of her reputation.
The Last Light of Baleros. The only [Doctor] from Earth. Geneva Scala.
Siri paused. It occurred to her she hadn’t seen Geneva.
“Is she still working at the clinic?”
Paige shook her head. But then—Geneva stayed away from her. She bit her lip, and then shook her head.
“She’s spending all of her time in the clinic. Doing C-sections, teaching the [Midwives], healing anyone who comes in—but also tending to the Yellow Rivers patients. They’re growing in number. Geneva is getting really worried this is an epidemic. The bacteria—mutated across all her patients. It’s not just sex, now.”
Siri put down her fork. She looked at Paige, worried.
“And if it is?”
“Geneva is trying to find penicillin. She’s also going to talk with the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade—Fezimet. Tomorrow. You can ask her if she gets back. If she…sleeps. She doesn’t, sometimes. She’s driving herself into a wall.”
“She needs to rest.”
The second-in-command of the Bushrangers murmured. She’d seen Geneva at work. Or ‘relaxing’. Siri had seen stones being smashed by waves on the beach who relaxed better than Geneva. She worked herself to the bone and beyond.
“Maybe we should talk to her. If she knows Daly came back she might shout at him. Or—she would want to see the [Explorer]’s diary. There may be something he found that was useful.”
To Siri’s surprise, Paige did smile at that. She shook her head slightly.
“Don’t worry. Geneva is on a holiday. Today, at least.”
“You gave her a holiday? With people getting sick?”
What Geneva was that? The Geneva that Siri knew would work without sleep if someone had sprained a foot. But Paige just sighed.
“The other Geneva.”
“Oh.”
Of course. Siri nodded slowly; even the others didn’t know. But she did.
The other Geneva. That Geneva had changed…too.
 
—-
 
It was a very funny thing. They knew that Geneva hated violence. She hated the idea of bombs for the same reason she hated anything that would kill people. Injure people in the ways that haunted her sleep. Because she had sworn an oath.
But it was wrong to say that Geneva Scala hated weapons. She would use any possible one that was offered to her, that she could grab. And she fought her war, a terrible war against the kind of foe that never gave up or relented.
It was a bitter war. And she fought it alone.
Alone. She had…allies. But there were things they could help her with. And things only she could do. Most of them didn’t even see the problem. They called it a ‘troublesome disease’, but they didn’t worry. As if you could contain a plague with words.
No, no. There was only her. And she worked from dawn to dusk, counting time only by when she worked by magical light or by daylight. Time had lost meaning for her.
Time had lost all meaning. Geneva Scala sat in a room. It was…
A room. Describing it was beyond hard. You couldn’t talk about the light.
Because there was no light. There were no shadows.
There was no floor. Geneva was sitting. But here was no chair.
There were no walls.
And yet it was a box. A room. There was only her. And her thoughts.
But what clear thoughts. What vivid imagery. Geneva Scala could see Talenqual, flickers of memory piecing together to give her an aerial view, like when she’d stood on the top of one of Talenqual’s buildings and looked around. She could see the city.
“There. And there. And there. Brothels. Infection spots.”
The [Doctor] whispered. Marking the spots in her memory perfectly. Knowing where they were, how to get there. She spoke, but there was no sound. No air in this room either.
She wasn’t breathing. This was just thought. Perfect, clear—Geneva was doing calculations in her head effortlessly. Sums of money, using up the budget she had, recalculating it, finding out how many [Alchemists] she could hire, how much it would cost to scale up production.
“Have to check the petri dish.”
Another thought. Geneva anchored it in her mind so she wouldn’t forget. It was so—convenient here. She could think about thinking. Memory was easily accessible to her; she could replay images, compare Yellow Rivers patients and the way they differed in minute detail.
It was the kind of Skill another person from her world would give so much for. Someone conducting research, for instance, mathematicians—Geneva’s mind was clear.
And yet—there was one thing she didn’t control. It was like—well—to her—a television screen.
An all-encompassing one, though. If Geneva looked at it, she was there. Seeing through—her eyes. If she tried, she could taste. Hear.
“Nom. Nom. Nali-sticks. Love them.”
The voice was hers. And not hers. Geneva Scala watched. Then she directed her attention towards finding solutions outside of a vaccine. She was doing calculations, remembering her notes from a single lesson on plague statistics in clear detail—
“Huh.”
The [Doctor] glanced up. She was…on holiday. Yes, on holiday. Or at least, that was what Paige thought. The truth was more complex. Geneva peered at something, tapped on the television screen.
“…Okasha. What are you doing?”
Geneva giggled. She felt herself speaking in a higher-pitched voice. Even her face felt—different. The muscles were being used differently.
“So—you were there? During the battle with the [Strategists]? And the Swords of Serept? Really?”
The female [Storm Sailor] laughed and her two mates grinned.
“Sure were. We sail under Lord Seagrass’ command. Hell of a fight. We were battling those damn Bloodtear Pirates, but—”
Tap, tap. Geneva saw/felt herself raise a mug, swallow. Alcohol rushed through her system, that bitter, lovely intoxication.
“Okasha. I have work tonight.”
Her voice wasn’t a voice at all. And she—was leaning forwards.
“Can you tell me more about—”
“Okasha!”
“I hear you! Shut up, shut up! This is my time! And I’m trying to get—us—lucky!”
A voice snapped back. It came from the entire room. Geneva frowned.
“No. Sex. We agreed on that. Anyone could have the Yellow Rivers disease. Okasha—”
“Fine! Shutupshutup! Go away! I still have an hour left!”
And then the projection of Geneva in the actual world vanished. Geneva blinked. She tried to make it come back.
But this was not her Skill.
“Okasha. What are you doing? I can’t see.”
“Fine! Let me be!”
Geneva saw the viewpoint appear again. Her flirting with the [Storm Sailors] was much more subdued, and they had picked up on her vibe and were looking discouraged. Geneva Scala went back to thinking.
And Okasha took Geneva’s body. She was smiling, drinking, apologizing to the [Storm Sailors]. She was Geneva—and not.
Her face was different. Her vocal range higher. The Selphid could do that to Geneva’s vocal chords at will, even change her facial muscles. The skin tone and eyes stayed the same, but it was amazing how different you could look.
This was—Okasha. Her look, separate from Geneva’s. They had agreed it was how Okasha could go about. Do her own thing without it being connected to Geneva. And this was her time.
Ever since the incident with Xeppal, things had changed between Geneva and Okasha. Conscious of the Selphid’s growing need for independence, trapped as she was to allow Geneva to move despite her shattered spine, Geneva had worked out a deal.
Okasha got three days out of the week, and six hours on each of those days. Six hours to be her, to go and eat food, see what she wanted, gamble, watch movies—
Sex with other people was off limits. But most other things were not. Okasha could pilot Geneva’s body; that was what Selphids did.
But normally Geneva would be conscious, feeling and seeing all these things, and obviously distracted. And obviously, displeased if it was something she didn’t like doing. Like watching a movie with idiotic [Doctors] in it or something. For the first two days she and Okasha had squabbled despite it being ‘Okasha-time’.
