“Oh—Calectus. I mean—it is good to see you again. Why are all of—these Selphids here?”
Okasha squeaked. She looked at the Selphids. There were over two hundred behind Calectus.
The Selphid dropped to one knee. And Okasha saw many of the Selphids were wearing fresh bodies.
“Some are members of our company. But many are young. They will be [Doctors], if you will teach them, Geneva Scala. They will help manage this plague. Selphids do not grow ill from most disease. And we hope you will help us in turn.”
He gestured at the waiting Selphids. And Geneva saw the members of the Featherfolk Brigade shifting uneasily as they guarded the clinic. They looked at Calectus.
“What company are you from, Calectus?”
Okasha pretended ignorance. The Selphid gave her a long look, and then a smile. He gestured to them.
“None other than the Selphid-only company, The Bodies of Fellden.”
The Bodies of Fellden. The largest Selphid company in Baleros. Umina saw Marian watching from the background. In his tower, Fezimet grew a bit worried. Even if it was only a hundred and most aspiring apprentice [Doctors] and aid workers—
Here they were. Okasha licked Geneva’s lips. Smiling.
“Well, I am delighted to see you, Calectus.”
“Indeed. May we talk? Perhaps in private? We have reserved an inn.”
“Of course.”
Helplessly, the Selphid looked around. But the other Selphids were escorting her. And she walked with Calectus as he smiled at her.
“It is really pleasant to see you again. Um—Okasha says hi.”
The [Doctor] smiled up at the [Honor Guard]. He wore a tall Dullahan’s face. Calectus nodded at Geneva, and Geneva felt her heart racing. No—Okasha’s heart.
“Yes, Okasha. I know. I warned you. You have gone too far.”
Okasha’s eyes widened. She turned and Calectus laid a gentle hand on her shoulder.
“We see you.”
One of the Selphids was twisting a ring on her hand. Okasha looked at the Selphid. And wilted.
“I—I—please don’t?”
They led her into the inn, smiling, chattering away. Geneva saw the window closing.
“Okasha? Let me out. Okasha?”
“Turn off her eyes and ears, Okasha. And explain yourself.”
Okasha began to shake with Geneva’s body as six Selphids entered a private room, closing the door. The Selphid [Innkeeper] at the bar bowed them in. They looked at her, eyes full of—
[The Thinking Room] went dark. Geneva sat there, in the silence. And then—
“No! No! I’m sorry! Please! Don’t punish me!”
A scream ran through Geneva. She felt—something—a tugging—and then Okasha was gone. Geneva Scala lay on the floor, breathing in and out. She was lying on her side. She tried to move.
Could not. And then she saw something. Calectus, holding a little…jar. And in it was an orange, moving thing. It cried out, in Okasha’s voice.
“You have committed the sin for which we were destroyed, Okasha. The Minds will sentence you. But we will account for the need. Your…failings will not be unpunished, however. The holding-jar will be your prison for now. It is no less than you deserve.”
Calectus spoke to the wailing Selphid. Then he turned to Geneva.
“Our apologies, Miss Scala. We wondered if Okasha had given into the power. I hope we did not arrive too late.”
“No. Just in time. Don’t hurt her.”
Geneva whispered. She couldn’t move. Calectus nodded.
“We are here to help you. And we have much to discuss. But before that—Idis.”
“Idis?”
Geneva saw one of the other Selphids moving out of the corner of her eye. She felt something running down along her spine. Familiar. Calectus looked at her.
“Okasha’s replacement.”
Then Geneva’s ears went deaf. She felt something familiar—alien. Running through her. And a voice in her head.
“Oh wow.”
Geneva Scala suddenly sat up. She looked around, blinked a few times. Smacked her mouth. And then she grinned.
“Calectus! It’s me! And it’s so amazing! Just like the Minds said! It’s even fresher than the newest corpse, and I feel—”
She ran her hands down her body, moving every part of her. Then she caught herself, coughed.
“Excuse me, Miss Scala.”
“What…?”
There was no box. But Geneva felt/heard the second Selphid speaking through her mouth, overriding her questions.
“Hello! I’m Idis! Since the other Selphid—Okasha—was trying to take you over, I’ll be helping you move! I’m from the Minds—our leaders! They really want to meet you, Miss Geneva. And I’ll help you get there and do—whatever needs doing! I’m actually pretty strong, so you can rely on me to kill whoever tries to hurt you!”
The Selphid went on as Geneva tried to speak. She chattered away, testing out other parts of Geneva’s body.
“I’m a Level 32 [Blademaster]—and a Level 14 [Barbarian]! That’s an entire thing, but we’re here to help in any way you need! I’ll help you move and manage you—like Okasha did. If I don’t suit, we have other Selphids who’re happy to help out! I won the honor, though. The Minds thought I’d be best. So hello!”
Geneva Scala blinked a few times. She raised and lowered her hands, looked at Calectus. The other Selphids looked at her. The [Doctor]. Calectus bowed his head.
“We have great need of you, Geneva Scala. We would like to learn from you. And help you. Idis will be our link with you. And protector.”
“That’s right! We can chat later, though. Calectus is bossy. Wow, can you hear me?”
“Yes.”
Idis laughed in Geneva’s head.
“Amazing! I’ve never done this. But it’s incredible! So much better than a corpse! I really like your body. Is that creepy to say? That’s creepy. Anyways—hi! We have so much important stuff to do. Together, I mean.”
She waved at herself. Geneva looked at the crying Selphid in the jar. She looked around.
Help was here. Geneva looked around at the other Selphids in their dead bodies, the wailing little Selphid in the jar. People willing to help, aid workers who could replace their bodies.
At last, there was aid. Reinforcements. Military strength and people willing to learn from Geneva. Money, recognition.
Everything the [Doctor] wanted. Faced with it all, Geneva Scala smiled.
But she wasn’t the one doing it.
