Kissilt, the Drake, smiled. Niers wanted to roll his eyes. Drake subterfuge—well, okay, they did sabotage well, but they were as bad at it as Centaurs, despite being smaller. Cameral now…the Dullahan only bowed as he fastened his head to his shoulders.
“I will do my utmost, Professor.”
“I know, Cameral, lad. Just be discreet as you can. I’m not expecting miracles.”
Niers smiled as the Dullahan student bowed his head slightly. And he sighed as they left the room.
“Poor kids. If they run into each other and assume it’s my trick, that works. If they all work against each other, that works. But bring me that [Doctor]. And her company.”
From what he understood, Geneva Scala wouldn’t abandon her company, especially if they were…like her. The Titan sat back.
He could have gone himself. Taken a damn army to Talenqual and sacked the city. And he’d almost been tempted to do that, if it wouldn’t alarm all his enemies. He could have asked his spies—other agents.
But this worked. And if it worked well? He might have months of time on the other Great Companies and his enemies to learn and plan ahead. Tipping his hand in any major way meant an arms race at once. Information and time won wars.
And honestly, Niers had chosen it because it was somewhat—hands-off. He would let his intelligent, young students loose and support them as need be. But he could relax and attend to important matters.
And what was more important, pray tell, than another world? A [Doctor] with revolutionary Skills or skills? Nothing.
Or, for the Titan, one thing. He slowly unraveled a tiny, worn bit of parchment. It had arrived only yesterday, and it was already crinkled.
It read simply this:
 
The Gentlemen Callers are in Liscor. Awaiting further instructions.
 
The Titan’s hands shook as he put the roll of paper down on the table. He inspected it. Then—sighing, he reached for the artifact and wrote back. And every thought he had left, all of his genius, was focused on one thing.
Obsession. Hope. Speculation.
Her.
 
Investigate the [Innkeeper]. Code as follows for chess board. Knight to E6, Pawn to A1…
 
The Titan sat in his office after the message was sent. Sooner or later, he would know. Compared to that—even another world’s allure was faint.
Love was a terrible thing. The same side of the coin as obsession. If it was her—could she see the same maddening shape of the world he could? The flaws in armies? Could she take a nation to pieces with her mind? Niers Astoragon wished. To meet someone who could keep up with him. No—leave him behind.
So the Titan of Baleros waited, in his lonely citadel. A towering colossus, held prisoner by his enemy’s paranoid fear of his might. Drinking tea.
 
—-
 
Four days later, Daly stretched as he left the wagon at last. His legs hurt, despite having stretched them out. It wasn’t as bad as an airplane. But he still rejoiced in being able to stand.
“Pihava, Bault. Thanks again.”
“Yeah! You blokes do good work! Next time we’ll pull you!”
Dawson jumped out of the wagon. The Centaurs laughed good-naturedly. They caught the tip Daly tossed; they’d already been paid through the guild. The Bushrangers looked at each other.
“Home?”
Siri queried Daly. He looked around. Someone was waiting for him, shyly pretending to look the other way. He shook his head.
“Go on without me, Siri. Take the Bushrangers back. I’ll…catch up.”
The Swedish girl sighed. But she saw Daly walking forwards. And the Dullahan, Captain Edima of the Rustless Guard, happened to notice him. She smiled as she fastened her head to her shoulders.
“Bastard. Runs off for his girl the first thing.”
Dawson grunted, but good-naturedly. One of the Bushrangers punched his shoulder.
“Don’t be jealous.”
“Me? He’s the one bumping uglies with a suit of arm—”
Half the team kicked him before one of the Dullahans walking down the street could take offense. Siri glanced over her shoulder at Daly and Edima.
It was—a likely pairing, actually. The Dullahan Captain and Daly had joined their teams together to take on more dangerous assignments. And Edima had fancied Daly since his rescue of her team from the giant serpents.
It made sense. Siri sighed as she adjusted the crossbow strapped to her back. The leather was cutting into one shoulder. She needed a more comfortable harness. Maybe Kirana could stitch it up?
Nor did she really begrudge Daly from returning to the base. He was…not welcome there. Not recently. The Bushrangers themselves were under scrutiny, Siri included, but Daly was the target of wrath.
The United Nations company was in Talenqual, the bustling, predominantly Lizardfolk city. You could see the Featherfolk Brigade’s forces supplementing the local watch—those not on campaign, that was. Imposing Nagas or even the towering Gorgons slithered down the street.
A few were Quexals, like the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade. But most were more common forms of Lizardfolk evolutions. The Bushrangers walked wide of them; they didn’t want to start a fight with the much more powerful Featherfolk Brigade.
“Ah. Home sweet home!”
Aldenon called out as he pointed. Siri’s heart leapt as they turned down the street and came to the residential district just off the main street where the Centaurs had stopped the wagon.
The United Nations company was bigger than before. They now had—and this was a huge step—four houses. All of them large, and set next to each other. Given that it was Talenqual, the houses were practically side-by-side—Lizardfolk didn’t mind being squeezed together.
But they were nice houses. And leased for the next four months. Someone had even put a sign over the left-most house.
The United Nations Company. Siri smiled and led her team to the left-most door. She rattled the doorknob, frowned.
“Locked?”
“That’s new. Maybe everyone’s out?”
Tofte frowned. He hammered on the door. The company’s headquarters was almost always full of people, coming off their jobs, working different hours—
No one opened the door. Siri frowned.
“No help for it. Try the other doors?”
They were all locked. The Bushrangers looked at each other. Siri frowned.
“…Odd. Try the windows. Get ready.”
She circled around the headquarters, warily now. Dawson cursed.
“And the boss isn’t here. Weapons out, Siri?”
The street was…calm. Siri reached for her crossbow. Like her companions—she’d fought before. The Bushrangers were a division of the United Nations company that went into combat. Who could handle shooting someone in cold blood. Very few of them had volunteered.
“…Not yet. But hands on your weapons.”
She eased the long dagger in its sheathe, ready to draw it. Siri was going around to the side window, which she knew was open almost all the time…
Yes, it was open still. The Swedish girl sighed in relief. She motioned the others after her. She reached for the window as Dawson cupped his hands to boost her up—
“Don’t move. Back away or we’ll shoot.”
A voice from above. Siri froze. Two of the Bushrangers swung up their crossbows instantly, slapping bolts into place. They moved with a [Warrior]’s reflexes. There was an oath from above.
“Damn! Don’t shoot! It’s the Bushrangers! Lower your crossbows, mates! It’s us!”
“…Blake?”
A New Zealander poked his head out the windows. Instantly, the Bushrangers lowered their weapons, removing the bolts. Blake sighed.
“Damn! We nearly shot you, Siri! Didn’t you learn to knock?”
“No one answered the door! What are you doing?”
Siri stared up at a pair of crossbows poking out the windows. They were a sleeker design than the ones she and the Bushrangers were using. Blake—one of the newer Earthers that the United Nations company had taken in—shouted down.
“Being careful! We had a group try and break in and beat up Luan again! Hold on—let us get the door.”
By the time the Bushrangers came around the front, the door was open. Kirana spotted them.
“There you are! Did you find someone from home? Where is Daly?”
Her face was alarmed. Siri waved one hand.
“Edima found him. We found—we’ll explain later. Come on. What’s this about an attack?”
“Oh. That. More people after Luan’s bounty. He is resting. Come in, come in!”
Kirana, the [House Manager], a young woman from India, waved the Bushrangers through the door. She eyed their boots and clothing and blocked Siri.
“Carpet.”
“Oh, right. Hey, disrobe!”
Siri shouted at the others. They groaned, but stripped their boots off, placing the dirty apparel on the racks next to the entryway. They’d never have bothered in the old headquarters. It had been a nice place, but frankly—buggy. Dirty, and a bit porous. It had leaked when it rained.
But the new headquarters was nice. Cool, even! Siri breathed a sigh of relief as Kirana swept forwards. There was a shout from above. Blake came down the stairs.
“Look at you all! Where’s Daly? Did you find anyone? Hey! The Bushrangers are back!”
He turned and bellowed. Kirana winced. But there was a shout from the adjoining house. People flooded through one of the connecting doors that Miss Hastel had allowed them to install. And then the Bushrangers and Siri found themselves in a sea of questions.
“You’re back! Do you have souvenirs?”
“What were The Dyed Lands like? Do you have any dyes? We’re making clothing and we could actually use some that don’t cost—”
“Pictures? Dawson, where’s my camera? If you’ve broken it—”
“The Earther! Was it just a hoax or…?”
“Anyone seen my socks? They’re the good socks! Come on, I know someone took them!”
People from Australia, Greece, India—Blake from New Zealand, a small group from Italy, Americans, a pair of Chinese students desperately trying to translate everything—people flooded around the Bushrangers. Laughing, they tried to explain. Siri, more sober, looked at Kirana.
A time ago, the young woman from India would have been ‘new’. But new were now the Grecian group, and the Chinese students who had been found apprenticing as [Alchemists]. Now, the [House Manager] clapped her hands. She had leveled up. And hers was a voice of authority.
“Everyone! Please let the Bushrangers eat! We will have time to answer questions later! You are hungry, aren’t you?”
The mostly Australian team shouted their affirmative.
“Bloody starving! Where’s the food?”
Dawson looked around. Kirana smiled and pointed.
“Right there.”
And it was being taken out of the kitchen by some of the [Housekeepers], [Cleaners], and members of the group assigned to keeping up the headquarters. Siri smelled spices in the air and fresh bread and her stomach rumbled.
The food was predominantly from India, as Kirana managed the kitchens and when she cooked, it was food she knew. The Bushrangers found themselves sitting down and talking.
“We were too late. There was someone, but he—died. A monster got him. He lasted for five months. And we think he was from your group, Kirana. Take a look.”
The young woman’s face fell. She took the worn, dirty journal and flipped it open. She gasped.
“Oh.”
“Do you know him? We couldn’t read it.”
The Bushrangers exchanged looks. Kirana nodded, her face pale.
“This is—Dev. He decided to leave rather than stay. See?”
She pointed. The name was written, but again, not in English. Siri put down the naan bread she’d been about to dip in a sauce, appetite suppressed for a moment.
“I’m sorry. He lasted five months. A real [Explorer]. Can you read that?”
“Of course. It says—he is writing about how he left our group. This is a journal.”
“Yeah. If you could read through it, translate it—it might be worth something. Maybe he found something in the jungle; we have some of his stuff.”
Kirana was nodding. Siri looked around.
“Is…Geneva here? Ken? Paige?”
She named the other three heads of the company. Some of the founders. Kirana looked wary.
“Geneva is—on holiday. Ken is out, two cities over. Trying to convince an [Alchemist] to make penicillin.”
“Fuck. We don’t have any yet?”
Dawson looked up, disgruntled. Kirana shook her head.
“Paige is upstairs. I will tell her you’re here. But there’s also—”
“The Bushrangers! Hello!”
A voice shouted from the stairs leading up to the second floor. Siri looked up and broke into a grin. A South African man was leaning over the balcony. Luan, one of the oldest members of the company strode down the stairs. And the Bushrangers shot to their feet.
“Luan! You made it back?”
“More like I haven’t left for a bit! I’ve taken a six-day break. I had to stay here—the bounty’s attracting more idiots than I can count and business was slow…”
The [Expert Rower] slapped the Bushrangers on the back, ignoring their travel stains and smell. The Bushrangers were laughing as the rest of the Earthers crowded around. Many were missing—mostly, the ones who’d been with the company longest. They had jobs and would come back by dinner, or later.
But Luan was asking about the missing Earther the Bushrangers had been going to find and Kirana was paging through the journal and exclaiming at the outlandish monsters illustrated there. The [Explorer], Dev, had possessed an illustration Skill so they were unnaturally well-done. Siri was asking about the bounty—
When someone else opened the door. Paige walked into the room. The [Blackpowder Engineer] saw the Bushrangers. And everyone turned to her.
“I heard a commotion.”
The young woman spoke into the sudden silence. Siri smiled, but she was one of the only ones. Half of the room—looked away from Paige. As they would have if Daly had come back. The other half, the Bushrangers included, nodded at Paige. But the tension was there and real.
“Paige. Come on over.”
Luan waved Paige over, smiling and ignoring the underlying current. Some of the others actually got up and left as Paige walked over. She saw, and hesitated.
“I’ll—catch up later. Over dinner? Siri, anyone hurt? Daly?”
“No.”
Siri replied steadily, ignoring the glares his name provoked. Paige nodded. She met a few simmering gazes coolly.
“I have new crossbow designs done. Pick them up before you go anywhere. Also—we might need security on Luan. He’ll explain.”
She turned and left. The door closed and Siri felt the room relax. She looked around and saw Luan sigh. Dawson looked about as he reached for a pot of food.
“Welcome home. How was it, Dawson? Bloody fucking awful mate, thanks for asking. We had to fight some monsters on the outskirts of The Dyed Lands and that was no jaunt. Hells! Thanks for doing that, Dawson! You’re welcome. Someone pass the rice.”
 
—-
 
