“An [Adventurer] comes down with all sorts of maladies. I figure it’s worth any goodwill if it comes to that. Not that I plan on getting sick or poisoned or hurt that badly, but—I hope you’ll remember my name if it does.”
“Of course. We owe you a favor. And we won’t forget it.”
That was what she wanted to hear. Mexy smiled. She turned, gesturing at her team.
“Then we won’t take up your time. Sorry again for your loss, sir.”
She bowed, and her team headed back to their base camp. Daly stood, holding the journal and the few items the young man from India had kept. A makeshift bow—a faded pocket knife which had helped him skin animals. A few jars of his experimental findings.
Nothing more. Another person from Earth had died. And Daly and his team had found them too late.
“Damn.”
That was all Daly said as they returned to the Centaur-wagons waiting to take them away. It was a bit of a walk; the Centaurs had refused to get close to The Dyed Lands no matter how well they were paid. Daly lost his smile as he walked.
And the Bushrangers, his team, walked around him.
“Poor bastard.”
That was all Dawson said. He was carrying the huge crossbow on his shoulders. Daly nodded.
“Brave bastard, though, Dawson. A right hero. If only he’d made it out.”
“It say anything you can read, boss?”
Tobi put that in, glancing at the journal. Daly leafed through it.
“Some of the stuff makes sense. But it’s all in—Hindi. Pretty sure Kirana might be able to translate it. Or one of the girls.”
The Indian girls from the United Nations company. Daly put the journal away. His team walked in silence, keeping their footsteps quiet even out of The Dyed Lands. On the alert.
They were Silver-rank adventurers. And used to moving silent in terrain. The Bushrangers weren’t Gold-rank, but only for their arms and style; they tended to ambush their opponents and shoot them to pieces with crossbows. They were doing very well for a Silver-rank team and ever since partnering with The Rustless Vanguard, they were one of the best non-Gold teams in their area.
Mainly because their tactics were designed for maximum safety on the part of the adventurers. The Bushrangers could ambush an opponent from the trees, lay down traps, nets—and if the opponent was tough—they had the bombs.
But that was the issue. Daly was silent until Siri spoke up.
“Funny that Miss Mexy gave us the journal over Wistram because of Geneva. The Last Light of Baleros. Everyone knows her name, right, Daly?”
“Yeah.”
The Captain replied shortly. Daly saw the Centaurs and the wagons waiting ahead. They brightened as they saw the Bushrangers and began to hitch themselves to the wagons. Siri went on, glancing at Daly as the rest of the team glanced at him.
“You didn’t mention that Geneva would rather kick you into The Dyed Lands and leave you there, Daly.”
“No, Siri. I thought that might not help our case.”
“Shame.”
The Bushrangers looked from Daly to Siri. Dawson opened his mouth, but Kami elbowed him. In silence, they boarded the wagons. And Daly sat.
“Any orders, Mister Daly?”
“No, we got what we came here for. Thanks, Bault. Pihava.”
The two Centaurs grinned at him. They were the two Runners whom Daly and his team had made friends with; they were often the go-tos for his team.
“No sweat, Daly. You found that Human you were all excited about? Where is he?”
“…Not coming. We didn’t get there in time.”
“Oh. Uh—sorry.”
The two Centaurs looked at each other. Silently, they began pulling the wagon forwards. Daly felt it jolt into motion as the Bushrangers settled themselves. He kept looking at the journal.
Another Earther, lost. And he had been brave, resourceful; just the sort of person who could survive in another world. But there was only so much you could do alone, against monsters Earth had never witnessed.
Daly leaned back. He looked at some illustrations in the notebook and blanched. The [Explorer] had illustrated his height next to one diagram.
“Dead gods, that thing’s the size of a hill. Dawson, look at that.”
The other Australians glanced at the page. Dawson swore.
“Good thing we didn’t run into that. How do we take that thing down? How does anyone?”
“Most people? Spells. Or a Level 50+ [Warrior] with a magic sword and half a day. Us now…we just need a lot of powder.”
Daly spoke absently. He saw Siri look sharply at him. But the other Bushrangers just nodded. Daly sat back. That was what weapons from Earth were for. You could send a tank company against monsters from this world and it’d be a fair fight. That was what bombs were for.
But…Geneva didn’t see it that way. Daly put his head back. If he’d told Mexy the truth—it would be that Geneva would treat the Medusa because she treated everyone, free of charge if she need be. She was a saint—but a prickly one. And she hated Daly’s guts. Had hated them for the last few weeks.
The young man from Australia sat back in the wagon. He had made his choice. His finger twitched, though he held no crossbow as he closed his eyes. Anyways—he kept out of Geneva’s way these days. And for all her objections, this was his team.
She—had bigger problems anyways.
 
—-
 
The Dyed Lands rested to the south of Baleros, the mighty continent of jungles, snow, beaches, and everything in between.
But mostly jungles and plants. Long trade-roads connected cities which had eradicated the wilderness, but Baleros could easily be said to be the most ‘untamed’ of the five continents. Rhir of course had the blight, and Chandrar the deserts, but vegetation ruled Baleros as much as the companies.
It took four days for the Bushrangers to return to their home city, and that was with the Centaurs using stamina potions and their own speed-Skills. The others lived and slept in the wagons, heckling each other, crowding around to watch a rerun of a movie on a tiny smartphone screen—passing the time.
They were headed home. To Talenqual, a port-city, small to medium-sized, ruled by The Featherfolk Brigade, a mercenary company which had seized the city and area and kept control of it to this day.
The United Nations company was, by contrast, far smaller. But it had expanded significantly since coming to Talenqual and could now be said to be part of the city. It did not have much firepower as companies went; it was small in number and devoted only to finding more people from Earth and sheltering them.
But it had individuals of note. The Last Light of Baleros being one of them. Geneva Scala, the [Doctor] who had made her legend on the bloodiest of battlefields, saving lives. Kenjiro Murata, their [Diplomat] who had made peace between many species.
Luan Khumalo, the [Expert Rower] and former Olympian hopeful, already known as ‘The Rower of Talenqual’, a respected City Runner not least for his part in the Games at Daquin.
And last and perhaps least, especially in Geneva’s eyes, Daly Sullivan and his Bushrangers, a Silver-rank team that specialized in intercepting monsters and other threats.
They were a good group. Of various disciplines and personalities. But none of them were high-level. Except for perhaps Geneva Scala. And it was she who drew the eye. Her name—and the name of their company.
The United Nations Company. What a boast. What a farce, depending on how you looked at it. It was a bold name. An odd one. It spoke to anyone who heard it and was from Earth, though. Of another world. It was a rallying point and it had already attracted other people from Earth.
And more than that—attention from afar. The Titan of Baleros consulted his notes on the small company. And there weren’t many. Oh, the United Nations Company got notes because of the Last Light, but little else. They were a tiny company no one paid attention to but for the [Doctor].
And that was how he liked it. The Fraerling sighed as he sipped from a teacup. He found it was running low and dunked it in, what was for him, a bucket of tea.
A thimble for his students. But Niers had a relationship with caffeine. And Marian and Umina, standing in front of his desk, were used to the Professor’s idiosyncrasies.
“You want us to go to Talenqual, Professor?”
Marian spoke cautiously. She shuffled her hooves, careful not to bump the table Niers was sitting on. The Titan glanced up from his notes.
“Yes, Marian. You and Umina were my first pick, honestly. You can refuse of course, but summer classes are sporadic and Wil and the others are already on their vacation.”
“And Yerra.”
Umina sniffed. Marian’s head bowed. Niers paused.
“Yes. They are—occupied. But I do not teach many classes. I have a job for you two, as I laid out. If you would take it—”
He said nothing more of Yerranola, or Wil, or the events at sea. They had discussed it already at length in class. Marian hesitated.
“Yes, Professor. I just don’t understand why it should be us. We—I mean, Umina and I are [Strategists]. But we’re not Miss Perorn. Or…any of your people.”
By that, the Centaur meant the Forgotten Wing Company’s vast lists of assets. Niers nodded.
“You’re dancing, Marian.”
“Sir?”
“You’re asking why I don’t sent a company, or one of my best [Commanders] to investigate The Last Light of Baleros. Well—perhaps because I like to be subtle.”
“Then—why not a [Spy], sir?”
The Titan’s lips rose. He smirked around his report as he read from a copy of The Pallassian Times, downscaled to his size. Rather like Olesm’s newsletter, actually, only it was about all news in general. He grunted as he read.
“Perhaps because some of my opponents watch [Spies], Marian. Moreso than my students, even. There comes a time in a [Strategist]’s life—and I dearly hope you will one day understand what I mean—when one becomes so feared that people watch your every move. I can’t go to the bathroom without alarming Tulm.”
Umina cut short a snigger. Marian hid a smile. Niers went on.
“Why my students? Well—consider it an exercise. I’d like you two to investigate Miss Geneva Scala. A [Doctor] of her level is an asset. And she is tackling this Yellow Rivers disease.”
Both students made faces. Niers looked up.
“I know. But I consider it more than just an…inconvenience. It is affecting lands under my domain, or adjacent, and as well as Maelstrom’s Howling. It has the potential to be worse.”
The Centauress sobered up at once.
“I see, Professor. But—well—”
“Yes?”
The Titan looked kindly at her. The Centauress opened and shut her mouth.
But don’t you think that sending two of your best students would attract attention as well, sir?
That was what she didn’t ask. Because Niers had obviously thought about it. And if he hadn’t—well—how embarrassing, right? The Centauress shuffled her hooves and the Fraerling seemed to take it for uncertainty.
“Just investigate. As I said—you can lure her over to my company, and I certainly have a purse for you. But I do understand you two are new to the job of subterfuge. Do your best. I have faith in you two.”
The two female students blushed at the compliment. Umina swished her tail, looking at Niers. She didn’t ask an obvious question. She wanted to be the one to ask the special one.
“And her company, Professor? Do we acquire them too?”
Niers’ head rose. He gave Umina a blank look and she hesitated.
“…If that’s what it takes to recruit Miss Scala, yes, Umina. But they’re not exactly…elite.”
The Lizardgirl ducked her head and nodded. And she kicked herself for assuming. Niers regarded her, glanced down at his papers.
And he was lying to them. His beloved students looked at each other and Marian bowed.
“We’ll head to Talenqual right away, sir! And we’ll be as subtle as possible.”
“I’m sure. And I have the utmost faith in you, Marian, Umina.”
The Titan put his newspaper down. He saw Marian smile eagerly, Umina glance at his face, searching. But he let nothing slip. The two bowed. And Niers watched Marian slowly back up, so as to be able to turn about.
Centaur [Spies]. Oh, the world had many jokes, but Niers would laugh hard at that one. Not that Centaurs couldn’t be [Spies]. But Marian trying to be stealthy hurt his lungs.
Still, they were gone. Niers sighed. And though Umina had tried, she hadn’t figured out his real intentions.
“The United Nations company.”
The Titan murmured. They were comprised entirely of Humans. All of a certain age range. All…from another world.
That was his supposition. He wanted them. But—as he’d told Marian, lying by telling the truth, his opponents watched him like hawks. If he sent a company to Talenqual, the Featherfolk Brigade might take it as an act of war. And Tulm might damn well attack his escort depending on how important he thought Niers’ assets were.
“Anyways, Marian. The point of sending you two is to be subtle. And I know you’ll stick out like a sore thumb. Umina might do well. But let me apologize in advance. Well—you’ll adapt. And I’ll show you later how I planned it out in advance. If it works, of course.”
The Titan murmured to the ceiling. Then he took another gulp of tea.
“Lord Astoragon? The two [Strategists] have left. Should I bring our guests out of the anteroom now?”
Niers smiled as he waved a hand.
“Send them in, Peclir.”
He sat up. And after a moment—after Marian and Umina had left, on their solo, very important mission for the Professor, Niers saw a pair of his students enter the room. They were both visibly excited, but doing their best to appear professional.
“Professor. You had an…assignment for us?”
The Titan nodded gravely.
“Please, sit, Kissilt, Cameral. Take the two reports I have on the desk.”
Marian and Umina had helpfully left them there. The Drake and Dullahan sat down, looking at each other. Niers began for the fourth time.
“You two are the first two of my students I had in mind for this assignment. It’s a rather simple task, really. Investigate a unique individual. One Geneva Scala, known as the Last Light of Baleros…”
Kissilt’s eyes gleamed. Cameral was hesitant. The two sat in front of Niers. Almost trembling with excitement as Niers gave them his unique and very secret assignment.
He felt bad, he really did. But he’d sent three pairs after Geneva Scala already. And this last, the fourth, would ensure that his opponents saw just another assignment.
And his students would certainly not leak the information to each other. They’d all been given stipends, similar-yet-different assignments. One of them would procure the [Doctor]. Or—failing that—find out what Niers so desperately wanted.
“You can trust in us, Professor. Cameral and I are the height of discretion. I learned espionage at Manus. I mean—I had some studies there.”
