Talenqual was not part of any of the Four Companies’ lands. It was, like many areas, under a company’s control, but semi-autonomous. Oh, it had treaties with larger companies, but it was ruled by Fezimet.
And the illness had hit this region of Baleros. Now, it was spreading by sea. And land. More cases were appearing in other cities and after incubating in brothels, it had begun to do exactly what this kind of epidemic—no, a true pandemic now—did.
Spread faster and faster.
The list of Geneva’s patients had been under a hundred people a few days ago. Now it was over three hundred. The [Doctor] was meeting with Fezimet again, to reassure him the situation was still under control. He was still considering a lockdown, but had told Geneva he preferred another city to do it first. It was ‘bad for trade’.
Geneva Scala was writing a letter to a [Healer] in a neighboring city, Bolandus. The Dullahan [Mayor] there was a lot more alarmed than Fezimet had been and had reached out via the best [Healer], who was Level 37, to Geneva.
She had some good ideas. Healing crystals actually did help fight the bacteria. Mainly by accelerating the body’s natural systems and not the bacteria. That had surprised Geneva, but the [Crystal Healer] was also open to all of Geneva’s treatment ideas. They were corresponding, trying to create a chamber where the most ill patients could be housed. The problem was simply that there were too many cases and not enough hands.
“I need more [Nurses]. But—the suits aren’t working.”
Geneva put her head in her hands. Blake was sick now, too. Aiko was recovering, but Geneva had seen the Yellow Rivers disease in him with her new Skill. And two more of her [Nurses] had early-stage symptoms as well.
She hadn’t gotten sick. Because she had resistance Skills. Two of her staff, Priya being one of them, had the [Lesser Resistance: Disease] Skill. But two nurses?
They needed two hundred. But no one was willing to volunteer outside of the United Nations company. They were afraid of the illness.
“Hey, relax, Geneva. You’re doing the best you can. This [Healer] is working hard, and that [Mayor] is listening. And I’m not sick. So—Selphids don’t get sick. Hire some Selphid [Nurses].”
“I don’t think the bacteria can infect you, Okasha. That’s true. But there are only a handful of Selphids in Talenqual.”
Geneva shook her head. She munched down on a nali­-stick as her quill glided over the page. Delicious. She chomped it down as Okasha replied. She was a lot more vocal these days. And she demanded to be heard.
“I’m going to put in five more hours at the clinic after this message, Okasha. And then check on the cultures.”
“Mm. I dunno, Geneva. You seem stressed. I think you should take a break. Hey! Let’s visit Xeppal! You can check out the brothel, make sure everyone’s healthy…and then we can have some fun.”
Okasha replied with Geneva’s mouth. She took control of it so they could have a dialogue. Geneva paused and thought.
“I—really feel like I need to work, Okasha.”
“Well, I vote against. Your health is important, Geneva.”
The [Doctor]’s heart beat steadily. And her stomach wasn’t tied in a knot. Because Okasha was there, blocking those natural reactions. Geneva was calm. And she even grew excited at the thought of meeting Xeppal.
“Stop that.”
Geneva spoke to Okasha. The Selphid stopped. But Geneva was worried. Because she didn’t feel worried. Even that was a biological response.
“Okasha. I really would appreciate it if you let me get to work. This is really important.”
A sigh inside her head. Her hand reached for another nali-stick.
“If you insist, Geneva. I suppose I can let you. But I’m taking five hours tonight. Deal?”
“…Deal.”
“And?”
“Thank you, Okasha.”
Geneva bit into the nali-stick, and savored the taste. So sweet. So good.
Her mouth froze mid-chew. Geneva caught herself reaching for another nali-stick. Good? When had they started tasting good? They hadn’t always tasted like this. Had they…?
“Okasha. Are my taste buds—different?”
No. Even a Selphid couldn’t change them. Geneva thought.
“Okasha. Did you level up again?”
She heard a voice in her head. No—more like a giggle.
“Maybe. Have another nali-stick.”
And Geneva did.
 
—-
 
It reached a head on a good day. A glorious day.
“Miss Geneva Scala? I have a sum of coins from…the Maelstrom’s Howling company. They’ve sent you gold and they want to know if you’d be willing to travel north. To…visit them and consult about this plague.”
The wide-eyed Courier stopped in Geneva’s clinic with a letter of credit to the nearest Merchant’s Guild. Geneva, who was used to letters from other cities and [Healers] by now, hesitated.
“Maelstrom’s Howling? One of the Four Great Companies?”
“Yes, Miss. And you’re the Last Light of Baleros, right? My name is Timashi. It’s an honor to meet you.”
The Centaur Courier ducked his head. Geneva blinked at him.
“I wasn’t aware people knew about me. And that…title is an exaggeration, Courier Timashi.”
The Centaur tossed his head.
“Oh, I know. Names are always like that. But the herds—pardon me—my people talk about you. A Human of honor. You saved my people’s lives. More than once.”
She looked at him. And remembered two Centaurs she had saved, both in times of war. Geneva nodded slowly.
“It’s a delight to meet you, Timashi. And—I don’t know if I can travel, but I’ll think about it. I can certainly correspond. We’ll put the gold to good use. Excuse me? Can someone take the…letter? My suit is dirty.”
“I can! Excuse me, thank you.”
A Lizardgirl hurried over in her suit of gear. Geneva nodded gratefully to her. A few more [Nurses] had volunteered since the plague had spread further. Well—the United Nations company was growing. Daly had recruited some more adventurers, even a Drake and Dullahan.
“Thank you—Miss Ullia?”
The Lizardgirl bowed slightly as she took the letter carefully. She stared at the Courier and her eyes flicked to Geneva; awe, no doubt at one of the Great Companies making a move.
“I also have a letter from the Forgotten Wing company. More gold; and an invitation to meet as well.”
“Thank you. As I said, I’m quite busy…”
The two Great Companies named were closest geographically to Talenqual, so it made sense they were worried about the illness. The gold would go to good use; Geneva had expanded her clinic twice. She was planning on an actual hospital. But she needed staff; she could entice workers who wouldn’t volunteer with gold, but she wanted people who would volunteer.
“My pleasure, Miss Scala. And if you have any deliveries, I’d be happy to take them at a discount.”
The Courier smiled at her. Geneva smiled back.
“Thank you. Perhaps we could get a drink tonight? If you’re staying in the city?”
She gave him an admiring look. The Centaur preened slightly as they did under attention.
“Well—certainly! I could stay the night.”
“I’ll be off work in two hours. Perhaps we could meet at—”
Geneva smiled, agreed to meet the Centaur, and bade him farewell. Then she lost her smile.
“Okasha.”
“What? He’s nice. I think he’s nice.”
The Selphid slyly retorted. Geneva crossed her arms.
“We don’t have time for this. We—”
She saw Ullia, the Lizardgirl, coming back over.
“Excuse me, Ullia. Can you tend to the patients? I need to…think for a moment.”
“Of course, Doctor Scala.”
Umina bowed and watched Geneva retreat into her office. Then she whispered into the little short-range speaking stone.
“Marian! Marian! Maelstrom’s Howling is making moves! The Professor was right!”
The voice came back, frantic.
“I know! Dead gods! I thought this was just a lesson, but maybe the Professor sent Kissilt and Cameral because he thought we needed backup! I’m trying to investigate—I’m going to be pulling these Bushrangers around! I’ll tell Kissilt not to break our cover. That fathead nearly gave it all away when he saw me! Just keep observing!”
The Lizardgirl nodded. She saw Geneva close the door to her office, but she hadn’t figured out how to tap the office yet. Nor had she figured out how to convince Geneva that she wanted to meet the Titan of Baleros. But she would.
Inside the office, Geneva Scala sat down. She spoke, very slowly.
“Okasha. I do not want to get into a relationship with Timashi. Even for a night.”
“But I do. What if we flip for it? Huh?”
The [Doctor] produced a coin. Geneva shook her head. Her voice was quiet. But she had to say it. It was time to say—
“Okasha. I am not comfortable with being with Timashi. Even if it is ‘your time’. I am not—willing to do this.”
“But it’s our body, Geneva.”
Okasha’s voice was reasonable. Friendly. Geneva began to shiver. And stopped.
“Okasha. I think it’s time to talk about our relationship. This is my body. I’m grateful for everything you’ve done to help me. But—this is my body. Do you understand?”
There was only silence for a second. Geneva tried to move. But then—she began to chuckle. And then laugh.
The [Doctor] threw her head back. And she stood up and laughed, spreading her arms as she looked at herself in the little mirror on her desk. And Okasha laughed at Geneva.
“Geneva. You mean, our body, don’t you? Let’s talk. I was thinking it was about time too.”
And she kept laughing.
 
—-
 
Umina listened to the [Doctor] laughing in her office. And she had no idea why. At the gold? That could make anyone laugh. Umina’s eyes had popped when she saw the donations.
But this laughter was different. And the [Doctor] was—talking to herself? Umina saw her sit down behind the closed shades. She began to edge closer, to listen, looking around to see if the other [Nurses] or patients were watching.
Then the speaking stone chirped. Marian’s voice came through, frantic.
“Umina! Umina! Another huge development! Can you get out of the clinic? You have to see this!”
“What? What?”
The Lizardgirl clapped a claw over the speaking stone, looking around. Marian shouted back; she was galloping towards something.
“You’re not going to believe this—”
 
—-
 
Geneva, Okasha, sat in her chair. And she looked at herself. She smiled.
“You know, Geneva. You never appreciated me. Not once. No ‘thank you, Okasha’. No appreciation for the hard work I do. And you know what? It’s hard work. When you drink like a [Sailor], who manages your liver? When you overwork, who takes care of your muscles? Maintains your body? Me. And you just don’t know how hard it is.”
Geneva looked at Okasha.
“I’m sorry. I’m—thoughtless.”
“Oh? Like the thirty-hour work sessions where I beg you to rest? And you don’t listen? Me, stuck in here for months before you let me have a few hours to be myself? I can’t leave because you’re paralyzed.”
Okasha snapped back, poking at the mirror. She took a few breaths, luxuriating in the feeling.
“Well—it’s okay. I like you, Geneva. I really do. You’re so—caring. But you can’t take care of yourself. That’s what I’ve learned. You need me. It was a good thing we came together.”
“That I was paralyzed?”
The Italian woman’s eyes were locked on herself, unblinking. She saw her lips curve upwards.
“Not that. But it all worked out. So—yes. Let’s talk about our relationship. You know, it’s always been you, you, you. Not enough me. So I think it would be good if we were finally equals.”
“I have to work. Okasha, my patients need me.”
The Selphid’s gaze turned into a snarl.
“Always your patients! I’m sick of it! You’re just a…one of those machines you tell me about. You work for everyone else. There’s no Geneva. Geneva would die for them. That’s not living. You’re sick, Geneva. You’re in love with your image. ‘The Last Light of Baleros’. I’ll let you help people. But I’m drawing a line.”
“You can’t do that. This is my body.”
“Our body! I help you move! You can’t do anything without me! This is our body!”
Okasha’s voice rose. Geneva saw, out of the corner of her eye, the Lizardgirl hurrying out of the clinic. She felt herself stand, pace back and forth.
“This is my body, Okasha. I was born with it. Doesn’t that give me the right to choose?”
“Not with me in here. You’re a terrible roommate, Geneva. And I’m putting my foot down.”
“And if I disagree how my body is being used? What will you do?”
The Selphid fell silent. She looked at herself. And then she shrugged.
“Geneva. We’re in this together. You can disagree. But you’ll see my point eventually. After all—I’m your [Inner Friend]. What are you going to do to—stop me?”
Silence. After a moment, Geneva spoke.
“Okasha. You sound like a tyrant. Are we friends? Or is this relationship one-sided?”
She saw her eyes narrow.
“Tyrant?”
“I just meant—”
“No, I see how it is. You want me to leave? You want to not be able to move?”
“No—”
“I’m doing this for us, Geneva. We’re one person. And you will see it my way. I’m putting you in the box.”
“Okasha—please—”
Geneva’s consciousness winked out. She was in [The Thinking Room]. She saw through her eyes. And Okasha’s voice whispered through her mouth. Affectionately.
“I’m going to have a lovely time with Timashi, and I’m going to eat and depending on what happens afterwards—we’re going to relax for a few hours. I’ll let you come along if you’re good. And then we’ll discuss how we share our body.”
“No. Okasha. This isn’t friendship. This is control! Okasha!”
Geneva shouted. But her body began to move. Geneva Scala, walked out of her office. She smiled and told the [Nurse] she’d be off-duty for the rest of the day. She went into the changing room, cleaned her armor, left.
She was perfectly Geneva. Okasha could mimic Geneva’s movements, her voice. But it wasn’t Geneva behind those eyes. She tried to push. Get free.
But she was in the box. And as Okasha left the clinic, she produced a nali-stick. Bit into it.
“Yum. Taste that, Geneva? You see it my way. You’ll see. I’ll show you how to live.”
It tasted good to Geneva as well. The [Doctor] saw Okasha, helplessly experienced the same. Okasha walked down the street, almost skipping.
And she nearly ran into the group walking towards her. Okasha’s head turned. Geneva saw her blink. And then focused on a marching column of…
Folk. Pale-skinned. Dullahans, Lizardfolk, Humans—only one Centaur. And they were—staring at her.
Okasha froze. And Geneva saw the pale skin, the telltale signs of dead bodies.
Selphids.
“Oh—”
There was a Selphid leading them. One both Geneva and Okasha knew. Calectus, the [Honor Guard] they had parted ways with. He looked at Okasha-Geneva.
“Geneva Scala. We have come to give you aid.”
