For the brave, the dreamers who yearned to see that which no one had ever seen before, another world was a dream. Earth had so few places left that were unexplored. And of them—they were the depths of the sea, crevasses in the earth.
Space. But technology had mapped too much. The world was too familiar, in a sense. Too…tame. Even though parts of it could and would eat you and spit chunks out, Earth had so few mysteries left. There was no mysterious land left to imagine. People knew what the world looked like.
And what a tragedy that was. Imagination died as the world shrank into something you could look at on a screen. There was perhaps only one adventure left—and Humans had not yet figured out how to fly through space at speed.
But in another world, one full of magic, there were still places where no one had explored. Where the knowledge of even Dragons failed. Challenges that remained, to dare the greatest of adventurers to unearth them.
The High Passes were one. The Last Tide and the end of the world, another. The ocean depths were uncharted, even by the Drowned Folk.
But there were more areas still. Despite the tens of thousands of years of advancement and regression, new, strange lands still remained. Or rather—they appeared.
Zeikhal, Chandrar’s great desert, had not always been there. Nor had the growing Bloodfields. But if the Bloodfields was a growing mystery, however dark—there were other places.
Magic prompted growth. Evolution that nature unaided could have never aspired to. And change sometimes engulfed an area after magical cataclysm, creating another biome at speeds that would have astounded any [Biologist]. And in Baleros—they knew of one such place as The Dyed Lands of Seequal.
Once, Seequal had been a prosperous nation. But during the Selphid Empire, the Lizardfolk nation had come under attack. Rather than surrender, their greatest [Mages] had attempted to cast an experimental spell as armies marched on their capital.
The result? Magical devastation for hundreds of miles. Both army and nation had been wiped out. But the rampant magic had provoked the natural wildlife to adapt or die. And so—The Dyed Lands had come into existence.
Thousands of years later, it was, like the Bloodfields, an encroaching land on the ‘normal’ jungles and animals. A wild place, full of highly-charged magical plants and animals. A place of wonder.
And of course, terrible danger. The kind that had eaten entire armies who had tried to burn The Dyed Lands and establish control. Now, only a few people made their homes there. [Hunters] and [Alchemists] and [Gatherers], looking for new and rare ingredients—Saliss of Lights himself bought the immortal Ske-eel’s liquid at a premium for his potions. There was a fortune to be made if you had the wits or courage.
But most kept far from The Dyed Lands. It was a kind of death. If you weren’t eaten by the swarms of flying midges who would devour you piece by piece, or ran afoul of one of the giant apex predators, like the teleporting cavernous maws or stumbled into a field of plants whose poison no [Healer] had ever seen before—why would you live there?
Perhaps if you loved adventure. Or perhaps—if you had no choice. A young man had come to The Dyed Lands. And he had lived there.
He was an explorer. No—not just an explorer. An [Explorer]. From Earth. He had set up a camp fifty miles into The Dyed Lands and ventured forth after wandering into the maze of a biome. He had tried to catalogue the natural landscape. Experimented; found what was good to eat and what was poison. Set traps, hunted for food and other resources.
And he had loved it. He had been a great [Explorer], in a land no one had ever known before. But that was the thing. An [Explorer] could seek out the world’s greatest challenges. But eventually, inevitably—they came home. And he had been lost.
“I’m sorry. We found his campsite just last month. I have no idea how he made it in this far. The notes look like he was—trying to get out. He was nearly at the western edge. But they got him.”
“Are there—any remains?”
The woman shifted. She ducked her head as the young man read from the [Explorer]’s journal.
“None I’d care to share, sir. We buried what was left. It was—one of the beasts of the shining zone.”
“The ‘shining zone’?”
A pause. The woman didn’t know how to quite respond so she was quite formal.
“Yessir. The shining zone. The Dyed Lands come in colors. The shining zone is—bright. Monsters hunt by blinding each other. The damn plants make it hard enough to navigate. Some of them are big. Claws—fast—it must have been looking for food. Went through all his traps. That was how we found him.”
Daly Sullivan looked at the journal and the pictures the [Explorer] had drawn. He might have even catalogued the monster that killed him, so detailed were his notes. He had come into this world a student of some kind. He had a notebook that had been just begun to be filled with notes for a class—and then repurposed for the task of journaling his findings.
There were words, neat illustrations—even maps. None of which Daly could read. For, the [Explorer] from Earth hadn’t been writing in English.
The greatest [Explorer] from Earth had been Indian. Daly recognized the language—somewhat. It looked like Hindi, or rather, Punjabi. Daly recognized it.
But it was not a language the young man from Australia read. Still, the description of the body—and the location matched up. Kirana and her group from Earth had been split up when they first appeared. Some went their own ways and the rest stuck together, to later be killed for thievery or at the hands of [Bandits]. This brave [Explorer] had wandered into The Dyed Lands and never come out.
Daly looked up and met the eyes of the woman who had found the [Explorer]. She was…upright. Her body erect as her long, sinuous tail curled around itself. A few Lizardpeople were part of her exploration team. But their leader was another being entirely.
The Medusae nodded to Daly as he and the Bushrangers, the Silver-rank team who was part of the United Nations company gathered around him and inspected the journal.
“It’s miraculous he lived that long, Adventurer Daly. Your pardons, but we were shocked a Human managed to live in The Dyed Lands at all. Even my team only has a border camp. But this [Explorer] survived over five months there. He must have been a true hero of our class. That’s all I can say of him.”
She bowed slightly. And Daly saw her head, humanoid, but filled with little moving snakes instead of hair—turn towards him. He repressed a shiver.
“Thank you, [Adventurer] Mexisa.”
The Medusa woman bowed. And she was an [Adventurer]. Not like Daly and his team were, ‘Adventurers’. But a true, blue, [Adventurer]. Someone who roamed the last frontiers of the world. Like an [Explorer].
“So you found his camp. And the—remains. Anything else?”
Daly looked up. Siri shifted as she glanced about. They were at the edge of The Dyed Lands, and the ‘Red Zone’, or the Crimson Blend as it was known was ahead of them. Camouflaged plants that would attack you, predators large and small—and you wouldn’t even see your blood among all the colors.
Mexisa shook her head.
“Just the journals, Adventurer Daly. Well-writ they are too. But—coded. As you can see. Awful paranoid, that [Explorer]. But beautiful illustrations. Pardon me, but I copied the illustrations and maps. He charted a vast amount of the Chalklands for us.”
Daly nodded absently. The ‘code’ was just another language. But the Medusa woman wouldn’t know that. She had, in fact, sent out a request for someone to decipher the journal she’d found. That was how Daly had picked up the information.
“We’ll try to decipher it. I think we might know the—code, Miss Mexisa.”
“Oh. Of course. Well then—my team and I would buy whatever notes this fellow had on the wildlife. Anything, actually. We’ll share it around—us [Explorers] and [Adventurers] do. It’d be more a service to us that enter The Dyed Lands, sir.”
She bowed her head again. Mexisa was—interesting. She was armed with a machete—two of them—but also a shortbow and arrow, enchanted. Her Lizardfolk team were similarly kitted up, with a lot more gear than most [Warriors] wore.
“You intend to keep exploring, Miss Mexisa?”
“Call me Mexy. And—of course! I live to explore places like this. The Dyed Lands consumed an ancient empire. Not that I’m a [Treasure Seeker]. But once I hit Level 40—I might push for the interior, Blue Oblivion. Or—go somewhere else. The High Passes, the Bloodfields—this is my life.”
The Medusa smiled. Her teeth were sharp. And all of the little snakes on her head were staring at Daly. He sensed one of his teammates shiver—Siri—and Mexy looked at her.
“Excuse me, Captain Daly. But am I bothering your teammates?”
“Not at all.”
Daly and Siri both chorused. The Swedish girl and the second-in-command gave Mexy an apologetic duck of her head.
“Sorry, Adventurer Mexy. But we have an—an image? Of Medusae.”
The rest of the Bushrangers nodded as they peeked around Daly’s back. Medusae. The race that could turn people to stone. Most of them knew the Greek myths. Mexy blinked, and then grinned as Daly explained.
“Stone? Oh—that. That’s just a legend. Well—an exaggeration. My hair-snakes? They can’t turn anyone to stone. Mine can’t, at any rate. If I got the Skill, possible. But these ones are just my extra eyes. Right?”
Mexy raised a normal hand and stroked the head of one of her snakes. It rubbed her fingers, twining and staring at Daly and Siri. The young woman hesitated.
“They do not—turn you to stone?”
“Oh, not without a Skill. They’re just extra eyes. See? They bite in a fight, but they’re a bit like animals connected to me. Like mini-minds. You can touch them, but gently, please.”
Siri reached out. She flinched as one of the snakes coiled around a finger, opening a tiny mouth. They had little eyes, and Daly saw some of them glancing about, keeping a vigilant watch.
“Bloody amazing.”
Dawson breathed. The other young man from Australia looked Mexy up and down. The [Adventuress] was like an action hero out of the movies with her hat and clothes—to cover her humanoid half—mixed with Greek legend.
“I apologize for any disrespect, Miss Mexy. My team’s never met a Medusa before.”
She just laughed with good humor as Daly bowed to her.
“Don’t worry! We’re rare among Lizardfolk. I’m used to it. And don’t mind my snakes, Miss Siri. They just lick you because they’re curious; they really are stupid. If they get cut off, I’ll regrow them. That’s a Medusae’s gifts; we’re not as smart as Lamias, but close, not as strong and tough as Gorgons or even Nagas, but we heal and see. We’re also solitary.”
She tapped her chest and the Lizardfolk looked up at their leader with awe and respect. A Medusa, one of the Lizardfolk’s possible forms they could achieve.
Daly admired Mexy too. But they’d taken up a lot of her time. And unlike Kami, or Dawson, he was spoken for. So he just nodded to Mexy and hoped none of his teammates tried to chat her up before they left.
“Once again, Adventurer Mexy, you have our thanks. I think this was one of our former companions who got lost.”
“Poor bastard. I heard about the teleportation spell that got your lot. I’m sorry it came to it too—if we’d pushed in a bit further, we might have found him before the end. But that’s how it goes. No one expected to find a damn camp in the Chalklands. He had a lot of traps; nearly got two of my crew.”
Mexy gestured to her exploration team. Daly nodded. No grudge here. And indeed—Mexy had done them a favor, asking about. His team had gotten word in Talenqual about the mysterious journal and they’d put two and two together. On a hunch they’d come out this far and recovered the journal. No more would they do.
The Dyed Lands waited ahead. The red jungle was like the Bloodfields—at least, that was what Mexy compared it to. But it was dense and within a few feet you would lose all sense of direction. A hell of confusion. Daly would never enter it willingly.
Something made a thunderous growling sound in the distance. Daly tensed and his team raised their crossbows. Mexy held up one hand as she reached for her bow.
“Hold. If it’s the Eatswarms—we run. If it’s a Charging Leomouth—we fight. Can’t outrun those fast things.”
Her team whirled. Daly looked around. Siri reached for something at her side. A bag of holding. And in it—a weapon that could probably wipe out even one of The Dyed Lands’ larger monsters.
A black-powder bomb. But it didn’t come out. The growling sound came again, more distant. Mexy lowered her hand and everyone relaxed.
“Must be hunting further away from us. We’re clear.”
Daly nodded to his team. They relaxed. They had melee weapons and powerful crossbows that even Mexy’s team were admiring. Dawson himself had a crossbow that was closer to a ballista—it had two hand-cranks and needed a special contraption to even reload that Paige had worked up. But it could shoot through almost anything, and it had an accurate range of 97 meters—which was, in American—320 feet.
Even so, Daly wasn’t willing to take his team into The Dyed Lands. He nodded to Mexy.
“Thank you for selling us his possessions.”
It wasn’t much more than the journal, but the Medusa had handed it over for a reasonable finder’s fee. Steep—but not exorbitant. Daly nodded as he tucked the journal away in his bag of holding. Mexy smiled.
“Frankly, Adventurer Daly, Wistram offered more than you and were very interested in the journal. They actually sent envoys even when I told them I’d be selling to another buyer. You beat them by two days.”
The Silver-rank Captain blinked. He tensed slightly and felt the rest of his team stiffen. He tried to address Mexy casually.
“Really?”
She nodded, looking only vaguely interested.
“They love stuff like this. But I figured it was best to sell to your company. Wistram can complain—if my team isn’t on expedition.”
She smiled, as her hair-snakes hissed, expressing their contempt. Daly looked at her.
“Why did you sell the journal to us then, Miss Mexy?”
The [Adventuress] paused. And she looked keenly at Daly. And then she smiled.
“The Last Light of Baleros is in your company. And—it’s a ‘she’, right?”
Daly hesitated. And he felt a pang in his stomach. But he nodded, as it all clicked suddenly.
“That’s right.”
“Then there’s your answer.”
The Medusa explorer bowed slightly. And she and her team looked at Daly’s Bushrangers. Mexisa spoke, thoughtfully, looking at the distant Dyed Lands.
