Okasha shouted happily, sharing Geneva’s taste buds. It was fascinating how they could taste the same thing, but one mind enjoyed it while the other found it stimulating at best.
“What do you need, Siri? I’m going to meet…Fezimet today. In a few minutes, actually.”
“That’s why I’m here. Daly wants me to escort you.”
Siri spoke carefully. She saw Geneva’s brows snap together. Siri sighed. She shouldn’t have mentioned Daly.
“Why?”
“To make sure no one knocks over the container. To hold open doors.”
“And because Ken isn’t here and you could say something that upsets him.”
Okasha whispered into Geneva’s head. The [Doctor] scowled.
“I wouldn’t say anything that offends Fezimet.”
“I didn’t say that.”
Siri blinked a few times. Geneva hesitated.
“Sorry. Okasha, not you. Fine. Come on.”
She yawned, stretching. Then Geneva knocked over the quill she’d been using to write notes on all her patients. She bent down, grabbing for it.
And effortlessly reached down from an upright position. Touched the ground, scooped up the quill, and stood back up. All without her body protesting. Geneva and Siri stared.
“Wow. You’re flexible.”
Geneva Scala hesitated. She bent down, touched her toes. Then stood upright. Experimentally, she reached out, pulled her fingers back.
They nearly touched her forearm. Geneva bent down, touched her toes, and walked her hands back. She was as flexible as a gymnast. It was—uncanny.
“Okasha?”
“Hah! So that’s what it does! Hey Geneva, guess what?”
“You leveled up.”
“I leveled—aw.”
The Selphid pouted internally. Then she brightened up.
“That’s right! I have a Skill, which means it affects you! [Physical Enhancement: Flexibility]. See? Look!”
She reached out with Geneva’s left arm. Siri blanched as the arm rotated nearly a hundred and eighty degrees, moving way further than it should normally. Geneva felt the strain, but her fingers were waggling, demonstrating insane dexterity. She wasn’t made of rubber, but she had the kind of flexibility that only occurred in a very few amount of people.
“What…is that? Geneva?”
“Flexibility. Okasha leveled up.”
“Oh.”
Siri responded faintly. Geneva frowned. This could be useful. It was also disturbing, but it would help with surgeries. That was her main concern. She frowned as Okasha made her scratch that itch on her back that normal Geneva had never reached.
“When did you level up, Okasha?”
“Five hours ago. I went to sleep. You didn’t even notice. You were controlling me for a bit. Creepy. Good thing I have that Skill that lets you move even when I’m not awake.”
“Yes. How many Skills does that make?”
“Um…one, two…five? Nice skill, huh? We can probably do all kinds of weird maneuvers now! I can’t wait to try it out! Let me try, please, please?”
“No. It’s a useful Skill, though. It’d have been better if it was a Skill to reduce my fatigue so I can work longer.”
Okasha sighed as Siri backed away from the one-sided conversation, for her.
“I’m only Level 11, Geneva. You want a refreshment Skill? Wait until I get to Level 20, at least! But I’m leveling up quick, huh?”
Yes. Very quickly. Geneva blinked a few times.
“You’re Level 11? I thought you were Level 4 when—never mind. We have to get to that meeting. Siri, I’m grabbing the container. Grab two of the masks. The oversized one is for Fezimet. I’d bring armor, but apparently that’s an ‘insult’. And the gloves.”
She walked out of the clinic. Okasha was audibly disappointed.
“Come on, let’s try something out! Isn’t it cool? First the box at Level 10, now this! I might be the first Selphid in living memory to have this class! It’s nothing like the old stories!”
Geneva marched out of her clinic. She stared at the rising sun. She must have been awake all night. Again. But she’d gotten to her patients. That was what mattered. Anyways, she had [Lesser Endurance] now. That cut down on the fatigue. She was leveling too.
“What old stories, Okasha? And keep silent when we get to Fezimet’s tower. I need to focus.”
Okasha sighed. And her voice was a bit…bitter.
“You never listen. I told you twice. And when I leveled up! You didn’t even let me eat cake for the Level 10 celebration. It’s always work, work, work with you…you need rest, Geneva!”
“Okasha.”
“Fine. This is important. But promise me you’ll lie down? I’m looking at your body and it looks worse! Also, you need to poo. Nice, healthy poo. Nothing like that Yellow Rivers stuff. Disgusting—”
“Okasha!”
“Fine. I’m shutting up. Congratulations, Okasha! I’m only a Level 11 [Inner Friend]. Odd, though. The old stories never have this class. It was always…[Controller]. [Dominator]. [Overlord]. This is strange. But we’re friends so that’s why. Right Geneva? Geneva?”
 
—-
 
“Commander Fezimet—”
“Glorious Fezimet, please, Miss Scala. I’m joking. Call me whatever you like! Am I joking? I probably am.”
The Quexal rose to his full height, his feathered wings resplendent. Geneva sighed.
“Glorious Fezimet—you have to understand. This plague is spreading fast. When I say a lockdown of the city is necessary, I mean it.”
“For two weeks.”
The Quexal stared at Geneva, and stopped showing off his wings. She and Siri were in his office. He stared at the two Humans. Both were wearing Geneva’s masks and gloves. She had the petri dish with the Yellow Rivers sample on his desk. He had refused the mask. He didn’t have hands so much as talons halfway up his body.
The Quexal, one of the rare evolutions of Lizardfolk, was powerful. Huge, sinuous—an imposing form. And he could jump and glide. He was radiant, and knew it.
Geneva didn’t care. She had been talking to the leader of the Featherfolk Brigade, who ruled this city as the company in charge, and she was running out of patience.
“At least two weeks. No entry into the city, or exit. Via port or otherwise. I need [Healers] to help me tend to the patients, more protective armor—”
“All of which my company pays for. Because of a few cases of this Yellow Rivers stuff? I admit, it’s nasty. And I am honored by the Last Light of Baleros tending to people in my city free of charge.”
No one missed the emphasis on ‘my’. Geneva sighed. Fezimet went on, eying the yellow sample in the dish.
“But it’s spread by sex, isn’t it? That’s not an issue. Yes, there are cases. But your clinic is doing splendidly. That’s why I’m not even charging a tax. Just do more of that, yes? Hm?”
Siri broke in, her voice polite as she bowed to the Quexal.
“I’m afraid it’s not that simple. The disease has mutated, Glorious Fezimet.”
“Say what now? Done what?”
The leader of the Featherfolk Brigade paused. Siri tried to explain.
“Mutated. That means it—has changed. It now spreads via more than sex. Anyone who touches the pus—that sample, sir—can catch the virus.”
“Bacteria.”
Geneva whispered. Siri shrugged. Fezimet instantly recoiled and backed up towards his glass windows overseeing his city. The tower in which his company resided was the tallest by far.
“Touch it?”
“And have it enter their mucus glands. Mouth, nostrils—ears—”
The Quexal relaxed a bit.
“Oh. Then just don’t touch those places. Miss Scala, I appreciate the concern. But we have less than a hundred cases in the entire city! It is not an—what did you call it? An ‘epidemamy’?”
“Epidemy. It is a plague, Commander Fezimet. And it is already in Talenqual and other cities. The reason the numbers are low is because no one is looking for the disease! But for me!”
The Quexal made a polite sound as he flicked his tail.
“And yet—people recover.”
“In one to two weeks. I can speed recovery to one week if I attend to them personally. But in the meantime, they have fever, they discharge mucus and pus, have diarrhea—”
“Yes, yes. Please, I haven’t had breakfast yet. So what? It goes away in a week. Ideal! This isn’t as bad as the serious plagues. Believe me, I lived through the Petriplague when I was a hatchling. That killed. This goes away!”
The Quexal cut Geneva off, looking disgusted. Geneva inhaled a few times.
“That’s true. This isn’t nearly as virulent as most strains. It could be far, far worse. But the potential is that this disease mutates again, Glorious Fezimet. To kill its hosts. And the issue isn’t that people recover. It’s that it spreads fast. If it gets into a household, the odds are about 61% that they all become ill. Yes, the level of infection varies; a [Warrior]’s body fights off the plague far better than a normal civilian’s. However…”
Siri winced. Fezimet’s eyes were glazing over as Geneva began to use statistics. He got the danger. He just thought it didn’t matter. People were getting better. Geneva’s clinic had had only a handful of deaths. And people did get well in two weeks.
“Geneva. I think it’s time for the demonstration.”
The Swedish girl whispered to the [Doctor]. Geneva looked at her, realized she was right, and grimaced. She’d done so much work in the thinking box analyzing the numbers available to her. She had a graph and a map of the city’s infectious hotspots, but the Quexal didn’t care.
“Glorious Commander Fezimet, I have a demonstration for you. This is the real danger of the Yellow Rivers disease and why I fear that if we reach a critical point, the plague will spread to thousands, not just hundreds. It’s already going across the sea; I treated a crew with six infected members. You have a chance to stop it in Talenqual. Because this is the real danger of the sickness.”
She opened the glass box. And then removed the petri dish. Fezimet eyed the bacteria with disgust.
“Disgusting. But if I wash my…claws, it doesn’t infect me, right?”
“It might. Thorough washing is essential, Commander Fezimet. But please, observe. Would you consider putting on the helmet?”
“No, but go ahead.”
It was just a bit of the culture, in the center of the dish. The yellow blob glistened as Fezimet put a feathered wing over his face. Siri gagged at the smell too. Geneva produced something. A vial. Geneva also pulled out a crude dropper and filled it with some of the potion.
“This is a single drop of healing potion, Commander. Please observe what happens if it interacts with the bacteria—the Yellow Rivers disease.”
She poised the dropper over the dish. And a glistening drop of the potion fell onto the dish.
A single drop of a weak healing potion landed. It splashed and then—
The yellow rot instantly covered the entire petri dish. Siri recoiled.
“Jävla skit!”
“Dead gods!”
So did Fezimet. They backed up as the Yellow Rivers bacteria multiplied insanely quickly. The audience watched as Geneva closed the petri dish and put it into the container. Then she folded her hands behind her back and looked at Fezimet.
“The first reaction of every person and [Healer] is to use a healing potion. And when that happens, a small infection turns into an open sore. And it turns a preventable illness into full-blown fever, diarrhea, and pus from the sores which infects anyone who doesn’t wash their hands thoroughly before touching a mucus membrane. Healing potions will turn minor victims who don’t know they’ve been infected into people on their deathbeds. I must insist you put out an announcement and lock down the city.”
She looked Fezimet in the eye. And to his credit, the Quexal blanched.
“We can’t have that in our [Warriors]! Why didn’t you lead with that?”
He meant his company’s fighting power. Geneva exhaled and Siri shuffled her feet. The [Doctor] opened her mouth for a response and Okasha pulled it closed. She felt the Selphid take over.
“I’m terribly sorry, oh Glorious Fezimet. You have lovely plumage today, by the way. But I was concerned for civilian matters. I am not a commander.”
Geneva-Okasha bowed, smiling politely. Fezimet blinked a few times, and then relaxed.
“Well, I can’t expect a [Doctor] to understand military matters. I see the issue. Yes—you’ll have an announcement. We’ll do it later today!”
The [Doctor] in question exhaled slowly in relief. She closed her eyes.
“And the lockdown?”
Fezimet smiled.
“Obviously, that’s a bit too far. But I will order the [Healers] in the city to take orders from you. I think that’s the best compromise. Don’t you?”
Geneva’s head snapped up. And Okasha was too slow this time to stop her retort. Siri covered her face with one hand.
 
—-
 
“There is a small illness running through our city. And other cities! It’s known as the Yellow Rivers disease—and apparently, it spreads through the horrible pus. Not just sex. We have the situation under control, but there are precautions we need to take. Now, I have The Last Light of Baleros here to speak about it. Miss Scala?”
Daly saw Geneva standing on the podium in front of the crowd. He saw the [Doctor] arranging her notes. Talenqual’s citizens were staring up at her and Fezimet in the announcement square.
She did not look happy. She’d protested Fezimet wanting to gather people with an infectious disease running rampant. She didn’t like his wording, either, as her tone made clear.
“…The Yellow Rivers disease is a growing epidemic in Baleros. It may already be travelling to other major ports in the world. It spreads via sex—or any contact with the infected pus or other liquids to orifices. That means nostrils, mouths—anyone can get it. Using a healing potion will only make the disease worse.”
The crowd murmured. Geneva went on.
“It can be prevented.”
“Absolutely it can! And anyone who is ill should visit Miss Scala’s clinic.”
Fezimet slithered forwards to shout reassuringly. Geneva glared at him.
“…But I am convinced this disease is already present in multiple cities. And spreading through red light districts. Brothels, and then from person to person. To remain safe, you must wash your hands or claws with soap before eating. Do not touch your face, eyes, mouth, if you can avoid it. If you think someone is ill—”
“Shit. She looks exhausted. When does she sleep?”
Daly cursed as he and Edima looked up at Geneva. She was indeed pale, and there were rings around her eyes. The Dullahan looked worriedly at Daly.
“How bad is this disease, Daly?”
“At the moment? Bad. According to Geneva, it’ll get worse. At least Fezimet’s giving her control of the [Healers]. They can’t use healing potions.”
Which was entirely the problem. No one in Talenqual was happy with the pronouncement. The people looked to Geneva, the Last Light of Baleros as a source of reassurance, but the [Healers] weren’t so sanguine.
“If we cannot tell if someone is infected, what do we do? If a Centaur is lying on the ground, with a broken leg—”
