“What?” Catalina opened her office door, and there, a couple of feet away, was the worker. “Why are you just standing there?”

“I'm waiting for you, Ms. Abernathy.” The worker said. “We still need...”

“Yes, yes.” Catalina said. “I'm coming.”

“I have to leave, too.” Ren said and walked by them. “I've got to get to the city because I have a tour to give.”

“Do you need a cart and a horse diverted from...” The worker started to ask.

“No, thank you.” Ren said and glanced at Catalina. “I've got my own cart and mount to handle that.”

Catalina took in a breath and let it out.

“She can't wait to see your mount...” Teepo said. “... and Princess, too.” He chittered in laughter.

Let's not disappoint her too much, then. Ren thought to his friend, and walked out of the stable. “Please excuse me.” He said to Catalina and gave her a short bow, then ran down the short road and along the dock to the ship. The cargo hatch was already down and Tee-one was supervising the loading of the carts. Ren passed by him and went up to the main deck of the ship.

“I'll be right back to lead you down.” Ren said to his personal maids, went in the main cabin, then down the hall and to the room with the Jacuzzi and knocked.

“Come in.” Railyse said.

“Hi, Railyse. I'm taking the maids on a tour of the city. Would you like to come along?”

“Like you have to ask!” Railyse said and got out of the Jacuzzi. She didn't have to dry off at all, since her body absorbed water when she wanted it to. “Let's go!”

“I have to get Princess first.” Ren said.

“I know.” Railyse said, rolled her eyes, and the sea-like water under her skin swirled in amusement. “Hurry up!”

Ren chuckled and stepped through to the other room where Princess was. “Hi, everyone.”

Hello, My Lord. Princess thought to him. Am I to be a mule today?

Ren laughed. “Princess, you've never been, nor shall you ever be, a mule.”

You want me to pull a cart around.

“Yes, but it's because I want to show you off to the woman that runs the stable.”

Very well. Princess stood up. I shall do as you wish.

“Thank you.” Ren said. “Riley, Stacy. Are you coming this time, or do you want to wait?”

They stood up at the same time and barked once; and Ren could feel that they wanted to come along.

“Escort duty.” Ren said, then went over to the pen that housed the fire elemental. “Hi, Zetaya. Ready to go?”

The fire elemental jumped out of the pen and into Ren's arms easily.

“Hey, good going!” Ren said. “Thank you for not trying to roam around on your own.”

Zetaya rubbed it's head stub on Ren's face and snuggled into his neck.

“Is it okay that we'll be in the same cart?” Railyse asked.

“Sure.” Ren said. “As long as you don't touch each other.”

“Oh, don't worry about that.” Railyse said as she stared at the bane of her existence. Of all the other elementals that existed, the fire elemental was the one that was the most dangerous to her. “I will never, ever touch it.”

Ren smiled and kept his arms around the fire elemental. “Then let's go.” He said and the odd group of beings left the cabin.
