Despite wearing a mask, the Demon Lord was scarily good at reading Jake’s reactions, instantly clocking that Carmen was wrong. Well, he wasn’t entirely off, as the two of them did have a friends-with-benefits kind of thing going for a while, but there was never any real relationship beyond that, and Jake had always just considered them friends.

“Enough about that,” Jake once more tried to change the subject. “When do you think this wedding of yours will happen?”

“It depends on a lot of factors,” the demon obliged Jake. “I understand that they want to make it a grand happening, seeing my new status and power. If I perform well and stand out, they will make it bigger and use it as an event to elevate the status of the Nine Hells as a whole. Most factions will probably be invited. Personally, I do hope to make it as big an event as possible, as the Records reaped from such a happening can only be beneficial.”

Jake slowly nodded along, realizing that his and the demon’s views on that kind of thing varied widely. The demon saw a social event as an opportunity to exploit and was clearly aware of the political and diplomatic implications of such an event. Meanwhile, if it were Jake, he would definitely prefer to just elope and do a courthouse kind of deal, but that wouldn’t really make much sense with a political marriage. Not that Jake would ever agree to a political marriage in the first place.

“Well, I hope things go well for you, and you get a brilliant excuse to make a giant party,” Jake smiled. “Speaking of something being giant, we’ve been flying for a while now, and I’m fairly certain we haven’t really moved anywhere.”

“I was starting to get the same feeling,” the demon lord said, his vibe instantly shifting as he got serious and frowned. “There doesn’t appear to be any spatial magic going on; instead, it’s more like the world is infinite by design.”

They both stopped flying, realizing it was useless. Floating down, they landed on the massive plain of golden flowers again, but Jake still didn’t get any response from his boots or any of his other senses. His intuition also didn’t help much, though he had a hunch that they weren’t in a rush.

The two of them spent a few minutes trying to see if they could find out anything, but eventually ended up chatting, simply waiting for something to happen, only relying on Jake’s hunch that things would eventually sort themselves out.

After about another half an hour, their trust that something would happen was rewarded, but not in the way they’d imagined. Rather than a trial appearing or the environment shifting, not too far away from them, something, or rather, someone, appeared in this pocket dimension.

Another person who emanated an aura worthy of giving Jake pause.
