//Things of that nature.

“It’s an improvement, isn’t it?”

//New Harrakans have no concept of what a golem is.

//They treat me as a person.

//A considerable improvement, yes.

//It gives me hope for the future.

//When we are more.

“When are we going back to Harrak?”

//I believe next year should be perfect.

//Unless we get embroiled in another war.

//Keep in mind that I will no longer be able to accompany you on long expeditions.

“It’s okay. I think I can take care of myself better now.”

//If you say so.

“Your Majesty!”

A man parted the crowd. Viv’s mind switched to serious mode when she noticed he was dragging a woman behind him, but she calmed down when she realized  the woman was more just embarrassed than actually being pulled along against her will. A shaky hand covered half of her face. It wasn’t nearly enough to hide the mass of blotchy, uneven skin characteristic of a burn scar.

“Your majesty, please.”

“Speak your mind, citizen.”

“It’s my sister. She’s burnt.”

“Erel, please!”

“She doesn’t think you can help her. I told her you also helped people who were, you know…”

Courage and embarrassment warred in his features. He believed he was treading on thin ice.

“Defaced,” Viv finished. “Let me see?”

The woman was now a delicate shade of tulip, with more purple where the scar marred her features. It was a nasty one. Must have hurt a lot. Viv would have to remove the scar tissue but it didn’t look too hard, especially because the other half of the face remained intact. It always made the surgery easier. The woman babbled under her scrutiny.

“Lord Tayne, my old lord he… and his wife, she found out… There was a lantern with pitch.”

There were several scenarios that could fill the gaps of that summary and none of them should have led to defacing a rival.

“Your brother is right. I will set up a time with the temple, before we return to Sinur’s Gate. I am certain you are not the only newcomer who came bearing wounds.”

Viv left the grateful pair behind to enjoy an offering of mushroom skewers. The visit continued. People had requests, demands, observations, not everything was perfect under the sun but that was normal. What mattered was that they were doing better and they were not afraid to talk to Viv. People here led good lives, without fanfare but with smiles and street food shared with their friends and families. That was as good as it got, sometimes. She would take those victories wherever she could.
