//If they do lose as decisively as they have here, the precedent it sets will actually hurt them.

“So they can’t do another land assault.”

//Or they would do it at a massive disadvantage.

“So they might attack by sea next time? Would that work?”

//Yes.

//Which is a massive problem.

“I don’t think it will happen for a while. We can always resurrect the Harrakan fleet.”

Solfis remained silent for a disturbingly long amount of time.

“What?”

//My programming makes it difficult to criticize Harrak.

“So the empire had a shit fleet?”

//The glorious empire achieved many victories.

//Such as in Traeste, off the coast of Bokore, or at Centi.

“Against rebels?”

//Well.

“Against rebels, Solfis?”

//Yes. Also yes. And pirates.

“Huh. And, errr, who are the best sailors around?”

//With the fall of the shadowlands, much of the northern cities have lost their naval military traditions.

//Right now, Vizim is the dominant sea power.

//According to the reports I have read.

“And Harrak, historically…”

//Has struggled to catch up.

//It did not help that, compared to you, the old rulers tended to be less, shall we say…

“Receptive of other cultures?”

//This statement is correct.

//Your flexibility gives me hope for the development of our future naval power.

“Not for a long time.”

//You need to adopt a time frame that matches your life expectancy, Your Majesty.

//Consider the naval issue now, and seed it in decades for results a century from now.

“I mean, with my perfect memory, I bet I could recreate ‘frigates’. Galleons at the very least. With cannons. We’ll have cannons by then. Hey, why are you so close?”

//Tell me more about those ‘galleons’ with ‘cannons’.

“We don’t even have a proper industry yet.”

//Tell me more about industry.

“Sigh.”

***

“Haaaaalt!”

Despite Viv’s enhanced mind, it took her a solid second to lift her fist and force the two thousand strong Harrakan column to a ponderous stop. The man who’d caused this incident was a pudgy guard in a clean tabard bearing the colors of Duke Ediar of Reixa, whose city stood in the background and whose land they were on.

Viv glared into the depths of the guard’s porcine gaze, finding no signs of intelligence there.

“You lots gotsa pay the toll. Everybody pays the toll. No exceptions.”

He checked the column as it was stuck in the portal.

“Not even for noble folks, beg your pardon. Everybody pays the toll.”

Viv felt a sense of disbelief an amazement at this man so dedicated to the cause he felt comfortable standing in front of armored knights escorting a woman with eyes like a ring of emerald over the void between stars (ok that was a little melodramatic) and light-absorbing gashes in the fabric of reality emerging from her shoulder blades. He was really there, standing his ground.

And now Viv was facing a conundrum, a really uncomfortable one.

Because there were no arrangements in her contract that stated she could freely use the portals to move troops around. Even her trade caravans were not exempt of tolls since local nobles tended to see such exemptions as an unfair competitive advantage and that was toxic in the long run.

It was kind of dickish to force a toll on an army participating in an international effort to defend the continent. Viv had made her opinion clear on what dickish moves against her entailed, but here it was different. That guy was implementing the rules.

If she flaunted the rules here through intimidation, she would prove that rules didn’t apply to the sovereign, something that she’d fought against this far. Justice as an overarching principle rather than a tool of control in the hand of the ruler was a pillar of modern society. If she wanted social progress, she had to make concessions despite her pettiness and tendency to get even.

At the same time, this wasn’t one of her citizens and although fairness was required within a society, she was also expected to be an asshole to ‘others’, the outside group. Foreigners. Her people expected it from her. They wouldn’t understand if she just bent to a person who was socially her lesser by a huge margin.

The pudgy guard was sweating abundantly by now, especially since Solfis had deployed behind Viv. Fortunately, her silence was serving her well because a form in the elaborate dress of a noble was sprinting towards her from a nearby booth. The man slowed to a brisk pace as soon as they were within earshot, several guards joining him without prompting. They didn’t look hostile. In fact, they looked scared. The Enorian noble smoothed his beard and put on a pleasant smile as if he wasn’t in plain sight of the entire vanguard. Appearances had to be maintained, Viv supposed.

“Your Majesty Viviane, such a pleasure to see you again so quickly! Words of your triumph have traveled to us with this morning’s runner. Allow me to congratulate you on the alliance’s victory at the Lizard Pass.”

Renaming landmarks already?

“Considering the circumstances, we will happily waive any fee you might incur, haha. You can also avail yourself to the amenities of my lord’s castle, if you wish. He has a standing invitation for visiting sovereigns.”

Viv was loath to place herself above the law. Getting preferential treatment though? That was quite fine. A bit like being bumped to first class on a plane.

She was kind of being a jerk but this was a jerk planet. When in Rome, throw Christians to the lions.

“I appreciate his offer, however I wish to return home quickly. Thank you for facilitating our passage.”

“Oh, it’s nothing! The portals are yours, after all.”

“Nevertheless, our agreement doesn’t cover armies. I will remember your gesture. Now, if you will excuse me.”

“Of course, of course. Safe travels to you!”

As the column moved on, Viv chuckled at the exchange between the guard and his boss.

“But you said no exceptions, boss!”

“With pissy nobles, not the elemental archmage who built the gods-cursed gates! Do you know what she does to those who disrespect her? Why am I surrounded by IDIOTS?”

It was amazing how having a reputation for being a bitch helped, sometimes. She was the continent’s Uber Karen or something. Treat me in a princely manner or I’ll call for a manager and an orbital strike. Whatever. She knew with certainty that, as soon as she was back in Harrak, she would be taken down enough pegs anyway.

Her dad was right, no one was a prophet in their own kingdom.

***

“Why is it that every time you go out, you return with an ever larger pack of mutts? Why do some of those people even have blue skin? Who the hell has blue skin?” Lady Azar muttered.

“They’re from beyond the isthmus, past Halluria.”

“Those fuckers crossed two continents to become mushroom farmers?”

“Err, I think we have some new crops. Some sort of gourds?”

“Are you perhaps knowingly ignoring the point? What am I saying? Of course, you are. Stop bringing new ethnic groups like they are lost kittens. Any more of them and we will officially have more races than are even present on Param. Are you doing a collection? Is that it?”

“Technically, we have Kark, northerners, and Wamiri is from Vizim.”

“Solar’s wife?”

“Yes. So. Yeah…”

The old Baranese countess picked up her dainty tea cup and took a sip while Viv sat there feeling like a naughty student in front of the principal.

“They have requested to be kept together, your blue-skinned strangers from a faraway land. I have selected a village for them,” she finally said.

“They have been through a lot.”

“Most of them do not speak our language. I will have to dedicate one of our newly trained civil servants to the task.”

“You must have someone who is a linguist. This is the first time in recorded history we have contact with isthmus civilizations.”

“Not exactly true. Vizim keeps trade routes.”

“The first time in the history of the continent. Not even the Old Empire knew much about them. There is so much to learn, and some of it could be of interest to us. Magical theories, designs, tactics, methods. Think about it.”

Lady Azar put her cup down. As a gesture of peace, Viv poured tea for the both of them. The older woman acknowledged the gesture with a smile of appreciation.

“You are quite right, though we have a problem. Too many ideas, not enough resources. We are reaching a sort of saturation despite the way our population has exploded so far. The flow of refugees is slowing down as well. Newcomers also need time to set up, build or complete their homes and sow their fields. By the way, your new Kark contingent has requested to live close to the mines. Their fascination with iron is singular.”

“Their land lacks it. They associate iron with power so I expect they will stockpile resources before they return north. Speaking of, how is the mine coming up?

“The first human-made ingots are ready for export or for use. Did you have something in mind?”

“Yes, but I am not sure it fits Nyil and the logic of this world.”

Azar sat back into her chair. It was nice to feel like you had someone’s full attention, Viv thought.

“Kindly elaborate.”

“I want to introduce mass production. Mass production is a way to manufacture goods cheaply, quickly, and in large numbers using the specialization of the workforce, assembly lines, tools and standardization. It’s, well, it would be really useful in making farming equipment cheaply available to everyone which is really important right now, because our production cannot meet the demand. The problem is the existence of paths. We risk turning people into machines who’re only good at one thing.”

“By specialized workforce, you mean someone only does one thing again and again until it’s perfectly done?”

“Yes.”

“Hmmmm. It is not as uncommon as you think for apprentices.”

Lady Azar contemplated the idea for a while.

“I believe we can make it work by employing young people.”

“Child labor?”

“No, young adults. Thirteen and above.”

“Aaaaah that makes me uncomfortable.”

“They would be compensated of course, but consider this. Humans choose their path thanks to the interface. Working for a couple of years in one of the… what are they called?”

“Factories.”

“Yes, an appropriate term. Factories. Well, we can adopt your method to several industries, like coal production. I will set up teams and rotate them often so they do not get too bored. Contrary to what you seem to believe, repetitive activities have benefits. They help increase stats and acquire specific skills such as trances that prove very useful in pretty much every path. You have one yourself, do you not? I have seen you move with your golem.”

“I thought skill information was private?”

Azar dismissed her concerns with a wave of her hand.

“Asking for specifics is rude, stating the obvious is not. Your idea is of interest to me. And the… machines as well. Paths are much more adaptive than you may believe. The interface loves progress. And we do need more hoes.”

“We always need more hoes,” Viv agreed. “And shovels.”

“I am glad to see you keep in touch with our new nation’s rural roots. Now, for the summit. You will attend, of course.”

“We leave in a month. The summit was delayed to allow the Paramese alliance to return home and rest.”

“Excellent. I will not accompany you for the sake of your own image, but I have instructions and files. Will you be doing anything else while you are here in New Harrak?”

“We only have a month and you are right, everyone is busy, especially with the harvest starting soon. I will focus on training the Kark and practicing new spells. Visit the new villages, maybe.”

“That would be good. As I said, I will need to prepare you for the summit. It would be best if you were not constantly running around picking fights with avatars. At least for a month.”

“You’re saying that like I do it on purpose.”

“It certainly seems to occur with concerning regularity.”

“Hey, I win.”

“...”

“No, seriously. It’s hard work, you know?”

***

Viv decided, as her next order of business, to take a stroll. A stroll was the only way to gauge the mood of a city according to her dad, though he would visit on market day to do so. From baby kissing to thrown excrement, the reflected range of emotions gave the person in charge a good idea of what citizens thought. Viv left the town hall behind and walked over the clean pavement of Kazar’s main square with Solfis in tow, a group of One Hundred tailing her. Most of the other soldiers were relaxing in preparation for tonight’s banquet, except for the Mountain Sons who’d left to see their families, but the One Hundred prided themselves on being hard asses. The mood seemed festive under the purple leaves of the great tree of Kazar with many revelers and only one hanged body. Viv was hailed and recognized by many people, though most kept their distances. The children seemed disappointed that Arthur had flown off to manage her bank. The first to stop her was a meatball seller who offered her a free wrap. He used her approbation which was kind of fair.

“Wraps approved by the empress! Get your empress-approved wrap here!”

Smart lad.

The next person actually hailed Solfis, something that would have been unthinkable two years before.

“My lord! Did you get new skulls?”

//Yes, thank you for asking.

“Did you get the biggest one?”

//Sadly no.

//It evaporated.

“Aw, better luck next time, my lord. Stay safe!”

//Oh, I will.

Viv turned to the golem who had that fixed glare he had when processing a lot of data.

“I bet you didn’t have people asking about your hobbies back in the day.”

//No.

//Most interactions were closer to

//”Oh gods please don’t kill me.”

