I looked over my shoulder, hair flapping across my face. The main gate of the city was now unfolding with soldiers pouring out of it. All of them were dressed in the same metal armor with green tunics overtop. But I had seen what Valrok could do before, back in the vale. If he unleashed an attack like the one that had killed my father… Couldn’t he just wipe them out with a single strike?

I looked back, seeing him atop his dragon, spear raised, and then he pointed forward at the gathering army. Purple energy began to gather around its tip. He was charging something powerful!

But a fresh wave of ballista bolts shot towards him, forcing him to crouch against his dragon’s back as it rolled left and right to avoid them.

Nightharriers, however, were impossible targets for the ballistae, and we were still some distance from the safety of that army—if they even planned to protect us in the first place!

“Fox! Another one’s coming!” I shouted as one of the birds angled lower.

Lily wasn’t quite as fast, trailing shortly behind us as one of them dipped and extended its talons.

“Lily! LOOK OUT!”

She suddenly skidded in the dirt and Slip-Dashed backwards, sliding right under the Nightharrier’s talons. Grick held onto her as tightly as I was holding onto the fox.

But after missing its target, the bird came up to reposition itself, and the other was already sizing up its own attempt.

My head shot around, trying to judge our distance from the army, but as I did so, a blur of motion shot through the crowd.

A figure garbed in red, flitting between soldiers fluidly, and when a wall of the armored men got in its way, it jumped high.

I saw a foot land on one of the soldiers’ shoulders, knocking him to the ground as it used him as a springboard.

The figure disappeared mid-air, but then dust plumed as it appeared near us, still running.

It… no—she—moved just like Genzo! Even her outfit was similar to his, but slightly more armored.

As she tore past us, I only got a glimpse of her trailing black hair and red eyes—she looked human, but she had red eyes!

My gaze whipped back around as the woman slid to a stop, posture hunched, grabbing the katana at her waist and ripping it free from its sheath.

A clear shockwave tore through the air—too fast for my eyes to track—but a heartbeat later, the Nightharrier burst apart in a spray of black feathers and blood. Its two halves plopped heavily on either side of her in a gory mess.

The katana whistled as it spun in her grasp and returned to its sheath.

The dragon turned as a loud whistle came from its rider, and the remaining Nightharrier retreated, following after its master.

They were leaving!

But no, not really, not yet.

Valrok brought his dragon lower, shy of the boundary wall, and he jumped down. His dragon landed beyond the wall, perhaps to remain outside the range of the ballistae, though its figure loomed behind its master as it snorted a puff of smoke.

Valrok began walking towards us, still maybe a half a mile away. Each step calm and unhurried. That terrifying mask stared down the samurai woman, even with so much distance between them.

But her posture was relaxed as she rose from her partly crouched stance. She stood tall, black hair flapping in the wind.

I looked up, sweeping my gaze across the battlements to see that each ballista was locked onto the unmounted dragon rider, but none fired—just waiting.

The fox slowed as we reached the army. Amongst the murmur of soldiers, my keen wolfy ears caught a certain name that stuck out—High Regent Rin Zaoh.

I turned myself around properly to straddle the fox’s back with my hands near her shoulders. She was breathing heavily between my legs, and I tilted forward to get a better look at her wounded face. She would need one of our potions.

Then the samurai woman, Rin Zaoh, spoke, her voice carrying over the farmlands. “Valrok Wyrmscar! That’s far enough!”

But he didn’t listen. He kept striding forward at a steady, almost casual pace as his voice boomed back at her. “You have something that belongs to me! Return them, and I will leave!”
