“You know, lying to an Imperial Scion is a grave offence. Should I demand an Oath to verify the truth?” Shi-Woo whimpered in reply but the Imperial Legate merely chuckled. “Oh calm down and stop kowtowing. Drink some tea and compose yourself.” Shi-Woo did as ordered and steadied his breath, cheeks burning with shame as he stood before his peers and enemies as a disgraced man. Playing with his closed fan as he addressed the crowd, he said, “Contrary to your beliefs, I’m not here to protect Falling Rain.” Grinning, he slapped the fan against his palm for emphasis and added, “I’m here to protect all of you.”

Taking a dramatic pause, the Legate waited while his tea and cup were tested for poison. Taking a long sip, he exhaled in delight. “Ahh, good tea. Now where was I? Ah yes, protecting you. On his deathbed, my father, may he rest in peace, told me a story, one you should all know well. Fifty years ago, during the hum-drum of daily activity, he came across a report written by a young lieutenant of the North. In this report, the lieutenant claimed an army of fifty-thousand Defiled had attacked and almost razed the border fortress he served in. Immediately, this drew my father’s attention because if this was true, then why was a mere lieutenant, a leader of ten men, writing the report?”

Taking another sip of tea, the Legate shook his head and sighed. “It was tragic really. The entire fortress’s general staff had been assassinated by Wraiths, leaving said lowly lieutenant as the sole surviving officer. The Mother’s blessing shone upon the Empire as this lieutenant was a man of talent, taking control of the fortress and holding out against the Defiled for ten, long days, longer than anyone thought possible. On the tenth day, word of reinforcements finally arrived, but our heroic lieutenant was crestfallen to find only a mere three-thousand friendly cavalry archers waiting outside his gates. ‘They were doomed,’ he thought, and he made his peace with the Mother.”

Chuckling wryly, the Legate continued, “According to the report, these three thousand archers, mounted on giant, fanged weasels and led by a nameless Major of the Imperial Defence Forces, broke a Defiled force almost twenty times their numbers in a single afternoon. Instead of expounding on the miraculous victory or his personal accomplishments, the lieutenant went on to make more ludicrous claims like how the Major plucked Defiled heads like apples and slaughtered Demons like pigs. The report made the rounds and everyone laughed and jeered, calling it a work of pure fiction and utter nonsense. Everyone except for our Imperial Emperor’s father, who was of course, at the time, the current Emperor.”

A Royal Guard arrived bearing plates of food and once again, everything was tested for poison. With fan in one hand and crab leg in the other, the Legate continued his tale between bites, but Shi-Woo didn’t need to hear it. He knew the rest of the tale and had even been there for parts of it. Back then, he couldn’t have been much older than Falling Rain was now, a young man learning the family business at his grandfather’s side. He remembered sneering at the foolish lieutenant and nameless major, both dressed in utilitarian garb as they approached the Emperor’s representative, fully expecting them to fall to their knees and beg for forgiveness for their lies. Instead, they swore an Oath of truth and claimed the report held no falsehoods, and for a moment, the entire court fell silent as they waited with bated breath for the Mother to strike these lying fools dead. When She didn’t, everyone present realized they were standing in the presence of greatness, an expert tactician, peak expert, and Hero of the Empire.

The Herald of the Storms, whose name he now remembered was Akanai of the Bekhai, Grand-Mentor of Falling Rain.

The damned Crier from the Magistrate’s Palace had only introduced Akanai by rank, not title, else he’d have long since figured this out. How could he have been so foolish to forget? Shi-Woo’s grandfather had danced a ditty in his office when news of their rival’s misfortune came to light. Akanai and her escorts had proved themselves formidable beyond all measure, killing dozens of decorated heroes and vaunted Experts of Central in one fell swoop before escaping through the mountains with minimal casualties. Grandfather even hoped Akanai would return at the head of an army to seek vengeance and made preparations to join her in uprooting their rivals, but sadly, nothing came of it. Ostensibly, the former Emperor soothed her anger by promoting her another rank to Major General, but Shi-Woo never believed it to be true. If a woman like her was so easily swayed, then her name would have long since echoed through the Empire.

The memory had almost been lost to time, but apparently not so for the smiling Ru Minsu. Scowling at the smug bastard, Shi-Woo cursed his own stupidity. No wonder the Ru Family refused to join the fight against Falling Rain, they still remembered their hard-learned lesson, paid for in the blood of Minsu's father and uncle. The Ru family might have even sought to curry favour with the Bekhai and revealed the secrets of Central’s young warriors, enabling Falling Rain to defeat his opponents with ease. How devious, how dastardly, how brilliant.

Well played old friend, well played.

Still eating, the Legate spoke to his captive audience. “Now some of you might wonder why my father told his children this particular story on his deathbed. On the surface, it seems like a tale of politics and backbiting, business as usual, but if you look closer, it reveals what's rotten at the core of the Empire. Take the fortress for example. After ten days of bitter fighting, why were the first reinforcements to arrive a group of tribal mercenaries? Where were the Emperor’s soldiers?” Tossing an empty crab leg to the floor, he snarled. “The closest commanders believed the fortress would fall before reinforcements arrived, so instead of mustering out to save their comrades, they hid behind their walls and ignored the lieutenant’s messengers day after day. Cowards.” The Legate spit and many followed suit. “Then there is Akanai herself. Were she a human male, Central’s greatest families would have fought a bidding war to bring this hero into their family, but a beautiful female half-beast with sapphire eyes and hair of gold? Everyone saw her as a commodity, a plaything to take and own, instead of what she truly is, a Hero of the Empire.”

Glancing around at the gathered nobles, the Legate unleashed his Aura and no one dared to resist it. Trembling from head to toe, Shi-Woo stared at his feet and prayed for mercy, helpless as the Legate snapped open his fan and revealed the Imperial Sigil for all to see, speaking as the Emperor’s chosen voice. “Hear me. The Empire will face dark days ahead, and only through solidarity can we overcome our trials and tribulations. Any individual who threatens our unity, threatens the Empire itself.” Snapping the fan closed, the Legate added, “Challenge the boy, defeat him if your honour demands it, but do not overstep your bounds. The Empire needs warriors and wealth, but not necessarily you yourselves.”

Rescinding his Aura, the Legate stood and brushed himself off. “Good tea, good food, and good company,” the Legate said as he marched down the stairs. “Reward the owner with a hundred gold.”

After waiting several minutes in case the Legate returned, Shi-Woo mopped the sweat from his brow and collapsed into the recently vacated chair. Too close, this was far too close. In a single day, he’d almost crossed the Legate and Akanai both, and the day was still young. Calming his beating heart, he made preparations to pay the Lieutenant General a visit and shower her with gifts and praise, doing everything possible to convince her he held no grudge against the boy.

Talented though he might be, Falling Rain's foul tongue was bound to upset someone and get himself killed. When that happened, Shi-Woo hoped to stand beside Akanai, or failing that, anywhere besides in front of her.

Chapter Meme
