“So many demands!” Melemizargo asked, “What do I get out of it?”

Ava paused, as her words died in her throat.

Going into this conversation was a danger all its own, but she got her feet under her fast enough. To speak to Melemizargo was to talk to insanity; if you didn’t flow with him, or give him an interesting thought to latch onto, then you were invariably gobbled up and spat out, or churned to dust by his uncaring passing. So Ava went along wherever Melemizargo went, at first, subtly guiding him to her desires, as one would lead a horde of hydras away from a settlement, or to try to escape a rivergrieve. And it had worked.

But this right here. The coherence of his speech…

Melemizargo asked for something? In a true trade, sort of way? This was not how this was supposed to go. This was not how it usually went.

“… What do you want?”

“I want off this little world. I want to explore the Cosmology again.” He growled, “I want this trap of the Script broken...” He calmed. “Can you do any of that?”

“No.”

“No! Why ever not?”

Ava had no idea why she said ‘no’. It was a sudden, deep desire that made her deny the Darkness; a primal hatred for all things shadow. But she couldn’t take her words back. Hedging speech and explanations tended to make Melemizargo either angry, or bored, and it was hard to say which one was worse.

Ava doubled down. “You don’t deserve to get off this prison of a planet.”

“What apt wording!”

Slithering wraps of shadow whipped around Ava’s torso and legs, pulling her arms tight, and up, lifting her into the air like she was on strings. Like she was a puppet. She did not panic. She just let it happen. She kept the barest tension in her arms, and her back, struggling just enough so that when her strength was broken—

The shadows pulled taut, ending what little resistance she had, pulling her arms straight out—

She yelped.

The pulling stopped. The shadows relaxed, but did not let her go—

Booming sounds came from above, knocking on Ava’s whole world.

From above. From the skylight. The radiant ooze on the other side pounded at the glass, but the shadows on this side closed ranks. Archmage Flatt would not be interfering in this event. Ava almost laughed, that the man would even try. What was he, but a milkbug fighting against a stonestorm? A gnat against a hurricane. Even archmages were nothing against the Darkness, and Ava was no different.

Ava laughed, as the enormity of her surroundings cracked what was left of her sanity like a soft egg—

“Bah. I broke you.” A resigned voice said, “Now now. None of that. You’re not allowed to go insane when you’re talking to me. That’s my curse. Come together. That’s it. Here you are.”

Shadows swirled around the small temple—

When did the temple come back?

—pews lifted from the darkness. Stone walls reasserted themselves as true, and not just an opinion. Ava felt a smooth clarity flow through her mind, brushing away the scared child part of herself that only came back with her rebirth. She was an old hand at dealing with Darkness. She would be that person again, but in a new body.

“Those are better thoughts.”

Ava suddenly realized, “You brought me back.” She said, “You never do that.” For some reason, Ava felt more scared than she had before. She started to shake. But she could still speak, “Why— What.” It wasn’t very good speech of demanding answers, but the sounds that came out of her mouth were mostly words.

“Agh. But. Wha— o.”

Mostly.

“Let’s get this meeting back in the proper tunnel.” Melemizargo spoke from the walls, “Do you wish to be a shadeling, or a shifter?”

“Shii...” Ava tried. “Shifter. Myself. Before—”

“Tell me what you think of gods.”

“… collective...” Ava knew this answer. It was an old one. One her mother taught her once, when she was a little girl. What do you say when the Darkness asks you about gods? Somewhere in the back of her mind, a rote response took hold, then slipped out of her mouth, “A collective delusion.”

With a lilt of joy, Melemizargo asked, “Which delusion do you prefer?”

With a dark clarity flowing through her head, this was an easy answer. Ava had built monuments to her chosen god, in deep, red and white spaces of the Underworld. She wasn’t devout by any stretch of the word, but she had one goddess she always appreciated. She spoke the words, “A delusion of beauty.”

And something cracked inside, like a bone snapping, or a stone plate smashing on the ground. Pain lanced through her chest, sending Ava to the ground to her knees and hands, as her heart beat hard—

Ba-boom Ba-boom.

Ava clutched her chest, twisting the fabric of her shitty tunic in her grip. She coughed, a heavy wracking sound. She touched her face. Her hand came away red. Bright red. Brightest red. The ruby colors of her life’s blood was suddenly the only other color in the room aside from whites and greys. Even the skylight above had turned to white, to shine upon the crimson that had crawled out from inside Ava’s body.

Everything was happening too fast. Ava’s fate was here.

She coughed, and blood scattered; garnets upon the dark stone.

“… Aloethag?” Melemizargo asked, “Really? That horrid woman?”

Three moments had passed since Ava fell to the ground, three long moments that made her doubt that there would ever be more. Ava stared upon the red, and whispered a truth through bloody teeth, “Always.”

The red upon the ground turned into more, into puddles. Ava watched, transfixed, the pain in her chest tripling, but suddenly distant, as a hand reached up from that red space, into the air, into the light reaching down from above. A second hand joined the first. They came together like a dancer lifting up from the trap room of a theater, into the light of center stage, heralding the bloody avatar of a being of divine perfection. Her sculpted stone visage appeared like the sun of a new day, as all of her lifted into view.

Aloethag stood revealed. White stone and crimson blood. The body of the world’s daintiest orcol, but with pointed ears. A dress with garnets on the hem. Blood lifted from the ground to form her Red Halo, a hint at the ocean of blood at her command, mirroring the red of her eyes.

Red, and white. That was Ava’s god. That was Aloethag. Creation and art given form through bloody beauty carved upon the world for all to see. The orcols did not respect Aloethag like they should. But Aloethag was the patron goddess of the Jadescale clan, and she had always held a special place in Ava’s heart. After all, what was the point of life if there was no beauty?

Ava clutched her chest again as another wave of pain crashed through her body. She grunted, barely managing to remain upright on the ground. There was no way she could stand, there was no way to give Aloethag the proper deference—

Ava screamed as her heart burst, and something crawled around inside her chest.

Time slowed.

Another god joined the ceremony.

Death sat in the back row of the temple; her own mirror image, waiting for the moment she decided to permanently leave this life. She would have told Death to fuck off, but—

Aloethag looked down at Ava, like she was a bit of dirt on the hem of her dress. “Make her an elf.”

“No.” Melemizargo said, “I’m trying to create bridges, Aloethag. Not problems. Solve your elf problems on your own time.”

“Phbbt!” Aloethag flapped her lips at the walls of the room, then said, “I want elves back, Melemizargo. Proper elves, too. This one would fit! Give her to me as I wish to receive her.”

“No.” Melemizargo added, “Figment.”

Aloethag scowled.

Ava almost laughed, if not for the mulched meat that was the insides of her torso, and the chill creeping through her body. She tried to move a finger, but it was all she could do to not fully collapse to the floor. Aloethag was brutal; she hadn’t changed at all since the last time Ava lived.

Death spoke up from the back of the room, “She doesn’t want me, so take her, Aloethag, as she is.”

Aloethag looked down at the woman. Disdain filled her visage. “Of course I was going to take her, you old fool. She’s mine, after all.” She looked to the walls. “Release her.”

Melemizargo chuckled. Time resumed.

Reality shifted. All at once, five things happened. Darkness fully retreated from the temple. Aloethag vanished. Death remained for a brief moment, before turning to nothing. The doors opened, like normal swinging stone doors, and not like the wings they had been before.

And then the skylight broke, as gentle warmth and brightness descended onto Ava. She smiled as a metal rod glowed in her vision, touching her chest with a heat that spread outward, pulling her back together. Ava’s heart beat hard, then softer, and softer still. Breath came easier, as thick air spilled out of her mouth, and turned the blood that covered her into nothing.

She barely understood what was happening as physical light supported her weight and she coughed three times, spitting out bloody shards of a broken rad with each convulsion. Those rads disintegrated into the thickening air, as with her last thoughts, Ava summoned her Status. This time, it worked.

Ava Jadescale

Shifter (Snake), age 226

Level 0, Class: None

Exp: 0/100

Class: -/-

Points: 0

HP

0/90

160 per day

MP

0/190

190 per day

Strength

9

+0

[9]

Vitality

16

+0

[16]

Willpower

19

+0

[19]

Focus

19

+0

[19]

She had done it?

She had. She took the win.

And then she passed out.

- - - -

Erick sat back on his couch, saying, “Her eyes were normal.”

Back in Candlepoint, Erick gently lifted Ava into arms made of light. He floated her out of the dark temple, past Slip, who seemed surprised, then past other shadelings, who reeled back, vanishing quick, or stayed strong, staring at Ava’s floating, sleeping, and breathing body. Some gave quiet, hopeful cheers. Others looked away.

Erick took Ava to an empty business, close to the Crystal Courtyard, ensuring that some people saw where she floated, so that no one thought she was just taken away. The former business might have been some sort of general store before Mephistopheles and Zaraanka emptied it of everything of value, but now it was empty. Erick cast a few spells into the small space, creating a nice conjured four-poster bed, with a dense mattress, soft sheets, and nice pillows. He placed Ava in the bed, and lightly covered her sleeping form. A [Cleanse] took care of the extra blood and other uncomfortable things that had come out of her since the [Cleanse] in the temple, while [Duplicate] and [Teleport Object] got a small workout, bringing meats, cheeses, bread, and wine, to a bedside table. Erick wrapped the meal in a [Scent Ward] so as not to wake Ava, then put a nice [Air Conditioning Ward] into the space, to drive back the moisture and heat of the Crystal Forest air.

He also left a note, asking for a meeting, when she woke and if she felt like a meeting. All she had to do was seek out the [Mend] and [Cleanse] Ophiel, stationed under the Crystal.

While he was doing that, he also watched Syllea, with his normal eyes, who currently had a few tendrils of thought drifting from her blonde head.

Syllea stared at the screen floating in front of her, showing Ava’s sleeping form, lost in thought. She mumbled, “Did that actually happen?” She seemed to come back to herself over long moments, and then all at once. She whipped around to look to Bayth. “If she picked Aloethag—” Syllea closed her mouth.

Bayth frowned, as she moved her eyes from Syllea, to the viewing screen, then to Erick. She nodded; a tiny, almost imperceptible movement.

Erick guessed what was going on. With the only one not in-the-know, or at least not that Erick knew, upstairs in her room and purposefully trying to ignore what was going on down here, he whispered, “Can you get to her through a Red Dream? To confirm? I’m not sure how that works.”

Bayth locked eyes on Erick, then her brown face turned red with a blush, to vanish just as fast as pure childish joy inundated every part of the large, muscular woman. Then she looked down and away, as she flinched backward, breathing deep, and saying nothing.

Syllea had a reaction similar to her old friend. But she got over it fast, quickly moving on to something close to anger as she rounded on Erick, saying, “How do you know—!”

“Got roped into a Quest for the goddess,” Erick answered, simply. “Ten million Health spilled in her name.”

Syllea looked to the ground, her green face turning red with embarrassment as she said, “No. Stop talking. No more words.”

Bayth had a different reaction to Erick’s reveal. She suddenly shifted from contrite, muttering, “You’re not lying?” to laughing loud, when Erick’s face told her all she needed to know. She switched to gallows humor, blurting out, “You’re fucked! Just like the rest of us.” She rapidly added, smiling, “Uh. Archmage, sir.”

Syllea again rounded on her friend, saying, “No more talking.” She turned back to Erick, her face turning slightly red. “No more of that. This discussion is over.” She declared. “Everyone shut up.”

“Hell and Celes, Syllea.” Bayth said, “Grow up.” She asked, “What did you do to deserve that, Archmage Flatt?”

“Something that is not my place to explain. But I had a Dream, and was quickly told that it was a deep cultural thing, and—” Erick powered through whatever cultural faux pas he had committed, by asking, “Is being in a Dream stronger confirmation of a real person, than other methods?”

Syllea went silent.

Bayth laughed again, saying, “Shit yeah, it is!” She joked, “If you can get it, am I right?” She looked to Poi, and with an edge to her voice that was not quite friendly, said, “He gets it!”

Poi deadpanned, “I am sure I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

Syllea remained silent. And now, she was still. Erick looked to the archmage, and saw her anger.

Quite a few things had happened when Erick blurted out his personal knowledge of the Dreaming. Bayth seemed to warm up to Erick, by at least two degrees, while simultaneously turning deeply cold toward the Mind Mage in the room. Back when Al revealed to Erick about the Dreaming, and about Red Dreams, he had made sure to kick Poi out of the room, firsthand.

… But Poi already knew all about the Dreaming?

Eh. Even if Erick asked the man, he likely wouldn’t explain what was going on, there. It was probably a Mind Mage Organization thing; the Dreaming seemed rather like mind magic to Erick. Maybe there was a cultural hatred?

… There was probably a cultural hatred, there.

