Syllea had a much easier to understand reaction. She was as embarrassed as a schoolgirl whose dad was making dad jokes in front of all the other kids.

He said, “Sorry, Syllea. I did not mean to offend.”

Bayth chuckled once, but looked to Syllea, and reevaluated her reaction. All mirth on the muscular woman’s face, faded. She went silent, and took a step behind Syllea, retaking her position as the archmage’s guard.

Syllea lifted her eyes to Erick, and said, “If everyone has worked the heat from their blood, I would like to return to the topic of this shadeling— This person. Ava Jadescale.”

Erick glanced through Ophiel, to Candlepoint. He came back, saying, “She's still sleeping. I used a rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] on her, so she should be okay.”

Syllea half nodded. She said, “That’s not exactly— I meant. That… experience, was not what I was expecting from the transformation process. Aloethag’s avatar appeared, along with at least one other, hidden from my sight, and only visible through Aloethag’s interactions toward two different parts of the temple. I am guessing Phagar was the interloper, based upon The Bloody Queen’s barest deference, but I cannot be sure. It certainly wasn’t Rozeta.”

“Phagar was there.” Erick said, “That was definitely him— Or. Them, I guess. I saw Phagar, for sure.”

Syllea paused again, but quickly recovered, and said, “Okay.” She eloquently added, “Ah.” She asked, “You saw him?”

“Is he really a ‘him’?” Erick asked, genuinely curious.

“Yes.” Syllea said, “Always.”

“Then yes, I saw him. Looked like a copy of Ava, but greyer. Did you not?”

Syllea eyed Erick, then said, “Putting that aside...” She turned to Bayth, saying, “Could we put up a Dark Temple in the Commune? An official one? It would be much easier than shipping people off to Ar’Kendrithyst, but it might be more dangerous to spread around Dark Temples.”

Bayth immediately answered, “No one wants a Dark Temple near the city, or the commune.”

“Right.” Syllea said, “I doubt Melemizargo would want to consecrate a Dark Temple in Treehome, anyway.”

“That, too,” Bayth said.

Erick brought the discussion back on topic, asking, “Anyone have any idea what we just saw, though?”

Bayth shrugged. “Your guess is better than mine.”

Erick said, “It’s really not. I’ve stayed away from everything Melemizargo related that I could. I’ve only been on Veird a year, too, you know.”

Bayth smiled. “Ah. Well… Melemizargo did what he wanted to do, as he usually does, and Ava got something out of it, which almost never happens how the petitioner wants it to happen. And other gods were involved. That’s new, too.”

Syllea looked to Erick, like she had a question to ask, but she did not speak.

Erick ignored the archmage’s reluctance, for now, and turned to Poi. The sapphire scaled man shrugged.

Erick turned back to Syllea, and in the spirit of sharing, asked, “What spell did you use to [Scry]? I used my [Familiar], as you saw, but also [Greater Lightwalk].”

Bayth smirked, like she had gotten confirmation of a small secret.

Syllea showed no reaction, as she said, “I used a [Viewing] that has been mutated with both [Witness] and [Magic Eye]. [True Sight Viewing].” She popped a blue box into the air.

True Sight Viewing, instant, super long range, 4109 Mana

View a part of the world familiar to you, and all the magical forces at play therein.

“That seems… very useful,” Erick said.

“It is.”

Erick had casually used the light in the room to look over Syllea’s shoulder during Ava’s transformation, and saw nothing more than what he already saw, with Ophiel on the scene in Candlepoint. Maybe he needed to ask her about some sort of [True Sight] spell, for himself?

Erick asked, “What did your [True Sight] see?”

“I saw a lot.” Syllea began, “What we witnessed was Soul Magic on a divine scale, along with what I’d hesitatingly call Fate Magic. It almost looked like a Spatial spell, but not quite.” She said, “What I witnessed, was that Ava’s soul was trapped inside of the rad in her chest, and then the rad broke. Usually, this kills the monster, but there’s an even chance of them going into a berserk state as the body becomes an uncontrolled beast of madness and pain for a short while, until the body dies. Neither of those outcomes happened, because Aloethag’s touch prevented the release of the soul, as well as transforming Ava’s body itself into something capable of holding that soul.

“So yes, that was a ‘[Resurrection]’, sort of. Maybe even a true one.

“And since Melemizargo doesn’t have a divine magical signature —all he has is shadows— I highly doubt Aloethag was a construction.” She blushed for a moment, adding, “It would be easy enough to meet Ava in… that other space, and confirm her identity that way. That was actually going to be the...” She frowned, her voice trailing off.

Bayth stepped in. “If any of the guys from the commune came back from being a shadeling, that’s how we were going to check them; a little foray into the Red.” She added, “When they turned shadeling, they were cut from the Dreaming.”

Erick said, “Ah. Good. No need to involve the Mind Mages, then.”

“HA!” Bayth said, “Yeah.”

Syllea latched on to the new topic, saying, “We tried to get confirmation of our shadelings as who they used to be. The Mind Mages helped, at first...”

Bayth stepped in again. “They said the shadelings were the people they were before, but wouldn’t tell us how they knew. It was a dead end.”

Syllea got over herself, saying, “The Dreaming was our last, best hope for confirmation of a true transformation back to orcol, after we solved the actual problem of them being shadeling.” She added, “Speaking of which, I need to go talk to your Mayor, now, regarding some assistance for getting some of our transformed people into Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Poi spoke up, “Would you like me to inform her of your coming?”

“If you would be so kind, Mister Fulisade.”

Poi nodded.

Erick asked, “Before you go, I’d like to ask about what Ava said, regarding the gods being delusions.”

“Pure cow shit.” Syllea said, “The gods are real, Erick. They draw their existence from believers, and in return, they assist us in our lives, but that does not mean that they are fake. They’re just different from we mortal beings. Energy existences, some would say. Born of a collective consciousness, others might venture. But like money and time and mana, they’re all real, and at the same time, not. I’m sure we’ll hear a lot more about whatever delusions Melemizargo believes, after our people brave Ar’Kendrithyst. Hopefully some of them come back to us, as they were.” She stood, saying, “I must delay my promised lesson to tomorrow, if you please. It seems like a thousand things are happening, and I do not have nearly as good of a [Familiar] as you.”

Erick stood, saying, “Of course, Syllea. Let me escort you out.”

Syllea said, “I am afraid I must be rude, and take the quick path.” She reached out behind her, to take Bayth’s outstretched hand. “Till next time.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Till next time.”

Syllea and her muscular friend blipped away in a flex of empty air.

Erick breathed a bit easier after they vanished. Syllea was easy to talk to, and Bayth seemed okay, but while they had a thousand things happening with them, Erick also had his own thousand problems to solve, and they only looked to get worse before they got better.

“Oh,” Erick said, remembering, “I need to ask her how to adjust the color of my mana, too. She’d probably know.” Alternatively, he wished he could ask Kiri to go run some errands, but… “Poi? Have you heard from Kiri?”

“Kiri is a day away from completing [Lightwalk]. She should be back by tomorrow evening.”

“Thank the gods.” Erick asked, “I need to make it up to Teressa, for asking her to run errands. Any suggestions?”

Poi looked to Erick like he turned purple, or something, then said, “We’re at your command, Erick.” He added, “But monsterized haraah beef is a good choice.”

Erick smiled. “That’s a good idea!” He asked, “Would it be wrong to ask her to go get it?”

Poi grinned. “Not at all.”

On a more serious note, Erick asked, “What was your take on that whole transformation? Were you watching?”

“… I was.” Reluctantly, Poi said, “It doesn’t matter what we saw. People will believe what is convenient for them.”

Erick eyed Poi. “And what did we see, Poi?”

“A divine [Resurrection]. A goddess asking for a woman to be transformed into an elf. The people of that goddess, watching her ask for such a thing.” Poi said, “They hid it well, and you didn’t even notice, but both Syllea and Bayth were ready to kill Ava when Aloethag spoke those words.”

“Ah.” Erick wondered if he needed to speak to someone else on the matter of orcols and elves. Al, perhaps?

“A good idea, sir,” Poi said.

Erick nodded, then gave a glance to Candlepoint, to see if they needed anyth—

He sat back down on the couch, and said, “I guess I’ll talk to Al tomorrow.”

As he sent his senses back to the shadeling city, he felt a sense of calm come over him. It was not a supernatural calm, or a magical calm, it was the calm of seeing work to be done, and then being able to do it, and help people in the process. This right here, was great. It was a lot, and it was never-ending, but helping people was what Erick had always been about.
