Maia professionally said, “Your delivery was the largest single exchange to date, but even getting 18,000 darkchips only puts you at second place. Through proxies like us, the Headmaster has spent over 30,000 darkchips at the Crystal in the center of the city.” She added, “We’ve already reported to him what we saw, and we will also report the pertinent parts of this discussion to him, later.”

“I expect as much,” Erick said.

Maia nodded. She continued, “Bulgan has not appeared for any exchanges with anyone except for your exchange, hours ago.”

Erick frowned. That was disconcerting. He had known that his interactions with Candlepoint and with Bulgan had been cultivated by the Shade, but Erick was hoping that he wasn’t the only one on Bulgan’s radar. He asked, “Bulgan isn’t only poking at me, is he?”

“He seems to be,” Maia said, taking easy control of the conversation.

The other two participants in the room shared a thin line of telepathic intent between their heads, silently speaking to each other. Whatever they were saying, they kept their reactions off of their faces. Bah! Erick spent no more thoughts on whatever was going on there. He was concerned at the obvious split in the group he had witnessed, for something like that was never fun to witness, but at the same time, it wasn’t Erick’s business.

Maia said, “Bulgan targets anyone who starts shit near the Crystal, or those who are anything less than perfectly polite in his presence. But he doesn’t go out starting his own shit with anyone but you, archmage.”

“He tried to kill Jane and I when we first arrived in Spur, almost ten months ago.” Erick said, “He failed, and our own success might have driven him away, to the Shades. It’s my understanding that he was already deep in with them, though, so that’s all on him. Jane joined up with the Army to try and hunt him down before he got too strong. At the time, I thought it was an unnecessary risk. But now, I wish she would have succeeded.”

Maia said, “We have heard something like that, too.” She added, “But still… We did not expect what we saw. The beginning of your exchange was completely abnormal. After Bulgan left, it turned into the same thing we had seen twenty times before.”

Eduard spoke up, “Are you going to continue to visit Candlepoint?”

“No.” Erick said, “I stopped Bulgan from killing my guide, because he let me stop it from happening. I will not take that risk again, though I fully expect Justine’s body to be strung up as a taunt when I fail to show. I left them rain, and will continue to ensure it rains an adequate amount for the foreseeable future. They can gather and [Grow] what they need to [Grow], themselves, without me subjecting myself to their tortures.”

Maia said, “Probably for the best. They are friendly when they can be, but when they’re not… The reversion to monster can happen in a snap.”

Erick remembered seeing the dead-eyed shadelings in the streets. He asked, “How about the food stores I gave them? Rice and beans? Are they doing better with access to more food?”

“That food is gone.” Maia said, “For two days, they ate well. Then they were back to food lines barely serving people enough to get by.”

Erick gutted. “What the fuck.”

Eduard said, “There’s a hundred thousand shadelings, in there.”

“What?” Erick said, “I thought there was 30,000, maybe.” He looked to Poi. “How many shadelings does Spur think there are?”

Poi said, “35,000, estimated.”

“That’s what I based my numbers on, too,” Erick said. “That food should have lasted a week.”

Eduard said, “The Headmaster only began to suspect 100,000 people as of today. That number was calculated based on the quickness of your donation vanishing from around the city.” He added, “But they have water now. So they should be able to sustain themselves without turning to cannibalism.”

Erick felt his stomach turn. “Do we have any idea why the Shades are doing this?”

Eduard said, “A few ideas have cropped up.” He paused, then said, “For your eyes only, we do have some important information to share on that front. Are you aware of Jane’s experiences with Fake Magic?”

Erick blanked for a moment. “Oh.” He said, “They’re trying to introduce new magics to Veird?” He added, “I could see that… But… hmm...”

Eduard took a moment to say the next part. “If this is truly what they are trying to do, this might mean that we have to murder them all before their plan comes to fruition. A preemptive strike, before they invent their own forms of [Call Lightning].”

No one spoke.

Then Erick breathed out, “… Ah. I see.”

Eduard spoke a little more on their own experiences in Candlepoint. For them, the city had been coldly welcoming. Polite words had been spared for every adventurer invading the city, but it wasn’t until people proved themselves as non-violent that doors began to open. For those who harmed shadelings, they found nothing more than deserted streets and silence, when they weren’t in places like the Garrison, or by the Crystal, where shadelings were forced to deal with the people in their city.

Maia added that they hadn’t been tricked or harmed at all, by anything they had experienced, and all of the Headmaster’s daily scans never revealed any untoward magical effects.

Ramizi didn’t really talk.

By the time they left, an hour had passed.

- - - -

Erick lay in bed. Theoretically, he could have slept; he could have kept to a proper schedule. But he could not find peace in the darkness behind his eyelids. The events of the day played over and over again in his mind, and Erick was caught in the turbulence. He didn’t think he was capable of a ‘preemptive strike’. He would never be capable of that.

He sighed. There would be no sleep this night. He roused the Ophiel pretending to sleep in the crook of his legs, then conjured another. He conjured pillows in order to sit up in his bed, and then he sent his mind into his Ophiels.

One of them blipped away, to another part of the world. The other retrieved the black book that he had gotten from the Wayfarers.

Erick began reading, and experimenting.

In a far off part of the Crystal Forest, where the night sky twinkled above, and the moons scattered pink, silver, and white light across the dunes below, Ophiel played in the strong northern wind. And then there was work to do. Ophiel conjured a floating platform, then filled that platform with a weak, dense air; Erick would be casting much of the magic tonight himself, but it was always good to be prepared with a Restful space for Ophiel.

At Erick’s guidance, Ophiel took to the greater sky. Once there, above it all, he conjured bright spotlights, to fully chase away the darkness for hundreds of meters in every direction, to make what came next easier. Erick was under no illusions that the Darkness could ever actually be chased away, so he didn’t care when the shadows under certain mimics or agave was deeper than it should have been, especially since both faker and plant were crystalline and translucent, and therefore there shouldn’t have been any shadows at all. The shadows were thick in the Crystal Forest; that’s just how it was sometimes.

Crystal mimics chimed at the bright disturbance above, but paid no heed to what was not an attack.

Erick let Ophiel play and recover his mana while he read in the safety of his bed, back home in Spur. When he was ready, and the parts he had read made sense for what he was trying to achieve, he took direct control of Ophiel, and cast his own [Lightwalk]. Ophiel became a being of light, with Erick’s mana. Air no longer whistled across his body, but in the bright spotlights, Ophiel moved across the sky as easy as deciding to move a finger.

Ophiel descended to the ground. [Stoneshape] lifted a series of large boulders from the ground, from fist-sized, to torso-sized, to Ophiel-sized. Ophiel grabbed at the smallest rock, but his feathers moved against the stone like a disturbed lightward, splashing fragmented glows into the air.

Erick canceled [Lightwalk], had Ophiel pick up the stone, then resumed his [Lightwalk].

The stone came with Ophiel, this time. Erick could feel it, like a rock in his shoe, inside the nebulous field of existence that was Ophiel’s lightform body. His concentration lapsed at the oddity of feeling the stone like it was a not-part of him, causing the stone to tumble to the ground.

His next attempt at picking up the stone went much better, but the oddity of it still eventually caused the stone to drop down into orange sands.

Erick came back to himself, sitting in his bed. He activated [Lightwalk] himself. His clothes came with him, but the bed did not. The book, sitting in his hands, fell through his lap to land on his covers. So why did his clothes come with him, but not the book or the bed sheets, or anything else next to him?

He tried an experiment. He dismissed [Lightwalk] and stood beside his bed. He focused on who he was; he was not his clothes, after all. As Erick turned to light, his pants dropped to the ground, but his shirt remained a part of his lightform body. He looked down, and yup, he was definitely dangling out there.

Why did this spell work this way?

He canceled the spell and put his pants back on. This time, he didn’t focus on anything at all. He just turned on [Lightwalk], and all of his clothes came with him.

He flickered a few times, trying to selectively turn into light, and have his clothes fall off of him. After a while, he stood there, naked, devoid of all his items. With a bit more experimentation, he picked up his shirt, and selectively transformed into light, bringing the shirt in his hands with him. He put the shirt on while he was light, which was a strange experience all its own, but when he came back to his normal body, the shirt fell to the floor, shredded.

Erick almost stopped. He had obviously made a big error somewhere in his impromptu experiment, but he hadn’t hurt himself. So, he continued.

A quick [Mend] repaired the shirt. He tried again. This time, the shirt appeared on his body, exactly as if he had put the shirt on himself.

Two blue boxes appeared.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Clothe, here you go:

Clothe 1, instant, touch, 25 mana.

Touch a garment you have worn and wear it again. Maximum transferring range of 10m.

… What?

Erick, pajama bottomless, stood there in his room, looking at his new blue boxes. He laughed. He reached down and touched his rings, then used his new spell. Blip, blip; his stat rings appeared on his fingers, in their usual configuration. Erick laughed again. Ophiel twittered in happy violins, happy that Erick was happy.

Erick stepped away, then had Ophiel touch his pants. Casting through his [Familiar] brought an expected result: Erick’s pants appeared on his person, exactly as though he had put them on himself.

Erick smiled. “I didn’t mean to make that spell, but still! Awesome!” He paused, as a thought came to him. “OH! [Clothe]! This is that spell that actors use to quick-change outfits, isn’t it? We talked about this in Esoteric Magic, once.” He pumped a fist into the air, saying, “Ha!”

Ophiel hopped into the air, whistling violins and harps, mimicking Erick by punching the air with a wing.

Erick stopped in his happy tracks. “Oh my gods. Could I do this, too?” He held his hand out, and channeled [Force Bolt]. A tiny dot of white light appeared above his palm, along with the distinct sound of reaching out and touching something. He hopped back into his bed.

In moments, he was back in Ophiel’s mind, far away in the bright night of the Crystal Forest. In a few more moments, Erick had constructed a few dozen stone pillars all across the orange dunes.

He started with [Force Bolt].

Ophiel turned to white light.

Erick concentrated on a distant point. He poked out with his lightform body, aiming to touch that which was too far away. He failed the first few dozen times; coming back to himself revealed no new boxes, and no new magic. But he did not fail forever. The harmonies of [Force Bolt] and the primal desire to reach out and touch something eventually combined to reveal a truth about the Script.

As the sun rose in the east, Erick achieved something special. Something that people like the Headmaster likely knew of, but rarely shared with the world.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Force Bolt, here you go:

+1 point!

Erick smiled, sitting in his bed. He was certainly tired now, but who could sleep on a day like today? Not him! Not when there were so many more spells to remake, and points to grab.

… And he had to work on his Spatial Magic, too! Right!

- - - -

In a cloud filled sky, that was neither made of clouds, nor sky, Rozeta flew in a way that was not actually flight at all. She checked on problems here and there, speaking directly to her Registrars when needed, while stamping out tiny fluctuations in the Script, and watching certain, interesting individuals. Her flight never ended. She never rested. Which was why she saw what Erick had done, the second he had done it. She got notifications, too, but they were more turning off the alarm because you woke up before it went off, sorts of notifications.

She dismissed the almost-appearing blue box, then paused, automatically taking a moment of Eternity and turning it into as long of an infinity as needed. She didn’t technically stop, because this was Eternity, after all. There was plenty of time to do everything she needed to do without interrupting what she was already doing.

When she had confirmed the event, she smiled.

