It was morning when Liora arrived at the anthill. She had chosen to fly at night to avoid the heat. But the closer she got to the anthill, the more nervous she felt.

It's only natural. After all, if this doesn't work, Aenir will come and take the water crystal by force, slaughtering the ants.

But Liora couldn't lie to herself. It wasn't the situation between the antkin and human that made her nervous. It was seeing Renir face to gem again. She wondered whether he had tried to find her while she was gone. Had he even considered apologizing?

It seemed more likely that he would have thrown himself completely into research, focusing on breaking his seal and not thinking about Liora at all.

No, this isn't healthy. I just have to meet him and see what happens.

When Liora landed at one of the anthill entrances, she was instantly greeted by the antkin. None of them could speak the common language; they were clacking their mandibles and wiggling their antennae at Liora happily. At least, she believed they were happy.

Some time later, Lau'fi emerged from the anthill, her wings buzzing with excitement.

"Liora, you're back!" Lau'fi greeted her.

"I am indeed back," Liora said, feeling somewhat guilty. These ants had clearly taken a liking to her, yet she was about to rob them. It really didn't feel right.

"Have you been scouting this whole time?" Lau'fi asked excitedly.

"I… Yes, I guess you could call it that…" Liora said evasively. "I actually have something to talk about. Would it be possible to meet the council?"

"Oh! New information! I shall summon the council at once!" Lau'fi buzzed and was about to rush back into the anthill.

"Wait! Before that, could I speak to my friends first?"

One of the nearby ants clicked their mandibles, and Lau'fi nodded. "It appears they left the anthill early this morning. They went to gather ingredients necessary for the mage's ritual."

"Oh…" Liora wasn't quite able to hide her disappointment. They were moving ahead without her…

"I am sure you will meet them again soon. Now, please, come inside and tell us what you have learned," Lau'fi urged. "I will call a council meeting."

Liora stared into the desert for a while. They were out there somewhere. Should she search for them? Maybe they needed her help?

But then Renir's harsh words came back into her mind. No. There were larger problems at hand. The humans were suffering from drought, and Aenir would attack the colony if left without other options.

Liora had to convince them to give the water crystals, not just to help them humans but also to avoid a larger conflict. But how could she convince the ants? They most definitely hated humans. After what happened with Lau'fi, that belief must have only grown stronger. She would have to be careful with her words.

The council gathered at lightning speed. Liora had to wait for no more than five minutes for all twenty of the antkin council to appear.

"Welcome back, Liora! We heard that you have gathered valuable intelligence from the human kingdom," El'akari, the juvenile ant queen, said, towering over all the other council members.

"Yes, that is correct," Liora said slowly, still parsing through her thoughts. She wasn't sure how to properly begin the conversation. How much to tell them? How much to reveal?

"Please, share your findings with us," El'akari urged.

Liora took a deep breath and said, "The humans intend to invade the anthill."

"What?!"

"How dare they?!"

"Filthy humans! We shall destroy them."

"Destroy them all in the name of the colony!"

"Whoa, calm down!" Liora interrupted the riled-up ants. Yeah, that wasn't the best way to start this conversation. "Circumstances are forcing them to do this."

"What circumstances could force anyone to start a war?"

"It is merely human greed."

"They always wish to take, take and take, destroying everything in their path."

"It is just like before. We must stop the humans before the colony can suffer the consequences."

"Please, listen!" Liora waved her wings several times, creating a strong breeze which made the antkin turn to her. "The river that used to run through the human kingdom has run dry. The people are suffering from horrible drought, unable to grow crops to feed themselves. They cannot hide from the sun as you antkin can, nor can they feed from mushroom colonies or aphids like your colony can. They are desperate. Many are dying."

Mutters passed through the ants. El'akari was the first to speak.

"While their plight is dreadful, it doesn't mean that invasion is the right course of action. We shall not wait to be slaughtered!"

"We shall fight!"

"We shall defend our home!"

"We'll do everything to protect the colony!"

The ants were getting riled up again, so Liora flapped her wings to calm them. "There is a way to avoid invasion and restore the river to the human kingdom."

The ants went silent, listening to Liora intently.

"They require water crystals."

The antkin stared at her once, then all at once, they all shook their heads.

"It is impossible."

"We cannot give up the water crystal."

"What?" Liora gaped, although she had expected this reaction. "If you share your water crystals with humans, then they'll leave you alone."

"Humans would never leave us alone," El'akari said firmly. "If you give them something, they take and demand more. Once you stop giving them, they grow enraged and attack. We would only delay the inevitable."

"That's right. We must strike first."

"Strike while they are not expecting us."

"Destroy their kingdom so they would never bother the colony again."

Liora shook her head. "No, surely, it is worth trying the peaceful option, no? Maybe they won't ask for more."

"There is no peace with humans," the antkin all said as one. "There is no bargaining with humans. If you humans intend to attack, then we shall strike first."

"We must prepare the troops."

"Prepare for the march."

"Must ready diggers to create new tunnels."

"Everything to protect the colony."

Liora watched with horror as the ants were already making plans to invade the human kingdom. This wasn't how this was supposed to go. They weren't listening to her at all.

Although she hadn't expected ants to agree to her proposal, she didn't think it would lead to war. This… would only lead to suffering. Innocent people would die. All of the antkin would get slaughtered by Aenir and other human mages.

There would be no winners in this war, yet they couldn't see that. Out of pure stubbornness to cooperate with humans, they decided to go to war instead of trying to find a peaceful solution.

"Liora, we thank you for the valuable information you have brought. I understand if you and your companions do not wish to be caught up in this conflict. You are welcome to leave at any point," El'akari said. "But should you choose to stay and fight, then we will more than welcome your help."

"I… I need to think a bit if you don't mind," Liora said.

"Of course. Feel free to rest in your chambers."

Liora flew numbly in her dark chamber in the anthill. Nobody was there, but she could hear thousands of ant footsteps outside. The anthill was bursting with activity; no doubt everyone already knew of the council plans.

What am I supposed to do now? I basically caused a war, didn't I?

Her stomach lurched. This wasn't how it was supposed to go. Maybe it really would have been better for her to just steal the water crystal and not tell ants anything. Maybe they wouldn't have even noticed. But now?

They would undoubtedly watch those crystals carefully, not to mention the full assault they intended to launch on the human kingdom.

I have to fix this somehow. But what can I do?

Liora paced. If only she had someone else to consult. Somebody with more experience. Someone like Renir…

Enough of this! I need to find him. This is beyond what a single magpie can do.

While his words still stung, Liora was tired of this. She would beat the apology out of him if she had to, just so they could move past this and find a solution for this much, much bigger problem.

"Why do I have to come too?" Caspian groaned, sweating buckets while sitting atop Smokey's back.

"Because you're the only one with fingers," Renir pointed out, rather exasperated with the merman's whining.

Their search for ingredients hadn't been going well. Not even a little bit. They've only managed to find the prickly pear cactus, which was by far the most common ingredient on the list. Everything else was a chore.

Mainly it was because the desert was so vast, but the distance they could cover was minuscule. Smokey couldn't fly with both Caspian and Cee on his back, so they were forced to walk on foot. Which was an absolute nightmare.

They were barely moving forward at all, even if the wyvern was trying to walk as quickly as possible. He just wasn't made to cover large distances on foot. As a result, despite leaving the anthill well before dawn, they hadn't found anything.

"I have no clue how we're going to gather everything. We need what? Like five more ingredients?" Cee asked, scuttling through the sand while lifting her legs rapidly. The spider wasn't enjoying the heat and tried not to keep her legs in the hot sand for too long.

Her new evolution likely had made this heat more intolerable for her, since she was more adjusted to underwater ventures.

"Yes. Three more should be growing in the desert, most likely in an oasis. The other two we'll likely need to travel a bit further towards Velithra to gather."

"Towards Velithra? Isn't that really far away?" Cee asked.

"Not that far," Renir said, but then he quickly corrected himself. "Okay… actually, on foot it might take us a long time."

Cee groaned, stopped, and stared at the Renir who was hanging around Caspian's neck. "You need to apologize to Liora and get her to do the gathering. Caspian is already dying, and it's only been like four hours!"

"I would if I could, but she isn't here right now," Renir snapped.

"I really don't think we can do this," Caspian muttered, his expression a sickly pale.

Renir felt utterly helpless. He knew he had grown to depend on Liora. But to think that even with this large a group, they still weren't able to do anything about the ingredients. Mostly he was frustrated with himself.

Why did he even have to say those mean things to Liora? It wasn't like she knew what had happened between him and Aenir. If he had just slowed down and explained everything, then Liora wouldn't have left, and they likely would have gathered all the necessary ingredients already.

"I know. I'm sorry, everyone," Renir muttered.

Everyone stared at Renir.

"Did he just say sorry?" Cee pointed at him in disbelief.

"That's what I heard," Caspian confirmed.

"Rawr," Smokey added.

"Why are you always acting as if I can't apologize?" Renir muttered.

"Because I don't think I've heard you apologize despite all the trouble you got us in. In either case, it's not us that need the apo—" Cee suddenly froze, going rigid.

"What? What's wrong?" Renir asked.

Caspain and Smokey turned their heads to look, but Renir still couldn't see what they were staring at.

"Speak of the devil," Cee said, appearing very smug all of a sudden.

Gusts of wind suddenly flew at them, stirring up sand and sending it flying. If Renir had a heart, then his heartbeat likely would have increased at that moment.

A black shadow passed over them. Before Renir could even realize it, a small magpie had landed on Smokey's head, looking at Renir curiously. She didn't say anything, didn't move, merely looked at Renir with her clear blue eyes.

He knew what he had to do. He had been preparing for it for days, thinking of various things to say. Various excuses to make for himself. But at that moment, he knew that all of that wasn't necessary. There was only one thing to say.

"Liora… I'm sorry!"