They might change their mind about that if you leave their calls hanging while you have a pointless panic spiral.

“Answer call. Obviously.” He was shocked that a call from someone ranked that highly didn’t just automatically connect regardless of where the recipient was or what they were doing.

A young-looking Artonan woman appeared on the screen. She was lounging on colorful cushions in a deeply recessed bay window that looked out over a very familiar forest. She had short dark hair and pale pink eyes. It made for a startling look, but Alden was more distracted by the fact that she was smoking some kind of charcoal-gray cigar.

“Hey!” she said in Artonan, blowing a bright blue smoke ring. “Who are you?”

Not an interface to interface call, he realized in surprise. She was holding a tablet. It wobbled a little when she adjusted her seat.

“I’m Alden Thorn? Hi.”

Could wizards butt dial people through the System? It seemed pretty unlikely.

“Yeah…mmmm…is my little brother <<taking advantage>> of you somehow?”

Alden climbed off the exercise bike and started heading back to his room. Even just his half of this convo was bound to sound weird to passerby.

“Is your little brother Stuart?”

“That’s him.” She wriggled on top of her pile of cushions and smashed one with an elbow. “Is he bothering you? Is he being odd? Do you feel inappropriately treated?”

Alden pressed the button for the elevator. “No? Is this because I sent him a list of links to things on the human internet?”

Baby pandas sneezing had seemed safe, but Alden had never heard back from the Primary’s son.

“Should I apologize, or…?”

“That depends,” said Evul-art’h, twirling her cigar between her fingers. “Are you taking advantage of Stu-art’h somehow?”

“I don’t think so? I’m not trying to.”

The elevator was never coming, was it? He was going to be stuck out here having this unsettling convo in the hall.

“So…why did you contact him?”

“To be friendly,” Alden said.

“That’s it?”

“Yes?”

She nodded. “So you want to be friendly. He wants to be friendly. Nobody seems like a victim to me. <<I’m cool with it.>>”

The elevator doors opened, and he hurried inside and pushed the button for the ninth floor.

“Stu,” the Artonan woman said, abusing her cushions with an elbow again, “I guess you are right. A human does want to talk to you.”

She sat up suddenly, and Stuart scrambled out from under the pile of cushions she’d been smashing all this time. He was purple-faced and rumpled. He looked mad and embarrassed, and he started flailing for the tablet right away.

It didn’t seem to be going well for him at all. His sister looked completely immovable and calm while he tried to pry it away from her.

Alden had a weird visual of his fingers scrabbling at the screen.

He watched the scene with wide eyes while a Meister carrying some alien thing that looked like a four-foot-long corkscrew joined him in the elevator.

“Give me that!” Stuart said, batting away at his sister’s head uselessly.

“He really is sweaty.” Evul-art’h blew more smoke and examined Alden. “I heard humans were always sweaty. I haven’t met many.”

“Humans aren’t always sweaty,” Alden said. “I’ve been exercising.”

The Meister with the corkscrew gave him a look.

“Evul, when I asked you for help, I did not think you would treat this like a joke!”

“I like exercise, too,” the woman said. “Sometimes I go and hit things just to watch them vaporize.”

“EVUL!”

Alden winced. Stu-art’h had hit that special, glass-shattering pitch that Artonans seemed to reserve for when they were extra upset or talking to grivecks.

“Baby Stu!” said Evul-art’h, laughing. “Did you just <<shrill>> at me?”

He looked mortified.

“If you want it that badly, little brother, you can have it,” she said sweetly, handing him the tablet.

Stuart snatched it from her and fled the room. Alden saw a familiar hallway, and then the Artonan boy flung himself through the door into his own bedroom and slid it shut behind him. He straightened his shirt, his hair, and his face so fast that it looked almost like a magic trick.

“Hello, Alden,” he said, in a calm and collected voice. “I am sorry it took so long to respond to your message.”
