“Then you’re looking at a minimum of six years down the road. More likely eight. If you’re serious about a hero program, and you perform well enough to stay in one all the way through college, then you should be able to reach that goal even if you aren’t focusing primarily on strength enhancement. We’ve got a few Rabbits around here. It feels good to be fit no matter what your job is. The ones that get up into the higher levels and don’t spend it all on being smart and pretty are strong enough to do what you’re talking about.”

Alden smiled. “That’s actually a relief to hear. I just walked past a few people casually bicep curling my bodyweight, and I was feeling concerned.”

She laughed. “No sweat…actually, lots of sweat. But no worries. Most of the people here are mid-career heroes, athletes, or muscle heads. You don’t need to compare yourself to them yet. You’re probably not quite through growing in the normal way at this point, and you’ve only just gotten started on growing in the Avowed way.”

They talked more about his wants and needs, discussed possible routines, and toured the facilities together. Next, while Bobby was putting together a schedule for him to follow, he headed over to the medical part of the medical center. This place was qualified to do the entrance physical Celena North required to start your application process.

It started out easily enough. He stood in a high-tech tube that scanned him for a long time. He’d barely held back a protest when the doctor told him it used some magic. But it turned out there was nothing to worry about. It must have been interacting only with his flesh, not his authority, so it was completely painless.

After that, he had to run on a treadmill and breathe into a mask. Reflex checks. Vision test. Hearing test. Blood draws.

I hope Gorgon liked the new crickets I sent him. He had paid Jeremy to pay a courier to have them delivered to the consulate a few nights ago along with a bunch of snacks and magazines.

Maybe it was just paranoia, but Alden didn’t like the idea of leaving much of a communication trail between him and the alien prisoner now that he was an Avowed. The Artonans could have killed Gorgon for whatever crime he’d committed, or they could have stuck him in a deep dark pit where nobody could reach him. But they hadn’t.  So it was probably no big deal to them if Avowed wanted to hang out with him.

But…better safe than sorry for both of them.

When all the tests were finally over, he drank a peanut butter banana smoothie from the “free” place that was totally not free since it was covered by the exorbitant membership fee. The doctor examining his info scratched his head, adjusted his glasses, and finally said, “Obviously you can build more muscle and increase your endurance if you want. And you’re sleep-deprived. That’s normal for new Avowed. Big life changes make it hard to rest. But this scanner does some esoteric tests…I think you’re one of the healthiest people I’ve ever seen in my career. And I see a lot of healthy people.”

“I got healed recently. For a week straight.” He hadn’t had an eye exam since he was in middle school, but he was pretty sure his vision hadn’t been 20/10 before Rrorro got hold of him.

“By who?”

“An icorlax.”

“The feathery aliens.”

“Yes.”

“How did you even meet one of those?” the doctor muttered. “Anyway, you’ll need to sign some consent forms for me to send your info to CNH, and then you’re good to go.”

They gave him a customized diet plan to go with his new workout regime before he left.

This is the worst, he thought as he read through it on the car ride back to F-city. Actually feeding myself this way will take over my whole life.

He wondered how much the rest of the dorm would resent him if he hired Natalie to be his full-time meal prep person. She didn’t yet have the nutrition skill package, but she could follow the guidelines here. Maybe she could find a way to make consuming this many macro-perfect salads feel like less of a punishment.

Better do it if I’m ever going to. A couple of years from now humans aren’t going to be able to afford her help.

He had the cab put him out by another bike rental spot so he could ride back to the dorms and see some new parts of the island. He was adjusting the height of the bike seat when he suddenly felt a poke against his authority.

It happened sometimes. It was such a mild sensation that he was pretty sure it would be beneath his notice if he wasn’t still smarting from the affixation.

Someone just targeted me.

He’d figured out what that specific poking sensation was thanks to the other Rabbits. A lot of their skills targeted the person they were helping in order to customize services. Like the hair cutting. Other Avowed seemed to do it regularly just out of idle curiosity. Especially teens. It was concerning when you knew they had an offensive power set, so they had to be targeting you with something that would hurt you if they actually used it…but Alden had grown accustomed to it.

They were just playing around with their new talents. Practicing. They didn’t know he could feel it because they couldn’t, so it wouldn’t be fair for him to take offense.

No big deal, he reminded himself, just the authoritative equivalent of someone taking a closer look at you than normal.

Then, all of the sudden, Alden’s mind smoothed out. The gremlin, who hadn’t made a peep since Moon Thegund, noticeably relaxed a little.

Oh hey, dude. Nice to know you’re still there. You…wait…that was my Peace of Mind blowback.

The good kind of blowback. The positive half of the extra wordchain sacrifice he’d made to scare himself into moving faster on his death run had just come due. He’d been hoping to save it until he was having a really bad night, so he could claim a little sleep with it. Maybe before one of the CNH interviews that were coming up, to make sure he didn’t look so much like a zombie.

Shit.

Even with the minor wordchain easing his worries, Alden was a little upset. Sleep and anxiety-reduction were such precious resources right now. He hadn’t meant to let the chain snap back on him. I didn’t think it had been too long. I should have spent it before now. I don’t need to be calm for a bike ride in the middle of the afternoon.

Annoyed with himself, he finished adjusting the seat and looked toward the street he was about to cross. A few cars and a lot of mopeds and motorcycles were waiting at the light. And there, across the street, drinking a boba tea was a girl he recognized. She was talking to one of the minidrone cameras some Avowed used to record social media posts. Shoulder-length brown hair, perfectly fitted pink argyle sweater and a matching skirt, loafers and a pearl anklet.

Hazel Velra.

She wasn’t looking at him, but Alden wasn’t stupid.

Someone had targeted him. His wordchain had blown. There was the supposedly-genius Chainer across the street. She had an unknown power set because the Velras didn’t like to share info about their toys. But Alden knew Hazel could do something like what the gremlin did at least. Better than the gremlin really. She’d said she could naturally sense wordchain repercussions. Even before she affixed.

He didn’t know what that meant. It wasn’t like authority sense, probably. Because his own didn’t help him out with wordchains much as far as he could tell. Something else. Psychic? Karma sensitive?

Whatever.

She did this, didn’t she? he demanded of the gremlin.

Of course this wasn’t the kind of question the gremlin would answer. It was just purring to itself because whatever ancient alien debt ledger it kept was now all clean and balanced by its standards. It didn’t care how the balancing had happened.

Alden gripped the bike’s handlebar and stood there watching Hazel’s hair whip around her face as the breeze picked up. He briefly considered the likelihood that the chain coming due was just a coincidence. Then, for a slightly longer time, he considered the possibility that she might have been trying to be nice to him in some misguided way.

He discarded both.

Only an absolute idiot would think it was helpful to call in someone else’s wordchain debt without asking them. Maybe unevenness annoyed her, and she didn’t mind screwing over other people to deal with it. Maybe it was just petty meanness.

She can get away with it because nobody else is going to know they were targeted right before it happened.

He probably wouldn’t have noticed himself if he wasn’t so damn oversensitive right now.

And here I was thinking I was a little bit of a jerk for disliking her when we met last time. He kicked off and pedaled across the street ahead of a crowd of pedestrians.

He was planning to ignore her. It seemed like the best course of action. But she was standing by the bike path that led to intake, and as he turned onto it, she looked up. She smiled and waved.

“Alden!” she called. “Hi! I heard you were back!”

Probably she expected him to stop. But he didn’t trust himself to say anything. He tried for a polite smile and a wave and pedaled right past her.

He didn’t look back.

It’s not a big deal. Nothing to stress over.

He let it go.

*********

The peace of mind wore off around eight o’clock at night. Alden had managed to get in a solid hour of focused studying with his auriad book before it happened.

Now, he was deeply pissed off.

He’d already showered, but he went to the non-luxury gym on the top floor of his apartment building and tried to blow off steam on an exercise bike.

He was going to start actual workouts with someone who’d be focusing on helping him with balancing his training and teaching him proper form tomorrow. He didn’t need to be wearing himself out tonight. But it was either this or calling Hazel Velra and cussing her out.

That seemed like a bad idea on multiple levels.

Calm down, he told himself while he pedaled. The screen on the front of the bike showed a curving, hilly road somewhere in Germany.  It’s not a big deal. You’re not hurt. You haven’t lost anything huge. Someone was just a little mean to you. You don’t have to be so sensitive about it.

It was just that the meanness in this case was so uncalled for.

What had he ever done to Hazel? He’d given her Chainer. There was no reason for her to be mad at him. Who just saw some near-stranger minding his own business across the street and thought, “You know what? I’m going to mess up his day because I can?”

Sociopaths.

Maybe that was too harsh.

But he was still mad, so he kept pedaling. He’d switch to the rowing machine if he had to.

If I burn off the rage and exhaust myself maybe I’ll be able to sleep.

There were only a couple other people in the gym tonight. The Adjuster speccing himself for fire spells and planning to head to the Li Jean program soon was trying to figure out one of the weight machines. And there was a heavy-set girl jogging on a treadmill. They both had earbuds.

Music would make this better.

Alden had always liked having music. He didn’t have to drown out the tinnitus anymore, but a really good set of headphones and some earbuds would be nice. He added those onto his mental list under the gym shirt. And he did think a laptop was going to be a necessity.

Maybe he could buy enough stuff he actually wanted or needed to participate in the Spree without being a spendy jerk. He did get what the other Rabbits were going for, and he understood why they were excited about showing off their cool thing just like the other classes did. But it was still kind of…

I could just wear a sticker on my forehead that says I hired Natalie to cook for me.

That was the real power move. She’d thought he was joking when he knocked on her door and asked what it would cost to have her supply him with every meal, snack, and beverage for the next few weeks.

“No, Natalie,” he’d kept saying, “for real.”

He knew she’d been charging people something like fifty argold a plate. Her meals weren’t just meals, they were magical experiences. He’d tried to explain that that was fine. He would figure out his own food when he moved out of intake and into the student dorms at CNH. For now, though, he had a schedule with twenty different things to do on it every day, and he didn’t see how he was going to get through it if he also had to precisely weigh out servings of walnuts and scoops of pea protein powder before he put them in his mouth.

His call notification flashed. Subtle brown. It was the color he’d assigned to everyone who wasn’t on one of his lists. For total strangers.

“Who is it?” he panted.

[Video call from Twenty-seven Hundred and Sixty-third General Evul-art’h, Artona I. Connection fee waived.]

Alden almost fell off the exercise bike.

“What?!” he said, so loudly that the boy on the weight machine turned to look at him.

What did I do wrong? Who is Evul-art’h? Why are they calling me? I’m on leave.

He immediately thought of several reasons for the Artonans to be mad at him. Blowing up the lab was number one on the list. Corrupting Kibby with his human ways. Having weird powers from an alien who was rumored to be imprisoned for murder. Stealing an auriad. Stealing a leaf from the forest of trees that ate knights and using it as a bookmark. Being in the forest of trees that ate knights. Knowing about the forest of tress that ate knights. Wandering around the Primary’s house without permission.

Wow, the list is so long when I think of it all that way.

At least it was an art’h. A knight art’h judging by the System’s use of the word “General.” Intensity Level 99.9 for sure, but so far none of the art’h’s had seemed hostile to Alden.

