Dave smiled at him. “I’ve got to ask. What the hell is your skill? Because I’ve been thinking about it ever since she scheduled this meeting, and I can not come up with a Rabbit skill that would make her so sure you would get accepted. Not even S-rank ones.”

“It preserves objects,” said Alden. “Perfectly. As long as I’m carrying them. Including living things.”

The other Avowed’s expression turned thoughtful. “Safeguarding spells and skills are really functional. And not many people have them. Especially hero hopefuls; they lack the flare that teenagers who want to be heroes are usually looking for. Perfect preservation of a living thing… that’s definitely got applications.”

He leaned back in his chair. “The fact that you have to carry the things you’re preserving is limiting though. A ranged spell has the advantage. Especially since you’re a B-rank. And a Rabbit. Getting up close and personal with danger is always dicey for us low ranks. And apart from that, Rabbit is a vulnerable class physically. Your power is all in your skills. The System offers you guys proportionally very little in the foundational enhancements department.”

He gestured to himself. “Take me for example. Even though I’m a B-rank and a longsight, I’m still a Brute. The System gives me skill options to boost my visual and mental abilities. But it also gives me a lot of foundational points to spend however I want. I’ve leaned really hard into Speed at each level, on top of the specific mental processing path I chose to give me quick photographic recall. So I can outrun trouble that would otherwise kill me.”

“I do have a movement trait.”

“Oh that’s great!”

“It only works on ground.”

“Ughh… so hard.”

Alden smiled. “It’s not that bad.”

“I’ve never understood ground. I know Ground Shapers who don’t understand ground.”

“I think it’s just a concept from an ancient type of magic.” Alden scooted his chair closer toward the heater that was warming their table. “It’s highly symbolic. Old Artonan stuff. It’s less ‘ground’ and more ‘fundament of the planet that supports our life.’”

The longsight gave him a confused look. “Did you just say fundament?”

“Sorry. I spent a long time on the Triplanets recently. And I spent way too much mental energy on ‘ground.’”

“If you say so…and you’ve already been summoned?”

Alden nodded.

“Must be neat to be a Rabbit. I’ve only been summoned once myself. Did you get some levels under your belt while you were away or…?”

“Three,” said Alden. “I’m a level four.”

Dave blinked. “Wait. How long were you gone?”

“Almost seven months.”

“Holy f—are you okay? Did a wizard decide they liked having you around too much and kidnap you?”

“I’m okay. There was a teleportation mishap. I ended up stuck on a moon without a System so I couldn’t get back home.”

“That was you? I heard about that…”

Alden grimaced. “Really?”

“Yeah. I mean, nothing specific. But Systems aren’t supposed to break. A story like that is going to get around.”

Alden didn’t reply.

“Well…I can see why Neha thought you had a good chance of getting in despite the obvious problems. Boosting yourself three levels that quickly shows strong work ethic at least. And a bit of natural talent. And your skill isn’t bad. But…” His expression turned apologetic. “You should be prepared for the fact that it might not be enough. The admissions process is extremely competitive for B-ranks. There are a ton of applicants. If you actually get into the school you’ll see that the few B’s there are usually the sort who are so perfectly specced for some kind of superhero work that it’s hard to deny their presence.”

He pointed to himself again. “This isn’t me bragging. I’m just an Anesidora brat who knew what I wanted for years before I ever got selected. I spoke three languages. I got so far ahead on academics that I basically didn’t need to attend class for the last half of high school so that I could focus completely on the parts of hero training that were hard for me. And I started building Processing in the specific way I needed right away. Recon. My brain is basically designed to look at a cityscape, flash memorize it, and spot problem areas. I was able to walk into my interviews and explain to the doubters exactly what I would be doing as a member of a hero team and why it would work.”

He sighed. “And to be completely honest with you, I don’t even know what my shelf life as a hero will be. If people get a little too comfy with mass surveillance, and governments start adopting it quickly, I’m out of a job.”

You’d still be useful in an urban corruption field, thought Alden.

He was glad he didn’t let the words pop out of his mouth. It would probably sound strange that his very first thought when an Avowed told him they might be replaced by tech was No, actually, we’re way more reliable around demons. So no worries, man.

“I think it’s great that you’re doing battlefield support,” he said instead. “That’s what I wanted to do.”

“There aren’t many of us. You a team player?”

“I wanted to be someone who could use their powers to help other Avowed maximize their own. And reduce the load. I used to think…I still think that the ideal battlefield support is someone who makes one plus one equal three. Or more. Not the heavy hitter out front but the person in the background who makes it possible for the heavy hitter to hit really heavy. The one who makes it all come together. I wanted to be that guy.”

“That’s a thoughtful heroing philosophy,” said Dave, looking surprised. “But why all the past tense?”

“I’m…lacking in the grand dreams department right now.”

I just want to use hero school to make me into the kind of person who won’t flake out and be useless in a crisis. I’m so tired. I want to be strong enough that doing the right thing is easier. I want to be a good person, but I’m not sure if I’m still up for being one of The Good Guys.

He didn’t say it because he knew it didn’t sound right.

“That’s a problem.” Dave thanked a waiter who’d just rollerbladed up to the table with an omelet. “B-rank Rabbit? You’re going to need to want it to get into the program. You can’t be wishy-washy. Everyone will sense it from a mile away, and they’ll want nothing to do with you.”

“Neha thinks I’ll get in because I’ve got a star,” said Alden.

“A star?”

“Beside my overall level number. It’s 4. With a six-pointed star.”

The longsight paused in the act of chewing, his cheeks stuffed full of eggs and bell peppers. He narrowed his eyes and swallowed.

“You mean an official commendation? From the Artonans?”

“For bravery in the absence of obligation.”

<<Are you kidding me right now?>>

“No?”

“Yeah…so…let’s talk about B-rank life. You’re going to need to workout a lot. Start before you even show up for school. It won’t ever be enough, but you’ll have to do so much of it that nobody can accuse you of not trying. You should keep records to show the physical training faculty. They’re high-rank Brutes, and after being gods for a while, some of them forget what normal humans are actually capable of. They assume anyone who can’t jump twelve feet into the air from a flat stance just isn’t putting in effort.

“Once you get in and get an advisor, you should choose your classes for your entry quarter as soon as possible, so you can send an email to all of your teachers and introduce yourself and ask for advance work. It’ll go a long way with some of them. And…”

*********. MOCKTAIL BREAK ********

After he was done talking to Dave Banyu, Alden had another meeting. As if she’d known what the longsight would recommend, Neha had already blocked off this four-hour long period of his schedule for “finding a personal fitness trainer,” and she’d included recommendations.

He’d gone through them all last night while he couldn’t sleep, checking websites and reading training philosophies. The Rabbit counselor had given him a ton to think about just by providing so many different types of trainers.

Did Alden want to be an endurance athlete? Did he want to have fun? Did he want to mix in power use with his physical training or keep them both separate? Martial arts? Bodybuilding? Gymnastics?

She really likes gymnastics for some reason, doesn’t she?

He’d picked the trainer he suspected Neha had known he would and messaged her to set up an appointment. Her name was Roberta—Bobby for short—and of all the people on the rec list, she was the least superhumanly impressive. A fifty-year-old, D-rank Agility Brute whose clientele were mostly off-duty heroes of the soft variety. Several Adjusters, a few Shapers.

She specialized in people who were less physically special.

But she still worked at the fanciest gym in Apex. The annual membership fee was so steep that Alden was considering wearing a t-shirt with the gym’s logo on it for Spree day to make the other Rabbits happy. It was really close to the Celena North campus, too.

He left his rental bike at a drop-off, and took a cab into Apex. His Evac Priority card flashed briefly into view when they crossed the halfway point on the bridge.  He was pleasantly surprised to see that he was a Priority 6 now. In the event of an emergency, there were at least five categories of people who’d need to be rescued before him. The lanyard Cly Zhao had given him to wear when he came for Hannah’s funeral had been Priority 1.

The cab put him out in front of the gym. It was a series of three large buildings separated by curving walkways, manicured lawns, and meditation gardens. One of the buildings was a menacing structure made of concrete that was absolutely covered in warning signs on his interface telling him to STAY AWAY from the place where greater men and women might accidentally drop a one-ton kettlebell on his head.

His building was the elegant glass one. Through the fourth floor windows, he could see happy-looking people in sports bras and tank tops running significantly faster than was comfortable for normal humans around an indoor track.

He entered the gym and had just enough time to appreciate the fact that they had a custom scent and marble floors in the welcome area before a girl in lime green yoga pants appeared. At first, she had a look on her face that said it was her job to politely toss out the riffraff, but she turned bubbly as soon as he activated his name tag and told him he’d been expected.

Did he want to stop by the free smoothie bar on their way to meet Bobby? Did he want to take a look at the potion-therapy saunas? The superolympic-sized swimming pool? The morphable obstacle course?

While she chattered and led him back toward the medical center, where trainers did their consultations, Alden tried to stare at all the people working out without looking like he was staring.

This place wasn’t like F-city. There were plenty of powers on display.

A woman was climbing a rock wall with her arms tied behind her back. She was just sprinting up it in defiance of reason. One of the yoga instructors was folded up in a way that would have made Alden sure the man was dead, if he wasn’t calmly offering advice to a small class of only slightly less contorted people through a headset. And even here in the weaklings gym, there were petite people casually doing reps with eye-popping amounts of weight.

Am I really allowed to be here? I don’t feel like I’m advanced enough to be here. Where is the weaker weaklings gym?

Well…those were in F. Obviously. He’d chosen this place for a reason.

The girl with the lime yoga pants introduced him to Bobby, who invited him into a cramped office filled with framed diplomas and pictures of Super Olympians.

The trainer had steel-gray hair cut very short, laugh lines around her eyes, and she wore a sleeveless top that showed off really impressive arms for a middle-aged woman.

“So you’re a teenager. A B-rank. And a Rabbit!” she said as soon as they’d closed the door. “Sounds like a fun challenge. What are your goals?”

“I want to be less killable,” said Alden.

Bobby laughed and settled into a chair across from him. “Okay.”

“I think that I’ll be attending a hero program here in Apex in a couple of months. I want to be able to keep up with—”

Bobby shook her head.

“No?”

“Keeping up isn’t going to be your thing. Physically. For a hero program. Unless you somehow out-level the other kids so fast that the government wants to stick you in a lab and research you. You’re a non-physical, skills-based class. It’s superhuman in a different way. Just own it.”

“Right. I guess I should have said I want…to suck as little as possible?”

“Let’s reframe that as something more positive!” she said, punching the air with a fist. “You want to be the best version of yourself!”

“That sounds good.”

She grinned. “You sent me your stats, and I had a look this morning. And you picked me. I assume you’re thinking you want to lean toward agility training with a side of speed?”

“It seems like the practical choice. And I like the way the stats feel. I do need to be able to pick up and carry heavy things for the most obvious use of my skill though…”

“How heavy?”

“An adult person.”

“Oh. Not heavy at all.”

“Two adult people?”

“Sounds awkward. But still not that heavy. You’re talking about doing it for hero work right? Rescue?”

Alden nodded.

