“That’s true. It’s cruel. No doubt about it.” Caerilda shrugged. “Forests are cruel places. Survival is hard out there.” She said, “Most you can hope to do is make a [Familiar] strong enough to stand up to the cruelty to protect what needs protecting, without becoming a horror for those who follow.”

- - - -

Poi, Kiri, and Erick blipped into the front foyer of the house.

Kiri instantly said, “Rifts sound useful. Tree [Familiar]s seem problematic.”

“I was thinking the exact same thing. I’ll think more on the tree. But the rifts..” Erick said, “Instead of mutated platform and wall spells, how about using [Conjure Force Elemental] and [Force Wave].” He instantly added, “But that would make them tier 3 creatures...” He reconsidered, “Maybe… I won’t be doing that.”

“That’s probably why that guy doesn’t do them with [Conjure Force Elemental].” Kiri said, “The platform and wall way seems much more difficult because you have to tear at the spells a little— Ah. He just takes the spells understanding that they’re meant to block off an area, and turns that into a disintegrating and expanding… ‘rift’, I guess?”

“Sounds promising. And likely.”

“Layered, helpful magic is one way to fight,” Kiri said, almost dismissively. “I guess he managed to make it work for him, though?”

Erick gave her a questioning look.

Kiri said, “It clogs up the battlefield. I bet when he fights it is very, very flashy.” She added, “The first guy’s idea about using an Elemental Body to affect an outcome in a spell seems like the best thing I learned today.”

Erick smiled. “I have just the way to test that out, too!”

- - - -

In an unimportant part of the Crystal Forest, where the sun beat down hard on orange sands, zero [Scry] eyes hung in the air, and the northern winds blew to the south, causing agave and mimics to tinkle and chime, Erick, Poi, and Kiri, blipped into the air, on a hovering stone platform. Erick stepped to the edge, while the other two stood back.

Erick began by lifting up [Stoneshape] spires and arches and towers from the ground. It was not a large construction, it was not meant to last, but to provide shadows from the everpresent sun, to test what would come next. He certainly wasn’t going to make this spell like how Anhelia suggested with [Radiant Wisp], though. He was not comfortable with creating life through magic.

Erick readied himself; he turned on [Lightwalk], becoming an ethereal creature edged in white light. In this bright space, he felt the wind and mana flow through him, and the sun’s brightness above, like he was a part of the ocean. A gentle rushing filled his ears; the sound of magic. He spoke, smiling, his words vibrating from all of him, touching creation with a small joke,

“There once was a wisp from nearfar

“That glowed with sights quite bizarre

“It sparkled with light

“as it shot up the night

“and they called it a bright [Shooting Star].”

Erick chained his magic through his words, capping his spell with [Conjure Force Elemental] on both sides, while the Altering for Light and the [Lightshape] were there to provide power, and [Shadowshape] was for guidance through even the toughest of enemies. As his words finished, a spark flashed in air in front of him, casting daylight under the shadowed arches and across the stone spires.

That tiny light blossomed into a brilliant radiant mess of every color, but mostly white.

And then, Poi shouted, “Watch oooooo—!”

As a blue box appeared to the edge of Erick’s vision, well out of the way of whatever Poi warned against, time seemed to slow, again. Just like the other day. Only this time it was less ‘seemed’, and more ‘actually slowed down’. Poi’s warning came too late, and was drawn out over much too long of a moment.

As Erick looked upon his sparking creation, wondering just how deep in the shit he was, the wind and flow of mana was a thing of molasses, or the Pitch Drop experiment. Erick had no idea why that thought popped into his mind, but it was probably because the shadows surrounding Erick’s own experiment began to solidify under the stone archways and around the darkened edges of spires and towers like crude oil.

The radiance in front of Erick remained, bright and glittering and sparking in every direction. But at the show of the liquid shadows, it took off with a casual air of violence finally allowed release. The wisp curved lazily in the air, and then began zipping this way and that, barreling through shadows and stone and darkness like it was an actual shooting star, moving thousands of kilometers an hour, but without a care for momentum. It twisted and tore through stone faster than the stone could fall to the ground. The spark laughed as it destroyed; it was tiny and free and happy to hurt. And then the [Shooting Star] sighed, slowing down, almost sad that it hadn’t gotten to kill all the shadows. The star hovered about where it had been born, amid the hovering stone and shrapnel, and then it turned to Erick, and was happy. It blinked out of existence with a final, tiny laugh, as though the joke was over. Shadows, thick and cloying on the underside of every broken spire and arch, remained strong and vibrantly dark.

A much fuller laugh came from everywhere, all at once, from a being much larger than a tiny [Shooting Star]. And then that was gone, too, taking the thick shadows with it.

Time resumed. Shrapnel from broken stone splashed across the experimental space, but Erick was ready. He reacted with a [Stoneshape], catching the rock before it crashed through his [Lightwalk] body to strike Kiri or Poi.

Poi continued, “—out!” He paused. “What?! Uh.”

“It’s already over, Poi,” Erick said, as he let go of shrapnel rock. “Melemizargo came and went.” He turned off [Lightwalk] and stepped down onto the floating platform. “You two okay?”

Kiri looked pale; her green scales more seafoam than emerald at the moment.

Poi collected himself, and said, “I’m fine. That was… Him, then? I thought it was about twenty shadowcats, or something.” He breathed deep. “I guess… that’s… almost better?” He decided, “No. No it isn’t. Uh.” He went silent, in thought.

Erick offered, “It might have been shadowcats.” He looked at his recent notifications. “Oh. Yes. It was shadowcats. Looks like I got five of them. Huh.” Erick glanced back toward the destroyed experiment. “The rest seem to have vanished.”

Poi sighed, while Kiri’s eyes stayed wide.

Erick sifted a bit through blue boxes until he found his spell.

Shooting Star, instant, super long range, 250 MP

Conjure a super quick fragment of starlight to crash through your enemies. Lasts 5 seconds.

Kiri found her words, “I will begin with: [Shooting Star] is a seventh to eighth tier spell. It’s a variation on [Comet Swarm].”

Erick smiled, saying, “That may be true, but it’s obviously not the whole truth,” as he handed her the blue box.

Kiri floundered as she read. Eventually, she muttered, “I guess not.” She asked, “A spell by the same name? Maybe?” She decided, “… Probably.”
