Whoa. Ren thought, as he felt Deresdra's reaction to his touch just above her behind. I think I just found one of her erogenous zones. Just to make sure that it wasn't just her reaction to him about to check her gluteus muscles, he lightly ran his fingers up and over the spot again, and received the same reaction.

What is he do- OH! Deresdra put her hand on the back of the chair to keep her balance. By the gods!

Yep, that's definitely an erogenous zone. Ren thought. I'll avoid that from now on. He gripped and massaged her behind, just like she'd done with his; but, he had taken her previous healing lessons to heart. Even though the action was the same, the motion would be different. He thought, moved his hands down her thighs, and to her calves.

I will not let him see that I like this! Deresdra thought. I will not!

“The back is done.” Ren said and stood up. He thought about asking her to turn back around, but he'd seen the look on her face when he'd commanded her. He was tempted to switch to his Camaraderie Aura; but, he figured since she'd teased and tempted him ever since they'd met, a little payback was in order.

“Face me, Deresdra!” Ren commanded.

He'd said it a little loudly, and she'd jumped slightly as her head whipped around to stare at him with wide eyes, and her body followed a second later. She stood very still, practically frozen stiff, as Ren reached out and caressed her neck with both hands. He checked the muscles there, then moved to her shoulders.

Deresdra stopped breathing when his hands moved to touch her chest. He's just going to maul them, just like every other man that gets their hands on them. She thought in satisfaction, then didn't know how to react as Ren checked the underlying muscles, instead of kneading the flesh that covered it.

Ren checked the muscles of her chest, and completely ignored her breasts; since they didn't contain any actual muscle. He moved on, went down to her abdomen, and checked the muscles there. When he reached her pelvis, he dug his fingers into the flesh to see if there was any pain or distention present. He didn't find anything, so he knelt and checked her front thigh muscles. He ignored the part covered by her underwear, despite it being significantly wet there, then checked her knees and finished the inspection at her feet.

“There, all done.” Ren said and stood up.

Stat Change!

Healing Level 8 (Beginner 0%)

“Under my own authority...” Ren said in his command voice. “...and as someone who just thoroughly checked your body properly from head to foot.” He smiled. “I declare you cleared for work.”

Deresdra nodded several times rapidly, because she wasn't sure if she could speak yet. Ren gained about 50 Honor, and smiled at her as he equipped his clothing. He picked up the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, made sure it still had it's passenger, and put it on.

“Deresdra.” Ren said and looked at her intensely. “Tell me I'm cleared for work.”

Deresdra opened her mouth a little bit, and let a sigh escape. “You...” She swallowed loudly. “You're cleared for work.” She said with more composure than she actually felt.

“Thank you.” Ren said, gave her a small bow and 15 Honor, then left the curtained-off area and the medical tent.

*

By the gods! Deresdra thought and sat down on the chair. She caught her breath when her tender part touched the wood through her soaked underwear, and stood up quickly. She looked down at herself and at the mess she made on the chair.

“Oh, dammit!” She exclaimed.

*

Ren chuckled as he heard Deresdra, and ran to the blacksmith shop at the mine. They didn't need anything repaired, so he ran into the mine to work. Teepo flew in with him, and rather than get his new body full of dirt, Ren took off the Ring of Recall and summoned Teepo into his astral projection form and stored the new body.

“What have you got for me?” Ren asked the first dwarf he came to.

“You've already smashed the biggest boulders we could find.” The dwarf said. “Why don't you find a new vein for us?”

“You got it.” Ren said, and used his Metal Detection ability. Since he was still under the effects of the SPECIAL bonus, his ability went out twice as far as normal. “This way!”

Ren grabbed a nearby empty cart and started to push it. He walked farther and farther down into the mine for several minutes, and a pile of dwarves followed him. When he stopped walking, so did they.

“You and you.” Ren said and pointed to two of the dwarves. “Dig there. It's about 20 feet in.” He said. “The rest of you, keep going.”

They walked on down the main tunnel, and then off on a side one. Along the way, he would dispatch a dwarf to dig in certain spots. After about 10 minutes, he came to another stop, and only had 4 dwarves left.

“Oho!” Ren said, as he felt a really big pulse off to his right. “There's a big one!” He said excitedly. “You and you! Right there! You and you, on my other side!” He said and pointed to the spots on either side of him in the tunnel. “It's going to take a long time to mine this one out, guys!” He took out his mining pick and started to dig. The dwarves joined him and after nearly 40 feet of digging, the edge of the vein was revealed.

“Ha ha!” Ren said, excitedly. He had found a huge vein of gold that was nearly 10 feet high and an unknown length. His ability couldn't feel the end of it, even with the boost; so, he knew it was a huge find.

Stat Change!

Metal Detection Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)

“By the gods!” One of the dwarves said. “We're gonna be filthy rich!”

“Yes!” One of the other dwarves said. “Now we can afford another child!”

“Well, don't just stand there!” Ren grinned at them. “Have fun!”

The dwarves laughed as they all started to dig.
