Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

“Where is General Pitz?” Olebert’s envoy angrily scowls at me from across the table.

Much to his displeasure, I ignore him and instead choose to take a swig of my homebrew. I only have to reach for the container for the envoy and his two guards to raise their hands to their noses, hoping to block the smell as I unscrew the cap. Fools, as if my liquor was that week.

The two bodyguards withstand the fumes well enough, but the envoy nearly keels over, coughing up a lung. “She’ll be here soon,” I lazily tell the weak man as he struggles to breathe.

“You’re stalling,” he growls in between breaths. “If she isn’t here within the hour, I’ll!”

“You’ll what?” I cut off his needless tirade before he could make any baseless threats. I only need to direct a fraction of a percent of my killing intent in his direction for him to go as white as a ghost and watch him nearly fall out of his seat.

“Are you going to let him get away with that?” He snaps at his two guards as he tries to pretend my killing intent didn’t affect him as much as it did. They subtly turn their heads away from the angry noble, refusing to make eye contact with him. Just as well, everyone but him seemed to understand the two guards were merely here for formality.

If I wanted to kill the annoying man, two level 80 soldiers weren’t enough to stop me. And gods know I've thought about it. I've only put up with the insufferable cur until now because the kingdom needed me to; otherwise, I would've taken great joy removing his yapping head from his fat body.

“Oh, shut it,” I hiss. “I know little girls stronger than you, so stop your complaining and wait.”

Olebert’s representative, Count Olengrad Desreks, eyes budge in shock. It’s hard, but I manage to keep myself from laughing. I’ve used similar sayings in the past to slander and motivate equally, but now it was true, and with his skills, he knows I'm not lying.

Desreks looks like he wants to stand up and lung at me, but despite all the anger in the world, he knows that is futile. I was over double his level, but it was mainly pointless because of the signed document sitting on the table between us.

The magic document was signed with our blood, and one of the more minor points was that we couldn't kill one another. But, of course, his pitiful life wasn't worth mine, so I ensured he made an oath reinforced by their king.

If, by some miracle, one of these three managed to kill me, not only would Desreks die a painful death, but their ruler would be harmed as well. He probably wouldn’t die, but it was equally unlikely that I would either.

It took longer than I liked to deal with the annoying count. I didn't have any proof, but I’m sure he was picked to represent Olebert to stall for time rather than actually negotiate with me. And if I were being more cynical, I would venture and guess he was selected as a martyr.

Olebert probably thought the whiny bastard would stall me until I eventually killed him, thus giving them a better negotiating angle. But, sadly, for them, they’d understated the lengths I would suffer for my king and country. And what suffering it was.

Desreks thinks I’m stalling; please, I couldn't wait for General Pitz to walk through that door. I've been going back and forth with the man for far too long, and it was only the other day that we finally agreed and signed the document before us. As soon as it was signed, I sent for the general to be brought here, where I'd be personally releasing her back to her pathetic country.

We had received word of Pitz and her escort entering the city not twenty minutes ago, so they should be here any minute. And once she’s here and released from her bonds, the second document, prepared and signed by both our kings, will activate. So in a few minutes, the task I was initially sent for would be completed; I couldn't wait.

The sooner all this was completed, the sooner I could return home and continue preparing for the day we inevitably tried to slay the dragon again. Plus, I couldn’t wait to rub my new apprentice in everybody’s faces. The note I received from Tabitha over a week ago only spurred my desire to leave.

We're heading into the Endless Forest; don't know when we'll be out. -T

I read it so many times I had the words memorized. Part of me wanted to pull it out, just so Desreks and his men could deliberately see it and worry over its contents, but I'm not that childish to put young Aaliyah's life in danger for a moment of amusement. Not that Desreks would even understand the note should he see it.

Tabitha was known for such short messages. She hates remembering the different ciphers she's supposed to be using, and unless she needs to give specific information, she'd instead send vague messages only their recipient would understand. Her short penning left much to the imagination, just like all the updates she’s sent me have.

What could've driven her to take Aaliyah into a magic-dense region? I would've heard something from Giovanni if the village were under attack. The two of us had an understanding regarding Spotted Creek Village, and he assured me he'd keep an eye on it for the both of us and that I didn't need to send my men to do so.

So, the village wasn’t under attack; what else could it be? Tabitha has been increasingly hard to read as of late. I chose her to look after Aaliyah because she would be restless without anything to fight while we were suing for peace. And when I asked my commanders who I should send on a secret project, they all suggested she do it to get her out of their hair.

I figured as long as she was acting on my direct orders, she wouldn’t complain, even if Aaliyah never asked her to train her. Of course, Tabitha would give me an earful if she didn’t when I saw her again, but she still would've followed my orders to the word. But ever since she sent me the letter informing me that Aaliyah had asked her to train her, the messages I’ve been receiving have only become more sporadic and vaguer.

What was happening in the village? The question was filling me with equal parts hope and dread. I couldn’t have Aaliyah’s opinion of me fall any further. And Tabitha, I was constantly worried about her. She made a big impression on Olebert’s forces when she defended the border outside Teeburn.

Since I sent her to watch over Aaliyah, Olebert’s spies have tried multiple avenues to track her down. Thankfully, again, Giovanni and I were of one mind, and I had to admit, his information network was solid for a merchant based in the middle of nowhere. His people have caught more spies than my own, and all he asked for was that I take all the credit.

He was still preparing for the possibility that this area might be returned to Olebert, but that will no longer be an issue after today.

Just then, there's a knock on the door. “Master Pacore, lady Pitz has arrived,” the guard announces to the room.

“Finally!” Desreks slams his hands against the table.

“Let her in,” I command, and as soon as I do, the door is opened, and General Pitz walks in, followed by the escort she was sent with.

My soldiers lock eyes with Desreks' bodyguards, and sparks fly, but both are too well-trained to let their emotions cloud their judgment. Pitz scans the room with her hawk-like eyes and almost immediately locks onto me. She doesn't hide her hostility, but it isn't what it once was. I've proven my respect for her, and I like to think that’s changed her view of me at least a little bit.

Pitz looks ready to say something snarky to me, but Desreks butts in before she can say what she wants to. “General Pitz, I’ve come to free you from your barbaric captors," he stands up, trying to bow, but his gut limits how much he can bend forward.

“Who are you?" Pitz's response has me howling with laughter.

Desreks turns a bright red in embarrassment, but for the first time since I met him, he retains his manners instead of angrily shouting at the offense. “Count Olengrad Desreks, Marquis Pitz,” he informs her. "I was assigned to negotiate with him," he turns and sneers at me.

"Pacore can be infuriating," Pitz briefly nods in understanding, but her eyes quickly narrow. "But as a negotiator, you should show him the respect his position and level deserves. Forgive me, but why is someone like yourself in charge of dealing with Pacore the Deathless?”

I love the way my title rolls off her tongue. If I were younger and wasn't a living fossil, and she wasn't the same age as my great-great-grandchildren, I might have even been turned on.

“I have many skills related to negotiating,” Desreks tries to talk himself up, but Pitz isn’t fooled.

“You’re the one sent to negotiate for my release?” She repeats in an accusing tone of voice that has the count shrink in on himself. “Did they even want me back!?”

“Of course,” Desreks stammers. “I was told to agree to anything to see you returned unharmed. Within reason,” he says that last part so quietly, one might mistake his voice for the wind.

“And if I’m here, then I assume a deal has been reached,” She turns back to me. Her eyes were like arrows trying to pierce into me, but as she knows, my skin is quite thick.

“It has,” I grin. “You’ll be happy to know how much your country values you.” I tease, but I wasn't lying. I had tried negotiating it so General Pitz would be our political prisoner for at least a year, hoping she could be slowly persuaded to help us deal with the dragon. Still, no matter how much I argued for it, Olebert refused to give us access to her.

“Why are you still talking while she’s still bound!?” Desreks shrieks at me.

Pitz gives him a look that has him choking on his words; then, slowly, she walks over to where I'm reclining in my chair. "Want a drink?" I hold up my waterskin.

“Unseal me, now,” she demands in a voice that could kill a lesser person.

“After all our time together, you’re going to be that cold?” I pout. General Pitz doesn’t rise to my goading and instead holds out her arms. "I guess this had to happen sooner or later," I sigh as I get up and retrieve a special token hidden under my armor.

The magical restraints binding Pitz can only be released by someone holding said token. I’ve never let it off my person, as I was the safest person to hold onto it.

"Last chance; you sure you don't want to defect? Scholl will treat you right,” I dangle the token in front of her face.

Like a statue, Pitz doesn’t so much as twitch an eye at my offer, so I can only frown in disappointment. While holding the token, I reach out and touch the magical bindings restraining her. “Pacore is the best, and no one can come close to him," I recite the unlocking phrase I had set.

At once, the many bindings holding back General Pitz’s stats start to glow, and as one, they all unlatch and fall to the ground.

I expect her to attack me as soon as the last binding hits the floor, but instead, Pitz just stands there, flexing her hands. Is she not?

Moving my head to the left, I dodged a sudden jab to my face. There it is. “What would you have done if that connected?” I chuckle at Pitz, who’s visibly sweating after trying to hit me. She starts wobbling on her feet, so as the gentlemen, I use my hand to steady her.

"Don't touch me!" She barks but doesn't have the strength yet to pull away from me.

“Did you forget I’m wearing a helmet?” I remind her. Desreks looks confused, but it doesn't matter. Now that she's released, Pitz will warn her country of my invisible armor, so it won't be a secret for much longer. “Or did you think you’d immediately regain all your strength?”

“I just wanted to hit you,” Pitz huffs. “Once I get my strength back, I’m coming to put an arrow through you.”

“Ooh," I moan, like she hurt my feelings, but I can't hide the smile on my face. "That's a good goal, but sadly you'll have to wait. One of the conditions of our ceasefire is a non-aggression pact for the next ten years.”

“Is that true?” Pitz rounds on Desreks like a beast out for blood. Good for him that I was still supporting her, or else she might have tried to rush him.

"We couldn't give them a chance to gain more land," Desreks feebly tries to explain himself. I almost felt bad for him. On second thought, no, I didn’t.

“Uggg!" Pitz grans like a wounded animal. "One of you get over her and help me,” she finally demands, no longer wanting to be held up by me.

“At once!” Desreks runs around the table and offers a hand to Pitz. She looks reluctant to take it but eventually decides she’d rather have him helping her than me. That stung a bit.

“The contract is complete; we'll be leaving now," Desreks tries to sound like he’s in charge.

This was Yales, our territory, so it wasn't like they had escaped our grasp yet. The only reason he was acting high and mighty despite the location and wasn't worried about me keeping them hostage was that safe passage back to their territory was outlined in the agreement. It said I couldn't detain them, but what if I wasn't holding them against their will?

“But we have so much more to discuss,” I retake my seat, lay back, and kick my feet onto the table.

General Pitz, Desreks, and their two guards freeze in the doorway. “We have nothing further to discuss,” Desreks tries to brush me off and drag Pitz out of the room.

“I don't have anything to discuss with you," I wave, gesturing for the annoying man to leave. “I have business to discuss with General Pitz. Now that she's free, she outranks you, and I'd much rather deal with her," I tell him.

“How dare you!” Desreks starts, but Pitz raises a hand for him to be silent.

"And what is it you wish to discuss with me?" General Pitz gives me a weary look, probably expecting another joke or taunt.

But this was no time for jokes; if she left now, she might never hear of our offer, even if we tried to send it to her. “Scholl would like to hire you.”

The room goes silent, or at least it does, until loudmouth ruins it. “She would never!” he yells. He tries to urge Pitz out of the room again, but she stands firm. The two of us lock eyes, and I make sure to convey the seriousness of my offer.

I’m worried she’ll still leave, so when she speaks, I’m happy to hear it’s to inquire further. “To do what?” She asks, fully knowing what I’m going to ask her.

“Why to slay a dragon; what else?”

There was a long pause, where it was just the two of us staring each other down, and then….

“Help me sit down,” Pitz orders Desreks, to his and his guard's dismay. They reluctantly follow her orders and help her into the seat Desreks was using, where she folds her hands in front of her. “And what is Scholl going to pay me with?” She questions, knowing full well the current state of our country.

“What about the heart of a dragon?" I grin, and everyone in the room except General Pitz and me audibly sucks in a deep breath.

"You'd give me the most valuable part of the dragon?” She asks disbelievingly. "Doesn't your king need it to prevent a civil war?"

My cocky smile immediately slips, hearing her counter. Damn, she must have overheard about his health while she was in our custody.

“Doesn’t eating a dragon’s heart increase a person’s lifespan by at least a hundred years,” she continues to prod.

So she was aware of its uses, and she was right; if our king ate a dragon's heart, it would guarantee him another century of life. And if he stayed alive, the dispute for the throne would be put on hold just long enough for the prince to become strong enough to prove he could take over. But….

“That’s right, on behalf of Scholl's royal family, I'm offering up the heart of the dragon to you or any others who help us slay the beast. Scholl has no problems sharing the best parts of the dragon, should Olebert send its best to help us.”

Pitz is left speechless by my offer.

“You have time to think it over,” I tell her. “But if you wish to stay and discuss it further, on behalf of Scholl, I’d be happy to host you.”

"You son of a bitch," Pitz finally finds her voice, and it's to curse me.

I grin at her. "Is that a yes?"

Pitz leans back in her chair and sighs. “What should we go over first?”

“Everything,” I reply.

One discussion down, one more to go. Then I'll head home with my new apprentice and hopefully reinforcements if I can swing it.

I hope Tabitha and Aaliyah are having fun in the forest because the real fun will start soon.
