He paused for a moment, surprised at the richer feeling trickling in from Explorer. The white shining text in his mind hadn’t altered, still displaying the core attributes and properties as his skill helped him evaluate the threat before them, but the sense of it was far… more. Thoughts, intuitions, and impressions flooded through his mind. For instance, he was immediately sure the Light Mages would struggle with the transparent purple panes of this elemental – and not just from partial transparency. Refraction would be a problem, too. He also had a powerful hunch it would wield potent ranged spells. It was a subtle sense, and he spent a moment with it. It seemed that instead of just the mundane observed properties, Explorer was now tapping into his typical role as battle tactician, offering insights into how to approach the challenge it represented. It was, he reflected, primarily a knowledge-trait skill, and if he wasn’t very much mistaken, it was showing him how he might grow it, provided he leveraged its insights in battle. I should discuss this with Ali, he decided. If anyone understood the nuances of Knowledge magic, it was her.

While he explored his expanded skill, his eyes had never left the towering elemental’s glittering facets. Here again, he was confronted with Nathaniel Sunstrider’s incomprehensible actions to ally himself with the forces of darkness, and the clear evidence that the archmage had grown dramatically more powerful. Somehow, no matter how many times he faced reality, he still felt the sharp pang of betrayal in his heart. He had admired Nathaniel Sunstrider, and he had believed he had found his place with the Pathfinders Guild: a home among like-minded people. His heart clenched painfully in his chest. Ruthlessly, he pushed those feelings away, his naïve dream broken by the selfish actions of an Archmage seeking personal power at the cost of the people who depended on him. How had he so completely and utterly lost his way?

Calen recalled the Calhedron from the fall of Ciradyl, but the monster floating before them was so far beyond what he had faced back then that it may as well have been unrecognizable.

With a thought, he activated his storage enchantment, recalling Death’s Grasp to his hands and replacing the Scourge of Deadly Creep. Immediately, the incessant clutching whispers of insanity infiltrated his mind as his favorite bow tried in vain to take over his will. Kir’vella, the foremost of Ali’s witch doctors, hissed at it, as if reprimanding the bow, but the familiar sound was a surprisingly welcome reprieve from the unending background wail of Banshees and the sub-audible hum that thrummed forth from the Calhedron in time with its twisted geometric pulsating heartbeat.

Death’s Grasp was by far the most powerful bow he had ever wielded, and if he were to fight an unknown arcane elemental that had no death affinity, he was most certainly going to leverage his most potent tools.

“What do you see, Ali?” he asked, glancing to his right where the petite Fae hovered beside him on golden, shimmering wings.

“Arcane Bolt for sure,” she answered, confirming one of his suspicions as she peered thoughtfully at the monstrous elemental that hovered against the backdrop of the first layer of the dungeon’s barrier domes. Mana density fluctuated rapidly around her eyes as she studied it with her characteristic intense focus, and Calen knew she was taking advantage of her incredible mana perception skills to try to tease out any foreknowledge of the monster’s abilities before they engaged. “Looks like it’s empowered… I think maybe a summoning spell?” She cocked her head to the side as if trying to peer deeper into the arcane construct by simply looking from a different angle. “I can’t quite tell yet, reading it without seeing the spell formations is hard,” she finished, sounding a little frustrated. “Want me to throw some minions at it?”

“I think that’s good enough,” Calen said, and he hadn’t missed the sudden twinge of recognition from his Explorer skill when she had mentioned summoning. Even just this information would be invaluable in an unknown encounter. He channeled a tiny trickle of his mana into the Sending Stone in his hand, sharing the information with Lyeneru and Vivian, who were coordinating the efforts of each group. It was a magical construct that rivaled the legendary artifacts of the second age, created by a team of artisans and crafters at the Novaspark Academy. It had cost an obscene amount of gold and required a team camping in the Grand Library for more than a week, and even then, it was only possible with the Arcanite Ali provided. Yet, Calen wholeheartedly agreed with Lyeneru’s insistence that it was essential to their survival.

“Acknowledged,” came the response, Lyeneru’s voice appearing in his mind just like the way Mato communicated when he was in Bear Form. “You may begin. Remember, our priority is information gathering. Retreat at the first sign of surprise or real danger.”

“Starting,” Calen said, drawing his bow and charging his Power Shot. Below him, standing at the head of a powerful group of Ali’s melee minions, Mato and Malika braced, clearly ready for him and the incoming violence.

A single arrow spat forth from his bow with a resonant twang, carrying the full potency of his magic and skills. An arrow with a sharp head crafted from the purest mithril and a shaft of obsidian along which thousands of tiny runes glowed with suppressed power. It had cost him more than five gold, but the enchantments of accuracy and magic penetration were easily worth it for his first and most important shot. The arrow flared to light, shining with radiant power and trailing a thin magical chain in its wake as it sped across the corrupted earth to strike the arcane elemental dead center.

With a deafening crack and a brilliant flash, his unreasonably expensive arrow punched through several planes of twisting arcane geometry, delivering the full force of his skills into the raid boss. Within the heart of the radiant blast, an ominous formation flickered, appearing far too quickly and too intricate for him to resolve, but he recognized his bow’s signature Death’s Grasp curse from long experience. The chain whipped around the monster, suddenly snapping taut and anchoring it to the ground below him. His magic pulled, drawing the boss toward Mato’s waiting claws of void.

The Calhedron flickered with dark energy, letting out a resonant blast of sound like an immense subterranean horn, and then its magic flared even as it was pulled downward by his chain. Mana surged, twisting and warping within the monster, far too fast for him to grasp.

“Mass summoning,” Ali called calmly from where she hovered beside him, pitching her voice to be heard by the others. As soon as she had declared the magic, he connected the shapes of mana, now coalescing into angular geometric forms among the slowly orbiting planes of the Calhedron and whirling about like a purple glittering tornado. A cloud of glittering shapes appeared beneath the panels.

Barragon Shard – Elemental – level 162-165 (Arcane) x60[Explorer]Category: Summoned MonsterThreat Level: SwarmMonster Type: ElementalDamage: Arcane

Well, Ali will want these! he told himself cheerfully, mostly to keep his trepidation at bay. The start of a battle always wore on his nerves.

The newly summoned swarm of monsters surged out from under the protective wings of the mother elemental in an attack formation of glittering gem-like prisms, the dark light gleaming as it refracted through highly polished purple facets. A squadron of elementals like the Glimmer Shards, only denser, brighter, and with far more refined shapes.

“Area damage,” Calen called, raising his bow and conjuring a full fan of magical arrows upon its ethereal string, but before he could unleash his volley, a ripple of fresh power cascaded through the elementals bearing down upon them. Every single elemental unleashed a barrage of rapid-fire purple bolts of arcane energy, lancing out in a sudden cascade of graceful arcing light, each unerringly targeting one of their group. With a thought, Calen summoned his Mirage Armor and split off his decoys, releasing his arrows into the cloud of monsters. His volley tore through the arcane elemental swarm formation with a rippling cascade of light and death magic, detonating in brilliant flashes of spherical energy. Arrows punched through the flying prisms, tearing into the ones behind them as his bow delivered destruction and curse magic across the skies.

“Another wave,” Ali said, and he saw it immediately.

As it spawned, the remainder of the first flight began to assemble, dozens of elementals clumping up and attaching to one another like a three-dimensional aerial jigsaw puzzle. Purple light blazed from within as the collection accreted more and more shards until a jagged ball the size of Mato hovered above them, spinning in the air.

Then it exploded.

“I’ll take care of the fliers,” Calen said, deftly dodging the blast of sharp purple shrapnel and tallying the number of shattered monsters that rained from the swarm from his first volley.

“I’ll toss in a few fireballs,” Ali said. “That explosion was rough.”

“That will be good,” he said, nodding. “Everyone else, target the boss. And, watch out for surprises!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
