“Me?” Barbara asked, surprised. “What about you? What about that poor man?”

Ren squeezed her hand. “He was hurting my dogs. I had to stop him.”

“You didn't stop him, Ren. You disabled him.”

Ren nodded. “Yeah, I did.” He said. “I feel horrible about it.”

“Even though you know it's just a game and isn't real?” Barbara asked, and Ren nodded.

“I didn't know I had that kind of thing in me, Barbara.” He said. “I... did you hear me talking to Narhilda?”

“Some of it.”

Ren pulled the laptop close and called up the footage. He edited it so that all the relevant points were there, then played the video for Barbara.

“Oh... oh my...”

Ren went back and added in the alchemist footage, and how it came about. He saved the file, then left it open and ready to play for when the psychiatrist came.

“I could make you breakfast, if you don't want to wait.” Barbara offered, and Ren shook his head.

“I'd rather just spend the time with you, if that's okay?” He asked.

She nodded as she smiled and picked up the television remote. “There's not much on this early in the morning.”

“That's fine.” Ren said. “A little mind-numbing boob-tube is just what the doctor ordered.”

“Boob-tube.” Barbara shook her head. “You have got to stop watching those old television programs.”

“Why's that?”

“Because these days, it means something a little different.”

Ren's eyes widened slightly as he understood what she meant. “I'll stop saying it, then.”

They waited for the shift change, then Stella came in, followed closely by the psychiatrist.

“Okay, tell me what happened!” The psychiatrist said enthusiastically as she sat in the chair by the bed. “Spill it! I want to know all the details!”

Ren sighed and slid the laptop over to her, hit play on the video, and looked at Stella.

“She should be busy for a while.” He said. “What's for breakfast?”

“Patient's choice.” Stella said, and grinned as she knew what his response would be.

“Eggs, bacon and toast sandwich.” Ren said as he grinned back.

“And what would you like to drink?

“Orange juice that's been freshly squeezed, from oranges just picked from the tree and stuffed in a plastic bag that's sold on a street corner by a happy Mexican-American.”

“We have freshly concentrated.” Stella laughed. “Anything else?”

“There is something else; but, it can wait until after physiotherapy.”

“Okay, I'll be right back.” Stella said, and Barbara followed her out of the room.

*

By the time the two nurses arrived at the break room, Barbara had given Stella a quick overview of what had happened.

“Wow.” Stella said as she made Ren's breakfast. “He really crushed the man's fingers?”

Barbara nodded. “The act itself was blue screened, but it showed his hands afterwards.”

Stella flipped the eggs. “Poor Ren.”

“What?”

“Barbara. You know what he's been through. To see his dogs being used like that...” Stella shook her head. “He must have remembered some of what happened to him.”

Barbara gasped, and put a hand on her chest. “I was so concerned over him doing it, and how it would affect him; but, I never thought about it from his perspective like that.”

“You should.” Stella said, and buttered the toast after flipping the bacon. “Everything he does is based on his experiences.”

“You almost sound like a psychologist.”

“It's not a dirty word, Barbara.” Stella laughed. “Everyone needs help every once and a while.”

“You, too?”

Stella nodded as she assembled two sandwiches. “I've had my fair share of appointments.”

“Can I ask what about?”

“Ren, of course.”

“Me, too.”

Stella poured out the orange juice and added a glass of supplement. “We all have to deal with things in our own way.” She said. “Then help others when we can.”

Barbara smiled. “You picked that up from Ren, just like I did.”

Stella smiled back and picked up the tray. “Thanks for filling me in.” She said. “I'll watch the video myself later.”

“I don't envy you today.” Barbara stood up and held the door to the break room. “Ren's always a handful when Suzie is here.”

Stella grinned as she passed. “If she wasn't so enthusiastic about hearing all the gory details, and excited when Ren actually tells her things...” She shook her head. “He'd be a lot more open to her.”

“Maybe we should tell her that?”

“I did.” Stella said as she started to walk down the hallway. “She hugged me, and thanked me for 'sharing'.”

Barbara laughed. “Bye, Stella.”

“Bye, Barbara. See you tonight.”

*

Ren sat in silence while Suzie watched the video he'd made for her. He glanced at her excited face, and sighed mentally.

If she wasn't so happy to hear about my misery...

Stella opened the room door and Ren was greeted with a luscious smell.

“Oh, baby!” Ren said before he could help himself, and Suzie looked at him with twinkling eyes. She closed the laptop and folded her hands in front of her.

“So.” Suzie leaned back in the chair. “How does that smell make you feel?”

Aw, crap. He thought, as she smiled.
