Blinking in surprise, Taduk answers, “...I certainly hope so. Come, come, Rain my boy. Help me clear away this mess and check.”

“No, better to leave everything where it is.” Having learned from experience, I instead slide the table ever so slightly and open up a crack opposite the side I’m standing on. Three flailing tentacles shoot out and prove that not only can Sir Inky still breathe, his time in the tub has not improved his mood. After the suctioned appendages recede back into the tub, I cautiously approach and peer in, only to find Sir Inky angrily glaring back. “Hello Sir Inks-a-lot.” My cutesy voice is back in full force, but it doesn’t seem to be working. At least he isn’t trying to attack me for now. “Are you hungry? You want some fishies?” Throwing a piece of dried, smoked fish into the tub, I watch as Sir Inky inspects the offering before tucking in. Literally, because his mouth is at the base of his eight arms. God, octopuses are weird. “Was it yummy? Do you want some more?”

Though still reeling from yesterday’s revelation and subsequent ordeal, I feed Sir Inky another piece of fish and reach deep down into my emotional depths in search of good vibrations. Bunny kisses and wildcat boops, fluffy quin pups and chubby bear cubs, I summon everything I’ve got and use it to fuel my Aura, directing it to waft ever so gently towards Sir Inky. His single, visible eye widens in surprise and, true to form, he reacts violently to my love, his tendrils swinging about in all directions seeking to clobber me for my heinous offence. Wisely backing out of range, I glance at my teacher in helpless frustration. “It’s not working. Each attempt only makes him angrier and I have no idea why.”

“Hmm...” The monosyllabic response isn’t much, but it tells me Taduk isn’t ready to give up, not with self-replicating Spiritual Algae on the line. Standing a respectful distance from the thrashing tentacles, he tilts his head to one side, then the other in an almost hypnotic cadence while studying Sir Inky’s movements in silence. Knowing there’s no dissuading him, I fall back even further to stand with Mila, Song, and Luo-Luo. Intrigued by our actions, Luo-Luo looks much better after drinking Lin’s tea, clutching a silk bag filled with more of the remedy to her impressive chest as if it held priceless jewels instead of ginger, peppermint, and various other herbs.

Noting my gaze, Luo-Luo puffs her chest out ever so slightly and bites her cherry-red lip. I gotta say, it’s nice having someone try to seduce me, even if her motivations are somewhat suspect. Leaning close, her cleavage brushing against my shoulder in an almost innocuous manner as she whispers, “Lord Husband, Luo-Luo is curious. What is happening here? Why does the octopus react so aggressively in your presence? It was fine but a moment ago.”

“It’s... complicated.” And involves things I don’t want her to know, like my Aura manipulation, Blobby, and Spiritual Algae. “Don’t worry about it.”

“Oh, I see.” Drawing away, Luo-Luo falls silent and I go back to watching Taduk think, wondering how long I should stay before leaving. There’s supposed to be a lion dance today and there’s no way I’m going to miss that. I don’t know anything about lion dancing, but it totally sounds like something I’ll love. Who doesn’t want to see adorable dancing animals? I just hope the trainers don’t abuse their poor lions. Maybe I can teach my kitties to dance too. Why stop there? Wildcats, bears, rabbits, quins, I can teach them all the dance, and my laughing birds too...

A quiet sniffle draws me out of my imagination and I turn to find Luo-Luo quietly crying at my side. Oh for fucks sake... Patting her arm, I awkwardly utter, “There, there. Nothing to cry about. Things happen. We’ll laugh about it together someday soon.” Probably. Maybe.

Wiping her tears, Luo-Luo shakes her head and fakes a smile. “This one is sorry for causing a scene and again, begs leave to return to her yurt.”

“Idiot.” Curt and succinct as always, Mila explains, “She’s crying because you don’t trust her.”

Oh. “...Well, yea. Why would I? We just met her yesterday.”

Meekly nodding, Luo-Luo speaks in my defence, forestalling Mila’s scathing reply. “Lord Husband is right to distrust this one, for she was a gift from his Patron. No member of the Imperial Clan does anything without an agenda, much less one with a title formidable as Shen Zhenwu. While this one has no specific advice for dealing with Lord Husband’s Patron, she cautions Lord Husband to think carefully before placing his trust in any Imperial Noble, for once you are within one’s grasp, true freedom will forever be beyond your reach.”

Is this genuine advice, or just a ploy to get into my good graces? Circles within circles, I’m no good at this spy-craft business, but Luo-Luo can read me like a book. Bowing her head, she adds, “Know this: should Lord Husband fall from grace, Luo-Luo falls with him, but the reverse is also true. Thus this one offers counsel in good faith, hoping Lord Husband will Ascend into the Heavens like the dragon he is.”

Quickly checking with Mila and Song through a Sending chain, we agree to divulge some information, but not everything. While what Luo-Luo says makes sense, there’s no need to give away all my secrets on the second day. For both our sakes. Pretty sure she’d go running for the hills if I told her I used to be Defiled and was cleansed by a Tear of the Mother, much less any of the other crazy shenanigans I’ve been up to.

Pointing at Sir Inky, I begin explaining. “See, I have a... Talent, which lets me convey emotions to animals and people.” Sort of true, I guess. “I’m trying to use it to tame the octopus, but it’s not reacting like most animals do.”

Without touching on why we need Sir Inky or how my ‘Talent’ works, Luo-Luo asks a few questions which cut to the heart of the issue before requesting I show her what my Talent feels like. The moment my Loving Aura touches her, she utters a small, sexy gasp before clapping a hand over her mouth, her cheeks flushed and breathing rushed as she looks at me in a new light. Hesitating to speak, her face turns even redder than before, a feat I wasn’t sure was even humanly possible. Instead of speaking out loud, she instead whispers something to Mila, who immediately barks with laughter. Fixing me with a wicked grin, Mila passes the information on to Lin and Taduk through Sending, who both react in similar fashion.

I don’t know what’s happening here, but I don’t like it...

Removing the bowl sitting on top of his head, Taduk places it aside and hops into range of Sir Inky’s flailing tentacles. To my great surprise, Sir Inky merely inspects Taduk’s body with a few grasping touches before shoving him aside, apparently only interested in thrashing me. With a goofy, toothy smile, Taduk clasps his hands behind his back and holds his head up with pride, standing beside the angry octopus unharmed and unmolested. “By the Mother, I think she’s right.”

“My turn!” Giggling in delight, Lin runs into the storm of tendrils with identical results. Giggling in delight, Lin pokes Sir Inky’s head through the tiny crack and marvels at his tough, rubbery skin, yet still remains completely ignored. “Your turn Rainy.”

Oh no. I think I figured it out too, only... “Do I have to?”

“Of course. How else will we know, yes?”

“Of course. How else will we know, ya?”

Father and daughter answer in concert, wearing identical delighted grins and knowing exactly what’s about to happen. Resigned to my fate, I brace myself and step into Sir’s Inky’s range. A cold, slimy tentacle grabs hold of my shirt and pulls me close while his other fish-stinking appendages wrap around my head. The powerful suction cups adhere to my skin and I feel the blood rushing to my face as Sir Inky’s tentacles pull in multiple directions at once in an effort to wrench my head off, or more likely, hold me in place while his last, free tentacle flops around my hair and face, probing for... something.

And then, just like that, Sir Inky goes limp and ceases his struggle, though his arms are still stuck to my skin in a painful, adhesive embrace.

God dammit. I should’ve seen this coming.

Freeing myself one painful pop at a time, I hold back my tears while ignoring the hidden smiles and muffled laughter. Shoving Sir Inky back into the tub, I seal it off and vow to kill a thousand, nay, a million octopuses as revenge for this disgrace, plotting my octopus genocide in cold, furious silence. Taduk’s warm Chi heals away the bruises and suction marks to remove all evidence of my struggle, but nothing will ever wash away the shame and humiliation I suffered through.

Turns out, my loving Aura wasn’t making Sir Inks-a-lot angry.

It made him horny.

...

I, Falling Rain, Number one Talent of the Empire, the Undying Savage and Unrivalled Beneath Heaven, was just sexually assaulted by an octopus.

For the second time.

Chapter Meme
