There they stood on the open fields of Central, one slave who was not really a slave and one weasel-bear which was neither weasel nor bear, with the former feeding the latter venison one strip at a time. As the beast snatched the last strip out of the air, Song prayed to the Mother Above to watch over Her furry child and make it walk away peaceably, else she would have no choice but to kill the ferocious and somewhat adorable creature. After eating its fill, it ambled over to the bucket and began lapping up water, but its eyes remained fixed on Song even as its sizable claws left cracks and gouges in the wooden bucket’s frame with careless ease.

All by accident, presumably, though it could be trying to threaten her by Honing its claws. If so, then it was certainly working...

Licking its muzzle clean of grease and water, the weasel-bear snuffled and growled for more, but Song shook her head and put hand to sabre. Recognizing her actions for the threat they were, the beast snarled and eyed her for long seconds before sneezing twice, transforming from threatening monster to innocent floof in the blink of an eye. Raising its snout to sniff the air, it burped and turned away before hopping off the cart, where it immediately disappeared into the grass as it rushed off in search of more water and food.

Mother in Heaven, the beast could Conceal. A good thing it ambled away then, because it might well have been strong enough to kill Song outright.

Though mildly upset the beast didn’t want to be friends, she did not begrudge its choice of freedom over comfort, for that was its nature, its Dao, even. Given the choice, she wasn’t sure she wouldn’t choose the same, even though Mama, Papa, Sister, and everyone else had been nothing but kind to her. She wanted this life she had now, but without her Oaths restraining her, except to do that, she needed to be powerful enough to resist the Heavens themselves. This was her reason for strength, she realized, so she might someday become powerful enough to free herself from her Oaths, even if it meant surpassing Ancestral Beasts and ascending to Divinity herself.

As she turned around for the lonely journey home, her regrets weighed heavily upon her. Setting the weasel-bear free was necessary, but she should have found somewhere further from the citadel and civilization. With the heavy human traffic in the area, there was a good chance the beast would find no prey to hunt. It might turn to raiding the few farms still in operation, farms guarded by Imperial soldiers to keep the workers from fleeing for safer pastures. This was as good as a death sentence for the beast, but she couldn’t have gone much further even if she had the time because her slave Oaths would have soon come into effect, so she resolved to come back tomorrow morning with more food and water for the beast. Perhaps that would keep it from raiding the nearby farms or caravans, but then how would it survive once she left for the Central Citadel?

Less than a minute later, her worries melted away as she spotted Tursinai, Tenjin, and Papa come out of Concealment only a short distance away, and Song amended her earlier statement. Freedom from her Oaths was not all she strove for, but she also wanted the strength to protect her beloved family and considerate friends, instead of always being protected by them instead.

A far more achievable goal than the former, but a worthy one indeed. Though her Dao remained shrouded in mystery, at least now Song knew why she sought strength, and any progress was a cause for celebration. Minor and inconsequential though it might be, it was still a step along her Martial Path, one which brought her that much closer to the Peak, and perhaps even freedom beyond it.

For like Mama said, where there is life, there is hope, and Song would never give up on either one ever again.

Chapter Meme
