As for sweet Tali, she was less devoted to the Martial Path, but no less talented for it, and might even be superior to her brother in some ways. Unburdened by matters of competence or efficiency, she moved with a natural grace and beguiling finesse few could ever hope to match. Fluttering this way then sliding that, twirling aside then leaping ahead, Tali danced in time to a tune heard only by her, a beautiful and sublime performance which put Song to shame, because even though she recognized the Forms in the girl’s movements, she lacked the means to comprehend just what made Tali’s demonstration so exquisite. What’s more, there were times when the darling girl tapped into her latent abilities to Lighten and Stabilize, and though it might be another year or two before she learned to control those skills at will, she was well on her way to becoming a second Mei Lin, a cheery, carefree young woman who paid no mind to the Martial Dao, yet was blessed by it regardless.

Such is life. The Mother loved all Her children, but She loved some more than others.

Strangely enough, Song finally understood how Rain of all people could question the Mother’s existence. Rain only spoke of his time as a slave once, but one only needed to see his expression in the presence of a bristleboar half-beast to know he’d suffered at the hands of his slavers, for his wrath was terrible to behold. Perhaps he even reached out to Her while he suffered and begged Her to save him, but when she did not respond, he questioned everything he knew. If She was so benevolent and powerful, then how could She stand to let Her children suffer so? What he might not understand was that the Father’s foul minions had enslaved Rain, as recent events had handily proved, and the Mother saved him by guiding him to the Bekhai, but he refused to acknowledge all Her good work and blamed Her for his suffering instead.

Except what good was blame and vengeance? Song felt nothing when Jin Kai died, and cared nothing for Jin Tok’s disgrace, even though both men were responsible for the darkest years of her life. Their deaths changed nothing, for she was still a slave in the end, with several centuries of life ahead of her in which she might be acquired by any number of sadistic masters. In a way, being bound to Rain was almost a blessing, because she saw how much effort he put into making sure she felt safe and comfortable in his presence, yet she was still no different from one of his pets, kept happy, safe, and fed, but still a pet nonetheless.

Only yesterday, she’d compared herself to his pets and felt happier for it, but today, the same thought filled her with sombre melancholy. How strange. Perhaps that was why she struggled to adapt to her new, peaceful life, because she knew it could all be taken away at a moment’s notice...

Since Tali and Tate were still young, they couldn’t Demonstrate the Forms for long, so they soon returned to her side where they snuggled with the pets and caught their breath. Giggling as Roc leaned back in his embrace, Tate asked, “Li-Li, are you gonna practice with us today?”

The innocent question brought up a surge of guilt and shame, for she should have long since left for the training grounds to reinforce her Insights from yesterday’s excursion. “No,” she replied, though she didn’t elaborate and hoped Tate would assume she meant to go practice elsewhere.

Tali did, and as she was already bored of her morning practice, she saw this as an opportunity for fun and adventure even as Tate pouted in disappointment. “Then can we go watch you practice, Li-Li? With all the other Khishigs at the training grounds?” Turning her persuasive, pleading gaze upon her father, Tali added. “It’ll be good for our comprehension, ya?”

Unfortunately for Song, nephew-in-law Charok was not against bringing the twins to the training grounds, and she no longer had an excuse to stay away. As they stepped out of the manor, however, she discovered why Tate was warned not to open the manor doors, for there were all manner of people lingering outside the doors. Some were sightseers or honest admirers hoping for a glimpse of the controversial young hero Falling Rain, while others were enterprising merchants and hawkers looking to entice the wealthy young man to partner with them on one venture or another. There was even a vendor here with a hand-cart covered in canvas, but she couldn’t hear him over the clamouring crowd doing their best to get their attention, and she had more pressing matters to deal with as she spotted a handful of familiar faces. Lingering a good distance away was Rain’s ever present group of detractors, a band of worthless young fops who had taunted and insulted him almost every day during his crippled convalescence, no doubt finding great delight in stepping on someone so far above their station without fear of revenge or reprisal.

Right up until sister Mila slapped multiple teeth out of their mouths. Brave of them to return now, for she was not one to forgive or forget...

The Death Corps guards kept the crowd back without need for physical confrontation, but considering any one of them could be an assassin in disguise, they presented a dire threat to security by standing close enough to launch a fatal attack against anyone coming out the manor doors. Without bothering to consult nephew-in-law Charok, Song turned to the Death Corps guard and said, “Remove all unrelated people from the premises and set a perimeter one hundred metres in every direction to guard against assassins.”

“By your command, lady Song.” Accustomed to taking her orders on the field of battle, the Death Corps guards didn’t think twice about it before leaping into action, bellowing at the crowd to disperse while forcibly moving those too slow to obey. Let the merchants and citizens complain if they wanted to. Their presence here showed a marked disrespect for Brother Baatar and the Bekhai in general, for they would never dare approach a regular noble of the Empire in such a fashion. Though she felt bad for those few true admirers Rain might have, they would have to settle for admiring him from afar.

“My cart! Ye canna steal my property! Tieves! Tieves!” This time, Song heard the vendor above the crowd, shrieking shrilling about being robbed in daylight. Resisting the urge to roll her eyes, she waved Erdene over to bring the cart away, only to stop short as the cart shook.

And growled. A wet, guttural growl full of threat and warning which set Song’s nerves on edge.

“Back!” Song called, drawing her sabre and moving between the cart and the twins, but nephew-in-law Charok was two steps ahead as she heard the manor doors slam shut behind her. Abandoning the crowd, the Death Corps encircled the foreboding cart with their polearms at the ready, which the vendor somehow took as permission to run out in front to block them. The fool was lucky no one took his movements as a threat, else they’d have skewered him to the ground and left him for dead, but a quick look at the vendor showed nothing of note, only a common, working man who might not be a vendor by trade after all, judging by his threadbare clothes and uneducated accent. “What is in the cart?”

“Is weasel-bear,” the man said, holding his hands up as if he could forcibly hold the Death Corps back. “Furry beast, for sale, yes? It fall in pit, and this one think to sell to noble Rain.” While most would see nothing wrong with calling Rain a noble, the Death Corps saw it as an insult to their esteemed Imperial Consort, but the poor man mistook their collective displeasure for aggression. “No sell, gift, gift,” he stammered, wavering between standing his ground and falling to his knees as the Death Corps glowered as one. “Is gift. Please great ones, spare you this fool.”

Curiosity getting the better of her, Song ordered the man to remove the canvas cover, which he promptly did, and decided weasel-bear was an apt name. While only half as large as the adolescent Banjo and Baloo, the stocky beast trapped inside the wooden cage had a bulky and muscular torso like a bear, with the face of a weasel and a long, sinuous, and delightfully fluffy tail. With a golden brown coat and cavernous mouth, the weasel bear would be adorable if it didn’t have such an intimidating snarl and murderous glare, one which raised Erdene’s hackles even though the creature laid prone and bound from tail to snout. The sunlight did nothing to soothe the beast’s anger, and in fact seemed to enrage it even more as it struggled against its bonds and threatened to break rope, cage, and even the cart beneath it.

Then Song’s sweet mount offered a warning chitter in response which set the nearby quins to alert as they rushed over to help, which was somehow more reassuring than the Death Corps guards standing with her.

Honestly, if this man was an assassin, then he was a clever one indeed, for Rain would’ve taken one look at the weasel-bear and ignored the clear and present danger to free it from its bonds. Granted, Song wanted to do the same, but she was not so cavalier about regrowing lost body parts. After informing nephew-in-law Charok that there was no danger, Song got the full story from the nervous man. A hunter by trade, he found the beast in a pitfall trap he laid out on the plains to catch foxes. Instead of falling onto the spikes, the weasel-bear somehow latched onto the side, where it clung desperately for dear life since it lacked the ability to climb, jump, or burrow. By the time the hunter found it, it was weak with hunger and exhaustion, so seeing an opportunity to earn a fortune, he elicited help from his friends to capture the vicious and exotic creature alive. To bring it here, they kept it hungry and thirsty for twelve full days, never once giving it more than a morsel of meat and letting it drink by throwing water at its face. Small wonder the creature hated them and all of humanity in turn, which left Song with a pressing dilemma.

What to do with the beast now?

The hunter claimed the creature was not local to this region, nor had he or anyone he knew ever heard of such a ferocious beast, and Song was inclined to believe him. This weasel-bear was threatening enough to put a pack of roosequin on guard, who hunted wolves and bears on their own, much less as a group. Perhaps it had been displaced by all the turmoil in the west, or maybe it escaped from another enterprising animal seller who was less fortunate than this one, but either way, Song decided she had no choice but to buy it. The hunter tried to refuse, but he shut his mouth the moment she opened her pouch and revealed the gold coins sitting inside, which made her regret moving so quickly. Handing over five coins with a heavy heart, she waved the hunter away before turning to Tali and Tate. “I cannot join you at the training grounds,” she said, and they both nodded in mournful understanding, even as Tali handed over a bucket of water for the poor beast. They were a pragmatic pair and no doubt knew what needed to be done, but Song wasn’t expecting them to be so... understanding. Rain probably would have refused and tried to free the ‘pitiful floof’ from its bonds or something equally stupid. Leaving the other animals in their care, she brought the cart away to the eastern gates, where the weasel-bear’s threatening growls were quick to clear her path through the crowds and see her outside in record time.

Marching without thinking, she walked for the better part of an hour before realizing she couldn’t go any further, else she’d be late getting back to bring Papa his breakfast. Stopping in place, she turned to the poor weasel-bear which had stopped struggling some minutes past, panting as it lay weakly on its side and watched her with teary, brown eyes. Heart breaking at the sight of such surrender, she realized the creature would have long since turned Defiled if it were capable of human emotion, and might very well become a Demon if she delayed any longer, so the time to act was now.

Placing a hand on her sabre, Song closed her eyes, took a deep breath, and then acted without thinking.

Steel thrummed and air hissed as her sabre cut through wood and rope.

Leaving fur and bones intact.

The creature recovered so quickly she worried it had been feigning its weakness, but instead of launching itself at her, it reared back and growled in threat. Knowing better than to show fear or back away, Song drew herself up to full height and stared the creature down.

Which was soon followed by a strip of venison tossed by its feet. Luckily she saved the scraps from her back-up breakfast, else she would’ve had to risk stopping at the market for more food.

The transformation was astounding as the weasel-bear pounced on the meat with ravenous hunger, and Song almost felt like she was watching sweet Tate gobbling down the same treat. Though she could have given the beast everything at once, she wanted to give it time to calm down and grow acclimated to her presence, so she waited for a steady count of three seconds after it finished eating before throwing the next piece. In truth, she intended to wait for five seconds, but even though the weasel-bear was only slightly larger than a child, it was at least thrice as heavy judging by how hard Song had worked to get here, and its focused gaze unnerved her more than a bit.

