They ran tests on David for the rest of the day, with Marshalla admitting defeat as the sun dipped beyond the horizon. She had gotten plenty of data, but figuring out his new ability was beyond her reach.

For now.

Kevin surprised everyone by asking if she could stay for a while. David's and Niala's abilities were of great interest to her, and she admitted that she enjoyed working with the Abassaran scholar, who was, in the fairy's words, “a result-obsessed mundaner.”

She clarified that this was definitely a compliment, especially when compared to her usual fairy colleagues, who were brain leeches only interested in stepping on other fairies' heads and hard work.

There was a story there, but nobody dared ask.

Niala let Kevin know that she was welcome to stay for as long as she wanted. Having helped heal David, she was now considered a “family friend.”

The catkin then declared it was time to properly heal David. She asked Marshalla to stay, in case there were more complications or unknown issues with his body, and began administering micro-doses to him.

She fed her husband a few drops and waited for any negative reactions on his part. When nothing happened, she gave him ever-increasing doses, his body slowly knitting itself back together under their eyes.

When David showed no signs of pain or complications, she let him drink the rest of the potion. He drained the phial, handing it back to Niala, then took a deep breath and waited for what he knew was coming.

His body locked up, muscles all pulling at the same time, and he sucked air through his teeth.

The tension broke like a rubber band, to be replaced by the million-ant itch all over his flesh. He felt his bones lock to each other, his organs regenerate, and the many small bruises he still sported disappeared like drying puddles.

The feeling passed, and he slumped back into the bed. Niala walked up to him, eyes filled with concern, her ears tucked back.

He gave her a smile. “I'm fine, Kitten, though that potion was a bit extra. Wanted to make sure I was healed?”

She returned the smile, though with a hint of guilt. “Ah, yeah... sorry...” She then perked up. “But you're fine now, right?! All healed up! Perfect health?”

He gave his previously broken limbs a few rotations before shuffling toward the edge of the bed, sitting up and getting to his feet, where he stretched in all directions, attentive for any pulls or stiffness.

He stopped and looked at Niala. “Good as new. Well, almost.”

Niala's smile thinned. There was still the missing eye.

She had a god's grade potion, and it should work. She just wished she could be certain.

They asked Marshalla and Kevin to leave. The scholar woman looked like she wanted to argue, but in the end decided to follow her golden geese's wishes. She picked up Kevin and left, closing the door behind her.

Niala approached David and gently unwound the bandage covering his empty eye socket. She had him sit back down on the bed and used a light cleaning solution to wash the cavity. Using her control over the wind, she dried it out before using the mana-light he had crafted to look inside, making sure there were no foreign substances; once, if, the eye came back, any lint left inside would be really uncomfortable.

Putting a vice on her nerves, she retrieved the god's grade healing potion and presented it to David, staring at it, mentally running through the memory of its brewing, trying to remember if she'd made any mistake, bec-

She jolted as his hands cupped hers, and looked up to find him smiling at her while pushing trust and faith in her skill, and reassurance that everything would be fine, through their link.

She let her ears droop down and allowed her lips to form into a smile of her own, then let go of the phial and took a step back.

He uncorked it and swallowed its contents, depositing the phial on the nightstand.

Then, he waited.

And waited.

His body began itching, the higher-grade potion healing the minute tears that the previous one couldn't.

His eye socket, however, remained empty.

He looked at Niala with what he hoped was a comforting smile, as she met his gaze with tears beginning to swell in the corner of her eyes.

And then someone drove a searing spear into his skull.

And he passed out.

Niala sprang forward, just barely catching David as he doubled over. She cursed the founding gods and the hundred saints as he lay limp in her arms.

Why did it always have to go wrong?

With a small grunt, she pushed him back and down onto the bed. Jumping up on her knees, she knee-walked up to his face and looked down, fearing the worst.

Instead, she had to suppress her gag reflex as a gross lump of fluids and white flesh began bubbling inside David's empty socket, growing and kicking, like a balloon being inflated by punches.

She couldn't look away.

Over agonizing minutes, the gummy soup took shape and colour. The sclera formed, with blood capillaries appearing under its surface, then a cornea, and finally an iris, before David's eyelid was squeezed out of the socket and covered the regenerated oculus.

She stayed kneeling beside him, with nothing but the tip of her tail swishing.

Time passed, meaningless to her.

David twitched, then stirred. His eyes fluttered open.

Both of his beautiful blue eyes.

He winced, then blinked a few times. He passed a hand over his face, and again.

He looked up at his wife's face hanging over him and gave her a smile that reached his eyes.

She smiled back, her anxiety draining away into tears of joy, and flung herself at his neck, kissing him repeatedly, rubbing her cheek in between.

He put his arms around her. Eventually, as her nervous energy drained away, she stilled and cuddled up against him. “I was really scared it wasn't going to work.”

He tightened his arm around her. “I wasn't. Even if that particular potion hadn't worked, I knew you'd figure something out.”

“... Sometimes, I think you have too much faith in me.” She admitted.

He planted a light kiss on her forehead. “So far, I haven't been proven wrong.”

They let silence envelope them once more.

After a while, he turned his eyes toward her. “You know, while I was out, I had an interesting talk with Leviathan.”

She turned her head to look at him. “Oh? What did he say?”

He smiled.

SOME TIME AGO

David's consciousness was slammed out of his body and into his inner world. The impact pushed the non-existent air out of his figurative lungs.

He gasped for a breath that never came. His thoughts chased themselves, never settling into place. The first that he was aware of his location was when he felt a scaly mass of flesh support his body.

The physical contact ignited a spark in his brain, and from there, understanding bloomed. He was in his inner world. He didn't need to breathe. The body beneath his hands, holding him up, was Leviathan.

He let his confusion drift away and twisted to sit down. Looking up, he met the sea serpent's huge face, staring down at him with concern. “My lord, are you well?”

David blinked, nodding once. “Y-yeah. I think so. Thanks, Lev. I... that was strange.”

“It still is strange. The waters are disturbed.”

Frowning, David looked over the side of Leviathan's body. Below him, the mana sea was churning, mana currents acting like eels trying to eat each other. All of that, underneath the mirror-flat surface that remained still and unbroken.

“Why is it doing that?”

“It is fighting.”

David looked up at his mana beast. “Fighting what?”

Leviathan's head shifted and pointed to the distance. “That. An influence. A command it wants to reject. An edict it cannot ignore.”

He followed the sea serpent's eyesight, his own eyes widening when he spotted the violet star burning away beneath the surface. The mana surrounding it looked like it was trying to escape, only to be pulled in.

“That doesn't look good.”

Leviathan glanced at him for a second before returning his focus to the phenomenon. “It is not malicious. I can sense Lady Niala's touch radiating from it. It is forcing the mana to listen to it.”

David stared at the star some more, loosening his grip on his self, letting his senses flow outward. When they brushed against the star, a feeling of playfulness, love, and dedication tingled against his mind.

That sure did remind him of Niala.

If Leviathan was right, then this was what her god's grade potion did. It overpowered the imbiber's mana, forcing it to do the potion's bidding, no matter how unnatural it was.

His wife could be utterly scary. He idly thought that, if he weren't married to her and didn't know her as well as he did, he would most certainly be having second thoughts about having drunk that potion right now.

Fortunately, he was married to her, so he could safely put this reality-bending display out of his mind.

He looked up at Leviathan. “While I'm here... did you feel the siphons close, earlier?”

His mana aspect turned its ponderous head his way. “Yes, my Lord. I could feel Lady Niala's essence pierce the sky and pull away the filth. However, the tears did not fully close.”

David quirked an eyebrow. “The holes left behind by the fel didn't heal?”

Leviathan shook his head. “The outer edges were cauterized, but there remain gaps. They are closed, right now, but when the pressure of your mana increases, they re-open.”

“That sounds... potentially bad.”

“Does it? I thought they were useful. They allowed me to propagate your command into the outside world.”

David blinked at his mana beast. “...Propagate my command? You mean... Leviathan, do you mean that the thin wisps of mana were your doing?”

The sea serpent's head tilted. “Is that what it looked like? From here, I saw portals open to the outside world. I interpreted your command and ordered the mana to obey, coating it with my will so it would behave.”

David sat cross-legged on Leviathan's body, thinking back on everything he had said and how his mana had behaved earlier.

He wasn't even close to being a manalogist, but he could make a few educated guesses.

The facts: first, the holes in his mana pathways were now... mouths? Sphincters? Let's go with Sphincters. They opened by themselves when he was pushing a lot of mana out. This gave Leviathan a way out.

He guessed that his mana aspect was capable of such a feat because it had already gone out there. Had the world somehow accepted his existence? Was Leviathan's essence recognized as a physical vessel, even though he was made of mana?

...Was he even only made of mana anymore? What if his pseudo-materialization had made him more? He knew that mana could exist in very tenuous “physical” objects, like fog and air currents.

Airship mana-collecting sails and fins wouldn't have worked otherwise.

Taken together, this meant that Leviathan was simply sending itself out into the normal world through the mana sphincters in David's pathways. There, because the world recognized Leviathan as a suitable vessel, the mana that he carried with him didn't seep back through the aetheric barrier.

Instead, it followed Leviathan's directions.

That meant that David could now send his mana out, through Leviathan, outside of his immediate reach.

And if he could send his mana out...

Could he apply his imbuements to it before it went out?

His eye itched. The one that he was missing in the real world. Slowly, his connection with his physical body reasserted itself.

He looked out toward where the violet star had been, finding it gone. The mana sea had returned to its placid state.

Niala's potion had run its course.

He looked at his aspect. “Thanks for the support, Lev. I'm going to run a few tests with these new... sphincters of mine. Can you keep doing what you were doing before? With my mana?”

The sea serpent bowed its head. “Of course, my Lord. It is my pleasure to make use of your sphincters.”

“...Buddy. No. Just, no.”

NOW

David stared ahead, waiting patiently while Niala cried her eyes out, hitting his shoulder with the flat of her fist now and then.

“Sphinct- SPHINCTERS! HAHAHAHA! David! You- Hahaha! You're pooping out your mana! pffft hahaha- it's horrible!”

He sighed and let her work it out of her system. After a few minutes, her laugh turned into intermittent giggles before stopping altogether. She sniffed, rubbed her eyes, and looked up at him, her face still split apart by a huge smile.

He looked back. “All done?”

She nodded.

“Then... I want to try something.”

He got up, thought for a second, and powered up his Iron Body imbuement. The feeling of resilience settled into his flesh without any pain or discomfort, just like before.

A small knot that had remained wound inside of him snapped apart. He had had faith in Niala's potions, but the whole ordeal had proven that they couldn't heal everything. Even if his new...

Right, maybe sphincter wasn't the best choice.

Even if his new sphincters didn't seem to hurt or hinder him right now, they hadn't gone away. He had hoped this wouldn't have an impact on his imbuements, and it looked like it didn't.

Concentrating, he grabbed the effect of his imbuement and... pushed it out, toward the bed.

He had to try a few times, the imbuement slipping out of his mental grasp a few times. Eventually, though, he got a good grip, and, just as he'd hoped, the wispy bands of mana that he now knew were Leviathan's extended out of his neck.

Niala got up from the bed, watching the weaving mana strands reach and touch the bed. As with the grounding rod, a beam of blue energy filled the void within the strands and connected to the bed.

David kept it there and nodded at Niala. She took a pencil out and pressed it into the bed.

Only for its tip to hit a solid barrier. The bed sheet had no give. It was solid like... like iron.

She turned her head toward David, wide-eyed, ears wiggling, and smiling.

He smiled back.

They spent some more time testing the ability and found that the more mana David pushed out, the faster and more visible the initial strands were, which made sense. As well, once “connected” to an object, as long as David kept the mana stream up, the link would remain, bending and stretching as needed.

There were plenty more tests to do, such as whether he could do this on a living thing, even a person, but for now, he had a single thought.

This is going to be fun.