Too bad that intuition didn’t tell her how long healing took or if there was anything she could do to help it along. The little magic singes she’d gotten from her fights in the pit had already healed, but those were minor compared to this. She hoped her high constitution would also mean she healed faster, but who really knew at this point. Oh well. It looked like she’d just have to wait and see.

Until then, Pyre was confident she was fine to move deeper into the forest. She still had bones to spear stuff with, and in a worst case scenario, there was always the good old “slam and crush into ground” tactic. Now that she had tangible proof of her durability, she was more than willing to test her chances on whatever other fucked up animals lived in the forest. There was still lots of shards and experience to be gained.

What direction to go first, though? As large as her body was right now, she still wasn’t tall enough to see past the trees and definitely not Fred’s mini-mountain.

Her gaze shifted over to the lights by the leaves, then down the faint lines in the bark to the same traces of silver glowing far below the grasses and earth. Following one of these “streams” seemed like a decent place to start. It wasn’t like she had any better ideas, and keeping to some kind of set path would make it easier to find her way back. She did still want to know what a giant dead demon corpse was doing in the middle of the forest and how it had created a bunch of sentient flesh lumps, after all, and she’d need to remember where Fred was located to come back and do more research later.

For now, Pyre morphed her flesh into a slightly more compact shape and, after some testing, spread her two active eyes around to maximize her vision as much as possible. She paused briefly to listen for any other signs of life, but after that rabbit earlier, there’d been nothing but the whistling wind and the distant rustles of branches and leaves.

Satisfied, Pyre dragged herself over to one of those faint streams—the brightest one she could make out. One end traveled back to the giant mound, as she already knew, but the other extended further into the trees beyond what she could see from her current position.

With one final glance back at the lonely hill, Pyre turned away and headed deeper into the forest.
