“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Pressing his palms together in prayer, Monk Bones lowers his head to ponder the question before coming up with a response. “Perhaps you are correct in this, Brother Rain,” he eventually replies, much to the chagrin of his fellow monks, but there are a few heads that nod along in agreement. “One cannot truly deny temptation when there is no temptation to be denied, but our exile from the mortal world was not entirely self-imposed.”

“I understand and accept this,” I begin, for once, trying to choose my words carefully, “But this is merely one facet of the Brotherhood’s flaws, flaws I find difficult to put into words. You believe you hold the Path to salvation, the means to end this meaningless suffering and usher us into a new state of existence, so you sit here in your monastery and pursue this goal while isolated from the world around you.” Thinking back to my discussion with the Guardian Monk, I finally figure out how to give voice to my dissatisfaction. “The Right View states that actions have consequences, so the Brotherhood has chosen inaction as their default response, but even inaction can give rise to harm. It’s true that an individual can only take responsibility for their own actions, but a wise man once said that the only thing necessary for evil to triumph is for good people to do nothing, and that is exactly what you good people have all chosen. To do nothing. To stand aside and apart while others commit atrocities without even trying to stop them. How can you call this the Right View? All you’ve done is narrowed your perspectives until you cannot see the consequences of your inaction, and in so doing, have allowed said consequences to thrive out of sight. Just because a farmer does not see the rot, does not mean his crops won’t wither and die, the same way the shepherd’s flock is not safe from the wolves he fails to spot. By your logic, Healing a soldier mid-battle would be wrong, for your actions would result in further harm, but while both sides are wrong to resort to violence, I would rather cause harm with good intentions rather than stand idly by and let harm come to those undeserving.”

The crowd mutters and mumbles amongst themselves, and I hear more than one monk repeating my bit about good people doing nothing, which means I’ve most definitely struck a chord. “Maybe I’m wrong and there are circumstances beyond what I know, but from the first day I learned of the Brotherhood’s Path and the resources at your disposal, I have always felt like there was so much good you could do. Imagine my disappointment when I learned that instead of using your knowledge and skills to better the world, you instead hide in your monasteries so that nothing and no one can affect you.”

“And what would you have us do?” A different monk chimes in this time, a younger monk with giant ears who doesn’t seem like he holds much authority, given the silent reproach directed his way by the more senior members around him. Undeterred by their admonishments, Monk Dumbo purses his lips in an almost sneer and continues, “Would you have us take up arms and slaughter the Defiled? Pledge ourselves to fight your battles so that you might unite the Outer Provinces beneath you? Bring our battle to the Imperial Clan and topple their regime, only to see it replaced by another with you upon the throne?”

“Oh god no.” One good thing about my inability to control my Aura is that the monks know my reaction is genuine abhorrence. “I would welcome any of you with open arms if you should choose to fight at my side, but I do not begrudge you your peaceful existence. In fact, I envy it, but I cannot bring myself to embrace it for various reasons. Nor would I ever want to be Emperor, because that just sounds like a miserable job. All that responsibility is just... ugh. No thanks.” Honestly, when I get back, I might just let Shuai Jiao keep his job, assuming he hasn’t made any massive, unforgivable blunders. I never wanted the job in the first place, and so long as he has the welfare of the Empire at the top of his priorities, then the wannabe monk of a Colonel General can do whatever the fuck he wants.

“As for what would I have you do?” Pausing to consider how to best explain it, I stare at the comatose Abbot and Send, “Pay attention to this next bit, because it’s important.” Out loud, I continue, “Well... that’s a question not so easily answered, because first, we have to address yet another significant difference in opinion, namely the Four Noble Truths. First, Life is suffering, and in suffering we find life. Second, we suffer because of the Three Desires. Third, there is a way to escape, by divesting ourselves of the Three Desires and attaining Nirvana. Fourth, the way to attain Nirvana is by following the Noble Eight-fold Path. Those are the Four Noble Truths as I know them, so if there are any corrections to be made, then please share them now.”

No one has anything to add, though I hear a few mutters about how my ‘elementary understanding’ is ‘sufficient for now’. Well bully to them, because I got that breakdown from Mahakala himself. “I agree with you up to the ‘life is suffering’ bit, after which our Paths diverge. The Four Noble Truths would have you focus on escaping the cycle of reincarnation, whereas I would rather devote my efforts to making sure the next generation suffers just a little less than this current one. That’s all.” With a shrug, I explain, “I want my children and grandchildren to have things easier than I did, but the problem is, might makes right, and there’s no guarantee that the next generation will be as strong as this one. So what can I do?”

“You mean to take power from the nobles, merchants, and Warriors of the Empire and spread it amongst the common people,” another Monk replies, one with a giant mole who also spoke earlier. Surprised by Monk Mole’s spot on answer, he smiles and bows his head in respect. “The Brotherhood obtained copies of the book you presented to Shen ZhenWu, as well as transcripts of what was said. ‘Literacy is the foundation upon which all learning is built, and education intrinsically tied to economy’. You laid your plans out for all to hear in a single sentence, but few cared to truly listen. By educating the populace, you empower them to not only uplift the economy, but also become invaluable to it as well, thereby raising the status of scholars, tradesmen, and otherwise educated individuals in general.”

It’s so nice speaking with people who understand me, which makes it all the more frustrating to see all this brainpower go to waste. Then again, if the Brotherhood caught onto my intentions, I doubt it slipped past Shen ZhenWu either, which means this might well be the reason why he invested so much into making me his damnable pawn, so he could control me and end the threat I represent. I probably overstepped my bounds releasing the book when I did, but in my defence, it seemed like a good idea at the time.

Sadly, even though I think my idea holds merit, the Brotherhood are not of the same mind. “Your efforts would do little to ease suffering,” a third monk interjects, one I dub Monk Liver Spots for reasons which need not be said. “A redistribution of power will change nothing in the long run, only rearrange the playing board a little bit until the scales of balance find equilibrium once again. Greed will always exist, as will hatred, lust, and all other manner of sins, for without them, there can be no Balance.”

“Possibly true.” Nodding in agreement, I retort, “But just because failure is likely, that does not mean I should not try. Right this very moment, there could be a farmer in possession of knowledge that could change the horticultural world as we know it, or a mathematical savant who can progress our understanding of physics by leaps and bounds, or who knows what else, but as things stand now, these uncut gems might well live and die without their true potential being realized. The world is filled with untapped talents, brilliant minds filled with revolutionary ideas that are simply too busy living hand to mouth to do anything else, but that is not how things have to always be. My dream is to uplift all of humanity so that others have the chance to contribute their own efforts, for a rising tide raises all ships, and humanity has been landlocked for far too long.”

I am only so passionate because I know how much potential humanity still has untapped and how close we are to an industrial revolution. The technology of the Azure Empire is far from primitive, considering they have pocket-watches, firecrackers, steel crucibles, and so much more, but any sort of progress over the last few thousand years might as well be non-existent. A few steps forward is all we need to thrust the Empire into a technological revolution, and only then will people realize how much farther humanity still has to go. “And it’s not just science and technology that could benefit either. I wholeheartedly believe our fundamental understanding of the Dao is flawed beyond repair, and that we would do well to re-examine everything we think we know. A friend of mine once told me that Balance was a concept we humans are ill-suited for, that we are fragile emotional creatures, capable of observation and thought which many scholars believe hinders our progress. Animals naturally seek Balance, but humans must reach for it, struggle to hold it, which is why there has yet to be a single person who has truly mastered it. Add in the fact that Defiled tribesmen have a near 100% success rate when it comes to Core Creation, this proves that there must be something fundamentally wrong with our understanding of this first, vital milestone. So rather than sticking to tried and true methods that we know are flawed, why do we not seek an alternative Path, one that is neither Defiled nor Imperial, but incorporates the best of both worlds while doing away with the worst?”

Again, I’m getting off the beaten track, but that happens whenever I find a thread interesting enough to pull on. Food for thought, at least, but for now, I must continue my efforts to rally support from the monks. “Perhaps my goals are unrealistic and my efforts will ultimately prove futile, but so what? We are all mortal and will eventually die, but that won’t stop me from saving a drowning man or feeding a starving child, so why should the possibility of failure keep me from trying? What is it you monks like to say? Saving a life is better than building a seven story pagoda, right?” A chorus of agreements sound out as the crowd considers my words more carefully now that I’ve said something of worth. “And therein lies what I see as the Brotherhood’s greatest failing, all talk and no action. I spoke with the Abbot recently, and he told me of a time when the Brotherhood fed the hungry and gave sermons to educate and reassure the common people.” Showed me, in fact, but it’d take too much effort to explain it, and the monks take me at my word. “This was a long time ago, before even the Abbot was inducted into the Brotherhood, before you were even called the Penitent Brotherhood, and I sensed in his tale a longing for these earlier times, when monks took an active part in the mortal world around them. Teachers, counsellors, mediators, and more, the monks of his Mentor’s time were a different breed from the ones I see standing before me.”

A harsh rebuke, but one well deserved, for the Penitent Brotherhood have focused on their own salvation at the expense of everything else. “You help those who seek you out, but otherwise, you cannot be bothered to lift a finger, because to do so would slow your personal progress along the Path. While your intentions are good, the Brotherhood as whole lacks empathy, compassion, and benevolence, which I believe are the true source of humanity’s strength. We are not faster than the tiger, or stronger than the bull, but when we band together as one and exercise our ingenuity, then there is no trial or tribulation we cannot overcome.” Offering the crowd a helpless shrug to convey my apology, I add, “But you, with all the knowledge you possess and power at your disposal, have chosen to not only hoard your knowledge without sharing, but also stand apart from the world despite knowing that one of your former brethren now seeks to destroy it.”

Pointing west towards where I assume the Defiled retreated, I let the heat of my anger colour my tone as I go in hard on the Brotherhood. “The former Wisdom Vyakhya has now allied himself with the Uniter, a monstrous, eight-hundred year old torturer by the name of Zhen Shi, and together, they hold the means to unbalance the world and break the cycle of reincarnation. They mean to end suffering as we know it alongside everything else in existence, reducing this world and countless others to nihility and nothingness. The Abbot’s Senior Brother warned me of this himself, and in his dying declaration claimed that the Brotherhood is striving to right this wrong and fix this imbalance, but so far, I have seen no evidence that this is true.” Sweeping my gaze across the crowd, I add, “Or perhaps he meant the Brotherhood of old, not the reclusive, self-indulgent Penitent Brotherhood I see before me.” Caught up in my own self righteous rant, I add, “And why are you strictly a ‘Brotherhood’ anyways? Who decided this whole ‘no women allowed’ bullshit? What, you don’t think women are deserving of salvation? That they aren’t even allowed to try? That’s just plain sexist, and you all need to rethink your values.”

