It’s a long shot, but like Taduk said, a drowning man will grasp at anything in order to survive. Muttering a small prayer in hopes that this is enough, I take the Abbot’s hand and close my eyes before opening myself to the Heavens. Drawing the power of Creation and Destruction towards me, I close off my Core and divert the Heavenly Energy towards the Abbot, using not just my own Aura and the remaining usable Heavenly Energy left to me, but also the Auras of all the gathered monks, as well as their directed, soothing chants which fill me with daring confidence. For a second, the Energy of the Heavens wavers in place, and I fear it will soon escape my control and return to the world without ever affecting the Abbot, but then his Core opens to receive my aid, and the torrential surge sweeps me off of my feet.

Seconds, minutes, hours, or even days, how much time passes, I cannot say as I ride the fine line between struggle and surrender to bend the Energy of the Heavens to my Will. Though the details escape me, I know things are going well as the Abbot’s body greedily consumes everything I have to throw at it. His physical and metaphysical wounds far more extensive than I even imagined, but where there is a will, there is a way, and I am nothing if not stubborn. Without warning, the storm breaks and the deluge stalls, a sudden release that catches me off guard as the tension just flows out of my body. Landing in a soft embrace of warmth and serenity, I slip into the dark oblivion of restful slumber, knowing I’ve finally done something right. The Abbot should be back on his feet in no time, and if not, I can just pop over to the nearest battlefield and Succ some Spectres to refuel before coming back to finish. No fuss, no muss, and with all my ducks finally in a row, I can rest easy knowing there are no immediate fires which need putting out.

Now all that’s left to do is go back to the Citadel, snuggle some quin pups, reclaim my place as Legate, and work with Shuai Jiao on a plan to drive the Defiled out of Central before embarking on our crusade to retake the Western Province.

Easy peasy, lemon squeezy.

Chapter Meme
