Standing firm before a deluge of anger, animosity, and general indignation, it occurs to me I probably should’ve expected the Brotherhood monks to have access to Emotional Aura and prepared accordingly.

I still don’t understand why there are different variants of Aura running around, or why the general population of the outer provinces are only aware of the standard vanilla Aura, but this is just more proof of the Imperial Clan doing everything they can to keep the outer provinces ignorant and weak. Combined with my recent revelation regarding the true reason why we cremate our dead, as well as the knowledge that forbidden human jerky can help one ascend to Divinity, and I’m starting to wonder if I’m fighting for the wrong side. Not to say I have an urge to consume the flesh of my enemies and wear clothes and jewellery fashioned from their remains, but knowing I’ve allied myself with the lesser of two evils is not a great feeling. We all want to be the hero of our own stories, but when you take a step back and realize you’ve been fighting for the wrong reasons, well… that just opens up a whole host of unsavoury comparisons.

Which of course sets off a deluge of conflicted emotions, ones I have no choice but to share with the gathered monks of the Brotherhood. A good thing they’re all riled up though, because I’m gonna need them to be emotionally charged for what I have in mind.

“The Noble Eight-Fold Path is simple in concept, but complex in execution.” Scanning the crowd without seeing any one individual in particular, I bring to mind a conflict that might well have defined who I am today. “To better explain my thoughts and perspective, allow me to first share with you a tale. As some of you may know, I took part in a conflict in Sanshu involving a Defiled army hiding in plain sight as bandits and rebels, but the story is not so simple as it appears. What you may not know is that the Defiled bandit leader, Yo Ling, was a former Major of the Imperial Army who turned to crime when he received word his parents had been cast out of Sanshu and into the wilds, where they died of exposure before word of their plight could reach him.”

There are no gasps or mutters to greet my reveal, and I suspect some of the monks already knew this, but there are enough looks of confusion and interest to bolster my confidence and continue. “In Yo Ling’s eyes, his actions were justified, taking up arms against a corrupt regime who drove his parents to death. Banditry was just a means to an end, and what harm was there in stealing from those who profited from exploiting the helpless? His brother, Liu Gan, admitted that their initial plan was to gather wealth and power to oppose the Empire and carve out a piece of paradise, one where the common people could live without fear of their noble oppressors, and yet you all know how it ended. So I asked myself, ‘Where did it all go wrong? How did Yo Ling’s noble cause devolve into an unrepentant desire to cause chaos and bloodshed no matter the cost?’.” Scanning the crowd for my loved ones, I see Taduk standing with Lin-Lin and Li-Li at the back of the crowd, here to support me in my endeavours once more, and my heart warms at the sight of their smiling faces, especially Li-Li’s rare, contented expression. Willing myself not to get distracted, I continue, “One of the last things Yo Ling said was that he would rather see the whole world burn than let things stay the same, and it scared me how much I sympathized with this sentiment. If my loved ones were harmed due to Imperial meddling, I can easily see myself following in those same footsteps, taking up arms against the Imperial Clan in order to defend or avenge my family and friends.”

Seeing Taduk’s sorrowful smile almost breaks my heart, for I see in it more grief and heartache than I can ever imagine. No doubt he too has suffered from the attentions of the Imperial Clan, perhaps hunted like Guan Suo had been on account of his heritage, and I can only pray that his peaceful days have not come to an end because of me. Then again, thinking back to the night Mahakala passed away, I suspect Taduk’s status was something of an open secret, seeing how the other Divinities allowed him a seat at their table alongside a cup of tea possibly poured by Shen ZhenWu himself. Actually, now that I think about it, there were a lot more clues sprinkled about, like how he meditates while asleep and never learned the Forms, yet is somehow a Medical Saint who can Cloud-Step with the best of them. Then there’s the fact that even Divinities seek him out for Healing, and a whole host of other nuggets and tidbits I’d just plain missed. Hang on… Is Fung’s half-weasel manservant, Fu Zhu Li, also a Divinity? He showed up when Guan Suo, Gang Shu, and the Abbot came back from their battle against the Enemy Divinities, and while he was unable to save poor Guan Suo in the end, it still speaks volumes to his skill that he was able to even try.

Stop getting side-tracked Rain. Focus on the here and now. Turning my attention back to the crowd, I continue, “Yo Ling’s story is not unique, for there was also Mao Jianghong, the traitor Guard Captain of Sanshu opened the gates to the Defiled army and now serves as the Enemy’s Marshal.” That last bit is news to everyone present, as I only learned it after becoming Legate and was told to keep it to myself, but my Imperial Dao Protector hasn’t been around for months now, so fuck him and his instructions. “An in-depth investigation after the fact uncovered that Mao Jianghong lost his entire family to a bandit attack, one orchestrated by the Merchant Council of Sanshu. You see, the Mao Family was earning too much money without paying their proper dues, so the Merchant Council took it upon themselves to eliminate the competition. Jianghong’s life was saved by a nearby mercenary unit, who were only in the area because they were following the trail of a different group of bandits and therefore had not been expected. His sister was saved too, but she took her own life a few days later, after which Jianghong sold his family’s holdings and joined the Guard. No doubt to ensure others would not have to suffer the traumatic events he himself went through, but his new station only opened his eyes to the rampant corruption throughout the city, which we assume led him to throw in with Yo Ling and Butcher Bay. What would I have done in his place? Something similar no doubt, and that scares me more than anything else.”

Again, there is no reaction from the crowd, but at least I still have their attention. “Now let us go back even further, to a more personal conflict of mine. At the age of sixteen, I was invited to take part in the Heaven and Earth Society’s Contest of Champions, an event for youths of the Northern Province to show their mettle and be rewarded for their efforts. On the surface at least. In truth, it’s mostly a means for the Society to showcase their own young talents and brag about their future potential, so when my friends and I eliminated several parties of Society competitors, we were then set up for failure. After rewarding us with valuable elixirs and Runic rings, the Society arranged to have my party killed and robbed by ‘bandits’ on our way home in order to reclaim their ‘gifts’ without losing face. During the escape, I fought and killed a man, and in doing so, earned the ire of his uncle, one Ming Zhong Lang. Never mind that several people in my party almost died several times during our escape, myself included, or the fact that the Society were the aggressors and therefore reaping what they’d sown. Ming Zhong Lang cared nothing for the facts and led a group of mercenary warriors to assault my homeland.” Without going into too much detail, I stifle a sigh and say, “I killed him and found his journal. In it, I discovered how much he cared for his deceased nephew and realized the lengths he would go to for love of family. Again I wondered what I would do in his place and could not fault him for his decisions.”

Having said this much, I finally take a deep breath and turn towards the guardian monks, specifically the oldest looking one who is clearly their leader. “Not one hour past, I spoke with this monk here, and he said something that made me think. Sin begets sin, which I suppose is where most of you believe the people above went wrong. You of the Brotherhood would argue that Yo Ling, Liu Gan, Mao Jianghong, myself, and countless others succumb to sin because we seek to right the wrongs of the world through bloodshed and violence, and sin only begets sin. Am I wrong to say this?”

“Not wrong at all,” Monk Bones declares, and the crowd chimes in with a chorus of agreement. “The first step along the Noble Eight-Fold Path is to accept the Right View, that our actions and beliefs have consequences after death. For this reason, we adhere to the Right Resolve, which is to renounce worldly desires and dedicate ourselves to an ascetic lifestyle, one in which we do no harm, whether it be through speech or action. Thus do we hold true to Right Speech and Right Action, by accepting the Right Livelihood and Right Effort. Each step along the Noble Eight-Fold Path brings you to the next, and such is our Path defined.”

“An admirable undertaking.” Trying to sound as sincere as can be, I bow my head out of respect for their praiseworthy intentions, even though I wholeheartedly disagree with the direction they’ve taken. “And yet, herein lies the difference in our opinions, for I feel the Brotherhood has lost sight of their goal starting from the first step, overlooking the consequences of your actions in favour of your own selfish pursuits.” Pausing for a moment to let the angry muttering grow and die out, I meet the gaze of each and every monk who seeks to challenge me, and I do not back down. Credit where credit is due, the monks do not collectively toss me out on my ass and instead wait for me to explain myself, which is more tolerance than I would find anywhere else in the Empire.

Which is half the reason why I’m doing this, because I’m pretty sure they won’t flatten me like a pancake, not before hearing me out first. Then they might flatten me, but the other half is because I have two Ancestral Beasts in my corner and an Emperor Turtle to boot, so my haters can get rekt. “You forsake the Three Desires and accept the Four Noble Truths, the last of which states that the Noble Eight-Fold Path is the route to salvation. For the sake of this discussion, let us say this is all correct, and that I wholeheartedly agree with the above statements.” Despite knowing this will ruffle their feathers, I can’t bring myself to accept the Four Noble Truths, and not just because I enjoy sex, fame, and alcohol more than I should. There’s just an underlying difference in perspective that I cannot get around, but that is a discussion best left until later. “Even if I agree that the way forward is to seek Nirvana, what is the purpose of doing so? To ascend to the next world and what? If life is suffering, what difference will it make, whether we exist in this plane or the next?”

“Nirvana is not the goal, Brother Rain,” Monk Bones replies, looking serious as I’ve ever seen him, “But rather the reward. An ultimate state of release, freedom from the cycle of life and rebirth. Life is suffering, but only because it is impermanent, a fleeting and ephemeral existence to experience before wiping the slate clean to begin anew. Suffering without purpose, one might even say, for mere survival is but a temporary respite in a lifetime of trials and tribulations.”

Well that just makes things even worse. “And what will you do if the next plane is no different from this one? Life by definition is a struggle for survival, this remains as true for a Divinity as it does for a lowly ant, all of us just eking out a means to survive upon this world we reside in, so who is to say things are any different elsewhere?”

“In this matter, there is no recourse for reconciliation,” Monk Bones replies, and even Monk Happy, who supposedly supports me, nods his head in agreement. “Such is our belief, that Nirvana is the freedom we so desire, for only a True Divinity can have the power to break free of the shackles of mortality. If this is not so, and at the end of my Path, I find Nirvana is unattainable or even non-existent, then at least I will have lived the best life possible, one as free from harm and sin as humanly possible.”

“Fair enough.” Mahakala made the exact same argument, so I suspected I would arrive at this particular impasse and move on instead of trying to convince them that their faith is wrong, because there is no arguing against faith. Honestly, I don’t even think they’re all that wrong, because they do live lives free of harm and sin, or at least they endeavour to. Instead, I try a different tack and go back to discussing their methods instead. “Then let us put aside our disagreement regarding your goals and focus on the Brotherhood’s methods once more. You seek Nirvana by following the Noble Eight-Fold Path, part of which states that you must live in a manner that causes no harm. For this reason and others, the Abbot brought the Brotherhood into the Arid Wastes and built your monasteries away from any and all civilization, far from the temptations of the mortal world. You even castrate yourselves to do away with ‘distraction’, but I cannot accept this as proper. Do you believe that the absence of temptation is the same as wilful denial?”

