Amidst the sea of sheepish stares, I catch the barest hint of a girlish giggle and do my best not to laugh along, but my Aura gives me away as I inwardly giggle alongside my sweet wifey. Okay, so I’m being a little overboard, but I’m making totally valid points. I get it, they don’t accept women because they would become a source of temptation, but it seems kinda rude just to consign an entire gender to eternal suffering until they’re lucky enough to be born a man.

Recovering from this unrelated detour, I do my best to sum up everything in a way that will leave an impact on these monks. “In short, I believe that all of you have set out on this Path with the wrong perspective. There might not necessarily be anything wrong with the Noble Eight-Fold Path, but your interpretation and execution of said Path leaves much to be desired. I brought a few points I don’t agree with, and Heavens know there are others, but like I told you all earlier, I believe this is why the Abbot inducted me into the Brotherhood sight unseen. Not so I can lead you as some first among equals, but so I could challenge your understanding and force you to rethink your perspectives. In fact, there’s a good chance I’m wrong about many things, because everything I’ve shared is based on my own unique perspective, but that doesn’t mean your choices are not worth scrutinizing. You are only responsible for your own actions, but in the same vein, only you can hold yourself accountable for your own inner motivations.”

My piece said, I settle back on my heels and covertly glance at Jorani, my signal for him to speak, but he’s busy whispering to his pregnant Defiled lady friend who looks torn between eating Jorani for a snack or patting him on the head like a cute toddler. They’re oddly adorable together, in a sort of mismatched sort of way, but I’m not sensing any sort of romance between them, though I think it would be great if they developed that way. Curious though I may be as to how their relationship will progress, it’s best to strike whilst the iron is hot, and the monks are primed for persuading now that I’ve stoked the fires of fury. Picturing the sound-waves and doing my best not to think too hard about how accurate a representation they really are, I Send, “If you don’t mind Jorani, but now would be a great time to chime in.”

Surprised by the Sending, he just barely manages to keep from jumping out of his skin and steps forward before regaining his calm. “Er hi all,” he begins, awkward as hell and visibly nervous to anyone with eyes as he straightens up to speak. “I’m err... Jorani. Dunno why I introduce meself, as ye all know me. Least I think ye do, as I’ve met ye all at least once or twice, but just in case, err.. I’m Jorani.” Resisting the urge to palm my face, I commit every iota of self-control I possess towards keeping a straight face and unamused Aura, but only succeed by the barest of margins. “Anyways,” Jorani continues, wholly aware of the hidden smiles and stifled laughter by the shade of his scarlet cheeks, “Ye probably also know I’m one of the bossman – err Falling Rain’s – err... the Legate’s... well, soldiers I guess. Friend too. Comrade in arms? We’re close, is what I’m sayin’. I met him in Sanshu when he captured me and put an’ end to me bandit ways, and I been with him ever since, so I figure I know him better than most.” Clearing his throat, he glances down at his feet in the least convincing manner possible and says, “So err... well, bein’ honest, I know the bossman was mostly talkin’ out his ass and got a lot of what the Brotherhood does wrong, but he was right about one thing; fer all the talk about saving lives bein’ better than buildin’ pagodas, the Brotherhood don’t do much of either.”

...I should’ve picked someone else to speak. Anyone else. Even Taddy would’ve done a better job. Ral would’ve been more convincing, and I’ve known Pong Pong to be more eloquent. God damn it Jorani...

Still unwilling to meet my eyes, Jorani turns to face the crowd, though from where he stands in the middle left, there’s no way he can face everyone at once. “Now this ain’t a criticism, not really,” he continues, smoothing his robes to hide his nervous tics. “I mean, ain’t no one obligated to do charity, ye know? Gotta look after you and yers first, amirite? Cept... that ain’t how the bossman sees things. There ain’t no one more charitable than he is. Could’ve saved himself a lot of grief and heartache if he learned to ignore pain when he sees it, but even though he’s the toughest son of a – err, toughest man I know, he’s a softie when it comes to protecting those who cannot protect themselves. It’s like he’s compelled to help wherever possible, and that’s because in his mind, he is. He’s strong, so he’s obligated to look after those weaker than him. He’s rich, so he’s obligated to help those less fortunate. He’s educated, so he’s obligated to teach as much as possible, that’s just the way he sees things. Don’t know why he is the way he is. Maybe it’s on account of his time as a slave, or mebbe it’s ‘cause he’s the Medical Saint’s student, but whatever the reason, he sees it as his duty to help people, and I’ll be damned if that’s not why I’d follow him into the Father’s Maw and back out again without thinking twice, and so would any soldier in his retinue.” Finally daring to meet my gaze, Jorani looks up to me with a sheepish smile. “He’s a good man, he is, and them’s a rare breed, especially for someone in his position. He looks out fer the little guy, you know? Even the ones who might not necessarily be on his side, so when he says the Brotherhood ain’t doin’ enough good, keep in mind he’s gauging by his high standards, and there probably ain’t anyone who measures up.”

After a long and almost uncomfortable silence, Monk Dumbo is first to speak once again, reiterating the same question he asked before. “Then... what would you have us do?” Before, he asked in challenge, to mock and denigrate my life’s choices, but now, he genuinely wants an answer.

Sadly, I don’t have one, not one I can give without regret. “Truth be told, I don’t know. I envy your lives here and regret having brought violence and bloodshed to your doorstep. I wish we lived in a world where you were free to peacefully pursue your Dao, but calamity has come to humanity’s doorstep and we cannot afford to ignore it. The Abbot knows this and tried to rally you all to your cause, and while I remain ignorant of the details, would I be correct to assume you rejected his call to arms and have decided to remain neutral in this ongoing conflict?” The monks exchange looks, but in the end, Monk Happy is the one to respond, offering a single nod to confirm my suspicions. “Do any of you know what he had planned?” Again, more looks exchanged before Monk Happy shakes his head, which is pretty much what I assumed. The Abbot seems like a fairly hands off leader, a guy used to just doing his own thing while the Brotherhood runs itself. Not the best leadership model, but it’s worked thus far, and if he were more determined to see his vision through instead of letting others choose their own Path, he probably could’ve rallied the Brotherhood behind him without any real effort.

Gesturing towards the comatose Abbot once more, looking so frail and weak upon his cot, with his brows drawn and jaw clenched even in sleep. There’s a good chance I’m responsible for his current frustrations, given how I’ve been bashing the Brotherhood for a good while now, but to be fair, they kinda deserve it. Also, I needed to make the monks feel lost and doubtful, so they’ll subconsciously rely on the Abbot again. “Well, this is the result of your neutrality. Your Abbot stood up against the Bristleboar Divinity, the same man who slew his Senior Martial Brother, and the traitor Wisdom moved to keep him in check. Some of you might disagree with his actions, believe he allowed his emotions to cloud his judgment, and you might even be right, but that does not mean he is no longer fit to be your Abbot.”

“When did we claim he wasn’t?” A squinty eyed monk is first to voice his displeasure, but Mole, Dumbo, Bones, and several others join in soon after. Caught off-guard by their vehement denial, I glance at the Abbot and stifle a sigh, only now realizing how internalized the Abbot’s struggle has been all this time. With his twin status as Abbot and Divinity, this was probably enough to isolate him from his fellow monks who hold him in too-high esteem, meaning he only had Mahakala and Vyakhya to talk to. The former was angry with him while the latter betrayed his trust, so I guess the Abbot was just starved for companionship even though he had several monasteries filled with brothers to talk to, all alone in a crowd of strangers who were supposed to be his family. That’s heartbreaking in so many ways, and I feel the urge to run over and give Taduk a hug, because I bet that’s how he felt before hiding his identity. Oh gods, Pong Pong too, with no Divine Turtle friends to hang out with, running all over the Azure Sea in search of a place to call home.

Immortality is not for me. I’d much rather live a mortal’s life and die long before my loved ones, so I never have to mourn a single one. That’s the dream, one that supersedes even bear hands, a normal, boring, happy life, filled with love and joy aplenty.

Upon hearing the chorus of support for their comatose leader, I put aside all stray thoughts and encourage the monks to speak up, to make their trust and devotion known, because this is exactly what the Abbot needs. He claimed he had no people to love or care about, and so he had nothing left to live for, but that’s clearly not true. Condensing my Aura to match the monks’ energy, I use it to entice Kukku and Tai Shan over as well, who promptly nuzzle the Abbot close in a darling display of affection. Rakky utters a little growl until Pong Pong does something to make him stop, but even then, the diffident tiger remains rooted in place while feigning indifference, though I notice he keeps the Abbot in sight at all times.

Monk Happy is the first to catch on to what I’m trying to do, and he unleashes an Aura of faith and devotion directed towards the Abbot. Several other monks join their Aura to his, while those incapable of doing so take up their drums and chant. Only now do I realize the Sutras are some sort of verbal focus for their emotions, an audible Rune if you will, though the comparison is not exact. Turning my attention to the Abbot, I Send, “These people love and respect you, but more importantly, they need you to guide them. Even if they do not accept your word as law, it does not mean you’ve failed them. In fact, I would say it means you’ve succeeded, because your goal was never to gather followers to your cause, but like-minded comrades to join you on your Path.”

This is what I learned from helping Li-Li repair her Core, that trust and goodwill can go a long way towards Healing. Why is that? Something Grandpa Du said once comes to mind, that ‘Aura is a metaphysical expression of courage or intimidation, whereas a Domain is in many ways an extension of Aura, in that it is a metaphysical expression of authority bestowed by the Heavens'. So what is an internal Domain, the barrier that keeps Chi from affecting another person directly? I likened it to an immune system for the metaphysical body, the parts we don’t know about that allow us to use and control Chi, but it might also be that within our bodies lies our own personal demesne, a space separate from the Heavens within which we hold full autonomous authority. We are the lords of our own domains essentially, and while this line of thought leaves many questions left to be asked and answered, they’re not all that important right now. The important thing is that Taduk said that in order to bypass this natural defense, the easiest way is to convince the patient that you hold no ill-will, which is easier said than done, because this requires an implicit trust that goes above and beyond what most people are capable of. Now, while I myself might not hold the Abbot’s trust, surely so many monks expressing their devotion and heartfelt admiration should be enough to win him over, right? I don’t know how to Heal without attempting to seize control, a flaw I am unable to correct in any short amount of time, but now I’m asking him to trust me for their sake, a plea delivered through Aura and quite possibly Domain. Just like there are emotional variations of Aura, why can’t there be different degrees of Domain, sort of like temporary permission to take control within a limited degree of authority.

In short, I’m backpacking on the packets of trust and goodwill being sent by the Brotherhood and asking the Abbot to trust me enough to give me limited remote access to his Domain, where I can maybe do a bit of troubleshooting and help him fix what’s wrong.

