Ali finished deconstructing the huge pile and moved on to the next one her Kobolds had gathered. Inspired by how efficiently the Kobolds had collected items and bodies from the battlefield, she was now using them to clear the dungeon in chunks. She had them fan out and collect all the loose bone piles, uproot all the Deathcap mushrooms, and kill any respawned monsters, piling it all up in a great big heap for her to Deconstruct.

It was hard work, but when she examined the results, she smiled, happy that it was entirely worth it.

Health: 250/250Stamina: 150/150Mana: 1541/2160 (619 Reserved)

With her Magical racial aptitude, she already earned fifteen mana per point of wisdom, which was fifty percent more than most races, but it was her Domain aptitude that really made the key difference. She could increase her mana pool by an additional one hundred percent if she simply planted enough moss and mushrooms, covering a broad enough area. This meant she was effectively getting thirty mana per point of wisdom – or three times the amount of a normal Elven or Human mage. Even with the steep reserve costs for maintaining her minions, she had surpassed two thousand total mana now, substantially increasing her capacity for summoning more minions, and even her regeneration too.

Suddenly, a flicker of green light seen out of the corner of her eye caught her attention and she whipped her head around to try and catch whatever it was. She had noticed this phenomenon several times now, but each time she tried to observe it, the light had vanished somehow. She held her breath and stared at the giant oak where she had seen the flickering light, carefully studying the flow of domain mana for any changes.

There it is!

A fleeting flicker of green appeared again among the branches, followed by a rapid zigzag of light and movement, before it vanished behind a branch, leaving a softly fading trail of green mana behind like an afterimage.

Ali stared at the spot where it had disappeared for several minutes, her curiosity slowly eroded by disappointment as she realized she had missed whatever it was yet again. Just as she was about to give up, a green flash appeared from behind a completely different branch of the tree, darting out and zipping back and forth with high-speed erratic motion before it stopped, hovering beside a branch in front of Ali. It bobbed gently up and down pulsing softly as if it were breathing, resting from its frenetic exertion.

Wisp – Spirit – level 1 (Nature)

The creature hovered, floating gently in the air beside her oak tree branch. It seemed to be an entirely formless orb of glowing green light, a touch smaller than her fist. Ali stared, fascinated to see the tiny tendrils and vortices of ambient mana being drawn into the creature as it floated. Each time the creature pulsed, tiny sparkles of green mana were emitted into the air surrounding it, creating a tiny but beautiful display.

“A wisp!” Mato’s excited whisper startled her. She had not heard his approach, but his attention was riveted on the tiny floating green light.

“What is it?” Ali whispered, turning her attention back to the fascinating nature spirit. It flickered again and darted around, coming to rest near the fork in the trunk of the tree.

“Wisps are spirit creatures made of pure mana. The nature ones are typically found in dungeons or dryad forests where the nature mana is very dense. I think they feed on it.”

“It’s very pretty.” Ali’s eyes and Arcane Insight tracked the tiny creature as it flitted around among the branches, presumably in search of the best source of nature mana.

“They’re harmless, but they’re pretty rare. Many people think it’s good luck to see one.”

“How did it get here?”

“Most likely it was attracted by your mana. Although, some people think they’re created spontaneously in high-density mana areas.”

“Do you think we can attract some more?” Ali gazed at the fascinating, fey creature, tracking its movement with her mana sight, imagining how pretty it would be if a whole bunch of the creatures took up residence in her forest.

“Well, they’re creatures of nature and mana, so if you keep developing a rich natural environment filled with your mana, they should come on their own.” Mato grinned at her, and before she could even ask the question, he added, “Of course, I’d love to help you create the perfect environment! We can collect a larger variety of plants and trees and build a proper ecosystem. Maybe you can even attract other kinds of creatures too. For now, just keep planting trees, and spread out the moss and mushrooms. And maybe grow some ivy on the walls.”

***

When Ali and Mato returned to the shrine area and their camp, she found Calen and Malika chatting beside the various piles of Goblin equipment collected from the battlefield.

“Welcome back,” Ali greeted him. “How was your scouting quest?”

Calen looked up at her approach and smiled. “We verified that the dungeon really was destroyed by Kieran Mori’s mercenaries. So, no need to worry about another dungeon-break sending a horde of Goblins any time soon.”

“Well, that’s a relief,” Ali said. She had no desire to repeat the experience of scouring the battlefield for survivors. Too many people had died in the siege, the horrific reality of trying to repel a horde of monsters and save the town.

“Seriously glad that’s over,” Malika said, “but I think I’m going to get bored down here pretty quickly.”

“What do you mean?” Ali asked.

“I fought a couple of rats on the way down, and they’re not even remotely a challenge anymore. I think I will get more out of drills,” said Malika, showing off a few shadow-boxing moves, before she threatened Mato’s mild snicker with a fist that stopped just shy of his nose. “Something to say, Bear boy?”

“I’m with the scary girl,” Mato drawled. “Onward to adventure. What shall we do next?”

“I think we should go down to explore the ruins,” Calen answered quickly, looking surprisingly excited compared to his usual reserved self.

Ali shuddered, remembering how much she had struggled down in the ruins.

“It won’t be so bad this time,” Mato said, pulling out a selection of fruit and handing her some peach slices before offering to the others. “We’re much higher-level now, and much stronger. And it should be a good way to continue earning money.”

“That’s a good point,” Malika said, gazing speculatively at the piles of equipment. “This stuff is going to be hard to sell after the battle. Probably most of the merchants have enough Goblin equipment.”

“Oh, Malika,” Calen interjected. “We rescued a Gnome merchant on our scouting mission, and Vivian Ross offered him a guild membership as our Guild Merchant. He might be interested in buying some of this stuff to fill out his inventory. His name is Weldin Thriftpenny, and I think he’s going to set up in the spare conference room adjacent to the guild hall.”

“We have a Guild Merchant?” Malika’s eyes lit up at Calen’s news. His broad wink drew a dry chuckle from her, “I’ll be sure to educate him. Fast.”

Ali had been worried about how to make money, now that most of the jobs related to the Goblin siege were done. But if they could sell some of this equipment, she might be able to afford another trip to The Reading Corner. Maybe Ryn has the second book in my series! Ali had finished her storybook on the first evening after she had bought it, and it seemed that the author had written it as a trilogy. She couldn’t wait to find out what happened next, especially after the first book had ended on a cliffhanger. This habit’s going to get expensive…

“Perhaps we should sort out the useful stuff before we sell the rest,” Malika mused. “Most of this Goblin gear is low quality, but there are a few normal-sized armor pieces that might fit Mato and Calen.”

“Normal-sized?” Ali asked, arching an eyebrow at Malika and feigning confusion. “You mean ‘huge’ right?”

Malika laughed. “Him for sure,” she said, pointing to Mato.

“Hey, I can’t help that I’m bigger than all you pipsqueaks put together.”

“Pipsqueaks?” Ali pretended outrage and mimed throwing her slice of peach at him, but in truth, there was no way she was going to waste such a delicious breakfast.

“Is there some stuff you can learn in this pile, Ali?” Calen asked. “I think we should prioritize anything that makes us stronger before we sell the remainder. Anything you can make that improves your minions should count.”

“I can add variations to my armor, sword, and dagger imprints with just three or four samples apiece. We can sell the rest. I don’t have any open chapters right now, so I can’t learn anything new.” It would be nice to learn some of the other items, like the spears, bows, or shields, but she had little immediate need for them. Swords and daggers covered her most frequently used Kobold minions, and she had a reasonable armor variant for each of her rogues and warriors, and even a robe variant for her Fire Mage.

Malika immediately began selecting items from the various piles and handing them to Ali, and a few armors to Calen and Mato to try on.

Ali simply deconstructed everything Malika found for her.

Variant: Balanced Steel Shortsword added to Imprint: Sword.Variant: Boiled Leather Armor added to Imprint: Armor.Variant: Crude Plate Vest added to Imprint: Armor.Variant: Iron Poniard added to Imprint: Dagger.

The new variants would be annoying, making it progressively less likely for her to make the ones she wanted, however, having the options available would make her minions stronger, provided she had the time to prepare properly. Definitely a worthwhile tradeoff, especially given that most of the Goblin equipment would fit her Kobolds, and some of the gear might come in handy the next time the guild posted equipment collection jobs.

“Whatever are you going to do with that, Mr. Bear?” Malika’s voice teased.

Ali looked up to find Mato clumsily swinging an enormous two-handed Bugbear mace, something clearly made to be wielded by one of the two-and-a-half meter monsters of muscle and fur.

“Oh, I don’t know. I just thought it would look cool if I carried it around in town.” He put it down and tried on the leather armor Malika handed to him.

“Is that going to work when you’re in your Bear Form?” Ali asked curiously.

“No, it disappears when I shift. But I don’t want to die to a surprise attack in town or something equally stupid,” Mato answered.

“I still think you should check with the crafters,” Calen told him. “The Guildmaster said there might be some way to make enchanted gear that works in your shapeshifted form.”

Ali chuckled silently to herself at the image of a bear wearing leather armor and carrying a weapon in its mouth that her mind conjured. Still, maybe his Bear Form really could manage a weapon as massive as that mace.

“Probably anything that would work would need to be custom-made,” Malika said. “Perhaps we can ask Thuli if such a thing is possible? You’re certainly strong enough to wear heavy plate.”

“He might just grump at us again,” Ali answered sourly. While Thuli had come around, and eventually agreed to sell them some daggers, Ali found she still harbored some annoyance and resentment at the way she and Malika had been treated by the various town blacksmiths the last time they had visited.

“Still, worth trying,” Malika answered. “If the bear has some armor, he can take a lot more damage. Anyway, can you guys store as much of this pile as you have space? I think these are the best items to try and sell.”

Ali filled her storage enchantment with all manner of armor and weapons, noting that Malika had selected the highest-level items, preferring the Hobgoblin gear over the Bugbear items. Makes sense, she thought, storing another leather armored chest piece. Hobgoblins were close to the same size as Humans or Elves, so the gear might be much easier to sell in a Human-dominated town.

***

Ali followed Malika and the others into the guild hall, staring in surprise at the dramatic change. Mieriel’s reception desk had been moved. The wall behind where it had stood was now gone, creating a wide opening into what had once been a mostly unused meeting room. The chairs had been replaced with several empty display shelves and tables, and an elegantly dressed Gnome directed a few adventurers to rearrange the furniture.

“Yes, that is just perfect,” the Gnome said and then looked up from his laborers as Malika walked up to him.

“Weldin Thriftpenny?” she asked.

“I see that my reputation precedes me,” he answered with a smile. He wore a bright purple satin waistcoat and a matching hat, supporting himself with a cane. Although his fashion sense seemed … antiquated at best, he looked dapper, and Ali decided that the black eyepatch and the scars on his face lent his otherwise elegant appearance something of a roguish cast. “How can I help you fine folk?”

Merchant – Gnome – level 18

“We have a few items to sell, and we heard that you were our new Guild Merchant,” Malika explained.

“Certainly, why don’t you show me what you have, and we can do business – especially since your friends are my friends.”

Ali conjured two steps with her barrier magic, hopped up and began unloading everything she had stored onto a large table while her friends did the same.

Weldin’s smile, she noticed, grew brittle and his eyes widened with surprise as they continued unloading all the items they had brought.

“This is it,” Malika finally announced, turning to the merchant Gnome.

“I must apologize,” Weldin announced, sounding mortified. “You see, you are my first customers, and I do not yet have enough working capital to afford all these fine items. Would you perhaps be willing to wait till I can secure a loan from Hadrik Goldbeard?”

Ali had no idea who this Hadrik Goldbeard was, but she assumed they must be a banker in town. Malika didn’t seem that put out, however.

“How about we agree on a price now, and you can take the items immediately to get started?”

Weldin nodded, clearly trying to disguise his eagerness. “Goods being as good as a capital advance, I’ve always said. Are you truly … willing?”

“Of course. We’re friends, remember? Once you secure the loan, you can just leave it with Mieriel, and we can collect it at our convenience?”

