Calen led the way unerringly through the eerily quiet, dense forest. He had been here only once, and then under the imminent threat of being discovered by Goblin patrols, but his memory for places had always been excellent, and now with his potent Explorer skill enhancing it, this felt as easy as finding his way to his bedroom at home. He occasionally sighted the large, prowling shape of Mato scouting between the trees in his Wolf Form, but neither of them had sensed any apparent danger. The forest seemed devoid of Goblins, or even any creatures, most of them having probably been consumed by the horde.

The clearing was exactly as he had remembered it, minus the corpses of the mercenaries Kieran Mori had murdered for their silence. Not even pausing, Calen sprinted through, maintaining his stealth and silent passage as he followed the fading tracks of uncountable Goblin footprints back to where he knew the cavern entrance lay, concealed behind a dense bramble thicket.

He paused outside the cave entrance, enduring the palpable stench of rot wafting up from deep inside while waiting for Mato to join him. He scanned everything with his acute vision, but he could neither see nor hear anything moving.

“This it?” Mato asked quietly.

“Yes. I don’t see any newer tracks than the dungeon-break.”

“I didn’t smell anything new either – just this rot. But the forest hasn’t recovered from the Goblin horde, do you hear how quiet everything is? It’s eerie.”

“Yes,” Calen said, glancing at Mato and then they both stepped cautiously through the entryway. It was broad and high enough that even Mato could enter without ducking, and the cavern grew dramatically larger after only twenty feet. He wrinkled his nose at a draft of air carrying an extra helping of the nasty odor.

Definitely a Goblin warren. Remains to be seen if any have respawned. Stay alert. Calen crept forward with Mato padding softly beside him, making almost no sound. It didn’t need to be said that they should be on their guard – they had both faced the sheer number of Goblins that had descended upon Myrin’s Keep, and Mato’s observation about the silence of the forest worried Calen a lot.

They crept along stealthily, deeper and deeper into the maze-like warren following the steadily worsening stench and the week-old tracks that filled the place. Every few moments, Calen checked in with his Explorer skill, dreading a notification that the dungeon was still alive, but all was quiet, and no chimes broke the silence.

It took almost an hour at their slow and careful pace before he sensed the end of the warren coming up – if for no other reason than the stench of rotting meat had become almost unbearable. As he stepped out of the tunnel and into an enormous chamber, the reason for the smell became suddenly obvious.

Piled indiscriminately against the far side of the cavern wall was a heap of bodies; Goblins mixed in with whatever game had been present in the surrounding forest. It was clearly the Goblin warren’s food pile, but the reek from the week-old bodies stood as a powerful sign that nothing had remained behind to eat it.

Lying beside the pile was the corpse of the largest Goblinoid creature he had ever seen.

If that’s even a Goblin. It was several times larger than Mato, with the crimson-red skin of the Hobgoblins, but the resemblance to the elite Goblin fighters ended there. Its broad, heavily muscled back and shoulders were covered with coarse black fur, and the faces of both staring heads were brutish and feral, resembling Bugbears more than Hobgoblins. It lay in a large pool of what could only be dried blood.

He identified the corpse using his Explorer skill.

Warrior – Goblin Warlord – level ??[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: DeceasedMonster Type: GoblinoidDamage: Physical

“What is that thing?” Mato asked, shifting back into his normal form.

“Warlord? I’ve never seen anything like it. But my skill says it was the dungeon boss.”

“So, Mori’s mercenaries really did kill it?”

“Looks like it. My skill hasn’t notified me of any dungeon, and this is the end of the warren.”

“Boring mission,” Mato said, looking around. “I guess it’s an easy way to pay off our guild rings, right?”

“Can you imagine if that thing had still been alive?” The corpse, he noticed, had been stripped of any weapons or armor. Presumably, the mercenaries had taken the spoils for themselves. The Guildmaster had been right to worry, if this warlord had remained, no doubt the entire dungeon would have been respawned in a few weeks and another dungeon-break would have been heading their way.

Calen crept around the huge cavern, but there was very little to see. Some animal skins, and crude wooden furniture. A few cold ashes of cookfires, discarded trash, bones, and other nasty things he simply chose not to get too close to.

“Hey, there’s something alive in here.”

Calen’s head snapped around to find Mato dragging bodies from the carrion pile. His stomach squirmed queasily as he saw the rotten arm Mato was pulling separate from the corpse with a sickening, tearing squelch.

“Are you sure?”

“Yes. My aura can tell there is a living target, but it’s not certain if it’s an ally or not. I’m not certain?” He looked a little puzzled, but he pulled at something, drawing out a small body.

“That’s a Gnome?” The body was in very poor shape. What might have once been a Gnome was missing a leg, and most of the right side of its face and body was charred to a crispy black and pierced by debris in what looked like the tell-tale signs of fireball damage.

Merchant – Gnome – level 18

“Yes, he’s alive. Barely,” Mato confirmed. “Do we have any health potions?”

“I have a couple,” Calen answered, quickly handing one to Mato who immediately tried to force it down the throat of the unresponsive Gnome. How successful it was seemed debatable, because his throat did not move.

“At least my aura is working on him now,” Mato said. “It isn’t as good as Malika’s healing, but hopefully it can take care of some of the injuries.”

“Depending on how long he’s been like this, some of those injuries might be permanent,” Calen said. Nothing had been in here in at least a week, which meant the Gnome had somehow survived at least that long with his grievous burns and wounds. “How are we going to get him back to town?”

“I have extra recall potions,” Mato answered as if that were the most natural thing in the world.

His answer surprised Calen, but ever since Mato and Ali had survived being dropped down that hole, his friend had become a little more cautious than normal.

“Ok, let’s get him to the priests at the Temple of Lunaré, and then go report to the Guildmaster.”

***

“Thank you,” Vivian Ross said, sitting back in the large leather-backed chair at the head of the table in her ‘briefing room’ – a repurposed meeting room adjacent to the main guild hall.

They had just finished reporting the Goblin dungeon as destroyed, when the door to the guild opened and a small figure entered. He wore a bright purple waistcoat, and an eye patch, and limped into the hall slowly, as if unfamiliar with using his cane.

Is that him?

Merchant – Gnome – level 18

“Can I help you?” Mieriel asked.

“I’m looking for… a Calen? And Mato. I was told they are members of your esteemed guild.”

His cultured speech confirmed that he was indeed the Gnome they had rescued, but the fellow looked entirely different. The burns were gone, replaced with some residual scarring on his face and hand. It looked like the priests had been able to regenerate his leg, but it clearly wasn’t a perfect heal. His eye must have been beyond repair.

But dressed in new clothing, and walking around, he looked sharp and alert, and an entirely different person.

“We’re over here,” Mato called out.

“Weldin Thriftpenny, at your service,” the Gnome introduced himself, hobbling across the floor to where they had emerged from the meeting room. “I just wanted to thank you in person for saving me. The priests told me where to find you.”

“You’re welcome,” Calen answered. “I’m sorry we didn’t get you in time to fully heal your injuries.”

“I’m just happy to be out of that Goblin hole,” he said with a shudder.

“How did you end up in the Goblin dungeon, anyway?” Mato asked.

“I was fleeing Myrin’s Keep. I didn’t have enough money to cover the Town Watch dues this month. Adrik and Edrik burned down my shop and they told me they were going to come after me if I failed to pay, so I took everything I owned and packed it on my cart and ran for it. Unfortunately, a couple of days out of Myrin’s Keep I ran into a Goblin Fire Mage. He blew up my cart, and when I came to, I was in that awful pile of bodies, minus a leg, just waiting for that Warlord to decide he was ready for dinner.”

“They had a Warlord?” Vivian asked.

“Oh, yes, the biggest, ugliest two-headed brute you’ve ever seen. Always roaring and shouting and smashing everything he didn’t like. When those mercenary people showed up and killed him, they caused rather a lot of bother – so many Goblins rushing about like chickens without heads. I kept myself alive with food and water in my ring for a few days, but eventually, I must have just passed out.”

“That sounds awful,” Mato said.

Another merchant destroyed by this town and its crime, Calen thought. He worried that one day this would be his mother and him, forced to flee with nothing but what they could carry on their backs.

“Anyway, I just wanted to say thank you before I left. I want to be long gone before those goons discover I survived and try to come for a piece of me. From the bottom of my heart, thank you, and farewell.”

He turned and began making his slow and careful way across the hall, each shuffle of his feet punctuated by a sharp clack of his wooden cane striking the polished stone floor.

Calen gazed at the back of the physically broken, down-and-out merchant, wishing there was something more he could do. He knew how hard it was setting up a business from scratch, just from watching what his mother had had to go through. If only this guild was bigger. Some of the larger and more established guilds in other more stable cities had in-house merchants and other non-combat support staff managing the business created by the adventurers.

He glanced at Vivian. She might actually go for it.

“It might be nice to have a Guild Merchant,” he said quietly, as they watched him go.

Vivian Ross glanced over at him in surprise, and then her gaze flickered back to the retreating Gnome, quickly picking up what he had in mind.

“Mr. Thriftpenny, do you have a minute to entertain a proposal?” Vivian called out.

The Gnome stopped and turned around. “What do you need, esteemed Guildmaster?”

“I know this guild is just starting out,” Vivian said, gesturing to the guild hall. “We don’t have many adventurers or the typical services, but I do have high hopes for expanding. As of right now, the position of Guild Merchant just happens to be free. Might you be interested?”

A look of surprise flickered across the dapper merchant’s face for a moment before he regained his composure. His good eye glanced around at the guild hall and the people within it before settling back on Vivian. Guild merchant was a prestigious position in most established towns and cities, and merchants typically competed furiously for the right to have the first opportunity at anything the adventurers found on their delves and quests.

He adjusted his eyepatch and then sighed deeply. “Your offer is extremely enticing, Guildmaster Ross, but alas, I cannot accept. Adrik and Edrik would finish off what the Goblins started just as soon as they got wind of it.”

“Well, about that,” Vivian answered, a grin appearing on her face. “It so happens that Malika and Aliandra interrupted those thugs assaulting and burglarizing the Alchemist down the street a few days ago. Adrik and Edrik did not survive the encounter.”

“They got Morwynne?” Weldin seemed aghast.

“Morwynne Fizzlebang is fine, they were just in time to heal her before she succumbed to her injuries. She was so grateful that she has offered the entire guild a generous discount for her wares.”

“Wow…” Weldin’s face showed a cascade of different emotions as he processed everything.

In fact, Calen was surprised too. Ali and Malika killed them? The two thugs were notorious across town and had even paid his mother’s shop several visits. Fortunately, she had had enough saved up to stave them off each time. But now they’re dead… I need to tell Mom. This is good news. Great news!

“In that case, I think I would like to accept your generous proposal,” Weldin declared, offering a bow which would have been elegant but for the stumble at the end as his injured leg refused to hold steady.

Malika’s going to love having an in-house merchant, Calen thought, looking forward to sharing the news. And any discount on potions would be fantastic.

Imprint: Bone completed.

Ali dismissed the imprint, yet again, and redoubled her efforts to deconstruct the huge pile of bone her minions had collected. It had been a simple matter of time and persistence to fill the southern end of the cavern with her moss and trees, taking over the entire area she had swept clear with the flood she had unleashed. Above that too, she had expanded her foothold in the sewer system, taking over every available tunnel and chamber. The result was incredible – she had maximized the benefits of her domain aptitude, resulting in doubling her mana pool. Of course, she would probably need to keep expanding as she leveled up, but she no longer felt she was wasting one of the most potent benefits of her Class.

For the last couple of days, she had been slowly, carefully encroaching on the boundaries of the bone and death magic dungeon and replacing it with her own moss and trees. It was a painstakingly slow process compared to filling the first half of the cavern because she had to clear out the dungeon’s bone and mushrooms piece by piece with her Deconstruction. Then she had to wait for the dense black mana to clear before she claimed an area, replacing the dungeon with her plants. Patience, though, was a virtue – she had no desire to have her domain collide with the dungeon and trigger a dungeon-rage again. While her minions could easily take care of the low-level wolves and skeletons now, the intense pain was not something she ever wanted to experience again.

