At the mention of Mieriel, Ali felt a sudden surge of uncharacteristic distrust. What if she takes our money? she worried. Surprised, Ali glanced at Malika, who seemed to share none of her concern, and then at the elegantly dressed Mieriel. Don’t be silly Ali, she’s always been nice to you. She dismissed her own surprising reticence and listened in silence as Malika negotiated with Weldin.

“You are uncommonly generous,” he told her. “Thank you for your consideration.” What followed was a rather lengthy negotiation of price, complex enough that Ali quickly lost track of the major threads. What she did notice, however, is that the Hobgoblin gear was clearly the most prized by the Gnome, and that, by the time they shook on the price, both Malika and Weldin were smiling happily.

As they left the guild store area and congregated in front of the quest board, Ali heard Weldin ordering his helpers. “Let’s lay out these daggers on this table, and swords on this rack here. Look lively, now that we have items to sell, I want this place to look like a proper shop! No, no, that won’t do at all – do you not have the first idea of marketing, you dolts? Put the shiny armor here where people can easily see it from the door.”

Ali grinned at the flurry of activity that burst through the brand-new guild shop.

“He was remarkably fair,” Malika said quietly. “We got almost a gold each from that haul. Ali, your and my rings will be completely paid off once he gets his loan and deposits our share with the guild administrator.”

It was quite a bit more than Ali had expected, and once she was able to collect on it, the thought of visiting Ryn in The Reading Corner again filled her with excitement and anticipation.

While the others examined the job postings, Ali quietly observed a couple of adventurers in the guild hall lounge area drift over to the shop, curiously browsing the newly displayed items. As she watched, she saw Weldin efficiently close a deal with a couple of coins changing hands and a level seven rogue returning to the lounge area with a smile and a new shiny dagger.

“That was quick,” she said quietly.

“He seems talented,” Malika agreed, surprising Ali that she wasn’t the only one who had seen the quick deal go down. “And I think that dagger is a substantial upgrade for her if I remember correctly.”

It was a surprisingly satisfying feeling to know that someone was going to benefit from all the hard work they had put into killing Goblins and collecting the leftover gear and weapons. Besides, she had a reading habit to fill!
