The new explosion of dense consciousness being spewed into the void is even thicker than the last wave Noctus tried to use as the first major deterrent.

Waves of my own mental energy are still washing through the enormous sea of energy, so I can feel that the amount leaving this thin soul array is no small sum. It depletes the entire pool by a noticeable amount.

Despite this, as the stray pockets of this dense aura flow into the fractures in both our energy forms, it no longer gives off a pressure that slows us down. Instead, it is quite invigorating to allow this pressure to build up in my soul, and strengthen every single energy source in my being.

The majority of this substance all flows inward to pool into the area where all of my cores intersect. It's only capable of latching itself to the pathways that the silver threads create.

The mere mana, ether, purple divine thread, demonic essence, and even primordial aura-based energy bodies that envelop my true Royal Sacred Body are not prominent enough energy sources for this substance to even pay them any mind. It is a decompressed fragment of the pure gel that is being wielded and controlled by these silver immortal threads.

The silver threads surge through the fabric of my being, unnaturally pulling these inferior energy bodies together on a microscopic level. They would all be completely obliterated in the presence of this energy's might if it weren't for the strange nature of these silver threads' appearance in the first place.

They are not quite the same as the silver threads resting in the core of my sword; instead, they are an artificial awakening that is occurring under the pressure of my dense energy cores bending in on each other.

This is starting to give the energy sources they wield a very strange state of being.

My soul energy core makes my mana-based greater form, sacred body, and even the red metallic advanced primordial fire in my Origin Body all flicker in and out of existence. It is exerting the same exact pressure that creates this anomaly of silver threads.

It even makes the presence of the system flicker and turn bright silver in the depths of my mind.

I felt this sensation before when the Creator's Legacy seal was first broken, where I could see into the complex mechanisms of the system and understand their every movement and meaning. Now, this form of advanced perception is starting to come back, but my foundation of knowledge is far deeper. It allows me to understand far more of these intricate connections.

My Royal Demon's core is filled with so much demonic essence, and a collection of extremely strong wills that even begin to devour the latent anguish from this aura in the void.

When it flickers, my Royal Transformations, and the Corrupted Black Advanced Primordial Aura in my Origin Body are forced to fall deeper into the fabric of space, carrying more and more weight with every passing moment.

My bright purple-saturated divine core holds my divine astral form together. The edge of this core that bends into the others is almost entirely bright silver. Dense strands of silver threads tether the rest of the core into existence, and it makes my astral body dissolve and meld with the void.

The presence of a body made entirely of divine threads becomes the very pathways where these silver streaks travel.

With this divine body's unique ability, with no preset limit in its size, its only limitation being the amount of energy available to it, the anomaly of a near-infinite amount of fabricated silver threads allows for it to exploit this feature to the greatest degree.

Maria's creation of a near-infinite supply of soul energy cores creates a very similar effect.

The single divine core inside of it acts as a single entity, but the constant folding of space triggers more and more silver threads to explode outward in order to contend with the unnatural existence.

It makes both of our silver outlines in the void grow exponentially larger as we strike our swords through the soul array, and deep into the ocean of consciousness this demon floats within.

The potent understandings flowing through my own body and mind make the flashing memories before me far more profound and beneficial than they were moments earlier.

I witnessed snippets of the Demonic Legacy being created through many fractured memories in the past, but now I witness it from the eyes of this overseer.

I no longer have to reverse engineer every single glyph's meaning, and attach them to arrays I already know to find out what their core purpose is.

Instead, the raw innate understanding of each glyph already comes with the conscious memories of this Demon. Both sides of the Demonic Legacy glow bright white and purple in my consciousness; not a single glyph is etched with mystery any longer.

The entirety of the Demon Race's source of power becomes simple in an instant.

It makes my Royal Demon's Core tremble even more violently, and the massive amount of energy absorbed from many Demon's old Legacies grow heavier.

In turn, it enriches my understanding of the Creator's Legacy further as well... All of the present glyphs in the depths of my soul look and feel more crisp and sharp. However, just like the Demon's Legacy had a hidden shadow of glyphs added by Noctus on its back side, I start to see golden glimmers in my soul, hinting that even this Creator's Legacy has another side to it I haven't seen.
