At first, Dozer hadn’t known what he was or what he had been. There had been only instinct, telling him that there was ⟬filth⟭ all around him. Thus, without knowing he was doing it, he’d tried to ⟬clean⟭. Mindlessly, he swallowed a gulp of ⟬filth⟭, ⟬cleaned⟭ it, and then expelled it to make room for more.

The ⟬clean-need⟭ was satisfied with this for a time, but it wasn’t enough. There was just so much. The ⟬clean-need⟭ became greater and greater, but Dozer did not have mind enough to experience any unease.

Gradually, that began to change. As he bumped into smaller pieces of himself floating within the ⟬filth⟭, Dozer started to experience flashes of awareness. This only spurred him on to work even harder. Being surrounded by ⟬filth⟭ was tolerable, so long as he was doing something about it. The thing he couldn’t do was stop.

This continued for some time. It was only after countless—more than three—of these collisions that Dozer began to experience proper thoughts with any regularity. Soon after, he came to a horrible realization.

He was doing nothing.

The ⟬filth⟭ that he was ⟬cleaning⟭ was not staying ⟬clean⟭. The moment he let it go, it would break apart, returning to ⟬disorder⟭. ⟬filth-disorder⟭. The worst kind of ⟬disorder⟭.

The ⟬order-need⟭ had appeared then. Simple ⟬cleaning⟭ was no longer enough, and Dozer grew more and more distraught until his thoughts were subsumed by instinct once more. Fortunately, the ⟬order-need⟭ knew what to do.

Dozer stopped expelling the ⟬filth⟭ after he had ⟬cleaned⟭ it. He had no name for what the stuff was once it was no longer ⟬filth⟭, but it was like water. Liquid. It built up within him until he could hold no more, but he could not stop. Still acting on instinct, he squeezed, trying to compress the liquid to make room for more. Mercifully, something gave. The liquid began to shrink, only stopping when it had become something like stone.

For a moment, Dozer felt something that might have been relief, but it did not last. The ⟬order-need⟭ was not satisfied. The ⟬clean-need⟭ was not satisfied either. They demanded more, and so, Dozer continued. He ⟬cleaned⟭ and he ⟬cleaned⟭ and he ⟬cleaned⟭, pausing every so often to compact the liquid and combine it with the solid sphere that was growing within him. Layer by layer, the sphere grew. It grew so much that it became too large for him to hold, but he could not expel it. He’d tried, and it had begun to dissolve the moment it had come into contact with the ⟬filth⟭. That was not acceptable, but neither could he stop. The instinct floundered, pushing him to continue mercilessly, but at a loss as to how he could do so.

All the while he had been ⟬cleaning⟭, Dozer had also been collecting pieces of himself. One of those pieces had contained a memory, or perhaps the memory had been shared across the pieces and had only become accessible once a certain threshold had been reached. Dozer wouldn’t have had the capacity to contemplate such things, even had he been whole. Now, however, he did have the capacity to remember.

Rain-King.

Rain-King would know what to do.

Rain-King would be able to help.

Desperately, Dozer felt for the ⟬king-link⟭. He found it quickly, though it was faint and closed to him. He knew that meant Rain-King was ignoring him. That wouldn’t matter once Dozer had found him. The link didn’t need to be open for him to follow it, so he did, though he knew not quite how. Along the way, he encountered more fragments of himself, also following the ⟬king-link⟭. Unfortunately, each piece bore a sphere of its own.

There was no relief. As Dozer grew, so did his burden.

Finally, the ⟬king-link⟭ came to an end. Dozer bumped into something hard, and immediately, he knew it was the same substance he held within himself. The ⟬clean⟭ taste of it against his membrane was a balm to his burning instincts.

Gradually, those instincts faded, becoming more bearable as he crawled his way over the object’s surface. The ball was only slightly larger than his burden, and from the vibrations, hollow. Rain-King was inside, which made it a shell. Rain-King wore a shell sometimes, so it made sense that there would be one here, only it was too small. Rain-King was not small, and Dozer was smart. He knew that Rain-King would not fit.

It was confusing. But then, everything always was.

The shell was sitting unprotected in the ⟬filth⟭, too, but that didn’t strike Dozer as abnormal. Unlike the one inside his membrane, the ball before him had been made by Rain-King. Rain-King’s balls would obviously be ⟬clean⟭, no matter where they were.

Carefully, Dozer manipulated his burden, bringing it up through his surface until it came into contact with Rain-King’s shell. Carefully, he pulled away, trembling with uncertainty as the ⟬filth⟭ came into contact with what he’d been carrying.

It did not dissolve back into ⟬disorder⟭.

For the first time since he’d regained his awareness, Dozer experienced an emotion. Two emotions, actually.

Happiness. Happiness and relief. He had found his safe place.

His instincts were still there, of course, but Dozer knew he’d be able to rest if he needed to. The urges were less pressing, now that he knew what he ⟬cleaned⟭ would stay that way. In fact, he found himself growing excited at the prospect of so much ⟬filth⟭. He had work to do, and he knew how to do it. All that remained was to repeat what he had already done.

Three times would do it, probably.

Before Dozer could start, however, something horrible happened.

There was a great wave through the chaos, pressing down on him from all sides. As the pressure grew, he suddenly remembered that this wasn’t the first time. He had simply been too scattered before to realize it, or perhaps too consumed by his instincts. Before he could even come to terms with this complex thought, a new realization struck him.

This time was different, after all. The pressure had never been this strong. It just kept building, and Dozer felt himself being crushed with nowhere to go. The chaos thickened, locking him in place. He found himself unable to move. Unable to think. The pressure was coming from everywhere, as well as nowhere. From outside, but also from within.

Somehow, it did not hurt.

Dozer didn’t understand. He couldn’t understand.

And then it was over. The pressure was gone.

Dozer drifted, stunned. He began gently wobbling as he struggled to understand what had just happened to him. The ⟬filth⟭ around him felt…calm. Full of ⟬disorder⟭, but calm. It wasn’t flowing about for the first time since forever. It felt…right. For ⟬filth⟭, anyway.

[Rain-King! ⟬filth⟭!] Dozer sent through the ⟬king-link⟭, eager to share his observation. He was too excited to remember that his ⟬king⟭ couldn’t hear him until he had already sent the message. Thus it was that he practically exploded from surprise when he got a response.

[Dozer?!]

Rain reeled, and not just from the sudden presence of Dozer in his mind. There was a kill notification in his log, scratching at his attention. Numbly, he willed it open, but he only spared it a cursory glance.

He already knew what it would say.

Your party has defeated Ahbahabam, Greater Hababa Shaman King, Level 24

Your Contribution: 6%

768 Experience Earned

[Level Up]

As exciting as that was, it wasn’t number one on the list. When the system had chimed to announce the Hababa King’s death, he’d felt…something wash over him. Linksight had gone batshit insane, and then abruptly, he’d felt all his links get lopped off by some unseen force. He’d panicked a bit in that instant, fearing that his friends had been killed somehow, but before he’d had time to realize how ridiculous that was, Dozer had—

Rain shook his head, then focused. [Dozer? Are you still there?]

The Crystal Slime replied almost immediately, but not in words. Instead, Dozer sent him a warm fuzzy feeling of utter happiness and contentment. The strength of it was shocking, like a full-body hug from a marshmallow, and Rain gasped, happy tears welling unbidden in the corner of his eyes.

Why?!! How?!! [Dozer, are you still in my soul? What happened in there? How did you…?]

[?] Dozer replied, though the slime’s happy confusion was mixed with something else.

Rain looked around, a sudden feeling of anxiousness falling over him, as if there was something he should be doing. He blinked as he found his gaze locked onto a disorderly patch of fallen leaves. Oh.

Reluctantly, he took hold of his connection to Dozer and closed it slightly. There, that should be better. [Dozer? Can you still hear me?]

Dozer replied, but the message was confusing and unclear. Rain shook his head, raising a hand to his forehead as he tried to puzzle it out. Something about…a turtle? I don’t understand. He opened the connection slightly wider again. [Dozer, I don’t understand.]

[⟬filth⟭!] was the reply.

[Dozer, what the hell are you doing?]

[⟬cleaning⟭!] The message carried with it an overwhelming sense of eagerness and purpose.

Rain cursed. [Dozer! Hang on a minute. Don’t touch anything. I need to make sure you aren’t breaking—Ah, who am I kidding, you aren’t going to understand this.] Rain rubbed at his eyes. I’m talking to a slime for crying out loud. He tried again. [Stop! Damn it, stop! Dozer, are you even listening to me?]

[⟬filth⟭!] Dozer sent, and the concept was charged with the sense that the slime was busy. To his shock, he felt the connection narrow down to a thread. He was able to force it back open with only a minor effort of will.

[You did NOT just try to put me on hold!]

[Helping!] Dozer replied. [No talk! ⟬clean-need⟭!]

Rain winced. The sheer alienness of the concept—instinct, whatever it was—that Dozer had just sent was making his eyes spin. It hadn’t been the feeling of need—which had been leaking through the channel this whole time—but the concept itself, and not just at the surface level. Dozer had sent all of it, and with great force. Their minds were too different for it to come across completely, but Rain had been experiencing the need for weeks now. He got the gist.

Dozer saw filth and needed to clean it up. It was like himself the day before when he’d been consumed by hunger. He didn’t need to speak Crystal Slime to understand or to feel sympathy.

Detection pinged as a part of its pre-programmed sequence, and Rain growled. Damn it. I can’t be having a metaphysical crisis right now. That scan was clear of monsters, but who knows about the next one. He started walking, heading toward where he’d last seen Tallheart. He’d already been going that way before being distracted. I don’t like being alone out here. Dozer can wait a few minutes. He shouldn’t be able to hurt me. He’s only level one…

Somehow, he didn’t find this reasoning very convincing.

Thankfully, he didn’t have far to go before he broke out of the trees, climbing over a wave of dirt and debris to find Tallheart standing there. His armor was dusty with dirt, though his face was clean. He’d dismissed his helmet, and his expression, while as tricky to read as ever, struck Rain as pleased. Behind him, there was nothing but devastation. Lava was pooling around the mountain, its former path blocked, and there were chunks of stone and broken wood everywhere.

“Rain,” Tallheart rumbled, turning to face him. “I was beginning to become concerned.”

“I—“ Rain began, but he was interrupted by a noise. He whirled to see that Ameliah had dropped out of the sky right behind him. Immediately, he did a double-take. “Ameliah, woah. Are you okay?”

Ameliah laughed, wrapping an arm around his shoulder and spinning him around to face Tallheart again as she stepped up beside him. “I was about to ask you the same thing.” She released him, then gestured at herself. “I’m fine. I think I need a new shirt, though. Hi, Tallheart. Why are you covered in dirt?”

Tallheart nodded to her in greeting, and Rain activated Purify for him as he continued staring at Ameliah. One of her shirt sleeves was missing completely—the one that had been burned before—and there was a large rip in her collar. That wasn’t even the worst of the damage to her shirt. There was a sideways gash over her stomach, the fabric hanging down to reveal a large expanse of mercifully undamaged skin.

He looked back up to find her smiling at him. She winked, then spoke, clearly amused by her tone. “Well? Have you hit your new level cap yet? It’s been five minutes. You’ve had time.”

Rain felt himself relax, his concern for her condition fading. She’s fine. She’s not even hurt. He shook his head, then snorted, having finished processing what Ameliah had just said. “Stop. I’m not that bad.”

“You are,” Ameliah said. “It did work, right? You got credit?”

Rain nodded, then dropped his shield to the ground and wrapped her in a hug. “I did. Thank you so much, Ameliah.” He released her, then blindsided Tallheart with a hug of his own, creating a loud clang in the process. “You too, Tallheart.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“You’re welcome,” Ameliah said, laughing.

Rain released Tallheart, too excited to stay still. “The kill dialog said I leveled, but that’s not—” he shook his head, then continued in a rush. “Dozer’s back! And I think my soul is fixed!”

“Woah, slow down,” Ameliah said, raising her hands. She looked around. “What do you mean, ‘back’?”

Rain smiled, laughing at her expression. “Well, not ‘back’, back. Not like that. Not physically.” He tapped his chest. “He’s still in here, puttering around and doing…something. He’s talking to me again—if you can call what we do ‘talking.’ The connection is more feelings than words. Anyway, I need to get in there and see what’s going on.”

“Okay, that’s…weird. You’re weird. You know that, right?”

“I have been told this, yes,” Rain said.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, “It bears repeating. You said your soul has been mended?”

Rain nodded. “I think so. Linksight is gone, which isn’t great, but it means my aura of inexplicable doom is probably gone along with it. I think the system might have fixed my paling somehow.”

“I see,” Ameliah said, sounding slightly skeptical. She shook her head, then walked past him to his left. “Well, I’m happy for you, Rain, if it’s true. You’ll be able to visit Vestvall at last.”

Rain beamed at her, then blinked as he saw where she was going. The Hababa King’s crown was sitting on the ground behind him. Ameliah must have brought it with her, and he’d somehow missed her dropping it during her sudden arrival.

