“May I?” Tallheart asked, gesturing to the crown.

“Go ahead,” Ameliah said. “I think it might be valis. It’s certainly heavy enough.”

Rain scurried to get a better look while making way for Tallheart. Valis was a deepened metal. It was to silver what adamant was to iron, basically better in every way. He’d have translated the name to ‘mithril’ if not for the supposed weight.

Tallheart knelt, humming to himself as he laid a hand on the crown and closed his eyes. After a moment, he stood again, leaving the metal where it was and inclining his head to Ameliah. “You were correct, but only one part in four is valis. There is some silver as well—one part in ten. The remainder is mostly lead.”

“I’ll take one part in four,” Ameliah said, sounding pleased. “That thing’s huge. Can you make something with it?”

Tallheart paused to consider, then shrugged. “Perhaps. Valis has high Arcane affinity. If we had a—Ah. I see that we do.”

Ameliah’s hand had darted into a pocket, and she was now holding out her hand, palm up, bearing a large glowing purple gem.

“Is that what I think it is?” Rain asked, stunned again for what seemed like the hundredth time today. I think I need to sit down…

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “An Arcane GranCryst.”

“The harder the fight, the greater the reward,” Ameliah quoted, reciting a common adventurer saying. “The Hababa had a whole bunch of regular Arcane Crysts in its bones too, plus a bunch of Tel. Here, take it.”

Tallheart shook his head. “Keep it for now. We must discuss its use, for this is not the end.”

“So we’re continuing, then?” Rain asked, his brain struggling to keep up.

Ameliah laughed. “Obviously. You need to be strong enough to protect Ascension, right? That means silver. I’d better not catch you complaining about being one level short.”

Rain smiled, relieved that he didn’t need to convince them, though in retrospect, he felt a bit silly for even thinking it was a question. “Thank you both so much.”

“Watch out, Tallheart, or he’ll hug you again,” Ameliah said.

Tallheart grunted, amused. “We should return to our camp. The day grows long.”

“We aren’t going to explore the cave?” Ameliah asked, slipping the gem back into her pocket, then jerking a thumb over her shoulder toward the lake of lava.

“Tomorrow,” Tallheart said. “Rain is overexcited. He is going to need some quiet time first.”

“Hey!” Rain said, laughing.

Tallheart’s mouth twitched, but he ignored Rain as he continued speaking to Ameliah in a serious tone. “The cave the Hababa came from likely leads downward. How far, I do not know. I also do not know why the monster was so far above its depth. Hmm. The question makes me wary of what could have driven it to ascend.”

Rain felt a chill run down his spine at that, but Tallheart didn’t give him any time to ask him to elaborate.

“We will investigate with great care,” Tallheart continued. “I will also require Rain’s assistance in collecting the fragments of adamant.” He paused, looking around at the mess. “This will take some time.” He snorted, then looked at Rain, raising his eyebrow. “You believe it urgent that you check on your soul, correct?”

Rain nodded. Dozer was still busy, he could tell, but just what the slime was doing specifically, he had no idea, and that worried him.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, turning back to Ameliah. “Then we leave. The risk of the cave would make it unwise to remain while Rain is occupied.”

“Right,” Ameliah said.

Tallheart nodded, and he fixed Rain with an expression that was serious even for him. “A thought has occurred to me. The way into your soul may be closed.”

Rain grimaced. “Yeah. I’m trying not to worry about that.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Let us go quickly and find out.” He rolled his neck, then looked around the clearing. “Please refrain from further…oddness until we have reached our camp. This is still a ranked zone.”

“Of course,” Rain said, nodding. “I won’t even look at my status until we’re safe. I promise. It would only distract me more.”

Ameliah laughed, glancing at Tallheart. “Bet you first watch he doesn’t make it.”

Tallheart snorted dismissively, turning away. “No bet.”

Rain made it back to camp with his promise unbroken, though he would freely admit he would have failed if Ameliah hadn’t put his pride on the line—which, of course, was likely why she’d done so.

Now, they were safe back in their triangular fort, and Rain had seated himself against one of the tree-trunk walls. Dozer was still ignoring him, but nothing bad had happened so far. If anything, Rain felt better than he had in over a month. There was no harm now in taking a quick look, so eagerly, he opened his status.

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

“Shit.”

“What is it?” Ameliah asked.

Rain glanced over at her and froze. She was looking at him neutrally, holding her torn shirt in her hand. She had yet to don its replacement.

“Uh…” Rain mentally kicked himself, then cleared his throat. “My character window is broken.”

He tore his eyes back to his interface, trying to make the motion seem casual, though he knew he did a poor job of it. He could already feel his ears heating, though not from the captivating scene he’d just beheld. His embarrassment came instead from the fact that Tallheart was, like, right there. The smith was occupied in setting up the grinder, acting as if nothing unusual was happening.

Rain kicked himself again.

By their standards, nothing unusual IS happening. Every time I think I’m getting used to the culture, someone goes out of their way to prove me wrong.

“Broken how?” Ameliah asked, clearly having chosen not to tease him about his reaction. There was no way she hadn’t noticed.

Rain sighed, focusing on the panel in front of him and actually seeing it this time. “Well, it’s mostly blank. It’s like it stopped displaying part-way through. The only way for that to happen would be… Oh.”

He raised his hands, summoning a keyboard and opening up a terminal.

>character

Error: cell index (3,0) is out of bounds

Process exited with code (1)

>

“Never mind,” he said, relieved. He called up the source code in a new window, then started scrolling through it. “It’s just a bug. I was afraid the system might have scrambled my interface for a second there.”

“What kind of bug?” Ameliah asked, moving to sit beside him, now safely clothed once more. “Is it a fly? Or maybe a cockroach?“

“Oh, stop,” Rain said, jostling her shoulder playfully. “I told you what ‘bug’ means, and besides, historically, it was a moth.” He chuckled to himself, meanwhile finding the error right where he’d known it would be. “Found it.” He paused, then looked up. “Do you actually want me to explain, or did you just ask about it so you could make that joke?”

“I actually want to know,” Ameliah said. “Believe it or not.”

Rain smiled. “Okay then. As bugs go, this is a stupid one. At the top of my character panel, I have a table that lists some basic stuff like my level, level cap, experience, and so on.” He gestured vaguely at his code. “When I wrote this, I made it so it would show free points in that table too, but only if I had them. That part is fine, but I didn’t remember to tell it to make the table bigger if it was going to do that. My code tried to put some text in a place where it couldn’t go, so it broke.”

Ameliah snorted. “You’re right. That is stupid. I thought you said you were good at this.”

Rain turned to her, angrily opening his mouth to explain how it had failed gracefully and how that was more important than any stupid bug. He’d written a proper error code and everything. He was prevented from saying anything, however, when Ameliah pressed a shushing finger against his lips.

“Relax,” she said, smirking at him. “I’m just giving you a hard time.”

She removed her finger, and Rain shut his mouth with a click.

Ameliah laughed. “Trust me when I say that the automatic spell stuff you do is amazing. First, you started using channeled spells in your sleep, and that was bad enough. Now, you’ve got them following rules and casting themselves on their own. It’s ridiculous. I have never heard of anyone else being able to do something like that, and that includes goldplates.”

Rain smiled, and he had to look away before the expression turned into a big goofy grin. Fortunately, Ameliah brought him down quickly.

“It’s just that…well, it seems fragile,” she continued. “Your interface is a part of you. You shouldn’t be able to break—” She stopped, the pause clearly artificial as she pretended to realize something. “Actually, wait. This is you we’re talking about. There’s precedent.”

Rain snorted. “I’d be offended if it wasn’t true.” He wrote himself a quick comment, not that he needed it, then saved the new version. I should do unit tests or something, but there is never enough time. I guess I’ll just keep hacking away… I feel dirty. He looked at Ameliah, then sighed. “Code takes work if you want it to work for you. Not everyone can just intuitively know their status. I still don’t understand how you do that.”

“I just do it,” Ameliah said with a shrug.

“See, that doesn’t help,” Rain said, shaking his head. “Code, I can explain. It makes sense to me.”

“And jars of glowing juice make sense to Mollo,” Ameliah replied, nodding sagely as she maintained a straight face.

Rain exploded into laughter, and moments later, she joined him.

“So, did you fix it yet?” she asked when they had both recovered.

“Let’s see,” Rain said, summoning the panel again.

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

+STAT

Dynamo

19

24

10

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

+SKILL

767

26,463

1,725,600

1

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

Health

3,428

3,540

430/d

Stamina

404

1,260

570/d

Mana

8,220

8,220

2.9/s

Attributes

202/182

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

ACCLD

MISC

SYN

STR

57

77

10

0

67/47

100.0%

RCV

21.1

43

10

0

33/33

49.0%

END

13.2

53

10

0

43/23

40.0%

VGR

33.6

57

10

0

47/47

59.0%

FCS

22.1

62

10

40

12/193

35.6%

CLR

200

200

200

0

0/181

100.0%

PER

8.4

20

10

10

0/0

42.0%

SPD

9.4

10

10

0

0/1

94.0%

Resistances

1940/?

FLAT

PERCENT

HEAT

1545.3

0%

COLD

545.3

0%

LIGHT

5.3

0%

DARK

5.3

0%

FORCE

635.3

0%

ARCANE

45.3

0%

CHEMICAL

495.3

0%

MENTAL

5.3

0%

“Yeah, that did it. Everything is fine now. I can see my cap at 24, and my unallocated points are where they should be.” His eyes roved over the rest of the panel, then stopped on one particular number. “Huh.”

“What now?” Ameliah asked.

Rain furrowed his brows, thinking. “My item stat tolerance went past 180. It’s at 182, which is fine, given that I’m level nineteen now, but I didn’t expect it to just jump up like that. I didn’t do anything in that fight to warrant it.” Ring macros are still working. That’s a relief.

“Huh, indeed,” Ameliah said. “What do you think it means?”

Rain raised a finger for her to wait, then returned his hands to his keyboard, typing the command to set a marker for his progress overview. He hadn’t remembered to set one before the fight, but that was what autosaves were for. With two additional commands, he summoned two different comparisons, one from his last manual marker to the autosave and the other from the autosave to now.

Progression Tracker [0.6.0]

marker_1: tarzan [22nd Fallow]

marker_2: auto_3060-10-23-15-00-00 [23rd Fallow]

span: 1.7 days

Tolerance

Strength: 42 -> 47 (+5)

Recovery: 32 -> 33 (+1)

Endurance: 21 -> 23 (+2)

Vigor: 43 -> 46 (+3)

Attribute Buff: 180 -> 181 (+1)

Synchronization

Strength: 9.1 -> 11.3 (+2.2)

Focus: 16.4 -> 17.8 (+1.4)

Progression Tracker [0.6.0]

marker_1: auto_3060-10-23-15-00-00 [23rd Fallow]

marker_2: huh [23rd Fallow]

span: 1.4 hours

Character

Level Cap: 18 -> 24 (+6)

Level: 18 -> 19 (+1)

Combat Experience Earned

768

Tolerance

Vigor: 46 -> 47 (+1)

Attribute Buff: 181 -> 182 (+1)

“Huh,” he said again.

“Stop just saying ‘huh’,” Ameliah said.

Rain looked at her, his expression serious. “My stat tolerance went past 180 before my cap increased. I didn’t think that was possible. For an individual stat, sure, like I was talking about with Focus before we left the company, but this is the total...” He flared Winter as he hunted through his memory. “Oh.”

“You’re doing it on purpose now,” Ameliah said flatly.

Rain blinked. “Maybe.” Before she could swat him, he continued. “Staavo said the general rule was ten times your level, key word: ‘general’. Damn. I should have asked him to elaborate, but I had so many other questions at the time...” He sighed. “You wouldn’t be able to tell me any more on the subject, would you?”

“Only that the limit gets less restrictive at silver,” Ameliah said. “It jumps up to one hundred times your level.”

Rain nodded. “Right, I already knew that. It’s just…I hate discontinuities. Detection has one, and it’s just…ugh. Could the ten times level thing be an approximation? I mean, if the actual equation has a square in it, that would make sense. People suck at math, and tolerance effects aren’t obvious.”

“It is not an approximation,” Tallheart said without looking up from the grinder. Rain looked over to see him busy loading it with some of the more toxic specimens of fruit that they’d discovered.

“You’re sure?” Rain asked, his stomach rumbling even though he’d just eaten an hour ago.

Tallheart nodded, droplets of pure water beginning to patter into the pot below the outlet as he began to grind. “I am sure. Lilly and I both struggled with it. It is a hard line, one that made things extremely difficult for us.” He looked up. “However, I would not be surprised to learn that you have broken through it.”

“But—” Rain began, but Tallheart cut him off with a harrumph.

“Many things in the system can be broken,” he said, looking back down at the grinder. “You know this. Your soul is only one example. Did you not say that you witnessed the Vekuavak woman force her way into a lair that was already full?”

“Yes, but she’s a goldplate,” Rain protested.

“So?” Tallheart said. “We are not speaking of the damage limit.”

Rain tilted his head, acknowledging the point. “Fair enough. Any ideas on that one, by the way?”

“No,” Tallheart said. “Some things are impossible.”

“Val’s dad can do it,” Rain said matter-of-factly.

“Val SAYS his dad can do it,” Ameliah interjected. “That’s different, and Val says a lot of things.”

