“As long as they’re not mad about it when they figure out I was just visiting…”

“They’ll probably just be relieved that the situation ended well,” said Stuart, watching Alden closely. “Nobody wants to run out into the forest on a peaceful evening and destroy an abomination that was once an Avowed. Especially one my aunt admires enough to <<commend>> so highly.”

Alden swallowed.

“So…you do know why you ended up here,” Stuart said calmly. “I thought so. You pretended to be a little ignorant when we spoke before, but after I looked into what had happened, I decided you were probably more aware than you showed.”

Oh I’m way more aware than you know.

“Well,” Alden said in what he hoped was an equally calm tone, “I didn’t think ending up in your backyard was the usual way for people to teleport in to Artona I. And I had just come from a corruption incident. And Knight Alis-art’h did tell me I was probably going to die because I was unbalanced. As far as my skill went.”

“I am glad it did not go that way. You’re sure you’re well?”

Alden gave him a thumbs up. “Great. The Contract fixed whatever was wrong with me. I gained a few levels on my skill. I can preserve dummies who feed their body parts to sea monsters for even longer now.”

Stuart looked so surprised to be called a dummy that for a second Alden worried they were going to have a repeat of the “prick” incident. But then he smiled. “I’m not going to give you the chance to try that again in the future.”

“But your flesh is so high quality,” Alden said seriously. “Much better than mine. Think of the poor mishnen.”

The Artonan boy blanched. “I don’t…I don’t remember saying anything like that.”

“You did. You said something a lot like, ‘Why would a mishnen eat you when I’m right here, human? They prioritize quality.’”

“I apologize. Again. My composure was not ideal.”

Alden nodded. “That’s because you fed part of your high-quality self to a fish.”

“I can help you send your message to Moon Thegund.”

“So fast to change the topic. But thank you. It’s really important to me.”

“There’s no good way to do it, though,” Stuart warned him. “If you wanted to send something very personal to the girl. Contract to Contract is secure and private by design, but to reach Aunt Alis’s ship right now, you’ll have to send any communications through official government channels.”

“Yuck.”

Stuart nodded. “You can choose to send it through them directly, in which case many nosy people will read or view whatever it is before it reaches her. Or you can send it to me, and I’ll send it for you or give it to one of her spouses to pass on. They’re sending Aunt Alis regular updates about the triplets. The government doesn’t read her personal family mail out of respect. Probably. They’ll die before they admit to doing it anyway.”

It wasn’t ideal, but since Alden’s main goal was letting Kibby know he was all right and finding out if she was all right, he’d put up with it.

“Video’s okay?”

Stuart nodded.

“Thanks then. I’ll record it and send it to you. Talk to you in thirteen days?”

“Oh. Do you have to go already?” Stuart’s face fell.

For a guy who was so hard to chat with he sure didn’t want to quit.

Alden actually thought about the question. Did he have to go? Did he want to?

I can’t sleep. And I was about ten minutes away from calling a girl from one of the richest families on the island and yelling at her.

“I don’t have to go,” he decided. “But can we please talk about less serious stuff?”

Rust-colored eyes blinked at him in surprise. “Were we talking about very serious matters?”

“Uh…so far we’ve discussed politics, the eventual overturning of the world order on my planet, me nearly becoming an abomination and being hunted by your family, and whether or not humanity is breeding Avowed.”

Stuart looked confused.

Alden raised an eyebrow at him. “It’s heavy,” he said. “My only other Artonan friend is a young child, so maybe casual conversation between people around our age is supposed to be more intellectual or something—”

“It’s not.” Stuart’s eyes shifted away from the tablet. “I’ve…been having trouble enjoying interactions with my peers at school. I want to respect and care for them. When we speak about matters that are personal to me, it makes everyone very uncomfortable. And when we speak more lightly there is so little common ground that I have nothing to say. So I have been <<steering>> conversations toward academic matters or subjects of personal interest to them.”

His fingers paused their dance over the metal cube. “I didn’t mean to do the same when talking to you. I was happy you reached out. I worried…I thought maybe you were only being polite when you said you wouldn’t mind visiting again.”

Alden considered all of that for a while. “It sounds like you’re working really hard,” he said finally. “And overthinking. You don’t have to do that. You can just relax you know.”

Stuart snorted. “Can I?”

“Yes. Please. And I’ll give it a try, too. What’s the worst that could happen?”

The Artonan boy’s face said he was imagining several terrible things.

“I mean, you’re not going to have someone execute me if I accidentally offend you right?”

“I couldn't. And even if I could, suggesting that I would is offensive.”

Alden shrugged. “Then I’m going to relax and talk about normal shit.”

“Shit?”

“I’m gonna mix some English in, too. Because that’s more relaxed. I’ll be speaking Artonglish for the rest of the night. Englonan. Words.”

“All right…?”

Alden slid off the stool and went to flop down on the sofa. “You would not believe how weird orbital stonechild sounds to an Earthling. I said it in front of a hundred other people recently when I was trying to introduce myself. The Contract totally translated it literally to make fun of me…”

“I don’t think the Earth Contract would do that.”

“Have you met it?”

“Obviously not.”

“It’s less of a dick than Artona III, but still…”

“Artona III can be a little stiff.”

“You noticed it, too! It’s not just Avowed then.”

“I’m living there most of the time. I use it for communicating and classes.”

“With your eye ring things. By the way, I’ve always wanted to ask…do those hurt?”

“They’re implants. I can’t even feel them.”

“Artona III was so snooty. It wouldn’t translate any of Ro-den’s swear words for me. There was no reason for that! And he uses so many of them when he’s talking to you guys. I had to just guess what they all were.”

“If you weren’t exceedingly creative with your guesses then you were probably wrong,” Stuart muttered.

“He never swore at me though. Made me feel left out.”

“He never swears at me either.”

“Does anyone?”

“My siblings. My cousins. You.”

“So only cool people.”

“You are putting yourself in rare company there.”
