Judging by the dark waters of oppression and wariness flooding their cores, however, Shiv didn't see a reason to be hopeful.

Roland and Rose loomed protectively over Adam, their gazes locked on his face, and their bodies growing tenser with every shiver and gasp he made. Even deep in his Delve, his choking groans were a symphony of unceasing suffering. Adam looked paler than he'd ever been, thinner, weaker, like he'd been starving for years. It was as if Adam was degenerating from his humanity to become something lesser on the evolutionary ladder, like something was eating away at his very flesh. It was. The Crown of the Anti-Savior was rooted in his mind, but considering the invasiveness of the technology, it might well atrophy the rest of his biology, if only out of spite.

“Hymn,” Uva said. She tried to keep strength and optimism in her tone, but Shiv could see her heart too, and it was awash with doubt. Even after finishing her Delve and claiming the gifts it brought—the capability of growing a mental landscape from someone's mind—that didn't mean she had the expertise to treat Adam. “Hymn, I need you to advise me now. I don't know what I'm looking at. His cognitive landscape is incomprehensible. His thoughts branch in nonsensical ways. I can't tell which piece… I don't know how to put them back together. Everything is just bleeding into each other. I don't know how to put him back together.”

The Headmaster kept to his silence as he continued surveying the projection Uva had made. The dome was a landscape of chaos, nothing but coiling strands of translucence that momentarily merged into concrete memories. Shiv saw instances of himself, mere mirages on the horizon. From Adam's perspective, he also saw other moments that he recognized: the battle against the Dragon-Knights; Uva's haggard expression during the battle against the Recollector. Roland briefly appeared as well, drawing a bow back and instructing a younger Adam on how to fire a proper shot, but that instant didn't last either. All sense and memory proved evanescent inside Adam's mindscape, and the only thing holding everything together was those cancerous sensations of unceasing suffering.

“Hold on to his memories as long as you can,” Hymn advised, gesturing between the flashes of lived experience. “Start with one, secure it, and then try to build back from that. He might be broken, but we can still match memories together.” He ran a tongue along the insides of his cheek as his brow furrowed. “His emotions, though, might be another matter altogether.”

A near snarl of frustration escaped the Educator. “This will take centuries, and I don't mean that figuratively. His sense of self is in pieces, and now we're treating him like he's a jigsaw puzzle. But how many memories constitute a man twenty years of age? How many moments has he lived? Does he himself even recall? How long will it take to construct a stable array of who he was? Then we must face a question. Even if we are to create a near-accurate portrait of his mental landscape, will he even be able to react to that? Will it help him in any way with the Crown still active?”

“It will be better than this,” the Culturist intoned.

“I wouldn't be so sure,” she replied, scowling up at the orc. “The Crown has devastated his memories and sense of self, but it has also broken his emotions, and it's likely constantly breaking other aspects of his neurology on a biological and perhaps even metaphysical level. We need to find the root of the problem and treat the source. That's the only reliable way to help him.”

“The problem is that we can't,” the Culturist replied. “Because the source is the Challenger, and for now, no one here, not mortal nor god, has the power to compel the father of war and bloodshed to heal what he intends to break. The true cure will arrive after a month. The Crown will cease to function when the time arrives; we can focus on truly healing Adam when that time arrives. Before then, however, we need to focus on staving off further degeneration of his psyche and keeping him stable, and this is simply the best way.”

“It's the rawest way.” The Educator almost scoffed—but even her sourness was doused by the task at hand. “It's difficult. The time it will take, the effort it will demand—”

“I will pay them gladly,” Uva cut in. “The only currency I do not have is understanding and expertise. Someone else must place that bid in my stead.”

Hymn shrugged. “As I said, start with a memory, the most concrete one you can find, and then try putting it back together. Recreate scenes and branch out from there. We have to see if he regains some measure of consciousness—or if the rest of his mind stabilizes to accommodate what you are doing.”

“And if it does not?” Uva asked.

“Well, then the analogy of the jigsaw puzzle is going to seem like an understatement, and you're likely going to become the foremost expert on reconstructing consciousness through brute application of effort and mana in the next few months or years.”

Daunting though the challenge was, Uva's spirit burned brighter than ever. Now that she had a path to walk, she committed to it fully, and in an instant, a series of ethereal shadows manifested behind her. Her gossamer veil flickered outward, and other instances of her ego worked in tandem, each of them directing new bolts of lightning to crash down into that sea she summoned out of Adam. Currents of kaleidoscopic magic formed bridges, and then those bridges became chasms as memories were calcified. She began rebuilding snapshot instances from the past immediately, and new scenes began to play from that crevice that played moments from the past to those in the present.

Shiv felt his breath catch as he recognized the scene. He was staring at himself through Adam's hazy eyes. They were chatting away about something underneath the coliseum. The words were muted and distorted. Shiv couldn't recall what was being said; however, he remembered the feeling from those moments. He remembered that brief measure of peace they shared together—a peace that Adam felt as well, though it was constantly assailed by an urge to perform acts of violence, to tear flesh, to kill something, anything, just to be granted a moment of relief.

Uva called down more lightning from above as she expanded out from that single vein of memory in search of others connected to it, be it chronologically or emotionally.

Shiv's left hand twitched with discomfort, and Jessica noticed his sudden spasm. He waved her off before she could ask any questions. “I just forgot which body I was in for a while. Veronica's currently got me chained and kneeling in front of the rest of the Council so that she can parade me in front of the Republic and blame me for what happened to Longinus.”

“Just you?”

“It’s the neatest way to resolve the whole crisis, and to be honest, pretending to be the bad guy kind of tickles me.”

Jessica squinted at Shiv. “Yeah, it would, wouldn’t it?”

“Speaking of, how willing are you to take a trip up north at some point?” Shiv asked.

The Giantsbane pressed her lips together and pretended to deliberate—but she was an easy read even without the Harbinger. “Depends. Are we going up there for business or pleasure?”

“Well, I intend to intercept, beat the shit out of, and kidnap an Undying Tarrasque as it transitions into another dimension and ruin an invasion before it begins. Is that business or pleasure in your book?”

Her lips quirked upward. “Feeling both.”

“Looks like we have the same book, then. Frost Giants are planning to move the big bastard in two weeks—over into Lord Scorn’s place.”

Jessica frowned. “The one you hit with an Animancy bomb?”

“Vulteg god—the guy who keeps threatening to do things to Adam’s ass. Come to think of it, you two might get along. Maybe you should go on a diplomatic mission to Vulketh instead.”

Shiv felt a strong pulse of favor from Jessica as his Words of Adoration took hold. “Ha! Fuck you!” she barked.

“Yeah, yeah, fuck me; rip up my ass, but come on—this is your bread and butter. Jotun, giant monsters, revenge—got all three going for us here. And there isn’t even any conflict of interest between me and the Republic about this; we gotta deal with the Tarrasque at some point, so what better time than soon, and who better than us? How many Legends will be able to claim that they got to put down a Tarrasque?”

These Words of Truth and Adoration 91 > 93

“Yeah, okay, okay, you don’t need to keep smashing me with your Social Skills—you know I’m always game for big game.” Jessica sniffled. Her head snapped up, and her eyes narrowed at Roland, unaware of present happenings. “But—”

Shiv knew what she was going to ask and intercepted the question. “No. He’s gotta stay here. Roland’s a godsdamned killer among killers—don’t make that face at me; it doesn’t matter that you hate him, don’t lie to yourself. He is. And if we can’t face the truth, it’s going to make us pay at some point.”

“It makes me hurt regardless, so why not tell ‘the truth’ to go fuck itself?” Jessica asked.

“Because then you never learn, and you never get out of the pit,” Shiv answered, shaking his head in near disappointment—blatantly chiseling away at Jessica’s character flaws in the process. “You’re a Legend. So be a Legend. But also, think: Veronica’s willing to use me as an attack dog because I’m renewable, powerful, and expendable. You’re Republic-loyal—mostly—so if we get mixed in with the Inquisition and Prismatic Guard, no big problem there. But that won’t work with Roland; he’s just too enticing. Veronica’s still a snake—if she thinks she can take him, she will. He’s a bigger reward than the Tarrasque is. No Roland means a crippled Starhawk.”

And that wasn’t the only issue. “Besides, Roland probably isn’t in the right state for this right now. Not with how Adam is. Can’t have that when you’re dancing the edge. Not when you’re not Deathless.”

A hot breath slipped out of Jessica as his logic buried itself deep. “Right. Yeah. So. Who else do we got for our Tarrasque hunt?”

“More capture than hunt. I meant what I said before: I’m going to beat the shit out of that thing, but no one is gonna get to kill it. Instead, I’ll be returning it to the people it was stolen from.”

“Huh?”

“That Farwalker I met. He’s mighty excited about reclaiming a misappropriated Endhound—especially one imbued with my Undying nature. Might buy me some more favor for Chorus too, considering I still need to present myself to them for all the Restricted Skills I’ve been developing.”

“Shit, you got everything planned out, don’t you?” Jessica asked, her eyes glowing with amusement. “You know, you keep this up, and I’m going to miss the brutish idiot I got to beat the shit out of for fun.”

He sneered at her barely veiled insult. “Yeah, I can still be that; but I don’t think you’re going to be able to pull the Upcreek Special on me reliably anymore. Not without a lot of magic. My physical invincibility’s got costs, but hey, I don’t think I can ever complain about how that Delve turned out. Speaking of—didn’t I break your nose once? What’s up with your Toughness? Did you not Delve that or something? Why’s it shit?”

Jessica’s wide grin hid an explosive outburst of outrage. “It’s really not. I’m just not a freak made by an even bigger freak using bits from an apocalyptic monster. But hey, since we’re going to be Tarrasque hunting together, I gotta make sure you’re in tip-top shape. Can’t have you embarrassing us on the mission and all that. Believe me when I tell you this, but I’m glad you got your special, Unique, wonderful Toughness, because I’m going to enjoy it more than you will.”

Inside, Shiv was overjoyed. Outside, he offered a false sigh to massage Jessica’s ego. That’s right, Giantsbane, get lured into training me more, you predictable, sword-loving degenerate.

Scheming Bastard 28 > 30

“Anyway, I told Veronica I want Havel Van Stormhalt with us on this, too,” Shiv added casually.

At the mention of Stormhalt’s name, three sets of heads locked onto him. Isabella looked alarmed at the mention of her father. Roland’s gaze filled with a confused severity, but there was a measure of confidence he retained in Shiv as well—something the Deathless found more than flattering. Jessica, however, was the least enthused out of the three. “What? Look, Shiv, if you’re planning to ‘arrange a heroic death’ for someone, you gotta telegraph it less.”

“No, not even remotely.” Shiv snorted. “I want him because I want to crack him psychologically and domesticate him before he inevitably becomes another bomb down the line.”

“D-domesticate?” Isabella whispered, her face going pale.

“Yeah, what she said,” Jessica replied, her emotions turning to worried suspicion. “What do you mean?”

“I mean, I don’t need him doing something stupid to settle his grudge against Roland and ruining this already messy peace I got going with Veronica and the Republic,” Shiv answered. “And also, I think I can make use of him. He covered himself and his House in shame with what he planned. Him, Kathereine, and I guess Halsur dragged Veronica into the shit before she was ready—and that’s part of the reason why we’re here right now. So, he’s on the outs and got nothing to do but simmer and scheme. Veronica knows this; I know this; might as well see him controlled and contained for both Yellowstone and Gate Piety.”

