Shiv considered how to put his intuition into words. “I'm growing a set of instincts. It’s like I can guess at points of strife down the line—been thinking about this stuff for some time. And that has me wondering about how I can resolve them before they start hitting us. Because if I have to roll with the bullshit I don’t see coming, I’m going to diffuse what I can see before they ever get the chance to go off at all. And no, I don’t want to kill him. That’ll just make a bigger mess right now. So. Might as well make use of him.”

“And you think you can do that?” Jessica asked. “Because—”

“I know I can do that, because his all-consuming hate for Roland is an emotional wound large enough for me to crawl inside him and wear him like a suit. Don’t get this confused, Jessica: I tasted his misery when we first met, and you know him like I do. If my words worry you, what do you think I’ll do to him?”

A harrowed understanding came over her—and to a lesser extent, Isabella. “Holy shit, kid. He's gonna spontaneously combust.”

“Yeah. So. He’s going to be coming with us. Reinstated as the Endbreaker’s minion. Him, a bunch of expendable Avatars, and their Ascendants. Gonna get to know my allies and enemies on an intimate level and all that. Might not work out perfectly—might go to hells, but that’s okay. I’ll just die and try again. But if you die, I’m going to slander the fuck out of your name, so make sure it goes right.”

“Wait, you’re pinning this on me?” Jessica did a double-take, her jaw shaking in disbelief.

“Pinning? I asked Veronica to instate you as the head of the Tarrasque elimination team and attached me to you as part of my ‘penance’ for my heretical acts against the Republic and the Ascendancy—especially Longinus.”

Jessica's lips quivered. “And you didn’t think to ask me about this beforehand?”

The agitation on her face was delicious, and it only grew as Shiv played the role of innocent. “Does Veronica ask when she tells you to do something?”

“You… you fucking… you motherfuck…” A wrath-fugue took hold of Jessica as her emotional core was doused in a rain of tranquility, and Shiv mockingly patted her shoulder as she tried to strangle him to death—her fingers imprinting silver scars on his neck and causing his Scarforged Shell to materialize along his throat like a magical gorget. “Motherfucking Chandlers fucking me…”

Shiv let out a satisfied sigh. Getting his ass shredded all those times was worth it for inflicting such anguish in return. Violence truly was the most incompetent form of revenge; a real bastard knew how to inflict mandatory employment and unwanted responsibilities on someone they didn’t like. “So. Anyhow. You really can’t say no anyway, and if this goes wrong, it’s on you.”

“I’m going to destroy you,” Jessica seethed. “The… the beatings I’m gonna give you…”

“Oh, no, please have mercy,” Shiv replied without any change in tone.

Comedy 33 > 34

Even in the dour moments, life could still hold much joy.

“Roland—I—His tooth, no, something is pushing front teeth out!” Rose’s sudden cry of alarm burst the bubble of Shiv’s momentary joy. The world jolted as Shiv leaped across time—tearing his chest open—to reach Adam faster. Twelve mana hydra heads crashed down one after another on Adam's chest as Shiv simulated his biological architecture and—

“The… fuck?” Shiv breathed. He wasn’t seeing things earlier; Adam wasn’t just degenerating, he was changing—inside and out. His biology was beginning to shift faster and faster. His flesh was sinking inward, succumbing to cell death before the smallest components of his biology were rebirthed for seemingly no reason at all.

The architecture that replaced the original was both familiar and ridiculous. Adam’s front teeth had fallen out—because a row of sharp fangs, and, most notably, two large tusks meant for tearing through meat had displaced them. Patches of gray were spreading across his skin, and Shiv sensed how Adam’s bones were fracturing and elongating within his flesh.

“What’s happening to him?” Roland asked, his heart thundering in his chest, his breath catching fast. “Shiv! Shiv!” He reached out to shake the Deathless, but Shiv struggled to declare what was irrefutably taking place.

Because it just seemed so ridiculous. “I think Adam’s… turning into an orc?”

With that statement, the room went silent—a bolt of psionic lightning froze in midair. The Educator clutched her hood and pulled it over her face as she moaned with exhaustion. At the same time, Rose spun on her heel, shouldered through the other Pathbearers present, and then launched herself at the Culturist in an attempt to gouge out the Legendary orc’s eyes.
