I don’t give a fuck.

I don’t fucking care.

I don’t give a me-damn cocksucking ass-licking shit about whatever moon-prophecy slugshit you keep warbling on about.

There are only two things I want to hear right now.

One: “Yes, Lord Scorn, we have a way to keep the Tarrasque contained and focused while we’re moving it into your dimension.”

Two: “Yeah, the Tarrasque will absolutely fuck Adam Arrow’s ass so hard with its mountain-sized cock he dies in this life, the next one, and sprays a chain of fucking… fucking… uhh… Tarrasque babies of suffering or…”

Just tell me how you’re going to keep that motherfucking monster under control, and how you’re planning to give me a way back into Theborn.

Everything other than that? I don’t fucking care.

Just get me to the point where we fuck Adam Arrow to death.

—System Notification sent by Lord Scorn to the Jotun delegation

414

“Atonement”

A psionic klaxon sounded through the capital as the Auroral Council looked down upon Shiv. A series of charges were declared. He was being branded a heretic, a betrayer of Yellowstone, and a territorial separatist.

Orichalcum chains bound him to a stone platform, and rows of concentric spells kept him caged within a pillar of mixed magical lores.

Veronica stared down upon him, playing the role of stern and wrathful judge. The backrest of her chair jutted up in the shape of a rising sword, and that was her symbol at present. The executioner, the one that would exact retribution for the foul acts Shiv had inflicted upon the Ascendancy. Another nine Council members blared down at Shiv, each one pretending in their own way as well. All of them committed to the role that they were meant to play, but he could see their hearts and realized more than a few felt thankful for what he did, though they still had to fake their righteous rage.

In fact, there were two among the ensemble that were downright sympathetic towards Shiv's plight. The Deathless noted the councilmen representing Enoch the Builder and Harlem the Truthful. When Longinus' name was invoked, their hearts flared with pitch-black fire, and the anguish which accompanied their fury was deepened as well.

That betrayed them to Shiv. He knew they'd suffered personally and deeply at the hands of the Wanderer. Though they didn't have the courage nor the inclination to see him freed from this session of judgment, Shiv suspected that he could squeeze more than a little bit of political goodwill from them down the line if the opportunity presented itself.

As the trial went on, a ray of light splashed down upon him, and Shiv looked up to see a crystalline gem projecting bursts of illumination up into the sky. He could feel subtle emanations of Pyromancy and Divination emitted from the construct, and he suspected the proceedings of this trial were broadcast live in sculpted projections of fire over the Capitol.

He recalled what Veronica told him just before the trial began: “Connected to the first rule of politics, you have to satisfy the people emotionally if you want to condition them toward a more sensible set of behaviors in turn. Never forget this: Emotions are currency, and the more you can ease or relieve someone's misery, the fonder they will feel toward you. When you have accrued enough of that fondness, they will look away from the worst of your deeds, and they will betray their own interests to heed your words, for populism is a most reliable disease.”

And so, as the trial went on and Shiv was called to account for what he did to Longinus, he realized a subtler, more insidious layer to Veronica's calculations.

This trial wasn't just a farce; it was meant to give the people catharsis, especially the committed followers of Longinus, but also to assuage their worries, for he was being characterized as the sole reason why Longinus was currently suffering a “crisis of faith” and a “malignant evolution.” Shiv's reputation was being spent toward the destination of infamy, and as his name grew fouler, Veronica then grew greater and nobler for delivering this moment of justice in the eyes of the people.

And as the proceedings got to a point, she rose from her sword-shaped chair as if she was the blade being unsheathed and prepared to cast forth her judgment.

“Dearest citizens, nobles, and civilians, hear me now as I issue my first decree. The question of the Deathless' sin is beyond doubt. He has defaced and defiled our great faith, and even a thousand lifetimes of labor and service will not wipe this blemish clean. The question is not if he deserves the punishment to come, but what punishment is righteous for a beast daring to wear the flesh of a man. A beast that is beyond the reach of death's deliverance.”

Shiv almost grinned at her—almost—but he kept to his discipline and played the part of unruly savage, snarling and pulling at his chains, for that was his part in this theater. Veronica needed to seem strong and would ensure she got her measure of strength, one way or another. Letting her perform this faux act of retribution cost nothing but Shiv’s annoyance compared to actually risking a siege on Gate Piety.

“But though he is beyond death, he is not beyond the wrath of the Auroral Council and the Ascendancy we represent. I call this trial to a momentary adjournment so that we might each discuss in private the best means of making right this deepest wrong. Take heed, citizens, and take heart as well. Even the undying can be struck down. Even the undying can be taught the error of their ways. On this day, we will discover how, as a civilization, as a faith, as a people. Right now, I beg of you: pray and keep the Wanderer close to your hearts, and banish the darkness of fear and grief. The fire ascends; the light prevails.”

Shiv had to admit Veronica was pretty good at talking. Her words hammered his heart and wrenched at his mind. If he didn't have the Harbinger to blunt the effects of her rhetoric, he might have been drooling with patriotic fervor too—even if this might end with his torturous execution.

As the rest of the Council rose from their respective seats, Shiv noticed Anthony’s lingering gaze. Their eyes met, and Shiv saw the Councilman's emotions ignite with apprehension and—was that fear and dismay?

Shiv fixed him with the faintest grin and fanned whatever flames of discord existed between him and the Councilman. Oh, you didn't consult him on this, did you, Veronica? Yeah, I can see it in his eyes. I can read it on his face. He doesn't want me here. He's worried about what you're trying to do with me. The question is, is he worried that you're trying to sculpt me into something of your own design, or is it because he doubts that you can?

That question went unanswered as each of the Ascendants walked away to begin their recess, but the decision was already made. He knew what Veronica intended to do. He was to be bound to the Ascendancy like some kind of tamed attack dog. Veronica had explained the idea to him beforehand. It allowed him to operate in the capital to some capacity and also fed a propaganda victory to the people, showing that the Legendary Deathless could be brought down and then contained. Wielded to serve the Republic—transformed from the terrifying nuisance he was before.

That functionally served three ends: having Shiv operate alongside the Prismatic Guard in a more official capacity, resolving the Longinus crisis to some extent, and allowing Veronica to stay in proximity to Shiv to further influence him over time.

Keep your enemies closer than your friends and all that, Shiv guessed. But that cuts both ways, Veronica, and you best be careful that I don't collapse your house of cards around you. You're not the only one who can break people around here. Not nearly anymore.

But for now, the theater was done—and the verdict had been agreed upon beforehand. As he had caused so much damage to the Republic, there came the obvious conclusion that he would be able to inflict the same upon their enemies. And so, he was to be classified as a weapon under the Inquisition—with him placed under the special custody of one of Yellowstone’s greatest heroines: Legend Jessica Hawgrave.

And as for his first mission of atonement?

Well. There was a Tarrasque up north about to cross dimensions, and there was an invasion to halt. Now things had an official reason to justify the actual circumstances of what needed to follow.

Politics was funny and beautiful sometimes.

And despite all the ugly rat-nest of battling interests and subterfuge, Shiv kind of enjoyed the chaos and carnage. Figuring out how people thought, what they wanted, and how to use them against each other conferred a special kind of pleasure beyond just beating someone into submission.

Yeah, he thought to himself. I think I'm gonna enjoy what comes of this. And I think I have an idea about how to spin my own atonement too and start playing political tug-of-war with Veronica.

After all, another part of his sentencing was to see “Longinus” returned to his rightful spot in the pantheon, and Shiv was to ensure no further harm came to the Wanderer considering everything he had already done.

But the Wanderer was no more; only the Dreamtaker endured in his stead. Veronica didn’t fully understand how that worked—mainly because Jessica didn’t either.

So, visions were conjured by Shiv’s imagination. Visions of the Dreamtaker absolving and proclaiming Shiv high faithful in forgiveness, and him playing along, kneeling before her and pitifully moaning in thanks and fealty.

It took everything he had not to crack with laughter. Oh, this is gonna be fucking hilarious. The people are going to eat this shit up, and Veronica… I can’t wait to see the look on your face when I finally show you what happened to the Wanderer.

***

“Hey, you sure you're alright, kid?” Jessica looked Shiv up and down, trying not to wince at the many cracks lining his body. She gazed upon his Severed Shadow; he bled not blood but raw vitality into the air, and it fizzled high, painting the atmosphere with a dull red glow. But his wounds were already closing. His Harbinger was coming back together. Veronica had halted the Songbringer before she pushed his skill to the point of fatal damage.

And in doing that, she'd shown her hand. She revealed an emotion and a weakness in the form of her patron god and the intent to take Shiv not as a mindless, expendable dog, but as someone to sculpt in her image or to convert to her side.

Quite happy with this outcome, Shiv shrugged. “It's just another day, Jessica. Just another near-fatal beating for me. Don't worry about it—me and Veronica had our talk. Bitch has a heart of adamantine and so many faces she might not even be on her own side at times, but she’s hard as stone, and I'm pretty sure she doesn't want to finish me off just yet. Funny thing is, the Songbringer might be the most brittle part of Veronica.”

The Giantsbane shook her head with disgust. “Stop.”

As the two of them spoke, a branch of concentrated Psychomancy punched down through the ceiling and sank into Adam. The Paragon was spasming and shaking. A veil of the faintest blue coated his body while Uva joined in with her own magics. Valor was deep inside Adam's soul, delving and trying to help him clear those encounters. A ripple of energy swept through the room, and the branches of psionic lightning descending from the dreaming storm grew thick. The branches fused together, becoming more like a trunk, and that trunk extended upwards, expanding out, forking along separate paths as if a tree growing in real time.

Instead of spreading any leaves, the psionic foliage that formed pulled together, becoming a dome overhead—portraying fractured instances of memory and sensation on its surface. Shiv could see pieces of emotionality floating among a sea of translucence. It was hard to describe what he was looking at—like separate pieces of Adam's mind and soul were floating about, drifting through that chaotic cosmology.

The longer Shiv stared, the stronger his certainty grew: pieces of Adam's mind and empathetic core were intermixed now, embedded in each other like shrapnel, and so his shattered consciousness was ruined in more ways than one. Bits and fragments of happy memories were now associated with pain, nothing but untrammeled, unimaginable pain. Every shard of emotion was stained black with misery, and the shade hurt Shiv to look upon.

If Adam's heart was a thing of flesh, then the pus that leaped from it was the foulest the Harbinger had ever tasted. “Someday, we will break the Challenger. Someday we will rend that monster, limb from limb, sinew from sinew, until there is nothing left of him. Until we draw a final, true lament from his lips.”

His overflowing rage compromised even the Harbinger's enduring rationality—and both skill and wielder knew their promise to be hollow. The Challenger was not the kind to succumb. He was the idea of war, and the only thing that ever shook him, or at least a small aspect of him, in the Red Rider's Hand, was the billowing fog of absolute peace that resided within Adam, something that was thankfully absent at present.

Even so, the Red Rider's Hand took on a will of its own. It refused to follow Shiv anywhere near the Starhawk's perch, and it remained outside, a hundred meters away from the castle, vibrating with a tension more befitting of a terrified rat than a metaphysical instrument of war.

“That's a lot worse than I expected,” Hymn muttered. The Headmaster gazed on at the mental architecture Uva grew out from Adam. He wasn't alone. Beside him were the Educator and the Culturist, all three trading bursts of Psychomancy as they shared thoughts and suggestions as to how Adam's broken state might be mended.

