Many of the disciples rushed to the front of the aircraft. I was included, of course, since I really wanted to see what this Four Corner Sword Realm was all about.

And it didn’t disappoint.

A sword taller than the mountains and just as big was dug deep into the ground. Its dark blade stretched past the clouds and into the horizon, and if I was to be honest, the hilt was probably in the void.

That was how big the sword was.

Its surface was etched with symbols, many I couldn’t recognise, and some that were vaguely familiar.

But no matter what, the giant thing was impressive.

And it wasn’t just big; it was also imposing. We were at least one hundred kilometers away, and I could feel its aura.

Seeing it so up close, it was no wonder that it could house an entire secret realm. Its wielder must have been some extraordinarily powerful user. I was honestly quite flabbergasted.

For such a minor realm to have ever housed such a giant… One could only wonder what had happened. Were they a system user? It was possible, actually, but I wasn’t too sure if it was human or beast, and if it was human, how would one gain access to the system?

Many questions, and no answers. Though maybe entering it would give me what I sought.

And soil… Please, I really needed soil.

Anyway, aside from that, I could also feel a familiar aura from the sword, and I finally understood why Elder Su had put so much importance on it.

The giant black sword emitted the aura of a Ghost Cultivator! An extremely powerful one!

It was very faint, but I could feel it through the Ghost Qi Technique. I wasn’t sure if Elder Su could, but since she didn’t mention the matter, she probably didn’t know.

Not that it was really important. Finding a Ghost Cultivator who’d achieved such a level was impressive, but not rare. Well, it was rare in the grand scheme of things, but not in the grandest scheme of things. Out of trillions of people, one was bound to walk this damned path to its success, otherwhise it wouldn’t be a path.

With renewed vigor, I waited eagerly for the aircraft to land. There was a platform made specifically for that, with some tea pagodas, and nothing else.

Whispers broke out as we got closer, gasps of shock and excitement leaving the mouths of the disciples. Well, the normal ones, not the edgy ones looking at the thing with disinterest.

I was not one of those people; I was really happy to see such a giant sword!

It wasn’t long before we were really up close, and the pilot intentionally took the long way around, showing us the back and front, leaving us in awe.

Looking up, I truly couldn’t see the end, or even half of it. I wasn’t even sure we were seeing one third of it, and the first half of the third was buried in the ground!

Just who was the cultivator wielding it? How did it get here? So many questions, and I had to know! Maybe if they were still alive I could ask for some help… Er, maybe not.

It was better to stay incognito, yeah.

The aircraft finally went down, landing on the giant stone platform, and the doors opened, finally giving us some fresh air.

The elders didn’t give us any instructions when we’d gotten out, but one of them waved his hand toward the ships, and they became miniature versions of themselves who then flew into his bag of holding.

What the hell? How rich are these guys?

Ignoring that for a second, all of us without exception turned to look up at the sword.

Hemogon.

That was the only word that passed through my mind upon feeling its aura press down on me.

There was nothing else I could say.

Thankfully, I didn’t have to. Peng Long cleared his throat, forcing our attention toward him.

“In five hours, the realm will open. Calm down your spirit and be prepared. Fa Xiaolan will be the first to enter, followed by Peng Li one hour later, and Hwei Badai the hour after, and so on. Understood?”

“Yes!” We all cupped our fists and bowed, then walked toward an isolated corner and started meditating.

Sitting down cross-legged, I took a deep breath and reflected upon myself.

I was at the peak of Qi Condensation, had reached the peak of my Beast Core, and had stats in the thousands. I had many skills and Skill Points, and I needed good soil to cultivate my Foundation Establishment tree. I also needed a lot of rare ingredients to finally get rid of that FREELOADER!

I yelled that last part inside my mind, just in case he could hear.

I was tired of being scared for all my treasures! He should be returned to his mother as soon as possible.

Speaking of Yo Na… I wondered what she was doing.

I tried establishing a connection with her, and it worked perfectly-

“You stupid bird, where the hell are you?!”

At the secret realm, I told you. Had Meng Mao returned yet?

“Yes, he did, and that’s the issue! Why is he giving us work?”

I told him to… You can refuse, you know…

“I can’t speak! I don’t speak human; hell, I barely understand human!”

That’s a you issue…

“I will gouge out your eyes and eat your feathers!”

Oh, don’t be so angry. Give me an update; I will enter the Secret Realm in a few hours.

“You- fine. The children left for that sect of theirs or whatever, so it’s only the woman, the man that’s in love with you, and me left. I don’t know what business the other two have with you though.”

Me neither, but I shouldn’t be long now. Also, I angered a clan of sea serpents, probably. Expect me to be a bit later if they come looking.

“You what?! Stupid bird, my son-”

He’s safe… Too safe, in fact. You owe me so many Water Crystals!

“Huh? Why? What happened? Bird, what happened to my son?!”

Oh… you’ll find out. Nothing bad, in fact; you may be in for a pleasant surprise.

“Hey-”

I cut off the connection; that was a little funny. I had no idea Yo Na could be so… emotional. Not emotional in the sad way, but actually able to show proper emotion. It was strange, but welcome.

And I wasn’t lying; even I didn’t know what sort of monster her son would turn out to be…

With that settled, though, I calmed down and started meditating. Calming one’s spirit was important, even though it didn’t seem obvious at first.

My current troubles have led me to have a wild spirit. The fight and the interrogation were major, not to mention the worry of how I could explain away my situation.

Even though nothing happened, there was no way to say that nothing couldn’t have happened. It was better for me to take my time, calm down, and rearrange my thoughts.

What I needed most was to figure out my next steps. I had a firm belief that the trial would help me achieve the Foundation Establishment realm. Only then could I begin my meteoric rise.

I was also hoping that the Golden Core would help upgrade my own Beast Core.

Currently, it wasn’t taking more energy, and it was clearly waiting for something. I couldn’t say why, but I had a feeling that the Golden Core could help if used correctly.

Aside from that… I needed a break. A good break… Napping maybe… Hmm…

◈◈◈

“Fa Xiaolan!” A wild voice woke me up, and when my eyes opened, I’d realised that it was the Patriarch who was calling out for me.

“Patriarch…” I stood up and brushed the dust off my clothes.

“It’s almost time, and you’re first.” He said sternly, then pointed at the giant sword, many disciples already gathered at its base. “The realm will open.”

I nodded and cupped my fists, following the others toward the entrance. Did I really fall asleep again? I must have been really tired.

Anyway, there was a lot of Qi gathering around the sword. It probably needed a boost to open, but since it decided when to open, then this secret realm could also be considered an inheritance ground, right?

Interesting…

Walking forward, I could truly feel just how majestic this sword was. Its power was greater than Soul Transformation for sure; it could ever come closer to that of an Ascendant.

I couldn’t tell; I was too weak, but I had the general feeling. The owner was a great, powerful person, but definitely not someone who could have stood shoulder to shoulder with me.

Then again… This sword looked old…

The rest of the disciples were watching the thing with as much awe as I was. There was no way for anybody within the realm not to be awed; it was pure nature.

As we all were staring at the treasure, the Patriarch walked forward and cleared his throat.

“Today is the day you get to experience something unique within a cultivator’s life. Something truly special. When I was your age, I’d done the same thing, and won a lot. While I cannot disclose the details, know that just participating is a boon and a privilege.

“When you enter, there will be no introduction and no instructions. For those of you who’d already ventured out, that would seem natural. But most of your peers hadn’t had much contact with the world outside of the sects, so be prepared.

“This Realm, while there will not be any casualties caused by it, is dangerous. There have been a few disciples who’d returned cripples. So remember the golden rules: Tread Lightly, Inspect four times and only strike once, and most important, if not the most important of all: If you can escape, do so. Greed and guts are necessary things in this world of cultivation, but don’t pay the price with your future.

Besides that, one other thing I should mention is that the realm always changes its stages; however, there will always be four. There is a point system, so the one with the highest points wins, and those points are calculated based on many things that I cannot disclose. That is all.”

After saying that, Peng Long swished his sleeve and walked away, leaving us with the rest of the elders.

Many of the students were stupefied, and excited voices quickly rang out shortly after the Patriarch made himself unseen.

It’d been such a long while since I’d entered a secret realm; even I was a little excited, especially at the prospect of earning a lot of points and getting some good soil.

I really needed some good soil.

Once the Patriarch left, there wasn’t much for us to do except wait. I didn’t know if the others could feel it, but I could tell that the Secret Realm was about to open. A lot of Qi was gathering at the base of the mountain, to the point where I felt that the air was sort of lacking.

That was when the others noticed as well, and looked in the direction of the sword realm. It was time…

With one forceful absorption of Qi, the base of the sword glowed with a magnificent blue light. The runes inscribed onto the blade came to life, letting out an impressively strong aura.

I could feel my eyes widen as a vortex of Qi swelled in front of us, and a giant portal-like entrance manifested right before my very eyes.

At that moment, I couldn’t control myself, and a hint of a smile appeared on my lips.