“That's very interesting. A powerful Talent. Have you found any limitations to it so far? If you don’t mind sharing, that is. I might ask, but feel free not to answer.”

Tim shook his head before nodding. “Maybe? I’ve never found a breathing proficiency. I’ve got one for breath control and one for holding my breath, but no proficiency for actually breathing. That's the most obvious thing that just hasn’t appeared for me yet, but it's possible there are others I’m not seeing. Oh, walking. Same thing with that. Same with thinking, now that I think about it. I’ve never gotten a mental proficiency to like… make me smarter or anything.”

Matt just nodded along. “That's very interesting and sounds like an obvious place to start pushing your Talent. That's really what I want out of you, if you take my offer. Push your Talent in an environment where you have good trainers and the like.”

Tim perked up at the suggestion. “I’ve pushed my Talent a ton. I’ve found it's a little flexible. I have a proficiency ‘Apprentice Herb Harvesting(Common): 542,230/1,000,000 Proficiency — Pick weeds to gain proficiency’ that I’ve been grinding out every time I enter a rift. I learned that the definition of weed is pretty much whatever I deem is unwanted, so after I clear the rift I just start picking everything I can. Even still, it takes forever and I’m not really sure it's worth the effort. I…”

Matt momentarily increased his perception as he was startled at the revelation that Tim’s Talent was Categorizing.

That was fairly rare, but its utility was obvious and had been adopted by games and the like. Or that was one of the prevalent theories, given there were records of such Talents and said records went back at least three cycles of Great Powers. At the same time, so had games of one sort or another.

[AI], the skill, ensured that nearly all civilizations followed similar coding principles, meaning some games, if recovered intact, could even be played. They served as fantastic learning opportunities for those interested in the past civilizations, but it presented a chicken and egg conundrum.

Most of the time, the Talents that showed such detailed descriptions followed a fairly strict categorization of common, uncommon, rare, epic, legendary, ultra-rare, mythical, godly, and finally transcendent, but there had been variation, making some question the veracity of the Talents and their choices. And of course, the open question, as with all Talents of the style, was that the actual limit, or were there even higher ranks once you reach Tiers beyond the current Realm.

Matt had, however, been interested in such Talents since he had learned about them from Ciceron, and having one in front of him with so much extra utility, if his merger thing worked properly, it made his mind race.

Tim was a treasure trove of information, and Matt was more than willing to sponsor the kid to Tier 15 so they could excavate everything possible with his Talent. The proficiency scaling if it followed a one hundred times increase would start to get aggressive in another level or two, but Matt had ideas.

First was the most obvious. Once Tim was immortal, any arbitrary number became nothing more than a time sink, which Matt suspected correlated into some scale of how much time it would take someone else to reach that level of competency. If a decade of information was given to him at level one, Matt had to wonder if it was two decades or a century at the second break point.

Assuming it was an actual decade, then centuries worth of experience. With how young Tim was and how unremarkable his history had been, Matt was somewhat dubious he had the experience to make a call like that. One more thing to test for.

Either way, he hoped the scaling would be the second, but was prepared for the knowledge scaling to be a flaw of the Talent and need to be boosted.

The second way to get around the scale of large numbers was to push the Talent and find ways to increase the proficiency gained per action.

He had ideas for that, but it would take testing.

Letting his perception drop back to Tier 3 levels, Matt heard Tim finish. “But I haven't been able to get the Talent to absorb mana stones as currency. It's really annoying, but no matter how much I push, I can’t manage it. I can assure you, I don’t like going to the bank to get money out any more than they like me bothering them.”

The money might seem like the largest hindrance for the kid currently, but Matt… Matt was Matt. His bank account, in credits at least, could say whatever he wanted it to. He was not only a duke who could mint coins with any value he desired, but he also had a connection with Manny, who could just send him any number of credits he required.

Not that Matt wasn’t thinking about the Talent that way. He could already see a Talent training plan where Tim grew his similar to how Susanne had hers. They’d probably need to start by getting his Talent to absorb variations of currency if it couldn't already. It was legal tender, but Talents could be picky. After that, they’d push to other Great Powers’ currencies. The Corporation credit was the first and most obvious other currency to use, but after they went through them all, the Talent should have expanded enough to accept rift mana stones.

If it didn’t, they would need to find a new incremental step depending on the results, but Matt was confident they could manage it.

And once Tim could just absorb them to unlock his proficiencies, Matt could just hand him a ring full of mana stones.

Was all that work really necessary when Matt could just print off the currency? Undoubtedly so. It wasn’t just about growth for growth's sake, but what happened if Tim got stranded somewhere without an Empire bank or where the banks ran out of physical currency?

What happened if Matt got his wish and banned physical currency in his duchy, leaving nothing left for Tim?

That last one was unlikely, and Matt knew it, but he was in a good mood and could wish.

Matt couldn’t help but smile as he looked at Tim, realizing this was probably how Luna felt when she found a promising student to teach. Full of energy and ready to find out just how much they could learn together.

“I think we are going to have fun, Tim. That is, if you are interested. I just sent over the contract. Look it over and go wander around and have a lawyer look it over if you want. The main points are as follows: I will assist in your advancement in cultivation while trying to assist you in growing your Talent, providing whatever reasonable items or resources you need. You also get a flat wage based off of your Tier, as well as pay based off of your contributions. In your case, research information given to you by your Talent. In return, you are accruing debt equal to seventy five percent of the resources given to you, as well as the training, but not either of the wages. You can withdraw from the program at any time with no penalty. Training lasts until the Tier 5, 10, and 15 breakpoints based on need. After that, the ducal house, my guild, or Liz’s research station will happily offer longer term contracts.”

It was an incredibly kind deal for the cultivators in question, but that was the point. After meeting Eirene and helping her through her situation with Duke Innes, Matt and Liz had formally set up this project. They weren't trying to make money, but instead give Talented people a method to truly come into their Talents in a safe manner, so they were willing to operate at a slight loss to set the standard for anyone looking to copy the program.

Not that their ideas of getting Talented people when they were young was in any way new. But they, unlike most, were willing to let them go instead of locking them into long-term contracts from the outset.

Matt and Liz hoped that their generosity would be reciprocated in kind to them with the people in question willing to work for them afterwards, but it was only a matter of time before someone decided to leave.

Which was fine.

The program was meant to help people, not necessarily help him and Liz.

Seeing that Tim finished reading, Matt gestured to the alchemy station. “Want to try your new recipe?”

“I haven’t gained my proficiency yet. I need to make vegetable lentil soup first.”

Matt just raised an eyebrow, silently questioning that statement. It wasn’t that he didn’t believe Tim, but more that Tim seemed to be missing the obvious.

Except, Tim just stared back at Matt growing more and more uncomfortable.

Matt finally relented and asked, “The combined proficiency thing, did it give you the recipe? How does it work? Can you try it first? See if your proficiency from the other two skills help without you needing to grind to novice.”

“I um… call them entries. Skills already mean something else and skills can be represented in the Talent, so um… yeah.” Tim looked down as if he had made a mistake correcting Matt but his mind had caught onto what he said about skills.

“You can see skills? How does that work?”

“Um... Well, kind of. I can see all of the skills you published in my Talent. On that note, uh… Thanks? People are really happy for them. Even people like my mom who never actually did any of the delving part talked about how cool your skills were. But I can see them, and I umm... Is it illegal to watch other people use skills and get something out of it?”

Matt smirked. “So long as they were in public you are fine. Unless you want to confess that you are a peeping Tim?”

Tim waved his hands. “No, nothing like that! Someone was learning how to use an [Air Manipulation] skill in the park for a few weeks on and off. I, like pretty much everyone else, hung out while they were doing it. It was fall, so the leaves moving enabled us to see what they were doing. During that time, I actually got an entry for [Air Manipulation]. It's just that it costs nearly two trillion credits. One trillion nine hundred billion to be exact, which is pretty much the cost of getting the skill itself.”

Matt checked the current records of sales and found that while the listed price was nearly that, the skill typically went for four or five Tier 8 mana stones, which would have been closer to two trillion five hundred billion on the lower end. What was more interesting was that the price was only that low because the neighboring planet had four rifts that dropped [Air Manipulation] as part of their common drop table.

Matt had to resist the urge to just hand Tim two trillion credits. He didn’t have that many physical credit coins on him, but part of him knew he could get Allie to deliver him that much and more. Or better yet, just teleport all three of them back to Palustris where Matt could turn on the credit printer.

However, he wanted to help Tim grow, and unending and unearned handouts were a good way to ruin someone. Especially someone like Tim, who, for all Matt could tell, was smart enough he found no challenge, and so had never had to push himself.

Motivating the kid might be tricky, but Matt was willing to put in the work. And best of all, if he really needed help, he could pester the cat who hadn’t left one of Palustris’ lava vents for the last hundred years.

If Luna could teach Mara and Leon literally anything, she could surely motivate someone like Tim if Matt couldn't.

But Matt doubted it would come to that.

Tim just needed to be carefully pushed and prodded, but once he got going, Matt was sure he’d find his own inner drive.

“It's not illegal, but it is very interesting. I wonder if you buy the skill if it just gives it to you. You said you saw the entry methods for creating the skills. Do they give you the skills? From the name you mentioned, it sounds like it doesn’t, but what if you watch someone casting those spells? Can we create copies of rare or even possibly cracked skills with your Talent?”

Matt grinned at Tim’s shocked expression at his rapid fire questions, finally shrugging as nonchalantly as he could. “I have no idea, but it would be cool to find out. Now why don’t you try making the potion? If it gave you the recipe that is.”

Tim nodded before thinking. Matt couldn’t see his spirit shifting or doing anything unusual, but Matt could tell from his biological signs that he was in his own mind. Or Talent if his description of an AI-like display wasn’t just a hallucination his mind used to better understand his Talent.

Finally Tim started going through his kitchen, pulling out a few herbs and finally looking up. “I need to go get three types of herbs that weren't in the original healing recipe.”

Matt just nodded and stepped out of the apartment, letting the kid lead him to the nearest alchemy store.

He wasn’t paying too much attention to Tim, given that the kid was quietly trying to steal looks at Matt, who had disguised himself as they left. Instead, he just observed his citizens going about their daily lives. Baron Dalru’s efforts in leading his people were noticed with excellent marks all around, and Matt started writing up a small congratulatory note for the man.

It wasn’t quite as useless as a piece of paper; it also came with Matt and Liz willing to foot the bill for either a project or license for something Baron Dalru wanted for Calafor’s development, as well as a personal commendation for when he stepped down. Ultimately it would be up to the baron to properly take advantage of the offer, and Matt was honestly interested in what the man would come up with.

Once they had made the purchase they needed, Matt then suggested Tim buy the ingredients he needed for his soup while they were out, which seemed to surprise the kid. Matt noted it down as a thing to hit later, but didn't want to distract him.

