I watch Ren slump down unconscious against the black wall of the cell, and every moment I make contact, the loud ringing in my ear gets more extreme.

The sensation of hot energy building up inside my body begins to make itself known once I pull my hand away again, and I whisper to myself... "It's happening already...?"

It isn't much, and really only feels mildly warm, but I recognize this feeling from when I was using the suppression technique Seraphel taught me while training in Ellipsia and beneath the Sea of Corruption.

I knew these seals I placed on myself weren't going to be permanent, and they sure are holding back my Vibrations better than spending all of my mental power on a suppression technique, but I thought I would have much more time...

The first seal is already starting to grow unstable.

I look down at my hand and feel the purple ring on my finger settle back into its natural state, but my eyes stay wide as I remember Celia's name spoken in the memories I just absorbed...

"The human is already down for the count!"

"That 5th Class passed out from the sight of us..."

"We should just take them out now. The arena is an honorable event, only the strong should compete."

My inner thoughts are being crowded by the smug grunts, comments, and laughter from the stronger Lords in this prison cell.

Heavy footsteps coming my way fill my ears next, and I turn my head around to see a creature at least 12 meters tall, with dark blue fur, and heavy feet and hands with black claws. It looks like some kind of humanoid snow leopard, but its legs and arms are both chained with the same restraints as me.

The only difference is the enormous size, and a bright white crown rotating above its head as a low growl comes from its mouth. "Yeah, leave it to me. I'll take them out to keep this event exciting for the real fighters."

I let out a sigh and activate my light magic.

With the two Admin override commands active, and these suppression cuffs on, technically, even if I tried for days at a time, I shouldn't be able to activate more than a weak aura.

However, I simulate the activation of thousands of ether commands and my light magic skill, and create an illusion in front of my own eyes to glow bright red like fire.

At the same time, a wave of mana control ripples out from my body, but I keep it all beneath my purple barrier that rests beneath my fake avatar shell.

"You still have enough mana to do a trick like that? These admins must have gone soft, letting a weakling like you in and not even having to suppress your power," the massive beast grunts out while lifting one of its clawed feet in the air above my head.

He laughs, knowing that even though his power is suppressed, our size and weight difference is undeniable. A normal human can't defend against brute force of magnitude even with some of their power unsealed.

I lift my bound hands upward as others in the cell watch and chuckle to themselves, and brace for impact, stopping the bottom of the monster's foot before it crushes both myself and Ren into the floor.

Upon contact, however, I let the force from the attack help me tear my fingers through the layers of ether commands and flesh in the bottom of the monster's foot, and once at its most vulnerable point, I let out a shockwave of my unconstrained mana control.

Not in a friendly manner either—I let it out to shock every pathway left in this monster's body, freezing it like it's been electrocuted with a blank mind.

I jump upward, through the creature's foot as though it's made of frail glass, and come eye to eye with the beast before spinning my body one time and sending its head flying off its shoulders with a single kick.

On the way down, I kick its chest with my other foot and watch the body fall backward.

Then look up at all of the other Lords that were ready to watch a pair of weak humans get crushed to death. "Anyone else have a problem with us taking part in the arena?"

Residue from my mana control leaks out from the fractured body of this monster, and it acts as natural intimidation rippling through the room; making a few of the weaker 2nd Class Lords fall over unconscious or become queasy.

Gulps and nervous shuffling fill the silence, but everyone turns away without saying a word, and I let my glowing red eyes dim back to normal.

"That's what I thought. Now, if there are any new Lords that come in here before the event starts that have a problem with humans joining, tell them I'm busy concentrating, so don't disturb me..."

I then turn around and walk a few steps to sit right down next to the unconscious elf, and get to work on what I really came here for.

I place both hands down on the cool floor of the cell and start feeling out the security system in this room.

There is no rush, so I'm going to be as careful as possible, and begin sending small ether commands down into the Citadel without being noticed. I'm as close to the core as I can get, so now it's time to get to work.

I smirk, sending in my first test command while watching the massive corpse of a 1st Class Lord dissolve into thin air in front of me, leaving only the dark black chained restraints on the cold floor.

–

Over 2 full days pass.

–

During this time, the green zone of the Upper Realm remains calm, yet tense, as every Lord in power knows that something big is happening, but no one has all of the information to understand exactly what...

Ember successfully hides the presence of the Warlords on the Citadel, most importantly Zashen, and purchases tens of thousands of fast travel orbs to Mensa in order to keep the Noble Demon Lord from visiting before the time is right.

While the two 1st Class Demons were no ordinary guards, Ember even felt the presence of Noble's Blood in their veins, clearly the result of experimentation from the Citadel Lord on Mensa. Though, they aren't true Nobles, and were easily outsmarted by this Dragon.

The Rising Emperor's body doubles have been hidden, the two injured Demons were checked on without any suspicion, and even the general's cultivation in the tower below has been kept under wraps.

While the Rising Emperor used many stealth skills, and advanced ether commands aided in the full Astral Noble Human form to create this structure, and no hint of aura is leaking out, it is still not possible for anyone to enter. This problem is solved by a pattern of Demonic Servants coming and going from the Central Tower, and other smaller surveillance buildings on the Citadel to create the illusion that business as usual is going on here.

The ordinary citizens are questioned in passing by the two visiting demons, but they are just as in the dark about the takeover by Drako as everyone else.

Ember waves them off with a smile on his face and receives a thank-you report back from Sisco Vermillion himself with a holographic recording, and all of the Berserkers' return ether orbs can be seen flying back toward the Citadel.

–

During this process, Ember spent most of his time gently floating around the outer ring of Ellipsia, and continuously keeping an eye on the generals that continue to ascend.

They've all begun using a full 4% of stats each, mainly to concentrate the usage on their new availability to the [Divine Grade] Self Regeneration skill.

Raven is at floor 779, effortlessly moving in between her normal state and her stealth dimension, with a burning green divine core in her chest. She's able to withstand full seconds outside of her pocket dimension even at this floor, where the density of divine threads and gravity is many times higher than what it is outside.

The Scarlet Aura that was helping her in her swords has been almost entirely used up. This is because the Soul that held this path has died, but it had a last mission to assist Raven in creating her own. A dull hum echoes through each room she transfers up into, and Vibrations ripple out from her that feel very similar to the Scarlet Clans, but with a much different intensity about them.

Her achieving this feat while dipping in and out of a stealth dimension has mutated this path to become her own. The gleam in her hazel eyes once she feels the growth potential in this new ability she's grasped fans the spark of excitement in her soul to become a growing fire.

Arie sits still in the lotus position on floor 801, glowing white and purple, with his spirit hands filling the entire room to drain all of the ether-infused demonic soul energy inside it to make it his own.

His green True Core is fully assimilated as well, but his greater form has made his entire body saturated with this purple soul energy, making the use of a shared self-regeneration skill less necessary, as he's adapting and creating his own version of demonic regeneration.

His dark bow vibrates with an aura similar to the reaction happening with Raven's blades. He can feel his true body tingle and vibrate, and in moments of total concentration, the flashes of visions from this bow wielder's past burst into his mind.

It is not in the dead skeletal body of a Lich that he fought, but a shadowy dark skinned elven archer. Techniques on how to use his bow with more efficiency flow into his mind. With it, thousands of years of instinctual understanding on how to cultivate an ancient Dark Elven bloodline path used for fighting off Nobles is added to his consciousness like second nature.

Maria is in a flow state of her own, floating in the center of floor 919. Her greater angelic form is glistening with rainbow-reflecting light as her Soul Sword slowly spins around her.

She uses the divine grade self-regeneration skill to its maximum potential. In a single thought, Maria can drain a room of ether, mana, and divine threads into her soul energy core.

At first, on the lower floors, this is what she did in order to saturate her Green Divine Core, but now she actually has to manually limit the amount of energy she's taking in, in order to give her physical body more time under tension to adapt to the pressure.

While fragments of Source Resin flow through her greater form and hold her cells together, they only allow her to exist in this state.

Despite the pristine, ethereal, and majestic angel that looks as though it floats in a calm state in the center of the room, for the last few days, Maria has felt as though every cell in her body, drop of blood in her veins, and bit of moisture in her flesh has been lit on fire and grown back millions of times.

Instead of just cycling through the divine threads just for training and only absorbing the soul energy in their body like everyone else. She's actually draining and consuming every single bit of energy in each room.

The state of each room after she leaves them are as empty as floor 1.

The other generals leave large amounts of divine threads behind, as intended. There are thousands of times more divine threads than necessary inside this tower, it is supposed to be used to adapt to the pressure.

Clearly, Maria has grander plans.

The excruciating pain she withstands is magnitudes above what the other generals are going through at the moment.

She could take things easy, and only consume what she needs, but when she arrived to the Upper Realm, and laid her eyes on the Rising Emperor for the first time since the War in the Dark Continent, so much more changed than she ever imagined...

There may have been three seals holding back the true power of the man she laid eyes on, but Maria understood the gap in strength had somehow widened again despite her massive efforts on Kelfar.

Now, with less than a day remaining before their plan to strike happens, she's determined to close that gap by any means necessary.

"I can't be left behind..." she whispers to herself while clearing the floor and teleporting to the 920th.

Abby, on the other hand, has actually decided to slow down her assimilation process, and sits on the 907th floor with a peaceful expression on her face.

The only thing she gains from each one is more ether and mana control gains from the resources on every floor.

After the first few days in this tower, the overwhelming memories and knowledge of the Wyvern race also slowed down, and once she fully adapted to this Upper Realm's pressure, the urgency of the Amplifier Soul Weapon in her grasp stopped producing so many blinking glyphs and vibrant flashbacks.

She calmly sits in her room, thinking, 'So, Seraphel is the only one left... Unfortunate, but not all is lost. Maybe our goals align...'
