“His class changed! I get to help him pick two more skills!” Ryn exclaimed. “Oh, I just learned draconic! Ali, I can feel his thoughts, he’s hungry!”

Ali grinned at Ryn’s flustered excitement. Sending out a quick command, she had several of the other dragonets catch a few insects and bring them over to Ryn. “Here, you can feed him,” she said, handing her the catch.

“The skill says he will level up with me, and I can teleport him to me. His class is influenced by mine now. I need to think up a good name! What do you think of Bookwyrm? Is that stupid?” Ryn continued her excited rapid-fire chatter.

Ali chuckled, “No, I think that’s the perfect name!” While it was not a name she would have thought of, it was totally a Ryn-thing. She was so obviously happy and excited about her new companion, but she almost melted when Bookwyrm flew up and landed on her shoulder, draping his tail around her neck and trying to nuzzle her ear while getting his head spines caught in her hair.

“Ali! Thank you! Thank you so much!”

Krrr! Bookwyrm complained.

“Yes, yes, you’re the best,” Ali said, and chuckled as the little fellow preened and posed on Ryn’s shoulder.

Havok flopped down onto the couch in the guild hall, completely defeated. He had reached level twenty, and he had been so excited to unlock his new Paladin Blessing skill, but it was no good – he couldn’t even use it. All his hopes of making his friends stronger had slowly evaporated along with his excitement as his day lurched from disappointment to disappointment.

“What’s wrong, Havok? You seem discouraged.”

He looked up to find the elf guild administrator looking down on him with concerned eyes.

“Gods stupid,” he said, grumpily. She just sat down on the couch beside him and waited. He didn’t want to talk more, but she was waiting for him to explain, and she had always been nice to him.

He simply shared his skill with her.

Paladin Blessing – level 1Mana: [Blessing is locked, requires a church affiliation or a patron deity.]Mana: Pray to a god, seeking their favor.Holy, Blessing, Wisdom.

“Oh,” she said. “You don’t have a patron deity or a church?”

“No. Church not want Havok,” he said. And therein was his problem. He had spent the entire day hunting down all the churches and temples in the town, discovering there were only two major ones and a few minor ones. The temple of Helios threw him out, literally. The temple of Lunaré had been more polite, but they had turned him away too, and none of the minor temples had been interested in a Goblin. “How Havok be paladin if no god wants Goblin?”

“I’m sorry, Havok,” Mieriel said, laying a comforting hand on his shoulder. “That was very mean of them.”

“Aliandra here?” he asked, a sudden hope blossoming in his heart. Aliandra was smart, she would know what to do.

“No, she isn’t, but she left a teleporter in the lower room,” Mieriel said. “I can take you to her library if you want?”

“Yes, please! Havok ask Aliandra, she’s smart.”

***

He stepped onto the circle of silver magic runes and suddenly he was in a dark room beside an enormous tree. Strange green lights and golden creatures flew about the tree that soared high up, far further than he could even see, but way up above him there were some other lights and railings.

“Come, let’s go up,” Mieriel said, leading him to the stairs. “They’re usually on the top level.”

It was a long, winding path, but eventually, the two of them emerged on a landing, and he found himself in a library with more books than he had ever seen in his life. Aliandra was sitting on a chair at a table with some books open beside her.

“Aliandra! Can help Havok?” he declared, getting the attention of everyone in the room instantly, and realizing that he had probably been a little too loud when a small golden dragon screeched and launched itself into the air. But Aliandra smiled at him.

“Hi, Havok. What do you need?”

He explained his skill, how he wanted to help his friends in battle, and how he couldn’t get any of the gods or churches to accept him. As he explained, several other people joined in the little circle: Ryn, the librarian; and the ancient Dryad who was so powerful he felt nervous just being around her.

“The church of Helios threw him out, and the temple of Lunaré rejected him too. He’s had no luck with anyone,” Mieriel added. He liked Mieriel, she was helping him.

“Helios always preferred humans, and Lunaré likes elves,” Lirasia the ancient Dryad said. “I’m sorry you had to experience that, but they would be very unlikely to accept a so-called monster race like us.”

“I don’t know much about churches and deities, but won’t he have to actually meet the god to gain their patronage?” Aliandra said.

“He can just join a church and have a senior priest or paladin intercede with the god on his behalf,” Mieriel said. “But he would need a church that accepts him.”

“He’s a paladin though, does that mean he can do it himself?” Aliandra asked. “It says he can pray with his skill.”

“You’re probably right,” Ryn added. “Paladins or priests often get a direct line to their deity, without requiring an intermediary.”

“Havok tried pray. Not work.” He had tried a lot of times, but the skill seemed to be broken.

“Who did you try to contact?” Ryn asked.

“Helios, Lunaré,” he said. He had tried everybody he could find in town. But all he had gotten was silence.

“I think you need to try a god that is receptive to Goblins,” Lirasia said. “Perhaps a less popular god? One that would better value your commitment?”

“I can find a list,” Ryn said, turning to the bookshelves and returning with a thick tome that she placed on the table. She opened it and they all began studying the choices.

Havok looked at the words, but he had no idea what they said. Nor could he follow what they were discussing as they went through the list. What they said made sense but he just could not imagine a god who would be interested in one of his kind.

“Hey, what about this one?” Aliandra said, pointing at some squiggles on the page. “Azryet. I have an acolyte with a class called Acolyte of Azryet, so maybe that’s good for holy magic?”

“Aah, Azryet. That is indeed a fantastic choice,” Lirasia said, nodding sagely.

Reading from the squiggles, Ryn said, “Azryet, the Dragon God, Harbinger of Chaos, Herald of Havoc, The Calamity. He is an ancient god, long fallen out of favor with the realm. He represents those who would right the wrongs in the world, chaos, and solving problems through glorious battle. His aspects are void and holy magic.” Pointing to a particular line, she added, “It says here that he supports all sentient races equally, but dragons more equally than the rest. Oh, and no demons – but you’re not a demon, so that shouldn’t be an issue.”

“That sounds perfect,” Aliandra said, smiling at him.

“The god of Havok?” he asked. There was a dragon god of havoc, and his name was Havok. It couldn’t be more perfect than that.

Everyone was nodding. Havok scratched his neck. Alright? Maybe. Remembering the cruel laughter of the people who had seen him shoved down the Helios temple stairs, he clenched his fists. No. His friends were here. They believed in him. He had to do it.

“I will try,” he said. He got down on his knees on the hard stone floor, and clasped his hands together, bowing his head and he spoke his prayer, channeling his mana.

“Hi, Azryet. I am Havok. You are Havoc too. I look for good god. You help?”

Azryet opened one lidded eye and shifted his vast bulk that was settled comfortably into the stone worn into the shape of his body over the centuries of him roosting here. His slumber had been interrupted by a strange sensation – a sensation he had not felt for many thousands of years.

A petition?

He closed his eye, shutting out the sight of his vast chambers, and turned his awareness inward, following the incredibly tenuous connection to its source.

He saw a room, dimly lit with books lining shelves and lying open on tables. There, off to the side was a vast tree, somehow growing within the confines of the dark room, while tiny golden dragonets flew circles about it. He approved.

His attention continued to travel downward, spiraling towards one of the tables and the small figures standing or sitting around. There was a human, with an unusual taste of divination magic, holding a book and pointing to his name. Here was a Fae creature, whose peculiar domain mana permeated the entire space, reminding him of flowers and the sparkling of new magic. She spoke encouraging words, and an elf sat quietly nearby.

His attention was caught by the ancient dryad who suddenly looked directly at his astral projection and nodded respectfully. “Well met, Azryet, Dragon God, Harbinger of Chaos, Herald of Havoc, The Calamity.”

“Well met, Lirasia, Great Mother of the Deep Woods,” he sent his greeting, her formal use of his full titles pleasing him greatly.

“This young one seeks your patronage.”

And there, kneeling on the floor among his friends, was his first petition in millennia.

A Goblin? And then the kneeling Goblin spoke his prayer.

“Hi, Azryet. I am Havok. You are Havoc too. I look for good god. You help?”

He chuckled. It was by far the most informal prayer he had ever experienced in his long ages as a deity. It was true he had not had any followers in thousands of years, and his reputation as a god was almost nonexistent. But something about the little Goblin resonated well with him. Perhaps it was the straightforward manner of his request, or the pure honesty evident in his heart. Or perhaps it was the fact that he called himself Havok, too – a choice of surpassing excellence.

“Indeed, little Goblin. Let’s see what you can do.” He reached down and released his mana to suffuse the kneeling Goblin and grant his petition.

You have gained a new follower: Sneeze “Havok”.

Your follower Sneeze “Havok” has been granted the Title: First Paladin of Azryet.

Oh, he’s a paladin! Intriguing.

Your reputation has increased.

+24 Authority.

Twenty-four? Not bad, little Goblin, he thought, eyeing his first and only follower. And there it was, the first reputation increase he had received since he had been exiled to this desolate demon-infested realm. He basked in the exquisite rush of power, even small as it was. Perhaps, if his new paladin could advocate for him in the mortal realm, he could once again achieve his former glory, and perhaps even put an end to this interminable stalemate with the infernal demon king Destraggoth.

He quickly tempered his rising hopes, after all, what could one little Goblin really do? Even a butterfly’s wing-stroke might unleash catastrophe, he reminded himself with an inward snort. Huh. What was this – this unexpected sense of froth in his belly? Happiness?

Yes. He was well-pleased with what had been released this day.

Havok prayed, and just like every other time, nothing much happened. His knees hurt on the stone floor, and he wanted to get up and abandon this stupid skill.

But then he felt something. A giant lidded eye examining him from somewhere further than he could imagine. He trembled, trying to hold himself steadfast under its awesome, crushing gaze. He was Havok, and the god was Havoc. It was perfect.

His body filled with a sudden rush of dizzying power, and he almost passed out, but he held on, desperate to understand what was happening to him. Desperate not to lose his chance.

The Dragon God, Azryet, offers his patronage.Godly Patronage – AzryetTraits: Void, Holy, Domain, Deity, Minion, Draconic, Strength, Vitality, Endurance, Intelligence, Wisdom, Chaos, Combat, Healing, Knowledge.Reputation gained enhances the reputation of Azryet. As your patron’s reputation grows, boons and enhancements may increase.A small chance on hit to do additional Holy or Void damage. Enchantment – TitheAccept this patronage?

Havok didn’t even wait for his inner voice to read the glowing squiggles to him, he simply accepted it immediately. Then he froze as the usual sound of the voice deepened to a thunderous grating roar that shook his heart.

Your actions have increased the reputation of your patron.You have earned the Title: First Paladin of Azryet.You are the first paladin of the dragon god Azryet.+10% to holy damage and healing after increasing the reputation of Azryet. Duration: 24 hours.TitleYour skill: Paladin’s Blessing has advanced.Paladin’s Blessing has become The Blessing of Azryet.The Blessing of Azryet – level 1Mana: Grant your target a chance to do additional Holy or Void damage on hit. This is additive with Azryet’s Patronage. Duration: 30 minutes.Mana: Pray to Azryet, seeking their favor on behalf of yourself or another you deem worthy.Holy, Blessing, Wisdom.

He leapt up from the floor and danced around excitedly. “It worked! Azryet is good god!”

Everyone around him seemed happy, cheering him on, but suddenly he stopped his excited prancing as a thought landed in his mind with the weight of purpose and destiny.

“How to make church?” he asked. Though he had experienced the vast power of his patron, Azryet, he had recognized something deep within him. It was the same loneliness he had in his own heart before he had joined the guild. Azryet needed friends, and he would help find them.

“I can show you,” Mieriel said. “You just need five people to sign up and I can help you file the paperwork with the town council. You’ll probably need a place to make the temple or church, though.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
