All of the Grave Tangles wailed in unison, the sound loud enough that the Heirs would have been deafened without the shields. But the real attack was the storm of death magic so concentrated that the blasted rock of the mountains eroded at its touch. The magical pressure was like being suddenly yanked to the bottom of the ocean, but Nathan’s antimagic was perfectly suited to protect them.

A sliver of terror still crept through Nathan’s heart as the sound continued, and he felt the magic ebb and flow strangely. The raging death magic outside wasn’t anything fancy, but it was strong enough to strip flesh from bone in seconds, and probably convert the skeleton into a powerful undead. It continued, and Nathan was certain the effect would never end, that the Heirs were forever trapped in this inhospitable world of terror.

Which didn’t make any sense. Nathan had fought Grave Tangles before. Their roars were a terrifying ability, but they lasted less than a minute, and there was no way they could trap them. There was some other effect going on here, and it was strong enough to cause the Heirs to stop moving and cower together.

This isn’t the Grave Tangles; this is something new.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 9

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 5

Inspiration 8

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 8

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 9

Veracity 4

Whiplash 1

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 8
