Irondale’s gateway closed, the expanded space moving to Rane’s will as he took a deep steadying breath.

Terry flickered to his shoulder, serious eyes locked on Tala, his choice of battlefield clear.

Tala smiled. “We’ll keep our flock safe.”

Terry gave an affirmative squawk.

She then stepped forward, going up on her tiptoes to kiss her husband, even as he bent down to meet her.

It was a quick kiss, but one filled with meaning. His eyes were burning with determination as he spoke. “No mercy. You have my trust, love. See you soon.”

She quirked a smile. “That’s what I was going to say."

They exchanged another quick kiss and went their separate ways. From the tilt of his head, Rane was listening to Enar, the alternate interface likely feeding him information on where he could find and engage the bulk of the Black Legion.

Tala likewise was already moving, Lea jogging to keep up with her mother. “Where to?”

“The central square. We’ll take to the air and provide overwatch across the center of the city.”

Lea nodded. “Alone?”

Tala shook her head. “Alat’s already gotten manifests for several divisions worth of House guards from our allies. They’ll be able to engage the foot soldiers of the Legion.”

Lea’s face turned serious. “But that still leaves only you for the officers, if any come.”

Tala grinned. “I’ve got you and the Talons to back me up.”

Lea huffed a laugh. “I’ll do my best, but I doubt I can do more than delay them.”

“That’ll be enough.” Tala hesitated, even as she kept moving.

Thankfully, Lea filled in the next part on her own. “I will retreat to the sanctum if I’m in real danger. This isn’t worth my life.”

Tala smiled, detecting the hesitancy in her daughter. “You are right, it isn’t. Thank you.”

It took less than another five minutes to reach the central square.

Tala ignored the central column, instead leaping high into the air and manipulating the surface area of her feet—along with her personal gravity—to affix herself in the sky. Her perception, aura, and authority blanketed the city while remaining most concentrated around the center.

Beside her, Lea hovered, small flickers of magic keeping her from dropping out of the sky.

Below them both, House forces gathered, and Tala used her authority to create her voice beside each group—sharing the mental load with Alat as she effectively held two dozen conversations at once—sending them in relatively strong groups throughout the area as quick response troops.

The final part of her pre-arranged plan came in the form of one of her flying constructs, pulled from her sanctum and allowed to hover at her side, its small ‘holding area’ filled with her iron.

Now, even as she moved, Alat would have an anchor from which to maintain overwatch even if Tala had to go and engage a threat personally.

The Houses were settled into their assigned districts, and all was prepared.

The stage was set, and they were as ready as they could be.

As such, Tala wasn’t surprised when she felt the straining forbidding—backed and sustained by the Revered City Lord’s authority over all Platoiri—relax and be withdrawn, the man obviously deciding that it was wiser to husband his resources and not push his authority to the breaking point than to hold the Black Legion away for the absolute maximum amount of time.

To the north-east, Rane had reached the edge of the city, and there, the gathered Black Legionnaires were already charging forward, having sensed reality moving in their favor once more.

The opening skirmish had been messy, and Tala knew that many arcanes had likely died, but the civilians were tucked away, now.

This would be a far simpler clash of warriors.

Her gaze sharpened as a good half of the legionnaires Rane was closing with dropped stoneward in their charge, groups heading to various parts of the city.

Magics throughout Platoiri flared to life, knocking the attackers back toward the superficial, but the action had allowed them to penetrate deeper than ideal.

Still, the incoming forces drew her focus outward, and she noticed that while Rane was indeed moving to engage with the largest grouped contingent by a good margin, there were squads—and even some groups of as many as two dozen automata—completely surrounding the city, now all moving inward in a coordinated assault.

Tala frowned in confusion.

This strategy made no sense. It was almost as if the Black Legion wanted their units to be overwhelmed in detail, slowly whittled down by the larger number of arcanes.

None of the groups already forced to return to the superficial were weak, and they met the Pillars, Eskau, and guards with power and precise violence, but nowhere that Tala could see were they outright winning their clashes.

Some of the groups even broke into smaller contingents, despite leaving behind some automata in situations where they looked to soon be overwhelmed.

They were always pressing inward.

Still, the fact that the arcanes were claiming victory might have been because the majority had been trained by Tala, Lea, and the House of Blood over the previous years, making them more effective than the automata could have possibly predicted. Maybe, the Black Legion had expected to be able to simply roll over any resistance, but that didn’t feel right.

They were missing something. Tala was missing something, and it was her responsibility to direct this clash. She needed to understand.

As the opening seconds rolled by, and a minute of combat hadn’t shown a single legionnaire retreat, Tala became utterly certain. They had misjudged the goals of the Legion, and they desperately needed to figure out how so.

She had noticed more than twenty legionnaries fall, odd magics wrapping around their enslaved soul-powercores and shooting off toward the north before vanishing into the Doman-Imithe through the cracks in reality once they were beyond the Revered City Lord’s defensive working.

The Black Legion were losing.

True, they were taking lives in turn, and Tala’s forces wouldn’t come back, but the scales were so unbalanced as to almost be comical.

As she frantically swept her focus across the city, her perception delving deeper and deeper, leaving no stone unturned even within the myriad holds, Tala’s focus was drawn outward once more.

In fact, the whole city seemed to pause, all fighting hitting a hitch as a wave of woven—if weak—void and reality buzzed through the superficial for tens of miles in every direction.

Lea laughed from beside her mother, and Tala felt a grin pull at her features, momentary relief passing through her.

It had worked.

She’d had no reason to doubt, but it was untested.

In the middle of a frantic battlefield of Talons facing off against Black Legion, Rane stood, holding the head of a midnight black automata in one hand, easily palming the construct as he held it off the ground.

It was his power, his aura, his authority that had radiated outward, and the soul that had been trapped—enslaved to the Black Legion’s cause and banner for uncounted years—had been seized and almost forcibly allowed to pass on.

The Legion had taken its first permanent loss of the war, the first of many.

The brief moment of shock passed, and combat renewed in ernest.

The Black Legion didn’t retreat, and Tala was more certain than ever that they had deeper goals, goals that she needed to determine and block.

The tide was turning in their favor, but she was more sure than ever: Time was not on their side.
