Just as he suspected, Johannes spoke, “Guild leader, the legality of the contract isn’t itself in question. The original contract was legal, if exploitative. Here you can see there is the information about the payment for being carried as well as the repayment. It says ducal standard, but we’ve checked and the ducal standard for the Innes duchy is a hundred times, so no one actually uses it. Deceptive, but legal. At least technically. Now after that everything gets a lot more fuzzy. Contracts of this regard aren’t normally transferable, but as Baron Dysoon is a subject of Duke Innes, there is precedence for usurping a contract for a retainer or vassal. Usually, it's done for guards and the like who want to move up but keep their political allegiances clear and tidy, but there isn’t any rule or regulation preventing this being used for someone like Eirene, who signed on in a more supportive role. Legally speaking, she is or was retainer to Baron Dysoon.”

“What about the debts? She said they were charging her for seemingly everything in an effort to increase what she owed.”

For the first time, the lawyers didn’t seem concerned. “Those additional debts that are charging her for the costs of housing and maintaining her are frivolous, and would undoubtedly be thrown out by any judge who looked at these contracts. Sadly, they are fairly common, but one must lodge a formal complaint to get them removed. The AI that reviews contracts would flag it as illegal, but with no AI and no way to contact a CityNet, she wouldn’t know that.”

Matt didn’t like what he was hearing, but had expected as much.

“The lies might be chargeable, but it would be a he said she said case, so it's unlikely it would go to trial as she didn’t have an AI. And I’m sure Duke Innes’ [AI] was always off any time he met or was around her. Most likely, it would just be resided and a small fine paid and the system would wipe its hands of it. Do any of you disagree?”

As the lawyers shook their heads at his question, Matt tried to figure out what he was going to do.

“What about the threat to her parents?” Matt asked as he suspected Eirene would be relieved to have an answer either way, but while he was no lawyer, he suspected that had only been a threatening tactic used to control her.

“As for the threat that Eirene’s parents would be responsible for her debt, that is a complete fabrication. They wouldn’t be able to inherit any of her assets until her estate had settled its debts, but a debt won’t transfer to them directly like that if she ran away. That's an empty threat and nothing more.”

Nodding, Matt thanked them for their time as well as telling them to coordinate with the ducal lawyers and press teams to start preparing if he did end up having Duke Innes killed.

He didn’t want to just walk into someone's trap like that, but he suspected he would be doing exactly that when the man arrived, given the situation.

Liz gave him a feral smile when he arrived back next to her. “Anything interesting?”

“Lawyers say things are grey but it probably wasn’t outright slavery, legally speaking.”

“So we just have him killed to warn everyone else?”

As much as Matt wanted to say yes, he shook his head. “I appreciate you having my back, and as much as I’d like to kill him, I think it's bait. Normally, I wouldn’t care, but this feels like they want us to try exactly that. Why else is Duke Innes rushing over here instead of hiding given my very public stance on this type of situation?”

Liz nodded along but asked the same question Matt was asking himself. “But do we care?”

Their answer came twenty minutes later when Duke Innes’ ship arrived into real space carrying a clone of the duke.

That at least explained why the man thought it was a good idea to intrude into their duchy chasing someone he had illegally kept captive.

Smiling, the man exited his ship like he was stepping into an award ceremony where he was the main recipient. “It's good to meet you in person, Duchess Moore, Duke Moore. How lovely you have already picked up my wayward retainer. I’ll take her off your hands and will be on my way.”

Matt just stared at the pompous Tier 35 facsimile, figuring out how best to destroy the clone.

Liz however was more eloquent. “What are you playing at Duke Innes? You must see that your contract with the girl leans heavily towards the illegal, even if it is a grey area. That goes doubly for your interactions with the girl, though I’m sure there is no proof of any such meetings. Still, coming here so flagrantly is just stupid. Even if we can’t kill you for real, this animosity won’t just end here. Are you really ready to start a war like this?”

Duke Innes' smile turned into something oily. “Whatever do you mean Duchess Mo—”

Liz cut him off with a flicker of golden Ichor. “Ascender Legion, if you please, Duke Innes. We are not so familiar with you, so please use our proper title.”

“Duchess feels more appropriate, given that we are talking about a interducal extradition. But if you insist.”

“We do, because we are not acting as mere Dukes of the Empire right now. That would… limit our options far too much.”

Duke Innes seemed ready for that, and waved the accusation away with a hand. “I can assure you that no such thing has occurred, and will happily present my contracts with Eirene to the Emperor for review if such is needed from our liege. But until that happens, I will be taking away my retainer in the meantime.”

Matt didn't say a word and simply raised a finger and cast [Mana Beam] at his full power. It was clear they weren’t going to get anywhere with this, and he was done.

A five foot wide bar of white blue mana lanced out, cutting through the distance between the two of them.

Duke Innes tried to dodge, but Matt focused on him and made him the center of the Realm with his Intent.

For an actual cultivator, let alone a Tier 35, the trick would have never worked. But this body being a [Clone] didn’t have a Domain to bring to bear to resist Matt’s working.

A purple oblong spell sprang into existence and blocked Matt’s spell, sending ribbons of mana spiraling out and into empty space, but Matt didn’t let up.

After three seconds, the clone started shouting spiritually, “Let us talk like civilized people. We can come to an agreement. This clone is about to run out of mana. Duke Moore! Ascender Titan! Please. Wa—”

Before his final plea could be heard, the clone fell apart as it ran out of mana to keep his defensive spell up and the clones necessary reserves.

“Well. Now that this is handled, how should we respond?” Matt wiped his hands.

Liz bobbed her head at the question. “With how insistently he came in, we can do the same and just keep our stance that we feel that he was overstepping his rights as a duke, even with the contract in place. Or we can play hard ball and go pay him a visit.”

Matt really wanted to do the second one, but agreed that the first was just smarter. “Let's throw the ball back into their court. I still think this is a trap, and it will be a lot harder to spin this if we simply treat this as us refusing him entry into our duchy and forcefully removing him. Given it was a clone, there is no real argument that we were trying to kill him.”

“We’ll have to return his ship to him in that case. I was half tempted to destroy it out of spite.” Liz bobbed her head back and forth. “If things escalate, we can destroy a lot more than that.”

Matt nodded while also sending a message through the Army channels, ordering a squad to get and bring Eirene’s family to his duchy as quickly as possible. However unlikely and outright dumb it may be, there was a non zero chance that Duke Innes, or more likely the society who Matt suspected was pulling the strings behind this, would attack the family just to escalate things while keeping themselves out of the picture. It was undoubtedly a misuse of army resources, but anyone who wanted to make that complaint about Matt would need to do so to Rusty or the Emperor, neither of whom would bat an eye at Matt’s ‘wasting of resources’.

Through it all, Matt couldn’t shake the feeling that they were ultimately doing exactly what the society wanted. He just didn’t see any other way forward without handing Eirene over, and he wouldn't do that even if she was a deliberate plant by the society, which he doubted.

It was just more likely she was a pawn in their games.

“Agreed. I want to hit the Circle of Ever Flame. Any leads at all in the last few years I’ve been working?” Realizing he had been out of the loop for so long, he pulled Liz into a hug. “Which, thank you for that, by the way. It was nice to be able to just fully focus on the guild for a while. I know this couldn’t have been the first thing you’ve dealt with while I’ve been nose down.”

Liz hooked an arm through his as a phoenix formed on her shoulder. “I’ve been busy, but you can pay me back in the coming years. Let's go see how Eirene is handling this and let her know we'll go to bat for her.”

“We need to go to bat for a lot more people than just her. How many others are in similar situations? In bad contracts but not able to do anything.”

Liz turned and stopped Matt halfway through the stratosphere, “Matt. Deep breath.”

“I—”

“Honey. Deep breath. Please.” Once Matt had done as his wife asked she continued, “Ok. While I get this hits close to home, given the incident with Justinian, you need to remember there isn’t an epidemic of this sort of thing. If Eirene had an AI or a pad that wasn’t undoubtedly locked down on a network that was also locked down, she could have gotten word out to the appropriate officials that she was being forced to operate under an unfair contract. Maybe that wouldn’t have worked, but there are checks in place to stop this. This was an outlier, not the norm.”

Matt ran the numbers and agreed with Liz. “You're right. Thank you. Still, I don’t think she's alone, even if it isn’t as bad as I was making it out to be. I’d like to put the word out that we will look into any possible unfair contracts and take appropriate steps if the relevant authorities haven’t done so already.”

Liz looked like she wanted to say something, but ultimately didn’t, just nodding. “Sure, we can do that. Or rather, your [AI] can sift through the bajillion messages I’m sure you are going to get.”

Matt winced. “You know, that's fair. Still worth it if it helps even a single other person.”

“It is.”

Together they floated down to Eirene’s estate.

They initially wanted to have a chat about what she saw in her future, but seeing her still distressed state, they decided to wait a few days before meeting up with her again.

By that time, they had least had good news. “Your parents are safely in the Army's care and will be here in two months.”

Eirene looked like she was doing her best to hold back tears as she thanked them.

Matt decided to be the bearer of bad news instead of letting things linger. “While we pushed Duke Innes away, word has it that he is already maneuvering to enter a legal battle. Or at least, he is threatening to. Chances are nothing comes of it, given how shady a lot of his actions look, but we wanted you to be aware.”

Eirene looked like she wanted to vomit. “I can’t fight him. I—”

Matt waved her off before she could start to worry any more. “Liz and I will take care of any legal fees and battles that might come up, as well as paying off the legal debt to remove that from over your head. We don’t expect anything in return, and frankly your debt is mostly fraudulent in nature. So if it does come to court, there is very little to worry about. But what you should start thinking about is what you want to do. We are giving you and your parents residency on Palustris as well as a house to live in, but this is still a capital world and it can be expensive, especially if you don’t actually know how to delve.”

Eirene just wilted further but nodded as if she was expecting to be hit. “Ok.”

Liz rubbed her brow before leaning forward trying to catch the Tier 5s eye. “We aren’t going to let you starve, Eirene. We aren’t like that dickhead. We only mention it because for all that it's brought you a lot of problems, your Talent is very strong. That's why it brought you so many problems in the first place, after all. The thing is, it doesn't have to be a bad thing. You can, now that you are not under someone's thumb, sell your services. Frankly, I don’t think you need to worry about it so long as you demand that any contract isn’t itself bound by any NDA or secrecy clause. Any duke, high Tier guild, or corporation in the Empire would fight to Tier you up and get you working for them. Shit, any of the royals including the Emperor himself would be willing to make the same offer. If you play it right, you can even get people into a bidding war. Frankly, with a logistic Talent as strong as yours has been described as being, the sky is quite literally the starting point, let alone the limit. Still, by that same token, you don’t have to make any of those deals. You can just work a normal job and live a normal life if you’d rather not.”

Eirene shook as she tried to hold Liz’s eyes, but failed before Liz finished her first sentence. “What would you do?”

Matt pulled a dagger out of his spatial ring. “If you want our advice… learn how to fight. You don’t need a combat Talent to become a good fighter. It may help, but isn’t a requirement. If you are strong enough to not be considered helpless, you can stop a lot of this bullshit from ever happening.”

