[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Mass Summoning.Domain Magic analyzed: Elemental Storm (Fire).Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Strength).

“Ooh!” she exclaimed.

“Whatcha get?” Mato asked.

She had already learned strength from the Skeletal Wyvern, but Mass Summoning and Elemental Storm were both new, and, based on the fight, she had no doubt as to what the abilities did. She opened her Domain Mastery skill and browsed through the options for boss creation, finding her two newly acquired skills listed there.

Mass SummoningRequirements: Raid Enhancement, Minion Level 60+Source: InfernoAssign a creature imprint for your minion to summon during combat. It will be summoned in waves. The size of the wave is dependent on the cost of the imprint. Summoned creatures must be compatible.Skill – Domain MagicElemental StormRequirements: Raid Enhancement, Minion Level 55+ with a matching mana affinity.Source: InfernoAffinities: Fire, Nature, Arcane.Your minion can cast an elemental storm that fills the entire area. Duration and area of effect depend on your minion’s magical power and available mana. The type of storm depends on your minion’s mana affinity.Skill – Domain Magic

The ridiculous Fire Elemental Storm ability the Inferno had unleashed on them lay revealed to her, and now presumably accessible for any bosses she would make. To her surprise, she immediately noticed that the Domain Skill did not seem to be an exclusively fire-affinity ability – her class had automatically unlocked her personal affinities as options, and so she could create a boss with an arcane or nature Elemental Storm in addition to the fire she had just learned from the Inferno. As to what an arcane Elemental Storm would do exactly, she had only her rather overactive imagination to guess.

Ali shared her new abilities with her friends.

“Yes!” Calen said, punching the air. “You got the Elemental Storm, that’s awesome! You could combine it with… well, let me think –”

“I can’t use it yet,” Ali said, trying to reign in his inevitable flurry of ideas. “I need to be able to make a level fifty-five boss, and I can’t do that yet.”

Both abilities were severely level-restricted, but she assumed that was to be expected – they were ridiculous as abilities went. Level sixty minions? she huffed inwardly, struggling to imagine what she could not overcome with such powerful summons.

“Aww,” Calen said.

“Must be a power requirement,” Ali explained, shuddering to think how much mana a level fifty-five or sixty raid boss would reserve. She actually did have a couple of imprints for those levels, she simply couldn’t afford them.

“Yep, likely that,” Calen added, his expression turning thoughtful. “I’ll write down some ideas we can explore later.”

“Let’s go back home,” Ali said. “I’m hungry and tired after fighting all day.”

“Me too,” Mato agreed. “And I bought some nice fresh fish the other day, I’ll cook that for dinner. I can do boar skewers, too.”

Malika smiled, “Now that sounds like a winner!”

“No, dinner!” Mato snorted, apparently finding his own joke hilarious.

***

Dinner was delicious as usual – Mato had managed to bake a fillet of salmon in the campfire using a foil-wrap technique. It was seasoned with some lemon and a few other herbs, which made it taste heavenly. Although Ali couldn’t help wondering how much of that was due to the long day of continuous fighting – she was ravenous and practically inhaled her portion. Probably anything approximately in the category of ‘food’ would have tasted amazing.

You have become Well-fed.

“This is delicious, Mato!” Ryn said, devouring her portion just as fast as Ali.

If she thinks it’s good, then maybe my tastebuds aren’t lying to me! Ali smiled as she eyed the enticing pile of new books Ryn had brought. Ryn’s class was growing quickly, and their devious little pact had netted Ali a ton of new books to read. Besides, both of them enjoyed the work of building the library back up to its former glory – a monumental task, for sure, but a perfect way for them to help each other.

In the quiet after-dinner lull, when everyone sat about sluggish and sleepy, Ali finally opened her notifications and searched through the day spent in the mines. They had achieved a lot, now that she had a quiet moment to consider it; clearing out the entire mine area, and then finally defeating the Inferno after the aborted attempt which helped them learn some of its abilities.

She skipped past reams of kill notifications and paused at the defeat of Inferno.

Grove Warden has reached level 59 (+4).+40 attribute points.

Four levels! Yes please, I’ll take that. Quickly, she assigned out her attribute points. Excited for the opportunity to grow her mana pool again, she spent eight points on wisdom, although this time she decided to push her spell power more, adding double that to her intelligence attribute. Given her reliance on perception skills, she spent another eight on that attribute, smiling at the noticeable sharpening of her mana sight. Pursing her lips in thought, she made a moderate investment in her survival skills; four points to vitality and two each to endurance and dexterity.

She hadn’t been hit by the boss directly but falling onto rock or into lava hurt like crazy, and the dexterity would help her reaction speed for catching things with her barriers or assist when she needed to pull off crazy evasive maneuvers when flying about.

Happy with her choices, she read on.

Arcane Insight has reached level 30 (+2).Arcane Recall has reached level 12.Barrier has reached level 43 (+3).Runic Script has reached level 28.Martial Insight has reached level 35 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 27.Minion Teleport has reached level 19 (+3).Identify has reached level 15.Inspiration has reached level 11.

An industrious day in all – oh, but… Ali puzzled over the skill levels for a moment before recalling she had used the combination of Arcane Recall and Runic Script to create an Inspiration runic circle mid-battle to help Calen with his mana and then had assigned all her acolytes to take turns in it. She reached out and released the mana reservation for the circle, feeling the magical construct dissolving. Using my spells in combat sure helps them grow faster.

While she hadn’t earned any skill advancements during the intense fight, she had gained four class levels putting her one level away from sixty – the level at which the Adventurers Guild would recognize her as a gold-ranked adventurer, and she could get her ring upgraded.

Also, her skills had grown substantially, and if the Adventurer’s Guide could be believed, many skills could become available for advances roughly every twenty levels or so. The skill she was most excited about advancing was Barrier – it had been with her since the beginning and had saved her and her friends’ lives time and again. Not to mention, Barrier was one of her favorite magic skills.

Who am I kidding, she corrected herself, I love them all!

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientActive Buffs: Empowered Summoner, Well-fed, Elixir of Fire ResistanceClass: Grove Warden – level 59- Arcane Insight – level 30- Arcane Recall – level 12- Barrier – level 43- Grimoire of Summoning – level 31- Runic Script – level 28- Sage of Learning – level 22- Martial Insight – level 35- Empowered Summoner – level 27- Domain Mastery – level 23- Minion Teleport – level 19General Skills- Reading – level 13- Identify – level 15- Sculpting – level 5- Inspiration – level 11Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic, Goblin, Ahn Khen- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your maximum mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SensePatrons & Tithes- Mentor: Clarence- Protégé: Seth WestonAttributes- Vitality: 118 (+52)- Strength: 6- Endurance: 19- Dexterity: 38- Perception: 129 (+26)- Intelligence: 250 (+55)- Wisdom: 353 (+120)Equipment- Off Hand: Orb of Mana – level 35- Head: Topaz Hairpin – level 40- Body: Elegant Robes of Fire Resistance – level 50- Hands: Wooden Bracelet – level 11- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30- Ring: Forest Band of the Perceptive – level 33Resistance: 972Magical Damage Reduction: 37.04%+65% to Fire resistance.+84% to mana regeneration.Health: 590/590Stamina: 190/190Mana: 3122/10590 (7468 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Stone2- Wood3,4- Armor (Body)5- Arrow6- Axe7- Bone Bracelet (Hands)8- Book9- Bow10- Coin11- Dagger12- Shield13- Sword14- Creeper15- Grass16- Moss17- Mushroom18-20- Tree21- Wildflower22- Bat23- Dragon24,25- Elemental26- Goblinoid27,28- Kobold29- Ooze30- Spider31- Wolf

Calen finally began to relax and unwind after a long day delving into the mines. It had taken all through dinner before he began to feel a little more normal, and he finally decided he was ready to look at the results of the fight. He had initially been worried about the potential of unseen domain magic skills, but never in his wildest dreams had he imagined something like that Elemental Storm – none of them had. It was only through some very quick thinking and Ali’s ability to see the spell before it was used that they were even still alive – and even then, there had been several close calls.

He had spent most of the battle airborne, and he had also wasted tons of time regenerating mana he then splurged on his area damage skills cleaning up the shards of inferno before they tore everything to shreds. It would have been far faster if I could sustain that damage output. Unfortunately, he was still not high enough level to take advantage of the kinds of enchantments Lyeneru had shown him.

Archer of Light has reached level 53 (+5).+50 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 31.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 36 (+2).Explorer has reached level 29.Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 24.Righteous Fury has reached level 20 (+3).Azrael's Wings has reached level 17 (+2).Mirage Armor has reached level 11 (+2).

It was nice to see his wings growing quickly, and even more exciting was the growth of Arrows of Brilliance and Righteous Fury – both skills having found a prominent place in his core combat repertoire. He would need to recalculate his optimal skill rotation again because every time those two leveled up, the mana and stamina costs changed.

He studied his previous notes about his class. It was challenging to create the optimal skill usage that allowed him to contribute to the kinds of fighting they were doing. Even now, with his class level growing rapidly, he was still unable to extract the full value of his class’s potential. At least, after his enlightening conversation with Lyeneru, he finally understood why – if they had been a normal party, doing normal dungeon delves with monsters significantly lower than their own levels, he would simply burn all his mana to ambush the first monster and kill it instantly – typically the most dangerous one like a healer or mage. He was struggling primarily because many of their important fights did not care about enormous spikes of short-duration damage.

He made a face. Great for growth. Not so great for my ego.

Still mulling things over in his mind, Calen calculated his attribute distribution. Fifteen points went to intelligence and five to wisdom, a nod to how important his light-affinity magic skills had been during the boss fight. Ten points went to each of dexterity and perception. Finally, he divided up the remainder; four points for vitality, and three each for strength and endurance.

As he finished spending his points, his notification chime sounded again. Eagerly, he watched as the glowing text unfolded.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Righteous Fury has reached at least level 20.Synergy: Radiant Archery has surpassed level 30.Has killed more than 100 monsters in a single battle.Intelligence has surpassed 300.Righteous Fury gains Area Suppression.(The damage penalty for multiple shots is removed.)Righteous Fury – level 20Mana: Temporarily supercharge your mana amplifying all your magic by +150.4% [100 + skill + Intelligence / 10]. Your mana burns you. The damage penalty for multiple shots is removed. Duration: 30 seconds. Recharge: 15 minutes.Light, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

Oh, now this is something! It was a surprising advancement, and one that intrigued him – and not just because it gave more damage without costing any more mana. Whenever he used multishot, his skill split his base damage among all the conjured arrows – situationally useful. But now, when he used Righteous Fury, he wouldn’t suffer that penalty – and his base damage was substantial, taking into account both his dexterity and intelligence. The enchantments that he added above and beyond his normal arrow damage would not improve – but those were already getting almost two and a half times more damage just from the mana amplification. The total increase in damage penciled out to be a substantial improvement. Lately, most of the time when he used Righteous Fury, he was suppressing a horde of monster spawns. This meant his multishot scaled his damage by a further multiplier every time he increased the number of arrows he could fire.

He frowned, deep in thought. The only time it wouldn’t help him was if there was only a single target to shoot at. Perhaps I can train to multishot the same target? Nendir would know. He wrote down a quick note to ask his mentor or trainer the next time he visited Ciradyl.

Happy with the offer, he accepted it.

Mato was enjoying his cooking even more than normal, now that he had learned several new techniques from Tabitha. He practiced them at every opportunity he got. She had insisted on teaching him how to make them taste absolutely foul. Still, with his Survival Instincts enhancing all of his senses, including smell and taste, he had been incredibly relieved to discover the techniques worked just as well with tasty cooking.

And the Well-fed buff was really quite helpful – everyone had gained a small vitality boost for the Inferno fight, and every little bit helped. He grinned as he savored the flavor of the next bite and studied the glowing green notifications on his inner tree.

