Ali hauled herself up with shaky arms as the third storm of fire finally abated, returning silence to the arena of glowing red-hot stone. The Inferno’s heart-stopping primary ability still terrified her, in a force-of-nature kind of way, but Ali was coping with it much better, her mind no longer stunned by its immensity and power. Perhaps I’m just in shock.

She marshaled her mana and fired her sharpened barrier shards at the huge elemental, wondering exactly how much damage she was doing. I’m trying to cut fire with a sharp magic plate, she thought. But, as futile as it may seem, the boss had only one-quarter of his health remaining. So close! Then fire mana flickered, coalescing into the familiar formation.

“Explosion!” she yelled, and moments later, the blast wave slammed into her, the compression wave and quake launching everything that was not chained down high into the scalding air.

No, not everything!

At the base of the enormous elemental of fire, a small figure stood stalwart, flickering with blue-white mana. Malika! She dodged it! Ali realized, as the horrifying implications sunk in. Her friend was facing the boss by herself while everyone else who could possibly help her had been flung away into the distance. Desperately, Ali cast around for something, anything. High above her, at the apex of his flight, one of her Acolytes hung, momentarily suspended in the air.

Quickly, she activated Minion Teleport, switching places with the Kobold and sending him an urgent command, “Heal Malika!”

There was no way for her to directly help her friend from this far above the ground. Instead, she put her hopes into the little plummeting kobold whose eyes she kept trained on Malika while she scrambled to deflect countless flying boulders and minions with her barriers. She winced as her Kobold struck the rocky ground and bounced. “Run!” she urged, anxiously willing the little Kobold to sprint faster. It scampered across rock and debris as fast as it could, reflections of flame shimmering in the white robes flapping out behind him.

In the distance, Malika’s magic flickered and flared as she flew around the Inferno, stepping off the air, or wisps of flame, kicking and punching with a relentless storm of blows, all of them flashing blue with her Soul Strike ability. A massive slam attack smashed into her left shoulder, crashing her body into the ground and making her bounce. Ali held her breath unable to do a thing, but Malika’s form flared with her own potent healing magic at the apex of her bounce, and she flipped her body in midair, launching a powerful kick at the Inferno. Another massive strike careened in from her left, but she dodged again, retaliating with a series of punches. Don’t die, don’t die, don’t die! Ali’s mind kept repeating the same mantra as if she could will it to be, all the while still flashing her barrier magic all around to protect everyone as they peppered the cavern like rain.

Another smash, and a failed dodge this time, drove Malika to the ground with a sickening crunch, her burns visible even from a distance. Her healing mana surged powerfully throughout her entire body. Ali had no idea how she had so much mana, but it was Malika. She had been stealing mana from the boss the entire fight, so she was probably always full. At least, she hoped so.

Finally, the Kobold stretched his taloned hand forward, and the holy formation of Restoration appeared within Malika. Thank goodness! Ali breathed an enormous sigh of relief, right as she slammed into the ground and bounced. Ouch, she thought, coughing as the wind was knocked from her lungs. In her focused state, she had forgotten to catch herself. Holy magic soothed her injuries as her nearest Acolyte healed her, and then she launched herself back toward Malika, eking as much speed from her barrier as she could manage. Ali tossed out barriers frantically as soon as she was in range, not to attack the boss, but to block its punches and slams. She had no idea if her strategy was effective because most of its strikes shattered her barriers, but Malika seemed to dodge more attacks than before, so perhaps? Maybe she was slowing them down just enough. She kept it up until Mato’s huge growling form tore across the rocky ground and slammed into the Inferno with a roar and a brutal Swipe. The boss twisted back and forth momentarily, as if uncertain which of them to attack first, but eventually the great fiery arm slammed down, bouncing off Mato’s darkly gleaming armor, and Ali finally relaxed a little.

Ali found her Inspiration runic circle, and restarted her minion rotation through it, prioritizing her healers as they arrived.

“Missed explosion,” Calen announced, as if nothing had happened. “Health check?”

Huh, that’s curious, Ali thought. “Ten percent.” They had never skipped one this early before. Perhaps having Malika able to fight through the last one had given her more time to reduce its mana. Ali had no idea, but it was definitely an advantage for them.

“Eight percent… Summons!” Instead of the massive blast wave, the boss invoked the formation to summon another wave of elementals. Even though the change in the boss’s rhythm was worrying, Ali knew how to deal with this attack.

“Seven percent.” Immediately, she shot off commands to her minion army, erecting bone walls and tossing out barriers. As the spawns funneled into the trap, she unleashed her shamans’ lightning.

“Six percent…” Her words were punctuated by the staccato cracks of repeated bolts of lightning ripping through the monsters.

Calen took to the air, downing a mana potion, and used his Righteous Fury, casting a brilliant light across the entire battlefield. His mana exploded outward as he fired a hail of magical arrows down on the elementals, each explosion almost twice the size of his normal ones. Chains of light burst forth from the explosions like burgeoning vines, lashing every spawned elemental to the ground. Ali scrambled to keep the bone walls and barriers intact, but the elementals withered under the powerful onslaught from above. Calen turned the remainder of his powerful attack on the boss and Ali could see the elemental’s health dipping quickly.

“Four percent!” Ali launched as many barrier shards at the Inferno as she could manage, watching the health tick down with excruciating slowness.

Calen’s light went out, and suddenly the domain mana surged, and the low, mournful whistling sound filled the cavern.

“Hide!” she screamed. It was out of cycle, but Ali didn’t question what she saw. The Inferno was using his primary attack again. She scrambled to find a nearby boulder that was large enough to survive the burning onslaught without melting, finally crawling behind one with two of her shamans. She urgently glanced about, summoning a barrier to protect Mato as the air around him caught alight ahead of the elemental storm, but he made it to his boulder in time.

Four percent… They were so close. Ali’s heart raced as she huddled behind her rock and tuned out the deafening roar of flame tearing past. She counted the seconds out loud to still her mind, reaching forty-five before silence crashed down upon her. She had no idea if she was counting accurately, or if her anxiety made her count too fast, but it definitely helped her calm down and forced her to breathe.

She emerged from behind the misshapen molten boulder and immediately fired her barrier shards at the elemental.

“Watch out, Ali! The storm drops aggro!” Calen shouted.

With a hiss, the towering pillar of angry flame turned to face her. Ali’s heart stopped right then as she stared up into what passed for his face, her reflexively summoned barrier seeming all too fragile. Suddenly, Mato roared and Swiped at it, diverting its attention back to himself, and Ali breathed once more.

Fuck, I didn’t think of that, she thought, her hands trembling. She was lucky the elemental didn’t have any immediately available ranged attacks, or she might have died in that instant.

“Ex… explosion!” she yelled as the mana formation dragged her attention back to her role. In that instant, two Lightning Bolts cracked across the rock, slamming into the Inferno and Malika’s fists lit up with a high-speed flurry of flickering magic. The coalescing mana formation for the powerful blast wave suddenly wavered, splintering into shards and drifting away.

A soft chime echoed in the halls of her mind and the huge Inferno’s flame flickered once before it went out, like a candle snuffed in the wind. The core of the monster hung suspended in the air for a moment before crashing to the ground.

Your group has defeated Inferno [The Consuming Flame] – Elemental – level 73 (Fire).

Mato let out a whoop of joy as he transformed back into his Beastkin form. Ali slumped to the ground where she stood, brittle laughter escaping her lips as the stress of the fight drained from her in a rush.

“We did it!” Calen exclaimed, alighting on the ground beside her.

“We sure did,” Malika agreed. “You doing alright, Ali?”

“Yes, I’m just tired,” she said from where she sat. There had been many moments when she hadn’t been sure; when she had been about to call for their retreat. She had held off, waiting for one of the others to do it, just in case she was wrong. And here they were, alive and happy, celebrating their achievement against the elemental boss of the Emberforge Mines.

Malika groaned as she lowered her body to the ground beside her, and they sat together in silence for a while, staring at the giant corpse of the monster they had just defeated.

“Thank you, Ali,” Malika finally said, her voice quiet, almost in a whisper.

Ali glanced up at her friend. “For what?”

“I was so happy to finally dodge one of those annoying explosions that I didn’t realize I would be facing the boss on my own…”

I guess I didn’t make the only mistake – but we managed to cover for each other every time it got hairy. Now that’s teamwork.

“How did you survive it?”

“I dodged. A lot. Every time it hit me, it took more than four-fifths of my health – I’m never going to criticize the Bear’s heavy armor again. I had to burn almost all my stamina and mana to heal myself back to full, just to gain a few more seconds before the next hit.” Malika looked over at Ali. “I’ve never been so relieved to feel the holy magic of your acolyte. I don’t know how you got her to me so quickly… but thank you.”

“I used Minion Teleport. I was pretty close, so I switched with a Kobold to get it closer to you,” Ali answered softly, recalling how frantic she had been at the time. How desperate she had been to find anything that could save Malika. If the Kobold had been just a little further, or if she had been flung more horizontally… she quelled that line of thinking. It had worked, and she had to believe that if circumstances had been different, she would have come up with a different solution.

They sat together for a while in silence, enjoying Mato’s prancing and cheering. Ali would probably never be able to react to stress relief in that manner, but she recognized what it was and let him be. She was just happy it was done.

“Thanks for saving my furry hide!” Mato yelled at her. “Your barrier was perfect!”

Ali waved at him. While she loved that her friends acknowledged her, she knew that without them, she wouldn’t be alive either. They knew it too. Still, she would make sure to let each of them know she appreciated their struggles, efforts, and support. Probably later, after dinner when they had quieted down and finally relaxed.

Ali levered herself to her feet.

“Where are you going?” Malika asked.

“Janitor, remember?” she answered with a grin and set to the task of deconstructing everything she could find.

Variant: Shard of Inferno added to Imprint: Elemental.

Finally, Ali approached the corpse of the elemental boss. There were still a few flickering yellow-white flames, so she reached down and picked one up, earning a Restoration from her acolyte.

Essence of Inferno x6.

“Hey, Malika,” she called out, but her friend was standing right next to her. She handed the flame to her, and they both inspected it curiously.

“We should take this to Morwynne,” Malika said. “It’s probably exactly what we need to unlock that next rune. I found a bunch of lesser ones under the Shards of Inferno.”

Indeed, it was too much of a coincidence. Essence of Living Flame had been the primary ingredient to quench the Rune of Living Flame. Now they had a collection of Essence of Inferno to match a Rune of Inferno. The only question would be if Morwynne’s skill was up to the task - and if they needed to hunt for any other specialized ingredients. “I just hope it doesn’t take another Death Knight armor,” she muttered.

“Same,” Calen said.

“I wonder what the dungeon is doing, making such a simple puzzle?” Ali wondered aloud.

“Lyeneru discussed it in her book, remember…” Calen said. “Non-sentient dungeons seem to have some common instincts. In a dungeon like this one, where there are three passages, what stops attackers from going straight to the final boss?”

“I guess so,” Ali said, recalling the passage.

“With the runes barring the way, requiring items from monsters in earlier areas, the dungeon can force attackers to face each of its bosses before getting to it at the end. It can turn a maze into a long tunnel, which means you have to defeat all the monsters instead of simply picking a small subset, or by preference, or any other conditions. The Ruins of Dal’mohra didn’t have anything like this, so we could have just walked in to kill the Wights first if we knew about it. And then the rest of the dungeon would probably have dissipated on its own in a dungeon-break.”

“That sort of makes sense,” Ali said, considering his point. In fact, her own dungeon followed a strategy more like the Ruins of Dal’mohra. People could avoid most of her monsters if they wanted to. The only real barrier was that they didn’t know where Ali was because she wasn’t a boss in her own dungeon – something she was still unwilling to experiment with.

Malika collected six of the essences, storing them in her ring.

“Does anyone want this?” Ali pointed to the core remains, still radiating intense heat.

“Nope.”

“All yours.”

“I want to see if you get some new abilities,” Calen said, crossing his fingers.

Ali’s curiosity spiked as she deconstructed the giant elemental – and knowing that both the domain magic skills she had observed were new didn’t take the edge off the excitement and anticipation. Several chimes sounded in chorus as golden text appeared across the parchment in her mind.

