Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 54 (+5).+50 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 31.Swipe has reached level 33 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 35.Bear Form has reached level 31.Bestial Combat has reached level 29.Natural Prowess has reached level 22.Survival Instinct has reached level 24.Battle Trance has reached level 15.Last Stand has reached level 5.Identify has reached level 11.Cooking has reached level 13.Herb Gathering has reached level 5 (+2).

A frown touched his brow. His Rampant Growth skill was stagnating. It was hardly surprising, given that they had been fighting down in the Emberforge Mines all day – a place where absolutely no plant life survived. Unlike the Grasping Roots spell, which manufactured roots from mana directly, Rampant Growth was a spell for influencing existing life – albeit extremely powerfully and quickly.

But something about his training in Lira’s tree had taught him a little more patience than he remembered having, and he was sure he would get further opportunities to explore the skill. If nothing else, he could practice in Ali’s Forest Cavern, or the jungle when they passed through.

“Here you go,” Mato said, distributing second-course plates loaded up with boar-meat skewers, each crusted with herbs and grilled to perfection, and sauteed asparagus on the side. At least as far as he was concerned, that little helping of salmon had just whet his appetite.

“Thanks!” Calen said, immediately picking up a skewer with his hands and bringing it to his mouth.

“This looks familiar,” Malika said, eyeing the plate suspiciously. “Have you been taking lessons with Tabitha again?”

Calen froze with his mouth open wide, about to take a bite. His eyes darted between Malika and Mato and then to the still steaming meat he had been about to put in his mouth.

“Yup, she’s been teaching me some advanced techniques,” Mato said, suppressing his grin. He sat down with his own plate on his lap, locking eyes with Calen and waiting, deliberately not eating yet.

The silence drew out longer and longer.

“This is delicious, Mato!” Ali declared, holding a skewer in each hand, oblivious to the moment and breaking the tension in an instant.

“You’re bad. Just bad,” Calen muttered, glaring at him, and began to tuck in.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
