Quilatalap asked something about taking their time. Erick agreed.

Strong magic surrounded the entire cottage.

The world slowed down.

- - - -

A long time passed in a single hour.

Most of it was simple talking about nothing that important, and yet oh so wonderful; foods, people, places, history.

Some of it was spent enjoying a meal together that Erick or Quilatalap had cooked.

The rest was a vacation for Erick, in the best possible way, with a person he didn’t know that he liked so much until here, and now.

- - - -

Erick relaxed on his chair, sighing out, “That was a great dinner! You cook so well, Quilatalap.”

Quilatalap smiled, blushing a bit as he sat across from Erick. He still had a bit of bacon left on his plate. “It’s nice to cook for someone. I usually don’t even eat.”

“Ha! What?” Erick asked, “What do you mean— Like. You have an organic body, yeah? That means you need to eat?”

“I do. I also have [Create Food and Water], and [Duplicate], and I’m surprised you haven’t asked me about either yet. I’ve used both of them rather openly in the last day, or whatever—”

“I think it’s been over a day.”

Quilatalap nodded. “But I suppose you must already have both of those?”

Erick smiled brightly. “I don’t have both of them.”

Quilatalap grinned. “Let me guess! [Duplicate]!”

Erick shrugged. “I might have promised never to reveal certain things, and so I will likely not answer that question—”

“Say no more, say no more. You’re a heck of a lot better at that than I am. Look at me! I met a nice guy and I’m already spilling out secrets all over the place.”

Erick grinned. “So what is it? Like an internal blessing that ensures you never run out of food?”

Quilatalap laughed. “Almost! But actually the exact opposite of a blessing. [Curse of Sustenance]. No need to eat at all. Ever.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “A curse?”

“It was cast on me by a Wizard who had captured me once in the year… 150ish. Something like that. Like really captured me. Couldn’t get away at all except through death, and I was desperately trying to kill myself to make that happen. One of the ways I was trying to escape was through overcharging my metabolism and causing me to starve to death. So he cursed me with a Sustenance effect. It makes maintaining a healthy, physical body truly easy. But death through starvation? Not happening.”

Erick blinked a bit. “… Wow.”

Quilatalap waved a hand. “I’ve modified the curse into more of a blessing since then and kept repeating that magic on myself every time my body is killed. It’s very useful! Easy to switch into an automatic-suicide spell, too— Ah. Hmm. That upsets you.”

“Well... Yes. I’m… I’m sorry that all happened to you, Quilatalap.”

Quilatalap smiled softly. “Don’t worry about it. Feel free to change the subject, too.”

“… Uh. Okay— Oh! 150 years was before the Fall of Quintlan, when [Create Food and Water] was widespread. I know why that was Restricted; because Atunir was about to turn Dark, whatever that means. I can guess why [Duplicate] was restricted, too, but [Duplicate] is still widely used in the world by all the powerhouses, and none of the common people. So why not give [Duplicate] to everyone? Was there a problem with [Duplicate], too?”

Quilatalap nodded, then began, “Let’s start with the root causes of the Fall of Quintlan. Everyone knows about the widespread use of [Create Food and Water] causing nobility to ascend to a higher lifestyle and the common people to subsist on gruel. This caused a widespread inequality which eventually led to widespread war. But! What most people don’t know is that the problem with [Create Food and Water] was a lot more than Atunir turning Dark, to her beginning to believe Melemizargo that this world was a cage that should be destroyed.

“[Create Food and Water] allowed for Sustenance effects, which is what happened to me.

“But the truly insidious thing was when people started blessing monsters with Sustenance. It got real bad when they started doing that to oozes.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “That sounds bad.”

Quilatalap nodded. “Yup. Now that was bad. Every single Sustenance Ooze was both ravenously hungry, and full; willing to eat everything in sight, but also constantly splitting off smaller oozes that went on to do even more damage. That was what killed Quintlan. And not right away, either. In the beginning of that tactic in like, the year 300, or something like that, a Sustenance Ooze could only go through about 50 splits before the constant splitting caused a degradation of that blessing.

“It was only in the very last decade of Quintlan that someone managed to make a Sustenance Ooze that could last indefinitely; that needed to be killed to end that threat.”

Erick pondered that for a moment. “I suppose you could do the same thing with [Duplicate]?”

“That’s still doable, but it’s a lot harder. That’s not why [Duplicate] is restricted, though. Widespread [Duplicate] is the breakdown of society as a whole, since no one ever needs to interact with anyone else ever again.” Quilatalap said, “And when that happens, we get an ‘all the gods turn Dark’ problem— Well. Most of them. Not all of them. Phagar, Rozeta, Koyabez, Melemizargo… They would all be fine. Atunir would probably turn Dark in a bad way— Colloquially that’s called ‘turning Dark’, because Melemizargo was the Dark and also insane for a long time, but it’s not really ‘turning Dark’ at all; it’s more ‘turning insane’. Though that might be more a question for the philosophers than for me.

“In the advent of widespread [Duplicate], Sininindi would turn Dark, since no one would care about the ocean or storms; they could hunker down on land and never see the ocean at all if they wanted. Same for Fangorl, god of the wilds, and Zephyr, god of travels. Bunch of minor gods, too.” Quilatalap added, “Not sure about Sumtir, the god of righteous war. Could go either way. Maybe the only wars ever fought again would be over ideology and land… or something. Never did agree with Sumtir. There’s no such thing as a righteous war.”

Huh.

Well all that was a lot to think about.

Erick put that train of thought on hold for another day, though.

“Sumtir was the ‘god of war’ before the Sundering, right? Not just ‘righteous war’?” Erick said, “Seems rather diametrically opposed to Koyabez, the god of peace. How did he managed to make it onto Veird after the Sundering?”

“Koyabez banned him from entering Veird during the Sundering, telling Sumtir that he wasn’t welcome. Rozeta popped up and told Koyabez that Sumtir’s power was absolutely necessary for their survival, if Sumtir was willing to give up at least 75% of himself. Koyabez relented, allowing that to happen. And so Sumtir sacrificed a lot of his power, dedicating that power to the manaminer that would become the Script, in an effort to be let inside.” Quilatalap said, “Sumtir went from a major, universe-wide god, to what he is today. Still rather powerful, but… They’re all a lot less than they used to be.”

“… Huh.”

Quilatalap changed the subject, “So you’re hosting the Feast this year, yeah?”

Erick leaned back in his chair, suddenly groaning as the weight of responsibility reasserted itself. And then he turned back to Quilatalap. “Let’s leave that topic for after.” He stood up. He was still nude. “I do want to talk about the Feast with you, at length. But… Later.”

Quilatalap smiled wide as he stood up, also fully nude, knowingly asking, “What else do you want to do then, Erick?”

“I’m sure we can think of something.”

- - - -

Zolan shouted, “Another!” as he cracked open a third bottle of high-alcohol liquor. He took a swig directly from the thing, the harsh liquid burning his throat. And then he passed the bottle along.

Mox took the offered drink. Three glugs later, she passed the bottle along, saying, “Holy fuck I might need something stronger, Zolan.”

Raingorl downed half the bottle in four long gulps, then passed it along, saying, “I can get stronger stuff.”

Volaro shook his head at the offered bottle, saying, “I’ve had enough. I have an important case in the morning.”

Burhendurur took the bottle instead, saying, “Nothing is going to get done tomorrow, Volaro.” He took two long sips, and then passed it to the next person.

Aisha took a sip, and then set the bottle on the table in front of the other overseers of House Benevolence. “I think this romance of Erick’s will be fine.”

Grumbles filled the room. It was just the six of them in this private space.

Discovering that Erick was on a date with Quilatalap had been a disaster of massive proportions, but no one had threatened war yet, so it might be fine. As for the overseers, none of them had known about this until then. Every single one of them only found out how deep Erick’s connection with the ARCHLICH OF NECROMANCY…

Zolan sighed.

Zolan was still having trouble with this. Everyone of them and a few others knew about Quilatalap being here at the House. Neither Erick or Quilatalap had been completely secretive about that fact. Burhendurur even had a guy in custody right now because Quilatalap’s skeleton golem defender had dropped the guy off at Enforcement. But then there was the date. The Wizard Dragon of Benevolence and the Archlich of Necromancy had been at Atalle’s Saucery for the last few hours, publicly enjoying a full 5-course meal, the deep hospitality of Atalle, and the easy company of each other.

Burhendurur started giggling again— He shook his head hard, trying to get rid of that uncouth emotional response. He grabbed the bottle again and drained it, then said to Raingorl, “What else you got?”

Raingorl laughed. “I lied. I got kegs. You want a keg?”

“I want a keg,” Volaro said. “Recovering from a kegger is easy.”

Burhendurur chuckled again.

“But you were done? You have a case in the morning?” Mox asked.

“Changed my mind,” Volaro asked, “Where’s the keg?”

Raingorl got up, saying, “Hold on hold—”

He vanished in a bit of pale light.

Zolan joked, “Wonder if he fell down after leaving.”

Mox said, “If I stood I would fall—”

Raingorl reappeared, holding two great big kegs, one under each arm, looking like a teenager Arcanaeum student at his first real taste of freedom from Treehome, being out on his own. “I got beer— Whoops!”

One of the kegs slipped, but Volaro caught it with magic, and then brought it over to himself. With an expert tapping that would be the envy of any graduate, the orcol-shaped dragon slammed a conjured tap into the top of the barrel and magically lifted it up, conjuring big mugs and then pouring drinks. He handed one to Raingorl who started waterfalling the beer, and then one to Mox and Zolan, and then Burhendurur and Aisha. After refilling Raingorl’s drink again, Volaro sniffed his own mug, and then waterfalled it all down, putting Raingorl to sudden shame.

A sudden bout of orcol competitiveness flashed between Volaro and Raingorl. It was drinking time. Zolan tried to keep up but failed miserably, while Raingorl crashed onto his seat and conceded the win to Volaro.

And Aisha said, “Volaro only won because he’s a cheating dragon who cheats.”

“He didn’t drink nearly enough of the good stuff!” Mox loudly proclaimed.

Burhendurur brought the conversation back around to the current predicament, saying, “They’ve been at Quilatalap’s house that Erick built for the last 2 hours. The entire place is still under that Time spell. Holy gods. Is everything going to change once they come out of there?”

Aisha [Decay Rain]ed on Burhendurur’s everything, “You still can’t talk to Quilatalap.”

“What! Why not!” Burhendurur demanded.

Volaro laid it out, “If they come out of there dating, then you moving on Quilatalap is a terrible breach of conduct— I amend my statement: You talking to Quilatalap at all will now require oversight by Erick at all times. If they come out of there angry at each other, then Quilatalap is gone. If they come out of there amicably quits, then you might be able to make a move.”

Burhendurur’s face went red. “I don’t want to date Quilatalap!”

Zolan, Mox, Raingorl, and Volaro paused.

Aisha briefly paused, then she rolled her eyes. “You want all his magical knowledge.”

“Yes! And I want to be friends with him!” Burhendurur said, “He INVENTED NECROMANCY. The best school of magic ever!”

“Debatable.” “False.” “What! No.” “Book Magic is better.”

Aisha said, “Rozeta above, if anyone would have ever told me if I would be talking with a friendly Death Dragon coworker about the nature of his infatuation with Quilatalap, The Archlich, who looks to also be a coworker, I would have called them crazy.”

“Oh yes.” Zolan said, “It’s even crazier that this is all actually working, too.”

Mox gasped—

Everyone looked to her.

Suddenly wide eyed and looking around the room, Mox asked, “Is Goldie here?”

“Yeah I’m here,” Goldie said, sipping her beer and sitting on the extra chair around the table, like she had always been there. “Quilatalap is a good guy. Erick is a good guy. They’re good together, right?”

Perhaps it was the alcohol, or perhaps it was the knowledge that Goldie had had ample opportunity to do some bad shit and she had not done any bad shit, or perhaps it was because Zolan saw this as an excellent chance to talk with a Shade (for he would be talking with a lot of them at the Feast)—

Anyway, Zolan, out of everyone else in the room, was the only one to speak next, asking, “Is this going to actually work between them? Or is this doomed to failure?”

Goldie easily said, “They’re magically, physically, and emotionally compatible. They worship— Well. Quilatalap worships Koyabez, Phagar, and My God Melemizargo. Erick is friendly with Koyabez, Phagar, and The False Goddess Rozeta. There’s a lot of… You know. Overlap, or some shit.”

Everyone considered this.

Zolan considered it all a great deal faster, though, and so he could ask, “Got any idea about the Feast?”

“All I really know is that a bunch of plans just changed.” Goldie frowned. “I was going to ask Erick to dance with me.” She waterfalled her beer, then held out the cup to Volaro.

Volaro filled the mug, then handed it back to Goldie.

Goldie vanished.

Raingorl asked, “What are we going to do about the Feast?”

The conversation restarted, and with gusto.

