Somewhere in the middle of talk of food service and a concern over Erick’s Time Magic disrupting all the other magic already active inside the House (all duration-effects inside the House would pass on as normal, according to Goldie), a telepathic call came to Zolan.

The Headmaster asked, ‘When were you going to tell me that Erick and Quilatalap were dating?’

‘… The entire House just found out.’ Zolan sent, ‘On the positive side, there’s no need to worry over Erick’s significant other being a physical liability.’

‘… Just an emotional liability, a security threat, and a danger to the world about as large as a rogue Wizard.’

‘Then it’s a good thing he’s paired with a known Wizard, sir.’

‘Let your boss know I will be having some words with him when he deigns to reappear.’

‘I will schedule you for noon tomorrow. We have a slot open then.’ Zolan added, ‘Unless someone declares war on us over this.’

‘… Very well.’

The connection cut.

Zolan went back to drinking but he focused again as the conversation turned to that dragon that Burhendurur had in custody. ‘Crem’; the Benevolence dragon who murdered a guy and then waited for Enforcement to show. Aisha got a painful look as Volaro spoke of law and precedent and what any sort of decision would mean for the future.

The night dragged on, full of worry. Midnight eventually rolled around—

Burhendurur’s face shot up. He spilled beer everywhere. “He’s back.”

[Cleanse] and Healing Magic were wonderful for avoiding all the problems of alcohol poisoning and hangovers. Now House Benevolence simply needed to not get murdered by all of Quilatalap’s enemies.

Mox admonished Zolan, “It’s not as dire as you suggest, Zolan. It’s just… Different.”

Zolan counted out on his fingers as he said, “The Dragon Stalkers hate Erick, and Quilatalap for their parts in making dragons—” Burhendurur and Volaro scoffed. Zolan continued, “—the Sovereign Cities hate Erick for allowing Gambler’s Rest to happen. I have absolutely no idea how this Feast thing is going to work out. And don’t forget that Converter Angel; it’s still out there.”

Mox said, “In this specific case, the Stalkers are all wind and no lightning. The Sovereign Cities might be stupid, but then we have Aisha and Benevolence to help counter those smaller acts of stupidity. The Angels and Demons are staying far away… But the Feast could be a problem.”

Aisha said, “We’re going to end up with all the Shades here. I can already see it happening, and that’s only partially paranoia; the rest is all True Sight.”

- - - -

Erick walked into his house at midnight, smiling brightly, even though Kiri, Poi, and Teressa were all still awake and in the kitchen. He walked right into that dour room, saying, “Hello, everyone!”

Poi announced, “He’s still Erick.”

Kiri sighed in relief.

Teressa said, “I told you nothing bad was going to happen.”

“And I didn’t believe you,” Kiri said, matter-of-factly. Then she got up, walked over to Erick, and gave him a quick hug, saying, “I’m very glad you’re okay.”

Erick smiled wide as he hugged her back, and then let her go. “I had a 2 day vacation in a matter of hours. It was wonderful. Also, Quilatalap and I are dating unless the world lights on fire due to this, which it might.”

“Yeah…” Kiri said, “I have Sunny on lookout. Haven’t seen much of anything dangerous happening and we’re still under a [Zone of Peace], but then again there’s a lot more to look at these days and I’m not nearly as proficient at that as you are. Your overseers are concerned, though. Like… A lot.”

Erick nodded. “I know. I saw them all at a meeting, talking about this latest development. Which was to be expected, I suppose. I’m trying to look on the bright side that they were able to do that all on their own, without me being involved at all, and without their meeting devolving into a shouting match.”

Kiri asked, “They got over that impetus to anger weeks ago, though?”

“Ehhh… Mostly. Yeah,” Erick agreed.

Teressa stood up, happily saying, “Well anyway! Congrats, Boss. We orcols have horror and heroic stories about him aplenty. I could tell you some, sometime.”

“I will absolutely hear those stories. Now? Or tomorrow?”

Teressa smiled a little. “Tomorrow. It’s too late for me to be up any longer. Glad you finally got a vacation, though.”

Erick smiled brightly, again. It was as though he had grabbed onto another anchor in his life, a touchstone. It was a small touchstone right now, for he didn’t really know Quilatalap all that well, but what he did know, he liked. A lot.

“I’m glad I got a vacation, too.”

Kiri said, “Congrats. I’m off to bed.” She walked out of the kitchen, saying, “See you in the morning.”

“Time to sleep,” Teressa said, also heading out.

And then it was Poi and Erick.

Erick sat down at the kitchen table, next to Poi. With a solemn tone, for that’s what this seemed to need, Erick said, “I see your sister is still asleep.”

“… Yeah. She is. It’s…” Poi looked at him. “I wish to request some formal time off. For a few days, and then back to working for the days of the Feast, and if nothing happens then some time off during the Triumph… Or later.”

“Of course, Poi! Anything you need.” Erick said, “Maybe I could even hire Rizala as a personal guard like—”

“No. Don’t do that.” Poi said, “I’m not even sure who she is. Like. Yes. She is my sister, but I don’t actually know her. I haven’t seen her in a… A long time.”

“The best way to get to know someone is to spend some time with them.”

“… I don’t want your safety to be in the hands of an unknown Mind Mage.”

“I take it she wasn’t part of the collective— The Crossing, I mean? That she was truly out on her own?”

“There are certain ways to be magically invisible and the Shades know them all. Your broken fae necklace was one such method.”

Erick went with the change of subject. “Burhendurur and Aisha and I have gone over a lot of them in our Benevolence tests. Apparently Benevolence is very good at circumventing most of those methods because Benevolence doesn’t do direct tracking, but world-change tracking.” And then he got back on topic. “I would have thought that Mind Mages would have had a rather similar way for them to track each other.”

“There’s always a way to hide, and the best way to hide as a Mind Mage is to only do internal magics. Rizala doesn’t know the exact methods they used to hide her because they forced her to purge her own memories, but… She does know all the usual ways. I’m sure the Shades have even better methods.” Poi said, “Some sort of ‘Absolute Unknowability’ is one such theory of the Sundering, because someone should know something about what really happened, but no one does.”

Erick asked, “Do you want a few days with Rizala? Uninterrupted? A few days in a [Hasted Shelter]? I can make that happen right now.”

Poi shook his head. “No. No need for that… Quilatalap is going to be dangerous, but… He’s one of the few people I don’t have to worry about being used against you. I’m not sure if the pros outweigh the cons, but in at least that one way… I’m glad.”

Erick smiled. “I know. It’s pretty great, isn’t it?”

A fraction of Poi’s worries vanished as he sighed a little, and grinned a little. “I’m happy for you.”

“And I’m happy for you, too, Poi!” Erick stood up. “Your sister is alive and well! This is a good thing!”

Poi stood up, chuckling. “I mean… yeah.” He shrugged, standing up. “Yeah. It is a good thing.”

“So many good things are happening for us! And to us!”

Poi smiled softly. “I’m headed back to Rizala’s, to sleep there. See you in the morning, Erick.”

Erick nodded. “Good night, Poi.”

Poi vanished in a flicker of blue light.

And since Erick was fully rested and he wanted to work, he went to his workshop to try his hand at making Gate Version 5.

- - - -

Keeping the Gate Network intact hadn’t been much of a problem, but there had been issues here and there that had required Erick to act fast to repair damage. Three times now, once at Portal, once at Stratagold, and once at Weald, the other side of the Gate had failed because someone had failed to upkeep the mana costs to maintain the Gate. Portal's excuse for one of their Gates flickering and failing was the same as Stratagold’s; two of the Gates were too close together, so the mana they thought they were spending evenly, was in fact being spread unevenly. This was perhaps Erick’s fault, in his opinion.

At Weald, the problem had been one of mismanagement, with the people in charge over there failing to know that they needed to upkeep the Gate. This was a much larger problem of ‘who is in charge’, but Erick and Zolan felt that this issue was rather minor compared to other problems of Weald being basically a refugee camp.

Erick checked on all of his Gates after that minor fiasco. The Gate to the top of the Forest of Glaquin, that the people of ArCosmos had been using to come into the Greater Candlepoint Area, had been running low. The others were rather fine.

It still meant that the Gates needed an upgrade, and so, because of Erick’s new [Node of the Renewing Undertow] and all the smaller problems that had cropped up, that is what Erick was working on right now.

In many ways, Version 5 was a simple upgrade, changing how each individual Gate used two [Gate]s instead of a single [Gate], with the main [Gate] unchanged, but with the second [Gate] being much smaller, and completely internal. Through a [Node of the Renewing Undertow] that would go through that smaller [Gate], and connect both sides of the big Gate, that power would keep both runic webs on both sides fully powered. When the system was connected to a [Node of the Renewing Undertow], that Node could connect to other Nodes, and to other Gates in the Gate Network.

The hardest part of the change was in emplacing a pair of limiters on how much power an individual Gate could suck up, and be drained of. Erick had never worked much with that sort of thing, but limiting the mana a runic web could hold, and ensuring the runic web would always have some mana inside of itself, was a rather normal thing to do, since the more variance of mana there was in an imperfect web, the faster it degraded. It was even worse with iron webs, for if they degraded fully then they would degrade in parts, the anti-rust magics failing and leaving pitted, red metal in their wake.

Erick had simply never made an imperfect web before, because it was easy to make a ‘perfect web’ out of platinum, and if the iron webs were anything less than perfect, then they would rot into rust in a matter of moments. It took a bit of work to adjust his designs. Not too much, though.

As the sun rose on Erick’s part of the world, he had finished the first set of new Gates; 10 of them, for now. It was enough to replace every Gate on the Financial Road, which is what he would be doing later.

Gate Version 5 looked exactly the same as the other Gates; a runic web fully contained inside a square of white Yggdrasil wood. It did not look any more impressive than all the other Gates, but in a lot of other ways, it was much more advanced.

With this, Erick could [Renew] the entire Gate Network from a single Node.

Version 5 was ready for launch.

- - - -

Erick rolled into the House in the morning and had a somewhat tense meeting with Zolan, who confronted Erick about the whole ‘Quilatalap situation’. But after some small words of ‘I know about how much danger this is; keep a watch out for me, will you?’ Zolan seemed to understand that yes, Erick fully understood what he was doing.

Mostly.

Zolan finally said, “Well he’s an enemy of Oceanside, the nations of Nelboor, a good hundred nations that are gone from the world due to transition into other nations or outright death, and then there’s all the churches. Sumtir, Aloethag, and Atunir are the big ones— Ah! The smaller city states of Spur, Kal’Duresh— Most nations of Glaquin, actually. An avowed enemy of Treehome as well. Every single Geode. Every single major Underworld nation attached to any of the Geodes.” He added, “Also, the Headmaster wishes to have words with you at your noon meeting.”

“… That’s a longer list than I had considered... That’s the same list of people who hate Wizards, isn’t it?”

“Well… There’s some overlap, yes, but no. The cultures that hate Quilatalap hate him for reasons adjacent to putting forth magic into the world that could kill everyone, but instead of unbridled and unknowable Wizardry, those hates are focused on known Necromancy— Ah! I forgot the Angels and Demons. Those are Quilatalap’s biggest enemies, perhaps. If any demonic or angelic force tries to touch him, the archlich will rip those angels or demons off their moons and End them.”

“… I’m not hearing a downside with that last part.”

Zolan nodded. “That part is, perhaps, the singular way in which Oceanside does not disapprove of Quilatalap.”

Erick shook his head, then gave his final decision on the matter, “For now, based on a mutual camaraderie, Quilatalap is an ally of House Benevolence.”

“Understood.” Zolan asked, “Will you be upgrading the Network today?”

Erick smiled again. “Yes! All of Financial Road, first. Spur is the only one on that road that I need to actually ask to replace their Gate, so do inform and ask Spur about that first. I should be able to make enough Gates to replace all the other ones in the network in a matter of days. You can take some more time informing Portal, the Wayfarer’s, and Stratagold; Spur comes first.”

Zolan got to it.

- - - -

Erick ended up upsetting a lot of people, but it had nothing to do with the new Gates.

Silverite personally thanked Erick for upgrading their Gate, and all without charging them for the upgrade. That had been a fun little conversation, where Silverite asked after some rumors she had heard about ‘a certain date’, and which Erick deflected, asking if he could talk to her about all that later. Silverite agreed.

She didn’t seem angry, but it was hard to tell, exactly. Either way, Erick had managed to deflect that conversation and Silverite was willing to let it be deflected, which was great.

As the sun rose higher in the sky, there were new lights and lines of light in the airspace of the Gate District. It was as though Erick had drawn the first few threads of a giant spiderweb across the air above the Financial Road, with each Gate getting at least three connections to the Web. Erick was not actually happy with the design at the end of the day, but it was something he could change.