

And so, on a whim, he posted an art contest on a pedestal in the food court of the House, along with a dreamcatcher-like arrangement of Nodes in the air above that contest, explaining and showing what his new magic could really look like. Multiple goals coincided in that action. The first was to inform people of what the new magic in the sky was, while the second was to invite artists to come up with a better arrangement. On another whim, the prize was 10,000 gold, or a [Reincarnation] and 10,000 gold; artist’s choice.

He hadn’t done nearly enough [Reincarnation]s in the last few days.

Erick had no doubt that someone would come up with a better style for this Node Network than his own ‘basic utility look’.

Once that was done, and after Erick had gotten several hundred inquiries about what-the-fuck was he doing with Quilatalap, from every single faction which Zolan had already listed and more, Erick decided to sit down with the faction which Erick most felt safe with.

- - - -

In a nice office in House Benevolence, Silverite sat across from Erick. This time Privacys had gone up, and then polite words had been exchanged, as well as the setting out of teas and cakes, and some quicksilver for Silverite, if she wanted any. Silverite stuck to the berry soda, though, commenting on how it was rather delicious, and wondering how it was made.

Erick handed her the spell for [Harmless Frozen Particles], saying, “It’s made with this spell, which takes one carbon and two oxygen and turns that into a frozen solid, using Elemental Mystical to bypass the creation of accidental toxins. Then that ice-like frozen air is put into a keg of berry tea, which is a combination of lemons and various berries. As the solid turns to gas, bypassing the liquid stage entirely, it increases the pressure in the keg, so that carbon dioxide seeps into the drink, creating the fizzy water.”

Silverite looked at her drink again then sipped it again before putting it down. “The same ‘carbon-two-oxygen’ that the daydroppers created? The dead air?”

“Exactly the same as people breathe out whenever they exhale, and the same that the daydroppers did; yes.”

“I do seem to recall you telling me about all that once. I must have forgotten.” Silverite looked to Erick. “Have you forgotten my own words on Quilatalap?”

Erick leaned back in his chair, recalling those words, and then he said most of them, “ ‘Quilatalap is one of the very few good necromancers. After many years of reparations and then settling into Ar’Kendrithyst well before my time, Quilatalap regained his title as the Most Holy Necromancer of Koyabez’s Peacekeepers. That is why I give him the Black Star whenever it comes my way, for that is my duty under Koyabez. But that man has an inevitable desire to teach, and those he teaches are not who anyone should accept as students. That man’s view of life, and thus the perspective of his students, is much too fluid. It is here that he and I have always had our major disagreements.

“ ‘About half the time, Quilatalap’s students always end up viewing life as something less than holy. Almost every dangerous necromancer to ever threaten this city or any other place in this world has had a connection to Quilatalap, and yes, that includes Messalina. I thought she was one of the good ones, too, but almost every single one of those misguided students of his that show up in Spur, causing trouble, I kill, myself. But, as always, it appears that Quilatalap is still useful to My God. Quilatalap helped you learn how to make that Silver Prism, and that means a lot, Erick. It means a lot, but not everything.

“ ‘So I will give you some advice, and I hope you will take it: Do not seek the archlich. Don’t talk about him to whoever might come after today. I could do without that man in my life for a while. We all could.’ ” Erick stopped reciting, then looked to Silverite. “I think that was everything.”

For a few long moments Silverite stared, and then she blinked and said, “It appears you do remember what I said… Rather solidly, as well.”

“I’ve gone over it several times since meeting with Quilatalap again. I even asked him what he had to say about you, and it was all positive words, mostly in the form of ‘I’m glad she’s there; she does a lot of cleanup that I cannot do. I’m not comfortable with killing people at all.’.”

Silverite slowly nodded. “He is comfortable with cursing people with bodies that fall apart, and blowing people up and then putting them back into a body, and eviscerating them over pits of lava, and doing all sorts of horrible things… And then he puts them back together. The trauma remains.” She added, “And there’s the whole ‘teaching other people to bring people back from the dead and thus transforming them into monsters’ thing. His magic has destroyed more souls on this world than any other magic in existence.” Silverite sighed a little. “And yet, how other people use the magic he had put out there is not his fault. And yet! He’s also saved countless lives through the dissemination of those magics.

“I simply wish he would stop teaching… Anyone at all, really. Just stop. And yet he can’t. He sees a lack of knowledge and he must fill that lack.” She asked, “Do you know that most people who went into the Armory, did so specifically to talk to Quilatalap? That he would try not to talk to people; try not to give out magical answers? But yet, the answers would come.

“Here’s one tactic that works way too well on him:

“A pair of adventurers under his purview would begin talking about Soul Magic, and they would get a lot of the initial stuff correct. Maybe they’d talk about the differences between blessings and curses. This would intrigue Quilatalap. But then, over the course of a week-long Armory trial, they’d bring up the topic again, and this time they’d purposefully get it wrong. And since Quilatalap was overhearing them the whole time, he would then correct them on their failings. It didn’t always work, but sometimes it did. And sometimes the trial-taker would forgo their reward and ask to be taught by Quilatalap, and sometimes Quilatalap would agree.

“And then a month later I would be murdering a fledgling necromancer with too much power and not enough self-control.” Silverite said, “Power is a good look on you, Erick. You have done Good with that power. You would have been crowned a Saint, if not for all the controversial things you have done, and if the world hadn’t gotten a lot more crazy since your ascent to power. Provided everything works out how we all hope it will, you will be crowned a Saint by some god or another. Maybe Rozeta, or Koyabez, or Phagar, or… Rozeta’s father, if he should regain his mind.

“Most people are not like you.

“Most people would not forgive their enemies and seek a better way. Most people would have been put down or straightened out by Stratagold or Oceanside for stepping too far out of line.” Silverite ended with, “And that’s really my problem with Quilatalap. He gives power to all who would ask for it, and prove themselves worthy. He is a priest of Melemizargo as much as he is a Holy Necromancer of Koyabez. And that is dangerous.”

Erick said, “I hear what you’re saying, and I thank you for your words, but I don’t have to worry about Quilatalap being used against me and that’s a major draw. Yes, he comes with baggage, but so do I, and I could use the ally, and we’re just dating right now, but I’ll let you know if it progresses further than that.”

Silverite was concerned, and probably for a thousand different reasons. If she wanted to, she could dig up recorded history, and show, with documented examples, exactly how much danger Erick was getting himself into. But she chose not to do any of that. She discarded all the rest of her words. With that simple decision made, she said, “I’m happy if you’re happy, Erick. I hope it works out between you.” She added, “But to speak as nations for a moment: He’s indirectly dangerous in vast, unknowable ways. Be careful.”

Erick smiled a little. “I will. Thank you for your concern. And thanks for the well-wishes.” And then he offered, “If any of the archmages of Spur want a [Reincarnation], or if you need help with anything, let me know and I’ll try to help”

Silverite sat fractionally straighter. “Thank you for the offer. I’ll… Let them know of your offer, and I’ll let you know if I need or desire anything in particular. There is one thing I can think of right now: Do you know when, if at all, you will be getting the Local Area Gate Network up and operational for the Crystal Forest? I understand that’s going to go through the Wayfarer’s?”

“It will probably go through the Wayfarer’s, yes. It’ll probably be active next month, after the Triumph of Light. 15 days? Something like that. There’re only a few places to even connect to in the Crystal Forest, anyway. Vindin. Outpost. Kal’Duresh. Ar’Kendrithyst, when it gets more stable and when Anhelia actually asks for a Gate. None of the other have asked for Gates, either, except in the most roundabout ways that mean they’re just checking, and they’re not actually interested.”

“That may be true for a while, but it will change fast. There’s going to be a surge of new cities out there, popping up and asking for Gates.” Silverite said, “Since you have these Version 5 Gates that don’t need upkeep on the other side, perhaps the Wayfarers could consider opening up Gates to other adventuring locations within the sands? Like the Hole north of Spur, or any number of places on the far eastern edge of the sands, like the Singular Mountain, or the Rocky Crags, or Empire Ruins?”

“… That’s a good idea.” Erick tried, “Would you like Spur to be a part of that collective? I can take Spur’s Gate off of Financial Road and make a nexus area with all of those locations inside that collection. Make all the Crystal Forest reachable from one 500 meter square block?”

Silverite smiled softly. “We’d take a second Gate in that space, actually. Keep the first one for business and make the new one fully for transportation of people and small, personal goods.”

“I can make that happen.” Erick asked, “Oh? Are you able to talk about the Feast?”

Silverite said, “We can talk about that; sure. But I’m not worried, and you’re going to do fine. Are you worried?”

“Yeah I’m worried! Ha! At least a little, anyway.” Erick smiled again. “You’re not worried I’m ‘falling to the Dark’, or something? I’ve gotten about a hundred letters to that effect so far.”

Silverite shook her head, saying, “I’m not worried about you in that way at all. I am absolutely sure that Melemizargo and the Shades and maybe even Quilatalap will try and talk about how ‘fine’ Melemizargo is, and about ‘how it used to be’ and ‘how it will be again’. But I trust you not to fall down that path… Or at least not until Melemizargo proves himself as not-insane, and his clergy as non-genocidal. Maybe after 50 years of good behavior. But am I worried about you actually choosing their side? Or: is this all some sort of elaborate plot by the Dark, and you, a Wizard, have already fallen to the Dark? No. Not worried about that, either.”

With a grin, Erick said, “For someone who is not worried at all, you’ve hit upon all the major complaints people are leveling at me.”

“Only idiots who haven’t been paying attention would be worried about you at this point.” Silverite shrugged. “But there are lots of idiots in the world. So… Good luck with that.”

Erick laughed.

There was more small talk of smaller concerns, but soon enough, Silverite departed back to Spur.
