The Viper didn’t look pleased but didn’t say anything as he sighed. “So, to summarize, you were ambushed by six gods, four of whom are now dead. They did this not only by misdirecting the teleportation array established by the Pantheon of Life, but also had a formation capable of blocking the detection of even Primordials. Then, when things went south, they all blew themselves up using the concept of oblivion executed at an incredibly high level. This includes four gods who willingly experienced true deaths by getting involved in this, all four of whom were known gods of different factions that were believed to be dead. Finally, the two gods that did escape both surpass the level of Godkings, meaning we should be aware of their existence, yet none of us has any idea who they are. That about sums it up?”

“Yeah, pretty accurate, though I think we should consider that their true target was Sylphie,” Stormild said. “And I can’t even blame them for finding her irresistible.”

All the others ignored her as Nature’s Attendant thought aloud. “Only a major faction has the power to pull something like this off, yet it doesn’t fit the profile of any of them.”

“It also begs the question, which faction would be foolish enough to try?” Villy said, crossing his arms.

“We should find out,” Aeon said as he waved his hand and summoned a bubble around himself, along with a set of chairs and even a table, which he promptly sat down at. With a wave of his hand, he teleported over the Sword Saint, who took a moment to orient himself before nodding toward his god.

“I took the liberty of reaching out to some of the others,” Aeon said while motioning for the Sword Saint to take a seat. “I did so under the assumption they’re also curious why gods of their faction they believed dead, would suddenly show up in the void to ambush the Chosen of the Malefic Viper, an action that’s more likely than not an active breach of the Bloodline Accords.”

Hearing this, Jake got the feeling this sudden ambush was turning into something far bigger than he could fully understand... and he really felt bad for the people around him in the vessel who were still unconscious, as they were in for quite the shock when they woke up. Not to speak of Artemis, who looked almost enviously at the knocked-out C-grades.
