Using the maps from my own system data, I pointed them in the direction of many dungeons. I recommended they stick to a group and work together. Taking twenty rifts with someone's help was a lot easier than taking ten solo. I faced a lot of resistance as I pitched this idea, most of the gialgathens thinking the eldritch weren't a threat.

Krog swung by and crushed their growing dissent. He told stories of the Hybrid like how it was nigh invincible and could swallow a gialgathen whole. With that in mind, they separated into three groups of two with Sheom still choosing to fight solo. After they left, I turned to Krog and looked him over.

He still had cuts, bruises, and a few new scars from our fight. His armor  carried many dents as well, so as we talked, I bent it back into shape. I started us off,

"Thanks for the help there. They looked like their pride would get the better of them."

"It would've. If there is one thing we gialgathens must overcome, it's gaining a sense of humility. Losing my grandfather to what I believed were little dirtwalkers sprouted that idea in my mind. Meeting you solidified it into stone," Krog said.

He turned to the outer entrance of the cavern, "We gialgathens must do as you said. Evolve or die. This world is changing, and I'll be damned if I'll be left behind as a remnant of the past."

I grinned, "I got a good start then for you. You saw that quest I gave you?"

Krog nodded, "Indeed I did. I was thinking of passing an idea along to you."

"Go ahead."

"I remember your friend, the healer Kessiah. Her talents lie in her ability to mend what is broken, not in killing."

He was kind of wrong about that, but I let him continue.

"I would have her come along with me to share in the, er, experience of my new mission. Would that seem suitable?"

I crossed my arms and tilted my head, "You'd do that for her?"

Krog shook his head, "What? But of course. She saved my wings. I am no broken, hollow member of my species any longer. This is the least I may do to repay a piece of what she gave me."

There was a depth to his gratitude I didn't expect. Krog often hid his emotions, so seeing him open up like this caught me off guard.

Krog mumbled, "Ahem, that is if I find the time to do so..."

I rolled my eyes at him saving face.

"Yeah, I think that's a great idea. Kessiah really needs those levels, and she'd make you safer in the long run as well. You should do that."

Krog puffed out his chest, "But of course. While I may be new to this 'system,' I am no fool. I pay my debts as well."

I finished fixing the dings in his armor, and he spread his wings,

"Then I will be off to ask her for assistance. Farewell, Dark One."

"Cya later, Krog. Try not to get yourself killed."

After Krog left, I found myself with little else to do after finishing a few sets of armors. I kept myself busy by practicing several skills while grinding out some work with my cipher carving. It was coming along fast, my progress mounting in speed. Something about it felt right, the work just flowing well.

I kept at it for the next two days, a bit of disappointment setting in at how few gialgathens showed up. It wasn't long into the second day that Sheom popped up, ten dungeon cores in a pouch on her side and her quest completed. As she landed in front of me, she was heaving for breath, a sheen of sweat over her skin,

"I...I finished what you asked of me."

I scratched the side of my head, "Well damn...you finished this much faster than I expected. I barely even had to tell you what to do or where to go."

"I know where the silvers reign, and finding the 'dungeons' wasn't difficult once I knew where they were. Finishing at this pace was difficult, but I managed to do as you said with impunity. The most challenging part was grabbing the dungeon cores for two of the dungeons."

Sheom winced, "There was this vast pillar of white energy. It chilled my bones when I touched it."

I raised an eyebrow, a bit impressed by her resolve. She didn't know the difference between an open rift and a dungeon, but she didn't let that stop her.

"What kept you so motivated?"

"I wanted to join the ranks of Krog and Chrona as quickly as possible. It shames me to see my rivals overcoming my own ability with such ease. I taught the great Lehesion after all. My failure besmirches his memory."

I chuckled a bit when she said besmirches, not gonna lie. As my amusement faded, I opened my status screen and let her join my guild along with the system. Her work ethic was incredible, and she followed my instructions to a T. She was what I was looking for.

I helped her piece together her build, giving her a detailed walkthrough of several paths available to her. After a half hour of grinding it out, I finished the process. An enormous pipeline of mana flowed through her as she went through the enhancement process. Once completed, she laid down near me, needing a nap like Krog and Chrona had.

I went back to my work with the cipher, two more groups of gialgathens returning over the next five days. In total, the first week of my recruitment gained me a total of five extra guild members, only three of them having classes. It was a disappointing result considering how much effort I put into this.

It was more than nothing, and I even gained a few levels from the sidelong exp. Despite my lack of progress on that front, I finished a personal project of mine. The flowing tapestry worth of runic work was completed. It spanned two dozen pages in total, the detail uncanny and precise. I read through my work, and it was a reflection of myself that impressed me.

It was like an autobiography in cipher form, reflecting my principles, my beliefs, and my history all in one flowing inscription.

Ready to reap the benefits from the rune, I channeled my mana into the tapestry of work. Twelve hours of sitting still and doing nothing later, and I finally finished the damn thing. Even with all my willpower, it took a lot out of me to sit still for that long. This damn thing had better of been worth it.

With my grimoire humming with power, I pulled the white, glowing inscription from the book. The pages turned slowly as the cipher markings pulled out of the pages at a slow pace. With the light of the room siphoning into the markings, they folded over me and onto my armor.

The markings wrapped around my upper chest and neck, flowing down my back in two parallel lines. It followed the taper of my back before cascading down the sides of my legs, ending mid-shin. It was a bit too showy for my tastes, but it was a marking of practicality, not a fashion statement.

Out of nowhere, a sharp crack erupted from my hands. I glanced down, finding my grimoire on fire in my hands. I held the book up looking at the red flame. The mana must have overloaded the grimoire, but I smacked it a couple times. Charred bits of paper fell down, the majority of it destroyed outside a few black pages at the end of the grimoire.

I cursed at losing the premade markings, but remaking them wouldn't be too difficult. Well, that would be the case for all of them outside of this new runic marking. Speaking of which, I shoved all my mana into the inscription, wondering what would happen. A few minutes passed, and I noticed no change. I took my time, being patient for results. I trained for an hour, practicing some complex shapes with my gravitational skills. After four hours passed, I opened my status, wondering what was going on.

Dimension-C138(Lvl 8,047)

Strength – 8,125 | Constitution – 14,209| Endurance – 61,291

Dexterity – 3,420 | Willpower – 32,768 | Intelligence – 12,072

Charisma – 2,435 | Luck – 5,516 | Perception – 5,062

Health: 14.01 Million/14.01 Million | Health Regen: 45.16 Million/min or 752,658/sec

Stamina: 9.20 Million/ 9.20 Million | Stamina Regen: 131,133/sec

Living Dimension: 3.04 Trillion/4.30 Trillion

Mass: 1.06 million pounds(481,925 kilos~)

Height: Actual -14'1(4.30 meters) | Current - 14'1

Damage Res - 98.5% | Dimensional Res - 49.25%

Phys Dam Bonus – 1.22 Million% | Damage Bonus – 40%

Event Horizon – 20,000 + (100% of your total health)/min

My stats increased a bit from all the cores I obtained, but outside of that, I didn't notice anything too game-changing. After spending a couple months on this rune, I expected something with a bit more oomph. Disappointed but undeterred, I parsed through my status one last time before noticing something off.

Living Dimension, my ambient level of mana, increased by two-hundredths of a trillion. I know, that sounds like nothing, but gaining that much was actually a substantial difference. It was twenty billion mana, which was a mother-fuckload for most people. It wouldn't just appear out of nowhere.

A bit flabbergasted, I helped two more gialgathens out by giving them armor and setting them up with quests. After doing so, another four hours had passed. I opened my status and found another bump in Living Dimension by the same amount. That was when my eyes widened in shock.

The new rune wasn't improving my stats like my other markings had.

It was siphoning into my next evolution.
