“I will rest now. My party will come soon. They must have food. See to it.”
“Uh—”
Calruz stomped towards the inn. Erin watched him go. She stared at the boulder. Slowly, she edged towards it.
The rock wasn’t warm from the impact. But it was sharp. Erin cut her finger.
“Ow.”
She stared at the blood, then heard a scuffling sound. She looked around and saw Toren next to the battleaxe Calruz had embedded in the earth.
The skeleton was pulling and heaving at the battleaxe stuck in the dirt as hard as it could. The heavy blade didn’t budge.
Erin sighed. She watched the skeleton as it scrabbled for purchase, pushing its feet into the grass as it tried to uproot the weapon.
“That’s just so sad.”
 
——
 
Weak.
Calruz thought the word aloud as he lay in his room and on the two beds Erin had pushed together for him. It was something he had never had to think about.
But she was weak. Pitifully weak. Normally, that was fine. He expected that of Humans. But she—
She was offensively weak. And it was wrong. It bothered Calruz. She should not be so weak. She had no right being so weak. Because there was something in her that demanded strength.
He was thinking about Erin. Or was it Ryoka? Either or. No—the Runner was strong. She was just not a warrior. She had to learn honor. Once she did, she would be a true warrior. If she gained levels, she would be worthy.
But Erin Solstice was different. Even now, Calruz could remember the music. It haunted him. It was wrong. It made him—
Weak? Weaker? It was not the music of his home. There were no pounding drums, no voices raised for battle. It was not strong music. But neither was it weak.
It was unique. And it should be protected. But she was weak. So she had to be stronger.
Calruz shifted in his bed, ignoring the groaning wood. She had to be stronger. If she were to perish, he would regret it. To let an innocent life end because of inaction was the worst strike against his honor. He would teach her.
But of course, it wasn’t Erin that Calruz wanted to teach. But she would be good—practice, yes. She was female. Ryoka was female. He would learn how to deal with Human females. Because at least one—two of them were worthy of respect. For different reasons.
A tanned face appeared in Calruz’s mind, and he saw a quick form dashing away from him. A bird, tethered to the ground. A hunting raptor seeking a home.
Beautiful. Fierce. And she had proper breasts, not like the small-mammaried females he kept running across.
He wondered where she was right now.
