“I don’t help the insane. You and your mad king can go to hell for all I care—”
Gazi didn’t so much move as blur. One moment she was smiling, posture relaxed, talking calmly to Ceria. The next, the edge of her sword was suddenly at Ceria’s throat. And she was no longer smiling.
“I do not suffer insults to my lord’s name.”
It took a second for the two men behind Ceria to react. When they did, Gerial swore and went for his sword and Sostrom reached for his wand. But they both froze as Gazi poked the tip of the razor sharp blade a bit further into Ceria’s neck.
“How inconvenient. And we were doing so well with politeness. But I will have an answer. But first—an apology. I will hear it from you on your knees, half-Elf.”
Ceria was sweating. The blade was not pricking her throat, but lodged into her skin. She was already bleeding. If it went in just another inch—
Perhaps it was because it had been so quick. Gazi hadn’t attracted attention when she’d drawn her sword because she’d moved so fast no one had seen it leave her sheath. But it was hard to ignore a drawn blade at the throat of a half-Elf in the middle of the street.
People began noticing the standoff and panicking in the course of a few moments. Within seconds, the pedestrians cleared out, and the adventurers could hear someone calling the Watch.
They were using a high-pitched whistle, which gave off a shrill whine that was impossible to ignore. Gazi didn’t lower her sword, though one of her smaller eyes rolled around in her head. Neither Gerial nor Sostrom moved either, and Ceria was already on her tiptoes. They knew how fast the Watch would react and didn’t panic.
The filthy girl hiding behind the stall was no seasoned adventurer, however, and she heard the whistle and thought it was for her. She rushed out from behind the shopkeeper’s stall, appearing in the street as her [Invisibility] spell failed.
Ceria was afraid to turn her head, but Sostrom and Gerial saw a blonde head of hair, filthy travelling clothes, pale skin, and the flash of magic. The girl raised an emerald ring, shouted something as she pointed at the adventurers, and then fled.
From her ring, a huge, thick tendril of what looked like spider web shot out, growing larger and spreading out. It flew at the adventurers like a bird.
Gerial and Sostrom had seen the spell, and they were already diving for the ground. The cobwebs struck their backs and stuck to them, instantly anchoring them with tendrils of silk as strong as stone.
Ceria could do nothing but watch as the spider webs flew at her. They wrapped around her, and she fell to the ground, instantly cocooned. Gazi’s blade would have cut her—but the Gazer moved it out of the way just in time.
Gazi eyed the unfurling spider web and flicked her sword twice. The tendrils of webbing fell at her feet, neatly severed.
Gazi tsked in irritation and glanced around as the piercing whine continued.
The girl with the magic was nowhere to be seen. She’d already fled down an alleyway.
“How inconvenient. I suppose I must ask my questions another time.”
She looked down at Ceria, and the half-Gazer’s eyes were hard.
“But make no mistake. I shall see you again and ask more questions. Unless of course I find this Ryoka Griffin first.”
She smiled then, her slight, mysterious smile.
“Farewell.”
Gazi turned and strode off. Her legs were a blur as she disappeared into an alleyway.
“Damnation!”
Gerial cursed as he fought the webs. But they had anchored him to the ground.
“What kind of magical artifact was that? Sostrom, I’m pinned. Can you—?”
“My wand is caught!”
The Human [Mage] cursed and fought to tear his wand free of the webbing. Lying helpless on the ground, Ceria gulped a few times. It didn’t feel like her throat was perforated.
“[Flashfire].”
The thick webbing burned off of Ceria in an instant, giving off thick, billowing clouds of smoke. She yelped and cursed as the fire burned her. But in moments, the webbing was gone.
She stood up and unsheathed her belt dagger. Ceria ran to Gerial and Sostrom, working her blade into the webbing. It stuck.
She pulled the dagger away and pointed at it. A stream of fire burst from her fingers and engulfed the blade, turning it red-hot. Ceria began cutting again, and the webbing fell away.
Gerial yelped as the heated blade burned him, but Ceria yanked him to his feet.
“Complain later. Let’s go! If the Watch catches us—”
All three adventurers exchanged a look. They looked around the street. Sostrom pointed to an alleyway, and they ran as the Watch arrived on the scene, led by an irate Drake with a spear.
 
——
 
“We were under a spell?”
Ceria nodded as she, Sostrom, and Gerial walked back towards the inn. She winced with every step. Her skin was red and burned along her entire body. Only where her enchanted robes had covered her was her skin whole.
Sostrom fished out a potion and handed it to her as they walked. None of the adventurers slowed down, though. The commotion hadn’t spread to the rest of the city, but they had no desire to get on the wrong side of the Watch.
“Yeah. She was casting a [Charm] spell with her eye. It hit both of you the instant you looked at her. I barely blocked it.”
“But she was only looking at us.”
“Gazers can cast spells as easily as looking. A half-Gazer can do the same, it seems.”
“A half-Gazer? Is that what she was?”
Ceria glanced sideways at Gerial. The man was still pale from their encounter—and the magic that had worn off on him.
“You didn’t know she was half-Gazer? Seriously, Gerial?”
“I only know the basics. She’s a Named-rank. And she served the King of Destruction. What more do you need from me?”
He felt that covered everything you needed to ever know about Gazi. Ceria muttered darkly to herself as she rubbed the ointment over her burns.
“There’s a lot more to it than that, Gerial. She’s one of the Seven—and she was famous for killing every single [Spy], [Assassin], [Saboteur], and [Rogue] she ever ran into during his wars. Of all of them, she could be called the scariest. Let’s get something to drink back at the inn. I’ll tell you all about it as soon as we get clear of the area.”
“Tell us now. If she’s after us—”
“Not us. She wants Ryoka, and I don’t know why. Possibly the same reason Magnolia is interested in her, but that’s just a guess. It spells trouble, and we need to let everyone know as soon as possible.”
“Give us the details on Gazi before we get there. How strong is she? Where does she come from?”
This came from Sostrom, and Gerial was so amazed that the [Mage] didn’t know…
But Ceria nodded. They were all on different pages, so she decided to start from the beginning. She took a deep breath as she walked. The pain from her burns was easing, but she was still shaky. But an adventurer was calm or she was dead. So she collected her thoughts and spoke.
“I’ll tell you two from the beginning so we’re not making mistakes in the future. Right. Sostrom, do you know about the desert continent south or maybe south-west of here? Chandrar?” 
“Too basic, Ceria.”
“Okay, okay. It’s huge, but there are several kingdoms to note. Like Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the largest Stitch-folk kingdom in the world. But there’s one that you definitely heard about—even if you don’t know Gazi. Everyone knew that kingdom, once. In one of them sleeps a king…”
 
——
 
“Good evening, Erin.”
Erin blinked at Gazi.
“Oh hi, Gazi. What’s up?”
Gazi smiled at Erin. She didn’t come in, although Erin held the door open for her.
“I won’t trespass here long. I just wished to tell you I will be travelling from this city for a while.”
“Oh?”
“I have business to attend to elsewhere. I just wished to know if you planned on travelling anywhere in the coming weeks.”
Erin blinked. Some people were strange. Gazi appeared on her doorstep and asked—she was staring quite hard at Erin with her huge eye. But maybe that was just how half-Gazers were.
“Nah. I’m not going anywhere in a hurry. Why?”
Gazi studied her with her central eye and then smiled.
“I was just curious. I would greatly enjoy having another meal here at a later date, and I would not wish for you to leave before then.”
Erin laughed.
“No chance of that, I’m afraid.”
“Well then. Until we meet again.”
Gazi stepped back, smiling. Erin stared at her, nonplussed. Gazi turned and paused. Someone was in her way.
“Excuse me.”
Calruz blinked down at Gazi. The large Minotaur had clearly not been intending to stop, preferring perhaps to run Gazi over or let her move aside, but when he saw her face, his hooves stopped dead in their tracks.
The Minotaur’s eyes fixed on Gazi’s large eye, and his eyes widened in recognition. He instantly made room for her to walk past him, giving Gazi a lot of space. She brushed past him with her faint smile.
“Your pardons, warrior.”
Calruz stared at her back as she left. He turned to Erin.
“Do you know her?”
“Sort of. Why?”
Calruz stared at Erin, back at Gazi’s disappearing figure, and shook his head.
“She looked like—it is nothing. You would likely not know her as an Izrilian.”
Erin felt a little insulted at that, but she didn’t correct the Minotaur’s error. He snorted, rubbed at his face, and stomped into the inn, nearly running her over. She hopped back and eyed Calruz. His eyes were bloodshot, and he looked tired.
“Well, can I help you, Mr. Grumpy?”
“Food. Drink. I will have both.”
He didn’t seem to care if she was sick. Erin sighed, walked into her kitchen, and got Calruz a sandwich. He eyed the hefty slices of ham and cheese packed between two flimsy pieces of bread, but devoured the meal without complaint. Then he sat back and eyed her.
Erin stared back. It was quite silent in her inn. Rags had left after losing to Erin several times, and Toren was busy cleaning dishes.
“Um. Nice day, isn’t it? I haven’t gone outside much, but I assume it’s nice.”
Calruz kept staring at her. Erin shifted in her seat. It was very quiet.
“It’s not a bad day when there are no monsters killing you, right?”
He kept staring. She avoided his gaze.
“It’s not raining, at least.”
“You should have fought.”
Erin glanced up at Calruz. The Minotaur was still staring at her with bloodshot eyes.
“Excuse me?”
“You. You should have fought.”
“Fought…who?”
“Last night. You went out to avenge the insect. You did not. But you should have fought.”
Erin opened her mouth and closed it for a second.
“You mean Pawn and Ksmvr. I didn’t go out to fight.”
“You did not.”
Calruz agreed. He shifted in his seat and put his elbows on his knees as he faced her.
“But you should have. It was a matter of honor. If you cared for the one called Pawn, you should have fought to protect him.”
“Um.”
Erin didn’t know what to say. Where had this come from? But Calruz was direct and as blunt as…his giant axe would be if it met her face. Well, not that blunt. She’d met chess players like him.
“I’m sorry, but fighting would have been prett—really stupid. I would have lost and gotten chopped up.”
“That is immaterial.”
“Um. No it’s not. I don’t want to die.”
He snorted at her. Erin almost expected to see steam coming out of his nose.
“Those who believe they will lose before battle begins have already lost.”
“Yeah, but I know I would have lost. That guy you wanted me to fight? Ksmvr? He hit me once, and I was seeing stars for an hour. He’s a warrior. I’m—not.”
“If you are not a warrior, you should become one. It is unbefitting for a female to be alone and not be a warrior.”
This conversation had taken another right-angle turn into weirdness. Erin tried to come up with a response.
“I have a skeleton. For…protection.”
Toren poked his head out of the kitchen. Calruz glanced at him and snorted.
“It is worthless. Weak.”
For some reason, Erin thought Toren looked insulted, but skeletons didn’t have emotions, did they?
“Well—I, uh, I can fight too. If I really have to. I’ve got [Bar Fighting] as a skill, you know.”
Calruz stared blankly at Erin. She blushed.
“I can fight. But I don’t want to pick fights I know I’ll lose. Look, this Ksmvr guy has levels in some kind of warrior class, right? He’d kill me if I fought.”
“There is more to strength than mere levels.”
“Yeah, but I’m not a Minotaur. I don’t have muscle. Or horns for poking people.”
Calruz rolled his eyes towards the roof.
“I refer to Skills.”
“Yeah, like I said, I’ve got one. And, uh, [Lesser Strength]. Forgot that.”
“That is not what I meant. I mean Skills for combat.”
Erin stared at Calruz with such complete incomprehension in her eyes that he seemed taken aback.
“You…do not know?”
“About what? Skills?”
“Activated skills. Combat skills.”
“…Noooooooo.”
He blinked at her. Then Calruz stood up.
“Follow me.”
 
——
 
“Observe. This is my Skill.”
Calruz pointed to the rock he’d found on the ground. It was a good-sized boulder that came up to Erin’s waist. She blinked at it and then at his axe.
“Won’t that break?”
“No.”
Calruz raised the massive battleaxe over his head like a woodcutter about to split a log. But then he spoke. Or rather—roared. Erin jumped as he brought the axe down.
“[Hammer Blow]!”
The axe met the rock, and the next thing Erin knew, Toren had tackled her to the ground. All was confusion as the thunderous impact stopped ringing in her ears and her bones. When Erin got up, she saw the boulder was rubble.
As in—a few split fragments of stone were all that remained at the impact site. The rest of the rock had split and shattered into a million pieces. Erin blinked at the rock and then at Carluz’s axe.
“Oh. That’s what you meant by Skills.”
“Yes. It is my sole Skill.”
“And it’s, uh—wow.”
Erin stared at the boulder.
“Wow. Wow. Uh. Wow.”
Calruz seemed happy that she was impressed. He stuck the battleaxe in the earth and pointed to it.
“That is what you should learn. Skills. If you must be alone, you must not be unprotected. You must fight.”
“But I’m not a warrior. I mean, I don’t have a class—”
Calruz snorted at Erin.
“Immaterial. Classes, levels, these are just additions. What you lack is the soul of the warrior. You must have it. A female must not be alone without the power to defend herself. The singer must not be silenced. You must be stronger.”
He pointed at Erin with a finger twice as wide as her own.
“I have decided this. I will teach you starting tomorrow. There are two days remaining before I go into the Ruins. I will have you learn to at least fight properly until then.”
Erin opened her mouth. She stared at the splintered rock and at Calruz.
“Um. Okay. Thank you.”
He nodded.
