“For a man like yourself to hold such high rank is an insult to Lieutenant Colonels the Empire over.”

Inwardly seething from this blatant insult directed towards his uncle, Hideo grit his teeth and kept his head down, reminding himself that no matter how disrespectful this foul-mouthed Senior might be, Colonel General Nian Zu certainly possessed the rank, ability, and capacity to talk down to a mere Lieutenant Colonel. Not only did this northern ruffian share the same rank as Mentor, Mitsue Juichi had once publicly admitted he would refuse any and all offers to face Situ Nian Zu in single combat, whether it be an official trial or a duel to the death. Not because he feared the man, but because the outcome was a foregone conclusion.

“Mutual destruction, of both combatants and anything within a hundred metre radius, for nothing short of a Divinity would survive should Shooting Star and Mountain Collapsing Stomp meet.”

Those were Mentor’s exact words, spoken before Hideo had even been born, but they were as true now as they were then, though both men were now over a hundred years old and no longer as influential as before. Still, such was the strength possessed by Nian Zu, so Hideo, Hiroshi, and Watanabe could do naught but grit their teeth and bear the humiliation. To make matters worse, not only was Hiroshi here in disguise and unable to use his status as Patriarch of the Mitsue Family to quell Nian Zu’s fury, but Watanabe had brought this scolding upon himself with his idiotic demands. Although the scouts estimated the Defiled force at well over five-hundred thousand and possibly even as high as one million strong, it had yet to be confirmed that their target was Sinuji, so Watanabe’s panicked appeals to have all nearby forces come here to reinforce them was ill-advised at best. While it appeared like they were on a direct route here, and there was history between this Emissary Gen and Falling Rain, that wasn’t enough to abandon all other nearby positions in favour of Sinuji alone.

Thus, without a guarantee of reinforcements arriving in Sinuji before the Defiled would, Watanabe blundered yet again as he requested permission to retreat from Sinuji, hence the Colonel General’s well-deserving scathing rebuke.

Sinuji was not built to hold indefinitely, but it was still a vital part in the Empire’s defences, a forward position meant to buy time for the Imperial Army to muster a proper response. Retreating was not an option, not before laying eyes on the Enemy, and any fool could see that Watanabe’s decisions were motivated by personal well-being rather than the safety of the Empire as a whole. Despite all this, Hideo’s uncle was still unrepentant and even a little indignant before the Colonel General’s rebuke, but at least he held his tongue. Unfortunately, true to his reputation as a dedicated disciplinarian who did things by the rules, Nian Zu was not yet through with his reprimand. “I came here as an observer to ensure justice was served without bias or political agenda, but to think I would uncover such incompetence on the front lines. When you were placed in this posting, you were given a list of contingency plans left in place, many of which were designed and implemented by your predecessor, Colonel Chen Hongji. Where in those contingencies does it say to call all soldiers to Sinuji just because its commander fears for his safety? Where does it say to abandon our position just because the Enemy outnumbers our garrison?” Drawing himself up to full height, the Colonel General spoke with the authority of a true leader of men, one who would brook no insolence. “You will hold this fort until otherwise ordered, or you can accept your failings, relinquish your rank, and let a better soldier take your place. Do so and you will earn a measure of my respect, for it takes a strong man to admit his faults. Otherwise, should your actions prove detrimental to the safety of Sinuji or its defenders, then I will bring disciplinary action against you, and even if the Justicars see fit to let you off, I most certainly will not.”

With that, Nian Zu strode out the command tent without another look, leaving Watanabe fuming with anger and barely able to speak. “He... that... I...” As Watanabe stopped to close his eyes and take a deep breath, Hideo could see his uncle struggling to control his emotions, holding Balance to keep his anger from erupting. Her illusory chin resting on Hideo’s shoulder, Eri-Hime gave a disdainful sniff and an indignant pout as she hugged him from behind, her arms wrapped lightly around his neck and feet dangling more than half a meter off the ground. Whether her displeasure was due to Nian Zu’s disrespect or Watanabe’s incompetence, Hideo wasn’t entirely sure, but her sentiments mirrored his own, as they so often did these days.

‘Uncle’ Watanabe was a disgrace to the Mitsue family name, one who would be dealt with once Hideo took charge, but even then, Nian Zu had no right to disrespect a noble family such as theirs. Did he think the Society would keep him safe? Or his sterling reputation would cow all foes into submission? His arrogance was insufferable, and if Hideo were in Hiroshi’s place, he would never stand idly by while an outsider lectured his subordinates, much less his own cousin. Incompetent as Watanabe might be, he was still the son of Mitsue Juichi. Disrespecting the son was the same as disrespecting the father, so as Patriarch of the Mitsue family, Hiroshi should never have let this insult stand.

Then again, Mentor most likely would’ve laughed and agreed with Nian Zu’s assessment, for he was never one to mince words when criticizing his children. His personal failing, Mentor called it, for he loved his children and grandchildren too much to discipline them harshly, which was why he took Hideo as a disciple instead of someone more closely related. It was also how Hiroshi became Patriarch in the first place, because as much as Mentor loved his children, he knew their limits better than most.

Unfortunately, in this decision, Mentor had erred. Hiroshi lacked the strength and decisiveness a Patriarch truly required, as evidenced by Hideo’s continued existence. After the debacle with Eri-Hime Hiroshi should’ve quietly killed Hideo or at the very least removed him from the public eye until such a time when his death would draw less attention, but instead, Hiroshi put the entire family at risk and clung to the vain hope that his son would pull through and emerge unscathed. While Hideo understood Hiroshi had done it out of love and appreciated the gesture, there was no room for sentiment when leading a noble Family, because even though Hideo defied the odds and recovered to his current state, he still couldn’t condone Hiroshi’s choices, for the risks far outweighed the benefits. Such a man was undeserving of being the Mitsue family Patriarch, and Hideo intended to correct Mentor’s error as such was the duty of a filial disciple.

The day Hideo regained his clarity of mind and accepted Eri-Hime back into his life, the first thing he’d done was mentally sever all ties with his father, for Hiroshi’s crimes against the family were too severe to ever be forgiven. As Mentor himself had demonstrated, even one’s own children were secondary when considering what was best for the family, so how could Hiroshi choose differently?

Ignorant of Hideo’s thoughts, Hiroshi raised a Sound Barrier before turning to Watanabe with a sigh. “Cousin, you should have spoken with me before calling a meeting with Nian Zu. What did you expect him to do? Throw away the Imperial Army’s carefully laid plans just to coddle you as your father would?”

Erupting with fury, Watanabe snarled and poked Hiroshi in the chest. “Yes, my father! You might be Patriarch, but we all know who truly holds the reins in the Mitsue family, and once he hears how you’ve treated me, you’ll be lucky to keep your head, much less your position.”

“Doubtful.” Dry and unconcerned, Hiroshi’s tone spoke volumes to his indifference. “If Uncle Juichi decides I’ve overstepped enough to take my life, then so be it, but you forget why I’m here in the first place: because you, his son, cannot be trusted to keep the family out of Imperial affairs. As for losing my position, well, I’d welcome it. In fact, when all this is done, I think I’ll resign as Patriarch and bring my family away from Central politics and Imperial meddling. I’ve given too much time and effort to the Mitsue family, and in doing so, have neglected my own.” Glancing at Hideo, Hiroshi patted his shoulder and smiled, and Hideo’s chest ached with regret, because he knew the truth.

Hiroshi... Father was giving up power, wealth, and status just so he could bring his wayward son away to recover in peace and solitude. Such was the depths of his love, and Hideo dared fault him for it.

“Hmph.” Unseen by all except Hideo, Eri-Hime stuck her tongue out at Father. “Silly Uncle. He thinks Big Brother Hideo is still sick, but Eri-Hime fixed him.” Nuzzling his neck, she giggled and said, “Because now we’re together as one.”

Ignoring Watanabe’s skepticism just as Hideo ignored Eri-Hime’s commentary, Father waved his cousin aside and said, “Time will reveal my words as truth, but in the meantime, continue doing as I instructed. Placate your Patron and keep Falling Rain alive, lest the Mitsue family face the Legate’s wrath. Better to upset a wolf than enrage a dragon, and even amongst the Scions of the East, Shen ZhenWu is undisputably a dragon among men.”

“But the Defiled army -”

“Will be dealt with by Imperial soldiers. The Enemy is still four days away and reinforcements are already in transit to support Sinuji and wherever else the Enemy seems likely to attack.” Rolling his eyes, Father asked, “Besides, do you truly believe the Great Hero of the Wall would stand idly by and watch soldiers die due to your incompetence? Have you already forgotten how he humiliated you the first day he arrived, taking control of your troops in the midst of battle? Or were you instead relieved when someone showed up to wipe your ass, as Uncle Juichi has done for you all your life?”

Having given up all pretense of cordiality, Hiroshi grabbed his cousin by the throat and pulled him close to stare into the taller man’s eyes. “You doubt I would give up my position of Patriarch, but did you know your father begged me to take this burdensome mantle in the first place? For good reason too. Who in their right mind would want to play nursemaid for a group of middle-aged fops? At least your sisters were married out to other families and are no longer my problem, but you and your brothers are a cancer upon the Mitsue name, one I would have quietly excised long ago if not for my love of Uncle Juichi and unwillingness to cause him pain. As for your children, they’re even worse than you are, and I’ll not have Hideo suffer the same fate as I, a servant to the whims of his lessers. My son deserves better, and even if Uncle Juichi wholly withdraws his support, Hideo will still be a better man than any of his uncles.”

Having said all this, Father released Watanabe and stormed out in a huff, with Hideo following closely on his heels. Hideo had never seen Father let his anger get the best of him like this, but he knew it was largely due to stress and worry. Although he recovered some time ago, Hideo only revealed his improved condition to Father earlier today, and even then, it would take time to mend their broken trust. Overwhelmed by guilt and Father’s unexpected praise and support, Hideo reached for Balance to keep from snivelling like a woman, but Eri-Hime warned him against it. “There’s no need to guard against your emotions, Big Brother. Accept them. Uncle Hiroshi loves you and will do anything for you, you’ve seen this yea?” Giggling girlishly as she peered over Hideo’s shoulder, she added, “We can use this against him.”

Unlike Hideo, it seemed Eri-Hime had no doubts regarding their chosen course of action, though now that he was second guessing himself, he couldn’t quite put his objective into words. Kill Falling Rain and Dastan Zhandos of course, but how was he planning to exact vengeance without incurring the Legate’s wrath? He’d also intended to win Father’s trust back and then... what? Usurp his position? How? Even if Father agreed to it, there’s no way Mentor would have, not yet at least. At twenty-five years old, Hideo was still in his crucial growth phase with no signs of slowing down, so to have him take on so much responsibility as Patriarch of the Mitsue family would only hamper his development as a Martial Warrior, and Mentor would never allow it, not when there were other, better choices around. What’s more, if Hideo fell out with Father over this, then what was keeping Father from revealing Hideo’s dark secret to Mentor?

Knowing all this, what was Eri-Hime... no, what had Hideo intended to do? It all seemed so clear earlier this morning, but now... now he wasn’t so sure.

