So lost in thought, he didn’t even notice he returned to his room, the jailers replaced by Father’s Peak Expert guards once again. Patting his shoulder to reassure him, Father gave Hideo a warm smile followed by a hearty embrace. “My apologies for not discussing my resignation with you beforehand, but it was an impulsive decision made after seeing Watanabe flounder like a fish on land. This is far from his worst blunder, but I can hardly bring myself to care about Uncle Juichi’s sons anymore, not after seeing what my own son has gone through these past few months.” For a brief moment, bitter remorse flashed across Father’s face, gone as quickly as it arrived, but Hideo saw it there as clear as day. It pained Father to hide Eri-Hime’s grisly fate from his closest friend, but even then, he chose to protect his son despite all the risks it entailed. Such was a father’s love, and Hideo returned this love ten-fold.

Then... why had he been considering patricide, even if only for a moment? For what? Power? So long as Mentor still breathed, the Mitsue family belonged to him. Wealth? What wealth? They were a warrior family, not a merchant one, and what wealth they earned was quickly squandered by Watanabe and his brothers. Status? If such was his goal, then the title of Patriarch was more hindrance than boon, for while he would be the public face of the family, all of his time would be spent dealing with the minutiae of running their businesses and managing the accounts instead of training to become stronger and seizing status for himself, just like Mentor had in his younger years, when he was only a little older than Hideo was now.

Yes. Hideo would make his own way, without the Mitsue family backing him.

Except it would take so much time... so much effort... how long before he had the strength to go against a man like the Legate? By then, Falling Rain might have long since died by another’s hand, robbing Hideo of the pleasure...

Shaking his head not only to refuse but also to clear his mind, Hideo hugged his father as tightly as he could. “There’s no need to apologize Father. You’ve always done what’s best for me.” The pieces fell into place, and Hideo asked, “That’s why you accepted the role of Patriarch, isn’t it? So Mentor would take me in? He didn’t accept me because of my exemplary talents, did he?”

Sheepishly laughing at having been caught in a lie, Father shook his head. “Were it not for your talents, Uncle Juichi would never have even considered taking you as his Disciple, but it was not enough to sway him. He loves you as much as any of his direct grandchildren and always has, hence his hands-off approach to your training out of worry he’d spoil you.” Clapping Hideo on the shoulders, Father beamed with pride. “But all is well. With only a modicum of advice and no real supervision, you’ve developed into a fine Martial Warrior and man to be proud of.”

Except this man killed your best friend’s daughter and gorged on her flesh. How can you take pride in that?

Struggling beneath the weight of his guilt, Hideo clung to his father a little longer before feeling confident enough to let go. “Okay,” he said, fixing his father’s wrinkled robes and brushing at the tear-stained patch to dry it. “You’ve not resigned yet, and I suspect there is still much left to do, here and back home. Go and do what you must. I’ll stay here, under guard if need be.”

Though reluctant to leave Hideo unattended, Father obviously felt guilty about agreeing. “The guards are here for your safety,” he said, doing his best to console his son. “To ensure nothing... a precautionary measure, you understand?”

“Yes Father.” Hideo understood too well. He couldn’t be trusted. Not even for a moment. Earlier, he believed his mind clear and his soul untainted, but now he understood how close he’d come to the point of no return. After seeing his father out, Hideo gave his guards an awkward smile which did nothing to lighten their scowls. No matter how Father tried to hide Hideo’s affliction by using unaffiliated jailers to watch him these past weeks, these Peak Experts were no fools and likely already suspected the worst, so there was no chance he’d win them over with a smile. Even though the day had barely begun and noon long in arriving, Hideo retreated back to the safety of his cot and tried not to look at Eri-Hime as she straddled his stomach and fixed him with a recriminating stare. Desperately praying for the hallucination to go away, he did his best to ignore her or even will her out of existence, but alas, this was not to be.

“Big Brother Hi-De-O,” she said with a pout, her eyes wide and teary with anger. “Why are you ignoring Eri-Hime? Why are you lying down instead of coming to train? You need to be strong if you want to kill that stinky savage and his ugly slave.”

Rolling onto his side with his back to the guards, he closed his eyes and raised a Sound Barrier to shut out her voice, but to no avail. Soon after, she appeared in the darkness as a disembodied head, her skin marred, hair in disarray, and the stump of her neck dripping with blood like when he last saw her in life. “You did this Big Brother,” she accused, her tone hurt and accusing, “But Eri-Hime never blamed you. We’re one now, and Eri-Hime just wants to help. Doesn’t Big Brother want to be strong and powerful? Doesn’t he want revenge for what happened to him? Doesn’t he want to show the Legate how wrong he was to choose a tribal savage over a true son of the Empire? Let Eri-Hime back in, let her take away your pain and sorrow.”

“You’re not her,” he thought, too afraid to speak the words even in private. “You’re not Eri-Hime. You’re a lie, a hallucination, a symptom of my madness. I forsake you, foul Demon, and the Father behind you, for I am Mitsue Hideo, and I will be a son worthy of my father’s love.”

“Oh Big Brother Hideo.” With a wry smile that didn’t quite belong on her lips, Eri-Hime’s floating head shook in regret. “Why must you always make things difficult? You wouldn’t accept Eri-Hime in life, but she won’t let you do the same in death.”

Pain lanced through Hideo’s mind and his eyes bolted open in shock, but as his lips parted to scream, he realized he had no control of his body. No, not merely a lack of control, but a lack of sensation as well, for despite being wracked with agony, his body lay utterly still and relaxed, breathing slowly and deeply as if fast asleep. Materializing before him, Eri-Hime grinned a wicked grin, one filled with fiendish malice and childish delight. “You. Are. Mine,” she said, each carefully enunciated word bringing fresh suffering and misery. “This is what you deserve, a punishment to fit your crimes, and Eri-Hime will not let you go.” Leaning over to kiss the tip of his nose, Hideo screamed in his mind as he felt the flesh melt away, even though he could clearly see nothing had happened to his physical form. “Submit,” she crooned, staring deep into his eyes, and for the first time, he noticed how empty her gaze was, the soulless, lifeless gaze of a corpse long dead. “Surrender, and then the pain will stop.”

He was wrong, he understood this now. He was wrong and she was right. This was no Demon, but Eri-Hime herself, the Eri-Hime he’d doted on, the Eri-Hime he’d murdered, and now, the Eri-Hime who’d returned from the Mother’s Embrace to exact vengeance upon her killer. This was his punishment, this pain and suffering well-deserved, so he would endure it until her anger was sated or until the punishment claimed his life.

Because like she said, this was exactly what he deserved.

“I will never surrender,” he said, and then the world went red with welcomed suffering.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sitting up in the cot, Eri-Hime stretched her arms and yawned ever so daintily, emitting a small squeak like she so often did while still alive. Turning around, she was greeted by the confused stares of Big Brother Hideo’s guards, for she’d forgotten she was no longer in her own body, but his. Clearing her throat to hide her embarrassment, she spoke with Big Brother’s voice and said, “I’m hungry.”

She wasn’t, but Big Brother had hardly been eating these past few weeks, so wracked with guilt over her death and unable to hold down the bland, tasteless meals. That wouldn’t do, because his body needed more sustenance if he was to grow big and strong, so she would support him like the dutiful wife she was. She didn’t want to hurt him so, but she couldn’t save him from his self-inflicted penance, but with him out of the way, that left her free to do all the dishonourable and despicable things he thought about, but would never do on his own. While sitting down to eat her unappetizing meal, she stretched Big Brother’s Domain and directed it out of the room past the Sound Barrier set up by the guards. Only then did she split off a portion to Send a message to his Uncle Watanabe, and with luck, the guards would believe there were soldiers outside Sending messages to one another, because no one could know it was Big Brother Hideo manipulating events from the shadows.

He loved his family so, but Eri-Hime cared not for the Mitsue Family’s survival. After all, Uncle Hiroshi didn’t hesitate to cover up Big Brother’s heinous crime, and her poor father still suffered without knowing if she was dead or alive. What would happen next was exactly what the Mitsue family deserved, exactly what Uncle Hiroshi deserved, and even though the loss of his family would hurt Big Brother Hideo, he would get over it in time.

For Eri-Hime loved him more than life itself. Yes... She did. She’d wanted nothing more than to be his wife. That’s all she ever talked about when she was alive, and this was what she would want.

Right?

...Of course. Yes. This was exactly what Eri-Hime would want. What I would want. To support Big Brother Hideo, and do what he himself would not.

Chapter Meme
