Tala nodded, having kept Flow in proper position for another clash. “Then, by all means, let’s continue. You work to wind that down, and I’ll keep you and your body occupied. Agreed?”

“Agreed.” Lea’s weapon lashed out again, once more in the form of a sword.

* * *

It had taken Lea three hours to figure out what was going on and bring it to a halt.

Apparently, the physical response within Lea’s automaton form was controlled in a somewhat similar way to Tala’s gravity magics. That meant that Lea’s mental model for the thing she felt that she was fighting had to no longer apply for her ‘fight’ response to end.

Once they realized that, Tala dismissed her armor and the heightened state faded from her daughter.

Things had been muddled quite a bit by the berserker boon from Lea’s soul added on top.

That had been what truly jump started the fight systems within Lea. Apparently, taking a hit so hard that it seemed to cause a measurable change in one’s power source was considered of great import to automata.

Who could have known?

-Anyone with a brain, who bothered to think about it.-

Did you?

-...There’s no need to ask silly questions.-

The boon, itself, in turn had stayed active because her soul could tell that her body could maintain it and still felt threatened and in need of protection at an unconscious level.

It all made sense once they figured it out, but before then, it had been maddeningly frustrating to suss out.

At the moment, Lea was in her purple tank for the first time since her ‘birth,’ as the automated systems within it checked her over, top to bottom.

Rane stood beside Tala, with Terry perched on her shoulder, all three regarding the unconscious Lea. “Our daughter has a long road ahead of her.”

Tala regarded Rane for a moment before nodding. “Indeed. I’m glad that she has you to help her learn about what she is capable of in this area.”

He smiled. “Me too.” He then glanced her way. “You handled it really well, today.”

She huffed. “I shouldn’t have hit her that hard at the start.”

He grunted. “Maybe, but I think it was good to test the edges of things earlier rather than later. Besides, it was more of a throw than a strike. The fact that the sky got in the way isn’t really your fault.”

Tala chuckled. “I could have moved her, or prevented the impact. I simply didn’t consider it until after she hit… Still, maybe you’re right.”

“I think I am.” He grinned. “Flow’s sparring sheath made this possible. I’d never really considered Force as limited, but maybe I should get such a sheath myself.”

Tala looked down at where the weapon hung at her belt, the sheath showing noticeable wear. “I was warned that it wouldn’t be able to contain too much power. It seems that we’re pushing up against the edges of that. I’m glad that I ordered a new, more durable one, but I’m not sure it will be sufficient. As to getting Force one? Maybe, but it seems like something that will only be useful very rarely.”

“Yeah, it might be worth contacting the craftsman about your sheath, and you’re likely right that getting a sheath for Force may be a bit unnecessary. Even so, I think it’s worth looking into.”

“That’s fair.” She leaned against him, and he kissed the top of her head before they both turned back toward their daughter, staying close to one another.

After a moment’s silence, Rane appended, “After she’s awake once more.”

Tala nodded. “After she’s awake again, yeah.”

Terry trilled in agreement, and the three settled in to wait.
