In a way, it felt like familiar territory. Run through trenches, keep your head low. Do not give a target. Viv jumped across the clearing on the circle, Marruk offering a protective barrier. Arthur flew low over their head on her quest for more legs. She easily dodged a web and roasted something out of sight. Viv returned her attention to the situation and activated the shield. Acid flew over her head in yellow strands that look disturbingly like actual spit. Viv was about to use annihilation when Arthur swerved and flapped her wings. A wave of gray mana pushed the liquid away. She torched another spitter, then another before diving with a furious roar. When she resurfaced, her claws were white with ichor.

So yeah, Viv had kind of forgotten she had a juvenile dragon.

“Come on, Marruk, can’t let the bird do all the work. Blast!”

Viv’s concerns were completely dashed when most of the surrounding palissade on the Deadshield side collapsed. Spiders of all sizes crashed in a thick wave against the houses, and walls blocking their way. Dozens of the fat fuckers crawled everywhere. Viv was too angry to be disgusted.

“Ok you shits. Let’s dance.”

The witch drew every reserve she had from her dagger and threw spears after nets after blights on everything and anything that approached. The villagers lit fresh resin, creating a circle of flames against the smaller specimens. As for Marruk, she was everywhere. Any time a creature drew too close for comfort, she greeted it with a shield to the face. Despite all their efforts. They were pushed back and the circle under their control kept growing smaller.

“Why won’t you just DIE?” A voice screamed from outside the village.

As always, impatient.

A thin, skeletal shape burst out from the webbing near the palissade and moved out. The spiders all stopped and turned their heads, sensing the danger, but it was too late.

Viv smiled.

It was Solfis’ time.

***

The golem’s frame topped the palissade, one sharp claw digging in the tempered wood as if it were sand. The flimsy bone frame immediately captured an ocean of data. Light, temperature, sound, magic, and heat measurements raced through finely engraved runes by mana telemetry, all absorbed by the powerful processing machine that was its core.

The artificial mind that made up most of Solfis analyzed and dealt with all of it at a speed that no humans could match, several processes working in parallel to make sense of the ocean of data available. Solfis saw all, it knew all in that brief instant when it was still falling onto the battlefield. It recognized seventeen major hostiles. It calculated the probable trajectories, altered its projected path and calculated again in a recursive loop. It assessed the terrain and adjusted the plan based on hidden webs, slippery rocks, and future corpses. Solfis was limited by its medium, the shoddily made bone frame, but hidden in the golden core was the immortal defender of Harrak. A thousand scenarios were picked and dismissed in favor of better ones until only the best possible path remained. Solfis would move to Octas’ puppet, then kill it. The Herald was but one creature in the long list of foolish meatbags that thought themselves unbeatable.

Now, it had arrived.

//PRIMARY TARGET ACQUIRED

//OVERDRIVE MODE ENGAGED

//COMMENCING COMBAT OPERATIONS

Unnecessary processes shut down to prioritize battle efficiency. Solfis hit the ground and pushed at a perfect angle. It sprinted forward, body almost horizontal. Now that new information merely trickled in compared to the previous burst, the artificial soul at the bottom of the pit embraced the only constant in its existence since the fall of Harrak.

The pleasure that came with carnage.

It let go.

Solfis skipped at a perfect distance, its next step carrying a leg claw through the closest spider’s cerebellum. In one graceful rotation, it planted its other leg in the ground and pivoted, sending the twitching carcass into another hostile’s legs. The pivot ended in a small skip to another spider’s skull. The fragile thing crumpled under the claw with a pleasant squelsh. Solfis reveled in it. The golem understood the dance of death with the composed appreciation of the true aesthete. It dove under five coordinated silk throws. It dodged left, letting another spider shield it from the herald’s next red spike. It used the victim as a springboard. The spider died and Solfis was aloft in the air, in compact form. Another spike missed its shoulder by a breath, just as predicted. An optimal maneuver. The optimal maneuver.

Perfection in motion.

‘Energy levels dropping.’

One second.

The golem absorbed more data, refining its choices and making the most minute adjustments. It landed foot first on the last siege tarantula’s head. It sprinted along its back and raked a claw through the chitinous armor, cleaving the beast in two. It was close to the queen now, very close. The creature opened its wide maw. A ball of silk formed over it. Natural casting.

The Herald glared at Solfis. Three spikes were ready. Their plan was simple, yet efficient. Octas always went for those. Octas was practical. She was also single-minded where Solfis was many-minded. The golem perceived the buildup of black mana behind it, and it trusted the heir to aim true, to outperform her weaker fleshbag kin. The golem sprinted forward, then jumped through the web of invisible silk protecting the two foes, twisting and twirling. Impossible acrobaties through the eye of a needle.

The herald smiled. The only way to defeat one such as Solfis was to close every path, because if one was still open, the golem would find it. There was no escaping the silk. If it launched. Lost in its glee, the demigod failed to recognize the incoming danger.

A dark mana bolt hissed through the air, then through layers upon layers of mana-charged webbing. The heir’s artillery spell was as aggressive and decisive as she was. A piece of the void tore contemptuously through the herald’s hastily raised shields like a javelin through wet paper. All of Solfis’ receptors screamed that its current body could not absorb it, that it would rend its hastily drawn defenses, but it did not fear. Solfis cared only for the meaning infused within. The desire to protect it, a golem. A desire to win. The destructive message spoke to it on a fundamental level. With a last spin, Solfis landed in front of the herald just as the bolt landed in the queen’s face, left side, in its largest eye. It pierced through the head with a hiss and a terrible finality. The large creature tilted forward, dead before it could hit the ground.

Solfis jumped on the herald.

Two seconds

The representative of Octas burnt with mana, its power multiplying at an alarming rate. The body whined and creaked under the onslaught and the mind that used to be Leria broke, her soul torn apart by the cataclysmic power flooding her tainted flesh. Muscle bubbled and ripped. Long black legs erupted from its back and flew forward, still foaming with transparent ichor. Solfis grabbed and pulled and twisted mid-air once again. One of them cracked his leg, another, his torso. Damage was unavoidable, but so was Solfis. Its claws reached for the unholy ball of chitinous cancer where the brain ought to be. For all her powers, Octas was still bound by form.

Two deceptively human arms locked on his own with divine speed. The horrid bulb looked up and the golem stared into the black, multifaceted orbs of a goddess.

‘damage detected’

CAUGHT.

The creature communicated in the language of the dragons. Concepts only, no sounds. Efficient.

//Am I?

YOU

RECOGNIZE

LOST ENTITY

REMNANT

//So are you.

Solfis pulled its head back and headbutted the goddess’ vessel.

There was a crack, a high-pitched scream of suffering. The golem pushed its arms forward and grabbed the herald’s shoulder between the chitinous joints. Its target only realized the danger too late.

Solfis pulled. It tore the arms off the demigod.

It felt fantastic.

Claws free. Swipe. Head torn off. Vile liquid burst up in a geyser. The distended body spasmed, innumerable legs contracting with so many clicks. It fell forward with the ponderous weight of a shipwreck. Solfis dropped elegantly down, landing on a single claw, flawless from beginning to finish.

//PRIMARY TARGET TERMINATED.

//ENDING COMBAT OPERATIONS.

Three seconds.

‘Energy levels critical’

‘Emergency shutdown recommended’

‘Retrieval team notified’

Solfis ignored the prompts. It was an old code, an obsolete thing it could not quite erase. Times had changed. She had found it. She needed it to thrive. It would return. It did so now, ignoring the last fleeing forest spiders now free of the dark goddess’ influence.

Behind him, the heiress dropped from the palissade, falling with a curse after sticking both feet on netting. It did little to stop the angry joy filling her soul.

“Woo! Prenez ça! Woo. That’s right, run away you eight-legged freaks! Yeah! Yeaaaaaaah!”

“Squee!”

//Mission accomplished, Your Grace.

“Amazing work as always.”

“We have won!” The primitive militiaman yelled. “Oh thank you, thank you!”

Solfis ran calculations on its remaining options, now that its energy was almost depleted. It did not like its chances. It calculated the likelihood of a charging station while the mostly useless fleshbags honored and flattered the heiress. At least, they realized her worth and status.

“We will throw a great feast!”

A ping alerted Solfis of the woman’s intense reaction. Her eyes widened slightly. Solfis knew she had reached a natural conclusion as to the nature of the food that would be offered.

“How soon can we leave?” She asked.

Octas was but a footstep in the heiress’ path, as it should be. Solfis’ calculations seldom worked when it came to her fate, but there were two things he was absolutely confident about. One, she would survive to bring the new Harrak to glory. Two… she would unlock that genocidal maniac skill yet.

It would just take more ‘spiders’.

//Soon, Your Grace.

//Very soon.
