Viv grumbled against darkness and whispered a request to Arthur. The dragonette was still a bit miffed about having her wings stuck and had taken to burning nets with gusto. The witch settled to wait there on the straw and mud surface, ignoring the spiders she knew were crawling around. Marruk had to stay down on account of being too heavy.

//New net detected.

//Your Grace, I believe that the Herald is already within the walls.

“But camouflaged?”

//Yes.

//I can spot her approximate position.

//Once close, I should be able to detect her.

“Alright. We light up and you get her?”

//Mission parameters accepted.

“I’ll just wait until the siege thing gets close enough.”

//I am ready.

Slowly, Viv’s eyes acclimated to the darkness. It was not a city night, with lamps and lights at regular intervals, no. It was not even wilderness night with the unblemished sea of stars casting their meek radiance upon the earth. It was darker than the inside of a raven’s ass. Viv could barely see shapes. A naked clown could have twerked half a meter away from her face and the only way she could have guessed would have been that it smelled funny. Thankfully, siege tarantulas weighed tons and even the greatest care could not completely erase the thuds of beam-sized legs landing on the turf. Somewhere, there was a crack. All sounds stopped.

Viv wasn’t sure what had broken but it didn’t matter. It took a full minute before the humongous beast started moving again.

Meaning that it was inside.

Slowly, carefully, Viv started to spool mana around her, taking great care to keep her own core under control. She could not afford to let the Herald know of her position.

//The camouflage the Herald uses goes both ways.

//You are doing fine, Your Grace.

Viv breathed in and out slowly, adding more runes to her artillery spell including a few she had trained for but never used in a combat situation. Time to see if it would work. She was almost done when the thud grew close and another thing broke.

Fire?

Viv grabbed the connection and sent a garbled ‘wait’ to Arthur. She was almost there. Just a ‘bind’ rune and… there it was.

Light it up.

“Squee!”

Fire roared, catching the resin laid in the trenches and starting a ring of flames around the circle she had prepared but not used so far. The angry glow burst out to reveal dark shapes silhouetted against the black of the night. One of them was very, very large.

//COMMENCING COMBAT OPERATIONS.

“Aimed blast!” Viv roared.

The spell launched with a hiss, as usual, but this time the pull she had on the projectile was much stronger. It was also much more difficult to control, but not impossible. Mana flooded her conduits and mind in silent encouragement, guiding her. The ball arced over the tarantula’s armored head.

“Down.”

Viv recinforced the meaning by pulling with everything she had, even gesturing with two fingers for added focus. The spell plunged.

It caught the tarantula in the neck.

Now, the neck itself was decently armored but it was mostly armored front and not up, something Viv had assumed from the fact that the tarantula still managed to move with the equivalent of tank plating glued to its fleshy bits. Magic could only carry monsters so far before Sir Isaac Newton came knocking. Except for dragons. In any case, the artillery did what it was wont to do. There was a crack. There was a ghastly sound of disintegrating muscles and nerves, and the large beast collapsed on itself, legs twitching horrifyingly with every pulse of dying synapses.

Viv breathed out.

Then she remembered the other shapes. Below her, Marruk was fighting a nimble specimen while villagers shot arrow after arrow at attackers. Viv had no idea why the fuck they had left the sanctuary of the fortress and it was too late to stop them. She jumped down and used a burst of light provided by Arthur to slay a giant horror before it could plant its fangs in a lean man fighting with two stone hatchets. Suddenly, most of the spiders left to a corner of the city. Had they won?

A rumble shook the ground. Projectiles impacted wood out of sight. Viv had no idea what was going on, but it sounded bad.

Solfis returned as everyone headed back inside.

//Target lost.

//The Herald managed to escape.

“Wow, that is surprising.”

//Yes, the Herald expected me.

//Scenario analysis would show that she underestimated my combat abilities and response time.

//I did wound her and I also killed another siege tarantula.

//I also eliminated a number of acid spitters she had positioned across the perimeter.

//Unfortunately, this frame is not adapted for our current task.

//My energy reserves are currently at 32% as well.

//My apologies for this failure.

“That’s low.”

//Our enemy cannot assess how long it will take for me to be nonfunctional.

//I also assess that the Herald has burnt through a lot of the forest spiders’ nest resources already.

//As foreseen, she is impatient.

Viv nodded, eager to go back to bed. It was good that the Herald was burning through resources instead of letting the humans stew in their own fear.

***

The reason why the villagers had left became obvious as soon as she entered the fortified retreat, however. The spiders had breached it. Two families had been slaughtered after one of the outside walls had come down. The corpse of some sort of burrowing beast was stuck halfway through the wall, head pulverized by a mace impact. With the five men killed in the most recent battle, it brought the number of dead to twenty-four. That was a lot in a village of a hundred and thirty souls. And that was just two days.

Solfis identified that one of tonight’s victims was filled with Noxites. Those specific spiders crawled in the ear canals of humans while they slept and planted eggs, resulting in a ghastly death. It was burnt immediately.

A kid had been dragged out sometime during the battle. Twenty-five.

Now, Viv knew that war was hell and that she had, in her time, resorted to some dubious means to stop the Enorian invasion. Some might mention war crimes and The Hague and capital punishment but those people lived on earth so fuck them. She had limits. She had rules. Noncombatants were not targets. Prisoners had to be treated humanely. Lastly, no kids. No fucking kids.

Octas was going out of her way to be an absolute piece of shit.

It annoyed Viv.

Unfortunately, her annoyance had no outlet yet. She had to be more patient than the Herald. Force her into attacking too soon.

It was made more difficult at dawn, just as Viv had finally managed to fall asleep again. This time, she was in her armor and going to the door only took a few seconds.

“What is it this time?” she asked.

“Magic, milady.” The alderman said.

“Viviaaaaaaane.”

Most specifically, noise magic from Leria, the newest herald of a goddess known for abhorring civilization and all its trappings. It included speech.

“How was she even selected?”

//Octas goes through heralds quite quickly.

//We are fortunate that this one is rather incapable.

“Yeah.”

//Because we are incapable ourselves.

Viv stopped and looked near the door.

“Are you still pissed you did not manage to get her?”

//Yet.

//This operation is not over yet.

//I have been delayed before.

//But never averted.

“Alright, alright, let’s see what this is about. Ahem.”

Viv drew a few glyphs and opened the door a little, feeling no danger. Outside, there was only the earth wall of the villager-made fortification

“What do you want, you spider-faced twat vessel?”

Thus did diplomacy start.

“So kind of you to answer. And I was afraid you were snubbing me from your armpit-smelling, lice-infested shitpile.”

//The villagers do not have lice.

//This is propaganda.

“Oh, good,” Viv whispered, then louder “Did you come here for a reason or is this talk as pointless as your existence?”

“Oh, the little witchling thinks she has a sharp tongue. I always found it funny when the mud-diggers you are protecting bad-mouthed me behind my back, thinking themselves smart. Subtle as a gravid sow, they are. Just like my lying husband. Well, ex-husband I suppose. You know, I was one bitter old woman away from being married to a duke. I’d like to believe that I would have been a good wife, but instead the gods put me down, and down, and down. My path ended in a mud house in the ass end of the Koltisian marches, the shittiest region in all of Enoria. So, I am going to use any means at my disposal to climb back up. I think I will revisit that duchy after all.”

“You’re not in control. Octas is using you.”

“I am still me, little witch.”

“Your god only destroys. Even if you win, you’ll rule over a court of bone and ash.”

“And that’s entirely fine with me. After all, power can be its own reward and I always wanted to… leave a mark on the kingdom. It will just have to be a scar.”

Viv cursed in her mind the foolishness of the woman, and wondered if it was just her being an idiot or a failure of the school system or something. Even the youngest teen on earth got bashed over the head with metaphors and cautionary tales on Faustian bargains they had to refuse. O’Brother. The Devil’s advocate. Aladdin. Well, maybe not the last one. How could people just accept deals from dark gods? It made no sense to her.

Although, to be fair, she was lucky and gifted with magical might.

Well, whatever.

“You are slaughtering innocents in that pursuit. Don’t you have a minimum of decency?”

“You are a gifted mage so you can do what you wish but some of us mundane women have to make do with less savory options. Oh, and yes, thank you for reminding me. I care not about your insufferable bumpkins and their hypocritical masters, but perhaps you do? My servant brought me one of those crotch beastlings they pump out year-in year-out. What’s your name, shitstain? I never bothered to learn.”

A cry sounded through the noise spell and Viv felt a chill crawl down her spine. behind her, a family cried. The mother’s screams were particularly deafening.

Arthur trotted by Viv’s side and squealed. That was… very irritating.

“You’re fucking cheap,” Viv said.

“Just like my master said, why avoid the old methods if they work? You care, I don’t. So I do it. Tewan is the name, good boy. So, I propose this bargain. I will let every last peasant leave if you surrender yourself to me.”

There was silence in the back of the room, but it didn’t last long.

“No,” the alderman said, “don’t. We will not succumb to darkness.”

“Our faith is strong!” Another said.

Mutters came, most of them praying to the gods for deliverance. Even the soon-to-be-bereaved mother just yelled please. She didn’t ask for Viv’s death.

Viv would have said no anyway.

But it didn’t make what would follow any less painful.

“No response? Let’s ask Tewan what he thinks about it. Tewan?”

A scream of pain.

“Oops, used too much strength here. Weak paths are so fragile.”

“You know I’ll refuse. If you want to indulge in torture like a fucking degenerate, just do it,” Viv spat.

“Oh, but I will. But I enjoy it more with you knowing you could have stopped it.”

//It’s a trap, Your Grace.

“Where is the signal coming from? Can you tell?”

//Allow me to scout.

Viv waited the agonizing seconds it took for Solfis to return. The Herald was just going on with her session. Viv thought she had a strong stomach but even she felt disgusted by the display. It was just evil for its own sake.

//There are no hostiles within the village, Your Grace.

//There are, however, seven acid spitters poised to bombard the magic circle.

//Acid spit is notoriously good against shield constructs, because it is heavy and adhesive.

“Can you kill them?”

//I believe I can kill four by running on top of the barricade, but the rest will fall back inside sticky webs.

“If you think it’s worth the risk and expenditure, do it.”

//Acknowledged.

//Mission parameters accepted.

//COMMENCING COMBAT OPERATIONS.

Solfis scurried out in his disturbing gait. It proved to be a long wait because of the screams of the dying kid. Fuck.

Viv knew it had worked when the Herald cursed and the cries abruptly cut. Behind her, the mother wailed.

“You little snake. Enough of games. I will find you soon.”

Viv breathed a sigh of relief, knowing that at least the child’s sufferings had ended. It didn’t help the villagers behind her. Solfis’ return was liberating. It meant she could act.

//The Herald is mobilizing all she has left.

//Including her last siege tarantula and the queen of the nest.

“How bad is it?”

//The queen can cast spells.

“Huh.”

//Rejoice Your Grace, this is our best option.

“Will you tell me the odds?”

//Never.

“Damn.”

Viv made sure she had everything. Marruk and a few of the villagers piled up behind. Viv knew they would be useless but she didn’t have the heart to tell them off. Even Ardek’s arrow barely slowed down the creatures. Ah well.

“Can we use the circle?”

//It seems to be the best option despite the presence of acid spitters.

“I swear it feels like the circle is more a bait than an actual protection at this point.”

//Baits also have their use.

//Speaking of which, I will go directly for the Herald.

//After spiders have entered the perimeter.

//I will hide near the barricade first.

“Will you be ok energy-wise?”

//Yes.

//It will be very short.

“We’re ready to go?”

//Yes.

“Then let’s.”

***

