“[Return] is just as much Soul Magic as it is Time Magic, and since this level of self-magic is so dangerous, most people never achieve this. It is along the same difficulty as learning [Teleport].

“You managed to brute force Remaking [Teleport] because you have Ophiel, and he could cast that magic for you, but using [Return] requires a soul and a world line attached to that soul. Ophiel has no soul of his own right now; all he has is yours. You could always try some Wizardry there, but I would caution against that. Ophiel would likely gain a soul if you tried that with him, and thus you would lose him as a summon.

“If you tried this with Yggdrasil, you would run into that Divine Seal on your soul, and likely just hurt yourself.

“Skipping forward in time is similarly difficult, if you want to actually skip forward in time. For example: if you don’t want to physically sleep, but you know you need to, you could [Onward] and find yourself waking up from a good night’s sleep.

“If you, however, just want to go forward in time, you can [Slow] yourself and watch the world go by.

“As a side effect, for those who are not immortal, [Slow]ing oneself is a great way to extend one’s lifespan, though you do miss out on life; it’s a tradeoff. As another note, using [Haste] too much could add virtual years to every decade of regular use, and for non-immortals, this is a problem.

“It shouldn’t be a problem for you, as you are immortal now.

“And then we have the Wizard-level Time Magics. There are a few well-known examples of this, and we can focus on those for now.

“The first is moving around through time, outside of your worldline guide. [Return]ing to an event a thousand years ago, or [Onward]ing to a thousand years in the future, without actually experiencing that intervening time.

“The second is moving around through time, cheaply. I list cheaper costs and outside-one’s-worldline separately, because they are, though there is a lot of overlap.

“The third is ignoring paradoxes. The classic example of a paradox is that, if you move through time and kill your mother before you are born, then this will unmake you. A proper Paradox Wizard will be able to make themselves exist outside of time, and thus they are immune to this effect. Normal mages can be made paradox proof but it is not an easy process, though it does get easier with more time and more paradox proofing. This type of Time Wizardry is why the ‘Paradox-Creation-Destruction’ split has ‘Paradox’ as part of that trio of Wizard types. Paradoxing is a major part of Wizardry.

“You’re already far on your way to being paradox proof.

“And then there is the fourth magic, the skill that you are actually most familiar with: ‘Making things always be that way’, otherwise known as Establishing. There is no codified magic for this ability, as there is with [Return] or [Onward], or the idea of Paradoxing, for Establishing is strictly a Wizard thing.

“There are a few Establishing-type frameworks present inside Spatial Magics, but that’s like saying a full-grown tree is the same as a splinter from that tree; they’re not the same at all.

“You’ve Established things many times already, from the rune of [Renew] to making your Elemental Body be Elemental Benevolence instead of Elemental Light, to Ophiel and Yggdrasil gaining mana even though they shouldn’t have mana. You’ve even done some Establishing for your apprentice, and that guildmaster’s progeny, with their own [Familiar]s.

“And those are the basic magics of Time.” Phagar finished with, “If you would accept a suggestion, I recommend that you stick to the smaller applications of Time Magic. You are very good at Establishing, but Establishing is rather dangerous and I wouldn’t recommend you go doing that too much. You might find yourself suddenly having been born a woman all this time, or other such oddities, and that gets messy.”

Phagar stopped talking.

And Erick had about a thousand thoughts about all of that.

Erick rapidly said, “Thank you for explaining everything all at once. I can go through all that on my own time, later…” But there were still a fuck-ton of questions! Erick asked the first one to come to mind, “Ophiel and Yggdrasil are Paradoxes? How?”

“Both of your [Familiar]s will become real people one day.” Phagar said, “Much like how you used [Death’s Approach] to steal from your own future mana generation, you have Established the same sort of power inside Ophiel and Yggdrasil. You have made [Familiar]s which you absolutely plan on becoming real one day, and… Everything sort of came about from that fact.” He added, “As another note: That’s how [Death’s Approach] works... Somewhat. Go ahead and figure that one out when you want to, as well; it’s okay to steal from your own future, and to help other people take from their own, but don’t try taking other people’s future generation. Rozeta doesn’t like that.”

“Okay—” Erick filed that away for later, then he latched onto the other massive thing Phagar had said. “There’s Elemental Time!? But first: How does that relate to space— Or Spatial Magic! You already know of the connection between space and time because of the gravity thing you just mentioned— All this time! You already knew?! About space and time? I mean— I knew! But no one else on Veird ever thinks to connect the two—” Erick paused. “No… People know. You know. Some of your clergy knows?”

“Some of my people know,” Phagar nodded, saying, “Most of my clergy accepts the Time Magic I give them and they’re never able to replicate those spells because they lack both my clearance, and the knowledge of how Time and space are connected. Mostly, though, I have a lock on Time Magic, because Time Magic is among the most dangerous magics out there. Wizards are usually able to exempt themselves from that restriction though, either by proclivity or chance. You already have, many times already.”

“If there is Elemental Time…” Erick narrowed his eyes, deep in thought. “Is there Elemental Space— No. There’s Spatial Magic but that’s just deciding how things had happened in the past to alter the present. Spatial Magic is Time Magic, but in a different way?” He frowned, and looked to Phagar. “Is it?”

Phagar leaned back, saying, “I see Spatial Magic more as ‘I changed this thing in the past without actually going into the past’, sort of thing. It’s not really Establishing, but… It could be. It’s one of the easiest applications of Establishing, and a lot of people are more than capable of this small Wizardry, when it’s used in small ways.

“But really… Spatial Magic, to me, is more an application of Force Magic. You are physically shifting the past rather than actually going to the past yourself… But then again, it’s not really ‘forceful’ Force magic at all.” Phagar hummed. “Spatial Magic is an application of Elemental Force, and Elemental Time, yes, but most people don’t even try to use Elemental Time in anything that they do. Elemental Time likes to hide and work without being known. Pure Time Magic has little to no Elemental Force, and very rarely Forces anything into any sort of position.”

So that was a large bit of philosophy.

Erick would probably be digesting those small words for a very, very long time.

“… Back to gravity and time.” Erick asked, “Those two should be more related than what I’ve seen? I’ve never seen a Slowed thing look heavier? … I have also never cast the spell upon myself.”

He should [Slowing Bolt] himself and see how it made him feel.

He probably should have done that long before now.

“Well… That’s complicated.” Phagar said, “There are quite a few knock-on effects to stepping outside of one’s normal experience of time, either going faster or slower. It’s harder to breathe, mainly, unless you shift time in a space beyond your soul boundary, and even then you can’t sustain such an effect for too long unless you bring along a [Cleanse] to clean up the bad air you produce. Go way too fast and you can’t even see, for light might not reach your body fast enough, though you can overcome this with a good mana sense. Also, you’ve never actually experienced your [Slowing Bolt] yourself. Give it a try when we’re done.”

“… But increasing one’s weight with a [Gravity Ward] doesn’t cause the Slow effect, does it?”

“It does, actually. But it’s very minor. Hardly noticeable.” Phagar said,

Erick felt himself falling deep into his memories of highschool physics lessons and youtube videos, trying to remember everything he could. He came upon his next question fast enough, but he knew he had no idea what he was talking about. Maybe he’d figure it out later. He began, “As an effective Light Elemental, when using my former [Greater Lightwalk], I effectively weighed nothing. Why was I not under a constant [Haste] effect?” Erick added, “Or a [Slow] effect? Subjective time moves slower the faster you go, right?”

“Elemental Time is rather sticky. It gets everywhere, even where you think it wouldn’t be, because everywhere is subject to time in some capacity.” Phagar smiled, saying, “Time was one of the ancient functions of gods and Wizards in the Old Cosmology; to establish a time zone and maintain everything in that zone under the same experience.” Phagar said, “But on a smaller, more direct scale, there’s a lot of Time Magic in everything everyone does on Veird. Spatial Magic is a big one; those spells cause small paradoxes every time someone travels a thousand kilometers in less time than it takes for reality to recognize the change. For a brief moment, when looking at the whole of the world, a person is effectively in two places at once. Gravity Magic is another thing filled with Time Magic. There’s an Elemental Time aspect to Fate Magic, too, and your Elemental Benevolence has a lot of Time-like aspects.” He said, “But the simpler, more correct reason why using [Greater Lightwalk] does not instantly send you to the far, far future —because going as fast as light would make your subjective time slow down a lot— is because Elemental Light is not physical light.”

“… Oh. That’s… Duh—” Erick moved on. “I’m still having trouble understanding that ‘Elemental Time’ is a thing. I thought Time Magic would just be another working of Elemental Force, like Spatial Magic? Why have I not heard of Elemental Time before?”

Phagar nodded. “Because I and my clergy go around and ensure that time remains uncompromised.”

“… Ah.” Erick recalled Rozeta talking about how those first years of Veird in the New Cosmology were lost to them because someone had fucked them all to hell with Time Magic. “This is a big deal, isn’t it; my learning of Time Magic. Here I was thinking I would use this magic to simply get eight easy hours of sleep into a ten minute period, every night, but it’s a lot bigger than that. It’s almost funny how much… bigger it is than I thought it would be.”

Erick was trying to defuse his sudden worry with humor.

It wasn’t working for him, or for Phagar.

But Phagar was far past worry; he was at acceptance, as he always seemed to be. This made sense now that Erick thought of it. Phagar was simply everywhere he needed to be, when he needed to be there, and if he wasn’t there, then he wasn’t needed.

Phagar softly said, “I would not help you learn this magic if I did not trust you. But I trust you, Erick. I trusted you all the way back when I offered you my Championship so long ago, and that trust has never been misplaced, but now I can actually speak openly about these deeper secrets of this world. You’ve proven yourself, Erick, and not just to me. To everyone. Beyond any doubt, you have proven yourself, and you deserve all the good things that your proof brings you. Time Magic is just one of the smaller, larger ways to prove that we see you, and we’re glad you’re here.”

“Ahh…” Erick felt a bit weird accepting such a compliment from Phagar, somewhat because this whole conversation was sort of like looking himself in a mirror and giving himself a pep talk, but also because for him, his own morality had never been in doubt— Well. That was simply untrue. He had had a lot of trouble back in the beginning, when he fell to Veird, when he was learning that he actually needed to kill certain things to make life better for everyone. That seemed like so, so long ago, though. But that set Erick to wondering… He asked, “You offered me that Championship because I was going to End a lot of bad things, eh?”

Phagar smiled. “Not everything is set in adamantium, but some things are more solid than others. I knew you would be an asset, but I wasn’t quite sure how. I was prepared to offer my Championship to help achieve those goals, but a single [Death’s Approach] seemed to be all the help you needed.” Phagar said, “As for all the help you might need next, if all you want is eight hours of easy sleep inside a 10 minute time period, then I am glad to help in that way, too.

“I suggest [Haste] and [Ward] with a large enough Variable Cost Variable Effect for the sleeping spell. [Ward] is necessary for that, because you don’t want to tear up your bed with a casual pillow flip in the middle of the night, or something like that.

“I suggest you make another VCVE personal [Haste] spell, in order to have a version for use in battle.” Phagar said, “That one will take some getting used to so that you don’t accidentally break bones trying to do something as simple as open a door… Though with your Constitution and [Unbreakable Form] you would have to be moving quite fast in order to harm yourself.”

“Heh… Thank you, Phagar.”

“Anytime! And I mean that most literally.” Phagar said, “When you feel like doing something besides just sleeping in, let me know, and we can move on to the next lessons.”

Phagar stood up from his chair and vanished into the fractal world beyond, like a thousand reflections of Erick himself moving just out of frame.

Erick’s mana sense contracted, no longer supported by the divine.

Time resumed.

And wow! Had that been a talk!

Erick’s mind whirred as he just sat there in his empty warehouse, thinking about what he was going to do next, and about everything Phagar had told him of Elemental Time, and Time Magic, and Paradox Wizardry.

And then he called in Ophiel to help pull some sounds out of some magic.

- - - -

[Slowing Bolt] was Erick’s only spell that he could point to and say, ‘this is made with Elemental Time’.

