He had made the spell long ago, back when he was at Tenebrae’s floating castle, but he certainly hadn’t intended to use Elemental Time at all. He had just listened to the mana and worked how the mana—

Ah. Okay.

Yeah.

He was probably using some Elemental Time, rather unintentionally.

Whatever the case, ‘Slow’ was a normal enough status effect that one could pull out of Mana Altering for Ice, if one listened well enough. Status effects weren’t very useful magics, though, for everything resisted them. He had used [Slowing Bolt] a bit in Songli, but mostly, he hadn’t gotten into too many fights where such a spell would both actually work, and be the correct spell for the moment. Thus, his only real ‘Elemental Time’ spell languished, going unnoticed for what it was until today.

Slowing Bolt, instant, long range, 15 mana + Variable

An ethereal bolt of mist inexorably strikes a target, inflicting Slow for a Variable length of time.

Very high Variable costs may inflict Stop.

He had made this spell with Elemental Mercy and the Slow that he had plucked out of Elemental Ice, producing a sound that was clear and soft, and very much non-damaging. [Slowing Bolt] didn’t do any damage at all because Erick had managed to fully extract Slow from Elemental Ice.

In light of this new information, Erick went through that whole process again to try and figure out what he had done.

Holding out a hand, Erick channeled mana through [Slowing Bolt].

Out came the sound of stillness. He handed that sound off to Ophiel.

He channeled Elemental Mercy. This was the sound of softness.

The sound of Elemental Ice was one of hardness and solidity.

So taking hardness and adding softness… Somehow gave the sound of Elemental Time?

Or at least the ‘slowing’ version of Elemental Time.

Erick went back to [Slowing Bolt] and began channeling more and more mana through the spell. A white plume of power radiated cold from his palm and a chill raced up his arm like he had stuck his hand in an arctic wind. It wasn’t enough to hear Time, or anything close to what could be that. Erick channeled harder. The plume turned to a fountain of frozen intent. Ice frosted off of Erick’s fingertips, forming mana icicles radiating away from the plume—

Ah. Too cold. He stopped.

He shook out his hand, returning warmth to his body as he scattered flakes of frost to the ground. Those flakes were made of magic, though, so they soon vanished back into the manasphere like so much broken spellwork.

“Still sounds like stillness,” Erick said to himself, and to Ophiel and Yggdrasil. “Let’s move on to the next spell; it’s a gravity one that I also made a while ago.”

Gravity Strainer, instant, medium range, 65 mana, 1 hour duration.

Conjure a large, freely moldable space where specific objects turn near-weightless and fall to a designated point.

When stretched with a specific intent that was already baked into the basic spell, [Ward] could be transformed into [Gravity Strainer]. Variations of this spell was what sewermasters the world over (mostly under) used to easily and automatically pluck rads out of sewer system settling tanks, while [Cleanse]ing at the same time, obviously. Proper sewer management was about not getting shit everywhere.

And apparently Gravity Magic was a bit of Time Magic, too?

“Like, duh,” Erick mostly said to himself. “Gravity Magic and Time Magic obviously go together very well. Spatial Magic is just… An offshoot of Time and Force Magic.” He mumbled, “Lotta Time Magic in everything… Which is different from how Benevolence can appear like everything else? Not sure. One is the mortar that holds everything together, the other is differently colored bricks… Maybe.”

Benevolence and Time seemed like polar opposites of one another… Maybe? Yes. According to the way Phagar had explained it, they were different. Erick moved past the brief, yet terrifying idea that he had somehow made Elemental Benevolence that could work like Elemental Time…

Well. Actually. He did, a bit, do exactly that. What with the ‘Establishing’, and all that. Bricks of Benevolence could work just like the mortar of Elemental Time, if worked correctly… Sure?

Sure.

Anyway.

Erick channeled [Gravity Strainer] in one hand.

A solid white glow emanated from his palm and rapidly formed a ball of light around his hand. Tendrils of light radiated from his palm to the edge of the sphere. It sounded like…

Erick wasn’t sure.

It made a weird sound but it was too close to the ‘delineation sound’ that [Ward] usually made. He handed the sound of [Gravity Ward] off to an Ophiel, and then he channeled plain [Ward]. It was the sound of delineation. Simple stuff; Erick had heard that spellwork a thousand times before—

“Ah!” Erick had it. “It’s like this.”

Erick channeled Mana Altering in his other hand, while flickering through several other spells in his other hand. As he went through his known spells he handed them off to Ophiel—

He heard it.

In between [Gravity Strainer] minus [Ward], [Teleport] minus Elemental Force, [Slowing Bolt] minus Mercy, it was there. There was some in [Teleport] and [Blink]. It was even in [Swift Movement]. Erick spent a good four minutes with that Health Cost ability, trying to understand what he was hearing through all the Health…

There was a sound.

Erick had heard it many times before, but he had never touched upon that sound. Not directly. He had never needed to, he supposed. He didn’t really need to right now, either, but with this, he could actually get a good night’s sleep—

Erick laughed a little. “I sound like Poi! I’m going to have to make that joke to him.”

In his right hand, Erick channeled the sound of Elemental Time. It was a wispy sort of sound; barely there and slipping sideways with every attempt to truly hear the magic. But when Erick relaxed, and when he opened his mana sense, he could hear it. The sound of Phagar approaching. The sound of a beginning made out of an End, while also being The End.

It was, a little bit, the sound made by Raidu Terror Peaks when his soul was being ripped apart by the soul sunderer for his crimes against Songli. It was the sound of mana, flowing.

A river that was not a river at all.

Back and forth.

Here and there.

Hot and cold, but only because both ‘hot’ and ‘cold’ were variations of the singular phenomenon of temperature, and one’s place already on the scale.

Elemental Time was in the manasphere, everywhere Erick looked. It was what allowed people to look backward in time, and also forward. Elemental Time had always been here. Erick just didn’t have the Sight to know the river for what it truly was, until now.

Instinctively, Erick knew he could fall into that river and swim with or against the current, but now that he saw the water, he knew he could also pluck some of that out and drink deep. Falling in would be terrifying, and so Erick left that task for another day. For now, he grabbed some Time, and had a sip—

Everything slowed.

Ophiel’s wings moved slowly, taking multiple seconds for a single flap. Beyond the windows, the leaves of Yggdrasil waved in a molasses wind. Erick moved a little, and instantly noticed he was as light as a feather. Breathing was hard. Air moved through his lungs like a cold fog that only warmed when it was inside of him. He exhaled that fog, forming minuscule swirls in the stillness of the warehouse air.

Erick took a step forward and watched as Ophiels’ eyes lagged behind him by less than half a second. But there had been a lag. Noticeable, too.

Some familiar blue boxes appeared.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Haste, here you go:

Haste 1, instant, self, 50 mana

Double your subjective time. Lasts 1 minute.

Erick smiled.

And then he started playing around with moving in this new, odd sort of way. Jumping up and down, and moving left to right, Erick held out his hands as though he was riding in a car, feeling the wind on his palm. He knifed the air apart as he moved quicker than he ever had before; even when using [Hunter’s Instincts].

It was kinda fun to play around with new magic!

A lot of fun, actually. Erick laughed, and he heard himself laugh through Ophiel’s senses, like he was a hyperactive chipmunk chortling to a staccato beat. It was so freaky, he laughed more.

Magic was wonderful!

Eventually, Erick decided he had had enough fun playing around, and he needed the tenth level of this spell, so he power leveled it. Strangely enough, casting [Haste] upon himself multiple times did not multiply the effect.

Haste X, instant, self, 50 mana

Double your subjective time. Lasts 10 minutes.

He could make that into a [10 hours in 10 minutes] spell, for sure. Might take multiple attempts, though. But first, Erick returned to the sound of Elemental Time, and went in the other direction.

Erick sipped the river of time in a different sort of way.

Everything turned heavy as a weight descended upon him and all of his movements seemed sluggish, while the entire rest of the world seemed fast. Ophiels twittered in super high notes as they danced around, playing with Erick like hyperactive birds, and he laughed like a rumbling mountain; ponderous and slow—

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Slow, here you go:

Slow 1, instant, self, 50 mana

Halve your subjective time. Lasts 1 minute.

Erick did not like this spell at all, though it would be useful to have in order to use against others. He power leveled [Slow], and then he canceled it.

Slow X, instant, self, 50 mana

Halve your subjective time. Lasts 10 minutes.

He had only just started with Time Magic, but Erick felt he had a good beginner’s grasp of the subject. It seemed easy enough to turn either of these spells into magic that would affect others, though Erick suspected that such a spell would be subject to the normal Health-based denials, since this sort of magic was status effect magic. Erick tested out [Haste] and [Force Bolt] to see if he was correct.

Erick conjured a [Fairy Item] dummy made with a thin cover of ice and warm water insides. His theory was that it should melt and break apart rather fast when Hasted, though he had never done this before; He could only guess. Today was full of fun little magics!

Anyway.

Erick pointed at the dummy and joined [Haste] with [Force Bolt].

A dot of flowing white magic struck the dummy—

Like a video sped up to double speed, a crack formed on the bottom of the dummy and rapidly spread up and out, but the water inside was already rapidly flowing out of the hole in the bottom—

The whole conjuring vanished into so much scattered white glows as a blue box appeared.

Haste Other, instant, close range, 55 mana

Attempt to double the subjective time of a target for 10 minutes.

Erick hummed. ‘Attempt to double’ was rather appropriate for a ‘Health negates this’ sort of spell. It certainly didn’t read as well as [Slowing Bolt] read, though; ‘inflicting Slow for a Variable length of time’ seemed like a higher application of this working, for sure.

His [Haste Other] was probably a rather shitty version.

Erick moved on.

Now if he was correct, the combination of [Ward] and [Haste] would create a fast space inside where time flowed twice as fast. Such a simple working would likely not be good enough for a sleeping spell, but Erick had to start somewhere, and to make sure the magic actually worked like he thought it would.

Would there be a problem at the edge, and an insurmountable barrier to cross? Or would there just be some gentle shearing upon trying to cross from normal time to fast time? Erick guessed the latter.

Tomorrow, he could try for a Variable Cost Variable Effect working.

But for now, Erick linked [Haste] to [Ward], and cast the spell.

For five meters in every direction, the air shifted. A faint white wind formed a translucent barrier all around. Inside, the world seemed fine. Outside, though, Erick watched the molasses wind play in Yggdrasil’s canopy, gently moving the green sea above like so many slow waves.

An expected blue box appeared.

Hasted Area, instant, close range, 100 mana

Double the subjective time in a large area for 10 minutes. Crossing the barrier might break the spell.

Erick didn’t even get to test out the second part of that blue box, for while Yggdrasil was here and experiencing a bit of dissonance, Ophiel was having an experience. The little guy was both inside and outside of the area of effect. The Ophiel on Erick’s shoulder yelped while the little guys outside of the barrier crowed, their voices seeming unnaturally low and weird. The Ophiel outside instantly moved inward, crossing the barrier, breaking the spell with all the ease of popping a soap bubble.

Time resumed as normal, and Ophiel began chirping about how everything had been really weird for a moment! Why had everything been weird!

Erick smiled and patted the little guy, telling him, “It was just some Time Magic. No need to worry.”

Yggdrasil spoke, “It was weird, father.”

Erick looked at the big guy’s [Scry] eye, asking, “Did I catch you in the effect?”

“No. But I felt you move weird. Time Magic is weird.”

“Weird bad? Or weird weird?”

“Weird weird.”

Erick smiled a little, saying, “Weird weird is fine. If it turns into weird bad, let me know, okay?”

“I will!”

Ophiel chirped.

Erick told Ophiel, “You’re probably going to have to get used to that, but I can pull all of you inside while I sleep if it’s too much trouble.”

Ophiel chirped again, accepting that safety came before comfort.

Erick smiled, and then he broke the [Hasted Area] spell the Script had created in his soul, for this wasn’t exactly what he wanted out of that magic.

He also watched his core while he broke the spell. A familiar sensation of crumbling took hold inside of him and his core gained a minuscule crack that was barely more than mar of shadow inside the perfect, Benevolent sphere beside his heart. To be sure he was seeing it correctly, Erick broke apart [Haste Other], too—

And up, there was another small mar, on the other side of his core.

Well then! He could probably fix that damage with a bit of accreting, and maybe he could even try making [Haste Other] again.

Erick began accreting like he usually did; holding his aura open, sealing out all other mana as he flooded his aura with his own mana, and then cycling that mana back inside. Sparks of lightning gathered on his aura’s exterior surface and flowed inward, into his body and into his core. Gradually, slowly, white lightning filled in the mar inside his core—

