Erick started the day with an omelet, pancakes, and bacon, eaten on the porch as he watched the sunrise over Candlepoint. He had made his own breakfast as he sometimes did, while making more for Poi, Kiri, and Teressa, for when they eventually woke. Those were under preservation [Ward]s, for now.

He was alone, save for Ophiel and Yggdrasil, and a daily report from Zolan.

It was yesterday’s end of day summary, but it was more than that. Later in the report were the goals for today and the goals for the following weeks and months. There were even some long standing goals for the far future listed on page 3, the last page. ‘Open new worlds’ was the final entry. These reports were a nice way to start the day.

Zolan had made reports like this for Kirginatharp, and it was all too easy for Zolan to start making the same sorts of reports for Erick. Erick didn’t even have to request such reports. Zolan was simply good enough to know that reports needed to be made.

Today’s report seemed special, though. Almost all of the news was simply reports on what the other overseers were working on; current projects and the like, and how far along they were. Only two entries in the beginning had any sort of bearing on Erick’s plans for today.

Volaro had finally wrapped up the story of the meat thieves, putting to rest the problems with the disappearing livestock from last month. It had taken a while for Burhendurur and Slip to uncover and locate the 21 people who had been poaching from Candlepoint, but only a few days to capture them. Those people had been in confinement for a little while, and now, their trial was done.

Apparently, those 21 people were one great big extended family and their father had been exiled from the Wasteland for political issues, and the kids were the people who stole the livestock. They were terrified of the Wizard, but they felt they had no other choice but to steal to survive, and then they accidentally overcompensated in their theft. ‘They didn’t mean to steal that much, they swore!’ That was their story, anyway.

The outcome of the trial was an offer to join the ranch and work for the food they wanted, or exile, with the threat that being caught again was execution. It was a rather lenient sentence, all things considered.

Volaro’s official decree was that the defendants were lying about something, but that didn’t matter. If they proved to be good citizens, then he didn’t care if they lied (and Erick didn’t either, for he had been consulted before the final decree came down). Most of the chickens and cows were back with Daetroi, anyway, and in a few days, Daetroi would get 19 more people to work at the ranch.

Actually getting the livestock back didn’t mean much besides how it looked, politically, to protect Candlepoint from even the smallest of threats.

Erick had ‘solved’ the problem of not having enough meat options in town weeks ago; he had made Zolan figure it out. Zolan’s solution was to put Daetroi in contact with his own Wasteland contacts in order to buy more animals. The ranch had gotten more livestock within two days after that. And now, with 19 more people working under him, Daetroi and the other ranchers were no longer overworked.

Those 19 people hadn’t even stepped on the ranch yet, but Daetroi was glad to get them.

There was also a bit of news about the dungeons.

Mox’s Stone dungeon and Air dungeon were both starting to produce slimes, while the Water dungeon was ramping up to capacity. The Fire dungeon was still waiting for its first slimes, but that was normal. Fire dungeons took a long time to get going. The Light dungeon was on hold, because of Erick’s previous agreement with Kirginatharp to not do another Light dungeon for 10 years, but they had broken ground on the Shadow dungeon four nights ago. The shadelings Mox had hired for that area were working well. There was still no overt sign of Melemizargo down in those dark, damp tunnels, but he was still very much there, of course. Melemizargo was inside every darkened corner of every part of Veird. The Shadow dungeon might produce some good slimes in a month.

The Benevolence dungeon was a tower and a pit (since no one was quite sure which was best) situated to the north of the Gate District. It was ready for Erick’s experimentation, but he had been too busy to do much of that recently.

And that was it for current events!

A single report on the meat thieves, and a notice that Mox was ready for Erick to try his hand at making a Benevolence dungeon. Everything else was long term, from Zolan speaking with Songli to get a hookup to the Gate Network, to overtures of the same to Spur, to Aisha working on turning iron into viable magical metal, and other things.

Even the Benevolence dungeon wasn’t that much of a priority, because esoteric dungeons almost never worked. Erick was still going to try, though.

And so, since Erick didn’t have any necessary meetings, or anything like that…

What to do?

Time Magic with Phagar? A Boon from Rozeta? Or working on Benevolence? Or even making himself into more of a Wizard, with forceful accretion? He could even have a talk on dragons with Burhendurur and/or Volaro.

Erick smiled as he considered his possibilities—

Poi joined Erick on the porch, carrying his own breakfast.

“Morning, Poi!” Erick happily asked, “Any news I should know about?”

“Nothing I can think of.” Poi asked, “What do you want to do today?”

Smiling again, Erick asked himself, “What do I want to do today? I think…”

Erick took a look around his kingdom.

… And it was doing alright. People were already out at the market. Goods were coming through the Stratagold Gates, stopping at customs, and then moving either to parts unknown, or moving through a Gate that led across the Gate Road, to the Wayfarer’s Guildhouse. The people at that guildhouse then moved goods to buyers all across the Crystal Forest. Some of that stuff was even headed toward Spur.

Stuff was headed out, but stuff was also headed in, appearing in the center of the Wayfarer’s guildhouse and then moving through a Gate to the other side of the Gate Road, to Stratagold’s property, where it moved through more Gates and into the Underworld.

Stuff was also headed through Gates that led to Candlepoint, where another Wayfarer’s office had set up down the road from Market Street. People in Candlepoint were buying goods from the lands around Stratagold, while the lands around Stratagold were buying all sorts of foods that grew best up here, or fabrics from the spidery, or meat from the ranch.

The world was moving through Erick’s [Gate]s, and it was good.

It wasn’t much right now, but the volume was increasing daily.

Surprisingly enough, Erick had only ever had to recast a [Gate] into one of the Gates once, and only because someone was doing some very drunk shipping and rammed into the side of the Gate with a million ton shipment of pure white marble, multiple times. The first ramming didn’t budge the physical Gate at all, but the second ramming actually managed to move the glowing white square and break the [Gate] on the inside.

Aside from that recast, which took all of ten minutes to do, Erick’s Gate Network was working well. House Benevolence was doing pretty good, too. All of Erick’s overseers were doing their jobs, and they were doing them well. This whole organization ran like a clunky old car trying to turn over in cold weather, but everyone was warming up to each other, and Burhendurur (and even Goldie, in three instances) had stopped every single fight between House members before they got too bad.

This whole thing worked.

It worked well.

Zolan had given Erick his first month financial review just the other week. Even though Erick was bleeding money like a strung-up cow in order to pay everyone’s wages and otherwise, he could survive another 2 years of paying for everything all on his own.

If he did a monster hunt for 2 days, once a year, and transferred all those rads to Mage Bank, House Benevolence could survive indefinitely. According to some very lucrative offers, handed to Zolan in the strictest of confidences, if Erick started selling [Reincarnation]s then he would never have to worry about the House or the Gate Network turning a profit, ever.

But having a Gate Network was going to be very profitable, eventually. Just needed about 6 more months to really get there. As people started to realize that Erick wasn’t scary at all, and that yes, he really was allied with all the major powers of the world, the amount of money coming out of the Gate Network would break even with how much money Erick was spending on the House.

When he opened the next land, though, the profit would come rolling in like an avalanche.

If he got the next Gate set up and running, anyway.

Songli was dragging their heels. Tentatively, Erick might be opening up [Gate]s over there in the next week, but Zolan was still in talks with Holorulo regarding specifics. Might be a week! Might be a month. Or two or three. Erick had tried to be a part of those talks, but he scared off the people on Holorulo’s side of the table. Which was… What it was. Erick didn’t even know the people who Holorulo had sent, so it didn’t matter to him to miss that meeting, which was odd.

Holorulo hadn’t sent anyone whom Erick had known.

At the current rate, Erick might be opening up a [Gate] to Spur, next.

But that was for later! For today, Erick had nothing to do, except for what he wanted to do.

Erick smiled to himself, saying, “I want to have more days like this.”

- - - -

“So it’s time to learn some Time Magic,” Erick said, sitting alone in the middle of his Gate warehouse.

He had temporarily banished Poi and Teressa off to the house to do something else, and though Kiri desperately wanted to be let in on this lesson, she, too, was banished. Well… ‘Banished’ was a harsh word. Erick had asked them to stay away, and so they did.

But it was definitely a command, no matter the wording.

And now it was time to meet a god.

Erick sat back in a chair, relaxing his mind wide, his mana sense flowing outward—

And suddenly the world was a fractal stained glass window, and nothing moved anywhere, except for everything still moving all at once. Erick knew, somehow, that he was outside time, and yet… He wasn’t outside of time at all.

Another Erick stepped out of that fractal mess, though he was clearly the God of The End and Time.

“Hello, Phagar,” Erick said. “It took me a while to get around to this. I hope the offer still stands.”

With an easy voice that was exactly Erick’s, but different since it came from someone else, Phagar said, “Of course the offer still stands.” Phagar sat down in a chair that mirrored Erick’s, saying, “It’s better to approach this after settling many of your mortal worries, anyway. Any idea where you would like to start?”

For all his godly nature, Phagar was quite pleasant and calm to be around; an easy talker and listener.

But Erick wasn’t sure where to begin, so he offered, “At the beginning?”

Phagar gave a small smile, saying, “The Beginning and the End are often connected in Time Magic, so that’s the first thing to learn. But as for something useful? There are a large handful of concepts you should try to understand before you start putting those concepts together, so I’ll go through the whole thing once.

“There are easy Time Magics. There are difficult Time Magics.

“Then, there are Wizard-level Time Magics, which fall outside of the realm of simple categorization, because for some people they are easy, and for some they are hard.

“But before all that, there is Elemental Time, upon which all Time Magic is based. Yes, there is an Elemental Time. That is the first secret. Perhaps the largest.

“Easy magics are relegated to moderately speeding up or slowing down your own passage of time, or the passage of time for another. [Haste], for oneself. [Slow], as you have experienced with your own Ice Magic experiments. [Stop], as with your Ice Magic again.

“[Haste] requires clearance from me to learn, but since you have that, you could try and likely achieve that spellwork as soon as I explain how it works.

“[Haste] is achieved through the realization that Time is a parameter like gravity. It is not achieved through Elemental Fire, or anything like that. Instead, if you look at Elemental Ice, and you see how Slow and Stop work, then you should be able to understand Elemental Time, and through the grasping of that idea, you can achieve [Haste].

“Coincidentally, if you happen to speed up yourself, you will find that everything feels lighter. If you start moving really fast, then you could break other things just by touching them, but you will likely have broken yourself, if you go too fast. Making another version of [Haste] with some stabilization magics to remove that foible and allow yourself to properly move once again. Or, you could just use an Elemental Body while [Haste]d, and avoid that trouble altogether.

“Conversely, if you [Slow] someone, they will experience a heaviness.

“And while Slowing your enemies is always useful, [Haste] is not nearly as useful as a normal mage would think, for the Script Second still applies even in faster time, so unless one has a fair bit of experience with manual casting, or if they’re good with a sword and that sword can withstand accelerated time, then [Haste] is somewhat useless for most mages.

“This caveat doesn’t apply to you, but it must still be said.

“As a note: All Time Magic is magic cast upon a contained area. Never try to cast Time Magic upon ‘the area outside of myself’, or something equally nonsensical. It would be like trying to cast a magic without having enough mana to cast that magic; it would fail.

“Or, you could die. Either or, really.

“Moving on.

“Difficult Time Magics are applications of Elemental Time upon oneself in such a way as to travel one’s soul and mind through one’s own world line into the past. This application of Time Magic is completely removed from the physical world of Particle Magic, so slowness and gravity and speed don’t matter.

“An example of this magic is known as [Return].

“This is what I did for you at Last Shadow’s Feast, returning you to your subjective world of 5 minutes ago. I say ‘subjective world’, because you were already under heavy time dilation while inside the Shadow’s Feast barrier, so those ‘five minutes’ of time I gave you were in fact only 15 real seconds.

“15 real seconds costs a lot. The reasons are manifold, from the cost of paradoxes to the stress on the soul that needs to be compensated for, to many other smaller factors. The cost of [Return] increases rapidly for anything over 10 seconds.

