Six.

She woke on Day 24 to the [Foundation Stone] signature pointing south.

Not pulling -- the signature did not pull. It hummed. It had been humming since Day 18, steady and omnidirectional, the stone's four-thousand-year-old identity expressed as a low vibration in the substrate. But this morning, in the minute before the dawn vibration began, something was different. A quality she could not name at first, sitting with her palms on the warm limestone in the grey pre-dawn. The vibration was the same amplitude, the same frequency, the same continuous signal she had felt every morning since the pulse. But it had an emphasis. A lean. South-southeast, like a compass needle settling into alignment with something she could not see.

The dawn vibration came. Thirty seconds. Full duration, the crystal lattice singing its thermal greeting. She felt it through her palms, through the bond, through the substrate beneath her crossed legs. When it faded, the directional quality remained.

She sat with it. South-southeast. The same bearing the compass had registered on Day 19. The same bearing the Eye had been watching since Day 6. The stone was not commanding. It was orienting, the way a geological layer orients -- lying along a formation, pointing with its spine at the next place the same rock surfaces.

She opened her journal and wrote:

*Day 24. Six. Stone signature directional this morning -- SSE emphasis. First time. Same bearing as compass and Eye. Going to look.*

She closed the journal and sat with the stone a moment longer, feeling the directional hum resolve against her awareness the way a compass bearing resolved against the instrument's face: not suddenly, not dramatically, but with the quiet authority of a thing that had always been true and was only now being noticed.

---

She told them at the fire.

"There is something south-southeast of here. The compass has been registering it since Day 19. The Eye has been watching it since Day 6. And this morning the stone --" She paused. She did not know how to describe what the stone had done. "The stone pointed."

Theron looked at her over his tea. The look was the internal adjustment she had learned to read as Theron processing something that changed his map.

"Hearthstone," he said.

"You have mentioned it."

"My grandmother said there was a settlement south. Bigger than this one. On the river, where the Greenwater bends around a limestone shelf." He drank. "She did not call it Hearthstone. That was the old name -- the name from when people still lived there. She called it the ruin on the ridge."

"How far?"

"She said two days. But she was old when she told me, and her two days was not my two days." He considered. "If you move fast, you might see it in one. The ridge is maybe three or four hours south, and from there you can see the river valley."

Brecca had stopped eating. She was holding a piece of flatbread in one hand, frozen mid-tear. "You have been here twenty-four days," she said, "and you have not looked south."

Wren heard the incredulity. It was fair.

"I was looking at the stone."

"For twenty-four days."

"The stone was doing things."

Brecca tore the flatbread. The tear was fast and precise. "And now the stone is pointing south. So you are going south. Today."

"Today," Wren said. She had not decided this until she said it. The word arrived in her mouth already shaped, the way a compass bearing arrives in the instrument already resolved.

"I will stay," Theron said. This was not a question. He looked at the gathering hall, at the drainage channel, at the walls Brecca was repointing. "Someone should be here."

Hadley was rolling his bedroll. He had been rolling his bedroll for the entire conversation, a slow, methodical process that Wren suspected was his way of not looking at anyone while they talked. He looked up.

"I should make the Millhaven run," he said. "We need supplies. Four people eat more than two." He paused. The pause had the quality of something rehearsed but not yet voiced. "And Maret should know what has happened here. The pulse. The drainage. Brecca." He tied the bedroll. "Someone should tell her."

Wren looked at Hadley. She had not considered Maret Osk in days -- the cartographer who had surveyed Varethen before her, who had left before the stone woke. The woman who had drawn maps of a place she could not bond with.

"Invite her," she said. "Tell her about the stone."

Hadley nodded. The nod was the decisive kind, the kind that ended a conversation by agreeing with it completely. He would leave this morning. He would walk north, two days to Millhaven, and carry news of a settlement that was becoming something no one had planned.

Brecca stood. She picked up her trowel from beside the fire. She looked at Wren.

"How far is the ridge?"

"Three or four hours. Theron said."

"I am coming."

Wren looked at her. Brecca was not asking permission. She was announcing a fact. Her trowel was in her hand because she had been on her way to the gathering hall's west face when Wren had redirected the morning, and the trowel was still there because Brecca carried her tools the way Wren carried her compass.

"You do not have to --"

"You are going to look at something south. I have been here for three days and I have looked at walls." Brecca put the trowel down. The putting-down was deliberate -- a choice, not a discarding. "I want to see what is out there."

Wren thought about saying no. She thought about the scout being a solo expedition, the Wayfinder alone in new terrain, the class operating in its natural mode. She thought about how much easier it would be without Brecca's voice and Brecca's pace and Brecca's questions.

She thought about her mother's letter: *I hope you let them need you without turning it into a project.*

"Bring water," Wren said. "And wear your heavy boots. I do not know the terrain."

---

They left the settlement through the ghost-elm perimeter at mid-morning, moving south.

The perimeter was a defined ring -- Wren had surveyed it in her first week, the ghost-elms spaced at regular intervals, their bark-shimmer forming a continuous ward line around the settlement's margin. South of the ring, the forest changed. The canopy was denser, the undergrowth thicker, the young-growth trees replaced by older trunks spaced wider apart. The Thornwild here had not been walked through. Not by Wren. Not by Theron. Possibly not by anyone in three centuries.

Wren held the compass in her left hand and felt the bearing steady: south-southeast, the same pull she had noted on Day 19 and ignored for five days. The pull was stronger here, outside the perimeter. Not dramatically -- the distance had not changed. But the settlement's dense resonance no longer competed for the compass's attention, and the signal resolved with the clarity of a note heard in silence.

The limestone formation was close to the surface. She could feel it through her boots -- the [Foundation Stone] signature running through the substrate like a thread, fainter than at the settlement but present, detectable. The same geological layer the threshold stone sat on, extending south beneath the forest floor. She stopped and crouched and pressed her palm to the earth and felt the vibration arrive through the soil: distant, attenuated, but continuous. A thread connecting the threshold stone to whatever was ahead.

"What are you doing?" Brecca said.

"Listening."

"To the ground."

"The stone formation extends south. I can feel the signature in it." She stood and wiped her palm on her trousers. "The same rock. Running under us."

Brecca crouched where Wren had crouched. She pressed her hand flat against the earth. She held it there for four seconds. "There is something," she said. "Like a vibration in a floor when someone is walking in the room below." She looked up. "Is that what you feel?"

"Fainter. But yes."

Brecca stood and brushed dirt from her knees and looked south with an expression that was not curiosity and not excitement but something between -- the expression of someone discovering that the ground she was walking on was talking. "Okay," she said. "That is new."

They walked.

---

The ghost-elms thinned after a mile, then vanished entirely for a stretch of dense oak and birch, the forest closing around them in the particular way old-growth forest closed -- not threatening, but insistent. The canopy was thirty meters above, the light arriving in shafts that moved with the wind, and the ground was layered with decades of leaf-litter that compressed silently under their boots.

Brecca walked fast. This was her baseline -- Wren had not yet seen Brecca move slowly unless she was assessing a wall. She walked through the forest the way she had walked into the settlement clearing: forward, with purpose, as if she had somewhere to be and was already late. But she was not graceless. She moved around roots and stones with the physical awareness of someone whose body was a precision instrument, reading the terrain through her feet the way she read walls through her hands.

Wren held her to a pace that allowed surveying. "Slower," she said, twice. The second time Brecca gave her a look that was half protest and half amusement.

"You walk like you are counting something."

"I am counting something."

"What?"

"Steps. Grade changes. Tree density. Compass deviations." Wren adjusted the compass. The bearing had not shifted: south-southeast, steady, the pull incrementally stronger than at the perimeter. "Everything."

"Everything," Brecca repeated. "That sounds exhausting."

"It is what I do."

Brecca walked beside her in silence for two hundred meters. This was a record. Then: "What do the trees look like to you? Through the -- the compass thing. The surveying thing."

Wren looked at the trees. Oak and birch, thirty meters, canopy closed. Standard old-growth Thornwild. Nothing remarkable. Nothing bonded.

"Trees," she said.

Brecca laughed. The laugh was too loud for the forest, scattering something in the canopy above -- a bird, moving fast through the leaves, gone before Wren could identify it. "You can feel the ground talking through your hand and the trees are just trees."

"The ground is connected to the threshold stone. The trees are not."

"Not everything has to be connected to a stone to be interesting."

Wren did not answer. She was not sure Brecca was wrong.

---

The ghost-elms returned.

They appeared first as singles -- a grey-green trunk among the oaks, its bark-shimmer visible as a faint luminescence in the mid-morning shade. Then a cluster. Then, gradually, the oaks thinned and the ghost-elms thickened until the canopy shifted from the dark green of broad-leaf to the grey-green of shimmer-bark, and the light changed with it. The ghost-elms' luminescence overlapped here, creating a quality of illumination that was not brighter but greener, as if the air itself had acquired a tint.

These were not settlement perimeter trees. The spacing was irregular, the trunks larger, the bark-shimmer deeper and more varied. Where the Varethen ghost-elms hummed a uniform ward frequency, these trees expressed something more complex -- multiple resonance patterns layered on top of each other, harmonics interleaving, the sound sitting at the edge of hearing where it was not quite sound and not quite silence.

Wren stopped.

"What?" Brecca said.

"Listen."

Brecca stopped. She stood in the ghost-elm grove and listened with her head tilted, the way she tilted her head when she was reading a surface through her hand -- except now she was reading air. Sound. The absence of sound that was also a presence.

"It hums," Brecca said. "Different from the ones at the settlement."

"The settlement trees are a ward line. Planted in a pattern, resonating in unison." Wren walked to the nearest ghost-elm and placed her hand on its trunk. The bark was smooth and warm, the shimmer intensifying at her touch -- not in response to the bond, but in response to contact itself. These trees were older than the Varethen perimeter. They had been growing here long before anyone planted a settlement ward. "These are wild. They resonated before anyone told them to."

The compass pulled. South-southeast, steady, the signal threading through the ghost-elm grove as if the trees were conducting it. She felt the limestone formation beneath her -- closer to the surface here, the [Foundation Stone] thread stronger, the substrate resonating with the wild ghost-elms' harmonics in a way that was not amplification but conversation. The stone and the trees, talking through the ground.

She crouched. She pressed her palm to the earth between the ghost-elm roots and felt both signals: the [Foundation Stone] vibration and the ghost-elm root resonance, interleaved, running south.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  The Thornwild -- Wild Ghost-Elm Grove
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ecological: Wild ghost-elm resonance patterns. Multiple
  harmonics, non-uniform spacing. Distinct from planted
  settlement perimeter (ward-line unison). Root network
  resonance interleaves with limestone substrate signal.

  +45 XP
  +3 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1669 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 57 (Apprentice)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Brecca watched the notification face. "The System thing?"

"Discovery," Wren said. "These trees are different from the ones at the settlement."

"I could have told you that."

"The System did not know you could have told me that. It knew I noticed."

Brecca considered this. The consideration took three seconds, which for Brecca was thorough. "That is a strange way to learn things," she said. "Being told what you already noticed."

"It is not telling me. It is confirming."

"Same thing," Brecca said. "Different data."

They walked south through the wild ghost-elms, and the forest was beautiful, and Wren noticed the beauty without filing it.

---

The ridge.

The terrain rose gradually and then sharply, the limestone formation surfacing in a shelf that broke through the forest floor like a spine straightening. The trees thinned. The canopy opened. The ghost-elms stopped at the ridge's base, as if respecting a boundary they could sense and Wren could not.

They climbed. The limestone was exposed here, the same grey-white as the threshold stone, the same mineral banding visible in the ledges and outcrops. Brecca's hands went to the rock face immediately. She pressed her palms flat and read the surface.

"Same stone," she said. "Same chisel tradition. Look -- someone dressed this face. Centuries ago, but the marks are there."

Wren saw the marks. Broad chisel, even depth, the same technique that had dressed the threshold stone. Someone had worked this ridge. Someone had shaped it.

They reached the crest in mid-afternoon.

