He hated that his presence had ‘freed up’ Icliz’s mana balancers, but he rationalized it by remembering many of them were getting their first extended breaks in centuries.

Quill tweaked his testing parameters between batches of iterations, but was quite happy with the results, as they were spat out. Following two of the suggestions, he allowed the process to repeat over and over, both inside his head and on his work bench.

Seeing the fourth talisman in a row activate and light up without any issues, he sent a message to his employees, letting two in particular know practical testing would start the next day.

Creating a tracking talisman required something to track, which meant monsters.

Under normal circumstances, Quill would have done the testing himself, but that wasn’t possible. Thankfully, it wasn’t needed. The Tier 15 and 20 were both going to be testing Tier 10 talismans in Tier 10 rifts, so there would be no danger.

Not that they were going far. Their entire trip was in-system, allowing him to easily [Portal] them to one of the many moons around the gas giants. Lower Tier rifts slots weren’t cheap with it being a capital system, but it wasn’t too hard to find a single team who didn’t mind them tagging along.

They had their pick of rifts because ideally, the monster's type wouldn’t matter.

Their news wasn’t what he’d expected.

The talismans actually worked!

They didn’t do well, but they did track. The first problem was they were so specific in their search criteria that even with the monsters being near clones, it only tracked those who were truly identical. That was how they’d discovered his tracking didn’t differentiate between the living and the dead.

It was that final problem that he found to be the difficult one. It may have taken him a few iterations to finetune the living detection to something closer to what he found acceptable, but tracking the dead proved to be a persistent thorn in his side.

Blood didn’t have an innate alive or dead sensing function, nor did it have an essence release detector. Initially, his solution was to track moving blood, but he quickly realized the possible pitfall in such a broad search.

He tried copying both other tracking talismans answers and even seeker runes to find a solution, but with every change and iteration, he only managed to make the problem worse. It was only mentioning it to Liz that finally gave him a solution with a timely suggestion to track the ‘blood continuity’, which proved effective.

Apparently, one of blood’s inherent properties was its wholeness. Any disruption in a circulatory system broke something fundamental in what blood considered normal. By tracking that, several other problems fell into place.

Or so he thought.

While the suggestion worked, it necessitated an almost full revision of his earlier timing choices, forcing him to work on things he’d already fixed.

Again.
