Chapter 490

Knocking on the door of Liz’s workshop, Quill stepped in after the briefest of moments. The door was unlocked, indicating she wouldn’t mind.

Feeling playful, he drawled, “Wanna play hookie?”

Looking up from the cauldron of orange nightmares, Liz wrinkled her nose. “This attempt isn’t that bad? Is it?”

The second question was asked to phoenix Liz, who’d been napping on a nearby perch before Quill’s arrival woke her up.

Fluttering over, she cooed into his beard while ignoring her human self's question. The move also managed to remind him that he had facial hair. He contemplated getting rid of it, but chose not to after a brief debate. Such a sudden alteration to his appearance would signal something had changed, when he was trying to prevent that as much as he possibly could.

Scratching the raptor, he shook his head. “I hadn’t even noticed the concoction. Originally I came here to bounce ideas off you as a blood mage, but I got distracted by how pretty you are.”

Tapping her chin, Liz smirked. “A consultation? Did you consider you might not be able to afford my rates?”

Patting his spatially expanded pockets, he pretended they were empty. “Forgot my wallet, but I can offer you lunch somewhere hopefully interesting.”

Liz tapped her foot for a moment, pondering his question, but she agreed. Before anyone else could distract them, they slipped out and into one of the autonomous shuttles that came with the estate.

“I don’t feel like eating a fine as well as lunch. So the slow way it is.” His explanation earned him a laugh but given that he really did have something to ask her he continued as the shuttle drove them to the restaurant he’d picked out. “So I’ve been tinkering with the idea of a resonance aura-based universal tracking talisman. Initially I figured copying a harmonization talisman would be a great shortcut, but I’m running into road blocks at step one.”

Liz flipped through the files he sent her, chewing her lip before nodding. “I can see how not using the monster blood in the ink is messing with the typical structures. What translation mechanism are you using? AI?”

Quill snorted. “No, I wish. That would at least be easy. Most common delvers hate anything that relies on an AI interface in combat. They need their AI to fight for them, and as such, they don't want to spare the mana needed for upkeep most of the time. Ahh. I almost feel like I need to make equipment for cowards if I want them to sell well. Hmm…”

After realizing he had a solid idea, he made a few mental notes, not wanting to let the moment slip him by. “Actually that's a good idea, but I shouldn’t be impressed by this point. Pure genius.”

Liz humored him, but phoenix Liz seemed to thoroughly enjoy his joke. It could have been the scratching, but he firmly believed it was the joke.

“No, I was thinking of using the more traditional attraction or temperature methods, but I’m open to suggestions if you have one.”

“Not a coherent idea quite yet, but keep going. What other problems have you run into?”

Sighing dramatically, he answered, “Too many to list. But the next big one is longevity. If I want to use aura in the product, even Tier 5 aura, it will immediately put the talisman in the premium category. The raw materials alone will dictate that. After that, it's a two way tie between range and fidelity, but that's a classic problem for every talisman.”

“Okay, so what are you thinking? I know you have some answers. What problems do they have?”

They spent the rest of the ride going over them, but the conversation easily shifted to the ‘restaurant’ when Liz saw the Tier 4’s food stall where they’d landed next to. Notably, their shuttle wasn’t the only hyper expensive method of transportation dropping someone at the low Tier location, but that was how he'd noticed the location in the first place.

The Tier 20 chef visible behind the extended grill worked the low Tier poultry and vegetables while chattering with everyone. Despite his apparent distraction, each stroke was made with perfect precision and timing, even when he wasn’t looking. In fact, they only paused talking long enough to take their orders, two meals of the day. It was the only thing for sale.

While the chef continued chatting with the regulars, they shifted their attention to their surroundings, wanting to people watch.

The floor they were on must have been made when there was an oversupply of bronze, because nearly every permanent item had some amount of the metal. It was managed tastefully, but the choice gave the area a unique atmosphere they both enjoyed ogling.

When they were both handed two pockets of bread stuffed with vegetables and chicken with barely a word in response, they exited the roadside stall and found a spot to sit not too far away where they could continue their observations.

Taking a moment to appreciate why a Tier 20 chef was using low Tier ingredients, Quill focused on savoring his first bite of the pita. The ingredients’ Tiers were simple, as were the sauces and spices, but that had been the point. They were merely vessels for the chef's nascent Intent to project onto.

Currently, the effect was a more complex flavor interaction, but from the hints of deeper yet undeveloped notes, he felt that the chef was trying to bring out magical effects from the otherwise mundane food.

The chicken variant had a hint of fire mana running through it, but it was otherwise unnoteworthy, magically speaking, beyond its baseline spiciness and flavor. With the same ingredients, Quill would have only been able to use the notes of fire infused in the chicken to for flavor, but the chef was trying to elevate that single note into a symphony. In their particular dish, he was trying to turn that note of fire into fire resistance, but every ingredient had been treated the same way.

The chef was using Tier 4 ingredients simply because they were cheap and plentiful while he honed his craft.

“It’s good. The flavors are excellent.” He had to gush a little.

Liz nodded until she’d taken a drink to clear her throat. “The broccoli is to die for. And the tiny bit of char combined with how soft the bread is on the inside. And the carrots, ugh. I love them. Can you replicate this?”

“I’m always willing to try.”

Punching the air, Liz took another bite.

As they finished up, Liz brought their conversation back around to his problem via their [AI]s while they audibly continued to chatter about the food and area around them. “I don’t talisman nearly as well as you do, but as a blood mage, I have thoughts. First, if you are using resonance aura, my instinct is to tie the talisman into the user's body. Or more accurately, their blood. Rift monsters are near-clones, so you should be able to do what you want and track them all from it. In fact, we already know it works due to the existing talismans. And if that's possible, why can’t we treat this new talisman like a body enhancement one instead of external? You could use the cultivator's body as an amplifier or transmitter of some type. Knowing blood as well as I do, that’s gotta be easier than trying to amplify everything from a single drop.”

Despite having zero ideas on how he’d enchant that, since there weren’t any readily available runes he’d ever heard of that had such powers, he was confident he’d be able to cobble something together. Whether those ideas would prove usable would be another matter, but tying it into the user’s body also solved another problem he’d been pondering, protecting the talisman.

He liked Liz’s idea. A lot.

“That’s a brilliant idea. Or at least it sounds like one to me. I think you have a good point about the amount of blood. For all of the problems turning the blood into an ink cause, it solves others like range. I’d honestly been considering making the activation sequence to dump the talisman entirely in the monster's blood, just to ensure enough blood was used. If your idea works, it will at least save me trying to spin that into a positive. Coming at this from a blood angle is a good idea. What else are you thinking?”

Having experience tracking through blood, Liz had several tips and things to watch out for and how she typically solved them. He took note of each one before changing the topic as they were finishing up their food.

“That's enough about me, I can’t stand to hear any more. Let's talk about someone more interesting. What was your potion problem?”

Instead of heading back immediately, they wandered around the bronze floor, turning their outing to an impromptu date and tour. Seeing a Tier 20 knicknack shop, neither needed to divert the conversation to agree to the destination.

“If Aster and I want to keep our businesses around, we need to stay competitive. Selling Empire products at cost and abusing our special local status will only take us so far if we want to continue extracting resources from here. Even with a great COO we are going to struggle, so Aster and I are both trying to solidify our standings in more permanent ways. I’m trying to abuse the slight difference in resources between Great Powers and improve potions by replacing expensive secondary ingredients with foreign, similar ones that are hopefully cheaper. Then I get a full power knockoff at a lower price in a way no one else can easily replicate. What you walked in on was an attempt to replace a five hundred year snow poppy with a southern lights star flower from the Corporation. Medicinally, the two herbs are similar, but the change affects the secondary ingredients as well as the tertiary process. If I succeed, I get a budget spiritual stabilizing potion at sixty percent the normal cost, but I’ve had no real luck so far.”

While smiling at a very pretty clockwork ballerina she liked enough to tuck into her cart, Liz sighed through their channels. “Ughhhh. Realistically, it’s probably going to take a change in refining steps as well. I can only hope that on the other side it's actually a cost improvement.”

“What Tier?”

He was only slightly distracted by an entire clockwork circus made with no enchantments that he thought Aster might like, but he was still paying attention. Her potion had been Tier 10, but she’d only been testing, and so that meant little. He wasn’t starting with Tier 30 talismans either, and it did change his response.

“The original recipe is Tier 25, with lower Tier ones all the way down to Tier 15, but I’m hopeful that, with my change, I can go all the way to Tier 30. Theoretically, the change is a positive one but we'll have to see.”

Quill was no specialist, but he tried to ask constructive questions. He wasn’t sure how helpful he was when her conclusion was to start from scratch using the two most important herbs as base ingredients. It would be more initial work, but it might be faster than forever trying to stamp out unintended consequences of each previous chance.

As they left the first shop, Quill silently asked Liz if she wanted to continue or if they should head back. Seeing she was in no rush to return either, the two of them wandered down the street taking everything in.

For all that the Corporation was a different Great Power with its own unique language, culture, and customs, people were still people. As such, there were similarities anywhere he looked.

There were also differences and he couldn’t help but latch onto them. Though he tried not to look at things in a negative light.

The first was the lack of mortals, at least in the city.

With most mortals in their floating cylinders, most everyone at the space station was a cultivator. That seemed obvious and normal at first, but there was a difference that only became clear as they walked more of the streets and saw more.

While seeing lots of low level cultivators wasn’t unusual in the Empire, he wasn’t in a Great Power that awakened everyone, which raised the question. Where was everyone coming from? They couldn't all be locals.

The rest of the Great Power felt like the obvious answer, but a quick search showed travel wasn’t free or subsidized. No, most the low Tier cultivators were what he would call semi-local, in that they were born in the closest dozen systems. It made travel cheap enough for many ambitious young cultivators to travel to Asa, hoping to change their fate.

Some left, Quill was sure of that, but most were absorbed into the space station and never left, always chasing the dream. That seemed especially true now, with the recent economic reset fresh in everyone's memory.

Additionally, a shocking amount of them seemed to be working as hard as they could even while traveling. Training on the move was nothing new to him, but the people he saw seemed to be improving themselves and their job related skills over combat ones. If they only wanted to reach Tier 15 as fast as possible that would be one thing but it struck him as strange.

Not being on a planet with an inherent essence cycle, Asa and most space stations relied on gathering up all the ambient essence they encountered as they circled the local star. Following Asa’s grand ambitions, the Ascendency had not only installed localized collectors but also one of the best essence distribution systems they could devise.

According to their vision, by carefully controlling an area's essence density and Tier, they could strictly manage everyone remotely. Such lofty aspirations hadn’t lasted long after the fall.

At first when the scars were fresh and the pain well remembered, Asa’s essence distribution had been incredibly egalitarian, but as populations rose, so did resource demand.

