Milton, the grand phoney who caged people and passed off their Talents as wonders, was the one to formalize the current setup. Now, Asa’s residents bid on the distribution allocation via the best way they knew how. Money.

It worked fine from a mechanical perspective, and he could appreciate the care that clearly went into both the distribution and deciding who gets how much, but the whole thing just rubbed him the wrong way. He found some amount of solace in that part of the labyrinthine calculations ensured a baseline level of ambient essence for the entire space station so the low Tiers could do exactly what he saw them doing: Cultivating or improving their skills while out and about rather than needing dedicated cultivation rooms, just like on any other capital planet.

For those that could pay, their neighborhoods and floors benefited from the much higher than normal essence density. While the bronze floor they were on wasn’t a high essence floor, two floors above and three below and off to the side were. Together they enriched the areas in between, stimulating the inhabitants.

Quill had seen plenty of driven cultivators in the Empire, but it took him a few minutes of self reflection to pinpoint why it stood out to him as strange at all. He wasn’t used to seeing such ambitious and hard diligent cultivators working day jobs, he was used to them being delvers and other more combat oriented roles as part of a noble household or retinue.

He was sure a check of the outer planets would show just as many ambitious delvers, but low Tiers weren’t the only ones to flock to Asa.

The higher Tiers were more than capable of traveling to the Corporation’s capital system, but they found it just as hard, if not harder, to stay. Especially the CEOs who were trying to break into the most competitive market that existed in the Realm.

There was a reason JR was letting Quill fund everyone's business without restrictions. If he wasn’t, none of Quill’s friends would be able to afford the prices that came with such competition.

Together, that led to the floors taking on their own unique atmosphere as they found their niches. The bronze floor hadn't been stratified by Tier, but rather by those who wanted to live in a floor of finger smudges on everything, and those who didn't.

A floor above them was mainly filled with Tier 25s and higher, with even the menial workers being Tier 15’s. Five floors below them, there was an entire floor dedicated to people who were naturally left handed.

When they reached a transitional area, they decided to return to their estate, leaving the next area for another day. Refreshed, they each returned to their individual workshops.

Quill threw himself back into designing a new talisman, but immediately ran into several roadblocks. The first and most serious was that he was still in a catch twenty two about using the resonance aura and the runes that could properly utilise it.

With only one resource to resolve that problem, he threw himself into designing the runic sequence for taking a sample of blood and searching for other similar copies. In his first iteration, he spared no expense and cut no corners, working through the problem more like a novice trying to show his work. Mainly because that’s exactly what he was trying to do.

Working through each system the sequence would need, half of the talisman started to form. His answer was far from elegant, cheap, or easy to draw, but he couldn’t see any reason why it wouldn’t work, which surprised him, given how convoluted his answer was.

Ultimately, Liz’s suggestion to use the body as an amplifier proved an absolutely brilliant disaster.

Interacting with a cultivator's blood came with significant challenges. Using such a medium, a talisman could all too easily interrupt or be interrupted by body based spells, and he needed to take significant care on what the talisman could interact with. Even worse, because he used the blood as an amplifier, he couldn’t see any feasible way to use anything other than the blood as the receiver.

Both flaws came with a single redeeming quality that had him forging ahead despite the many setbacks. Using a cultivator's blood as the receiver gave a massive boost to the talisman's theoretical range. In fact, the range was so high, that when combined with the increased fidelity he hoped to get out of the resonance aura, he had to consider setting range limits.

Theoretically.

Everything was theoretical until he made it, but looking at his equations, he couldn’t see any reason why it couldn’t work. The aura would be a giant question mark until he started the second half of the talisman, but even without it, he was pretty sure this half was possible, if not commercially viable.

Moving on, he immediately ran into problems trying to create the formation to sense the sample blood and then translate that into something that could be understood by the caster. That critical core piece gave him both theoretical and practical problems, neither being easy to solve.

The theoretical ones were worked through as he slowly built out the runic circuits, but two practical ones remained. The resonance aura and use time. In its current state, he estimated a few hours of use time for a Tier 25 talisman, which was far from satisfactory.

Customers might be willing to pay the cost of one or two utility talismans per delve, but the tens of thousands they would need if they needed to reapply a new one every two hours? There was no way anyone would be willing to downgrade to a talisman more expensive and less useful than the currently available ones.

Fearing that was a fundamental problem, he shelved that until he got a model working before wiping his hands of the issue. That was future Quill’s problem.

Stepping back after almost a month of work, he spent some time meeting the various employees at the building he’d ended up renting.

Larger than he really needed, Quill’s Quality Quintessentials first and only shop location would house its administrative and production capabilities as well as its storefront. Buying out the first four floors of the building's location hadn’t been cheap, but that was better than outright impossible.

Quill didn’t dwell on the possibility that the former company had only been on the cut list thanks to Blake’s inadvertent suggestions. Not due to the guilt that might eat at him, rather because he genuinely didn’t care.

Between JR and Winter Hornet, he’d come to accept that the Tier 50s would do what they wanted. They might make an excuse, but as often as not, they wouldn’t bother with such pretext. Being that pretext didn’t put the guilt on him. It may have taken losing part of himself, but Quill was happy with his realization.

Picking his new talisman designers' minds, he tried to get a feel for the things they thought made a good talisman. Most answers were simple: general ease of drawing was the largest, followed by as few inks, switches, or secondary additives that would require more steps. Another was low spiritual strain during the creation and especially failures, using commonly known runes, and finally, using as few toxic or unpleasant materials. The last one came up as a near unanimous secondary complaint.

Immortals didn’t want to handle nasty things any more than anyone else, and Quill made sure everyone knew he’d understood their plea. They didn’t miss that without any shadow of a doubt, like every other designer, he’d prioritize effectiveness over pleasantness. But he’d at least try.

Some of the replies weren’t so simple, and while Quill tried to give them all the attention they deserved, he was no fount of answers either. How was he supposed to change optimal drawing patterns? They were optimal for a reason, if there was a better way to draw the talisman, that method would have been the pattern.

There was only so much anyone could do. Talismans were complicated.

Returning to the estate, he popped in to see Liz, only to find Aster there with a bottle of amber mist.

Instead of her normal reaction, she gave him a side eye heavy enough to nearly cause him to sigh out loud, but he kept the impulse in check. He knew their bond felt strange and fragmented, but she seemed to want to address it as much as he did.

Not at all.

The problem was that if he knew that wasn’t a solution, so did she.

Willing to pretend nothing was wrong, he smiled at both of them and asked, “How’s the bloodline business, businessing?”

Flicking her tail, Aster signed dramatically but he could tell her heart wasn’t really in it. “Not bad, but not great. Since Liz offered to help, she needs to actually help me make a product like she said she would, now that she has solved her own issue.”

Quill was about to congratulate Liz when she flicked Aster's tail. “Stop saying I’m done! I’m not done yet. I’m nowhere close. All I said was I got a working recipe. It's far from ready to go. I’m using thirty different herbs for a Tier 10 potion, Aster. Thirty. Explain to me how that’s finished?”

“It's more finished than what I have. I understand like three percent of what your bloodline specialists back home are saying, and I don’t know the alchemy as well as you.” Coughing, she added in a rush, “I also don’t trust any of my new people. At least not enough to let them get their hands on the Empire records they’d need to do it themselves.”

Liz’s tirade halted before it could restart, and she finally had to agree. “I’ll look at it and give you something you can at least give to your people.” Seeing Aster’s excitement rise, she quickly added, “But you need to really do the business side.”

Bouncing from her seat, Aster left in a hurry. “Perfect! Okay gotta go, byeeee.”

She only paused long enough to give Quill a one armed hug before vanishing out the door.

Liz looked like she wanted to say something, but when she didn’t broach the topic, Quill did. “Its not as bad as you think.”

“Really? It sure looks bad from my vantage.”

Taking Aster’s spot, Quill waggled his hand. “Our connection is through the spirit. While JR may not have directly taken a part of my spirit out of me, he might as well have. Part of what he took included parts of our bond. Picture it like the middle of a braided rope was teleported out of the rest without being broken. It's all stretched, taught, and clearly wrong.”

After a brief moment of consideration, he sighed, not wanting to lie, even by omission. “Annnnd realistically, I’m probably only feeling part of it. After all, the stretched out parts are the pieces of me I don’t have. I’m not feeling any of that. Aster is feeling everything while I’m feeling half. Not to be morbid or to put words in her mouth, but I bet it feels like I’ve been possessed or like I’m otherwise not myself.”

Rubbing his hand, Liz looked more worried than he felt. Grinning, he distracted her by bringing up her alchemy success and listened as she eagerly explained her next steps. She already had several herbs she wanted to swap as she tried to reduce the amount of necessary ingredients.

While not pure subtraction, adjusting what she designed was easier than untangling someone else's mess.

Filled with inspiration, Quill returned to his own workshop where he made negative progress as he realized a flaw with his relay system. Unless he wanted the monsters to know the talisman was active and possibly where it was, he’d need to switch to a different detection system and then solve the resulting problems.

After solving that issue, he checked the rest of his logic circuits but found no other problems, letting him move onto the next step. Making one.

The sheet of talisman parchment he used was purpose built for such early testing, which was why it was five feet to a side and made out of the best generic materials possible. Each Tier 15 talisman cost as much as the materials for ten Tier 20 talismans, but Quill was prepared to burn as many as he needed.

Or more accurately, Blake had been. Among the supplies he’d brought there were several dozen spatially expanded crates full of such low Tier bulk materials. Rolling his eyes at himself for bringing smithing equipment, he made a note to give it all to Aster. It would let her hobby blacksmith if nothing else, and he didn’t need any of it.

He made mistakes in the first three sheets, but the fourth was successfully created.

Carefully moving the talisman into a protective chamber for experiments, he remotely completed the mana circuit, activating the taliman.

Nothing happened.

A dud.

Seeing a problem in how two of the major circuits needed to be offset in their activation timings, he waved a hand to destroy the failure as he moved to make another.

Five tests later, his first talisman activated. It failed almost immediately but that brief moment of hope caused him to spend two days tinkering with the conduits and pathways, trying to resolve the problem before giving up. None of them would be used in the final design, but he still needed them operable for his testing, so he put in a simple delay.

Once that problem was fixed, he discovered four more in his next test. Telling himself that he was glad to have discovered all of them at once, he started iterating. Four issues happening at once was only possible because each system as a whole seemed to work. Sure, several of them deadlocked almost instantly, either internally or with each other, but it was progress.

With some progress under his belt, Quill tossed everything he’d discovered into his [AI]. Doubling his mana regeneration by being in the Corporations’ capital proved its worth, as he didn’t have to slow his mana stone creation in the slightest to run his tests, giving him a glimpse of his next Tier’s mana production a little early.

