I have to try. Gingerly she reached out her hand, placing it on the cover of the book, feeling the raised ridges of the embossed title beneath her fingertips. I’m sorry… Gritting her teeth, she channeled her mana into deconstruction before aborting. She tried again two times before finally she screwed her courage and just forced her way through, gasping in anguish at the sight of the beautiful book exploding into mana under her hand.

The seconds stretched out, ticking by silently in the darkness as she waited anxiously until it became painfully obvious her notification was going to remain silent.

It didn’t work…

She winced as she recalled that her variants typically took several tries to learn. She dragged her mind back into the ring and looked once again, selecting the only other book she hadn’t enjoyed, and placing it on the ground where the first one had just been annihilated by her hand.

She took a deep breath and summoned her magic, closing her eyes at the last moment so she didn’t have to see the destruction of the book. But she felt it evaporate under her hand, and the sensation of pulling, of information flowing into her signaling the book was gone, a second one destroyed by her magic.

Again, the seconds ticked by until Ali finally admitted that nothing was going to happen.

It must need three.

In that moment, Ali hated that rational part of her mind that pushed her onward. She knew it was right, but destroying books, even ones she hadn’t enjoyed, was tearing at her soul. She was committed to this path, as heart-wrenching as it was, but now she was out of options. She would have to destroy a book she had loved. The very idea of returning to The Reading Corner and asking Ryn for help filled her with the harsh burning of shame.

She dithered back and forth for many anguished minutes before she finally selected a small book and laid it on the execution block – the Dwarven-made flagstone upon which she had destroyed its two previous companions. It was a touching story about a girl who had lost everything in the war and connected with her past by exploring her painting. Ali had loved it.

Despite hating herself for doing it, she summoned her magic for a third time. She cried out in the darkness as the book exploded into motes of mana, sending her shadow dancing around the library for a moment until they all dissipated.

Again, the seconds passed, and Ali almost gave in to the despair when suddenly a chime rang out in her mind.

Imprint: Book completed.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 20.

Ali stared at the notifications hovering before her, her heart quivering.

It worked? It worked!

She couldn’t let herself believe it for several minutes, but the notification stubbornly refused to vanish. And nobody came by to shake her awake from the dream.

Sudden urgency crashed in on her and she quickly committed it to her Grimoire before anything could take it from her.

Scarcely daring to believe the result, Ali poured her mana into the imprint, and after a few minutes, a book suddenly appeared, dropping to the stone floor with a soft thump. In awe and excitement, Ali reached out to get it, but her hand stopped a few inches from the cover.

Something is wrong. The letters depicting the title were cleanly embossed into the brown leather of the cover. But they were just a random set of letters, forming no words in any of the languages she knew. With a dark premonition falling over her, she snapped the book up and opened it, paging through in increasing desperation as her frantic hands revealed page after page of gibberish.

In a state of panic, she made another book and another. But they too were filled with unintelligible random letters.

The book dropped from suddenly nerveless fingers as realization crashed in. Her Grimoire was inherently random. And while randomness of hair color, scale arrangement, eye color, and such things were perfectly suitable for creating monsters, the variations in the contents of a book were the point of the book. Messing with the order and arrangement of the text destroyed the meaning. And her skill obviously didn’t understand meaning, and so had produced perfectly good copies of the books she had deconstructed, complete with uniformly distributed arrangement of the differences and variation it had encountered.

It was too much. Ali broke down and cried in the middle of the library until Malika came to find her.
