The cycles of Celestial Energy back and forth continue to flow faster and faster, nearing their former speed.

As the cores' cracks slowly heal, the body parts that were scattered across the temple floor reform back to their original states. Blood is regenerated, and vitality slowly grows back into the near-death human shaped vessels. The purple threads that were desperately holding them together fade away once intact and able to hold themselves on their own.

The ring returns to its dormant black form.

Many of the broken blood-bonded armor pieces and new Celestial Energy bonded crafts stay scattered across the floor. They are not necessary to rejuvenate the life forces of the two humans, and their energy signatures are too foreign to be included in this purely instinctual healing process.

Even with no distractions, it takes over a full decade in the darkness for the mental damage of this Royal Demon's attack to start showing signs of reversal.

–

The bright white burst of pure pain that fried all of my senses finally begins to melt away from the depths of my mind.

It was layered with so many Royal Vibrations and so much Celestial Energy purity denser than my own, that chipping away at the poison that seeped deep into my mind and soul has been an ongoing process for longer than I can comprehend.

In fact, I can't remember it at all.

Small specks of white light flickering throughout this dark room start to appear in my ether senses. They are like pinholes through a veil that still blinds me.

It is not only sight; every single one of my senses is blocked, yet somehow more and more specks are peeping through to allow me to see and feel. It's like a seal is slowly being melted away, finally letting me breathe the fresh air beyond it.

My body and subconscious feel as though so much time has passed. Oddly, even longer than I've even consciously been connected to the system feels as though it's gone by.

I can vividly feel every single Celestial Energy Cycle I've shared with Maria as these years passed, like they've imprinted into my body and soul. However, the last true memory I recall was being defeated by the Royal Demon above a pyramid-shaped Temple with absolutely no chance of winning.

The power gap was too massive.

A few of my wandering thoughts half believe I've died, but the feeling of my purple ring activating right before losing consciousness keeps resurfacing to assure me that somehow it saved us.

I know Maria is alive because my Celestial Energy cycles keep coming back to me as cold blue celestial light to refine every half second or so.

However, it's incredibly hard to feel her vibrations or true presence. All of my senses are still limited by tiny pinholes of access as my mind is still overflowing with a lethal poison from the Demon's mental attack. The more energy I put into looking outward, the more of these pinholes begin to close up, and the pain returns, reverting my perception of the outside to only white again.

I mentally shut off all of my curiosity and let the instinctual healing continue its process.

–

The mending of my mind progresses gradually, but speeds up the less poisonous energy remains in my mind and soul.

Every few thousand cycles, I take small peeks outside to assess the progress, but doing so causes major setbacks, so instead, I settle for a less energy-demanding watered-down version of my senses. It gives me weak energy readings, and only really focuses on the vibrations that are processed through the energy Maria sends me. Trying to view anything outside of my own body is far too difficult.

One of the first things I witness with these dampened senses is the strange sensation of the dark corruption that has been released from my core actually flowing through my body without trying to devour me alive or take control.

Flowing side by side with this darkness is the bright red celestial fire that has healed my body back to its prime condition.

The two energies merge and separate at will as they flow side by side through all of my pathways.

The long period of time necessary for my mind to heal has forced the two competing energies to work together to keep me alive. The darkness does not leave my body; instead, it acts as a conductor for the Celestial energy to flow through far faster than if it weren't here.

It seems as though even the blue celestial ice that flows in from Maria is not overwhelmed by this Demonic presence either. It acts as though the blue energy is my own, and merely needs to cycle through my core before it can fully integrate with the corruption again.

More and more pinholes open wider, allowing me to see further for longer, to the point where I can finally feel Maria's Vibrations and get a sense for how they resonate with mine.

It is odd...

Her vibrations feel different. Like they are flowing more freely, but the instant I recognize this, I realize that mine are slightly different as well. Our wills have shifted and altered slightly to adapt to our predicament, but I can't fully conceptualize how or why.

–

As the viewing holes in my senses widen even more, I can start to feel things with even greater clarity. One of those things is the understanding that Maria is viewing me in the same exact way.

Neither of us has any idea where we are, or how we survived this long.

However, the instant we both mentally process that we can sense the other, our vibrations pulse in erratic patterns of surprise, excitement, and even embarrassment.

Not only have all of our clothing and gear been shattered to pieces farther away than we can sense, leaving us lying naked beside each other, but the secrets we've been keeping locked away in our cores are out in the open for both to see.

My corruption flows slowly through my body for her senses to probe, and the Soul Energy core in her chest has no barriers at all blocking my senses from looking deep within it.

After our intense mental fluctuation of realizing the other's presence, neither of us tries to hide.

Instead, we slowly wash our senses through one another.

Our vibrations have become more alike, making these scans easier, but at the same time, they are still not perfectly synced. A tension holds them back from fully aligning with one another to create an understanding.

Every cycle that passes through us now alters our vibrations even more.

My mental senses dive into the anomaly that has been hidden for so long, and the burst of emotions and information that ripples through me limits all of my other senses to allow me to fully be immersed.

I am still in a weakened state, so when I see a Soul Energy core with limitless depth tethered together by an invisible force, it is difficult to conceptualize at first. In fact its impossible to see all the way down into it with just a single glance. My first instinct is to leave, as my mind is stretched and forced to try to understand an impossible area of finite yet infinite space and energy.

It all simultaneously flows outward and falls inward on a single point. This point holds all of her energy, vibrations, and emotions.

The strongest feeling that both pulls me in and tries to push me out is fear.

It is Maria's fear, like a tight pull of anxiety crushing in from all sides. The deeper I look in, the worse and more dangerous it feels.

I don't understand why or how this invisible force has become so physical in my senses.

It's as though her strongest vibrations deep down are creating this construct to guide me.

I can feel parts of myself inside it, like every step I've ever taken or word I've ever spoken to her fills this endless stream of energy I stare into.

The memory of holding Maria on the verge of death in the green zone resurfaces, and this exact feeling is exactly what was flowing out from her body. It was only calmed the moment we kissed.

The instant I feel this same emotion, the center of her core grows with even more depth. The single point I was analyzing looks like its somehow expanded, as though walls of fear just dissipated to allow me to see a little more of what is already in front of my eyes with greater clarity.

–

At the same time, Maria's mind seeps deep into the corruption that flows through my body.

On its surface, it too seems tranquil, like it is having a symbiotic relationship with the red celestial fire in this body.

However, the more her vibrations flow through it, the true reason it was held back and away from her starts to unravel itself in packets of emotions as well.

The rage that flows deep within this darkness is menacing. It is inhuman. The hatred that has manifested itself into a physical form is equivalent to staring at death itself. Yet, it perfectly flows hand in hand with the calm and healing Celestial Fire beside it.

At first, it is illogical. It doesn't make sense how the two aren't at odds, but the deeper she lets her senses feel, the more fear she senses within both of these energy streams as well.

It was locked away in the darkness before, but now that two parts of one soul collide inside this body, the real reason for locking it all away starts to float to the surface.

The feelings of being trapped, too weak, of losing control; these all surface first.

As they do, and Maria's concentration doesn't waver, accepting them as they are, they start becoming more complex.

Scenes of the past are triggered in her inner consciousness. It shows Jay on many battlefields, at moments where all hope seemed lost. Over and over, countless times. The feelings of overbearing enemies threatening to take his life, and the thought of losing everything he'd worked to build.

Yet these memories become more and more refined and focused.

The strongest one surging out at her is Jay's point of view when she nearly died in the green zone.

A true fear ripples through this corruption, and the red celestial energy merging with it. She's able to finally look deeper, and Maria sees inside what he was really hiding.

–

This shift in pressure causes the next few Celestial Energy cycles through our bodies to flow faster and with far more intensity.

So much so, that our minds heal enough to sync with our bodies and give us true sight for a moment.

The visuals of millions of floating white glyphs in this strange room flow into my mind, but the most exhilarating sensation is that I feel Maria's hand in my grasp.

Ever since we were dropped into the Ravine, my true sense of touch has been blocked from use by a strange seal. Yet now I can feel everything, down to even the tiny divots of her finger prints moving against mine, a soft and warm pressure I almost forgot existed in this darkness.

It makes our concentration waver for a moment just as we're about to peer over the edge of each other's minds. Out of instinct, our minds expand enough to move our muscles and basic bodily functions again. We pull each other closer to make sure we do not lose this deep connection.
