While Erin Solstice was learning a lesson about [Witches], the rest of the world had their eyes on Izril. Not in a grand sense of it being the most important part of the world.
Arguably, the King of Destruction took priority there. He was now back with every living member of his Seven, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen was his only foe who had not yet quit the field. If you had a grudge or saw an opportunity in the ensuing bloodbath…
Similarly, The Dyed Lands dominated Balerosian news. It would have surprised Erin, if she were even near a scrying orb, because Noass and Sir Relz did not cover the news daily. For better or worse, Wistram News Network had become mostly popular in Izril, although it was the most ‘worldwide’ of any cycle.
However, the Great Companies of Baleros rallying the continent against the monsters was a good contrast to Izril. If you found a scrying orb, you could see the cities being evacuated live. Mercenary companies, paid to hold a line in the sand or evacuate settlements.
On the forefront of that news was him.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros’ company was closest to The Dyed Lands, aside from the reclusive Eyes of Baleros. His was a vast company, and it was obviously still locked in combat with Jungle Tails.
However—it had been two weeks since The Dyed Lands moved forwards in time. Two weeks, and eight lesser cities had been evacuated or were being overrun by—colors.
Colors. Each one unique. Pale white stalking beasts, all fangs and ivory, their hides fragile, but often invisible as they fought forwards in skirmishing tribes, dragging off prey. They skirted and fought with bright, bright red flower-creatures. Plant-based monsters who often swept forwards under paralytic or allergen-based pollen storms.
Each color fought the other for dominance and, now freed of their temporal prison, were trying to grab land as fast as they could. Their disunity was one of the only reasons The Dyed Lands hadn’t claimed more cities.
For some of the apex predators of each color had already been certified as Gold-rank threats, and they were only going to rise higher. A Named-rank threat was a rare one, but people had pointed up at the three-headed flier that was one of the most famous icons of this new death-zone.
Each neck was reptilian, folds of skin layered over dead-white flesh, curved talons on a body that had six legs and was vaguely like a manticore, two massive wings carrying the monster aloft. Its nickname was a Three-Headed Grabghast. Mostly because the creature would render itself invisible, a trick of the white-zone, then extend each head insanely long.
It could stretch as far as nine feet with each head and bite a victim, whereupon the face, shaped like some weeping lion, oddly distorted, would begin to rend its victims with its teeth and retreat.
It was a fiend, a worthy monster outside of any horde, and they could fly so far and high they were among the fastest-moving threats coming from that place. The Grabghasts went after vulnerable targets, heedless of walls or civilization. They ate and ate and left vein-colored eggs in their wake, some method of reproducing or leaving some aspect of itself behind.
No egg had yet hatched, and those that were found had been smashed. And the Grabghasts themselves could be killed.
The Titan of Baleros was checking his hair when the scrying orb turned to him. He nodded into the camera and spoke curtly.
“I won’t waste your time. We’re pulling the Iron Vanguard and Maelstrom’s Howling together for a full force that will shatter The Dyed Lands into shards. If Jungle Tails would see fit to cease-fire, I’d have an easier time. Nevertheless, the Forgotten Wing company will hold them across the Corthien Valley. Bring it down—[Mark Target]. Loose!”
The scrying orb rotated, and the air vibrated and roared ahead of a marching column of Lizardfolk and Selphid [Mercenaries]. The Corthien Valley was wide farmlands dotted by nali-stick farms, irrigated in classic terraces. Right now, the [Farmers] were peeking out of their houses.
The Grabghast had been hiding in a clump of huge, tangling bushes. It ignored the thick hedges, but not the first volley of stones. The Lizardfolk swung up slings, and pebbles bounced off the hide of the monster. It came surging down towards the braced Selphids as Niers watched.
“Slow it.”
“[Suppressing Fire]. [Mark Target: Reduced Mobility].”
Cameral’s voice trembled as the Dullahan [Strategist] pointed and the Grabghast’s momentum faltered. Its necks were already trying to stretch, and Niers nodded.
“Slings, down! Arrows—give me a wood-tipped volley! No Skills!”
The Lizardfolk stopped whirling their strings, and a second rank armed with shortbows loosed a volley. Niers peered at the Grabghast. One head shot out like a snake’s, and a Selphid shouted.
“Inc—”
Someone speared the head, and the beast howled as it retracted its face. However—the brave [Pikewoman] reeled, and a cry went up.
“Body down! Chest wound—”
One of the Selphids in front was missing a chunk of its chest, and the wounded Selphid went reeling. Niers’ eyes narrowed.
“That was nearly thirty feet, not the nine advertised. Someone update the entry in our encyclopedias. It’s got a bite that goes through iron. Wooden arrows—sink into the hide.”
Half the fletchings had stuck in the hide, but only lightly. Niers nodded.
“Enough playing. [Thorn Formation]—flame spells and full volley—now!”
The Grabghast’s scream turned into a whine of terror as the third and final volley lanced it. No cheap wooden arrows or stones, but steel-tipped arrows and Skills. It didn’t even turn to Niers’ formation, but tried to run. Thin, pale grey liquid leaked from its sides, and Niers ran a commentary as his [Archers] filled it with arrows.
“Wood-tipped arrows can keep these Grabghasts bleeding. We’ll test poison on more; it’s reported to work. If your local forces have no poison or arrows, you must surround it. They can and will strike and run. Use dust or sand in the air with wind spells to identify them. Astoragon, signing out. Forgotten Wing, advance!”
The Grabghast was still dying as a Selphid stormed forwards with an axe to cut off its heads. Niers Astoragon moved ahead with the rest of his battalion. He was scrambling his forces, engaging every monster he came across. Behind him, some fascinated [Scholars] and adventurers and [Naturalists] were vying for a chance to dissect this new monster.
An organized advance from a Great Company. Baleros expected nothing less, and Niers had made a point of doing these broadcasts as efficiently as possible. Thus far, the Dullahans had taken the same cues, although Maelstrom’s Howling was more effusive at times. The Great Companies, for all their vying, had seen a threat and were headed to stomp it out as fast as possible.
 
——
 
The Titan’s brief moment on the scrying orb showcased Baleros’ attitude to new threats. There were elements to be desired, and Niers was certainly winning by engaging the most far-flung of the monsters coming out of that place, but it was a contrastable moment.
…Especially to the horde coming out of the High Passes. Were the Gargoyles and Eater Goats a proportionally far smaller threat?
Absolutely. However, thousands of Gargoyles and Eater Goats were still a force capable of wiping out city after city. And the north, in this hour of need, sent…
Adventurers. Adventurers, militia, a <Quest> with a steadily rising reward, and no armies.
No centralized army. As Sir Relz interviewed the local nobility, he was stressed on that fact.
“What you do not understand, ah, Sir Drake, is that there is a difference between noble estates and commonwealth cities. The cities closest to the High Passes, I believe, Celum being the—the one of note, are not under anyone’s definitive authority. Lady Reinhart has a mansion in Celum…but the city pays her no tithes.”
“It’s not Celum that’s closest to this section of the High Passes, Lord Gorne. The monsters have exited a higher plateau farther up along the mountain range.”
“Really? Er…where are they, then? Are they near about…erm…some other place?”
The [Lord] looked surprised, and Sir Relz consulted the map displaying the region.
“Celum is far to the east. The nearest city—well, town—is Somegel, and I believe the populace has mostly fled. Then we reach the city of Orefell—is Celum the only city you know?”
Lord Gorne shrugged and patted at his forehead uncomfortably with a handkerchief. He was wearing full-plate armor, and, despite mostly standing still, even in the fall sun, he was baking a bit. He was one of the ‘closest’ nobles, and his estates lay a comfortable forty miles north of Celum and well clear of the High Passes proper.
“There you are, then. No noble family has migrated that far south or been established. Let alone one of the Five Families. Now, my army is standing ready to repel the monsters, and I anticipate, nay, I am sure House Veltras will lead a counteroffensive well before they reach my lands. I have written to Lord Tyrion himself, and if the man is removed from where we are, his people are not.”
“So what I’m hearing is that the north is waiting on one of the Five Families to do something? You do not, in fact, intend to march to the aid of Orefell?”
Lord Gorne bristled. He indicated his army, which was a thin force of six thousand by some Drake city standards—it still made him the largest force in the region by far. He’d trotted out eight hundred to do some parade drills for this interview.
“I hardly intend to bleed my people’s protectors against the monsters alone, Sir Drake. I might say that the High Passes are everyone’s issue! Where’re your Drake armies?”
Sir Relz ignored that. The Drake shuffled some papers with his claws and nodded to one side at an off-screen person.
“The north is Human land. I think that answers our questions. Thank you, Lord Gorne, and it seems like the adventurers and cities responding to the muster will determine who meets the monsters in the field. Hardly the response of a Walled City for a Drake settlement in need, but I suppose these things happen.”
He almost got away with it, but Lord Gorne’s rapidly-purpling expression turned calm for one moment. He might have been pompous, but he was still a [Lord], and he snapped back coolly.
“A fine sentiment, sir. Where were those armies when Liscor was nearly taken? It seemed to me that Pallass quite ignored the requests for aid, and your Oteslia was the only Walled City to give a damn. I suppose border settlements are ignored everywhere, eh?”
“That is a complete mischaracterization of—”
Sir Relz began to respond, but the viewpoint switched, and he was left, fuming, as another guest from the Adventurer’s Guild in Invrisil came on air.
It was sort of amazing. Izril’s coverage of the High Passes disaster as it unfolded was non-stop, and it had a lot more drama—and a lot less actual action. Someone watching the scrying orb of Sir Relz turned to the other people sitting and watching.
“D’you think this makes us look bad?”
Relc Grasstongue scratched under his chin absently as he looked around The Wandering Inn. It was mostly empty, but the inn was back open, and that meant the regulars still came. Menolit, Relc, Klbkch—Ishkr and a small staff were serving the clients watching the news in the rec-room.
Menolit put down a hand of cards and glanced up idly.
“How’s it make us look bad, exactly?”
“As Izrilians. Baleros looked pretty damn sharp. Nice formations, and that Selphid only got hurt because that monster had that trick up its sleeve. Meanwhile, that [Lord] can’t take a single stick out his ass and hit a goat with it.”
A few snorts from around the room. It was comfortable with Erin gone. You hated to admit it, but…there was a time for drama and a time for relaxing.
Having a nice drink of blue juice with a hot toddy for later to accompany a pretzel or some fries? You could bleed a bit of coin to get something piping hot like a slice of pizza, and Ishkr had cleverly opened the windows a bit.
So it was cold as fall blew in, but he’d lit a fire in the rec room, and there were blankets, so it was really better than just being amiably warm. Relc had two blankets on, and he was almost dozing by the fire after a dawn-shift as a [Guard]. He yawned and waited for Menolit to reply, but speaking of hot toddies, Captain Todi put down a card and responded.
“He’s just looking out for himself. It’s classic politics. If he marched his army down, everyone’d call him a hero, but he’d lose two-thirds of his army even if he won. Gorne doesn’t have that many [Knights]; he’s got low-level [Soldiers]. [Militia], even. And if he did march, no one’d help.”
“How’s that, then?”
Menolit frowned. The rec room listened with interest. Relc, Menolit, and Todi were some of the more notable regulars, but there were the usual Antinium, a Goblin—Rasktooth—napping next to Infinitypear, and even some Players of Celum from Invrisil.
More Antinium than regular, actually. Not only did the Free Antinium send patrols up, but the army was now granting leave to a lot of its members since the war against Hectval had slowed. A few [Crusaders] were watching the card games and wondering if this was a good use of their hard-earned gold.
Even Menolit had a heart, though, so he had not fleeced the new Antinium soldiers out of any coin. As for Todi, the Gold-rank Captain explained with casual cynicism.
“Easy. If he’s going to stop the monsters, why should anyone else help? If he stays put, everyone will band together over the threat. Adventurers get called in to do their thing, and yeah, a few cities might have to evacuate or fight off the horde, but the nobles don’t suffer any fucking thing.”
Menolit frowned darkly as he tossed his cards down in disgust.
“That’s terrible. You Humans do it like that?”
Todi gave him a wry look.
“You think we like it? I’m talking noble politics.”
“Oh. Yeah. Like Walled Cities wagging their tails. Fine, fine…poor Orefell, though. Anyone know the place?”
“I bet it’s got lots of ore.”
Relc muttered dreamily. He felt bad, in a vague sense, and Captain Todi shrugged.
“Never been. We skipped by it when we went to the High Passes and hunted Wyverns. Ambrol? You said you worked around there.”
He turned to one of his Gold-rank teammates, and the [Mage] muttered.
“I grew up two towns over. It’s not a huge mining city. Esthelm’s arguably got more. Orefell was more…aspirational. Poor bastards were founded by a [Lord] with no sense of the land. They do better trade panning the rivers. Jade, not ore. Decent fishing—you get the same damn bitey fish around here as Orefell.”
“No herding? It’s pretty flat land coming out of the High Passes’ entrance up north.”
