As if they had sensed something, Spoken Vow, the Pact, the Silver Swords, and the Halfseekers had joined the Horns. Ylawes was still staring at the [Crusaders] in a kind of stupefaction, but it was Moore, tallest of them all, who shaded his eyes and spoke in a booming voice as he hefted a mace covered with bloody thorns.
“Something is coming. It’s among the monsters. Get ready.”
Nailren’s head snapped up. Then he saw what had made the Eater Goats and Gargoyles hurl themselves forwards with such ferocity. It wasn’t just bloodlust.
It was fear. As the monster press let up, he saw a Gargoyle run forwards, flailing its limbs. And it—vanished.
No, half of it vanished. Its arms dropped, as if perfectly severed, and the Gnoll blanched.
“What the—?”
Then he saw a little black goat hop forwards, open its mouth, and swallow a fifteen-meter section of land in a huge sphere. It opened its mouth again, and a little hole with no light opened, not black, but a void. It sucked in fleeing goats, the ground, even half of a trembling Gargoyle Bossel holding…
A leash. The Void Goat had been unleashed, but Tolveilouka hadn’t told the Bossels what would happen when they used their secret weapon.
“Dead fucking gods and my grandmother’s tits! What is that?”
Even Jelaqua had no idea. Nailren had never heard of this goat-type, but he didn’t need to think. His bow rose, and he aimed an arrow at the goat.
The arrow sped straight and true at the Void Goat’s head and was sucked into the void. Nailren saw the arrow twist, elongate, and his stomach churned as it was subjected to physics he could barely understand.
What happened if that were done to flesh? The other Gold-rank adventurers didn’t want to find out.
They opened up. [Mages] began casting spells, and [Archers] shot arrows. Ksmvr raised his crossbows, but hesitated.
He saw Ceria’s lance of ice and Pisces’ [Deathbolt] both curve into the void that the goat was merrily projecting. It was eating up everything, such that the goat was even standing on a single piece of land as everything else eroded below it. A near-perfect sphere of annihilation.
And it ate the magic. Ceria swore softly, and Pisces stared as the death magic was captured like it was Nailren’s arrow.
“Aw. Hells.”
Dawil muttered. He hefted his axe, felt at the broken piece of metal that had been his throwing axe…and shook his head.
The Void Eater Goat beamed. It had been getting really upset, but look at all this…it stared at the Gold-rank adventurers. Yum.
It had a priority list. Unlike its lesser kin, it was really interested in whatever was on that half-Elf’s head and the woman with metal arms. And that mace that bug-thing carried.
It hopped forwards merrily, and Ksmvr fired.
“[Weapon Art – Aggregate Volley].”
All his crossbows unloaded at once as the void the goat had conjured vanished. The Void Goat blinked, its two independent eyes staring vacantly around in the seconds it had—
Its mouth opened, closed, in a snap. Ksmvr lowered his crossbows as his shots fired.
“That is distressing.”
It ate his Skill and then opened its mouth. This time, the little vortex began sucking everything up in front of the goat, and it trotted forwards.
It could direct whatever the hell that was? The Gold-rank adventurers were already backing up, and so were the regular [Soldiers]. But they were adventurers. This was a monster.
“No one get near that thing.”
Jelaqua’s flail with the Demas Metal blades was practically useless, as were Seborn’s daggers, unless he wanted to try a sneak-attack. It might come to that, but the Selphid glanced at Ulinde.
“Moore, Ulinde. Sneak spire. Give it something to eat, Ulinde.”
“Yes, Jelaqua!”
The [Spellslinger] leapt up. With a Drake body, she began firing spells from her two wands. Tier 2 spells, [Flame Bolt], [Lightning Jolt], a stream like Falene was capable of.
The Void Goat actually halted to let her feed it, and it never noticed Moore moving left. The half-Giant struck the ground and concentrated. Then a spire of earth, piercing, shot upwards.
The goat hadn’t expected that. Nailren heard a confused baaaah and hoped it had died. The impact had killed three Eater Goats around it, sending their broken corpses flying. He looked around and then saw a black shape land.
On its hooves. The same [Earthen Spire] that had punched a Gargoyle in the chest and broken its ribs had hit the Void Goat. The miffed animal landed, hopped forwards, and began advancing faster.
“What?”
Someone whispered. Nailren shot another arrow as Jelaqua barked.
“Moore! Pits!”
This time, the half-Giant struck the earth, and a hole opened under the goat. It tried to leap it and sucked up a volley of spells.
But it missed the jet of wind that came from Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s finger trembled as Erin’s boon slammed the goat down from overhead.
“Nice, Pisces!”
Ceria whooped as the Void Goat fell into the hole. Moore was sweating as he struck the ground. The earth snapped shut, trapping the goat in a tomb of dirt. Everyone stared at the ground.
“No way it works. No way that worked.”
Someone muttered. A Gnoll in Nailren’s team. He snarled.
“Shut up. Don’t jinx—”
Then the ground vanished, and a Void Goat clambered out of the ground, looking peeved. It had just eaten its way out of the earth.
“Okay. That’s it. Run. Unless we catch it off-guard, there’s no way it dies!”
Jelaqua snapped, and the adventurers began trying to flee. But the Void Goat began galloping after them. It wasn’t as fast as its kin, but it was like a terrifying tag. The vortex had a gravitational pull, and if it caught you—
It saw the adventurers running for it and merrily swerved. The Gargoyles, Eater Goats, screamed, and the Void Goat began devouring monsters. Then it headed straight for the soldiers. The adventurers turned and tried to slow it down, but it was too late.
 
——
 
“Squad 8?”
Crusader 57 turned his head as he sensed something happen. He looked over, but the Antinium supposed to be fighting behind them were gone. Just…gone. The Worker looked around and then heard the screaming.
The silence. The roaring vortex as the Void Goat approached. Crusader 53 motioned everyone behind him. A rain of arrows fell, and those around the goat were sucked into oblivion. It looked at Squad 5, grinned, and then plunged into the Antinium crusade’s ranks.
Hunting them. Hunting them all.
Workers and Soldiers vanished. New [Crusaders] and old. The Void Goat trotted forwards so fast that the Antinium had no idea what was going on until Peki, Artur, and the other commanders screamed at them.
“Run!”
Then everyone was running. Into Eater Goats and Gargoyles, their formations breaking as a single monster destabilized the entire battlefield. Crusader 57 was looking around as Squad 5 ran. Zimrah, their [Priest], was screaming.
“You—you—!”
“Squad 8? Those idiots owe me money.”
He looked back at that merry little goat running around with its mouth open. So cute and small compared to the others. Crusader 57’s grip tightened on his zweihander.
“I’m going to kill you.”
Half of Squad 5 had to drag him back. Even the Beriad were backing up as the Void Goat ran around. A hundred Antinium had vanished. More. It curved left, towards Squad 5, and a knot of fighting Antinium refused to budge.
A [Templar] with two tower shields was taking on a pair of Bossels. [Taunt the Foe]. They swung weapons like cudgels into his shields, but the Soldier refused to move. Then the Templar heaved, and his shields began to glow.
[My Noble Virtue: Protection]. [Retribution of the Defender].
He heaved, and both Bossels went stumbling back. But the Void Goat was coming, and a [Templar] spotted it.
An Antinium went striding forwards as desperate arrows and spells were sucked into oblivion by the goat. The few that struck it…it seemed to be tougher than its kin. It barely noticed one of Nailren’s arrows that found the small gap in its creation of the void. The Void Goat smiled merrily as the [Templar] pointed.
“[Holy Swo—”
He vanished. The ground, the Antinium—the Void Goat did a backflip of joy. An obscene little monster. Then its look of delight turned to confusion. It stared around, and those two vertical pupils blinked once. It narrowed its eyes and stared at something.
The Void Goat opened its mouth and inhaled. The air warped, and the other [Templar] fell back. The Void Goat stared at where the [Templar] had been and then skipped over. It circled the ground, confused. Then it looked around, and another [Templar] split off from his fellows.
He had a pair of crossbows and fired, one after another, circling, feinting. This time, the Void Goat concentrated whatever it was doing. It ate an arm, and the Antinium stared at his arm. He charged, swinging. Fell.
The Void Eater Goat stood over the Antinium as it bit at the monster. It trotted around the Antinium—and a hole appeared in the world. But the goat didn’t seem satisfied. It stared at something. Perplexed. Annoyed.
Just like Tolveilouka—no, the undead thing was different. This…this wasn’t a failure to use its power. The Void Goat baahed.
I can’t eat that. What is that? It had thought, naively, that it had figured out the ultimate solution to life’s many difficult substances. It could eat magic, even Skills.
But not that. Whatever the Antinium had, it was vexing. So the Void Goat decided to consume as many of them as possible.
It began to run, and now the remaining monsters had the living at their mercy. Gargoyles formed up to hack the desperate Humans, Dwarves, and Antinium to bits. So long as the goat focused on them—
The first Bossels, the ones with the magical blades, the looted armor, strode to the [Riders] led by the [Brigadier] fleeing the Void Goat. A collision that the Humans couldn’t avoid. They opened their mouths as the [Brigadier] screamed.
“Charge for Wales! Charge for Orefell and—”
Her horse went down as the first volley of stone shards lanced the [Riders]. The Bossels charged amid the vortex of the goat’s destruction. The screams, the Eater Goats’ shrieking, and the beating of wings. One heard a familiar sound, a tearing of air, and felt a chill on its back.
It looked up at that uneasy memory and made a strangled sound. Just one before the Frost Wyvern exhaled.
The other Bossels froze in place. Some—literally, but most shook off the covering of ice, feeling the deadly chill. They gazed upwards in alarm, and one leapt up to strike at the Frost Wyvern, their old foe, pursuing them from the High Passes!
The Bossel saw a strange thing riding on top of the Wyvern. Why, it looked like a saddle. Like some of those stupid Wolves. And on it was a Goblin with a helmet with glass goggles and a Hobgoblin. The Hob lifted a big, big crossbow and—
It sounded like thunder.
The Bossel’s headless corpse dropped to the ground with a crash. The monsters gazed upwards as a familiar shriek gave them pause. Then a second Frost Wyvern dove and coated Eater Goats in a layer of icy death. More explosions of sound—a bolt blasted into the ground straight in front of [Field Captain] Rlint. He swore, then eyed the bone bolt.
“Who’s got crossbows like—?”
He looked up as a Wyvern passed overhead. The gaping Dwarf caught sight of a little Goblin as she gave him a two-fingered salute. Then the Hob aiming a Thunderbow fired again.
“Goblins?”
Suddenly, there were Goblins. Frost Wyverns dropped out of the sky, coming from the west. From the High Passes. A disbelieving Gershal watched as a Hob leapt off a Wyvern with a squad of Goblins and set up another of those oversized crossbows.
Five hundred feet distant, he calmly set up with two more and began firing into the monsters’ backs. With a pure, contemptuous disregard for close-quarters combat.
Strategy. The Frost Wyverns were strafing the Eater Goats, and the Gargoyles were suddenly targets for the crossbows and Goblins on the ground. A racing group of Carn Wolves leapt onto the backs of some Gargoyles, and their riders speared the monsters. One, holding twin blades, beheaded a Gargoyle with a single cut as he rode forwards.
“The Goblins are shooting down the monsters! Don’t attack! Don’t attack!”
Someone shouted that, but the Antinium didn’t even need to be told. The Goblins were clearly attacking the monsters, so the [Crusaders] pushed forwards as the Void Goat halted.
Oh, it’s you lot again. Hello. It stared at the Goblins and then hopped left as a crossbow bolt ploughed into the ground.
A flaming crossbow bolt. One of the Wyverns was carrying a Goblin Chieftain. She pointed—and a [Fireball] shot downwards, as fast as a baseball being thrown by a professional pitcher. It exploded just in front of the Void Goat’s protective vortex, and the creature looked annoyed.
“That’s how you do it! Area spells—hit it! Ceria, freeze that bastard!”
The adventurers realized the trick. The Void Goat could eat even the blast of a [Fireball], but the shockwave and heat annoyed it. Frost Wyverns circled as their riders unloaded, shooting crossbow bolts from all angles.
Now, the Eater Goats were fleeing. They recognized the Redfang stripes on some of the Goblins, and Frost Wyverns were a threat that preyed on them. The Bossels hesitated, but as another fell to the Antinium with their faith-powered weapons, they realized that even if the terrifying half-Elf massacred them—this was a sure death.
That left only the Void Goat. It stood, defiantly consuming arrows, magic, even the instruments of faith hurled against it. Someone was making it cold, and it was shivering a bit, but even Ceria couldn’t freeze the wretched monster.
However, the Void Goat’s stretched open mouth was trembling. It stood under the onslaught of fire as a Goblin shouted down at the stunned [Brigadier].
“Fire, fire! It can only do it for forty-eight seconds!”
“Forty-eight?”
Then the desperate fighters saw the Void Goat snap its mouth shut and dodge. It leapt forwards, then it opened its mouth again.
But an arrow was sticking out of its side, and it looked mad. The Void Eater Goat began running towards the nearest group of archers, but they fled, and it could only do its void trick so long.
Like someone holding their breath. And now, Hobs were reloading their bows. Waiting, waiting, firing in cycles. The Void Eater Goat’s eyes rolled, and Rags snapped.
“[Instantaneous Reload]! Loose!”
The Void Eater Goat tried to dodge. Three dozen Thunderbows fired. Two struck it, but even the powerful bolts from the Wyvernbone bows only sent it stumbling backwards. It screamed—and a black bolt passed through it at the same time as a [Fireball] lit up the entire Void Goat.
