My energy bodies' movements are speeding up, starting to sync back up with the rate of my perception.

"Don't you see how futile it is? In this sea of power I've built up using all of the resources from the Origin Plane, I make the rules!"

Noctus' crazed yells ring through my ears as he slashes through my body again.

The self-made fractures I've created actually absorb the gel much faster and more efficiently. However, there is a massive amount of silver thread residue left behind when he hits me. This is the added benefit.

Instead of using my full speed to turn away and most likely receive a less brutal strike, I take the hit.

This act needs to go on just a little longer.

This is because I see Maria plunging back into the purple sea without any cracks on her energy forms remaining. Inside her bodies, the energies are still being digested and turned into her own concentrated energy.

Her process of absorption is far more violent and overwhelming than mine. She just deleted an enormous portion of the sea in an instant, while my method is far more gradual and consistent.

I can tell she's not fully adjusted, and does not have an independent method mapped out yet without relying on the Demon's claws.

Noctus thrusts himself away from me, laughing and yelling into our minds while he slashes through one of Maria's wings again. He even circles back and leaves claw marks through her other side and down one of her legs before narrowly dodging a thin icy sword strike.

In the back of my mind, I catch glimpses of Ember watching the wave of ether pulse through the Upper and Lower Realms. Many months have passed again in the mere moment I looked away. It has even begun to speed up faster, rippling around the bent space that holds the construct together.

At the same time, the soul ties holding the array around this sea of purple gel are becoming weaker. Its energy is being spread thin. As a result of this, the illusion of time holding still in its center fractures more and more.

Far larger reflections of the void that Ember peers through show me a live battle, rather than the false projections of a frozen past.

The far side of the white bubble that we never pierced, it too begins to break apart in its weakened areas, and the entire sphere-like structure starts losing its shape, bending through the darkness without a clear center of gravity.

Inside, there is a pulsing and fluctuating sea of gel, and after every red, blue, and silver flash, the total volume of remaining energy inside seems to be disappearing.

Multiple exchanges pass by, tearing open claw marks all over my body.

Maria's Angelic form shatters over and over, exploding in a blinding blue and rainbow orb of light that deletes the sea around her multiple times.

I feel the time-bending forces streaming through the Realms below become even sharper and heavier, like it is pulling time itself along at a faster rate. Years begin to pass as the next exchange of blows pulses through this purple sea.

"Is that it? All you can do? The Creator's Legacy given to you by that dragon is nothing but a façade of his own creation. A last ray of hope to stop me from succeeding. He just will not admit he's wrong!"

The Demonic outline that thrusts itself away from me looks almost transparent. The silver threads holding it together are no longer overlapping, or bright to look at. There are more densely packed silver threads in a single one of my fingers than his entire being.

The claw mark he just left against my chest would not have left a mark at all if I didn't augment my flesh to let him tear through.

Now, wherever I move in this sea, the countless microtears connecting all of my energy bodies soak in the raw energy at an alarming rate.

There is a noticeable fluctuation behind me when I press off of space, leaving far less dense areas of the sea behind me. If I'm slow enough, the raw darkness of the membrane even peeks through.

Maria's bodies are filled with an endless amount of fractures like glass crushed to bits, and there is a bright blue pulsing aura that flows out from them at a constant rate.

It is her own revised method of creating just enough pseudo cores to heal her inner vital wounds, but not enough to stop the pressure of the sea from breaking down into her cores again to allow for the potent gel to flow in at a constant rate.

Anything that this pulsing blue aura touches falls deep into her soul to be digested, leaving a barren trail of darkness behind her that fills back in with gel as she moves away.

Once our mental links synchronize again, and Noctus is right between us; we stop this sluggish act and move forward through the sea with speed matching that of the silver Demon.

Ripples of intense aura flow through the sea, and instantly the laughing mad Demon's eyes sharpen with understanding.

Another faint ripple of white light comes out from his chest, doing nothing more than a simple probe.

Yet, when this faint pulse of a soul tie remnant reaches the outer edges of his mental sea, it's less than half as vast as it was just moments ago.

A single icy mirror light comes flying at him from the front, and a wave of dozens of fiery red and silver blades surrounds him from behind.
