“There’s also the fact that we’ve all won one now, and nobody else has,” Alden said. “If we’re all together, it’s fine to try out some crazier stuff even on early runs, but other teams are going to be more focused on perfecting the strategies they had at the end of class today. They’ll be more risk-averse? I would think so anyway.”

“You want to do something crazier than attacking Instructor Klein and then flying over the finish line strapped to some garbage?” Lexi asked.

“Not for the purpose of being crazy. But I wouldn’t mind making some less obvious choices. Trying to catch Instructor Waker’s throws, helping Everly make an ice road—”

“She seriously wanted to try that? I thought she was kidding,” said Haoyu.

“We can also let Kon get kidnapped instead of you, and then he can bring himself back to us really fast. All he needs is a harness or something.”

“He’ll definitely die.” Lexi sounded grim.

“That’s what the gym is for,” Haoyu said. “And if you two are on the same team, Writher will work even better. Sometimes. Don’t glare. We all know what we saw.”

“So all of us will do it together again unless Everly and Kon make other plans.” Alden was satisfied with that.

“Do you two know who you want to have a personal training session with yet?” Haoyu asked.

They had already looked at the list; Kon had been enthusing over the names on it by the time they made it into the MPE locker room. The selection of volunteers was impressive. Many famous alumni were back on Anesidora, either because they had personal matters to deal with after the floods or because they’d been called in to assist. And there were plenty of unfamiliar names, too.

Their class wasn’t the very first to have access to the volunteers. That was obvious because some slots were already taken. But their team was among the first to choose from the looks of it, and Alden was glad for that.

He was aiming for a narrow range of time slots. He wanted to get the extra practice in soon, not sometime during the December break when most of the sessions would be held. And he needed to dodge not only his own class schedule, but also Stuart’s free time schedule. If the Primary’s son was available to shoot spells at him and provide information, Alden didn’t want to be here on Earth trying to explain what a bokabv was to a teacher instead.

And he’d obviously need to leave plenty of time for the next appointment with Yenu-pezth, enough to allow for whatever mood he’d be in after steeping on the inward path. His first appointment had ended up keeping him on Artona I for a whole extra day. Sometimes after mind healing, you had epiphanies about your corrupted moon survival capabilities. Such things had to be accounted for.

“I’m thinking of choosing Rose Ofori. I don’t know much about her, but she has a weapon that phases like Writher. Getting advice on that specifically might be helpful.”

“I thought about choosing Principal Saleh because she phases,” said Alden.

Lexi looked surprised.

“I like that she’s unpredictable. And I don’t know how her abilities would work against my shield,” Alden explained. Ghosten had a famously mercurial fighting style, which would feel like practicing against something chaotic, maybe? “But then I realized all of these trained high-ranks are going to be unpredictable enough for my level of amateur, so I’m probably going to request Instructor Waker. Tomorrow night at ten.

All of the slots available between now and break were on weekends or at painful hours.

“So fast!” said Haoyu. “It’s going to take me the rest of the week to decide. There are too many to pick from.”

“If you wait, you’ll have the opposite problem,” Lexi warned. “They must be offering this as a prize in all the gym classes. I’m sure they want as many students as possible to take advantage of it.”

He scooted his chair back and reached for the black backpack he’d left under the table. “Let’s go before it starts raining.”

They left and were soon crossing the street with a uni girl who was humming a song that could have been either “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” or “Stinky, Stinky, Gokoratch”.

As the first drops of rain fell, they passed through the sliding doors into their dormitory and were greeted by warm air, the smell of garlic from whatever the last cooking endeavor in the community kitchen had been, and a rowdy group of guys who were playing a game that involved putting a T-shirt on as fast as possible, then taking it off again to pass it to the next person. Two teams were racing, and judging by the pile of shredded fabric under one of the chairs, part of the challenge was striking a balance between dressing yourself at super speed without going too far and ripping your team’s shirt like tissue paper.

“That looks like fun.” Haoyu was moving his arms as if he were imagining himself doing it.

Lexi’s mouth tightened, and he turned to head up the stairs.

Alden just assumed he disapproved of wasting perfectly good shirts until Haoyu spoke up as they climbed toward the second floor. “Never mind. Garsy was down there. That automatically makes the game less fun.”

“You don’t have to do that,” Lexi said.

“Who’s Garsy?” Alden asked.

“The really ugly one,” Haoyu said.

Lexi let out a tiny laugh that made Alden think Haoyu was probably joking. He hadn’t noticed anyone downstairs who looked remarkably below average.

“Just a former classmate,” said Lexi. “We spent a lot of time together in his last year at Paragon because we both wanted to be Meisters. Then, we didn’t spend time together anymore.”

“Oh,” said Alden.

“He got S. And turned into an esshole overnight,” said Haoyu. “As the weak-willed do.”

“Esshole is a new one for me.”

“It is? I should have said ‘Anesidora social dynamic’ first! If you get S, and suddenly you’re too important for your old friends, you’re an esshole.”

Lexi looked at them. “Why are you two having this conversation out loud? You usually use mental texting for talking behind peoples’ backs, don’t you?”

“Some people deserve to be talked about out loud,” Haoyu announced. “Do you guys mind if my parents come over after class on Friday? For dinner. I want to cook something for them, and Mom’s going to be gone for a while next month.”

“Of course I don’t mind,” said Alden. “By the way, I wash dishes magically now. And they come out definitely, mostly clean enough to eat off of.”

“That’s so unexpectedly Rabbit of you.” Haoyu sprang ahead of Lexi so that he could open the door.

It had just shut behind them, and they were sliding off their shoes, when a splashing sound made Alden and Haoyu pause. Lexi exhaled sharply, and stalked toward the bathroom, dropping his backpack on the kitchen table along the way.

Alden and Haoyu followed a few steps behind.

“Kon!” Lexi yelled, throwing open the bathroom door. “I don’t care if your room came with an extra toilet instead of a tub!”

Alden heard the curtain around the tub being yanked aside.

“That doesn’t mean you can help yourself to owaghh! <<Fuck!>> Sorry!”

The Meister leaped backward out of the bathroom, almost into the two of them.

“Good evening, Lexi,” called a familiar voice. “Come in. Open the curtain and glare down at me while I eat ramen in the tub. That won’t be uncomfortable for either of us.”

“Lute!” said Alden.

“Van Nutmeg!” Haoyu exclaimed. “You’re back.”

There was another splash and a slurping sound. “Don’t tell people I’m back. I’m cutting class until at least Monday. I just couldn’t eat another bite of wevvi. I saw one coming, and I thought I’d take my chances here in my homeland, which my family almost destroyed. Did destroy. A significant portion of it is destroyed. Did you guys know that the disposable ramen bowls float?”

******

Alden was in his pajamas on the sofa by the time Lute finished his bath and came into the living room in his robe. His hair was brown. It did nothing to disguise his appearance.

“Nobody came by and asked for me over the past few days, did they?” Lute wandered over to study the bromeliad while Haoyu flicked water on it from a cup. “Nobody mentioned me ruining anything during the floods?”

“Nobody in their right mind thinks you were involved with SAL or the Submerger or any of it,” Alden said, adjusting his tablet screen’s brightness.

“I meant more like damage to a specific section of highway, a lamppost, some of the Span… And that railing Cyril had belted himself to. And a fence that was impeding access to a place it really shouldn’t have been impeding access to during a crisis, you know?”

Haoyu stopped sprinkling his plant. “Did you break a bunch of stuff saving your father?”

Lute looked thoughtful. “If a person just bumps into something or hops off of it, and damage occurs, did the person really break the object? Or did the object fail to do its job?”

“It’s the first one,” said Haoyu.

“Yeah, it is,” Alden agreed.

“I should ask Lexi when he gets in here. What are you guys doing tonight?”

“Homework, then sleep.”

“Watching the first episode of Kwoo-pak, and then sleeping off the side effects of <<My Body Becomes My Assistant’s>> worse half.”

Lexi came down the hall with Writher in one hand and a notebook in the other. He held them both up as if that was enough of an answer.

“We’re all together,” said Haoyu. “The island is healing.”

Lute watched him for a second. “Why don’t you just carry the plant to the shower and mist it?”

Haoyu paused with his fingers in the water glass, then he flicked them in Lute’s face.

Alden smiled at the sounds of the two of them playing around, and of Lexi sighing as he took his preferred armchair. Then, he put on his headphones and watched the Goodchild Klee-pak travel with his parents to a summonarium for the first time, on his way to meet his older, more experienced cousin Kwoo.

******
