“We're invited?” They said and looked at each other. “To swim? With you, the King? And the Queen?”

“We might have those titles, but we're still people.” Ren laughed. “Do you need swimsuits?”

“That would be nice.” One of them said.

“Right this way.” Ren said and he led Valercia and the cooks over to the footwear and towel shop, gave them what they needed, then went into the next shop with the swimsuits. Valercia picked out a nice one piece that was red and hugged her curves very well, and she came out of the dressing room.

“What do you think?” Valercia asked. She had tied her hair up on top of her head and turned around for him.

“Um... I think I'm going to get to know you a lot within the next half an hour.” Ren said.

Valercia laughed and walked over to him. “You need to change as well.”

“Oh, right.” Ren said and equipped the Speedo he had worn the night before. Valercia caught her breath as Ren revealed all of his rippling muscles, and her hands touched his chest automatically and traced his pectoral muscles.

“My King.” Valercia said in a slightly deeper voice. “I look forward to getting to know you during the next half an hour as well.”

“These things are great!” One of the cooks said as he stepped out of the changing room with a pair of small swimming trunks on. “They will stay on in the water, won't they?”

“Of course they will.” The second cook said as he stepped out in a different color pair but similar in size. “Unless you take them off... and you are not to take them off in the pool.” He warned the first cook, who laughed.

“Give it a rest, you two.” The third cook said and stepped out wearing a two piece bikini. Her dark hair was cut very short and the suit covered her well; but, she was also a woman.

“You're a woman.” Ren said, surprised.

“Is that a problem?” She asked in her deep voice, a little angrily.

“Of course not.” Ren said and held up his hands in surrender to ease her anger. “I also wouldn't have treated you any differently had I known before seeing you like this.”

She nodded, mollified, then struck a pose that showed off her figure. “How will you treat me now that you know, My King?”

Ren gave her the up and down glance that her feelings demanded from him. “Until you're back in uniform, very carefully.” He said and grinned at her, and she chuckled.

“I suppose that's fair enough.” She said and glanced down at him in return. “Considering what you're wearing, I will do the same.”

Ren gave her a regal bow to concede the point that they were both wearing revealing things, and her face went red from the formal gesture. He ushered Valercia and the cooks out of the shop and met Dana and Gretchen, who stared at the third cook, too. They hadn't known she was a woman, either. Her cook uniform had hidden that fact very well.

“It's water time.” Ren said and pointed behind Dana and Gretchen. The two women glanced at the cook once more, who only smiled demurely at them, then they all went to the pool to have some more fun.
