“But the point is, we are not going along with our instincts because there would be consequences, or there are other benefits to us behaving. Or we simply don’t want to or have better things to do. It’s the same for humans. You obey laws because that choice is preferable to not obeying them when weighed against the consequences. You don’t grab that wine bottle and dump it on my head, because then you might lose your cushy job as a head serving girl. It’s all pretty basic, really, and understanding what something wants and doesn’t want is a great way to affect what it will do.”

I chimed in, “But what about the Hellborne thing? When I use Analyze on her, it says Human Hellborne.”

“Well, I do believe she is from the depths, somehow,” Fox admitted. “Maybe she even has a monster daddy or was kept as a pet. Human kids are pretty small, so it’s not like she’d be a vital meal. Anyway, however she survived down there, it wouldn’t be surprising that she acquired some interesting achievements or even quests that could have augmented her species classification. She does have a human System interface from what I could tell, however.”

My ears perked. “What do you mean?”

Fox winked. “I have a higher level of Analyze. Humans can’t evolve as monsters can; they get classes instead. At least as far as that goes, she’s 100% human.”

“Oh. What level is she, by the way?”

“Way higher than me,” Fox answered.

I narrowed my eyes at her. “What level are you?"

She flashed a fang. “Not telling.”

I folded my arms. “I guess that means it's embarrassingly low.”

Her brow twitched. “Higher than yours, twerp.”

“Sure, but I’m just a kid.”

“Hey! I’ll have you know I have a perfectly acceptable level! A lady just has to keep a few mysteries, you know.”

“You’re not a lady—you threatened to eat the help!” I shot back.

“I was joking!” Fox chuckled, waving off the issue.

The humans, despite even jokingly being included as menu items, began chuckling. Aiko laughed most of all, “Wow, you two are like sisters.”

I blushed at that comment. Fox may have been selfish and opportunistic, but I was truly very grateful that she was still with us. As that thought hit me, another one did. However, when I tried using Pack Bond to check her status page, I only received an error message.

[Invalid Target for that ability]

I couldn’t help frowning at that, but shook it off. It’s not like I wanted her to be a part of my pack! Well… maybe a little. No, I just wanted to see her level so I could throw it in her face!

I scratched behind Lily’s ear as she rested her muzzle on my leg, and her eyes were beginning to drift closed.

“Well, if everyone is finished with dinner,” Aiko began, folding her hands politely. “I’ll be happy to show you all to your rooms.”

My ears perked. “Actually, me, Lily, and Grick would like to sleep together.”

“That would be fine,” Aiko said. “We can prepare a larger futon room for you.”

Grick gave a tired thumbs up from where he was still sprawled among the pillows. “Fish room,” he mumbled.

“That’s not what she said,” I muttered.

Aiko turned to Fox. “And for you?”

Fox stretched lazily, her tail flicking once behind her as she leaned back on her hands.

“Oh, I’ll take my own room. Preferably one with a door that closes.”

Aiko nodded. “Of course. We have several guest chambers available.”

After that, we were led to our private room, Grick practically sleepwalking his way there. He flopped face-first down on the futon as soon as possible, and Lily curled up next to him.

“If there is anything you need during your stay, feel free to ask,” Aiko said with a bow. “Just remember that after midnight, stay away from the main corridors and keep yourselves to the guest areas.”

“Okay, I understand,” I said.

Once she was gone and the screen was slid shut, I looked at Lily and Grick, then down at myself. It had technically only been 24 hours, or maybe slightly longer in this form so far, but I was ready to get back into my puppy body.

Let’s see… do I just use the skill but think Hell Hound?

{Veilform}!

Sure enough, as soon as I used the skill, I felt my limbs stretching and bones popping. I quickly loosened the kimono before my hands turned into paws, and soon the garments were pooling around my doggy body, and I had to squirm my way out of them and kick them away.

Veilfang Stalker was a bit smaller than Whisperfang Juvenile, but that was okay. I curled up alongside Lily, who gave my nose a quick lick, and then we both got comfy and drifted off to sleep.

Read Next Chapter Now!
