Two.

Hadley left before dawn.

He had his pack, his journal, and three days of provisions calculated to the flatbread. The ridgeline route was two days -- one day up to the basin cache, one day back, with a margin of one day's food for weather or delay. Hadley's logistics were as precise as his insect counts.

"I will be back by Day 40," he said. "Probably Day 39 if the ridgeline is clear."

Wren handed him the letter.

He took it without looking at it, tucked it into the interior pocket of his pack where the waterproof lining was, the place where things went that needed to survive weather. He had been carrying things for people his entire adult life. He did not need to be told what the letter meant.

"The ghost-elms," he said, adjusting his pack straps. "The shimmer."

"What about it?"

"It is wider than when I arrived. Not a little wider. The perimeter has extended past the second ridge marker. That is twenty meters beyond where it was on Day 32." He looked north, toward the tree line, toward the trail that would take him up the escarpment. "The Holding changed the range. Not just the settlement. The trees."

Wren filed this. The Holding's resonance pushing outward through the substrate, extending the living boundary of what the settlement protected.

"Count on the way," she said.

"I always count." Hadley smiled. He lifted a hand -- not a wave, a gesture that meant *I will be back* in the particular Rimfolk shorthand that Wren had learned to read -- and walked north through the ghost-elm perimeter.

The settlement was four.

---

Brecca stood at the gathering hall's north wall with her hands at her sides.

She had been standing there since dawn. Not working. Not pressing clay or testing joints or angling her weight into the stone the way she had done every morning for three weeks. Standing. Her hands hung loose, the fingers slightly curled, the calluses visible in the early light. She was looking at the wall the way someone looks at a door they are not sure they should open.

Wren watched from the fire pit. She did not go over.

After a long time, Brecca lifted her right hand and placed her palm flat against the wall.

Her whole body changed. Her shoulders pulled in, her breath shortened, and then she pulled her hand back and stood there staring at the stone.

"It is loud," she said. Her voice was thin. "Yesterday it was -- I could feel the joints. My joints. The ones I pressed. Now I can feel --" She stopped. Her hand was shaking. "Everything. The wall is full of -- it is three hundred years of hands, Wren. Three hundred years of people pressing stone and it is all there and it is all talking at once."

Wren stood up and walked to her. "What does it sound like?"

"Not sound. Weight." Brecca pressed her palm against the wall again, briefly, then pulled back. "Layers. My work is on top -- three weeks, it is thin, it is warm. Underneath that is the healer's work. Decades of maintenance. Different hands, different pressure, the same intention. And under that --" She swallowed. "Under that is the builders. And the builders are so heavy I cannot hear myself."

"That is the [Foundation Stone] signature," Wren said. "Through the bond, I feel it as vibration. You are feeling it as weight."

"Weight that is patient." Brecca looked at her hands. "How do you stand it? The threshold stone must be worse."

"The threshold stone was overwhelming at Glimpsed depth. Then it was bearable at Familiar. Then it was --" Wren paused. "Known. It became something I could hold without being held by it."

"How long did that take?"

"Thirty-six days."

Brecca looked at the wall. Three hundred years of intention, pressing against a palm that could hear it for the first time. She put her hand back on the stone. This time she did not flinch. She did not pull away. She stood with her palm flat and her shoulders tight and her jaw set and she held.

"Start with the top layer," Wren said. "Your work. Feel that first. The rest can wait."

Brecca closed her eyes. For a long time the only sound was the insect chorus and the ghost-elms' hum and the stream running past the drainage channel. Then her shoulders loosened. Not all the way. But a degree.

"I can feel my thumbprints," she said. "In the joints. They have my heat in them."

"That is [Pressed Intention]," Wren said. "The System named what you were already doing."

Brecca opened her eyes. "It named it. It did not explain it." She looked at Wren. "Show me what you see."

---

Wren placed her fingertips on the joint beside Brecca's hand and engaged Detail Notation.

The mark sank in. The same interaction as yesterday -- merging with Brecca's intention signature, finding depth in what should have been surface. But today Wren was not reading for the first time. She was comparing.

"The merged signal is clearer than yesterday," she said. "Your intention layer is more distinct. The [Pressed Intention] is giving it structure."

"What does that look like? Through the bond?"

"Warm. Layered. Your work has the quality of -- attention compressed into material. Not geological patience. Human care. The bond reads it as a signature, like the [Foundation Stone], but smaller. Newer. Fragile."

"Fragile," Brecca repeated. She did not like the word.

"Young," Wren corrected. "Not fragile. Young."

Brecca pressed her palm harder against the stone. "I can feel your mark. The Detail Notation. It feels like a window. A place where the stone has more vocabulary than it did before."

Wren had not known that. The mark, from her side, was a resonant overlay -- a way of reading deeper into the stone's composition. She had not considered that from inside the stone, through touch, the mark might feel different. Like a window.

"What else do you see?" Wren asked. "Through the touch. What does the builders' layer feel like?"

Brecca was quiet for a long time. Her palm stayed on the stone. Her breathing had steadied.

"Certain," she said. "Not heavy. I was wrong about heavy. Certain. Like someone who pressed this joint knew exactly what they were doing and did not need to check. My work checks. My thumbs test the clay before they press. Their thumbs just --" She moved her hand along the wall, feeling the progression. "They just knew."

"Generations of knowing," Wren said. "Maret said the builders felt the pulse four days out. They had been listening for generations."

Brecca looked at her hand on the wall. "I have been listening for three weeks."

"That is three weeks more than yesterday."

---

Theron had been in the eastern channel since dawn.

Wren found him late in the morning, waist-deep in the trench he had been clearing since yesterday. The eastern branch was narrower than the main channel -- the dressed stone smaller, the mortar thinner, the craftsmanship less refined. A secondary system. Something the builders had added to an existing network, extending their water management into ground that had been healthy when they built it.

The channel ran east for thirty meters and then turned south. Theron had cleared the turn. Beyond it, the stonework changed. Not dressed blocks. Coursed rubble -- rougher, older, the work of hands that had built for function before the settlement's masons arrived. The channel widened into a basin. And at the basin's southern end, half-buried under years of leaf-fall and compacted soil: a stone-lined cistern.

"Look at the cap," Theron said.

The cistern's cap was a single dressed stone, rectangular, fitted into the basin's rim with the precision of someone who understood that a cistern cap needed to keep leaves out and let air in. The cap had a hole drilled through its center -- not wide, the width of a thumb -- and the hole was lined with a smooth stone collar that would have kept the cap from cracking under weight.

"Water collection," Theron said. "From the surface. Rain. The channel ran water from the settlement's drainage into this cistern, and the cistern stored it." He touched the cap. "My grandmother never mentioned a cistern."

"Because this was in the gap."

"Because this was in the gap." The echo carried the same weight as yesterday. But Theron's hand was still on the cap, and his thumb was tracing the smooth stone collar the way he traced dressed joints -- reading the craftsmanship. His jaw was tight. Not with surprise. With recognition. He knew this quality of work. He had grown up repairing it.

"The channel continues south," he said. "Past the cistern. I can see dressed stone under the soil line. It goes somewhere."

Wren knelt at the cistern's edge and reached through the bond. The substrate here was different from the settlement proper -- weaker signal, the threshold stone's resonance attenuated by distance and the retreated strip's degraded soil. But present. She could feel the limestone bedrock beneath the cistern, the geological substrate that connected this structure to the threshold stone's network through unbroken stone.

She reached for more detail. The cistern's age. The stonework's composition. The function of the channel beyond the cistern, the direction it ran, the structure it might connect to. She pushed the bond's sensitivity further, trying to resolve the faint signals at the edge of the substrate's range.

She hit a wall.

The limit of what Journeyman-tier Surveying could resolve at this distance. The signal was there -- she could feel it, a presence in the substrate that suggested more stonework, more structure, something south of the cistern -- but she could not read it. The resolution was too low. Like trying to read text through frosted glass.

She let go.

Not of the bond. Of the push. She settled her weight on her knees and kept her palm on the cistern's edge and simply stayed with what she could not read. The signal was there. She could not resolve it. She breathed, and the substrate breathed with her -- the slow geological patience of limestone that had been holding information for longer than she had been alive.

The frosted glass did not clear. But she stopped trying to see through it. She started listening to the frost itself -- the texture of what blocked her, the shape of the gap between what she knew and what she needed. The gap had contour. It had edges. It had --

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  ABILITY UNLOCKED
  [Keen Survey]
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Active — Level 5 Wayfinder

  10-minute focused observation within 200-meter
  radius. Reveals resource density, elevation contours,
  water sources, and one hidden feature per activation.

  Cooldown: 1 hour.

  This ability was available at Level 5. It has activated
  now because you reached for resolution your current
  perception could not provide, and the System recognized
  the need.

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

The ability settled into her awareness like sediment finding its angle of repose. Not new -- the perceptual capacity had been building since Level 5, waiting for the moment when she stopped reaching and started listening.

She activated [Keen Survey].

The cistern's surroundings sharpened. The substrate's signal resolved from a blur to a map: water table depth (four meters, seasonal), limestone composition (three-layer formation, the same geological sequence as the threshold stone), and at the edge of the two-hundred-meter radius, partially obscured by corrupted soil but detectable through the bedrock: a second cistern. South. Connected to this one by the channel Theron had seen continuing past the cap.

The builders' water system did not stop at the settlement's edge. It extended south into what was now corrupted ground, a network of channels and cisterns that had once served something larger than the settlement Wren knew.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Varethen -- Eastern Water Infrastructure
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Structural / Geological: Keen Survey reveals a
  secondary water collection and storage network
  extending south from the settlement's drainage
  system. At least two cisterns connected by a
  dressed-stone channel. The network predates the
  current settlement perimeter and extends into
  formerly corrupted ground. Full extent unknown --
  southern terminus is beyond the retreat zone,
  in active corruption.

  +64 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 2111 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 71 (Journeyman)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

"There is a second cistern," Wren said. "South. In the corrupted ground."

Theron looked at her. Then he looked south, through the trees, toward the ground that was still grey and compacted and held by something that did not want to let go.

"How far south?"

"At the edge of what I can see. A hundred and fifty meters, maybe two hundred. Connected to this one by the same channel."

Theron stood in the trench with his trowel at his side. The cistern at his feet, the cap with its thumb-width hole, the junction behind him, the main channel running back to the settlement. His grandmother's infrastructure, extending further than his grandmother knew.

"We will need more than one degree," he said.

"Yes."

"The next pulse is seventeen days."

"Sixteen now."

Theron looked at the cistern. At the cap. At his hands, holding the trowel that had cleared the trench. He nodded once -- the Theron nod, the one that meant a decision had been made and he would act on it when the time was right.

---

Maret left in the afternoon.

She had been ready since morning -- her pack assembled, her counting rod in her hand, the cloth that had held the ghost-elm seedpods folded and tucked into her jacket. But she had waited. For Theron to return from the eastern channel. For Wren to finish her survey. For Brecca to come down from the gathering hall's north wall, where she had been standing with her palm on the stone for two hours, learning to hear past the builders' certainty to the sound of her own work underneath.

They gathered at the fire pit. Three people seated, Maret standing. The arrangement itself a departure.

Maret looked at each of them.

"The carried stone stays," she said. Not asking. Stating. "It is where it belongs. My grandmother carried it for sixty years so it could come home." She touched the counting rod. The fresh notches from the second Holding were pale against the darker wood. "I will cut a new rod. This one stays too."

She held out the counting rod to Theron. He took it. His hand closed around the wood with the same automatic grip he used on stone -- the grip of someone holding something that contained information his hands needed to learn.

Then Maret looked at Brecca.

"When the walls teach you something you do not understand," Maret said, "walk north. I will be there."

Brecca's throat moved. She did not speak. She nodded.

Maret turned to Wren.

"You asked me how the builders knew the pulse was coming four days out. I told you they listened." Maret pressed the rod -- the new absence of it in her hands -- and clasped her fingers together. "I did not tell you what they listened for. My grandmother said the builders did not call this place the Thornwild. They called it the Vael." She said the word carefully, the syllable old and worn, the sound of a name carried in the mouth for generations. "It means *the place that sings.* Before the corruption came, the land sang. The builders could hear it. The stone's greeting was the land's voice, not just the stone's."

Wren wrote the word in her journal. *Vael. The place that sings.*

"My grandmother said if you say it at the threshold stone during a dawn vibration, the stone answers differently. I do not know if this is true. My grandmother said many things that were true and some things that were story and some things that were both." She looked at the threshold stone, visible through the trees, its east face catching the afternoon light. "But I think you will find out."

She touched Theron's cheek. Three seconds. The same gesture as her arrival, the physical grammar of a family that spoke through contact. Theron closed his eyes.

Then Maret walked north.

She did not turn around. She did not wave. She walked with the pace of a woman who had been walking the Rim for sixty years and knew exactly how far she had to go and exactly how long it would take. The ghost-elm perimeter thinned around her. The tree line opened. She climbed the first rise of the escarpment trail without slowing.

Wren watched until Maret was a shape on the ridge, and then until the shape was the ridge, and then until the ridge was just the ridge.

---

Three.

The fire that evening was smaller. Three people. The space where Maret had sat was not empty -- Theron had moved to occupy it, his back against the stone she had leaned against, his hand on the counting rod she had left. The space where Hadley would have been narrating the silence was simply silent.

Brecca sat at the gathering hall wall. Not against it -- at it, her palms flat on the stone, the low-level contact she had been maintaining all day. She was not overwhelmed anymore. She was practicing.

Wren opened her journal.

*Day 38. Two. Hadley departed before dawn -- basin cache, two-day round trip, carrying the letter. Ghost-elm shimmer extended 20 meters past pre-pulse perimeter. He noticed before I did.*

*Keen Survey unlocked. The ability was waiting for me to need it. The cistern is part of a larger network -- at least two cisterns, connected by channels, extending south into corrupted ground. The builders' water system was bigger than Varethen. Bigger than the settlement we know.*

*Maret left. She gave us the counting rod, the name of this place before it was consumed -- Vael, the place that sings -- and an instruction for Brecca. She did not take the carried stone. It is where it belongs.*

She paused. The insect chorus ran its full voice. The ghost-elms hummed. The threshold stone's heartbeat pulsed in the substrate, steady, patient, the way it had pulsed for four thousand years.

*Day 38. Original cycle: 17. Current: 18. The drift is one day. Sixteen days to the third pulse.*

*Three tomorrow.*

She closed the journal. The margin column counted up. The fire burned down. The stone sang in the dark, and three people held the settlement between them.
