A lack of balance can see a Pathbearer broken. Not every Skill Evolution brings glory and the promise of greater power. Sometimes, if your foundational skills are out of alignment with each other, you can find yourself limited or even crippled by the changes you experience. The most common cases are ones where a Pathbearer achieves Master-Tier Physicality, only to find their body unable to bear the burden of their strength. With their Toughness lagging behind, though they might be able to hold up a crumbling building, their spine will shatter. Their flesh will tear. Their muscles will break loose from the structure of their skeletons, and they will fall and succumb, though there is supposedly power enough in their sinews.

To meet such an end is an ignoble fate, and so you must be strategic with your growth. Single-mindedness will prove more detrimental than useful. Even skills that do not cripple you dramatically upon use will see their effectiveness diminished. A Master-Tier magical skill will never achieve the heights of its potential if you lack the foundational mind skills to bolster it, if you are incapable of understanding the theory, if you do not have the capacity to calculate and predict how your patterns will come together, if you lack the speed to shape your mana in battle.

As such, and it bears repeating forevermore, your foundations must rise in pace with your highest skill. A tower can rise into the stratosphere, but any good architect knows that if the base is unstable, the heights they grace will only be temporary before a devastating fall.

Be mindful, be wise, be patient.

Or learn to reap lament from what should have been a just evolution.

—The Paths of Ascension: Essential Reading at Phoenix Academy of the Yellowstone Republic

346

Harbinger [II]

At first, Shiv had thought this Legendary Skill Evolution bore more consequences than it was worth.

He'd been wrong. Truly and utterly wrong.

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin lived up to its name for both Shiv and his enemies. As it turned out, the only reason why it needed to sacrifice one of his worst memories to shatter the tower was that it lacked a mind and bore only the singular aspect of a body. As such, the Harbinger had to conduct a mental-emotional transplant, infusing it with the memory and the sordid feelings attached to it. Only after did it become fully tangible for the Harbinger, and with that came a shattering.

Since Longinus' slave wranglers were already whole of mind, body, and heart, there didn't need to be a sacrifice of memories on Shiv's part to see them broken.

The Deathless moved away from the rivers of sauce that formed the inner perimeter to the Boiling Toad. Longinus was left behind, raging in place, doubtlessly crying out for his vanished enemy to come out and die upon the end of his lance. Instead of obliging, Shiv made for the border of this kitchen stronghold. Though the Boiling Toad was comparable to a sizable town, distance wasn't Shiv's ally. He knew Longinus could cross the space between them in an instant, but every microsecond he bought for himself buffered his survival.

Shiv found an assortment of new test subjects near what could best be described as a massive lake-aquarium. Carved out in the shape of a crescent, the water was separated into salty and fresh bodies. The lake ran deep and dense with countless lifeforms. Schools of fish dotted the surface, while down in the dark lurked stranger beasts and larger leviathans. They weren’t Shiv’s targets. Instead, he stalked the people manning the ships that skimmed the surface. The hundred-meter-long vessels cast long nets into the deep and were manned by crews numbering four hundred. Unlike the other districts, the ship-slaves seemed to be pure labor—made to fish or work their Hydromancy under the cracking of magical whips and the hateful magics of summoned dimensionals.

The presence of the dimensionals brought forth another question: If Longinus was a god and so powerful in terms of his summoning, why did he have need for slaves? His dimensionals were more than sufficient as guards, so why could he not simply enlist some more Hydromancers without placing them in a state of bondage? On top of that, why were the slave wranglers individuals instead of dimensionals or monsters?

Those queries were answered the moment Shiv surfaced back in the context. Upon unleashing his Harbinger and activating Legion of Self, he gazed upon the other beings in existence with new eyes. The dimensionals possessed a Tripartite of mind and body, but their emotional cores were pinpricks compared to those of a person. The things they felt were base, akin to how an unawakened lizard or an even simpler creature might understand morality.

The same couldn't be said for the slave drivers, some of whom enjoyed their work with perverse cruelty, while others numbed themselves through drink, or drug, or self-delusion. The flames that filled their cores were vibrant, colorful, and flavorful in equal measure—and novel too. Every person felt their emotions in a different way, and every person tasted unique, filling the air with their own specific aroma.

Considering how the Wanderer could sense, devour, and inflict emotions, the question as to why this hellhole of a kitchen was so inefficiently run was answered.

But where Longinus was a glutton that feasted upon the nectars of passion, the Harbinger was a predator, a calamity of mind, matter, heart, and time.

Legion of Self gave him time to plot and plan, but its potential was elevated to new heights by the Harbinger. Shiv's bodies were limited by his Reflexes, by actions already performed, by logical contradictions that prevented one action from rendering another impossible. More than anything, however, they were limited by time. It took them time to get from one place to another. It took them time to inflict damage, to shape a spell, to shift their shape. But the Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin was time incarnate. It glided across the surface of a stilled present and materialized a moment in the future. Said future could be a half-second, could be a quarter-second, could be longer, could be shorter—could be any time that Shiv could process and any place within his perception.

More importantly, however, it could carry him from one place to the next. Clad within the golden shards of his flawed perfection, Shiv's evolved Chrono-Psychomancy fields became an armored form that granted him a new threshold of unburdened alacrity. Within the dense confines of his Legendary-Tier magic, the present was effectively still. Longinus still noticed him. He could still react, but the god's tools for responding to him were reduced, and the surprise provided by Shiv’s Continuity Error left the Wanderer a step behind—and left the god unable to protect his subjects.

Shiv reached the first slaver in little time at all. Her arm was reared back to deliver a curved whip crack to an unruly slave on deck. Her face was a mess of scars and tattoos, but neither ridges of ugly tissue nor colorful inks could hide the depravity that gleamed in the white of her eyes. The depravity shone through in the flame of her heart, which crackled and roared with venomous intent. Susurration slipped out from her mind the same way the flames of vile ardor curled free from her heart and befouled her person with a stench of darkness.

Incensed by her impurity, Shiv struck with neither warning nor mercy. A twin-layered fist shot out. The Harbinger struck, mirroring the actions of his physical body, and it became his gauntlet—a metaphysical armament that allowed him to strike at something even deeper. Twin Legendary lores came down upon Adept-Tier Magical Resistance. It was like breaking an egg by flinging a moon through the surface of a planet.

Overkill became an understatement. The slaver's already paltry protections evaporated before either blow even truly landed. When he finally struck, she broke in three ways and was flung across a new trajectory of reality.

Shiv's first punch was thoughtless. He didn't target anything specific. He just wanted to stop her, for her very existence offended him—or the Harbinger born of him. As such, her mind broke like it was made of glass. A storm of memories crashed against Shiv, bouncing off his Magical Resistance and skipping off the surface of his Harbinger like a wall of shrapnel. The feelings that fueled the furnace of her being gushed out in a gout of flame. It bathed him. It bled her final sensations into him, and her flesh didn't splatter in a spray of gore or final vapor, but burst as glittering glass.

As he pressed against her, as he drove his mass down on her, she wasn't scattered across the deck of the hundred-meter-long fishing ship. That wasn't Shiv's will. He didn't want to see her bleed on the slave she'd tormented in life as a final offering at the point of her death, and so he flung her on instinct, by reflex. He flung her along a new trajectory, unavailable to him before. Not across material space, but time.

He clotheslined the slaver’s broken remains so hard that he carried them into the future with him—and flung them even further still, even as he slipped back over into the present.

The transition was instant and jarring and came with a shudder that rattled the Harbinger. Instead of Chronomancy circling around Shiv, infusing his Harbinger's glass with solid mana, the golden magics that suffused him were flung forward, painting a single trail that he accelerated along.

Existence became frictionless and slippery.

Shiv surprised himself by jumping across time. He surprised Longinus twice over when he returned and found the god’s incandescent visage blazing in the air behind him, flinching as Shiv rematerialized.

“How the fuck—”

The Deathless suffered no such hesitation. He flung himself again, extending the path of his Chronomancy to the next slaver he saw before Longinus could do anything. It felt just like casting himself back in time, but where he could only rewind himself back across to a point weighted by a temporal anchor or only fifteen seconds in his retro-history, allowing him to traverse space without the manipulation of Dimensionality, the future was boundless. And the stores of Shiv's Chronomancy mana felt endless, for it was further kindled by the flames of his fury.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart served as his new Skill Evolution's foundation, a composite of his evolved Psychology mingled with a Berserk Skill. Paired with how much he despised Longinus for everything the god had done to Georges and all the people within his realm, Shiv’s anger proved ceaseless, and from that was evermore mana distilled.

Where his first time jump happened purely on reflex, his second was deliberate. He emerged a centimeter away from the next slaver. The moment he did, he felt a ripple of something crash into him. A wall of rage and want and lust. Longinus reacted with a skill, but it struck nothing—for Shiv had slipped from past to future from the place he once stood.

“Keep him unbalanced,” the Harbinger advised. “Keep moving. Take the slaver. Leap again.”

Shiv obliged. He reached out and took his next victim by the neck. The slaver's Magical Resistance turned to dust upon contact, but the rest of him was spared from harm. Even so, Shiv could feel the warmth of the slaver's emotions, of the mind that guided the elf-slaver’s actions—fragile, thin—and his rusted body. The Harbinger leapt once more. A new path was painted. A new destination was charted as its golden mana reached across the world.

With this time leap, Shiv brought with him a passenger. Caught within his Chronomancy, the slaver could but scream. His voice was a distorted cry of incoherent terror, and though his gauntleted fingers pried, he possessed little hope of breaking free from Shiv’s grasp.

The second temporal transition ran longer than the first. Shiv jumped across time and found himself displaced nearly a kilometer upward and two full seconds in the future. Below, the aquarium district was ablaze with incandescent colors as Longinus roared with frustration. He could remember Shiv now, but still remained a step behind and out of sync with his movements.

Truth be told, it was hard for Shiv to keep track of himself as well. Jumping across time wasn't like wearing his Harbinger in the present. Instead of time being still for him, he accelerated himself along the natural currents of chronology and arrived in the future. For everyone else, two seconds had passed. For him and his new prisoner, everything happened in an instant.

Holy shit, that’s going to take some getting used to. Even incomplete and flawed, the Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin was a Legendary Skill, and it made that known with every breath-emptying feat it allowed him to perform.

As Shiv tried to jump again, a synaptic shadow formed over him. Though his Harbinger was unbound by time, his personal Reflexes limit served as a ceiling. But it was still staggering. Three actions. He could perform three full actions while nested within his Harbinger where his physical bodies could only do one.

And he wasn’t done exploring the skill yet.

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 202 > 204

Shiv let Legion of Self roll a second into the future. He expected Longinus to be upon him, but the god wasn’t anywhere near. Instead, he was still down below, still on the deck of the ship, so overwhelmed by Shiv’s sudden transitions across context and time and space that he hadn’t caught up.

That gave Shiv another precious moment in time to further his tests.

