“Wait,” the Harbinger declared. “Let's see how far we can go backward across our own history. We have gone forward. I am reasonably certain that we can travel substantially far into the future before my mana field is strained. I wish to see if the same restrictions apply to our past as well. I want to see if we can slip out from the Boiling Toad and conduct an interrogation beyond Longinus’ notice.”

And so, with the slaver still in hand, Shiv obliged. He cast himself backwards across time. Strider of the Unbending Path's existing power still remained, but the Harbinger was far more than the Strider. The Strider, after all, was merely a Master-Tier skill; there was no comparison between it and what Shiv possessed now. And once more, the greatness of Shiv's new evolution made itself known.

A path formed, leading him back across his own history. Shiv glided back in time, but his transition was not so frictionless. Instead, it was turbulent and abrupt, as he was defying the rightful path of chronological progression. The turbulence only grew worse as he hit the points where he was out of context. It was like dashing himself upon a series of rocks, and his Harbinger fractured from the violence of the transition. Where its brittle form broke, Shiv’s Severed Shadow was shredded as well. Broken bits of Vitae were knocked loose from his body as the wounds dealt to his Harbinger were expressed upon him in turn—another weakness to be noted.

But he didn’t stop. He was too enraptured to stop. Though it took a great effort on his part, he was still reeling back in time, skipping over the moments he spent outside Integration. He was now back over the rivers of sauce, then over the grill, then back even further still, reeling all the way to the front gate. Every time he struck a point where he was out of context, his Harbinger would sustain more damage, and every second he spent reversing his history increased his turbulence. Chunks of vitality were knocked free from him, but his mana never became an issue.

Where the Strider of the Unbending Path recovered quickly and regenerated fast, the Harbinger’s strength seemed without end—and the only reason why it wasn’t an outright juggernaut was because of Shiv’s weakness and a lacking Delve.

If Legion of Self made Shiv exponentially more capable, then the Harbinger put him in another category of power. One Legendary Skill already changed everything for him. Another altered the way he understood his limits irrevocably.

Little wonder they said Legends could defy the gods.

“Shiv…” the Harbinger’s voice was strained. “Enough. We must stop.” But the Deathless was confused—he didn’t feel tired at all. There was no strain. “Not strain… But if I strike another point of turbulence, I fear I will shatter entirely.”

And that admission made Shiv stop reverting himself across time in an instant. A broken Harbinger meant a broken him. That was something he most definitely couldn’t survive.

When he emerged, he found himself far beyond the Boiling Toad. He was inside the keep once more, along the gallery of chefs where he first encountered Longinus—who wore the guise of Georges and presented himself as Ser Cuntus.

Shiv didn’t have the words. He hadn’t gone back seconds; he’d jumped back across hours. And the overwhelming joy and lightness he felt was—

That sobered him. Joy and lightness. A sensation of overwhelming peace and happiness gripped him, where a moment before, practically every fiber of his existence trembled with constant apocalyptic rage toward Longinus.

“It’s been spent,” the Harbinger answered. And to that end, the gold of its fragments was diminished and dim, and the flowing Psychomancy that leaked from its cracks alongside the tar-black flames of Shiv’s loathing had been reduced to a trickle. “In place of my mana, it has been spent.”

The thought that this was another flaw didn't even cross Shiv's mind. Reverting himself across hours of personal history was not a flaw; it was an achievement, but it came at a cost of resources. Emotional resources. Using the Harbinger spent his rage; the Harbinger was also vulnerable and needed to be kept out of direct combat. If a bit of temporal turbulence caused it so much damage and inflicted the same injuries upon Shiv, then letting Longinus hit the Harbinger directly was a death sentence.

“Alright, new adjustments: Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides and my physical bodies hit first. I don't use you in direct combat unless I am ambushing someone or there is an opening I can take advantage of.”

“Wise,” the Harbinger complimented. “It was also wise of us not to throw ourselves at Longinus. We left him confused, but if we struck him directly, perhaps it would be us who shattered instead of the slaver.”

“Probably,” Shiv grunted. “Speaking of slavers…”

The elf-slaver had gone completely still—and also wet himself. Compared to the tattooed slaver Shiv broke, the elf looked young. On its own, that meant nothing. Elves lived longer than humans at baseline and stayed youthful throughout the span of their existence, and Pathbearers of even the Adept-Tier could stay young for centuries. But this one lacked the stench of malice. This one didn't enjoy what he did. Instead, there was a resounding dullness that echoed forth from his mind and a numbness within their core. The emotions there were worn down from erosion. And there was something else—a chord of pure terror bound to Shiv, fueling him with physical and magical power.

Shape of Monstrosity injected a dose of magic back into the Harbinger, and its form grew just a bit brighter.

Once more, Shiv was reminded that a Pathbearer wasn’t a single Legendary Skill—that all skills worked in concert with the others. There was a grand synergy at play inside every individual.

“I… I…” The elven slaver was beyond words and petrified with terror. His mind also felt slow and meager in general, so he likely wasn’t the brightest to begin with.

Just thinking while remaining in contact with the elf's body had a consequence. Shiv's judgment proved infectious. Glass formed along the elf's face as he turned brittle, and without the constant threat of Longinus looming over him, the Deathless had the chance to examine the effects in new detail. The first thing that caught Shiv's attention was the Enkindled Shadow—a thing of black fire, further veiled by a membrane of mind magic—flickering free from the Harbinger's form. Said Enkindled Shadow adopted a stance much like a proper practitioner of the martial arts instead of a brawler. It thrust a palm against the slaver's face and imprinted that patch of glass in place, and with that came a psionic susurration conveyed of Shiv’s mind.

One that echoed with voices inside the slave.

“Slow, stupid, and dull as an animal.”

Shiv's telepathic voice was co-mingled with someone else, someone from the slaver's past, and the emotions inside the elf responded. Part of him clearly believed in his own inadequacy, and that was the final bit that allowed the alchemy to take shape. The elf believed he was stupid, and Shiv’s words reached into psychological cavities that ran so wide they went beyond wounds and became entire rifts. On top of that, however, Shiv found himself enraptured by that tar-black shadow. It seemed the Harbinger had a ghost of its own while it already served as a ghost to Shiv. But more than just a ghost, its blows and posture were those of a practiced pugilist that didn’t distinguish between mind or body.

And the Harbinger is fused from four different skills, most of which were fused from even more skills.

The sheer breadth of the Harbinger's capabilities was staggering. Its capabilities seemed to be expanding by the second. It left even Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides in shame.

“That is because you are not using Leviathan to anywhere near its true potential,” the Harbinger defended.

“Huh, but—”

“I’m currently modulating our emotions and thoughts so this feels constructive instead of mocking. Otherwise, we would have taken another injury. You are not using Leviathan well. And it is far simpler a skill to use compared to me. After all, it is the union between your Grappling, Magical Resistance, and Physicality. Of the three, Magical Resistance requires no skill, but how often have you guided your tactile telekinesis to control or subdue your enemies?”

Shiv’s mind went blank. “My telekinesis.”

“Tactile telekinesis,” the Harbinger corrected. “For that is what it is: Anything you can touch, you can manipulate and control. That’s why you wanted the skill in the first place. It’s what allows you to crush Blackedge or wrestle beasts many times your size and mass as if you are their equal. But how often have you let your vectors glide out from your body and ripple through the world? How often have you let overflow tides wash out from your feet and paint the environment around you, or rip ground out from beneath your enemies?”

He didn’t have a good answer to that. “I don’t think I ever did anything like that.”

“But you could. So long as you stay in contact with the ground, you can reach an enemy. You can direct your Shapeless Tides across the floor, seize their leg, and batter them against the ground after breaching their Magical Resistance. Or breaking their limbs with an ankle lock, or leg lock, or choking them from a vast distance with your vectors alone. All these things are possible if you apply your imagination.”

The Deathless was speechless.

“And the reason you are not feeling embarrassed right now is that I am dispelling that emotion before it can form.” Shiv noticed a faint flicker of enkindled Psychomancy curling through his mind, tuning his thoughts and feelings. “The damage would have been catastrophic. Let me add another rule for us: We do not split from one another unless there is no other choice. The risks are simply too great, and the benefits of fighting as a combined whole are overwhelming as hell. Apart, we are vulnerable. Together, we patch each other’s flaws.”

“Yeah,” Shiv breathed, trying not to swallow. “That sounds… Yeah.”

A whimper interrupted his internal discussion. “P-uh—please don’t kill me.” The elven slave was too petrified to cry, and what quivering courage he could summon was broken with his plea. “I don’t wanna die. I don’t wanna. Please don’t. I didn’t even ask to be here—I didn’t. I was just taken!”

Shiv frowned. “Taken?”

“By the Hunt, I was. They came a-riding when I was farming one night. I saw them galloping through the sky when the moon was full, and they saw me alone, and they swooped down and snatched me up and took me across!”

“Wait, where are you from?” Shiv asked. “Do you remember?”

The elf went silent for a beat. “Jiang Ning.”

“What?” Shiv said.

“My home. It’s a place called Jiang Ning. It’s… it’s near High Harbor, it is.”

Shiv had no idea about any Jiang Ning, but he knew High Harbor. That was the country in which the Dragon Brokers were based—it was on the other side of the planet. His planet.

“You’re from Earth,” Shiv muttered.

The elf’s eyes lit up. “Yeah! Yeah! I am! You too? Wh-what’s your name?”

Shiv ignored the question and asked another of his own. “How long have you been here?”

The elf’s eyes went distant, his brow furrowing. “Uh, it’s hard to remember, it is. It’s been… I’ve been a slave in the Toad for a couple of years? But when I showed enough loyalty to Ser Cuntus, he decided that I’ve done enough to earn the whip—”

“Earn the whip?” Shiv interrupted.

“Yeah. Most of us slaves don’t get to be not-slaves until we do something that shows how much we love him. And after that, we get a whip—and our collars removed. And that’s how we get closer to his perfection, you know.”

Those words packed so much subtextual information, it took Shiv a while to digest it all. “Longinus, you motherfucking piece of shit.” And the Wanderer really was. It wasn’t enough that he drank in suffering and forced himself on people; he also made them taint themselves to appease him. The slavers weren’t just slavers, they were former godsdamned slaves. And the only way out was the whip. It was a perverse display of power.

“But imagine the taste,” the Harbinger said. “Imagine getting drunk off your own feats of corruption and power.”

Shiv could, and it was a thing of horrifying dominance—the kind of shit that might make an orc’s eyes roll back in ecstasy. “Shit, Challenger, you would love this guy.”

The Challenger scoffs at your insult.

“Right. God of Strife, not False God of Exploration and Hunger and Sexual Depravity.” The anger inside Shiv was rekindled. The soft joy that took him was no more. It was astonishing how easily Longinus could arouse Shiv’s hatred—but good for his mana, though. His Harbinger was regaining its full golden glory, and some of his many cracks were being sealed shut via Enkindled Flame.

“Longinus too is an addict, an addict of sensation, a slave to his baser instincts. His mind might be strong, but his brain does not rule him. His animal urges are the things that decide his actions.” The Harbinger vibrated with disdain as its thoughts resonated with Shiv. “The Wanderer might possess a great many Legendary Skills, but Psychology is not among them. Or more horrifically, perhaps, his atrophy has rendered it impotent before his raging desires. What a harrowing fate for a Pathbearer.”

