Yet, despite everything the Harbinger thought, it was something that went unsaid, but something that lurked in the subtext of its words. It looked forward to striking the Wanderer once more, to seeing just how fragile and flawed the god's psyche was. For if Longinus was half as vulnerable as his subordinate slavers, then hell would be awaiting in his future.

But they needed to be strategic about how they wanted to victimize the Wanderer. The Harbinger expanded Shiv’s options, but it also gave him a new point of vulnerability. One good hit, and the Legendary Skill would crack, and Shiv would go with it.

The Deathless was more powerful than ever; he was also more vulnerable than ever.

Sloppiness and foolishness were no longer luxuries he could afford.

“But we have other possibilities to consider.” The Harbinger’s intent settled on the slave’s mind specifically. Where it struck all three aspects that made up a person, now it was focused specifically on one.

Shiv’s Psychomancy was undeveloped—a consequence of the System never giving him any time to refine himself, and him not using it in combat enough to level. Things were different now that it was merged with the rest of his Legendary Skill. He heard and sensed things inside people when he came into their proximity. Certain thoughts and emotions were drawn to him like he was a center of gravity, and he could hear echoes of mind-stuff. This close to the elf, he could also feel how soft and exposed a mind was. It felt like an even thinner threshold to cross than Integration itself.

“I think we can,” the Harbinger whispered. “I think we can cross inside him.”

“Into his mind?” Shiv asked.

“Yes,” the Harbinger said. “We’re more than just time, Shiv. Do not hyperfixate on the most obvious parts of me and yourself. Imagine. Try.”

And guided by the Harbinger’s words and letting his intuition take hold, a shroud of fire and translucent mana coated the Legendary Skill—and Shiv within—as it pushed itself against, then into the elf’s mind.

The latter let out a gasp of anticipatory terror—but no pain followed. Death did not come. Instead, the Harbinger’s blazing form splashed into the man’s emotional core while the rest of its fragments slid into his mind. And in the aftermath, when the glow of Chronomancy faded, there was no sign of Shiv. There was no sign anyone was there at all.

Outside, the elven slaver blinked and found himself alone. Just in time to hear the pounding of feet as a group of Bread-Knights appeared at the end of the hall.

Inside, however, Shiv found himself falling through the wild frontiers of thought, emotions, and memory—a frontier that Uva was far more familiar with than he.
