Instead, it was cast outward, and Tala watched as all those present shifted, relaxing, and settling as if they were now more comfortable than before, more sure of themselves and the situation.

Flow as a pure white light shining in a world that had only ever seen red before.

The truth of everything was laid bare for all to see, not because it hadn’t been there before, but because it had been hidden due to the lack of proper illumination.

Even so, at the core of the calming radiance was an edge of utter dissolution.

In light of that, the reinforcement could almost be seen as a cutting board, sliding under existence, ready to brace the chosen target for a clean separation. This was even more true given her net of iron chains spread out both stone- and starward, subtly echoing the stability as it flowed through Tala and to her nearest physical parts.

The stability was simply an echo of the terrible end waiting in the wings.

Tala moved Flow, rolling the blade in a simple motion, and everyone present shuddered, shrinking back instinctively despite the otherwise pleasant feelings.

It was like a group of primitives, huddled around a fire in mid-winter, flinching back as a log collapsed and sparks shot toward the sky.

They knew their safety and reprieve came hand in hand with danger. Fear and need balancing on the edge.

Her edge.

She straightened. Realizing for the first time that it was those very magics of cohesion, radiating over her and coming from her very self, which most facilitated her ability to actually use the weapon.

She was bolstered to the point that her soulbond and unity of physicality made the weapon available to her.

Flow moved in graceful arcs as Tala stepped away from the others to perform a simple form.

They trailed after her, seemingly without much thought. Though they did occasionally send magics her way, scanning and attempting to catalogue the experience. They did so far less than any time previous as they were all drawn after the power before them.

Tala considered cutting off the working, but really, there was no need.

Besides, she had yet to find something to end, and it would be heretical to allow the ending blade to fade without fulfilling its purpose.

She just needed to find a worthy thread to sever.
