The black tome weighed at least a half-ton, the structure of it beyond my previous book. It carried a bendable stone on the surface of each page. As I turned them, they bent with ease in my hand despite their unusual, rocky texture. The thickness of the pages proved deceptive too. Wondering what was inside of one, I tore the first page. Like white mercury, a milky metal seeped out of the edge. I inspected closer, finding molten gunk flowing within the pages. This pool of liquid traveled from the dense spine of the grimoire. The design of it defied convention, but I trusted Torix's judgment, my runic skills, and most importantly, the amount of mana I poured into this damn thing.

It was too big to fail...probably.

Using the grimoire for the first time, etched into it using heated points of telekinetic contact. As I went through my work, the stone functioned well. It needed just the right amount of heat, making it easy to write in but hard to mess up with a careless stroke. At the same time, the metal beneath served many purposes.

It acted as a connection point between pages. I figured this out once I began work on the second page. Instead of needing some runic markings to ensure continuity between pages, the metal handled that for me. It saved me plenty of time as I went through the complex configurations.

As I continued, the merits of the new design unveiled themselves to me. The metal augmented my mana conversion, making the cipher require less mana. It was like conducting electricity through copper instead of wood. The white mercury transferred the mana between pages with a simple thought as well. This let me mix and match various runes without needing to plaster them together.

Hell, the metal even let me implement the whole dual layering technique I learned earlier. With a mental snap of my fingers, I could make two pages act like they were the same surface. That let me contextualize some of the more nuanced passages involved.

All that to say, it was pretty metal.

Awful puns aside, I finished plenty of runic markings for Torix's armor by daylight. Using this new grimoire felt like I found a missing piece to a puzzle. Everything came together in a rush right after seeing it. Considering my time constraints, I appreciated good luck.

With the markings finished, I channeled my excess mana into the grimoire, holding it at my side. With Torix busy and no one else to talk to, my mind wandered for a bit. I dwelled on Polydra's fate, scorching in hellfire and brimstone. A building well of guilt swelled in my chest before I grew lonely.

The odd sensation refused to leave, so I looked through my contacts. I called Althea, hoping she could answer. I missed her, and talking for a bit would do me some good. Even I needed some rest and relaxation sometimes. With that in mind, I sat on the edge of my seat, waiting for her to answer.

Three rings in, I gave up. As I hovered my hand over the exit command, Althea answered. I lit up, a smile spread over my face as her far more beautiful face popped up. Of course, it hadn't been nearly as long for her, but the mythical compendium made it feel like forever for me.

She carried a few more scars than before, but she was the same woman I remembered. As I glanced closer, I found that wasn't exactly true. A hardness formed in her eyes, the kind you get from seeing things that shouldn't be seen. Even more so, she had the same exhaustion on her face that plagued Kessiah. While Kessiah's motivation was to prove herself, Althea's seemed more profound, like an ocean compared to a pool.

Exacerbating this change was the fact I hadn't seen her in months. From that distance and time, a sort of coldness formed between us. To break the ice, I scratched the back of my head,

"Looks like you've been busy."

She gave me a small smile, "You have been too...I saw you fighting in Polydra. It was brutal and awe-inspiring as always."

I looked down, a bit embarrassed for some reason, "Ah, I was just raising hell like normal..."

A silence came over us. It wasn't the kind of comfortable calm that passes over two familiar friends, however. It was a heavy quiet, the kind were other noises grew in volume until they rang in your ears. Before that silence altered into a canceled call, I turned a hand to Althea,

"So, I was wondering how you've been?"

She blinked, looking for the right words to say,

"Hm...I've been doing good, I guess. I've been grinding the war effort from an espionage front. It's been...hard. I learned a lot. Like, a lot. It's also been eye-opening, to say the least."

She stared into an abyss. Her eyes reminded me of the underbelly of the dreadnoughts, the gialgathens hung up like produce. She must have seen something similar. I shook off the heaviness, pushing through,

"Damn, that sounds hard. I know I've been letting Torix handle most of the logistical work involved with this new, er, war I guess. It's made my situation a lot easier. He points in a direction, and I smash. It suits me perfectly."

Althea laughed, "Hah, it does. It sounds like you've got it under control over there."

I nodded, "For the most part, though I've been aching recently."

Althea raised an eyebrow, "Wait a minute, you have aches?"

I placed a hand over my chest, glancing up, "It's a broken heart."

Even I hurt from that one. My cheesy line had the intended effect as Althea giggled a bit before rolling her eyes,

"A broken heart from what?"

"Not seeing you of course," I said with finality.

"Really now? Hm...I might have been missing you a bit too, I suppose."

I leaned towards her screen, "Yeah...me too."

We stared at each other for a second, both of us glad we still cared for one another. The moment passed as I took a deep breath, "Whoo, I didn't want to say it, but I was kind of nervous about, uhm, us."

She nodded, "Oh, I was too. It just felt awkward at first, didn't it?"

"Yeah, it was like we didn't know each other."

My words left my mouth with more weight than I wanted. I glanced at Althea, and she glanced at me. She frowned, "It does kind of feel like that sometimes, doesn't it?"

"Yeah..."

She shook her head, "I'm sorry I haven't been messaging you more or calling. I've been so busy with this new effort I've been undertaking. It's hard to juggle everything all at once, and some stuff fell to the wayside. I'm sorry our relationship got caught up in that."

I nodded, "Yeah, I've got about fifty projects I'm working on right now. It's so much I forget some of it sometimes. To be fair, I've been like this since Schema's system washed over Earth. Something about it unlocked some hidden workhorse in me."

She tilted her head, "Wait a minute...You weren't always like this?"

I scoffed, "Hell no." I waved my hand, "I was...I don't know, lost, I guess? I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life. I had no direction, and that made me end up coasting. Well, outside of boxing. That kept me out of trouble."

I frowned, "I don't know who I would be without that passion keeping me afloat." I met Althea's eye, "Speaking of passion, I was, uh, wondering what made you want to put out like this on Giess?"

I raised my palms as she raised her eyebrows, "Not to criticize or anything. Do what you got to do. I get that."

She laughed, "I knew when I got with you that you were blunt, Daniel. You don't have to apologize for it. I find it refreshing, actually. Anyways, your question...hmmm..."

She pursed her lips, "If I had to guess, it would be how much it reminds me of Alice. This whole situation that is."

I narrowed my eyes, "Who's Alice?"

"She's a friend from my childhood. She was one of Yawm's lab rats, just like me. We were friends, and we played together all the time." Althea's eyes went distant,

"It was...I don't know how to describe it...haunting. I saw several children being indoctrinated by some of the rebels. One of their psionics was tampering with its mind. An espen child resisted, but she was too small and too weak. She was crying and..."

Althea's composure cracked, but she stayed resolute in her words,

"Seeing the kid crumble like that. I don't know. It reminded me of myself. I was that little girl, crying in the face of some monster that I couldn't understand. Everything around me was chaos and scary and lonely. I couldn't take it. I bottled it up inside and pushed it down. I was numb."

She shook her head, her voice cracking a bit, "And I saw that kid doing the same thing. I don't know, but something in me snapped after I saw that. I promised to stop Tohtella and everyone involved in this or die trying."

Thinking of the Hybrids, I nodded,

"I can understand that feeling."

Althea wiped away a tear, composing herself. As she did, I thought about what she said. The fact I didn't know she had this happen to her hurt a bit. This happened a while ago, and I wasn't there to help.

I gained some solace since she trusted me enough to tell me about it. Besides, maybe she wasn't ready to tell anyone until now. I couldn't know, and I had no intentions of asking. I reached out a hand to the screen,

"I'm sorry...Are you, er, ok?"

She giggled again, wiping her eyes, "You're terrible at this, you know that?"

I swallowed a bit of sadness, smiling at her instead, "Yeah...I know."

She smiled back, "I appreciate it, though. I really do."

We stayed there for a moment. A loud crack leaked out from Althea's screen as her eyes widened. She turned towards an unseen exit,

"I got to go." She turned back, "Hey...thanks for the call. It means a lot."

I grinned at her, "I enjoyed it too. Go kick some ass."

She gave me a confident smirk as she closed her screen. With it out of my way, I peered out an opening in the temple's wall. Revealing the forest city of Elderfire, the trees blurred under the heat of the desert sun. I spent a minute thinking about all that was happening.

This war was changing us. Whether for better or worse, I couldn't tell. It did carry a sting that the conflict with Yawm didn't have. Before now, all I expected from myself was survival. In fact, that was all I could've hoped for against Yawm or Baldag-Ruhl.

This situation was different. I wanted more and falling short grated me. After all, I had a history of succeeding in spite of terrible circumstances. That pressure mounted in the back of my mind. I did well enough for now, but I had a feeling this conflict wasn't going to end without a mess.

Either way, I did what I could.

With that in mind, I got back to something I was actually good at, which was making Torix's armor. The rune's charging finished a few minutes later as I planned out some of the placements. I put them along the surface of the blackened bones, keeping them in view. That finished the essential runic layering.

After looking it over, I scoped out a few more dual-layered rune sites. Torix's new body carried hollow bones, and that would allow me to use these techniques. With that insight, I created a few nuanced inscriptions for the guy.

They involved a few specific augments. The first revolved around Torix's charisma and presence. Ever since Torix's body was destroyed, some people looked down on the guy. That pissed me off, and I aimed to rectify that bullshit.

So, I went about creating an intimidating aura for this new body. I used Event Horizon as a reference, putting the choking, constricting nature of it on full display. At the same time, control over that influence was essential. I used the second layer of the runes to give that ability. It was like adding a parenthesis after a confusing passage. It contextualized an easily misunderstood remark.

With the presence of the body finished, I plotted out a few enchantments for mental magic. While not the most well versed, I could give the guy some charms for help. I moved on to the mana shield augments after that since Torix relied on them for his durability.

I understood little about them, but I didn't need to know much. Instead of enhancing the shield itself, I created connections for stored mana to power said shields. This would make the next portion of my armor building far more powerful.

I placed my hands onto the bones, shifting my being to one of dominion. With the oppressive, commanding mana saturating me, I channeled mana into the hollowed bones. Crystallized dominion filled the hollows, nigh weightless yet carrying tremendous energy. As I channeled this mana, I worked on the last aspect of my inscriptions.

This last part was a simple idea I had. Torix's mind would be in this thing, so making it easy for him to acclimatize to it seemed like a smart idea. At least I thought so. Guided by that intention, I went about creating an inscription describing Torix.

It wasn't too hard. I kept it simple, concise, but complete. Torix was a mastermind, a willful, dedicated summoner who absorbed himself with his goals. His work ethic was unquestionable, and he kept himself diligently devoted to his crafts of choice.

No matter what anyone else believed about the guy, he carried absolute respect in my eyes. His tactical and strategic abilities would create an enormous impact on any battlefield, regardless of the circumstance. At the same time, he carried a remarkable enthusiasm for education and learning.

He wasn't someone who held his secrets and harbored them selfishly. He shared his knowledge with great fervor. He wanted to enlighten all that he could as if he was offering light in darkness. At the same time, he familiarized himself with that darkness. In that vein, Torix never shied away from the messy, dirty aspects of life. He thrived on them, death being a concept he cozied up to long ago.

That's who Torix was in my eyes, a warlord worthy of respect. As I finished the markings, it mirrored the mural I made about myself. It was more concise and less detailed, however. Considering my time constraints, it was about as much as I could expect from myself.

