By the time I charged those runes and placed them, three days passed and the body was finished. I checked it out, analyzing my finished project. It was my best work so far.

A Nightmare, Manifested(Lvl Requirement: None, Requires Mental Affinity | Type: Body) - This creation is a product of the efforts of a multiverse given sentience. Given the nature of the materials used, this artifact is utterly unique, carrying characteristics that defy convention.

As an opening mention, this body is durable. This word fails to adequately describe the sheer tenacity it holds. In all sense of the word, it is nigh unbreakable, a constant fixture created without an intended expiration date. If given any kind of care, this body will last forever.

This invincibility isn't the only characteristic this creation carries. Wielding many advanced inscriptions, it augments the wielder's mind in many ways. It creates barriers from entry, but it also allows for a greater field of influence in whoever manages to wield this structure.

This, in combination with a medley of physical augments, and this body is invaluable to many species or necromantic practitioners.

Bonuses(Unstackable with similar bonuses):

+500,000 Maximum Health, +500,000 Maximum Mana,  +500,000 Maximum Stamina, +100,000 health regen(per min), 100,000 mana regen(per min), 100,000 stamina regen(per min)

+ 10,000% physical damage, +5% to total damage, + 10,000 pounds of mass(4,536 Kilograms), + 2.5% to damage resistance cap, +25% to potency of dominion mana, Innate Mana Shield (10,000,000/10,000,000), + 25% to impact of influence oriented skills, +1% to mental resistance cap

+2,500 to Endurance and Willpower

+1,500 to Constitution, Strength, and Intelligence

+500 to all other stats

The sheer size of the enhancements floored anything I'd made before this. It even raised the resistance cap of anyone using this, which kind of defied Schema's general conventions. Either way, I lifted the body for a moment, the nine-foot-tall structure sizeable and imposing. It even carried some Torix's dramatic flair, the crown of thorns a nice touch.

I carried it with me, walking over towards Torix's new lair. As I walked into the crowded room, Torix stayed intent on his work. He dived into it with an intensity rivaling a deep hatred. I knocked on the edge of the room,

"Hey, Torix, how's the planning coming along?"

He kept his gaze down over a few charts,

"Excellent. I've devised a few of the weaker points in their offensive, and three cities in particular lined up well with a few projected attacks. I intend on scouting their responses with a few false attacks, however. I am confident they'll be better prepared this time."

He lifted his head, finishing his work with a final stroke of a feather pen,

"And so shall we."

He turned towards me before his old jaw went slack. Without a word, he lifted his hands at the body I made. He fumbled out his words,

"I...It...Is that...What?"

I gestured to the item, "I call it: A Nightmare, Manifested. What do you think?"

"It's...Well, I would sum it up in...the words escape me...it's..."

He walked over and gave me a hug,

"Thank you...Thank you so much."

A bit embarrassed, I scratched my cheek, "Uh, thanks...Glad you like it."

I set the body down so Torix could inspect it further. After a few minutes, he turned to me,

"It far exceeds any expectations I carried for it. You've outdone yourself, truly."

I lifted up my chest, "Well, I enjoy crafting stuff. It was a fun distraction from all the fighting."

Torix scoffed, "So this is a fun distraction? I'd hate to see a concerted effort then. I might feel impotent by comparison."

Torix flicked one of the metallic bones, the tip of his finger snapping off from the impact. He cackled with glee,

"I'd be furious given a different context, but for now, I'll settle with being overjoyed."

Torix turned back to me while brushing off his robe, "Ah, my childish giddiness aside, are you ready for the battle?"

"Always."

Torix peered at the body for a moment, "Yes, as we should be."

I peered between the body and Torix,

"Hm...you know we can get you in that before we leave?"

"I understand, but delaying our plans for my personal satisfaction doesn't suit me. Besides, we've plenty of time for the necromantic transition after this next battle. I'll need some time to craft another phylactery and ritual site regardless."

I crossed my arms, "If you say so. When do we head out?"

"Within the next few hours."

I gave him a curt nod, "Alright, good. Anything you need in the meantime?"

Torix raised a finger, "Perhaps you could take a quick voyage to our base on Mt. Verner? Planting a blue core over our home for security would put us at ease for the time being."

"Ah, that's a good idea. It'll be nice seeing Earth after so long."

"Excellent. It will be good for you to see the progress of our base."

After finishing up a bit of discussion, I walked back towards the center of Elderfire. After a quick conversation with the receptionist, I set up travel back to Earth via warp drive. Once on the ringing, sterile teleporter pad, a bit of nervousness rang up my spine.

Leaving Hod and Amara there might not have been the best idea. From Torix's estimations, I didn't need to step in. That didn't guarantee an absence of craziness, however. Knowing there might be some surprises, I closed my eyes as electric pulsing pounded in my ears.

I mean, how bad could it be?
