Deactivating all skills provided by class: Kineticist (Uncommon).

Note: deactivated skills can still be used but can no longer be improved.

Activating new skills and abilities.

The moment that those words faded from the air, Nick felt the System reach into his brain. It forged fresh connections between his neurons, ingraining the use of Arcane Shield on an instinctual level. Warmth blossomed below his heart as the System drew a thread from his energetic core, pulling it up and around his spine before attaching it to the pathway for his new spell.

He didn’t have time to savor the sensations this time around. Every scrap of his concentration was riveted on the decisive battle ahead.

Binding trait Mana Manipulation to contestant’s bloodline.

Nick felt an incredible surge of energy pass through him. It was concentrated around his core and his eyes, but he felt it flow through other places too, adjusting his energetic network in ways that he couldn’t even begin to understand. The results, however, were clear as day.

When the System’s touch withdrew, the grand tapestry of mana was hanging in the air. The rich, ever-shifting blanket of multicolored energy that he’d last seen after becoming a Kineticist. It was complex, wonderous, and staggeringly beautiful, but he would have to explore it later.

Now that his class change was complete, it was time for the showdown with the tower’s guardian to commence. If what Pax had told him was true, there was a way to complete the challenge that would unlock a hidden reward for the members of Team Earth, helping to ensure the survival of his species once they entered the Labyrinth. Nick was determined to achieve it, even if he lost his life in the process.

There were just two quick things he needed to do first. He opened his profile and addressed the System once more. “I would like to advance Force Acceleration to Rank 1 and spend my free points on Toughness.”

He closed his eyes as a vision came over him, reviewing everything he knew about the ability as the System upgraded its potency and efficiency. Meanwhile, his tissue softened and then resolidified, becoming even more resilient than before.

The instant the process was complete, Nick ran to the portal with Devin at his side. He stepped past the threshold a heartbeat later and was sucked into the void between worlds.
