Matt reached up and grabbed its wrists, pinning the creature’s hands together, twisting and slamming the creature into the ground, but all of that proved unnecessary as essence started to pour out of the creature.

Except it wasn’t nearly enough essence.

“Now that's strange.” Liz leaned over to look at the creature as she explained. “I got way more essence than you just did.”

Matt made the connection with a nod. “So, we are supposed to fight these creatures on the other side where they are harder to spot. Interesting.”

Aster tapped her staff to the ground as her crown glowed and two ice golems formed next to her.

They stretched out their hands and gripped nothing and pulled but, even with her boosting their power, they weren't able to rip through reality as Matt had.

Aster rolled her eyes, and Matt took the silent command to tear them back into the idyllic version of the rift.

Back in the pretty forest, they walked down the path that wound its way through the woods, waiting for another ambush that never came. Just as they were starting to worry that they had done something wrong and had walked for almost a mile, one of Aster's golems smashed its hand down, creating a burst of essence before it vanished, being pulled into the other version of the rift.

She resummoned the golem and they continued on, plodding along as they made their way closer to the giant beast that roamed across the landscape. As they got closer to one of the giants, the attacks increased until they were under a constant barrage and they let themselves get pulled to the other side just to have a better idea of what was really going on.

Matt knew he shouldn’t be surprised, but the rift managed it by having the giant elephant actually be a zombie elephant with rotten meat falling off its massive frame. That would have been gross enough, but the creatures they were fighting were also attacking the elephant and trying to rip pieces of meat off its frame even as the elephant tried to walk away.

“Are we supposed to help it?” Liz asked the question all three of them were thinking but Matt didn’t have any more of an answer than she did.

Rifts were weird, and it could genuinely go either way.

While all rift monsters were hostile, not all things that were alive were rift monsters. This wouldn’t be the first rift that had creatures they were supposed to help to unlock other rewards.

Matt punched one of the goblin attackers away that was trying to sneak up on them before pointing at the creatures nearer the elephant.

“Look at those monsters. They look more like orcs than goblins. They also don’t have the hiding effect.”

Liz grinned. “That answers the question then.”

Throwing herself forward, Matt followed her and they cut a swath through the easy to kill stalker enemies.

The first orc-like goblin was an immediate reminder that they were in fact inside a Tier 29 rift.

The creature grabbed Liz’s spear mid thrust, stopping her from skewering it, and lashed out with a bone blade, cutting Liz in half.

Each half turned into a fully formed and armored Liz which started to overwhelm the monster but Matt was too preoccupied by his own fight with one of the creatures to admire his wife’s fighting talent.

His blade flared bright blue as he channeled [Tribulation Strike] through it. The mana stone acted as a conduit for the mana while the braided metal of the blade acted as a faraday cage, keeping everything contained until contact was made.

The strike blew off most of the flesh from the orc’s arms, but it remained standing and even started to heal. Or at least repair.

Matt wasn’t sure he’d call the creature's bones growing and expanding to fill the gaps “healing”.

The lack of muscle didn’t slow the monster down, and it threw itself at Matt with mid Tier 29 speeds.

Sidestepping, Matt brought his blade up, cutting through the orcs flank before twisting and bringing the blade down with all the power he could gather in a [Mana Charge].

The point-blank explosion killed two of the stalker enemies, but not the orc. It remained standing, even though most of the flesh was stripped from its upper body.

Its bones started to grow to reform itself, and it lashed out three times in quick succession, the blows cutting through both layers of [Cracked Phantom Armor], but being stopped by his physical armor.

They were Tier 29’s but, unlike their stealthy counterparts, these creatures seemed more defensive than offensive.

A mistake would still kill as surely as letting one of the stealthy creatures sneak up on him, as two were attempting right at that moment, but their lopsided capabilities made them easier individual prey than they would have otherwise been.

The monster tried to rush and entangle him so he couldn’t respond to the attacking stealthy goblinoids, but Matt had seen enough and didn’t intend to play with it any further.

The second [Tribulation Strike] blew the creature’s entire upper body into bits, and was accompanied with a stream of essence as the blowback of mana killed the two other monsters as they were trying to stab Matt in the back.

Looking over, he saw two Lizzes finishing off another orc while Aster’s golems smashed one into paste. She dealt with another herself.

Her ice spells slowed and constricted the monster but the cold didn’t seem to be damaging the bone that replaced the frostbitten flesh.

An [Icicle] through the head still ended the creature but Matt could tell Aster was miffed at the creature's resilience.

With a wave of her staff, a flurry was kicked up and the mid Tier 29 monster's movements slowed into something closer to early Tier 29.

“I’ll focus on support. Good to get back into the habit of it actually.”

A phoenix Liz settled down on Aster's shoulder to watch her back and the three of them started cutting a path into the swarm of monsters that surrounded the elephant.

It was slow going at first, but, as they fought through, Aster realized that the orc-like creatures were vulnerable to wind magic. Once they all started using those elemental spells, their clear speed increased noticeably.

Most of the creatures seemed more interested in trying to rip meat off the elephant, and only turned to attack them when they were too close or hit by a stray attack.

That limited their arsenal a little, as with their Tier gap they needed to be careful to not get overwhelmed. [Mana Beam] or something like [Breach] might have worked, but the risk was too high with tens of thousands of creatures who might turn on them en masse.

A fear that turned out to be correct.

As they reached the halfway point of total monsters killed, the attacking creatures turned their attention from the elephant to them.

The three of them immediately retreated, and all unleashed their largest area attacks to cover their retreat.

They were effective, but not nearly as effective as they would have been without the Tier difference.

What was interesting was how the monsters’ Domains seemed to perfectly merge together, growing stronger as more and more joined together in their attack. It even got to the point that even a full powered [Mana Beam] just splashed off the leading orc-like creatures, and Aster's ice spells only slowed them down instead of freezing them solid.

Liz’s ichor was mildly more effective, so long as she was able to kill the creature before all of its flesh was gone but even she struggled to burrow through the ever-growing bones if she didn’t take them down quickly enough.

The situation was bad, but hardly untenable, and they were slowly whittling the creatures down as they retreated in the general direction of the rift exit, where they could be reasonably sure they wouldn’t run into more enemies and get cut off.

Aster, however, noticed what was wrong first.

“Look at the elephant!”

Matt exploded upward, sending two of the orcs that had tried to tackle him flying.

Off in the distance, the elephant that had been stripped of flesh was more than fully healed.

It was growing like uncontrolled cancer.

Flesh grew and grew until it popped like a blister before that healed and grew further.

He also noted how the orcs that had been flesh covered were slowly becoming fully bone monsters.

Apparently the orcs, goblins, and elephant had a mutually beneficial symbiotic relationship where they helped each other from deforming.

“If we kite these orcs out enough, they will probably fully calcify.”

Aster pointed out the issue with that option. “We probably won’t get the essence for those kills though.”

Liz made the call. “Then let’s go pop that elephant.”

Matt led the charge through the horde, even as they tried to drag the three of them down.

[Bulwark] made for a plow that pushed aside the initial mass of enemies, and his repulsion effect kept their sides clear long enough to punch through.

Once they were through, it was a foot race, and despite them only being Tier 26 to the monsters’ Tier 29, they were faster.

It was times like this when Matt could fully appreciate all of the resources the army had poured into them to bolster their already impressive natural abilities.

When they reached the elephant, a phoenix Liz slammed into its side like the realms smallest fly when compared to its massive frame.

The phoenix Liz on Aster's shoulder gagged, but before their eyes the elephant’s ever-growing flesh started boiling, even as it turned golden.

For the first time, the elephant screamed, its massive trunk causing a shockwave that took all three of them using [Air Manipulation] to fully block.

The oncoming wave of monsters weren’t killed outright, though that would have been nice, but all of the orcs went down like puppets with their strings cut. Not dead, but disorientated to the point of being rendered ineffective.

Matt grabbed the ground with [Earth Manipulation] and swallowed the closest mass of orcs, who had taken the brunt of the attack, and started squeezing, crushing them.

They tried to fight, tried to merge their Domains to protect themselves, but he was prepared for that and had separated them by pulling some deeper into the ground than others. It didn’t stop them, but it did weaken the connection.

The bursts of essence started slow, but, as Matt killed some, the collective grew weaker, making it easier to crush the rest.

He finished just before the rest of the mass arrived in a frenzy.

Blood, bones, and body parts flew as he, two Lizzes, and Aster’s golems protected her, even as she cast massive debuffing spells to slow their enemies further.

Matt could also feel that she was starting to open her Tier 25 Talent space, though it was slow in the firmer space of the Tier 29 rift. The rift’s dual layers of reality might have made the effort more difficult as well.

The fighting lasted almost an hour until the elephant’s side exploded and ichor started to rain down like acid rain.

The orcs' boney bodies started to melt as flesh replaced the bone, making them easier to kill, and the three of them didn’t waste their moment to take care of as many of them as they could.

The stealthy goblins were ignored, which led to all three of them taking hits, but any one of them was not so easy to kill and each of them could fight without limbs long enough to heal after the fight.

When they finished, the field was littered with bodies up to their knees in the lowest spots and forming hills in the largest.

Matt panted as he looked up at the elephant that was still being corroded by Liz.

Looking over to his wife, he asked. “How fucking big is that thing?”

“Larger than you’d expect. It's got a higher regeneration factor than a dozen damn trolls, making every inch of progress a battle. Thankfully my ichor is toxic to it and I’ll arrive at the brain soon enough.”

Aster gestured with her staff. “Need us to help?”

“If you wanna hit the other side, go for it. It might force it to split its healing factor.”

Matt cast [Portal], putting the other end of it on the other side of the elephant where he, Aster, and her golems started attacking its undamaged flank.

It took almost a day, but they finally burned through enough of the elephant's regeneration that Liz was able to infiltrate the brain and kill the elephant.

The rush of essence they got from finishing off the elephant was like a torrent, but it wasn’t nearly as large as it could have been, similar to the stealthy goblins.

Liz spat to the side. “I’m almost glad that wasn’t the right way to get all the essence. That flesh tasted foul.”

Aster gave the phoenix on her shoulder a scratch. “On the bright side, there are three more giants in view, so you’ll get used to it.”

That earned her a nip, but she wasn’t wrong.

The next giant they started approaching had the stealthy goblins, but didn’t have the orc-like goblins. Instead, there were archers that shot saplings that grew like crazy and tried to burrow into anything they hit.

Liz’s ichor wasn’t as effective as good old fire, but it was a close call, and the two of them burned their way through the hordes with Aster providing wide-area debuffs.

The longer they fought, the more they got used to the pace of the Tier 29 battles, and what had been difficult became routine, though they were still always diligent to not become overwhelmed.

The largest oddity was that, despite clearing all nine of the giants they found roaming the rift, they never found the rift boss.

The reward distortion was accessible, but the boss was nowhere to be found.

Then they saw the rift reward of just three mana stones, which was pitiful for a full rift, and was so unusual they immediately went back into the rift and tried to clear the rift without entering the second layer of reality.

