“Thanks.” Ren said and stored them. “Do you need a hand getting things ready for transport?”

“No.” Tee-one said. “We've had everything loaded so it could be taken off easily.” He said. “You can store the forge and smelter, though.”

“Good idea.” Ren said and stored it.

“I'll stay here and monitor the off-loading.”

Ren nodded. “I'll contact Jen as soon as I get to the city, so her and her work crew can come out to build the warehouse we'll need to store all of this.”

“You need to dig out the area first.” Tee-one said. “You don't want the warehouse to impact the view.”

“Thanks for reminding me.” Ren said. “I'll swim over and get started.”

Tee-one smiled and handed Ren a Hand of Glory.

Hand Of Glory

This Wondrous Item provides the wearer with a 60 foot circle of magical daylight when activated, and 60 feet of dimness beyond that, no matter what kind of environmental conditions you may be in. Although it is made of metal, it is in the shape of a small distorted hand on a chain.

When worn, it hangs around the neck and replaces any necklace or amulet worn. Because of the mangled fingers, it can only wear one ring and grasp a single small item.

“I don't need that.” Ren said. “I can see just fine.”

Tee-one chuckled. “Ignore that part, Ren.” He said. “It can wear a ring and hold a wand.”

Ren read the popup again, and smiled. “Ha! Sneaky.” He said, and used his Retain Essence ability to store the enchantment on his Amulet of the Spider, stored the blank disc, then used Double Infusion to transfer the enchantment to the Hand Of Glory and slipped a Ring of Water Walking on the hand.

“Thanks, Tee-one.” Ren said and left the hold and went up to see the maids. “I'm going over to the mainland to dig out a spot for the warehouse.”

“How are you going to get there? Swim?” Lusinia asked.

“I'm going to run.” Ren said and put his hands on the railing. “I'll see you in half an hour.”

“Don't have too much fun without us.” Frikara said, and Ren chuckled.

“I can't promise that!” Ren said and pulled himself over the side of the ship.

“MAN OVERBOA-” A deckhand started to yell when Ren disappeared over the side, then gaped at Ren when he landed on the water without sinking and started to run. “WHAT THE HELL?!?”

The personal maids laughed as everyone on the deck shifted their eyes from them to stare at Ren as he took off at his top speed.

*

Nathalia had suffered through another night without Ren, ate a light breakfast, and went to work. She served breakfast to all of the dwarves that expected her to put a personal touch on their food, then went through the portal to do the same thing for her restaurant in Aurora. She was now on a 10 minute break and sat with Anabelle at one of the restaurant's outside tables.

“He's been gone for about a week now.” Nathalia said to Anabelle, the manager of Ren's store, who had come in to visit her every day, since Nathalia wasn't making daily deliveries for the shop anymore. “We only have to wait about a week more for him to arrive.”

“I still can't believe your Queen threw him out like that.” Anabelle said. “How stupid can she be?”

Nathalia laughed. “I can't comment on our reigning monarch's current mental capacity.” She said. “The people on the other hand, still can't decide if she set it all up on purpose to get rid of him or not.”

“What do you think?”

“She definitely did.” Nathalia said. “It was the quickest way to remove Ren from the kingdom without causing another incident like the Council tried the last time.”

“And people aren't upset over that?” Anabelle asked.

“They are, but...”

“She's giving them a new ruler.”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “They can't get rid of her without losing the heir, so they'll put up with her antics until the child is of age.”

“Any idea if it's a boy or a girl?” Anabelle asked.

Nathalia shook her head. “She won't even let the medics do a full examination until just before her due date.”

“I assume that if it's a boy...”

“It doesn't matter.” Nathalia said. “Whatever it is, they become the new monarch immediately and the Queen becomes the Queen Mother.”

“Which reduces her powers considerably.” Anabelle said. “I hope she changes her attitude before then.”

“Why?” Nathalia asked.

“They'll have her out of there faster than day old bread in a bakery.” Anabelle said. “You saw what happened the last time the Council raised one of her children.”

Nathalia nodded. “It almost destroyed our nation and our people.”

Anabelle smiled and put a hand on her friend's arm. “Ren saved you, though.”

“Yes.” Nathalia said. “Me personally, and everyone else.”

“He's a good man.” Anabelle said and let Nathalia's arm go. “I better get back to the shop and open up.” She said and stood up. “I'm not sure what a 'leader board' is, but Ren topped it again and now we've had more customers than we ever had before.”

Nathalia nodded slightly, because she knew it was the Adventurer's ranking. “How is the store's stock?”

“Pretty low now.” Anabelle said. “I don't know if we can make it another week without more items for the shelves.”

Nathalia thought about the huge cabinet of clothes that Ren had given her. “I suppose I could...”

“No.” Anabelle said. “I won't take anything he's given to you.”

“How do you know I was going to offer that?”

“We've known each other a while now, Nathalia.” Anabelle said. “You've got that same worried look on your face you get when you're trying to help Ren without him knowing.”

Nathalia laughed. “All right, fine.” She said and stood up. “I've got to get back to work anyways.”

Anabelle stood up and hugged her. “See you tomorrow.”

“Bye, Anabelle.” Nathalia said and went back into the restaurant.

*

Clint and his mount, the warhorse Izabeal, ran on the road towards the North Gate of Aurora. He'd fallen behind his schedule when a fox had run across Izabeal's path and caused her stride to falter. She didn't trip or fall from the incident; but, she'd been affronted that a creature so small had dared to cross her path, so she had to chase it down to trample it.

Clint could only hold on and wait for her to finish, because she could not be reasoned with at all when she got into such a state. He had been lucky it had only taken 10 minutes to catch the thing, thanks to his expert shot to wound the fox in the leg at the end, and then Izabeal had crushed the thing into paste. Clint had only shaken his head that she had destroyed the body so well, that there wasn't even any loot to be had.

“We're almos' there, darlin'.” Clint said when he saw the walls of the city. “Then we c'n take a break an' head back.”

Izabeal huffed at him and poured on the speed.
