Whatever. Not like it matters, I can’t use Aura anyways, so it’s all a moot point. Still, I might as well introduce the groundhog to the rest of my floofs and let him see how they live, as well as feel that warm pink-tinted emotions for myself once more. Who knows, maybe the dirt-rat is as smart as Pong Pong and will decide it’s not so bad being one of my pets, or I’ll miraculously accidentally use my Aura again.

...Sorry about calling you a dirt-rat, but I’m trying not to get too attached. I’m no good at goodbyes. Besides, ground-hog isn’t much of an improvement over dirt-rat. Just saying. You ain’t perfect.

With Lin-Lin at my side, I bring our furry guest over to meet the wildcats, because I figure it’s best to get this out of the way first. Aurie is sweet and welcoming as always, if a tad over-enthusiastic with his greeting nuzzles, while Sarankho cocks her head and slowly lifts a paw as if readying to strike the groundhog down. Shaking my head, I admonish “Friend, not food.” Settling back on her haunches with an unladylike huff, Sarankho loses interest as I hold the groundhog up to see her, which is good because I doubt he’d enjoy the extra attention. Jimjam is the most difficult to win over, his lip curling in a snarl even before I approach him, because he recognizes the intruder who evaded capture for so long. “Yes, you’re my smart guard floof,” I croon, lowering my head for him to butt against while keeping our guest safe from harm. “You knew this little guy was there stealing seeds and you tried to keep Teacher’s plants safe. Such a good Jimjam.” Although the wildcat doesn’t exactly glow with praise, he puffs up and is slightly less standoffish than usual, even permitting me to tousle of his ears without glaring in anger.

He’s got a big attitude, but I still love him to bits. Don’t worry groundhog, Jimjam’s harmless. He acts like a big bad predator, but he’s never hurt any of the bunnies, not even dumb George who keeps trying to climb in his mouth.

Next we head over to visit the bears, who are even less threatening than the wildcats. Neither Banjo nor Baloo have ever killed anything bigger than a bug, so they’re just big, lovable goofballs who are great for cuddles. You don’t need to worry about getting stepped on either, because they’re super careful and would sooner suffer in silence than disturb a sleeping bunbun. Banjo ignores our little guest, and instead tries to clamber onto my shoulders, which is actually almost doable if he Lightens for all he’s got now that I’m no longer a frail cripple. Unfortunately, Banjo doesn’t have a lot of Chi and can only sustain maximum Lightening for a few minutes, as I learned to my grave detriment. While fending off his wickedly sharp claws, I give Banjo a kiss on the head and let the groundhog get a good whiff of bear, hoping to get some reaction from the little guy even if it’s only fear. It’s okay if he’s afraid, because when nothing bad happens, he’ll learn there’s nothing to be afraid of, but as things stand, he’s so terrified I’m not even sure if he’s registering what’s happening here.

Baloo is more interested in our guest than his brother is, and the sweet bear gives the groundhog a good, thorough sniffing before reclining back on the dirt to show his belly. It’s not exactly a sign of submission like it would be if he were a dog, but more of an invitation to play. Mother knows the bunnies love to jump on Baloo’s belly, so I guess he’s seeing if the groundhog wants to as well, but alas, our little guest doesn’t respond and the sweet bear soon loses interest.

“See little guy?” I whisper, rocking the groundhog back and forth to soothe his frayed nerves while trying to will my Aura into existence. “Nothing to be afraid of. C’mon, let’s go meet the bunnies now. They’re probably more your speed anyways.”

...No dice on the Aura thing, but maybe he gets it.

Heading over to bunbun jail, my long-eared hoppy floofs promptly and zealously respond to my buck-toothed buddy, but not in the friendly manner I’d hoped. Sensing the arrival of a new challenger, the bunnies collectively thump the ground in a frantic rage before bursting through the woefully inadequate enclosure and launching themselves head-first at the groundhog, no doubt seeking to stun and beat him to death so he can’t steal their food. The response is ingrained into their DNA, a part of who they are even though they’re all bourgeois bunnies who’ve never known life on the streets. Problem is, this means they also don’t have the best of aim, so my arms, stomach, and even my crotch bears the brunt of this bunny barrage, and it’s all I can do to remain standing instead of curling up into a ball to cry.

Curse you George. Curse you and your terrible aim!

Thankfully, while Lin-Lin is doubled over with laughter and too busy to help, sweet Mama Bun comes to my rescue and headbutts her children away, which is easy because she’s like twice their size. By the time I’ve caught my breath, the battle is over and the bunbuns are all thoroughly cowed, though most have forgotten all about what just happened and are hopping over to inspect Taduk’s garden. While my teacher and Lin-Lin run around to collect the heartless, long-eared bastards, I stoop down to thank Mama Bun with a pat and a kiss. “Good girl.” Already standing on her hind legs, Mama Bun paws at my arm in hopes of a snuggle, and even though I’m worried about how the groundhog will react, the big bunny has shown she knows how to behave. Freeing up one arm for Mama Bun, she hops into my embrace and wiggles about in search of a comfy position, but with the groundhog taking up half the real estate, there isn’t much room to work with, so she ends up sort of lying on her back while propped up horizontally with my hand supporting her haunches, which doesn’t look comfy at all. Grumbling to voice her discontent, she looks over at the guest I took several crotch shots to protect and, after a moment of careful consideration, promptly boots him out of my arms, quilt and all.

Which was exactly the opening he was waiting for.

Slipping out of the quilt, the groundhog dives headfirst into the dirt and sinks in deep as if it were a pool of water rather than solid ground, slowing his escape for only half a second to wiggle his fat butt through. Then, the dirt tunnel seals itself up behind him, and the only sign he was ever here is his discarded quilt, still gently wafting down to the ground before landing softly in a crumpled mess.

Well... bye, I guess. Be free little friend. I’ll miss you.

Judging by his wailing cry, Taduk is less than pleased to see the groundhog escape, but Lin-Lin takes it all in stride. “Don’t worry hubby,” she says, smiling as she cuddles the four bunnies nestled in her arms with their legs dangling below them. “The bun-buns are cuter anyways, ya?”

“Yea, I guess.” It wasn’t about cuteness though, or at least not all about cuteness. Floof diversity is important, and powerful animals protecting me is kinda super awesome. After helping Taduk catch the rest of the bunnies, I leave them with Baloo and Jimjam to babysit before going to check on Sir Inky’s cooking pot. “Sorry guys, our new friend got away before I could introduce you,” I say, peering in at the octopus and turtle just chilling in the water. I’m not gonna lie, I squealed like a schoolgirl upon learning Pong Pong and Sir Inky are the best of friends, but it shouldn’t have come as a surprise. I mean, Sir Inky had that rock covered in Spiritual Algae, and the only way he could’ve gotten it is if he nicked it from Pong Pong’s lair, and I can only imagine how that exchange went down. Regardless of how it happened, the two are thick as thieves and happy to share the same space, even if it’s as small and cramped as the cooking pot I used this morning to make my delicious and underappreciated noodles.

It’s fine. I cleaned it first.

Reaching in to give Sir Inky a scritch, I sigh and look at Pong Pong floating there without a care in the world. “Would it have killed you to be a little more proactive and welcoming?” I ask, and the little turtle looks up as if he can read my tone and is none too pleased by the accusation. For all I know, he can, but it’s hard to say. Turtles don’t really have many expressions, though it’s still more than I can say for bunnies, who have resting grump face. “You’ve got an Aura, so I don’t see why you couldn’t tell the groundhog about how awesome it is to be a pet.”

Taduk’s fake coughing catches my attention and I look up to see him attempting to covertly signal me to do something, but I cannot for the life of me figure out what. Shaking his head means no, I get that much, but what does a sideways peace sign jabbing into his heart mean? Now he’s.. buffing his nails? No, he’s clenching his hands in frustration, which isn’t a message per se, just the result of me not understanding his other signs.

“Enough,” Guard Leader chimes in, breaking the awkward, silent dialogue between me and my teacher. “I am not so fragile as to break down from a mere reminder of the little turtle’s fearsome prowess.”

...Oh, Taduk wanted me to change the subject and stop talking about Pong Pong’s Aura. Considering she’s still stuck to Taduk’s side, it seems like Guard Leader still hasn’t fully recovered from her brush with bleak despair and crippling depression, which is totally reasonable now that I think about it. Once you fall into that particular pit, it isn’t easy to pull yourself out, even if you’re lucky enough to have the love and support of family and friends to help you up.

Believe me. I know.

With the rabbits all in check, I head back to my teacher’s side, but this time I take a seat beside Guard Leader instead. Not because I think she wants me close by, but because Taduk’s not the only person she cares about. There’s Lin-Lin too, else Guard Leader wouldn’t be her... leader of guards. I guess. I’m not entirely sure why, or what their relationship is, and it’s not my place to pry, so I sit with my sweet wifey clinging to my back and adorable Mama Bun in my arms to wait for the rest of my beloved betrotheds to finish meditating in the grove.

Song too. I gotta stop including her along with the rest of the girls. That won’t end well.

...I’m also waiting for my sister, mother, and grandmother too, can’t forget them or they’ll be upset.

...andddd now I have nothing to keep me busy anymore, so it’s back to worrying about Dad. “Do you know how the convoy is faring?”

“They’ve dispatched one group of assassins,” Guard Leader replies, and my breath catches in my throat before she adds, “No casualties. Your brother spotted the ambush well in advance and feathered them with arrows before they could act.”

“Good, good.” Swelling up with pride, I glance over towards where Alsantset sits in quiet meditation, knowing she’ll want to hear about her heroic husband’s exploits. I just hope the news will still be good when she’s finally done meditating. More out of a nervous need to fill the silence than anything else, I say, “Charok is kind and soft-spoken, but he’s as tough as any of the People, and doubly so when his family is in danger. Remember how he was in those days after the Society contest? That was the first time I...”

While I wax on about my brother’s exploits, Taduk, Lin-Lin, and Guard Leader all listen in silence, no doubt sensing I need to get this off my chest. Around ten or fifteen minutes later, as my tale is winding down, Guard Leader informs us that Baatar uncovered a second group of assassins who were also summarily dispatched, though this time there are a few injuries. Nothing serious, Guard Leader assures me, all easily Healed using Panacea before they arrive back at the citadel. Unable to sit still I shift my sleepy wifey over to Guard Leader’s shoulder and set to pacing about, telling random stories that come to mind so I don’t have time to dwell on my thoughts.

Halfway through my rendition of how I found Banjo and Baloo, Song slips back into the garden and takes a seat by the wildcats, still lost in her thoughts despite ending her meditation session short. So not to distract her, I lower my voice and continue the tale, eventually moving onto another happy story regarding the Laughing Birds and their first meal of danger noodles.

Time crawls by as I tell story after story, with only short pauses in between as Guard Leader keeps us up to date with Baatar’s progress home. By the time they make it back, my back is drenched in cold sweat, as each successive ambush turns out worse than the last. Thankfully, no one dies and everyone makes it back okay, but before I have time to feel relieved, I realize the severity of our situation. Five ambushes, five Supreme Families, including the Legate’s. Guess going to him for help will be utterly useless, but I’ll swallow my pride and try anyways, unless Luo-Luo thinks it’s best not to.

Lines are being drawn in the sand now, and I will remember and redress these grievances. Maybe not today, and maybe not tomorrow, but someday.

...

You know, assuming I survive the trip to the Central Citadel and back.

...

And actually figure out my Dao and become awesome again.

...

Then somehow miraculously Shatter the Void and become a true Divinity, because anything short of that probably isn’t strong enough to go against the Empire. If that happens, then... the Five Supreme Families should watch out.

...

