Swords struck the other side. Thomas held up his shield, remembering how the grizzly bear had destroyed the door, but these swords didn't seem to have the strength of a full-grown bear. Maybe the golem swordsman could, but individually they couldn't break through.

Chest heaving, Thomas turned, and the sight of Jo drained away any ounce of triumph he might've felt. The inky poison had gone past her wrist, and her whole hand below it looked black and withered and dead.

She was sitting on the floor. Zach sat in front of her, cross-legged, his voice low and calm.

"You have poison mana, Jo. You can beat this. Reach to the core and direct it to counter this toxin. Make it your own."

Thomas stepped forward, every instinct in him screaming to shove past and just fix her.

"Give her a second," Zach said, not looking away from Jo. He continued in his yoga-instructor tone, "Abilities are created when we are at the edge of life and death. She has it within her to counter this. She just has to find it."

For her part, Jo's jaw was clenched, her good hand wrapped around the elbow of her dying arm.

"Come on, Jo," Zach said softer. "Your mana is the essence of poison."

She was trying. Her face screwed up with concentration, and she breathed out sharply from her nose. However, the poison was still advancing, darkening her arm bit by bit. Whatever she was doing, it wasn't working.

If it gets past her elbow, I'm calling it, Thomas promised himself, and forced himself to look away. It almost physically hurt, and everything within him screamed to get in there and stop this before the poison went too far.

Knowing Zach was right didn't make it any easier to endure. Thomas found he couldn't just stand in one place and instead paced back and forth the two steps it took him to cross the small room. That probably wasn't optimal for Jo's concentration, but this was literally the best he could do.

Jo called it before the last thread of Thomas's restraint broke. "I can't." Her voice cracked, her Still Waters skill completely dropping. "I can't. I'm not cut out for this mana stuff like you guys." She looked up at Thomas, pleading.

That was all it took. Thomas knelt beside her, taking her ruined arm carefully. Seeing it was like a physical ache under his ribs. Her hand felt cold and unresponsive. "All right, I got you. It's gonna be fine, Jo. I'll induce the purge, but we have to leave this dungeon first."

Jo's expression crumpled. "What?" She looked between him and Zach with guilt plain across her features. "Leave the dungeon? I'm sorry, I should've..."

"Don't," Thomas said, sharper than he meant to. Then he gentled his voice. "It's not your fault."

Zach nodded with no trace of judgment and stood. "I'll go first and make sure nothing's waiting for us outside." Then he was out the door, curved sword in hand.

"I'm sorry," Jo said again.

"It's okay, Jo," Thomas said. He got an arm under her good one and helped her stand up. "We don't have to finish every dungeon, and you really don't want to purge in here."

He led her through the door, conscious every second that the poison was still advancing, though his Health Sight showed that it was contained just to her arm for now.

Outside, night had fallen. Zach stood like a sentinel a few yards off. He glanced at Thomas and shook his head. "We're clear. There's no one around."

Thomas used his Health Sight to sweep the area anyway. Other than a few small animals, there was no telltale glow of life.

Zach went through his pack and grabbed a flashlight, sweeping it around them.

When the beam hit a strand of saplings a short walk off, Thomas said, "That will give her privacy, if nothing else."

He guided Jo there. Her breathing was shallow and fast and she shook slightly. He didn't think it was the poison—the nerves looked completely dead, so there was no pain—it was just fear, and he couldn't blame her.

"You can fix my arm, right?" she asked with a shaky voice.

"Yes, it'll be fine." He urged her to sit on the pine-needled ground and knelt in front of her. Then he placed one hand on her forehead, the other finding her core. "This next part is going to be rough, but just get it all out and we'll deal with the damage after."

He didn't wait for her to brace. He activated his Purge ability.

_____

Thomas and Zach sat around a campfire. The sounds of retching and... other horrible things had stopped a little bit ago, and the crickets were starting up again now that all was clear.

Once it became certain the purge was taking care of the poison, Thomas had given Jo some space to allow her a little dignity. Plus... the smell was unbelievable. Thankfully, the campfire was upwind.

"I'm thinking maybe I'll just deal with hangovers the old-fashioned way," Zach said. "No purge for me."

Thomas snorted. "Told you it was bad."

From the darkness Jo called, "Do you guys have any more full canteens over there?"

Thomas and Zach each had one, which Thomas helpfully lobbed into the trees then backed away to safety.

Presently Jo came out of seclusion, wearing a new T-shirt and shorts she had scavenged from her own pack, smiling sheepishly and still holding her rather withered yet alive and now working hand. She stepped into the firelight. "You said you can fix this, right?"

Thomas couldn't answer for a moment. His tongue was stuck to the roof of his mouth.

Zach, too, was staring. Then he let out a low whistle.

That unfroze Thomas, who elbowed him.

Smile slipping, Jo looked between the two of them, unsure. "What? Did I miss some? It was kind of coming out everywhere. Even my skin."

"No... you didn't miss anything," Thomas said, though his voice came out a little strangled.

It was as if every imperfection, real or imagined, had been buffed out of her skin. No sun damage, no wrinkles, no blemishes whatsoever. Her eyes were so clear they looked larger, without a hint of redness, even though she had been going through an ordeal for the last half hour or so. Her cheeks had a youthful fullness, and the rest of her body looked... firmer yet more supple, noticeable even fully clothed. Even her hair somehow was a brighter shade of ashy blonde.

Jo was a pretty woman, he knew that, even though as his teammate he did his best to remain professional, but... now it was like she had the makings of a model.

Yes, leveling up had seemed to lend a little radiance to her but the effects had been subtle. This was not subtle.

Zach turned to Thomas. "Dude, I changed my mind. Purge me."

"What? No!"

"You look amazing, Jo," Zach said, as she started to become visibly annoyed. "You seriously look like you came out of a two-week, hundred-thousand-dollar spa center."

And also had a facelift to erase ten years, Thomas did not add, also never seen a tray of fast food or non-organic vegetable in your life.

Jo looked at Zach as if he were nuts then quickly turned to dig through the front pocket of her pack. She pulled out one of those compact makeup things with a mirror and stared at her own reflection.

Snapping it shut she whirled on Thomas. "What did you do to me?"
