I pushed with my hands, letting me lean forward. Without touching my hands to the ground, I pushed myself up while giving Althea a telekinetic lift. She balanced onto her feet,

“Woah, tell me next time before you do that.”

I shrugged before turning and jumping into the staircase. The stone cracked underfoot before I walked into the giant cavern. Far fewer insects crawled around, their natural instincts taking over once their queen was dead. This gave us free passage through the cavern.

Without the insects there, I noticed quite a few oddities. There were a few buildings spread around, odd, elongated marking spread over them. They were made of a dark, gray metal that reflected white light light regardless of the color you shined on it. Above us, streams of the cerulean magma lit the cavern in a cascade of blue beams. It was a surreal scene.

Althea ooh-ed and ahh-ed with me, just as taken in by the scenery as I was. I grazed my hand against one of the asymmetric buildings, and the metal was even harder than my own armor. With a quick, compact hook, I slammed my fist into the side of a building. My fist caved inwards, the bones cracking. Odder still, there was no sound ebbing off the metal.

I frowned, wondering what the fuck it was. It was like a city of some sorts, hiding away from all the turmoil just outside the mountain. Of course the insect queen fucked all that up, but it still made my mind wonder what had happened here.

After inspecting inside the buildings, I couldn’t find anything inside them. They were eerily empty. At the center of a hill at the center of the open expanse, the pillar of light beamed from a dungeon core. It was as if the latent energy within it was unleashed.

The aura of red had almost taken over the entirety of the once black body of the thing. As if corrupted, the red aura reached out in horns of energy. Below it was a pillar supporting the core. Runic markings spread all over the pillar of dark gray metal. They glowed with a light like the beginning of a universe. It was blindingly bright, but my eyes cooled at the sight of it.

I could’ve stared at the core with a content ease forever if I had chosen too. It was warmer than a campfire on a cold night or the love of a kind mother. I wouldn’t fall into the trap it offered though. With a brutal spike of willpower, I ripped my gaze from it. I ran up and jumped up the pillar, climbing atop it before reaching for the core.

A spike appeared through my palm. A bit of pain followed by shock followed. I glanced behind me, and Althea cried, “Get away from it.”

I raised an eyebrow, “What the fuck is wrong with you?”

She raised her rifle, “I said get the fuck away from it.”

I rolled my eyes, “How are we supposed to leave here without the core? That’s right, we can’t. I know the light’s pretty and all, but come on.”

When I looked closer at her, she wasn’t drooling over herself at the sight of the light. Her eyes homed in on my hand, as if it was reaching towards a painful death. I frowned, letting my hand drop down. I hung off the pillar with my left hand,

“Alright, I’m not grabbing it.” I reached out with my right hand, “Tell me what’s wrong. I’ll listen.”

Althea lowered her rifle,

“That’s what made me into what I am. A core like...a core like that.”
