"Where is she? Why hasn't she come back?!" Renir paced on the table, his little legs making a click-clack noise with each step he took.

"M-Master Mage, would you be so kind as to explain the theory of this spell?" One of the ant mages begged for like the tenth time. Renir had no patience for the ants right now.

"That can wait. We have more pressing matters. Where is Liora? Is she somewhere in the colony?" Renir demanded from the ants.

They shared a look, wiggling their antenna nervously. "We sent one of the scouts to investigate—"

"I have returned!" The scout ant burst into the chamber. Lau'fi was her name if Renir remembered correctly.

"Have you found Liora?" He asked hopefully.

"We have confirmed that Liora has not been seen in the colony for 5 days and 5 hours and 32 minutes. Not a single ant has seen her since she last came to speak with Cee."

"Wh-What?!" Renir exclaimed.

She hadn't returned? Renir had been sure that Liora had just continued doing her thing, flying in and out of the anthill, doing whatever she pleased. He thought she had just been avoiding him.

He had continued working on deciphering the ritual, and just an hour prior he finally figured out the final component. He had also managed to work through his… feelings. He had carefully thought of what to say to Liora and how to face her properly.

Actually, he had thought of at least 52 scenarios of what to say to her, while also thinking of her most likely answers. He was finally ready to face her. Yet Liora hadn't even returned.

"Wh-What do I do?" Renir would have clutched his head if his hands had been long enough. Instead, all he could do was wiggle them pathetically.

"You are extremely slow on the uptake, you know that, right?" Cee suddenly appeared in the chamber, Smokey lumbering behind her with Caspian riding on the wyvern's back.

"What did she say to you, Cee? You spoke to her last, no?" Renir asked.

"She said there was a problem she wanted to take care of and that she'll be gone for a while."

"How long is a while?"

Cee did a spider approximation of a shrug. "She didn't say."

Renir growled. This was not how he imagined things would go. Liora normally didn't hold a grudge. Even though she wouldn't talk to him until he apologized, he expected her to come check on him at least a few times.

He had actually planned to apologize during one of those times. But if Liora didn't come, what was he supposed to do? What would he do without Liora?

Renir looked forlornly at the ritual. It was a complicated one. In fact, it would be impossible to do anywhere except in this very desert. They needed to brew a special potion made from desert plants and the venom of a gateclaw scorpion. A special ritual circle was required, which Cee would likely need to practice before being able to do perfectly.

Timing was crucial as well. The ritual had to be performed when the sun was at its zenith—when the day was the hottest. The potion with strong acidic properties combined with the heat of the sun and strength of the ritual circle would then come together to break another seal.

But it all would be so much simpler to do with Liora by his side. Especially if something emerged from the gate opened by the ritual. The chances were slim, but they weren't null.

"So what are you going to do now?" Cee asked. It was clear that the spider demanded some action.

They had no clue where Liora was or when she would return. But one thing was clear. He couldn't just sit around and wait for her. Renir had to act. The best way he could act was if he regained his body and his magic.

"We're going to perform the ritual. Some ingredients will be difficult to gather, but I believe you and Smokey are strong enough to do it. We'll require a special potion brewed from those ingredients—"

"Allow me to brew the potion!" Caspian raised his hand, a hint of excitement in his voice. "I have brewed potions underwater, but I'm very eager to learn how humans brew potions above water."

"Very well," Renir agreed.

"You think we can manage without Liora?" Cee sounded skeptical.

"It'll be difficult… But I think we can manage. We are lucky to be at the right location. Once the ritual is complete and another part of the seal is broken. I'm going to look for Liora!"

Even if I have to face my brother…

He didn't feel ready to face Aenir. Rage still bubbled within him as he remembered the events of that day. The smile on mother's face when Aenir…

Renir growled. One would think that several decades would be enough to dull the pain, but whenever he recalled this memory, it felt just as fresh and raw as if it all had happened yesterday.

But if that's what it took to get Liora back, then Renir would do it. And he would punch Aenir in the face while he was at it. Hopefully, breaking the next seal would give him a better body. At least a tiny fist to punch with.

"Chak-chak-chak! Chak-chak-chak!" Liora laughed deliciously as she rolled in the piles of treasure she had stolen from those uppity noble-equivalents of this kingdom.

For five days, she had been raiding one asshole after the next, relieving them of the heavy burden that came with treasure. It was difficult to upkeep so many shinies properly. They needed proper care and attention. Liora was more than willing to carry this heavy burden.

"Can you put all that stuff away? If somebody sees it, they'll frame me for the theft," Aenir muttered, looking completely unamused by Liora's antics.

"Don't be such a spoilsport. Besides, this is your fault. You are undoubtedly my accomplice in all this, so you can't even blame me if you're found out," Liora said, but pulled the jewelry, gems, and gold coins back into her Inventory.

"Don't forget our main goal is to obtain the water mana crystals in the anthill. What is your Theft level looking like?" Aenir asked.

"Theft is now at Expert level," Liora said. But this was far from the only skill Liora had leveled during her many heists.

Resonance Mimicry and Decoy Fade were both Expert level too, alongside Inventory. She had a lot of treasure to store after all. Nightveil also leveled up to [Novice] level, which meant that Liora was basically a master of stealth. During the night, she was pretty much invisible.

Obviously, this wouldn't protect her from creatures that could detect her in other ways, but humans were rather pathetic. They couldn't hear well, and their vision was even worse than that.

A few dogs had noticed her approach, likely thanks to their sensitive nose. But she was just a magpie; thus, they weren't on guard around her. Thanks to that, Liora had managed to sneak into most mansions without much fuss, even with the increased security.

"Good. Because I don't think we can continue this," Aenir said thoughtfully.

"Aww, why not?" Liora asked.

"People are too riled up. They are beginning to employ mages. I too have been approached several times with a request to guard their estate from the mysterious thief ravaging through the capital. Obviously, my duties remain with the royal family, but if this continues, I'm afraid the Sultan might request me to find the thief."

"You wouldn't sell me out, would you?" Liora narrowed her eyes.

Aenir shrugged. "I would like not to, but my allegiance lies with the royal family."

With Princess Nadira, he means.

Liora glared at the man.

"Don't be angry. Since you've only been targeting men who have caused the Sultan nothing but headaches, I don't think he's going to act unless they band together. But that's never going to happen. Those assholes are always at each other's throats. Nonetheless, I think we need to continue with the next stage of our plan."

"Stealing the water crystal from the antkin, you mean," Liora said, but she didn't feel happy about it. "You sure there's no other way to restore that river? Use that fancy magic of yours. You're level 150 after all."

"Do you really think if there was another way, I wouldn't have thought of it by now?"

Liora sighed. "Yes, I suppose you would have. I really don't want to steal from the antkin tho. Maybe I could try negotiating with them first?"

"And what happens when that fails? They'll be on high alert, and you will have no chance of stealing the water crystals then," Aenir pointed out.

"I believe that ants are always on high alert. Besides, it doesn't hurt to ask. I believe it would be foolish not to."

Aenir pursed his lips, clearly not agreeing with this plan. "Fine. Do what you will, but I am warning you that this is my last attempt at obtaining the water crystal peacefully. I will not watch the people of this land suffer and die."

His expression was dead-serious. Liora could see that although he didn't want to slaughter the antkin, he would if it was necessary.

I hope I can convince them to give some of them peacefully. Maybe I can trade it somehow.

The thought of trading away her newly acquired shinies hurt Liora. But having the whole antkin colony slaughtered would be worse.

"I'll try to negotiate, and if it doesn't work, I'll steal those crystals," Liora announced.

Aenir nodded. "Here, I made you a potion."

He handed her a flash of foul-looking bluish liquid. It had weird white chunks floating in it.

"What the hell is that?" She squawked. "You can't actually be suggesting I drink this."

"Without it, you won't be able to steal anything. Antkin have an incredibly sensitive smell, and they can sense your heat signature with their antennae. This potion will make you odorless and hide your heat signature for an hour," he explained.

"So that's how they were able to sense me before, although I was basically invisible," Liora realized, then regarded the disgusting potion. "Don't you have something better? This looks like it tastes bad."

"It's absolutely horrible, but improving the flavor would dilute the effect. Just bear with it."

"You know that a bird would rather starve than eat something they don't like, right?"

Aenir gave her a stern look. "This isn't a joke."

Liora sighed. "You're no fun."

"Not when people's lives are at stake," he said, but then relaxed. "If you can, please bring Renir here. I really wish to help him break those seals."

"Sorry, but I'm not forcing anything on Renir. If he doesn't want to come, then that's that," Liora said, touching the potion and pulling it into her inventory.

"At least try to get him here, okay?"

Liora looked at him and nodded. But in reality, she had no intention of bringing up Aenir in front of Renir again. Renir knew his brother was here. If he wanted to seek him out, then he would say so. Liora wasn't going to force the matter anymore.

She just wanted things to go back to the way they were. It was… lonely without Renir and Cee.

The treasures Liora had stolen had helped to quell this feeling a little, but Liora knew it was just a temporary measure. The longer she was apart from them, from her friends, the lonelier she felt. It was time to put an end to it.

Liora threw a last glance at Aenir, who gave her a firm nod, and flew off towards the desert. Towards the antkin.

Hopefully, the antkin will just give me the water crystal, and it will all end there. Happy ever after for everybody.

But the heavy knot in Liora's stomach suggested that it was unlikely that things would go so smoothly. They never did.