“That is true.” Dave nodded. “Finally… I assume you still intend to go snatch the siren from my brother?”

“Do what now? From where?” Derek’s eyes widened.

“Well, when you ascend, you stay within a family of systems… my family if you ascend from here. The one the siren went to happens to be the one under my brother’s control. He is excited about her, by the way.”

“Why? And she’s doing okay?”

“She is doing fine, from what I know. Some struggles, but overall… she is doing well,” Dave said. “And my brother is excited for the same reason that I would be for Brandi or Marrick if you weren’t taking them with you. He believes she will be able to grow and ascend again—this time to the Origin System.”

“And he would be rewarded for that somehow?”

“Yes,” Dave replied with a nod.

“Yeah… I plan on going to get her as soon as I am able,” Derek said.

“It’s not going to be easy… at least… I don’t think. The essence is thick in the Origin System, and that tier of the universe is not small. Your traveling skill may not work as well there as here, but I’m not sure. It will certainly work. I am just unsure of how strong it will have to be. Since it is a higher-tier skill, you haven’t been able to upgrade it yet. You will learn more about it from the Origin System once you ascend, though, I’m sure.

“I have just never seen anyone be able to move backwards from the Origin System to a lower-tier system.”

“Aren’t you doing that right now?”

“No,” Dave said, shaking his head. “As I said before, this is nothing more than an avatar. The same is true of the others, like Sereph.”

“Well… I won’t have any problems like… I don’t know… blowing up the planet if I’m too strong?” Derek asked, remembering the close call with the dungeon on Earth.

“You shouldn’t,” Dave said. “Maybe you would if you were a Transcendent when you go, but I’m sure you’ll be able to go get her well before then. And I very much look forward to seeing the look on my brother’s face when he learns that she disappeared.”

“You’ll have to let me know what happens with him… maybe take a picture or something so I can see, too,” Derek replied with a chuckle.

“I may just do that,” Dave said. Then he looked up, paused for a moment, and sighed. “It looks like it’s time to wrap this up.”

Dave stood, and the chair behind him disappeared. Derek also stood and let the chair he was sitting on vanish. “Derek Hunt…” Dave held his hand out, and Derek grasped it. “It is nice to meet you. My name is Davenresh Gravenholt, Fourth Transcendent of House Gravenholt. I sincerely hope that we are able to meet again someday.”

“I’ll look forward to it,” Derek said as they shook hands.

“Me too!” Silvi’s voice chimed. “No ingredients?” she asked.

“Not this time, Silvi,” Dave said. “Bringing that card all the way here was not easy, and it only left room for the few treats I’ve given you today.”

“Oh… well… thanks for the food!”

“You are welcome.”

Dave snapped his fingers, and Derek was blinded by a bright light. Even with his eyes open, he couldn’t see anything. In his head, he heard, ‘Do be careful, my friend. I very much wish to personally meet you one day.’

Unable to see anything, Derek replied, “I’ll do my best.”
