“We all did, man!” Tommy said. “She's practically naked with all those web cutouts.” He said and sighed. “All that dark skin on display for everyone to see, and I'm terrified that every time I try to look at her, she's going to catch me at it and kill me.”

“I'm pretty sure she would kill you for staring at her.” Dillon said and smiled.

“It might be worth dying, just to see her naked.” Hank said and laughed.

“Tha's enough jabberin', ya buncha old hens.” Clint chuckled. “Git back ta work.”

The guys kept looking for evidence, or clues, or anything at all, and they teased each other about how much of her armor they could get off before she killed them.

*

“Thank you, Ren.” Elerlyth said as they trotted to the other side of town to work their way across it.

“For what?” Ren asked as they easily avoided the people in the street, because there wasn't that many out and about. He didn't know if the people were just out somewhere, or if they were hiding in their homes.

“You're letting me feed on all this despair and misery in the town.” Elerlyth said. “You're also sharing your own feelings and making it all taste better.”

“Are you suggesting that I'm spicing it up for you?” Ren asked and smiled.

“You know you are.” Elerlyth said and laughed. “When did you become such a tease?”

“Ah... well, that's a long story.” Ren said. “I got arrested for murder once, and when I was tossed in jail...”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh, and Ren asked Princess to stop.

“If I'm reading your feelings right, the biggest amount of depression is right here.”

“It is.” Elerlyth said, a little surprised. “You can feel that through the shared Aura?”

Ren nodded. “I'm a lot more sensitive to the variations from you for some reason.” He said and slid off of Princess. “I don't know if it's because I haven't shared with you in so long, or if I'm just not subconsciously blocking anything from you anymore.”

“But...” Elerlyth slid off of her Phantom Steed. “We... ah... you helped me level up.”

“I wasn't concentrating on feeling other people through you then.” Ren smiled. “I was much too busy feeling you feeling me feeling you at the time.”

Elerlyth tied her steed to the post and turned to Ren. “It was... god, you were...”

Ren stepped close. “I said you have to wait.” He let a burst of anger out to tease her, and Elerlyth caught her breath.

“I... I... I'll wait.” Elerlyth breathed. “I still don't see how we're going to get any privacy.” She said. “We passed an inn just inside the city gate, but...”

“I doubt it has enough rooms for the whole party.” Ren said and gave her a burst of reassurance. “I've got a plan.”

“Good god, I hope so.” Elerlyth moaned. “I'm... I'm having a hard time...”

“All right.” Ren said and took her hand. “Give me a kiss.”

“You just said...”

“I need your wonderful brain to listen and catch things that Teepo and I might miss when we talk to people.” Ren said. “I need you sober.”

Elerlyth felt how much he liked her brain, and her heart sped up. Even though she was hornier than she'd ever been with all the feelings surrounding her, he was a calming influence for her. She leaned down slightly and pressed her lips to his, and he opened that part of himself he always saved for her. She let his hand go and wrapped her arms around him, and he poured out his feelings for her and hugged her back.

It only took a minute for Elerlyth's head to clear up from the flood of other people's emotions as the tidal wave of Ren's feelings drowned them out. She ran her hands through his hair and messed it up, and she knew that Ren liked it when she did that. Even though they were sharing emotions in the Spider Aura, Ren had closed down the loop effect and had everything going one way and into her.

Elerlyth broke the kiss and looked at him. “How are you doing that?”

“I told you before.” Ren said. “I've had a lot more practice parcelling things out inside of me.” He smiled. “How did you like my 'funnel'?”

“It gave me a tenth of a level.” Elerlyth said.

“It's also cleared your head up.” Ren said. “Pace yourself, okay? Even though the emotions are there, you don't have to try and eat them all at once.”

Elerlyth sighed. “I don't understand how you can be so much better at controlling my ability than I am.”

“I'm an outside observer.” Ren said. “I can see how the emotions are affecting you without being affected myself.”

Elerlyth nodded. “You always make so much sense.”

“That's because I'm always right.” Ren said and smiled at her. “Now fix my hair and knock on the door.”

Elerlyth chuckled and straightened his hair as best as she could with her fingers, then turned and knocked on the door of the house.
