An expectation had been growing in duels that the stronger opponent in a match-up that was a foregone conclusion would either end it quickly or modify their approach in some way to narrow the gap. The mercy of people who were still learning their powers could be kind of lacking, or unintentionally terrifying like Ignacio stalking you with his knives, but it existed.

So having someone extend a fight they could have ended, forcing you to keep hopelessly trying against them for the full clock, was new. And it sucked. Alden had seen Victor bat at a roach eleven thousand times before he finally let it die.

The fights against Febri had felt like that. From the roach’s perspective.

“Maybe cats don’t know they’re torturers because they’ve always been cats,” he said.

“That’s lovely for cats, but I’m sure it’s a character flaw for humans,” Haoyu replied.

Alden couldn’t disagree. “Let’s forget about the shitshow for an hour or two. I have enough non-MPE homework to keep me busy, and it’s way less likely to tick me off.”

******

Not thinking about MPE drama was the right call.

Unfortunately, it was harder in practice than in theory. Sitting in pricey recovery steam, eyes closed to discourage anyone other than Haoyu from talking to him, Alden got through the recording of his Intro to Other Worlds lecture and wrote a paragraph to show Instructor Marion he was still engaging with Engaging with the Unexpected even if he was missing some classes. But his thoughts kept drifting toward his fresh grievances with people he’d mostly gotten along with until a few hours ago.

He’d started allowing himself periodic glances at the footage, and he was trying, in spite of his own better judgement, to figure out if there was some glaring moment when the class had turned for the worse.

The atmosphere had been a little off from the beginning, but nothing too worrisome. The locker room had only had one topic of conversation, and that had been Elites—what it would be like, who’d gotten in, and who hadn’t.

Ignacio and Finlay were in.

Konstantin and Febri weren’t.

Jeffy, who had been invited out for an educational swim by some of the divers he’d met during the Submerger incident, was presumed to be out of the running, too. The courier hadn’t delivered a second letter to the room he shared with Max, Finlay, and Winston.

Everyone had been saying the kinds of things Alden might have expected. Congrats. Wish it was me. Wish I was an S.

If some of the “must be nice” statements from the A’s sounded resentful, if Finlay wasn’t hiding his pride as well as he could have, if Kon’s boisterousness rang false, and Febri got too snappy about Reinhard accidentally swapping their water bottles…it still hadn’t fallen apart at that point.

Ignacio didn’t even care that he’d been accepted. His grandparents had a negative opinion of one of the faculty members who’d be heavily involved with the Elites program, so he didn’t want to study under that person.

When they’d finished suiting up and joined some of the girls outside the locker rooms, the awkwardness had grown.

Tuyet, Vandy, and Maricel were in. Jupiter was out. And the only thing Marsha was in was denial.

She was so busy staring at her interface and looking around for couriers that she wasn’t paying attention to her surroundings, which meant her surroundings had to watch out for themselves. A distracted S-rank with a glaive wasn’t the best company to have in a crowded hall.

Most of the girls seemed to already be annoyed with Vandy and Tuyet for some reason. Vandy was too focused on checking that everyone was wearing their suits and cuffs properly to notice, but Tuyet was subdued. Astrid was being a little loud, trying to cheer everyone up. Before Alden could unravel more of the mood than that, Febri had sidled up to Marsha and made a rather positive, commiserating remark about how Li Jean was missing out on both of them.

“But we’re not the same,” Marsha had said absently. “You’re already sixteen.”

Which would have made normal people laugh. Alden almost laughed. Marsha said “sixteen” like it was a death sentence, and she was only weeks away from sixteen herself. But these weren’t normal people who laughed; they were Anesidorans who had gotten into the habit of caring stupidly much about their ages down to the precise day. Apparently, shaking the habit was going to take longer, even now that they were safely selected as high ranks.

Febri looked horribly offended, and a couple of people immediately began to sympathize with him about how that surely wasthe problem and it was so unfair that he’d just missed the opportunity because of something he couldn’t help.

That might have made him feel better if it had been allowed to continue.

But then Vandy chimed in to say that sixteen-year-old first years from other CNH classes had been invited to Elites. And Jeffy arrived, bounding through the crowd wearing a long-sleeved shirt that said, “I Sink and Swim with the Diving Club!” on his way toward the locker room.

Marsha’s hand shot out to grab the Aqua Brute’s arm as he passed, and the sleeve ripped at the shoulder. It was an accident, judging by the way she jumped back like Jeffy had caught on fire, but Alden was already retreating in a hurry.

Marsha moving quickly was engraved as a dangerous situation in his mind.

“My shirt!”

“Sorry. I can sew it back together for you. Did you get an acceptance letter from the Elites program at Li Jean?”

“I just got this shirt from Yesenia! I’ve been watching her work on the big arch things in the ocean.”

“Did you get an acceptance letter?!” Marsha demanded, nostrils flaring.

“No.”

Febri looked relieved.

“But a man called me and said I was invited for an interview,” Jeffy continued. “He said we would discuss if being an Elite was a good match for me and talk about what talents they’d expect me to take at each level. I don’t think I’d like that, though, and my Nana—”

Alden knew beams of light were Søren’s thing, but for a second, he could imagine two of them shooting out of Marsha’s eyes to pierce through Jeffy all the way to another, eliter campus.

“They. Still. Have. Slots!” she said.

Why some of the A-ranks gasped at the news, Alden couldn’t fathom.

“They’re interviewing people!” Marsha cried.

“Vandy, did you see what she did to my shirt? Aren’t you going to say something to her about—”

“That means they’re taking applications for Elites.” She was pumping her fist.

Alden frowned.

“What flawless logic.” The whisper came from behind him, from another person who’d beaten a retreat as soon as Marsha started grabbing people. Alden turned to see Max. Who was now seventeen. Truly ancient.

“I’ll need the most amazing video from gym today,” Marsha had said then. “To show Li Jean! I hope we’re having duels.”

In the sauna, on the other side of those duels, Alden pulled as much steam as he could into his lungs.

Yeah, that could have been the start of the class falling apart.

Actually, though, Marsha hadn’t been more problematic than usual. At least not for Alden. Getting chopped like wood was getting chopped like wood. Maybe she’d been more brutal to worthier opponents.

He figured he had enough of a grasp on how it had all spiraled now. Harsh duels had upset people who’d been okay at the start. Anger and hurt feelings made them less charitable when facing weaker classmates and more sensitive to perceived slights by stronger ones. Wounded pride exacerbated wounded pride until the tone of the class was just rotten.

I wasn’t immune to it, either. He’d been hanging on tight to his composure. At least I didn’t have to put up with Winston on top of the rest.

Alden hadn’t seen what got the speedster sent out to run track early in the class. Checking the footage, it seemed like he’d initiated an attack in the final second of a match against Heloísa and failed to stop quickly enough after time was up. The faculty were zero tolerance on anyone ignoring the official end of a duel.

Alden banished the video from his interface again.

A second later, a strange noise from beside him made him open his eyes and look at Haoyu, who was barely holding back laughter. His whole chest was shaking, and he was leaning forward with his hand over his mouth.

[What’s so funny?]

[Splat Rain Hard! Wheee! Splat!]

There were too many people in here for Alden to guffaw. He pressed his lips together.

[I’m sending to Lexi. Cheer up while he runs!]

******

“I didn’t hear Lute mention that the Elites program offers potion therapy saunas after every gym class,” Alden said later as the two of them stepped out of the building. “So, really, how elite can they be?”

“That is true.” Haoyu was drinking a smoothie called a Chocolate Snowman through a hollow peppermint stick. “You and I are the actual elites.”

Out on the sidewalk, the smell of fried food and spices from restaurants down the street were making the Gingerveg Cookie flavor Alden had chosen taste even weirder than it already was.

“I might trash this and go get fries or something. I want to walk for a while anyway. The sauna was good, but I could clear my head some more.”

“Want me to take your duffel bag back to the dorm for you?”

“Just entrust it to me. I’ll use it to defend myself from any members of our class I meet who might be stuck in battle mode.”

Alden ditched the Gingerveg, and Haoyu entrusted the duffel bag.

Just as they were parting ways, Haoyu suddenly said, “If you ever hear me talk about how I wish I was an S, it’s not because I think higher ranks are better people.”

Alden turned back to smile at him. “I wouldn’t assume you thought that.”

Haoyu bit the end off his straw and crunched it between his teeth. “I’m not power mad or anything either. It’s just about tools. I don’t think I realized that I really wanted to be able to catch up with my parents until the System told me I wasn’t even on the right tier. Like I got a bicycle instead of an airplane, and it made me take another look at where I was hoping to go. And I know it’s not a place people bike to. But I’m stubborn.”

He shrugged. “So if I do ever complain about my rank to you, it’s like that. It’s just stress.”

“I get it,” said Alden. “Rank doesn’t matter. Except when it does. And sometimes it really does. No reason to pretend otherwise.”

******

******
