Several of the people that had gathered to watch the show, cheered for him, then they stopped abruptly as they saw onscreen Ren collapse to the floor in exhaustion. The show ended there and faded to white, then the credits rolled. Everyone was quiet.

“Wow.” Barbara said into the silence. “No wonder they picked up the series. That was more exciting than seeing it the first time.”

Ren nodded as the lights came up. “It was both the longest, and shortest, half an hour that I've gone through in a while.”

Elise laughed. “That's quite literally true.” She said, and Ren looked at her. “Half an hour here is 2 hours in the game.”

Ren smiled and nodded again. “Thanks for coming over and watching it with me.”

Barbara coughed beside him.

“Okay, with us.” Ren said, and chuckled.

Elise grinned. “It was my pleasure.”

Several people came over to Ren, and congratulated him on a great show.

“That was a good cliffhanger ending.” One of the nurses said. “I can't wait for the next episode!”

After some chatting and small talk, the gathering broke up and everyone started leaving.

“I guess I better go, too.” Elise said, and looked at Ren.

“Before you go, I want to tell you something.” Ren said. “I finally opened the storefront of my business.”

“You did?” She asked.

Ren nodded. “I wanted it open before the show aired, and I just made it back to a Safe Zone in time to log out, get cleaned up, and come here.”

“That's great!” Elise said. “The business should be posted with you as the owner on the main website.” She grinned. “People will see the show and go to the site, and see the store is open.” She squeezed his hand. “You did really well to get it up and running so soon.”

“Thanks.” Ren said.

“It was really nice seeing you again.” Elise said, her voice a little sultry.

“It sure was.” Ren said, then his face flushed a little red. “Ah... I meant me seeing you... not you seeing me.”

“I know what you meant.” Elise smiled as she stood up and let go of his hand. She turned towards him, leaned way over, and gave him a kiss on the cheek. The top two buttons of her blouse were undone; and since Ren's face was pointed right at her, he got a very up-close and personal view of her enormous cleavage.

“Th-thank you.” Ren stammered, his eyes wide and face flushed even more red. Elise leaned back and saw the expression on his face.

“You're so cute.” She said as she stood up straight, and took her coat from the back of the chair she had sat in. She put the coat on and buttoned it, and smiled again as Ren had watched her as she moved. Elise reached out and ran her hand through his fluffy hair, then winked at him.

“Same time next week?” She asked, and Ren nodded. “I'll see you then, assuming the studio doesn't need you for a voice-over or something before then.”

“O-okay.”

Elise looked at the two nurses, and nodded to them in turn. “Barbara. Bonnie.”

They nodded back, and Elise gave him a little wave as she walked away.

“Did I just see what I thought I saw?” Bonnie asked.

Barbara nodded. “She's definitely a handful.”

“A handful?” Ren smiled. “She's an armful!”

The two nurses looked at him with surprise on their faces, and his face flushed a bright red.

“I meant her personality!” He said. “Not her... ah... assets.”

Bonnie snorted a laugh as she stood up and went behind his chair. “Come on, lady-killer.” She said and turned him around. “Let's get you back to your room.”

Ren nodded, and when he looked at the doorway, he saw a familiar figure with blonde hair walking out of the therapy room behind Doctor Hobbard.

“L-Lucy!” Ren exclaimed.

She kept walking; either she didn't hear him, or she had ignored his shout. Ren sighed as he realized that it didn't really matter which it was. She'd come to watch the show with him, just like everyone else had. Bonnie and Barbara shared a look with each other, but didn't comment about it.

“Are you sticking around until your shift starts, Barbara?” Ren asked.

“I might as well.” She said. “I'd just have to come back in an hour anyways.”

“Great!” Ren said. “We can all have a snack together.”

“A snack?”

Ren nodded. “I only had a light supper, and Bonnie said I could have a candy bar and a diet soda after the show.”

“She did, huh?” Barbara asked, and looked at Bonnie.

“I cleared it with Doctor Hobbard already, and I marked it on his diet sheet with the adjustment.”

Barbara nodded. “Then I'd be happy to have a snack with you.” She smiled. “The both of you.”

They stopped by the break room and picked up the snacks, and went back to Ren's room. He climbed into the bed and settled in to enjoy a rare dose of chocolate and root beer.

“So, what did you think about the first episode?” Barbara asked Bonnie, and the discussion began. The three of them talked for nearly an hour about it, about how much had changed, how much was added or cut out, and the highlight with the smith trial.

“That really was a good ending.” Bonnie said.

“I'm surprised they could compress a few days worth of footage into only half an hour.” Ren said. “At that rate, they'll burn through the footage faster than fire through a dry forest.”

Barbara chuckled. “I wouldn't worry about that.” She said. “Once they get to the juicy bits, it'll slow down to let everyone see what happened.”

“I think so, too.” Bonnie said. “If they do that, then they've got several seasons of footage to go through.”

“Several seasons?!?” Ren asked. “What are you talking about?”

Bonnie laughed. “If the audience tonight was any indication, then a good portion of the people that watched it are going to be hooked.” She grinned. “The viewership will skyrocket.”

“No way!”

Barbara put a hand on his arm. “You're going to be popular.”

“I think you're both crazy.” Ren laughed. “Who's going to want to watch my adventures for that long?”

Both women raised their hands, and his eyes widened.

“You saw the people there tonight.” Barbara said. “More people were interested in it than any of us thought.”

“All right.” Ren took in a deep breath and smiled at them. “I'll try to not let fame and fortune go to my head.”

“Like we'd let that happen.” Barbara said and chuckled. “We'll keep your swelled head right here on Earth.”

“Starting tomorrow.” Bonnie said. “Right now, you've got to get back to the game.”

Ren looked at his watch. “You're right. It's almost morning.” He slid out of bed with a foil packet in his hand, went to the bathroom, and took care of business. He came back out and got into bed again. “Thanks for... well, everything.” Ren said to Bonnie. “Tonight was great!”

“That's just the chocolate talking.” Bonnie said.

“Or the kiss from a certain red-headed amazon.” Barbara commented.

“It was just on the cheek!” Ren said.

“We know.” They said at the same time.

“It's still there.” Barbara said.

“Wh-what?” Ren asked, surprised.

“What color is that, Barbara?” Bonnie asked her. “Cherry Red or Fire Engine Red?”

“Like I'd know!” Barbara laughed. “It's just red to me.”

Ren looked at them. “Is... is there really...”

Barbara nodded. “You can admire it in the mirror tomorrow morning.” She smiled and helped him put on the VR headset. “Goodnight.”

“I might not be able to log out overnight.” Ren said. “I've got stuff to make for the store; or just deliver, if I can get Tee-one to make them for me while I'm at work.”

“That's fine. I got to spend the last hour and a half with you.” Barbara said. “And I'll be here if you need me before morning.”

“Thanks, Barbara.” Ren said. “You're always so understanding.”

“It's what I do.” Barbara chuckled. “Have fun.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********
