All right, I think I tortured them enough. I was starting to feel bad. However, there was something we still needed. It was fun adventuring with Tabitha without prior knowledge of what lay in the Endless Forest, but if Clarkson were a guide, then I would be foolish not to ask him about what lies further within. "Mister Clarkson, was it?" I turn to the red-haired old man.

“Yes…. Milady,” he grumbles out the last part, obviously not happy with me.

Sorry, I apologize in my head; I needed information. “My parents sent me in here blind as some sort of annoying test, but since we ran into you, I don't suppose you can gift us some of your wisdom?”

“What do you want to know?” He reluctantly replies.

"Where are we exactly?" I ask their leader. "She said something about this being goblin territory," I motion to Vanessa.

“It is,” he nods. “I don’t know where you entered the Endless Forest, but you drifted too far west. No one knows exactly where the goblins made their camp; they just know to stay far away from it.”

“Then why are you here?” I point out the hypocrisy of his statement.

He scoffs at my lack of knowledge, to which I scowl. Still, though, he does tell me what I want to know. "We're here because we came across the elemental's trail. Goblins won't go anywhere near an elemental if they can help it, so we'll stay out of trouble as long as we stay a few days behind it. Besides, wherever the elemental goes, the mirage hares will follow."

“Weaker magic beasts love to do the same thing as us and trail an elemental for safety and free food. As a result, we've gathered twice as many pelts than we would’ve had if we didn't follow the elemental,” he explains.

After the old man says his piece, his brow furrows, and he gives me a weird look. He still looked angry about my looking down on him, but a hint of concern was hidden there. “Did your parents really send you here with so little information?”

Damn it, things would be so much easier if he were an asshole, but it’s starting to look like the leader is a good guy. Maybe I can dial it back a bit now that they've realized we aren't going to attack him. "It was one of many stipulations, along with not revealing my identity," I lie further.

I let my arrogant grin soften into a resigned smile. “It doesn’t matter,” after a pregnant pause, I pretend to bounce back from my fake emotional backstory. "Just tell us where we are, and we can go our separate ways."

The old man nods in understanding. "I don't know exactly where we are due to there being no maps of the Endless Forest, at least none that are accurate. But I can tell you you’re at the edge of the core region of the Endless Forrest.”

“The what?” I ask for clarification.

Old man Clarkson lets out a long sigh and, to my relief, finally sheathes his two swords and gestures for his comrades to do the same. I continue to rest my hammer on my shoulder but let the tension leave my body, seeing everybody lowering their weapons. Then, finally having a chance to, I spare a glance at Tabitha, who gives me a well-done look. Her hand still rested on her sword, but that would never change.

Once his swords are away, Clarkson takes a hesitant step forward. He waits for me to nod in approval, and when I do, he slowly closes the distance between us while his group stays where they are.

He stops a few feet in front of us, where he visibly flinches under Tabitha's blank stare. When he finally catches himself, he bends down and picks up a long piece of tree root upturned by the elemental's attack. "Excuse me," he mumbles in his husky voice, sketching in the loose soil.

He quickly drew out a large circle and then started to draw three more circles inside one another. “Again, this isn’t exactly accurate, but it’s the best way to put things,” he tempers our expectations.

“You have the outer region of the Endless Forest, which is technically not a part of the magic-dense region,” he points with the root in his hand. “That’s where you find the base camps and your small villages. Then it goes inner, core, heart," he points to the increasingly small circles. “Right now, we're straddling the line between the inner and core regions of the forest.”

“And that’s where the higher-level people hunt?” I guess.

Old man Clarkson shakes his head. “People don’t hunt in the core region; it's too dangerous. We're not explorers; we're hunters. We enter the Endless Forest with specific goals in mind; the people who go that deep are treasure hunters looking for rare materials that they hope can sell for a fortune if they make it out alive.”

“Interesting,” I hear Tabitha say to my side, and looking at her, I see her sporting the biggest smile I've seen since….. well, since she was fighting the arch-goblin.

“Sounds fun,” I share her sense of adventure.

Clarkson frowns at the two of us. “It’s your funeral if you go there. Don’t say I didn’t warn you," he stresses. He looks annoyed at Tabitha for suggesting such a journey. Still, surprisingly he gives me a look of genuine concern, even though I technically strongarmed him and his group into submission.

"And what's in the core region?" I ask, knowing that's where we were heading after we healed up.

“Stronger beasts. Larger elementals. It’s hard to say, so few people go there. And those who make it back are tight-lipped about what's there.”

“So, I take it you don’t know what’s at the heart of the forest,” I frown in disappointment.

But to my astonishment, Clarkson surprises us. “Actually, I do know a bit. Only through stories, of course, but there’s supposedly a lake at the center of the forest, and all the mana radiates out of it. People claim many different things, but they all agree that the lake is the heart of the Endless Forest.”

Tabitha and I share a look, and wordlessly, we both agree on our end goal.

“So, you’re both crazy,” Clarkson recognizes our wordless back and forth for what it was and looks disappointed that we weren't following his advice.

"Because you gave us so much information, I won't hold those words against you, Mister Clarkson,” I lightly scold the man like a noble would. "You don't have to worry about us." I dropped Acting for a moment, ensuring he understood our fate was not his concern and that he shouldn't worry about us. “We can handle ourselves,” I proclaim confidently.

“I hope you can,” Clarkson ominously replies, dropping the root having no longer any need for it. “I wish the young lady all the luck in the world," he politely bows toward me.

After that, he turns his back towards us and returns to his group. He uses a few more hand gestures, signaling his party to form up. They do, and a few minutes later, Tabitha and I are watching them leave the way the elemental left.

"You don't think they'll steal our gear, do you?" I ask Tabitha, remembering our bags were in that direction as well.

Tabitha just laughs at me. “After how much you intimidated them, I doubt it.”

“What; you were way more intimidating than me,” I counter.

Tabitha laughs even harder. "They were absolutely terrified of you, the old man less so, but the others were looking at you like you were a monster."

Not wanting to hear that from Tabitha, I move to punch her in her arm, but she easily sidesteps my attack. "They were not," I growl, leaking the faintest amount of killing intent.

"Watch yourself," Tabitha warns me while miming wiping a tear from her eye. “You’re not seeing it from their perspective.”

"I was aware I was acting as an arrogant noble, but that’s nothing compared to your stone-cold murder stare.”

Tabitha shakes her head, almost like old Clarkson did when he thought we weren't listening to his warnings. "I'm sure you've heard it before, but what two types of people must you look out for in this world?" Tabitha questions me.

“Assassins and bandits,” I guess.

“Then too, but not what I was going for,” Tabitha wags a finger at me. “The two people you look out for are really old people like Master and really young people like yourself. You basically told them your level by comparing yourself to the old man, and you look young enough that you should be back home suckling your mothers’ titties.”

"I don't look that young," I blush at Tabitha's vulgar words.

“Yes, you do,” Tabitha deadpans. "You scared them more than me because you look like you don't belong here; I do. " We're this deep, and you look relatively fine, especially amongst a field of dead goblins,” she gestured around us. "Your presence is more terrifying than anything I could've said. Your over-the-top acting was just overkill.”

“Oh,” I hang my head in thought, remembering the scared looks of Vanessa and her group. I’ve never had people look at me like that before. But then again, the only people who knew my actual level were my family and friends; not even the villagers back home knew my level was as high as it was.

“I guess I should get used to looks like that,” I mumble.

“It’s fine,” Tabitha once again places a reassuring hand on my shoulder, trying to make me feel better. “It’s pointless to worry about what others think about you.”

"Wow, that's some excellent advice," I raise my head and meet Tabitha's intense gaze. "Who are you, and what did you do to Tabitha?" I joke.

“Brat,” Tabitha uses her hand on my shoulder to push me over. I let it happen, so I topple onto my backside, where I sigh. Dealing with that group of hunters took a lot out of me. My stamina pool was the same as when they approached, yet it felt empty.

Tabitha lets me brood for a minute before offering me a hand. "Thanks," I say as she easily hoists me to my feet. "Think we should head back to camp now?"

“Someone still needs to get us food,” Tabitha reminds me.

"After all that, now that everything's run away, you want me to find our dinner?" I give Tabitha an incredulous look.

“I’m sure you can find something,” Tabitha counters.

Outwardly I groan, but on the inside, I’m smiling. Even though I was tired and the last few hours had been a challenge and a half, I was looking forward to exploring with Tabitha.

The mystery surrounding the forest's heart just made me want to see it that much more. But before that, we needed to recover, and food would help with that.

I’ll catch us dinner, and maybe this time I'll be able to find some herbs to go with it. Then we'll sleep, and tomorrow we'll continue our adventure into the great unknown.
