The six mana signatures were moving swiftly toward our location, but as they drew nearer, they slowed down. They either knew we were here or sensed something was different about our location.

“They’re being cautious,” I inform Tabitha, wondering at what distance their skills could pick us up. Of course, if one of them had a visual skill, they would've been able to spot us from much farther back, but that's only if they got a clear view through the many trees.

Stretching her arms in front of her chest, Tabitha rasps softly, "Smart of them. I still can’t sense them yet.”

“They’re coming from the direction the elemental was walking from. Do you think they're following it?" I direct Tabitha’s senses in the direction they’re approaching from. Was it just a coincidence that they were coming from the same way the elemental was? I didn’t think so.

“Most likely,” Tabitha keeps her answer short, staring into the distance like a badass instead.

“Are you expecting a fight?” I hesitantly ask her, seeing how she was stretching as she does before a battle. Unfortunately, she and I were still injured from our fight with the goblins, adding her dodging the elemental attack, and depending on the levels of the people approaching us, this could be bad.

Tabitha stops stretching and slowly turns to face me with her hand on her sword. She had a firm readiness about her; she was ready to kill should she have to. “No, but we must be prepared for the possibility that they are approaching us with less than honorable intentions. We’re currently in a magic-dense region; the only law here is the law of the strong. You said you faced other people before, right?”

“I," I stammer, remembering my run-in with the bandits less than a year ago like it was yesterday. The fire. The charred bodies. All of it. “I have once before,” I finally manage to spit out.

Tabitha reaches over and gently touches my shoulder, making me smile. It was hard not to. Sure, it was comforting to have her stand next to me and see that she was supporting me, but I always smiled regardless, mainly because of how funny it looked, though I would never say as much.

Tabitha was only 5’ 4’’, maybe a few inches taller in her armor, but I towered over her even then. So, every time she put her hand on my shoulder, it looked like I was being comforted by a younger sibling instead of the crazy strong fighter that she was.

“Are they here yet?” Tabitha asks after affectionately patting me on the back twice and turning back toward the direction the six were approaching us from.

“They’ve spread out,” I inform her. “Four of them are there,” as soon as I point out where they’re hiding, the group starts to shift forward again after seemingly pausing in their approach. Did one of them know I knew they were there? Did they know that I knew that they knew?

“The other two have split off and are hiding nearby, but I think the main group may have noticed that I spotted them,” I inform Tabitha while massaging my head as a headache forms.

“I can tell. They’re no longer hiding their presence,” Tabitha grins as the four people round one of the large trees and come into view.

Now that was a motley crew if I’ve ever seen one. An older gentleman that looked to be in his late forties was leading the group. He had disheveled red hair fading due to age, but it still stood out against his dark grey metal armor.

In his hands were two short swords made with decent materials but didn't glow in Sense Mana as if they were enchanted. In fact, between the four, only two of them, one being the old man, had anything enchanted on their person, and both items were the boots they were wearing.

While the older gentleman looked between Tabitha and me, sizing us up, I focused on the other three as they drew closer. The others weren’t as old as their leader, but calling them young wasn’t right either. The three looked to be in their mid to late thirties, which with proper stat distributions, could mean they were in their fifties for all I knew.

The person closest to the leader was a woman holding a bow who looked slightly older than mom. She wore hide armor like the last two, but she had an arrow nocked, yet she still needed to draw it back. Not an outright threat, but it was apparent she wasn't taking any chances. None of them were.

All four had their weapons ready; the last two gentlemen held spears with spare bows on their backs. Their weapons gave away their fighting style. Other than their aged leader, all of them were mid or long-range fighters. If they were going to attack us, they wouldn’t be closing the distance like they are. At least, I hoped that was the case.

Curious, I steal a glance at Tabitha, who's standing next to me, and almost cringe at the smile she's wearing. "Can you not look like you're ready to stab somebody?" I quietly hiss at her.

“But I am,” she replies like that was only obvious.

The four people approaching us briefly pause but continue walking toward us. Outwardly, they looked the same, but focusing on their hands, I could tell they were gripping their weapons tighter. They either overheard us or read our lips.

Holding my hand up to my mouth to prevent the latter, I whisper back in a low voice that would be hard for anyone else to hear. "We're injured; we're not supposed to be getting into any more fights," I remind her. “Why don’t you let me do the talking?” I suggest.

“You?” Tabitha questioningly turns her head toward me, but her eyes remain focused on the group approaching us.

“Yeah, me. It'll be less intimidating if I talk to them," I reason.

Surprisingly, Tabitha agrees almost immediately. “Fine, have it your way. But no matter what, you are to stay next to me. And if there’s any trouble, I want you behind me and only help in a supportive role. Can you agree to that?”

"I can do that," I quickly agree to Tabitha's conditions.

“Alright, here they are,” she tells me.

The group of four stopped thirty feet before us, and an uncomfortable silence fell over us all. Each group was ready to act at the slightest show of aggression.

How was I supposed to go about talking to them? Though I offered to take over the negotiating role, I didn't know how to go about it. How would Tabitha act?

She would assert her dominance by force. I could try that, but it would be the same if I let her negotiate. I needed something different, but what?

“Ahem,” I cough into my hand to get everybody’s attention and hopefully clear the air before something happens. “Hello,” I greet the four with an Acting boosted smile.

“Ladies,” with a gravelly voice that sounded like he'd smoked since birth, the group's leader nodded a greeting. “I apologize for my group sneaking up on you.”

"Oh, it's no problem," I fake being aloof and wave off his platitude. "Besides, you, six, didn't sneak up on anyone," I emphasize their party number and quickly glance in the direction the other two were hiding. "Shall your friends join us?"

The woman and the two spear-wielding men looked surprised that I knew exactly where their teammates were hiding, but their leader just narrowed his eyes in thought. “If it’s all the same to you two, I think they’ll stay where they are.”

“Is that right?” Tabitha counters threateningly.

Still trying to project an air of indifference, I try to calm the situation down, but at the same time, I tighten my grip on my hammer. "There's no need for violence. Tell you what, your friends can keep their distance, but they come out of hiding so everybody can see everybody.”

“Does that include your friends too?” The woman standing slightly behind the leader angrily snaps.

“Uh, it’s just the two of us,” I try to tell them, but the woman cuts me off.

“Bullshit, hunting in such a small group, this close to goblin territory, that’s insane!” She growls.

“Vanessa!” Their leader snaps.

"What's insane is coming this far with levels like yours," Tabitha's comment adds fuel to the fire, but thankfully the old leader keeps his people in line.

“Hold,” He uses his hand to slowly direct the woman’s bow back down after she threateningly raised it. He then holds up his hand and makes a series of quick gestures, upon which two more bow-wielding hunters materialize a few hundred feet away.

“There, we complied with your demands,” the leader looks me in the eyes. “Are you truly alone?”

“We are,” I confidently repeat, choosing not to lie even though it would be easy. But as not to appear weak, I push back. “It may only be the two of us, but our levels more than makeup for our lack in numbers.”

"We can see that," the old man glances at the carnage surrounding us. “You ran into a large goblin hunting party," he observes, kicking a disembodied goblin arm at his feet.

Puffing out my chest, I grin. “We killed most of them before the elemental interrupted us." Of course, I wasn't exactly lying to them; I just tactfully omitted the part about how we were on our last breath when it arrived.

“Is that so,” the leader hides his emotions well enough and doesn't look impressed by my bragging, but the other five were more transparent. The two spear-wielders were looking around as if imagining the horde of goblins rushing them and went pale. While they're spellbound, the woman hesitantly steps back as if to put more distance between us.

That was the reaction I was hoping for, but their leader still needed a tad bit more convincing. Despite everything I said, the old man still considered the possibility of fighting us, and I couldn’t have that. Of course, we would never attack unprovoked, but he didn't know that, and as long as he had an inkling that they could succeed, he could order them to do something foolish.

I'll snuff out that last spark and prove we're stronger than them without a shadow of a doubt.

“It is,” I say in a lofty voice, faking looking down on the group. "But my guardian did bring up a good point; why is your group so under-leveled?" Then, using Sense Soul, I not only get the old man to twitch back in fear, but I get a good look at his and his friend's levels. "You're not even at my level, let alone your friends. Should any of you even be here?”

I hear Tabitha snicker beside me, but I’m too busy staring down the old ranger to spare her a glance.

“What do you know!?" Their leader growls, but to me, it sounds like an old dog trying to bluff itself out of a fight. Good, I can work with that.

I force out a long pompous sigh. “I know you’re only level 73. And I know the levels of every one of your comrades. So why is someone at your level working with people who haven't yet reached level 65?”

"We hired him," the woman shakily speaks up; my commenting on their levels shook them more than I expected.

“Oh?” I motion for her to explain further, but she seems reluctant to.

“I was hired to guide them to known mirage hare feeding grounds. We came across the elemental’s trail halfway through our hunting expedition,” their leader explains in a pained voice.

“Mirage hare; are you talking about the white rabbits that use illusions? You came this far into the forest just for some rabbits?” That sounded ridiculous to me.

The old man gives me a confused look while the other three whisper amongst themselves.

“Is she serious?" One of the men starts.

"I think she is a noble," the other man chimes in. "Maybe a mirage hare pelt is nothing to her?”

“Maybe?” The woman adds, confused. “You see the armor her knight is wearing; that has to cost some serious coin."

Again, I heard Tabitha quietly sinker next to me, but I was busy leaning into the character they so graciously thrust upon me and decided to just roll with it. "So, their hides are expensive,” I butt into the conversation, making it painfully obvious we could hear them.

“I came here to level and experience a magic-dense region for myself. But, I'm sorry to say, I scared all the cute bunnies away with my killing intent.” Though my words were apologetic, my grin would make them believe I was bragging. Plus, it subtly increased our perceived power.

“Do you have one I can feel?” I was pushing my luck, but if I could get them to hand over one of their prized pelts, it would be symbolic of them giving up.

“Clarkson, what do we do?” The woman asks the old man for advice.

“Give it to her,” he growls through his teeth.

I wanted to reassure them I'd give it back, but that would contradict everything I've done up until now. One of the spearmen turns his back to his friend, who fishes a rolled-up pelt out of his pack. He tosses it to me, and I grab it out of the air with my one free hand.

Carefully, I unroll the pelt; when I do, my eyes widen when I feel how soft it is. “Lovely,” I honestly remark. I was about to casually ask how much it went for, but thankfully, Acting reminded me to stay in character. “Father usually just buys me what I want,” I lie through my teeth. “How much would one of these cost him?”

“It depends on size,” the woman Vanessa explains to me in a meek voice. “The one in your hands would be about two gold coins, but we can get up to ten if the pelt is big enough.”

Holy shit, I exclaim in my head. “Is that all?" I channel my best Tabitha impression, looking as uninterested as possible. However, inside, I cursed myself for frightening all the rabbits off. They were practically furry gold coins!

Carefully, I ball the pelt back up, and to the group's surprise, I toss it back to them. "What did you think I would steal it from you?" I sneer.

“Not at all, miss,” the woman hurriedly hung her head submissively, but I could still see the sweat gathering on her forehead.

