He pulled Liz down to sit next to him on the comfortable bed and asked, “How are you feeling?”

She leaned her head on his shoulder and returned the question. “What about you? I know how much my parents can be. Are they too much for you? I can tell them to tune it down.”

Matt shook his head. “No need. I find your parents adorably charming in their eccentricities. They're fun, and everything I imagined. They aren’t pushing it too far at all.”

Liz sagged next to him and pulled him back onto the bed as she fell backwards. “Oh, good. I was so worried. They can be too much for me, and I grew up with them. But you answered your question. I'm happy to be back. The small messages we sent back and forth weren't enough. To be honest, I did miss them.”

The three of them were chatting when a burning smell came into the room.

Matt followed his nose to find Mara and Leon snacking on what looked to be overcooked chicken wings.

He didn’t miss that to cook them, Mara just blew a stream of fire at the bowl, and they grabbed a few of them out. They didn’t care at all about how over or undercooked each piece was.

Unable to take the affront to cooking, Matt asked, “Do you mind if I cook something if you’re hungry? That doesn't look very good.”

Leon nodded like a chicken. “That would be great! These are awful.”

Mara nodded right along, which forced Matt to ask, “Then why are you eating them?”

Leon gave a hearty laugh and honestly answered, “This is about the only thing we can cook.”

Sensing they were joking with him, Matt deadpanned. “That's not cooking.”

Mara shrugged. “It was the best we could do when we were delving. We never really got better.”

Matt could just imagine the two of them as a young bonded pair, with the flame sparrow Mara roasting whatever they had to eat with no control. It was a memory that he could understand, but he knew that the two of them could cook. Liz had mentioned them making various dishes for her growing up.

“If you wanted me to cook, you didn’t have to butcher the meal. I would have done it anyway.”

Leon popped up and struck a triumphant pose. “Yes! Our plan worked!”

Mara clapped for him. “Good job, dear. It was brilliant!”

Matt rolled his eyes, but repressed a smirk as he asked, “This is how you get Aunt Helen to cook for you, isn't it?”

Two nodding heads met his gaze with not an ounce of remorse.

Matt laughed as he made his way into the kitchen and inspected what they had for him to use. To his surprise, he found all the cabinets were spatially expanded, which was a fantastic idea that he noted down to replicate when he got his own house, and started cooking.

Now, he just needed to impress the in-laws.

How hard could that be?

He poked his head out of the kitchen to spy Leon taking a pointed bite of nearly-raw chicken wing as he smirked.

Not hard, apparently, but Matt would still try his best anyway.
