Noting the Guard Captain’s arrival, Akanai kept one eye on the boy and the other on the pup, praying neither idiot would misbehave. Seeing the pup ready to rend flesh and break bone, she gently chided him through Sending. “Almost eighty years old and still headstrong as a pup. No need to bare fang and brandish claw, focus instead on your daughter’s inception into the Empire’s Roll of Experts. I’ll clean up the boy’s mess.”

“Mentor, perhaps I should-”

“Oh?” Pinching his cheek, she raised an eyebrow in mock anger. “Speaking out against your mother now, are you? Enjoy this time with your wife and child.”

Swelling with pride, Akanai took one last look at her grand-daughter onstage, radiant and victorious as she stood tall over her third maimed and defeated opponent, a scion of the Suwa family whose great grandfather had died at Akanai’s hands all those years ago. Alsantset showed so much promise, having inherited the best traits from both parents, the pup’s single-minded devotion and Sarnai’s cautious foresight. After introducing herself as an Expert and dismembering her challengers with ease, Alsantset showed all of Central the People were not to be challenged lightly. Vichear and Gerel had been too merciful for Akanai’s tastes, letting their opponents off with barely a scratch, but sweet Alsantset kept true to the People’s ways.

How Alsantset found time to train and form a Natal Palace while raising twin children was a mystery and a feat worthy of admiration. Akanai remembered those early years with Mila well, a finicky and headstrong child even at the best of times. Despite all her training as a Martial Warrior, Akanai was woefully unprepared for the hardships of motherhood and couldn’t imagine caring for two babies at once.

Much easier to adopt an older child, like sweet, obedient Song.

Giving her daughter a hug and a kiss, Akanai bade her farewell and Sent, “Look after the boy’s pets daughter. Your martial nephew needs my help. Again.”

Nodding in reply, Song called the silk-swaddled creatures to her side with a series of whistles. Undaunted by Rain’s departure, the bears and wildcats scampered over and lined up for their reward, each one a model of propriety and decorum. If only the boy were so well-behaved then Akanai could rest easy, but it was not to be. Directing Kankin to follow the Royal Guards, Akanai made plans and Sent orders, preparing her people should the worst come to pass and wondering how one boy could be the source of so much trouble.

Truth be told, she didn’t blame the boy for his actions, not all of them and not entirely. The corrupt merchants who sought to fish in troubled waters only had themselves to blame for the boy’s heavy handed response. If he’d asked her to handle such a minor issue, she would’ve given him an earful for being too timid and laid-back, especially considering his recent behaviour. While other young talents were busy fighting duels and making a name for themselves, the publicly acknowledged number one talent in the North spent his days leisurely swimming in the bay with a woman’s scarf wrapped around his crotch. Disgraceful is what it was and while she appreciated his efforts to stay out of trouble, would it be so terrible to accept one duel a day?

Or better yet, purchase a pair of swimming shorts.

Then there was today’s debacle, inciting the turtle to cause massive structural damage to some merchant company’s headquarters, followed by stripping naked in the streets. These weren’t the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, the people of the Empire had a prudish stance regarding nudity. Although he took precautions to hide himself from the people on the streets, how could he forget the buildings around him, each one filled with spectators who could easily see over his makeshift barriers? Between the boy’s foolish shenanigans, Huu’s disappearing act, and her womanizing disciple’s scandalous behaviour, Akanai had no face left to her. Were it not for Vichear, Gerel, and Alsantset’s duels, she would’ve stayed in her borrowed manor and hidden away until sweet Mila’s arrival, the only reliable warrior in her stable of young talents.

A shame Song’s Oaths could not be annulled, the poor girl had talent and dedication to spare. It irked Akanai to know she’d had no hand in shaping her second daughter, but the girl was still young and her future limitless. Glancing back over her shoulder, she glared at her one-time opponent who had taught Song and failed to protect her, feigning boredom as he sat at his table on the balcony. Noticing her attention, Du Min Gyu smiled and Sent, “It would be much appreciated if you kept my relationship with the boy a secret. Should the Empire hear how Du Min Gyu once saw fit to give pointers to that embarrassment, I fear my sense of judgment would come into question.”

With a dismissive snort, Akanai replied, “Shameless. You think your few careless words responsible for my grand-disciple’s illustrious accomplishments? Pei. Lucky for you, I lack skin thick enough to follow suit, but you and I both know the truth. Change her name all you like, but little Yan will forever be one of the People.”

“Hmph. Audacious! Who are you to treat her with such familiarity? To you, she is Du Min Yan!” Even from this distance, she could see him clenching his jaw in anger. “Leaving such a talented young woman to fend for herself in an orphanage is a crime against Heaven. Had I not recognized her potential, she would have languished in mediocrity her entire life, an utter waste of her Mother-sent gifts.”

Pleased by how protective he was, Akanai didn’t let it show. “You underestimate both little Yan and the People’s orphanages. I myself grew up in one and those hardships shaped me to become the warrior I am today.” She’d be lying if she said she didn’t regret leaving little Yan and the pup to struggle on their own, but those decisions were made before she had her epiphany regarding the significance of love and family. No matter. While little Yan might currently be a pearl in Du Min Gyu’s hand, judging by her vocal appreciation of the boy’s impromptu public strip-show, those fertile waters were destined to flow back into the People’s fields.

The thought made Akanai’s heart ache for poor Mila. Why did she fall in love with an immoral reprobate like Rain? How many wives would he take before he was satisfied? Even sweet Song seemed in danger of falling into his grasp, already half a mother to his spoiled, yet obedient ‘fur babies’. Then there was Yuzhen’s constant nagging to arrange a political marriage for Rain, which made too much sense to outright ignore. If this came to pass, Akanai’s daughters would be lucky to claim a half of his affection between the two of them, a most unfortunate outcome. Then again, the boy would only live for another century at most, whereupon Mila and Song would still be in the prime of their life and free to love again, so Akanai saw little harm in letting things lie.

Since Du Min Gyu deigned not to reply, Akanai mentally marked their verbal spar as her victory. Du Min Gyu knew he was no better than a thief in the night, snatching away little Yan who was on the cusp of greatness. Her accomplishments were largely due to her Sentinel training, a sturdy foundation which raised many an accomplished hero. Jealous as she was of his teaching abilities, she took pride in the People’s methods, leaving each warrior to unravel the Mother’s teachings without outside interference. Her results spoke for themselves and she saw no reason to change them.

A shame Du Min Gyu was reluctant to publicly ally himself with the People, keeping a polite distance with good reason. At a hundred and nine years old, his health was surely failing, and adopting a demi-human grand-daughter had cost him more than most realized. According to Yuzhen, the once-revered teacher had plummeted in status following his return to Central with Yan. Worried for their inheritance, Du Min Gyu’s relatives acted in concert to defame and discredit him, starting rumours of his feeble-minded senility which spread like wildfire. Working in secret, they annexed most of his properties and mercantile enterprises under the guise of nurturing their ‘doddering’ relative. Though still a power unto himself and able to call the winds and summon the rains, Du Min Gyu did nothing as those vultures picked away at his holdings which only lent credence to the rumours of his decline.

Akanai could only guess at why he acted in such an unconventional manner instead of sweeping them away in a tide of blood. Was it to uncover who among his relations and allies harboured ill-intent, or was he too engrossed in Yan’s training to care for material wealth? Most likely, the cagey veteran saw his betrayers as whetstones to sharpen his grand-daughter, knowing he wasn’t long for the world and she would need to stand on her own two feet soon enough.

Whatever his reasons, Akanai made sure to reach out to little Yan as a supportive elder and remind her the People were there should she need them. Her response was more muted than Akanai had liked, merely a polite nod of thanks with no further inquiry or interest as she was too busy making eyes at the boy. First Lin, then Mila, and now Yan, Akanai didn’t understand why so many young women were so drawn to him. While fair of face and suitably heroic at times, the boy was too scrawny and diminutive for her tastes, nothing like her strapping, barrel-chested husband.

Riding past the turtle and Royal Guards without a word, Akanai ignored the Guard Captain’s challenging stare and forced the boy to look her in the eyes. “Hi Grand Mentor,” he said, pupils unfocused and speech slurred as he shrank away. “Sorry for the trouble.”

“Don’t speak,” she admonished, stroking his cheek to ease his fears. No wonder he changed in full view and fell asleep immediately after, the boy had a concussion. “There is no trouble boy, nothing to be sorry about. When you speak to the Legate, answer truthfully and Grand Mentor will shoulder the rest.” Scowling at the turtle, she envisioned stringing it up by the tail to teach it a lesson. Not only did this damned lizard covet Rain’s Heavenly Water, it even dared abuse him so harshly in public. The Legate would be most displeased if his ‘symbol of the Mother’s blessing’ came to harm, no matter how well-deserved, so there was nothing she could do. Thankfully, the injury was minor else not even the Mother herself could save ‘Ping Ping’ from Akanai’s wrath.

Unfortunately, none of her healers made it to them in time. Instead of leading her to the throne room like she’d expected, the Guard Captain brought them directly into the inner palace where her people couldn’t follow. Even at his best, Rain’s manners were unfit for Imperial company, so how well would he fare while concussed and culpable?

With a heavy heart, Akanai readied her people to pull out of Nan Ping and return to the mountains, praying the Legate had better things to do than chase them all the way back home.

Beautiful as the inner palace was, Akanai had no time to appreciate it in full, too preoccupied making preparations and planning for contingencies. All too soon, they arrived at their destination, a small, outdoor pavilion sitting in the middle of a pond. There, surrounded by his four elite guards and with his seneschal to wait on him, the handsome young Legate dined alone. Leaving their escorts and weapons behind, Akanai guided the stumbling Rain across the smooth stepping stones to greet the Legate, while the turtle plunged into the pond and snapped up a mouthful of expensive koi, munching away at them without a care in the world. Inwardly wincing at the estimated cost of the turtle’s meal, Akanai bowed and said, “Imperial Servant Akanai greets Imperial Legate.” A second too late, she reached out and yanked Rain back before he could pull out a chair and sit, the foolish child having already forgotten his manners.

With a hearty chuckle, the Legate wiped his lips with a handkerchief and gestured for them to take a seat. “Let us dispense with ceremony,” he said, studying Rain’s glazed look directed at the food. “Seneschal, set places for our guests and send for a Healer. Our young hero appears to have suffered a head injury.”

“Thank you, but we’ve already eaten and our Healer is waiting nearby,” Akanai said.

At the same time, the boy chirped, “Thanks man, I’m starving and this concussion is making me real dizzy.”

Closing her eyes, Akanai took a long, deep breath and reconsidered her options. Mila was still young, she’d get over her loss in no time and the pup still had Alsantset and his grandchildren...

When she opened her eyes, Rain was already stuffing his face with shrimp and crab legs while the Legate watched in amusement. “Worry not,” he Sent, wagging his eyebrows. “Were we in public, I would have no choice but to reprimand him but since we are in private, I am more than happy to overlook his lack of social graces. A young hero can be forgiven many things.”

Offering a silent prayer to the Mother, Akanai Sent, “Imperial Servant thanks Imperial Legate for his mercy.”

Waving his hand in dismissal, the Legate snorted, “Bah! Dispense with formalities. Imperial Servant, Imperial Legate, so bothersome. You are Akanai and I, Zhenwu.”

“This...” Frowning, Akanai chose her words carefully. “This one has done nothing to deserve the honour.”

“You don’t trust me.” Holding up a hand to forestall her rebuttal, the Legate shrugged. “It’s not surprising, considering how your last trip to Central ended.” Raising his teacup in a toast, Akanai hurried to follow suit, though the boy continued eating in blissful ignorance, as did the oblivious turtle. “What should have been a reward for heroic service turned into a battle for your life, and for that, you have my, Shen Zhenwu’s apology.”

“This one is undeserving.” Bewildered by his actions, Akanai sipped her tea and calmed her thoughts. Was this yet another ploy or was the Legate sincere? At less than thirty years old, she had trouble believing a boy so young could be so crafty, but if Shen Zhenwu lacked guile then how could he have been picked to oversee this monumental undertaking? With the fate of the Empire dependent on the success of this First Imperial Grand Conference, how could the Emperor send an untried youth? Either Shen Zhenwu was more than he appeared or someone was guiding him from the shadows.

Or the Emperor was prepared to abandon the outer provinces and gathered their armies here to blunt the Defiled offensive.

Keeping that thought in the back of her mind, Akanai cleared her throat and asked, “If this one may be so bold to ask, for what purpose have we been summoned?”

“I’m sure you know why.” Sipping his tea which had been refilled by the Seneschal, the Legate pursed his lips and sighed. “Falling Rain, you are more clever than expected.”

“Err... thanks,” Rain replied, speaking around a mouthful of chicken. Akanai briefly considered choking him unconscious before his carelessness got them in real trouble, but she figured it was already too late.

For the first time since they’d arrived, the Legate showed disapproval towards Rain. “That was not a compliment.” Accepting Rain’s wordless apology with a nod, the Legate continued, “Was it your idea to ride out in force to meet your swindling merchants?”

“Yes.”

“No one gave you the idea or instructed you otherwise?”

“No.” Shrugging, Rain added, “Only found out about the whole problem today. Mister Rustram handles all the financial and logistical aspects of my retinue. I just smile, nod, and pay what he tells me to pay.”

“And your ploy? You came up with that yourself too?”

“Huh?”

“It was a fine line to tread,” the Legate said, paying no mind to Rain’s obvious confusion, “but you played your hand perfectly. By leaving the other merchant houses untouched and demanding nothing more than what was owed, you used your actions to carefully craft a narrative which suited your purposes. Now, the general public believes the Canston Trading Group somehow offended the Divine Guardian and, by extension, the Mother. A stratagem deserving of praise, but what I’d like to know is: am I dining with its creator?”

“...Um... sort of?” Still in possession of a hearty appetite, the boy continued stuffing shrimp into his mouth even as he looked to Akanai for aid. Urging him to continue, he swallowed and said, “Truth is, I didn’t know about the Canston Trading Group until after we visited the other merchants. I came up with the rest of the plan when I saw the manor.”

“Oh?” Disappointed, the Legate sat back in his chair and asked, “Were you not worried about repercussions? Or were you too swept up in the moment to think about consequences?”

Cringing, the boy turned to Akanai once more and she said, “Just tell him the truth.” Better for the Legate to think Rain an idiot than a disrespectful and conniving mastermind.

“Well... I figured your hands would be tied,” Rain replied, grinning sheepishly. “You can’t blame me for the Divine Guardian’s actions or else... you know... you’d be admitting its presence here isn’t a sign of the Mother’s Blessing, which you can’t afford to do.”

...Oh sweet Mother in Heaven, Akanai thought Rain had lost his temper and lashed out impulsively. Who would have thought he’d actually considered the consequences and still gone through with his mule-headed scheme? This was akin to blackmailing an Imperial Scion and admitting he cared nothing for Imperial face!

Ignoring the murderous glares from the four Royal Guards, Akanai readied to leap forward and take the Legate hostage. She’d take grievous injury in the process but there was no helping it. With the boy’s concussion, he wouldn’t be any help but she could count on the turtle to keep him from harm. Sensing the tension inside the pavilion, the turtle glared at the Legate with mouth agape, a threatening gesture if Akanai had ever seen one. Even the Legate’s Seneschal seemed keen to jump in and Akanai marked him as a hidden protector. Seconds passed in stark silence save for the repetitive tap-tap-tap-tap of the Legate’s fingers drumming across the wooden table in steady intervals, his steely gaze intent on the still-snacking Rain, wilfully oblivious of the murderous intent gathered around him.

Slapping the table with a resounding thud, the Legate let loose with a peal of laughter. “Good!” he shouted, wearing a genuine smile on his face. “Good, good. A bold young hero indeed. Truth be told, I approve of your actions. There have been too many greedy, devious merchants of late, each one overstepping their boundaries. The Emperor has no love of them either, but they are a necessary evil. They were almost the downfall of Sanshu and still they have not learned their lesson.” Wiping his eyes, the Legate paused and shook his head. “But, for the sake of keeping the peace, I cannot allow you to leave unpunished.” Snapping his fan open, the Legate said, “Hear me. After today, Falling Rain is forbidden from entering the city before the Conference begins or unless summoned.” Closing the fan, he tucked it away and added, “For his failure to appease the Divine Guardian, Falling Rain is sentenced to fifty lashes. Seneschal, carry out my will.”

“This servant obeys.” Bowing, the aged seneschal stood in place for several heartbeats before speaking again. “This servant reports, the punishment has been carried out. Fifty lashes and not one less.”

“Good. Send him to the Healers and spread word of his punishment.” Taking a sip of his tea, the Legate drew himself up to full height and mustered all the dignity and benevolence he could spare. “Know this, Falling Rain: my tolerance has been spent. I urge you to make peace with the Canston Trading Group, and quickly. A public show of contrition of some sort would be best, before your feud gets out of hand. The Empire can ill-afford strife in these trying times.”

“...Is that an order?” Rain asked, putting down his food for the first time. “Because if not, I don’t think I can follow through. I can set my grudge aside for now, but some things cannot be forgiven.”

Idiot boy, all this fuss over a bounty placed on his head during the Society’s contests? He already came to terms with the Society, and was practically best friends with Han BoShui and Situ Jia Zian. Why couldn’t he let go of this petty grudge with a merchant group? Before she could speak up in his defence, the Legate sighed and visibly deflated. “I suppose you can’t,” he said, eyeing Rain earnestly. “Should I find evidence of you acting against the Canston Trading Group inside Nan Ping’s walls, I’ll have you drawn and quartered. Dismissed.”

Hurriedly bowing in thanks, Akanai dragged Rain away before he could open his mouth again. With the turtle following behind, she scolded him through Sending as they made their way out of the inner palace to meet with Tokta. Once his concussion was taken care of, she grabbed Rain’s ear and twisted, infuriated by his earlier actions. “I swear boy,” she Sent, hardening her heart at the sight of his tears, “You will be the death of me.”

“Sorry Grand Mentor.”

“So bold to threaten the Legate. Will you threaten me next? Or will it be the pup?”

“I wouldn’t dare Grand Mentor.”

“And have you learned your lesson? Will you make peace with the Canston Trading Group or will you be drawn and quartered?”

His reply came too slowly for her tastes and she twisted his other ear. “Ow ow ow,” he said, eyes scrunched in pain and she released him soon after. Rubbing his ears while she patted his cheeks, he Sent, “Mentor, hear me out. The Legate was very particular with his phrasing. He specifically mentioned ‘inside Nan Ping’s walls’. Call me crazy, but I think he gave me tacit permission to target them so long as it’s outside the city.”

Infuriating, but he wasn’t wrong and he wouldn’t be this determined without reason. Sighing, she cupped his cheeks and asked, “Why? Why the Canston Trading Group?”

Amber eyes full of determination, Rain met her gaze and replied, “Because their people treated me like a slave.”

Oh. Well that changes things. Busying herself smoothing out his ruffled hair and clothes, Akanai swallowed her burning anger. “Then they must pay for their crimes.” Foolish pup, she would have words with him. If he knew who was responsible for Rain’s plight, then why didn’t he take care of them years ago? This feud was set the day the Canston Trading Group enslaved one of the People, and now there would be a reckoning in blood and in fire, no matter the cost.

Though Akanai loved the Empire, it did not love her back. Thus, she had no qualms abandoning it in favour of her only grandson, a splendid boy who loved his family with all his heart.

Chapter Meme
