“You don’t trust me.” Holding up a hand to forestall her rebuttal, the Legate shrugged. “It’s not surprising, considering how your last trip to Central ended.” Raising his teacup in a toast, Akanai hurried to follow suit, though the boy continued eating in blissful ignorance, as did the oblivious turtle. “What should have been a reward for heroic service turned into a battle for your life, and for that, you have my, Shen Zhenwu’s apology.”

“This one is undeserving.” Bewildered by his actions, Akanai sipped her tea and calmed her thoughts. Was this yet another ploy or was the Legate sincere? At less than thirty years old, she had trouble believing a boy so young could be so crafty, but if Shen Zhenwu lacked guile then how could he have been picked to oversee this monumental undertaking? With the fate of the Empire dependent on the success of this First Imperial Grand Conference, how could the Emperor send an untried youth? Either Shen Zhenwu was more than he appeared or someone was guiding him from the shadows.

Or the Emperor was prepared to abandon the outer provinces and gathered their armies here to blunt the Defiled offensive.

Keeping that thought in the back of her mind, Akanai cleared her throat and asked, “If this one may be so bold to ask, for what purpose have we been summoned?”

“I’m sure you know why.” Sipping his tea which had been refilled by the Seneschal, the Legate pursed his lips and sighed. “Falling Rain, you are more clever than expected.”

“Err... thanks,” Rain replied, speaking around a mouthful of chicken. Akanai briefly considered choking him unconscious before his carelessness got them in real trouble, but she figured it was already too late.

For the first time since they’d arrived, the Legate showed disapproval towards Rain. “That was not a compliment.” Accepting Rain’s wordless apology with a nod, the Legate continued, “Was it your idea to ride out in force to meet your swindling merchants?”

“Yes.”

“No one gave you the idea or instructed you otherwise?”

“No.” Shrugging, Rain added, “Only found out about the whole problem today. Mister Rustram handles all the financial and logistical aspects of my retinue. I just smile, nod, and pay what he tells me to pay.”

“And your ploy? You came up with that yourself too?”

“Huh?”

“It was a fine line to tread,” the Legate said, paying no mind to Rain’s obvious confusion, “but you played your hand perfectly. By leaving the other merchant houses untouched and demanding nothing more than what was owed, you used your actions to carefully craft a narrative which suited your purposes. Now, the general public believes the Canston Trading Group somehow offended the Divine Guardian and, by extension, the Mother. A stratagem deserving of praise, but what I’d like to know is: am I dining with its creator?”

“...Um... sort of?” Still in possession of a hearty appetite, the boy continued stuffing shrimp into his mouth even as he looked to Akanai for aid. Urging him to continue, he swallowed and said, “Truth is, I didn’t know about the Canston Trading Group until after we visited the other merchants. I came up with the rest of the plan when I saw the manor.”

“Oh?” Disappointed, the Legate sat back in his chair and asked, “Were you not worried about repercussions? Or were you too swept up in the moment to think about consequences?”

Cringing, the boy turned to Akanai once more and she said, “Just tell him the truth.” Better for the Legate to think Rain an idiot than a disrespectful and conniving mastermind.

“Well... I figured your hands would be tied,” Rain replied, grinning sheepishly. “You can’t blame me for the Divine Guardian’s actions or else... you know... you’d be admitting its presence here isn’t a sign of the Mother’s Blessing, which you can’t afford to do.”

...Oh sweet Mother in Heaven, Akanai thought Rain had lost his temper and lashed out impulsively. Who would have thought he’d actually considered the consequences and still gone through with his mule-headed scheme? This was akin to blackmailing an Imperial Scion and admitting he cared nothing for Imperial face!

Ignoring the murderous glares from the four Royal Guards, Akanai readied to leap forward and take the Legate hostage. She’d take grievous injury in the process but there was no helping it. With the boy’s concussion, he wouldn’t be any help but she could count on the turtle to keep him from harm. Sensing the tension inside the pavilion, the turtle glared at the Legate with mouth agape, a threatening gesture if Akanai had ever seen one. Even the Legate’s Seneschal seemed keen to jump in and Akanai marked him as a hidden protector. Seconds passed in stark silence save for the repetitive tap-tap-tap-tap of the Legate’s fingers drumming across the wooden table in steady intervals, his steely gaze intent on the still-snacking Rain, wilfully oblivious of the murderous intent gathered around him.

Slapping the table with a resounding thud, the Legate let loose with a peal of laughter. “Good!” he shouted, wearing a genuine smile on his face. “Good, good. A bold young hero indeed. Truth be told, I approve of your actions. There have been too many greedy, devious merchants of late, each one overstepping their boundaries. The Emperor has no love of them either, but they are a necessary evil. They were almost the downfall of Sanshu and still they have not learned their lesson.” Wiping his eyes, the Legate paused and shook his head. “But, for the sake of keeping the peace, I cannot allow you to leave unpunished.” Snapping his fan open, the Legate said, “Hear me. After today, Falling Rain is forbidden from entering the city before the Conference begins or unless summoned.” Closing the fan, he tucked it away and added, “For his failure to appease the Divine Guardian, Falling Rain is sentenced to fifty lashes. Seneschal, carry out my will.”

“This servant obeys.” Bowing, the aged seneschal stood in place for several heartbeats before speaking again. “This servant reports, the punishment has been carried out. Fifty lashes and not one less.”

“Good. Send him to the Healers and spread word of his punishment.” Taking a sip of his tea, the Legate drew himself up to full height and mustered all the dignity and benevolence he could spare. “Know this, Falling Rain: my tolerance has been spent. I urge you to make peace with the Canston Trading Group, and quickly. A public show of contrition of some sort would be best, before your feud gets out of hand. The Empire can ill-afford strife in these trying times.”

“...Is that an order?” Rain asked, putting down his food for the first time. “Because if not, I don’t think I can follow through. I can set my grudge aside for now, but some things cannot be forgiven.”

Idiot boy, all this fuss over a bounty placed on his head during the Society’s contests? He already came to terms with the Society, and was practically best friends with Han BoShui and Situ Jia Zian. Why couldn’t he let go of this petty grudge with a merchant group? Before she could speak up in his defence, the Legate sighed and visibly deflated. “I suppose you can’t,” he said, eyeing Rain earnestly. “Should I find evidence of you acting against the Canston Trading Group inside Nan Ping’s walls, I’ll have you drawn and quartered. Dismissed.”

Hurriedly bowing in thanks, Akanai dragged Rain away before he could open his mouth again. With the turtle following behind, she scolded him through Sending as they made their way out of the inner palace to meet with Tokta. Once his concussion was taken care of, she grabbed Rain’s ear and twisted, infuriated by his earlier actions. “I swear boy,” she Sent, hardening her heart at the sight of his tears, “You will be the death of me.”

“Sorry Grand Mentor.”

“So bold to threaten the Legate. Will you threaten me next? Or will it be the pup?”

“I wouldn’t dare Grand Mentor.”

“And have you learned your lesson? Will you make peace with the Canston Trading Group or will you be drawn and quartered?”

His reply came too slowly for her tastes and she twisted his other ear. “Ow ow ow,” he said, eyes scrunched in pain and she released him soon after. Rubbing his ears while she patted his cheeks, he Sent, “Mentor, hear me out. The Legate was very particular with his phrasing. He specifically mentioned ‘inside Nan Ping’s walls’. Call me crazy, but I think he gave me tacit permission to target them so long as it’s outside the city.”

Infuriating, but he wasn’t wrong and he wouldn’t be this determined without reason. Sighing, she cupped his cheeks and asked, “Why? Why the Canston Trading Group?”

Amber eyes full of determination, Rain met her gaze and replied, “Because their people treated me like a slave.”

Oh. Well that changes things. Busying herself smoothing out his ruffled hair and clothes, Akanai swallowed her burning anger. “Then they must pay for their crimes.” Foolish pup, she would have words with him. If he knew who was responsible for Rain’s plight, then why didn’t he take care of them years ago? This feud was set the day the Canston Trading Group enslaved one of the People, and now there would be a reckoning in blood and in fire, no matter the cost.

Though Akanai loved the Empire, it did not love her back. Thus, she had no qualms abandoning it in favour of her only grandson, a splendid boy who loved his family with all his heart.

Chapter Meme
