Chapter 511

Messages flowed from the inner to outer systems as the approaching vessels slowed, but while he was able to intercept them, he didn’t have the passkeys to bypass such strong ciphers on the fly. A portion of his subconscious immediately started on the problem, but he knew it wasn’t actually necessary.

He didn’t need to see the message to know what the Collective elites were asking the survivors. It was clear as day from the way they flew in wide and erratic looping patterns.

They were waiting for a trap or some other obstacle to pop out and take a shot at them. None came, because they hadn’t set any up, but he didn’t mind the delay as he used it to chip away at the encryptions.

He felt that he was getting close by the time the ships edged through the aperture and through the other side to the outer system, but at that point, it was a purely academic exercise.

The ships stopped well away from the still settling wreckage of the fortress world, the Empire armies moving in to take over the planet, and the three of them.

Matt recognized and brought up all available information on the elite teams the moment he saw them.

Ursa’s Fangs was a peak elite team comprised of three core bear bloodline members. They were, in turn, supported by a plethora of peripheral personnel that rotated enough between missions that he couldn’t make any sure assumptions on who they would be or what capabilities they’d come with.

Given it was the start of the war, he had some guesses, but they were only that.

The Valiant Sparks team wasn’t as mysterious, but they could be an even more annoying fight. Ilsa, the team's captain, was touching upon the threshold of pinnacle elite, but the rest of her team was comprised of high elites there to keep her from being overwhelmed. Some had their Aspects, but it was far from all of them.

Matt idly rejected the offer from their own distant ship with their own pinnacle teams who were ready to run interference with one of the enemy to even things out. He wasn't arrogant, but this early in the war was the perfect, if not the only, time to make mistakes. They needed to fight with the other elites and see exactly where they lined up. And while they might not be the first two he’d have chosen, it was who’d arrived.

Ilsa was the first two to speak as she and the other four core members of her team exited the ship. “Didn’t want to wait around for us to join the party? Where is the fun in that?”

Matt wasn’t inclined to talk back, but Aster clearly was as she buffed her nails against her armor, snipping right back, “Oh, we were willing to play, but no one here was capable of keeping up. Are you going to change that?”

Ilsa didn’t strike out with rage at Aster's barb, but she did fall into a more ready position as the Ursa’s Fangs lumbered out behind them, along with half an army’s worth of reinforcements.

The non-elites immediately backpeddled away from the ship that had brought them and chose to set up where the Empire army had been camped out as the attackers not that long ago. It was all perfectly coordinated and showed how well trained and ready they were.

No matter how their fight played out, someone would be trying to retake the fortress planet before too long. It was inevitable.

Matt kept himself focused and ready until the two Collective teams surged forward. With that signal, he matched them.

Aster and three Lizzes were close on his heels, the three of them charging right in against their enemies. But once the three of them were moving, they slowed down, letting him take the lead.

A wave of twinkling light rippled out at them, crossing the massive distance in a blink, but he didn’t stop, slow down, or change his path. When he was halfway into the diffuse cloud it twisted into a conflagration of blue-white lightning that reached out and silently roared at him.

The first blast hit him and [Cracked Phantom Armor] with enough force to penetrate the second outer layer. It failed to penetrate the first layer that was interwoven with his augment, but that single attack proved it and its caster's power.

The second, third, and forth blasts never reached him as one of the Lizzes exploded into her own cloud of golden blood.

Ichor wasn’t lightning, but lightning was a component of her higher Level mana type, which let her convert it into more Ichor should she be given a few uninterrupted moments. The blasts only served to supercharge that Liz, who unleashed the energy at the lead bear that looked more like a porcupine or armadillo, given its armor of metallic fur.

It didn’t hurt them any more than it had Matt, but it signaled the start of the fighting as he reached his maximum speed, further widening the gap between himself and the rest of his team with each passing foot.

Matt cast [Meteor Shower], aimed at forcing the Collective backline to scatter, but one of the mages formed an illusionary wall of wood that the earth portion of the volcano spell failed to penetrate. The remaining magical fire lacked quite a lot of its oomph without the conjured material giving it heft and weight, but he’d nearly arrived, where it became a moot point.

Two of the bears and four human fighters moved forward to intercept him, while the final, smaller and thinnest, bear pulled back and started circling as they looked for an opportunity to attack Aster, or possibly an occupied Liz.

Matt tracked their movements as best as he could and shared that with the others, but he didn’t have the spare attention to do anything more.

Ferocious claws swiped out at nothing as a dozen crescents of mana sought out him and his flesh

He picked two of the spell forms apart mid-travel, but let the rest splash against him and his armor as he closed the gap.

The two peak elite teams tried to split and back away, trying to lead him along as they peppered him with attacks. They wanted to avoid him and his blade, but that threatened to give him a clean shot at their backline mages and supporters, which forced them back into melee with him as it became clear he wasn’t going to stop on his own.

Despite their clear reluctance to engage, they were smart about how they did it.

Devin, the Deep Steel Ursine, didn’t hesitate to use his Aspect and the world turned fuzzy around the edges as Matt felt his emotions threatened to boil out of control. Every movement and twitch threatened to turn into a sea of blinding rage, hate, and discontent that grew with each passing moment. The logical and rational parts of his Insight were even impressed by how the effect slipped around [Sharp Mind], which was meant to protect him from such intrusions.

Not that it mattered any more. Matt didn’t want to attack the mages, he needed to kill that bear.

[Mana Beam] turned the world blue-white for an instant as a paltry fifty million mana a second was converted into raw destruction.

Through his own rage, he heard a matching cry but the anger didn’t lessen. In fact, it only increased as his thoughts hyperfocused on the enemy right in front of him as they tried to twist and spread the damage rather than let it build and penetrate.

[Bulwark] blocked the wave of attacks that had been aimed to make him relent, but it did nothing to stop the ever mounting anger.

Matt didn’t so much change direction as he bounced when he seemed to hit a wall only a few feet away from the bear. The sudden redirection put him next to one of the human high elite fighters who’d raised their greatshield.

Teal light seeped out of their armor, covering them in a near match to his [Cracked Phantom Armor], but its purpose was lost on him as the cultivator exploded on impact. Only their head survived thanks to their armor cutting it off and flinging it to the backline before the damage reached it.

Matt’s longsword vibrated midway through his swing, as if he’d struck a particularly solid material. In his rage, he hardly noticed and redirected the sword and much of its momentum in a sweeping motion around and behind himself. Unlike with a blade he could move like any common stick, his ultra heavy weapon demanded a more flowing style of combat to be utilized to maximum effect.

At least, it did if he wanted to build and keep any appreciable momentum and speed during a fight, which he very much desired.

He stepped forward, stomping the metaphysical ground and shoulder checking the invisible Tier 35 who’d tried to drive a dagger into his right eye.

The enhanced weapon cut through [Cracked Phantom Armor] as if it didn’t exist, but it only managed to skitter along his reinforced skull before he hit them. They didn’t take the blow any better than their compatriot had.

The assassin’s body, inherently weaker than the frontline fighter, exploded as it found itself briefly reappearing in front of Matt.

The rage still burning bright, he stepped through where they’d been, activating his Intent for a brief instant on his left elbow. He used the anchor as another pivot point to dodge the ink dark crossbow bolt that tried to skewer him.

As it sailed past him, he finally stopped pouring quite so much mana into [Cosmic Pressure], letting his weight return to a slightly more normal amount now that he was inside their battle line. He and his longsword were still by far the heaviest things on the battlefield, but not by quite such a ridiculous margin any more.

The liquid mana stone inside the lattice core glowed slightly as he brought the blade around at Devin and his rage Aspect.

The bear, having seen exactly what getting in front of his sword entailed, tried to dodge. His fur blurred with an aquamarine shimmer and his speed went from a relative standstill to full acceleration. At the same time, his body shrunk by ten percent as he tried to avoid Matt’s weapon.

Both of them nearly succeeded.

Devin’s right arm was simply gone, but he managed to protect his head. The other bear in the trio, Ripley, moved to cover his retreating form, silver and brown mana wrapping around their claws.

Matt considered following, but two of the human melee fighters moved in and tried to crowd him, their shields up and glowing with what he suspected was their best defensive spells. They wanted to prevent him from building up so much momentum again.

It was a good plan.

Matt punched Ripley in the armored chest, earning a shocked and confused look as their sternum shattered under the innocuous looking blow. They’d understood his sword was heavy, that news must have rapidly spread across the entire battlefront.

But they couldn’t comprehend him being that heavy.

The others rapidly learned their lesson and avoided every melee attack Matt wove into the fight, whether it be from his sword or his body. He was far from the first super strong melee fighter, let alone Ascender, given Moe’s fighting style, and they were already adjusting their tactics to reflect best common practices. It became immediately clear the two were trying to play it slow and learn as much as they could before their defeat or deaths, which was noble of them.

It was only then that Matt felt their personal Aspects come into play. He knew from the Empire’s reports the two of them had defensive Domains, but he hadn’t known what to expect while fighting them through his own nascent sense of that stage.

They felt solid. Not exactly weighty, but their Domains and the training and lives that led to their Aspects gave them the skills and courage to try and keep him contained as the ranged combatants let loose.

They wanted to capitalize on the distance he’d created with Liz and Aster during his headlong rush.

It was the right call.

It was also exactly what he wanted them to do.

He wanted every eye on him. Not for his vanity or even his Intent, rather because after the changes to his fighting style, that was now his number one job in a battle.

While his defence had always been impressive thanks to his plethora of skills and the amount of mana he could throw at them, his capacity for dealing out damage had outstripped even that by quite a wide margin with skills like [Mana Beam] and [Titan’s Wrath] that he could pour millions of mana into without blinking an eye.

Through consuming an ocean’s worth of mana through the last five Tiers, his augment had long completed the agonizingly slow second stage of its growth, where his bones were encased in mana. The last two Tiers he’d started chipping away at the third stage, where his physical cultivation started receiving direct feedback from his growth item.

The first sub-stage in the third had boosted his strength. JR had insisted on that being the foundation for the other boosts and he’d been right to do so. However, it had been the second sub-stage that he’d personally cared about. The weave of mana filaments had grown denser through his muscles and boosted his durability to a point where they perfectly matched his offence.

Combined with the third sub-stage boosting his regeneration, the result was overwhelming.

His augment had been intended to grow with him forever, and he’d be cooked and roasted if the bird hadn’t delivered on that promise as well as he had. He was only a toe into the fourth sub-stage, which boosted the physical flexibility portion of his cultivation. But as JR had promised, the results were amazing, even if the costs to grow each new stage were equally high.

In fact, he’d only started making appreciable progress in the fourth sub-stage, after he’d Tiered up to Tier 35 and doubled his mana regeneration once again. He could grow more powers if he sat idle at one Tier for long enough, but with each new sub-stage, let alone full stage, came with a larger cost for the next. Cheating in new powers had consequences, and the price was scaled perfectly to him.

