Matt was charging at Devin when he tucked his head between his shoulders as a bolt of lightning the width of his chest struck his upper body. Unlike the solidified bolt from earlier, the energy carried with it Ilsa’s Aspect of Destruction.

Alone, it wasn’t enough to bypass his augment, nor would the removal of his head kill him with [Regeneration] running, but Matt didn’t want to confirm that so early in the war. Like his manifested skills, he was saving such tactics for hopefully never.

Matt would love it if he managed to keep some of his hidden cards hidden, and as such he protected his head. That, and he didn’t need anyone, not even a feathered Tier 50, to remind him that losing his head was a bad habit to get into.

At the same time, Ilsa finally managed to break away from the Liz she’d been fighting with the help of a pair of high elites as they entangled her with chains of light and dark gray respectively. She almost immediately got free, but it had still been enough for Ilsa to change battles and add her efforts to the fight as it reached a pivotal tipping point.

If the two of them lost here, the Lizzes in the backline would be at risk of being overwhelmed, and that would open up Aster to reprisal from the bear the first Liz was chasing around the battlefield.

If.

Devin’s metallic fur bristled with lightning as a cloak of the element settled over him, but Matt noticed that he hadn’t been boosted further, adding to the information on their new potion. The same size was small, but he’d bet that whatever boost was only actually safe for bloodline cultivators.

Even with that added layer of defence, Devin chose to dodge Matt’s next few swings as he tried to separate Liz from him. That was until he took a glancing blow on a leg that was too slow to get out of the way. The bone in said limb shattered under the strike, but without enough room to build momentum, there hadn’t been enough power to obliterate the man’s limb.

That gave Devin confidence.

That nearly got him killed.

Ilsa reacted Matt’s longsword’s liquid mana crystal flare to life first. Her fluctuated, “Dodge!” had barely echoed across the battlefield as Matt’s blade turned into a bonfire of blue for an instant.

[Titan’s Wrath] had been created by merging three of Matt’s oldest and most commonly used skills: [Mana Slash], [Mana Charge], and [Tribulation Strike]. It was that last one that must have tipped Ilsa off, which saved both of their lives.

The crescent of mana was superficially similar to [Mana Slash], but the arc of mana was much more concentrated and condensed than the original skill ever could have managed when cast with nearly two hundred million mana. This crescent was only as thick as his arm, though what it lacked in width it made up for in length, being fifteen feet tall, with the last two on each side being nigh invisible tails there to cut anyone who didn't quite dodge far enough.

That was why he’d added [Mana Charge] to the mix.

Devin activated [Back Blast] and what looked like an earth modified [Reflect], but neither stopped the crackling arc of energy that covered the distance far faster than any [Mana Slash] ever should as it cut him in half from shoulder to groin. Without Ilsa’s warning, Matt would have split the bear's head as well, but he was still content with the result.

Reversing course, Matt raised his blade, bringing his downward chop back up as quickly as he could possibly move such a heavy object.

[Mana Charge]’s addition meant that the slightly lesser glow that lingered on the blade wasn’t just a residual charge to give him more close range attack power. It was that, as he’d wanted to ensure he wasn’t losing damage in melee while attacking at range, but it wasn’t only that. It was also a second charge.

The second crescent wasn’t quite as large as the first, but it was still more than enough to send Ilsa scurrying away and back out of their battle.

Not that it mattered.

Matt thrust his sword again before dropping it low and bringing it back up around in a large windmill. However, instead of aiming at any of the Collective fighters, he swung it down on the Liz that seemed to be skirting by him as she followed Ripley and the high elites splattering her everywhere.

Droplets of blood clung to their enemies, even as their armor activated defence measures against her Ichor. Ripples of a silver sound magic radiated off of all three of them, which made the droplets of Liz quaver for a long moment, but her physical form was too robust to be destroyed with whatever automated defence the Collective had come up with before this last war.

Matt didn’t miss the effect it did have however. He knew that one of their next battles, if not the very next, would see such counters improved and refined further until they worked or proved unviable. Then the race would resume.

They would just have to ensure they kept a step ahead of their enemies.

Not that the future did their current opponents any good. One of the high elites died, but the other managed to activate a helmet teleport, in time to save himself.

Ripley wasn’t so lucky as the main target.

The bear was covered in golden blood.

The larger collections stretched up until they trembled with the exertion, before solidifying and driving their dagger-like forms deep into him. The smaller drops simply burrowed deeper, trying to reach vital organs and cause distractions, but destroying them was all the harder due to their digging.

Others still snaked towards orifices, looking for much more direct paths to the brain.

Ripley tried to activate a wind aura escape talisman, but a drop of Liz that was nearby on his ear self immolated and destroyed the talisman before it could be activated.

Devin’s fate wasn’t any better, only delayed.

Matt never stopped moving, gathering momentum but not weight. Instead of getting heavy, he pushed the other way, making himself as light as possible. He was still far, far heavier than most people, but he deliberately closed the gap as much as he could.

As his and his longsword's weight decreased, the rate at which he gathered speed increased proportionally.

Even empowered with [Archmage’s Presence], his muscles and bones screamed as he flipped the switch, increasing his weight as high as he could as fast as he could. His longsword’s trajectory twisted slightly as he pulled.

It came down on the boosted bear, ending him and his aura of rage. What remained of his still reforming body was destroyed for a third and clearly final time as the healing cooldown made his flesh regrow mottled and waxy, singling the end.

A part of him was tempted to ignore the surrender and finish the bear off, but he refrained.

Continuing to move through, he saw the backline where Liz had things handled. One of her had lost a wing and the other had already consumed the energy in her shield to create a bubble barrier as she closed the distance with the remaining backline fighters.

He helped by sending out a wave of [Gravitic Bolt]’s, the nigh invisible projectiles punching though anyone not heavily armored or perceptive enough to be ready for the blow. [Telekinesis] was thrown in for good measure, but mainly to keep formations disrupted without overplaying his hand with the nigh invisible spell.

Not that Aster or Liz needed much help with that. Between the two of them, they’d cut a swath through the backline, but it was the towers Aster pulled out of her spirit space that caught his eye for a brief moment. They were relatively simple automated defence constructs that had been modified to work with her skills. They acted as relay beacons which let her cast specific spells with nearly full power from them instead of herself.

It was one of the many tricks she’d learned from her spirit space forum, and one that Matt had enjoyed tinkering with as they’d prototyped the original design.

He was glad to see them working properly in a real fight, extending Aster's effective range to anywhere she was able to extend her spirit space for even a few seconds.

His attention was pulled away as another wave of ice radiated outward. It wasn’t Aster’s spirit space, rather it was a bus sized [Airsnow] that had detonated midway through the battlefield.

The wave of ice and snow further slowed their enemies while leaving Matt and the Lizzes unaffected as they chased down the last coordinated resistance.

The fight wrapped itself up shortly after, with the final few elites either escaping or surrendering. The battle had been decided, and he wasn’t eager for blood without Devin pushing his emotions. While only Ripley had died out of the peak elites the other two bears would need decades to recover from the healing cooldowns they’d be left with which was enough to make it a firm Empire victory. Ilsa had made it out with only moderate wounds from her initial fight with Liz but she was fast enough it wasn’t worth chasing her down.

Matt took a moment to analyze the fighting, going over every move they’d collected and highlighting their successes and their mistakes. He’d initially made the mistake of only collecting data on the latter, but that much negativity had dragged even Allie down. After that, he’d started calculating both sides of the equation just to keep things even.

It did actually help to remember that for every mistimed strike or missed opportunity, they’d made five other successful ones. The failures still needed to be addressed, but they’d only get better by identifying and improving.

Sadly, it was only one fight on a border region that had already over five hundred active battlefields spread across the Tiers. There were ‘only’ seventy four battlefields designated as Tier 35 at this point, but they were spread out as befit their position as the peak most Tier.

That, and the war was only just getting started. They’d missed such early battles during their first war. But for the Great Powers, the first few years of the war were the lightest they’d be until the minute they ended.

They’d fought and defeated two peak elite teams, but the survivors would be healed and repurposed into other teams, where they’d be sent out again and again. Over and over until enough people had died that both sides decided to call it quits.

Matt didn’t like it, but he had no better answers.

Not that he’d have much time to dwell on it.

Ascenders were needed everywhere during war, and as such, they were on their way even before the dust properly settled. They embarked on their ship and headed for chaotic space.

This singular battlefield may have been won, but a dozen more might have changed hands during the same time. They needed to move and keep moving as they worked to patch holes and put out fires.

That was the role of an Ascender. The sharpest blade in the arsenal wouldn’t be left in the drawer. It couldn't be. Not at a time like this.
