Not that it was all bad. Following his current trends, he hoped to have the third stage completely finished by Tier 36 at the latest. But if they lingered at Tier 35 for any amount of time, it was possible he’d manage it then. As much as he wanted to rush, he knew how much things could change by the time his augment had finished boosting his flexibility and proprioception.

At that point, when he’d properly finished the third stage, he’d receive even greater boosts to his physical prowess thanks to the augment boosting his baseline physical capabilities. He wouldn’t quite be in a league of his own at that point, but he’d be another step farther away from most others.

However, such thoughts were far away from the current reality. He was content to have reached the durability sub-stage for the war.

Matt could now do too much damage to ignore him, while at the same time being too difficult to take down without an entire team focusing on him. That conundrum could leave nearly any team in an impossible situation. In their current fight, his enemies only had a small glimmer of hope due to his headlong charge making a gap between himself and the rest of his team.

They made the same choice he would.

They unleashed everything they could on him now that he’d been momentarily halted.

Perfectly in line with what he wanted to happen.

The spells hit him in a near perfect order, speaking to the long training that had made the peak elite teams what they were. He’d expected nothing less.

He’d long since passed the point in merging [Cracked Phantom Armor] and [Archmage’s Presence], where his oldest skill was a pure channel. It was one of the few modifications he rarely tweaked any more, having settled onto a configuration he liked. That modification had hurt the spell’s baseline efficiency, as he’d needed to abandon portions of the skill structure that had long become accustomed to his throughput, but it had been a cost easily worth paying.

Even with the skills half merged, the uncapped amount of mana he could feed his defensive spell more than made up for any hit to its efficiency. If he wanted to be needlessly wasteful, he could now throw all of his free mana generation into his first skill.

Sure, everything after the first billion or so mana a second was slamming into the same issue all channeled skills suffered from: efficiency curves. Others might have cared, but he didn’t. As a plethora of spells slammed into him he considered every inefficiency worth it.

The second layer of his yet to be named merged skill was penetrated almost immediately, with the first layer and his augment’s barrier blocking the rest of the initial barrage. His Insight categorized each attack, their owner, their mana types, their mana type’s subaspects if discernible, the power of the spell, speed, maneuverability, and any personal modifications he identified, categorizing and updating their combat profiles in real time.

Profiles he annotated before pushing out to Liz and Aster right before they reached the battle.

A puff of white caught everyone in the melee off guard as the sound of breaking glass was transmitted through everyone's spiritual perceptions. The wisps of wind and ice mingled as they swirled together, forming invisible manacles around their wrists and ankles.

[Headwind] slowed everyone on the other side down, resisting their actions, but it was the [Brittle Cold] hidden underneath the show that was the real danger. It weakened their opponents' Domains by a tiny fraction, creating cracks they could maneuver in. The upgraded Tier 14 skill had relatively little effect on their opponent’s Aspects. It would, at least hypothetically, require a Tier 50 upgrade orb to affect that Domain stage, and that was flatly impossible. Its presence still helped balance the field, even if it didn’t lessen the rage.

Liz had split into five, but she’d empowered each to the max rather than going wide and spreading herself out further. Each of her was fully armored in a layer of golden feathers, courtesy of [Feather Armory], that culminated in twenty foot wings of golden, radiant Ichor. In other circumstances she’d be the center of the battlefield with such a display, but that was why he’d led the initial charge.

Her golden blood made the [Golden Wings of the Phoenix] shine like something out of a fairy tale. At least it did to Matt. The Collective fighters didn’t seem nearly as impressed, as with each flap of her wings, Liz added in a splash of offence or defense as the battle required. Sometimes they struck out, cutting with their feathers' razor edges, other times they took the hits meant for her, widening into a dispersed scale armor.

And throughout it all, each flap, twitch, and general movement offered her a chance to send a rogue feather at a distracted enemy. It would slip from its home nestled amongst its brethren and fly out like a dagger, penetrating any exposed flesh they could find.

Individually, each attack wasn’t that scary, with the feathers being weaker than a typical elite’s [Mana Slash], but none of the Collective elites were foolish enough to take a hit they didn’t need to.

Liz was still Liz, after all, and the Tier 35’s didn’t need personalized lessons on why blood mages shouldn’t be allowed to cut them.

They got it anyway, whether they liked it or not.

The lower elites who didn’t immediately deal with the golden ichor splattered on their armor, or worse yet wounded by it, found themselves being consumed as the Lizzes devoured them to fuel her. With each death, the five Lizzes grew stronger, faster, and got small bursts of mana that helped keep her in the fight.

Not that she particularly needed the help.

Liz had spent the last five Tiers adding Natural Treasures to herself via her cauldron, strengthening her physical body as the additional powers stacked slowly but surely, but what really helped her was the refinement she’d done to her ichor in those sessions. She’d reforged her blood in each batch, concentrating it down and making herself that little bit stronger.

No single refinement had made a large difference, but their cumulative significance made itself clear as she overwhelmed one of the human high elites that wielded a greatsword. Her shield caught the first blow, letting it slide along the wide barrier as she used her wings to slip around the attack.

In doing so, she took a spray of needles launched out of their armor on the shield, using its size to get in a thrust without exposing herself. The elite turned into the blow, correctly trying to maneuver around her shield, but Liz didn’t retreat in the face of his attack, she flapped her wings and charged the man.

He didn’t explode as the one Matt hit did, but he failed to regain his footing and took two more spear thrusts in the confusion, one to the heart and one to the head, opening the battlefield to the rest of her.

That Liz immediately turned and went for the prowling bear that had been lurking around the edges of the fight, while the remaining four split into two groups. Two of them did what he’d been doing and rushed the back line, forcing more of the auxiliary troops to move in to defend their physically vulnerable combatants.

The final two split. One kept back between Aster and the rest of the battlefield, acting as a screen while using her position to launch ranged spells acting as their own team's ranged damage, while the other final Liz rushed to his side.

Matt hadn’t made it through the concentrated bombardment of his enemies unscathed, far from it, but by the time he’d cleared the smoke and detritus from the plethora of mixed attacks with a pulse of his Concept, his enemies couldn’t tell the difference.

At least, if they excluded his distinct lack of skin. He held [Regeneration] back with a mental twist, excluding that organ for the time being thanks to the help of a modification he’d eventually made. While it didn’t bother him, he knew that neither Aster or Liz enjoyed seeing his outer layers of flesh get stripped away over and over in a fight.

And now that he’d revealed his augment there was no reason to hide its mere existence. Even if the Watchers didn’t directly peek, the spies that had no doubt hidden throughout all the battlefield systems would be recording everything they could, and at that point, it was moot. Talented researchers would soon be analyzing everything about this battle, looking for any weakness, crack, or flaw in his augment that could be exploited and used against him.

Matt may have healed, but he’d still been injured.

There was a tiny crossbow bolt lodged firmly in his hip bone, penetrating through the outer layer of his augment where it dumped a riotous mixture of toxins into his bloodstream and body. The damage was limited and ineffective, but one of the neurotoxins was at least new to him and he preserved a bit in a bubble of solidified mana before purging the rest with the help of his Millennium Willow Lifesap.

He’d also taken a shard of solidified lightning in the throat that had been deflected from his head. Its structure had proven inherently unstable and it had fallen apart on its own after dumping its payload into him, letting him heal like normal.

As had the [Mana Thrust] that had gone for his brain via the ear and failed to penetrate.

That had been a good attempt, but like the others, failed to achieve anything other than temporary damage he could regenerate through. Even his augment suffered no longstanding damage thanks to how closely it was tied to him. Its crystalline structure reformed along with his flesh. So long as he didn’t lose any piece of it, his augment could reform as his flesh regrew and he wouldn’t need to regrow the inherent functions mid-fight.

That didn’t hold true for any lost pieces of his augment. A crushed limb could be healed, a missing one was a serious issue.

Which was why JR had made the augment the way he had. A good thing too, otherwise Matt would be a patchwork of buffs midway through a fight and that would get him killed before too long.

The two bears, Devin and Ripley, had gotten themselves healed and rejoined the other two high elite humans, clearly intent on trying to mount a defence after that bombardment. Their horror and incomprehension to how he was standing without apparent injury after taking it were secondary to Matt moving again as their bodies reacted while their minds faltered.

With a Liz next to him, Matt thrust forward and forced Devin to retreat an extra step backwards. That opened him up to an attack in return, but none of the melee fighters were willing to brave the distance, sending out their own ranged attacks.

Matt took them, but Ripley’s claw strikes did serious damage, managing to carve chunks into his augment even from a distance and through two layers of armor. His cutting Aspect had no problems overwhelming Matt’s defences and Intent alike, but it still failed to fully penetrate, and as such he ignored the man, focusing on the more tanky peak elite.

Liz closed in with the high elites, using [Ichor Crystal Armor] to harden her wings to block Ripley’s attack, trying to bait the bear in close where her spear could reach. He didn’t fall for it, but she never stopped her onslaught on the weakest combatants.

Their momentum reached its peak, but that was where things started to shift.

Devin, a dedicated defensive peak elite, roared in helpless rage, which only amplified the corresponding emotion in Matt as the bear dodged another slash from his longsword. Except, rather than accepting his death, his jaw started working as his presence on the battlefield blossomed like a flower in bloom.

That didn't surprise Matt. Combat potions were far from rare, the three of them had tailor made concoctions to bring out their best for every fight, but they didn’t use potions that came with significant side effects like the one Devin had taken.

He was already a peak elite fighting at full power, for him to blossom like that there had to be a correspondingly high cost.

Temporary power always came at a price, and it was rare for the Great Powers to dole out such potions, which Matt noted for further investigation. He somehow doubted the Collective had suddenly reversed their policy in burning out their elites en masse. It was far more likely that they’d managed to reduce the side effects, or had a way to fix the damage, and that distinction mattered for the war effort.

However, no matter the price, Devin wouldn’t have to pay if he was dead, and after using the potion, his chances of that skyrocketed. Sudden bursts of power, external or not, had prices and consequences. Some of those prices were as likely to kill the consumer as the fight itself but the chance was all most cultivators cared about mid battle. What came after would be what it would be.

Matt thrust with his longsword and shattered the now steaming fur armor even as Ripely copied his teammate and enhanced himself.

Liz turned to face the other bear as he skated around her, which the two high elites didn’t let pass unpunished. Their attacks were mainly blocked by her wings, but a few still landed and broke some of the feathers in her armor, penetrating deeper.

They reformed, but the process wasn’t instant and took concentration.

A wave of ice blurred the battlefield around them, but it was quickly repelled as the enemy side’s supports fought to keep Aster from interfering with their battle. It cost them everywhere else, but that was clearly a choice they were prepared to make. That choice meant her wind, ice, and winter elementals were given free reign, letting her dominate her battle with the ranged elites who couldn’t handle them and Aster’s debuffs.

