Her Minion Teleport had crossed half the continent, but it hadn’t left the extent of her domain. Incalculably far away, deep within the Abyssal Realm, her away team of monsters was recovering in her domain after the guild adventurers had been recalled, and as her spell had completed, she had snatched them up and drawn them along with her. As she appeared above the highest floating island of Aalion, her minions arrived clustered around her. With a deft adjustment of her barriers, she dropped her assault on top of a slavering horde of Ghouls, Specters, and Death Knights.

The second Divine Archon – her World Walker – immediately began summoning more Sacred Guardians, gaining the ability due merely to proximity to the Well of Divinity. Tol’brekk, freshly raised to the third tier, tore into the undead with unbridled fury and rage, and a new booming war cry that stunned the lesser undead and left even Ali shocked.

But Ali hardly had time to babysit them, and little more than three seconds later, she left, appearing deep in the dark, damp caverns beneath the destroyed city of Volle with a fresh selection of Sylvans to serve as her bodyguards. The invading cohort of Death Knights was making frighteningly quick work of crushing her and Naia’s bosses, so Ali chose a spot well within the borders of her domain. A large cavern that provided a natural chokepoint on the way to the rest of the dungeon.

Still keeping her eye on the battle unfolding in the ruins of Aalion, Ali prompted her Archons to synchronize their auras, switching to Holy Vulnerability and Frenzy now that there were far more allies in the fray. Her attention returned to the damp cavern, currently quiet enough to hear the soft plinking and splatters of dripping water landing on moss or in puddles.

She had a lot of space to work with; about half the ground was covered in standing pools and streams that flowed slowly down through a lower exit toward caverns below. Ali had not really spent much time here, not since the first days she had spent invading Naia’s domain, and much had changed. All that she had contributed was to plant a few trees and a broad cover of mosses and flowers. A dozen bats roosted among the crags overhead, minions made to give her eyes in this space.

Through the senses of her rapidly dwindling scouts and bosses in the low hundreds up ahead – too weak to hold back Death Knights – she knew that the undead incursion was vast and powerful. She had found the perfect spot, but she had to rack her brains trying to think of what kind of minion she could use to stem the tide of so many undead.

Something with area damage. And I can do something with the terrain.

Her first thought was a Pit Lord. The hellish demons had a hellfire Blast Wave and Rain of Fire and Blood that were great area damage skills. With their ability to boost demon summons, it would be a potent pick, but the corruption aura, as always, would be a pain to manage – effectively blocking this area to any allies passing through, and she was pretty sure undead were immune – it was a blood magic spell after all.

Holy Fire mages would be good for damage, but as soon as a Death Knight got close, mages would die quickly to the devastating rune swords. Another of her minions died, closer than was entirely comfortable, and she realized she was rapidly running out of time.

Quickly, Ali blocked the tunnel into the chamber with a domain-reinforced barrier and opened her Grimoire, deciding to go with her third choice. As her book lit up with mana, she poured one of her precious remaining points of Authority into the spell. One of the few she’d kept in reserve.

Power surged through her book, bathing the entire cavern in a brilliant, shifting display of gold and green – reflections of the visible intensity of the magic pouring forth from the pages of her imprint.

Sylvan Storm – Sylvan Elf / Plant – level 233 (Nature / Lightning)

Not her highest-level minion, but archery backed by lightning and nature magic would mean that nothing that entered the expanse of this cavern would be safe, and her Sylvan positively shone with the underlying power imbued by her Authority.

Ali touched the four-armed plant being and wove her domain into it.

Domain Respawn applied to Sylvan Storm.Champion Domain Enhancement applied to Sylvan Storm.Abundant Summoning (Plant, Nature Elemental) applied.Natural Restoration applied.Deadshot applied.Elemental Storm (Nature) applied. Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +1104.

Abundant Summoning was her newest domain magic – a nature-specific summoning skill that supposedly summoned far more monsters than normal. At least that’s what she was counting on. Natural Restoration was another class Domain Magic spell – one which should, in theory, keep the summoned monsters alive longer and, hopefully, Elemental Storm would synergize nicely with the mostly immune-to-nature monsters it would be making. It should even heal her nature elementals and many of the Sylvans. It was this synergy she was counting on to bridge the gap from using a high tier-two instead of a tier-three minions, and justify using one of her remaining points.

Already, the Death Knights were systematically demolishing her barrier magic at the far end of the tunnel with blows that cracked like nearby thunder, so with her last few remaining seconds, Ali wielded Domain Mastery to reshape the cavern. She deepened the streams, creating meandering channels that would be difficult to scale, and raised the area under her new boss, so it would have a clear line of sight into the oncoming horde.

The frontline dropped immediately, but that was only a precursor to the main event as the horde of gray-black bodies seemed to swell with a kind of primal rage, as if it were one single, shambling organism swelling its chest before surging into battle. The thick tide of their coming shook the cavern with a low thunder of heavy limbs and armor, and the eerie, moaning wails of a mindless hunger for violence.

All too soon, the barrier shattered.

Golden shards tinkled to the ground as the chamber filled with the moaning, hissing, lip-smacking cries of the insatiable dead. Ali could not suppress a shudder. Immediately, the Sylvan Storm filled the air with crackling bolts that trailed lightning and nature enchantments. Countless arrows zipped across the full length of the cavern to slice through the vanguard of shambling, drooling ghouls that rushed through the gaps.

Ali set her stance and thrust both palms forward, channeling her domain through her right and a storm of accelerated runes through her left. Immediately, jagged spires of granite thrust upward from the ground to impale zombies and disrupt formations, funneling the monsters into chokepoints and dead ends. Whole sections of ground fell away as yawning pits opened beneath the feet of the ghouls while lines of shining runic script in gold and green snaked their way through rock and dirt as Ali sowed traps of roots and arcane explosions like seeds of ruin to bind the Death Knight’s ankles and sap their dreadful unlife.

Spells flickered from far back in the tunnel, bolts of lightning and ice that returned fire in a retaliatory wave, but Ali’s canny Sylvan shifted sideways, taking advantage of her incredible movement speed to dodge while never allowing the pair of legendary bows even a second to falter.

When the creature used it, Ali felt the domain surging. Summoning magic, but across the broad expanse of the cavern. In a crackle of emerald-green, two dozen Forest Elementals appeared, instantly glowing from the proliferation of the Natural Restoration domain magic and their own vast restoration auras. The roar as they all simultaneously registered the invaders shook the cavern, and the rumble of their immense weight charging towards the undead shattered rock underfoot and dislodged boulders from the ceiling.

But her boss was not done yet. Another wave of summoning spawned a host of minion archers – Sylvans just like the boss herself, each wielding similar pairs of bows, and, when they all fired in unison, the cavern flashed like the inside of a demented, apocalyptic lightning storm.

“This looks fun,” Calen said, appearing beside Ali.

“Calen? How did you even find me down here?” Ali asked.

He gave her a mock-offended look. “Tracker, remember?”

“Oh, right.”

“Ali, Nevyn Eld is coming.”

“I can see that.” She gestured vaguely at the undead pouring into the cavern so quickly that her monsters were being pushed back, even given the onslaught of arrows and enormous elemental bodies. Her gesture hardly needed to be precise with that seething mass of black and gray.

“No…” Calen began, but Ali saw the domain magic surging.

“Hide…” Ali interrupted, using the same tone of voice she always used during raids. Calen leapt without hesitation, ducking behind the glittering wall Ali had summoned in front of herself.

The blast was immense. Elemental Storm surged through the cavern, a crackling avalanche of green magic that was part explosion, part lightning storm. It raged on and on, smothering the entire cavern with destruction, and when it finally began to fade, Ali stared in astonishment at the aftermath while her chimes sounded.

Your Sylvan Storm has reached level 235 (+2).

The whole cavern was freshly carpeted with flowers, grass, and moss that hung from every nook and cranny, even from the roof. Of the undead that had been present in the cavern when the spell had unleashed, there was no sign. Perhaps some of the grassy mounds might have once been Death Knights, but she really couldn’t tell. Out on the grass, the summoned Forest Guardians ambled patiently, while the Sylvan Archers scanned for new threats.

“That seemed ridiculously effective,” Calen said approvingly as he stared through the barrier. His bow was in his hand, but there was no pressing need to fire. Undead that had been far out of range beyond the cavern started trickling in, inciting her monsters to action once again.

“Champion boss, summoned with Authority,” Ali said. As she was beginning to learn, Authority could dramatically increase damage potential beyond normal, even for a champion boss. How it might work for a tier-three monster, Ali couldn’t even begin to comprehend. Although I can just look. She had a Divine Archon currently engaged in combat at this very moment.

“Ali, I came to tell you, we have a big problem. Nevyn Eld has abandoned the siege at Southport.”

“Isn’t that good news?”

“His army is marching along the south road under the cover of an enormous illusory enchantment. He will be at Myrin’s Keep in a few hours.”

“What?” Abandoning the capital for a nothing town in the middle of nowhere like Myrin’s Keep made absolutely no sense at all. Unless…

“Yes, Ali. He’s personally leading the army; I saw him with my own eyes.” He punctuated his words by drawing his bow and firing, spearing the spawned eldritch eye before it could even open. It landed on the ground beside her with a wet thud.

A trickle of pure unadulterated dread began clawing its way into her heart. A dread she had grown to recognize. “He’s coming for me, isn’t he?”

“I can’t say for sure,” Calen said, shifting uncomfortably. “But I think we should have a contingency plan. This throws a big wrench in our predictions – obviously.”

“Not enough of a wrench,” Ali said, clenching her fists by her sides. To her surprise, she found she believed it. We can’t let him outmaneuver us like this. Glancing over at her friend, she decided to put her words into action immediately. “You hit two-fifty. Come, let’s get you to the shrine. This chamber should hold for a while.”

“Thanks, Ali,” Calen said, his eyes lighting up.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
