Calen delighted in the sense of the brisk wind flowing across his face and wings as he soared through the air, struggling a little still to keep up with Lyeneru’s third-tier flame and lightning wings. He was so close now, he could almost taste it. Tearing through demons for hours on end with Mato and Malika and the rest of the guild in the Abyssal Realm was grueling and brutal, dirty fighting, but he couldn’t deny it was getting results. He had reached two hundred and forty-nine earlier this morning when Lyeneru had called for him.

He glanced a mite enviously at his mentor, but, while she still had him beat at speed, his eyes were better.

Far below them, rolling hills and green valleys flowed by like a beautiful tapestry of densely wooded valleys bursting with vibrant, new forest growth where weeks ago, the land had been desolate and dead all the way from Myrin’s Keep to the shattered remains of the troll kingdoms of Meere Kada and Aman Rak far to the south.

The newly restored domain of Lirasia, Great Mother of the Deep Woods, and now elevated to the status of a god in the form of a World Tree. Even if she was still a new deity – at the lowest tier – it was an event which would surely ripple through the entire realm and beyond. Provided she was given the chance to put down roots and secure her influence – gods required reputation, as he’d come to learn recently.

“It happened right after the realm notification,” Lyeneru said, using a battlefield command voice general skill that she and Nendir had wanted him to learn. There was never enough time. “Even General Byron Dragovich has confirmed by Sending that the siege is lifted. The royal family announced a celebration.”

“How can an entire army of undead vanish?” Calen asked, pitching his rhetorical question with no small degree of frustration. This supposedly fortuitous event was far too convenient. Its apparent synchronization with Lira’s ascension was such a ridiculous coincidence he struggled to understand why people were even celebrating. Can they not see it? What is the Lich playing at?

“I’m wondering the same thing,” Lyeneru said, glancing back with a grim expression on her face. “This cannot be anything good. I do not see the Blind Lich abandoning a war upon the cusp of his victory. It’s why I pulled you out of there. I need your eyes, and this is more important than even leveling up.”

“But nobody knows where they went.” Calen considered the problem carefully. Lyeneru was right, this was critical, and he understood. He really did. But being so close to tiering up grated on him like the adult version of waving candy under the nose of a five-year-old and then eating it in front of them. “If he had mass-teleported the entire army anywhere, we would know because wherever he landed would be suddenly at war.”

“Agreed. There are no reports. On every front, all is quiet,” Lyeneru said, scowling darkly. “I don’t like it. Except for a few isolated reports of small towns along the border between the Dol Kerriadh mountains and the Lirasian forest that aren’t responding to contact.”

“So, you think he’s using some kind of illusion?”

“Exactly,” Lyeneru said.

“What kind of spell can cloak an entire army?” Calen asked. “That has to be at least legendary or maybe mythic, right?” Whatever it was, it couldn’t be anything normal, and in the hands of the Blind Lich, that was terrifying to contemplate.

“Or an ancient artifact,” Lyeneru said. “World Magic might have triggered a realm notification, and we haven’t heard anything like that.”

“We’ve missed realm notifications when they’re triggered in the Spirit Realm,” Calen reminded. Although, Ali or her brothers should have noticed something like that.

“Yes, that’s what I’m afraid of,” Lyeneru said. “I’ve scoured everywhere the army could have reached so far and found nothing.”

“The dead are hard for you to see, right?” Calen asked. Lyeneru had been opening up more and more about the details of her skills as Calen had risen through the levels. Or perhaps she just took time to build deeper trust – he didn’t know precisely, but it rang true with what he knew of her. At least, he knew her ability to see through illusion was a combination of being able to see heat and the minute electric energy that presaged muscle movements. Perception skills aligned with her affinities, allowing her a precognitive sight similar to Mato’s Survival Instinct. However, the dead rarely had either heat or living muscle tissue.

“That’s why you’re here. Keep your eyes peeled and those motes of yours shining,” Lyeneru said.

“Yes,” he said, nodding soberly. Lyeneru could quite easily fly right past something like the Blind Lich’s cold, dead armies without ever seeing them. But not him – at least, not if he was attentive and actively searching with his motes. True Sight was one of the most extraordinary perception skills in existence, avoidable only with similarly extraordinary abilities like true incorporeality – the bodiless entities that couldn’t be seen because they didn’t exist in the physical realm at all, mental constructs, or realm-slipping monsters. But he had realm sight to counter even some of those.

He had nine Motes, now, and a range that extended out nearly a third of a mile. He activated Eclipse, shrouding himself in invisibility, and swooped down, following his Motes of Light and tracking the terrain below, shedding light upon the ground as he kept pace with Lyeneru as best he could. But he kept his eyes trained upon the ground, searching intently for anything that might be out of place.

Eventually, he found it. Or, rather, it found him.

An almost imperceptible ripple. A ripple that should not have been there. If he had not been completely focused, he would have missed it.

“Wait,” he called, and Lyeneru stopped, eyes still efficiently scanning the surroundings with the disciplined vigilance that only came from the decades of relentlessly refining herself to the pinnacle of the Pathfinders.

Calen flicked a coin into the air, donating gold in exchange for a fresh Blessing of the Wanderer. With the very welcome boost to movement skills, he earned his tenth Mote of Light. Quickly, he summoned the mote and sent it out to expand his sweep surveillance of the winding road below, but before it had gone more than a dozen yards, something shimmered again. A brief ripple in the air, like a heat mirage above a hot oven. A ripple from beyond the realm veil.

There! Instantly, Calen summoned all his decoys and downed a Mental Fortitude Elixir as a Banshee surged out of the Spirit Realm with a wail that made his skin crawl and his vision swim. It tore into one of his decoys with ghostly claws, hideous fangs, and angry hissing.

“Found it!” Calen cried, drawing his bow and unleashing a shining arrow without hesitation. It was clear from Lyeneru’s shifting gaze that she still could not see the monster, so Calen enchanted his arrow with Speed of Light, Light Damage, and Grappling Shot – every single enchantment designed to draw the eye. His tight fan of arrows punched through the Banshee, leaving a searing line of light in their wake, pointing the way to the monster and its kin spilling out through the veil. His shot tore ethereal wisps of ghostly light from its body and drew wails and screams of pain as the arrows continued, tearing through the following ghosts.

Moments later, detonations of flame and cracks of lightning ripped through the remains, triggering a chime in response as Lyeneru’s eyes found what he’d revealed.

“A scout, from the Spirit Realm,” Calen said. Only his realm-piercing perception and his fortunate placement of the Mote of Light had even allowed him to see it. If fortune had been unkind to him, he would have missed the signs entirely.

“We must be close,” Lyeneru said, her restless eyes scanning the woods below.

“I’ll take a look,” Calen said. Sure enough, ten minutes later, a cohort of dark armored figures marching under a shimmering cloud of magic were revealed by the light of his motes and his illusion-stripping True Sight gaze.

“I see them,” he said, pointing. “Death Knights.” But this was just the vanguard. Behind the Death Knights, more and more undead crawled, scrambled, walked, or flew. Skeletons of trolls, both mages and warriors. Putrid ghouls leaking poisonous drool, ghosts, and giant abominations of dead flesh. Spread among the hordes, the greater undead roamed. Wights with fearsome weapons and magic, Specters, Skeletal dragons. They marched by the thousands, and they were fast. “Movement magic,” Calen gasped. “They’re hasted!”

“And, this far north?” Lyeneru asked. “That can mean only one thing.”

“I thought he was going for Lirasia and the World Tree,” Calen said, frowning. The position was way off.

“No,” Lyeneru said, speaking the words he was afraid to utter. “They abandoned Southport for Myrin’s Keep.”

“Fuck,” Calen said.

It was at that moment that his chime chose to chime.

Realm Hunter has reached level 250.+10 attribute points.Requirements met for class evolution. Class evolution options will be automatically assigned in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.Class experience is paused until your class evolution is complete.

“Two fifty,” Calen said, adrenaline still coursing through his veins as his heart began to race.

“Congratulations,” Lyeneru said wryly. “Go find Aliandra and warn her, and get your evolution done. I will retrieve the raid groups from the Abyssal Realm. Meet me at the guild hall. It is time to make a stand.”

“Right,” Calen said, marking the location and speed of the armies coursing by below in his mind and then triggering his teleport home.

“There, that should do it,” Ali murmured, imprinting the wand with her mana signature and a flourish. Arcane Bolt was a basic spell, but she held a lot of fondness for it, given all her early-level struggles. It had certainly treated her well. Still, the wand that sat on the table before her, hungrily gobbling up ambient domain mana, was something else entirely. Thanks to Ryn’s tireless efforts, she had been able to rustle up a second-tier version of the spell, along with full runic array diagrams. It was tricky to inscribe onto something as small as a wand, but with the quality of the materials available to her, that had proven to be only a minor obstacle, easily overcome.

Sure, with the understanding of the formations, she could now summon the runes directly using her mana, but she also gained substantial advantages while casting spells from items. Having the wand in her inventory would buy her options – precious options that would prove invaluable in any uncertain fight.

She gently fed it more mana, topping up the arcane magicite she had embedded within the mithril handle, casually casting her mental sight over the array of wands readied in her ring. Many arcane spells and contingencies were designed to take advantage of her immense spell haste and arcane mana boosts. Nature wands with healing spells and wands with spells selected from a variety of affinities for their unique buffs that she could leverage over her entire minion army due to Summon Supremacy. Anything useful, like percentage health or mana bonuses.

She did not feel ready, though. Not in the slightest, but it was progress compared to where she’d been two days ago.

Ali sighed and rolled her shoulders, enjoying the blissful sense of release as her joints crackled and her tight muscles eased, but at precisely that moment, she felt a prickle of alarm from her sentinel minions in two separate locations.

She shifted her perceptions instantly, only to find herself watching as a long column of undead and Death Knights trooped into her domain to face one of the bosses she had placed deep under the wreckage that had once been the city of Volle. Death Knights that she was ill-equipped to handle, far below ground within Naia’s domain.

Oh no. What did we miss? Her thoughts swirled, chasing loose ends as she struggled to reason out why they were there precisely. The Dark Treant boss currently guarding the cavern would not last long against such a powerful army, nor would most of Naia’s bosses. She simply didn’t have the levels to handle this. Is this a coincidence? Can’t be…

Far away, at the opposite end of the continent, Ali felt the ripping sensation of a portal opening within the bounds of her domain. A portal she had felt once before. Her awareness flickered across the continent, settling on the island bearing the Well of Divinity, and there she found her Divine Archon preparing herself for battle as a fresh horde of undead Knights spilled forth from the roiling darkness of the gateway magic.

We miscalculated!

And then, her mana connection to the Treant boss in Naia’s domain snapped.

“I’m under attack,” she whispered. She left the words unspoken, but they rang loudly in her mind:

Nevyn Eld.

He’d come. And he was after her, specifically. Naia’s dungeon was the passage through which the Lich had first attacked her, and the Well of Divinity was the second. With these ominous realizations weighing on her heart, she teleported immediately. She had anticipated attacks on Ciradyl and Lira and had concentrated so much of her defense preparations on those locations, and he had ignored them. It sent chills down her spine, but she knew it in her bones. He was after her.

She gritted her teeth. She could not allow him to run roughshod over her home, her domain, and all that she held dear. Not again. Never again!

Ali appeared high above the Sea of Fractured Dreams, instantly bubbling herself with her barrier magic as the air around her rippled and crashed with detonating spells and deafening blasts. The surface of the floating island spread out below her, rugged and scorched as a seething horde of undead poured forth from the maw of a dark shimmering portal, spreading out to secure their foothold. Whirling images of holy swords and spawned Sacred Guardians spent themselves against the monsters in blazing conflagrations of holy fire, struggling to hold the hungering dead at bay while a beleaguered champion Divine Archon furiously defended the Well of Divinity with all her considerable might. As the darkness closed in, it was obvious they were losing.

But Ali hadn’t come alone.

