For now, he turned his attention mostly to the neighboring Tier 21 planet, flying out to get a closer look at it.

It was, all told, quite barren. Terraforming it would take absolutely ages, a process only made worse by the sheer amount of bizarre life inhabiting it. Strange rocklike crustaceans, massive subterranean rock-snakes, and wispy elementals absolutely packed themselves between spires of mushroom-tree things adapted for the obscenely hostile environment.

Well, they could set up some sort of outposts to take advantage of it, possibly either in orbit or a heavily-defended domed fortress. No doubt the weird planet ecology would result in some impressive natural treasures and rifts, so they could set it up as a partially-accessible training world as an additional attraction in their system for Tiers 17 to 21.

Training— or ‘wild’— planets were always a good source of income, and while a part of Matt wished he could terraform it such that lower Tiers could survive on it, he had his hands full enough with Palustris itself as it was.

The fourth planet in the system, a small gas giant, was only Tier 8 thanks to its relatively large size, which made it a prime target for eventual expansion for mortals who wanted to delve. But that wouldn’t be an issue for at least a few thousand years in the future, when real estate truly became hard to find.

He and Liz did decide to buy not just a habitable moon, but a Tier 2 world as well, so they could ensure that mortals had enough space to live, given just how much of Palustris wasn’t readily liveable for low Tiers.

Once they got to work, they found the various local sects had created a few methods to create safe zones. Or safer zones.

The one that Matt personally liked for small outposts was to ring them with a formation that redirected fire mana and essence upward into the atmosphere, which created a bubble of safety at the center. The side effect of creating an extra dangerous zone around the formation was less a bug and more a feature, as it was a perfect area for fire mages to cultivate in.

He and Liz wouldn’t allow them to be used anywhere near an area that mortals lived, but it was an economical way to protect a small zone they encouraged.

The local former sub-sect who had come up with the idea was more than a little flabbergasted that they were paid for their idea, but they were more than happy to take the money and use it to expand their influence.

Guilds were another sticking point he and Liz ran into.

As part of their agreement with the local sects, they wouldn’t let local guilds settle for the first decade, and then they would only slowly open the world up for foreign guilds. But everyone wanted a piece of Palustris, so they were constantly asking for extensions and restrictions on other guilds.

While Matt wanted to just ignore them, he understood where their concern came from. Just a week after they fought the guild leaders, they had hundreds of ships in orbit just waiting for permission to land. Matt and Liz forced them to cool their hands as they got Palustris ready for large-scale settling.

They long since put out a call-to-arms for any and every construction company of nearly all Tiers that was willing to travel to help quickly build out two cities capable of housing a billion people safely.

The higher-Tier construction teams were there to do the brunt of the work, setting the foundations for a long-term city that could house so many people safely, while the lower-Tier teams were there to build out the sky scrapers and other buildings that didn’t need to be rushed.

Not that it was easy.

Matt had just expected the city planners they hired to just tell them what they were going to build, but that wasn’t how it happened.

Instead, they were presented with dozens of variations and styles to choose from.

For their first city, a safer zone nestled inside a mountain range, they were presented with three major themes.

The first was to flow with the natural dips and valleys of the area, but that wasn’t the most economical use of the space, which was where the second idea came from of leveling the area and creating spatially-expanded layers to fit the maximum number of people into the space as was possible. The third was, instead of being a middle ground, do complete reversal and maximize the view and ambiance by reducing buildings to mainly underground structures.

After talking about it, he and Liz chose the first option, but they were presented with dozens of minor variations. The differences seemed inconsequential, but once they chose a design, things would be difficult to change.

Some variations tried to maximize housing while others maximized things like parks, while others still did the same for production districts.

They discussed aiming for a middle ground, but they ended up deciding they wanted their cities to have specialties at least in minor ways. A citizen wouldn’t have to travel to a new city for a new weapon, but they might decide to travel if they wanted to get the best weapons. Just going middle-of-the road for everything was boring, and would mean their capital lacked anything that would set it apart and make their cities much too similar.

To that end, they decided for their first city, they would aim for robust production districts with secondary focuses on population density and public transportation. That wasn’t to say there weren’t public spaces like parks and gardens, but they were put where they could be rather than the city being built with them in mind.

The production they envisioned was built around taking the unique products made from the rare local resources of Palustris and getting them ready to sell off world or to visitors. As for what, they weren't entirely sure what would end up being economical, but the planet had a number of unique products that they were looking to lean into.

Making matters worse was that even in the less dangerous areas, they still needed special consideration to ensure that mortals could exist. Setting up anti-volcano wards, ash cleansing arrays, and weather-control towers, among so many other things, took funding— both initial funding and on-going maintenance and power— and space that could have been spent on other functions if the planet wasn’t so dangerous.

Seeing the choices they had to work around was enough for Matt and Liz to just go ahead and buy a habitable moon where mortals could live without too much issue. It would arrive much faster than the planet they had ordered, and they could always use both.

The second city was at least more interesting, as it was to be located in the archipelago they set their floating island in.

It was shaping up to be their capital region, and so they took more effort into ensuring that it was, at least to a moderate degree, aesthetically pleasing. To that end, they decided to forgo anything like a single floating central city and to embrace the island lifestyle. Combined with terraforming some of the continental coastline, they would, once the city was fully built, be able to house close to a billion people.

With thousands of islands, they intended to let the smaller ones specialize into whatever they wanted, so as to encourage movement between the islands. That meant a robust naval public transportation system, but surprisingly, the answer had already been solved by Titan’s Torch’s new engines, amusingly enough.

The engines liked to be at their top speed, which is where they had the most mana savings compared to older engines, so frequent stopping and starting was to be prevented as much as possible.

The original idea had started in the Capital system, funded by Carissa, as it had seven inhabited worlds with loads of interplanetary travel. Matt ignored the politics of Manny’s wife funding the project instead of himself, but either way, it was a success and had spread to many other systems that had multiple worlds with heavy traffic between them.

To take advantage of the travel mana engines, they had large ships constantly moving between destinations while smaller ships moved from the planet's surface or orbit to the travel mana ship. After it dropped its passengers off and picked the leaving batch up, they then flew back to the world as it was passing by.

By never stopping, the ship didn’t have to lower its mana coefficient which resulted in significant savings. Savings that had eventually been passed onto the passengers. Matt didn’t need the additional stress and chose to focus on the positive ending rather than the bumpy way they had gotten there.

That same method worked fantastically for ocean-based vessels, and the city planners suggested they copy the method to facilitate the city they wanted.

Matt only got slightly distracted in looking up how trains handled the issue with travel mana, but wasn’t shocked when they simply differentiated between long and short distance travel and ate the mana cost of stopping and starting the train.

He also definitely didn’t get distracted by the reports of a round of audits that had come from King Frederic on companies that hadn’t followed through with their promise of passing on at least part of savings to their passengers. Matt also didn’t get distracted by ensuring he had blacklisted all of those names from working directly with his guild in the future without his express permission.

Matt was on a mission, no distractions. Or at least, that was his internal monologue.

It took six months to get the cities at least marginally habitable, and that was only because they had hired Tier 40 building teams who could prepare entire city blocks for the mega skyscrapers in hours instead of months. Everything also took longer because they greatly overbuilt their infrastructure in case their populations ballooned higher than they initially intended.

Wanting to embrace their founding of many different planets from many different cultures, Matt put out a duchy-wide decree. With well over a thousand smaller islands, they had more than enough to assign each one to a planet in their duchy. An island would be given to each planet to design to their own sensibilities in terms of design and built out specifically for people of that world to settle on Palustris.

To sweeten the pot for the worlds, Matt threw in various rewards for the best designs. Though, for all their issues, Matt suspected the most unique and interesting designs would come out of the veil worlds they had taken over. He thoroughly believed the Empire was a good thing as a whole, but there was something to be said about the diversity of ideas that came out of such a chaotic mix of cultures just on a single world.

Preserving a portion of that as well as making sure their capital city was striking and unique was an idea he could get behind.

The idea was even good enough he didn’t have to do more than raise the idea before Liz accepted.

The city planners they had contracted didn’t like the idea, as it meant they needed to wait to finish a number of the islands, but that was more a matter of rearranging the order of things than outright delays.

As for the few mortal inhabitants of Palustris, they were given the Empire-mandated awakenings and specific tax breaks to ensure they weren’t outclassed by the first wave of immigrants.

And a wave it was.

The minute the first skyscraper was ready for people to move in, they had ships nosing into the atmosphere. Millions of immortals were knocking at their doors. Some even went as far as to forgo the ships altogether and just enter with their bodies. If they were trying to bypass the immigration they had in place, it wouldn’t be so easy, and a number of rabble rousers were caught by the guards and forced to leave immediately.

Most of the new arrivals were just fire specialists who wanted an early in on a new fire world, and Matt and Liz opened their doors to them in a variety of ways.

Permanent citizenship wasn’t given out to many; they required those immortals who wanted to go that route to both provide something useful to the planet and buy property with the understanding that they couldn’t just resell to anyone but the state for the next thousand years. Space on high-Tier worlds had the habit of being bought up in secondary markets that prevented the dedicated but less wealthy from joining.

Mortal requirements were far less strict, but there were still those who were only offered temporary residency permits. There were ways to turn those into permanent ones, but they required dedication to Palustris itself, which was a way to weed out those who were just looking to get in on a fad.

Food was a major issue, and was the largest hurdle preventing them from just filling their first two cities with citizens. Even beyond Empire mandates about food availability, Matt wouldn’t feel comfortable bringing in a mass of mortals without a stable source of food because Palustris wasn’t suited to grow most crops.

Not that it couldn’t grow foods. It could, of course, but the normal farming rifts were thrown off by the planet’s aspect, and the fire aspect meant food grown without special care frequently beyond the means of regular people wasn't entirely mortal-safe. Technically, they’d probably be fine, but it raised the odds of a bunch of health problems by a truly staggering amount.

The Empire required that every world was self-sustainable in terms of food and its mortal population, but there was leeway when it came to capital worlds, even ducal capital worlds. With populations in the billions, trillions, or possible quadrillions, it was understood that not all the food for mortals could be produced by mortals. Orbital structures like they had seen Countess Walsh’s former Corporations world, Mythena, use weren't common in comparison to rift farming, but it was the method he and Liz decided to go with.

