They would have encouraged a robust, rift-centric farming economy, but that took time to get started. A suitable rift needed to be found, then it needed to be delved until all the variations were cataloged and mapped out so the delving teams could best clear the rifts, as well learning exactly what the rift and its soil composition specialized in growing.

The Oneil cylinders were, for all their faults, easy to create and get started. Especially when Matt personally went, created, and powered the plant growth formations.

Though on Palustris, food testing was already ongoing.

Liz, being an alchemy expert, was overseeing that, but Palustris was already exporting a rare variation of saffron that grew exceptionally well in their fire-aspected world, even in the more dangerous regions. That meant Tier 15s needed to do the farming, but non-combat fire cultivators were more than happy to take up the farmer mantle in exchange for permanent residency. Doubly so when they got their cut of the export.

A few of the farmers were even using their early position to petition for the licenses to expand their operations to medium-sized corporations centered around the saffron. After a few talks with their advisors, they decided to allow a few expansions, but postponed any further growth after seeing how the environment would react.

The saffron wasn’t the only food to do well in the fire-rich environment. A version of fire rice also exploded in a local way as it was turned into a sake and exported not just across the duchy, but into other duchies thanks to its mellow front flavors with its fiery after tastes.

Even just a year into serious production, the liquor was making for a serious export that had all the hallmarks of becoming a staple of their world. Best of all, it was a hardy plant that grew not only in the more dangerous portions of the world, but in at least two fire aspected rifts if their initial testing proved accurate when automated.

As did the hot springs.

There were a few that not only had strong fire properties, but had healing properties mixed in, which drew in those immortals dealing with healing cooldowns to lower said bodily resistance.

Dozens of companies were trying to set up shop to expand the service, and Matt was going over their requests when he felt the world pulse as a pair of people arrived with a bang.

Checking the new arrivals, he found they weren't people he expected to show up unannounced.

Maxine ‘Max’ Teslovaka, the Corporation Chosen Cosmind, and Wun Miloan, the Clans Legend known as Goldenrod.
