For the next hundred years, Varthirm and the woman traveled the countryside. They plowed fields for the downtrodden, healed the sick, gave away any money they were given for their work, and lived as if each day was the last day they could help someone. They both gave their all, and over the years, affection grew between them. Varthirm had always had feelings for her, since she was the one who had saved him; but for her, it had taken 30 years for her to even acknowledge that he was a valid presence in her life. It took nearly 50 years after that for her to accept that when he did things for others, he wasn't trying to impress her. The last 20 years, she had grudgingly admitted that he really was being selfless and didn't expect anything in return.

One day, for no particular reason, the woman watched Varthirm pulling a plow through a field, and she saw that he was a good man. It didn't wipe away all of the things he had done during his other life; but, because he wasn't in that other life anymore, it didn't affect him like it used to. He was happy, despite not having a single possession to his name. When he was done pulling the plow and came over to her to get a drink of water, she kissed him. They were both surprised by this; and neither of them spoke of it for nearly another year. That was the start of something that neither of them had expected. The next 50 years were the best 50 years that Varthirm had ever experienced. He'd not only had a new life, but had earned the love of a great woman. They had nothing, and would never have anything; but, that didn't matter. They were together, and that was all that he could have ever hoped for.

At the end of that 50 years, she became pregnant despite all the precautions they had been taking. Since none of her race had ever had that happen before, she was scared beyond all reasoning. Their good works had to be put on hold while Varthirm tended to her while they stayed at the Convent, and after a year, the length of a normal dwarf pregnancy, she gave birth to a beautiful little girl. She was the gleam in their eyes, as once again, they traveled around the countryside to continue doing good works.

Another 5 years passed before they knew it, and they decided that it was time for them to settle down. All the traveling was hard on such a young child, and she needed a stable place to live. Once they set up house, it didn't take long before they were found by the ones that had been searching for them.

Three dwarf men, in full armor, stormed into the little house and destroyed everything. Varthirm had tried to put up a valiant fight; but, he hadn't done anything like that in over a century and a half, and was quickly overwhelmed. Both he and his wife were dragged out of the house and into the street, and one of the three held Varthirm still.

“You have broken sacred law, Xuunah.” One of the dwarves said. “You have mated with your charge, despite all rules against doing so.”

“I love him.” Xuunah said. “He is a good man.”

The other two dwarves laughed.

“We knew you had gone native, when you passed the hundred year mark for the end of your scheduled time here.” The first dwarf said. “I didn't think you had stooped this low, however.”

Xuunah stood up and punched the dwarf in the face, and they all laughed at her feeble attempt at defiance.

“You will be brought back to face the consequences of what you have done.” He said, as one of the dwarves grabbed her by the arm.

“What about my husband?” Xuunah asked, and looked at Varthirm, who was struggling against the dwarf that held him still.

“He is of no importance.” The dwarf said and nodded to the dwarf that held Varthirm. A glowing mist-covered sword pierced through Varthirm's chest from behind.

“NOOOOO!” Xuunah screamed as a mist-covered sword formed in her hand and she decapitated the dwarf holding her. The arm holding her let her go, and she lunged at the dwarf that had ordered the death of her husband. The dwarf parried her blow with a mist-covered sword of his own, as the dwarf she had beheaded fell to the ground and his body turned to mist and dissolved.

“So, the kitten does have claws after all.” He said, and knocked her sword hand out of the way, and plunged his sword into her side. Xuunah gasped at the pain, and her sword dissipated as quickly as it had appeared. She grabbed her side and collapsed to the ground.

“If you weren't so weak after all these years in this realm, you might have offered me a challenge.” The dwarf said.

Xuunah reached out a hand to her husband, to try and use her ability to heal him.

“No, we can't have that.” The dwarf said, and picked her up easily.

“Noooo!” Xuunah yelled, as a portal formed before them.

“What about the child?” The dwarf that had killed her husband asked.

“It's still inside the house, so destroy it. The sight of it sickens me.”

The dwarf cast an implosion spell on the house, and Xuunah cried as her whole world imploded into a small wooden ball. They stepped through the portal, and left Varthirm's body in the middle of the street. Little did anyone realize, but the little girl had known something bad was happening; and had left the house to hide in the little gully beside the road, well away from where the fight was. When the bad men had left, she came out of her hiding place and walked over to her father. He was laying on his back, and appeared to be dead; but the little girl knew better. She knelt by his head and picked it up to put on her tiny lap. Varthirm opened his eyes and looked at his daughter.

“Be... be strong.” He said. “Hide. Stay safe.” His breathing became ragged. “Pro... protect yourself.” He took her little hand in his. “Show me.”

The little girl formed a tiny mist-covered dagger in her hand, and Varthirm smiled.

“That's my... my girl.” He said and let her hand go. “I... I love you... Nathalia...”

Varthirm let out one last breath of air, then breathed no more. Tiny tear drops covered his face as the little girl cried silently.

**

Lara let Nathalia's hand go and tried to keep her face as perfectly neutral as she could. She smiled to cover up the shock of experiencing close to 160 years in only a few seconds.

“I'm glad to finally meet you.” Lara said. “I've... heard so much about you.”

Nathalia nodded slightly, since she assumed Ren had told Lara all about her; just like he'd told Sally and Donan. Ren took out the last bunch of copies of his book, The Chronicles of Ren: Adventures in The Dwarven Kingdom, and gave them to Lara.

“I assume you're going to do your dispersion trick for them again?” Ren asked.

Lara nodded. “The more people that know what things used to be like in the dwarf lands, the better the reaction will be when they open up for other people...” She looked at Nathalia. “...and not just from invitation only.”

“I understand.” Ren said. “Thanks a lot, Lara.”

“It's no trouble, Ren.” Lara said. “In fact, it's kind of my job.”

“Really?”

Lara nodded again. “I'm an information broker, remember? All I really deal with is information.”

“Then I'd like some information.” Ren said.

“Go ahead.” Lara said, and rolled her eyes. “What do you want to know now?”

“Why aren't you reacting to my beard?”

Lara smiled coyly. “You really needed to ask me that?”

Ren blinked his eyes at her, then smiled. “I really do have a penchant for asking stupid questions sometimes, don't I?”

“I don't have to answer that question, either.” Lara laughed, and Ren and Nathalia joined her. After a bit of unimportant small talk, Lara turned to go back to the rear area, then stopped and put a hand on Ren's arm.

“Before I forget.” Lara said. “You might want to open that box of knick-knacks you got from that peddler in the dwarf market.”

“Wh-what?”

Lara chuckled. “Yeah, I knew you had completely forgotten that you had it.” She said. “It'll help you, trust me.”

“I do.” Ren said sincerely. “Thanks, Lara.”

“Have fun.” Lara said and opened the door to the hallway that led to the rear storage area. “By the way, what you're expecting to happen tonight, won't. Bye.” She stepped through the opening and shut the door.

*

Lara held herself in check and walked down the hallway and into the storage area. She went to her closet, and closed the door. She sat down on Ren's chair and sighed.

“I... I can't believe it.” Lara said. “Oh, Ren! I'm so sorry that I can't tell you!” She put her head in her hands. “Nathalia is one of the Children of Light.”

*

“What do you think she meant about what we're expecting to happen?” Nathalia asked as Ren waved goodbye to Rosie.

“If I was to take a guess, I'd say that our little adventure to help Elerlyth tonight isn't going to happen.” Ren said as they left the Library.

“Oh, damn.” Nathalia said. “I was looking forward to seeing her in person.”

Ren could feel that was true, and then felt Nathalia getting a headache. He told her to stop sharing the Aura, so she wouldn't be in pain.

“Are you sure?” She asked. “I can hold it for a little while longer.”

Ren shook his head. “I just wanted to share my feelings with you while we walked around.”

Nathalia smiled. “It was wonderful.” She said. “You've had so many memories here.”

Ren put his arm around her. “Hopefully, we can make new memories to add to them.”

“I'd like that.” Nathalia said, and gave him a quick kiss. “I'd like that a lot.”

“Let's get back to the shop and see if anyone showed up for the job offer.” Ren said, and they walked up the street together.
