I’ve had it with these mother-fucking Spectres in this mother-fucking retinue.

As nice as it would be to have a steady supply of Spectres, there’s too much I don’t know about the birthing process to feel comfortable. Does it harm them in any way? Are they losing a part of their soul? What if my people go full Defiled before I can save them? Hovering about while Taduk checks on Awdar, I try to come up with non-specific questions to ask Jorani. “Ral said things looked bad?”

Wringing his hands and refusing to look me in the eye, Jorani watches Awdar with lips pressed and fists clenched. “I swear on me life, he took a turn fer the worse. Sobbin’ and hurlin’ like there ain’t no tomorrow, sick as a dog he were. Something didn’t feel right so I sent fer ye, but he calmed down right as ye got here.” Barking in anxious laughter, Jorani adds, “After ye left again, he took one sniff of yer soup and he was like a brand new man. Must be some real miracle herbs in it, eh bossman?”

“Nah, it’s normal chicken soup.” Double boiled and made with the tastiest, most flavourful chickens I’ve ever eaten, but no magic herbs or spices, only mundane ones. “You said he was crying and vomiting before I got here. Anything else?”

The gathered crowd scatters at a pointed glance from Jorani, a skill I envy and desire. “Thing is,” he says, keeping his voice low despite our newfangled privacy, “I can’t exactly say what it was, but something was off. He kept goin’ on about how he weren’t a good man and how Mum Above wouldn’t want him, on account of all the killin’ he’s done. Said he was bein’ haunted by the dead and it was a sign he deserved to be punished, and it felt... wrong.” Shuddering at the memory, Jorani tries to laugh it off once more. “Might be gettin’ a little long in the tooth and soft in the head. Sorry to disturb ye over nothin’, and doubly so for botherin’ the Medical Saint.”

Ah yes, guilt and self-blame, delicious Spectre bait laid out for them to feast. “You were concerned and went with your gut. No need to be sorry.” Especially since his gut was right. Awdar calmed down right before I arrived because I Devoured the new-born Spectre the second I saw it. Dollars to donuts the wrongness Jorani felt was the actual birth itself, an incident I’m glad I missed and hope to never experience again. That said, considering I wasn’t around to see it first-hand, I’m only guessing a Spectre was birthed because last I checked, Awdar was Spectre free and there are no ghosties hanging about who could’ve infected him. This marks the second time I’ve been close to a Spectre birthing, which raises a whole host of new questions I have no answers for. Am I a walking font of gloom and despair who enables the birth of Spectres, or is Jorani to blame? Maybe Spectre births can occur anytime and anywhere and I happen to be unlucky enough to have two hosts in my retinue, but if someone is to blame, what can I do to lower the incident rate?

Or raise it. I mean, I did get a free Spectre to nom on and Awdar looks much improved from when I last saw him. It’s not saying much considering he was an inconsolable, strung-out mess, but any improvement is a win. Clutching an empty vomit bucket to his chest, the lanky druggie’s expression is one of calm and serenity, his eyes glazed and gaze detached as Taduk carries on his inspection. Awdar’s withdrawal symptoms have all but disappeared, his heartbeat steady and body still, no longer wracked by the involuntary tremors of addiction. There are no signs of the inner turmoil and self-recrimination Jorani witnessed first hand, and if not for his vomit-encrusted collar, cracked lips, and bloodshot eyes, I might’ve thought Awdar was deep in a meditative trance.

Even for a Martial Warrior, recovering this quickly from withdrawal is kind of ridiculous.

Then again, maybe Awdar wasn’t going through withdrawal to begin with. The symptoms presented themselves much too quickly, barely an hour after we burned his stash, but I chalked it up to the potency of Dream Smoke. Is it possible his dependency and subsequent withdrawal was mostly mental which led to a downward spiral which culminated in birthing a Spectre?

Or something. I dunno.

If true, then it might explain why Awdar looks so much better now. I didn’t put much stock into it before, but Jorani was the same after I Devoured his birthed Spectre, going about his duties with renewed focus as if he’d shed all his worries and despair. If Spectres are born from negative emotions, then it stands to reason those negative emotions would be lessened after I Devour said Spectre, a sort of cathartic release, in a sense. It’s not a perfect assumption, because emotions don’t have a quantifiable presence and Spectres are supposedly itinerant souls or whatever, but it’s the best guess I’ve got. It might also be why the Defiled are so big on torture and bloodshed, because they’re being driven to cause fear and misery so more Spectres will be born.

Finally... an argument to end slavery which the Empire might actually accept. Better working conditions equals happier people equals fewer shitty Spectres floating about. Now I just need to figure out how to prove it without being condemned as a heretic or whatever.

...Wait.

What if the higher ups already know and their solution is to ensure mistreated slaves don’t live long enough to become a problem? It’d be about par for the course for this shitty Empire...

While I struggle to ignore the host of Spectres residing in my brain, Taduk draws back with a tired sigh, a result of spending his mornings hunting for Spiritual Plants and his afternoons Healing my injured soldiers. There’s a good reason most injuries aren’t treated by Healers, because the cost-benefit is heavily skewed in favour of the former. Assuming an injury would cost one unit of Chi to self-Heal, it might cost Taduk anywhere between three to ten units depending on the complexity of the injury. This doesn’t take into account the focus required to direct and control Healing, as I myself experienced before pioneering Panacea, nor the mental fatigue accrued from long bouts of intense concentration. While Taduk can also use Panacea to Heal others, its advantages are mostly lost when used on someone besides yourself. While Traditional Healing might be more Chi intensive, Panacea Healing requires much more time to work, time my teacher has precious little to spare.

Even though he’s busy and most of my soldiers will recover on their own, he still insists on looking everyone over and Healing anyone who needs it, his way of helping me fight the good fight. Patting Awdar’s head like he would a child’s, Taduk says, “The worst has passed for now. Eat and drink as much as you can, but no need to force it. Avoid drugs and alcohol for a few days, and with rest, you should be back to full strength in no time.” Turning to Jorani, he adds, “If he continues to vomit into the night, then come find myself or the boy, yes?”

“Yes Ser, Medical Saint Ser, thank ye kindly.” Bowing and scraping as if faced with the Legate himself, Jorani says, “Sorry fer wastin’ yer time Medical Saint. Like I was tellin’ the bossman, I can’t rightly say what came over me, lettin’ my stupid worries get to me like that. Sorry and thank ye again.”

Waving the apology aside, Taduk wraps an arm around my shoulder as we walk away. “There’s something off about Awdar,” he Sends, his brow furrowed in thought. “Though presenting the symptoms of withdrawal, his blood still shows trace amounts of the drug flowing within. Addicted though he might be, his reaction is too extreme for someone in his condition, and I found no physiological explanation for his sudden malady.”

“I have a theory,” I Send. Briefly outlining the information I’ve pieced together regarding Spectres and how they’re created, I keep my half-baked conclusions to myself until Taduk’s had time to go over the facts. “... so it’s possible the sudden onset of his symptoms was brought about intentionally to stimulate the birth of a new Spectre.”

Rubbing his eyes with his free hand, Taduk rewards my prudence with a helpful insight. “You said there were no Spectres around before hand, yes? Then who or what directed Awdar’s sudden breakdown and suffering?”

That’s one of the best things about Taduk. Even though he believes it’s the Father Himself pulling strings in the background, he’s open-minded enough to consider other possibilities. Try as I might, I have trouble accepting an all-powerful duo of Gods would be so petty and bored as to meddle in the lives of us insignificant mortals. Then again, for all I know, we’re all pieces on a cosmic board game of five-dimensional chess or something. After a moment of thought, I Send, “My best guess is Awdar brought it on himself. With his drugs burned, he realized he couldn’t hide any longer and was forced to come face to face with his past actions. His guilt and shame drove him to believe he deserved to suffer for his sins, and in doing so, he caused himself to suffer from imagined withdrawal.”

“...Plausible.” Nodding in thought, Taduk murmurs through Sending, possibly without even knowing he’s doing it. “Belief is a powerful force, and Awdar’s familiarity with Healing would help with subconsciously affecting his physical well-being. It explains why he had a fever, but no trouble breathing or inexplicable bruising, which is atypical, and why physical movement caused him no discomfort despite being wracked with pain. He only knew withdrawal would hurt, but not why it would hurt, so he manifested general throbbing pain rather than muscle-and-joint specific pain.”

“It was psychosomatic,” I helpfully supply, having found the word in a dusty old book among his collection. “A condition or ailment caused or made worse by a mental factor, such as stress or depression.”

“It bears looking into, though how one might combat an illness of the mind is beyond my ken.” Slumping his shoulders, Taduk looks more tired and defeated than I’ve ever seen him, his smile mocking and filled with self-loathing. “In my hubris, I once believed I could Heal any malady short of death, but now I see I was but a frog in a well.”

Hugging him a little tighter as we walk arm in arm, I Send, “The mind is a complicated thing and the world has yet to unlock its mysteries. You can hardly blame yourself for not understanding something no one else does. Besides, how are you supposed to know things aren’t as they seem if you can’t perceive Spectres?”

“True, true.” Tilting his head, he Sends, “Hmm... The Defiled, they can see these Spectres, yes?”

Oh no. “Don’t turn Defiled for the sake of curiosity, Teacher. It’s hardly worth it.”

“Nonsense, Rain my boy, I’ll be perfectly safe with you by my side. I only need to... how did you put it? Invite the Spectres in for tea? By thinking sad or angry thoughts, correct? Simple enough.” Closing his eyes, Taduk trembles with focused concentration for all of two seconds before opening them again. “What sort of tea would they prefer? Red or green? Or perhaps they’d prefer something floral or fruity?”

My teacher can’t be this cute. “Teacher, warmed as I am by your faith in me, I find your lack of prudence disturbing. Also, the tea is a metaphor and there are no Spectres around to invite, so the point is moot.”

“Hmm. Unfortunate.” Recovered from his brief bout with self pity, Taduk smiles and leans sideways to rest his cheek on my head while we walk. “We’ll try again another time then.”

Try and fail. My teacher is the second most upbeat and positive person I know, following closely behind on Lin’s hoppy heels. Maybe half-hares are predisposed to a cheery demeanour, though you wouldn’t know it from looking at Blackjack. Seated firmly on Song’s head, the tiny hare frowns and glares from his perch while the lovely half-cat brushes her quin, Erdene. Noting my arrival, Mama Bun springs over to greet me with a headbutt to the chest before flopping into my arms like a fluffy, fat baby. Yawning as she snuggles in, she strokes the air with her paw in a silent, but forceful demand for belly scritches. All too happy to oblige, I indulge the sweet floof while checking on the many pots of soup cooking over the campfires, all made with help from the cooks hired by Luo-Luo. Truth be told, she did more right than wrong in choosing this place for my retinue to camp, and I can’t help but feel I’m being unnecessarily judgmental of the multi-talented Imperial Servant. Part of it is jealousy, and another big part is fear, but I suppose being married to her isn’t the worst thing in the world.

With the soups all done, I ring the proverbial dinner bell and call my soldiers over to eat, though I deliver a few pots personally as an excuse to check up on the most problematic of the bunch. Lang Er is looking a little better now but still has a tendency to drift off into a daze, while the Death Corps have largely recovered during our safe journey back to SuiHua. They’re a resilient bunch, though I have no idea how they can remain Spectre free while wearing so much heavy armour in this summer heat. Delivering soup to the Protectorate earns me many punches to the arm, their preferred method of saying thanks, while Dastan is glum and morose as usual. If a handmade breakfast delivered by the enamoured Sorya and Anrhi failed to lift his spirits, I’m not sure what will. Oddly enough, he seems happier to receive a pot of soup from me, which leaves me to wonder if he’d prefer Red One’s advances over those from the cute half-rat twins. Nothing wrong with that, love is beautiful no matter what form it takes, so maybe I can make something happen.

