Only after I finish making the rounds do I head over to collect Ping Ping, the big girl happily splashing around in the shallows after two months of land-locked suffering. Along with Pong Pong, Sir Inky, and most of the quins, Guan Suo defies the laws of nature and watches over the playful frolicking without a smile on his face. After greeting the grumpiest half-red-panda in existence, I call Ping Ping over who happily obliges, and she even brings Sir Inky along on her beak so he can plop into his cooking pot. Pong Pong is more difficult to work with, but a promise of more shrimp brings him scurrying out to leap into Mama Bun’s embrace.

It’s not a nice feeling being extorted by a turtle.

To counter my discontent, I lure the sweetest quin pup away with us as we head back to the manor. Her parents won’t mind, the poor baby was being bullied by her siblings and mean old Zabu let it happen. Even sweet Shana didn’t care too much, leaving me to wonder if the Bekhai modelled their parental practices after roosequin behaviour; nurturing and affectionate when young, then left to flail on their own once old enough to fight, albeit under close supervision.

At least I hope I’m under close supervision...

Upon arriving at the manor, a sumptuous feast awaits, one cooked by Charok, Sorya, and Anrhi. Kyung, Guan Suo, and even Guard Leader join us at the table, and for once, I don’t mind the intrusion. Alongside my meagre contribution of winter-melon soup, we all partake in the delicious meal while the floofs dine in the courtyard outside, the sliding doors of the dining room opened wide to catch the breeze and minimize the separation. Family gatherings are always a happy affair, and even with my preference for solitude, I wouldn’t mind having group dinners as a daily occurrence. A few vital loved ones are missing to complete the set, so I spend dinner spoiling the twins while drinking and chatting with Charok about how our absent family members are doing.

In a nutshell, they’re bored. Sarnai and Alsantset have little to do except write letters and complain while Akanai and Baatar scout the lands, run endless drills, and await the completion of their stronghold. One of three massive super-fortresses being built along the new border, I wholeheartedly believe they are a massive waste of time, resources, and lives. A fortress is nice to have when situated in a choke point or if your enemy is concerned about supply lines and what not, but when there’s literally a thousand kilometres of wall they could attack instead, those fortresses become as useful as a nipples on a breastplate. Even if we could afford to man the entire wall, one concentrated push by the Defiled will probably bring a whole section down before reinforcements arrive, making this whole construction effort a fruitless endeavour.

Well, not entirely fruitless. I am shamefully profiting hand over fist off the whole thing, but fat lot of good that does. What the fuck am I supposed to spend my coin on while the Defiled rampage through Central? With Martial law in effect, I can’t even buy armour for my retinue unless the Army releases their surplus, and those always go to people with better connections than I have. I’d buy craftsmen and make them myself, but wouldn’t you know it, skilled labour is also in short supply, along with steel, leather, food, and almost anything else one can think of.

If it wasn’t for cast iron requiring next to no skill, I wouldn’t even have enough bolts and arrows...

Hoping to solve these issues, I approach Luo-Luo once dinner is done. Happily chatting away with Yan, Mila, and Lin, my gorgeous, virgin concubine takes no notice of my presence, even though I’m standing directly in her line of sight. I don’t mind, and I’m actually kinda happy to see Luo-Luo getting along so well with the others, as the last thing I need is a cat-fight in my harem. Truth be told, I was worried about sweet Lin being bullied by the cunning and spiteful concubine, and I doubt I could protect Luo-Luo from Mila or Yan much less both working together, so it’s in everyone’s best interest if they all get along nicely.

Having had plenty of intimate moments with Yan since my return, I sidle up behind Mila and place my hands on her shoulders. Careful not to slide her too-large tunic off, I vigorously knead the knots out of her steely shoulders and marvel at how her soft skin and slender physique can hide so much power underneath. Luckily, most of her prodigious strength comes from the magic of Chi, for which I give gracious thanks to the Mother. Though athletic of frame, Mila is far from what I’d call muscular, more tone and trim than brawny and robust. Broad of shoulder and slim of waist, I might even call her dainty if I were feeling suicidal, and the sight of her barely-covered and oh-so shapely thighs leaves me wishing we had a soundproof forge to escape to.

Calm down Rain. This is neither the time nor the place to get frisky, not with your terrifying future father-in-law scowling from across the room. Sure, he’s probably scowling because he’s losing at chess to your other future father-in-law sitting across from him, but are you really willing to take that chance?

Thoroughly enjoying the tender loving care, Mila downs another cup of wine before tilting her head back to flash a sleepy smile. That’s not all she flashes, so utterly entranced by my magic fingers she’s forgotten she’s not wearing anything besides a loose tunic which allows me a direct view down her baggy shirt at the freckled, cherry-tipped twin peaks hidden underneath. Then again, maybe she doesn’t care considering nudity is no big deal among the Bekhai, but a glimpse of paradise somehow seems more erotic than having it all laid bare. “Scoundrel,” Mila sends, so not as to interrupt Yan, Lin, and Luo-Luo’s conversation. “What did you do to anger Zheng Luo so?”

“...She’s angry?”

“Do you not see her ignoring you?”

“...I can’t think of any reason why she’d be mad. Are you sure that’s the case?”

Rolling her eyes, Mila shimmies her shoulders and diverts my kneading hands from her shoulders to her upper back. “She must be mad, else she would have stopped mid-sentence to greet you.” Fluttering her eyelashes, she affects a flirtatious falsetto and Sends, “What might Lord Husband desire? Shall Mi-Mi put on a tawdry dress and dance for Lord Husband’s pleasure?”

I’m not gonna lie... that was hot. The eye fluttering, not the falsetto. That was terrible.

“Don’t be jealous,” I reply, making a half fist and using it to work at a particularly tight knot by Mila’s shoulder blade. “Though I wouldn’t say no to a dance.”

“Pervert.”

“You offered. You sure she’s mad?”

“Positive. Does this upset Lord Husband? Perhaps Mi-Mi can make up for it.”

I don’t know if it’s our time spent apart, the alcohol she drank, or my massage turning Mila into a horn dog, but I love this. “And what did you have in mind?”

“...Pervert.” Puffing her cheeks in defeat, Mila changes the subject. “Why do you keep glancing at her? Am I not enough to hold your attention? Or perhaps it’s Yan you’re so enamoured by. Counting down the seconds until you two can abscond to your premarital bed of sin?”

“My sweet, jealous, beloved Mila.” Finding no more knots on her upper back, I drop to my knees and start work on her lower back, receiving a low grunt of pleasure for my dedicated efforts. “Can you not? I’m only waiting for Luo-Luo to finish speaking so I can talk to her about sourcing armour and weapons for my retinue.”

“Hmph.” Resting her head on my shoulder, Mila is so utterly relaxed it’s almost comical, yet her face still maintains her customary frown. “Why would you ask Luo-Luo for something like this? Is she a blacksmith? No, she is not.”

“She’s not a blacksmith, but she is a merchant, so unless you and your papa can craft a few hundred steel spears and breastplates before I head back out on patrol...”

Mila’s dismissive snort draws everyone’s attention, but she remains blissfully unaware because her eyes are closed, thoroughly enjoying the massage. “As if I would waste my time making mundane weapons. Listen carefully beloved: mundane work is for mundane blacksmiths, understood?”

“Yes beloved, but this doesn’t –”

“Even with everyone busy meeting quotas, if I were to offer even the most basic Spiritual Weapon in trade, I could gather a thousand sets of armour and weapons within the week.” Opening her eyes, Mila smiles and blinks slowly to accentuate her point. “So why. Would you. Ask Luo-Luo. Instead of. Myself?”

With Mila already so relaxed, there’s no point continuing the massage, so I pull her into my lap and she happily snuggles into my embrace. “My most humble and sincere apologies, my talented and intelligent beloved. I should have known better and gone to you first.” Maybe she can help with my other issues. “Would you happen to know how I request reinforcements? Do I put up a poster or something?”

“Stoooo-pid. If you want trash reinforcements, then talk to Yuzhen. If you want stronger ones, then maybe ask Fung, Chu Tongzu, or better yet, Nian Zu. If you want elites, then swallow your pride and talk to Mama. With real Khishigs under your command, you will strike fear into the hearts of those worthless Defiled.”

Fung’s on the front lines and I don’t know where his dad is, but Chu Tongzu should be in SuiHua... “Tempting as it is, I doubt any Khishigs will want to join my retinue.”

“Oh beloved, perhaps I was wrong. You are not stupid, but brainless. You are not prideful, but simpleminded.” Biting me on the chin for emphasis, Mila growls and Sends, “Do you think no one wants to join your retinue? You are the Number One Talent in the Empire, but to our dismay, you represent the Bekhai with no Bekhai under your command. Shameful is what it is, and you are shameless for allowing it.” Releasing her toothy hold, she kisses it better before continuing. “You have stood on your own for long enough, and why you refuse to ask for help, I do not know, but it is high time you lowered your head and asked your people to fight at your side.”

“But... after Sanshu, all of the Khishigs left my retinue when you did, and more recently, I figured no one would want to join because of the whole...” Almost exiled thing.

“Idiot. Do you remember how you gathered the people for your first retinue?”

“...Grand-Mentor made me fiscally responsible for them.”

“No, you idiot! Well, yes, but that was not all. You asked them to join you and fight at your side. Did you ever ask any of the Bekhai?”

“...No.” Shit, was it that easy?

“So why not try?”

“...Will you join my retinue, beloved?”

The irony lost on Mila, my query earns me an elbow to the ribs. “Absolutely not. Stop asking. I will not fight in your shadow and beneath your command, for I will rise to glory on my own. And I want Song back when I do. Who knows what perverted thoughts you had while out on patrol, with poor, defenseless Song there to tempt you. It can’t have been easy on either of you, so its best if she fought at my side...”

Laughing beneath my breath, I cuddle with Mila and listen to her scolding with a smile stretched across my face, wholly contented to be back with my loved ones again. With the war looming over our heads, who knows how many more peaceful days we have ahead, for the future looks grim and dark indeed. I have plenty of room to grow and much to learn, but even with a surplus of Heavenly Energy and the ability to send the Defiled fleeing by Devouring Spectres, I cannot imagine a future in which the Empire emerges victorious.

There’s only so much I can do on my own, so unless I can discover a mundane weapon of mass destruction, its only a matter of time before the Defiled get their shit together and push through to Central, and when it finally happens, I’ll do whatever it takes to ensure my family emerges whole and unharmed.

Even if I have to sacrifice the rest of the Empire to do it.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 23 -
