“There is an unpleasant sensation in my core. It is…pain,” he replied to Foodie.

“Puns are life!” Delta said, waving away their party-pooper attitude, being more excited about a demonic boss crab than her awesome jokes… honestly.

“I have challengers!” Foodie announced suddenly and Delta could feel the whole first floor click in a more permanent way as what looked like four figures stepped into the space and Delta had a sudden case of deja vu as four teens, clad in pots and leathers, raised their wooden poles as they edged closer to the welcome room of the Dungeon.

“It’s Vadellen!” Foodie said, pointing to the familiar teen Delta remembered from last time. The boy Jack had… er… rescued and brought into the Dungeon. The boy was warning his friends to be careful as he dropped what looked like honey in a small bottle as a tribute on the floor.

The others offered less fancy gifts like a shiny pebble or a bird feather.

“Foodie, are you excited?” Delta said as she turned back to the other core, only to find him stiffened up and almost hyper-focused.

“Moving monsters, traps primed, Tyrant Crab roused,” Foodie said to himself in a strangely blunt tone.

“He wasn’t like this last time,” Delta said with worry as she checked his stability and for any outside influences. Tim didn’t look or sound surprised at the response.

“According to the Network - which keeps either telling me to search for information myself since it is busy or keeps redirecting me to what seemed like the same five illusion-like ‘games’ only slightly modified to make it harder for some reason - Foodie is still new. I doubt he’s had more than one human in his space before,” Tim said with a serious nod.

Delta wasn’t sure it was a ‘great’ idea to have Prim and Nu in charge of the collective network for new Dungeon Cores, but then she imagined having to answer dozens of search engines for the most inane questions with no break… and decided the two could have the run of place until Delta inevitably scarred some other Dungeon software into sentience to take over.

“Locking onto targ-... what’s that taste?” Foodie suddenly asked, snapping out of the primal Dungeon mode as the taste of honey leaked onto the ground. The teens had retreated outside to let the items dissolve which was very polite of them.

Most people seemed to do it as a payment to go in and only come back out when they got their tribute’s-worth in return.

“Bee vomit,” Tim said instantly.

“It’s actually not vomit, honey is more like when bees put pollen into a separate organ from their digestion system-” Delta began to explain with a smile. Delta liked bees. Bees were the knees.

“It’s… so… not-salt,” Foodie said, his tone becoming enlightened.

“That’s called sweetness and it's one of the many flavors out there,” Delta said, blinking as the Dungeon sealed up and the ground shook.

“Foodie, what are you doing?” Delta cried as Foodie’s bursting mana stores began to rapidly drain into some unseen expenditure.

Behind the boss crab, the stairs leading down Foodie’s other floors had always been basic as the Dungeon hadn’t had time to dive deeper or customize them yet. The fight with the Seahagins had given the newborn Dungeon enough resources to be rather deep for his age.

The stairs turned a deep golden and shimmery as the walls became segmented into hexagon.

“...Are those stairs covered in reforming honey?” Delta asked lightly, having to be a slight expert on Dungeon bee vomit by this point in her career.

“Ever sticky and goopy honey,” Tim agreed as Foodie vibrated out of sight, his mind overcome with the duality of flavors.

“What would your second floor… bee?” Delta asked and Tim made that strange pained noise again. Odd.

“Magic,” Tim insisted.

“And your third?”

“Magic!”

“And-”

“Different type of magic.”

Right.
