There were lingering questions after their last hunt—chief among them being why the bear had started to stray from its territory. For as long as the City of Arts had stood, the mountain lord had remained within the confines of the territory it’d claimed. Which was more than enough reason for Ranthia to drag her party out into the wilderness again and again. But no matter how many times she walked the deceased mountain lord’s territory with Anthelleon or how thoroughly Neyvern and Solareon searched the region from above, there were no answers to be had.

At one point, Ranthia swore she heard a different animal’s roar—one that she’d never quite heard a match for. But no one else heard it, and the sound never repeated itself. Anthelleon and Neyvern had formed a unified front through their shared belief that the reason didn’t matter (“it was simply the loathsome beast’s own ill decisions”). And so, they moved on.

At least none of the other mountain lords were causing such significant issues.

Ranthia had her own problems too—namely, her armor. It had taken significant damage when the bear caught her. She was forced to pay a few gems to an [Artisan] that was willing to work with such “boring” materials to salvage and repair what could be saved, but even with that… well, she was completely out of most of her spare materials. And Ovyrnon—the [Artisan]—wasn’t able to replicate most of the armor’s components without the design documentation that Ranthia had left behind in Remera. At least, not without destroying the existing suit.

And if she was going to go that extreme, getting a new set of elven-designed armor just made more sense.

Elves were… roughly as flexible as she was. Her requirements had been absurd by even the standards of the Sentinels, but they were already standard to any quality suit made by elven armor-makers. Their materials were also just downright superior to anything Remus had—all of it was touched with magic through the Skills of the immortal craftsmen that made every single material as well as those that refined them into armor.

Like Hunting had told her long ago, she couldn’t allow herself to get too attached to any one piece of equipment. Even her adamantium wasn’t as invulnerable as the legends claimed—the bear had managed to pierce it. Sure, it took some Skill and the entire—significant—weight of the brute to accomplish it, and it only barely managed… But the bear was less than twice her level.

And Pallos had countless entities that were greater than that.

Still, if she wanted to get a better suit of armor, she needed a way to protect it. No elf designed armor that was modular like hers—no one wore armor without a Skill that extended their vitality into the high quality materials, making them greater than their flesh could ever be. Without an armor Skill, well, something like the summer steel alloy might be stronger than her skin, but the armor would break and suffer as she fought against stronger foes.

And the damn chaotic potential she had seeded into her second class had never sprouted. Realistically, at least some of her upgrade choices should include an armor Skill because of it, but it was hard to be sure. Even the greatest elven minds had yet to unravel all of the System’s secrets and there were exceptions to almost every single rule.

She just needed to have faith!

“Oh, wow! You actually found some!” Minnia beamed with delight as she accepted the crystalline case containing seven flowers from Ranthia.

The journey had taken over a week, but Ranthia had finally found some purple frost blooms. Not exactly the kind of hunt that rewarded great levels, but she was after a different boon.

“I’d hoped to find at least eight, but I decided to prioritize getting the ones I found to you while they were still fresh.” Ranthia explained.

The job hadn’t specified the number of flowers she was supposed to bring, but [Alchemists] always paid extra for a surplus of herbs. Surely the same was true for [Bakers]—not that she was after mere gems.

She was hoping to solicit a much more valuable service.

“No worries! I would have been happy with even one; I can’t believe I’ll get to enjoy so many!” The green-hair elf had pressed her face against the crystalline stasis container. It was getting dirty with the lingering flour that clung to her hair and skin, but she’d been the one to provide the container in the first place.

“Okay, great! So, you’re okay with…” Ranthia trailed off as she watched the woman undo the seal on the case right then and there.

The warm air reached the flowers and they began to wilt immediately. Unbothered, Minnia plucked all seven from the soil Ranthia had painstakingly dug up and transplanted into the case and brought them to her nose as she inhaled sharply.

“Ahhh! Yes, yes, yesss! I think I know how to use these! Stay right there!” The elf tossed the case and the fading flowers both aside carelessly, before she rushed into the kitchen of her workspace.

“…What?” Ranthia hesitated, but… well, it wasn’t like she had anything else pressing to attend to.

Ranthia’s initial forays into providing religious services in the City of Arts met with limited success. The actual prayer services and solitary ceremony she had been allowed to lead had gone just fine—the problem was that, after eight services, she still only had nine elves that showed up with any regularity.

Fortunately, she knew how to adapt. Most of the elves had expressed (through varying means) that they were surprised by her connection to Xaoc—which, annoyingly, wasn’t surprising. It wasn’t even that she was a human, it was her level. At her level, most [Priestesses] were either generalists that worked under those more experienced and more attuned to their gods or they served minor deities that were largely ignored. Ranthia’s claim that she was chosen to serve one of the creators was, by elven standards, ludicrous. She was quite possibly the highest level [Priestess] that had ever set foot in Remus, but she was no longer in Remus.

The gods got to be choosier with their elven adherents. The Unchanging Council enjoyed the private services of [Priests] and [Priestesses] that were over level 3072—cloistered men and women that had served the five great gods for thousands of years. The major cities with significant temples were headed by elves far older and much higher in level than Ranthia was. And even in the minor cities that possessed only a minimalist temple with general altars there was almost always someone past their level 1024 class up.

Her importance and connection to Xaoc made sense by mortal standards, but as an immortal, she was an aberration among aberrations.

Still, people were writing her off without giving her a chance and that was easy to fix. She just needed to employ a little… coercion. She needed to give people a reason to feel the connection to Xaoc that she could offer them.

And her solution was… cupcakes.

Well, to be more specific, her solution was to do something for Minnia in exchange for some baked goods—it just happened to take the form of cupcakes. Two hundred and fifty-six cupcakes, all from a brand-new recipe that no one had tried before. The one inspired by the singular sniff she took from a breed of flowers she had never gotten to smell before.

The promise of free baked goods from the Rank 4 in baking would have attracted more than a few elves. But the opportunity to be the first to taste a new sweet from the woman? That had pulled a dense crowd that left Ranthia’s usual devotees scattered at the fringes of the park.

In hindsight, the stunt probably skirted the line of the rule against trying to convert elves. Meh, that was only a problem once someone made it one.

“Alright everyone! My name is Ranthia, but you’re not here for me. We’re here to pay respects to Xaoc, god of chaos—one of the five great gods that shaped Pallos and gave form to the first elves!” Ranthia danced her way onto the elevated platform (nowhere near elevated enough for the crowd, but that was fine).

She also carefully ignored the elves that considered themselves hilarious enough to shout that they were there for the cupcakes. It wasn’t important why someone made a journey, all that mattered was what they walked away with!

Before the crowd could get too carried away by the antics of the few, Ranthia began to pray. And, few by few, most of the elves followed along.

“I thought you said this was a city.” Ranthia tossed a brief glare Anthelleon’s way before her gaze wandered back to her surroundings.

It reminded her of the faun “village” that she had passed through with the caravan. The so-called city was nothing more than a few meandering trails (paved in crystal, because they were still in the Tympestshard Council) through farmland. Dozens of farms formed in close proximity to one another, with elves managing their crops. Ilan fruit was the most common crop, though there were exceptions.

An elf with scarlet hair wiped her brow as she arched her back to work the kinks out after tending to her wheat. Elsewhere, an elf moved through his vineyard—with the heaviest, largest grapes Ranthia had ever seen—frowning as though he was somehow unhappy with his impeccable bounty. Further ahead, an elf with extremely tall horns—shaped similar to elk antlers—sunned herself next to a dense bed of herbs and flowers, unbothered by her neighbor that whistled while the ground tilled itself.

Of course, Ranthia’s eyes weren’t exactly focusing on the bevy of fruit, vegetables, and other crops. While some of the elves wore resilient, stained garments, most of them forewent the hassle. And while Ranthia was somewhat used to seeing elven flesh on display around the City of Arts, there was just something… different about the sun-kissed, firmer flesh of the farmers that worked the land day in and day out.

It was the closest she had felt to a crack in her frozen libido since the ordeal with Avyna. Not that she felt any desire to approach any of the gorgeous women. A momentary, respectful look was all she cared to seek.

“And what else would nearly four thousand elves gathered together be other than a city? Though I admit, I am teasing you a little. The trading hub is still an hour or two away at our current pace. And there should be a Hunter’s outpost of some form here.” Anthelleon answered, amused.

It was the first mission that the two of them had undertaken together since Neyvern joined their team. And surprisingly, their quarry was an elf—in spite of every negative thing Anthelleon had ever said about the Elf Hunters. Granted, it was hard to blame her. The elf they pursued had murdered his partner and all three of the children he had fathered, including his level 214 daughter that had escaped and sought help. She, he tore in half—in front of a dozen different witnesses.

And not a single one of them had even tried to prevent him from getting away. It was hard to imagine the people of Remus being so uniformly cowed by such an act of brutality, especially since their quarry was supposedly still just barely past the level 768 class up.

Neyvern had declined to join them. The man had a whole list of reasons, including capture jobs that were more lucrative, but his largest reason had been whispered in private—he was worried about what would happen if Solareon got a taste for elven blood. Which seemed a bit absurd, the trust that a Bond created should have been deeper than that! …But it was also hard to imagine Clover biting a chunk out of an elf, so it wasn’t like she could directly compare their experiences.

Still, Ranthia somewhat envied the man for declining. They were entering their ninth week of pursuing the man across the Tympestshard Council’s sprawling territory and, for all Anthelleon seemed normal when it was the two of them, Ranthia hadn’t enjoyed learning new things about her friend.

She would never forget the terror writ across the [Merchant]’s face as Anthelleon held him off the floor, her fingers around his neck, and the fury on her expression as she squeezed. All because she decided the man had held back—that he hadn’t told them everything he knew.

In his fear, he told them what Anthelleon wanted to hear, and they wasted three weeks on a wild raptor chase.

Ranthia hated being the sensible person in the party. That was just wrong.

Since then, Ranthia tried to find excuses to keep Anthelleon away from witnesses—and out of the city, preferably—while she searched for leads herself. Frustratingly, many elves were wary of outsiders, but Anthelleon had no knack for gathering information. Ranthia, in contrast, had some experience and [Immortal Armaments] allowed her to draw on what she had seen from Tatius, Pupius, Green, and the other Rangers.

The biggest issue with their ongoing hunt was that they (presumably) weren’t the only ones looking for the guy. Which meant there was a real risk that someone would beat them to the reward—that their long journey would result in nothing. Which was why they needed to check with every Hunter or bounty board they found, just to make sure the paltry bounty still stood.

“Just remember, it’s unlikely he even came through here.” It wasn’t the first time Ranthia had reminded her friend, but she’d do almost anything to avoid another scene.

“I am aware.” A brief hint of heat entered Anthelleon’s voice. Something that Ranthia had never heard before their journey began. Yet the longer their hunt dragged on, the more it appeared in the blonde elf’s tone.

“Uh-huh. Will you just tell me what in Xaoc’s glory is bothering you already?” Unsurprisingly, she had asked more than a few times, though never quite so bluntly.

