“Nothing. I am fine, my friend. I am merely focused on catching such a loathsome man.” …It almost sounded like Anthelleon was trying to convince herself.

Ranthia just sighed and picked up the pace. The sooner they found the guy or found an excuse to go home, the better.

Several days later, they had a new lead. In Delvedra, while Ranthia bought more food and cooking supplies from a [Merchant], Anthelleon (not at all subtly) inquired if he had seen anyone that matched the description of the man that they were seeking. Neither of them had expected him to claim to have seen the guy, just two days prior.

He couldn’t give them a direction, but the man they were tracking was no [Ranger]—a day spent searching revealed the place where he left the road and ventured into the woodlands. Well, the place where a solitary elf of approximately the correct build ventured into them, at least. Still, it was promising enough that they put their collective tracking expertise to work and set out in pursuit.

The trail was easy enough to follow. Clear footprints, broken twigs, and bent flowers made the path exceptionally clear. Had any of the information about the man suggested he was well-acquainted with the wilderness, Ranthia would have been wary that they were being ushered into a trap. But no, it seemed to be genuine heedlessness.

“Hurry—he might get away!” Anthelleon hissed as she sped up—passing a bush laden with fragrant berries without so much as a glance.

That brought Ranthia up short. She had known Anthelleon for well over a year, and she had never—not once—seen the woman ignore a wild berry. She had seen her friend sicken herself on poisonous berries a few times, but typically her vitality was just as capable as the elf boasted it was.

“Just slow down and breathe. We’ll get him, I promise, but you—” Ranthia reached for her friend.

“No! Do not act so loathsome! We are close. Too close.” Anthelleon sped up even more, effortlessly dodging Ranthia’s hand.

She was moving fast enough that Ranthia found herself struggling to keep up.

“Wait!” Ranthia called after her friend.

“I decline!” Thank Xaoc, the words didn’t herald another burst of speed.

Ranthia snarled under her breath. But there was no point in arguing further, instead she embraced the rhythm of the moment and danced to catch up with the irate elf. Thankfully, the wide stream that she was crossing slowed her down just enough to let Ranthia close the gap, even with the difference in their—

[Divine Eyes in the Void] went nuts the moment Ranthia touched the water.

Immediately, she threw herself backwards, even as the water rose out of the stream like malformed hands, grasping at both her and Anthelleon. The elf let out a battle cry and tried to force her way through them, but the volume of water was too much—within moments, she was pulled upward, encased within a growing cocoon of liquid. Ranthia fared better, at least at first. But waves of water came from the sides and caught her before her knives even finished forming.

Not that she let being surrounded by water stop her. Instead, she became something of a whirling dervish—taking a page from Pupius. The water churned around her as her blades erased swaths of it. Bubbles of air filled the water as she—just barely—broke the surface again and again.

While they struggled, an elf emerged from the water, grinning triumphantly. The man they had been hunting was filthy and haggard, but he made up for it in raw swagger as he strolled closer to them.

[Mage – Ocean] level 801, [Laborer – Earth] level 721, [Artisan – Ash] level 602. Not too bad. And with how brazenly close he was getting, they wouldn’t even need to do anything fancy. In just a few more steps, Anthelleon would be able to—

A stream of bubbles filled Anthelleon’s prison of water as she held her weapon aloft. A long, thin pane of Gale formed, then she cleaved it downward in the most telegraphed attack Ranthia had ever seen from the woman. Even the [Mage] managed to scramble clear in time.

Which put him out of range for both her largest attacks and any lethal throw Ranthia could make with her knives. With that much distance, he’d have to be an idiot to miss the blade.

That was annoying, but Ranthia wasn’t actually worried. In spite of the situation they were in, they were winning. Sure, they were trapped, but even with the [Mage] relying on the natural water of the stream, he was manipulating a lot of it at once. And holding them aloft like that had to have spiked his mana costs even higher, especially to restrain them both. Even if they held still, he would have burned through his mana at a brisk pace.

Neither of them was so idle. Ranthia continued to erase as much water as she could, inhaling one of the bubbles of air she harvested every time she desired a little fresh air. Anthelleon’s own oversized blade continued to shear off vast quantities of water that the [Mage] had to replace.

The failed attack had erased the man’s insufferably triumphant expression, but Ranthia still enjoyed watching his concerns mount until his complexion began to grow pale.

Sure, she could have just shifted outside of the water, but where was the fun in that?

The [Mage] clenched a fist and the wobbling sphere surrounding Anthelleon closed in suddenly as he ramped up the pressure. She remained unbothered, of course. He lacked the power to crush a dedicated classer at his own tier outright and Anthelleon didn’t miss the opportunity to briefly breach the smaller prison—stealing a breath of fresh air before he could cover her anew.

Water [Mages] really were a stupid build. If their victims refused to drown, all they could do was rapidly burn through their stores of mana, until…

Anthelleon’s prison failed first. She launched herself out of the water and slammed into the [Mage] with enough force to send them both onto the grass next to the stream. Even before Ranthia finished emerging from her own crumbling cocoon, Anthelleon had seized the man by one of his goat-like horns.

She drove her fist into his stomach with enough force to distort his body—for a moment, Ranthia assumed that she had punched through him, but no. Her cruelty was greater than that. While he vomited on her boots, Anthelleon drove his head downward even as she raised her knee. The impact crushed his face, shattering his nose and flattening his features.

Well, that was—

Contrary to expectations, she wasn’t done. The [Mage] was completely out of the fight, but Anthelleon lifted him by his horn and slammed another punch into his abused gut. Followed by three more. Then, she smashed her knee into his face again.

[*ding!* Your party has slain an elf [Master of the Flow] (Ocean, level 804), [Endless Stamina, Endless Accomplishments] (Earth, level 721), [Engraving Excellence] (Ash, level 602)!]

Ranthia watched in horror as Anthelleon continued to savage and brutalize the corpse, as if she somehow never received the kill notification—as if he was somehow still putting up a fight. His skull crumpled after the fourth knee strike. His skin had ruptured in a dozen places, spilling blood and viscera all over the vicinity, yet Anthelleon continued to beat his carcass.

“An, stop!” Ranthia tried to grab the elf’s fist, despite knowing how much stronger Anthelleon was.

Even with [Facets of Passion] bolstering her fingers, the blood-soaked fist had enough force and momentum to slip out of Ranthia’s grasp. Instead, Anthelleon roared in fury and lashed out with her elbow—catching Ranthia in the side of her face.

Had she still been dancing, Ranthia probably could have avoided it. Instead, pain blossomed as she felt some of her teeth shatter from the blow. Anthelleon hadn’t even tried to hold back—she had done her best to knock Ranthia aside, if not out.

Ranthia’s own fury ignited. Instead of falling back, she spun to bleed the momentum Anthelleon had imparted as she broke her knives down—forming a rough clump of adamantium over her fist. The adamantium-encased punch slammed into her friend’s head, just below her ear.

Anthelleon turned on her with an expression of bloodlust and fury. There wasn’t even a hint of reason in her eyes as she lunged at Ranthia, snarling. Ranthia didn’t even try to dodge. She spat the blood and fragments of teeth out of her mouth while she delivered another punch to the elf’s face. The blows were sure to leave bruises, though she wasn’t even breaking through the skin.

Both of them crashed to the ground—Anthelleon on top—as the elf began to pummel her. Ranthia tried to give as good as she got, of course, but they were horrendously mismatched in strength. Within seconds, she was forced to defend her face. But the crazed elf just grabbed Ranthia’s armor with one hand and her adamantium with the other and began to squeeze.

She never even noticed that Ranthia had shifted. Sure, Ranthia had left both her armor and her adamantium with the image to keep it from breaking the instant she shifted, but she really didn’t need it—her [Companion Bond] gave her a more novel way to get through to the elf.

She delivered a powerful kick to the underside of Anthelleon’s chin, snapping the elf’s head back.

“You aren’t this fucking stupid!” Ranthia shouted into the aftermath, even as Anthelleon toppled backwards.

Several moments later, Anthelleon began to laugh. It wasn’t a happy kind of laugh—and just in case Ranthia somehow missed the bitterness of its sound, it was accompanied by large, messy tears. Still, she remained on her back and didn’t try to get up, so it felt like progress.

Ranthia still sat down on Anthelleon’s chest, just to make it that much harder.

For a time, they stayed like that, silent aside from Anthelleon’s ongoing sobs laughter.

“Are you going to tell me what the fuck any of this has been about, or do I need to kick you again?” Ranthia finally asked, once the time felt right.

There was no venom whatsoever in her tone, honest.

“I am a loathsome creature. Truly, I am.” Anthelleon non-answered, but at least they were words.

“Spare me the godsdamned self-pity and give me some answers!” Ranthia politely requested.

“He… reminded me of my own father.” The elf finally answered, having taken so long to say anything that Ranthia had been moments away from losing her patience.

“Your father drowns people in water cocoons?” She was dubious—according to Anthelleon’s previous tellings, most of her family was engaged in some sort of trade that involved managing and storing other people’s money and valuables.

“Ha! No, in truth he is about as threatening as a low-level monkey. …But he was still abusive. He often told me that the only value a child can have is if we make our parents shine brighter. He never hit me; my abuse was limited to cruel words and a dismissive attitude. Things that I should have been able to better endure. Yet… I know that he struck my younger brother. Often.” That response came faster, despite the shame that burned on Anthelleon’s features.

That… explained a lot.

“I was less than entirely honest when I told you that I came to the City of Arts and became a Hunter to escape an unwanted relationship. In truth, Beltris and I got along well, even before my parents recommended our pairing. But when I imagined living in another wing of the family estate and continuing to see my father, each and every day, acting as though everything was fine…

“So, I left. I told myself that I would grow strong and return. I told myself that I would put him in his place. Mother had never believed me, she merely assumed that I sought to undermine the family because I was young and foolhardy. So, I convinced myself that the best thing I could do was to leave and seek strength.

“And yet, I have been strong enough to challenge him for almost a century. And still, I have never returned. My brother is a grown man—a fine man. And he owes me nothing, because I never aided him. He avoids me, the same as everyone else. When I heard of this loathsome… Well, I assumed I had the opportunity to finally do things properly. To finally accomplish something like what I had once believed was my purpose.” Anthelleon fell silent after that.

“And you were blinded by your fury.” Ranthia finally managed a properly gentle tone.

“Truly, I am the most loathsome of all. I am sorry, my friend.” The elf raised a hand and brushed her palm against Ranthia’s face, right where her first blow had landed.

The situation was uncomfortably familiar. Ranthia had lost herself to revenge—even misplaced revenge—so many times in her past. She liked to think that she had improved, and yet when Anthelleon turned on her, she chose to answer violence with violence. It was a mercy that she had enough sense to put her knives away first.

“Let’s go home.” Ranthia stood with those words, unable to think of anything else to say in the moment.

They had a long journey ahead of them, with plenty of opportunities to talk things out further.

Winter had settled over the land and, more recently, a savage storm raged over the region. Thunder and lightning roared through the powerful winds that carried either sleet or hail. Things within the City of Arts were far more peaceful—the city’s barriers kept the storm out—but there was no point in even trying to hunt for anything. Every last beast stayed bedded down as they waited out the storm.

Ranthia and Anthelleon had renewed their friendship. Ranthia also readily pledged to keep what happened—and her friend’s past—a secret. The only time she had brought it up since then was in private, when she offered to accompany her friend if the elf ever decided to revisit her home.

The situation had been utter shit, though Ranthia refused to let herself hold a grudge.

