With all of that done, Sylphene stood before Leafsie’s tree—an ancient oak that seemed to produce more acorns than leaves—while she regarded the beautiful dryad. Even after sacrificing the dragon’s corpse to the woman, she still felt she owed the dryad something more if she wished to ask another boon of the playful immortal.

She had just the thing too. She had hoped to save it as a gift for Ranthia, though rationally she had no way to preserve the stolen fruit once she reset her third class. Before her resolve crumbled, she retrieved the plump pear from her [Spatial Safe Box].

“This pear was grown by the Ilan family—the most famous growers that exist amongst my people. The Ilan fruit might be their legendary crop, but every fruit grown by the family has reached a quality that no one else can match. I had hoped to give this to another; now I offer it to you, Lady Leafsie. May its seeds and nutrients help you as you heal your lands.

“In exchange, I ask that you continue to honor the agreement that Drx’tharan had with the devils.”

Sylphene held the rich pear out to the woman. It had been difficult to steal it during the ceremony where they announced that she had been chosen to carry the Ilan fruit cultivars to the new farm. She only succeeded because another elf was stealing samples of the fruit—which made it possible to pin her own theft on him.

The Ilan family’s personnel were counting every seed that was left in the cores, to ensure that nothing escaped from the feast. An absurd measure, yet the family was famous because they protected their secrets at all costs—much as the Wardens protected the greatest secret of the elves at all costs.

The elven tendency to zealously guard their secrets was why she already used her new name, even while she remained with the devils. If anyone knew that she was there, she was dead either way. She was a clear threat to the sanctity of the details of the elven curse—not that she had any intention of sharing it with the devils. At least under an alias, her daughter might escape unscathed if she was discovered.

“Okay.” The dryad offered a single word and a dazzling smile while she plucked the pear out of Sylphene’s hand. Moments later, the fruit had been split into uneven slices, as vines bore most of the seed-bearing fragments away in scattered directions.

“You come; others rest.” Leafsie ordered, before she walked away, unbothered by the sweet juice that leaked down her arm.

Sylphene followed after getting a shrug from Malista. Wordlessly, the dryad led her to a nearby place where the jungle had been wounded—a black scar, cut across the lush greenery.

In the midst of the rich ash, Leafsie knelt and gave the exposed seed a kiss, before she pushed the fragment of pear into the ground. The woman kept her hands on the ground and sighed—a sound not unlike a breeze rustling the canopy—as she began to pulse green energy into the ground.

Rapidly growing crops was easy. Every last [Farmer] on Pallos was capable of it from a low level, but Sylphene had learned from Caeli’s father that there was a loss in quality. Crops could be grown swiftly, they could be grown properly, and they could be grown robustly—but only two of the three could remain true at the same time. A robust crop grew to greater sizes. A proper crop had superior flavor and nutrition. And so, most elves chose to grow them properly and robustly.

Leafsie had no such limitation. A seedling emerged and surged in size. From a single pale leaf, a pear tree rapidly grew. The ground trembled slightly as roots spread deep and strong. Ash and dirt were displaced as the trunk swelled in size with each moment.

Sylphene had seen more than a few pear trees throughout her years, yet none came close to the colossal monstrosity that filled the hole in the jungle canopy. By the time she was done, Leafsie looked positively elated with the result.

“Good seed, strong tree! Worthy.” It was still strange to hear such simplistic words from such a powerful immortal.

Stranger still to watch the dryad embrace the tree as though it was a lover. She entwined her body around its bark as best she could, pressed so firmly against it that she almost seemed to meld into the tree for a moment.

Above, leaves rustled. Sylphene’s gaze wandered upward, even as one of the tree’s mightiest branches struggled to bear the weight of its newest addition.

A pear. A pear that was larger than Sylphene’s head and was still growing at a brisk pace. The tree valiantly tried to support the abnormal fruit, then the branch sprang back upward as the pear finally became too much for its stem.

The fruit was the height of an unlocked child, though Leafsie caught it readily enough. Not that it mattered—the incredible fruit withered and rotted within moments.

Leaving behind a single seed, not much larger than the seeds that had been in the original pear.

“Take with. Plant somewhere important, safe. Plant when ready. Protect and be protected.” The dryad proffered the seed.

Instinctively, Sylphene passed her hand over the seed and activated [Spatial Safe Box] while she struggled to figure out what it could symbolize—or why she had to wait through such a show, just to receive another pear tree seed. Her thoughts derailed as a sense of wrongness passed over her.

Spatial was a strange element in many ways. Most Skills possessed some measure of guardrails—safety measures that restricted Skills from attempting the impossible. Spatial largely lacked such guardrails. Most of its Skills would do what they were asked to, even when they did something beyond the intent.

Such as attempting to teleport something through its vitality defense.

Unexpected (albeit slight) mana loss aside, Sylphene’s [Spatial Safe Box] was never meant to hold anything with a System! The weight of the seed seemed to press against her mind until she managed to retrieve the seed. Frustratingly, that too had to fight against the seed’s vitality defense.

Thankfully, the seed was both small and level 1.

[Seed], level 3.

…Well, it was level 1.

“I… this is…?! I cannot!” Sylphene found herself flustered as she tried to return the seed to the dryad.

Despite some dryads living within the Tympestshard Council, there were still quite a few unresolved mysteries about their kind. And reproduction was high on the list. After all, almost every known dryad appeared to be female. And despite their elvenoid-typical breasts, no one had ever witnessed a pregnant or nursing dryad.

Sylphene never imagined she would hold the answer in her hand. Seeds. Of course they would reproduce through trees.

“Can. Will. My children, all here. I could have lost them all to this threat. Bring her elsewhere. New roots, new soil.” Contrary to her words, the dryad took the seed. She plucked a leaf out of her trailing hair and wrapped the seed up tightly within it, before slipping it back into Sylphene’s hand. “Will keep her safe and give time.”

There was grief in the woman’s words. …A familiar grief. One that had lurked in Sylphene’s nightmares ever since she confirmed her pregnancy.

As an immortal, it was common for a mother to outlive her children. Parents had the advantage of levels or cycled class quality, while children were more prone to rash action due to being unfamiliar with their curse. Caeli had defied the odds. But Leafsie had lost multiple children in a single bout of senseless violence.

She wanted her newest child to grow up somewhere else. Somewhere that might be safer. Even if that meant she could never meet her child.

“I promise you that I shall find the perfect place for her. No matter how long it takes.” Because Sylphene knew that she would have made the same choice. She would do anything for her children, no matter how much it hurt.

[*ting-a-ling* As expected of you, [A Merchant with Luster] has reached level 256 and is ready for the next stage. This represents an increase of 60 levels.]

[*ting-a-ling* Your Class Skills [Gemstones Authority], [A Trader’s Sight], [Superior Negotiations], [Unblemished Stamina], and [Mercantile Might] have matched the level of their class. In addition, [Calculation by Sight or Weight] has reached level 219 (+23) and [Trader’s Raiment] has reached level 119 (+10).]

[*ting-a-ling* As expected of you, [Exquisite Elven Enchantress] has reached level 850. This represents an increase of 11 levels.]

[*ting-a-ling* Your Class Skills [Arcanite Mastery], [Enchantress of Eternity], and [Mana Redirection] have matched the level of their class. In addition, [Enduring Enchantments] has reached level 180 (+21).]

[*ting-a-ling* Your Class Skills from other classes have leveled. [Catch] has reached level 768 (+8) and [Return] has reached level 768 (+22).]

[*ting-a-ling* Your General Skills have leveled. [Chest of Experience], [Elven Enchanter], [Elven Experience], [System Perception], and [Worldly Navigator] have matched the level of your lead class. In addition, [Elven Archer] has reached level 384 (+281).]

Fighting a dragon, even if her efforts had been incredibly ineffectual, was worth quite a bit. Bargaining with a goddess and a powerful dryad likely helped her [Merchant] class more than a little as well.

They had continued their journey and, at last, had reached the Hub. It was a city that the devils had created on the northern continent, though they were hardly the only people that made use of the trading hub. At one stall, an orc—so large that Sylphene had first mistaken him for an ogre—argued bitterly with the selkie that manned the stall. Further away, a phoenix in the shape of a highland hawk perched, watching a golden crow count gems. And in a little park just up ahead, three liches—skeletal constructs that supposedly never ventured beyond their tower—were all trying to read the same book at the same time.

Granted, most of the beings that she saw were devils, but she had hardly expected to witness such diversity in the city!

“Alright. I need to find whoever’s managing the Hub right now and tell them about… well, you know. And remember what I told you—for the love of Samsara, don’t brag. Remember, we didn’t really accomplish much anyway. I might get stuck leading them back there, but if I don’t, I’ll meet you at Alaxxa’s inn. Sisters, you know what to do. We’ll let Sylphene book our rooms—three’ll be fine. Good luck, silver tongue.” Malista offered a few words and a final reminder before she peeled off.

“Gear repairs, on it.” Drastica rushed away, burdened with every damaged weapon and piece of armor they had.

“Intel!” Nangyna walked away, whistling a solemn tune.

“Meh.” Bialldra sulked off in search of a [Healer], just to check that everything had healed up just fine between Leafsie’s efforts and the party’s Auras.

“I’ll show you where Alaxxa’s is. Be careful, she’s a shrewd negotiator.” Endera waved for Sylphene to follow.

Alaxxa was hardly a shrewd negotiator, the woman was just cranky and unfazed by most efforts to butter her up. But Sylphene had carefully examined the inn while she waited for the previous customer to give up—she knew where to strike. No inn was that clean unless the owner prided themselves on cleanliness.

Unsurprisingly, she was correct. In the end, she paid less for three rooms for two nights than the previous devil had paid for a single room and night. And she still got a smile out of Alaxxa too.

Once she was in her room, she was as safe as she was going to get, which meant it was time to class up her [Merchant] class so that she knew what she would possess before she reset her Spatial class. Sylphene transferred her spatial storage box into her lap as she settled herself into a chair. Then, once she was comfortable, she willed her piece of the System to bring her inside.

After her years of exile, it was strangely comforting to be inside of a proper elven shop, even if it was a fiction that she had created for herself. Her doppelganger waited behind the counter, though she had a class to find before she could approach.

Avyna looked like a child, but she was herself inside her System in a way that she could never allow herself to be in the outside world. Not anymore. And that deception would continue for a very, very long time. Even more than the shop itself, being Avyna again was comforting, which was dangerous.

She could never let her guard down while she classed up.

After all, Avyna faced the greatest adversary she could imagine each and every time she classed up. As far as she knew, the custom was unique to elves, though it had circled back to being disfavored in recent centuries. She was fond of it though—the tricks and the final negotiation not only forced her to keep sharp, but they also ensured that she continually improved.

First, she browsed the shelves. There was no one shelf that bore every [Merchant] class at level 256, though each good was stored in a reasonable place. Crates represented a [Merchant] that hauled cargo, while carefully calibrated scales were for classes that favored staying in place and negotiated heavily. Signs for shop owners—a dream that felt more distant than ever.

Avyna needed a class that would help her to protect herself. A [Merchant] needed to survive, even if she intended her third class to be the means that she brought harm to those that would harm her or those that she loved. Jeweled boots were a close match for what she needed, though those classes seemed focused on avoiding or escaping danger. That was insufficient.

Ironically, the classes that matched what she desired came in the form of traveller’s cloaks, much like those that Ranthia favored. Of course, she would never wear one that was studded with gemstones, but that was a side-effect of Avyna’s preferred element.

