Sylphene teleported her first arrow to her hand. There was an argument to be made that she should fire it properly—to do everything that she could to make sure every shot count—but realistically, even a perfect shot from her was unlikely to do damage at significant range. It was best to conserve her enchanted arrows for moments when the dragon was vulnerable. Which meant that she could use her initial shots to guide the System toward the Spatial combat class she desired.

Even if she still felt like a fool every time she reversed her bow in her grasp. At least she had long since mastered drawing it backwards and loosing the arrow at her own body. [Catch] and [Return] did the rest—the Skill intercepted the arrow as it left the bow, then launched it back at the dragon. It was unfortunate that the Skills did nothing to accelerate or empower the arrow, yet she had limited options with which to utilize Spatial magic in combat.

Unfortunately, her arrow was knocked aside by the sheer power of the dragon’s wings, unnoticed. They had yet to even glance at the group of elvenoids.

The devils could fly, the same as the dragon, but no one was foolish enough to contest the dragon in the open skies—the dragon was undoubtedly their superior in aerial acrobatics. Besides, the jungle’s protector continuously unleashed barrages of thorns and wooden spikes.

The jungle itself had fared worse than it had seemed from the mountain. Most of the trees still stood, though there were entire sections where they ran through smoke and ash. Even once they passed beneath the thick protective canopy, there were still places where Vex-tanax’s Inferno had forced its way through.

The protector’s efforts to convince the dragon that its defenses were absolute were nothing more than a bluff.

“We have come from the nation of devils, and we intend to help! We believe that we can pin the dragon down for a moment, but only if you can get it on the ground!” Sylphene shouted before any of the devils lost faith in the plan. She followed the words with the same thing in High Elvish, just in case—she still had no idea who or what they were dealing with.

“Very well. This way.” The response came almost immediately. The voice was feminine, though the words themselves came in an oddly clipped dialect of Creation—almost as if she was unused to speaking the language. Simultaneously, a flowering vine sprouted from a nearby tree and dangled in front of them before it rapidly grew, disappearing into the distance.

Malista altered course to follow it, readying her weapon.

They were cut off from whatever was going on above, but they could hear Vex-tanax roaring in fury. It was difficult to be certain with the strange acoustics of the shielded jungle, yet it seemed as though the roars were getting louder.

“Careful!” The vine spoke—the flowers moved as though they were lips—as it abruptly barred their path forward.

A heartbeat later, a crash sounded as the protective canopy gave way. Vex-tanax plummeted through it, bleeding from a thousand and twenty-four minor wounds, as they snapped and tore at the vines that had twisted around them. The dragon was making good time at freeing themself, even with one of their wings bound against their body.

“Abyss it all, it’s even bigger than I thought…!” Hardly a reaffirming battle cry, yet Malista still rushed forward, as promised. Endera was hot on her heels, skating across the Ice to keep up with the higher level [Warrior].

Sylphene resumed running too, though she circled around the dragon as she returned her bow to a proper grip. There was no time to worry about her classes—she needed both precision and every bit of power she could muster.

Her first arrow was enchanted to hit its target with greater force. As she had eights of thousands of times, she nocked it, imbued the necessary mana while she drew, and loosed. In the gloom, the arrow shone a vibrant green before it bounced harmlessly off the dragon’s snout.

Her second arrow was enchanted for accuracy. Vex-tanax was thrashing, but she still took aim at one of the dragon’s eyes and loosed her shot. But be it instinct or happenstance, the dragon blinked just in time—her arrow deflected off their resilient eyelid.

That was unfortunate.

Malista was hardly faring much better. She had managed to impale her sword through an existing tear in the dragon’s free wing, but her Brilliance barriers she layered over the dragon broke as fast as she could form them and her Gravity hardly seemed to affect the powerful creature. Endera’s Ice was proving somewhat more durable, yet there was no sign that any of the debuffs that she was applying were having any effect!

“Hit it!” Malista shouted, unable to disguise her strain or her desperation.

Drastica showed no hesitation as she began to throw her javelins. Cracks rang through the air as her weapons slammed into dragonhide, failing to find purchase again and again. A few scales came loose, but her weapons were being blunted with every repetition—not that she let up.

Nangyna typically barraged his opponents with everything he had in a single volley, though with the dragon bound in vines, he had to adapt. Instead, he knelt and pressed his hands against the ground as he conjured stone spikes that struck areas where there were no vines, or where the vines had already failed. Each impact caused a small eruption of Pyronox, though the dark flames failed to find purchase through Vex-tanax’s innate fire resistance.

Bialldra’s spell needed time. The heavyset devil continued to layer her spells as she built up the mana. Sylphene could hardly believe that the woman was wasting time on her flawed Spatial distortion attack in such a situation, but arguing with her would have required time and energy that no one could spare.

Sylphene’s third arrow fared no better than her previous attempts. The same was true of her fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh arrows.

“Why? Why come here? Why kill him?” The same feminine voice asked, seemingly from every direction at once.

Dragons were absolutely capable of speaking Creation, the same as any other truly sapient species. Yet Vex-tanax offered only a snarl, loaded with derision, in response while they tore through more vines—nearly dislodging both Malista and Endera in the process. Clearly, the dragon believed themself above conversing with all of them.

“So be it. Become fertilizer for my children.” The voice came from a singular direction as a dryad stepped out from around a tree. She was armored in thick plates of bark and her green hair trailed along the ground, seemingly endlessly long.

There was no anger in her words, they were a simple pronouncement—one that was seemingly obeyed by the jungle itself.

Tree branches grew and twisted into wooden spikes that drove at the dragon, puncturing through their hide where Sylphene and her party had failed. More vines came out of the ground and from the underbrush, each covered in thick thorns and long needles.

Yet none of it was enough. The dragon let out a roar of amusement as they tore branches from their trees and shredded vines. Endera lost her footing and was sent flying into the treeline, and even Malista struggled as she screamed in fury.

And then Bialldra unleashed her spell. The world itself seemed to distort as a tear opened in reality.

In the same instant, Vex-tanax’s damaged scales turned reflective. They had hoped that the damage Solaris had inflicted coupled with the dragon’s prior mana use would prevent them from using the Skill. No one had said as much, but if the dragon could still counter any attack, they were sunk.

Bialldra went down, screaming, in a broad spray of blood as her own attack nearly split her in half. No one could afford to watch her fall, though everyone took enough of a look to know that she would not recover.

Almost every vital organ was exposed to the air, and many of her bones were gone.

“Breaker!” Malista howled the insult at the dragon—heedless of the fact that it made no contextual sense. It was not as if they had any agreement in place with the dragon that they had hoped to kill!

The moment the Mirror-coating left the Vex-tanax’s scales, Avyna loosed her eighth enchanted arrow. It was the second most expensive arrow she possessed—carved from pure arcanite, enchanted for accuracy, power, and piercing.

It was still a relief when the arrow pierced through the dragon’s eye.

Vex-tanax’s smug expression vanished as they hissed in pain. Sylphene had failed to even rupture the eye—and it seemingly still functioned, though the shaft plainly got in the way. It still did enough that the dragon’s attention turned to her.

For the first time, Sylphene learned what it meant to have a dragon’s ire directed her way. Her body felt weak—desperately, impossibly weak and feeble. Her vision blurred, as she stumbled back instinctively.

The dragon inhaled deeply, tearing through more vines as they turned to face Sylphene directly.

Their mouth opened, and all Sylphene could comprehend was the orange glow that was about to herald her annihilation.

A javelin struck the same eye that Avyna had injured. It was too blunted to pierce through.

Malista tried to knock the dragon’s head aside with a gravity-enhanced kick. Her steel boot crumpled inward from the blow, without making the dragon so much as twitch.

Nangyna launched a massive rock spike at Vex-tanax’s chin. It shattered ineffectually on impact, failing to close the dragon’s mouth.

It was good that they tried, even if it was demanded by their contract.

“No.” With a single word, the dryad drove a hand—or perhaps an oversized thorn—through the dragon’s undamaged eye.

[Mage], level 3242.

The orange glow within Vex-tanax’s open maw faded… No, that was incorrect—it was occluded. Spiny brambles sprouted from the pink flesh of the dragon’s mouth. Others ruptured from their wounds and gaps where scales were missing. As smoke billowed from their still-open maw, the dragon wrenched to the side abruptly, ripping itself free of the dryad’s hand.

And blood absolutely gushed from the countless wounds and tears Vex-tanax inflicted on their own flesh and organs. They still managed to crack their tail, sending Malista tumbling as her sword deformed around the appendage. A muffled roar escaped their smoldering mouth, filled with brambles.

The wounded dragon lunged at the dryad, meaning to crush her. Instead, she deftly leapt into its open mouth and embraced the charred and blood-soaked brambles within.

And they surged in both size and volume in an instant.

[*ting-a-ling* An ally assisting your party has finished off [Vex-tanax, the Platinum Pride].]

Sylphene fell to her knees, shuddering. There was no elation in her heart or her mind. She had been an instant away from death, and none of her party could have stopped it. After everything she had ever heard or read, she had still underestimated dragons! Dragons had no need for a mere advantage; they had more than enough might to erase her, no matter what they had suffered. Vex-tanax had been toying with them until their final moments!

She was far more helpless than she had ever known.

“Name? Let think… Leafsie!” The dryad grinned in a way that made it obvious that she just thought it would be funny if they called her that.

“Thank you, Lady Leafsie. For saving all of us.” Sylphene bowed.

The dryad had been there before Drx’tharan ever arrived in the region. If Sylphene understood the woman’s broken Creation correctly, ‘Leafsie’ was the daughter of one of the first god-made dryads. She had remained in that valley since almost the very dawn of Pallos.

The curse of dryadkind was well-known—they were bound to their trees and were unable to venture far from them. The valley was all that the woman had ever known. And when Drx’tharan arrived, she welcomed him, knowing that he was her favorite goddess’ son. He brought her seeds and samples of plants found throughout the continent when he journeyed, and she protected the valley in his absence.

After all, the valley was full of her children. Numerous other dryads peeked at them while Sylphene negotiated with Leafsie. Truly, the woman had already done so much for them. Not only had she saved Sylphene’s life—she saved Bialldra as well.

The devil in question was still poking at the pink scar that began just below her neck and carved downward just past her belly. Her gear was ruined, though she seemed unbothered about her nudity. Possibly because most of the dryads were completely bared to the world as well.

But their lives were only a single part of what they truly needed. They still required safe passage through the region.

Sylphene had already unilaterally given the dryad Vex-tanax’s body. As much as it pained her—and the devils, given the glares—to part with the absurd wealth that the dragon’s corpse offered, the dryad said that she required it. Several of her children had perished due to the dragon’s attacks. There was nothing that could be done to bring them back from Samsara, but the carcass would make for grand fertilizer to restore the wounded jungle.

Drx’tharan’s body had been returned to Solaris. Leafsie had provided a living altar and done her utmost to stitch the ruined body back together. Malista too joined them in prayer, despite her broken arm.

Her Aura could fix that; it just needed more time.

Solaris never spoke to them, though a tender warmth brushed across each of them in turn as her son’s body vanished into the sunbeam that shone upon it.

