Erick was polite, “I hadn’t noticed.”

“Haaa.” Rock sighed, then he asked, “Will you please leave him behind while you journey into the Labyrinth?”

“I will have to talk to him about that.” Erick said, “But Redarrow didn’t say that it was a sure thing that Tenebrae would die if he came along.”

Rock glared, but then softened. “If Redarrow even hinted at the possibility that my father could die, then I must ask you again to please take the old man’s wellbeing into consideration, even when he will not, and leave him behind. He is too old to go chasing fantasies anymore. He had four children who could cast [Gate]. Any of us will be here for him and be personal [Gate] mages, if he wants. But please. I ask you: Leave our father out of this fantasy.”

Their father. Ah. It’s like that.

Erick felt warmth in his chest.

“Can I see him?” Erick asked.

“Yes.” Rock said, “That is why I came down. To talk to you and tell you what everyone else wants, what father wants, and to ask you to do the right thing. Will you see him, now?”

Erick agreed, leaving behind Jane and Teressa, but took along Poi.

The courtyard had changed while Erick had been holed up in his rooms. Carpets of all colors and wardpaints of all kinds had dressed up the courtyard into something that Erick did not recognize, but the main colors were tans and whites. Reds, yellow, blues; these were accents here and there, except for on the roofs, where they had been fully wardpainted into pastel colors.

From inside, the place looked a lot nicer. From above, the place looked like a rainbow village on an Italian coast. The castle looked wonderful.

Erick instantly knew that Tenebrae would hate it, for sure, otherwise it would have looked like this all the time.

They followed Rock through the door into Tenebrae’s tower, into a place full of trinkets and paintings and books and carpets and lush wood. A staircase wound upward, and the three of them took it, passing reading rooms and drawing rooms and libraries. One floor had closed doors, each of which had a space for a nameplate on them, but each nameplate was empty, except for one, labeled ‘Rocky’; it was the only one open. Obsidia sat on a stone bed inside. She looked up as Erick passed by.

The next floor was a living space with a kitchenette and assorted furniture. The next floor held one room, with a door between it and the staircase. The door was open. Slate was inside, next to Palodia. Both of them stood on one side of a large bed. A dragonkin stood on the other side, speaking of medicine and gesturing toward bottles, laid out on a dresser.

Tenebrae laid in his bed, surrounded and buoyed by pillows and under the covers, looking sickly, with bags under his closed eyes and sweat upon his forehead.

Rock moved into the room and was acknowledged by everyone, but the doctor kept talking of medicine regimes to Palodia and Slate. Erick stepped in, but remained to the side, exactly like Poi usually did. Poi stepped in and stood beside Erick.

The doctor finished his instructions, and asked, “Any questions?”

Palodia said, “No sir. Everything is understood and we even have the notes. Thank you for responding so fast.”

The dragonkin said, “I’m glad I could help. If not for Archmage Tenebrae… It would have been bad. We would have lost an entire city to those Rivergrieves. He’s a great man. I hope he gets better.” He looked toward Rock. “Now I’d hate to be pushy, but we are in the middle of a battle and Tenebrae is fine. Can I get that [Gate] back, now?”

Rock lifted his hand. A purple-rimmed [Gate] appeared. A throne room appeared on the other side. A man on the throne threw his hands up in relief, shouting about how it took them long enough. Rock said, “Thank you for your assistance, Grand Alchemist Irikilo.”

Tenebrae opened his eyes.

Irikilo looked down on Tenebrae, and said, “You’re in good hands, Archmage. Get better! Bed rest for a while. Doctor’s orders!”

Tenebrae grumbled in annoyance, then closed his eyes again.

Irikilo nodded, then walked through the [Gate]. It closed behind him.

Tenebrae’s voice was weak, as he asked, “All clear?”

Slate said, “Clear. All medicines are what they appear to be. He was truthful. No soul problems, either.” He spoke down to Tenebrae. “You should get better, if you follow his orders.”

“I will make him follow the doctor’s orders,” Palodia declared.

Tenebrae scowled, his eyes still closed, and said, “Bastard has the gall to charge me that much money, I should damned well get better, or I should go and destroy those towns that I saved.”

Rock said, “None of that, please. Besides: Erick is here.”

Tenebrae breathed deep. He opened one eye, lifted up his head, and peered at Erick.

Erick waved. “Hello.”

Tenebrae’s eye snapped shut as he laid back onto his pillows. “Bah. Stupid. I swear, I am not this feeble! Ophelia just surprised me, because...” His voice trailed off, then came back as he asked, “Did you understand all my notes yet? I’m not going to die without learning [Gate]! So if you have learned it already, maybe don’t break this old man’s psyche until next week!”

Erick tried to lighten the sudden dark mood by saying, “I’ve got some better theories than I had before, but nothing too solid; I’ve only had them for a few hours, after all. You’re still necessary, Tenebrae, for who else would I astound with my ability at magic if you die? Everyone else is already accustomed.”

While everyone else in the room winced, Tenebrae laughed.

“Ha!” Tenebrae smiled, and said, “Idiot-savant planar-archmage. Can’t enchant a gods-damned Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove, yet expecting to make a Gate in his first year on this planet! Ha.” He sighed, then said, “I feel better now—”

He tried to get up, but Palodia and Slate were right there, gently nudging him back to horizontal, saying that the doctor ordered bed rest.

Tenebrae said, “Well I gotta shit! You want me to shit the bed?”

“That’s why the gods made [Cleanse].” Palodia glared, and without a single hint of amusement in her voice, said, “Shit the bed.”

“Dammit.” Tenebrae said, “At least help me put the pillows behind my head. I need to talk to Erick.”

Rock said, “Erick cannot stay long because you need to sleep.”

Slate helped to put a small pillow behind Tenebrae’s head.

Erick stood at the foot of his bed.

“This is a minor setback. I am not this old. 90 is not that old. I am fine. But my Rockys are overprotective.” Tenebrae eyed Erick, saying, “We are still going into that Labyrinth, you hear me?”

“I hear you.”

“Read my notes if you have to do something. Or whatever. You’re not leaving me behind when you go in there, understood? I don’t trust you in that place yet! It’s dangerous.”

Rock, Slate, and Palodia frowned.

Erick said, “I understand.”

Tenebrae’s voice turned harder, “This is my life’s dream. I don’t have many of them left, and you’re not going to take this from me without my direct consent. Don’t fuck with the dragons. Don’t explore there. Wait for me to get better.”

Erick said, “I’m on vacation, Tenebrae. Relaxing with magic books seems wonderful.”

Tenebrae sighed out as he smiled wide. He closed his eyes, saying, “Good. Now someone take this pillow out from behind my neck—” Slate removed the pillow. Tenebrae muttered, “I’m not going to be comfortable for days, am I.”

“Nope.” Palodia said, “Ready for sleep? It’s time for sleep. Slate is going to watch over you. Then it's Obsidia’s shift. Rock and Volcanus have the night shift.”

Tenebrae muttered, “Stupid rock names. Why did you idiots all pick rock names. I swear, it’s to torture me because I was so unoriginal…” His voice trailed off.

Rock gestured Erick toward the door, then walked that way. Erick and Poi followed Rock down the stairs. A sudden argument exploded back in Tenebrae’s room as the old archmage quarreled with Palodia and Slate about his healthcare needs. Erick heard something about Shaped [Cleanse].

Tenebrae’s voice carried far, “You want me to get rads, woman? I oughta write you out of my will! I will not shit my bed!”

“You will if you have to! If it weren’t for the potions you couldn’t even talk!” Palodia declared, “We’ll just have to deny you those potions then, won’t we? I’ll get much better compliance out of you if you’re weaker than a mouse!”

Tenebrae protested—

Rock stopped at the drawing room, rounding on Erick, bringing him back to the moment as he demanded, “Are you going to let him follow you into the Labyrinth?”

Erick’s plan had been smashed from a direction he hadn’t even considered. But Rock’s words lit a discordant flame in Erick’s heart.

‘Let him’?

What trash! Erick was following Tenebrae along paths the old archmage had charted long ago, and he was thankful for that help! And what was this, now coming from Rock, except for an attempt to control Tenebrae’s freedoms?

Now, obviously, Erick understood that Tenebrae probably shouldn’t be running around in a Twisted Vision full of hidden dragons and assorted [Gate]s, but—

Trying not to let his anger into his voice, Erick said, “I am going to honor his wishes, and you should do the same. It is not right for you to take away his dreams.” He offered, “Or! You have a week to get him to change his mind. Maybe this is just what he needs to realize he shouldn’t be doing something like this anymore. Redarrow spoke of that possibility, too.”

Rock demanded, “What were Redarrow’s words, exactly? Did you write them down?”

“No need to write them down. I remember them just fine.” Erick recalled, “They were… ‘If Tenebrae accompanies you, he will die. If he does not, others will die. Hmm. What is the value of a life? A pinprick of light upon the background of reality? A beacon in the darkness; a lighthouse, perhaps. What is the value of a life, when comparing bonfires to candles? All of that is barely-there misty Fate. Choose as you will and already have. Maybe Tenebrae will simply be humbled. Maybe everyone will live. The chances of either are rather low. But! What I see does not always come to pass, while what comes to pass, is always seen before it arrives.’ And that was all of that.” Erick added, “Except… Redarrow did have to revise his conversation with me a hundred times, and he still failed to predict everything that I would ask of him.”

Rock glared, but his stony facade softened when Erick spoke of humbling, and that ‘everyone might live’. He said, “That’s not as bad as I was led to believe... And yet...” He gestured toward the staircase, saying, “Please find your own way to the guesthouse. I must think.”

Erick said, “I’m sorry for that episode, or whatever it was. I never expected… Ophelia.”

Rock turned away, sighing. Silent.

Erick and Poi left Tenebrae’s tower and made their way back to the guest house, through the decorated courtyard.

- - - -

Flying through the cold air, high above the Forest, Ophiel dissuaded many different attackers from approaching the Castle. Flocks of man-eater birds. Sky serpents that moved like flying snakes. Forest couatls, which were almost like flying snakes, but with feathers. Small attackers couldn’t get past the [Air Shield], but the larger ones could… if Ophiel hadn’t been there. Mostly, he used [Merciful Suffocation], dealing large amounts of damage every time the animal attackers breathed. Erick tried the same defensive measures against monsters, but monsters just enraged when they found out their prey fought back.

And so, sliced up monstrous attackers fell down, down, down to the Forest, after they failed to navigate the molecular wires of [Hermetic Shredder]. Occasionally, notifications for brand new monsters would ping in Erick’s view. Skyborn Owls. Airfrost Elementals. Snakes. Variant couatls. A ballooning spider! How weird. Weren’t those all gone? Apparently not.

Even more elementals.

There were a lot more high-flying monsters out there than Erick had ever known.

At dinner time, a knock came from the door to the guest rooms. A Rocky delivered sandwiches and soup that Palodia had made; there would be no communal dinner this night. Maybe tomorrow.

- - - -

An undulating not-couatl blipped into the night sky between the city of Spur, and the Dead City, Ar’Kendrithyst. Her name was Sunny. A second Sunny blipped in beside the first. Both were bright green and glowing brighter. The clouded sky turned darker as roiling moisture hid the moons, and the stars. The [Familiar]s were preparing for what was to come.

It appeared, exactly as usual.

Above the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst, where purple and red light played in the night, a darkness swelled, like a rising tide. The crystal lights of the Dead City dimmed as a new type of monster lifted beyond the walls, preparing to crash over the edge.

A new type of monster. A tide of shadows.

It swelled up, and then over, falling like a sudden river, over the wall, to the sands below. Like an ooze, too big to be believed, it crashed over the wall, and Ar’Kendrithyst was brighter for its absence.

No one really knew what the new monster was, only that it was dangerous. The powers of Spur had named it the Dark Tide, but if it had an actual, Script-appointed name, Kiri had not found it out. No one had. For the damned thing didn’t seem killable.

