The great shadow ooze crawled across the orange desert, swallowing all life as it passed. The few Crystal Mimics that had repopulated the space between Spur and the Dead City during the day were swallowed in the Dark Tide’s passing. They were nothing more than tiny morsels of meat and magic that added to its bulk, like drops of rain adding to a kilometers-wide sudden sea that spread out and forward.

Some, who heard the stories coming out of Spur, were calling the new monster a whole lot of slimes. Most were calling it a new type of ooze. The people who actually fought the phenomenon had no real designation for the beast, whatever it was, but they did not call it a slime, for the Dark Tide had no core; Kiri and everyone else on duty tonight had checked for that many times. It could have been an ooze, but… no. That was too fantastical. An ooze this size would destroy civilization, and an ooze this size would not be so ‘easily’ beaten back, each night.

Lightning flickered overhead.

And then the storm unleashed.

Rain fell; a sudden onslaught of water, turning the sands to wet mud. Lightning flashed down, striking the Dark Tide where it flickered throughout the whole intact mass like the undulating shadows were some dark reflection of the skies overhead.

Where lightning crawled, shadows evaporated.

Where shadows crawled, they ripped past stone walls set up in the daytime, like concentric rings between Spur and the Dead City, put there by the defenders in order to give the Dark Tide pause, and themselves a bit more time to fight. The Dark Tide paused, yes, but it crashed through those walls, just the same.

More lightning came. More of the Dark Tide evaporated in sudden bursts of liquid shadows becoming gloom, becoming air, becoming nothing.

More Sunnys took to the sky. Lightning fell every second. Kiri dismantled most of the ‘ooze’, but not all of it. Smaller pools of liquid shadows, separated from the whole, made it closer to Spur, and that’s why people did not think this monster was an ooze. When oozes got pieces chopped off of them, usually those separate pieces just died. Sure, they might have fought on for a while, but they did die. These separate pieces just kept fighting.

Of course, then people were quick to point out that some species of ooze would separate into individual killers if the parent was split into pieces. No one liked hearing those people talk.

And besides! These pools of shadows were easy to kill. Oozes were not this easy to kill.

As the smaller pools of shadows came for Spur, other people took over, where Kiri left off.

For half an hour, lightning turned the night into day and booms echoed across the desert, while fields of fire, ice, and decay, all tinged with Light, burned, froze, and melted the smaller pools of shadows.

But not everyone had someone like Kiri on their side, and Kiri was herself just filling in for the archmages who wanted breaks.

In the morning, the people of Spur would hear that Frontier had fallen, but that came as no surprise for Frontier had almost fallen yesterday. They had already evacuated all non-essential personnel the night before. They had been planning to try some new tactics to combat the Dark Tide, but obviously, those new tactics did not work. The real problem was that Frontier hadn’t had an archmage in years, and thus, they fell.

Shadows almost took Kal’Duresh the day before that, but the incani city had somehow gotten the Poison Archmage, Orenza, to come to town. 50-kilometer wide fields of glowing orange mist did wonders against the Dark Tide. Kal’Duresh would last for a while, or until they made Orenza unhappy. From what people were hearing, keeping the Poison Archmage happy was a difficult task.

At least the Dark Tide could not survive under the sun. It could not survive under any bright light. It could not make it to any other cities of the Crystal Forest before the sun would come up the next day.

Too bad it usually stayed in the Lower Reaches of Ar’Kendrithyst, until the sun set.

The Brightwater might have been a part of those Lower Reaches, but it was still filled with brightness and Light, so this helped the people of the Brightwater to ward off the Dark Tide, but it was not a perfect defense.

As the sun crested over the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst, a Sunny popped into the air above the Brightwater to see what damage had been done by the night’s battles. What Kiri saw was what she expected to see.

The Dark Tide had captured another kilometer of the white crystals surrounding the place. Just a single kilometer of the edge. Deeper in some places. Shallower in others. The frantic actions of the people and shadelings there had done much to prevent an overrun in the middle of the night, but they were losing ground. Eventually…

Well. The fate of the Brightwater was obvious to anyone with eyes to see.

Kiri moved Sunny along.

She watched as the agents of Frontier, who had lost their city the night before, decided to make sure that the people of the Brightwater lost their homes, too. As daylight came upon the world, yet another assault began on the last remaining brightness of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Kiri sent her Sunnys around, checking on certain parts of the defense of Spur that needed checking.

One place that didn’t need checking was Forward Base. It had fallen to the Dark Tide at the Dark Tide’s first appearance, and was now nothing more than rubble scattered in the air of the Middle Reaches. No one knew where the liquid shadows came from, exactly, but there were a lot of fingers pointed at the Brightwater, which, to be fair, might have been responsible for the Dark Tide. Shades and their whole society had been responsible for a lot of evil in the world, after all.

Silverite was in talks with the people of the Brightwater, though, and news was that the Brightwater was saying that they had nothing to do with the Dark Tide.

Which. Again. Lies, probably.

We were talking about Shades and their ilk, here.

Except, that the Dark Tide did attack the Brightwater from every direction, every night; that much was true, for sure. Kiri had even seen as much.

Kiri didn’t know much about all that, though. Not really. Whatever rumors came around were rather baseless, as was the nature of such things. All she knew, for sure, was that the Shade known as the Professor, the Chancellor of Truedark, and also just ‘Farix’, had publicly announced that the Brightwater was not responsible for the Dark Tide, using the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst to speak that ‘truth’ to everyone both inside and outside the city, and to also ask for people to ‘please stop trying to kill him’.

He had actually said ‘please’, too!

Unheard of.

There had been many attempts on his life, apparently, but all those who tried to attack him left those encounters with no memories of what had happened, except of Farix saying he was sorry, and that he was trying to do better, and ‘would you like to work with us and help us do better?’. A [Cleanse] had fixed whatever fuckery was going on with the assassins Farix had released, but after such a [Cleanse], all memories of their attempted assassinations were completely gone, from the time of their departures for their mission, to the point when they were [Cleanse]d and in the middle of debriefing.

Kiri flew Sunny across the lands between Spur and Ar’Kendrithyst, watching as broken walls were rebuilt and the killing fields were repaired for easier killing, for tomorrow’s battle. The sun had risen hours ago, and the land was almost reset for tomorrow. Kiri came back to herself and yawned, as she finalized the details in her nightly report and signed her name. She handed the report to Sunny, then Sunny blipped over to Quartermaster Liquid’s office in the Courthouse and deposited the report into a small box made for such. Hers was the fourth such report to arrive.

Kiri hadn’t done much physical action in the last week, but she had cast more magic than she ever had before. Scion of Focus was the best.

She had wanted to read a little before sleeping, but that plan failed as soon as she tucked herself in and her head hit the pillow. She gave one final glance, through Sunny, to a bastion of defense located in Ar’Kendrithyst that had failed to fall in the middle of the night, and that had actually expanded since last she looked.

… It looked fine, still.

Kiri slept.

- - - -

Anhelia stood resplendent upon a rose-pink crystal skyroad, while lavender glows reached up from far below, and the bright yellow sun crested the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst, bringing even more light to her little slice of eventual-heaven. Crystal towers loomed behind her, with nary a single shadow in a single crystal depth. From the roof of the Dead City, all the way down to the Lower Reaches, she and her family had carved away the darkness from seven different towers. A tower a day, so far! One of those towers was more special than the rest, though.

Anhelia started her conquest by aiming for the rivers, or rather one river in particular. River Tower North was hers. But for all the logistical power that the River Tower represented, with its gardens and defensible fortifications and living quarters, it was only one third of the original river system of the dead city of Kendrithyst.

Over a millennium ago, back when Ar’Kendrithyst was still under the ground and wrought walked these roads, and lived in this land, a three-part river had flowed throughout the entire mega-metropolis. It was known as the Vital. The Vital hadn’t been called by its true name in a long time, but eventually, it would be called that again.

Surrounded by cleansed towers and purified itself, the river tower drew dark water up from the deep depths, then Anhelia’s magics went to work. Bright with power and anathema to all shadows, [Cleanse]d and Light-Altered water cascaded down onto crystal washways and aqueducts. That water churned with purifying power as it moved through pipes and flowed in the open air, banishing all shadows that got too close to its cleansed brilliance. This single River Tower, properly adjusted, as Anhelia had done, would push back the dark. It would enforce a new status quo upon the Dead City.

It would bring Ar’Kendrithyst back from the dead, eventually.

It was all a part of the plan. And what a plan it was!

All the threats around them, from the monsters both old and new, and the unknown threat of the Dark Tide impinging on their borders, desiring their lives, could not compare to the preparation that had gone into Anhelia’s conquest of her grandmother’s home. Now that the Shades were gone, all obstacles were merely tribulations to overcome. Nothing would stop her conquest. Nothing. She hadn’t known that there would be a ‘Dark Tide’, but it was within expected parameters. That was why she had set up River Tower North as she had. The light from those cleansed waters pushed back most everything that was actually a threat, and the Dark Tide was no exception.

Anhelia smiled.

She turned, a little, and regarded her family, and all the others she had hired and bargained for into being here, for this. Her family was with her, of course; eleven wrought of the iron-caste, just like herself, though only a few of them resembled incani like her. There were incani from the Wasteland; people who she had always been close to, but never truly a part of. Orcols from Treehome; only a few of them, and only because they were the best at taking down large threats. A few shifters of varying talents. There was even one harpy. Ikawa Kali had been the granddaughter of Krakina, the Weather Witch of Spur. The young woman would have eventually taken Krakina’s place as Spur’s Weather Witch, but then Erick came along and changed the way the weather worked! Ikawa worked well here, though; Anhelia had plenty of work for a young prognosticator such as Ikawa.

She had use for anyone with spellcasting talents. She even had some humans, but only three of them, as they were the ones the Headmaster had sent to Spur and were therefore reliable. Eduard, Maia, and Ramizi. There seemed to be some inter-party trouble there, but they kept that problem to themselves. Anhelia had been close to many humans in the past, but not since Erick’s reintroduction of humans to Spur, had she had many chances to meet more that had not immediately thought of her as a threat since her form was incani. These three were decent, and they doubled as a connection to the Headmaster, which allowed Anhelia to ‘excuse their inclusion’ to the incani in her employ.

The Quiet War was quite tiring, sometimes.

And then there were the three wrought from Stratagold. They were of adamantine-caste; Royalty. Each of them were as dark as Dark, though some had green hints in their reflective surfaces. They were overseers, and completely uninterested in ‘taking back Ar’Kendrithyst’. They were only here because they had to be here, according to their own imperialistic laws, to ensure that no wrought secrets would be unleashed on the public. They were something that Anhelia was forced to accept, or else there would be problems of entirely different sorts. At least she had gotten good royalty. Most of them weren’t worth a damn.

Killzone was also of the adamantine-caste, and Anhelia liked him well enough, but—

Enough problems! Today will be a good day! Thank you for giving me this opportunity, Erick! If you ever come back to Spur, I’ll be sure to give you a 90% discount on all information.

Anhelia had regarded her forces to see that they were ready, taking just a moment to do so. And now, she turned forward, chuckling.

Her forces waited behind her, in the rose and lavender sunlight.

But in front of her laid the next conquest. The next tower of the Dead City.

