“What if I asked you to do what you said earlier?” Barbi asked seductively and her hands caressed the insides of her thighs. She stopped right at the spot his hand had been when they were beside the pool earlier. “It's right here.” She said. “What do you say?”

“Two things.” Ren said. “One, you look delicious.” He said and licked his lips. “Two, I really want to get to know you better before I take advantage of you like that.”

Barbi's face flipped from seduction to happiness, and she closed her legs and slid off the counter, stepped close to him and bent down to give him a quick kiss on the lips.

“Yes, you're definitely different from every other man I've met.” Barbi said and left the kitchen.

Ren waited for several moments to let Barbi get far enough away, and he looked at Denise. “Make that three things.” He whispered. “I'm so hard right now it's starting to hurt.”

“It's okay.” Denise said and pushed his wheelchair to the bathroom. “I don't swing that way, and I was thinking about what it would taste like.” She said and shook her head. “It's like she just tried to serve sex to you on a silver platter.”

“Her panties were lilac.” Ren said as Denise laid him down on the floor. “I didn't know they made them that small, though.”

“I didn't either.” Denise said and undid his pants. “It barely covered the... wow, you weren't kidding.” She said as she saw the state he was in.

“Don't worry, I won't last long.” Ren said and closed his eyes.

“Why, because of what Barbi did?” Denise asked.

“No, because I love you.” Ren said. “You didn't even question my need, and here we are.” He felt her mouth on his lips as she gave him a kiss, then a moment later he felt her mouth somewhere else and started to pant.

Ren had been right. He didn't last long, not with Barbi's previous visual aid and Denise's help. Denise cleaned him up and brought him up to his bedroom and thought about giving him a sponge bath. Ren declined when she asked him what he wanted and said he would need one in the morning anyway. She got him settled and handed him his VR headset, and he logged in much sooner than he normally did.

********

Ren appeared by the bedroom wall in the House in Aurora.

“REN!” Teepo exclaimed, and it woke everyone up.

“Teepo, what if...” Ren started to ask if they wanted to stay asleep.

“We asked him to warn us, just in case we didn't notice.” Artemis said and smiled. “The only time we wouldn't notice is when we sleep, so...”

“Teepo alarm!” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Ren chuckled and did his normal Sanctuary routine with them. He had each of the succubi up to a full minute, took the Marilith Demon for 3 minutes, and Suniva for almost 10 full minutes. Artemis had been with him the entire time, and when he was done making the rounds with them, they were all grateful for the attention and didn't mind that he might be gone again for another couple of days.

With that out of the way, Ren used the All-Seeing Mirror and checked on the elfling with the Emotion Siphon ability. She seemed fine; but, he opened a portal to her just in case. Teepo dissolved into the ring and Ren took Artemis through the portal. He spent half an hour feeding and satisfying Halaiyah without intercourse, then used the All-Seeing Mirror to check in on Yllana.

Almost as if she could feel him looking at her, she rolled over in bed to throw off the covers and showed him she wasn't wearing anything at all. Ren smiled and opened another portal and took Artemis into Yllana's bedroom.

“My prayers have been answered.” Yllana whispered as Ren appeared in front of her, completely nude, and he showed her the All-Seeing Mirror with her image on it. “Oh, YES!”

Ren chuckled as she finished without him even touching her, then he and Artemis joined her on the bed. He spent half an hour with her and left her both satisfied and wanting, which was just how she liked it, then he checked the All-Seeing Mirror and opened another portal. He appeared inside the succubi roost and they all felt his presence.

Since it was still the middle of the night, they left their bed partners asleep and met Ren in the big meeting room. He felt their surprise as they saw him, and he wasn't sure why, then he felt their longing to be fed. Ren gave them each large doses of the emotions that they craved and they moaned as he did so through a gentle kiss. He didn't have to do that, since they were being well fed by their partners; but, he had promised them he would feed them more than they would ever need, and he kept that promise.

Lastly, Ren checked on Anabelle and opened a portal to the third floor apartment at the business, then he and Artemis stepped through. Artemis laid down on the bed in the living room and Ren summoned Teepo before going into the bedroom.

“Do I see a naked angel before me?” Anabelle whispered when she opened her eyes and saw Ren.

“Naked?” Ren looked down at himself and saw that he had forgotten to equip his clothes after leaving Yllana's apartment, and he was still quite erect. When he laughed, Anabelle asked what he was laughing at, and he told her that he was just at the succubi roost to feed them.

“Th-that's awful!” Anabelle covered her mouth to stop from laughing. “Those poor succubi!”

“I guess that's why they enjoyed their feeding so much tonight.” Ren said and climbed onto the bed.

“I'll enjoy it too, My King.” Anabelle said and kissed him.
