The Gnoll-heavy population of Marwsh had clashed with Seenith on issues regarding the tribes before, but their history also revolved around wars they’d had where one side had supported Oteslia and the other had taken Manus’ side three hundred and twelve years ago.
The grudge had only deepened since then. Neither side really had the means to take the other city by force, but they fought each other in skirmishes and trade wars. Seenith had been winning by virtue of its larger standing army.
“So they thought hiring a [Mercenary] company would win this war? Classic Marwsh. No wonder she wants to negotiate; they didn’t give her any backup!”
Most of the Drakes were laughing their tails off at the tiny force—a tenth of theirs—standing menacingly in the distance. Well, actually, it looked like the Centaurs were…
“Are they showering?”
“No. Restrooms.”
The Drakes on the wall were staring as Centaurs dug some polite holes, put up curtains, and, uh, did their business. They recoiled in outrage—which did not help the negotiations on the ground.
“We have a bunch of Centaurs crapping next to our roads, demanding we pay them to not siege us? You can tell this Commander we’ll have her over for dinner if she asks nicely—but if she thinks she can siege us, she’ll be eating arrows and [Fireballs] all day.”
The Council gave their answer with laughs—and only their own [Commander] looked a tiny bit worried.
“It could be possible her [Mercenaries] are high-level, Councilmembers.”
He was aware that the Forgotten Wing Company fought a lot more regularly than his forces, but the Watch Captain ignored that.
“We’ve got the walls, Commander. We don’t need to sortie and make idiots of ourselves. She probably wants us to chase her. That’s Gnoll tribe tactics.”
They were at least smart enough to know better than to sally. The Commander bit his lip. He didn’t think it was a good idea to underestimate one of Baleros’ finest [Strategists].
“Four thousand gold wouldn’t be that egregious…even if we had to fight them off, the cost in lives to take out two thousand Centaurs would be more than the gold.”
But the Council wouldn’t hear of it.
“It’s extortion, Commander Levirns. Extortion. You pay them once and they’ll be back again. We don’t negotiate with bullies.”
And that, of course, was correct. [Mercenaries] were sellsword bullies who wanted to be paid for doing nothing. Perorn would cop to that in a moment. But the thing was…a good [Mercenary] knew that there was a good way to do your job and a bad way.
A bad way made you little more than a [Bandit]. But a professional? The Drakes sent Rascale out with their refusal and waited. They saw the Centaurs greet the Drake, listen—and then calmly ride back the way they’d come, far out of bowshot or magic range.
The Watch laughed about that for nearly twenty minutes. See? All reputation, no action. They kept laughing until a [Merchant] practically ran up the battlements.
“What have you done? What have you done?”
A white-faced Drake screamed at the Watch Captain. The confused Drake turned his head.
“What? What have we done?”
“Our caravan! We had one coming from Oteslia—those Centaurs just captured it!”
Then they stopped laughing.
 
——
 
“Basal. You’re on northern approach. Escofe on the south. The Drakes aren’t going to ignore that if they’re stupid. If they’re smart…well, if they were smart, they would have thought about their roads. [Lieutenant] Tarath? Take the roads.”
Perorn divided her command into three parts and sat on the roads a good five miles out from Seenith. There were three main roads that led to the city; each command had the task of patrolling all the side-roads.
Not hard for Centaurs. And their orders were to let all traffic through; they were not [Bandits]. They very clearly identified themselves to nervous Drakes and Gnolls, announced they were on contract to siege Seenith, and that they were operating under the Forgotten Wing Company.
That was called ‘advertising’. But they did check every caravan coming this way, and Tarath led his patrol down the road, and any inbound or—two outbound groups leaving Seenith had to give all their cargo over.
Not ‘or die’, but ‘or scream until they poured a healing potion over the arrow wounds in their arms’. The caravans did have guards, but they weren’t numerous. So Perorn had ordered her forces to try for no casualties.
One shower of arrows had taken out the bluster from the group heading to Seenith. Incidentally, that was why she’d hurried so much; she hadn’t wanted them to get into the city’s aegis before she was turned down by the Drakes.
They had no custom of huge [Mercenary] companies in Izril, so she’d predicted that they’d laugh off her offer. You had to set the stage and show them how the rules worked.
“Let’s see. Please send in our [Negotiator] Rascale and tell Seenith we are prepared to accept eight thousand four hundred gold coins upon withdrawal—and we will turn over all seized goods pending full payment. We cannot guarantee that in two days.”
“Lots of jams, Commander. Can we break out one crate?”
One of her Centaurs whined as they eyed the goods from Oteslia. Perorn could have used a really nice marmalade, but she swatted at the Centaur.
“Stuff a hoof in it. They’ll be coming soon.”
Here was the thing. Seenith might have not known many mercenaries, but they did know how a siege worked. They knew you could block trade roads; heck, they’d done it themselves. But they just hadn’t expected the small group of Centaurs to do it.
The effrontery! There were barely a thousand Centaurs on each side! Their response was fast, and Basal reported a column of Drakes rolling in on him first.
“Eight thousand? They must be pissed.”
“On approach, Commander! We’re counting six thousand coming south and twelve at us!”
Their entire standing army must have been mostly in the city. Well…maybe that was for the better. No sneaking up on their backs. Perorn sighed.
“Let’s do this, then. Hooves on the ground. We’re going to battle.”
Centaurs armed themselves, forming into groups that were ready for the fight. Perorn had a vanguard who would follow her in a spear-formation into battle, but she had a mobile force of individual groups of a hundred. No massed-formations like the Drakes marching at her. She raised her hand—pointed—
And they rode away.
 
——
 
“What do you mean, no contact?”
“We pursued them for four hours. Not far out of the city, Councilmembers—but they kept retreating! They won’t even get within bowshot, and our [Riders] can’t catch them.”
It was unlike any siege that Seenith had endured. Even the famous army of Liscor would have rolled up to a fight.
The thing about sieges or [Bandits] holding a city hostage was that you could do it with a few groups—but the defenders could chase those groups off with riders or catch and slaughter them. If a small group of Drakes or Gnolls tried this, they, on horseback, would still be vulnerable to being chased and run down.
But the Centaurs just ran away. They ran away—parked on the roads further away from Seenith, and kept capturing each caravan they found. The Council was furious.
“Well, engage them! Find a way to surround them or…”
“They’re sticking to the roads, Councilmembers. I could charge one group with my cavalry, but I do not have the numbers to guarantee success. Their southern group is barely six hundred—I have six hundred some riders. I would like permission to reconfigure my forces and pull back all four thousand of our horse and advance on their positions.”
The Commander was not happy about the Council breathing down his neck and second-guessing his orders. He was even less happy when the Council’s leader snapped back.
“Just engage them with the six hundred and send in the foot! You’ll take the battle, Commander. This is no time to be timid!”
He had, unfortunately, also been an officer in the army, and he had the habit of telling the actual leadership what to do. It was sound tactics, and the [Commander], in response, barked a reply.
“No, sir. I will respectfully decline that action. I am pulling our horse back and consulting with the Walled Cities for a plan of action as this is a foreign company.”
“Commander, you are playing into their damn claws. Don’t be—”
The [Commander] ended the call and went back to his task of pulling his cavalry back for an overwhelming presence on the field. He was also talking to the Walled Cities. Or rather, he’d petitioned their [Strategists] for help.
You were allowed to do that, especially when it came to monsters or [Bandit] attacks. The Walled Cities might not answer if you were fighting another city or the tribes, but they sometimes gave amazing tactical advice. In this case, Commander Levirns had great hopes of a response.
In fact—he got one within twenty minutes. He was setting up the perimeter of his camp outside his city in case of a night attack when a [Message] came from no less than Pallass.
He would have preferred Manus to weigh in, but they were apparently sending a full strategic recommendation. He was delighted—and opened the missive from Pallass first. He expected a breakdown of tactics against Centaurs and even a battle plan.
What he got was more and less than he expected. The missive was simple and had the top-level clearance codes.
 
From [Grand Strategist] Chaldion of Pallass reg. Battle Plan Seenith v. Fleethoof Gales. Eng. limited, D 11. M 15. Y 23 A.F. 
As follows from dictation:
“Pay the Centaurs.”
 
Levirns stared at the date until he received another [Message]. Not Manus’ battleplans—it was a call for help.
[Major] Yulv had received the orders to attack with the cavalry on the southern front from the Council. He had launched the offensive fourteen minutes ago.
By the time Levirns demanded his retreat, over a hundred Drake riders had been reported as wounded or dead.
 
——
 
“They kept turning. They kept…turning.”
As horrific sayings went, that was not as scary as ‘they were underneath us’, or ‘it came out of his eye’. But it was scary enough for a furious Levirns to realize why Centaurs were scary.
“How do you mean—turning?”
The Watch Captain was on this call, as was a [Strategist] from Manus. Not the Council. The shocked [Major] tried to explain it.
“We sent the [Riders] ahead while I moved forwards with the infantry. We were ready to catch them even if we had to bleed to hold them down—bows at the ready. But—but I was watching for a flank charge from the other two Centaur forces, Levirns. I was!”
He was no fool. Major Yulv had been fully aware the Centaurs might reinforce each other, but Perorn hadn’t felt the need. And this was why.
“What happened? Why did our [Riders] fall behind?”
“They kept—”
Yulv gulped and then found the words to explain.
“When our [Riders] charged, the Centaurs curved their trajectory then broke away. Which made our [Lancers] move to follow suit, but they kept—zigzagging. It was like chasing a gnat. And our [Riders] couldn’t keep up. They slowed, the horses weren’t as responsive—then the main force of Centaurs split and began hitting us from two sides. When they tried to split in response—”
Horse and rider. Horse and rider. That was it. Tyrion Veltras and some of the greatest cavalry forces in the world had the responsiveness to match that kind of fighting…but Centaurs were the horse and rider combined.
They had effortlessly outmaneuvered their foes, taking advantage of the gap between animal and Drake response time. Then torn them to pieces.
“How many did we get?”
Levirns waited for a number, and the silence was deafening. He looked up.
“We had to have killed one.”
“They showered our infantry with arrows and spells, sir. To—to slow them down. It was carnage amongst our [Riders]. We had [Mages] with [Lightning Bolt] and such—they were the first down. Those [Centaurs] threw in dust clouds to throw off our [Archers]’ aim—not that they had any idea where to shoot. I saw every single one using a Skill. They all had to be over Level 20!”
That didn’t sound high—until you realized that Seenith’s forces weren’t universally all over Level 10. Some were new conscripts, and while the [Cavalry] was better—they hadn’t leveled in half as many battles. The Centaurs?
[Splitshot Arrows]. [Arrowguard]. [Lightning Hooves]. [Fearless Lance Charge]. They had stuck in the fight for barely ten minutes—long enough to do that much damage, then rode off before they took more than wounds.
That was how [Mercenaries] fought. Sometimes, they stuck in a fight if they thought it was worth it, but the smart ones didn’t want so much as a hangnail because it won them nothing. And worse…
Fleethoof was Levirns’ opponent. That night, he told Yulv to pull back and wait for the full force of cavalry. Only to realize the reason you kept some riders around was to harry your foes. And Fleethoof—
 
——
 
“[Your Legs, Heavy as Lead].”
She whispered the Skill like a curse. It made the already-slow lines of Drakes stall in the ground. That was a Skill for someone who believed speed changed the battlefield.
Perorn had a style. Niers prided himself on having none except the element of surprise itself. Perorn?
Everyone knew Fleethoof was fast. And it manifested in her combat. The night air as she raided Levirns’ personal camp was cold, but the flaming arrows made it hot.
“Attack! Attack!”
The screaming Drakes were up in arms, hacking at the air as her wave of Centaurs descended on them, firing arrows into tents and only taking down [Archers] and [Mages] who looked ready to fire back.
She didn’t want a slaughter. Perorn had let her [Phantom Assault] hit them from the south first. So half the Drakes were in the wrong area before she rode in and they realized they were fighting illusions.
Like the previous engagement, this was quick. Two showers of arrows, and she saw a Centaur go down, howling, as an arrow hit him in the side.
“Centaur down! Covering fire!”
“[Suppressing Volley]!”
One of her archers shouted, and a shower of arrows made all the Drakes duck. Perorn lifted her own bow, and the [Nighteye] enchantment on her goggles gave her a view of a Drake coming out of his tent with a shield and crossbow.
Commander Levirns. She raised her bow, took careful aim…and fired a shot. He flinched as an arrow shot at him and raised his shield.
It missed him by a good ten feet, and the Drake looked up. A burning arrow was lodged in his command tent. Perorn lifted a hand as her soldiers got the wounded Centaur on his legs.
“Not even barbed. [Get Up and Run]!”
