They were also…fragile in other ways. Centaurs got mad. You think Drakes fought each other and held grudges? Two Centaurs kicking and punching each other in some display of pride or wounded feelings was the most common thing in a herd.
Not in Perorn’s forces; she’d beaten that out of her [Soldiers], but they had a competitive streak.
Drakes were petty. Centaurs, competitive. Drakes were greedy; Centaurs got emotional. There was nothing like offending a Centaur. The saying went, ‘offend a Lizardman, and he’ll shout at you. Offend a Dullahan, and he’ll let you know he was mad in eight months. Offend a Centaur, and he’ll kick you.’
All of this meant that in a [Mercenary] outfit, if you were commanding mixed-species, you watched Centaurs. You made sure they weren’t twisting ankles, that morale was up and they weren’t fighting each other, and that they had the right feed and no one’s precious feelings were hurt.
Perorn got why a lot of Balerosian companies hated employing Centaurs. Who wanted that kind of soldier when you could get a Human who’d do all the things you wanted and not whine he had crap in his tail and needed someone to comb it out? Who wanted a species who, universally, had a ‘fight or flight’ reaction that meant they’d gallop in a panic, often into people, and injure themselves?
Who couldn’t use stairs?
 
——
 
Somewhere in the world, Palt was sneezing multiple times as he apologized to his beloved Imani for turning too fast and checking her with his behind. Which was like being hit by eight hundred pounds of rear end.
 
——
 
—the benefit to Centaurs that made up for all of this—well, nearly—was this:
When it all came together, they were one of the most amazing forces on the planet. 
“Alright, enough coddling your hooves! We’re on the move, not braiding each other’s tails! Move out!”
Two thousand Centaurs began racing across the grasslands of the Great Plains of Izril. They finally reached a trade road used by Drakes and Gnolls and thundered onto it with relief. Their progress had slowed on the grasslands, despite the relatively flat expanse, but on flat ground?
A group of Drake [Riders] slowed at the sight of so many unfamiliar species to Izril. They were on horses, and the horses reared or shied away from the familiar-unfamiliar species passing them. Some Drakes tried to race the Centaurs.
“Giddy up! Come on, hey, are you those [Mercenaries] from Baleros? Hey—”
They galloped their ‘fine steeds’, raced forwards…and promptly fell behind the Centaurs, who streamed past them, some waving or calling out. Perorn saw half check their bows and lifted a hand and twisted it down.
No combat. They relaxed, and the Drakes, disbelieving, tried to spur their horses to catch up.
They could not.
They thought that a horse and a rider could match a Centaur in most places of the world. They were wrong. Centaurs were heavier than horses because of their torso, but lighter than a horse and rider conjoined by far. They were also thinking, rational beings capable of levelling.
Horses, even racehorses, were animals. They did not understand why you trained. Some were able to run like Demons out of Rhir; a Centaur could study how to run efficiently. They could level.
A Centaur offensive looked like a blur as they flanked you, showering you with arrows, and switched to spears and came in for deadly charges. They would trample you while using a blade to skewer you. They were the finest mobile force in the world, and Izril?
Perorn inhaled the cool winter air as she stared across the grass, frosted in places, but warming due to the sun. She looked across the road as Drakes stared up at her company, and she lifted her hand as Gnolls howled and waved in the distance.
Oh, she thought she’d like Izril. She was a [Mercenary] abroad, and she did not know the last time Centaurs had come to Izril in such numbers. They had a world of things to show Izril, and there was gold to be made.
An endless amount of it. Perorn smiled as she trotted faster towards her first destination.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon had sent two thousand Centaurs to Izril to fight with the Gnoll tribes. A third had died to Belavierr, the most dangerous combatent on the field. The remainder were now the Forgotten Wing’s representatives here. Precursors to the full land-rush now happening.
To say that having this many mercenaries around alarmed local powers was an understatement. The Walled Cities were not fans, but they had taken a beating in the Meeting of Tribes, and declaring Perorn’s group enemies of all was not desirable.
Especially with a Great Company backing them. But the question was what Perorn would do next.
Being a [Mercenary] was much like being a Centaur: life could suck if you counted the downsides.
As a [Mercenary], everything cost gold. Feed, bedding, lodgings…you were always chasing the next payout, saving coin on everything. Even if Perorn had Niers to pay her funds, she didn’t like going into the red each week.
She had led her own company before joining his, and she had full autonomy to do what she deemed best, so the first thing she’d done was take stock of this land and prepare.
Unlike Foliana, who was an eccentric, dangerous [Rogue], or Niers, who could lead an entire Great Company from the top, Perorn was a [Strategist] one rank down from him. Her job was often to make sure things went to plan. Therefore—when she landed in Izril and knew there would be no fast way back—she had taken stock.
“We’re having a moving lunch. Break me out our regional maps and have our local expert meet me. I think we’re close to our destination.”
Perorn barked as they came to a fork in the road. She consulted a geographical map of the region as someone trotted ahead and handed her one they’d bought. The Centaurs behind her were unpacking supplies on the move.
She hadn’t had enough equipment—they’d been in a battlefield—so she’d bought gear and had it resized for them. A royal pain in the hindquarters because nothing was meant for Centaurs, but as they began to reach their destination, a Drake came riding up on horseback.
He looked—windswept. And tired, because they had been on the road since dawn, and he probably hadn’t ridden this far or fast in his life.
“Er—Commander Perorn, you wanted to see me?”
“We’re coming up on our target city. Can you confirm Seenith?”
Perorn was almost certain, but the Drake took one look at the city in the distance and nodded.
“That’s Seenith. Er…what’s the plan, Commander?”
She treated him to a brief smile that gave nothing away.
“You’ve already apprised me of the city’s particulars. You will ride in and deliver the missive on our behalf. We’re twenty to the city—will you have lunch before you go?”
He was a [Negotiator], and the Drake swallowed slightly—then rubbed at his stomach.
“I could, uh, use a snack. Something light. Are we stopping? I heard ‘moving lunch’?”
“Correct. If you’d like to partake, just ride back to the fire and help yourself to the pot.”
“The fire? What—whoa!”
The Drake twisted in his saddle and stared. Passersby on the road were also staring, and some were actually turning around because they had never seen Centaurs eating before—much less having a moving lunch.
It amused Perorn to see how interested the Drakes were, but there was some art to it. After all—without doing more than slowing to a gentle trot, the Centaurs were cooking their lunch. As in—they were riding while eating and cooking food.
Nomadic species hated slowing down. Centaurs, especially if they were on the run from an enemy or heading somewhere, would rather combine eating and movement. But no one wanted to eat dried oats and drink water.
—Therefore, what multiple pairs of Centaurs were doing was hanging a cooking station between them. It was a kind of mini-palanquin stretched between two Centaurs by lengths of rope or wood. You could pack it up into a bag of holding—and the contraption had a basin that held a pot between them, or even a little vessel where you could throw in burning coals to heat the food. A Centaur was stirring a pot as more Centaurs came by and ate from it.
To do all this, they were using long ‘claws’ of wood, which they could use to grab an item off the ground or hold food—they were known as ‘Centaurhands’, and almost every Centaur carried one.
It was that or have to kneel down to pick something up or bend all the way over. They were adept with them, and in this case, the Centaurs were using the tines at the end to place pieces of baked bread, meat, apple—and then dipping them in the pots.
“It’s fondue.”
“Whatdue?”
The Drake looked appalled at the idea of a shared pot, but he was hungry enough to take some bread, dip it in the pot, and take a bite. He brightened up; the melted cheese mix had a bit of beer in it to Peron’s taste buds, and it had a lot of delicious fat and probably a broth mixed in to give it filling.
The Drake liked it so much he went back for another dip—with his half-eaten bread. The roar of outrage from every Centaur at the double-dipping attempt made him nearly drop his skewer. Perorn took a swig from her flask as one of her subordinates trotted up.
“Drakes, eh, Commander?”
“They don’t know us, Basal. Keep your ears open.”
He grinned. One of her top lieutenants was [Linebreaker Captain] Basal. A scary Centaur, even by the standards of their fighting elite.
He had plate armor on. His barding was the aforementioned steel, and his helmet was on his head; Perorn would don a simple helmet, but his resembled a [Knight]’s. His entire job was to charge straight into enemy lines and cause havoc. To that end, he carried a greatsword, and his horseshoes were enchanted along with his armor.
He was also—one of the more interesting varieties of Centaur. Such that even though he was male, few of her soldiers bridled at the sight of him speaking so familiarly with Perorn—who, despite her age, was considered one of the foremost bachelorettes among her species due to her rank and fame.
Perorn felt bad for the daughter of Maelstrom’s Howling’s leader. The Bannermare, Aria Fellstrider, was a Centauress in the prime of her life. And she was the most sought-after woman in all of Baleros. She probably couldn’t have a conversation with a male subordinate without a fight over it.
Anyways, Basal was interesting and ‘non-threatening’ to most other Centaurs because he was a Lizaur.
In that, he looked like a Lizardfolk or even Drake with scaled arms from the torso up and a reptilian head. He had mulberry red hide, and he was actually shorter than most Centaurs but compact enough to knock even another Centaur off their feet.
Centaurs could intermingle with other species. And magic definitely helped with the oddities of that—but unlike some magical marriages where a Human only got a few scales if anything from a Drake-Human relationship, Centaurs were more apparent.
Sometimes, they just looked like regular Centaurs, but Lizaurs or ‘Taurkin’, another general word for when their upper halves took on a furred appearance, were considered aberrations to what was ‘normal’ in Centaur society.
Elfaurs were more acceptable, since they only had pointed ears and they weren’t nearly as long-lived as their counterparts. It was mostly a superficial difference with a decade or two added onto a lifespan at most. And it only happened if the Centaur was the one who had the child; half-Elves always bore half-Elves. Perorn thought it was another reason they couldn’t move out of Baleros; they couldn’t even accept all of their own people without a fight.
Basal was getting as many looks from Drakes as his own people, and he rolled his eyes.
“Are we on the Drakes’ side?”
“We’re on the side of whoever pays us, Basal. But no. We have orders to weigh our contracts with Gnolls favored. Yet we’re not making enemies of a Walled City—yet. So play nice and don’t have anyone kicking up trouble.”
“Aye, Commander. Should I escort the Drake in?”
“Not you. You’ll scare their Watch. Give me six with no bows.”
 
——
 
The sight of Perorn’s company definitely alarmed the city of Seenith. Their Watch was already mustering the local army and manning the walls, but not with utmost fear.
After all, it was two thousand Centaurs up against a rather large city. Their standing army was thirty thousand Drakes. A literal fifteen-to-one matchup, and they had their enchanted walls. It was curiosity as much as anything that had Councilmembers on the walls.
“So that’s Fleethoof? This…famous Centaur who fought our people? What’s she want?”
The Council was openly wondering what kind of action some [Mercenaries] would take. To Drakes, [Mercenaries] were respected as warriors—but hardly fit for polite company. They were sellswords, and Liscor’s army was a famous example of why you tolerated them, but didn’t hug them. Foreign mercs were a level down.
Yet Perorn surprised the Drakes by sending in one of their own with an escort of six who delivered him to the gates. She had hired Drakes to deal with Drakes, so the [Negotiator] who came off his horse received a warmer welcome.
“What’s this about? Why is this, uh, Strategist Perorn here?”
Seenith’s Council, their own [Commander], and the Watch Captain gathered around as the Drake introduced himself. His name was Rascale, and he had a rather odd offer to make.
“Commander Perorn presents her greetings on behalf of the Forgotten Wing Company. She identifies herself as ‘Fleethoof’s Gales’, a subsidiary company, and would like to speak under formal terms of negotiation.”
“Formal terms of…?”
What an odd way to talk! Rascale looked as unfamiliar with it as the other Drakes, but he’d been thoroughly briefed on what to say.
“That means she’s negotiating with Seenith in good faith.”
“Oh, well then. Does she want us to hire her?”
Laughter from all around. The Drake smiled nervously—and this was where he was really glad Perorn had checked his Skills.
[Don’t Shoot the Messenger] was his Level 20 capstone Skill. He coughed.
“Actually—she’d like you to hire her not to besiege your city. She’s willing to have you match the offer Marwsh made for her. Which would be four thousand two hundred gold pieces.”
The laughter cut off at once.
“Marwsh? Those Gnoll-loving bastards did—?”
“Four thousand gold not to attack us? Is this Centaur mad?”
Outrage and confusion filled the area behind the gates until the leadership established what had happened.
Apparently—Perorn had been hired at the knockdown price of four thousand gold pieces to besiege Seenith. The city was close to Marwsh. Okay, they were about forty miles distant, but they did not get on.
