Then he caught sight of the person who was causing the silence. Magnolia Reinhart was standing in the common room of the inn, down that long, trapped hallway. She had appeared in the center of the inn, and everyone had fallen silent. Staring at her.
Alman’s brows rose—and then he too began to stare. He held still as Watch Captain Zevara halted behind the family of Humans. She went to march past him into the inn—and she too was hit by a kind of paralysis.
Or perhaps…a vision.
It hit the Sanitos. It struck Pryde. And Demsleth. And Chaldion. But the person it worked hardest on was…Zevara.
For she knew it more than the others. She had been there. A fell wind blew across the Watch Captain’s face.
Only…she wasn’t Watch Captain Zevara any longer. The wind tasted foul with the smoke of villages burning. It smelled of blood.
It blew across her face, and twenty years pulled back. A Drake girl of eight stood in the city of Liscor as she heard shouting from the walls.
 
——
 
Drakes were standing there, at the gates, some piling rubble back into tunnels. The Antinium were coming out of the tunnels. They’d been coming out of the ground.
She had a spear…but she didn’t know how to use it well yet. She was a [Trainee Guard]. Yet they had called her up.
The Black Tide was encircling Liscor, and General Sserys hadn’t returned. They’d pinned him against one of the mountains. The [General] who had rallied the cities was fighting to get back home.
But the Antinium were determined to punish him for his courage. They intended to leave only rubble behind.
Zel Shivertail, Sserys—the Watch was holding the walls with the remnants of the companies that Sserys had left to defend Liscor.
“Hold those gates! Hold them another hour. The first Drake that abandons their post I will run through myself!”
The Antinium were surrounding the gates. Their army was pushing—and Tekshia Shivertail, the Spearmaster of Liscor herself, the Gold-rank adventurer, had come back in her city’s hour of need. A young Beastkin, the only one in the city, was running [Messages] as the gates tried to hold.
Another hour, not another day. Wisps of smoke escaped Zevara’s mouth in terror as she tried to hold her spear steady with the second line of civilians. There was no word Sserys’ armies had been spotted—even at the Bloodfields. The Antinium’s shrieking was growing louder, and it was said that one of their Prognugators was leading them. The Slayer himself.
All this was happening in a moment. And just like Zevara remembered—as the steel gates bent as a silver sword cleaved into the metal—horns blew, and the blade disappeared. She looked up—and unlike last time, she didn’t hold her position.
She found herself running, past [Guards], up onto the walls. The little Zevara of before hadn’t abandoned her post and had stood there for six hours until someone told her the battle was done. This time—she climbed those battlements and saw the army coming from the direction everyone expected the least.
“Humans. That’s a Human army. The Five Families?”
“I’m counting banners—it’s all five. What are they doing here?”
They were marching across the Floodplains as the Antinium, surrounding Liscor like a sea, pivoted to them. And they shone. Zevara saw a pink banner flying ahead of the others. Twisting vines around a flower. The vines might look like snakes—and petals might fall from that sharp bloom—but it looked proud.
It was the most beautiful thing Zevara could remember seeing. She turned her head.
“What banner is that?”
She had asked that later, but a Drake squinted and then spoke.
“That’s…House Reinhart.”
Then Zevara saw a company halting on the Floodplains. So distant that the Antinium with silver blades pointed, and the Black Tide turned to meet them. Even this single army outnumbered the Humans. But it was not numbers the north had sent.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart was sixteen years old when she first laid eyes on Liscor. The helmet was so hot and uncomfortable as it pinned her sweaty hair to her skin. But she kept it on her head. She had been warned that being struck by an arrow, even the primitive ones the Antinium used, would be a terrible way to die before the battle began.
This was it. She was still shaking with the effort it had cost her. The head of House Reinhart—was a month into her new position. Her father and mother were abed with shock. She had claimed Reinhart’s bitter throne. And in the doing, pulled the north with her.
“Magnolia. Stay behind me if we enter the fighting.”
Ressa was whispering to her. Magnolia barely heard her. She was not the war-leader here. That would be foolishness. Yet she was one of five. [Knights] armed with poisoned lances were waiting behind her.
To the right—stood Golems. War Golems, gleaming metal and ceramics. Steel and gem and magic.
House Terland.
House Wellfar’s folk were uneasy on land, but they stood, many armed with dual blades or a wand in their offhands, not shields. They were sandwiched between Reinhart and Veltras.
The most martial family of the five held one side, the western flank. House El, the east. Terland’s Golems stood at the vanguard. Magnolia saw three dozen banners from the [Lords] and [Ladies] of Veltras.
Forest rangers. Mountain folk. Warriors drawn from the vast Vale Forest. Even [Druids] like the barefoot man, the [Druid] of the Vale Forest’s own Circle, Nalthal…she didn’t know the rest of his name.
He was so important he stood right behind the [Lord] who was riding with the other scions of the Five Families. It had taken all her ability to persuade the head of House Veltras to come, but when he had—he had left his son to defend the north.
Then, old Linter Veltras had been second to pledge his armies to break the Antinium in the south. He was entirely grey as he held his ancestral sword at his side, shield already raised. But their war leader was not even the leaders of House Terland.
House Wellfar had not sent any one leader as they did not operate that way. But the twins, Petra and Ulva Terland, were riding upon actual Golem Steeds and raring to charge. The fearless twins of Terland were followed by more Golems than people. Yet their warleader was speaking.
“We have made it after all, Lady Magnolia. The Drakes’ city still stands.”
“Hah. It’s smaller than I remember. All this work to save Liscor. After all this time, I never thought I’d ride to the defense of Drakes.”
A fiery-haired woman was riding left, trying to get a view of the Antinium. Lady Maviola El was growing old, but her hair refused to turn grey. Her older brother glared at her until she quieted.
“Enough talk. Ladies Petra, Ulva. You have the center. Lord Linter. House Veltras will cut across the walls and hold off the southern approach with Wellfar. House El will storm the vanguard with Terland. Lady Reinhart. You are with me. I would advise you to keep well within the vanguard. You need not sally forth.”
“Lord Fulviolo El. I cannot demand the Five Families fight if I am not willing to risk my own life in the process.”
The scion of House El looked at her and nodded as if he couldn’t see the terror on her face or bile on her tongue. Then—he lifted a hand.
“Raise the flags of the Five Families. We have come again and again across these lands in war. We have waged battles against Dragons and called every Drake and Gnoll our enemy in other times. Today, though, I see a blight that unites us all. From Rhir’s spawning grounds onto our soil. Izril will not be engulfed in any Black Tide today. Now—in the name of Izril! To Liscor’s gates!”
Fulviolo El kicked his charger into action and drew a sword. With his other hand—up came a crossbow from El’s workshops. It fired a glowing bolt across the land. Magnolia saw it curve and little wings open as it flew impossibly high and fast.
Burning as miniature spells propelled it forwards. Seeking a target. The highest-leveled individual on the field.
Down it came like a glowing black raven made of death—and the Slayer twisted. He leapt, slashing—the Vortex Bolt imploded; a cluster of Antinium were dragged into nothingness. Fulviolo’s crossbow reloaded in his hands as a fiery red bolt cycled into position from an interior chamber, and he aimed it at the Slayer.
But the Prognugator simply lifted one of his silver blades—and pointed. Then came thunder. The House of El’s riders charged after Fulviolo, already firing impossibly far with their artisans’ weapons.
“Terland’s Golems, honor your designs! Now—forwards!”
Petra leapt. Magnolia saw her brace—the four-legged spider-Golem jumped, and the [Lady] was firing the turret-mounted spells from the top. War Golems ran after them as Ulva raced her horse forwards after Petra.
“Reinhart! Show them a serpent’s kiss!”
Ressa shouted; Magnolia had entirely forgotten her part. The Humans were racing, racing down after Fulviolo in a charge and screams that filled her ears. But it seemed like their foe had no limit.
The Antinium were moving towards them. It seemed like the sea itself had engulfed the lands.
Soldiers and Workers pressed forwards, shrieking, mandibles opening and closing—ignoring the explosions tearing apart their ranks.
Magnolia looked around for her allies and realized she was riding too fast. She was poised at the head of that dangerous vanguard following Fulviolo—and almost upon the Antinium.
Almost—but then something raced across the ground like shadows without owners.
[Assassins] leapt forwards, throwing daggers, slashing, leaping into the first ranks of Antinium and then vanishing. Magnolia saw mithril wires cutting a group of Soldiers to bits as a laughing man saluted her. Then—she felt the vanguard engulfing her again.
House Byres, Pryde behind her Ulta banners and her father and mother, Lady Bethal probably having to be restrained by her retainers, Lady Zanthia—
Then she heard the screech of Antinium. Saw the first lances begin to dip, and House El’s weapons were on fire. A laughing [Lady] followed her brother into battle as crossbows snapped one more time before they met.
House Veltras charged next to the first Golems, who flung themselves at a foe as alien and fearless as they were. A [Druid] roared and even the Antinium flinched as he changed and a bear from legends hit their ranks.
Then Magnolia Reinhart was staring down at the first Antinium biting, flailing at her as she rode into their lines. She lifted her sword with a cry of fear as her lessons fled her mind. Thousands of [Soldiers] came behind her, and Ressa was throwing knives as she raised a shield to cover Magnolia’s other side.
That was the hour when the Five Families of Izril were whole. Before a Goblin King broke the flowers into pieces. Two decades and more past…
 
——
 
The vision was not limited to Magnolia Reinhart herself. It struck people who saw her—but especially ones who had a connection to that day.
Who had been there.
She herself…saw only one more thing in that vision. And that was a wary, furious, and angry Drake who halted at the head of his own battered army and saw Humans around his beloved city.
She remembered he had cursed them at first—before Zel Shivertail talked sense into him.
This time, General Sserys of Liscor looked at Magnolia Reinhart. He seemed tired as he sat upon a rock. She still tasted vomit; she had thrown up after the battle and wanted never to feel that terror again.
“I am dead, you know. This Skill…can’t bring me back. It’s a good attempt, but it’s not me.”
That was what his ghost said. Magnolia’s lips moved as she wiped at her mouth.
“I suppose everything has limits. I apologize. Erin Solstice meant to give me a boon.”
“I know.”
The Drake’s eyes glittered. He sat there another second, then rose slowly. He was holding that sword he carried, green with Antinium blood.
“We’re all dead. Lord Linter. Fulviolo El?”
“He fell against the Goblin King. Maviola El passed away last year. Petra fell in the Second Antinium War. Ulva…Ulva is alive.”
But shattered. The Drake accepted this like a [Soldier], just blinking as he heard it.
“All of them but two. Zel’s gone. I’m dead. And here you are. I never liked you. I thought you wanted to take advantage of the south. I’ve been wrong before. Now here you are. Erin Solstice wants a boon of me? Then take it. I have nothing to give you that is mine. Not leadership. Not skill with a sword. Just this day.”
His eyes seemed to glow. He held out the sword, hilt-first, and Magnolia lifted it. And it was a heavy blade in her hands, clumsy. But the Drake grabbed her arm. So tightly his claws dug into her skin despite the armor.
“I have nothing for you, Magnolia Reinhart. But if you need something—let them remember who you were. Let them remember this day.”
His grip tightened until it became almost unbearable—and Magnolia Reinhart felt…
Younger again. She turned her head, and there she stood in The Wandering Inn. There was Lord Alman Sanito, Pryde, and they saw a battle that some had been at.
Some—had only heard of.
And she was younger, then. A younger woman. Younger than Erin Solstice—and it was here when Magnolia Reinhart had been beloved by Izril. It was this moment that the boon called them back to.
 
[Temporary Skill: Recall My Greatest Hour assigned.]
 
——
 
A vision. A vision to help her speak and remind them who she was.
Magnolia Reinhart’s deed of uniting the north to rescue the south was two decades behind her. The goodwill had faded, tarnished.
It was a long time ago, yes. But that was the lesson she had taken in grace. They would forget. Only a precious few would remember you without fail. Most might never know how much it had meant.
Erin Solstice and Sserys intended to remind them. It was twenty years ago and people changed. But you should at least know who she had been.
It was a Skill worthy of Magnolia Reinhart. Worthy of Erin, and of Sserys. It did what all three of them wanted.
Magnolia Reinhart walked across The Wandering Inn. Up and out of the center of the [World’s Eye Theatre], down the hallway, through the common room of the inn, and towards the portal door. Head held high. Her wake carried that memory with her, and it struck everyone a different way. It was a gift and desires comingled.
Especially, perhaps, Magnolia’s. For there was a Dragon who looked down at the girl who had rode at the head of so many—moved the north to save the south because it was something he would have been proud of.
Because he had taught her. He sat in one of the comfortable chairs of the theatre, eyes wide, hand clutching the armrest. And Teriarch—
Remembered.
 
——
 
He saw that moment where Magnolia Reinhart and the Five Families charged the Antinium. As if he too had seen it.
