Erin waited until Ulvama hopped in the water and Nanette followed. Ulvama was wearing lightweight clothing so jumped in, but Nanette went to take off her robes, which would be a swimming hazard. Erin made everyone shuffle off so Nanette could jump in, then closed the door.
“If they’re in danger, I’ll know, I think. Okay. Where next?”
“Can we get a spread of these rooms? I want to see.”
Relc was plaintive, and Erin hesitated. She didn’t…want to show them the real door and the words at the end of the corridor. Some words had danger, and Ekirra was not trustworthy.
“Sure. Can I get—four of the doors? Ones I haven’t been in for a long time. So no snow, not the flying spot, and not the relaxing garden. Or the mud one!”
She didn’t know if it would work—but then four doors were right there. Relc jumped as they appeared on the hill.
“Ancestors! This is so cool. This door looks like sandstone!”
He brushed at the worn covering that looked like it fit into some dry climate. Then the padded door, which revealed a room so pink Ekirra gagged.
“Gross! Girl stuff! I don’t wanna go in there. What about…oh.”
The third door made Erin’s skin crawl. She looked up and saw no door—just splintered ash and dark marble flooring. This…was the door that had been blasted open.
“Um. Is that supposed to happen?”
Relc hovered there. Jewel drew her sword slowly, and Erin bit her lip.
“I don’t…know. Let’s not go in there, ok—Nerry!”
The Sariant Lamb trotted through the door instantly. She stared at Erin and then clipclopped further in. Erin exhaled loudly, but Ishkr followed.
“I can go with her, Miss Erin.”
He was fearless of the room! Erin wavered.
“Oh—fine! It’s not for Ekirra, though.”
“I don’t wanna!”
The Gnoll hid behind Relc. He looked so nervous that Erin decided to let him choose. She pointed at the other doors.
“Okay, Ekirra, which door do you want? There are three…”
“No, there’s two! I’m not going in the girly room!”
The Gnoll boy had already excluded the padded room that had belonged to some [Lady] from his list. That left the first door, sandstone, worn and old, and the last. The last…looked like a simple study door. And to Erin’s vague astonishment, it even had a nameplate.
 
Aleieta Reinhart — Personal Study. Does not open for you.
 
“Wait. This is…”
Relc’s eyes focused on the name, and his eyes narrowed slowly. He looked at Erin, and Jewel’s jaw dropped.
“But I thought that was her study!”
Erin pointed at the padded door and realized that must have belonged to someone else with a [Lady]’s personality. This door looked like it belonged in a neat mansion somewhere, and it had elegant wood paneling, the crest of House Reinhart on the door in gold under the nameplate…
“Trapped handle.”
Normen swatted Ekirra’s paw down before he could take it. Everyone recoiled so fast that they nearly fell down the hill.
“What? Why doesn’t anyone warn me of—”
“It’s not setting off my [Trap Sense] badly. Might just be a prank.”
Annoyed, Erin herself grasped the door handle, but nothing happened. As the keybearer, she suspected she was immune to most dangers.
“Don’t safeguard me. Give it to m—yeow!”
The polished brass door handle had an electric charge. Only enough to make Erin’s palms leap off it. She blew on her hands and glared.
“Okay, Aleieta had a dirty sense of humor.”
She wondered how many curious [Maids] or spies or servants would spend all day trying to open her Skill-locked door. Erin turned to Ekirra, and the Gnoll boy had made up his mind.
“I want the sandstone door! I’m not going into any girl’s room! No sir!”
“Alright. But you’re being safe, got it? Relc, Normen, Jewel, you’re all Ekirra’s bodyguards.”
The three looked at each other as Erin waggled a finger at them.
“He doesn’t get hurt. And if the garden hurts him, I’ll burn down the garden.”
She didn’t know if she could threaten her Skill, but she gave it a good try. Then they opened the door and filed through.
That left Erin alone. She counted.
Four in the sandstone door. Three in the drowned door. Two in the blasted doorway…she decided to go through the blasted doorway first, because it might be the most dangerous and Ishkr and Nerry were there alone.
As it happened—the scariest thing in that doorway was what was hidden there. The most dangerous room was the sandstone doorway. The second Jewel stepped through, she was almost immediately attacked.
 
——
 
“Erin? Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] came screeching through the door as Normen pushed her back through. She’d sensed trouble in a minute and come back.
“What’s going on!?”
The first thing she saw through the sandstone doorway was…a chamber. It was round, circular, and, oddly, enclosed. The entire room was probably forty feet across—and the same bland sandstone walls filled the entire dome-chamber.
But there was light. It came from nowhere in particular. Enough to see by. Relc was covering Ekirra with a spear.
“Jewel’s fighting it! Erin—there are people in here!”
“What?”
Erin’s head snapped up. Ekirra was hiding behind Relc, soccer ball ready to throw.
“Stand behind me, Ekirra. Out of the door!”
Erin opened the passage, and Relc cursed as another figure came charging out towards him. He whirled his spear up and made to jab. But the [Spearmaster] couldn’t. He turned it into a block—and a fist sent his feet skidding across the floor as it struck his spear.
“Strong—Erin, get out of here! Jewel!”
Erin saw the Gold-rank [Swashbuckler] swinging her sword in concise strikes, keeping another figure off her. It looked like—a Garuda?
The figure was holding a staff and lashing out as he leapt, raining blows from above. It was an angle Jewel hadn’t much experience in fighting, and she was dodging, ducking heavy blows from overhead.
“Stop! Who are you? Stop or I’ll—[Whirlwind Slash]!”
Jewel went for a cut, and the Garuda just jumped it. He flew across the top of the dome and dropped with the staff aimed down like a spear. Jewel threw herself back.
“I’m coming! Watch—”
Normen had his mace raised. He hadn’t put on the Demas Metal armor—he was training to use it properly—but thundered across the ground like a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings.
The side-charge from a Stitch-man as large as he was nearly took him down. Normen pivoted—and the second figure slammed into him. Down they went, punching and grappling.
Where had that Stitch-man come from? Erin realized these people weren’t talking—and they hadn’t entered the room through the door. She began to suspect something was off instantly. Especially when the fourth figure appeared.
It was a half-Elf with a bow. The half-Elf aimed at Erin Solstice, and the [Innkeeper] froze. She fumbled for her knife—but the half-Elf seemed to regard her and lowered her bow. She stepped back…and faded into the wall.
As if Erin weren’t worth fighting? Then Erin saw Relc fighting the unarmed Human whose every punch made his spear shake.
“Ekirra! Get to—”
The little boy was transfixed like most non combatants were in a fight. He flinched as Relc’s duel came towards him—and then the Human froze. Relc’s spear nearly took him in the chest—as the martial artist stared at Ekirra and backed up. He reset himself, fists raised—and Relc hesitated.
“Huh?”
He glanced at Ekirra and then saw how close they were to the boy. Relc had been defending Ekirra from…
The warrior waited. Relc flexed his claws, and Erin exhaled.
“It’s not attacking Ekirra. Because he’s a kid?”
“I can fight!”
Ekirra piped up. Instantly, a short Gnoll appeared. It seemed as if the figure stepped out of the wall, coalescing into shape—glowing mists taking on more color, turning into features. Even clothing and details like long, baggy pants. A nick in one ear. Erin almost thought it was Mrsha—but it was a dust-colored Gnoll girl who had pale white linen wrapped around both paws. She instantly charged Ekirra, and he ran out of the garden.
“I don’t want to fight! I don’t want to—”
The apparition faded with a look of vague disappointment on her face. A body broke into mist and vanished, and it was uncanny—because it had seemed like that person was too real.
Almost like a memory of someone the owner of the garden had known. Captured beat for beat. Then—Erin realized what was going on.
“It’s a training room! Or a test! Jewel, you can stop fighting! Normen—”
The [Knight] kicked his foe off him or tried—but the other Stitch-man just staggered back, then took Normen down with a waist-level tackle. Jewel shouted back.
“I’m winning! I’m w—”
A staff clocked her on the shoulder, and she stumbled. Relc’s spear was blurring in jabs, but his opponent was deflecting them with his palms away from his chest.
“Guys, you can stop!”
“Give me five minutes! No, wait. One! [Triple Thrust]!”
Relc shouted back. His spear performed three simultaneous attacks—and his opponent just stepped back as all three missed, inches short of his chest.
“Hey! You can’t do that!”
The Drake charged in. Erin opened her mouth—then realized the three fighters were having fun. So was Ekirra.
“Go, Mister Relc! This is so cool!”
Erin had the intense urge to cancel all three apparitions. She stared at the fights in progress and shook her head.
“Weirdos.”
 
——
 
“Everything alright, Miss Erin?”
Ishkr was peering into the sandstone doorway with Nerry. They’d come out at the alarm, and Erin rolled her eyes. She saw he held a cup, ready to throw.
“They’re having fun. Where were we?”
It would take a while for the fighters to clear the test in the sandstone doorway. Meanwhile, Erin returned to the broken doorway, and she realized a few things at once.
This room had actual life in it, not artificial. 
The life was nasty.
This door was one of the most significant she would find, even among the gardens.
“Cockroaches! Come on!”
Erin shuddered, and Nerry spat at a roach on the walls. It hissed at both, and Erin flinched—Nerry just bared her teeth and savagely kicked at one.
“They must have gotten in. I can try to get rid of them. But there are a lot of them.”
This room was a mess. Mold and dirt and—bugs—were everywhere. Erin looked around and instantly regretted returning. She looked at the broken doorway.
“None of them better get in my garden.”
In fact—she saw a few cockroaches trying to explore her garden and instantly freaked out. But they were unable to pass through the invisible barrier. Ishkr hurried out—and came back two minutes later with some pest-poison from Octavia.
“It might not kill them all, but it’s a start. Should I put it down?”
“Yes! And get me a flamethrower!”
Erin was incredibly grossed out, but the bugs seemed wary of her, and while her wheels went over some shells—
“Nerry, I want to go. Nerry?”
The lamb just sneered at her. She trotted past Erin, kicking detritus out of the way. She…she was intent on this room. She stared about, and Erin wheeled back to the entrance. Then…Erin got the distinct impression that she knew whose room this was. She spoke a word, and Ishkr looked up as he began to sweep.
“Cormelex.”
There was no handy nameplate on the door. Nor—from this blasted room—any useful tools at first to identify the owner. Unlike every other room that had overgrown or been filled with snow—but been preserved despite that—
Someone had blown the door open and tried to destroy everything in here. They had hammered the floor, breaking off huge pieces. Blasted what might have been a tapestry on the far walls to ash. Broken stone everywhere and fused some things to melted, dirty glass.
But Erin Solstice still saw…traces that hinted it was the Lucifen who had owned this place. For one thing—the motif.
Red and black.
Not very subtle, especially when Ryoka had hinted at what ‘Lucifen’ meant. It matched the color of that note on the door. Also…there was a kind of horned element to this room.
“Is that a statue of a person?”
Erin stared down at the upper half of a head. Only—it was a bald, domed head but for where a pair of very diabolic horns rose out of the skull.
“That’s no Minotaur.”
Ishkr was a good test-person to have here. Nerry certainly seemed to know or suspect that a Lucifen had owned this room. She had access to the Sariant Lamb’s intelligence and gave Erin a significant look as she kicked a nest of roaches and unearthed something glowing on the floor. Erin shuddered…then tried to piece together the statue.
“Ishkr, can you see if there’s anything that’s a clue in here? Damn. If only I could stand. What kind of statue were you? Where’s your pieces?”
She rolled around, but someone had pulverized the entire piece. If only she had more! Erin saw there were five vast pillars around this circular domed room.
Not a hint of grass. Nothing like the original room. It was like some kind of grand, somber chamber. But there was a glowing runework in the center, and Erin…
“Someone really must have hated the owner. Is this you, Cormelex? If only this was my inn. I could…use [Partial Reconstruction]. But that would be cheating, wouldn’t it?”
Erin stared at the statue and thought that was a very Niers-way of thinking. Then she heard a crackling sound of stone on stone.
Erin’s head whirled and Ishkr backed away as a piece of stone lifted—and slowly reattached itself to a wall. Erin’s head swung back to the statue as the half-head turned into a full one. Nerry leapt away with a baah of alarm, and the roaches—shuddered.
It was just a few minor repairs, but it worked! Erin’s jaw fell open.
“My Skill—can I repair this place? Do I want to?”
“Why not?”
Ishkr seemed delighted by the fact that the [Partial Reconstruction] also did some sweeping for him. He glanced around the room and shook his head.
“Even Silveran won’t enjoy all the bugs. I think. Maybe he’d eat them. Erin, I think we had better call him in for a day before continuing to explore. This place is disgusting, and neither Nerry nor I want roach eggs in our fur. I also see centipedes over there…let me see if I can put more poison down.”
He trotted off into the darkness, and Erin was inclined to agree with him. Then…she saw something on the ground.
Nerry was still unearthing it between the five pillars, so she didn’t realize what she was trying to uncover. But Erin’s intake of breath made the Sariant Lamb look up—then race over and climb Erin’s chair to get a look. When Nerry saw it, the lamb exhaled.
In between the five pillars, dominating the center of the room, was…something magical. Or something more than magic. Between the lamb and Erin’s Skill, enough of it was visible for Erin to see the basis of what it had been.
