I never found it. Nor leveled. I was unsatisfied with this, but I have no right to complain. Pomle is still free.
 
“Do we…do we tell someone about this, Erin?”
Garia was feeling at a tooth she feared was loose. Fierre looked excited, having punched her way through the room, and half the people here wanted to continue training there. Erin looked down at the journal, then investigated the scrolls.
“It looks like—footwork. Punching moves…wow. I like this better than the dance.”
“What dance? Can I have that?”
Garia practically snatched the scrolls out of Erin’s hands and looked at the simple, easy-to-understand diagrams. Erin let her have them. She rested her chin on her hands.
“We can send this to Pomle. But I wonder…if it would help.”
Jewel looked at her as if she were crazy.
“It’s the Strongest of Pomle. They were almost Level 60!”
“Yeah, but they never found the answer. Maybe Pomle knows it. Aren’t they at war? I’ll send a [Message]…but this garden doesn’t have much in it.”
Erin looked around. Of all the gardens—this one was the least developed. The owner had made it a reflection of their reality and won a nation’s freedom. But they had never asked if something else lay beyond.
They had not been worthy of the key. Erin…she inhaled and exhaled, then turned.
“I think this is enough exploring for one day. Jewel, how are you feeling?”
“Me? Good. I can keep exploring! It was—fun.”
The Gold-rank Captain looked nervous, but Erin just smiled at her. The [Innkeeper] nodded.
“Well, why don’t you come back tomorrow and we’ll do it again? Same time? Actually, do you have a room in the inn? We probably have an opening on the third floor.”
Jewel inhaled and looked around. Slowly, but surely—she felt like she was becoming part of the inn’s crew. It remained to see…she felt at her black eye and winced.
It remained to see whether that would be a good thing or not.
 
——
 
When Ryoka Griffin jogged in, she was so upset at missing exploring the gardens she insisted on seeing each room—but two minutes of walking on dead insect shells with her bare feet carried her out of the Lucifen’s garden.
She did take a few minutes to get her butt kicked by one of the phantom martial artists too. By the time Garia and Fierre helped carry her out of the training room, Erin Solstice was sitting back in the World’s Eye Theatre.
“Six hours. Thirteen minutes.”
“Maybe just round down to six hours?”
Wil was yawning; they’d been in the wagon all day, and they were setting up a camp for the evening. Gireulashia was out running with Pisces, Ksmvr, Peki, Merrik, and a reluctant Ceria to train up their bodies. The [Lord] peered at Erin.
“It seems very low. The cooldown on your Skill, that is. Although Venaz noticed something. He claims that he couldn’t re-use the Skill even if he wanted to.”
“No. I don’t think it works like that. I wanted to teach him a lesson. So I think the boon lasts for a shorter time. Lyonette’s lasts a long time.”
“Can you try a powerful boon, then? One meant to last a long while? Or is that…personal?”
Wil suggested tentatively. He had realized that Erin was rather like a Foliana. The Professor sometimes talked about what it was like to have a superior who was strange. You had to learn how to convince them to do things, not butt heads.
In the same way, Erin was like Three-Color Stalker. Pushing her got you Venazed. But he was also reminded of a lesson Perorn had held the same week as Niers’ instructions on how to deal with prickly subordinates.
Perorn Fleethoof had entitled her lesson ‘dealing with erratic superiors’. It described working for talented individuals whose ego needed to be checked and how to refocus them and balance support with mindful confrontation.
She had invited Niers’ special class. The Titan hadn’t spoken to her all week.
Wil was wondering if he could say something tactful here, but Erin surprised him. She sat up in her chair.
“I can do that, Wil. I think. But it has to matter. It can’t be for ‘fun’. I have…someone in mind. You were right. Niers was right. I have been slacking on my Skills. If I’m going to use them, though—it’ll be for fun. Or to knock down a Walled City.”
Wil…shivered. He could see why Niers liked her. She was way, way too intense for him.
“What did you have in mind, Miss Erin? I can time it, at least. Both duration and cooldown.”
He was fumbling for a clock and calendar as Erin Solstice looked around the theatre. Behind her, the guests were bickering.
Mrsha was fussing over Ekirra’s fur, picking out some burrs he hadn’t realized he’d gotten on his tail. Nanette was reading her new book as Ulvama peered over her shoulder, pretending to look bored.
Relc was flexing an arm as he described the ‘fun’ garden to Menolit, who looked intrigued by the idea of a non-lethal but serious spar. Normen, elsewhere in the inn, was helping Jewel set up a room. Erin could sense Ishkr serving Seborn a drink at the bar, and…
And there were more guests. Ryoka, Fierre, and Garia, punching shoulders and laughing like a bunch of violent lads after taking on the Pomle Garden’s group fight.
And in the back, speaking with a young Drake who hung on his every word and practically his arm—was Demsleth.
He was watching Ryoka, who would occasionally focus on him. But Demsleth was also looking at a [Lady] who had walked in and nodded to him.
Magnolia, Rafaema, Ryoka.
He seemed uncertain of who he should spend the most time talking to, and Rafaema was the one he understood the most.
He did not remember Ryoka, nor Magnolia. He was…aware of the debt he owed to Ryoka and that he had known Magnolia a long time.
Perhaps he even liked them. But Rafaema was his kind, a lost young Dragon, and it seemed to Erin that Demsleth, Teriarch, intended to talk to her the most.
“Hello, Erin. I just had to stop by when I heard you were causing a ruckus. In the House of Minos no less! I will be jumping around Izril, north and south, but perhaps I might return here more often. If only to use your door.”
The [Lady] of House Reinhart smiled at Erin. And the [Innkeeper] looked at her. Erin tried to roll over, but Magnolia came down to her.
“I’ve been checking out my Skills all day. It’s so stressful.”
“This is why I quite like having passive Skills. But I do appreciate you working hard.”
Magnolia patted Erin’s hand gently. The [Innkeeper] nodded, then whispered with the jolly old man in the corner of her eye.
“Do you know if a Skill would work on…Demsleth?”
Magnolia’s eyes sharpened. She exhaled slowly.
“No. No, I think he would resist most of them. Like magic or healing potions—the stronger one gets, the harder it is to affect them. And he is not like you or I.”
Her eyes sharpened, and Erin Solstice nodded. She had thought that was the case. There was a kind of balance here.
Nor did she think she necessarily knew what fit Teriarch aside from…himself. There was a kind of logic to Erin’s [Boon of the Guest].
She was realizing more about her Skill than the [Strategists] could help her with. Her Skill worked like Erin’s brain. Matching people up. Like…
Nanette and Ulvama. An unlikely pair, but the two had similar classes, and their dissimilarities worked together. Ulvama could be protective of children, but she also liked independent people who took care of themselves.
Similarly, Nanette respected people with views different from hers, but she couldn’t be bullied. So it was a good pair.
Just like, for all it had been traumatic, Venaz and Mrsha could see eye-to-eye. Or teach each other. In this moment, Erin did have a compulsion to use her boon.
There was no immediate need to do it like Rabbiteater. But that was not the only time you needed to give someone something valuable. And of all the people in this inn—at this time—she had the most kinship with…
Magnolia Reinhart saw the [Magical Innkeeper] look up slowly. And if the [Lady] of House Reinhart had learned to respect what Erin had become—the [Innkeeper] had far more sympathy for Magnolia Reinhart.
“You’re going back to the Drakes? Trying to get them to sign your treaty? And the Five Families? That’s…beyond a headache.”
Magnolia smiled. She looked up at the old Dragon.
“Someone must. And don’t you fear, Miss Solstice. I am one of the Five Families. The other four can be bullied. The Drakes will be harder, and the Gnolls…but we must all have a great task. Yours is even worse than mine, I think. I will simply be cleaning house as I collect signatures. Very simple, traditional activities.”
Visma looked at Lady Reinhart, eavesdropping on her and Erin with a kind of awe…because even her little mind got that Magnolia was making allusions. It occurred to her that true style was a [Lady] sipping tea while her rival’s mansions were burning down. Possibly with her rival completely ignorant of the fact.
Erin Solstice smiled briefly. She looked at Magnolia…and her mouth opened.
“Magnolia. Would you care to be the third person I give a boon to today? It might last a while. But I’d like to help you.”
Ressa frowned, and Magnolia blinked in complete surprise. Lyonette’s head snapped around in alarm.
“Magnolia, Erin? Er—Lady Reinhart?”
“Why not? It should work on her. And if anyone needs it…”
The two women held each other’s gaze a second. Magnolia’s face warred with a bit of…indignation. That she had to accept help from someone less than half her age. That Erin had caught up. That she thought Magnolia needed help. All of this compounded by the fact that it was true.
But the [Innkeeper] was serious, and Magnolia Reinhart noticed that Erin’s hat was upon her head. It always was, but…
“I don’t think you mean to give me a boon of, ah, Bird, do you, Erin?”
Magnolia chuckled lightly, and Erin laughed.
“No. I don’t. Can it be a surprise? It might not even work—but I’ll do it if you trust me.”
She looked Magnolia Reinhart in the eyes, and the [Lady]’s hands clenched her skirts for a second. Then—she nodded.
“I’ll accept it.”
“Lady Reinhart…”
Ressa murmured, but Magnolia stepped back. She smoothed her skirts and then stood as the rest of the guests looked up. Lady Pryde stopped sipping one of Grimalkin’s health smoothies—the only person who’d even try them—and the Sinew Magus uncrossed his arms and looked at Erin.
“Excuse me. Excuse me…is this it? Hello, Erin—”
Chaldion of Pallass hobbled into the [World’s Eye Theatre], having pushed past Erin’s bouncers in Alcaz and Jewel’s team. The two huge bodyguards might have helped with that. He waved at Erin—but she barely glanced at him.
She was focusing on Magnolia, and the [Lady] was watching her. The Grand Strategist found a seat, panting, and Ishkr appeared with a drink, sighing. Then—Bird looked down from his tower and used the garden door to appear in the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Is something happening? Hello, old person. I used to know your name, but I do not like you, so I forgot it on purpose.”
He sat next to Chaldion, and the Drake half-glared at him. But Bird had felt it too. It wasn’t even a patented Solstice Moment. It was the kind of thing that drew Jewel into the theatre, and Normen too.
A static in the air. A swirl of something moving across the inn, into Erin’s fingertip as she lifted it. Like Venaz—only stronger. It was…heavy.
The Horns and Strategists and Gire came racing back as Wil watched. Erin Solstice was aiming at Magnolia, and now the [Lady] was deliberately not flinching.
Who did Erin think Magnolia should gain the boon of? Or perhaps—who did she think that Magnolia Reinhart was worthy of?
The inn was changing. Erin Solstice was growing older. Not a young woman any longer. So she called on it. She wanted to do it—and the world was telling her it wasn’t going to work.
It wasn’t fair. She ignored it. The [Innkeeper] focused—for she knew she had every right to it. So she inhaled, exhaled, and called on the very foundation of her tired limbs in her chair. He had been right here.
In this place. In her very bones. Magnolia’s eyes widened as Erin Solstice focused on her. The [Innkeeper]’s lips moved.
“[Boon of the Guest: General Sserys of Liscor].”
Her finger pointed at Magnolia as Chaldion choked on his drink. Grimalkin seized the railing, and Lady Pryde spat out her drink. Magnolia Reinhart—
Blinked—
And the world vanished. But not just for her, this time.
For…everyone. And when she walked out of that [World’s Eye Theatre], Magnolia Reinhart was different.
 
——
 
The first people outside of The Wandering Inn to see the effects of the boon were the guests of The Adventurer’s Haven. Tyrion Veltras was trying the handle of the [Portal Door].
“Why won’t it open?”
“The [Doorgnoll] knows it’s you, Father. See?”
Hethon marched over to the door, and it swung open. Liska shut the door on Tyrion.
[Quick Doorslam].
It was the worst Skill in the entire world. Along with [Lock Door]. But hey, it was pretty funny. Hethon reappeared as Tyrion fumed. Someone coughed.
“Er…is the door in use? We’d like to head to Liscor, Lord Veltras. But we quite understand if it’s busy!”
Lord Alman Sanito was very nervous about angering the [Lord] of House Veltras, but they’d been standing for six minutes. The Haven’s [Lords] and [Ladies] were preparing to leave the Haven. Once it passed Liscor…there was some talk of staying at the Haven as it passed the Bloodfields, but it would get dangerous soon, and the Drake lands were coming up.
They were nearly at Liscor. In fact, they were rolling across the Floodplains.
“I believe I’ll go for a ride.”
Tyrion stepped back, glowering. Jericha and Ullim sighed as they realized he was going to try the manual way to get to the inn. Unfortunately, he was a hop and a skip from The Wandering Inn.
By the time Tyrion got to the front door of the inn, eight minutes had passed. He heard a clamor from inside and debated his entrance. He had purchased a bottle of Quellae Cider and wondered if it was a good gift to get back on Erin Solstice’s good graces. Maybe he should hand it to a Goblin?
Tyrion Veltras tried the handle of The Wandering Inn. It rattled a few times, and he stared at it. Then he heard a familiar voice.
“No Tyrions allowed.”
Liska was enjoying her life. Not only was she allowed to bar one of the most powerful Humans from the inn and be rude, she was also—
Counterlevelling.
 
——
 
As Lord Alman Sanito walked towards the common room of the inn to see about a guest-pass for his family to go to Pallass, he heard…nothing. Silence. Well, breathing, but an odd silence had enveloped a normally noisy inn. He opened the door, putting a hand on the hilt of his sword. Monsters? Was his family in danger? Or—
