“If this is because it makes you important and you’re declining that—that ship has sailed.”
Venaz harrumphed, and Erin shook her head.
“No. I get Lyonette’s [Boon of the Princess] is great. And the few times I’ve used my [Boon of the Guest] it’s also powerful, and that’s important. But…how can I describe it?”
She met Lyonette’s puzzled gaze.
“Lyonette, is it—personal when you use the [Boon of the Princess]?”
The [Princess] in question exhaled—and no, she was not trying to hide her identity in front of the inn’s guests. They would have laughed at her if she kept up even the hint of a pretense at this point.
“No, Erin…I feel as though it’s important, and it was hard when I gave it to…to someone far away.”
She avoided Wil’s pointed stare. Erin shook her head.
“That’s different from me, then. Lyonette’s boon feels regal. Like someone giving something from a throne. But mine? Mine feels…intimate. It’s not like bestowing the boon lightly. It’s from one person to another. Even—even if they’re dead.”
“Fascinating. An emotional component. It must be awkward if it stops you from leveraging any available asset.”
Venaz muttered as he wrote. That ticked off Erin again. She glowered at him.
“Hey, Venaz. Do you often get on the Titan’s nerves?”
“Every day. My points still stand.”
The Minotaur retorted. Erin Solstice inhaled and exhaled.
“Well, maybe you don’t get that the boon is more than just—even intimacy. It’s not a boon from a [Princess]. It can be Zel Shivertail’s boon. This is from them to you. And for a moment—for a while—it will define you. Pisces, what did you feel when I used the boon on you?”
He hesitated.
“Er…Miss Griffin’s boon was mostly just helpful. I felt the wind in force, and it was certainly a helpful combat asset.”
Erin stared at him, so annoyed the [Necromancer] felt like he had to apologize. But then a glowing green faerie swooped down and whispered in Erin’s ear. The [Strategists] couldn’t see more than a blob, and Venaz wrote ‘green Winter Sprite’ and underlined it a few times.
“Oh. Oh, that’s right! That’s because Ryoka, er—doesn’t count.”
“You mean she really has no levels? So the Skill doesn’t work as thoroughly on her?”
All the [Strategists] sat forwards, and Erin scowled.
“This is why no one likes you people. You pay attention to what’s being said. Can we get on with the testing? Please?”
Wil nodded.
“Let’s do the lowest-level boon you can. On…well, does distance matter?”
“Nope! Probably not. I haven’t noticed a problem.”
“Hm. Then can you do a weak one close to you? Then we’ll time it and do it again…maybe on someone here to calculate for distance.”
Erin liked that. She looked around and raised her voice.
“Any volunteers?”
The cast of the inn looked about. Lyonette raised a nervous hand, and so did Ishkr, Kevin, and a number of guests. Erin eventually pointed to Lyonette.
“Aha! I choose you, Lyonette! And who’s the booner?”
“Not Mrsha. With respect, sweetie, I don’t feel like growing fur.”
Mrsha scowled hugely at Lyonette, who considered this to be a very real probability. Erin thought hard.
“What about…[Boon of the Guest: Pebblesnatch]!”
She pointed, and Lyonette gasped.
 
——
 
It felt like she had a little Goblin holding her hand. When Lyonette looked up and stopped flinching, she felt…
Restless. As if she hadn’t realized how much good food was around her. Or how much she wanted to…make something.
“Princess, are you alright?”
Ushar was worried, but Lyonette just ran a claw—hand through her hair. Then she looked around and jumped.
She felt like she had just seen Pebblesnatch. But the Goblin wasn’t visiting the inn. Yet it seemed as though the Goblin was there, just in the corner of her eye with that silly, oversized hat. And she had a ladle, and Lyonette…wanted to cook.
There was nothing more than that desire. A little Goblin stood there, waiting, as Lyonette heard a voice speaking in her head.
 
[Temporary Skill – Cooking: No Bad Poos assigned!]
[Temporary Skill – Goblin Cookbook assigned!]
 
“Oh, really now.”
Lyonette was exasperated and embarrassed when the [Strategists] demanded to know what Skills she’d gotten. Mrsha fell over, rolling with laughter.
“Weird. Did Rabbiteater get Skills too?”
Erin muttered as Lyonette repeated them. The [Princess] shrugged.
“You gave him his in a fight. Maybe he was busy. I certainly heard my—delightful Skills. Now, am I supposed to try them out?”
“That helps. But we’ll time Erin’s Skill. She should be able to tell when it’s available to be reassigned.”
So, Lyonette headed into the kitchen and realized there was a side-effect to Erin’s boon Skill immediately that trumped hers.
 
——
 
“This beef sucks. You. Give breading. We make it good.”
“Yes, chef.”
Apparently, one of the things Goblins knew was how to bread and fry poorer cuts of meat. Or did Pebblesnatch know it? All Lyonette knew was that she was hammering a piece of cheap tenderloin with a hammer and poking Calescent.
And the Goblin [Spice Chef] was meekly obeying her! And she was speaking like a Goblin! Calescent seemed just as confused by it.
“Why am I speaking like this? Ooh. Nut flavor. Is good flavor. Argh, I’m doing it again!”
“You’re speaking like a real Goblin. Feels right to obey you. Like [Chieftain of the Kitchen].”
Calescent shrugged, but helpfully. He hurried around as Lyonette breaded her steak with, of all things, a mix of flour and ground nuts. It was an odd choice, but she soon realized that if you fried the steak in some animal fat and gave it a distinctly acorn flavor, you had some real food out of inferior ingredients. And while she was at it, why didn’t she mix up a stew with some dandelion roots? Not the stems or flowers, but the leaves and roots…
By the time about twenty minutes had passed, Lyonette had drawn half the Goblins in the inn into the kitchen, and they were sipping dandelion tea and munching on the acorn-steak and calling it the ‘best food they’d eaten in a long time’.
It’s super tasty!
Mrsha agreed as she and Nanette got a bite. Bemused, Lyonette protested.
“But it’s practically terrible beef! We might feed it to pigs in Calanfer rather than cook it up!”
“Good seasoning, though. And good Goblin cooking. Makes me remember being on a hunt. Very practical.”
Numbtongue was complimentary. Octavia…enraged.
“My dandelions! Oh, come on. At least it proves Erin’s Skill is powerful. That is lovely steak.”
“I didn’t know Goblins made acorn-batter for meat. I will remember it.”
The proudest person of all was Calescent. He seemed—touched—by the fact that this was a Goblin recipe, and Lyonette looked at him and didn’t say another bad word.
“Maybe Erin can give you a Goblin boon, Calescent? She’s going to do it again—”
Ishkr had popped into the kitchen to tell them Erin thought it was already reusable. Surprising to say the least, but Octavia’s eyes widened.
“Wait! I’ve benefited from it—can she use Master Saliss’ boon on me?”
“What if you go naked?”
This wasn’t a negative in Numbtongue’s eyes, just a possibility. Octavia shook her head.
“I’ll take nudity if it means I can brew like he does!”
 
——
 
There was a flood of guests clamoring for Erin’s Skill when Lyonette got back to the theatre. But unfortunately—Erin had agreed to do a long-range test to see if that affected things.
“Twenty minutes is extraordinary, Miss Erin. Can you do someone around Pebblesnatch’s level? She was only Level 15 in her major class, right?”
“That’s right. She’s getting better, but, uh, still, she’s young. Super good for her age. Who wants to get the Skill over there?”
“Me!”
Everyone but Yvlon and Pisces raised their hands. The two more serious Horns had reservations. Yvlon’s was personality related. Pisces had already been booned by Ryoka, and he’d had the distinct desire to go barefoot for the rest of the day. He’d heard from Montressa that nudity had not been off the table when she had gotten Saliss’ boon.
“—and that time Montressa gained no Skills, but she grew exceptionally dangerous with edged weaponry.”
That didn’t dissuade the other volunteers. Erin looked around, hmming loudly.
“Well…let’s do another boon, then! Boon of the Guest: Visma…wait a second, it doesn’t feel right. It’s not working.”
“Has Visma ever been a guest by herself, Erin?”
“Drat. No. Not really. She’s been on playdates, but her family pays for her. Psst, Mrsha, bring Visma in as a paying customer sometime.”
All she has is four copper.
“We’ll do a special deal. I need to take children’s money from them sometime. Who else is low-level…how about you, Mrsha?”
I’m super-high level! I’m Mrsha the Leveller!
The Gnoll was instantly outraged. Erin patted her on the head.
“Yes, you are! But, uh, Pebblesnatch might beat you in max levels. Come on, don’t you want to see what awesome powers you give people?”
Well, when you say it like that…I agree! Boon my great talents upon the plebian peonic masses!
Mrsha beamed, and someone put down their hand. Venaz snorted.
“I withdraw my request. Anyone but the silly child, please.”
Erin Solstice’s head snapped around as Mrsha fell over, wounded. Gireulashia had come to join the scene, and she punched Venaz in the arm. Erin, though…
“Hey Venaz, want to see if I can give a boon to an unwilling person? Also—you’ll eat your words about Mrsha.”
“Please, on both accounts. I don’t know if I can be entirely unwilling as I am curious, but consider me unimpressed.”
The Minotaur drew himself up as Erin Solstice narrowed her eyes balefully at him. Then…Wil felt a prickle on the back of his neck, and he had a thought.
“Wait a second. It occurs to me just now that the [Boon of the Guest] might have another parameter. What if it’s not about the level of the guest—or it’s not just that? What if it’s how hard Erin throws—”
Too late. The [Innkeeper] thrust out a finger slowly, as if dragging it through an underwater world. She spoke with laden tones as Venaz’s smug look turned to one of worry.
“[Boon of the Guest: Mrsha]!”
And for Venaz the Minotaur, the world turned black.
 
——
 
“Huh?”
The Minotaur flinched backwards and caught himself. He raised one hand—shielding his face—then turned.
“I don’t feel—Wil? Peki? House of Minos!”
He turned—and he was no longer sitting on the wagon. He was standing in the midst of the snow, high across some kind of mountain range in the winter. It fit the season, at least, but Venaz somehow felt like he was at the wrong…time.
His feet crunched in the snow as he turned.
“Miss Solstice? Did you use the Skill on me? Miss Solstice?”
That had to be what was happening. He had been told the same thing happened to one of the people Erin had used the Skill on, a ‘Rabbiteater’…but this had to be a powerful effect.
Perhaps one of her other Skills elongated time? He knew she’d been lying to him about all her Skills. But Venaz was still uncertain why Mrsha would cause this. And that…was because he thought of her as a child.
A willful child, one who had survived being a Doombringer and a war, but still a little rascal with all the intelligence and personality of…a child. They were to be indulged and safeguarded, but he was an adult.
Perhaps no one had told him Mrsha’s full story. And perhaps—Erin Solstice had informed the boon. For now, the Minotaur turned and realized he had no weapons upon him. He stared into the dark night surrounding him, and then he heard voices.
They sounded like howling. He turned once more, and a valley stretched below him. In that valley were Gnolls, fighting. Goblins everywhere.
“House of—”
Venaz reached for a blade he didn’t have. Then he balled his fists and went crashing down the slope. But he never seemed to gain on the sight below him. He slowed…and there he saw the Stone Spears tribe at their end. Fighting and falling as the Goblin Lord’s forces overran them and a single Wind Runner carried a brown-furred Gnoll away. Venaz heard a long howl, and his blood chilled.
Always and always, Ryoka Griffin carried Mrsha away through the snow.
But this time, she was staring at him. Staring into Venaz’s eyes, her little brown ones lost as her fur changed color. Though she could not speak—he felt her grief and loss and guilt like a physical thing.
“What—what is happening?”
The Minotaur’s chest was rising and falling with the desire to fight. He looked around, angry at Erin Solstice, even as he felt a wrenching pain of loss in his chest. He whirled—
—Then he was in a prison cell. One made of metal and wood, so crude he tried to break out of it at once. That was before he smelled the rancid odor of something feral—dung and piss—and looked up to see a great beast hunched over an altar.
Raskghar. A struggling Gnoll was being carried into this chamber by several Raskghar. Venaz’s eyes widened, and this time, he shouted.
“Enough! Erin Solstice, I recant my words!”
He looked around, but she wasn’t there. Only a little white Gnoll, hiding in the same cage as Venaz. He tried to break the bars, but they were Adamantium as far as he could bend them. He turned his head away, knowing what was happening—and mercifully, he was allowed to look away. But that left him staring into Mrsha’s eyes.
The little Gnoll had been chained. Now…she was standing free of the chains. Like a dream, Venaz saw an older girl standing there, armed with her notepad and quill. He looked back as the Raskghar lifted a dagger—
Then he was at the Meeting of Tribes. Xherw stood with the Daemon of Luck at his back, made of the dead Doombringers who had died for the Plain’s Eye tribe. And Venaz realized something.
These scenes were not here merely to scar him. If they were, a hand would have held his face and subjected him to the worst of the sights. His breathing calmed—and he looked at Mrsha. Then she held up a notecard, and Venaz heard her voice like the words were being read aloud. A solemn little girl who rolled her r’s and spoke precisely, as if taught by a [Princess]. He was the first person to hear how Mrsha wished she could speak.
“I have survived it all. Not all of it was my fault. Someday, I shall believe it. But I lived through it—and I would like you to as well.”
He found himself kneeling and reaching out to her. Venaz held the Greatsword of Serept in his hands, and he offered her its hilt.
“I take it back. I do take it back. I have never seen it, little one. I’m…sorry.”
