A moment when the Antinium were faced with reinforcements from the north. A definitive battle…but not the only one that had taken place in that hour.
There sat a Dragon, watching Magnolia Reinhart do what he was afraid to do. Then he heard the thunder of footsteps. To drown even the denizens of the High Passes and scare them into their caves.
The Queens had not been ignorant of the Humans. When their Listeners sensed the movement from the north, they had sent two armies surging north. Through the other route across the mountain range.
To cross the High Passes. One to hammer the Humans from the rear; the other to spread wide and destroy the north as it was left unguarded.
A Worker led the combined armies, his body…glowing. Glowing, despite the simple form he had been given when his true body was lost.
Devrkr the Glowing. He was urging the Soldiers and Workers on faster, faster, as Xrn floated ahead of them, blasting monsters away.
“We will flank zzthe Humans. Xrn, speed usz.”
He called out as the Antinium ran faster. Faster…until the Small Queen slowed. She flew back, and the Glowing One heard a roar shake the High Passes.
“Something is coming, Devrkr. The magic is…aflame.”
“What doesz that mean? Antinium, prepare for battle—”
The two Prognugators turned, wondering what fresh monster would emerge. Then he came out of his cave as he had many times before. Shamed into action. A brass serpent, flying on glowing wings as the Antinium looked up and Xrn’s barrier caught fire.
The Dragonlord of Flame.
 
——
 
Klbkch saw the second vision flash across his mind, and his sword halted in its sheath. He looked up slowly. He too had been sitting in the theatre as that vision played: a scene from a movie but real and true.
The people around him were waking up from that experience after what might have been about five minutes. But he roused faster—and he glanced up at the frozen old man and his eyes collated a detail he remembered hearing with that time. Slowly, his hand tightened on the short hilt as he rammed the blade back at his side.
“Mismatched eyes. So it’s him.”
Teriarch blinked—and he seemed to feel the animosity coming from the Antinium. He met the Slayer’s stare—but Klbkch just turned to look at Erin. Then away.
“Klbkch? I am very sad. And Magnolia was brave. And we seemed very mean. It was good. And terrible. Who was the glowing Antinium who looked like an acid fly? Did we do that to Liscor?”
Bird was sitting in his chair, rocking back and forth a bit. He seemed as shaken as Klbkch. The Centenium shook his head.
“It was all true. We made war on Liscor. The Five Families turned the tide that day. As did…a giant, fire-breathing Wyvern. He slew Devrkr the Glowing. The second to last time. Devrkr’s acid was such that even the Worker bodies could not contain his powers. Xrn survived that battle. Barely.”
So that was how it had happened. A little witch and Sariant Lamb looked open-mouthed at Klbkch. The Slayer turned away from Teriarch.
“We have settled the matter with Liscor. We fought against the Necromancer. Twenty years is a short time for them to take us back in, Bird.”
“Yes. Now I feel as though the people who threw rocks at me were right.”
“No. It just was. Focus on your current enemy, Bird. Perhaps it isn’t Magnolia Reinhart. But either way…”
The [Lady] walked on, and Klbkch stared at Magnolia’s back. He didn’t doubt she would leave an impact on whomever she met. Drake or Human.
“They were more shiny then. And numerous. Maviola looked happier. The north looked stronger.”
Bird whispered. Klbkch turned his head back.
“Yes. That could be said of north and south. Antinium, Humans, Drakes. It was always better in the past. Our finest hours are always behind us.”
The [Bird Hunter] rocked back and forth a bit in his chair, then sprang to his feet. He stretched his arms and stared around the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Then at Magnolia’s back. He looked at Klbkch, and in the way Bird could sometimes do it, he sounded cheerful and serious and direct as could be.
“Not mine. The Free Antinium’s are all ahead. You just can’t see it because you’re at the wrong time. Someday…my greatest hour will be right now.”
The Dragon heard him, and Klbkch the Slayer stared as Bird walked on. The Antinium turned his head back as he opened the garden door and poked his head back out.
“It will probably be when I finally hunt down the waterbird. Now, if you’ll excuse me…I am going to practice.”
“For what?”
Bird gave Klbkch a look as if he were stupid.
“That was the biggest bird I’ve ever seen. I’m going to shoot it down. I just need better arrows.”
He shut the door, and Klbkch almost laughed at his back. And Teriarch chuckled—until Erin rolled past them both.
“I’d watch out if I were you. He’ll pass you in levels, buddy. And I’ve never seen Bird that motivated. I hear Magnolia’s sending him a ballista.”
The Dragon stopped laughing. And then…Erin Solstice decided she had figured out how to use her boon. She’d work on her garden and witchcraft next. She’d brew alcohol some day.
