She looked at him, and this vision of Mrsha smiled. Then she pumped one fist in the air and bade him do the same with his sword. Venaz raised the greatsword with one hand overhead, and he shouted for both of them—
 
[Temporary Skill – Survivor’s Call: Tell My People I Was Here obtained!]
 
——
 
The Minotaur stood and drew his sword. Everyone recoiled, and Yvlon rose to grab him.
“Venaz. What—”
It seemed as if he had frozen a good ten seconds, and Erin had looked incredibly worried. Mrsha…Mrsha had been waiting to see if she got to bully Venaz in his head. But she had seen the Minotaur’s face slowly change from one of mild contempt to sadness to…something else.
Now, he stood, heedless of the rocking wagon, and the green gemstone sword rose over his head. Everyone ducked—but Venaz didn’t swing it. He opened his mouth and roared.
It was an ear-splitting bellow, mixed with a howl. It came out of the Minotaur’s lungs, and the corners of his eyes glistened with tears. When he lowered that sword—he looked at her, and the little Gnoll nearly burst into tears herself.
Because it seemed as though he understood her for a moment. Understood something that hurt him as much as her. Venaz the Arrogant, Venaz the High and Mighty, Venaz of Minotaurs Are Best, Venaz the Target of Niers’ Chalk—a man with almost as many nicknames as she—
He had witnessed what it was like to lose so much. It was something he would not process in a moment or a day—and Erin had done it to him. Mrsha was so filled with sympathy that she went over to Erin and smacked the [Innkeeper]’s knee. Hard.
Ulvama eyed Mrsha, but let the girl do it. Lyonette went to scold Mrsha—and then considered Erin might deserve that.
“Ow. What—Venaz, you, um, good?”
Erin looked worried. The Minotaur was breathing as if he’d run a race. He looked at her, lost for words. Then he turned.
“No. But you were right. Mrsha has not lived a carefree life. I respect that. Nor is your Skill meant to be used lightly. Please. Never use it like that again.”
He sat like that for a good five minutes as Wil confirmed Venaz had seen something—and they timed it out, and Erin began to apologize. Then—Venaz looked up as something vibrated.
Not just a [Message] scroll. He pulled out a speaking stone from a hidden compartment in his belt pouch.
“I—need to take this. Hello? Your Majesty?”
Wil’s head turned, and Erin slowly tried to roll away. But the amused, female voice that spoke into the stone wasn’t angry.
“Venaz. Can you explain why the entire isle of Hammerad claims to have heard your voice? Your family—your people claim they saw a flash of you standing in a wagon? Half of them can point to you on a map. The exact same location…south of Pallass on a trade road? I felt something myself, but I blocked it.”
“Y-your Majesty, I will explain.”
“Please do. It is quite amusing.”
 
——
 
Erin decided to take a break from using her boon Skill—not least because it was definitely on cooldown after that. In the meantime, she sat there, head in her hands.
“I’m such a dummy.”
She’d gotten mad and, pettily, not only sent a message to thousands of Minotaurs, but inflicted extreme emotional damage on Venaz. She felt bad about the second part.
But what made up a bit for the first was that…Venaz’s parents had been glad to see him. Even if it was disruptive, the Minotaur hadn’t realized how welcome his appearance was to them. How much something like that could matter after three years of not being home. He should write more letters back.
She needed to take this seriously. She needed…to respect what she had done.
“Someone hit me.”
Ulvama, who had been walking past the door, stepped into Erin’s room. The thwack and shout of pain drew Jewel, who had been pacing down the corridor. Erin clutched at her head.
“If you get mad—I leave. But you want punishment. This good?”
“My head is ringing. Yes! Thank you. I deserved that. This time. Hey, Jewel. I looked pretty stupid back there, huh?”
Stupid? Jewel’s mouth opened, but Ulvama was nodding, and so was the little witch. Nanette gave Erin a huge frown.
“Everyone makes one mistake, Miss Erin. But yours hurt people. Can we say you learned your lesson and move on?”
Erin, still rubbing at her head, nodded. She took a breath.
“Okay. No more games. I’m taking it seriously. I am. So seriously…I’d like to call in Ryoka. Does anyone know if she’s here?”
 
“Cain’t. She’s off riding with the lords of the land. Where I shall be going too, for I was promised snacks without end.”
 
Shaestrel swooped past Erin’s room, and the [Innkeeper] scowled. She folded her arms, but then sighed.
“Okay. It’s fine. I guess we’ve got a team here. Jewel…”
“Yes, Miss Erin? Do I get my team?”
“…Nah. Not at first. Jewel, Nanette, Ulvama, and me. Mrsha is…?”
“Downstairs. Do we get her?”
Erin thought about it and shook her head.
“She’s got school, and with respect to Mrsha, she does get excited. You know, it’s an all-girl team, though. Maybe we need someone reliable. Like…Bir…Numbt…hm. Rel…Klb…”
She tried out several names, looking at her companions. None of them seemed to quite work for one reason or another. Relc was uncomfortable around Ulvama, a Goblin. Klbkch was sorta scary, especially to Jewel. Bird was a silly fellow. Numbtongue was okay, but he’d bring his cat and possibly Octavia, and that was a crowd. So Erin turned and shouted.
“Ishkr! You free for a little adventure?”
The Gnoll trotted upstairs, saw the team assembled, and nodded.
“What do you need, Miss Solstice?”
For answer, Erin Solstice clapped her hands together and, with a determined look, faced her team of four. Jewel, Nanette, Ulvama, and Ishkr. Erin Solstice exhaled.
“It’s time to explore some of the Gardens of Sanctuary. Who’s with me?”
Ulvama bared her teeth in a grin. Nanette looked excited. Ishkr’s eyes lit up. Jewel?
Jewel gulped.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was about to head into the [Garden of Sanctuary] when she realized that she couldn’t keep getting away with this.
—In that because everyone knew who she was and that she had secrets, sometimes they wanted in. No sooner had Ishkr lined up with her three other explorers than someone coughed.
“Oh, hey, Erin. I didn’t see you here. I was, uh, going to visit Bird. What’re you doing?”
The [Innkeeper] turned, and the most unconvincing lie of a smile spread across Relc’s face. It was joined by another man doffing his cap and a little Gnoll picking their nose.
It wasn’t Mrsha.
“Ekirra? Normen? Relc? I was, uh…how’d you know I was doing anything?”
“I heard it. I’ve got good ears. Are you exploring Earth? I want to go!”
Erin’s face fell as Ekirra jumped up and down.
“How does he—”
“Somehow, he overheard it. The little bugger—er, child’s been talking loud, Miss Erin. I think Miss Mrsha had a word with him, but I thought I’d pull him away from the regular guests before he said something.”
Erin rolled over to Ekirra, who looked nervous.
“I know it’s a big secret! Visma said to keep it as secret as Ry—”
He put a paw over his mouth before he could leak the second secret. Erin stared down at Ekirra and sighed.
“It’s a super-big secret, Ekirra. If anyone found out—Joseph might not be able to play football and be a coach. Got it? I’m gonna trust you…but do you guys wanna come?”
She looked up, and Normen nodded.
“If I’m a [Knight], I should be there, Miss Erin.”
Relc scratched at his neck spines, looking embarrassed.
“Who, me? I was just walking by, and—Klbkch is busy, so I’m bored. If you have room for me…”
Erin remembered how upset Relc had been earlier. She looked at the three lads and sighed. All of them held their breath, and Erin shrugged ruefully. Ekirra waved his little paw as hard as he could, and Erin had a thought.
“Waitasecond…why are you even here, Ekirra? Shouldn’t you be at school? Mrsha is.”
Was he playing truant? In response, Ekirra shook his head vigorously.
“Nope! I had Little Crab practice, so I didn’t have to go!”
“…Soccer’s more important than school? This is like home.”
“It’s called football.”
The little Gnoll [Kicker] gave Erin an indignant look, but she relented and he joyfully lined up with the others.
“Well. That would make four and four. Anyone else want to join in?”
She looked around, but no one showed up. Erin coughed.
“…Where’s Tessa? I thought she’d appear.”
“I think she’s spanking sneaky people.”
Ekirra volunteered. Erin gave him the fish-eye.
“Is that literally spanking or just hurting them?”
He scratched at his head. He had pants on, these days, and seemed to have gotten used to them and a cute jersey.
“I dunno, but she took the pants off one, and that’s what happens when I get my butt spanked. Then they ran away.”
Was Tessa’s method of deterring spies without killing them stealing their clothes? Erin opened her mouth and decided she’d let Tessa do her.
“Well, we’re investigating my gardens, and I’ve seen the most dangerous one to life and limb. So I’d assume we’re okay. The worst garden just has lightning bolts.”
“Oh, is that all—wait, what?”
Relc raised a claw as Jewel kept gulping. Ekirra looked excited.
“What do I do? I have a soccer ball!”
“Maybe let’s not put the child in danger?”
Ulvama snorted. Erin waved a hand in agreement as she thought.
“There are a bunch of doors, actually. What if we took a look at them and went from there?”
“Wait, how many gardens are there? Erin, how many?”
Relc’s plaintive tone sounded hurt as Ekirra scampered into the garden. Erin opened the door, and Ekirra barrelled through. She led her team into the garden…just in time to see a little lamb and another of her guests rising to their feet.
“Hah. So I was right.”
“Oh, come on.”
Everyone wanted in on this. Seborn Sailwinds and Nerry hadn’t even bothered with asking. They’d just sat on the hill. Erin sighed.
“Et tu, Seborn?”
“If that’s some kind of Earther saying, I have no idea what it is. But I’m bored. Jelaqua’s on another date, and Ulinde and Moore are reading damn books in Pallass’ library. Take me with you or I’ll find myself drunk and naked at Wailant’s farm again.”
Seborn looked so exhausted at the thought that Erin took pity on him and Nerry. In fact, the numbers were giving her an idea, so she punched her palm.
“That’s it! If you can’t beat ‘em and they keep coming—we’ll divide and conquer. Three gardens! And I have just the one for you, Seborn.”
“If it’s water themed, that’s racist.”
Erin sucked in her lips and refused to say a word as Ulvama started laughing and Nanette giggled—until Seborn grinned.
 
——
 
The old sea hatch that appeared made Seborn’s good brow rise until it threatened his seaweed-greenish brown hairline. He bent over it.
“Dead gods. Imagine one of these in a ship’s hold. The ultimate cargo room—safe room—treasury? I take it back. I want in.”
“It’s not entirely safe, Seborn. I’m safe, I think, although I could, like, drown in there. But there are fish.”
He cracked the hatch open, and Ekirra peered down into the murky waters below. Seborn stared into the depths—and frowned. Relc pulled Ekirra back as the others peered down. Nerry shuddered as she saw a giant something slowly swimming below.
“Hm. Shark.”
“Okay, not safe for everyone—”
Erin was about to close it up, but Seborn held up a hand. He put a hand into the water and, to her vague disgust, put some in his mouth and swished it around.
“Ew! Seborn! The koi pond was filled with koi that were there for generations! It could be nasty with poo!”
“All water has shit in it. You think your well water is clean? Relax. I’ve swum in far dirtier places than this. Interesting. The water’s actually quite clean.”
“Huh?”
Erin frowned, but Normen agreed. The man was on his hands and knees, staring down.
“I can see further into this water than most ponds I’ve seen, Miss Erin.”
“Yeah. Come to think of it—it’s salty, but it looks good.”
Relc too was a connoisseur of bad water spots from his days as a [Soldier], and Ulvama agreed it looked potable—but for the salt. Seborn explained.
“If there’s that many creatures below, their bodies and excrement should have fouled the water long ago and killed most of ‘em. Moss and debris. There’s a cleaning method down there. Might be magic. But I bet it’s them.”
He pointed down, and now, Erin could see entire shoals of tiny fishes down there. She even recognized a few. She recognized the flat-ish fish that had coloration like camouflage swimming past a group of shrimp and colorful shoals of tiny fish avoiding the big shape.
“Oh! I know that fish! It’s the one that hangs on a fish tank and eats stuff.”
“Cleaners. Whoever made this knew their fish life. Alright. Do I go in?”
“What about the shark? I’m not putting you in danger.”
The Drowned Man rolled his eyes.
“It’s a sand shark, Erin.”
“…Doesn’t sound better. It’s big.”
The one below might have been literally ten feet long. But Seborn just snorted.
“They don’t attack people unless you provoke them. We’re too much for them. It’s not a swarm. If it comes after me, I’ll punch it. Landfolk might have trouble in the water, but I’ve sharkwrestled and rode them around before.”
“Oh, okay…what? You ride sharks? What are you, some kind of sea-farmer?”
He laughed as he slipped into the water, and his voice drifted up before his head slid under.
“I’ve been a [Pirate] all my life. Why do you think Wailant took to farming so well? Anyone else coming?”
Erin looked for volunteers, but no one else could breathe in the water. To her surprise, though, Ulvama poked Nanette.
“Little girl, you want to swim?”
“I can’t hold my breath that long, I’m afraid. And I don’t have any magic to use now I’ve left my hat.”
Nanette seemed disappointed—she was fearless enough to swim with the sharks! But Ulvama just chortled. She produced a little pot of green and another of blue.
“I paint [Aqua Lung] on us. Anyone else?”
“I hate water. Nope.”
Ekirra backed away. Nerry was not about to become live bait—especially because she was small enough to make the shark go after her. Erin was worried Nanette would be in danger, but the witch protested.
“I’m enough to handle one shark, Miss Erin! Even without Mister Seborn!”
“It’s twice your height!”
“And I’m a witch!”
The ego on her. Relc demurred.
“I don’t know how to fight underwater. Punching and spears are really hard.”
“Well—okay. I’ll check back on you guys later! Tell me what you find!”
