“I dunno if this is a good thing or not. I want to say ‘not’, but maybe Ryoka needs to see this. I bet she’d love something like this. Dead gods and…”
Erin Solstice had never seen something as instantly familiar to her as this. But one look at the red, glowing lines of the broken pentagram stretching between the five pillars and she thought that she knew exactly why someone had been angry enough to smash the door.
What did you do here, Cormelex?
Erin Solstice was about to ask Nerry if she knew whether the Lucifen had anything like this when Ishkr’s voice drifted over to them.
“Erin? Erin.”
He sounded—worried. He trotted back into view, eyes wide. Erin’s head snapped up.
“What is it, Ishkr? Did you find something intact?”
“Not—intact. But I think I know why the bugs are so prolific here. And we might need that flame thrower after all. Or to hire Archmage Valeterisa to come in. Maybe not. But—you had better see this.”
Erin exchanged a glance with Nerry. The lamb leapt off her lap, raced ahead—then came running back. She looked equally unnerved. Erin Solstice rolled forwards as Ishkr came over to push her. The fearless [Head Server] and the lamb both hid behind Erin. The [Innkeeper] took one look at what Ishkr had found along one of the walls. She opened her mouth to scream.
“No. Nonono. Take us out—”
Ishkr turned her around, and they shot out of this garden and only came back for Erin to demand Ishkr put up a fake door with wood so the bugs had no shot at entering her garden. But she kept staring at the far wall.
Someone had broken Cormelex’s room to bits. She knew it was his. The figures of the horned people were everywhere.
Unlike any other species—the only one that Erin could think of was ‘Demon’. But a Devil had owned this room. And as hard as his enemies had tried to erase it…
They had shattered the pentagram. Shattered his statues, burned his possessions, and incinerated the walls that held whatever secrets he had hidden here. Destroyed sanctuary and tried to erase it all then condemned it to insects and filth and time.
…But somehow, the garden endured. And the garden of the only Lucifen to earn this Skill…had a broken mural of some kind on the far wall.
In the gloom, amidst the skittering of insects and the smell of oil and fire—was a dancing man. Not like Lord Bel of Nadel, no, not at all. The man was stylized and had red horns. A face blackened by soot. Old clothing as formal as Terandria.
He was shown in poses across the wall. Holding his arms and legs out in unsettling patterns. A dance choreographed in every pose, like sinful worship. Below that dance was an image of a hand…rising out of a crack in the earth.
The ‘hand’ was clawed, and the crack was glowing. Erin did not have to guess what it meant.
Now, why was it so disturbing? Because the people who had found this room would have destroyed this mural, right? Even if it were made of Adamantium, they would not have let it endure. And so they had. They had blasted the wall with so many spells it was pitted and broken, and even Erin’s [Partial Reconstruction] couldn’t repair it. But she saw nearly all of it there.
After all…the dancing Lucifen, the instructions in pictograms were there. Spelled out in vivid detail by the insects clinging to the walls. Hanging centipedes, living and dead, twined around roach bodies and spiderwebs. As if the insects were themselves compelled to recreate what had been lost.
“[Fireball], Miss Erin? Acid jars?”
Ishkr had a glowing jar at the ready. Erin Solstice took one look into the room as he hammered the last boards into a makeshift wall. She looked at him—and shook her head.
“Not yet. Just close it.”
The door vanished, and Erin’s skin crawled and crawled. Nerry? Nerry looked back into the room.
 
“I gained this, as none of my kind ever have. It was no kindness.”
—Cormelex, the Infernal Court
 
——
 
Erin Solstice, Nerry, and Ishkr were disturbed and felt unclean after entering their door. By contrast, they found Jewel lying on her back, panting as Ekirra poured water over an eye blackening already.
“Jewel? Are you okay?”
“I won.”
The [Swashbuckler] gasped. She sat up a bit.
“Relc’s fighting his second opponent. Normen got choked out.”
The [Knight] was okay. He was just sitting up, feeling at his throat and coughing a bit.
“Damn grapplers. The door opened when Jewel beat it. We’re waiting on Relc.”
“Anyone seen Ulvama, Nanette? Seborn?”
Erin looked around and decided to check on them. The hatch opened—and she shouted down.
“Hey, are you all eaten by sharks yet?”
No one responded for a long while…until she saw a light rising, and a figure poked her head out of the water. Ulvama was grinning. She had something in her mouth.
It was a fish. She spat it onto the grass.
“Good fish. Tell Calescent I want to eat it. Nice garden.”
“How’s it nice?”
Two more figures followed Ulvama up. Nanette was beaming in delight as Seborn carried something up from the base of the garden.
“Erin! Erin, I petted the shark! He’s super friendly! And there’s a little baby one, too! Their skin is rough as sandpaper, though!”
“It’s definitely some Drowned Folk garden. There wasn’t much loot, though. Someone got there first.”
“How do you know?”
Seborn snorted in annoyance.
“I saw where someone had pried gems off the walls, and the treasure pile—I think it was a treasure pile—was damn empty. Has someone been able to open the gardens before you?”
“I…at least two people. Wait, have they pillaged the other gardens? Or maybe the owner just cleared out their own garden before they died?”
Seborn shrugged.
“Whatever the case was—the most valuable thing I found was this. Take a look.”
He dumped something on the ground, and Erin peered at it. It looked like…a map. Only, not like one she was used to seeing. It had all kinds of lines, and it looked vaguely like…
“What kind of map is this? I’ve seen this kind of weird one before…”
“Oh! It’s one of those maps adventurers use!”
Jewel sat up, and Seborn nodded. Nerry was peering at it.
“Topographical.”
“Hey. How do you know that word?”
The Drowned Man sighed.
“It’s a sea map, Erin. See the lines? It’s showing currents and landmass. This…this is the kind of thing a Drowned Ship would pay a hold of gold for.”
“Wh—really? That’s great!”
“Yep. Even if it’s this old—last year, we’d be rich. Now? It’s at least half-useless. Krakens take it.”
Seborn sighed. Erin realized what he meant, and her face fell.
“Aw, come on. The new lands…?”
“Every current’s probably off. Yep. And it might have changed the geography. Even so…this is extremely valuable. Can I…make a copy of this?”
“Gonna send it to those Drowned Folk at Nombernaught or something? Sure, if you think it’ll help. Just tell them it came from me!”
The [Rogue] lifted his brows.
“What? Give them this for free? They won’t have gratitude for that. They’ll laugh at you. I’ll keep it and trade it around. Cut you in whatever I get—but I might keep it until I go back to the ocean. I’m planning on it, someday. Maybe now that Jelaqua’s staying around Pallass it’s time to think about it.”
“What? You can’t leave Moore and Ulinde! You guys are a team!”
That was the most distressing news Erin had heard all day. More than even Cormelex’s garden. Seborn shrugged as he climbed out and dried himself off.
“Teams change, Erin. Adventurers don’t have to adventure until they die. Typhenous is a rarity. But I…I left the sea because of disagreements. I always knew I’d go back. I don’t have the levels yet to beat my father and take what’s mine. But there’s never a good time, and I’ve caught up a lot. Nice garden, though. Do you want to see what’s down there? You might be able to swim if we pull you around.”
“Nuh. Nope. I’ll check it out when I can swim.”
The thought of being helpless in the water did not appeal to Erin. She peered into the water and turned to Nanette.
“What else did you see?”
The girl sneezed—until Ulvama threw a towel around her and put one on Seborn. Nanette smiled as she pointed down.
“Oh, Miss Erin! There’s tons of kelp and such growing on the bottom of the floor. There’s dirt in some places, sand in others…it truly is a garden! What was the broken door like?”
“Cockroaches.”
Ishkr shuddered, and Seborn spat.
“You have terrible luck. Yeah, it’s a veritable landscape of fish and flora in there. If you ever run out of food, cast a line down there. Mind you, I’d feel bad about eating the sharks. They’re friendly as can be. Big suckers, though.”
As if to confirm that, a teensy little shark’s fin broke the surface of the water just below the hatch. It was tiny! Erin stared at the baby shark as the mother shark, ten feet long, circled below.
“Aw. How cute. I’m never going down there.”
Ekirra’s fur stood on end as he nodded rapidly. He backed away from the opening, and everyone turned as one to the first door.
“Relc? You good?”
“Don’t come in, Erin! Don’t come in!”
The Drake shouted as the entire team went through the door. Relc Grasstongue was in the domed room…lying on his back. His spear was on the ground.
“Relc? Did you lose?”
“I didn’t! I just slipped. I—”
A Stitch-man was pointing a sword at Relc’s throat. As the Drake swore and sat up, the figure stepped back—and vanished. Relc was beet red.
“Who kicks while using a sword? That—that bastard. Give me ten minutes, Erin. Round three! Two on one!”
He punched his fist into a claw, and Erin held up a hand as another two figures appeared.
“No, stop. Relc…can we at least go through the door? Jewel passed the test. And so did you, I guess.”
The [Swashbuckler] perked up. She looked at the open door, and dry wind blew through as Nanette decided she was dry and donned her robes. Ulvama just snorted as Relc protested.
“Aw, Erin! But this room is so great! Weird fighters, though.”
“How do you mean?”
“I mean…they’re good. I’ve sparred all over, and most idiots can’t use a spear. These, though? That first guy nearly knocked me flat with his hands. And the one I just fought was pretty good with a sword, but his kick launched me. It’s almost as if this is a training room for hand-to-hand combat, though. Or…”
Normen had gone striding through the door, mace raised, to check it out. Jewel’s gasp made Ekirra run after them on all fours. Ishkr pushed Erin forwards, and the [Innkeeper] blinked.
“What. No way. Has someone made a mistake? Or is the owner that unoriginal?”
She stared out of a little room set into a rock wall. Just sandstone doors, cheap and unassuming. No fancy murals, and the rest of the garden had virtually no…fun to it.
Seborn had found some gnawed-on pillows for a Drowned Folk to lie on in his garden. Erin assumed that Cormelex had possessed some relaxing qualities to his garden or used it for his ends.
But this garden was as relaxing as…well, a desert. Nevermind the oasis in the center; it was tiny, practically a mud hole. Five palm trees were growing there, but the entire mini-canyon was harsh, unpleasant to live in, even if Erin saw a few vaguely edible-looking things like what might have been an agave plant growing in the grass.
What made her think something was off was that she had seen this before. Oh, rocks had changed places, and the oasis was smaller than it had been—but this was almost a one-to-one copy of…
“Pomle. This is just Pomle. What the heck…?”
The Strongest of Pomle must have been a garden holder. Which meant—was this the newest garden since Erin’s?
It might be. The oasis proper was showing signs of overgrowth, but nothing nearly as dramatic as the filled garden with snow or the sea of insects in the other gardens.
“Pomle.”
Erin Solstice had to have someone push her through the grit and sands as her friends spread out. Ekirra ran around—then promptly came back howling about sticker-burr bushes.
This was not a pleasant place. It was as harsh as the real Pomle. But why copy one to one?
The answer came as soon as Garia and Fierre were in the training room challenging the specters there. On a hunch, Erin Solstice told Relc and Normen to take a run around the edge of this big garden and find her anything that looked like a living space.
They came back, and a partially collapsed hut revealed her answers. The roof had fallen in because the garden-Pomle had enough wind to probably shift the weaker materials over time with the sand and dust. Inside that hut, among simple gear for living alone—pots, pans, linen bandages—were some books.
Tales of Adventure and Woe, #30,967. 
“Well, if that’s not proof this wasn’t long ago, I don’t know what is. Hey, I wonder if any local libraries want this.”
“May I have it, Miss Erin?”
Nanette excitedly took the book—then nearly sneezed herself off her feet. It was dusty. The pages were dry, but again, the climate was ideal for preservation.
Of far more interest to Erin was the dusty journal and scrolls buried under some of the hut’s ceiling. Relc and Normen lifted the pieces of wood out of the way, and Jewel crawled back there and came out with the items. Erin opened the journal, stared at the handwriting, and exhaled.
“Well. I wonder if Pomle’s got a [Message Mage]?”
One of the last entries in the journal in neat writing date marked this as being the era before the King of Destruction. Each entry was generally short and talked a lot about injuries, challenges to the Strongest’s position, and their delving into the functions of the garden. But the second to last one read thusly:
 
The Garden’s reality is nearly identical to the one around me. I have taken this as a sign it may no longer be needed. But for the training against warriors, it has nothing that captures my heart. And I have surpassed the illusions within.
Pomle is free. I may die, but the tradition of the Strongest of Pomle will continue. We have won this land by strength and skill, and yet I have only one doubt.
Is there more? I can leap from one wall of Pomle to another. My hands have shattered mithril, and I bested their [Mages]—but not magic itself. I sense an end to my path, and I will continue to seek it out. 
But I am missing something. If I ever find the answer, I will write it here.
—Collos, Strongest of Pomle. Stitch-man. Level 59 [Strongest of the Martial Age].
 
Erin turned the page. Relc held his breath as he peered over her shoulder. The next page was written briefly, as if dashed off, and Erin thought a long time had passed, because there were marks on the page as if someone had been using bad ink, an old quill, as if they had walked in here to write one last thing.
 
