A [Sergeant] bellowed, and the [Soldier] was on his hooves, racing away. Perorn’s company retreated in good order, and she heard Basal had pulled off a similar trick without incident on the northern camp. He’d managed to find a cache of arrows and burned their ammunition to the ground.
He had also—against orders—stayed in the enemy camp for several minutes. She was annoyed until she read his terse report.
“One crate of healing potions captured. Recommend seizure.”
Of course. She nearly slapped herself for not thinking of it! They still had stockpiles, didn’t they? She wrote a memo to all her officers to prioritize raiding for that.
Then she rode off and got a good night’s sleep. Her sentries would let her know if they were stupid enough to launch a counterattack. She doubted they were.
 
——
 
The next day, Perorn sent an offer for twelve thousand gold coins, but she rounded off the six hundred. She waited as Niers sent her a call via scrying orb.
“Perorn, I hear you’re busy.”
The Fraerling was grinning as he spoke to her. She raised her brows at him.
“Sending any soldiers my way yet?”
He shook his head.
“I’m terrified even one individual will take eight days to recharge. Right now…well, what do you think of this?”
He swiveled around a second scrying orb as she chewed on a jam sandwich for breakfast. Perorn rolled her eyes at once.
It was a commercial, the kind that Wistram had begun offering to people not on their ‘high magic plan’. In this case, it was one of Wistram’s own:
 
The image was of a tired Human walking with a stick in hand and staring across a vast desert. Zeikhal? Words flashed up on screen accompanied by a deep voice.
“Tired of walking everywhere? Horse died? Need to go a hundred miles in a moment?”
The Human looked up. A flash of light appeared, and Grand Magus Eldavin hovered in the air. He held out a hand, and the Human’s jaw dropped.
“Consider Wistram Academy! Offering limited teleportation in select cities! Get where you need to go—if you can afford it.”
The Human man eagerly turned out his money pouch, and a single bronze coin fell out of it. He and Eldavin looked down…and the Archmage sighed and popped out of existence. The traveller looked down at the ground as the wind blew and the sands gusted around him.
 
It was the dumbest thing Perorn had ever seen in her life. She closed her eyes a moment.
“…We’re buying commercials, aren’t we?”
“Better. Look what I made!”
She covered her face. Niers Astoragon had actually copied the Wistram advertisement—but he had superimposed magical words on the bottom.
 
“Need to go somewhere cheaper? Try the Titan’s Teleportation! Lower fees than Wistram! Guaranteed results, no magical accidents! For Fraerlings only, at rock-bottom prices!”
 
He beamed at her.
“I was thinking of sending this around to the Fraerling cities on a crystal. What do you think?”
She was tempted to turn off the scrying orb. Instead, Perorn leaned on her arms; she had a Centaur standing desk so she could talk to people at a reasonable height for her.
“How much time did you, personally, waste yesterday coming up with this?”
He refused to answer. Niers coughed and glanced to the side.
“I, uh, congratulate you on your Seenith play. Nice, clean action. Look out for the students, would you? And the Horns of Hammerad. They’re related to the inn…you aren’t planning on heading to Liscor, are you?”
She rolled her eyes.
“I’m working around the Great Plains. Even for me, that’s nigh on a quarter of the continent to ride just to say hello and play a game of chess, Niers. And the Bloodfields and Pallass. No. But I will be offering our services to Feshi. And delivering her our plan. Make sure you’re there?”
He stopped and gave her a serious nod.
“I will. Then—I see you have a [Message]. I’ll leave you to it. I’m busy conferring with our [Innkeeper].”
“Don’t press her, Niers. Tact. Try tact. Ignore Foliana. Find a Fraerling who’s had a relationship and listen to her, would you?”
She hoped he’d listen to her. But Perorn was busy already. She took a [Message] scroll, unrolled it, and snorted.
In the end, the Fleethoof Gales mercenary company did accept an offer of truce between Seenith and their group. They prepared a contract and signed it.
Ten thousand gold coins, no return of merchandise, and two days of combat with one wounded. Perorn rode off from the fuming city of Drakes and then displayed why Balerosian mercenaries were so feared and hated.
She sent a note to Marwsh’s Council that Seenith had bought themselves two mere months of peace whereupon she could continue hostilities against their city. But Marwsh, having not included it in their contract, could outbid on an offer of eight thousand gold pieces for her to raid their city. She was also open to other contracts they had to offer.
They’d come for her, soon. You made a lot of enemies as [Mercenaries]. But the trick was being the middlewoman everyone wanted to hire, rather than the mutual enemy. This was just setting the table and showing the cities how it worked. But Perorn’s real advantage was that the Drakes would be hopping mad. They’d learn to watch out for her, but if they wanted to track her down…she motioned.
“We’re heading into the Gnoll plains. Full march!”
Every mercenary group needed a base of operations or allies. And they were as direct as could be. Perorn motioned to the wide-eyed Rascale, guarding the huge coffers of funds they had just acquired.
“Divvy out four thousand gold pieces from that. Present it to the Chieftains of the Meeting of Tribes with our compliments for their hospitality.”
Everyone knew you could buy friendship. Perorn kept riding as more and more offers started to come in. Niers had chosen well for someone to send to Izril. Everyone liked seeing competence on display.
 
——
 
Some days, it felt like no one liked Jewel. Including herself.
She didn’t know what had gone wrong. She reminded herself she was the leader of Glitterblade. A new Gold-rank team, one of those up-and-comers everyone talked about. She had been, like the Horns, a Gold-rank adventurer to watch.
Now, here she was, staring into a cup in the morning and wishing it was stiff—a disgraced laughingstock who couldn’t even claim she was good with a sword.
Because she had seen what ‘good with a sword’ was, and she wasn’t it.
Toimt and Hilten were watching her as Jewel sat in a corner of The Wandering Inn. After a while, one coughed.
“Jewel? Are we doing something today?”
“I don’t know.”
“Are we…waiting for someone to tell us what to do?”
“No clue. Let’s ask Miss Lyonette. Or Miss Erin. We’re supposed to be on guard duty. Let’s go join that guy with a hat. Or something.”
But the Thronebearers were doing that. Jewel slumped over onto her side until someone offered her the morning’s breakfast. Baked salmon over some rice. She sniffed a bit and saw a Goblin place it on the table.
She nearly drew a sword on the Goblin, and Picky stepped back with a wary look. But Jewel relaxed.
“Th-thanks.”
“You’re welcome. Eat fish. Is good.”
The Goblin backed away slowly. The more unique of Erin’s breakfasts made Jewel hungry, and she did eat.
But she stopped and grew pale the moment she saw Erin Solstice.
Erin, who haunted her dreams with laughter, horns, and scaled wings like the Grandmaster of Scales, who posted the quest with the toc that Jewel couldn’t unhear.
Erin…who gave Toimt a blank look and then stared at Jewel.
“Oh! Hey, Jewel! Whatcha doing here?”
Jewel stared with the pain of a woman who had not just been rolled over by Erin Solstice multiple times—humbled, humiliated, and outmatched—but also been, clearly, forgotten.
For an [Innkeeper] who used flame like memory, Erin forgot a lot of stuff. She looked embarrassed as Jewel cleared her throat.
“I, uh—I thought our team was supposed to be reporting to you, Miss Solstice? You had jobs for us.”
“Right. Right. I knew that! Which is why I’m also doing that. Because I’m investigating my Skills today because some jerk thinks I’m ‘underutilizing them’ and ‘ignorant’.”
Erin folded her arms and glowered. Jewel felt for whomever that fool was. Erin looked at Jewel…and then put a finger to her lips. She hesitated.
“You know what? Why don’t you join my party? Let’s go on an adventure.”
Jewel the Gold-rank Captain stared at Erin until she saw the lineup for the day. Ulvama, Mrsha, Nanette, and Ishkr were reporting for duty along with the inn’s regular guests as Erin cracked her knuckles.
“Ow. I don’t know why I do that. Alright. Lyonette, you want to do your princess boons? I guess we can boon some people, then wait for it to recharge. Then—garden time.”
You had to hand it to Niers. He might not phrase it decorously, but he could make even Erin Solstice think like a [Strategist].
Unfortunately, he had underestimated how petty Erin was. He had told her she needed a competent [Strategist] to figure out the full benefit of her Skills. Faced with the prospect of more Fraerling bullying, she had elected to use the Forgotten Wing company…just not in the way he wanted.
 
——
 
“So, you’re [Strategists]. The Titan taught you. Olesm’s busy doing war-stuff, but you guys are on the road, and he probably gave you lessons on how to think with Skills. Whaddya say?”
Venaz, Peki, Wil, and Merrik sat in the bumping wagon with the Horns of Hammerad as Erin rubbed her palms together. They could see Jewel, Mrsha, and a number of other guests hanging out in the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“This is pretty fun. We can eat snacks and watch Erin confuse people at the same time.”
Menolit had been given special access, and his comment drifted down from one of the higher seats. Relc nodded. He sighed, though, drooping into his chair.
“It’s so great. If only my best buddy was here. I used to have one. Then Erin took a crossbow bolt to the chest.”
Nerry nearly snorted blue juice out her nose. She had figured out Relc and Menolit would feed her, and Relc had figured out Menolit would buy snacks for everyone. Menolit didn’t laugh, and he glared—and an elbow caught Relc from the other side.
“I’m still here.”
“Who’s that? Is that the ghost of my buddy Klbkch?”
Relc shaded his eyes and stared through the Antinium sitting next to him. Klbkch folded his arms.
“I was buying supplies when you told me ‘Erin was being hilarious’. I have yet to see anything funny.”
“I have a [Relc Sense] about this, Klb. Just you wait.”
Below them, Wil was speaking back to Erin, apparent as a ghostly figure sitting in the outlines of a wagon.
“You…you want us to help you with investigating your Skills in the Titan’s place?”
“Yeah. Really thorough investigation and stuff.”
Wil nodded…and then he looked around. Venaz’s lips quivered, but he, like Jewel, was slightly worried about the backchat. Wil ended up bursting out with a shout himself.
“And why didn’t you ask us the entire time we were there?”
Erin turned red, but she pointed a finger back at the [Strategists].
“Well…I didn’t know I needed to write down every Skill usage in the books! Besides, I was busy, uh, summoning Zeladona.”
“That’s an excuse. You’re lazy.”
Peki shot back. Merrik tried to save his friend from Erin’s counterattack. He gave her a big smile and raised his hands.
“What did you have in mind, Miss Solstice?”
“Um…well, I guess I need to investigate all my big Skills first. Big then small. I’m always finding new types of fire, so I don’t think [Like Fire, Memory], is imp—something wrong, Venaz?”
Erin turned her head, and the Minotaur jumped.
“I’m just writing down the Skills.”
It occurred to Erin, belatedly, that giving a list of her Skills was…giving a list of her Skills to very curious [Strategists]. Her eyes narrowed, but after chewing on her lip for a while, she went on.
“Fine. [Like Fire, Memory] is a big one. [Garden of Sanctuary]. [Boon of the Guest]. [Wondrous Fare]. [Field of Preservation], um, my [Witch] Skills, but I know actual experts there. Ooh! [From Witchcraft, Sorcery Ariseth]! And…[Door of Portals]. [World’s Eye Theatre] you know.”
She felt like those were the big ones, and there were a lot. She didn’t have many mundane Skills, though, which struck her as funny. No [Evasive Rolls].
“Any other big Skills, Miss Solstice?”
“Mm…nope.”
Wil gave Erin an unconvinced look, and she held his gaze blankly until the [Lord] gave up. He conferred with the [Strategists], and they came back with a prognosis that Niers would have respected fairly quick.
“I think we’ll turn [Sorcery Ariseth] to an actual [Sorcerer]. Leave [Witch] business to them, likewise. [Wondrous Fare] depends on a [Cook]. There are combinations, but you should just manage a list of spells you find useful. Flames you’ve used in many ways, and so we’ll focus on the most underdeveloped Skills.”
“Which would those be?”
“[Boon of the Guest]. Cooldown. And intensity. Have you ever used it? I’ve never seen you using it.”
“I have! Like…three times.”
Peki put her head in her hands, and Venaz’s brows nearly replaced his horns. Erin puffed out her cheeks.
“Hey! Lyonette’s got [Boon of the Princess]!”
“Yes, and I kept it active for months, Erin. I only change targets. I don’t not use it!”
Lyonette retorted. Wil shook his head with amazement.
“The fact that you don’t have it permanently active on a guest is incredible to me. You could charge a fee for it, lend it to people in need. Have you even established a cooldown?”
Erin fidgeted.
“Now you’re speaking like Niers. Watch it, Wil. Or I’ll…”
“Bully me? That’s also the Professor’s style. We can handle it, Miss Solstice. [Strategists] are trained to say the right thing even in the face of unreasonable hostility.”
The [Lord]’s response took the winds out of Erin’s sails. The [Innkeeper] turned red.
“…What am I supposed to do to time it?”
Here the Horns, who were watching with urbane amusement, cut in. Ceria waved a hand.
“I can timekeep! I’ve got a spell that woke me up.”
Pisces was already conjuring a ghostly hourglass as he sniffed. He’d been missing the opportunity to do so of late.
“I as well. One imagines a clock is in order.”
“Yes—and the ‘weakest’ case usage. So you’d use your worst, uh, [Boon of the Guest] Skill, measure how long it goes off cooldown, and then you have a minimum benchmark. Then you use a powerful one.”
Merrik nodded eagerly, but he sensed Erin’s apprehension.
“Like Zel Shivertail or the Titan himself if he counts as a guest. What’s the matter, Miss Solstice?”
She was fidgeting in her chair. Erin looked extremely unhappy.
“Nothing. Well—this is why I don’t like testing it.”
