“[Castling the Pieces].”
With a single sentence, they could put a thrill in your blood. Fear—if you were their enemies. A Skill was meant to be used, and Perorn knew that it was not always wise to show your hand.
But Niers’ great Skill had already been publicly unveiled, so there was no point keeping it as a hidden weapon. If you had it—flaunt it.
That was a very Centaur ideology that Niers had adopted. But he put his own spin on Skills, and this was why Perorn was watching early in the morning as she brushed her teeth.
The sight of a greying Centaur brushing her teeth in her command tent was not unusual. Niers didn’t demand everyone show up glossy with their armor buffed like Dullahans. Some of the other officers linked via [Scrying] were doing similar things. Drinking coffee, handing reports to lieutenants…
But it was odd to have the young woman in a wheelchair among their group; Perorn eyed her, and some of the officers tried to look more impressive than they normally did. Erin Solstice was watching Niers, and he was demonstrating his Skill.
A Selphid vanished, and an excited Lizardfolk leapt in the air as he appeared in place. The Selphid [Vanguard] just checked himself.
“Feels good. I can’t pivot into a charge though, Titan. Bit shaky.”
“I’m here! I didn’t die! Yes!”
The Lizardman felt at himself, and both [Soldiers] confirmed the fifteen-foot exchange hadn’t done much. Niers just nodded. Then he turned to Perorn.
“How shaky was your teleport to Izril, Perorn?”
She spat into a bowl and spoke as she wiped her mouth.
“A bit unpleasant. Like a [Teleport] spell, but I didn’t feel like throwing up, so better. But we had to get our bearings a minute or two. Not appropriate for a hot-switch in combat.”
“Understood. Has someone marked…?”
“I have two clocks on you, Lord Astoragon.”
“I have a calendar. Marking the date now.”
Some of his [Strategists] were jesting with him. The Titan rolled his eyes, but he nodded to both.
“Bets on whether it’s a day or hours? I’ll be very upset if it’s four more months, but this is why we do things. We have to know if there’s variance based on range. So—let’s go over our daily affairs. We’ve taken forty casualties against the Dyed Lands.”
“Damn. Where?”
“Something out of the ‘black’ color. They claimed it was a serpent: twenty feet long and huge. Virtually invulnerable to ranged fire; it went over a camp wall and into a barracks. A [Captain] only chased it off once it was wounded in close-quarters fighting.”
Perorn winced. She listened as the [Innkeeper] looked around, but Erin Solstice said nothing. This was Niers’ time, and despite him explaining a bit, he was conducting his meetings as if she were just another underling.
But he was teaching her. Perorn knew this entire exchange was for her benefit. Because there was one thing the [Strategist] did that most people didn’t.
When he got a new Skill, he tested it. When his subordinates or Foliana got a powerful Skill or capstone Skill, they iterated upon it to find synergies, wrote down how fast it went off ‘cooldown’—the term for how long a Skill took to recover—and especially how to use them in ways no one expected.
It was, Perorn understood, something the Titan wanted the [Innkeeper] to do. Badly. If he was someone who obsessively investigated every aspect of his capabilities, Erin Solstice had barely experimented with her powers.
Like [Alcohol Brewing]. Or her witchcraft in general. Or…her [Garden of Sanctuary]. The [World’s Eye Theatre] was just one example of this; Erin hadn’t known that she could tie in an existing [Scrying] spell into the dome of her theatre.
…She wasn’t doing that now. In fact, she was using a regular scrying orb because staring and talking to the ceiling gave you a crick in your neck. But it was good to know she could do it.
Anyways, a daily meeting with the Titan could take up to an hour because he clarified who each person was and went slower over their states of affairs.
Enough time for Niers to snap his fingers.
“Skill off cooldown! I win the pool here—what’s the time?”
Half a dozen officers sat up, and someone slapped a clock.
“—Thirty minutes, eighteen seconds—I’m going to say it’s thirty minutes to the dot, Titan.”
“So will I. Alright—preparing one person for a switch. Fifty miles. [Strategist] Gossard, [Crossbow Captain] Ixeth, are you ready? Gossard, looking forwards to some seafood on the coast?”
A gloomy Human raised his hand.
“Ready, Titan. I hate fish—”
Then he vanished. Ixeth reappeared in the scrying orb, knocking over Gossard’s chair, but otherwise, the two were seamlessly transferred. Someone slapped a clock, and the Titan’s eyes glittered.
“Mark.”
 
——
 
“Two hours, nineteen minutes. But then the Titan tested a Fraerling over the same distance, and the results were different. Strategist Perorn, thirty minutes! He tested three Fraerlings—thirty minutes. Only when five were placed did the time go up to fifty minutes…”
Later that day, while she was marching with the rest of her company of Centaurs, Perorn twisted her midsection around, and the Centaur snatched a report from one of her subordinates.
“No. It’s based on weight? That’s ridiculous! Is he going to try cross-continental transports?”
“Nothing yet, Commander.”
She just bet Niers was considering his options. This changed everything. Perorn bit her lip as she worked out just what they knew.
Firstly, there was a minimum cooldown on his Skill. 30 minutes for any transport was…very low, and it might have to do with Niers’ maximum level. Everyone knew Skills scaled to your level.
That was fine. It just meant Niers couldn’t pull a cheap trick like hopping someone across Baleros. But it also meant that he needed to decide whether it was worth sending a battalion a continent away every four months or saving the Skill.
If a Fraerling could go 50 miles—five Fraerlings barely added to the Skill’s cooldown…
“He’ll switch Fraerlings across their damn settlements for them. That’s how he’ll use it. Not just that…”
How many Fraerlings could he port across the world? Only a battalion or a battalion’s worth of Fraerlings? He could send a Fraerling city to Chandrar. Or an expedition.
Or a spy.
All he had to do was have someone in the area that was loyal to him. The possibilities for [Spies] and other types of agents or enemies appearing behind your ranks would give Tulm ulcers. Imagine if Foliana traded places with someone? Like a [Double Agent]? Imagine if you sent a Chess Tower into a private warcamp?
“How’s tracing? Can anyone tell it’s being done?”
“Results pending, Commander. Magic availed little, but Skill-detection was set off. So a powerful [Mage] might be able to do likewise.”
Not invisible, then. Well, a sensor-Skill was still rare enough, and this Skill was why Niers made people so nervous. At his level, every new Skill changed the way he fought wars.
Perorn rolled up the scroll she’d been given and then burnt it. She scattered the ashes as she trotted across the grass and then turned. A column of Centaurs looked up, shifting their torsos to stare at her. The [Strategist], Perorn as she was known, Fleethoof, one of the most famous [Strategists] of the Forgotten Wing company, called out to them in a parade-ground voice.
“We’ll have to recruit some more [Soldiers], then. We might be getting more more troops—or you lot will be going on holiday back home. I don’t doubt the Titan will want a volunteer to see how long it takes to send one person to Izril or Baleros. And that first person will be the idiot who breaks his or her ankles. If you don’t want to be laughed at for the next four months, watch your hooves and step to it!”
“Yes, Commander!”
The [Strategist]’s warning made all the [Soldiers] trotting check their hooves, and it wasn’t just silly advice. This was a new continent, and the Centaurs trotting at a fast pace might well break a leg in a sudden pothole.
Well, that was why they had [Surehooves] in the front. The class didn’t matter so much as the prefix.
[Surehoof Scout], [Surehoof Warrior]…it was an almost Centaur-exclusive class. There were variants for ‘two-legs’ as they were known—or the ‘three-legs’ as you called Lizardfolk and Drakes well behind their backs. But Centaurs who had such classes would lead a herd-company like this one, moving around treacherous ground or calling out potholes.
“Hole.”
In fact, that happened no less than six minutes later, and Perorn saw her company split without thinking around a tiny gap in the ground. They moved around it with the practice of a people who lived their lives like this. Nomads on the go, used to Baleros’ wide plains in the upper middle, who ran rapidly.
Centaurs—one of six species endemic to Baleros. Along with Gazers, Selphids, Dullahans, Beastkin, and Lizardfolk, they were rarer in the rest of the world for a few reasons.
One—they hated water. Centaurs could swim, and so could horses, which surprised some people who assumed that was impossible. But Centaurs hated it, and they were slow and in danger in the water.
Two—they were not a hugely prolific species. Centaur births were more difficult on average, and complications were a known factor. They were a complex species.
To look at a Centaur, from a young one to old, was to see a horse’s lower half combined with a humanoid body as it rose from the waist, joined to the horse. A Centaur’s upper half could swivel around with as much or more mobility than most humanoids, and most looked like Humans if you just saw them from that height.
Perorn, for instance, had greying brunette hair cropped short on her head. She carried a spear and a bow, standard armaments for most Centaurs, but she also had a sword and a wand in extra holsters at her side. She was not going ‘barehind’ like some Centaurs, who had no coverings on their horse parts. You could do that, like Gnolls, with less nudity problems than some races, but she was a [Mercenary].
A soldier of fortune from Baleros. So of course she had light cloth armor of padding sewn with links of metal. Lighter than the actual plate or chainmail barding some Centaurs wore; hers was nevertheless enchanted, and it looked like a kind of kilt that went just above her knees, adjusted so it wouldn’t catch.
That meant her hooves and ankles were exposed, a hazard if you were a Centaur in a close-quarters fight. But if you were in a close-quarters fight, you’d messed up. She knew that…and as proof she had learned that lesson the hard way, one of her four legs had a streak of white, scarred flesh running up to the knee. Her left hind leg. It had been wounded in a battle with one of her former students.
Tulm the Mithril. It still hurt, even with tonics, and it slowed her down. The Centauress who had once been called ‘Fleethoof’ for her personal speed and her company was a touch slower by age and injury. She hoped wisdom made up for that gap in speed.
Centaur. Her entire battalion of two thousand were Centaurs too, all of whom reported to her. Female and male, though more male—about a 2:1 split. Male Centaurs in Centaur armies almost always predominated; hers was actually a very high ratio of female Centaurs, thanks to their commander.
There was a reason for that. Most Centaurs who bore foals never returned to the battlefield. And once pregnant, they’d almost invariably resign their commission immediately. Given how hard it was for their species to reproduce, Centaur culture demanded it.
Well, there were aspects of her culture Perorn didn’t care for, but you could say that of every species. The last thing about Centaurs, though, and the reason why they hadn’t proliferated across many continents, was different than the other species who were rarer.
Minotaurs had once been common—they had made such bloody wars they had been exiled to the House of Minos.
Ditto for Lizardfolk, though they were common enough only on Baleros.
Dullahans liked to keep to themselves, and they had enclaves in various places, Pallass being one example.
Gazers…were the ultimate recluses, and they might have more problems with reproduction and their uncertain biology than even Centaurs.
Selphids had likewise been reduced in number for very understandable reasons, and the incident at the Gathering Citadel proved that.
Actually, name one species that hadn’t been artificially curbed by war. Perorn couldn’t think of any. Humanity, as a rule, had spread because individual nations were sometimes put down with blood and fire, but the entire species hadn’t been given the title of ‘enemy’. Yet.
Well, it was also probably because of how damn promiscuous they were. To Centaurs, the rates at which some species like Humans could reproduce was insane. Some families had ten children. No Centaur mother would have more than four, and she’d be considered exceptionally prolific at that!
Anyways, the last reason Centaurs weren’t common was this:
They were sort of fragile.
 
——
 
“Commander, short stop?”
“Why?”
“Thorns. Something in the grass. We’ve got eighteen Centaurs with burrs.”
“Alright. Fifteen minutes, and mark the grass out for our [Outriders].”
Perorn sighed. This was another occurrence as normal as anything for a Centaur group on the move.
Thorns. Or rather, tiny annoying burrs that you had to pick out of your fur were irritating some Centaur legs. Other Centaurs were bending over to tend to them; they could kneel down in the grass if they had to, though they liked having helper species for this.
Here was the thing: a Centaur was a fragile being, despite their size. Actually, because of their size. Perorn would tell a marching Lizardfolk contingent complaining of thorns to ‘suck it up and march’, but she’d coddle her Centaurs.
It wasn’t speciesism. It was just…
She had the analogy of half-Giants in mind because they were so big, but the real analogy was to a car, if only Perorn could make it. Imagine a high-production vehicle capable of doing incredible things. Centaurs were heavy. By pound, they outweighed any species save Minotaurs and half-Giants with ease.
The average horse weighed nearly a thousand pounds. Centaurs came in different varieties too, so you could have small Centaurs with pony-like builds or huge racers—but a Centaur was heavier than its horse counterpart on average.
Imagine how much weight that was. Also, if you knew horses, you knew that if one broke a leg, it was practically a death-sentence for a wild one or even one being raised. Centaurs had prostheses, but breaking a leg was one of their greatest nightmares.
