Fortunately, not being able to see was hardly a hindrance for Ali, and from the eyes of all her other minions huddled with the raid group behind the impervious rift, she studied the ridiculous power unleashed by the Dracolich. It was hardly a wonder Kryostria was known as the Frozen Scourge. For a second, her mind supplied the ridiculous image of Winter itself scribbling down notes – and she dismissed it with a wince. Still, her Sage of Learning was humming away in the background, and she allowed herself the briefest of nods. Every scrap of knowledge she gleaned was important. Somewhere, she might uncover a key to turning the course of this conflict.

Back in her bubble, buried now under a ton of ice, Ali swapped her aura to Redemption, consuming all the nearby elemental corpses, and taking the opportunity to refill her mana. The outside wind slowed, and the howling power of the ice-mana storm slowly faded. In the silence of the aftermath, she heard a low rumble and heavy thumping as Kryostria turned and came for the group huddled behind the rift.

Before she could move, a thrilling, familiar roar echoed through the chamber, answering the Dracolich’s assault, and her friend shot out with a kind of lolloping, almost joyous gait that was pure Mato. He loved the clash and craft of battle. Icy breath deflected off of floating void shields in a sizzling roar that left skull-sized boulders of ice bouncing off the ground. The Dire Bear lashed out with a furious swipe that raked void magic across her torn flesh, and with a deft sidestep, he whipped her around and placed her facing toward the wall.

“Mato has her,” Calen announced. “Resume fire.”

Ali took a deep breath, released her Holy Shield, and punched through the ice with her greatsword, reveling in the feeling of power that came from enormous strength. Elementals swarmed outward in a great cloud from under Kryostria’s flaring wings, rushing toward her, and she met them with a glowing sword and an explosion of consecration upon the ground.

Ali landed, punching a stray Ice Hulk with a gauntleted fist while lobbing her Celestial Sword in a great circle through the oncoming swarm, slicing into several more elementals along the way. Leaving her whirling sword images behind to deal with the trash, she shot across the fresh ice to catch her sword in one hand and buried it in Kryostria’s flank.

“Take that, you frigid bag of bones!” she muttered, earning a raised eyebrow from Calen, but she ignored him. After what she had just endured back at the shrine, she welcomed the opportunity to take her frustrations out on an evil, undead dragon with a blazing holy sword.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
