“Death magic is so pretty, isn’t it, my dear?”

The mockery of Lira’s face twisted into a scowl as her specter flew about above the incapacitated raid.

What can I do? Ali darted through the awareness of each of her minions, but she got nothing from any of them.

How can they all be stunned? It took only a glance at the notifications her minions had received to confirm her fear.

The black ribbons writhed and twisted, still bursting into a continuous shower of black and golden sparks as her barrier protected her from their hungry reach. Briefly, she recalled the twisting tendrils of mana she had seen preying on Nathaniel Sunstrider in the spirit realm, but, although this was less sinister, it pulsed with the raw destructive power of domain magic. She unleashed a torrent of mana, desperately pouring it into her barrier, reforming it continuously, a bulwark against the onslaught, while the parasitic twisted band on her finger fed ravenously upon her health. If she let it drop for even an instant, she knew she would be on the ground, suffering the same fate as her friends.

Everywhere around her, healers lay stunned and dying upon the battle-scarred fungal creep, and without their support, Ali’s health rapidly dwindled away, consumed by the voracious ring. In sudden desperation, she reached for it, twisting the band off her finger with a wrench that left her hand bloody, stashing it in her other ring’s storage enchantment before she downed a health potion.

They’re dying! She searched the raid, but there was no help to be found.

The black ribbon relentlessly wore away at her barrier as she braced it against the force and power with a continuous stream of golden arcane mana pouring into her barriers, squinting and flinching against the sparks and flashes of annihilating magic.

Intuition struck her like lightning from the blue. Of course! Casting about her, she picked one of her kobold priests and snapped a second bubble into place surrounding her, and instantly, the health of everyone in the raid became visible as the kobold’s eyes flickered open.

“Heal them!” she shouted as she saw the dire state of her friends.

Instantly, her priest began to shine with the intense holy light of Devotion, accelerating and empowering her holy magic as the heals started flying. Ali bubbled Belmar with the remainder of her barrier capacity, choosing him over the others because he was a Dwarf, and she didn’t need quite as much barrier surface to protect him.

“Heal!” she yelled, unable to convey the desperate urgency of the situation directly into his mind like she could with her minion.

He blinked, suddenly aware of his surroundings, but he immediately began casting, not even wasting the time needed to stand or stammer out a question.

From behind Ali, a giant crack of energy detonating caught her attention, and she spun around to find the planted Malevolent Oaks were beginning to discharge arcs of black or green that grounded themselves into the fungal creep.

Mana saturation! She recognized the effect instantly, and with her realization, she also saw the treants were filled to overflowing with mana.

Then the spawned treants began to die, first one, then the second, and then a handful more as the black ribbons drained them of all their health. But the black ribbons did not let up in spreading their ghastly touch of death, they followed them to the ground and drew out ghostly black shades that let out horrific shrieks, shedding the ribbons as they took to the air.

Spiteful Tree Spirit – Undead Spirit – level ??? (Death).

More and more spirits took to the air, flying in formation with Lirasia’s specter as she circled the raid with predatory swoops.

Then, the black ribbons suddenly vanished. Everyone in the raid suddenly groaned or shouted in alarm, but the vast store of mana the Oaks had gathered surged in the familiar formation of Mass Summoning.

“Run!” Ali screamed as hundreds of treants began flashing into being, crowding each other for sheer lack of space, while the soaring flight of spirits began raining death bolts down upon everything that moved.

“Isn’t this so exciting?”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
