“We do not. But we are ill-equipped for a battle with an entire clan, Ser Eldein. We wear steel; due to the ritual, we were only able to bring…”
He eyed Belic. The [Shoemaker] helpfully shrugged.
“The Gold-ranks seem to be doing a good job. If you want to find the Ogres, anyone’d be able to tell you where the dangerous spots are. Myself, I’m going far away. Good to see you [Knights]. Means the road’s probably clear. Good day to you!”
The Order of Seasons watched him ride off. Then they congregated, arguing fiercely.
“A delay to hunt monsters is almost foolhardy, Dame Talia—”
“If but a single innocent dies, Ser Lorell? Is it not our duty to at least inquire if they’re being hunted?”
He exhaled, but couldn’t argue with that. Lorell turned to Talia’s left.
“Dame Chise, your thoughts?”
“We could alter our path. Let us ask if these Ogres are still a threat at large. If they are, we bear towards them. If not, we continue. Either way, we still lose little more than a few days.”
Lorell nodded. So it was agreed. The [Knights] began riding faster. The next traveller they came across didn’t know about where the Ogres were, but he could point them towards Ulta lands. Talia frowned.
“Ulta. Some noble [Lady] rules them?”
Ser Eldein nodded.
“They’re but a day’s ride away. We could reach the outermost edge and inquire further.”
“We shall, then. Dame Chise, will you aid our speed?”
“Certainly. [First to Battle]!”
The [Summer Knight] raised her morning star. And the company of [Knights] accelerated down the road. They might have been slow on their return home, but with a purpose in mind, they moved faster. It was just a rumor for now; the Ogres might have been dealt with. But Talia rode at the head of the company next to Eldein, urging her horse to move faster.
Even if there was a chance, the Order of Seasons would investigate. If they could save a life by effort, none would be spared.
That was what it meant to be a [Knight].
 
——
 
The first town the [Knights] came to by the time lanterns were lit and they had to slow to avoid accident on the road was fairly prosperous. The company rode in fast, looking for a tavern or inn to get the newest information. Their horses were tired, but the Spring Knights would rub them down and mix a bit of stamina potion into their feed.
As they headed towards the largest tavern, Ser Lorell in the lead, the [Knights] cut off a [Farmer] in their hurry to reach the stables. The man riding the wagon took offense to the group of [Riders].
“Oi. Mind yourself, you idiots! I’m riding here!”
He roared at the [Knights]. Talia was impressed; it took guts to shout at a group of nearly twenty armed people, even if he’d spotted the crests that marked them as [Knights] in the darkness.
Affronted, Ser Lorell pulled up and inclined his head.
“Our apologies, sir. But we are [Knights], investigating word of Ogres—”
“And you think that gives you the right to cut me off? Out of the way!”
The enraged man waved a fist at Ser Lorell. Caught off-guard, the [Summer Knight] hesitated, and then moved his horse out of the way. The Order of Seasons parted, and the [Farmer] rolled past them. They stared at him as he glared.
“Next time, obey the rules of the road! Idiots.”
He disappeared down the street. Talia bit her lip, glancing at Ser Lorell’s slack face. That had been an odd experience! Dame Chise was the first to speak.
“This is the domain of House Ulta, a noble family. And these are the lands of Lady Pryde. It seems her people are equally…spirited.”
“So it seems.”
Ser Lorell shook himself. Then he briskly dismounted. Talia followed suit. Soon, all but six of the [Spring Knights] were walking into the tavern. They had a more amicable greeting this time.
“My word! So many [Knights]? What can I do for you, ladies, gentlemen? My name is Keida. Will you be wanting food? Rooms for the night?”
“Good evening, good mistress. A repast would be welcome. But any information about this Ogre scourge is what we seek. How dire are the attacks? Do you know their location or if anything is being done to stop them?”
Miss Keida frowned as she had tables dragged together for the [Knights].
“The Ogres? A horrible mess. Lady Pryde will sort them out, I’ve no doubt. But there’s a few big groups left. All northeast of us, thank goodness. Three days ride. Will you be having that food?”
Lorell looked at Talia and Chise and nodded. That was much too far even if they’d been minded to push. The [Knights] began sitting down. Miss Keida was a friendly woman, and her husband got to work at once preparing a meal for so many. The [Tavern Owner] began talking with her guests and the odd incident with the [Farmer] outside came up as a matter of course.
“That would be Mister Chalt, [Knights]. He’s an odd sort. Keeps to himself, but he comes into market time to time. He lacks manners, but there was no ill will in it!”
Keida assured Ser Lorell. The [Knight] paused.
“He was particularly insistent on his way, though, Miss Keida.”
“Shouldn’t he be? He had the right of way. And he insisted on that. It’s a matter of dignity.”
“Hm. Even so—I’ve been told this is land owned by House Ulta. And the ruling [Lady] is…”
“Lady Pryde. We’re all her subjects. People of Pryde. Which means people of pride, Mister Lorell. Be it [Farmer] or [Shepherd], we won’t give up the right of way so easily. I daresay Chalt would have if you’d been in a hurry, but not to stable your horses!”
The glint in Miss Keida’s eyes made Talia love her in an instant. Lorell looked embarrassed. He coughed.
“People of Pride?”
“That’s right. Pride rules in Ulta lands. Pride in what you do and who you are. Chalt, now, he’s a good example of that. Respected! More than most [Merchants] or rich folk without a lick of dignity; I daresay he could have married well if he wasn’t such a recluse.”
Raist looked mystified as he took a drink of water.
“But he has pride in being…alone? In being insistent on his right to the road? In being a [Farmer]?”
Some intriguing smells were wafting from the kitchen. Mistress Keida gave the [Knight] an odd look in reply.
“Pride takes many forms, sirs and madams. It need not be on display. Lady Pryde only asks us to do what fulfills us. Not to live hollow lives. For instance, my boy is aiming to be an adventurer. I wouldn’t dare stop him. I’d be too ashamed to look anyone in the eye! But I am a mother.”
“And adventuring is a dangerous life. Risky. You won’t stop your son from trying?”
Talia replied. Miss Keida nodded.
“Of course not! If I did, who would he be?”
The [Knights] glanced at each other. Chise cleared her throat.
“But Miss Keida, what if your son fails? Say he wished to be a [Merchant] but had not the class or any capital. Would you let him pursue that ambition?”
“Of course! Better to do what he wants than not try. If he fails, he’ll pick himself up and try again. If he doesn’t, then he was never meant to be an adventurer to begin with. Oh, I think your food’s ready. I won’t be a moment!”
Miss Keida smiled and disappeared into the kitchen. Raist raised his eyebrows as he looked around the table.
“Seems this entire region acts as their [Lady] does. Ambition and pride over caution and humility.”
The other [Knights] shushed him, but many clearly agreed. Talia liked the idea. She’d heard [Ladies] and [Lords] could shape their domains after them, but Terandrian nobility were still subjects of their monarchs, however powerful. Izril however, had no royalty.
Except for the [Emperor]. Talia wished she could have met him. But then she was distracted by the meal.
“I have enough for everyone and seconds waiting! No, I can take it out myself, and my [Barmaids]! That’s what we get paid for!”
Miss Keim
a scolded the [Knights] trying to rise and take the dishes. She placed them down with flourishes, beaming. Talia looked at the food, her stomach rumbling. Then she paused.
“All of it’s from our stocks! The salt’s from the Ulta salt mines—the finest in Izril! Pure salt, lovely brines—my husband’s personal recipe. Enjoy!”
The [Tavern Owner]’s cheerful voice hovered in the air. The Terandrian [Knight] stared down at their repast. It was…pickled eggs. Salted pork. Beets—yes, pickled. Some filling dumplings, also made with what seemed to be primarily preserved foods. And pickles. Pickled walnuts, which had turned black from the brine, served on blue cheese—
Salt. Talia looked up, trying to smile. She came from a coastal duchy, but she was used to seafood. Not pickled foods. And indeed, most of the Terandrians weren’t used to so much…pickling. The abundance of magic meant that you could get fresh food; pickles were nice, but pickled foods were an acquired taste.
The only thing that was there to cut the salt was some goat’s milk and fruits. And bread. The Order of Seasons stared at the meal with no small measure of chagrin. They exchanged covert looks, chivalry fighting with taste buds.
The [Tavern Owner] beamed, gesturing at the spread.
“All favorites among the Ulta region! You won’t get better anywhere in the town. And if I might add, good [Knights]? You’ll want to stock up on salt if you’ve a mind to be passing south or east of here. There’s a trade war on, and Lady Pryde’s stated there will be no trade in those directions until proper apology is made.”
“A trade war?”
Lorell murmured, prodding at a huge pickle. Raist was ordering more alcohol. Miss Keida nodded. She frowned darkly.
“They insulted Lady Pryde! Gave her a black rose. As if she hadn’t fought the Goblin King at First Landing! Well, they’ll pay for that. All of them! No salt is going to Reicch, or anywhere north of Veltaim. Unless they’ve got preservation runes, we’ll see how long their stores last without salt!”
“They could always smoke—”
Talia kicked Ser Eldein under the table. She gulped as Miss Keida retreated to get some more drinks for the table. She looked up and met Ser Lorell’s eyes. He was in agreement with her in this, at least. But all the [Knight] did was slowly pick up a cup.
“’Twould be rude to demand a different repast. This is their food.”
“Pride.”
Talia agreed glumly. The Order of Seasons braced themselves. Ser Eldein sighed.
“Pride and salt.”
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes later, Ser Eldein put down his fork and regarded the empty plates. He turned and, with supreme force of will, smiled at the hovering [Tavern Owner].
“A truly filling repast, Mistress Keida.”
“Do you need seconds?”
“No.”
The chorus came from the entire table. The [Knights] were full, Talia included, but at what cost? To distract the generous Miss Keida and her [Brine Cook] husband, they began asking questions about the Ogres.
“Well, Lady Pryde won’t let them attack anyone on her lands. I’ve heard she’s setting off after one war band, but there’s two big ones left. The first is led by their leader, very large, over fifty in total. The second’s smaller, but no less dangerous. Thirty-odd Ogres.”
“Thirty? We number nineteen. It shouldn’t be too dangerous a battle.”
Ingrela mused out loud. Ser Lorell frowned.
“Ogres are strong, Dame Ingrela. Not as thick-skinned as Trolls, but more numerous. What separates them from half-Giants?”
“Their breath?”
That came from Talia. A few chuckles and a glare from Lorell followed. He began a lecture; he was well-studied, at least. Talia reflected that it was Lorell’s specialty; he had a position training many [Knights] in their Season as a mentor. Like her, he hadn’t flinched from a real battle, but he could get…teacherly at times. And she was no student. The Knights of the Spring listened closely, though.
“Trolls are more squat. Tougher, sometimes magical. Ogres are humanoid, albeit monstrous. More intelligent than Trolls. Far, far less civilized than half-Giants, who are but people overgrown. Ogres can be reasoned with and they use tools, or so I have heard from Autumn Knights. But then, even Goblins and Trolls can communicate.”
“Few can. These are clearly monsters.”
Dame Chise’s comments were met by nods all around. Ser Eldein just looked confused.
“Reason with Goblins? With a Troll? Why would one ever do that?”
Ser Thornst clicked his tongue reprovingly.
“Diplomacy is the other edge of the sword we wield, Ser Eldein. Seldom on monsters. But if you ever meet a Dragon, you would be wise to try words first. Not all are evil.”
“Dragons, yes, but Ogres?”
“I do not believe we will be negotiating with these ones. Not after what they’ve done. Ser Lorell?”
Talia’s voice made the other [Knight] look up. Ser Lorell nodded calmly.
“With Dame Chise’s Skill, we may reach them in two days. Perhaps more. Perhaps less. When we do, if they are not dealt with, we will hunt them down ourselves.”
“A worthy task!”
Miss Keida had come back. She clapped her hands and nodded approvingly. There was something regal in the way she treated the [Knights]; pride again. But she looked at Talia warningly.
“A word of caution though, Ser and Lady [Knights]. The Ogres are thirty, but I’ve heard they had Goblins too. You might be fighting a lot more.”
She saw a few smiles on the faces of the Order of Seasons. Ser Eldein coughed.
“Miss Keida, your concern does you credit. But we can handle a few Goblins. How many are there? Three dozen? Fifty? If there are any Hobs, we will consider them on rank with the Ogres, but the Ogres are the true threat.”
“Strong foes. If we were less in number or under leveled I would hesitate at the fight. Even so, we will be cautious. How many Goblins do you think there are, Miss Keida?”
The [Tavern Owner] shrugged.
“What I heard was that the Ogre clan had a Goblin tribe. The second war band is thirty Ogres, but who counts Goblins? There were a lot, or so the rumors claimed. You might be fighting sixty. Or hundreds.”
 
——
 
That night, the Order of Seasons slept. They rose with dawn and departed. They moved quickly, following reports of attacks, riding down the road faster than all but Runners and the swiftest horses. But the grim truth was that they were too slow. They had been too slow to save every victim. Before they had come to Izril, the Ogres had struck. And they would strike again before the [Knights] reached them. But that was a reality even the most chivalrous [Knight] had to accept, if not make peace with. Monsters were everywhere.
Usually, and in big cities, they were a distant thing. But to those who lived closer to the wilderness, monsters were a fact of life, like [Bandits], a natural disaster, a wolf attack. Usually they were sporadic unless you lived truly close to a dangerous location. And sometimes, the monsters overflowed and came out. And they tore the illusion of peace to shreds.
