The young [Spring Knight] shook her head. She’d come after Talia. She eyed the Goblin Slayer.
“No, but [Hunters] use such traps. Tell me, Ser Slayer. I have been thinking on it—why do you use a plain shortsword instead of enchanted weapons? Surely your axe would be a far better weapon for general use than plain steel.”
The Goblin Slayer paused. Inside his helmet, Rabbiteater bit his tongue. The reason he didn’t use his axe was because it shouldn’t belong to him. If anyone remembered it from the battle with the Goblin Lord—he saw the interested faces around him and fumbled for an answer.
“Enchanted weapons are…dangerous. For hunting Goblins.”
Rabbiteater lied desperately. He saw Talia’s brows shoot up.
“Really?”
“…Yes?”
Talia stared at the Goblin Slayer. She’d never heard that! But then Ingrela made a sound and Talia, the [Blacksmith], and Rabbiteater looked at her. She nodded slowly.
“I can understand it. Consider, Dame Talia, what might happen if he were to wear such a weapon openly. It would give his opponent information—and allow for detection in battle. Magical armor likewise.”
“Of course! I hadn’t considered it. Apologies, Ser Slayer. We of the Order of Seasons do not generally employ stealth. Much less my Season of Summer. I imagine you must answer such questions constantly.”
Talia looked apologetically at Rabbiteater. The Hobgoblin stared at the [Knights]. Really? But even the [Blacksmith] was nodding as another [Knight] chimed in, stroking his beard. Ser Thornst was pretending to study a blade as he glanced sidelong at the Goblin Slayer.
“I have heard it said that Knight-Commander Calirn uses naught but ordinary steel at times to give himself a challenge that he might level up. There are reasons for it.”
“Right. Thank you.”
The ‘Goblin Slayer’ was sweating bullets. He collected his gear from the [Blacksmith] and hurried off. The [Knights] watched him go—this time to a [Seamstress] waiting for him with a bundle of cloth. Talia watched him taking small pads and shoving them into a bag of holding.
“Bandages, mayhap? He seems determined not to rely on potions.”
“After seeing the Ogre with the Evercut Arrows, I find that prudent. He’s clearly experienced in fighting Goblins.”
Ser Thornst nodded. It was Ingrela who sighed.
“And yet, I cannot help but feel for him. Did you understand the meaning in his comments about enchanted weapons, Talia, Thornst?”
They looked at her. Ingrela explained.
“It is true enchanted gear alerts a wary foe. But most of all? When he falls, each item Ser Slayer bears will be a weapon the Goblins can use against their next victims. ‘Tis a measure of resolve. Bravery, I call it.”
Thornst sobered. Talia looked back at the Goblin Slayer, struck again. She murmured.
“Indeed. He has put his life into his cause. No wonder he is so successful at his trade.”
The [Blacksmith] nodded knowingly.
“Not just that, Ser and Lady [Knights]. He’s become famous in all sorts of places. Where he goes, Goblins die like flies. Everyone’s talking of him. We already knew who he was when he walked into our village. A lone adventurer, fighting back the Goblins. Damn good thing after the Goblin Lord. It’s an honor to help him, for all he stinks of, well, Goblin.”
The Order of Seasons agreed, watching the Goblin Slayer solemnly. They respected those who followed a cause similar to their own.
Rabbiteater, not able to hear any of it, tried to resist the urge to scratch his groin. The armor got stuffy. He really wished they would stop following him around.
 
——
 
The Order of Seasons insisted on accompanying the Goblin Slayer to the next town. It was north of here, and it was on their way. The Goblin Slayer walked, but quickly, so the Order of Seasons kept him company. He was still taciturn, but by now he seemed to have resigned himself to their company, especially Talia’s. She was trying to understand him, or at least, learn more about him.
“‘Goblin Slayer’ is a poor nickname. Have you any name you would be willing to share? Or is your identity sworn to secrecy as much as your visage?”
The Goblin Slayer paused.
“My name doesn’t matter.”
“Surely it does! A [Knight]’s deeds should be cried out.”
“I’m not a [Knight]. Killing Goblins is not…amazing.”
“Even so, you seem more [Knight] than mere adventurer. Have you had training? You fight with more expertise than a self-taught warrior.”
The Goblin Slayer shrugged uncomfortably.
“I have trained.”
“Ah, I knew it. With your skill at arms, you might well enlist in an order, Ser Slayer! The life of an adventurer may suit you in your quest, but the backing of an order would do you no harm.”
The Goblin Slayer could only shrug again in reply.
“I work alone. People die around me. Friends.”
There was a heavy note in his voice. And that spoke of truth. Talia looked at Thornst and the man shut his mouth. But even Ser Lorell was nodding covertly. More pieces of the puzzle. Talia was wondering what ill-fated battle had led the Goblin Slayer to his quest. Perhaps he had fought at Liscor? Or been prey to the Goblin Lord’s army. Or maybe his desire stemmed from an even older conflict. Velan the Kind, perhaps?
They reached a larger town, and Talia got to see the Goblin Slayer enter the Adventurer’s Guild. The [Receptionist] at the desk knew him. The man stared as he poured Goblin ears onto the desk.
“Enough! Ser Slayer, enough! We don’t need to count—dead gods, you wiped out another tribe? We could as easily use a [Detect Truth] spell!”
The man at the desk looked at the Goblin Slayer, slightly appalled, but mostly awed. The other adventurers, Silver-ranks and Bronze, gave the Goblin Slayer their own stares and respectful nods. The Goblin Slayer paused.
“This is proof.”
“And so it is, ser. I can collect your bounty after I er, count…”
The man helplessly waved for help. A few adventurers got up. One of them, a Silver-rank [Fencer], leaned against the counter.
“You took them out yourself, Slayer? Dead gods, and I thought my team was good!”
“I had help.”
The Goblin Slayer looked back at Talia and some of the [Knights]. The adventurers exclaimed when they saw the Order of Seasons, and they were impressed as the [Knights] introduced themselves. A bit wary, even; some of the Silver-rank teams looked embarrassed as they eyed the shining armor the [Knights] wore.
“You know the Goblin Slayer, Sir Mells?”
The young [Fencer] flushed.
“Just Mells. I’ve seen him about. I’d like to say he’s a friend, but he’s driven. He comes and goes; in truth, my team saw him in the south. He walked into the guild one day and dropped a huge bag of Goblin ears! That’s all he hunts, practically. Did you say you saw him fight? He’s never partnered up with anyone so far.”
“Indeed. He was a fierce warrior in battle. We wondered if he’d do us the honor of accompanying us north.”
Talia’s voice made the Goblin Slayer look up. He stared at her as she explained.
“We ride north, towards First Landing, or perhaps to any port if chivalry demands we travel elsewhere. We are returning to our headquarters, in Terandria. But your cause is just, Ser Slayer, and we would speak to you of chivalry.”
Her fellow [Knights] were nodding. The Goblin Slayer spoke to them. He could only hesitate and shake his head.
“I don’t work in teams.”
“Consider it, Ser Slayer! We travel onwards at speed come tomorrow. But your talents are wasted as a mere—”
Ser Lorell caught himself, looking around. He coughed.
“That is to say, your task is a noble one. And the path of a [Knight] is one of worth! Let us at least speak to you of valor.”
He waited. Talia held her breath. But all the armored figure did was nod.
“I’ll think about it. Tell you tomorrow.”
She hoped he’d agree as they rested that night in the town. He was fascinating to her.
 
——
 
That night, Rabbiteater left the town through the main gates. He didn’t need to skulk. The [Sentries] waved him past after one glance. One of them called out good-naturedly.
“Patrolling, Goblin Slayer? We’ve got our eyes on the horizon!”
Rabbiteater raised a silent hand in reply. One of the other [Sentries] nudged his friend.
“Let him go. He always does this. Can’t be too cautious.”
The Hobgoblin walked out of the town. And then he began running when he was out of sight of the walls. It took him nearly two hours to reach the meeting spot, and when he did, he was late.
Last night, he’d found the Rolling Rocks tribe. They’d left without a trace, which had fooled the Humans, but they could hardly make the long trek south without help. Which was why they’d been found by the second Hobgoblin after Rabbiteater had signaled him. He was waiting for Rabbiteater, along with another companion.
They were both mounted. Rabbiteater paused as he heard the growl, but the Carn Wolves sat patiently, recognizing him as a Redfang. Badarrow slid to the ground where he’d been keeping watch; he’d spotted Rabbiteater from far away.
The Hobgoblin [Sniper] didn’t smile as he saw Rabbiteater. Like his friend, he hadn’t smiled since…that day. But he grabbed Rabbiteater’s arm, squeezing the [Champion]’s arm. Rabbiteater, the [Champion]. To this day, the Hobgoblin felt he didn’t deserve the class.
A [Champion] would not have let his friends die. But he had a job. So Rabbiteater followed Badarrow to the small camp. There was no fire; Goblins weren’t that obvious. A second figure stood up. She was less familiar to Rabbiteater for all they’d gotten to know each other. He just nodded at Snapjaw as she crunched some bone in her mouth.
“Rolling Rocks tribe safe?”
“Safe. Good camp that way. Are quiet. Snapjaw lead south. Ogres dead?”
Badarrow grunted as he offered Rabbiteater some raw meat. Rabbiteater nodded, accepting the food. It was hard to eat, even in private. He tore off a bite, chewed, swallowed.
“Dead. [Knights] helped.”
“Peh. We could kill. And Rolling Rocks tribe.”
Snapjaw spat. The plan had been for her and Badarrow to back Rabbiteater up and rally the Goblins to overthrow the Ogres. Rabbiteater just shrugged. He traced the ground with a metal foot.
“Killed Goblins.”
The two Hobs just nodded. Sometimes, it happened. Badarrow looked at his friend. After a moment, Badarrow reached for his bag of holding. There were only a few available, but he, Snapjaw, and Rabbiteater all carried one. It was one of the first things Rabbiteater had bought with the gold he’d earned from his job.
“Here.”
Badarrow pulled out a larger bag from within the bag of holding. Rabbiteater didn’t need to know what it held, but he looked anyways. Goblin ears. Dozens of them. He stared at them, then closed the bag. Snapjaw cracked a bone between her teeth. Rabbiteater stared at Badarrow.
“More Goblins dead?”
“Some dead. Less, now. Chieftain find good place.”
Rabbiteater nodded slowly. He added them to his own collection. He had many Goblin ears. Hundreds of ears, in fact. He hadn’t sold them all at once. Many were from dead Goblins in Rag’s tribe. They weren’t using the ears when they died, and the money—even if it was only a copper coin per pair of ears—bought the Flooded Water tribe what they needed to survive.
The rest were from the battlefield. From the dead. After a moment, Rabbiteater began pulling objects out of his bag of holding. He switched to the common tongue, what Erin called ‘English’ to speak.
“Here. I have potions. Take this too. It’s steel Chieftain wanted. Good…quality…ore.”
He was no Numbtongue, but he had learned how to say some things. Use contractions, for one. Snapjaw had taught him, having learned from Reiss himself. Badarrow grunted. He wasn’t as good as Rabbiteater, so he stayed in the Goblin tongue.
“Good. Smells good. What this?”
“Steel. Iron. Pickaxes. Potions. Screws. Nails. Wiping things…”
Rags wanted any number of items. Badarrow nodded until he came to the cloth objects that Rabbiteater had ordered. He prodded one and stared at Rabbiteater.
“What this? Not bandages.”
“Don’t know. Female Goblins want.”
Rabbiteater shrugged. He looked at Snapjaw. She took one and felt the fabric happily.
“For blood. Better wipe. Softer.”
“For butt?”
Badarrow looked blank. Snapjaw glared at him.
“No! Other place!”
“Huh.”
The three Hobgoblins paused a moment. Rabbiteater silently unloaded his bag of holding, and Badarrow and Snapjaw divided the load. It was a good haul; he’d spent the money he earned well. After a moment, he pointed back the way he’d come.
“Stay away from Order of Seasons. Smells like weather.”
“What kind of death are they?”
Snapjaw looked up. Her crimson eyes glinted. Rabbiteater paused. He switched to the Goblin tongue then to more accurately approximate their fighting strength in their terms.
“Screaming, fighting, cornered death. Maybe worse death.”
Badarrow nodded. He inspected his bow, glanced up. After a long pause, Rabbiteater looked at him. Reluctantly, he asked the real question he knew Badarrow wanted him to ask. It was written in every line of his posture, and Goblins spoke with bodies as much as words.
“Chieftain say anything?”
Both Hobs nodded. Badarrow studied Rabbiteater. He tried to smile, but he had never been used to it. And Rabbiteater’s heart was missing since the battle. He’d left it in an inn, in the past. He shouldn’t have run. He should have died—
“She say ‘good work’. And—can come back if want.”
“I don’t want to.”
The two Hobs paused, then nodded. Rabbiteater sat down. The other two sat too. One of the Carn Wolves sniffed, and Snapjaw threw him part of the bone she was eating. Rabbiteater stared at nothing. Then he looked up.
“Redscar?”
“Strong. Good.”
Another nod. Rabbiteater had no more questions. After a moment, Badarrow looked around.
“Lots of Humans. Hard to hide. What do?”
Rabbiteater hesitated. But the answer came out of him before he knew what he was saying.
“Going north. Find more Goblins. Go around. Maybe go with [Knights].”
Both Hobgoblins sat up, their postures and expressions radiating shock. Incredulity. Badarrow gaped at Rabbiteater.
“No! Bad idea! Dangerous! Discover-death. Surrounded death!”
“Don’t care. Humans don’t see.”
“Dogs smell! I smell! Bad idea. Bad. You come back—”
“No.”
Rabbiteater resisted Snapjaw’s arm. She stared at him. Her head was bigger than normal and her mouth was huge. She could bite through a Gargoyle’s skin with her metallic teeth. Rabbiteater met her eyes, and then looked away. He stood up.
“I’m going. Tell Chieftain I’ll get her what she wants. Pretend to be Goblin Slayer. Go with [Knights]. Don’t come back. Too dangerous.”
