“I know Izril has a few orders, but I cannot say there are any great [Knights] to my knowledge. And it would take a great [Knight] such as Teresa the Giant or Ser Alonaid the [Bow Knight] to face such a horde alone. If this ‘Goblin Slayer’ is hunting Goblins, we should find them.”
“Agreed. Do we ride down the road or take to the foothills, Ser Lorell?”
The Summer Knight hesitated. Talia waited, knowing what she’d order. Ser Eldein glanced sideways at her, but Ser Lorell made up his mind after a moment.
“The foothills. The Ogres won’t stick to the roads after the last group was defeated. They will be more opportunistic. Or do you disagree?”
He stared at Talia. She inclined her head slightly.
“Not at all, Ser Lorell.”
“Then we ride. Mount up! Dame Chise, Ser Raist, in front! Dame Talia, Ser Thornst, choose four and scout.”
The [Knights] took off fast. They were wary of ambush, and Talia chose Eldein and a fellow [Summer Knight] to ride ahead, but she knew speed was of the essence. Her Order couldn’t afford to spend a month tracking the Ogres down if they fled into the foothills. She urged her mount into the forest surrounding the foothills, picking a path upwards.
“Gah! My steed can’t handle the terrain. Dame Talia, I fear he’ll break an ankle.”
Ser Eldein cried out as they passed through more dense trees with gnarled roots and stones. Ser Thornst nodded.
“I as well. We’ll have to go on foot unless we have [Steady Hooves] for our mounts or the like.”
Talia frowned, but it was true. And the foothills would be just as bad for riding.
“Dismount, then. Let Ser Lorell know; Ser Thornst, will you take the horses back? You have a way with them.”
Ser Eldein was junior, but it was true. Thornst nodded.
“Of course. I imagine Dame Chise will keep her mount, and perhaps Ser Aldon. But I shall bring the rest back.”
“We’ll have to send them back to a town or village. The Ogres might well go after them.”
Ser Eldein commented as Talia dismounted. The young woman nodded, grimacing.
“I imagine we’ll have to send one of our own back. Or perhaps the [Hermit] could—”
She broke off and raised a gauntleted hand. Ser Eldein fell silent at once. Off their mounts, the two [Knights] heard a sound up ahead. Rustling. They grabbed their weapons, alert. Talia motioned and the two spread out. They were hardly camouflaged with their bright metal armor, but they moved quietly, advancing. Talia rounded a tree and saw the Goblin Slayer.
Her first impression of him was of a kneeling figure. His armor was plain, but perfectly kept. He wore a full-visored helm, concealing his features. And his body was likewise covered, from head to toe.
That was like most [Knights]. But where Talia and Ser Eldein’s armor was polished and bright, painted in the colors of their Season, the Goblin Slayer’s armor was grimy. Not a single part shone. He smelled of dirt too, and Talia caught a foreign whiff from him that made her nose wrinkle. The Goblin Slayer was crouched, immobile as he studied a body on the ground.
A Goblin. It’s head had been split open and it was at least a day dead. The smell was foul and rotten. The Goblin Slayer knelt over it, inspecting the corpse. He had an intensity to even his posture as he remained still. Like a coiled spring, ready to explode if need be. But what stood out to her was the way he reacted to their presence. He looked up silently and she felt his gaze, hidden behind his helmet.
He had known they were here. The armored figure said nothing. He waited. Then, slowly, he stood and stowed the knife he’d been holding in one gauntleted hand. He turned, and reached for the pack on the ground. He looked back at the [Knights] and said not one word.
It was unnatural. Talia felt her skin prick slightly. Ser Eldein wavered and lowered his sword. He called out after a few seconds of silence.
“Well met, stranger! Are you hunting monsters? I am Ser Eldein of the Order of Seasons! This is Dame Talia, likewise of the Order of Seasons! May we know your name and purpose?”
The figure looked up. He stared at Ser Eldein, again, a bit too long. At last, he nodded and said one word.
“Goblins.”
His tone was guttural, hoarse, as if strained from misuse. He seemed content with that reply. Talia saw him stowing something in a belt pouch. She saw a flash of green and realized what it was.
Ears. He’d cut off the ears of the Goblin corpse. Or—just one. The head had been nearly destroyed by the blow. She saw Ser Eldein react with disgust. That wasn’t a practice of [Knights], but adventurers. Dame Talia was more diplomatic. She sheathed her sword and smiled.
“Are you Ser Goblin Slayer? My company was informed you were hunting the Ogres. As we are. There is a war band of thirty in the area. Thirty Ogres—a fearsome danger to the local citizens. Are you pursuing them?”
The Goblin Slayer looked up. He nodded once.
“Ogres and Goblins.”
“Pardon me?”
Talia frowned. The voice came out of the helmet.
“Ogres. And Goblins. They have Goblins. This is one of theirs.”
He gestured down at the corpse. Dame Talia blinked. She looked sideways at Ser Eldein.
“We’re told they number thirty in total, Ser Knight. Are you intending to battle them alone?”
The Goblin Slayer shrugged.
“Yes.”
Another pause. Ser Eldein frowned.
“But there are thirty Ogres.”
“And Goblins. I hunt Goblins. So I hunt them.”
With that said, the Goblin Slayer turned and began to walk away from Talia. She called out.
“Ser Knight, wait!”
He paused and turned back towards her. Someone was moving towards them. Ser Thornst, perhaps. She cleared her throat.
“Will you wait a moment? My company is behind me. We too hunt the Ogres. And Goblins. Might we pool information?”
The armored figure considered her request. Slowly, he nodded.
“Fine.”
Talia nodded to Ser Eldein. The other [Knight] sheathed his blade and turned. Ser Thornst stopped when he saw the Goblin Slayer, but the rest of the company converged on the spot in minutes. Ser Lorell blinked as well and covered his nose with a handkerchief; the other [Knights] looked at the body with disgust. And at the Goblin Slayer with suspicion.
“Well met, Ser Knight. Are you the Goblin Slayer we have heard about? I understand you are following the trail of the Ogres. A worthy cause. Might I know your name and order?”
Ser Lorell greeted the Goblin Slayer cordially. They were all on foot, but for Dame Chise and Ser Aldon. Talia watched as the dark visor swung towards Ser Lorell. The Goblin Slayer paused for a long moment.
“I hunt Goblins. Call me what you want. I am not a [Knight].”
That was all he said. Ser Lorell faltered.
“Then you are hunting the Ogres?”
“Yes.”
“Alone?”
“Yes.”
“Are you…”
Are you a Gold-rank adventurer? Or Named? Or just mad? Ser Lorell was clearly thinking that. Talia was sure she’d never heard of a ‘Goblin Slayer’ as a Named Adventurer, excluding Elia Arcsinger of course. After a moment, she broke in.
“Do you believe the Ogres are in this area, Ser Slayer? We have tracked them by sightings and their attacks.”
“They are that way.”
The Goblin Slayer pointed through the trees to the base of the hills. Ser Thornst frowned.
“You tracked them?”
“Here. And there.”
“Let me see.”
One of the other [Spring Knights] who had a tracking Skill moved forwards. He squatted by the body and studied the tracks in the ground. It was all dirt to Talia, but he seemed to agree. As he noted the stiffness of the Goblin corpse, Talia stepped back with Chise, Thornst, and Lorell to confer. The senior [Summer Knights] eyed the Goblin Slayer. He was watching them all.
“What an odd warrior. Not a [Knight], clearly. But he has the armor of one. That’s good steel. New. Quite mobile as well.”
Ser Thornst nodded to the Goblin Slayer’s armor. Indeed, he wore light armor, not as heavy as some of the [Knights], but it covered his body, allowing for superior movement. Talia knew a well-fitted suit of armor was like a second skin. A trained [Knight] could run, jump, swim, and climb in it with ease. Ser Lorell frowned darkly.
“He seems to match the description of this ‘Goblin Slayer’. I did hear a rumor of him on the road earlier. But he did not state he was such. An imposter, perhaps?”
“His armor is meticulously maintained, for all of the smell. They’re not all one set, though.”
Dame Chise studied the armored figure. Talia agreed. The armor was good beneath the dirt. Ser Lorell pursed his lips.
“He seems to be pursuing the Goblins. Should we insist on taking precedence?”
“Would he agree? This isn’t Terandria, Ser Lorell.”
“Nevertheless, we are nineteen.”
“If he’s an adventurer, he might object…”
“I’ll speak to him. Perhaps he can tell us more.”
Talia backed out of the conversation and moved over to the Goblin Slayer. He was speaking to the [Spring Knight]. Ser Shait was speaking.
“I count a large group. I’d say…fifty? More? Moving in the direction of the hills, indeed. That squares with the thirty-some Ogres. The Goblins…”
“Twenty-five. Males and females. No Hobs. Few Goblins are with the Ogres.”
The Goblin Slayer’s voice made the [Knights] look up. Ser Eldein blinked.
“You can count so accurately, ser?”
The helmeted head moved towards him.
“I know Goblins. Twenty-five.”
A specialized class for hunting Goblins, perhaps. Talia had met [Hunters] like the [Witch Hunters] who were like that. She had never met one that killed just Goblins. As Ser Eldein paused, she studied the silent figure.
“No Hobs? Ah, Hobgoblins. Is that unusual, Ser Slayer?”
She squatted down next to the Goblin Slayer, steeling her stomach against the smell of the body. It had yet to truly stink. The Goblin Slayer paused.
“Hobs rarely appear in slave tribes. Goblins move too slow for Ogres. Tracks also show the same.”
“Slave tribes?”
“Yes. This is one. Goblins obey larger monsters. Twenty-five for fighting came this way. Thirty Ogres. This one was one of them.”
“Why did it die? An accident? Its head looks—”
“Crushed. Ogre club.”
The Goblin Slayer dispassionately pointed. Talia nodded. Even she could read that much.
“And you’re sure of the count?”
“Fifteen female. Ten male.”
Ser Thornst had come over. He frowned.
“More female than male?”
For answer, the Goblin Slayer pulled at the dead Goblin’s loincloth. The [Knights] recoiled.
“Ser Slayer!”
“Look. Female.”
Talia averted her gaze.
“That is unseemly.”
“The Goblin’s dead. Angered the Ogres. Probably.”
The cold voice from behind the helmet could have been staring at a rock on the ground. There was something almost…Golem-like about the Goblin Slayer. Talia got the sense of incredible focus from him. He was interested in only one thing. The Goblins. He gave her the impression of resenting even this delay.
Ser Lorell frowned. He’d come over, still covering his nose as he stared down at the female Goblin in confusion.
“Wouldn’t Ogres leave females behind? The bestiary states that few female Ogres fight in their raiding parties. Would that not hold the same for Goblins?”
“No. Ogres get bored.”
Talia recoiled. It took some of the [Knights] longer to understand what the Goblin Slayer meant. Ser Lorell took a full minute, and then he paled.
“But that’s—”
“Another reason to do away with them. Not that Goblins are different. This band has killed dozens. Ser Slayer, we are hunting them like you. May I ask what you intend to do when you find this band of monsters?”
The Goblin Slayer looked at Talia. His voice was calm.
“Track them to their lair. Kill them there. Can’t fight in the open. Ogres run too quickly.”
“Kill all of them?”
“Yes.”
“By y—how?”
“One by one.”
It was like talking to a mildly communicative rock. Talia shook her head. She looked around, gauging the response of the other [Knights]. Most looked suspicious, but Dame Chise was nodding to the tracks. The Goblin Slayer was better at tracking than their company; they hadn’t been assembled for their tracking Skills, only to slay Belavierr. Talia took a breath.
“And if nineteen [Knights] were to do battle alongside you, Ser Slayer? Our quarry is the Ogres and Goblins both. Let us join forces.”
The offer took both the Goblin Slayer and Ser Lorell off-guard. He drew Talia back as the Goblin Slayer paused.
“Dame Talia!”
“He’s set on his quarry, and he can track the monsters, Ser Lorell. It makes sense.”
“Can we trust him?”
The [Summer Knight] looked at the Goblin Slayer with great distrust. Talia shrugged. She beckoned, and a [Spring Knight] hurried over.
“What do you see, Ser Thaime? Can you appraise him?”
The man nodded. He stared at the Goblin Slayer, and Talia saw his lips move silently. He used a Skill. [Measure of Valor]. After a moment, he looked up at Ser Lorell and Talia and nodded.
Lorell frowned.
“Well, Ser Thaime? His worth?”
“High. ‘Tis not akin to one of our order, but high nonetheless. I see deception, guilt of failure, and the mark of cowardice upon him, but no heinous crimes.”
The answer surprised Lorell. Talia too, honestly. Lorell raised his eyebrows incredulously.
“You’re sure? What of cowardice?”
Ser Thaime shrugged. His Skill allowed him to see the worth of an individual—at least, as a [Knight] judged such things. It wasn’t a foolproof Skill; there were honorable [Thieves], and lauded adventurers who held dark secrets. But it was a good measure the Order of Seasons liked to use.
“Cowardice in valor, Ser Lorell. I have seen the like upon our Grandmaster, the Summer’s Champion. Those who fled a battlefield at the last look so to me. As a whole, I call yon Ser Slayer a man of valor.”
“Is that so.”
Ser Lorell looked unhappy, but Talia smiled. She nodded to the other [Knights].
“Deception is well explained by how he acts. Cloaking himself in the blood and scent of Goblins? Exterminating them as they sleep? Hardly the act of a [Knight]. But he fights for a good cause. I say we pool our might of arms lest we foul each other accidentally.”
Ser Eldein and a few of the other [Knights] nodded agreement. Ser Lorell looked around, but Talia knew she had the support of most of the others. He nodded grudgingly.
“Very well. You may extend the invitation.”
Talia already had. She approached the Goblin Slayer. He had folded his arms.
“I kill Goblins alone.”
“With respect, Ser Slayer, these Ogres are more than a small band of Goblins. I am told the rest of their clan and an entire Goblin tribe nests in the hills.”
“Yes. I will hunt them too.”
Talia nodded patiently. She gestured to the rest of the Order.
