For them. But he didn’t care. The [Champion] stood alone, his armor gleaming thanks to his Skills. But his expression was bleak. He reached for his helmet and put it on. Wearing a false identity.
Lost.
The Goblin Slayer began to walk away from his friends. After a moment, Badarrow stood up. He shouted, breaking the silence, ignoring the danger.
“Rabbiteater!”
The visor turned back to him. Snapjaw scrambled up a rock and stared around. Badarrow walked down towards Rabbiteater. The [Sniper] hesitated. Then he reached out, grabbed Rabbiteater’s shoulder.
“Chieftain say when fortress finished in mountains, go back to inn. Secret. Few.”
For a moment, Rabbiteater’s heart leapt. Go back? But then—he turned away. Yanked free of Badarrow. He shook his head. Once, and then again. He wasn’t trying to forget a young woman, a happy place, warm smells and laughter. It was that which kept him going. He would never forget. He looked back at Badarrow.
“Not me. Not strong enough. Not going back. Greydath was right.”
That was all. Badarrow watched as Rabbiteater turned away. But he shouted one last thing.
“Rabbiteater! Take!”
The Hobgoblin turned. Something wet hit him in the face. He stared at it. A flowing cloak unfolded in his arms. He stared at Badarrow.
“Chieftain doesn’t want?”
The Hobgoblin shrugged. Snapjaw hopped down and strode over.
“Chieftain gets other blood. This save Goblins. Many. Now it save you. You go. But come back! Understand?”
She pulled something out. A crude funnel. She tapped it.
“Here. Put in arm. Blood go in if cut. Feel better. Not too much!”
Rabbiteater nodded. He took the crimson cloak and stared at it. And the past, a dead Goblin’s blood, flowed in his claws. Shorthilt. For a second, Rabbiteater’s head went white. He saw death. He saw his friend in his arms. Then he put the cloak on and bowed his head. He looked up at Badarrow and hesitated. But then he turned and walked away.
The two Hobgoblins watched him go in silence. Then, slowly, they mounted the Carn Wolves. And rode south. Back towards home. A Goblin’s home, beginning in the mountains, in secret.
Goblinhome.
 
——
 
About legends. Legends were ten-a-copper-penny. And most were fake, like the Last Light of Baleros being able to heal any wound, or the legend of the Titan’s height. Or that Humans could shoot blood on command. But some, most, had a grain of truth to them. You could hear them, in every part of the world. Of extraordinary people, events.
The crazy Human who lived around Liscor. The inn that kept moving that had doors that went everywhere. A tale of an [Emperor] who lived in a humble village. A story of a [Singer] who captivated tens of thousands and sang like no other. A [Hero], a monster, a slayer of Demons on Rhir. A pair of twins, one cunning, the other fierce, who were part of the King of Destruction’s new Seven.
And here, a Goblin Slayer. A [Knight], or perhaps an adventurer who hunted Goblins. Who killed them as vengeance for Velan, for the Goblin Lord, Reiss.
The next day dawned bright and early. Talia Kallinad smiled as she saw the Goblin Slayer waiting for them in the bottom of the inn. She knew his response, but it cheered the Order of Seasons when they heard it. They had grown from distrust to acceptance with the Goblin Slayer over their short journey together. And while he refused to share his identity, he said one thing that made Talia’s heart surge.
“I have a name I would like to be called.”
“Really? Pray, tell us.”
Rabbiteater hesitated. But at last, he spoke.
“Solstice.”
The name meant little to the [Knights]. But it filled him with a surge of indescribable emotion. He didn’t deserve it. But if he could have picked any last name, any in the world…
Talia smiled.
“Ser Solstice it is! Better than Ser Goblin Slayer! Let’s ride, indeed!”
“For a bit. If it is good.”
“We insist on it.”
Even Ser Lorell was welcoming. As the Goblin Slayer settled his bill, Dame Chise gave the group a significant look and addressed Talia.
“I know who Ser Slayer is, Dame Talia. Not Human.”
“Really?”
Every [Knight] turned, then affected nonchalance as the Goblin Slayer looked over. Chise lowered her voice.
“No. I pondered it last night. And today confirmed it.”
“Don’t keep us in suspense, Chise! What’s the identity of Ser Solstice, if not Human?”
The [Summer Knight] looked at the Goblin Slayer. She gestured at his back.
“Consider his tracking ability. His refusal to show us but a glimpse of his visage—and now, since last night, I espied a few tufts of hair on his armor that had not been there yesterday. Dark, reddish fur.”
It took Talia a moment. Then her eyes went round.
“A Gnoll?”
“Impossible!”
“Is it?”
“But he fights like one of us! His martial abilities—Gnolls are not [Knights]!”
Ser Thornst raised a finger, frowning.
“Hold on. It may strain credulity, but I distinctly recall our order receiving a request from a Gnoll in Izril last year. He wished to know whether we might accept him—”
“No.”
“Yes! And he was refused, on the grounds of age and talent. He was fully-grown, far past the age of any normal [Squire] and to merit such an invitation and the expense of bringing him so far, we would have to have been assured of some great trove of talent. Even so, the Fall Sentinel expressed his regrets for the decision and debated issuing an offer—if the Gnolls were to obtain the prerequisite levels in the [Warrior] class and suitable acts of valor.”
The Order of Seasons fell silent. Ser Lorell murmured, eyebrows raised.
“No wonder dogs don’t like him.”
Talia looked up. The Goblin Slayer was coming this way.
“Whoever he is, he is valorous. I saw that myself. Ser Solstice, will you ride with us today? We’ll make no fast progress on foot!”
The Goblin Slayer paused.
“Horses? I don’t ride well.”
“Can you not ride a horse?”
Talia saw the armored figure shake his head slowly.
“I have not much practice with…horses.”
“Told you—”
“Shh!”
The company left the inn. Outside, Talia showed Ser Solstice how to mount. He listened, and then frowned when she offered him Ser Eldein’s horse to use.
“Why?”
“Why what, ser?”
“Why help me? Why want my company?”
The question was blunt, but she’d expected that. Talia paused, and glanced back at her fellow [Knights]. She did love them, for all they were different. She glanced down at the Goblin Slayer and replied seriously.
“Honor is a hard thing, Ser Solstice. And valor is not seen enough in this world. Is it so strange for us to welcome the company of one who has either?”
“You think I have it?”
“You fight well. And I believe you when you speak of loss. More than that, ser? It’s just a feeling.”
The Hobgoblin stared up at the female [Knight] in silence. Then, slowly, he drew something from his pack and put it around his shoulders. Talia blinked at the crimson cloak of blood.
“What’s that? An artifact? I thought you didn’t use them, Ser Solstice.”
“This one came from a…friend.”
Rabbiteater put it around his shoulders. A cloak made of liquid. The crimson blood moved like fabric as Rabbiteater slowly swung himself onto the horse’s back. It was different from a Carn Wolf and the horse shifted uncomfortably, smelling both Goblin and blood.
He cut an impressive figure. The [Knights] studied him. They smiled, and Rabbiteater paused. His voice was…quiet as he turned to Talia.
“Is it okay?”
“What?”
Rabbiteater paused. He gestured awkwardly at the [Knights] treating him with courtesy. At the [Innkeeper], who’d come out to bid him farewell. At the Humans who smiled and called his name. At the fake him. The image of a person who slaughtered Goblins. But mostly, he was talking about himself.
“Is it okay to be happy? Even when friends die? I should not feel happy. But I do. The world hurts. It is cruel. Good dies. But still. Even though I am…am I allowed to want to smile?”
His voice was lost. Small. And Talia was struck silent. She cleared her throat. She reached out and grabbed his arm. The Hobgoblin looked at her as she drew closer. Talia nodded.
“Yes. You are right. The world is cruel. Sometimes, darkness overwhelms even the best of us. I have seen it. Good men like Ser Eldein die and few mourn him! Yes, the world is cruel. And our friends die. But we must live for them. Or else how would we honor their passing?”
The words echoed, and the Order of Seasons nodded. Talia, thought she saw a face behind Rabbiteater’s visor. A glimpse. Or perhaps it was simply him she saw, his true self. But then he drew back. Talia spoke, her words clear and carrying.
“Ser Solstice, know this. If you champion justice, you are a [Knight]. That is what I see in you. So long as your cause is just, your heart unwavering, and you live with honor, I will be your ally. I will stand with you.”
The words were fitting, and the Order of Seasons echoed her. But Ser Solstice, the Goblin Slayer, Rabbiteater, gazed at Talia. With such a deep gaze that even behind the visor, Talia felt it. Loss and grief unimaginable. Sacrifice. That invisible stare held it all, overflowing. And Talia felt embarrassed to speak such bold words, as if she were but a squire speaking to a full [Knight].
But then Ser Solstice, the Goblin Slayer, the strange warrior who was not a [Knight], nodded. He regarded Talia, and his voice was lighter for a moment. As if she’d taken a burden from his shoulders with words alone.
“Someday. I will ask if you remember that.”
“I will never forget nor break that vow.”
Talia offered him a gauntleted hand, and he squeezed it hard. She smiled, and the [Knights] around her straightened, adding their voices to the triumphant chorus. Rabbiteater listened, then followed the company north.
Let the dice fall where they might. He turned his head towards the sun. And he tried to smile.
[Champion Level 28!]
[Skill – Steelcut Sunder obtained!]
[Knight Class obtained!]
[Knight Level 2!]
[Skill – Reinforced Armor (Steel) obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Riding obtained!]
