The [Knight] grabbed it, drank, and spun before the monsters could capitalize on his injury. He turned.
“Dead gods! Dame Talia, the Goblin Slayer!”
“Where?”
Talia whirled. She’d forgotten about their companion. While the Order of Seasons had grouped up, the Goblin Slayer had been alone! She turned—
And saw him fighting. The Goblin Slayer rolled, avoiding an Ogre swinging a bastard sword one-handed. The Goblin Slayer rose, running the Ogre through the back of his knee. The blow went through the kneecap. The Ogre went down, screaming, and the Goblin Slayer turned. He backhanded a Goblin running at him and leapt forwards. He didn’t go for the Ogre’s throat; avoiding the flailing arms, he cut the Ogre on the leg. Opening an artery. Then he leapt back.
A Goblin ran at him. The Goblin Slayer ran it through. The Goblin jerked. Without hesitation, the Goblin Slayer kicked him off the blade. He whirled. This time he punched a Goblin off her feet. He didn’t hesitate to use his fists or feet rather than waste time getting his blade into position. He went for a second Ogre.
“The legs! Take them from the legs! Group up!”
Talia shouted at Eldein and the [Knights] around them. She fought towards the Goblin Slayer, trying to come to his aid. He was alone, dodging from every direction. And he was good! Good as any [Knight], but he and the Order of Seasons were outnumbered. Talia was shouting his name when she heard a cry and her own name.
“Dame Talia! Your left!”
She turned and saw the Ogre Chief. He was swinging his club, clearing a huge space as three [Knights] tried to bring him down. Talia joined Ser Eldein, lunging forwards, trying to slash at this Ogre, but he was wearing armor on his lower half as well as his upper and he was quicker than the other Ogres. His huge club was too much of a threat. The [Knights] feinted around him. Then Ser Eldein, impatient, or spotting an opportunity, leapt forwards. He slashed, catching the Ogre on the side. The monster roared and swung his club in a tight arc, incredibly fast.
The blow hit Ser Eldein straight in the chest. He went flying backwards, his chest plate dented, bleeding from the metal embedded in the club.
“Ser Eldein!”
Talia saw the two other [Knights] leap forwards, shields raised, covering her. She battered aside a Goblin standing over Ser Eldein with her shield, reached for him. He was lying on the ground, weakly reaching for his belt.
His potions. They’d smashed. Talia grabbed one from her belt. She smashed it on his chest, watching the liquid mix with his blood. She waited, crouched over him. His ribs were most likely broken. Her potion wouldn’t stop that. When he healed, they’d move him to safety—
The blood didn’t stop. Talia stared down. Eldein was staring at his chest.
“The potion.”
She reached for another.
“Here! Drink!”
This time, Ser Eldein accepted it. He fumbled with the cork. His lips were pale. Talia slashed at a Goblin, swearing. An Ogre hurled a stone at her, and she blocked it. She looked down as Dame Chise rode down on the Ogre, lance raised. Eldein was drinking. But as he lowered the potion, the blood running from his ruined chest plate didn’t stop.
“What—”
“I’m bleeding.”
The young man gasped. Talia reached for him.
“The potions—they’re defective? Or—”
Then she saw it. A glimmer of metal in his ruined armor. Talia froze. Ser Eldein’s unfocused gaze fell upon the same object and stopped.
It was just a triangle of metal. Thin. Sharp as anything. It had been part of the Ogre Chief’s club. But it was no regular piece of metal.
An Evercut Arrow. Talia stared at the arrowhead that had broken off and lodged in Ser Eldein’s chest. She recognized the distinctive look. It was a powerful weapon, one that healing potions couldn’t fix.
Slowly, she looked at Ser Eldein. Then at the Ogre Chief. He was laughing, having cut other [Knights] with savage swings from his clubs. They were falling back, shouting as they realized what she had.
“Evercut Arrows! Watch yourselves!”
Ser Eldein’s eyes widened as Talia screamed. He looked down at his chest. And then up at her. She stared at him. And then at the Ogres. How had they known? But they were not just mindless beasts.
They were monsters, but they adapted. The Ogre war leader swung his club and the [Knights], forewarned, retreated. Talia looked down. Eldein looked at her. His face was white, draining of blood. But his voice was suddenly calm.
“I am cut, Talia. Mortally. Spring ends.”
“No. We can find a way to heal you. Sear the wounds closed! That works!”
Talia raised her blade. But Eldein shook his head. Slowly, he stood. Blood ran down his armor, covering the colors of spring.
“Too late.”
“Ser Eldein!”
She reached for him. The young man caught Talia. His grip was so weak.
“Let me fight. Let me die standing.”
He could barely raise his sword. But Talia looked in his eyes and saw the truth. Slowly, she turned. The world slowed around them as the [Knights] raised their blades.
Ogres and Goblins. They assailed the Order of Seasons. They came at Eldein, seeing his weakness. Talia took the left, circling, hacking at Goblins, screaming. Ser Eldein raised his shield, uttering a cry.
The Ogre had a mace. And a second one, a flail. Talia ducked the swinging ball of spikes. She slashed at the Ogre’s side, cutting deep. Her sword seared flesh; the giant warrior screamed, but the cut was shallow. She dodged back, slicing at a leg. The Ogre with a flail made a huge swing. Talia ducked, feeling it pass over her head.
And the Goblin Slayer leapt. He stabbed a long dagger deep in the Ogre’s side. The monster howled and turned, staggering. Talia looked back. Ser Eldein was fighting the one with the mace. He raised his shield. And his eyes found her.
The Ogre with the mace swung. A crushing blow. It broke past Eldein’s guard. The blow sent him down and crushed his helmet and shoulder on the right side. Talia cried out and attacked from the side, in the opening Eldein had given her. She struck home. Her blade pierced the Ogre deep in the chest and flesh charred. The Ogre jerked and collapsed, his innards smoking. Gone.
So was Eldein. Talia saw only a still body. She nearly ran to him, but then she turned. The Goblin Slayer was fighting the other Ogre! She whirled—
The Ogre was dead. Talia stared as the Goblin Slayer lowered his blade. He’d killed the Ogre himself! Talia saw the beast’s chest and broken chainmail rent by a terrific blow. A Skill?
There was no time to ask. Talia heard a roar. The Ogre Chief was forcing the [Knights] back. His club kept them at bay. Talia saw the Goblin Slayer look up. He focused on the Ogre.
“Dangerous.”
“Ser Slayer! The Ogre! Do you have a bow? Can you strike it from afar? I can concentrate my aura, but—”
The Ogre was too big! Talia saw the Goblin Slayer hesitate.
“I can kill the Ogre. Sneak attack. Other [Knights] must get clear! Can you distract it?”
“Yes! Seasons, fall back!”
Talia shouted. So saying, she raised her blade. The white-hot blade grew even brighter as the Ogre Chief turned. He shaded his face, coming at them. Talia saw the Goblin Slayer reach for his side. He lifted something—she squinted to see.
“What is it?”
“Axe.”
The Goblin Slayer raised the jade and gold axe. The jade edge glowed and Talia saw a magical edge appear, expanding, giving the axe a head three times as large as below. The glowing green blade shimmered as the Goblin Slayer lifted over his head—then threw it at the Ogre.
A scythe of magic cut across the glade. It spun through a Goblin. The rotating magical edge slashed towards the Ogre Chief. His eyes widened and the Ogre raised an arm to shield himself. Too late. The magical axe cut into the Ogre’s arm, cutting it nearly in half!
The beast screamed—and the Goblin Slayer ran. He had his shortsword. He planted the sword in the Ogre’s stomach, twisting the blade. Talia slashed, cutting at the legs, and a third [Knight] ran the screaming monster through the back from horseback. The lance ended the scream. The Ogre fell, dropping the deadly club.
The battle ended with the Chieftain’s fall. The Ogres began to flee, what few remained. And the Goblins ran. There were only a dozen left. The Order of Seasons began to pursue.
“Pursue the Goblins! We’ll cut as many down—”
Ser Lorell’s raised voice was cut off by the Goblin Slayer.
“No.”
The [Knights] halted, confused. The Goblin Slayer pointed.
“No. They’re going back to their tribe. Let them.”
The Order of Seasons paused. Talia saw Lorell open his mouth. Then there was a cry.
“Ser Eldein!”
The [Knights] turned. The light of battle went out in Talia abruptly. She lowered her sword and closed her eyes.
“Ah.”
 
——
 
Ser Eldein had died fighting. He had given his life to let Talia slay an Ogre. The Evercut Arrows had already been his death. All of these things were facts. It didn’t change that he was dead.
They buried him where he had fallen. They could have taken his remains back. And Talia did take his sword and shield. But that wasn’t the way of the Order of Seasons. Instead, the [Knights] dug a grave. They placed weapons around his grave and laid their comrade to rest there. There was no face left for Talia; they draped a cloth over his head.
Ser Lorell’s face was grave. He and some of the other [Knights] still bled, but none had fallen. The Order had given a ferocious fight with the Goblin Slayer. With potions, they had beaten the Ogres. Only Ser Eldein had fallen. But it was already too much. Talia wept silently as Ser Lorell spoke before the Order of Seasons gathered around the simple grave.
“All things pass. As spring passes we wither. Summer’s glory fades. Autumn’s twilight deepens into darkness. And even the silence of winter must end. Yet the passing of time remembers glory. And so long as time continues, we remember. Ser Eldein, we return you to spring’s embrace. Your name shall not be forgotten so long as all who stand here live!”
“Spring ends.”
The [Knights] murmured. The Knights of Spring laid their brother to rest first. They stepped back, raising their blades. Many were weeping too.
“Spring ends!”
The Goblin Slayer watched. He stood alone, an outsider. But he had fought with them. As each [Knight] paid their last respects, Talia rose from Eldein’s grave.
“You fought with all the courage of Spring and Summer, friend. I will not forget you.”
She hadn’t prettier words to say. She turned. And saw the Goblin Slayer retreating. But she caught him as he began to move back.
“Look. Ser Slayer, look.”
He turned. And stopped. Where Ser Eldein had been buried, as the fresh dirt still settled, something was happening. Shoots of grass rose from the soil. Flowers, growing, budding, opening.
The grave was blooming. The Order of Seasons watched, breathless. Talia had seen it before. But the moment still made her heart hurt. Ser Eldein’s grave slowly bloomed, and a flash of color rose in the bloody clearing. Amid the death and carnage, something beautiful emerged. Growing.
It was not magic. The grave blossomed. The plants, native to Terandria, grew, not to maturity, but close. Spring’s scent hovered in the air.
Then it stopped. The flowers blew in a sudden breeze, suddenly fresh, but mortal. The mystery faded. Talia breathed again. She looked at the Goblin Slayer. The bloody helmet turned towards her.
“What was that?”
She smiled, and wiped at her face. Slowly, Ser Lorell raised his head. And his eyes shimmered with tears. Talia nodded at him and bowed her head. She spoke one word.
“Spring.”
 
——
 
They burned the Goblin bodies. And then the Ogres. It was a horrible task, even with the [Summer Knight]’s ability to call fire. But a necessity. While they did that, Dame Chise, the Goblin Slayer, and Talia went after the Goblins. They came back with news.
“There’s a tribe of them in the foothills. The Goblin Slayer reckons at least eighty. Possibly as many as two hundred.”
“Not a small tribe!”
Ser Thornst clenched his fist. The Goblin Slayer shook his head.
“Small. Weak. Many died fighting adventurers. It was probably eight hundred. Ogres made them fight.”
“Well, the rest shall die. It seems we have one last task ahead of us, brothers, sisters.”
Ser Lorell’s face was grim. Talia nodded, but it was the Goblin Slayer who shook his head.
“No.”
The Order of Seasons stared at him, perplexed. He had been accorded far more respect for his feats in battle. Ser Lorell worked his jaw.
“But Ser Goblin Slayer—”
“I will hunt them. Myself.”
The [Knights] stared at him. Dame Ingrela looked incredulous.
“With all due respect, Ser Slayer, we did not come all this way to leave a job undone.”
“No. I will finish it. I promise.”
The Goblin Slayer looked at her. Ingrela frowned. It was Talia who spoke up.
“Ser Slayer, why do you insist on doing it alone? At least give us reason for your motives.”
The armored figure paused. When he spoke, it was succinctly.
“[Knights] fight well. But you fight battles. Some Goblins will escape. I will not let Goblins escape when I hunt.”
The Order of Seasons exchanged glances. Ser Lorell’s voice was confused.
“So what if a few Goblins escape, Ser Goblin Slayer? They may rebuild, but Goblins are impossible to eradicate. It would be quicker to—”
The helmet turned.
“Do you want to know…how Goblin Lords are made?”
The company of [Knights] fell silent. All eyes focused on the Goblin Slayer. He spoke slowly. But this time the words came more fluently. As if he’d said this before. No—they came from the heart. The grating voice echoed as Talia looked at him, his hunched figure.
“It happens like this. There is always a tribe. Always Goblins. And adventurers hunt Goblins. Or [Knights]. Or an army. Doesn’t matter. They kill them. All but one or two. Because Goblins hide.”
He looked up, meeting eyes with his visor. The [Knights] listened, silent. The Goblin Slayer’s voice darkened.
“And that one Goblin that lives? It remembers. It learns. Usually it still dies. But sometimes it lives. And then it grows older. Gets stronger. It never forgets. That Goblin becomes a Hobgoblin. And then a Chieftain. And then a Goblin Lord. If it is strong enough. It remembers. And it seeks vengeance.”
“The survivor.”
Talia murmured. The helmet swung towards her.
“Yes. Few can become Goblin Lords or Chieftains. Few can become Hobs. But a Goblin that sees its tribe die. That Goblin has a reason to become one. So if you want to stop Goblin Lords? You kill every Goblin in a tribe.”
“The one that remains seeks—”
Dame Chise looked at the Goblin Slayer. And then she glanced at her companions. Slowly, the Order of Seasons nodded. The Goblin Slayer missed the looks they gave each other. But then Ser Lorell stood.
