“But that is our charge as well. And since we have pledged to rid the world of these Ogres, we will not cease. Will you give up your hunt and entrust the burden of defeating these monsters to us, Ser Slayer?”
“No. There are Goblins. I hunt them.”
“So it is. Then let us work together. Or else we will endanger our causes by working apart.”
It was well-said, and after a moment, the Goblin Slayer reluctantly nodded.
“Fine. We hunt together. Follow me.”
With that, he turned and began walking through the forest. The Order of Seasons started, but as Talia nodded, they trooped after the Goblin Slayer. He looked displeased—at least, behind his helmet. Talia strode forwards with Ser Eldein to walk alongside him.
“Ser Slayer—”
“Noisy.”
“What?”
Eldein looked affronted. The [Knights] were moving with a minimum of crackling footsteps in the underbrush. The Goblin Slayer looked at him.
“Noisy. Your [Knights] are noisy. Your armor is too loud. Too bright. And you smell. The Ogres won’t let you catch them.”
“Perhaps if we are too close, Ser Slayer. But we are used to the wilderness.”
Talia smiled, a bit annoyed by the blunt criticism. The Goblin Slayer shook his head.
“No. You smell. They are downwind. They will smell you. Use this.”
He paused and took something from his belt. Talia and Eldein recoiled when they saw a dried, stinking—
“Is that a foot?”
“Goblin’s foot. Smells like a Goblin. Put it on armor.”
“Absolutely not!”
Eldein backed up. The other [Knights] gagged at the sight of the body part. Talia stared at the Goblin Slayer. That explained his unique odor.
“You camouflage yourself by smell, Ser Slayer?”
“Goblins smell metal. I go ahead. You all stay back. Or use this.”
He offered it to Talia. She hesitated. She could see Ser Lorell shaking his head, but after a moment, she took the body part. She shuddered despite wearing gauntlets.
“What must I do?”
“Wipe it over your armor. Dirt too.”
The Goblin Slayer bent and smeared dirt on her breastplate. Talia stared at the dirt, but she knew it made sense. Some [Knights] in her Order took the same precautions. Just not the foot!
It took her a minute to do as the Goblin Slayer bid. He sniffed her, then nodded. Ser Eldein did likewise, but he refused to put the foot on his armor. The Goblin Slayer relented; the dirt was enough.
“We’ll scout ahead, Ser Lorell.”
The [Summer Knight] rolled his eyes, but let Talia, Eldein, and the Goblin Slayer move ahead. They were following the tracks. Some were obvious, like an Ogre blundering into a bush and uprooting them, but the Goblin Slayer noticed more. He was pointing out piles of stool.
“Ate here. Six hours, perhaps.”
“You seem very knowledgeable, Ser Slayer.”
Talia didn’t bend down to inspect the still-damp stool. The Goblin Slayer straightened.
“I hunt Goblins.”
“So you said. But it seems an odd occupation. Goblins are hardly profitable creatures for adventurers, are they, Ser Slayer?”
Ser Eldein muttered. The Goblin Slayer looked up.
“Perhaps.”
“You seem to have garnered a reputation, sir. May I ask if you have a reason to hunting Goblins to exclusion?”
Talia looked at the Goblin Slayer. He stared straight back and she felt a chill. He hadn’t removed his helmet the entire time. In fact, he’d drunk through a straw. Perhaps it was paranoia, although Talia had put her own helmet on since they were hot on the heels of the Ogres. The Goblin Slayer nodded.
“I have my reasons. Let’s go.”
The two [Knights] fell silent, looking at each other. The Goblin Slayer was hardly talkative despite Talia’s best efforts to engage him. But how much did she need to know? It wasn’t hard to understand.
Here was a man who hunted Goblins. Why? You could imagine any number of reasons. None of them pretty. But his single-minded devotion to the cause spoke to Talia of a grudge. She wanted to know what it was. He interested her.
They were moving uphill when the Goblin Slayer grabbed Talia’s arm. She stopped as he yanked her back.
“What—”
“Stop. A trap.”
He’d found something. In the trees, a metal spike embedded in wood. It was poised to swing down once Talia hit the nearly-invisible trigger. She shuddered, eyeing it as the Goblin Slayer climbed up. He was as mobile as she’d thought! He came down with it. Ser Eldein looked appalled.
“What is that?”
“Goblin trap. Ogres must have told them to set it up. They have a camp near here.”
“You’re sure?”
“Yes. Ogres don’t use traps. Goblins do.”
“I’ve never heard of Goblin traps! And I’ve eradicated a tribe before.”
The helmeted head slowly swung towards Ser Eldein.
“Some Goblins use traps.”
That was that. The [Knight] paused. Talia frowned.
“Will there be more traps?”
“Probably.”
So saying, the Goblin Slayer put the trap in a bag of holding and took the tripwire and other parts of the trap. That surprised Talia. As they stopped to warn Ser Lorell and the other [Knights], the Ser Lorell frowned.
“Traps? These seem primitive.”
“Even so, night is falling. We should not venture forwards so near to the Ogre’s camp and risk alerting them and falling into traps.”
Dame Chise cautioned the group. Talia glanced sideways at the Goblin Slayer. He was staring up at the fading sun.
“Ser Slayer?”
“I can see traps. But the Goblins can see at night. Better to wait for dawn.”
Since I have to put up with you. Some of the Order of Seasons frowned, but they eventually agreed. Ser Lorell ordered a camp struck and sentries posted. The [Knights] made a small, smokeless fire and ate travel rations. Talia had hoped the Goblin Slayer would join them, but the adventurer sat far from the fire. He’d taken the trap he’d found out and was working on something beside it. Talia walked over.
“Ser Slayer, what are you—”
She paused when she saw the second trap. It was a net, the kind [Fishers] might use in a river or stream. The Goblin Slayer was attaching metal shards to the net, tying them into place. Each was a wickedly sharp blade. The Goblin Slayer walked over to a span of trees and anchored the net into place. Anyone rushing through incautiously would run straight into it. Then he grabbed the Goblin trap and began rearming it at another point in the trees.
The Order of Seasons had seen what he was doing. Ser Eldein protested.
“That is not a chivalrous weapon! Ser Slayer, we do not need traps! We are hunting the Ogres!”
“They might attack. Goblins would.”
“Do they know we’re here? We’ve had no signs of them and we’ve kept quiet.”
Dame Chise looked skeptical. The Goblin Slayer just pointed to the fire as a reply. Ser Lorell flushed; he’d been the one to insist on a fire.
“This is an overabundance of caution. Our sentries are well-positioned.”
“And now they have traps.”
Ser Lorell’s mouth worked, and he gave up.
“As you will! I shall take third watch. Everyone, to your positions. Let us at least rest well for tomorrow’s encounter. Ser Slayer may set up all the traps he wishes.”
So he did. As the Order of Seasons settled down, pulling gear out of their bags of holding, Talia saw the Goblin Slayer set up eight more traps.
“You take many precautions, ser.”
“I have to. I work alone.”
The Goblin Slayer looked up and looked at Talia. He seemed uneasy at her company. Of course, he was used to isolation. She hesitated.
“You have a number of items in your bag of holding. Traps. I see you use a shortsword. Do you have any other weapons?”
He paused.
“I have another trick. I will use it when we fight if needed.”
“Will you not take supper with us?”
“No.”
Talia conveyed his words to Ser Lorell. The [Knight] grunted sourly, eating from the pot. The fire truly was smokeless, and the light contained by the glade, but some of the [Knights] had taken the Goblin Slayer’s precautions seriously. They were checking their weapons and making sure they lay next to them where they slept.
“Let this adventurer do what he wills, Dame Talia. We shall see his mettle tomorrow.”
He gestured to the Goblin Slayer. The armored figure ate alone in the darkness far from the fire. Talia kept glancing his way. Ser Eldein sat next to Talia as she ate some stew seasoned with bits of pickled herring.
“You seem intrigued by Ser Slayer, Dame Talia.”
“Just interested, Ser Eldein. He reminds me of the [Hunters] from Terandria. They are much like him.”
The [Spring Knight] nodded, but looked perplexed. Talia smiled.
“Oh, very well. I have another reason. You know that I am a [Lady]?”
“In upbringing, perhaps, but I call you a fellow [Knight] above all.”
His words made Talia smile. She shook her head.
“I mean that I have the class. And I have few Skills I gained before becoming a [Squire]. One of them tells me yon Goblin Slayer is a person of interest.”
“Oh. What is the name of the Skill, if it is not secret?”
It was, but Talia didn’t mind sharing among her comrades.
“It is called [Mark of Worth]. Some [Commanders] and [Leaders] have something like it. In my case, it would help me choose worthy retainers. Not necessarily trustworthy ones, but it does help. I sometimes see such people. There were a few in Riverfarm, for instance.”
“Like the Stitch Witch?”
Talia’s smile vanished.
“Oh yes. Worth comes in many forms. To me, I see notable figures. I wonder what makes this Goblin Slayer so important. Perhaps he is capable of killing thirty Ogres over time.”
“We shall see. Ah, but I have second watch. I should sleep.”
Talia nodded. She bedded down, noting that the Goblin Slayer had vanished. She thought his silhouette might be leaning against a tree. Paranoia? Or…
Her thoughts drifted off and Talia let herself relax. She slept, knowing her watch was nearest to dawn. The [Knights] relaxed, trading off watches with the sentries in the darkness. The fire’s embers had long been extinguished and the forest was silent.
The Ogres fell upon the camp in the night. They might have swept through the heart of the camp and slumbering [Knights] but for the sentries. And the traps. The [Sentries] shouted the alarm seconds before the monsters hit the camp.
The first Goblin crashed into the net full of blades and screamed. Talia lurched out of her bedroll, grabbing for her sword. An Ogre hit the plank with a spike and shouted with pain. That brief window was all the time she needed to roll to her feet. Ser Eldein struggled out of his bedroll, tearing the fabric, swearing, grabbing at his sword.
The monsters had thought they could overrun the Humans despite the alarm, but they had never met trained [Knights]. And the Order of Seasons was used to watchfulness in the field. In moments they were on their feet.
“Attack! Rally to me! [Summer Knights], forwards! [Spring Knights] to the flanks!”
Ser Lorell’s voice rose above the din. In the darkness, Talia unsheathed her blade. It glowed in the darkness. And then she saw them.
Ogres. Thirty of them streamed into the glade, battling the [Sentries]. They were huge, dwarfing the Humans! And around them raced smaller shapes. Goblins, green, their eyes glowing crimson as they hurled themselves forwards. The [Knights] charged with wild cries. They were wearing their armor, like the Goblin Slayer.
Talia saw a huge Ogre leading the group. Like the Chieftain that Pryde had encountered, this was the biggest yet. He carried a huge club, with dozens of tiny blades embedded in the wood. He roared as he swung and Dame Chise rolled out of the way; she went for her horse, rearing and screaming as Goblins swarmed around it.
“Leader! Knights of the Summer, to me! Bring down that Ogre with the club!”
Ser Lorell roared as he pointed at the Ogre. Around him, the Order of Seasons engaged. The [Spring Knights] leapt forwards, attacking, dodging, blocking, trained warriors used to a melee. But the higher-level [Knights], including Talia, stopped. She raised her sword, watching an Ogre charging towards her. She shouted and focused the heat of her fury into her blade.
“As the Summer blazes, let my foes fear the sun! [Aura Blade]!”
The plain steel sword began to heat up. Then it glowed. First red, then orange, and then yellow. And then white-hot! The glow illuminated the dark clearing and the Ogre shielded his face. Talia felt the heat of the blade and swung it; the searing metal sliced the air, leaving an afterimage. But she was used to it.
Ser Lorell had done the same, only with his shield. Dame Chise, Ser Thornst—all the senior members were shouting Skills. Concentrating their aura.
That was what the Order of Seasons were. Aura specialists, [Knights] who embodied the fury of their season. Now the Summer Knights copied Talia. Armor began to blaze with heat, or radiate light that blinded their foes in the night. Talia swung her white-hot blade, slashing with it as she guarded her left with her shield.
Her first jab took the Ogre in the side. He was wearing patchwork leather, but the blade went through the crude armor and the Ogre screamed. A slight scratch hurt far more and he recoiled. His club lost its trajectory and struck Talia’s shield.
It was still a heavy blow, but she threw it aside. She would have slashed again, but a Goblin attacked from her left. Talia slashed left, turning, and the Goblin screamed as the blade cut across his chest, burning skin and armor. She caught the Goblin’s hatchet and the weapon burst into flame, forcing the Goblin to drop it!
The heat didn’t make the metal any weaker. And it was hot. Talia might have lacked the ability to become a burning fireball like the senior [Knights] of her season, let alone reach the levels Ser Raim and the Summer’s Champion could, but her sword was still as deadly as many enchanted weapons. One touch would ignite or sear flesh beyond recognition. That held true of the Ogres’ and Goblins’ weapons too.
“Ser Eldein! To me!”
Talia backed up and saw the [Spring Knight] fighting in a whirlwind, eight Goblins lunging at once at him. His armor took many of the blows, but the Ogres were a deadly threat. While the Goblins distracted, they went in for crushing blows that would kill most of the Order of Seasons if not blocked or dodged.
“Dame Talia, your left!”
Talia spun. She cut and the Ogre reeled back, wary of her blade. He was good, and he had a shield of his own, but Talia was trained. She stepped in, and Eldein warded her flank and cut. Her sword dipped, feinting, and then speared the Ogre through the leg.
Smoke and a scream. The Ogre lashed out at her, but Talia moved back. Now he was crippled and she and Eldein backed up, battling the Goblins, pushing another Ogre back. Eldein grunted as he blocked a heavy strike from an Ogre. His knees buckled, but he remained standing. A Goblin slashed across his legs, finding a weak spot in his armor. He cried out, and Talia beheaded the Goblin.
“Potion.”
