“Remember this day and grow from it. Do you think the Spring’s Warden would falter before such a foe, even one as ancient as the Stitch Witch? Or Knight-Commander Calirn himself? I say to you, I have seen the greatest of our order and they blaze in life as much as Ser Raim did in his final moments. Belavierr escapes death this day, but this is not over. Remember this, Ser Eldein. Forge yourself anew from the memory of it.”
Abashed, the young [Knight] nodded. Lorell clapped his hands together, startling his horse. He looked at the other [Knights], authority ringing in his voice.
“Let’s not speak more of this, brothers and sisters. We have far yet to travel! Ser Eldein, surely something of our current surroundings brings you joy?”
The young man hesitated, but then he nodded.
“Perhaps the thought of more species joining our Order, Ser Lorell. Dame Talia, are you suggesting we recruit from beyond Terandria?”
He relaxed, and some of the [Knights] around him laughed. They rode closer, losing the fugue that had engulfed them. Similarly, the [Knights] abandoned the elevated speech of their order that they adopted, becoming more casual in private.
Talia shrugged.
“I have often thought of it. Drakes and other species lack for [Knights] in large. Why shouldn’t we recruit from them? Each species has their talents. Dame Ingrela, you were at Daquin with some of your fellow Knights of Spring. Didn’t you admire the Iron Vanguard’s resilience?”
“And cursed them. That was a hard-fought battle, for all it was meant to be practice. And I confess, other species have abilities we Humans lack. The Dullahans were especially tenacious.”
Dame Ingrela agreed. Across from her, Ser Thornst, a [Spring Knight], but a veteran one, looked amused.
“Dullahans? One might call every member of their species a [Knight], if not in training or virtue. The armor they wear is part of their bodies, is it not? They seem a mighty species.”
Dame Chise nodded grudgingly.
“They are that. I have fought them on the battlefield proper, and I say they are among the most resilient of species to face. I am told that once, they were considered natural enemies of Dragons. More so than even our orders. Each one wears armor, after all. They were born dragon slayers.”
“Even so, they are a dour lot.”
“Then make them [Winter Knights]! They surely fit in with our coldest Season. I’ve a mind to make a bet who would smile listening to jokes first, one of the Knights of Winter, or—”
A few of the other [Knights] laughed, scandalized. Talia grinned hugely. Ser Lorell did not laugh, and turned to Talia.
“Would you consent to having a Selphid in our ranks then, Dame Talia?”
His appalled tone indicated his thoughts on the matter. Talia’s chin rose. The Order of Seasons were all comrades in arms, but that didn’t meant they always got along, and she’d argued this with her companions many times before.
“Why not? What stops a Selphid from showing as much valor as any Human, Ser Lorell? Besides, it has happened thrice in our order’s history. Once it ended in disgrace. Once in valor. And once, the Selphid, who was Ser Chalica, or Dame Chalica, the records do not indicate which, died in glorious battle holding the Order of Season’s very gates when our enemies brought a vast army against us. Chalica of Spring, they were. And they held the gates until the bodies of their enemies piled up like logs before the axe.”
“One incidence of treachery out of three is hardly reassuring. One in ten thousand of our Order ever compromises their honor.”
Ser Lorell pointed out patiently. Talia tossed her head.
“A faulty argument, Ser Lorell. If we had more Selphids, I truly doubt one in three would be false. Why not let them apply?”
The man shrugged, annoyed by the strident tone in Talia’s voice. He turned, addressing the younger [Knights].
“Even so, the Order of Seasons takes in limited numbers each year. Do we then petition recruiters to travel to Izril, or Baleros or other locations? We already receive enough applicants from Terandria—almost too many! Let us not crowd our ranks with any not deserving of the honor. Such incidents can be the end of a [Knight] order. Remember the lesson of the Crowlende Order.”
Talia folded her arms, but didn’t say anything more. By her side, Dame Chise leaned over and continued the conversation quietly.
“Your fascination stems from the company your brother keeps, does it not, Lady Talia?”
“Perhaps! What of it? I’m proud of Wil. He’s proven there’s more to be gained from other species than not! You know he won a question from the Titan of Baleros?”
“I have heard you speak of it a few dozen times, Lady Talia.”
The other [Knights] looked amused. Talia was either Dame Talia for her rank or Lady Talia for her heritage. Talia smiled, embarrassed.
“Even so. I have not heard what Wil’s question will be, but he has promised to make it one that favors the Kallinad household.”
“Not the Order of Seasons? We committed over a hundred [Knights] to Daquin! That was not without cost!”
Someone sounded scandalized. Talia shook her head.
“All the costs were paid by House Kallinad, Ser Welte. And Kallinad is a generous supporter of the Order of Seasons. Moreover, we displayed our prowess in battle the world over, did we not? There are recordings of our own facing off against the Iron Vanguard! It was a victory!”
“A victory, aye. But sometimes I worry that our Order commits too broadly. We send lances of [Knights] out, but there was a time when we marched in legions!”
A grizzled veteran [Summer Knight] spoke sourly. Dame Chise shook her head, pursing her lips.
“And kept our own armies. That bears too closely to the foundation of a nation. Our Order has not made war on a nation ourselves in over twelve decades. We fight alongside nations of course, but challenging a kingdom for injustices is entirely different. I pray that function of our Order is never called upon. But recently…”
She trailed off. Ser Eldein spoke up, his cheeks flushed.
“Ailendamus is pursuing war. If they continue their wars of aggression, we may be well forced to choose a side. And I would argue this among any of our peers—it is not in our interest to support a nation seeking to enlarge itself even further!”
Talia coughed and shook her head. It didn’t matter usually, but nationality did influence some of the [Knights] and it was a known fact that Ser Eldein hailed from Calanfer, which was historically opposed to Ailendamus.
“No arguments there, Ser Eldein, but that is not our place to discuss. Nor wise to utter aloud; we are sworn protectors of order, not political creatures.”
The [Spring Knight] flushed and bowed in his saddle towards Talia.
“My apologies, Dame Talia.”
“Perhaps we would be best suited by action. We have a long way to go to First Landing and the harbor back. I am hesitant to race our horses, but if the road is clear, we shall force a quicker pace. Dame Talia, why not scout ahead with Ser Eldein and see if there are any travellers ahead we might disturb?”
Ser Lorell coughed. Talia shot him a glance, but then she ducked her head.
“As you say, Ser Lorell. Ser Eldein?”
She urged her mare forwards and Ser Eldein followed her. They rode faster, breaking ahead of the trotting company. Talia waited until they were a good two hundred paces down the road, and then nodded at Ser Eldein it was okay to speak.
“I don’t believe Ser Lorell appreciates your views on other species, Dame Talia. I apologize if I have put Ser Lorell against you, and for my thoughtless words.”
Eldein’s face was a bit flushed. He was young, with a spray of dark hair, nearly black. He might have been a [Farmer]’s son; he was definitely common-born, unlike Talia and Lorell. Talia smiled at him.
“It’s a point of contention, Ser Eldein. Old arguments. I respect Ser Lorell’s experience, of course. But we rarely work together; he and I were simply volunteers Knight-Commander Calirn chose to ride to Ser Raim’s defense. Call me Talia, by all means, Eldein.”
“Naturally. And it is an honor to ride with you, Talia. Your rise through the Season of Spring is well known! In truth, you have just as much authority as Ser Lorell, at least, I and some of the others think so. Nobility aside; he cannot claim to have fought in a war! But you have!”
“Just minor ones. It’s not an indication of leadership, Eldein.”
Talia grinned, embarrassed, and Eldein tilted his head towards her.
“Even so. Is age the only qualifier?”
The young woman paused and shook her head.
“Perhaps, but I’m hardly a prodigy. I was simply suited for the Season of Summer, and the Spring’s Watcher knew it. No more; I’m not about to challenge Ser Lorell’s authority. He is a solid leader.”
And we’re not riding into battle. Both [Knights] nodded silently. It wasn’t nearly as bad as politics between, say, noble houses or kingdoms, but there was some inner maneuvering in the Order of Seasons. Never too bad; a rivalry between Seasons or a disagreement about…qualification, or how another [Knight] conducted themselves. It wouldn’t come to that with Talia and Ser Lorell. She just didn’t like him that much.
The quick pace of the two [Knights] had led them out of the forest. Now, they saw a few travellers on the road, but nothing that would keep the Order of Seasons from a faster clip. Talia was just about to suggest they return back to Ser Lorell when Ser Eldein pointed.
“There’s a traveller. We might as well ask for news; we’ve been starved since passing through the forests these last two days. And no one was in the mood for it earlier. Shall I?”
“If you’d like. It would certainly distract the conversation. But remember, these are Izril folk, Eldein. Treat them with respect.”
Eldein nodded. He rode forwards and waved a hand at another man on horseback.
“Hail, my good man, and thy harvests be blessed! Hast thou time spare to converse with knights-errant upon our ceaseless quests?”
He glanced back at Talia. She covered her face.
“Dead gods, Ser Eldein…”
The traveller looked at Eldein as he drew up his horse. His jaw worked, and at last, he spoke.
“What’re you on about? Harvests? I’m a [Shoemaker], not a [Farmer]!”
“A figure of speech, sir. Have you time to speak?”
“About harvests?”
Ser Eldein faltered. He was used to Terandria, where people were used to [Knights] and usually had some manner of respect for the class. The [Shoemaker] looked at Eldein, clearly worried that the [Spring Knight] was touched in the head.
“No, Sir Shoemaker. I—we are simply hoping you could speak to us of any news.”
The man’s face cleared, and he took off his hat to wipe at his brow. The days were getting warmer; Talia could feel summer in the air.
“Oh. Why didn’t you say so? You want to know what’s happening? Well, monsters, that’s what! Wait, are you going after them or haven’t you heard?”
Talia sat up straighter on her horse. Ser Eldein leaned forwards.
“We have been travelling the last eight-day. What’s this about monsters, Sir Shoemaker?”
“My name’s Belic. Not Sir—eight-day? You mean, a week? Well, if you don’t know—there are Ogres about! I’ve been trying to get back home south; I should have never come north, not with them about!”
“Ogres?”
Talia rode forwards. Belic turned to her, and she bowed.
“Mister Belic?”
“That’s right. Who are you lot?”
Belic had caught sight of the group of [Knights] riding up the road. He goggled. It wasn’t that strange a sight in Terandria, but apparently nineteen [Knights] was in Izril. Talia nodded to the rest of the Order of Seasons.
“We are [Knights] from Terandria, sir. The Order of Seasons. What’s this about Ogres? Ser Lorell!”
She waved, and the older [Summer Knight] spurred his horse forwards. Belic blinked, already looking slightly overwhelmed. He stared at the colorful armor Talia and Lorell wore and then scratched at his balding head.
“Well—it’s Ogres. Lots of ‘em! You didn’t hear? It’s been the talk of the road all the way from—have you been camping the entire way here?”
Talia coughed.
“We…travelled here quickly. There are Ogres attacking this area? A band of them?”
“More than a band! A damn clan came out of the hills! First it was just a single band, but more and more have been attacking. Lady Magnolia Reinhart has placed a bounty on their heads! Twelve for each head at first. But when the others came, she put it up to sixty three! There’s a three thousand eight hundred coin bounty on the head of their leaders!”
“Sizeable for Ogres.”
Lorell murmured, his brows shooting up. Talia agreed, doing quick math.
“Ogres don’t have high numbers, but even a hundred would be a tidy sum. Have there been that many?”
“Dozens in each group. And yes, Miss Knight, there’ve been plenty of adventurers. But you know Ogres—they’re huge! Most of the Silver-ranks buggered off when they heard how many there were, so the Gold-ranks came for the money. Three groups have been driven off, but the last two forced a Gold-rank team, the Dividenblades, to retreat with a casualty! And killed dozens in a pitched battle with Silver-ranks and a militia outside the city of Phaust!”
“This is more than just a lone raid, Ser Lorell.”
Talia looked at the [Summer Knight]. He was nodding.
“Sir Belic, how dire is the situation? Is anyone doing anything to root out this threat?”
The [Shoemaker] frowned.
“Aside from the adventurers? They’ve pushed back the worst of it and all the outlying villages and such are either barricaded up or empty. Them Ogres only attacked outlying areas. They’re close to Ulta lands. I reckon if they get closer to Invrisil, Lady Reinhart’ll up the bounty or have them all assassinated.”
Ser Eldein looked shocked.
“But no one is pursuing the monsters?”
 Belic gave him a sideways glance.
“They’ll get got soon. Or get lost.”
“But they should be hunted down at once! Ser Lorell, if this was Terandria, a dozen knighthood orders would be dispatching their own to deal with these monsters at once!”
“Izril is different, Ser Eldein. The local nobility protect their lands. And adventurers take on the duties of [Knights]. Which means their safety is weighed against the coin they earn.”
Dame Chise frowned disapprovingly. Belic gave her an odd look.
“It works well enough, Miss Knight. Aside from idiots on the road and the first victims, not many folk are dying. It’s locking down some parts, but a Gold-rank team will finish the job.”
“Or perhaps we will.”
Talia murmured. She looked up and met Ser Lorell’s eyes. He hesitated.
“We have instructions to return to the headquarters, Dame Talia.”
Ser Eldein protested.
“Surely the Order of Seasons does not ignore monsters wherever they may be!”
Ser Lorell frowned.
