“I’m going to get this crammed through your thick skull, or I’m not leaving the island on Saturday. I will literally turn myself in and stay right here for the rest of my life to watch you and make sure you don’t throw yourself away again!”

“I do understand what you mean,” Alden said, alarmed. “I didn’t intend to freak you out with the text. There’s no reason—”

“No. You don’t understand, or you wouldn’t be talking about yourself this way! Clearly, I am a bad explainer. Let me try again! Alden, stop wishing you were like Hannah Elber. Please.”

Alden plucked a coupon for fifteen percent off parasailing out of his hair. He stared across the counter. Boe looked so serious.

“I don’t think I’ve been wishing that exactly…”

“I never met her,” Boe said. “But I’ve heard you talk about her. You admire her so much, and you describe her like she was a holy workaholic combo of Hero Types 1 & 2. Maybe she was, or maybe that was just how she chose to present herself to you. Either way—damn. Nobody is ever going to hit that mark through any amount of effort. Not even you. You can’t make yourself feel warm fuzzies for all mankind. You can’t just get stoked about being the person who pulls others out of burning buildings when you were born with the common sense to be afraid of fire.”

“Hey, you could make me feel those things!” Alden said. “Problem solved.”

He was trying to take the edge off some of the tension in the room, but Boe just blinked at him.

“Alden, I wouldn’t,” he said finally. “Even if it was as simple as that and there was no danger involved, I wouldn’t. Because I don’t actually have much respect for that kind of righteousness. I think it’s special. I wish there was more of it in the world. But if you ask me to pick which type of person has the most real value, I’m going to pick a third Hero Type—one who helps after taking his own safety and sanity into consideration.”

Alden did understand what he was trying to get at, but at the same time…

“Don’t you think this Hero Type 3 might not do the right thing at any given moment because he’s a little bit too selfish? Isn’t that a problem?”

“Is it okay to walk past one struggling person on your way to save two?”

Alden frowned. “I hate questions like that.”

“Yeah. Everyone does. Moral philosophy problems are nasty little riddles, and they never apply well to the complexities of real life. Hero Types 1 & 2 are going to leap headfirst to help whoever happens to be in front of them, and they’re going to feel awesome about it. And everyone can applaud them for it. It’s a simple, undeniably good answer. That doesn’t mean it’s the only good answer.”

“You think I should have a different one.”

“Speaking as a Scumbag Type, I think you need to stop feeling like shit about not naturally being the particular variety of saint you’ve been looking up to all this time. Most people aren’t even Hero Types at all. They’re Average Types who think there’s nothing wrong with stepping over every casualty on the road as long as they didn’t directly hurt anyone with their own two hands. You should realize you’re already one of the better ones, and make peace with helping others in ways that actually suit your personality…since you won’t listen to my advice and become an elementary school teacher.”

Alden smiled suddenly. “I meant to tell you. You were right about that.”

“I fucking know I was!”

“I thought about it all the time while I was living with Kibby and watching Instructor Gwen-lor teach the little kids. Hiding out as an audial Brute and being a teacher would have made me happy.”

Boe tossed up his hands.

“I couldn’t figure out how you knew. I didn’t even know I liked that kind of thing.”

“How can you not…never mind. That path is off the table. You can be a teacher here on the island one day if they don’t mind the Artonans yanking you out of class every other week.”

Alden groaned at the reminder. “Six months off sounds like a lot sometimes, and others it sounds like nothing.”

“It’s nothing,” said Boe severely. “You’ll blink and be there again. Hopefully scrubbing toilets—”

“Now that you mention it, when I thought they wanted me to be an actual garbage man during my first few minutes at LeafSong, I was pretty cool with it. I hope they do summon me to scrub toilets. It’s honest work, and it sounds easy.”

“Please note that in the space of a few sentences we have found three jobs that the current you is more passionate about than being a superhero.”

“Alien toilet scrubber, garbage man, school teacher,” said Alden. “Noted. But assuming I do still want that one day…what’s Hero Type 3’s ideal if he is by his very nature less than an ideal?”

Boe narrowed his eyes. “First of all, what are you hoping it will be?”

“Oh my god, you are a therapist.”

“I will punch you with my superior strength. This is a one-time thing brought on by your terrible treatment of yourself. You owe me all of your Natalie food in exchange for my efforts.”

Alden went to sit down in the chair beside him. “Can I be so super strong that problems feel smaller, and I never have to get in over my head again?”

“Super strong is why you say you’re going to Celena North, so I think that’s a fair start. You think you’ll keep leveling fast?”

“I’m trying not to look at it too hard right now, and you don’t want a lot of info—”

“Secrecy is our friend. Learn contract magic.”

“I’m going to. To answer your question, yes. I expect to level quickly.”

He was relieved he didn’t sound as worried about that as he actually was.

“So Hero Type 3 gets to be strong and competent,” said Boe. “And he has a sense of self-preservation, which is not some dirty habit. It’s what makes him ponder situations to decide if they’re worth his effort and whatever amount of suffering they’re going to cause him. He should let himself walk away sometimes. And he should not feel guilty when he does it, because guilt just makes him suck ass at self-analysis. And then he panics trying to fix himself when nothing was ever wrong with him to begin with.”

“I…still don’t want to be the person who walks away from the whistle.”

“Alden, you didn’t walk away from that. Even when you were weaker than you are right now, you took care of it. There’s no reason for you to think you wouldn’t take care of something equally important in an equally difficult situation again.”

Alden fiddled with the parasailing coupon. “Okay. But if turning your back on some people who need help is an option for you…like, if it’s on your personal list of things that you can forgive yourself for…how do you ever make it right in your head?”

Boe huffed. “There are millions of people who need help right now, who we could help if we seriously tried, but you and I are totally ignoring them. Look at us, sitting here with plenty of food in the fridge and more blood than we need pumping through our veins. How are you making that right in your head?”

“Oh, I’m old enough to donate blood now.”

“Your blood’s probably radioactive and full of alien germs. Nobody wants it, so maybe that was a bad example.”

“I’m serious, though,” Alden said. “If you decide to live in shades of moral gray, there’s no way to know if you’re being pragmatic or just giving yourself a pass to chicken out in any given situation.”

Boe didn’t answer. After he’d been staring off into space for a minute, Alden asked, “Are you getting a call or something?”

“No,” Boe replied in a distant voice. “Hey, how many lives have you saved in your life? We don’t have to say it was during berry picking. We can pretend it was during some other unrelated event. But how many was it, really?”

Ten, thought Alden. But saving Kibby had been the same as saving himself, so he couldn’t count her.

“Nine.”

“Fucker. I was hoping you were going to say three. Maximum. Fine. Okay. Nine. You’re one away from double digits. That’s cool of you.”

“Where are you going with—?”

“I’ve just thought of a way to help you see yourself better. So that you can make shit right in your head no matter how morally gray the situation is.”

Boe was grinning now, and he sounded pleased with himself in that particular way that meant he thought he’d just done something very clever.

Alden felt a sense of foreboding.

“I can’t believe it took me this long to come up with it! It should have been out of my mouth the minute you walked into the apartment.”

“Boe, you’re acting a little…”

“From now on, whenever you go more than a step or two out of your way to help someone you don’t personally know and care for, you have to call me and tell me about it,” he announced.

“What? No, I don’t!” Alden glared at him. “That’s patronizing, and dumb as shi—”

“Oh, it’s not to ask me for permission or anything like that! That would be patronizing. You are totally free to save every person on Anesidora and their pets if you want. You just have to tell me you’re doing it. Because from now until the day you really-for-real die, I’m going to match you.”

Match me?

“When I get home,” Boe continued, “I’m going to save nine peoples’ lives. And to be fair about it, I’m going to try to do it with an equivalent amount of risk. You said the berry picking wasn’t supposed to be incredibly dangerous, but you did know it wasn’t safe. So I can’t take total softballs. I’ll have to find nine people in situations that will be mildly hazardous for me to resolve.”

“Boe, that’s not funny,” Alden breathed.

“You have no idea how good I’m going to be at this. Can you even imagine how much human suffering happens around us on a daily basis? Sometimes, in big crowds, if I lose my shield, I can identify people who are suicidally depressed. Or violently angry. Or scared of the angry person they’re with.”

“That’s…”

“I’m embarrassed to tell you that. Because usually I ignore them. See, with my power, there’s always a next person in trouble. And a next person. And another. At school once, I felt someone getting the crap beat out of them just outside the building, and in the bathroom across the hall, in the same class period, a person was feeling these spikes of self-hatred and pain that made me think they were hurting themselves. And our teacher was flirting with a girl in a way that was making her incredibly uncomfortable. All of it. All at once. Any time I want.”

“You can’t just—”

“How many of them do you think I helped?” Boe asked.

Alden’s pulse was racing. He felt the beginnings of panic.

“The answer is two. I distracted the teacher by asking for permission to go to the bathroom. I didn’t bother with the fight. I could have broken it up easily, but I have to draw the line somewhere. Getting punched in the face is a bizarre risk for me, since I take it like an Avowed instead of a normal guy and people might notice. That’s the kind of thing I’ll do until I get my nine, though. Just a little danger. Probably nothing will go wrong, and I’ll be helping people. That’s what you thought you were getting yourself into, right?”

Alden’s ears were ringing. Almost like the tinnitus was back. His knuckles were white against the counter.

“Calm down,” Boe said, suddenly eyeing him with alarm.

I can’t.

“Try to control your breathing,” said Boe. “There’s that thing you used to do with—”

“I can’t,” he gasped. “Give me a second. Fuck. Don’t read me. You asshole.”

Boe went quiet.

This is so humiliating. Actual fucking panic because of a conversation. What the hell, Alden?

He wished Boe could leave. He wished he could without having to walk through halls full of people having fun in their Halloween costumes. He clung to the counter, feeling like his chest was going to burst and the room was spinning around him.

Boe did go hide out in one of the spare rooms to give him some privacy.

Twenty minutes later, when he heard Alden running the kitchen sink to get a glass of water, he re-emerged.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “Are you all right?”

“Awesome,” Alden croaked. “I’m way more temperamental than I’ve been in years. It’s so much fun.”

“I wasn’t reading you,” Boe said. “You can tell because I didn’t realize I was upsetting you that much until it was too late.”

“I know you weren’t.”

“I was a little too thrilled with my idea.”

“Your idea is fucking shit.”

“Oh no,” Boe said mildly. “My idea is perfection. But I didn’t mean to dig in with it quite like that.”

“You’re still going to fight gangs as an unregistered superhuman until you save nine people!?”

“Why can’t I?” Boe asked. His voice was steady. “I went a little overboard, and I made it sound like I was going to risk myself to punish you. Which is twisted. I promise it won’t be like that. I’ll be careful. But I am going to do it. I’ll text you before and after. You can watch me through our interfaces if you want—full disclosure on my lifesaving endeavors. Don’t think of it as me doing something dangerous to hurt you, spite you, or mock you. It’s really not that. Think of it as me helping people with you. Like we’re partners in heroics. Long distance style.”

Alden stared at him. “I don’t want you to.”

“Because you value me? Good. You should value yourself at least as much. And I’m always wondering where the line is that will take me from Scumbag Type to Hero Type. I know you’re all the way on the other side of it. So this is actually the perfect thing for both of us.”

“You’re crazy.”

