I don’t know. I’ll have to wait and see. I’ve managed to train Frostwing a bit—she now knows not to poop in the nest and instead do it in another bowl nearby. Plus, she’s stopped waking me up in my sleep! By this point, I’m a Level 4 [Beast Tamer], the product of much work and pecked fingers. No new Skills, but I consider my new friend a gift enough.
Durene’s out helping clear snow in the village, and I’m sitting outside, Frostwing huddled in a scarf on my lap. I’m not sure if that’s smart, but my bond with her will tell me when she’s too cold, and I don’t want her to just breathe stale air.
The air is crisp, but I’m warm and my stomach is full. It’s a nice day. And then I feel it. Something enters the area around the cottage, swooping in from high above. Not something—somethings. I pause, warily, and Frostwing screeches in alarm. Then I hear the voice.
 
“Look! Look, sisters! I’ve found him! The one who rules over this small place!”
 
What the—? Did I just hear a voice? I turn my head as I hear laughter and feel something flying around me! A bug? A…bird? No. It has a voice! But there’s no person standing around the cottage. I would feel it. Yet there is something in the air.
“Who’s there?”
Laughter. A voice that sounds like falling snow and pure ice rings out, up and to the left, as if the speaker is flying. She calls to me.
 
“Can you not hear us, oh Emperor? We are here, Frost Faeries of the Winter Court to meet you! Are you not honored?”
 
“Frost Faeries?”
What’s going on? Are there really faeries flying around my head? My first instinct is to disbelieve, but my sensible brain overrides that.
Okay, faeries. Durene tells me there’s magic, so why not faeries? Wait, didn’t she mention that name to me—
“You’re Winter Sprites?”
More laughter from above me. Frostwing is squirming in my lap, making sounds of distress. I think she’s afraid of these Frost Faeries, and that makes me wary. Already I can remember legends of the sidhe, and how they can be very, very dangerous. I try to remember what to do.
Be polite, be courteous. Offer them hospitality? Don’t tell them my name or make promises.
I decide to roll with it. It’s probably the best thing to do, but I throw in some healthy skepticism just to be on the safe side.
“Greetings, faeries. If that’s who you really are.”
Above me, I hear a mix of voices speak at once, a few outraged, some intrigued and playful. My god, it does sound like they’re flying around me!
 
“You question us?”
“He does! Look! He cannot see us, only hear us!”
“He sees naught!”
“Aye, but he rules over this place nonetheless. Emperor of the Unseen!”
 
It’s both terrifying and amazing. But when they mention that title I freeze in my seat.
“How do you know I called myself that?”
It was just a joke, said to Durene in the privacy of my cottage weeks ago. The faeries laugh and I feel something colder than freezing in front of my face. Is it right in front of me? I make no move.
 
“We heard your words. How could we not? Ye claimed this land to the world and all living in it!”
 
Heard my words? How?
“Well…I suppose I’m flattered that you’re taking such notice of me. But what do faeries have to do with me?”
A tinkling laugh, like icicles breaking.
 
“We have come here to bear witness to you, of course!”
 
“Bear witness? Why?”
 
“Art thou not an [Emperor]?”
 
The faerie makes it sound as if it’s the most obvious thing in the world. And I start to get it. Faeries, kings—they’re tied together, like how the faeries blessed Briar Rose in the original tale. And they’ve come to visit me?
“I’m honored, of course. But have you come to simply see and acknowledge me, or do you have some other reason? And shouldn’t you be bowing? I am an [Emperor].”
I’m playing a dangerous and probably stupid game. But the faerie in front of me laughs again, apparently taken with my boldness.
 
“Hah! We bow to no mortal sovereign. You may claim the land, but we are far more than mere dirt and plant. Your authority has no sway over we.”
 
“And yet you acknowledge it exists.”
 
“Of course! What churls do you think we are?”
“We came to bear witness!”
“To see an Emperor of this small place!”
“And because we had nothing better to do!”
 
Well then, it sounds to me like these faeries came here because they were bored. Which means they’re capricious. Better to get on their good side. But how? I don’t know if offering them food is any good—I’d have to make some, and all of Durene’s cooking utensils are made of iron.
“Well then, in the name of the Unseen Empire, I bid you welcome. You are all honored guests, although I regret that my master chef and seneschal is out chopping wood. Please, make yourselves at home.”
The faeries seem delighted at this.
 
“Oho!”
“He is polite, this one! He knows how to treat us: with respect!”
“Not like those other fools!”
 
I wonder who they’re talking about. I sense the faeries flying lower, and inquire politely.
“Do you have any business here besides meeting me? I wouldn’t want to keep you from your duties.”
A chorus of denials greets me.
 
“Nae, we have time.”
“Until the spring comes, we are free!”
“Free to do as we please, and not follow one stupid mortal!”
“Aye! So we came here to meet you! ‘Twas worth it to be greeted with respect.”
 
Another voice chimes in, high and excited.
 
“Plus, we wanted to see ye before it was too late.”
“Shh! Don’t tell him that!”
 
“Wait, what?”
 
“Idiot!”
 
I hear a light smack and I have to guess one of the faeries hit the other. I hold Frostwing in my hands, although she’s barely moving, heart suddenly beating out of my chest. Faeries. Beings that can see and predict fate.
“There’s something bad about to happen? Please, tell me.”
 
“Well—”
“Shh! Be quiet!”
“No. Forget what you heard, mortal!”
 
The faeries flutter around me. They start arguing, and I hear a few of them saying they should tell me. But most of them are in favor of not. A few fly up, and I raise my voice desperately.
“Wait, hold on! I entreat you, please, stay and let us talk.”
A pause, and then I sense them flying close to me.
 
“Very well. For your words of hospitality, we will listen. Speak, oh Emperor, Protector of Durene’s Cottage.”
 
No time to laugh, and no time to question. I clear my throat.
“It seems to me that you…wise and noble faeries are aware of some impending danger to me and my empire that I am not aware of.”
 
“Perhaps.”
 
“Indeed, and I would never ask you to reveal a secret. But perhaps I could persuade you to help me avert the tragedy that is yet to come? Or at the very least, reveal the danger to me.”
The faeries murmur at this. I hold my breath—I’m trying to sound formal, but I have no idea how to actually talk to the fae. A bargain with them sounds like a bad idea, but this disaster—
 
“Intriguing. What do you propose, mortal?”
 
Yatzhee! I keep my face composed as I nod in what I hope is a dignified manner.
“Well, I cannot offer you land or a marriage to my house—”
 
“—Hah!”
“Shh!”
 
“—But what would you say to mortal riches? I have gold and jewels to compliment your radiance. Would you accept that?”
The faeries confer, whispering loudly.
 
“Mm…maybe.”
“Hah! He seeks to flatter us. He calls us ‘radiant’, he who cannot see!”
“Ah, but we are radiant, are we not sisters? Any mortal can tell that, even without sight.”
“True! But gold is so heavy. And it is a secret.”
 
In the end, they fly back down to me, probably shaking their tiny heads. I can only imagine.
 
“No, oh Emperor. It is not enough. Mortal wealth has little luster for us. Have you nothing else to offer?”
 
Nothing. Damn it, nothing. Only a bit of food, and I can’t feed all of them! If only I had an actual empire. But my [Emperor] title is just for show. I can only—
Wait. Emperor. Empire. What about—
I clear my throat.
“What if I gave you a noble title?”
 
“What?”
“Really?”
“Are you serious, mortal?”
 
Am I? Yes.
“Only naturally. I would offer entrance into my noble court to any friend of my kingdom. You, for instance—”
I point in the direction of the voice of the faerie that just spoke.
“For your aid, would you accept a title? That of, say, Comtesse?”
 
“Ooh! I like that!”
“What about us?”
“I want to be a Comtesse!”
“Nay, I!”
“We cannot all be Comtesses! What of the rest of us, mortal?”
 
Jeez, do I have to bribe all of them? I think quickly.
“I could make you…noblesse uterine if you wanted.”
Not exactly a flattering name. The tiny voices confer, and then dissent.
 
“Nay! Another title!”
 
“Marchioness, then? Or—how about Herzogin?”
 
“Ooh! I like that!”
“I want to be that!”
“No, me!”
 
They’re like children, squabbling over titles I just made up. And yet—maybe there’s more to it than that. It might sound funny, but I am an Emperor, and I do have the power to make the nobility.
…Still, I can’t help but feel glad that no one’s watching me as I come outside and address one of the faeries who kneels in the air in front of me.
“Very well. I dub thee Comtesse of the Soup Spoon.”
So saying, I hand her a wooden spoon. The other faeries ooh and applaud, and the faerie seizes the spoon from my hand and crows in triumph. That position was heavily sought after, but the other titles are equally as important. I turn to the next faerie.
“If you would be a Reichsgräfin in my empire—”
 
“Aye, I would!”
 
“Then I grant you that position for as long as my empire exists. To the end of time, an Emperor’s word on it.”
 
“Hah! I will hold you to your word, mortal!”
 
That’s what worries me. But I have no time to reflect on my actions. I go down the line of faeries. A Comtesse, several Ladies, a Duchess and a Viscount—I dub a score of them Blumenritter, and make one a Baron. I asked her if she wanted to be a Baroness, but she preferred Baron.
And then it’s over. I breathe out and feel the assembled peerage of my empire flying before me. I bow to them regally, and hear them laugh in delight. The sound warms my heart even in this chill, but I am still afraid.
“So now will you tell me what fate waits for my empire?”
The faeries pause.
 
“We cannot say.”
 
Really? After all this? I only cross my arms and frown. The faeries hurry on.
 
“We cannot! It is a secret and not our place to tell. But since ye have given us an Emperor’s gift, we shall return your kindness. I swear to you, oh mortal ruler, this fate shall not befall your land or your people.”
 
Is that a good thing or a bad thing? No—it’s good. And I know better than to question it. Instead, I nod my head regally.
“My thanks to you. You and your kind are welcome in my land. Know this.”
 
“Aye, and we shall treasure your gifts to us, mortal!”
“You shall be safe, we promise!”
“You aren’t bad—for an Emperor!”
 
The faeries cry out as they laugh and fly away from me. I listen to them go, worried and relieved and happy in turns. Faeries. My god.
Durene finds me sitting in the snow, about an hour later. I hear her exclaim and then come running over.
“Laken! What’s wrong? Why are you out here? You’re so cold!”
I just laugh at her, which makes her even more confused and upset. I let her carry me inside and fuss over me. I barely know where to begin. How can I even explain what happened? I do my best, but she can hardly believe me herself. But there is one thing I now know, with dreadful certainty.
“Something bad is about to happen, Durene.”
It might avoid us, according to the faeries. But I cannot help but wonder and worry. It may be mortal folly, but I am mortal. And I worry. But that is only half of me. The other half wonders and dreams of magic.
I saw faeries.
 
[Emperor Level 7!]
 
Day 41
 
Three days later it happened. I was just waking up, in that blissful moment between waking and sleeping. I was about to feed Frostwing some cold meat when I heard a roar like thunder. But unlike thunder, the sound did not diminish. Rather, it grew louder.
“Durene!”
Maybe I was expecting it. But the reality of the ground shaking around me and Durene’s pottery clattering and breaking on the shelves is far more horrific than anything I could have dreamed. I hear Frostwing screeching, and Durene shouting for me.
We meet in the center of the cottage as the rumbling oblivion of noise crescendos around us. It feels like the world is ending, and all I can do is hold Durene to me. I feel her squeezing me hard, and close my eyes.
And then, as quick as the terror has begun, it’s over. I open my eyes slowly, for the first time in ages. Of course I see nothing, but I do it all the same. It feels like I should see something, for the world has changed.
I know it, even if the cottage and the area around it that I can sense is the same. Durene is quivering in my arms. As she holds me and I hold her, I can hear Frostwing shrieking in alarm. At last I manage to let go of Durene and stagger up to her.
“Frostwing. Are you…?”
She’s alright. Just scared out of her wits. I check her with my hands just to be sure. They’re shaking. Then I hear Durene gasp.
“Durene. What is it?”
“The—the—”
She can’t even speak. I rush to her side, and feel her at the open door. But I can’t sense anything.
“Durene?”
“The snow…”
Her eyes see it. But it takes me a long time, an eternity, to coax her mouth into making sense for me. And then she speaks and I realize what’s happened.
The snow. The snow came down off of a distant mountain. The snow, triggered by snowfall of a sound or the faeries, turned into an avalanche that poured down, smashing everything in its way. It travelled miles, a vast distance, before expending the last of its energy here.
Even the last of its force is enough to destroy everything in its path. Trees were uprooted, a good swathe of the forest buried. But by some miracle—some magical help—the force of the avalanche split around the hut. Ours is the only unburied point as far as Durene can see.
“It’s a miracle.”
Durene hugs me again, shaking. I hug her back, even though I know that’s not entirely true. Not a miracle. A gift. Payment in kind.
I don’t know if I should thank the faeries or blame them. I settle for thanking them, and feel relief coursing through my veins. It’s over. We’re safe. If the faeries hadn’t diverted the avalanche, the cottage would have been buried or smashed to bits. I’m just glad we weren’t outside of the cottage or—
