“Okay, you’ve found out that your trees don’t kill you unless it’s warm. So what?”
Erin pointed at the tree in front of her and looked back at Klbkch.
“Hey, Klbkch. You said the Workers needed wood. What about this?”
Relc blinked. Olesm clicked his claws together – more of a soft sound than a snap – and mouthed ‘of course’. Klbkch stared silently at the piece of wood. He didn’t say a word for a minute, and then nodded.
“Yes. The Worker tells me this wood appears to be quite similar to timbers he is used to working with. And if it can withstand the impact of such explosions, it should surely suit your needs.”
“Good idea, Erin!”
Selys cheered and Erin smiled.
“There’s an entire forest of these stupid trees. Probably enough for an inn, right?”
“Presumably so.”
Erin felt a sense of accomplishment. It wasn’t happening like other times. This might actually turn out right. But…could it turn out righter?
“Um, you said it would be just as easy to build a new inn, right?”
“Correct.”
“Then—could you rebuild it closer to the city? On another hill, or something?”
Selys’ mouth fell open about the same time as Olesm’s did. But Ceria grinned from ear to ear, and Relc laughed. Klbkch looked amused and paused before replying.
“It should be possible. There are a few hills of sufficient height the Workers say may serve. Shall we inspect them?”
Erin smiled. The sun was coming out. The bright light made the snow blindingly bright, and it warmed her. The world was better.
“Thanks, Klbkch.”
“You are welcome, Erin Solstice.”
 
—-
 
The first of the Workers met Erin and the others at the hill they’d chosen. It was closer to the city—close enough that Liscor’s gates were actually visible from their position on the hill. It was…five hundred meters away? A mile? Five miles? Erin wasn’t good with distances.
It was close enough that she’d only need to walk leisurely for around twenty minutes to get there, which would be a huge improvement from her normal trek. And best yet, the hill Klbkch had approved was quite large. It had room for all the things Erin wanted.
“So the outhouse is going there, and I get a basement?”
Erin looked excitedly at Klbkch. He nodded calmly.
“The Workers will begin work right away. I will take twenty of them to collect the necessary amount of timber.”
“I could go with you. It’s far away.”
“I have memorized the map of the surrounding region and I am familiar with the location. You should stay here to supervise the construction.”
“Right, right.”
“I’ll stay with her.”
Relc yawned as the Workers filed past him. He leaned on his spear.
“I’ll protect her against…the wind.”
“You will come with us. Monsters may attack such a large group.”
“Aw. Do I have to?”
“I’ll go with you.”
Relc blinked as Ceria stepped forwards. Erin wanted to protest, but the half-Elf was adamant.
“Three fighters is better than two, and neither of you is a mage. I might be recovering, but I can still cast a few spells even without a wand.”
That made sense, but Erin was still worried about Ceria until Klbkch assured her she would come to no harm. When Relc said it, it just didn’t instill the same level of confidence.
Olesm and Selys stayed with Erin as Klbkch, Relc, and Ceria left with the wood-gathering party. They debated what they should do. Olesm was all for going back to the inn and playing chess, while Selys argued they should salvage everything they could so the Workers didn’t have to.
Erin was right with Selys and Olesm until she saw the next group of Workers appear over the hill. She froze, and then shouted and waved her arms happily.
“Pawn!”
The Worker raised his one good hand as the other Worker next to him helped him along. Erin ran towards him, laughing, followed by Olesm while Selys hung back.
It was hard to read the Antinium’s expressions, but Erin was sure that Pawn was smiling as she met him. He raised his hand, but she threw her arms around him in a hug. He froze, but Erin didn’t care. The sensation of hugging the Antinium was hard, smooth, and cool as she touched his carapace. She couldn’t describe it, but his outer exoskeleton felt alive, and that was unsettling. But not so much because it was Pawn!
“It’s been so long! How are you? Are you okay in the hive? Why are you coming to help?”
Erin bombarded Pawn with questions and only then noticed who was helping Pawn walk through the snow.
“Bird!”
The other Worker, one of the four survivors of the battle against Skinner and the undead, bowed politely in Erin’s direction as he helped Pawn towards the inn. Another unnamed Worker placed a chair down and Pawn sat down in it on the empty hill.
“Where are the others? Garry, um…Belgrade, and Anand?”
“Belgrade is still too injured to move, but the others are well. They serve the Hive elsewhere at the moment.”
“Well, I’m glad to see you too! Are you well?”
Bird nodded politely, but let Pawn take precedence. The Worker sat forwards in his chair and inclined his head at Erin, as if he was someone in a board meeting.
“Erin, it’s good to see you again. I am very well, and I regret I haven’t had time to visit you before. But things have been…busy after the battle against the undead. However, I am here now to assist you as best I am able.”
Erin looked around. Pawn and Bird were followed by ten more Workers. They didn’t wait, but instantly set to work. They trooped in the direction of her inn, walking steadily through the ankle-deep snow. None of the Antinium were wearing clothing, and Erin wondered if they’d be okay in the cold.
“You need not worry about the Antinium. We may survive in freezing weather for up to two hours before needing warmth. We will build a fire to warm ourselves before then.”
Erin smiled at Pawn. Like Klbkch, he was always quite calm, but Pawn had a more familiar air about him. And he seemed to know Erin’s thoughts quite well.
“I just can’t believe you’re here. And—is your arm growing?”
She suddenly pointed to Pawn’s side. Erin remembered the severed stumps of his three arms and one leg, but now it seemed like said stumps were growing longer. Pawn nodded, and gestured with his good arm to the healing spots.
“The Hive has several unique substances that allow regeneration of limbs among our kind. I will regain mobility within the month if all goes well. In the meantime, I will direct the other Workers in repairing your inn.”
“That’s so great. Really, it is.”
It didn’t excuse the events that had led to Pawn losing said limbs, but Erin didn’t want to get complicated. She beamed at him and Bird.
“So, you’re going to help? Do you know what’s happening?”
“Yes. The Revalantor has instructed us already. We will rebuild your inn here, Erin. It may take time to dig the foundation and cut the timber, but we should be finished by midnight.”
Erin’s eyes bulged, and she looked around at the empty hill, still covered in snow.
“No. Really?”
“The Workers need little rest and we all have a few levels in the appropriate classes. Moreover, we are here in number. We have already reconstructed much of Liscor. Do not worry. Your inn will be built better than new.”
Erin smiled at Pawn, and felt her eyes sting a bit.
“Well. Well…I’ll pay you back, I promise.”
“I believe you will. I understand that the price the Revalantor wishes to ask of you is to allow Antinium to visit your inn to learn to play chess.”
Selys frowned and Olesm looked delighted. Erin was incredulous.
“What? That’s not a price. That’s—helping me!”
“It will help the Hive as well. Pardon me, I’m not permitted to speak too much of the details. But it will help.”
“Well—sure! I mean, this will already be a lot better. My inn was already full of holes, and now it’ll be closer to the city, right?”
Selys nodded happily.
“Now I’ll be able to visit after work rather than find someone to bring me all the way out there. And you’ll get a lot more business, I’m sure.”
“It could be for the better.”
Olesm agreed as he stared at Bird. The other Worker looked vaguely uncomfortable, but if Erin knew Olesm, the Drake was about to challenge Bird to a game of chess.
“And I can take less time shopping, and I won’t have to carry stuff nearly as far.”
It all sounded better. Erin felt a huge sense of relief and happiness in her chest. Selys tapped Erin’s legs with her tail as she smiled at her.
“Having your inn explode is one of the best things that’s happened to you, huh, Erin?”
“Yeah. I’m almost not mad at Toren anymore. I mean, it wasn’t exactly his fault.”
Erin sighed. It really wasn’t the skeleton’s fault. He was boneheaded, but not stupid. And he’d found firewood after all. She wouldn’t shout at him, she promised herself. Then a thought occurred to Erin and she looked around, frowning.
“Where is Toren?”
Pawn and the others looked around as well. It suddenly occurred to Erin that she hadn’t seen him in a while.
“Is he doing something for you, Erin? Running an errand?”
“No…”
Erin remembered what she’d said to him. ‘Go away’.
“Oh. I told him to leave after he blew up the inn. I guess he’s still gone.”
Olesm frowned.
“Will he come back?”
Erin floundered.
“Well—yeah! I just meant go away for a while. Not forever. He’ll be back soon, I’m sure.”
There wasn’t much Erin could do in any case. Toren’s…reduced…frame meant he was hard to spot at the best of times, and he was nearly completely invisible in the white snow. Erin asked Pawn and the other Workers to keep an eye out for him, and resolved to do the same.
He’d be back soon, she was sure.
 
—-
 
“So. I’m told your name is Klbkch.”
Klbkch glanced down slightly and nodded politely to Ceria as they walked together at the head of a small army of Workers. They were walking through the Floodplains of Liscor, or as Ceria thought of them at the moment, the Frostplains of Liscor.
It was cold. Ceria was specialized in frost-based magic and she didn’t mind the cold, but the trek combined with her recent weakness was making things harder than she would have liked. Nevertheless, she walked quickly, not wanting to slow down the expedition.
She was slightly regretting her choice to go with the Workers to gather wood in any case. She didn’t know Relc or Klbkch and she had a history of bad experiences with local law enforcement. But Erin liked Klbkch, which probably meant he was alright.
“I, uh, haven’t ever met any Antinium before. You don’t have a great reputation up north.”
“I am well aware. The perception of our kind is not undeserved.”
“But you’re a friend to Erin. That’s surprising, but I’m glad. She needs friends out here.”
“She is a unique individual. I believe you are a good friend to her as well. She went into the ruins to bring you back.”
“She did. She’s very brave.”
“She is.”
The conversation halted for a few minutes. Ceria stared around the bleak landscape. There weren’t many structures or…anything except on top of the higher hills. That made sense, considering what happened other parts of the year. Still, the open landscape was slightly disconcerting to her. Were it not for the Antinium, Ceria would feel lost in a landscape of endless white.
Ahead of her and Klbkch, Relc stormed through the snow, leaving a trail in his wake. He was scouting ahead, as the only person in the group with skills in that area.
“Spider nest!”
He waved his hand and stabbed his spear into a section of snow which collapsed inwards. A huge gaping pit opened up and Relc kicked the first Shield Spider as it crawled over the edge.
“Take that you little bastard!”
The Shield Spider flipped back into the nest as Relc laughed and poked the other spiders back into the nest. Ceria and Klbkch changed directions to walk wide of the nest. Ceria nodded at Relc.
“He’s the highest-level guardsman I’ve seen in my life. I saw him fighting Gazi. With his abilities, he could be a Gold-rank adventurer.”
“He has told me he does not care for danger anymore. He was a soldier. Now he is retired.”
“Gazi was a soldier, once.”
“Yes. She may be one again, if what we have heard is true.”
Ceria tried to imagine it. She remembered the King of Destruction’s first rampage, hearing of nations falling and cities sieged. She’d never been to Chandrar, but war had been speeding across the vast ocean when the King of Destruction had suddenly called an end to his grand ambitions.
“What will the Antinium do if he starts conquering nations again?”
Klbkch shrugged fractionally. He was armed with two swords, which matched his unique body. Ceria had never seen an Antinium with only two arms – it must mean he was a special leader among them. The other Workers certainly obeyed his commands without question.
“If it comes to war, the Antinium will act. Until then, I believe the Queens will be content to wait. The King of Destruction is far away.”
“True.”
More walking. Snow crunched underneath Ceria’s boots. And then Klbkch asked her a question.
“What will you do?”
“Excuse me?”
“I understand you will not be charged for the attack of the undead. But you are an adventurer alone, not counting the few adventurers who survived. Many have already left, and only the silver-rank adventurer is of any note.”
“Yvlon. She’s…silent. Still recovering.”
“Yes. Will you join with her and continue adventuring?”
“I don’t know.”
She’d lost everything. Sometimes Ceria forgot. She’d wake up or start doing something, and then it would hit her as she thought of the future. She’d lost all of her coin in the ruins, lost all of her magical artifacts except her robes, lost her friends, and her hand.
Everything.
Klbkch slowed as Relc raised a hand and shouted from ahead. There was something in the distance, breaking the uniform snowy landscape.
“Ah. There is the forest. We should remove the bark before bringing the trees back.”
He turned and began issuing orders to the Workers behind him in a clipped, short tone. Ceria watched the black-bodied Antinium move as she thought. Klbkch’s question had bothered her more than he could probably imagine.
What would she do now? What would she become?
Ceria didn’t know. She was lost. She only had one thing to cling to, and that was a certainty. There was something about Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin. Something different.
She’d figure that out first, and then decide.
 
—-
 
The first of the Workers were returning with boards and another group was beginning to dig what would become Erin’s foundation and basement when Olesm pointed at the sky and called out warningly.
“Uh oh. Trouble.”
