It was all gone. All over.
The Wandering Inn was finished.
Erin stared at what had been her inn and saw the writing on the wall. Actually, she didn’t.
Because there was no wall.
Nearly half of her inn had been blown outwards by the explosion. Walls, floorboards—even parts of the roof had been shredded by the explosive tree bark as it heated up from the fire.
For an added bonus, the bark had been flaming as it shot out of the fireplace. So the parts of the inn not hit by the shrapnel also caught on fire.
It was only because it was such a cold and windy day that the fire hadn’t eaten away the entire inn. As it was, Erin could see straight into the common room and parts of the upstairs from her position outside.
There was no repairing that. Erin wouldn’t even know where to start. [Basic Crafting] did not teach her how to repair the foundations. The spot where the fireplace had been—the center of the blast—was a crater, and Erin could see churned dirt where floorboards and the stone base should be.
The inn was gone. And Erin was homeless.
The feeling that hit Erin wasn’t exactly like despair. It was closer to numbness; a vague hurt feeling in her chest. Why? Why did it always have to be her?
She told Toren to go away, and for a while, she just sat in the snow trying to imagine what came next. What did come next? She had a little money, but not enough. She was an [Innkeeper] without an inn and no other useful skills besides chess.
She was lost.
Again.
That was the word that popped into Erin’s mind. Again. It wasn’t the first time something like this had happened. That thought created a spark, but Erin was so tired. She didn’t want to think of doing anything like picking up the broken timbers or finding actual firewood to replace the damaged wood.
She just wanted to sit here and stare at the remains of what had been her home.
“Wow. It’s totally gone, isn’t it?”
Erin heard Relc remark cheerfully as the Drake crested the hill. She’d beaten even him and Klbkch in her mad dash towards her inn. The Drake whistled as he looked around.
“What did this? I only saw the smoke and Tkrn said he could see the inn was broken from his spot on the walls. [Eagle Eyes]. Nice skill, right?”
“It blew up.”
“Yeah, I got that p—ow!”
Erin heard a thump and the sounds of a Drake hopping around on one foot in the snow. Then Klbkch was squatting next to her. The Antinium regarded Erin gravely.
“I am sorry this happened, Erin. Was this an attack or some kind of magic?”
“No. No. It was trees.”
“Trees?”
Relc stopped hopping and cursing and looked mildly alarmed. He grabbed his spear and turned.
“Aw, no. Don’t tell me it was one of those cursed trees. Or a Dryad? I hate Dryads.”
Erin almost smiled, but she couldn’t.
“No. It was an exploding tree. Toren must have cut it down and brought it here.”
“An exploding tree? What?”
Klbkch nodded slowly.
“Erin must be referring to the reports of the deadly forest southeast of here. You will recall it’s one of the areas we avoid on our patrols.”
“Oh yeah. The place where that scouting party disappeared? Yeah. Wow. So the trees explode?”
“The bark does.”
Erin could see it now. She remembered how those trees had reacted when she’d hit one with a rock. They’d nearly taken her eye out with an acorn fifty feet away. If that explosive power were compressed into a nice little room…
“Well, there goes dinner. I’m hungry. You want to go to the Tailless Thief instead? I’ll buy the first round.”
Klbkch turned and looked around at Relc. Erin didn’t see his face, but the Drake raised his hands defensively.
“Hey, I was joking! Sort of. I mean…”
He waved at Erin’s inn and lowered his voice, although both Erin and Klbkch could clearly hear him.
“What’s she going to do? I don’t think a hammer and a few nails are going to fix that, do you?”
Silently, Erin agreed with Relc. Her inn was busted. What could she do? It was exactly like before. She couldn’t do anything.
It was so unfair. Why did this happen to her? Why—
“Oh no! Erin!”
Erin heard the voice a second before Selys nearly tackled her to the ground. The female Drake threw her arms around Erin as Ceria and Olesm appeared on the hilltop as well, looking winded. Selys stared at Erin’s inn and then at Erin.
“Are you hurt? Oh no, your inn! What happened?”
Ceria and Olesm stared at the destruction in shock as Erin muttered a few words and Relc loudly related the events.
“And then that stupid skeleton she has—Tors or something—must have put it on the fire. The tree explodes, and there goes her inn. Boom!”
“I don’t believe it.”
Selys kept saying that as she hugged Erin. Ceria looked gaunt and tired as she shook her head. Only Olesm seemed determined to remain optimistic. The Drake peered at a splintered board and stared around.
“Can this be fixed?”
“What? Are you crazy?”
Relc laughed at him. He gestured to the wrecked face of the inn.
“There’s no way she’s going to get that patched up by herself. You’d need a team of carpenters and a small forest, and neither of those is cheap, even if it weren’t winter! It’s over. The inn’s toast. History. Total dest—”
Ceria turned and kicked Relc hard in the stomach. He didn’t budge, but he narrowed his eyes at her.
“That hurt.”
With her good hand, Ceria flicked a sliver of ice towards Relc’s nose. The Drake leaned back inhumanly fast, but the shard missed anyways.
“Shut up.”
“Hey, I’m just—”
Relc dodged another shard of ice, this one larger and aimed closer to his head. He retreated, muttering insults.
Erin didn’t listen or see Olesm and Klbkch talking, or hear Selys assuring her that she could stay at Selys’ apartment or with Krshia. She just thought.
It was always the same. Always. Not in the same way, but the feeling was the same. And it was a sad thing, but Erin was used to the sensation. She was used to things like this.
“I’ve done this before.”
Relc stared at Erin.
“You’ve blown up your inn before?”
“No. But this—”
Erin couldn’t describe it. It was so familiar. Why? It was a pattern in her life.
Something bad happens. Get sad. Nearly die. That’s how it went.
But there was another level to that. Why did it always have to be bad? It was unfair? So why did it have to happen that way?
Erin was an expert at having bad things happen to her. So why couldn’t she turn a bad thing into a good thing? Or at least a not-so-bad thing?
She stared at her inn. Okay, now how did the script go? She’d stare at her broken inn, cry a bit, maybe freeze to death as she nearly fixed it, and then—probably the Frost Fairies would decide to bury the entire thing with her inside.
That was how the story went. But could Erin change the story?
“Can it be fixed?”
“No! It’s hopeless! Let’s go back to the city! I’m freezing!”
Erin ignored Relc as Klbkch looked over at her. He walked over with Olesm and Erin stood up. Ceria and Selys joined the circle while Relc edged closer and received cold stares from almost everyone else.
Klbkch nodded at Erin’s inn.
“I have already contacted my Hive. Some Workers will be here shortly to assess the damage. It may be that this can be repaired.”
“And I’m sure the damage isn’t that bad. It’s only the…side of the inn. I know a few [Carpenters] in the city. They might be able to help!”
Olesm smiled unconvincingly at Erin. Selys nodded and adopted the same too-optimistic tone.
“Yeah! And you could probably get enough wood to rebuild the inn. From Krshia. She might uh, know someone with a lot of spare building wood. They’re rebuilding a lot of the damaged buildings so…it might be cheaper?”
Erin nearly smiled, and then she actually did. It was ridiculous and hopeless. But she was used to that, wasn’t she? Keep smiling, keep trying. She shivered, and suddenly realized it was freezing.
Ceria snapped her fingers and muttered a few words. Erin blinked as the air around her suddenly seemed to lose most of its bite. Selys blinked and stopped crossing her arms together.
“What was that?”
“[Lesser Resistance to Ice]. It’s a basic mage spell in my school. It won’t stop much of the chill, but it helps.”
It did. Erin smiled gratefully at Ceria and the half-Elf smiled crookedly back.
“What a fun surprise, huh? I’m really sorry about your inn, Erin. Let me know if I can help. I’m no good with movement and telekinetic spells, but even I can cast [Repair]. I can fix a few floorboards, at least.”
Olesm nodded.
“And I’ve got a hammer in my home!”
Erin smiled. Suddenly she was warmer, and not just on the outside. She had friends. Even in this cold winter, she had people who’d move mountains for her.
What else could she ask for?
“How about a jacuzzi?”
“What?”
“Nothing.”
Klbkch had been silent as he stared at her inn. He looked up and turned to face Erin.
“I have contacted one of the Workers most skilled in constructions within my Hive. He will be on site shortly, but he informs me the inn can be rebuilt.”
“Really?”
Erin stared incredulously at Klbkch. He nodded calmly.
“Yes. But there are a few caveats. Firstly, the damage to the foundations is not inconsiderable. Although much of the building is still intact, the rest will need to be reconstructed and cannot be built from the fragments that remain. With a supply of wood however, another inn may be built, although it would be just as easy to build a new inn elsewhere.”
Everyone stared at him. Olesm opened his mouth.
“That’s not easy.”
Klbkch shrugged fractionally.
“I am no longer Prognugator, but I occupy a similar position of command. I have called thirty Antinium Workers with class levels that will assist in reconstruction shortly.”
Rather than stop, the staring increased. Klbkch shifted his position and looked at Erin. She blinked at him.
“You’re going to get the other Antinium to help me? Isn’t that…won’t your Queen get mad?”
He shook his head.
“It is a service we will provide for free, if you will assist us in other ways. My intent tonight was to discuss allowing Workers and other Antinium to visit your inn to play chess and learn. That cannot occur without an inn.”
“But the cost—”
“The Antinium will work for free. It will not take long.”
He hesitated and glanced at the façade of the inn.
“…Finding timber will be a more difficult matter. Lumber is in short supply in the city at the moment. It may take a day or two to locate enough. The Workers can begin repairing parts of the inn and seal the rest off from weather damage for now.”
“Oh.”
Erin sagged slightly. But this—was more than she could have asked for. And it was the same feeling. Help—someone helping her without her helping back. She looked around. Wasn’t there something she could do?
Her eye caught something untouched by the explosion. A section of a tree, roughly chopped away, bark still wrapped around the few branches and sections of the wood. Relc was sitting on it, looking bored.
“Hey, there’s more of the exploding tree.”
Everyone looked around. Relc stared down at his seat and slowly got up. As one, everyone slowly edged away from the part of the tree. Except for Erin. She stared at it with a frown.
“Why doesn’t that explode?”
Selys glanced at Erin nervously.
“Do you think it will? Should we get farther away?”
“No. But why doesn’t it explode? It should the instant you get near it or hit it.”
Erin thought to herself as Ceria and Relc wondered why their [Dangersense] hadn’t gone off.
“Maybe it’s the cold?”
“The cold?”
“Well, if Toren was in the forest, even he would notice if the trees started exploding. And the bark would have exploded if he was dragging the piece of tree all the way here. So why did it only explode inside?”
She imagined her skeleton. He wasn’t bright, but even he wouldn’t bring a dangerous object into the inn. So he must not have known the trees would explode. Ergo – a fancy word she’d learned in school – the trees must have seemed completely normal. Until they were inside.
Well, what would happen inside? Toren would probably light the fire with the wood. Not much else you do with wood indoors. And then…
Boom. That must have been the trigger. That was Erin’s hypothesis, and she decided to test it.
“Hey Relc, can you drag that piece of wood down the hill?”
He didn’t want to. But after some coaxing (threats) by Selys and Klbkch, he reluctantly stumped over and gingerly rolled the ungainly piece of tree to the side of the hill. And then, having ascertained the tree was probably not going to explode, he kicked it hard enough to send it crashing down the slope.
Erin was pretty sure that would have triggered the explosion, cold or not. But the bark didn’t so much as shiver. Well, that only added to her theory.
Next, Erin asked Ceria if she knew any flame spells. It turned out the half-Elf did, although she only knew one or two.
“It’s not my proficiency. Ice magic is, and you can imagine the two are different. But if you need me to light something…”
Ceria couldn’t throw fire that far or shoot fireballs, but once again Relc was the right Drake for the job, however reluctant he was to do said job. Ceria lit a bundle of boards and sticks Erin tied together on fire, and Relc set the burning wood next to the tree and dashed back.
He was so quick! He could cover the hundred meters from the tree fragment to where the others were waiting in only a few seconds. Erin knew the world record was something like ten seconds, but she was sure Relc made the journey in less time than that.
The Drake slid behind Erin and the others waited, tense. About thirty seconds after Relc had placed the fire next to the tree, Erin thought she saw the bark on the tree twitch—
The explosive tree bark wasn’t nearly as bad this far out, but a fragment of bark still bounced gently off Klbkch’s carapace as he shielded Erin. The others raised their heads and stared at the spot around the tree in amazement. Selys twitched her tail and blinked.
“Whoa.”
The snow around the piece of tree had been blown away in a rough semicircle, and the dirt had been kicked up as well from the force of the blast. It looked a bit like a bombshell crater, and Erin said as much.
“You mean you have exploding trees where you came from as well? What kind of place do you live in?”
Olesm shook his head she walked back over to the tree. Erin gingerly prodded the now bark-denuded wood and found it was wonderfully smooth. And amazingly, unharmed.
“The bark just explodes off and leaves the tree intact. That’s so weird.”
Relc rolled his eyes and shivered as he stood impatiently next to Erin. He hadn’t worn any more clothes than normal, even though it was so cold. His bare chest might be a display of how tough he was, but he still looked cold to Erin.
