Though only a small portion are here before me, my heart aches as I watch the tired masses step down from their wagons clutching all their worldly possessions. A minority have mules, chickens, sheep, or other livestock with them, including one big family with a massive herd of sheep, and they all scurry about getting everyone settled in place. Some people stop to pray before Ping Ping, who looms overhead with a new crown of cloth flowers, because I thought she was too cute to go without one. Others nervously eye the Citadel in the distance behind me, and huddle closer to their loved ones for comfort and security. The majority of the settlers, however, go bug eyed at the sight of my official Imperial Scion robes and almost trip over themselves trying to kowtow, but I’ve long since learned that trying to help them up only makes things worse. “There is no need to bow,” I shout, waving them along. “So please make your way into the square so everyone can disembark in a timely fashion.”

Never before have I seen a crowd organize themselves so quickly or quietly, with mothers shushing their children and fathers glaring at sons. In a matter of minutes, all eight-hundred families are gathered in the square with plenty of room to spare, which is good because this massive, open field marked by bundles of reeds is their future safe haven. “Hello. I am Minister of Finance Falling Rain,” I begin, smiling for all I’m worth while Xuande echoes my words. He’s a much more emotive public speaker than Kuang Biao, and while he can’t project his voice loud enough to be heard over the din of battle, addressing quiet crowds like this is perfectly fine. “Allow me to be the first to welcome you to your new homes.”

There is no applause, as most of the crowd is staring at their shoes, though a few curious youngsters are bold enough to peek up and earn themselves a smile and a wave from yours truly. “I’m sure you’re all tired from your long journey and eager to begin your new lives, but I’d like to briefly go over some key details before showing you your new property.” Pausing for a moment to consider how to phrase this, I deviate from my script and add, “If you could all look up so you can follow along with my gestures, that would be much appreciated.”

Even with a politely worded order, the commoners are scared to meet my eyes, and I make a note to be more of a public figure and leave the explaining to others. I mean, this isn’t the only group who will have to hear this speech today, as I wrote it up and instructed my people to go over these same points, but I wanted to be a part of the moment and didn’t consider how my presence might scare some people. Well, it’s too late for regrets, and asking Xuande to take over probably wouldn’t make a difference, since he’s also an Imperial Scion and far above these common people, so I push on with the script.

Gesturing at the reed markers, I say, “This square is designated district one, and will serve as the central hub for blocks one through four, which is where you all will call home.” As expected, the words mean nothing to these people, so I explain, “Think of this as your town square, a town made up of the fine folk around you, while each block is a smaller neighbourhood inside the town, where your purchased land sits.” That earns me a few nods, though there are many doubtful looks, as they’re more used to living together and travelling out to their farms each day, but that’s inefficient with so many people gathered in one place. “Directly to the south sits blocks five through eight, which surround district two, and south of that, blocks nine through twelve surrounding district three, and so on, and so forth. You are all free to travel wherever you please and visit other blocks or districts, but keep in mind that those lands belong to other people like yourselves, so please be mindful of their privacy and keep to the designated paths. Trespassing on private property without permission is punishable by law, but I warn you against taking the law into your own hands.”

Pausing because I expect a question, I continue on when no one speaks up, because obedience and subservience is baked into their bones. “If you have any crimes to report, whether it be trespassing, theft, violence, or anything else, you can do so here in your district.” Pointing at a surly, ink-stained fop standing off to my right, I introduce him as their new Mayor, Yanbo. “Though currently living out of a yurt, Mayor Yanbo is the duly appointed representative for district one, and will eventually have a proper office built here in this square.” I wanted one Mayor per block, but literacy is necessary for the position and I could barely scrounge up enough Mayors as it is. Most are extra sons and daughters of noble houses, and Yanbo was actually one of the idiot dandies who used to make fun of me as a cripple. I’m guessing he and many of his comrades were pressured into this job because their families were worried I’d want revenge, but I’m not sure this is the best move. There is massive potential for abuse of power here, but I’m hoping Disciplinary Corps oversight and constant reports will keep Yanbo and his ilk in line. “Bring your grievances to your Mayor, and he will either sort them out himself, or he will take it up with the proper authorities.”

After explaining the basics of law enforcement and how to protect themselves, I add, “Mayor Yanbo is also responsible for tax and payment collection, as well as ensuring everyone adheres to the terms of your contract.” My ominous proclamation sets the crowd to grumbling, so I grin and nod along with their displeasure. “I know, I know, no one likes to pay taxes or follow rules, but they are a necessary evil.” The joke earns me a few laughs and chuckles, so I wait for their mirth to die down before pointing back at the Citadel Walls. “There stands the Central Citadel, where heroes of the Imperial Army stand vigilant to guard against the Defiled threat. Take one step west of the Citadel, and you will be in Enemy territory, where the Father’s foul minions seek to break through our defences in order to run rampant through Central. You have all heard of the Western Province’s tragic fate; I tell you now, if the Defiled break through the Citadel in great enough numbers, then Central will share that fate.”

There are no smiles now, no chuckles or grins, only palpable tension as every person in the crowd comes to grips with what life here on the border really means. There is only silence as I stand before the crowd, making eye contact with those who will meet my gaze. “I say this not to frighten you, but to ensure you understand the truth. This loan is not given freely, nor is your land to be used as you please. My Office loaned out the coin necessary to purchase your lands and bring you here because I see it as an investment, a price to be paid to ensure the safety and well-being of the Empire for years to come. Most of you are farmers, so you will be expected to grow crops on your land, half of which must be seeded with what my Office dictates each season and subsequently put up for sale. For you, this means growing soybeans, for which seeds will be provided to each household later on today, alongside your first week of rations.”

Feeding them is one thing, but it never occurred to me that I couldn’t just let every farmer decide what to grow, because if they grew according to what was most profitable, an overabundance of supply would glut the market and prices would bottom out. Then I’d be left with a bunch of penniless farmers with warehouses of beets or whatever cash crop they can’t sell, which is less than ideal. Lang Yi was the one who suggested this system, as most large-scale farm owners will specialize depending on location. Half the new arrivals are planting soybeans, and the other half rice, because both crops grow quickly and are staples in the average person’s diet.

Truth be told, I’m not entirely sure if this sort of required work is the right thing to do, as it reeks of indentured servitude, but I couldn’t come up with a better solution. What bothers me even more is that not every plot of land is equal, but again, I tried my best. There are a lot of issues I don’t love, like how we marked out where on their fields the landowners were allowed to build their homes, on a shared border with their neighbour and across the path from their other neighbours. Four houses, then two fields, then four houses, that’s how it’ll go while moving north to south from one end of the Wall to the other, because Marshal Yo figured that keeping their homes close together would allow the commoners to keep each other honest, and prevent lone Defiled citizens from escaping scrutiny. Not a terrible idea, but it’s not like each farm is all that big either. I pictured huge tracts of land owned by one family, but it turns out farming by hand is hard work, and people can’t really cover all that much ground without modern machinery.

Having scared the living daylights out of my audience, I extend my wholly inadequate olive branch. “I will not lie to you; there is danger living here on the border, but were it not so, then you all would not have this opportunity to own land. What’s more, I do not intend to leave you undefended. Today, this square sits empty, and I have already promised to build a Mayoral office, but in the future, this square also is where certain tradesmen will ply their trade, surrounded by towering walls which I will build. What’s more, every tenth District will be four times larger than a standard district and be built up into a veritable fort, one which will house a complement of Imperial soldiers as well as more disruptive trades such as smiths, tanneries, and the like.” This was a big part of those extra expenses, but I think my new building material will really cut down on the costs.

This is the Legate’s fault, for going on about using villagers as distractions for the Enemy. If the Defiled break through the Wall or Citadel, the bell-towers should offer the commoners living here plenty of warning. Not enough to run away, even if all the Defiled are on foot, but if they hole up behind locked fortifications with crossbows to defend themselves, then between that and the hour-long travel-time between the Wall and the closest district, there might be enough time for Army reinforcements to arrive and save everyone from certain death.

Which brings me to my next point. “I assume you have all heard my story. I was once a Martial Warrior, but my Core was shattered, and now I am no stronger than any of you. However, this does not mean I am helpless before the Defiled, nor are any of you.” Accepting a crossbow from Kuang Biao, I hold it up for my audience to see. “Defiled Warriors are stronger and tougher than you or I, but they breathe, and they bleed, which means they can be killed. They might shrug off one bolt, or two, perhaps even as many as a dozen, but I stand here before you and see hundreds of able bodied men and women who are just as capable as I, and even the most powerful Defiled will die when peppered with hundreds of bolts.” It is so gratifying to see the crowd straighten up, their eyes burning with courage and hope, and I pray that I am not mistaken. “To this end, I will dispatch soldiers to train you in the use of these crossbows, and those who are deemed capable will be gifted one at the end of training.”

Finally, the crowd cheers and I am left smiling as my people sort them into groups and bring them out to inspect their new lands. I was planning to pay for this with my personal funds, but the Legate was kind enough to allow me to use War Bond monies to pay for it, as well as a yet unannounced stipend to Martial Warriors who care to hold classes to teach commoners the Forms. Of course, this means he gets a cut of the profits, which are considerable since he also insisted we charge much higher than necessary. I suppose he needs the coin for a new Runic Codpiece, as his current one isn’t phallic enough or something, but regardless of his reasons, I find it hard to complain. Not impossible, because I can always complain, but I can put the extra coin to good use outfitting all my wives with Runic armour.

Even Lin-Lin, because why not? Can animals use Runic Armour? Maybe I could get Mama Bun a Runic Helmet with proper spikes she can bash with instead of her nubby little horns...

With my speech done, there’s nothing left for me to do out here in the sticks, so I head back to the Citadel to celebrate a job well done with Marshal Yo. I came here mostly alone, since Luo-Luo is busy overseeing things for the next group of settlers, and Mila and Lin-Lin thought it sounded boring, so for the first time in forever, I have no beloved to keep me company, only my Death Corps guards and Song, who had no choice but to come along, as well as Aurie, Mama Bun, and the bears who I stole away from Lin-Lin.

Honestly, even though I hated having so many guards around me all the time, it was kinda nice when my family followed me around wherever I went, so I suppose I’m feeling a little lonely. Two weeks married and already I’m on a business trip, but such is life, I suppose.

