It comes as no great surprise to learn my ideas don’t always translate into workable solutions, but considering I intend to uproot one and a half million families and settle them along a thousand kilometre border, I can’t really afford to use my tried and true tactic of ‘make it up as I go’.

A good thing I’ve been set up for success. My greatest advantage as a civil servant is my past life’s memories. Scattered and inexact though they may be, they offer me a working model of an effective society to not only emulate, but improve upon, since I’m pretty much working with a clean slate. Money also helps, but ten-million gold does not go as far as I would like considering it only works out to six gold and six silvers per family. Things would’ve been fine if I went with my initial plan of pricing the land at double what I paid for, but the Legate insisted on charging six times the initial price in order to take a bigger cut, which means there’s less money in the budget for things like food, clothes, tools, building materials, and more.

Luckily, as the influential Minister of Finance, I can call on my allies to supply me with big brain planners to help work out all those finicky details standing in the way of success. Alongside the hundred Royal Guardians he dispatched to guard my money, the Legate also provided me with an army of pencil pushers to help out with paperwork. It turns out the Eastern Province is truly a haven for the noble elites, where Imperial Peers are as common as clouds and even the lowliest non-Supreme Family Scions have a cadre of trained slaves to handle the day to day drudgery, leaving these pampered nobles free to pursue education and the Martial Path. Aside from being amateur Warriors, many of my new clerks are also ninth generation ‘nobility’, so unless they render enough merits to warrant a new title, then their family lines will end with them, because the tenth generation is obligated to enter Imperial Service.

Luo-Luo touched on this the first day I met her, but I never really gave it too much thought. It’s horrifying, is what it is, an entire generation given into slavery, whether it be as an Imperial Servant, a Death Corps Guard, or just a plain old slave indoctrinated from birth to believe themselves inferior to ‘proper’ Imperial Nobles, despite the fact that they themselves would be Nobles if not for a minor quirk of fate. All my Death Corps guards have ancestors who were Imperial Nobles, some as recent as their parents, and others as far back as a hundred generations or more. Once you fall from grace, there is no climbing back up, not even for someone as exceptional as Luo-Luo. Her noble parents gave her over to Imperial Service, and the best she can hope for is for her children to become Nobles, ones who would be laughed at for having an Imperial Servant for a mother.

This monstrous and insightful glimpse into life in the Eastern Province notwithstanding, it’s actually somewhat refreshing to meet Imperial Scions who are lower-ranked than I am, though the rules for hierarchy are fairly fast and loose, from what I can discern. Supreme Families aside, there are no set tiers or levels to adhere to, but more of an unspoken pecking order which is based on who you know. Being Minister of Finance isn’t worth shit to these haughty Imperial Scions, but being the Legate’s golden boy puts me in the upper stratosphere of individual rankings. Conversely, my pencil pushers are all on the bottom rung of the ladder and are treated as only one step up from slaves, which is disheartening to see since most are more competent than my de-facto supervisor and superior, Administrator Liang Yin Hang.

Take for example, Liu Xuande, a ninth generation Imperial Scion who quickly rose to become my right hand man, or at least one of my right hand people, if you include Luo-Luo, Rustram, Muyang, Junior, and my various other associates who I couldn’t live without. A soft-spoken man with the most glorious beard I’ve ever had the pleasure to be jealous of, Xuande is an intelligent scholar with a quick wit and an easy smile, and is also one of the few Imperial Scions who doesn’t treat slaves and commoners like trash. Not exactly high praise, but I’ve had to lower my standards significantly since entering the cutthroat world of politics and administration, and he seems like a decent enough sort. What’s more, Xuande is a Martial Expert who uses his Natal Palace to memorize vast swathes of data and can solve complex mathematical equations faster than I can read them out in full. With him at my side, I never have to sort through stacks of documents to find the information I’m looking for, as Xuande and his three Expert assistants, Guan Yunchang, Zhang Yide, and Jian Xianhe, have everything memorized and can not only recite the information I need, but also locate the relevant documents in record time.

Meanwhile, Administrator Liang Yin Hang has trouble processing things one sentence at a time, but he enjoys a high status because of his surname and close relation to the Grand Marshal and Legate both. It’s bullshit, but such is life.

The best part is I don’t have to pay any of them. In fact, Xuande and the others straight up refused my offer of salary, as they are all here working for ‘exposure’, meaning the Legate promised them they could ride my coattails to success and obtain Imperial Titles of their own. Hungry for success, it only took them one full day to go through my notes and come up with a plan of action, and they set to writing up lists, contracts, and standardized forms for me to stamp and hand over to the Marshals. Fun fact, it turns out that marking something with an Imperial Seal makes it illegal to tamper or alter the document without express permission. This means the Guardian Turtle stamp I had made for shits and giggles, and the Legate made official for what I believe are the same reasons, is exceptionally useful for making these standardized forms ‘official’. Adding required information to official documents is perfectly fine, but changing the terms of the contract to take advantage of an illiterate populace is punishable by death, which is pretty helpful when doing this much paperwork.

My new printing press also came into vital play, and Xuande became fast friends with the inventor, an outer-provincial Clerk by the name of Bi Sheng. That was the first clue I had that Xuande was a good man, because most of the other Imperial Scions won’t give the time of day to someone from the outer provinces, but the magnanimous Xuande cares little for background or status. That said, I’ve been undervaluing Bi Sheng because I thought his printing press was kinda trash, since it didn’t really fit my vision of what a printing press should be. It’s just a whole shit-tonne of clay character stamps which are painstakingly arranged by hand to create one giant, full page stamp, but it’s good enough for my purposes, so I guess it’ll hafta do.

I don’t know what I expected from a printing press, but I always thought heat would be involved somehow, because of the phrase ‘hot off the presses’. Also, it would be really nice if I didn’t have to manually stamp everything, as it is both boring and painful going through the same motions hour after hour after hour. That was my job for several days, just stamping stacks upon stacks of documents, and were it not for Taduk’s Healing, I might well have developed a repetitive stress injury from those boring, nightmarish days.

This is my life now. Office drudgery by day, and studying a megalomaniac’s research diary by night. Fun, fun, fun.

Aside from my highly-educated and unpaid Imperial interns, I’m also fortunate enough to have my beloved wife to help me in my endeavours. Rather than run off to the bamboo grove every day, my lovely Mila actually took an interest in my work for once, and spent two or three days a week keeping me company at the office, as well as several hours after dinner poring over documents to make sure I hadn’t done anything too stupid. Proving once again she isn’t all brawn and no brain, she turned out to be exceedingly well-versed in logistics, which shouldn’t have come as a surprise considering she grew up watching her mother run the Sentinels and her father operate a successful blacksmithing enterprise. While numbers and documents aren’t Mila’s thing, she has an intuitive grasp of how to coordinate between multiple organizations and shipping routes so things arrive not only in a timely manner, but in an order that makes sense.

It’s all black magic to me, but Mila just makes it work, and she even helps me understand Cao Cuo’s instructions which are just gobbledygook to me. There’s nothing this woman can’t do, and I am in complete awe of her capabilities. Good thing she has terrible judgment though, because otherwise she would never have married me.

Hehe. My wife. I have a wife. Seems crazy, but amazing.

Another advantage I have is an eclectic group of friends and subordinates to draw on for their wealth of life experiences. Typically, I turn to Rustram for matters like this, but having been born and raised inside a city, he wasn’t of much use figuring out what farmers on the frontier would need. Instead, I found help elsewhere, in the most surprising of individuals. Few people care to navigate through the uncharted wilds of the North, but as a smuggler, Siyar travelled through areas untouched by humanity before his arrival. He knows more about bush-craft than most people learn in a lifetime and knows exactly what not to do when arranging homes and villages. As such, he was able to pick up on problems even the Marshals’ planners failed to spot, so I made him my chief urban planner and had him poring over maps day in and day out.

Lang Yi was another valuable resource, as he made a living as a fisherman in the bandit-infested wilds of Sanshu and knows a thing or two about survival. One day, on a rare trip to the training grounds to watch Mila and my friends spar, I got to complaining about having to decide between buying wood, stone, or leather for proper housing. Cutting short his training session with Argat, Lang Yi brought me aside and said, “Boss, they are commoners, not children. There is no need to concern yourself with so much.”

Which I thought was pretty callous. When I asked him how he expected the farmers and tradesmen to build homes without tools or materials, Lang Yi frowned and fell silent for a long minute, before understanding dawned on his stony expression. “Not all homes are made of wood and stone, Boss,” he said. “They will make do with what they have.”

And it turns out, he was right. After looking into the matter, I discovered that while Central’s Cities have plenty of wood and stone structures, this is only because those are the areas where wealth is concentrated. Unlike in the North, there aren’t too many dangerous wild beasts forcing the population to congregate around the cities to stay safe, so the population is far more spread out than I once thought. In fact, I’ve never laid eyes on a proper Central village before, because given the scarcity of wood here on the plains, most commoners in the province build their homes out of sod, grass, mud, or clay. It was kind of embarrassing to have overlooked something so basic as dirt for a building material, but I wasn’t the only one, as Luo-Luo and my Imperial interns also failed to pick up on it, but that’s hardly reassuring. I’ve been afflicted with a mild form of affluenza as it were, unable to see past my own wealthy perspective and realize how the other ninety-nine percent live.

Lang Yi was right about a lot of things. I didn’t need to give away clothes, tools, or even possibly cattle like I was considering, because most farmers could make do on their own. If they didn’t own or couldn’t fashion tools on their own, then they could trade labour for tools from other families who could, or even promise a share of their harvest in exchange for goods and services. As for giving away cattle, I only ever considered it because Mila pointed out I have hundreds of moo-moos I’d never met taking up space on my ranch, but now I don’t have to give them up and can feel free to meet and name them.

Which is good, because Luo-Luo almost threw a hissy fit when I first brought the matter up. Poor girl loves those cattle, but I need to do something about them, because they’re multiplying like bunnies and I’m running out of room to keep them. I admit I have an animal hoarding problem, and it’s probably for the best only one person gifted me a pet at my wedding, but so long as all my floofs and honorary floofs are happy and well cared for, I don’t see a need to change.

Also, baby cattle are so adorable... I can’t help it.

For fifteen days, I worked day and night to ensure every last detail was accounted for, aside from taking a few nights off to indulge with my beautiful blushing Mila after she rigged up some new restraints, and one frantic, passionate night with Yan before she set off for the front lines with Huu. I also hosted my War Bond Bearer Banquet, which the Legate attended, and rewarded my supporters by giving face at public events and favouring them for contracts, but all in all, most of my time was devoted to making sure everything was in place for the first group of settlers, twenty-thousand families delivered by Marshal Yo to the outskirts of the Central Citadel two weeks after my wedding.

And I, in a misguided sense of guilt and concern, decided I should be there to greet at least one group of them, and introduce them to all the new hardships they were about to face.

