For the next few days, I impose upon Marshal Yo’s hospitality and check in on the various districts during my free time, and I marvel at the ingenuity and hardiness of the common people. When I heard ‘sod house’, I pictured a dirt hovel you could barely even stand in, but after plowing their fields (mostly by hand) and sowing their crops, the families finally start putting together their homes, and it is a sight to behold. They’re called sod houses because it’s not just dirt, but actually sheets of grass which have been pulled up in whole strips like carpet. Although the grass itself has already been harvested, the sheets of dirt are held together by the grass roots, and with careful preparation and a generous application of silt, mud, and clay, form surprisingly stable ‘bricks’ with which they use to build their homes. Most sod houses are built low to the ground, but they go deep underground which provides plenty of cooling in the summer and insulation in the winter. To figuratively and literally top it all off, the farmers cover their sod houses in a layer of dirt and grass which blends the architecture into the surroundings so well it’s possible to walk past the house without ever seeing it.

It’s possible that while travelling through Central, I passed by entire villages without seeing them, because they were so well hidden in the vast tracts of flat land. Some of these families could probably hide in their homes in the event of a Defiled attack, and would stand a decent chance of being overlooked.

After a handful of days, the transformation is startling to behold. Rope fences and stone markers shoot up all across the Central plains, stretching from one end of the horizon out to the other while I stand atop the Eastern gates. Furrows in the grass have been worn away by foot traffic, and the bustling blocks and districts are filled with hope and optimism as these brave people embark on their new lives. What’s more, twenty-thousand down payments have been made and the Legate collected his coin, no doubt off to pay his bribes to whoever he promised them to, though he didn’t say and I didn’t ask. As such, I grow wealthier with each passing day, but the coin is also spent as my people in the Spring and Autumn Consortium buy up the rights to future harvests and lock in a price with these newly settled farmers. A bit of coin today for the right to buy their crops six weeks from now is a pretty good deal in their eyes, and that coin goes right back into my pocket as they buy cloth, tools, livestock, materials, medicines and more from Consortium merchants peddling my wares. In a few days, we’ll start the cycle all over again with forty thousand more Central families, and a week from now, Yuzhen and Marshal Quyen will have delivered their first thirty-thousand settlers, and I will be down in the South welcoming them.

Then, a few days after that, it’ll be my wedding with Yan, which will be awesome. Harem for reals, instead of what feels uncomfortably a lot like cheating on Mila...

No, that’s silly. Mila knows and approves. Stop guilting yourself and focus on your job. Maybe I should hire some locals to teach the foreigners how to build sod houses. Maybe I should even have one built for Taduk, because he loves his underground homes, though I have no idea why. It might have something to do with being half-Cloud Chaser Hare, though I’ll be honest, I have no idea why a sky-jumping hare would live underground.

Giving up on staying focused for the next little bit, I stand upon the Citadel gates and stare out at my work, filled with a strange sense of belonging, one I’ve never experienced since coming to this world. The village accepted me, but not for me, because if it wasn’t for my amber eyes, Baatar probably would have sent me back to the mines. I don’t blame him, because why should he stick his neck out and risk his life for an unaffiliated slave? But this? Out there, on the Central Plains, sits a community I helped plan and put together, filled with people I brought here and helped. They’re here because of me, have land and a livelihood to depend on because of me, and I gotta say, it’s a pretty great feeling.

I, Falling Rain, am finally making a difference in this world, and it feels great.

...Of course, now that I’ve affirmed this, the universe must destroy me. That’s the pattern so far, but maybe this time, things’ll be different.

Well, probably not, but a man can hope...

Chapter Meme
