My whole body was dragged back, feet scrambling to keep myself standing. I found my balance again, shocked, seeing the Gold-Rot equally confused, blinking in front of me. A fiery bolt took her straight in the solar plexus, and she grimaced in pain.

I looked down and blinked. A huge, brown and red fist that looked like it was made out of clay and hatred had its fingers tightly clutching my entire midsection.

“Okay. We’ve got this!” Nix’s happy voice shouted out, sounding only mildly panicked.

I centred myself, keeping my attention on my survival and trying to ignore the goddamn giant fist holding me like a toddler with a sharpie. Shield up, I readied myself for the next attack.

The Gold-Rot didn’t let me down. She kept up with her methodical, controlled onslaught.

Only, now, I had a helper. And that helping hand didn’t just nudge. It controlled, aimed and flung me and my shield around, so my shield would always be in the way of her otherwise controlled attacks.

It wasn’t perfect. The fist wasn’t powerful enough to take my entire weight. But it did manage to ruin her control of the battle. And every time I managed to get my shield in place and fire off a Wave of Reflection, it tore into her, worsening the damage.

She tried climbing up again, once. This time, my Wheel of Magic pummelled her from behind as she climbed, but she ignored me entirely. Once she reached the spikes on the walls, she grasped onto two of them, ignoring the blood pouring from her hands, and flung herself into the open air. She was clearly planning to activate that movement talent of hers when she was high enough up.

Haddock beat her to it. A large, wide plank shimmered into existence, reaching from one side of the pit to the other, right above the trajectory of her vault. She slammed into it, shoulder-first, hard, momentum stopping to nothing. One flailing arm caught, and for a split-second she hung there, disoriented.

Steve’s spear carved deep into the shoulder that held her up.

She cried out and let go. The weapon stuck in the arm and fell along with her.

She hit the floor of the pit hard, rolled to the side and stopped as the spear halted her momentum, widening the wound even further. Even then, she didn’t stop. Didn’t give in. She merely gritted her teeth and flung herself back up.

The Delayed Firebomb hit first.

This one got me bad. With my entire focus on the Gold-Rot trying to escape the pit, I’d missed the moment where the fist faded away and was replaced by Nix deciding once again to blow me up. I barely managed to fling an arm in front of my face to save my eyes.

But when the explosion settled and the flames faded, the notifications told me that we had won. The Gold-Rot was dead.
