I leaned forward, "How would I make it?"

"It's a fusion of all three advanced mana types, supposedly. I have no idea what kind of mindstate would help summon the energy, though. It's...It's a relatively untrodden path."

The older alien gazed at me like a stern teacher, "Absurd speculation aside, you're not as intimidating as you first seemed, my friend. I thought you'd know most of this already."

I shrugged, "Eh, I haven't had much of an opportunity to sit down and learn about this kind of thing. I've been in permanent battlezones since the system started, and my quests have always dragged me into quagmires that never seem to end."

The other rulers honed in, each leaning towards me or turning my way. One of them said aloud, "That's similar to the situation with the eldritch. It's a fight that never ends."

I pointed at them, "Exactly."

The fluffy alien tilted her head at me, "So you're much more oriented toward battle than, say, general knowledge, for instance?"

I nodded, "That's very true. I was born and raised in a pre-system world, yet I've been in situations like this several times. My first large-scale quest was a quarantine zone, and battling Elysium was the next. Both involved sieging cities or holding them while facing massive armies."

One ruler, an avian creature with several wings, spoke with a large, colorful beak, "That's what modern warfare has become since Schema centralized governance based on eldritch clearing. Once a city is held, the advantages mount, and cities become an overwhelming advantage."

It was good that I asked Schema to recognize my own cities then.

The older alien leaned one hand against his knee, "If I'm hearing right, you never received a Schema based education?"

I raised my brow, "Not even slightly. I learned all this independently outside a few mentors along the way."

The gruff alien pushed himself up, grunting from the effort. He reached out a hand, his nails thick as tiles, "My name's Targask Holoh. I'm an archmage who's worked across several empires for my species' freedom. Right now, I'm working for the Entil Empire, and my work usually revolves around whipping spoiled brats into shape."

I grabbed his hand, the rugged surface feeling soft as butter to my metal hands, "My name's Daniel Hillside. I'm trying to get out of Schema's rat race."

The rulers nodded with understanding before the archmage turned a hand to the furry alien, "She's shy, so she won't even introduce herself. She's Cheruhka Miya. She's a scribe I've come to have a healthy disdain for."

Unperturbed, she raised a hand, "Hi."

After a few more introductions, the older alien walked over to an open space. He waved me over, and I figured I might as well see what he wanted. While we faced each other, Targask interlocked his arms behind himself, "If you wouldn't mind, I'd like to see what you can do. Magically, that is."

A slight smile grew on my lips, "Do all mages lock their arms behind themselves like that?"

Targask waved his hand, "No, certainly not. I simply find the position comfortable."

"Ah. Well, what do you want to see, exactly?"

He peered off, "Hm, an overall assessment of your abilities. You mentioned never receiving a Schema-based education, so I was going to see if you had any gaps in your magic that I could offer insight into. Think of it as my way of paying you back for all you've done for us."

For a moment, I considered the situation. Exposing my magic could backfire if Elysium got its hands on the full extent of my abilities, and these rulers would inevitably report it, willingly or not. However, having them informed about me also acted as free advertising. After all, life would continue after this lottery, and I could have these guys bidding for my time.

Siding with the bolder approach, I shrugged, "Eh, alright. Anything I should start with?"

He turned a hand to me, "Whatever you wish. I'm experienced enough to know what I'm looking at."

I raised a hand, generating water over my palm, "If you say so. This is so you can see it."

I pulled the orb using gravity wells, flowing it between us in a crisscrossing, diagonal current. While waving my finger, I made the fresh orb spiral into a ring before creating many dollops of water around it. Stretching each droplet, I created a series of interlocking circles before spinning them around like a liquid gyroscope.

The archmage gave me a nod of approval, "Is that gravitation you're using instead of telekinesis?"

"Of course. This isn't possible with telekinesis."

"Hm...Fair enough."

I let out a plume of heat, and the series of circles ushered into steam. I coalesced it back into ice, then steam once more. I pulled electricity through it, and the water hummed with energy, rippling in waves. Reaching out a hand, I flicked two fingers, condensing the rings into ice balls.

They orbited a gravity well at the center of the display, forming a miniature solar system. I threw my hand sideways, tossing the water out of the city. The moment it passed the barrier, the water popped from ice into vapor like tiny detonations.

Reaching up a different hand, I heated it until it glowed red, yellow, white, then blue, and I spread that over my body, containing the heat with a panel of invisible cold around me. I placed my palm over the ground, the rock melting to magma I etched runes into. I flash-froze it and myself, a wave of cold washing over me.

Standing upright, I opened my pocket dimension, pulling the liquid bone out and back in. I closed it before heating one of my arms into a liquid. I molded it into a spine before making it into several other rudimentary weapons. Sending waves through my body, I let myself ripple before my body collapsed. I regenerated above the corpse, dimensional fabric rushing out of the ether.

Rulers around watched the demonstration, their silence telling. The grizzled archmage widened his eye at my respawn trick, but he kept his reactions measured outside of that. Forgetting to demonstrate it earlier, I turned one of my arms into water, and it flooded out. I pulled that water out of the city before raising a hand and spawning soil.

In the rich ground, I crafted plants and random animals. The archmage gawked at that display before I shuttled it out. The moment it passed the barrier, even the dirt ignited. Reaching up a hand, I spawned a singularity outside the city's border. The dark blot feasted on light, and in turn, force and destruction erupted.

The shockwave trembled the barrier before I let my hands down,

"That's about all I got."

That wasn't true, but I figured that was enough to turn some heads. The older mage walked up to me, "A lot of that was impressive, while some of it was rudimentary. It's such a strange kind of casting you're using as well. Where is your grimoire? Are you hiding it?"

"I don't use it for combat."

He blinked, "Hm, that could certainly explain some of the less technical displays then. Where did you get the materials from for your water and whatnot?"

I raised a hand and turned a fingertip into ice. Flicking it, the ice burst into a plume of sheening powder before my hand regenerated. I pulled the ice out of the city, watching the snowflakes explode outside the city's barrier like tiny firecrackers.

I shrugged, "It's my body. I turn my flesh and blood into materials."

The mage shook his head, "Blood magic. Interesting. And you're mana channeling as well...It's all so strange."

I raised a brow, "How so?"

"You don't construct mental apparatuses to create efficient mana conversions. You pull from an absurdly enormous well of mana, like using a flood to water a houseplant. In fact, your mana usage is in excess to such a degree that you use it like you've never dealt with limits to how much you can use."

He was right. I hadn't.

The archmage raised his hands, "Most mages end up focusing on efficiency and tightly wound casting to make the most of what they have. You're trying to wield more of your reserve and use it as quickly as it returns, yet you're struggling despite wielding enormous amounts of mana."

I furrowed my brow, "I have always had very high mana regeneration, so my limits are different than other people's. That's why I cast differently."

The archmage scoffed, "And it's resulted in a very inefficient casting style."

I struggled not to roll my eyes at that. He noticed, so he raised a finger, "Not to say the sheer volume of magic is unimpressive. I don't know if I've ever seen anyone pull that much mana repeatedly without being driven mad or exploding. Doubly so for a blood mage, as they tend to be physically aimed fighters, not sorcerers."

I cracked my knuckles, each pop sounding like a snapping cable submerged in mercury, "Do I look like I'm only a sorcerer?"

The archmage rattled, "Of course not, but that's beside the point. Your large mana pool must be why you use such simple mana pathways during your casting."

Cheruhka chimed, "That simplicity allows him to channel that much mana. More complex pathways would collapse."

Targask narrowed his eyes at her, "But is it really necessary to channel mana through his body? That's a recipe for internal destruction, though he's somehow survived it."

I raised my brow, "I'm made of a very conductive material, so there's very little friction involved when channeling energy."

Targask narrowed his eyes, "Then how are you controlling it?"

I raised a glowing hand, "I can feel it coursing through me, and using those sensations, I measure where, when, and how to use the magic. That's why I can construct something like that spinning orb or miniature solar system without using a grimoire."

I shrugged, "It's also why my mentor has struggled to teach me specific spells. Instead, he handed me resources so I could learn on my own."

The archmage winced, "I could imagine doing the same. Regardless, that methodology led to a lot of discrepancies."

I pushed through the urge to casually dismiss the guy, "Name them."

He raised a hand, "Easily done. I'd be willing to bet your magic is almost entirely used on yourself and not other people. You probably can't stabilize your mana enough to use on others without driving them insane."

Ooh, he got me there. I peered up, "Hm, yeah. For sure."

He rolled his hands, the older alien appearing excited, "I'd also be willing to bet that certain styles of magic are highly limited for that same reason. Any kind of bolstering styles, healing, even telepathy could be strained with certain people who aren't highly leveled."

I tapped my side, thinking that over for a moment. I never even considered telepathy with an average person, but it could backfire. With that worry burning, I raised a hand, "You have my attention."

Targask turned a palm to the monolith, "How about I show you a thing or two about constructing spells using a grimoire. You could learn a bit before going off and handling the rest yourself."

I put my hands on my hips, "Let's do it-"

My director golem telepathically synced up with me, "Creator, may I have a moment?"

Raising a hand to the archmage, I glanced up, "What's up?"

The lead golem sighed, "It's rather unfortunate, but there appears to be an emissary from Valgus's faction that would simply adore a meeting."

Disgust spread over my face as I simmered, "If I have to go through one more damn meeting, I'm going to kill someone."

Putting myself back in the moment, I raised a hand to Targask, "You can show me the ropes after I handle Valgus's 'emissary.' It won't take long."

Targask frowned, "They're already here to kill us? That's a damn shame. I'll see if I can't organize that lesson before they get through."

I gave him an acknowledging nod before dashing forward. I jumped up while pulling with gravity wells, launching myself across my city. Landing near my director golem, he waited outside with his arms crossed behind himself. The director gestured to a large, powerful warrior waiting outside.

It reminded me of a bipedal beetle with its massive upper body hunched over. Its gaze carried an eerie air about it because its eyes never blinked or moved, and keratinous layers interlocked over its skin like plates of glossy armor. It even wore its old, molted shells, one arm holding a scarred head plate and the other a sharpened horn.

Flying at the midpoint of the city's barrier, it raised the horn sword while bending its head down. I mirrored the gesture before waving it in. The insect landed below, its heft causing a quake throughout the city. As construction golems raced to fix the damage, I gave it a wave,

"Yo. What do you want?"

The beetle spoke in a series of clicks, but the translation system in my city let me understand it,

"We want the rulers."
