There was another solution to this problem. With a quick look, he scanned every person there on that outdoor platform, again. He found three people with bombs in their necks. Three Ophiels lightstepped into position, and each spent 15,000 mana on a [Dispel]. Two were guards, in the back of the platform, behind Poriti. One was an invisible guard behind Erick’s fake-lightform. All three of them gasped. That action took a single second.

Poriti yelled out, “Aggressive actions are—

The invisible guard, a male harpy, squawked, as he paused, unsure what had just happened. The visible guards both shot hands to their own necks. Poriti turned. All three of the people Erick had freed, stepped away in flashes of shadow. Two vanished; haunting looks of relief on their faces. One remained.

The harpy stepped into the sky, next to the largest Ophiel, putting distance between him and Poriti, rapidly saying, “Hello, yes, thank you, if you kill him those bombs activate. He was driving force behind da plot against you. His Charisma is too strong. I want position when you kill him. I ensure Big Boss does right by you, sir Erick, sir. Big Boss good woman. This guy trash guy.”

Poriti stared up at the harpy, then turned his attention back to Erick. He said, “I will have you know that—”

Poriti briefly turned to shadows, attempting to step away. All he managed to do was crash against a solid wall of glowing light, sending a wave of green light across his body; the glow of a [Personal Ward] taking damage.

Erick said, “Cancel all your spells and I will let you go.”

Poriti stood tall, ran a hand through his hair, then looked to Erick. He pointed past Erick’s false-lightform, past Ophiel, to the mountain on the other side of the valley. “Please direct your attention to the schoolyards over there. I have just now killed one child because of your actions right now.”

Back in the [Privacy Ward], atop the dark tiles of the Dark Temple, Erick stood, transfixed. He moved an Ophiel closer to where Poriti indicated, of course. There was a schoolyard, with a playground out front. There was a young body, missing a head. Kids screamed. Teachers stood, wide-eyed, then calmed, and began talking about how an ignorant fool must have angered Poriti.

Erick viewed the carnage and felt his stomach drop while his mind went in ten directions at once. One of those directions went to Poriti, while the man spoke, and while Erick heard him, nothing he said was too important. He was just monologuing.

There were at least ten ways to go about solving this problem. Erick picked the fastest one, and wondered if it would work, as he glanced at a spell he had made once upon a time with the help of another archmage.

Spell Breaker, instant, long range, 301 MP

Trick a normal spell into canceling. Excess Spell Breaker might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted. Has no effect on ongoing spells larger than 1,500 mana.

He recalled lessons on ‘pillars holding up spells’ and ‘tricking magic into canceling itself’, and then he warped all of that into a 500 Mana Shaping for something more. Something deeper, and targeted on the man in front of him. He, himself, cast a grand [Dispel] upon Poriti, spending 17,000 mana to do so.

It was only after he had made and cast the spell, that he had realized his mistake. He hadn’t made the spell wrong; he was going for a generic [Dispel] that could target the unknown [Neck Bombs] spell. When the blue box appeared, he knew he had made the spell right. That wasn’t the problem. The outcome was the problem. He tried to reason with himself that most people would make the same mistake, but that didn’t help. It was a stupid mistake, like accidentally putting a shirt on backwards; you didn’t realize what had happened until it was pointed out after the fact.

Grand Dispel, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable

Trick the spells a target has cast into canceling, regardless of distance, by paying the Dispel cost. If you generally know the spells you are targeting, Grand Dispel first works on all instances of that spell. If excess power remains, Grand Dispel carries over into other magics cast by the target, starting with higher-cost magics first.

Alternatively, trick a spell into canceling by paying half of the Dispel cost. Excess Grand Dispel might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted.

None of the kids at the schoolyard lost their [Neck Bombs]. One person inside the house, did.

The mistake was thus: Clarity, Favored Spell, All Spell Cost Reductions, and even Intelligence, did not come into effect until after the initial spell creation. Spells cost their full costs in their initial casts. Tangentially, Erick realized this was likely to prevent people from casting spells well above their capabilities; or, less cynically, maybe the Script literally couldn’t reduce mana costs until after the magic had been made.

Erick had fucked up. And now he had no mana. It would take him 13-point-5 minutes to recoup the 17,000 he had just spent. His false-lightform flinched. His real body almost fell to the floor, partially because that was nearly all of his mana and that always winded him, but also because the enormity of his fuck-up was like a kick in the nuts.

Poriti had stopped talking when Erick flung a mass of darkness at him.

But now, the man smiled. Wide and bright, and mean. He asked, “Was that your best shot?”

Erick instantly moved all his Ophiel back. He removed his lightcage around the man—

Poriti called out, “Don’t you fucking run away from me!” Ophiel paused. Poriti laughed, then yelled, “Get your feathered ass back here, Erick!” He laughed again. “No! You know what? I want your actual ass here. Now. Or I kill another kid. You got five seconds. One! Two! Whoops!”

Erick watched, horrified, as a pop occurred on the playground, and renewed screams filled the air.

With a flex of his own sunform and a flashing step, Erick stood on the cliff sticking out of the Rollini mansion. The sky was bright as daytime, though it wasn’t, and a peaceful breeze blew through the space, though it was anything but. A small part of Erick thought it was a nice day. A small part thought of Poriti as a very handsome man.

The larger part of him thought it would be nice to rip Poriti to pieces, one bone pried off at a time.

Poriti smiled. Erick remained in his sunform, his mana slowly coming back to him. It wouldn’t be fast enough. He needed a plan. He needed something unexpected.

He sent an Ophiel back to Violet and asked a question. She flummoxed a small answer, but she would need to speak to someone else to find out anything more. That was fine. Her small answer had been fine enough. Erick had her stand by, while he continued to deal with Poriti, standing before him.

Poriti laughed. “Dark Gods, you’re standing right in front of me, and I’m not having any effect on you, am I?” He pulled the collar of his black robes loose. “Still nothing? Oh well. Guess you have to die.” Poriti demanded. “Your rings. Your belt. Now. Right now. I’ll kill another kid if you don’t move fast.”

Erick moved in tune to Poriti’s demands, saying, “I’m doing it! I’m doing it!” Erick pulled at his belt, slipping a few times with the clasp, trying to give himself enough time to finish talking to Violet, dozens of kilometers away. When he finished with her, he popped off the belt, letting it clatter to the ground. It was pretty hard to pretend to be this clumsy with his Dexterity, but he managed. Maybe.

Oh. Fuck. Poriti was the best person in the world. Why would Erick ever want to harm—

“Rings, too, weakling.” Poriti sneered. “Kick the belt over here.”

Erick yanked his mind into a direction it didn’t really want to go. And then he didn’t bother with the rings. With a quick shift of tendrils of light, that definitely endangered some kids somewhere, he lifted the belt and wrapped it around Poriti’s waist.

He stared at the man; hoping.

Poriti’s eyes went wide and hopeful as he put his hands on his new belt. “And my Charisma rings are fine?! HA!” He smiled, radiant and wonderful. “I want your rings too, arsehol—“

His eyes rolled up into his head and he collapsed into a heap.

At least five of the guards yelled, asking for help to save Poriti, or to kill Erick, or any number of things. Some rushed forward. Ophiels moved to intercept the rushing people, but they all stopped coming, once the feathered [Familiar]s fluffed up large, and blocked the way.

For a moment, Erick almost went and got his rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] to help the downed man, but he snapped himself out of that thought. And then he moved fast. First, he put his belt back on his own waist; it hadn’t been damaged by interacting with Poriti, and that was good. Then he stripped Poriti of all his jewelry, of any drop of metal or green gem on his body; all of it went in a pile to the side. Erick even had to do some minor surgery to remove one particular piece.

Instantly, Erick felt better. He shook his head. He glared at nothing. Then he glared at Poriti.

His rage returned.

The guards around the area also lost their Charisma-afflictions. One man violently hurled into a potted plant. One woman collapsed to the ground, the sorrow in her eyes turning to the deepest hate Erick had ever seen.

Erick regarded the man in black, laid out on the ground. And then Erick just stood there. For a long moment, he watched Poriti’s sleeping form; he watched the man’s soul toss and turn, flex and shiver. He watched for signs that Violet had mentioned. He watched, as Poritis soul began to twist, and left hand crunched in on itself, the muscles of his forearm and upper arm curling in, without biological limiters.

The twisting continued.

Erick breathed. He had time to think about everything that had happened, now. Time to reflect on what he had done wrong.

The harpy stepped down onto the ground near to Poriti, but not too close. He stared at Poriti’s broken hand.

Erick said to the harpy, “That’s… Probably that.”

The harpy blanked. “Sir?”

“What Stats did Poriti have? That you know of?” Erick said, “I’m guessing Charisma and Intelligence.”

“Yeah. He had dose.” He asked, “Is… Is Poriti… What’s happening to him? What did you do?”

“They remade the Charisma Fruit into a Perception Fruit, you know?”

“Uh…” He shook his head. “I don’t know bout dat, sir. Is he going ta be out for long? Can we kill him now?” The harpy pleaded with his eyes, but kept his desire mostly out of his voice, “Please, sir. We must end him, fore he wakes.”

“That’ll activate the bombs.” Erick pointed to the pile of green jewelry. “I took that off of him. He’s clean.”

“He’s NOT.” The harpy calmed. “He has gems inside. I know! I tried ta do dis once. I failed. Your mind, it be clouded. Please, sir. We have to kill him. Now.”

Erick touched a light tendril to the pile of jewelry, overturning a bloody, silver-clad emerald. “It was inside his chest. Already removed.” He said, “We have long enough to rescue those kids.”

“… If you say so, sir.”

With a thought, Erick sent an Ophiel back to the Dark Temple. Once there, he asked Violet for a mana potion. She nodded, then stepped away. In moments, she was back, holding a blue vial. In a few more moments, that vial was in Erick’s hand. He cast a [Cleanse] on it, then when nothing happened, he downed the drink. His body relaxed. His soul seemed revived. Mana poured in, like the opening of a dam.

The harpy kept his attentions to Poriti, lying on the ground.

Erick also watched the man for signs of movement, planning to bring this tragedy to an abrupt end if needed.

He also thought of his own needs for future situations like this one. He could use [Sleep], or something similar. Something stronger, for sure. That was Mind Magic, though, so maybe that was a non-starter. He might be able to find some other nonviolent means to take out a target, but he would ask around for [Sleep], first. Poi would have an answer for him, right away.

He glanced through Ophiel, back to the bloody playground, and wondered what it would take to get [Resurrection]. Probably a lot.

A minute passed in relative silence; Erick’s mana was almost back to full. Poriti showed no signs of waking, at all. Something was definitely buggy with the Charisma/Perception interaction, for sure.

A few guards on the cliff platform made themselves scarce. Erick recognized when they left, but he gave no pursuit. A few stuck around; those ones watched Poriti with obvious hatred in their eyes.

Erick was back up to full mana.

He fired off another [Grand Dispel], with all of his bonuses. This time, 17,000 mana transferred into roughly 425,000 points of dispelling power, if Erick’s 4% Spell Costs estimate from earlier remained true. He had no real way of knowing that particular number, for now.

Looking through an Ophiel on the other side of the valley, Erick saw that the kids in the schoolyard had run away from the space where two bodies lay, and were now hiding wherever they could. Erick managed to catch sight of several of them. He began to check them, one by one.

Missing bomb. Missing bomb. All clea—

Nope. There was one bomb— Two bombs. A few more bombs.

Erick asked the harpy, asking, “Was Poriti’s 150-kid number accurate?”

The harpy said, “Probably. Maybe higher. He spends an hour a day, five days week, each day at a different school.” He scowled at the sleeping man, adding, “He casts same spell at us when we break rules, and then he leaves it on us forever.”

“What rule did you break?”

“… I tried to kill him when he started using all that Charisma.”

Erick nodded.

