The woman whispered, “Yes sir, sorry sir, yes sir.”

Erick didn’t like being dismissed like that, but he understood the need to establish power.

Had this had all happened because Erick hadn’t yet established power? Eh. Erick had thought he was rather useful for hunting down all those Hunters that tried to attack him back when Carodogh was around. And killing literally millions of Ballooning Spiders and Crystal Mimics and such.

But people were people, and someone always had more stupidity, insanity, and power, than was good for them.

Erick rejoined Lerreg, while also setting down for a remote talk with Professor Grouser.

- - - -

While all that was happening, Ophiel plundered some academic records while others looked on, and then took a trip to some dorm rooms. Erick had found Toff and Hutt.

Or, at least, their final resting space. [Cascade Imaging] had led Erick to an area a dozen meters across, on the side of a grassy mountain, chock full of scattered bits of DNA. A check through the past didn’t reveal their final fate, for someone had used a great deal of magic in the area, erasing most of the recent past.

But Erick could still make out the exploding skulls and guts, cast through the air, all falling to a flaming end. It had to be a [Cleansing Flame], too, for Erick only found some dried blood, far from the scene, and a single, clean toenail, in the middle of it all.

- - - -

Erick watched as Ophiel played around in the black ink and Illipine Grouser wrote on a small, nearby table, outside of the splash zone. With a bit of control, Ophiel hovered into the air, and Erick saw what the man was working on. It was a will, or as they called them on Veird: Final Affairs. The man stopped writing his will when he recognized that Ophiel’s behavior had changed.

Erick opened with, “I would have figured a man who does what you did would have already sorted his Final Affairs.”

With calm ease, the man said, “My current Final Affairs is two years old. This one might not be admissible in court, but it will at least let others know how a few new things are to be distributed.” He asked, “Will you allow me the option of taking my own life, after I have finished this paperwork, sir?”

“If you give me a full and complete accounting of what happened, your involvement, and whoever else was involved, then I won’t touch you.”

Grouser paused. He breathed in. He said, “It was my plan to extort you for your new rings. News of these true All-Stat rings has gotten around rather quickly, and I knew I needed them, so I scrounged up the necessary resources as fast as I could, and attempted to go about my day as normal to throw off any suspicion. It seems I was exceedingly mistaken about your tracking and sleuthing capabilities, and for that, I will pay the price of my failure with my death.”

Erick watched the man lie to Ophiel’s face, then said, “200-plus Perception along with mana sense and all this new Intelligence says you’re lying.” He hadn’t just been eyeing Grouser, though. “I can also see into the various hidden compartments in the walls around here, as well as the magics you have that are attempting to conceal all those places, but I have no doubt that the more important items are somewhere else entirely. But there is one thing here, of note: You got a little painting of a son and a wife that you keep in your desk drawer, which I can see even through the enchantments guarding your desk. That new paperwork that you were working on tells me their names: Illipine, which comes from you, I assume, and Margareete. I am guessing that by lying to me, you’re trying to protect them. Do they need rescuing before you’re willing to talk?”

Erick didn’t mention that all of that was rather transparent. This guy knew what he was doing. By writing a Final Affairs in front of Ophiel, Grouser clued Erick into his family, and his concerns, and what was most likely being threatened to force Grouser’s compliance.

Grouser calmly said, “My life is forfeit, sir.”

“Are you choosing to ignore my offer of assistance with whatever problems forced this foolishness upon you?”

“My life is forfeit.”

“… I repeat: are you forgoing my assistance with this problem? I found you rather fast. I can find the others just as fast. In fact, I have just now found your own son and wife.”

Grouser’s whole body flinched.

Erick continued, “And I have found the four people watching them. I am now fully investigating the threat.”

In a mountainside city, three kilometers away from their little meeting, in a little playground outside of a house, in a row of houses beside a lake, a woman pushed a boy on a swing set. The boy was somewhere around eight years old; he giggled as the woman pushed him higher. The woman had to be in her forties. She played at being happy, but she knew something was wrong. She eyed the lake, and a small rowboat upon those waters.

A man and another man sat on that rowboat, over a hundred meters away. One of them watched the woman. The other watched the waters around them, where other couples rowed out on the waters and at least appeared to be lovey-dovey with each other; these two men played at no such cover.

They also had some of Toff and Hutt’s DNA on them. [Cleanse] worked well, but it did not clean as well as people thought it cleaned.

Another pair of men were stationed on the road in front of the house, out of sight of the mother and son. If Erick didn’t have his new Stats and his new senses, he would have missed them entirely. One was surrounded by invisibility magics that were deeper than [Invisibility]. The other was sitting on a porch across the street, drinking tea and reading a book, looking for all the world, except to Erick, that he was just a normal guy, doing normal guy things.

If he didn’t have his new Stats, and his new mana sense, he also would have missed the bomb-like packets of mana in the necks of both the mother and son. They were much smaller than the spell Grouser had put on Lerreg, but the structure was certainly similar. Was the caster a student of Grouser’s?

Back in Grouser’s office, the man shot to his feet, scattering papers, yelling, “No! They have—”

“How much mana should I spend on a [Dispel] on those bombs in their necks?” Erick interrupted. He added, “No bonuses, now. Just straight-up costs, since I have a global cooldown on my own, personal [Dispel], and 20 seconds is more than enough time for the second one to trigger. Or. You could choose which one you want to live?”

Grouser’s face did a weird, jumble of things, where he was obviously thinking some deep, horrible thoughts. After a half a second of that, he practically shouted, “15,000 mana for each!”

Erick wrapped Grouser’s wife and son in Ophiel’s sunform, rapidly trapping them behind pretty lights. A second Ophiel joined the first. Two 15,000 mana [Dispel]s ripped from those two Ophiel, targeting the glowing packet of bomb-like mana at the base of the mother’s and son’s skulls. The spells broke apart.

Several things happened all at once, and Erick dealt with each in their own way.

Back in the office, Erick had Ophiel hold up a lightform image of the event. Grouser looked down upon his family as the kid looked to the sky, his giggles of laughter turning to wonder at the sparking air all around. The wife quickly stopped the swingset, her face suddenly switching from instant fear, to a calm mask. She took the kid into her arms, speaking happy words that failed to translate over the lightform image, but the kid was certainly giggling.

The invisible person in front of the house moved to cast a spell at the mother and son. A bolt of invisible light rocketed from the hidden space, right as an Ophiel descended on the hidden person, and engulfed them in a vise of forceful light. Whatever spell they cast didn’t matter, for Ophiel grabbed the mother and son and took them into the sky, leaving the Bolt behind.

The man across the street tried something, too, casting a larger spell at the rapidly escaping mother and son, but an Ophiel got him, trapping him much in the same way as Ophiel trapped the invisible person.

The men on the lake were already trapped, and out of range of the ability to do much. Erick told them to sit tight and they wouldn’t die today. They complied. Erick repeated this warning to all of the trapped people, and the only one who tried anything was the invisible guy, who Erick now saw was a woman. She splashed bright light into her cage, not managing to do much except catch herself in the corrosive fallout. Erick flexed the cage and saved the woman from most of her own stupidity, but not all.

Back in the office, a few spells triggered below Grouser’s office, doing massive damage to the stone all around the man, utterly demolishing the office and a good portion of the floor above and below. But Grouser was fine. Erick had already wrapped him in hard light the second his rescue began.

The mother and son were currently tearing across the sky, and while the kid screamed a little, it was nothing a [Stillness] couldn’t fix. The mother attempted to fix the rest, with calm words, though the kid just screamed louder, causing bright pops of white light to surround his head with every breath. It didn’t take long before the kid caught on to his screams causing the light. Then he started laughing again. The mother smiled.

And the wind whistled through the new hole in the tower, where Grouser’s office had been. It did not collapse. Erick held up the structure with bars of solid light so that it wouldn’t budge, and said, “I have successfully saved your family and you. I demand compliance to remove the threats made to my own people.”

Grouser said, “I need my family with me.”

“They are flying this way, right now. Your son has been very brave.”

“Don’t lie to me. He’s a coward,” Grouser said, without venom in his voice.

“Be that as it may—” Erick had Ophiel release a [Mending Aura], repairing the office back to whole while he spoke, “They are safe, and on their way. They should be here in a minute. If you wish to tell me something, now would be a good time, before they arrive and things get more complicated. You should know I already spoke to Farix. He has told me your career is over.”

The room came back together as flowing stone remade itself into walls, and growing desks, shelves, and books retook some of their former positions. A lot of books ended up on the ground, and a good portion of all of the stuff that had been in the room seemed missing. The lived-in tower space was more like a neglected storage room, now. It was a good thing Grouser was the only one in the tower, so aside from Ophiel and the ex-professor, no one had been in danger.

Erick asked about that, “Offices above and below, yet you were the only one in your office today?”

Grouser’s chair was missing from the repaired room, so he just stood there. “I told them to be elsewhere today. They smartly accepted. This sort of thing happens every so often. Caught between massive powers, that is.”

“Don’t sell yourself short. You’re a pretty massive power, too.” Erick asked, “How often do you do that full-bone explosion trap?”

“I am not a higher power.” Grouser seemed to hold back a tide of resentment, as he said, “I have been forced to do that several times by those who are truly powerful, including the one who I suspect wronged you.” He breathed in. He prepared himself.

And then he spoke of the White Market.

Three minutes later, for Erick had slowed down the mother and son’s flight as Grouser expounded on organized crime, Erick reunited the man with his family. After a short series of hugs between Grouser, his wife, and his son, Erick asked Margareete, the mother, about the White Market. She immediately began a tirade over the dealings their family has had to suffer from the White Market, and pointed Erick in several possible directions, and one really good one. Grouser agreed with Margareete’s thoughts.

Erick confirmed her words by visiting those places, and by asking the people he had trapped the same questions.

Those assassins weren’t going anywhere except where Erick put them. [Lodestar] was a Domain, after all, and Erick shut down every single spell they tried to do. The Librarian’s little white book was very helpful in this regard.

When Margareete was finished, and a few more concerns were answered, Erick asked the three of them, “Where will you go, now?”

Grouser hugged his wife and his son, saying, “Away from Kendrithyst as soon as the Feast barrier is down.”

Margareete spoke to Erick, “If you murder every high ranking member of the White Market then we might not have to leave Truedark Arcanaeum. Otherwise, we must go, and we must go now. We can survive in the Pillars of the Spire until the Feast is over, so that is a better answer of where we’ll be. Can you get us there? Somewhere in the middle of it all? We can find out if it’s safe to come back after you do whatever you wish to do. No need to bother yourself with that much, Archmage Flatt, sir.”

Erick said, “Sure.” With a slice of light against the outer wall of the room, a secure hold, and a push, the wall opened up like a swinging door. Air flowed in. “Let’s go.”

Margareete picked up her boy and nodded, as she held onto Grouser, and the thin man held onto her. Erick grabbed the three of them with solid light, and told them to sit, if they wished. They did so, like people trained to listen to others. Erick filed that thought away as he floated them out of the room, and then resealed the room behind them. Erick guided Ophiel out from the Arcanaeum District, and out across the Brightwater, to the land beyond the lake.

