Erick turned his attention back to the people he had caught, and also back to himself. The people at Grouser’s house were still trapped, all together now. Erick threatened them with releasing them to Farix. He was hoping for a quick round of information gathering. Instead, the assassins seemed to die on the inside, going completely silent.

Ah. Well. Maybe Lerreg would be more helpful.

Lerreg sat across from Erick, waiting to be helpful.

Erick asked him a few questions, based on what he had found out from Grouser and Margareete.

Lerreg scrunched his face. “Uh. I don’t know any of those people. I mean… I know of the White Market. But… I don’t know anyone in it, or any of the people you mentioned. Oh! But Toff and Hutt are in it, right?”

“Yes. They were.”

A wild smile broke upon Lerreg’s face, before vanishing behind discipline. He said, “Oh.” He asked, “Did you clean that threat from the land?”

“… No. Others got to them, first.” Erick said, “This has become larger than I thought it would be. I expected some dumb shit Shade to try something well before I stepped into Ar’Kendrithyst, and I got that, but I didn’t expect to encounter more dumb shits in the shapes of people.”

Lerreg flinched.

Erick continued, “I expected this extortion attempt to require a simple fix. But it’s taking up more of my time than I would have liked.” Erick said, “I have much bigger things to deal with than this nonsense, Lerreg. If you’ve been holding back anything, let me know now.”

“No no! I would never hold anything back!”

Erick sighed.

He returned his attention back to the assassins currently held captive on the backyard lawn of Margareete’s house. They came around from their brief catatonia at being threatened with release to a Shade. Then they gave up a few names rather quickly. Tracking the DNA of the four of them brought Erick to a rather ornate house in the middle of an expensive part of Truedark Arcanaeum’s district. An expensive, well defended house, with guards everywhere, and with a name Erick had discovered several times already. The Rollini Family. The leaders of the White Market in the Arcanaeum District.

This discovery necessitated another trip to Farix.

So Erick stood in front of Farix’s temporary desk, again.

The Shade was not there.

The white-skinned incani had taken over for Farix. Erick asked her for directions to the Shade. He got them. So now, Erick stood at the dark gates to the temporary Dark Temple, south of the Palace District.

- - - -

Behind the open doors to the temple, Farix stood, speaking to Priestess, who floated nearby, her skeleton body was wrapped in dark cloth, while the white core in her ribcage glowed a soft white. They noticed Erick, as he stepped to the entrance.

Priestess waved him in, saying, “Welcome, Erick. I have just heard some interesting news. Come on in.”

Erick did so, walking inside, while Lerreg and Violet trailed behind.

Priestess gestured to the kid with Erick, “I assume this is the young man who almost blew up?”

Erick stepped toward Priestess and Farix, saying, “Yes.”

Priestess said to Lerreg, “Please stand on this side of the door, while the three of us speak.”

Lerreg immediately moved off to the side, followed closely by Violet.

Erick walked all the way to the Shades, stopping when he got near, asking, “So you’ve heard it all?”

“Not yet.” Farix said, “But I heard you uncovered some of the White Market in my lands. I have received reports of heavy activity, all around my lands, too. This is concerning, Erick. I do not appreciate this level of clandestine activity in my lands.”

Erick said, “Then it is a good thing I have come to you, isn’t it? I’ve already tracked down most of the people who tried to do me harm, but since impeding upon you is not something I wish to do without just cause, I have sought you out for the second time.”

“Does Grouser live?” Farix asked.

The Shade was obviously angry, but doing a great job of hiding that emotion. If he were in his shadowform, then Erick wouldn’t have caught any of those emotions at all.

“Him, his wife, and his kid, are all fine.” Erick asked, “I thought you would ask after the White Market?”

Farix went hopeful, then silent, and calculating. After a moment, he turned to Priestess, then to Erick, saying, “I want a privacy barrier for what comes next. Either you put up one, or I will.”

Priestess nodded her skeleton head, saying, “A good idea. I could put up one, or, if you are uncomfortable with that, you may, Erick?”

Erick had an Ophiel pop a [Privacy Ward] across the three of them, cutting out all exterior senses.

Priestess frowned, as she looked upon the crystalline air. “Audio and visual, but no [Scry] protection, or mana sense protection.”

Farix said, “It’s fine. If you could erase the mana signature later, Priestess?”

“I can, and will.”

Erick frowned at the Shades. “What other spells would you have combined with this?”

Priestess explained, “[Soul Sight], [Witness], and [Scry], but in reverse. This is a good base, though.”

“You can do that when there’s no larger concerns.” Farix seemed to relax, as he said, “Grouser is my old drinking buddy. I won’t have him murdered over a failed assassination against you. What do I need to do to get you to back off from him?”

“He’s fine. I won’t hold it against him, since he was forced into helping out the White Market in your lands.” Erick said, “But I want the people who plot to harm my family brought to a definitive end.”

Farix said, “No. The White Markets in my land are some of the best they’ve been in years. I don’t want you upsetting the balance. Let this go. Besides. Why are you asking for me to end the Rollini Family? You won’t kill them, and your family can protect itself. Jane is not going to die to those people.”

Erick threatened, “So you want me to carve their house from the land?”

“You’re not going to do shit, Erick.” Farix said, “I am glad you didn’t kill Grouser, but I have no obligation to do your dirty work for you, and besides! I wouldn’t want to! As I said, the Rollini family is rather good for the area. They provide what my governor cannot, in order to keep the rest of the people happier than they would be otherwise.”

Erick sighed.

Priestess spoke, “Every land has its illegal markets and powers, Erick. To eradicate one is to prepare the land for others to take root. To this end, it is good that you have not struck yet.” She turned to Farix. “But if he were to strike, what would you do?”

Farix rolled his eyes, “He won’t.”

“And why won’t he?” Priestess asked, sparing Erick the task of threatening deaf ears.

He liked her a little more because of that.

“There are kids in there, and the Rollini Family does whatever it takes to protect themselves, including using their kids as shields.” Farix said to Erick, “You’ve scouted the place. Do you see the kids?”

“I have seen the young ones inside the house and elsewhere nearby… I knew they were going to be a problem, but I did not expect them to be that sort of problem.” Erick frowned, every part of him jumbling with anger and other, less understandable emotions. “They… They use their kids as shields?”

Priestess stared down at Farix. If she would have had flesh and skin to her skull, Erick was certain he would be seeing a frown on her face. And then she spoke and made her displeasure felt, “Really, Farix. This is intolerable.”

Farix said, “They found out a personal weakness of mine! So what! A guy is exploiting it.” He nearly rounded on her, saying, “You want to go murder the hundreds of children they have in their power? Yeah. I didn’t think so. This is just a part of business as almost-usual.”

Priestess’s eyes turned to points of hard starlight, but she said nothing.

Erick stared at Farix, changing tactics, “I came to you because this is your land. To know that you were this complicit in the Rollini Family’s business of extortion? That is news, too. All of this is news, actually. All of this bodes badly for you, Farix.”

The Priestess continued to stare down at Farix.

Farix laughed. “Here’s some more news: I’m not willing to topple a stable power in my kingdom when someone else possibly worse might take their place.” He rolled his eyes, or at least Erick imagined he did; Farix’s eyes were nothing but pools of white. He said, “Destabilization kills just as much as an archmage attack.”

“Fair enough.” Erick said, “So I’m going to go in there, and extract some killers, and I want you to be okay with the outcome.”

“No.” Farix sighed. “Leave them alone. Your involvement will kill a hundred kids. I will take care of this for you. It will take time. You will owe me for this.”

Erick scoffed, then smiled. “I’m not going to owe you shit. Is this a test of how far I’m willing to go against one of you? Because if it is, I am not going to play nicely.”

He almost blurted out that when the entire Clergy went to war with itself, that every single person in the Brightwater District was likely going to die, anyway.

Farix eyed Erick. “I don’t police my people like some Mind Mage despot, and I don’t appreciate the implication that I do. What’s happening here, between me and you, is diplomacy. In diplomacy, you ask for something, something is given, and something is given back. You will owe me for this, one way or another.”

“It’s more like this: You remove this threat against me before I remove it myself. And then you will have to deal with your crooked house before gravity tears it down, and I won’t owe you shit.”

Farix warned, “You compare yourself to intractable gravity?”

Erick wanted to laugh, but he didn’t. Instead, he stared at Farix, pitying the man and hating him in equal measure, as he let loose a small secret, saying, “You have no idea of the inexorable forces arrayed against your house of cards, do you?”

Farix puffed up, almost going to say something.

But Priestess intervened. “Please, gentlemen! No need for that sort of anger. Everything was going well but we’ve all gotten a little heated. So let’s turn down the burner a bit. Farix is just defending his own. But. Erick. What you just said...” With a suddenly serious voice, she asked Erick, “I feel that you mean something deeper by that?”

Farix glanced up at the skeleton woman, his face going from tense, to slack, to a mask. He looked at Erick, and he waited.

Erick’s anger had already gotten away from him. Though Farix was a Shade, he was also a professor, and Killzone didn’t have too much evil to say about the man; what little there was to say, anyway. That he wouldn’t kill kids was a very, very low bar, but it was a bar Farix had passed, nonetheless.

Erick decided to expound slightly on what he had already let loose. He said, “I am going to have a little talk with the Rollini Family. I urge you to either step aside, or fall in line. If you choose to stand against me, tell me now, and I will forgo pursuing this Rollini plot until such a time comes when everything is already on fire.”

Priestess floated a bit straighter. Farix flinched into the shadows, though the transformation was so fast and he came back to physical form so quickly, Erick would have never known of the shift if he did not have his new Perception.

Priestess mumbled, “… Well then.”

Farix calmly said, “Do keep your destruction to a minimum.”

“I already planned on it. I have proven a capability for surgical action when I saved Lerreg from various annihilating forces, and then when I saved Grouser and his family without causing undue destruction. I further proved my methods when I came to you to deal with this problem I found in your territory.” Erick said, “My Ophiels are already in position. Would you like to watch?”

“No.” Farix said, “I will inspect the aftermath.”

“I have the assassins that were guarding Grouser’s family. Do you want them?”

“Yes. I’ll give them to Grouser as a gift. Where are they?”

“Outside of his wife’s house.” Erick held a hand up, and created a map from his lightform. A blue dot appeared on the map. “Here.”

Farix gazed upon the floating map, then a tendril of shadows flowed from his feet, detaching, to quickly move out of sight. He said, “Hold them there for five minutes. I’ll take it from there.”

“Accepted.” Erick nodded, first to Farix, then to Priestess. He almost turned around and left, but he instead gestured to Lerreg. “Lerreg over there is a part of your division that creates monsters to fill the oceans and kill people. Do you wish to keep him? I do not want him. I don’t like that there are people that actually create monsters, either, but I’m not going to kill him for the choices his elders have made centuries before he came along.”

Farix glanced over at the kid, and squinted his eyes. He said, “Whatever. I don’t recognize the kid, so he doesn’t matter to me.” He turned to Erick, saying, “Most of those biology departments are about increasing biodiversity to create healthy ecosystems, so that this prison of a planet is more real than what it was when the gods created it and trapped us all here, Erick. Monster creation is a part of that field, sure. But mostly it's just about making healthy environments with balanced ecosystems.”

Erick said, “Whatever. Probably a good field to keep around when we start designing planets from scratch. Might need some overhauls with the curriculum to include less monsters, though.”

“Already in the works!” Farix said, “I’m getting back to my job.” He stepped away, vanishing, as shadows dissipated where he had been standing.

