“The terrible rise to the top, or they succumb. For all his overreaching, Poriti was a power who kept various other powers from our throats.” She added, “Until he got too full of himself. I should have seen it coming, but these things creep up on you, you know?”

“If this was your plot against me, you could have come at me differently. An alternate outcome might have occurred.”

Karine said, “That was not me, Archmage Flatt, though I am glad to know my son has not burned all avenues of communication between us.”

“Yeah… Well...”

“If I had been in charge, this never would have happened. But I was ousted by my son months and months ago, and though I grieve as a mother, it is a small emotion compared to the relief of knowing a true monster is dead. He killed his sister and brother before throwing me out here, and cutting off almost all my methods of communicating with the outside world, you know?”

“I figured something like that had happened. He kept family portraits on the walls, but with the faces removed or slashed through. Your own portraits were fine.”

“… He did that, huh?” She looked sad for a moment, and it seemed genuine, even when she faintly smiled. She said, “It’s a rather sad sort of glad, to know he’s dead, if you can understand that.” She leaned back in her chair, banishing all emotions as she regained her poise, and said, “Now, if you don’t want to kill me, and if you don’t wish to go against the Clergy and rescue me, too, then I must ask you to leave. I have no doubt that my own Divine Judgment will be arriving when they feel like arriving, but I can’t imagine it taking much longer than it already has.”

Ophiel departed.

- - - -

Erick stepped up to a large pavilion, on the north side of the Palace, facing the Brightwater. It was a nice location, suitable for any number of medium-sized parties. Rainbow auroras decorated the dark sky, while the lake itself cast white light all across the horizon, and a cool wind blew into the space. Of the space itself, there was a small stage to the front, set with a podium made of crystal and a backsplash made of the same, but much taller than the podium, and big enough for at least two chalkboards.

To the sides of the space stood weapons, cups, shields, rings, and other such items, attached to pedestals with little placards on them that described the items, then gave brief descriptions of who they went to and what happened after that. They were replicas. Erick was barely able to recognize that they were replicas and to glance at a few placards before he had to get to his chair, near one of the tables set up for the event. There were at least twenty Shades in attendance already, with most of them sitting down and quietly talking to each other in whichever groups they felt like.

Erick sat down at an empty table, near the front, where someone had laid a card with ‘Fire of the Age’ written upon it in nice calligraphy. He had barely sat down, when a flicker of shadows to his right heralded the arrival of Queen, who also sat down at his table.

Erick put on a happy face as he said to the new arrival, “Hello.”

Queen said, “Hey, Erick. I heard you dismantled a White Market today.”

Erick lost some of his false-mirth. “They tried to dismantle me, first.”

Queen smiled. “If what I heard was true, that they were using kids as shields, then they deserved way worse than what you gave them. Some corruption is necessary in any society, but Farix let that one get waaaay out of hand.”

Two tables over, a human man who Erick recognized as the Shade of Enlightenment, spoke up, “Everyone gets weeds in their fields when the fields are big enough. Lay off of Farix, Queen. He does a good job.”

Queen angled her seat and herself toward the man. “Maybe if he wasn’t laying every piece of ass that came in his field of view then he’d do better, Leofield. And how much land do you have now that you lost your position as Chancellor of Truedark, hmm?”

“I’m going to have entire worlds, my dear.” Leofield said, “And don’t worry so much about Farix. Sex is one of the easier vices to satiate. Much easier than—”

A flash of shadows resolved into Fallopolis, as she stepped onto the pavilion, saying, “He’s not as bad as some of you, that’s for sure. Melemizargo knows how many of your messes I’ve had to clean.”

Leofield huffed at Fallopolis, saying, “While taking all of our research and setting us back multiple years. Decades, sometimes!”

“Punishments for failure and time for you to better understand what you did wrong, my dear former Truedark Chancellor.” Fallopolis walked to the front of the room and took a seat at Erick’s table, then angled back to say, “What do you even do anymore? Anything? You haven’t fucked up in a while, so either you’ve gotten a lot better than you used to be, or you’ve been nothing but a drain on My God.”

Leofield’s face broke into a wide smile. He chuckled a bit, then said, “I’ve got some nice things coming down the line, Fallopolis. Just you wait.”

Fallopolis fired her own smile at the man, saying, “Better be good, Leofield.”

There was no flicker, this time. Quilatalap simply stepped onto the crystal platform ahead. If Erick didn’t have Ophiels watching that part of the pavilion, he would have missed the archlich’s entrance. The crowd ceased their talking as Quilatalap stood behind the podium. The crystal backsplash animated into color and light, and a large image, five meters wide by four meters tall, showed an aerial view of the Armory. It was exactly as Erick remembered; bulbous and black, like a land of kilometer-wide soap bubbles frozen in time.

Quilatalap spoke, “Welcome, everyone, to this year’s Armory Presentation. You all know me; I’ve done this a thousand times already. Some of you have heard this hundreds of times. But for one person, this is their first. So let me explain a little bit about the purpose of this production...”
