There were only 25 people at the school across the valley. Erick’s [Grand Dispel] should have gotten all of them, and a few more besides. But that discrepancy was easy to account for if [Grand Dispel] worked on the closest targets first. And sure enough, a check inside the house revealed all the [Neck Bombs] gone from all the women and men in there. Some of those people were packing up their clothes and other such stuff, as they rushed to get away from the area. Some were just crying. Erick left them be.

Erick asked the harpy, “How much mana does it cost him to cast those [Neck Bombs]? How much to [Dispel]? They do detonate if he dies, right?”

“1200 mana cost. But da bomb resists [Dispel]. Equivalent 15,000 mana to remove, but he knows when it’s gone.” The harpy said, “That’s da problem. Poriti knows when people be messin wit his magics.” He looked to Poriti, saying, “Dis man deserves everyting you be given him. And, yah. Dose bombs explode ifn he bites da ground.” He leaned closer to the sleeping, tortured man, saying, “He don’t look ta be waking.”

Erick said, “He won’t. I’ll kill him before that happens. But I can rescue more kids, first.”

“Big tings are gonna change when he’s finally dead.”

Erick didn’t doubt that.

Killing Poriti would be the start of a massive change in the criminal cultures of Truedark Arcanaeum. Killing Poriti was the correct choice. But would someone worse come along, later? Whatever. That wasn’t Erick’s problem. His problem was this man laying on the ground in front of him.

The harpy whispered, “Maybe tings get back ta normal-like.”

Maybe; for a given example of ‘normal’. Nothing about the Clergy or the Brightwater District was ‘normal’. Nothing about Veird was ‘normal’, either, but this place was extra fucked.

As for the [Neck Bombs], Grouser’s 15,000 [Dispel] number was correct, it seems. Or at least the professor and this assassin had been fed the same information. But, whatever. That line of thinking wasn’t productive for the current math problems.

With a bit of mental math, which was quite a bit easier since he got all this Intelligence, at 15,000 mana to [Dispel] a single [Neck Bomb], that meant he had cleaned 28 people, with his 425,000 effective mana [Grand Dispel]. That meant that Erick needed to cast his [Grand Dispel] 5 more times at least, at that same cost, to clear out a full 150 [Neck Bombs].

His mana was back up to full, so he cast again. Somewhere out there, 28 more [Neck Bombs] disappeared. Erick decided to find out where those other schools were. With a thought, he directed an Ophiel into the sky, and soon, a cascading orb of light appeared even higher above, while a map took hold in the air near that Ophiel.

Erick cast his [Grand Dispel] again.

He found the other schools. He found more [Neck Bombs].

Meanwhile, he cast another [Grand Dispel].

Now that the problem was getting solved, Erick asked Violet for a better answer than the one she gave him before. She nodded, then stepped away in a flash of shadows.

His mana filled, and he cast for the fifth time.

Poriti had yet to stir awake, at all.

Erick’s mana came back for the sixth time, leading to the cast of his sixth [Grand Dispel]. The mana potion was beginning to lose effectiveness. Instead of ten times his mana regen, it was only four times. With one more cast of 17,000 mana, the seventh one, the potion was on its last legs. As the dark magic soaked into Poriti, his [Personal Ward] blinked bright green as if under attack, and then broke. The weight of a hundred and fifty families slipped off of Erick’s shoulders. He smiled. If his [Grand Dispel] was turning off that, that meant there were no more [Neck Bombs] out there.

Erick had expected 5 more [Grand Dispel]s; he ended up with 7. Who else had this guy bombed?

“Good,” Erick whispered, to himself. Then he asked the harpy, “What’s your name?”

“What is good— I mean!” The man looked nervous, then just blurted out, “Terodoor. Uh. Sir.”

“Well, Terodoor.” Erick gestured to the man. “The last spell cleared off Poriti’s [Personal Ward], which means all his other currently cast [Neck Bombs] are gone. Why would he claim to have 150 out there, then have a lot more?” Erick didn’t truly care, but it was a discrepancy; one that Erick might need to pursue.

“Uh.” Terodoor looked to the other guards, ten meters away, looking for answers. One guard shrugged. The others mostly shook their heads; unknowing. The harpy turned to Erick. “Uh. He put dem on other contacts, too?” He admitted, “I don’t know.”

“Fair enough.” Erick asked, “What do you want to do to the man?”

The man’s eyes lit up, and then he stopped. “… You’re giving me dis honor, sir?”

Erick grabbed Poriti’s prone form with light, lifting him into the air, tilting the man’s head back, exposing his neck. “Yes. He wronged you, right?”

“Yes he did!” Terodoor’s eyes turned hateful, and happy, “But. Uh. You sure?”

“Yes. Cut off his fucking head.”

Terodoor turned his maniacal eyes on the man who had once planted a bomb in his neck, and said, “Den! Then! I take out the trash, sir.” He lifted his wing. Great talons of shadow coalesced in the air, combining into one, to look like a curved guillotine, before the man’s wing went down, dragging the shadowy weapon with it. The talon sliced clean through. Blood spurted. The head rolled away.

Erick threw a [Cleansing Flame] on the body parts. He watched as white fire leapt high, and the soul that had inhabited the body fled, like so much fog under a sunny sky. Erick, and everyone else, watched, as the body burned away to nothing.

Erick flexed his sunform onto the green jewelry, and with a supercharged [Lightshape], he twisted that part of the world into a glittering, bright green and sheared metal mess. A continued twisting turned that mess into a single green orb of broken emeralds and precious metals. He gave it to Ophiel, and though it was no longer magical, and was very unable to be [Mend]d back together, he had Ophiel plop it into his room, back at Quilatalap’s cottage.

Erick said to Terodoor, “Do I need to threaten you to keep your organization out of my affairs and away from my family?”

“Sir no sir!” came Terodoor’s quick reply. “We know not ta mess with da powers round ‘ere!”

Erick turned his gaze toward the other guards, still standing at the edge of the platform, closer to the mansion. “Do I need to threaten anyone else? Do I need to kill anyone else to prevent other plots against me or mine?”

“Sir no sir!” came the reply of every guard still visible, and a few that were invisible.

“Good.” Erick said, “Then I’m done here. Don’t make me come back.”

Terodoor dropped to his knees before pressing his head against the ground.

One by one, and rather fast, everyone else on the cliff followed suit, kowtowing toward Erick.

Erick left without looking back.

- - - -

Erick stepped onto the dark tiles of the Dark Temple, south of the Palace. Lerreg was still there, near the doors. Violet was missing—

Violet stepped onto the ground near Lerreg, briefly scaring the poor lad.

“Sir.” She said, “I have found out a larger answer to what you asked.”

Erick put on a happy face. “Don’t keep me in suspense.”

Violet nodded. “Shade Lapis informs you that in the case of overlapping Stats, such as Charisma and Perception, the result is almost always a true monster, but this is easy to prevent, if the imbiber of the conflicting fruits seals their soul against outside forces. In the case of a successful sealing, the original Stat remains; the other is discarded. The only way to switch from Charisma to Perception is to first rid the Charisma person of their Charisma, and only after that occurs, can they then safely take up Perception.

“In the case where a soul takes in both Charisma and then Perception, they would become an abomination, without fail. Shade Lapis discovered this problem with the new Stats when she briefly had a Virility Fruit tree, which overlapped with Dexterity.” She said, “There was an innuendo in there that she instructed me to share with you if I felt I could do it justice. I cannot. Do you wish to hear it anyway?”

“Thank you, no thank you.”

Violet nodded, then added, “In exchange for this information, Shade Lapis desires your company this evening. She has instructed me to tell you that this is non-negotiable. Dinner is at 10 PM. She will pick you up. Expect an interview about how your own Stats are affecting you, and about what you did to Poriti Rollini. She saw the whole thing, and she did not expect Poriti to be affected by this Stat overlap phenomenon.”

Erick breathed deep. “… Fine.” He added, “Has Quilatalap’s presentation begun?”

“Almost. We have very little time, though.”

With all that done, Erick turned toward Lerreg. The boy stiffened. Erick rattled off, “Toff and Hutt are dead. They were murdered by some people who Shade Farix has since taken care of. Professor Grouser was the one who cast that exploding bone spell upon you, but it was done under the auspices of Poriti Rollini, who had planted similar bone bombs in others. Poriti’s bombs were simple neck bombs, though.” Erick said, “The list of problems not solved is thus: Poriti’s obvious connection to Grouser. The identities of the people who fired missiles at me, Violet, and you. The necessity of planting [Neck Bombs] in children— though I rather suspect that was to keep Farix at bay. That’s over, now, by the way.” Erick continued, “The validity of harming a White Market weighs upon me, because, since they operate under the Shades, I probably should have helped them, but they threatened me instead of seeking out a pleasant solution to all of our problems. And they were criminals who killed and mind controlled to get what they wanted. The only one who actually got what was coming to him was Poriti, but that’s as far as I was willing to go. So. Lerreg.” Erick stared the kid down. “Far as I can tell you just got caught up in something because Toff and Hutt hated you or saw you as an easy mark; I don’t know.

“But since you’re into making monsters and such, which is already rather confrontational, you might want to consider a plan that doesn’t bring you into conflict with others, and especially not conflict with me. Biodiversity is good. Biodiversity that kills, not so much. If I see you letting killer whales out into the oceans, I will come and kill you, too. So good luck going forward.”

With a serious face, Lerreg said, “Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.”

Erick walked off. Violet followed. Ophiels lifted from the pillars and the wall, to flutter after Erick.

Lerreg remained behind.

- - - -

When Erick got out of direct sight, Lerreg smiled, then hyperventilated a bit, before dropping to his knees. He bowed toward the empty Dark Temple and remained there for a long while, just breathing, and probably praying.

Far to the south, where the waterfalls from thirty kilometers above rained down the crystal cliff, touching off on green spaces and journeying along many carved paths to the Palace District below, there sat an Ophiel. He fluffed out his feathers, scattering drops of water into the air, as his hidden claws gripped the green moss under him. He watched Lerreg for a little while. Maybe he’d get to watch the boy for a few days, just to see if anything else came of Erick’s little foray into the local criminal scene.

But probably not. There was lots to do around here.

For now, though, he’d watch.

- - - -

Far afield, at another nice part of the Arcanaeum District, white marble towers and peaked-roof buildings sat atop the peak of a mountain. A dozen kilometers to the east, the green lands became towering crystals that rose dozens of more kilometers into the sky, but here, the wind blew nicely, and the false light of the Brightwater hung in the sky, providing light for all.

A human woman, wearing something resembling a bikini, reclined in a nice chair, atop one of those marble towers, while she read a large book. Though her hair was white and something about her made her seem like she was in her seventies, her heavily tanned skin was unwrinkled, while her face was mostly unlined.

She was the Big Boss, according to the DNA trail and the various clues Erick had discovered inside the Rollini mansion. Erick knew this chiefly because her portrait hung above the mantle of a fireplace, her picture was nowhere to be seen in the main office though others were, and a few other facts he had uncovered here and there. With all of his snooping, Erick had discovered her name, too: Karine Rollini. She was Poriti’s adoptive mother, while he was her third adopted son.

Ophiel settled down on the railing of the marble tower, a meter away from Karine.

Karine glanced over her book, saying, “Why hello there, pretty birdy. I was wondering when you were going to fly closer than just out of range of our alarms.”

Erick said, “Did you have anything to do with Poriti’s attempt on me and mine?”

“Not directly.”

“… Explain.”

“That man used the information network I built and the people I have recruited in order to enact his plan against you, but before he ever got that far, he was doing similar threatening tactics to lesser powers.” Karine said, “Bombs in necks, in order to keep the rougher elements under thumb. Eventually, that became bombs in the necks of kids, in order to keep the stronger powers at bay. Or at least those who would succumb to this method of threat.”

“Your society is terrible.”

