“I don’t get it. It’s been an entire month since I was sentenced, so why isn’t anyone talking about my plight?”

Unable to meet Falling Rain’s anxious gaze, Nian Zu absently stroked his beard while staring into his cup, unconsciously seeking the answer in the tea leaves floating within. Not that he believed those charlatan fortune tellers who claimed they could divine Heaven’s Will from the patterns left in the world, whether it be through reading tea leaves, palms, faces, or fallen sticks, but alas, how else was he supposed to answer the boy’s question?

By all rights, the bars and whorehouses of the Empire should have been bristling with gossip over the injustice directed towards their former Number One Talent, but sadly, the public’s respect and adoration was short-lived. Out of sight and out of mind, few cared to comment on Falling Rain’s situation and cared even less about whether his punishment was warranted or his penance just. Granted, the boy wasn’t talking about public opinion as his question was directed towards a more specific subset of Imperial citizens, respectively those like Nian Zu himself who had the power to help the boy out of this quandary. Worse, the boy only believed Nian Zu’s peers would help him because Nian Zu himself had assured it, for the Disciplinary Corps’ blatant abuse of power went well past the Imperial Army’s bottom line. Justicars were meant to be the impartial mediators of the Imperial Army, but if a hero such as Falling Rain couldn’t secure fair judgment, what hope did a common soldier have of receiving it? If they couldn’t trust in the Justicars, soldiers would be pressured to take ‘justice’ into their own hands and chaos would soon follow.

How could the Justicars be so short-sighted as to not see this was a disaster in the making? And worse, Nian Zu feared there was more to come, for Falling Rain was still sitting pretty on the front lines and garnering support faster than he would have ever believed. Deflating with a sigh, Nian Zu felt his hundred years weighing heavily upon his weary shoulders, and not for the first time. “I don’t know,” he said, sounding as helpless as he felt. “By all rights, there should be a line of Generals waiting to speak with the Legate regarding this outrage, but thus far, none care to even try. Officially, every report and message I’ve sent has been received and responded to, yet they make no promises and take no actions. My peers sit silent while the Legate twiddles his thumbs and delays instead of publicly supporting his subordinate. It’s clear as day that keeping you and your people here on the front lines is a waste of valuable resources, but famed Colonel Generals around the Empire would rather kowtow to a corrupt Disciplinary Corps than stand against injustice. I understand Mitsue Juichi’s silence, but what of Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung? They spoke up for your ally Colonel Hongji after the last fiasco in Sinuji, but now they tuck tail and turn their heads when they should be loudest. What of the Colonel Generals of the South? As I understand things, they are subservient to their Marshal, but Yuzhen tells me you’ve made many a trade deal with Marshal Quyen Huong and continue to work with him even now, so why will he not allow his Colonel Generals to speak in your favour?”

“If only I knew...”

Seeing Rain’s defeated expression, Nian Zu swallowed his pride and patted the boy’s shoulder ever so gently, worried the unfamiliar action might accidentally injure his gaunt and crippled frame. “I’m sorry, boy. This old man’s word no longer holds the same weight it did in past years, else I wager you’d have been back in the citadel a week ago.”

A point which had been repeatedly made clear ever since new year’s day passed and he turned a hundred years old. At ninety-nine, Nian Zu stood at the forefront of his peers, a Warrior who could guarantee victory or at least a draw in one of three matches should a dispute ever come to trial by combat, but now he was less than nothing, a mere ant to be crushed by ancient half-beasts and monstrous elders like the Abbot sitting at the table with them. ‘All things are impermanent,’ Nian Zu could almost hear the wizened, presumed Divinity say, ‘Strength and fame are no different.’

Faced with this news, a lesser man might have succumbed to anger or despair, but Rain pushed past his misgivings and gave a wry but amiable smile. “Don’t be so hard on yourself. This isn’t your fault,” he said, seeking to console Nian Zu even as he was being consoled. “You’ve already put your life and career on the line to even be here to protect me, so it shouldn’t come as a surprise that others are distancing themselves.”

Untrue, but the boy didn’t know it. Since Nian Zu’s part in Sinuji was one of neutral observer, his career would be unaffected by his actions here, and even then he’d only agreed to do so at Yuzhen’s behest. He still had yet to reveal all the tiles concealed in his hand and had been reluctant to do so on Rain’s behalf, but after a month of keeping the boy company in Sinuji, he was ready to call in every chit he had to keep Rain alive, and this time for reasons all of his own. The boy’s bright smile being one of them, possessed with a boyish delight which Nian Zu wouldn’t have expected to find in a young Martial Warrior like Rain. Most men his age would do everything in their power to seem stoic, independent, and mature so as to be taken seriously by their elders, but not Rain. Instead, he cuddled and frolicked with his pets in plain sight and was all too happy to lean on his women for aid, adapting to his crippled lifestyle with minimal discontent. His willingness to show weakness and nonchalant displays of intimacy undoubtedly played a great part in why so many women flocked to his side, as even Nian Zu was almost charmed by his uncharacteristic warmth, empathy, and affection, a rare combination of virtues in their shared profession.

And make no mistake, crippled or otherwise, Falling Rain was a warrior born, which made it all the more infuriating to see his talents wasted here in Sinuji. “I’ll make the others see,” Nian Zu growled, putting his teacup down before he accidentally crushed it in frustration. “And if they refuse, then I’ll bring you back to the citadel myself and demand the Legate make things right. Old and worn this old dog might be, but the Empire will soon learn he still has teeth.”

“No need to make a big fuss about it.” Refilling Nian Zu’s teacup and then the Abbot’s in gross disregard of proper manners, Rain shrugged and said, “As much as I’d like to go home and see my family, the truth is, they’re safer with me here. Besides, excluding travel time, we’ve been on the front lines for thirty-two days now, which is more than half my old record and longer than most normal soldiers would serve without respite. The longer we’re here, the more public opinion will sway in our favour, for then the Disciplinary Corps’ abuse of power will be clear to all. Even slaves and faceless soldiers like myself deserve time off, if only to keep the Father from sinking his clawed fingers into our souls and we become a danger to all around us.”

There was a hint of mockery in the boy’s tone which Nian Zu had grown accustomed to hearing whenever he spoke of such matters, but as a man who rarely acknowledged the theological aspects of life, Nian Zu left it to the frowning Abbot to sort the boy out later. Still, as a publicly acclaimed Chosen Son of the Mother and attendant to the Guardian Turtle, his blatant scorn of religion would only alienate his most die-hard supporters, but Nian Zu suspected Rain wasn’t one to play politics.

Flashing his charming smile once again, Rain added, “On the bright side, at least now we know we can’t count on your peers, for the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.”

Wise words unbefitting of a man only twenty years of age, but Falling Rain was hardly a typical man, one who’d endured more challenge and controversy in his twenty years than most would over their entire lives. After bidding the boy farewell and leaving him to argue with the Abbot, Nian Zu retired to his tent for the night and reflected on his memories, marvelling at how only three years ago, that same boy had stood before him as a promising young warrior, scrawny and exhausted but looking none the worse for wear after his victory over the Society. Oh how Rain gleefully extorted Jia Ying and Jia Yang for a veritable fortune before agreeing to spare young Zian’s life, and it had been a delight to see the sharp and troublesome woman squirm in her seat, truly a sight to behold. Memorable as the entire event might have been, it paled in comparison to what occurred only a few minutes before the negotiations began, but even after all this time, Nian Zu still didn’t know what to make of it all.

At the time, it was clear Falling Rain lacked an Aura of his own, and Nian Zu would’ve felt it if Akanai, Baatar, or some hidden Expert exerted theirs to protect him, yet somehow, alone and unaided, the boy weathered the effects of Nian Zu’s Aura and even drew his weapons to defend himself. How had the boy done it? The question had plagued Nian Zu for years now, but he was no closer to an answer now than he had been then. Throughout his career, he’d seen brave, stalwart soldiers and crazed, suicidal berserkers alike freeze up when confronted with Aura, yet this boy, barely more than a child dressed in a uniform too large for his gangly frame, stood tall where other Warriors fell short. The boy clearly felt the effects, body quivering like a leaf in a windstorm before Nian Zu’s imposing might and barely able to even stand straight, but stand he did. He even drew his weapons and took a stance, his eyes telling different story from his trembling frame, one of a man ready to sell his life dearly and go down fighting to his last breath.

Small wonder Rain could fight through the effects of Jia Zian’s Aura and emerge victorious against the arguably better Martial Warrior.

Rain’s ability to counteract the effects of Aura without one of his own defied logic and comprehension, but the same could be said about many of the boy’s accomplishments. Who would have thought a freshly ranked Warrant Officer sent to hunt bandits in Sanshu would uncover the greatest Defiled uprising in the past hundred years? Had Yo Ling’s hand not been forced, his scheme to take over Sanshu through his cats-paws, the Golden Highland Coalition, might well have succeeded, and Nian Zu shuddered to think of the consequences. The Fragrant Rice River of Sanshu was aptly named, for almost half of the province’s rice was grown along its shores, and if it had fallen into Yo Ling’s hands, then the North would be in dire straits indeed. In Nian Zu’s experience, well-fed soldiers would march into the Father’s Maw itself if led by the right commander, but starving soldiers wouldn’t salute the Emperor Himself if He appeared to lead them in person.

Uncovering Yo Ling’s plot was only the first of Rain’s resounding accomplishments, and most read like they’d been written by a drunk playwright. While taking part in the Purge, he drove the Bloody Priestess mad and forced her to break Imperial Law and capture him, only to escape with help from his fellow Warrant Officers to emerge unscathed. Then, with help from Sanshu native Chu Xinyue, Rain slipped into the besieged city while the rest of Yuzhen’s army were delayed by the Defiled force arranged as a smokescreen to hide the true conflict happening inside the walls. Once there, Rain was given temporary command of a thousand men and led them to slaughter a Defiled flanking force twice their number, while suffering casualties numbering in the single digits. Then, to top it all off, he was instrumental in Yo Ling’s death, distracting the near victorious Defiled bandit long enough for Liu Shi, Yo Ling’s brother, rival, and leader of the Crossbone Corsairs, to sneak up behind him and deal a killing blow.

And all this was merely what happened in Sanshu. Afterwards, he tamed the Guardian Turtle of Ping Yao, fought and won twenty plus duels during his first day in Nan Ping, defeated Ryo Seoyoon, Quyen Dienne, and Wu Gam in a single elimination tournament onstage in front of the greatest audience the Empire had ever seen, and was crowned Number One Talent in the Empire by the Legate himself. As if that wasn’t enough, it was soon revealed that because of his talents, the Legate had also seen fit to bestow Rain with Imperial Peerage, making him the first ever outsider to become a part of the Imperial Clan without marrying in. Lowly though the title of Imperial Consort might be, technically even a Colonel General like Nian Zu himself now stood below Rain in status, though in practice, things didn’t work out in the boy’s favour. In the end, the Imperial Clan was respected for their strength, and even as Number One Talent in the Empire, Rain hardly had enough strength to be recognized as a true Imperial Talent.

