Or at least, that’s what most believed, even Nian Zu himself, right up until he read the reports detailing the grand battle in Sinuji. Falling Rain against the Emissary Gen, two young Experts far beyond their peers yet diametrically opposed from the moment they first met, it reeked of a ham-fisted conflict made explicitly so the hero would have a villain to overcome and defeat, yet in the end, the hero fell and the villain emerged victorious. With his Spiritual Weapons broken and Core shattered, everyone present in Sinuji had expected Falling Rain to breathe his last on the bloodied fields outside these walls, but in front of tens of thousands of doubting eyes, he instead exhibited the power of not just a mere Peak Expert, but one standing upon the cusp of Divinity itself as he threw back his hated foe and sent the Defiled army fleeing from the field. Mother knows how many times Nian Zu pored over Han BoShui’s dramatic retelling of the events, and he was even looking forward to a rumoured play in production, but alas, disaster struck before those plans came to fruition, thanks to the meddling of some vile, oversexed brat hell-bent on stealing away Rain’s consort.

Yang Jixing was nothing without his father, an entitled little shit who wielded the power of the Disciplinary Corps for his own nefarious purposes, yet the strange thing was, no one cared to call the boy out on it. It was utterly infuriating, because Jixing’s actions were so blatantly unethical Nian Zu wholeheartedly believed the public outrage would’ve ended the whole debacle before Rain even arrived in Sinuji, yet here they were almost four weeks later and still the Legate had yet to act. Falling Rain’s heroics should have earned him enough goodwill to live out the rest of his days in peace and happiness, perhaps returning to the North to raise his pets and father a clutch of disappointing children as men like him were wont to do, but instead, the poor, crippled boy was here suffering on the front lines while his comrades fought desperately to keep him and themselves alive.

And what comrades they were. In all his time as a commander of soldiers, Nian Zu had never seen a group so talented as the ones gathered in Rain’s retinue. Dastan Zhandos and Sahb were only the most notable of the bunch, a pair of dupes turned slaves due to minimal fault of their own, yet even if they were unrepentant traitors against the Empire, so long as they had not turned against the Mother and the Heavens, then they were too talented to be wasted. Twenty-four year old Domain-Developed Experts were rare no matter the background or upbringing, as even Imperial Scions were considered talented for becoming regular Experts at twenty-five, though propaganda painted Imperial Scions as a notch or two above their peers in the rest of the Empire. Dastan and Sahb had surpassed this twenty-five year mark by a fair margin and even Developed their Domains while most of their peers had yet to even Condense an Aura, so were it not for their parents picking the wrong horse to back, these two young men would be the heroes and role models of children all around the Empire.

Then there were the other enslaved survivors of Dastan’s former retinue, twelve men and one woman who’d fought hundreds of battles against the Defiled and emerged largely intact. Were they standard soldiers, Nian Zu would have given each and every one of them their own command in hopes that they would instill their troops with the same courage and determination they exhibited on the walls of Sinuji, not to mention done everything he could to uncover the secret to their strength. Dastan and Sahb aside, six out of the remaining thirteen soldiers were now Experts of the Empire, only recently Forming their Natal Palace in the last four weeks, an accomplishment which left Nian Zu reeling in disbelief.

Supposedly this was all due to Rain and the Abbot’s guidance, but Nian Zu believed it had more to do with their efforts on the battlefield, fighting three, four, sometimes even up to six hours on the wall with only intermittent breaks to tend to their bodily needs. These rapid improvements were not limited to Dastan’s bunch either as Akanai’s daughter, Li Song, was progressing by leaps and bounds, seemingly on the cusp of Condensing her Aura after accompanying Rain during every battle in the past month. What’s more, despite their minimal time spent stuck in hand to hand combat, many soldiers of Rain’s former retinue were also developing at a breakneck pace, no doubt instigated by their collective desire to help their beloved leader in his time of great need. Though Nian Zu didn’t know their names, he’d been impressed by many a Khishig seen sparring on the training field, most notably a half-wolf youngster who always had two half-bear lovers hanging nearby and an alarmingly stealthy dark-skinned scout who Nian Zu suspected was using him to train his skills. Twice now, the foul brigand had managed to sneak up unnoticed while delivering messages from Rain, and according to Nian Zu’s guards, the scout passed by his tent at night far too many times for it to be a simple coincidence.

There were others Nian Zu had marked to watch, like a pair of hammer wielding half-bulls whose weapons were masterfully crafted works of art, a seemingly noble born warrior who transformed into a battle-axe-wielding maniac in the heat of combat, a jovial, half-dog giant who followed a compact half-dog woman around like a puppy, and a group of former soldiers including the dark-skinned scout who spent much of their time dicing and gambling, yet still commanded respect from the warriors around them. So many promising talents, there were far too many to list in whole, but Nian Zu was curious to know how Falling Rain had gathered so many beneath his banner. Though the majority of the Khishigs under Major Alsantset were Bekhai born, most of Rain’s former retinue were not. Some were former bandits of Sanshu, including a number of infamous leaders with considerable bounties before being absolved of their crimes by Magistrate Chu Tongzu. Others belonged to the Protectorate, the self-proclaimed defenders of the Guardian Turtle, and while their appearances left much to be desired, they were a formidable and hardy bunch who put their hunting skills to good use on the battlefield, killing with blade and longbow alike. Then there were the former soldiers the boy had taken in at Shen Huo, the supposed slaves he allegedly rescued from Yo Ling’s hidden base who fought like fearless elites on the battlefield, and to round it all out, Rain even had a cadre of highly trained stealth guardians of indeterminate origin protecting him at all times.

One look was enough for Nian Zu to tell they weren’t Bekhai trained, because if they were then he would’ve never spotted them, but even then he was highly impressed with what he saw. A shame Rain refused to tell him where they were trained, because Nian Zu would have loved to win over a faction who could spare more than a dozen Experts dedicated enough to stand guard over a crippled youth, and with frightening commitment to boot. While off-duty, Nian Zu had spotted more than one of those shadowy protectors watching Rain with fervent devotion bordering on outright reverence, marking them as faithful devotees of the Mother who were all too happy to serve Her Chosen Son.

Religious zealots were something of a double-edged sword, which was why Nian Zu approved of the Abbot’s presence beside the boy, but despite having the highest ranking monk of the Penitent Brotherhood at his side, a bevy of devotees shadowing his every move, and the Guardian Turtle literally at his beck and call, Rain had yet to show a single speck of religious piety towards the Mother Above. Truly a difficult child to work with, but a promising one nonetheless, because even if he never recovered to become a Martial Warrior once again, he could still serve as a figurehead for devotees around the Empire, an accomplished merchant, inventor, and future Lieutenant Marshal, or even as a talented teacher if the success of Dastan and his retinue could truly be attributed to Rain’s guidance.

Though still hale and healthy enough to fight for hours without rest, at Nian Zu’s age, falling asleep was a more difficult process than he liked to admit. He spent most of his nights in quiet meditation, seeking Insight from the Heavens not in hopes of breaking through to Divinity, but rather scouring his thoughts for clues on how to progress along the Martial Path. Peak Expert he might be, but there was a vast difference between Warriors like himself, Du Min Gyu, and even the famed Shuai Jiao of Central, compared to the lofty beings at Rain’s side, like the Abbot, Ascendant GangShu, and Smiling Slaughterer Guan Suo. The lack of knowledge was worse than being stuck and unable to proceed, but Nian Zu never let past failures get in the way of future successes, so he continued to persevere despite the complete lack of hope.

When he finally fell asleep, it was long past midnight, but the sun had yet to rise before he opened his eyes once again, feeling refreshed as he ever felt these days. Ignoring the aches and creaks of his aged body, he got dressed and shuffled out his tent for an early breakfast before heading off to the sparring fields to see what budding talent might catch his eye today. The Defiled attacks had grown somewhat lacklustre of late, which in part attributed to the one-hundred percent survival rate of Dastan and his comrades, but even then, few soldiers cared to waste energy on spars while serving on the front lines. Not so with the Khishigs, for they showed up in droves day in and day out regardless of weather or circumstances. To the Bekhai, the Martial Path was less about being a soldier or warrior, but rather a way of life, and considering he still had yet to see through the depths of the Bekhai’s strength, it would seem this mindset served them well.

The field was understandably empty when he first arrived, as it was still too dark to see without torchlight. As the sun rose, so too did the soldiers of Sinuji, and the first visitor to the field was a familiar face, GangShu’s half-rat child and infamous bandit of Sanshu, Hangman Jorani. Strange for a bandit to be so disciplined, but Nian Zu knew it suited young Jorani well, another recently advanced Expert whose progress was nothing short of astounding. Next to arrive were Li Song and Rustram, and the unlikely pair set to sparring with barely a word as the outmatched former soldier put up a good fight against the half-cat’s flashing sabre and consummate skills. More Khishigs trickled in by ones and twos, and Nian Zu idled away his time watching the next generation of talents hone their abilities, much like other men his age liked to watch birds and other wildlife.

Such was life for Situ Nian Zu these days, a man without close friends or loving family to distract him. A boon throughout his long career as a soldier serving in exile from Clan and Society, but during these cold, lonely days, he sometimes dreamed about what might have been if things had gone differently in his youth. What if he had swallowed his pride, taken a wife, and fathered a child of his own? What would his son or daughter be like now? Or what if he and DuYi had possessed the courage and resolve to admit their love to the world at large? It would’ve meant the end of both their careers for certain since it went against the ‘filial values’ the Empire held in such high esteem, as nothing could be more unfilial than refusing to propagate the family line, but there were enough of these cut-sleeve relationships going on in secret amongst civilians and nobility that one more wouldn’t be anything of note.

Suppressing a sigh, he moved to leave and check in on the incompetent Lieutenant Colonel Mitsue Watanabe, but paused his steps as he noticed a commotion on the sparring field. Falling Rain had arrived to greet his men and cheer them on from the side, but the clamour wasn’t because of his presence, but rather due to the beauty beside him. Dressed in Khishig leathers which clung tightly to her voluptuous body, even Nian Zu had to admit Consort Zheng Luo made for an appealing sight, and to the sex-starved soldiers of Sinuji, one almost too tantalizing to resist.

With her Spiritual Weapon in hand, Consort Zheng Luo took the field to spar against yet another beauty, Baatar’s half-tiger daughter Alsantset, and Nian Zu almost left in a huff. He’d seen Zheng Luo Demonstrate the Forms, and to his trained eye, her movements were all style without substance, more dance than drill and wholly useless to a true Warrior. Not surprising since she’d been trained as an Imperial Servant rather than a Royal Guardian or Death Corps soldier, so Nian Zu was confused as to why Baatar’s daughter would waste so much time guiding a mere consort over the past few weeks, especially one responsible for Falling Rain’s current political woes.

Curiosity winning over disdain, Nian Zu decided to stick around a little longer to watch their match. Fashioned out of glossy, dark obsidian like so many of the Bekhai’s newer Spiritual Weapons, Zheng Luo’s sceptre was much like herself, pretty to look at but largely useless, too long in the haft and almost too heavy for the Imperial Consort’s trembling arms. A pretty face carrying a pretty weapon, it was no mystery why the soldiers gathered in droves to watch her spar, especially when her opponent was an exotic beauty herself, but that was all.

