“A knife, is it? I would oblige you, Miss Solstice, but my forge is swamped with orders. I won’t have time for at least three days to even think of something like a knife. But there are plenty of good smiths on this level. Ask about their forges. You might be able to squeeze in the order.”
“Got it! Thanks!”
He nodded and went back to work. Erin backed up.
“Well then. I guess—hey! Your name’s Pelt, right!”
The Dwarf looked up and winced as Erin walked over. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw Maughin look back at her, twisting his head all the way around on his shoulders. Erin smiled as the Dwarf gave her the exact opposite of a smile.
“Oh, you. The Human. What do you want? A knife? Go to hell, I’m not taking orders, and especially not for anything that doesn’t involve lots of gold.”
“Aw. But I could use a knife, and I heard you’re good. Plus, you’re not that busy.”
He sneered at her.
“I’m working on a gear. For those damn elevators. You’ve probably never seen something like this—”
He indicated the half-forged gear. Erin was a bit impressed when she looked and saw it resembled a proper gear like she’d find in a clock, teeth and all. And he was doing it by hand, which was crazy enough!
“What, that? I know gears. Yours looks nice. Big one, though. Probably needs a smaller gear to make it work. And, uh, one of those rotating axle things. You sure you can’t make a knife? I can pay.”
Pelt looked at Erin. He stared at his gear, looked up, and then glared.
“No. You want a knife? A hundred gold pieces and I’ll forge you one.”
Someone laughed. Erin paused uncomfortably. She was still new to the economics of this world despite having lived here—food was cheap to an extent, but anything magical or high-quality like armor and weapons, especially enchanted ones, were exorbitant. But she was sure that a kitchen knife wasn’t worth even ten gold coins.
“Er, no thanks. I’ll ask around.”
“Get lost, then.”
Pelt turned his back on Erin at once. She glared at his back. Then she heard more laughter and a louder voice.
“Hah! If Pelt won’t make you what you want, why not stop over here, little Human lady? I might have time!”
She turned. Pelt’s forge was located next to Maughin’s, which was on the right, but on the left another smith was working. Alone, unlike Pelt, who had a single Drake apprentice, and Maughin’s space, which was two forges filled with workers. Erin saw a Gnoll in a large apron and nothing else waving at her. She headed over, blinking at him. He was a tall, lean fellow with long, wiry arms.
“You’re a Gnoll!”
“Well observed, Miss.”
The Gnoll leaned on his anvil, grinning toothily at her. Erin blinked and then laughed with him. He had one of those infectiously good-natured personalities and the attitude of joking when he spoke. She liked him at once.
“Sorry, I just thought most Gnolls don’t smith! Fur and all that.”
“Well, it does get in the way. But I’m no ordinary smith! I normally don’t work here, in fact, but I’ve rented the space for the day. How do you do? Bealt. City Gnoll and [Farrier]. At your service.”
He held out a paw, the fur singed and sooty around his hand, and Erin, smiling, shook it. She felt a strong grip and a rougher paw than some of the Gnolls’ hands she’d touched.
“Erin Solstice! [Innkeeper] and, uh, City Human!”
That made Bealt laugh again. He was setting up for the day with long, thin bars of metal about half a finger’s length wide and pouring charcoal or maybe coal—Erin couldn’t honestly tell the difference if there even was one—into his furnace, arranging it just so.
“Pleased! So, you need a knife, Miss Solstice? Yours run out?”
“I think so. At least, it’s fairly dull, but I was shopping for a new knife anyways. Er, a special knife for really tough stuff like bugs or…I was thinking of cutting a Shield Spider up and serving it to some of my guests!”
Bealt nearly lost his grip on his hammer. He swung around.
“Shield Spiders? And you want to cook one? Wait—you must be Miss Erin Solstice of Liscor! The crazy Human with the inn! Why didn’t I realize it before? Let me shake your hand again!”
He shook her hand, laughing, and sniffed her this time.
“Ah, but I heard of what you did. And heard more from my kin in Liscor, although I’ve not gone through to visit. Welcome twice, then! And if you need a knife, I think I can fit you in. I don’t have that much work, you see, but you might need to wait.”
“I literally have nothing else planned for today. So I can wait!”
Bealt chuckled.
“I mean, I’m going to be at least a few hours! I rented this space to make some horseshoes.”
“Horseshoes?”
Erin supposed that was a traditional blacksmith-y thing to do. But Bealt grinned.
“Yes! It’s my trade. I always like to have some ready, and Pallass has enough horses to give me all the work I need. I am a [Farrier]—do you know what that is?”
“Er…I don’t. Sorry, I was going to ask.”
“No problem! Farriers are simply a type of smith that also deal with horses. I clean their hooves, shoe them—and if they throw a shoe or get injured, I’m the one called to help them.”
Erin began to recall her vague and limited farming-related knowledge.
“Oh! So you’re almost like a horse doctor!”
“Only for the hooves, Miss Solstice. Only the hooves. But if you want to watch, I’ll show you my craft right here and now. The furnace is lit, I have my metal ready—”
He indicated the lengths of metal, and Erin stared at the bars, wondering how you’d turn that into a horseshoe. Or rather, how you’d make a perfect bend. All the Gnoll had was a hammer and a few tools. One of them looked like a long spike.
“—And I’ve got the Skills to do my work quick and easy. Better than a grumpy Dwarf or a Dullahan overworked! I can have your knife done by the end of the day, and my horseshoes as well!”
Bealt’s voice carried over to Pelt and Maughin, both of whom turned and glared. Erin raised her eyebrows, delighted by the way the solo Bealt was needling the two experts. She raised her voice too.
“Well, if you can, I’d love to see how you make horseshoes! And a knife! I don’t know a lot about smithing, actually.”
It was the right thing to say. Bealt’s grin spread from ear to ear.
“Well then, take a seat, Miss Solstice! There’s one to be found I’m sure. And if you value your ears, maybe get a bit of wax! It gets noisy. But let me make a few shoes first! And remember this: there are many smiths who make all sorts, from swords to knives and nails! Some make armor and some delicate art! But if you need quick work and reliable steel, always ask for the [Farrier]!”
He swung his hammer, and the anvil rang with the sound. Erin was delighted with Bealt’s easy way. But she saw the other smiths glaring, and she knew that what he’d said were fighting words. And part of Erin, the devious part, sat up and began to form a plan.
 
——
 
Well, as second meetings went, his with Nawal had been about as poor as you could hope. Trey wondered if she’d seen his shaking knees. And he’d ruined Orthenon’s greeting to them. That scared Trey almost as much as Nawal’s wrath. Almost. Orthenon was scary, but fair. But Nawal had killed her brother the first time he’d met her.
Then again, she was still outclassed by Gazi. The half-Gazer appeared as Trey went to lunch and got his meal of fried Yellats and some actual meat—goat—along with some fresh rye bread. Trey was eating it with some tea—Chandrar had tea, but it was all dreadfully spicy stuff, sadly—and happily eating by himself. Then she appeared, and Orthenon moments later.
“Trey.”
Neither of them carried their food with them. It was set before them when they sat, Gazi next to him, Orthenon across. The [Steward] ate the same as Trey, efficiently wielding his fork and knife. Gazi ate with similar etiquette, although she didn’t even bother tilting her head to look at her plate since her eyes could look through her skull.
Trey gulped down some of the Yellats in silence. He had good table manners, so the company fit him, as opposed to, say, Teres, Mars, and Flos, all of whom ate faster and with less grace. Mars was especially bad and treated half of her foods like finger foods despite them being anything but.
“Er, hullo, Orthenon. Gazi. Good morning. Or lunch. I didn’t interrupt you greeting Nawal and the others, did I?”
“Clan Tannousin did not take offence from what I saw. But mind yourself, Trey. Chandrarian folk take perceived insults seriously, and the desert clans are especially touchy.”
Orthenon did not greet Trey. He spoke in a clipped manner as he sawed his goat meat in half and ate a slice. Trey nodded. It felt like Orthenon was one of his teachers sometimes, strict and unbending.
“Right. I understand that. Ah, did you want me to show Nawal around?”
“Perhaps. I understand Gazi is done teaching you for the day.”
The man shot a glance at Gazi, not especially friendly. She smiled toothily at him.
“Trey protests he’s overworked. And I think you want me to deal with Clan Tannousin, Orthenon.”
“Correct. You have your eyes on them?”
Gazi tapped a finger on her right cheek. Trey hadn’t noticed—you didn’t really stare at Gazi’s revolving eyes unless you didn’t want to eat—but two of her eyes had been rolled up in the back of her head all this time while the other two roamed free.
“Already watching. They appear to be settling in. I detect little guile from them. Just worry. It is in their body language. The ones mentioned were the leaders.”
Orthenon nodded, patting his lips with a handkerchief. He’d already finished eating! Trey stared. Forget Flos or Mars, Orthenon was the quickest! And somehow, the cleanliest!
“I doubt they’re spies, but if you could monitor them, I would be grateful.”
“Of course. And I will guard Reim in your absence. You ride to Germina?”
Orthenon’s brow creased slightly. Trey looked between him and Gazi, trying to read the unspoken words as much as the spoken ones. Some of Flos’ vassals did not get along, and Orthenon and Gazi’s relationship highlighted that. They were professionally courteous, but Gazi had said plainly to Trey that she and Orthenon weren’t always on the same page. Although…they had been a couple once. That boggled Trey’s mind as well.
“I will be departing tomorrow morning, yes. The Quarass must be spoken to, although I expect she will restore order quite quickly. Nevertheless, I intend to relieve Venith and Maresar and set up contacts and arrange a system while we are there. We must have Germina’s soldiers joining our army soon, not to mention their [Assassin] corps.”
“More spies for me to watch. Move them slowly. I don’t have enough eyes, especially with this one missing.”
Gazi sighed and tapped her main eye gently. It was always closed, still healing or still damaged from whomever had poked it out. Orthenon nodded brusquely.
“I will keep you informed. As for Hellios—I may have to spend weeks there, dealing with the aftermath of His Majesty’s edict. It will not be easy, although the abdication of Queen Calliope will smooth things considerably.”
“Speak to Prince Siyal. His Majesty desired his cooperation.”
“Naturally. Until then, Trey.”
The young man jumped as Orthenon looked back at him.
“Yes?”
“His Majesty will return soon if he is travelling at full speed. No doubt he will wish to stay in Reim, and you will of course accompany him. Until then, if this Nawalishifra seeks you out, accommodate her reasonable requests. She is a guest and one of rare talent. I still don’t quite understand how the Tannousin Clan was persuaded to send a caravan to us.”
Orthenon drummed his fingers on the table. Trey looked blank.
“They’re that impressive? I mean, I know that magical metal they make is really good. But how special is it?”
Both the Steward and Gazi exchanged a look over Trey’s head. Gazi smiled slightly.
“A Naq-Alrama blade would suit His Majesty. But Clan Tannousin normally charges a fortune even for a dagger made of their metal. The fact that we could persuade one of their smiths, even a young one, to journey here is a great boon. They normally take no sides and only sell their blades at bazaars like the one we visited.”
“I understand you’re to thank for that, Trey.”
Orthenon frowned again at Trey. Sometimes, he did that too, as if he was trying to figure Trey out. Gazi nodded.
“He found her by chance. But it was truly luck, because the Tannousin clan had ready Naq-Alrama steel and no one capable of smithing it, Orthenon.”
His brows snapped together.
“Really? But the girl they claimed to be a [Smith] was—”
“Their best smith died, and only his daughter was able to work the Naq-Alrama steel.”
“Ah. Naturally. A female smith wouldn’t be accepted by the tribes. Or in a lot of the northern lands. Well, that is a coincidence. A fortunate one for you to find, Trey.”
Orthenon shook his head dismissively before giving Trey another long look. The young man from England rolled his shoulders uncomfortably. Orthenon stood up, and a servant took his dishes and utensils away.
“I must return to work.”
That was how he said ‘goodbye’. But Orthenon didn’t make it out of the room. He got four steps when a voice called his name.
“Orthenon! I beg a word, if you have the time?”
The man turned. Striding towards them was a figure Trey recognized. Several figures, actually. They wore turbans and carried light clothing, often exposing their bare skin despite the sands and heat. Their leader wore a long, curved blade at his side, and the two following him were armed—one with daggers, the other with a bow and short sword. They stood out, even from the other [Soldiers] dining in the banquet hall.
They were part of the Serpent Hunters of Clais. They were a band of irregulars in Flos’ army, mercenaries who’d come to join his banners the instant they’d heard of his return. As far as Trey understood it, they were notable for two things: using envenomed blades and being String People.
String People. Quick to smile and take offence and energetic, even at the hottest parts of the day. The man speaking to Orthenon had pale gold stitch marks around his neck, shoulders, bared midriff, and joints on his wrists and elbows. Knees too. Stitch-People could and would remove injured or damaged body parts, turning them back into cloth to be repaired. They were like Cloth Golems—only, say that and you’d get your teeth knocked out.
Now the three paused before Orthenon, and their leader swept him a dramatic bow. Then again, they were always like that. The Serpent Hunters had been in Reim for months, and Trey had gotten used to them. A bit.
