One heat. And then two. Each time the metal went into the furnace, it looked different. First it was just a bar of two metals joined together. Then it was longer, a curve appearing near the point, a handle clearly defined. The third time the knife went in, it looked…close to done.
“Dead gods.”
The Drake at Erin’s side breathed out slowly. Erin had forgotten and inhaled a breath of painful air. She stared at Pelt as this time he took the knife out and grabbed something from a pot. He covered the back edge of the knife with it, leaving the edge untouched.
“What’s he doing now?”
“He’s going to quench it. But that stuff—clay? He’s only quenching the edge, then. See?”
Pelt was holding the knife over a barrel of oil. And the rest of it was indeed covered with a smooth coat of clay. Only the edge was visible, glowing still. The Dwarf didn’t hesitate. He plunged the knife into the oil, lifting it as flames shot up from the oil. Erin gasped, but Pelt didn’t waver, though he wore no gloves.
Once, twice, three times. The knife cooled with each dip into the oil. And when it came out—clay fell away, what hadn’t been burned off. Pelt raised the knife, and it was done. The Drake standing next to Erin sighed with longing, and she looked at him. A [Smith]. Then she looked at Pelt and realized she was staring at a master.
The Dwarf stared at his knife as it cooled. The other [Smiths] had stopped their work at their forges, put down their hammers to see. It was a finished knife. In…an hour? No, less. Erin could see it.
Pelt held it up as his apprentice dragged something over. A grindstone. Of course! He just had to sharpen that edge, remove some of the chaff that coated the blade, and it would be perfect. But suddenly Pelt’s expression wasn’t so calm. He was frowning at the blade. At one side of it, tilting his head back and forth. Erin slunk forwards and heard him muttering to himself. She caught one word as he turned to the grindstone.
“Maybe…”
The apprentice helped work the grinding wheel. Erin saw the Dwarf delicately put the blade’s edge to the wheel and sparks flew. They landed on his face, his beard, and his clothes, but he didn’t flinch. The blackened metal from the quench flew away and revealed a bright inner core. Around Erin, the watching audience, smiths and apprentices and onlookers alike, sighed.
“Perfection.”
Maughin had abandoned his knife at his anvil. He walked forwards to stand with Erin, as if he were ashamed of the knife he had tried to forge. And why not? Pelt’s blade was a work of art. It was almost unfair how beautiful it was.
The knife’s back was straight and curved slightly towards the point. The edge was similarly straight as a razor until it tapered off, but what was most striking was the line running across the blade. It was like waves—the edge was brighter while the metal of the back of the blade was darker. Erin was sure the line had come from where Pelt had applied the clay. A sharp edge and softer spine, two kinds of metal made into one.
“A masterwork.”
Bealt stepped out to stare at it. A masterwork done in less than an hour. Erin didn’t have to be told that was an incredible feat. But Pelt’s expression had soured. The Dwarf’s contented look during the forging, his excitement, had given way to an ominous look. And Erin and the smiths sensed it.
One side of the knife became polished, perfect and beautiful. But there was…something wrong with the other side. Pelt unearthed it after only a few seconds of grinding. Erin heard an oath, and the Dwarf jerked the blade back from the grindstone wheel. The Drake apprentice stopped spinning it, and the other smiths crowded around to see what was wrong. Erin peeked over Pelt’s shoulder and saw it.
There. The slightest of cracks in the still-blackened outer shell. A fault in the pristine steel, right near the edge. The Dwarf dropped the blade with shaking fingers.
“A flaw in the metal. My metal.”
“Aw, but that’s noth—”
Erin froze as Pelt turned. His eyes were suddenly huge in his face. Maughin peered at the knife, shaking his head.
“A superficial crack. You can easily grind it away and have a perfect blade still.”
“No, no. It’s there. Impurity in the metal. The fire, the hammering had no issue. So it was a flaw in my steel. It must have crept in. And I didn’t notice. I was too busy thinking of the knife.”
“It’s the tiniest of flaws, Pelt. And you’ve won the competition by any reckoning. I haven’t the heart to finish my blade.”
Bealt objected, looking down with envy at the knife. But the Dwarf was shaking his head. He turned to Erin, and she backed up. There was a wild light in Pelt’s eyes.
“An impurity. I didn’t see it. Didn’t think to check—forgot to check. I forgot to check.”
Pelt looked around, his gaze suddenly cornered. He lifted the knife and then stared at the crack. With a shout, Pelt hurled the blade away. Erin saw his apprentice duck as the knife clanged across the ground.
“Pelt! It’s just—”
Maughin reached for the Dwarf, but the shorter smith tore away. He looked around at his audience, and his face turned into a snarl.
“What are you looking at? Begone! I’m done! Done!”
He rammed into the crowd and ran past them, abandoning his apprentice and tools. Erin heard his running footfalls. And then silence.
“What was that? He overreacted!”
One of the Drakes [Smiths] exclaimed, a touch shaken, a bit angrily. Some of others agreed, the rest were shaking their heads. Erin looked up at Maughin and then at Bealt. Both had bleak looks.
“That wasn’t the first time this has happened, is it?”
“How could you detect an impurity so small? No—before that, look at this blade.”
Maughin spoke slowly. He walked forwards, past the Drake apprentice who was sitting back, woebegone. The Dullahan stared down at the knife. His voice was low when he spoke.
“I am a Level 35 [Armorer]. I’ve labored for over thirty years to reach my level of skill and experience in my craft. Some thought me gifted, and I believed that too when I left Baleros to impress another continent with my skill. But Dwarves, half-Elves, even some Lizardfolk will outlive me. Most Dullahans die before ever turning eighty.”
He bent, brushing dust off the knife and held it up. The Dullahan shook his head as he inspected it and then brought it to the grindstone. He sheared off the excess metal quietly, and lifted the blade. The crack was gone, and the metal shone on both sides. Maughin went on, still shaking his head as he held the small knife in his massive hands.
“But Pelt? How old is he? Over a hundred? How many decades of experience does he have? How many Skills? To think an outcast from his home could outperform us so easily. And yet he gave up, though this blade is near perfect. Why? We do not ask, but now I do. Why? What could bring him so low? And why did the world see fit to grant him such skills and we…”
The giant Dullahan’s voice turned rough. His fist closed over the knife as if to snap it, and his arm tensed. But then his face sagged, and he gently opened his hand. He stared down at the beautiful knife and gently handed it, tang first, to Erin. She looked at the blade and touched the cool metal softly. Maughin’s eyes were sad.
“What good is the purity of metal if the hammer that shapes it lacks heart?”
She had no answer. Part of Erin felt bad for egging on Pelt to begin with. She remembered the Dwarf’s face, that look of deepest regret and anger.
“Everyone has a story. Everyone has a past. Sometimes we can’t get past it. I…shouldn’t have bugged Pelt. I think he made a mistake and he’s still hurting.”
“Wisdom. I hear it spoken.”
The [Armorer] nodded heavily. He let Erin look at the knife for a second and then waved a hand.
“Take it to a [Sharpener]. Do you know Lorent? He spoke to me of you, and he is one of the best. He can finish the knife; one of my apprentices can fit the handle if he cannot.”
The young woman looked up.
“You’re sure? But Pelt threw it away, and I didn’t pay—”
“Take it, Erin Solstice. It would be a crime to waste that metal. And a better knife you will not have from Pallass’ forges, I promise you. If Pelt seeks the cost of the work, I’ll pay him myself. To see him working with his heart was worth the cost. Now, I have work to finish.”
He walked off. Erin clutched the knife, feeling the not-yet fully sharp edge biting into her palm. She stared around at the crowd, the smiths going back to their forges, and shook her head.
“And just when I thought Pallass would be relaxing. I guess this is something else for my to-do list. As for you? You’re coming with me, friend.”
She lifted the knife and began to walk away. It wasn’t how Erin would have preferred to end her day, for all she had a knife ready to be sharpened, practically free of charge. She wished it had ended differently and wished she could hear that glorious sound again and see the Dwarf’s face, lit up and laughing. But the sound was faded. Though the hammering and roar of the furnaces began once again, it was a quiet sound.
But on another continent, the hammer still fell, and a girl with a veil screamed her purpose silently in the echoing forge.
 
——
 
How long had she worked? Trey had no notion. The hours had passed as he stood there, watching her. Sweat ran down her face. Her veil was wet, despite the heat. Her face was pale.
She couldn’t breathe. Not until she left the circle. But she kept returning to it. Again and again, even when Daiton had stopped his work. He had tried to continue, but his arms had tired. So had his apprentices. They had stopped, and now they watched with the rest.
Down the hammer fell. Down again and again. In a place without air. On a piece of metal without flaw. And it glowed in a forge without flame. But the product, the metal being shaped, had something the others’ blades lacked.
The complacent. The inexperienced. The weak of heart. All fell away in time. But she kept going. She had fewer Skills, less experience than some. But her drive kept her standing. Her will let the hammer rise and fall.
She was spending less and less time in the circle. Her walking was slower. But she refused to let the metal overheat. She refused to stop. And as the sword emerged from the metal Nawal had folded, Trey saw the beauty of it. It was not hidden like the other swords; it was there, bared to see. A shining blade, heating and cooling on the anvil.
There was no scaling; the previous folding of the steel had burned the impurity away, and Nawal had swept the ground clean again and again. Between heats, she’d even cleaned her hammer and anvil. Now the metal bar slowly extended, earning a point, a recurved spine and a long, cutting edge.
“She’s dying.”
That was all Trey said as Nawal walked slowly around the circle. Her shoulders were slumped. She looked impossibly worn. But her clan refused to let anyone go near her. Nawal herself had only stopped to drink water.
“She is nearly finished. The task was long. Longer than she would take normally since she purified the steel. But she is nearly done.”
Silmak stood with his arms folded. Sweat stood out on his brow despite the cooling air as the sun set. He had been maintaining both spells, and his vigil was as taxing as Nawal’s work in its way. He pointed with a strained finger.
“Look. She heats the edge alone. This is the final time. The quenching. After this, it is done.”
“What if she gets it wrong? If the edge isn’t sharp?”
Silmak looked back at Trey and shook his head.
“She will only quench it once. If she fails, the sword is worthless. See how she heats only the edge? She can tell how much heat is in the blade. It must be perfect or else the spine will be too hot, the edge too cool.”
“But—”
Trey’s voice trailed off. That was the Tannousin clan’s way, wasn’t it? Perfection or nothing. He imagined all the hours of work going to waste. And he prayed Nawal would do it correctly.
“The oil.”
A group of men led by Hesseif dragged the barrel over. Into the circle where air wasn’t permitted. Not even here would air touch and corrupt the blade. Trey saw Nawal lift the bright edge as the rest of the blade cooled, dark or red. He thought she hesitated once. Then she turned and approached the barrel of oil.
There was no ceremony. Nawal thrust the sword into the oil, and it began to bubble and froth the moment she thrust the blade in. Yet there was not the same rush of steam in this vacuum of oxygen. Nawal stayed there, gently shifting the sword, pulling it out of the oil, dipping it back in. And then the sword came out, and Nawal turned. She stepped out of the circle and held the sword up. And she spoke in a voice hoarse from hours of disuse.
“It is done.”
A sigh ran through the Tannousin clan. The smiths around Daiton stared. The sword Nawal held dripped with oil. But more than that. It gleamed.
There was no scaling, no soot or burnt metal. Nothing a traditional fire or quench would leave on the steel. Nawal had hammered the metal so finely, with such precision, that no marks existed on the smooth metal.
It was not perfect. There was no handle or hilt to the sword, just the bared tang. And Trey could see the edge wasn’t there yet. But the metal still looked beautiful. It had taken so little of…of anything, be it soot or that scaling on Daiton’s blades. It was just metal, gleaming after the oil bath.
“Who will sharpen it?”
Nawal looked around. She staggered, and hands reached out. Bezha caught her. Another man took the blade, as careful as could be. A grindstone appeared, and smaller files were produced as the Tannousin clan members gathered around the blade. Silmak turned to Trey and the other watchers.
“Hers is to shape the metal. The rest of the clan performs other tasks, such as sharpening the edge, detailing it. Etching with acid. We will only sharpen today.”
He bowed slightly. Trey bowed back, not knowing what else to do. He heard a noise and looked sideways. Daiton was staring at the blade as it was slowly sharpened with exacting care. The [Blacksmith] spoke through numb lips.
“I—have not seen a [Smith] make a sword from a raw piece of steel in a day for years. Let alone…what level are you? Who taught you?”
He looked at Nawal. The girl was being held up by Bezha and another woman. She spat the veil out of her mouth as they offered her water and something to eat. But her eyes were no less fierce than they had been this morning. She looked Daiton in the eye.
“I am Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. My father forged Naq-Alrama steel. That is my only claim, but he taught me all he knew, and if I lie, may my blood water the sands.”
The older smith met Nawal’s gaze. This time, it was he who looked away, not her. He stared at Trey, and his voice was lost.
