“I have heard of the desert tribes and their famous smiths. But I thought there was little difference, even for magical steel. I thought…”
He said nothing more. He just looked at Nawal’s blade. And Trey felt bad for him. Nawal sat down as her tribe worked on the sword, passing it from person to person. From rough grinding of the edge to delicate work with smoother stones. The blade grew sharper with each person until Trey was worried for the hands that ran across the edge. But the Tannousin clan was experienced, and not one drop of blood touched the ground.
Trey didn’t know what to do next. Daiton was sitting in his forge, staring at the magical circle as Silmak slowly destroyed it with his foot. Everyone else was just staring at the blade or being silent. He looked at Nawal and then saw something heading towards them.
From the palace. A tall figure strode towards them, followed by four other figures. Carrying parasols. Orthenon and four members of Parasol Stroll including Mirin and Ulyse walked towards the forge. The smiths, the Tannousin clan, and Trey all looked up as the King’s Stewards approached.
Orthenon asked no questions. Neither did he waste time on greetings. He looked down at the sword a young woman held with a piece of cloth.
“The sword. It is done?”
Everyone looked at Silmak. The [Shaman] bowed.
“Not yet, Steward Orthenon. It must still be sharpened thrice more.”
The Steward nodded.
“Perfect the edge, then. But do it quickly and without error. And the second it is finished, hand it to Mage Ulyse.”
He stood there, waiting, and the four [Mages] behind him folded their parasols and waited. Trey expected the Tannousin clan to be nervous, and they clearly were, but even that didn’t let them hurry their work. Fifteen minutes later, the blade was passed to Silmak. He hesitated, then handed it to Nawal. She took the blade and, with both hands, offered it tang-first to the Steward.
“It lacks a handle, Lord Orthenon—”
Silmak cautioned the man. Orthenon shook his head.
“That does not matter at the moment. Ulyse. This blade. Will it do?”
The [Mage] sighed. He lifted a finger, and the sword spun through the air towards him. It paused in the air, and he touched it gently.
“Ah, this is a pure thing. Can you feel it, Mirin? It will hold an enchantment. But which one?”
“We are four. Strength is all we could manage, surely.”
The young woman murmured to him. Ulyse nodded.
“Four. Strengthening it is. Together, then.”
He looked at the other four [Mages]. They all raised their parasols and opened them as one. It was more than a symbolic gesture—as they did, Trey felt them casting a spell. Out of sight, invisible, but for Ulyse’s moving lips, the hypnotic swirl of Mirin’s colorful parasol. But Trey saw it, saw the magic wrap and weave as the four, led by Ulyse, twisted it around the blade.
And then—did they tie a knot? No, that wasn’t the word for it. They tied the magic into the metal, anchored it in some way Trey couldn’t describe, only see. And the enchantment made the blade glow in Trey’s vision. A complex spell held in the blade, but a simple purpose even he could understand at his low level.
Strength.
“Done.”
Ulyse announced softly. He lifted his finger, and the sword twisted around. It returned to Orthenon, back first, and he gently lifted the blade out of the air. Inspected it. Ulyse leaned on his parasol, suddenly tired, but his smile was one of satisfaction.
“It will not break so easily, and great force will be needed for the blade to so much as bend. It is not what we could do if there were eight or even sixteen, but I think any [Enchanter] would pronounce it decent work.”
“Good. Nawalishifra of Tannousin.”
The young woman roused herself a second time. Orthenon handed her the sword. It glittered as she took it, gripping the spine gingerly, staring at the metal.
“It is enchanted? Just like that? Then it is no longer my blade.”
“You forged it. The [Mages] simply gave it the power. I’m told it is simpler if the metal is newly made.”
“Simpler for you, maybe.”
Ulyse grumbled. The other tired [Mages] nodded. Orthenon ignored them.
“Present this to His Majesty. Daiton. Bring one of your blades. My king has heard of your bet, and he wishes to see both swords.”
“He’s here? He’s back?”
Trey looked up, alarmed. He stared towards the sky. The sun was nearly set! Orthenon shook his head.
“He is returning. You can see his progress down the northern road. He will be here within the hour. And a banquet shall be held then.”
He turned. Orthenon strode away. But Trey followed him this time. He ran to the edge of the walls and exclaimed. The others, smiths, Tannousin clan, followed. And they shouted too.
 
——
 
“Nawal! Nawal, come see!”
Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin was so tired. Her lungs burned. Her arms hurt more than she could remember them ever aching. She had pushed herself so hard. But she refused to fall down like some weak coward. She clutched the sword to her, then realized she might actually fall on her blade. And wouldn’t that be a disgraceful end? So she looked around.
“Hesseif. Guard this until the King of Destruction touches it.”
The big [Warrior] accepted the blade with reverence. He nodded, and Nawal turned to the insistent voice calling her name.
“What is it, you…you loud-mouthed boy?”
Trey smiled at Nawal, his eyes lighting up.
“Come and see! It’s what you wanted!”
He reached out and, to Nawal’s shock, tugged her by the arm. She staggered after him, half ready to flay him with her tongue if she could but find the words. But her insults stilled in her mouth as she reached the parapet.
The forge was located on a rise. Outside of the castle, but still within an inner wall. Beyond it lay the city of Reim. But further still, you could see the north road. On it came a procession.
And there it was. Nawal’s eyes widened as the others helped her towards the edge of the parapet with Trey. She clung to the stone, her knees suddenly weak.
A glittering train slowly rode across the darkening landscape. A procession of horses, mounted warriors, and, swarming to meet them, a crowd of Reim’s people. But it was the wagons Nawal stared at. Even from this far away, she saw they were laden with treasure.
Gold, catching the sunset light. Gemstones. Treasures of magic and art. They filled the wagons and shone with light. A man rode at their head. A figure flanked by two smaller riders. Nawal saw a glint of red and gold as he raised his hand towards his city. And she turned and saw Trey’s smile.
In days of old, it was said that the King of Destruction’s city flowed with wealth. Every day, caravans would enter the city, bringing treasures from the world over.
Nawal had thought it was a lie. She had looked upon Reim and seen the small truth buried behind the myth. Or so she’d thought. But now she looked upon the glittering train of wagons below and saw a different truth.
It was not an endless stream, just eight or so wagons. The streets were hardly paved with gold, and the [Beggars] weren’t as rich as [Lords]. But the King of Destruction still rode through his city, followed by a caravan heaped with gold and artifacts. When the roar of the crowd that flocked out to meet him reached Nawal’s ears, it felt like the entire palace shook.
“Legends. So it’s true. There is truth in his stories.”
She wavered on the parapet. The King of Destruction was riding through his city. And it felt like he was looking up at her. Her head felt light. Her knees weak. Nawal breathed shallowly.
Trey smiled at her. He looked at Nawal’s pale face and then at the shining blade still held in Hesseif’s hands.
“Some things are true. There are legends. And the King of Destruction fits his stories. His vassals are the kind of thing you read about in stories. But I think…I think you’ll fit right in among them, Nawal.”
She looked at him. Trey pointed at her blade. She wanted to laugh. That bit of metal? Hardly. But he meant what he said. He was a fool. But she couldn’t help but like that. Nawal smiled at him. A genuine smile. Then she wavered and fell.
Trey caught her before she hit the ground.
