“Steward Orthenon, I hate to interrupt, but I crave an audience on the word of our trainees. The one His Majesty ordered us to induct into our ranks?”
“Of course. Speak.”
Orthenon turned to face the leader, who was named Jelaim. The leader of the Stitch-folk nodded, and the Stitch-Woman beside him stepped forwards. She unsheathed her daggers, and Trey gulped as he saw the blades flash out. But it was a flourish, nothing more. Jelaim grinned at him and Gazi seated at the table.
“Morning’s greetings to you, young Trey, and to you, Lady Pathseeker! You see our weapons? Enchanted blades, and poisoned in their sheaths.”
The daggers the female warrior twirled in her grip were indeed coated with a dark black substance, and the metal beneath shone bright silver, too bright for the banquet hall’s lighting. They were curved and wicked, and Trey knew the Serpent Hunters were considered some of the best warriors present at the moment.
Orthenon, who was one of the best warriors in the entire kingdom, perhaps the world, didn’t look impressed.
“I’m aware of the Serpent Hunters’ arms, Jelaim. What is your point?”
“Ah, Steward! The point is only that we lack more such weapons to give to our trainees! We have dozens now, learning our tricks and fighting, but we can give them no weapons that will not corrode with our venoms. We need weapons.”
Jelaim struck an anguished pose, and the Stitch-Warriors behind him performed parodies of the same pose. That was another thing. String People could be extraordinarily dramatic. Trey almost laughed, but Orthenon just sighed.
“We have steel blades being churned out in our forges. You’ve seen Smith Daiton’s work. If you need new weapons, I can order him to focus on blades for your recruits.”
“But that is steel, Steward Orthenon. Our blades must be at least enchanted to not decay with our poisons. Can more not be spared from His Majesty’s treasury?”
Jelaim protested, looking from Orthenon to Gazi. Orthenon frowned, shaking his head.
“We have few enchanted blades, aside from the collection Mars brought, and those are already distributed amongst our officers. I understand your problem now. Mage Ulyse!”
He raised his voice. Another body turned in the hall, and Trey saw a second notable group turn and move towards them. The Serpent Hunters turned as a pair of [Mages] in long robes walked towards them. But these [Mages] were also unique; both carried light parasols, bright and colorful, ostensibly to block out the sun.
But Parasol Stroll, as they were known, was a [Mage] group in which each of their members carried a parasol that was enchanted to enhance their magic and even cast spells on its own, like a staff or wand other [Mages] used. The two of them, a middle-aged man and a younger woman, approached. Orthenon addressed the man swiftly.
“Mage Ulyse, Mage Mirin, I’m aware Parasol Stroll is already busy performing the work of the Mage’s Guild and coordinating the rest of Reim’s magical needs. But have you an [Enchanter] or a [Mage] capable of enchanting blades for Jelaim’s warriors?”
“Ah. Enchantments is it? We know a few spells, if only to make our parasols. But I’m afraid the task isn’t that simple. Hm. No it is not.”
Ulyse, the leader of Parasol Stroll, had distant eyes and greying hair. He never quite looked anyone in the eyes, but Trey, who was himself learning to be a [Mage], could sense his magical power hidden behind his vacant stare. Ulyse had a bright yellow parasol, which looked to be made of silk or some other shiny cloth and embroidered with moons of silver. It was closed, but Ulyse tapped the tip on the ground as he thought.
“What is the problem, Ulyse? If you need blades, we have enough to spare from the forges. Even if some are lost to the enchanting process.”
Orthenon frowned, crossing his arms. Ulyse shook his head. Despite the [Steward]’s impatience, he couldn’t be rushed as he gave his reply.
“The quality of metal…is not good. Yes. That’s how I would say it. Metal requires purity, and we have seen Smith Daiton’s blades. Beautiful, but flawed. Incapable of holding enchantments, right, Mirin?”
“Yes. They are combination steel. Imperfect. Good for weapons. Poor for enchantments.”
The younger [Mage] spoke up. Mirin was quiet, her face shadowed, her voice soft. She was the kind of girl Trey might have fallen in love with at home, older than him by about six years, and reluctant to speak, but erudite when she did. Orthenon nodded.
“There you have it, Captain Jelaim. We did bring in a smith from the Tannousin clan, but she is not obligated to make blades for us. I will inquire, but until then, all we have is steel.”
“Oh. Tannousin has sent one of their [Smiths]? Perhaps there is hope after all.”
Jelaim had been sagging, but now his eyes shone. He turned to Orthenon.
“Where is this smith? And how long will she stay? Does she pass through?”
“She is staying to forge a blade for His Majesty. As for the rest, I would ask that you not make requests of her until His Majesty has spoken with her clan. I must return to my work, but Trey will be able to answer any questions you have.”
Orthenon’s brisk voice gave Trey the impression he’d be checking his watch if he had one. He turned, nodded once as a goodbye, and strode out of the banquet hall, moving so fast Trey felt the wind pass him by. That was Orthenon for you; he was like lightning on a horse too.
Jelaim didn’t seem put out by Orthenon’s speedy departure. He turned to Trey and swept another bow. Trey copied it awkwardly.
“Ah, Trey! So you’ve caused another stir! And so early yet! Not even lunch past. Have you finished your meal? I wouldn’t wish to bother you while you eat.”
“Thank you. But I’m done, uh, Captain Jelaim?”
“Captain!”
Jelaim laughed, and the other two String People behind him laughed as well. Trey turned red as Ulyse and Mirin smiled, but politely. Gazi—well, she was already grinning.
“Don’t call me Captain, Trey Atwood! Captain is a term for a class, for soldiers! True, I might be a mercenary captain, but I have none of these classes. Call me Serpent Hunter Jelaim or Hunter Jelaim if you must stick to honorifics. But I would prefer my name and be honored to use yours!”
Trey blinked at that little speech.
“Serpent Hunter? Then that means you…hunt serpents?”
Again, Jelaim laughed, slapping his thigh as if Trey was hilarious. Which, from Mirin’s quiet chuckle, he was.
“I am a [Serpent Hunter]. Not that I always hunt serpents. But from this class we have built our group. It’s a class that uses poison in our weapons, you see?”
“Of course. And you’re, uh, taking new recruits? Is that what you said?”
Jelaim nodded. He gestured to the curved blade at his side.
“Training. His Majesty welcomed us into his home. We will fight his enemies of course, but he desires us to take any of the String Folk into our ranks and teach them our ways. Thus, our ranks swell with dozens of new recruits already, and perhaps hundreds or thousands should His Majesty claim a land filled with our kind.”
“Why only String People? Is that one of your rules? Do you not teach Humans?”
Jelaim shook his head.
“Not out of malice, no. But practicality. String People can take off a limb as easily as you take off clothes, Trey Atwood. If we are struck by a snake, we can remove our arm before the poison spreads. How can poison damage cloth? It may ruin it, but a new arm can always be woven. Humans are not so fortunate. It is a miracle your people ever settled Chandrar, but here you are.”
He grinned at Trey, gesturing to one of his bare shoulders, at the golden thread. Trey nodded slowly.
“Well I, uh, I’m happy to help if I can. But like Orthenon said, Nawal is only here to forge a blade.”
“But you know her by name. I don’t suppose you’d be able to…? No, no, we should not intercede until His Majesty returns. When that occurs, I will ask for your help perhaps.”
Jelaim shook his head, looking crestfallen. He glanced at his companions.
“Until then, we will have to teach without venom. Perhaps dyes? To make the recruits understand a single cut to themselves is deadly. We will work on it. But I will leave you to finish your meal, courteous Trey. And you, Lady Pathseeker, Mage Ulyse, and Mage Mirin.”
He bowed, and the two String Warriors behind him did likewise before retreating. Trey blinked at them. He was about to return to his cold bread when the [Mage] coughed. Ulyse sat down across from Trey and blinked at him.
“Ah, Trey. I meant to speak with you.”
Trey stared at Ulyse, mouth open, about to take a bite of his bread. Ulyse stared past his ear.
“I understand Lady Gazi is quite adept at teaching. But—perhaps her focus is narrow? If we had time, one of our members would aid with your instruction, Trey Atwood. This is what I meant to bring up, an offer for later as Jelaim did.”
He said that despite Gazi being right across from him. Trey hesitated.
“Er, thank you? But Gazi’s teaching me a lot. Quite…quite a lot. I don’t want to put you to any trouble.”
“Ah, but His Majesty, our [King] Flos, asked. And we have been too busy to follow his wishes. And a young [Mage] should have as much instruction as possible.”
Ulyse blinked slowly at something only he could see, shaking his head sadly.
“However, Parasol Stroll is much smaller than the Serpent Hunters, as befits a group of [Mages].”
“But no less deadly.”
Gazi cut in, smiling slightly at Ulyse. The [Mage] bowed back, and Mirin raised her parasol and unfolded it. Her bright crimson-and-indigo parasol spun as she bowed, an elaborate gesture for such a simple compliment.
“You honor us, Lady Pathseeker. Our numbers do indeed allow us to fight an army many times larger, but I fear it is still a weakness. Especially since we serve as His Majesty’s sole [Mages].”
Ulyse looked mournful. Then he took Trey’s bread and began to eat it, speaking to the young man and to the air again.
“We are stretched thin. Too thin, accompanying the armies in Hellios and Germina to provide magical aid and protection as well as to send basic [Message] spells. Reim lacks for [Mages]; all left in His Majesty’s slumber. And Reim never had as many [Mages] as some nations even in its glory. Only the one was famed throughout the world.”
Mirin nodded. She spoke quietly.
“Amerys. If she were here, His Majesty Flos would not need to fear enemy [Mages], at least. One wonders why she has remained in Wistram. Perhaps she truly has turned traitor. A strange thought, though.”
“Yes.”
The word came from Gazi. It was so heavy that Ulyse’s eyes focused on her, and both he and Mirin as well as Trey hesitated. All four of Gazi’s eyes had focused for a moment on Mirin. And her smile was gone.
At once, both [Mages] stood up. Ulyse nodded.
‘We’ve given offence.”
“It was not taken.”
Gazi smiled, but it was her fake smile that Trey had learned to spot. Ulyse was not fooled either.
“We leave you to your lunch, Trey. But one more thing. I think you still have a staff in your quarters? Mirin complains that it gives off an aura at night.”
Trey jumped.
“How did you—”
Ulyse nodded.
“It was a powerful staff you took from the [Geomancer]. A useful tool for magic, but not if you lack the spells or experience to control it. We can teach you how to use it to augment your powers. I will speak to Orthenon or Lady Gazi when we have time to teach you more spells. Until then, Trey Atwood.”
He bowed and turned. Both of Parasol Stroll headed away from their table. Trey stared at their backs, at his now-empty plate, and at Gazi.
“Are all of King Flos’ vassals a bit crazy like that, Gazi?”
The half-Gazer looked at Trey with all four eyes, and he shuddered. But then her eyes unfocused, and two rolled back in her head.
“They are all unique, Trey. As people are. I am no longer hungry.”
“Because of what Ulyse said about, er, Amerys? He’s a bit weird, but he doesn’t mean—”
“I don’t take offence from him, Trey. But what he said is true. Amerys was loyal. If she is not returned, it is concerning. We need her. And if she is an enemy, we must know.”
Gazi stood up. She walked away from the table, and a servant took her plate. She spoke without looking back at Trey.
“I will find you tomorrow to practice more spells. This time, bring the staff. You will learn to cast [Featherfall] with it.”
Trey gulped, but he didn’t dare protest. Then Gazi was gone too, and Trey had to return his plate and cup to the servants in the kitchen himself.
A room, no, a kingdom full of adults who all knew more than he did. All busy, all with their own interests, which were all in service to Flos. It was enough to make Trey lose his marbles sometimes. He wandered out of the banquet hall before someone else could find him. Trey hurried down the corridors of servants until he reached one of the unused wings of the palace reserved for guests, where far fewer people visited.
And then he was alone. No Gazi, none of Flos’ vassals. Just alone to do whatever he pleased. Which was what Trey had wanted, but somehow it left him empty.
“Swords with poison. Orthenon going to talk to the Quarass and a [Queen]. [Mages] with their spells. And what am I supposed to do? What about you, Teres? How useful are we to Flos except as…as entertainment? Inspiration for him?”
Trey scuffed along the corridor, scowling. He didn’t know how strong Jelaim was, but the Stitch-Man looked fit and agile, and his companion had made those curved daggers flash. He’d seen Orthenon and Gazi fight. And he could feel Ulyse and Mirin’s power radiating from them and their parasols. It made Trey feel like an ant. So, and because Gazi expected him to, he began to practice magic. Of all the things in this world, that alone was actually fun.
“[Light]. [Sand Arrow]. Combine it to…[Lightsand Arrow]!”
A ball of light appeared and then a spinning projectile of dust, of sand, forming into a blunt projectile. The two merged, and a flash of light shot down the hallway, busting into a shower of sand that would have blinded a foe. Trey grinned—he could perform that spell with his bare hands! He shot another [Lightsand Arrow].
It was a weak spell, but it could blind an opponent, and Gazi had taught him to aim perfectly with it. He hit a patch on the wall, a spot on the ceiling—and then saw the [Servant] with the dust cloth down the corridor glaring at him. She was cleaning, and he was getting the sand everywhere.
“Sorry. I’ll clean it up. [Sand Sprite].”
