“That is—I’ve had fellow [Smiths] insult my work before, but never to my face. And never in my own forge! You claim my work is flawed, girl? My steel is poor? Try one of my swords! And look at me! Do you have a problem with my skills and experience?”
Nawal refused to meet Daiton’s eyes. She looked deliberately at Trey.
“Trey Atwood. Deliver a message to Master Daiton. Tell him he should melt down his hammer and use it for scrap metal where it would do some good. Or cut off his hands and live with the goats, old fool that he is for thinking he produces fine craftsmanship. I have seen better swords rusting in the sands, young though I am. I spit on the idea that he is a master smith worthy of working in the King of Destruction’s forges!”
Her voice rang in the silence. Trey’s mouth hung open in silence. So did half the men in the shop. The other half straightened, and the look in their eyes was murderous. Trey glanced up at Daiton and flinched at the look in the older smith’s eyes. He spread his hands and looked around nervously.
“Uh, what I think she meant to say was—”
 
——
 
Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin had a reputation. Believe it or not, she was known to have something of a sharp tongue. Something of an attitude. Woman or not, her blistering remarks and insults had been known to cut more than one manhood down to size. That was why the elders and headman of her tribe had feared to send her out. Not just because she might give offence as a woman, but because her tongue might get her into trouble.
Actually, that had been true both of Nawal and her brother, Allaif. Where his over-exaggerated promises and sometimes outright lies and flattery had gotten the clan into trouble, Nawal’s remarks had been just as disastrous. But Bezha, Silmak, and Hesseif had all known Nawal since she was a child, and it had been hoped they would be enough to rein her in.
But no one had expected her to create this much of a disaster on the first day. Nawal stood, not exactly staring past Bezha, as the older woman screamed at her outside of the forge. All the [Smiths] in the King of Destruction’s employ were engaged with a glaring contest with the Tannousin folk, and the forge had gone to a standstill.
“Nawal, you fool, you imbecile! Did we not say to mind your tongue? Instead, you have given offence at the first sign! And now a bet?”
“I simply said that I could forge a better blade than the so-called Master Daiton could within the span of a day. I spoke no lies. He was the one who challenged me to prove my words, and so I will.”
Nawal tossed her head. She ducked as Bezha took a swing at her face.
“You idiot! You sharp-tongued cow of a hornet, you! Why say that? Why challenge the King of Destruction’s personal smith? What difference is a bit of skill?”
Nawal caught the second slap headed towards her face. She spoke sharply.
“It is not just skill, Bezha! It is the quality of the metal itself! Or did you not see and test the swords? Look, you fool with your eyes only towards me!”
She pointed. Both she and Bezha stared around the forge. They stared at the angry [Blacksmiths], at the metal chunks and billets of steel waiting to be hammered out, and at the swords in progress.
After Nawal’s insult, Daiton had been on the verge of throwing her and Trey out of the forge. Until she’d made her claim. Then he’d lost his temper for real and demanded she bring her clan. Which she’d done. All thirty-two of them were gathered outside the forge, and Hesseif and Silmak were inspecting the swords that Daiton had so proudly shown Trey, doing the same inspection of the metal.
They were also eying the crucible steel, the round mounds of steel that Daiton and his apprentices forged from raw iron. Nawal was familiar with the process, and she could see the raw metal sitting, waiting to be pounded into billets. But it was bad metal. Silmak approached and handed Bezha one of the crucibles, her face changed to a look of dismay.
Crucibles. Trey, who was standing and watching from the side, looking very nervous, had to have what they were explained by one of Daiton’s apprentices. Nawal of course knew instantly. Crucibles were the containers in which you smelted metals, transforming them like in the case of iron, into steel.
In this case, Daiton used little pots, about the size of two hands in height, which he’d fill with cast iron on the bottom, pure iron and a bit of charcoal higher up. Then he’d seal the pot to make it airtight and heat it up hot in a smelter. If done right, you’d get a puck of steel, which was actual steel as opposed to weaker iron.
That in itself was worthy of praise—not every [Blacksmith] could refine steel so well. And as Daiton shouted, it was an insult to think his steel was inferior to any other metal.
“It’s beautiful metal! You look at this, Sir Trey! Tell that girl, who won’t even look me in the eye, that this is quality metal! See how it’s flawless?”
He showed Trey the puck of metal, and Trey had to agree. The steel wasn’t smooth, but it looked like one solid bit of metal. But that was because he was an amateur. Bezha was staring at the puck and then the bar of flattened steel that one of the apprentices had made out of it.
“The grain of the metal is so large. And they made it from this? I can see the slag on the bottom. Did they remove the impurity?”
“No. Look. This is the bar one of the apprentices was using.”
Silmak handed Bezha one of the straightened pieces of metal, a long rectangle of steel. It was fairly straight and ready to be transformed, Nawal could give it that. But Bezha recoiled as she saw the soot and griminess of the metal.
“That’s how city smiths do their work?”
“In open air forges, no less. If they were making something simple, I could understand. But blades?”
Silmak shook his head. He looked at the sword Hesseif was inspecting and then raised his voice as he addressed the rest of his clan.
“Nawalishifra is right. A Tannousin [Blacksmith] would never work so. The steel is inferior; a blacksmith of our clan could make a superior sword.”
A rumble went through the listening smiths. The Tannousin clan members looked at each other, nodding silently in agreement. Daiton’s face purpled, but Trey seized his arm.
“Master Daiton! They’re guests of His Majesty!”
“Guests or not, I won’t have some tribe—even Tannousin—stride into my forge and insult me! That girl claims she can make a better sword? Prove it or get out and never sully my forge again!”
He pointed at Nawal. All eyes went to her. Bezha closed hers, but didn’t argue as Silmak and Hesseif looked at Nawal.
“Nawal. Can you forge a sword today?”
“If you prepare my space, I will.”
Silmak nodded. He turned and clapped his hands.
“Clear the space. We need brooms. Water.”
“They can use one of our spaces. Listen up, lads! This is a contest! These outsiders think our blades are pig iron crap! Well, I’ve a mind to forge a sword and shove it down their throats!”
Daiton turned and roared at his apprentices, who let out a hoarse cheer. They rushed into the forge, clearing a spot as they glared at the Tannousin. The clan split the forge down the center as Daiton’s people evacuated, and to Trey’s astonishment, began clearing everything out of the way!
Tools, the other anvils, even the ground. A broom appeared and then a bucket of water. The clan washed the floor as they carted out all of the objects on their side of the room. Daiton turned red again, but he whirled around as the Tannousin clan emptied the forge of everything.
They left a single anvil in the large space they’d cleared. But they didn’t bother filling the forge with charcoal, and instead, Silmak, their leader, produced some chalk and began drawing on the floor! He drew a huge circle around the anvil as Hesseif and three other men returned, lugging a huge box made of…stone?
Yes, it was a stone box which they set on a stand of stone at chest height. Trey peeked inside and saw the interior of the box was filled with glowing runes. His eyes stung, and he wiped them. Then he realized the circle that Silmak was drawing was filled with the same runes.
“Excuse me, what are you doing?”
“Trey Atwood. I am preparing Nawalishifra’s forging space. Please, do not interfere with the circle. I would tell you of its nature, but these are Tannousin secrets, and I ask you to look away.”
Reluctantly, Trey did. Silmak finished drawing on the stone floor of Daiton’s shop with the chalk and clapped his hands. The circle blazed with magical light, and Daiton swore.
“Magic? In my shop? Are you trying to enchant that anvil? It doesn’t matter if the anvil or the hammer’s enchanted! With my Skills—”
“We are not enchanting anything. We are preparing a space. The metal decides the quality of the sword. Not the tools used.”
Nawal snapped at Daiton, although she had to glare at Trey to do it. The smith turned purple again, but he turned and stalked off, leaving Silmak to finish preparing. He shouted at his apprentices.
“Get me some of our unfinished swords! Yes, those billets! We’ll finish our swords, and I’ll do some myself! Where’s my hammer gone?”
Trey could see Daiton’s forge busy at work while the master blacksmith scowled at the Tannousin clan. And the young man could tell that the forge was filled with experts, no matter what Nawal said. The forging of the swords went something like this as far as he could tell: the metal was first heated in one of the huge forges, which were filled with coals or charcoal or something, a blazing heat that was making him sweat even from where he was standing.
Once the metal was glowing with heat—not just red, but orange—the smith would take it over to the anvil with some tongs where he would instantly begin striking the metal with a hammer. Or even just holding it while another man lifted a huge sledgehammer of a tool and struck it, flattening it out.
The process was meant to hammer the metal out, turn it from the lumps of steel into something resembling a sword. Trey could see how hard it was. Even when it was hot, the metal was tough, and a smith had to be careful to hit it hard enough to make the steel deform and move, but not so hard as to split the metal or bend it in the wrong direction. It would take weeks or maybe months for some of the apprentices to hammer the steel from a crucible cast into a sword, but Daiton could do the work faster. He showed Trey, turning his back on the Tannousin clan members as they continued to set up.
“Look at that! Without a Skill, you’d spend hours doing what I just did. That’s why my forge can produce so quickly. I can handle the first shaping of metal, and my apprentices can take care of the details. And if I need to, I can take a sword from the raw steel to the finished blade myself! What’s wrong with my method? My steel?”
“I don’t know, Master Daiton. Nawal’s, uh, prickly. But she is good, I think. It’s just—”
A voice interrupted them. Trey turned. Nawal was standing behind him. She was still veiled, and her clothes still covered most of her body, but she’d rolled up her sleeves. Her bare arms had muscle, and she held a hammer in one hand. Both Daiton and Trey stared at the odd sight. But Nawal’s voice was cold.
“Impure. Your steel is impure, and your forge only builds in more impurity, for all you clean away by striking it. We will show you true blacksmithing now. But we must have steel to do it. All we have brought is Naq-Alrama steel.”
“So. You’re ready with your little magic circle? Your forge isn’t even hot.”
Daiton pointed at the furnace, which was indeed flameless. Nawal stared at Trey.
“We have our own heat. Steel. Have you any of quality?”
“I have pucks and bars. All ready to be processed. Take your pick of my inferior steel and make me a better blade out of it!”
Daiton growled. Nawal looked at the bars of steel he’d indicated. She went over to some, grabbed one, discarded it, found another, tapped it against the table, listened, shook her head, and found another. It took her five minutes before she came back with eight bars of steel. Daiton’s eyes bulged.
“What are you doing with that? Do you plan on robbing me too?”
Nawal glared at Trey, who glared back. He was getting sick of being the supposed middleman!
“We steal nothing. But we need enough steel. This will do, I suppose. We must fold the steel.”
“What? It’s been folded! That’s good steel right there! We hammered it out of the pucks!”
Nawal gave Daiton a scornful glance before she caught herself.
“You hammered it into shape. But you did not fold it. Did you bend the metal on itself? How many times did you fold it, then? Ten times? Twenty? Sixty?”
“Sixty—you’d get nothing left if you folded steel that many times!”
“Nothing but pure steel.”
Nawal turned. Trey thought Daiton would tear out the rest of his hair, then. He threw up his hands, red-faced, furious.
“Fine! Take the steel! But you’d better have a sword by sundown or I will see you pay for all the steel you’ve wasted! Show me how fast you can make a sword!”
He snatched his hammer and strode away, his apprentices scattering in front of him. Trey found Daiton swearing and striking his hammer on the other side of the shop. The [Blacksmith] turned to him, glaring.
“They’ll never do it. A sword on top of folding all that metal? Never. That girl understands something of the craft, but she’s arrogant by far! I’ll make her tribe pay for all the metal they used, His Majesty’s orders or not.”
Trey feared this would come to Flos’ attention, but he didn’t know how to stop it. And part of him was curious to see if Nawal could back up her big words. He looked back at Nawal, who was laying the metal flat and speaking with Silmak, who was still busy with his magic circle.
“Uh, Master Daiton, what did you mean by folding steel?”
“Oh, that? She was talking about a way to purify the metal. That’s what gets me so angry. The girl, that Nawal’s right that our steel isn’t as pure as it can be. It’s pretty damn strong! But if you took it, heated it, and folded it in on itself, you’d hammer out more of the…eh, what do you call it?”
“Impurity?”
