Nawal shook her head. Both she and Trey stepped out of the way of the servant as she came down the corridor. They began walking, if only so Nawal could put Gazi’s ominous words behind her. She spoke briskly to Trey, taking solace in his simple nature. He couldn’t be that important and be so ignorant, could he?
“A woman should not speak to a man in the open, as he is in the midst of his work. By the same token, a man should not approach a woman before seeking her husband or brother or father first. In private, things are less important, and between family of course exceptions exist. But if I spoke to the King’s Steward? I would cut off my ears rather than hear of such idiocy from another of my clan!”
“But you’re speaking to me, and I’m male.”
Nawal snorted. Trey looked very hurt, so she explained.
“You’re a foreigner. You don’t count. Besides, I must see the King of Destruction’s forges if I am to work there, and neither Hesseif nor Silmak is willing to go. Those fools, they wish only to gossip of the King of Destruction’s legends and look about like children. But I am here to forge. So take me there, Trey Atwood.”
“The forges?”
“Yes! Surely the King of Destruction has his need for [Blacksmiths], even if they do not forge magical works of art with each passing day, each greater than the last! Surely he needs nails and tools for his servants to work! He does have forges, does he not?”
Nawal threw up her hands. She was going to hit Trey if he said no. The young man hesitated.
“I’m sure he does. No, he definitely does! There’s at least one master smith—of course, I can take you right to him!”
That was a relief. Nawal nodded and bowed.
“Lead on, then.”
Trey hesitated. He looked around, forwards, back, and then sheepishly pointed back at the servant making her way down the hall, grumbling about sand and [Mages].
“Uh, let me ask where to go.”
 
——
 
It took Trey fifteen minutes and two more servants to locate the forges. They weren’t in the castle, but outside of the main palace, for reasons that soon became obvious. The instant he approached the open-air forge, Trey was overwhelmed by the heat emanating from one of the furnaces, and the air was filled with the ringing of hammers on metal. He approached timidly, but made his way to one of the [Smiths]—mainly because Nawal was pushing him the entire way.
“Excuse me? Is Blacksmith Daiton here? I’m showing a guest around the palace, and, uh—”
Trey shouted at a laboring apprentice. The young man looked up, saw that it was Trey, and his eyes widened.
“Sir Trey! Let me get Master Daiton at once!”
He sprang up and hurried over to an older man with grey hair and a growing bald spot on his head. The [Blacksmith] came over, and Trey was astounded to have his hand shaken at once as the friendly smith came over. He knew Trey was one of Flos’ personal followers, and he was overjoyed to have Trey here. When he learned Nawal was a fellow [Smith], his grin spread ear to ear.
“I am Daiton, master [Blacksmith] of His Majesty’s forges. You won’t find a better smith in all of Reim, or Germina or Hellios, I’d wager! There are plenty of low-level sorts as we’re in demand, but I’m the most high-level—and oldest—by far in the area. It’s a delight to have you, Sir Trey, and you, young lady. Are you an apprentice by chance? It’s rare to have a woman practicing the craft, but welcome! I’d be honored if you used my forge so long as it’s here.”
He addressed Nawal directly, but she refused to reply. She’d suddenly turned shy. Nawal half-hid herself behind Trey, keeping her eyes to the ground and peeking around the forge furtively. She whispered to Trey urgently into his ear.
“Tell him I thank him for the great compliment and that I hope to learn from his expertise. Tell him I am Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin.”
Trey half-turned, frowning at Nawal.
“Why don’t you say it? You’re right—”
He received a jab to the back and a glare. Oh, right. Daiton was a native Chandrarian and Nawal was female. The [Smith] girl hissed at Trey.
“Tell him!”
“Er, sorry Master Daiton. This is Nawal. Ow! Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. She’s a [Blacksmith] come to forge a sword for His Majesty.”
“A smith of clan Tannousin?”
Daiton’s eyes widened, and several of the workers who’d heard looked around. Daiton immediately gave Nawal another look, but her eyes were lowered and her veil was tightly around her face.
“I’ve heard Tannousin smiths are some of the best in the deserts. And a female smith? I thought—no matter. You’re welcome twice over then, ah, Nawalish—Nawali—Nawal of Tannousin. Perhaps we could swap techniques, if you’d trade secrets.”
“She would accept that gladly, Master Daiton.”
Trey answered for Nawal. He looked around, listening to the whisper in his ear.
“Uh, Nawal wonders if this is your entire forge. Could we have a tour, maybe?”
Daiton nodded at once.
“Please, step inside. But mind the steel and sparks! This is indeed His Majesty’s forge. We have other buildings, but they’re disused, so this is the only active forge. Plenty of room, though! I’ve been here since His Majesty went into his slumber, and I waited right here until he woke up. I’d do it for another ten years without hesitation.”
He puffed his chest out, and Trey nodded appreciatively. Daiton gestured at the men working around the forge.
“I have eight workers I’m training. Journeymen [Blacksmiths], apprentices…I’m hoping to double that number when I can trust my senior workers by themselves. And have at least forty men working the forges around the hour in a few months! Even if Germina and Hellios start producing, there will be a great need for fresh weapons and armor, repairs, and that’s only for armies! Nails for houses, parts for barrels, and axles for wagons, tools for every sort of craft—”
“Arrowheads.”
One of the younger apprentices, younger than even Trey, groaned as he labored over an arrowhead. Daiton scowled at him.
“You want to be a [Fletcher]? Half of it’s making the arrowheads, Fedi! Don’t complain, you’ll level up! And once we have more craftsmen flowing back into the capital, you’ll stop having to make arrowheads all day long.”
“So your forge makes all the materials for the kingdom?”
Trey looked around, impressed. That was a lot of work! Daiton shook his head.
“Not all. But weapons? The vast majority. There’re two other [Smiths] in Reim at the moment, but they handle more mundane work. Myself? I make blades for His Majesty. Come and see. This is my signature work.”
He led Trey over to a barrel of swords. Daiton pulled one out, and Trey whistled as he saw a flash of steel. The smith handed the blade to Trey.
“Don’t worry, the edge isn’t sharpened yet. But this is a complete sword, one of many we’re making for the army. They’ve got old weapons, but new steel’s vital, and we’re working around the clock here to meet that demand. We’re hoping to have two hundred swords made and four times that many spears if we keep getting enough wood.”
“It’s so light!”
Trey had held Teres’ sword, but he was already impressed at how balanced and how light swords actually were. Nothing like the heavy things he’d imagined. Daiton laughed.
“Light and strong! You can flex that one and it won’t bend or snap! And look—this is what I meant by signature. See the steel? Give it a close look.”
Trey did. Then he saw what Daiton meant. There was a pattern on the blade! The steel wasn’t one, shiny uniform color. His eyes widened as he stared at the curvy lines running down the blade.
“Bugger me. Is that…I’ve seen this pattern before!”
Damascus steel. It looked exactly like it! Trey stared at the fine, wavy lines on the metal of the sword, almost like the patterns of wood grain or water running through the steel. Daiton puffed out his chest, delighted that Trey had noticed.
“Ah, sir! You have an eye for steel? You recognize the decoration? It’s pattern-steel. Forged from multiple types of steel, forge-welded and hammered together…all my swords are like that! Although you can only see the pattern on these ones.”
He indicated the swords in the barrel.
“These are obviously swords meant for officers. Note the etching and the hilt work? The rest of my apprentices can make swords to various degrees of quality, but we don’t bother etching those with acid.”
“Wow. That’s incredible!”
Each of the swords had its own unique pattern, and as Trey looked around, he saw more swords in the process of being made. And each one was made like that?
“It’s all pattern-welded, as I said. That’s my style. I take multiple layers of steel, forge them together, and create a blade out of the result. You see, it adds to the strength of the finished product, and it produces this lovely pattern. As steel forging goes, you’re hard-pressed to beat it.”
Daiton showed Trey what he meant. He’d taken several flat pieces of steel and melted the ends together. That turned into a ‘billet’, or a solid chunk of steel.
“See, the trick is you take these individual pieces and squeeze them together. Thus, weaker steels mix with the good if there are impurities or flaws, and the entire piece is stronger—and beautiful if you take the time to work it right. It’s a technique I use for every sword, and His Majesty himself has used some of my blades—although he breaks them with every other swing!”
Daiton laughed, and Trey, reminded of Flos’ insane strength, had to laugh too. He looked at Nawal, who was inspecting the sword Daiton had first shown Trey.
She didn’t look nearly as impressed as Trey thought. She peered at the edge and tapped the metal with her fingernail. She frowned closely at the pattern, then shook her head slightly. Daiton didn’t notice, but Trey walked back over.
“Isn’t it beautiful? Daiton’s a good smith, isn’t he?”
He desperately wanted Nawal to see something wonderful in Flos’ palace to impress her. But the veiled girl only shook her head.
“For art and an officer’s blade, I suppose? But it’s just a pattern. No more.”
“But that’s Damascus steel. It’s legendary, isn’t it? Really tough and really strong?”
Trey protested. That was Damascus, right? But Nawal was shaking her head.
“It’s not. I’ve seen steels with a similar pattern—you mean the steel that naturally has these little lines, don’t you? That’s a pure steel. Superior to this. This—this is just a pattern, made by the metal.”
Trey deflated slightly at Nawal’s matter-of-fact voice.
“Oh. But this is still a good sword, right?”
The look Nawal gave him was…well, it went straight through Trey. She leaned over and whispered to Trey as Daiton came back.
“Ask him to show you the ones he’s made. Not his apprentices.”
“What?”
“Anything the matter? I can show Miss Tannousin my process if she wishes.”
Daiton beamed at them. Trey gulped.
“Uh, Nawal was wondering if you had any of your blades she could see, Master Daiton.”
The man looked confused. He gestured to the sword Nawal was holding.
“Miss, uh, Nawal is holding it there.”
That was what Trey had thought. But Nawal gave both of them a surprised look. She eyed the blade again, closing one eye to stare at the metal. She tapped it and shook her head. She gestured at Trey, and he leaned over.
“What’s the matter? That’s the sword Daiton made.”
“But it’s impure. The steel isn’t that good. It’s a poor sword. Tell him that.”
“What? No it’s not. I can’t just—”
“Anything wrong?”
Daiton looked concerned. Trey glanced at his face and gestured helplessly at the blade.
“It’s, uh, Nawal is just studying the metal. She’s, uh, wondering about the quality. Of the metal?”
The smith nodded understandingly.
“It’s a fair question. We have to buy iron scrap—it used to be we got our shipments via caravan, but I suppose now we’ll have access to Hellios’ iron mines. That would certainly improve the quality of the iron. And our steel. Still, the pattern-welding accommodates even for poor stuff, so I’m confident we could do twice as many swords per week if…”
He stopped as Nawal finished inspecting the blade. She put it slowly in the barrel and turned to Trey.
“It’s a bad sword.”
“What?”
This time, Daiton heard. The smith’s jovial expression turned to shock and then anger in a second. Nawal glanced at him and then looked at Trey.
“Ask him how he made it.”
“He showed us, Nawal. With the metal and—”
Trey glanced fearfully at Daiton’s face. Nawal stared at one of the apprentices.
“And he takes the steel afterwards and has his apprentices forge it? Like that? Out in the open?”
She pointed. A journeyman was taking a solid billet of the pattern-welded steel and striking it with a hammer. The white-hot metal was being hammered out until it was longer and longer.
“Um—er, Master Daiton—”
Daiton scowled at Nawal. He addressed her directly.
“Yes. That’s my process, girl! What of it? Look, this is how I do my work!”
He strode over and interrupted the journeyman at his task. Daiton took the hammer and began pounding away at the metal, glaring daggers at Nawal the entire while. Trey blinked. The journeyman had been hammering at the metal, but as Daiton struck it, the anvil rang with the force of his blows. Everyone turned to look as the metal began to flatten ten times as fast under Daiton’s hammer as the other men.
It wasn’t just strength; Trey saw a man with huge arm muscles hitting a piece of metal an apprentice held with a huge mallet of a hammer and not moving it half as fast as Daiton. As the metal in front of Daiton cooled, Trey saw that he’d lengthened it a good foot. He picked it up with his tongs and put it back in the furnace to reheat. He strode back to Nawal, glaring at her.
“With my Skills, I can cut the time it takes to make a sword in half! Do you know of another [Blacksmith] who can work like that? I have over a dozen Skills that help me with shaping the metal quickly! [Steady Rhythm], [Malleable Metal], [Twicelasting Fires], [Blazing Forge]—”
He began listing off Skills on his sooty fingers. He was glaring now, and Trey was afraid Nawal’s sharp tongue had ruined Daiton’s goodwill. But Nawal was staring defiantly past Daiton’s shoulder, still not meeting his eyes. She looked at Trey.
“Tell Master Daiton that he has the Skills to move metal faster and with more ease. But that does not change what I said. His steel is poor steel. Poor quality of metal. And his swords are likewise flawed.”
The forge suddenly went silent. Trey hadn’t realized everyone was listening. Now, the hammers went still, and everyone looked at Nawal. She refused to meet anyone’s gaze but Trey’s. Daiton rumbled ominously.
