Still, it only took them half the time to get back to Helmaris that it had taken them to enter the blight, primarily sped along by Stella’s new wind spell and the lack of organized undead trying to eat their faces. The guards of Helmaris let them in without complaint, surprised by their return but holding their tongues.

They obviously thought that the Heirs had gone and poked around the edges of the blight before returning. It wasn’t worth correcting them, since from here the blight looked just the same, a section of constantly dark horizon. Beyond the weather, the repaired Seal wouldn’t cause a visible change for at least months and potentially years. Besides, the Heirs’ deal had been with the Questors of the Ashen Accord, not the city of Helmaris.

Speaking of those Questors, Henrish was nowhere in sight. A few questions to the locals indicated that he hadn’t been seen since shortly before the Heirs defeated the blight, and hadn’t left any instructions.

“I guess he didn’t care much about following up on the science lessons,” Nathan remarked to the Heirs.

Khachi’s lips twisted in distaste. “There are Questor politics in the air. That will draw his focus, not the city he calls his own. It is merely a bridge to demonstrate his ideas, not a true stewardship."

Nathan considered giving some quick lessons on science and engineering to the locals, but without anything to grant him legitimacy, he decided it wasn’t worth the effort. His skills would help him pass on information, but he didn't want to fight a battle to make them listen in the first place. The Heirs were on a deadline. Granted, they were ahead of schedule, but he didn’t want to kill their buffer for no reason.

They went straight to the Grace of the Mists, which was still docked in the harbor. The large ship looked out of place against the smaller fishing boats of Helmaris. Eolinne greeted them and welcomed them aboard once more. “Another deed beyond possibility, another journey across the seas to distant lands.”

“Hopefully our last,” Nathan replied.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 3

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 3

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
