It rocked to one side, ribbons of void suddenly cutting through everything before the gale. This undermined many of the bridges, causing them to fall to the wind, but it separated more of the Black Legion into pieces, turning their inconvenient tumble into a slurry of automata parts, never to be reattached.

The balance of the magics—of existence—tried to right itself, but it sloshed too far the other way, the magical nature at the core of the automata quaking before an imposition of reality entirely separate from them in origin. Their defenses snapped into place, much as they did when Tala, Rane, or Terry attempted to banish them permanently, and that weakened their connection to their bodies, no matter how real that was.

The few legionnaires that had managed to avoid the void were suddenly tumbling uncontrollably, their previously tightly controlled motions suddenly out of wack, causing them to slam into walls, detritus, and eventually the spikes below.

Through all this, the wind continued, grinding the entirety of its payload across the bedrock knurlings at the bottom of the trench.

Tala fell backward into her throne, gasping.

She panted heavily, momentarily unable to get her heart or breathing under control as she’d extended herself in a way she’d never attempted before.

She couldn’t even tell why she suddenly felt so drained.

Regardless, she’d helped the city in what way she could at a distance, and they were only a few minutes away from offering more direct assistance.

Rane was at her side, checking her over even as they both watched the automata’s next steps.

Juggernauts were handed harpoon-like weapons, and they launched them across the gap with enough force to punch more than halfway through the city walls, even while trailing the heavy black chains behind them.

With those in place, the remaining Legionnaires began to flow across the thirty-two, evenly spaced chains toward the walls.

The defenses were in the final phase as this wall was not some throw-away defense. If this wall fell, the automata would be in the city streets, and while that wouldn’t mean an immediate loss, it would represent a significant blow to their efforts.
