Patty really was fascinated by Ren and his work, and she sat there and watched him as he worked tirelessly to make stained glass picture after stained glass picture. He didn't slow down, or take breaks, or anything of the sort. She watched him as he colored and cut glass, wrapped them in copper, soldered them together, then made frames for them.

It was almost hypnotic as Ren moved to each thing; from the workbench to the glass forge and back, to the anvil and back when he ran out of copper foil, to the smelter and back, over and over. After a couple of hours, Patty became tired despite her fascination with his work, and eventually dozed off.

“She's asleep.” Teepo said. “Are you going to wake her?”

When I'm done. Ren said and kept working. She needs the rest after that scare.

“I think that was the fastest I've ever seen you move from a dead stop.” Teepo said. “You usually need a good running start to go that fast.”

I surprised myself with that, too. Ren thought.

Ren worked for another hour and finished with the last two windows, which were just solid black for the Void (Arcane), made frames for them, and stored all the stained glass windows. He walked over to Patty, and saw she had laid down and was curled up on her side. He knelt near her and touched her shoulder to shake her a little bit.

“Patty.”

“Mmm?”

“Wake up.”

Patty rolled over onto her back with her eyes still closed, stretched out her arms and yawned. Ren couldn't help but look at her chest as it peeked out through her shirt, and then she arched her back and he got a good look as they strained against the buttons that held it closed. Ren started to shake his head to stop himself from staring, and Patty's arm snaked around his neck.

“Hold me...” Patty mumbled. “Like that...” She sighed. “No, kiss me there...” She took in a deep breath. “Yes, there.”

Ren wasn't sure what to do. He thought about pulling away, but she had a good hold of him with her hand, and then her other hand reached out and grabbed him by the hair.

“Harder...” Patty said and pulled his head onto her chest. “Mmmm.”

Ren could only stare at her as she moved his head back and forth, and twisted her body from side to side to rub her chest all over the side of his head. When she got excited, he discovered the tips weren't near as big or as prominent as Lucy's was, and he relaxed.

So, they only used a basic template for her, and didn't get the entire model from Lucy. Ren thought and smiled. This really isn't Lucy.

“It's a good copy, though.” Teepo said, and Ren nodded; which rubbed his face on Patty's breasts. She caught her breath, and Ren figured this was a good time to try and wake her up.

“Patty, wake up.” Ren said. “It's time for me to go.”

“No, don't... I... I need...” Patty whispered.

“You need to work.” Ren said, and reached up to pull her hand from around his neck.

“No... please...” Patty said. “Don't leave me... again.”

“I'm sorry, Patty.” Ren said and carefully took her other hand from out of his hair. “My friends need me.”

“But... I need you, too.” Patty said, and then she opened her eyes and froze as she saw Ren. “Wh-what are... why are you in my...” She looked frantic for a moment, then she remembered where she was. “Oh, damn.”

Ren smiled. “You fell asleep, and... well, I assume it was a... nice dream.”

Patty put her hands over her eyes. “Oh, god.”

“Hey, it's okay.” Ren said.

“No, it isn't!” Patty said. “Now you know I... that I have... oh, god!”

Ren reached out and took her hands. She tried to fight the movement, but not very hard. He removed them from her face and smiled at her.

“Was I tall and muscular at least?” Ren asked, and she sighed.

“Just let me keep my shame private, okay?” Patty asked, and Ren chuckled.

“You shouldn't be ashamed.” Ren said. “I'm pretty sure it's healthy for a woman to have fantasies.”

“But... the things we... I mean, what I imagined we...” Patty shook her head.

“If it makes you feel any better, I'm not planning to seduce you or take you to bed.” Ren said. “Although, I should thank you for the cuddle.”

Patty looked at her chest and how much her shirt was ruffled, and she covered her breasts with her hands and her face turned to a deep red.

“I can't believe I did that.” Patty said.

“Me, either.” Ren said and stood up, then held a hand out to her.

Patty waited for a moment, then let her breasts go and took his hand. It was warm after she had touched herself like that, and Ren pulled her up to stand.

“Thank you for the cuddle, Miss Patty.” Ren said and let her hand go.

“Um... I... I think... after this... you...” Patty's face stayed red. “...you can call me Patty.”

“Okay, Patty.” Ren said. “I've got to go.” He said. “Don't forget to tell the council they can come here for the town meetings if they want to.”

“Th-they can?” Patty asked and looked around.

“That's what I made this meeting room for.” Ren said. “See you later.”

Patty nodded and Ren ran down the stairs and outside. He ran down the road a little and stopped.

“Holy crap!” Ren said. “You finished it?!?”

Tee-one came over to him. “Just the outside.” He said and Ruck came over, too. “It seemed like the most important part to finish first.”

“Oh, it was!” Ren said. “Let's get these windows installed!”

They took half an hour to install the 18 windows in the Church, with one window in the personal rooms, and 1 of each in the main chamber. They took another half an hour to build the internal walls and hallways, then all the chairs and pews they needed.

Notice!

You have finished construction of a Church in Walin County. Unfortunately, is a very sparsely populated area, and the daily visitors will be few and far between.

Do you wish to combine Church Visitor notifications? Yes / No

“Yes!” Ren said. “It's done! Let's make the big bakery next!”

The three of them went outside and down the street to almost across from the Main House, and built a large building with 3 sets of ovens inside. It had 3 of the old large brick ovens, 3 normal metal ovens, and 3 large ovens. They made 9 workbenches and a storage area for anything they would need. They lined one wall with shelves, and Ren remembered the things he had used in the mansion's kitchen and in Nathalia's kitchen. After a quick trip to the large forge next door, they stocked the shelves with steel bowls, pans of all shapes and sizes, and utensils.

“We can't make anything else for them until we find out what they need besides this.” Ren said.

“My Lord, we need something to heat the grease in.” A woman's voice said from the doorway. Ren, Tee-one and Ruck turned to look, and saw a group of 4 women. They stared at the bakery like they'd never seen anything like it before.

“Grease?” Ren asked.

“Yes, for deep frying.” Gemma, Fern's wife said.

Ren looked at her with wide eyes. “What do you deep fry?”

“They are called 'doughs'.” Gemma said. “When we make bread, there's usually scraps of dough left over. We take the scraps and flatten them, then toss them into hot grease for several minutes.”

“Where do you get the grease?”

“From the animals.” Ramona, Russell's mother said. “There's nothing better than animal fat to make grease for cooking.”

Ren turned to Tee-one and Ruck. “My friends, we're making a deep fryer!”

The three of them high-fived each other.

“Tee-one! Make a long counter for the lovely ladies to sell things from!” Ren said. “Ruck! Tables and chairs for people to eat at!” He said and ran to the door. “I'll make the stand and the fryer!”

“My Lord! You don't know what...” Gemma tried to say.

“Leave it to me!” Ren said and ran from the bakery and next door to the forge. “It's gotta be big! I want it big!” He said and took out his Iron Wall wand and made a 2 foot by 3 foot by 3 foot block. “Ha ha! This is so awesome!”

Ren used paving stones to mark the outer boundary, then poured molten metal over the iron block to fill the instant mold. He spread it with his hand to make it even on the top and to make sure it was thick enough, then absorbed the heat from it. He stored it and then made another one, and another.

“Why make one when you can make three?” Ren said, dismissed the Iron Wall spell, and used more paving stones to make a mold for a stand and shelf underneath the steel tubs. He filled that mold 3 times and stored them, stored the paving stones, and ran back to the bakery.

“My Lord, please... you have to listen.” Gemma said. “It's difficult to make them, and the grease can be too hot and can hurt when it splashes.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “I'll make something in a minute, assuming you don't already have what I need.”

“I have what you need?” Gemma's eyes widened, and Ren chuckled.

“I mean, what do you use to get the doughs out of the grease?”

“Oh!” Gemma said, and her face flushed red. “Betsie?”

Betsie held out a box of utensils that they used, and Ren looked through them.

“Ha!” Ren said and picked up a wire mesh strainer and got the plans for it.

“How did you know it was that one?”

“I knew what to look for.” Ren said and put it back in the box. “I'll be right back!”

*

“Where is he running to?” Ramona asked as Ren disappeared out the door. “He runs almost as much as my little Russell.”

“He's making a better strainer.” Tee-one said. “Can you send someone to get some grease?”

“Russell!” Ramona said, and her son came into the bakery.

“Hey! Look at this place!” Russell said. “I've never seen anything like it!”

“Go to my place and get the bucket of grease.”

“Mom, that'll take forever to haul back here!”

“Ruck can carry it.” Tee-one said, and Ruck waved to Russell.

“Holy moley!” Russell said and pointed. “It's a giant backpack!”

“Russell!” Ramona said. “Just go!”

“Yes'um.” Russell said and left through the door with Ruck right behind him.

“He never was very tactful.” Ramona said.

“He's right, though. Ruck is a giant backpack.”

“We didn't want to say anything about it.” Gemma said. “We weren't sure if it was proper or not.”

Tee-one smiled. “I can assure you that Ruck was not insulted.”

*

Ren knew what to make now that he had the plans for a flat wire mesh strainer. He altered that design and added sides, front, and back to it to make it a basket; then extended the handle up and back so that the contents could be held easily and the excess grease could be shaken off. He knew he wouldn't be able to make the thing by hand, so he let the system make it for him and used the appropriate amount of molten metal.

Since it was just a wire mesh and not solid, it didn't take much metal at all, and he made three of them the same size as the large steel tubs, and then a little hook on the backs so that they could hang on the side of the tubs to let the items from the grease drain if necessary.

“Oh, I can't wait!” Ren said and ran back to the bakery. “I've got them made!” He said and went to the first spot and took out the metal stand, enchanted it with Fire runes, and then added the 2 foot wide by 3 foot long by 3 foot deep steel tub, then took out the large wire basket and laid it inside.

“I'd comment on the enormous size of the thing...” Betsie smiled. “...but, I'm pretty sure Ramona would make a crude joke about it.”

“It wouldn't be crude.” Ramona said, and looked at Ren. “It would be both funny and appropriate.”

“Where do I get the grease for this thing?” Ren asked her, and ignored her attempt to flirt.

“It's on it's way.” Ramona said. “Although, I don't know what you expect. We don't have the things with us to make dough.”

Ren slapped his forehead. “Sinks and grinders!”

“Wh-what?”

“You need a water source, and something to grind the wheat to flour.”

“We have mortar and pestles.” Gemma said.

“You do it by hand, but that's not going to work with a big bakery.” Ren said. “Tee-one?”

“I think one of the stone slabs could work.” Tee-one said. “If we use one of the big round stones and cut it down...”

“...we can make a mold and cast it in cement!” Ren said. “If we do that...”

“...then we can make the support structure and add gears to the giant pestle.”

“We could go with the coil springs, or...”

“...if we had a high enough waterfall, or even just strong jets of water... a large water wheel could be adapted to do the grinding for us.”

“We'd have to add in a lever so it's not going all the time.” Ren said. “We'd need to put it on a swivel or a hinge so it can be dumped.”

“We'll also need a really big sifter.”

“That I now have the plans for.” Ren said. “I just have to scale it up once we have the rest built.”

“I'm glad we made this place so big. We can make the addition in the back.” Tee-one said. “I'll make the brace and hinge assembly.”

“I'll prepare the slab and one of the big stones!” Ren said and ran out of the bakery while Tee-one went to the back of the building and started making the supports the thing would need, and a container to hold the cement.

*

“Okay, I honestly have no idea what's going on.” Gemma said.

“Men are working and are excited about it.” Ramona said and laughed. “But, I don't know what they are doing, either.”

A few minutes later, Russell and Ruck came into the bakery.

“We brought the buckets!” Russell said, and Ruck took out three of them.

“We should only need one.” Gemma said and struggled to pick one of them up. Ruck took it from her, and motioned to the steel tub Ren had made. Gemma nodded, and Ruck skittered over to it and carefully dumped the large bucket of grease into the tub. It only went up about a quarter of the way, and Gemma looked at it.

“Well, I was wrong.” Gemma said. “Add in another one.”

Ruck took another one and it half-filled it.

“That's better.” Gemma said. “It's deep enough.”

“Russell, can you bring me my baking things?” His mother Ramona asked.

Russell sighed. “Why didn't you ask for them before?”

“I didn't think I needed them before.” Ramona said and looked at the shelves. “I'll only need the flour, eggs, milk, and other things. Apparently, everything else is here already.”

“That's a relief.” Russell said. “Hey, Ruck... want to make another run?”

Ruck nodded and left the bakery with Russell.

*

