Ren carefully carved the stone slab into a half-sphere, to set in cement and make a mortar that would be big enough to grind a lot of wheat in; then he took one of the large stones and slowly trimmed off the excess bits to make it perfectly round on the bottom, then on the top trimmed it to be square in shape. It looked weird to have a round ball with a square top, but it would fit much easier inside a wheel if it was square.

Ren thought about how to get it to move around the mortar, and smiled as he remembered his old failed hand-powered saw. He had set it so when a smaller wheel turned, a swing arm would turn the larger wheel as well; but, if he attached the swing arm to the axle of the second wheel instead of to it's side, when the first wheel turned, the second wheel would be moved along the path of the swing arm rather than just spin in place.

Ren smiled and made a new plan with two wheels and a swing arm, replaced the first wheel with a gear, and put the axle of the second wheel on the end of the swing arm and added a square hole on the bottom of it to fit the large pestle into. He added gears to make it turn, and used Tee-one's idea for a water-powered water wheel to drive the mechanism. With the plan almost complete, Ren added a lever that would disengage the pestle from the gears and allow the flour to be removed.

With the plan complete, Ren set up the molds to make the gears needed, one in front of each of the satellite smelters, which made him smile because he didn't think he would ever need all 5. He tipped them all to pour out, then he pulled the lever to open all the bottom ports of the large smelter. Molten metal flowed down all 5 troughs and into the smaller smelters, and it continued out onto the floor and into the prepared molds. He cut off the flow and went to each smelter and tipped it up, and absorbed the heat from the gears.

Once they were done, Ren thought about the water wheel, and figured that it would be lighter and move faster if it was made of wood instead of metal, but he would need metal braces for it. He made a mold for triangle piece with a hole at the top of the triangle for an axle, then cast it three times. He made the axle next, with square spots on the ends for a gear and the water wheel to attach to. He stored the gears, the braces, and the stone pieces and ran next door to the bakery. He went by the 4 women and to the back of the building.

“That's great, Tee-one.” Ren said when he saw the large support structure. “I like the lock and hinge!”

“Thanks.” Tee-one said. “Flip the lock, and the whole thing tips to get the flour out.” He said and did just that. Half of the support structure tipped down with the use of a lever, and Ren could imagine how easy it would be to scoop out flour.

“Did you have one of the women try it?” Ren asked, and turned to the 4 women that stood there and watched them. “Can one of you come here for a moment and try this?”

Ramona didn't even look at the other women as she smiled and came right over to Ren. “What do I do?”

Ren showed her how it worked, and Ramona shook her head.

“I can't lift that.”

“It's okay.” Tee-one said. “It's counter-weighted.”

“I don't know what that means.”

“It means only a small amount of force is needed to move it.” Ren said. “Please, try it.”

Ramona took a deep breath, and did what they instructed and unlocked it. The thing moved easily when she pushed the lever and it tipped down. She pushed the lever back and it tipped up and she locked it in place.

“That was easy.” Ramona said, and Ren chuckled and turned to Tee-one.

“Mix up the cement, my friend!” Ren said and took out the large stone half-sphere. “I'll make the water wheel.”

“I'll go back over there and wait with the others for... well, whatever it is that you're doing.” Ramona said.

“Thank you for your help.” Ren said, took her hand, and gave it a light kiss. “It'll be done soon.”

Ramona nodded and went back to the other women, and Ren examined his plans.

“Okay, if the main gear and arm are here, and this gear is here, with the torque gear here and attached gear here... then I need a round hole... right... there.” Ren said and pointed, then used a hand drill to make the hole, then put one of the metal braces to hold the water wheel on the inside of the building and it fit right over the hole on the wall. “Ha, perfect.”

Ren ran outside and put another brace over the hole there, then looked at the setup. “Okay, self contained. I don't want anyone getting hurt by a spinning wheel or torrent of water.”

Ren built an 8 foot tall shed around the space he would need, added a door, then made the water wheel with lots of partitions to catch as much water as possible so it would spin fast. He slipped the end of the axle into the hole in the wall, held it in place, and slipped the water wheel onto it. He added the third metal brace on the end, so the wheel was completely supported, and put in a lynch pin so the wheel could be removed if it needed repair.

Ren secured the bottom and took out a dozen steel squares and enchanted them with full glyphs of Water and Wind combined, attached the steel squares to the top of the shed above the end of the wheel, then added a paving stone basin on the floor under it and added the same number of Antiwater glyphs to them.

“Time for a test.” Ren said, and spun the wheel so the blast of water wouldn't damage it, and activated the enchantments. A huge burst of water came down and hit the wheel, spun it freely and very fast, splashed into the basin, and then out onto the floor and over Ren. He laughed and deactivated half of the enchantments, and the wheel moved at a solid speed, and the catch basin on the bottom caught the water easily and absorbed it.

Ren nodded and deactivated it, then equipped his Travelling Clothes to dry off. He left the shed, nailed it shut, and ran back around and into the bakery.

“Hi, Ruck!” Ren said. “Where have you been?”

Ruck pointed at Russell and at the piles of baking ingredients on the counter that the women had already sorted, and they prepared to make the dough for bread.

“Nice.” Ren said. “I can't wait to see if the deep fryer works!”

“My Lord?” Gemma asked. “How do I add the wood to these ovens?”

“Oh, sorry!” Ren said. “They don't need wood.”

“Wh-what?”

“They're enchanted to provide the heat needed.” Ren said. “I made them while concentrating on bakers, so any baker can activate them, or adjust how much heat they need.”

“My Lord, we're just simple folk.” Gemma said. “We use wood for heat. I didn't understand a word you just said.”

Ren opened his mouth to respond, and then smiled. “Once again, I've messed up and assumed someone would know how to work what I give them.” He said. “Please accept my apologies.”

Gemma's face flushed red. She almost ducked her head to avoid his gaze, then caught herself.

“It's simple, really.” Ren said, and asked the 4 women to come over to one of the tables Ruck had made. “Please, sit.”

The women sat down and Ren took out a stone brick and enchanted it with a single rune of Fire, keyed to bakers.

“This is enchanted the same as the ovens and deep fryer.” Ren said and put the stone in front of them. The women stared at the little symbol on the top of the brick. “This symbol produces Fire when activated.”

“How do we activate it?” Ramona asked. “It's just a stone, isn't it? It can't make fire by itself!”

Ren smiled. “The stone is just the container it needs. The rune produces the Fire.” He said and activated it. A flame popped into existence on the stone, and the women gasped.

“It's magic!”

“It really is.” Ren said and they looked at him.

“I thought you would say it wasn't.” Gemma said.

Ren chuckled. “When a rune can produce something from nothing, it's magic.” He said. “It doesn't consume the thing it's enchanted on... unless the container isn't strong enough. Then it will.”

The women leaned back from the stone, and Ren chuckled again.

“Don't worry, I haven't overloaded something in a long time.” Ren said. “Once I had mastered Enchanting, I could feel how much enchantment an item could handle.”

“So the ovens aren't going to blow up or anything?” Betsie asked.

“No, they are quite safe.” Ren said. “As long as you treat them like a hot oven.”

The women nodded, and Ren deactivated the stone.

“Now, I could just tell you how to turn it on, but you need to know how many to turn on to get the heat you want.” Ren said. “So, that's a little harder than just off and on.”

“We'll learn it!” Ramona said. “Teach us what you can, My Lord.”

Ren smiled at her, and her face went a little red; but, she didn't avert her eyes like he thought she would. He walked around the table to stand behind her, and leaned down to put his head beside hers.

“Okay, Ma'am.” Ren said. “You're first.”

Ramona looked angry for a moment. “My name is Ramona.”

“Hm?” Ren moved to the side a little and turned his head to look at her. “I'm not used to calling women by their first names.”

“You had better get used to it.” Ramona said. “I may have had a child already, but I'm not old enough yet to be called ma'am!”

Ren put a hand on her shoulder, and she caught her breath. “I'm sorry... Ramona.”

“That's better.” Ramona said, and smiled. “Now tell me what to do.”

“You want to call the Fire into being.” Ren said. “The rune is there. Concentrate on it. Imagine the Fire appearing at your call, and then think the word 'Activate'.”

Ramona stared at the stone brick and the rune there, squinted her eyes and thought Activate... and nothing happened.

“You're a baker. You need the warmth and heat from the Fire.” Ren whispered in her ear. “You need it to embrace what you make. You need to bring it to life.”

Ramona shivered slightly, and then closed her eyes and listened to Ren encourage her, and she realized she needed to encourage the Fire. She opened her eyes and thought Activate... and the enchantment activated and a small plume of Fire came out.

“I did it!” Ramona laughed, and turned to hug Ren. “Once I figured out that your encouragement was what I needed to do for the Fire, it came right out!”

Ren hugged her back and stood up. “I'm glad you caught on.”

“Do me next!” Gemma's sister said, and Gemma groaned. Ren chuckled and helped her, but she kept getting distracted by his teaching technique. Every time he tried to whisper in her ear, she giggled like a little girl and squirmed in her seat.

“I'll run her ovens until she can learn it.” Ramona said, and Ren moved on to Gemma. She picked it up faster than Ramona did, and was quite proud of herself.

“Way to go, Gemma!” Her sister said. “I won't even tell your husband Fern that you were cuddling with-OW!”

Gemma had punched her sister's arm, and the other two women laughed. Ren went to help Betsie in the same manner, and she shook her head.

“I don't want to learn that badly.” Betsie said.

“Betsie!” Ramona said. “He's taking the time out of his busy day to help us!”

Betsie shrugged. “He doesn't have to whisper in my ear to teach me.”

“You're right, I don't.” Ren said and smiled. “Sharing your perspective helps, but it's not strictly necessary.”

“You see? He didn't have to be so close to you.” Betsie said to Ramona, and Ramona sighed.

“You completely missed his point.” Ramona said. “He was doing it for us.”

Betsie looked at the other three women, and saw the expressions on their faces. They were happy, and looked like they had gotten away with doing something that they probably shouldn't have done, and she sighed.

“Yes, I missed the point.” Betsie said.

“It's okay.” Ren said. “I'll tell you the same things I told them, and you can try it.”

Betsie nodded, and Ren gave her the lesson. She activated the Fire rune on her second try, and was happy she didn't have to sit through Ren whispering in her ear; mainly because she would have reacted the same way as Gemma's sister did and didn't want to embarrass herself like that.

Notice!

You have unlocked a new skill: Teaching Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This skill allows you to impart your own knowledge to others. Higher levels will allow teaching more difficult students easier, and increase the amount of knowledge transferred in a single session.

“Now, there's a lot more runes in the ovens and the deep fryer.” Ren said and absorbed the rune on the stone brick and stored it. “Practice with it. Get it to the heat you need it to be. It might use all the runes in it, or it might not.” He said and smiled. “I'm sure I added more than you'll need, so try not to burn any bread.”

Ramona chuckled. “We'll start practising right away.”

Ren left them to it, and went to the back of the bakery to see the half-sphere was already set into the cement.

“It's going to have to set overnight.” Tee-one said. “It can be popped out in the morning and be ready to go the next day.” He said. “It really should be left to set for a day or so, though.”

“We can at least build the rest of it, and leave the pestle attachment for last.”

“Agreed.”

They built everything, added extra braces and supports, and made sure the spindle arm would reach where it needed to go. When they were done, Ren took out the pestle and set it beside the machine, then the smell of baking bread filled the bakery.

“I think that's one of the best smells in the world.” Ren said and smiled.
