But he knew the answer to that: Because his gift gave a five percent drop rate. Out of the thirty octopuses the guide said were in the dungeon, he could expect maybe one. Possibly two rare drops.

He'd gotten one on his first kill.

Thomas held it up to the watery light, looking for any writing or indication of what kind of skill shard it was.

Nothing.

Skill shards were worth a lot on the market—meaning the government market, where he'd have to register his loot.

Thomas's mood immediately dipped.

Okay, selling on the government market wasn't the end of the world. Though getting something this valuable on his first day of dungeon diving might attract attention.

He was holding something people would quite literally kill for.

No one really had skill shards yet. They granted abilities—magic, skills, and provided all sorts of ways to make mana actually do something. With the world only a few days into dungeon diving, they were incredibly rare.

People already killed for them.

Too bad he had no idea what he held. It could be anything from enhanced math skills to throwing fireballs.

"I could really use some fireballs," Thomas muttered.

There were also skill shards that could analyze other skill shards. That would be useful with his gift.

The smart move would be to leave now. Take the walk of shame, go to the government tent, and have it scanned.

Or...

He could use it right now.

Just in case there were more invisible octopuses nearby, Thomas retreated back into the safe room while he thought it over. He wouldn't officially exit unless he went through the outer door, but in here he could rest. That was why they called it a safe room.

On the way, he grabbed his maul. The wood was tough—the octopus's beak had only just begun to chew into it. He gave it a few test swings. Still solid.

His penknife was still faintly blue. Again, whatever that meant.

Closing the door, he felt safer inside the small, closet-sized room.

"Okay," Thomas said, pacing as much as the cramped space allowed. He exhaled. "I'm thinking about this the wrong way."

He was treating the skill shard like it was one of a kind. Like he'd never see another one again. Like he'd just won the lottery.

But really, he'd just won a raffle.

This wasn't unique. And one major part of his gift meant he'd get rare drops more often than most people.

What had the scroll said? The average person had a 0.5% chance of a rare drop. That meant they could run dungeon after dungeon and never see one really good piece of loot.

But Thomas... he could expect one or two per run with a dungeon this size.

His last dungeon had given him two, including the boss. Bosses probably had a greater chance of dropping rare items, but still...

"...Yeah," he admitted. "I'm talking myself into this. I'm just going to absorb it and see what it does." No matter what the skill shard was meant to do, he could count on it not being harmful. The spare information in the guides had been clear on that.

Holding the skill shard, he concentrated, just like he had with healing mana.

The shard liquefied, turning into something like water, and sank into his skin.

"Be something good. Be something awesome," he muttered. "Sword proficiency, dagger skills, water whip—no, that's Avatar again. Do they even have water whips?"

As he considered that, the energy within the skill shard spread through him. Then it seemed to gather again at the back of his head. He felt a cool heaviness there. It wasn't painful. Just... strange.

Gingerly, Thomas reached back and touched his skull. Nothing felt different. There was no physical change he could detect. After a few moments, the feeling went away. Whatever it was... it was done.

Apparently, there wasn't going to be an explanation. No pop-up window. No helpful notification.

He had a bad feeling, a gut feeling that this was one of those skills that only activated in combat.

"Fine," Thomas said in a tight, brittle voice that reminded him of his father when things were definitely not fine. "I'll kill another damned octopus."

He walked out of the safe room.
