And this was the man whose chain she yanked? Eppie shivered. Outside, in the dark, the lemon tree looked like a spectre. What if William ordered her a length of noose, perfectly measured so that her petite body didn’t touch the ground, her toes a tiny inch from salvation—

BANG—!

Eppie leapt. She leapt half a meter into the air as every thought flew through the window, then hit the deck as though she was in a warzone. Renée stared at her through her tears, then she broke into laughter. She laughed so hard that tears streamed down her face.

“That’s just someone’s car,” Renée explained, still laughing. “It's nothing. Gunshots sound different.”

That’s not funny. Eppie protested. No. It’s not fucking funny.

The sound of wheels and a roaring engine followed.It took Eppie a few more seconds to catch her breath.

“Simone… said it was an accident?” Eppie clambered back to their last conversation. “Did she ever tell you why we were on the roof in the first place? Why not argue on the ground?”

Renée shook her head.

“She just said she did it. She wouldn't tell me why. Simone said that she saw you being carted away. You were covered in blood. There were tubes and stuff, sticking out of your face." Renée’s voice stayed flat, but barely. “She didn't sleep for a week. She missed school.”

She didn’t sleep for a week? I don’t… I don’t think that's the right point of emphasis. Eppie protested in silence, but gave it to the twelve-year-old. For a kid, Renée was… not very child-like. She was more like a young mother. A tired one.

“There’s still a song you haven’t sung,” Renée said suddenly. “Simone sang it to us. It was very sad, and Simone couldn’t hold a tune for the life of her. She said that you sang it at the Gala. It was a standing ovation. Lucia Lancet came out and gave you flowers.”

The girl’s eyes were worshipful. The request was not explicit, but Eppie understood it. The mood had changed so fast, so quickly, that Eppie was feeling whiplash. I guess I owe Lucia now.

She slid the tiny four-string guitar over her chest again. The tune was already off, so she had to tune them again.

“What’s it called?” Renée asked.

Eppie did not say. She started low.No introduction. No explanation.

My girl, my girl, don't lie to me.Tell me where did you sleep last night

In the pines, in the pines, where the sun never shines—I shivered the whole night through.

The ukulele was too small and too bright for the song. She was playing something twisted. A murder ballad on a child’s toy, to a twelve-year-old dreaming of Lucia Lancet and a six-year-old sleeping next door.

The notes ate into the walls.She sang the version from the Gala, sans the howling.She sang it in hoarse whispers.

My girl, my girl, where will you go?I'm going where the cold wind blows

Somewhere between the bridge and the last verse, the front door opened, dead bolts slid back as keys turned the lock.

Simone Goode, up to no good, quietly stepped into the room, her shoulders hunched and her back bent from the weight of the Chinese food someone had given her for Christmas.

“Originally, a long time ago, in the unhappy time of plantation owners,” Eppie told the mesmerised Renée. “This song had another name. Not a nice name, but it is the original name…”

“What is it?” Renée asked, finally noticing that her sister had come home early.

Eppie freed the controversial title from her lips. A title from an era where life was less kind. She did not look at her former friend, but lamented the unfortunate implications of the song’s origin as founded on young girls who ran for the pines. Girls who swore to have witnessed imaginary things, because the anything was better than the alternative.

“Black Girl.”
