“Death ritual.” Ren said. “When one of you dies in combat, what do you do to send them to the next life?”

The elves started to laugh.

“Next... next life?” One of them said. “When we die, that's it. Once we are gone, we are gone.” He pointed to the body. “Whoever is closest takes what they can from the empty remains.”

“Oh.” Ren said. “That's... kind of sad, actually.”

“What?”

“To look at your life now, and think that this was all there is.” Ren said. “To believe that nothing new awaited you when you moved on.” He shook his head. “Where is your hope? Where would your dreams take you?”

“You're crazy.” The elf said.

“Be at peace.” Ren said to the remains of the head scout. He knelt by the body, closed it's eyes, and looted it. The body dissolved and dropped several gold coins, a shadow marker, and the extra large longbow.

“Take him into custody.” One of the elves said.

“No.” Ren said and stood up. “You attacked me, right here in this city, for no reason.” He said, and heard several sets of metal feet approaching after Teepo warned him that the soldiers were coming. “You broke the law by putting the townspeople's lives in danger, and it resulted in the death of one of your own.”

A group of nearly a dozen soldiers came around the corner of the nearby street, and drew their swords. They moved into position, and the elves were now surrounded. The elves looked to the Tracker, as he was the next senior in the group.

“We could easily kill you all.” The Tracker said. “Five High Elves against a dozen humans?” He smiled. “Even the youngest of us has been through almost a hundred years of battle.”

“That may be true.” The lead soldier said. “But we've had some experience with elves.” He smiled. “You hate anything new, because you don't understand it.”

A couple of the soldiers stepped aside, to reveal a Ballista, about half the size of the one Ren had in inventory. It looked to be made of rough wood and was only a single shot, but it's bolt was just as deadly as his was.

Dammit. Ren thought. They made one a lot quicker than I thought.

“More than one.” Teepo said. “Look up the street.”

Ren turned around and saw another one being deployed.

Well, crap.

*

“He would never betray you.” Elerlyth said, and Nathalia didn't wince once.

“I know.” Nathalia said. “He's a good man.” She sighed. “He's better than either of us deserves.”

“I can't argue that.” Elerlyth said. “Here in this world, he's the best thing that's ever happened to me.”

“And what about in the other one?” Nathalia asked.

Elerlyth's eyes widened in surprise. “Wh-what are you talking about?”

Nathalia winced slightly, then smiled. “The world that Adventurers come from, of course.”

Elerlyth's mouth dropped open in shock.
