“Not in most cases,” Cale said. Syphus could hear the scowl in his voice. “Unless you’ve got another impossible thing available to sustain the paradox.”

Sisyphus scoffed. “And what would that be?” he asked. “I’m not a magician, Cale, I don’t just make impossible things happen—”

“You are the impossible thing, you idiot,” Cale hissed, and Syphus felt its body jerking in place; to its surprise, it felt almost like Sisyphus’s presence had been pulled partially out of it. Had... had Cale somehow grabbed Sisyphus by the collar and dragged him out? It really wished it could see what was happening. It would save the memory forever. “Your paradox is sustaining this. You aren’t supposed to be able to roam free in the Great Realms, remember? You’re supposed to be trapped, rolling your boulder up a hill for eternity. What are you doing now? Resting in the fields, watching a bathhouse, you said?”

“It’s all consensual!” Sisyphus defended himself. “Syphus told them I would be watching before it entered!”

“That’s not the point,” Cale snapped. “Your link is bridging the Gift and the Dark. If you keep it in place, Syphus is going to have its soul drawn into the Lesion!”

“I—what would you have me do? Abandon the link?” Sisyphus shot back. “Syphus is my only link to the Great Realms. Without it—”

“It’ll be lost either way!” Cale snarled, interrupting him, and Syphus felt a shove, like he has pushed Sisyphus back somehow. It felt a flicker of alarm. Why were they talking about this? Did Cale really want Sisyphus to abandon their link? Its relationship with Sisyphus wasn’t perfect, but it didn’t want him gone.

“You—” Sisyphus started, glaring. And then, also to Syphus’s alarm—because it had never once seen its creator back down—Sisyphus relented. “Fine,” he said. “I... you’re right. I don’t need the link. It deserves its freedom.”

Syphus struggled against the hold Sisyphus had on it. It didn’t want this! Sure, it didn’t like the way its creator sometimes took over abruptly, but Sisyphus had still raised it. Had told it stories even before it had been alive. It had seen how lonely the Named was, and it didn’t want him to go back to that.

It hadn’t even realized until now that it cared. Syphus had always been bad at expressing that it cared about anything. Maybe Cale thought it wanted complete freedom from Sisyphus, that it didn’t want to have the Named always looking over its shoulder. It wanted more freedom, certainly, but it didn’t want their bond severed.

It needed to speak. It needed to say something. It could already feel Sisyphus reaching for their link, preparing to break it—

“No!” it burst out, and both Sisyphus and Cale turned their attentions to it, startled.

“Syphus?” Cale asked.

“I don’t want Sisyphus to be alone,” it said, and it felt the surprise in Sisyphus as it said the words—the surprise and the warmth that it had never cared to notice before. “There has to be another way, Cale. Please.”

Syphus still couldn’t see its mentor, but it could feel the contemplative gaze on it. “You’re sure?” Cale asked.

“Yes,” Syphus said firmly. “He is still my father.”

It could feel Sisyphus’s shock at those words. For once, the arrogant Named had nothing to say. Cale, for his part, fell silent for a moment before he spoke again. Syphus could hear the frown in his voice, the way he rapidly thought and recalculated.

“The bond is what’s sustaining the spell,” he muttered. “But if you break it and let the spell dissolve, then re-establish it quickly enough... the only problem is Sisyphus won’t be able to re-establish it once it’s broken. Syphus needs to be the one to do it, and it doesn’t have the enough power or the right magic, unless..."

He’d thought of something. Syphus could tell, from the shift in cadence in his words. “Syphus,” Cale said. “Have you ever heard of a grappling gun?”
