The new arrival was a thin man wearing nice clothes that didn’t fit him, riding a [Force Platform] shaped like a log with handles for his hands and stirrups for his feet. At Bulgan’s appearance, the man screeched loud but short as he went tumbling sideways, spinning around his log to put the structure between him and Bulgan, before his secondary thought processed kicked in. The purple flag was lost somewhere in the tumble, but the man regained composure and righted himself. He slowed. He stopped.

Sitting upright on his floating log, the man stared at Bulgan.

Bulgan smirked, waiting for the ‘sacrificial cow’ to say something.

The man, now sweating profusely, and not just from the heat, took the initiative. He spoke with a cracking voice, “How—! How does the day find you, fine gentle— gentleman of the Great— Great city of Kendrithyst?”

“Just fine.” Bulgan asked, “How does it find you?”

“It finds me at a loss!” The man looked away from Bulgan, toward the dark city up ahead, saying, “Uh! What? What fine construction… Such a beautiful… city. Pray tell please—” The man’s demeanor had briefly cracked, but he pulled himself together as he turned back to Bulgan, asking, “Pray tell? What ever is it for? What do you want? I mean… Uh...”

Bulgan let the man think he was in deep shit for a long moment, before smiling wide, saying, “Since you have asked so nicely.” He swung a hand toward the shadowy city in the distance, finding not-a-little joy in seeing the man recoil in horror and almost fall off his floating log, as he said, “We’re an adventuring city! Tell all your friends to come on by. Get some new magics and some new money. My people survive on rads, so if you come, come rich, and be prepared to leave even richer.”

The man’s eyes went wide. He took a moment to ask, “And what… pray tell… is the name of your… city?”

“I’m thinking Candlepoint.” Bulgan toyed with the man, asking, “Unless you have a better name?”

“Candlepoint is great!”

“It is, isn’t it?” Bulgan said, “So glad of someone taking the time to talk instead of throwing around ineffectual spells. As a reward—” A round, deep blue fruit appeared in Bulgan’s hand. It glowed with a gentle light. He lifted the gift into the air and floated it over to the terrified man. The man did not take the fruit. Bulgan glowered, saying, “Take the gift.”

The man grabbed the blue fruit.

Bulgan nodded, then said, “It’s an Oceanfruit. It gives one permanent point of Willpower to the consumer, with a safe maximum of 25 extra points possible. Anyone eating more than 25 fruits is liable to experience unforeseen effects, but if you quest enough and you’re daring enough, you can eat as many as you want. We don’t put limits on people, at Candlepoint. We also have fruits for every Stat. They’re one of the bigger quest rewards, so keep that in mind.”

The man stared at the fruit in his hand like it was a king’s artifact, and he was a lowly peasant; merely touching such a thing would end in his death. If he didn’t offload the fruit to whoever his master was behind the Wall, and soon, then he might die anyway; the victim of an assault by one of the hundreds of people watching through [Scry] eyes.

Bulgan made a point to look at the [Scry] orbs in the sky, then said to the man, “If you’re in danger from some unworthy master, then Candlepoint will provide sanctuary. The Guest District is fully functioning with water and food, and even some brothels. We’re a full service sort of town, you see.”

The man came back to the moment. He realized where he was, and who he was talking to. He said, “Sorry. I must humbly decline your kind offer.”

“Of course, of course.”

“I must be going. If… If that is okay?” The man carefully, casually, turned his floating log back to face the Wall. “It was nice to meet you…?”

“Bulgan Shadoweater. Not fully my original name, but such is life.”

“… Master Shadoweater, then.” The man bowed in his seat, as his floating log began hovering back toward the Wall. “Thank you for your hospitality and your kind reception.”

Bulgan smiled as the man’s floating log picked up speed. When the man got a good distance away and sand billowed at his passing, Bulgan vacated the field.

He reappeared atop the tallest spire of Candlepoint. He held his hand out to his side. His attendant shadeling handed him his apridate frond and Bulgan went back to cracking open the little pods, and eating the dense orange flesh inside.
