No. This darkness around Erick was normal darkness; a comparative darkness. Erick was a ball of incandescence that rivaled the sun, after all. Of course the room was dark compared to him. Excess light essence spilled away from his rolly body like twisting ribbons, and that was okay.

For a long moment, Erick sat in the relative darkness of the unused room, reveling in the experience of being a pinnacle light slime, committing to memory the taste of purple and orange and every other color, and the gentle, mostly intangible hum of magic that had come with each bite. Whatever secret there was to [Greater Lightwalk], Erick felt he already had all the pieces. The pieces were already put together for him, too. He just had to understand what it all meant, and when he did, he would tell Jane, and ask her what [Greater Shadowalk] meant to her.

Erick stayed like that, sitting in the dim room with no windows, acting as the brightest light source around, for a good twenty minutes. Eventually, his body turned darker. Excess essence dissipated into the room, out of the hole in the ceiling. Natural light came down from that hole, outshining the lightwards down here.

Erick looked up at Ophiel. The winged [Familiar] clutched the edge of the hole, looking down at Erick, gently whispering in harps and violins. Erick relaxed into his bubbly body, spreading out, experiencing the moment, listening to Ophiel’s music.

Erick’s reprieve from duty was short lived. Footsteps echoed through the stone underblob well before their owner stopped in front of the closed door to the room.

Poi said, “Sir. They’re ready for the first rains. Silverite wants me to be diplomatic about it, but I’m going to just tell you: Everyone expects food in the markets by evening.”

Erick smiled to himself. With a shift and an expansion, he was back to his human body. Nude, of course, but that was fixed with a bit of Handy Aura, reaching back up into Jane’s tower to retrieve his clothes, and his rings. He said, “Be right there,” as he shimmied into his pants.

- - - -

The Human District of Spur was the city’s smallest district by far. But even so, losing 25 percent of the flat, orange land around his house did not feel like a large loss. In fact, it felt like a gain. Green land would soon surround the Human District, and that was good.

As Erick stepped out of his front door he gazed toward the distant edge of his neighborhood, next to the rest of the city. Raised beds and tilled stone occupied those edges, while people milled around, working on their soon-to-be gardens. Stone moved through the air under the direction of young men and women. Seeds scattered and drilled into the soft dirt under the direction of older, experienced farmers.

Erick briefly activated [Ultrasight] to better see who he was working with. After a moment, he decided that he knew none of the people standing out there. Whoever the Community Garden Council decided to hire for their farming needs was of no real concern to Erick. His goal was to get the thing up and running and operating without issue.

… But that reminded him: he needed to speak to Ikawa Kali, Krakina’s granddaughter, and Delia Greentalon, Valok’s daughter. Hopefully they were doing… If not mentally okay, then at least physically okay. Ikawa was old enough to take care of herself, but what about Delia? She was only 16, or thereabouts. Had she even Matriculated, yet?

To his right, obscured by his own fully grown garden, was the Mage Trio’s house. To his left, a hundred meters away, was a stone pavilion. It was not the stone pavilion Erick had spent all of one minute raising from the ground yesterday. This pavilion was a nicer construction, with pillars like faux tree trunks with curling roots and stone branches holding up a roof adorned with scalloped shingles. People were inside the pavilion, namely yellowscaled Hera and two more; the rest of the Community Garden Council must be out at their gardens.

Erick began walking to the stone pavilion.

He arrived to see Rollo, Calizi, and Hera in residence.

Hera greeted him with a beatific voice that was clearly put upon, saying, “Glad to see you, Archmage Flatt.”

Hera stood next to one of several tables. Rollo and Calizi sat across from each other at Hera’s table. A small assortment of papers and books sat on the stone surface between the three of them. Hera looked taxed. Both of the incani looked like they had eaten a lemon. Something angry stirred in Rollo and Calizi’s eyes, but it wasn’t directed at Erick. They looked about ready to kill each other, or at least cause serious injury.

“Hello, Hera,” Erick said, as he stepped up into the pavilion and out of the sun.

Calizi blurted, “Archmage Flatt! Don’t rain on Rollo’s—”

“You old hag!” Rollo cursed, “Rot in heaven!”

Hera shouted at them, “Please! Have some decorum!” She forced her voice to calm and turned to Erick, saying, “There has been some difficulty—”

Calizi said, “He stole my workers!”

“She stole my contracts with twelve restaurants!” Rollo replied.

“You shouldn’t even be on this council.”

“I have more of a right than you!”

“Wow,” Erick said, putting as much admonishment in his voice as he thought necessary. “I miss Valok and Krakina and Apogough more than I thought possible. I never heard them talk like this except when it came to Portal.”

The two older incani instantly went quiet. Anger drained away like pus from a wound.

Erick waited.

Rollo was the first to break silence, saying, “It is beneath us to act this way, especially in the face of challenges such as ours.”

Erick asked, “Are the grocers really out of food?”

“No.” Hera said, “But they’re getting low. The rice is rationed. In two days the wheat will be, too. The Red Dot attack hit the granaries outside of the walls, taking with it most of our storage.”

Calizi eyed Rollo, then turned away from the man, saying, “In two days the restaurants around town will start having to offer neutered menus. We would like to avoid this. We’ve taken care of everything on our end, but we need that rain, archmage.”

Rollo flinched in anger as he listened to Calizi speak, but he spoke to Erick, saying, “Our workers are well paid, but you can’t eat gold. We’ve drawn up a preliminary schedule, if you’d like to approve?” He gestured to a paper on the table.

Erick picked up the paper, read it, then summarized, “Platinum rain on the Gardens on firstday and tenthday, for four hours in the morning. Normal rain on the Gardens on thirday, fifthday, and seventhday, an hour in the morning. Normal rain across the whole city every fifthday for three hours at noon and an hour in the evening. Normal rain as needed to keep the reservoir north of the city full and the pasture green.” He asked, “That’s it? I expected a lot more. This is almost nothing.”

Hera said, “That’s it.”

“Except for today.” Rollo said, “My people are ready for you to start whenever, but we’d like five hours of platinum rain, and soon.”

Hera added, “Except for today. Right.”

Calizi frowned. “Kip is almost ready. He’s the last one.” She lifted her chin, facing north, saying, “The rice paddies are almost set up. None of our soil is very good right now, and his is giving him more trouble than the rest of us.”

Erick looked north. Past his house, past the Mage Trio’s house, the northern wall of the city rose from the ground. There weren’t many buildings over there; it was just a small dragonkin neighborhood, with individual houses. But on this side of that small neighborhood, Erick saw people’s heads and torsos poking up from the flat orange stone. They bent down and vanished, only to stand back up. They were doing something over there, but whatever it was, Erick guessed they had it under control.

Calizi continued, “It’s all sand right now. Not a lick of good brown dirt anywhere. But he’ll set it to rights. He’s an odd wrought, growing food he can’t ever eat, but I’ve known him since I was a baby. He knows how to grow practically everything under the sun, under every condition known. Sand ain’t a big deal in the short term.”

Erick said, “My garden is full of sand, too. Whole thing got glassed by the Flare Couatl. I’m keeping an eye on it, making sure it stays healthy until I can revive my compost pile and redo the garden properly. If this raining schedule needs to be adjusted until we all get back to normal soil then you just let me know.” He looked back to his group.

Calizi smiled with genuine warmth. “I’ll be sure to do that, archmage. I mean— Erick.”

Erick smirked.

Hera stood straighter. “Kip just sent that he’s ready. That’s the last one.” She added, “And I hope to never do this again, Erick. This bickering is too much for me. I’m just here for this transitional period to see that it gets done.”

Erick turned back toward the north. A blue wrought who was in a depression up to his waist, waved his way. Erick said, “Thanks for your help, Hera. I’m sure we can take care of it ourselves, now that you’ve got it up and running.” He asked, “So let’s bring on the rain?”

“Please,” Calizi said.

“We’re ready,” Rollo said.

With a thought and some control, white mist spilled out of the air in every direction. For a brief moment, the Human District was filled with heavy fog.

A cheer began in the distance, building up into a roar of approval.

Erick smiled as Calizi clapped in happiness and Hera grinned at the sky. Rollo said something solemn in some other language, only to have Calizi laugh and clap louder.

Fog turned to clouds, that rose into the sky, flickering with white flashes, obscuring the morning sun. Dark patches appeared in the underbelly of the roiling mass above. Drops of platinum fell—

“Oh! My own stuff!” Erick flickered Ophiel over to his garden. With a chain of thought, Erick set down five [Weather Ward]s across the green space, blocking out the rain. He laughed a little, then turned back to his new partners in the farming business, saying, “I don’t plan on selling much of my stuff, so I don’t need that much rain.” He paused. He added, “As a matter of fact, I probably need to go prune all of that back, now. I had it good this morning.”

Hera said, “I need to get back to work, too.” She turned to Erick, Rollo, and Calizi, to say, “It was a pleasure working with you all, and if this is still working in a week, I will be very happy.” She walked out of the pavilion, into the glittering rain, saying, “Later!”

Erick said, “Later!” He turned to Calizi and Rollo, asking, “Have you two heard from Ikawa or Delia? I saw Ikawa at a party five days ago, but I haven’t actually asked if she was okay. I haven't seen or heard of what’s become of Delia at all.”

Calizi’s voice turned soft and sad, as she said, “I don’t know about Ikawa, but Delia went to the Adventurer’s Guildhouse. That poor girl had everything taken from her, and she is angry. I tried to console her, but there’s no hugging out that sort of despair. Her father was her only family.”

“… Shit,” Erick said.

Rollo said, “Delia might come out of this stronger for her hardship. It happens more often than you’d think.”

Calizi practically yelled at the man, “How can you be so heartless!”

“I am pragmatic!” Rollo countered, “Valok was a great man. His daughter is certainly the same. I saw that greatness in her when she was out working in the Farm, pre-matriculation. No spells to help her and she worked just as hard as anyone else! Harder, even, because she didn’t have the Script to help. Don’t go coddling her now, Calizi. She doesn’t need that. No one does.”

Calizi frowned and almost said something more, but she held her tongue. She looked away, toward the falling rain. Greenery had already started to poke up from the edge of the Human District, like a band of life amid the orange stone.

Rollo said, “Ikawa is at the Mage Guildhouse. Krakina was in the process of teaching her how to be a proper Weather Witch, but that process was cut short. She’s a strong one, too.”

Erick nodded.

Calizi said, “If you go seek them out, just be aware that you’ve denied them their revenge. Maybe not so much Ikawa, I don’t really know her, but Delia, for sure. Valok’s killers were among the first tracked down and ended.”

“The only ones that got away were the Red Dot mage and a handful of others.” Rollo’s face turned darker as he added, “And Caradogh.”

Erick said, “I just heard from my daughter in Oceanside: They got Caradogh. I didn’t hear the full story, but I think he tried to go after Jane. It failed, thankfully”

Rollo said, “Good riddance!” He cursed a string of darker, hard-sounding words, then spat on the ground.

Erick silently agreed, and hated that he felt that way. Killing was not supposed to be the answer.

Calizi frowned at the spit on the ground. She gestured. The spit vanished into a spot of thick air, as she said, “Good riddance to bad rubbish.”

- - - -

Bulgan ended another five attacks on his city in more or less the same manner as the first two. There was some variation, but mostly it was the same old same old. The only notable fight was with a pair of dragonkin who were both outfitted with [Lightwalk] and [Shadowalk]. That was a fun fight; they had honestly expected to be able to kill him. Bulgan actually had to dodge an attack.

He could have let their [Shadowblight] hit, but it was their big, kill-a-Shade, kill-a-city spell, and they thought they had trapped him into an unmovable position. How they ever got that fool idea in their heads, Bulgan would never know. He just stepped to the side and let the spell hit the city. It killed a few hundred shadelings, but they were replaceable. Mostly.

The buildings were certainly replaceable. In fact, the replacements had already gone up hours ago. The city was whole again.

Bulgan stood atop the tallest spike of shadow kendrithyst, watching the west, plucking hard nuts from an apridate frond and cracking them in his hands to reveal the orange fruit inside—

He paused.

He stared out across the desert.

A thin trail of dust, blowing south in the wind, heralded the arrival of a person on a floating platform, traveling fast, and close to the ground. They were coming his way, and they were holding a purple flag.

Bulgan smiled. He tossed the apridate frond to the shadeling waiting at his side. With a thought, he vanished from his spot and reappeared next to the new arrival.

