“Perhaps.” Clenching her fists to keep herself from slugging Nian Zu in the face for his implied disapproval, Yuzhen took a deep breath, looked him in the eyes, and said, “But I would burn the entire Empire to the ground if it would bring him back.”

Instead of responding with expected outrage, Nian Zu bristled for all of a second before deflating in place, visibly aging as he sank back into the cushions. “Aye,” he whispered, looking far off into the distance and seeing nothing at all. “As would I.”

In a moment of stunned clarity, Yuzhen finally put the pieces together and understood why Nian Zu offered her his unconditional support. “You loved him,” she Sent, barely able to believe it. Her old man never showed interest in any women, but she thought it was because... well... she never questioned it.

“Wrong.” Eschewing the need for Sending, Nian Zu said, “I love him. I have for more than six decades now, and will continue loving him until my dying breath.” Puffing up as if daring her to say otherwise, he added, “And Du Yi loved me. We could never let it be known because it would have destroyed his career, but it was real.”

Remembering how angry her old man had been when she told him Nian Zu refused to take her as his Disciple, Yuzhen nodded and said. “I believe you.”

They lapsed into silence then, with neither one sure how to continue, but Nian Zu was the first to speak up. “If he were here now, he’d berate me for being a hypocrite,” he said, chuckling as if it were some joke. “Call me a muscle-headed idiot to boot. I was wrong wasn’t I? He didn’t sacrifice himself for the Empire, he did it for you, didn’t he?” Closing his eyes without waiting for an answer, the old, heartbroken man took a deep breath, and when he opened them again, he was the Hero of the Wall, the Living Legend Nian Zu once again. “Well then,” he Sent, bottling his emotions back up within him. “I still don’t agree with all this talk of rebellion, so I suppose I’ve no choice but to keep the boy alive or die trying.” With a wry shrug, he added, “Du Yi taught you well. You almost convinced me to take up arms beside you.”

“I only spoke the truth,” Yuzhen replied, reaching out to offer Nian Zu her hand, which he took and squeezed with a smile. She wanted to trust this man who loved her father, but she couldn’t, not entirely, and not with something of this magnitude just yet. Still, she couldn’t just watch him throw his life away, and not only because she knew what it would mean if he lent his name, reputation, and expertise to their cause. “Even if the worst should not come to pass, and Rain survives this death trap to return home to his family,” she Sent, choosing her words carefully, “It will not be the end. There will be another test, another trial, another betrayal, all during a time when unity should stand above all else. Thus far, the Bekhai have endured without complaint and done their part.” For longer than they should have, if you asked her, but she worried that if she said anything else, she would give too much away.

The Legate had erred greatly in raising Rain to Imperial Peerage, because now, the entire Empire had seen how poorly the Imperial Clan treated one of the best and brightest from the outer provinces. If even Falling Rain, with his miraculous achievements and unbelievable accomplishments, was not worthy of respect, then who was? Contrary to what Nian Zu might think, the Bekhai were not alone in their outrage, for even a loyal dog will run away if kicked one too many times.

And the Bekhai made wolves seem tame in comparison...

Chapter Meme
