Having learned enough about the Bekhai to know to ask in advance instead of waiting for someone to warn her, Yuzhen was well prepared with a princely wedding gift, one she presented to him on the day of their ceremony. He wore it now, the silver and black armour which was so similar to his old trappings of office, the armour which denoted him as the Captain of the Marshal’s Guard. Since he was no longer her guard captain, his new armour was devoid of the ornate decorations or the Marshal character engraved into the chest, but it was the same in every other way save one: the guard captain’s armour was merely ceremonial, while Gerel’s was an entire set of Runic armour, complete with helmet, breastplate, gauntlets, greaves, and boots.

A codpiece too, which the Tyrant had argued against but Yuzhen was adamant be included for reasons which should be obvious...

It all cost several fortunes to commission, and again, she had Rain to thank for it, because not only did he forge a working relationship with the greatest Runic Craftsman of the North, Yuzhen never could have afforded the Tyrant’s prices if he hadn’t essentially handed over the reins to a third of Sanshu’s industry. The information he provided regarding the Council’s crimes regarding military shipments and his subsequent idea regarding compound interest helped her maneuver into position to snatch up the traitorous Golden Highland’s Coalition’s financial holdings, and now almost seventy percent of Sanshu’s commerce operated under the Magistrate’s banner. Business was booming, especially once word spread of better pay and working conditions under her employ, and even though she ran those businesses on behalf of the Province and limited her salary to a measly three percent of gross profit, it was still more coin than she ever imagined having.

Of course, this meant that there were more people than ever eyeing her position, but Gerel kept her safe from physical threats, while her old man’s hoard of secrets and blackmail kept her ahead of political ones.

Paying for Gerel’s Runic armour had almost beggared her, but despite her lavish spending and time-consuming efforts, his gift made hers look paltry in comparison. He gave her a home. His home to be precise, the courtyard manor he grew up in, and where he hoped they might one day raise their children in as well. While it might not seem like much to others, Yuzhen knew the value of his gift, because it meant she could count herself as one of the Bekhai, from now until the end of her days.

And the Bekhai look after their own.

“Married life suits you.” Surprising her out of her daydreams, Nian Zu strode over in full regalia with an easy smile on his face, once again overstepping the boundaries of their working relationship. Yuzhen didn’t mind it much, and treated it as the fancies of a lonely old man checking in on his old friend’s daughter, but she wished he would be less... paternal about it. A friendly old uncle would be a welcome addition to her life, especially when said uncle was the highest ranking officer in the North, but at times, it felt like he was trying to fill in for her old man, and that, she would not abide.

Yuzhen only had one father in this life, and no one, not even well-meaning Nian Zu, could ever replace Shing Du Yi.

Still, she didn’t let any of her feelings show and beamed prettily for the Colonel General and said, “Thank you. I feel blessed indeed to have a husband who loves me so.” Seeing Nian Zu flinch at her remark, she made a note to avoid the topic of marriage in the future. It seems the Hero of the Wall still pined over some lost love, which perhaps had something to do with why he’d become the black sheep of the Society in the first place. There were rumours a plenty of why he abandoned both Clan and family, but it was one of the best kept secrets in the North. It wasn’t her place to pry, however, and seeing how it was still a sore spot, Yuzhen quickly changed the subject. “How fares our young and troublesome friend? On his way here, I hope?”

“If only things were so simple.” Snarling beneath his breath, Nian Zu seemed ready to explode at the reminder. “The idiot boy went to the eastern gates again, supposedly to receive his mother, sister, and betrotheds. He sent a Death Corps runner to inform me that he will not leave without them, and that I am free to travel ahead along with his retinue and Khishig escorts. He says, and I quote, he ‘will catch up to us by boat, or something’.”

Idiot boy indeed. With Junior Yimu’s help, Yuzhen had ruled out travelling to the Central Citadel by ship even though it was the fastest method available. With so many sailors and deckhands aboard, as well as the lack of a ship large enough carry their entire contingent, there were too many unaccountable variables involved, so they were moving by convoy instead. The Colonel General was taking no chances on this journey, bringing a full five-thousand veteran soldiers along with his Famed Fifty, the contingent of loyal Peak Experts he personally supported in their rise to Martial Might, most of whom came from backgrounds of no particular importance. Technically, they were only the Famed Forty-Three at the moment, but there had been fifty of them at one point in time, and the unimaginative name stuck. Add to this the five thousand Khishigs of Alsantset’s retinue, which included most of Rain’s former retinue, and it should be enough to make any Imperial Scion think twice before sending assassins after Rain. A failed attempt could easily be twisted to look like an attempt on Yuzhen, Nian Zu, or even Du Min Gyu who was supposedly travelling with them, the threat of which should be enough to see them all safely to the Central Citadel in one piece.

Unless Rain did something stupid like refuse to travel with them...

Inwardly cursing the boy for a fool, Yuzhen smiled and batted her lashes at the incensed Colonel General while inviting him into her carriage to sit, doing what little she could to help save Rain from his wrath. “You know how the Bekhai are, placing emphasis on family first. Rain is simply playing the part of dutiful son and waiting for his mother to return.” While waging a clandestine battle against the Supreme Families, one he fought through proxy no less. She couldn’t decide if she should applaud his bravery or denounce his foolishness for this decision, for now he was behaving as a true Imperial Scion would. Battles in the shadows were handled by cat's-paws and underlings. To dare treat the Marshal of the North and a Living Legend as such was... bold, to say the least.

“Bah.” All but throwing his hands in the air as he threw himself against the cushioned seat, Nian Zu’s frustration was evident to all. “I don’t mind the minor delay, but by his own admission, he doesn’t even know if Sarnai is coming home today. They were supposed to return that same night, then the next day, and again last night, but each time they pushed the date back to stay behind.” Deflating a bit, he shook his head and stroked his beard, adding, “Not that I blame them. I’m almost tempted to head over and see what all the fuss is about.”

Though she now counted as one of the Bekhai themselves, Yuzhen worried she would never truly understand her new and strange extended family or the depths of their strength. Gerel was something of an outcast among the Bekhai, with his only ties being to his mysterious Mentor, his Senior Sister Sarnai, and his one and only friend Charok. He never spoke of his parents, not even when she asked, and his relationship with Baatar was that of a superior and subordinate, no more, no less. Thus, she was hardly surprised when he said he knew nothing about the Medical Saint’s prowess with Divination, but oddly enough, Rain and everyone else responded the same way, and she believed them. Even stranger was how Gerel claimed the Medical Saint wasn’t technically Bekhai, and only associated with them out of friendship.

So strange and mysterious, this Medical Saint turned Runic Craftsman and Guru Diviner...

“Enough about that,” Nian Zu said, surprising Yuzhen out of her thoughts once more. It was so strange how easily she let her guard down around him, but perhaps it was because he’d earned her trust many times over, first with his unsolicited offer of support, and again when he instantly agreed to her request and supported Rain in front of the Justicars. Thus, when the Colonel General put up a Sound Barrier between them, Yuzhen didn’t even think before raising a hand to stop Gerel from charging over. “Thank you,” Nian Zu sent, offering her husband a conciliatory smile despite his deadly serious tone. “I’ve come today to speak on a matter of grave importance, and I thought it best we keep your charming husband out of the conversation.”

Then he should have probably asked before putting up a barrier, but Yuzhen knew the grizzled veteran meant no offence. Much like Rain, Nian Zu cared little for face, except the Colonel General could afford not to, unlike the young Bekhai prince-ling who wasn’t really a prince-ling. “Speak freely,” Yuzhen Sent, following Nian Zu’s example. It was better this way regardless; Junior Yimu’s agents apparently learned most of their information from lip reading, information he ‘carelessly’ spilled to warn her of the dangers.

“As you and I both know, the Bekhai have not been shy about their intention to rebel if Rain should come to harm.” A frightening outcome, one Yuzhen hoped would never come to pass. “However, it has come to my attention that not all Khishigs are Bekhai.”

“Stop.” Holding a hand up to keep Nian Zu from continuing, Yuzhen quietly signalled the watching Gerel to be on his guard. “You mean to reach out to the non-Bekhai Khishigs and convince them to overthrow Akanai? It won’t work.”

“No, of course not.” Taken aback by the accusation, Nian Zu explained, “I want to convince them to take service in the Imperial Army. I can offer five-year contracts and officer rankings for any Peak Experts, but the rest will have to earn any promotions.” Turning to smile at Gerel again, Nian Zu added, “I had hoped your husband would be the first to take my offer, and convince others to do so as well. Surely not all of the Bekhai agree with Akanai and Baatar, and understand that a rebellion now might spell the end of the Empire itself.”

Suppressing a laugh at the Colonel General’s optimism, Yuzhen simply shook her head. “Forgive me for saying this, but you don’t understand the Bekhai or their mountain neighbours at all. Even if Gerel agrees to Imperial Service, it won’t stop him from siding with his people if they rebel, nor will it stop many of the mountain soldiers under your command.”

“...But why? I myself am quite fond of the boy, and I expect great things from him should he survive, but how can any one life be measured against the lives of tens of millions of Imperial citizens?”

Having given the subject much thought in the past few days, Yuzhen offered Nian Zu a helpless shrug and Sent, “If Falling Rain dies, the Bekhai will not rebel to avenge him. They will rebel because Rain’s death will prove that the Empire does not consider them, and others like them, true Imperial Citizens.” Seeing Nian Zu’s confusion, she explained, “Rain is not the golden child you believe he is. Truth is, most Bekhai seem to barely tolerate his eccentric ways, but in the end, he is still Bekhai. A phenomenally talented one at that, and also the first and only outsider ever raised to Imperial Peerage without being beholden to the Imperial Clan. If his titles and accomplishments are ultimately rewarded with betrayal and death, then why would any Bekhai care to fight and die for an Empire which clearly scorns them? Why would any mountain warrior aspire to do the same?”

Though he clearly agreed with her explanation, Nian Zu still shook his head as old, disapproving men were wont to do. “This business of calling themselves Bekhai and holding themselves apart from the Empire is what caused this,” he Sent, full of noble and righteous outrage. “Divisive and dissenting thinking is what it is, I should have seen it from the start.”

“How are the Bekhai any worse than the Society of Heaven and Earth?” Yuzhen countered. “They too expect loyalty to Clan and Society above all else. Is this not also divisive thinking?” Fixing him with a look of disappointment, she continued, “Falling Rain has no great love for the Empire, but he is without a doubt a man of the people. He funds schools, feeds the hungry, and shares his lucrative ideas and inventions not because he seeks glory or acclaim, but because he genuinely believes this will improve the lives of many. The strong protect the weak, and in return, the many support the few. That is how the Bekhai live, and truthfully, I believe the Empire could stand to learn a thing or two from them.”

Straightening up in his seat with a look of surprise, Nian Zu opened his mouth, closed it, then Sent, “I never thought I would need to ask this, but... If Baatar raises his sword in rebellion, whose side do you stand on?”

“I am Yuzhen of the Bekhai,” she replied out loud, following the standard greeting of her people. “Wife of Gerel, and Marshal of the North.” The Bekhai look after their own, she knew this, and she would do her best to uphold it.

Hurt and alarmed by her declaration, Nian Zu recoiled and Sent, “Your father loved the Empire so much, he gave his life and sacrificed his clan to keep the Province from falling apart after his death.”

