He stared at the identification in surprise. Stories told of The Breaking, and the Necromancer Wars, and how the dragonkin had joined the forces of evil, laying waste to the elves and the human domains. It was the reason that, even to this day, people feared Dragonkin. And here were three dragonkin death knights, and from the intuition he gained from Explorer, he could tell they were powerful foes. He shivered at the sight of the dangerous patrol, and in his focus, he almost missed the soft swishing sound behind him.

At the last moment, he heard it and ducked as an enormous form descended from above. Air, and dense vortices of ice mana buffeted against his prone body as something landed upon the roof beside him with a heavy crunch.

Skeletal Frost Dragon – Undead Dragon – level ??? (Ice)

It was only a supreme act of will that kept the yelp from escaping his lips. I can’t even identify it! With Explorer having advanced so much, he had grown used to being able to identify the level of even advanced foes. With his current buffs and skills, he should be able to Identify anything up to level two hundred and twenty-eight.

How powerful is this beast?

The monster was enormous; a true dragon even larger than the Skeletal Wyvern they had faced in the library or the one they had defeated at the end of Alexander Gray’s dungeon. It towered above him, flaring its creaking bone wings wide, ice mana arcing between the naked bones of the wings like a magical skin. Flurries of snow and ice crystals drifted down from the powerful wings as the monster retracted them, resting them upon its back. The black stone of the roof crunched beneath the grip of giant talons while the skeletal head turned this way and that, studying the streets below with the unwavering gaze of a necromantically animated guardian.

Calen held his breath, not moving a single muscle as he hugged the stone roof. His heart was beating so loudly that he just knew that any second now the monster would hear it. Seconds drew out longer and longer, stretching to minutes. Urgency rose within him as his need to breathe mounted steadily, but the moment he moved, he knew he would be discovered.

A soft, almost imperceptible shadow flitted across the roof of the building opposite him. He frowned, momentarily distracted as he searched the darkness for signs of what it might be.

Clack.

A small, shattered fragment of bone clattered off the roof, falling to the street on the far side of the intersection. The reaction was instantaneous. Stone tiles ground into dust as the talons beside him flexed, and the undead dragon let out an ear-shattering roar that shook him to his core. A dense cone of blue magic burst forth from the bony maw, filling the air with a sudden glacial chill, far colder than even the ambient temperature of this frozen place. In a second, the Skeletal Frost Dragon had launched its enormous bulk into the air, and moving far faster than something of its mass had any right to, it was already on the opposite side of the intersection, bathing the street and buildings in its arctic dragon breath.

Sheets of ice instantly covered everything as the dragon swooped up out of the street, circling high overhead, and by the time the monster had reached its peak, the patrol of Death Knights was already rushing down the street to investigate the noise.

He took the cue and fled, flying as fast and as low as he could.

It was several minutes later that he took a new perch upon a taller building, allowing his racing heart to recover from his frantic flight.

Thanks, Ali, he thought, realizing who had provided the distraction to draw the dragon away.

His new vantage point, a building somehow suspended entirely in the air, provided a fantastic view of the dungeon chamber. Not quite as big as Myrin’s Keep, he had a view of a sizeable fragment of a city – immediately, he started memorizing the layout with his skills. ‘Fragment’ certainly seemed an appropriate description; it looked as if someone had simply dropped a section of a city into a massive underground cavern, and sealed it away, entombing it under countless tons of ice and rock. He easily picked out several tunnels leading away, presumably to unseen parts of the dungeon. Patrols of death knights and skeletons roamed the streets below, and he could make out the large, lazily circling forms of several skeletal frost dragons.

But his gaze was drawn to the far side of the city. Before a large open archway stood a Death Knight. It towered over the normal patrolling death knights, its shoulders at least twice as broad, standing impassively, stalwart, a grounded, glowing greatsword held ready in a two-handed grip.

Haverron [The Devastator] – Undead Dragonkin – level 215 (Death / Ice).[Explorer]A unique Devastation Knight that commanded the legion of the Blind Lich during the Necromancer Wars. Prominently featured in both historical and mythical accounts of the war and invoked by parents across the continent as a bogeyman to encourage recalcitrant children to behave.Category: Dungeon Boss.Threat Level: Raid.Monster Type: Undead.Damage: Death, Ice, Physical.Known Abilities: Despair Aura.

Calen swallowed uncomfortably. If the potent aura of mana welling up within the Death Knight was not enough, the fact that he was named and bore a title told Calen all he needed to know. Not only was this the guardian – the boss – of this dungeon chamber, but this was also the legendary Haverron of the ancient tales. This was, without a shadow of a doubt, the Blind Lich’s lair.

And I’m strolling in here like it’s a Sunday afternoon walk in the park. Way to go, Calen.

Just then, his notification chimes sounded.

Your actions have increased the reputation of your Patron.

Calen smiled inwardly. Despite the clear and present danger, he wouldn’t want to be anywhere else.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
