It’s not another personality or Natal Soul. At least I’m pretty sure it isn’t. No, It’s just me using the State of Enlightenment to the fullest extent, to the point where it feels like I’m experiencing current events from two different perspectives, one which is moving in the moment, and one where time has slowed to a crawl. I think that’s the answer, though it doesn’t explain why the Predator can Conceal, Cloud-Step, use Domain, and other stuff without lessons or practice...

Questions best left for another time, for the jaws of this deadly trap are fast closing in around me. Five groups, five matrices, and every group is running directly towards me at all times. However, I know the tracker only indicates direction, because if it told them any more, they wouldn’t need more than one to find me, information I can use to my advantage. Though I’ve rescinded my tendrils of Domain, I still remember where each group is, and unlike them, I know which direction my quarry is headed: straight towards me. Thus, all that is left to do is to set the Predator upon them with the darkest of Intents.

Kill.

A single Cloud-Step brings me into a crowd of my foes, all of whom are caught off-guard by my sudden arrival, my Concealed presence clearly felt within their overlapping Domains. Professionals that they are, their surprise barely lasts for the blink of an eye, but that is all the time I need to unleash my Mountain Collapsing Stomp, one containing all the energy I’d been storing up since leaving my first kill behind. The silence shatters as the ground roars in pain, and I allow myself a moment to appreciate the power I’ve unleashed. The earth crumbles beneath my foot as pillars of hard-packed dirt and stone erupt on all sides, and a fissure opens up and swallows five unfortunate souls, their death knells cut short as they are buried and crushed beneath the incalculable weight of the shifting earth. The remaining seven are thrown into the air whereupon they are battered about by flying debris, shocked and disoriented by my unexpected and overwhelming attack.

Hardly as impressive as Mitsue Juichi’s entrance onto the field of battle, but it’s not bad for a first try.

Broken bones are the least of my foes’ worries as I set to deadly work, traversing through the unstable chaos with laughable ease. The stone and debris seem to move to accommodate me, whether it be to offer a steady foothold where none otherwise exists or veer away from striking me as it approaches my position. Some form of highly advanced Deflection, it seems like, though rather than pushing things away, it catches them in an invisible current which moves to my will.

Similar to how I clung to that Lizard Demon’s tail in Sinuji, except back then I was submerged within the current, whereas now the current flows around me. A subtle distinction, but an important one, because the former left me to the mercy of outside forces, while the latter allows me the freedom to almost swim through the chaos and clutter. A hop and a skip brings me within arm’s reach of my next target, chosen not for his proximity, but because he seemed most likely to recover first. A glimpse back into my memories show that this man not only reacted to my arrival first, but also leapt into the air a fraction of a second before I unleashed my Mountain Collapsing Stomp, allowing him to escape the worst of the impact. Currently, he’s partway through his spinning leap, rotating his entire body about in mid-air while utilizing his Domain to forcibly Deflect anything that comes into reach, all in hopes of avoiding the worst. It’s not a perfect solution, but it’s worked so far, and might well have continued working had I not come to finish what I started.

Seeing him spinning about at such ridiculous speeds, a simple solution comes to mind as I reach out with both hands and grab him firmly by the head. An object in motion tends to stay in motion, and an object at rest stays at rest, so while I stop his head from spinning with sheer muscle, the rest of him continues to twirl about, shattering his neck and spine into who knows how many pieces. Just like that, a man who I suspect might well have been a Peak Expert dies by my hand, not because I’m necessarily stronger than him, but because I caught him by surprise, an element I would love to be Blessed by, were the Mother Above so willing. Alas, such powers are not for mere mortals, so I will have to rely on my own cunning to keep utilizing this most effective of elements.

Pausing to study my foe, my hands go through his pockets with alarming speed, so fast it actually feels like I’m moving at normal speed, while the rest of the world continues on in slow motion. My search uncovers only a single poisoned black blade in his free hand, and I notice he also lacks the customary disfigurements I usually see in Wraiths, as they’re typically even uglier than your average Defiled. He could have only recently turned to the Enemy, but despite wearing dark, flowing Western robes, he lacks the leathery, sun-tanned complexion of your conventional desert dwelling Westerner. The man’s skin looks like it’s never seen the touch of the sun, a pale yet healthy complexion found only in the most pampered of Central’s Martial Warriors, alongside a full head of soft, silky, and luxuriously thick hair. Whoever he was, he was a man of wealth and plenty, but other than that, there’s little left to identify who he is or who might have sent him.

Which is hardly unexpected. I mean, it’s not like he’d carry signed and sealed orders when going out to kill someone, but any clue would’ve been nice. Instead, I’m left with nothing besides a wooden compass looking thing which I suppose is the tracking matrix, and his unused Wraith Blade which is a twin to the weapon embedded into my belly. Briefly considering if I should remove it on my way to my next target, I decide it’s best to let sleeping dogs lie, as it’s not life threatening and pulling it out would ruin all the Chi workings I already have in place. It can wait until time and focus are not in such short supply.

Though I am unable to Hone or Amplify the Wraith weapon, it’s pointed edge is more than sharp enough to cleave through the closest assassin’s neck, albeit falling short of actually decapitating him. Despite being physically stronger than I’ve ever been with Amplified muscles out the wazoo, cutting a man’s head clean off isn’t as easy as it looks, especially when said man is being buffeted about in the midst of a man-made earthquake. Learning from my mistake, I stab my next target through the neck, which takes more accuracy and focus, but dead is dead and speed is king. Although thus far I have yet to notice any armour under their robes or Runic symbols etched into them, I can’t afford to stop and swing at the same enemy twice. Already, my Mountain Collapsing Stomp has blown its load and things are winding down, yet I’ve only killed eight of twelve in this squad while forty-seven more are closing in on this position. Even grabbing a second Wraith blade doesn’t speed things up, as the bulk of my time is spent moving from one target to the next.

Another thing I didn’t take into consideration before setting out was stamina. I just spent the last three months lying in bed, so I’m not in the best of shape. Sure, the body reinforcement baths helped strengthen my muscles, but cardio is a different sort of beast altogether as my lungs threaten to give out. That’s not all due to poor fitness, but also because I can’t filter dust from the air and keep myself from inhaling clouds of it with every breath. The assassins aren’t too badly impacted by it because they’re dying before it takes effect, but I’m only noticing it now because I’m suppressing the urge to hack up a lung. All in all, things are going from bad to worse, especially since the explosion was probably blocked by the Sound Barrier which means no one is coming to my rescue, a minor possibility I was kinda banking on if things didn’t work out in my favour.

Like right now.

My next target blocks my first attack and counters with a riposte, but one lacking stability as he has yet to find his footing. Still, his response forces me to parry and lead him to overextend, allowing me to drive my second blade straight up into his exposed chin. A loss of a single second, but it buys enough time for the remaining three to recover and rob me of my only advantage. A moment’s hesitation costs me dearly as the opportunity to escape slips away and I’m beset upon by all sides, their dark blades all but invisible to the eye as I dodge, block, parry, and Deflect for all I’m worth. Despite the impressive start, I am still clearly outmatched and they know it. Worse, they’re fanatics in every sense of the word, leaving obvious openings that all but dare me to take the trade, which isn’t fair because that’s my trick. Problem is, they can afford to make this trade since their allies are close behind. It’s clear that these people mean to kill me, and so long as they succeed, survival is merely an unexpected bonus.

Ah. I see. It’s not confidence that brought them here, but a willingness to die in order to succeed. Oddly enough, that makes me feel a little better, because it means they probably don’t have a single Warrior capable of killing Akanai, but were rather planning to catch her by surprise or wear her down through strength in numbers. That means I still have a chance. A slim chance, but I’m no stranger to overcoming long odds.

The battle unfolds before my eyes, and though it sounds egotistical to even think this, I am in sheer awe of my Martial Prowess. With two Wraith blades in hand, I fend off my three foes, my weapons revolving in a ring of steel so similar to how Zian utilizes them. My Wraith blades are shorter and not as well-balanced for this sort of defence, but I make up for it by positioning myself to eke out every advantage I can as we make our way across the unsteady terrain. What’s more, my short stature means there’s less of me to defend, which makes up for the drawback of using a shorter blade, and while it’s not particularly game-changing, it’s something.

Though the end result is similar to Zian’s favoured tactic, there are no Forms in my movements, or at least none that I recognize. Instead, every step, strike, and shift of my body holds multiple movements contained within as I take what I have learned and copied before making them uniquely mine. For example, Zian has a very obvious tendency to attack with the right and defend with the left, a habit he uses to his advantage by flipping things around when needed, but with short blades like these, I’m comfortable attacking and defending from either side, which keeps my opponents from finding a rhythm to follow. My actions even take my personal measurements and idiosyncrasies into account, with a heavy emphasis at getting in close and striking at angles most people are not accustomed to defending from.

This is not utilizing the Forms, but embodying them, creating new movements as I go which can only be labelled as the Forms of Falling Rain, my own personal, distinct style which anyone can copy, but will only be most effective when utilized by me and me alone. It’s thrilling to see in action, and seeing so many subtle changes to the standard Forms makes me wonder why I never made those changes myself. The Forms are merely a guideline, but I’ve been treating them like gospel, to be read and interpreted in different ways. Instead, I should have been changing them, adapting them, making them mine all this time, a practice I can only appreciate now when I know the Forms well enough to determine what’s right and wrong for me.

Akanai taught me this same lesson so many years ago, on the very first day I met her, in fact. “You are too reserved in the Forms, too fluid and unnatural,” she said, after deeming my demonstration ‘barely passable’. “The Forms contain the full spectrum of movements and emotions. You must also embrace the jarring and abrasiveness they contain.” That was everything I needed to know, but it’s taken me seven long years to understand. I am not supposed to adapt my movements to the Forms. I must adapt the Forms to my movements.

In spite of my superlative demonstration, my foes are a formidable bunch, working in flawless concert despite sustaining grievous injuries from my Mountain Collapsing Stomp. It’s not just a big boot that shakes the ground a bit, Mitsue Juichi’s signature move emits multiple shock-waves in close succession which can cause indirect internal damage through Reverberation. Add to this the shower of dirt and stone they endured, and none of my foes were able to emerge unscathed, yet still they can push me to my limits without leaving any advantageous openings. I’m not all-powerful, and in fact, I might even be weaker than my three foes, but that doesn’t mean I’m guaranteed to lose. Giving up on killing blows, I risk striking armour and switch tactics to cause whatever damage I can in hopes of slipping away, only to immediately call myself an idiot for not trying this sooner. The poisoned blades are easily dealt with when you have an in-depth education from the Medical Saint, the ability to multitask, and knowledge of Panacea, and my foes most definitely don’t have two out of three.

