Fight or flight is very different when you’re no longer beholden to bodily instincts.

Almost everyone has experienced it at one time or another. Danger or excitement presents itself, and the world slows down until it stops. The pounding of your beating heart echoes in your ears as it sends a spike of adrenaline coursing through your veins. Your mouth dries, your skin goes clammy, your body shakes, and your mind is either racing at a million thoughts per minute or silent as the grave, rendered helpless by the staggering overflow of information presenting itself. These circumstances are not meant to encourage careful deliberation and rational thought, but rather instinct and reaction, readying your body to do the aforementioned fight or flight.

The problem is, the foundations for basic human instinct were laid down back when we were naked, fire-worshipping cave-dwellers. Humanity has come a long way since then, and while our instincts served us well back when we competed with wolves and tigers for food and shelter, they’re all sorts of useless for the modern-day warrior. Even here and now in the Empire, where we fight with spears and bows rather than tanks and rifles, most of a soldier’s training is meant to counteract instinctual behaviour. When faced with an overwhelming horde of enemies, for most, their instincts will be screaming at them to charge forward and fight or break ranks and run, but a soldier’s training teaches them to stand fast and hold strong. When fighting as a unit, ten average Martial Warriors should easily fend off forty to fifty average Defiled tribesmen, simply by virtue of combined arms and cooperation, the effectiveness of which only scales up from there. A hundred infantry can’t do much against a thousand Defiled, and it might well look like all hope is lost, but if those infantry were to follow their instincts and start running for hills, the three-hundred heavy cavalry waiting in the wings won’t have a nice, clumped up crowd of Defiled to hammer away at.

What I’m trying to get at is, when it comes to warfare, base instincts are rarely correct. If they were even remotely effective, then training and experience wouldn’t be so important. I’ve been fighting in this particular war since I was sixteen, and I still don’t have it all down pat, because here and now, my first instinct is to cut and run. Flee back to the District and seek shelter in the manor, where my family and guards can protect me. A dumb move, if I were to make it, because not only would I be putting innocent civilians and noncombatants in danger, I would also be leading a squad of readied assassins towards my sleeping loved ones, which I fear would not end well for them. These killers came prepared to face not just me and my guards, but also Dad, Akanai, Grandpa Du, and all the other notable Warriors in my family. They sent sixty killers, which means they either don’t have any more to spare, or they thought sixty was enough to finish the job.

So in a way, me coming out here to get stabbed wasn’t the worst thing in the world, assuming I survive of course.

This is the conclusion I come to as I stare into my would-be killer’s hazel eyes, brimming with suspicion and disbelief. He’s surprised because he didn’t think it’d be this easy, that I would just leave my bastion of safety and come out to meet him alone, unarmed, and unprompted. Much like with everyone else, this man’s thoughts and emotions are all right there for anyone to read, though I’m still not entirely sure how I’m able to pick up on it. It’s just... there, as perceptible as a scent in the air or a breeze across my skin, just something I know and understand as easily as breathing. There is no remorse in him, no regret or sympathy, only professional concern and curiosity as to why his target’s behaviour is so unexpected. Beneath it all, lies a bed of relief, because the task he’d been given was not an easy one, and he’s glad everything worked out. Murderer though he might be, he’s glad this mission turned out so well, because the alternative would’ve left many of his comrades dead or injured.

But his relief is measured and muted, because he knows his job is not yet done. There’s more to his mission, and he’s already thinking about how to best carry it out, because there are still others he has yet to kill.

It’s been three months since I lapsed into this coma, three months since Zhen Shi trapped me in a lifetime of suffering, and three months since I severed everything and anything in order to retreat into the Void. This morning, I Devoured all my nearby Natal Souls and took in all the sorrow, misery, anguish, and regret I’d severed away in recent weeks. Then, I spent every second from lunch onwards submerged in joy, love, and floof in order to Balance all that gloom and doom, but still it wasn’t enough. Now, thanks to these assassins, I am able to experience what is left in the gamut of human emotion, the darker, more malevolent side that lurks just beneath the surface of our minds.

These bastards were sent here to kill not just me, but also the people I love. I don’t know if they have specific targets or if they were ordered to kill everyone and leave no survivors, but regardless of their intent, I will not allow them to even try.

Fuelled by black hatred masquerading as righteous fury, my fist hurtles towards the handsome assassin’s face, and my heart soars with joy and satisfaction as I watch his features crater beneath the impact. The warm spray of blood and bone sets my skin to tingling as I take in the heady, metallic scent of death and marvel at my newfangled toughness. Despite exploding my foe’s head with a single punch, my hand is neither bruised nor scratched, protected by my emerging Domain and the rough, yet pliable skin resulting from weeks of carefully measured medicinal baths. While a sharp knife will still cut me, I could spend hours punching solid steel without scuffing my knuckles, much less breaking my hand like expected, for which I have Taduk, Taiyi Zhushen, and Li TieGuai to thank.

Bodily refinement, high cost for minimal gains, but I’ll take every advantage I can get.

As my Domain billows out into the murky darkness, it reveals the general distribution of my foes as their emerging Domains materialize to obstruct my own, forming a cage to prevent both sound and Sending from passing through. Though I am unable to sense the exact locations of every assassin here on the plains, it’s easy to sense where their resistance is weakest, the same way I can tell the difference between a sturdy wooden door and a paper one through mere touch. Somewhat unsurprisingly, the weakest point is due north, while the strongest resistance is due south, which is where they expect me to run if given the chance. More proof that instincts aren’t always reliable, but east and west are only slightly less guarded, as the Sentinel camp lies in the first direction, and an Imperial training camp in the other, while to the north, there is nothing but farms and grassland, with the occasional handful of houses to break up the monotony.

My foes mean to herd me away from the District, away from safety and reinforcements, but while they think they’ve got me trapped here on the plains, they will soon learn that our roles are reversed.

For I am the Predator, and they, nothing more than prey.

A single bound brings me away from my headless foe, which still stands despite my lengthy introspection. More importantly, it brings me out of sight as I disappear before their very eyes, rescinding my Domain until it barely extends past my skin. This leaves me blind to their presence, but it does the same to my foes as I slink into Concealment and scurry through the frosted grass, an eager predator searching for a chance to strike. Numbers mean little in a battle like this, for the same darkness they used to hide their approach has now turned against them to assist me. Defiled see better than Imperials in the dark, but even they need some light to see, and with heavy clouds obscuring both moon and stars, I can barely see my hand in front of my eyes. It will be the same or possibly worse for them, and while my Domain is large enough to uncover them all in a single sweep, none of them can say the same.

As I lead my foes on a roundabout chase, I go over my options, of which there are precious few. I have no weapons and no means to obtain one, aside from the black blade still embedded in my flesh. Poison seeps into my blood and targets my nerves with its paralytic agent, but a simple working of Chi and Panacea breaks down the insidious toxin into harmless waste products, which will later be filtered out by my liver and kidneys. I’ll be pissing black sludge later and will need to drink plenty of fluids to flush it all out, but I can’t afford to remove the blade just yet, not before I figure out how they’re tracking me. It’s unmistakable now, because as we move ever northward at breakneck speeds, I can sense they aren’t even trying to find me through Domain, but rather honing in on my position no matter how many twists and turns I take and moving to ensnare me within their web.

Each step brings me hundreds of meters away, but still I remain trapped within their encirclement. Worse, they’re closing in around me, and if I go too far in any direction, I will be caught in their metaphysical trap and cut down as I pass. How irritating. I can’t kill them if they know I’m coming, especially not injured and weaponless as I am, but I don’t understand how they keep finding me. The Empire has some secretive means to track Officer’s tokens and such, but I don’t have mine on me, nor am I wearing anything given to me by the Imperials. Sight, scent, and sound are all covered by Concealment, while I’ve yet to feel them even try to find me through Domain, not that they could if they tried, which leaves...

Ah right. I’ve encountered this before, in what feels like a lifetime ago, with killers hot on my trail no matter how carefully I ran. The Society used some of Song’s blood to create some sort of mystical ‘tracking matrix’, one which they claimed could not be blocked. The only solution was to burn the tokens containing the target’s blood, which prompted us to launch a near-disastrous assault on the Society encampment in hopes of destroying all their trackers. That ended poorly, with Yan taking grievous injury in the attempt and the rest of us only making it out of there by the skin of our teeth, memories which prompt a flood of emotions I put aside to process later while focusing on the vital information before me. As I recall, the tracking matrix works through trigonometry, with a single device pointing towards the target, so it’s best to use two or more devices in different locations to pinpoint the target’s actual location. It’s not perfect, as they have no way to account for elevation, but using blood to set up some sort of triangulation device is quite honestly some of the most magical shit I’d ever heard about since coming to this world. No one I asked knew how it worked, but to be fair, I didn’t ask that many people, because in those days, I was scared shitless all the time and working really hard to get over the trauma of the chase and focus on the coming calamities instead.

No matter. I made it out in one piece, and I know one thing for certain: my foes are definitely using a tracking matrix to hone in on my location. I have no idea how I know this, I’m absolutely certain this is the case, so sure it never occurs to me to question it before setting to work on a solution. None of my opponents know where I am exactly, they’re working in independent groups to keep me trapped here between them. The matrix always points in my direction, so the answer becomes clear. Intent gives purpose to the Predator as I make my presence known, expanding tendrils of my Domain which ultimately give my location away, but only to about twenty individuals. As expected, my foes do not fall upon me immediately, because even though I’ve revealed myself to a third of them, they still need to pass that information along to their comrades before they can act. This leaves me plenty of time to study their movements as I dip and weave about the plains of Central, circling around in a wide loop so as not to get too far and isolated. Six Cloud-Steps later, I rescind my Domain after identifying five distinct groups amongst my foes, all moving independently yet working together to tighten the noose about my neck.

It belatedly occurs to me that I could’ve hidden the presence of my Domain from my foes, the same way I slipped past my guards and away from the manor unnoticed. Just goes to show that this sort of instinctive knowing without knowing isn’t perfect, but alas, it’s all I have to work with. I can barely direct myself to squeeze Taduk’s hand when taking full control of all my faculties, so I can only rely on this janky method of independent control to face my foes on the field of battle. In some ways, it’s similar to how I used to fight as Baledagh and Brother, with the former taking control of the body while the latter independently offering advice. Now, it’s just me offering Intent and the Predator taking action, that deadly killer who emerged during the final battle of Sinuji.

I still have no earthly idea why Zhen Shi chose that name for me, but it just feels right.

