That said, they’re not wholly vulnerable to the poison either, though it does slow them down a bit, and after long, forceful seconds, I finally find an opening to escape in exchange for leaving a Wraith blade embedded into one of their legs. A few seconds sounds short enough, but at the speeds we’re moving, we must have traded blows upwards of thirty times, and I’m not sure how many more exchanges I have left in me. Covered in sweat and heaving for breath, I Cloud-Step back towards home in hopes of breaking through their Sound Barrier and Sending for help, but my foes are hot on my heels and intent on my death.

I killed nine and severely wounded one, powerful Experts one and all with at least one Peak Expert to boot. Maybe more, and I got lucky with my opening attack, which is an impressive showing all things considered, but I doubt I’d find success with the same tactic twice. They’ll see the Mountain Collapsing Stomp coming this time, and I’m not even sure if I’ve got another one in me. Things might be different if I had a Spiritual Weapon in hand, because none of these Wraith blades are actually Spiritual Weapons, or at least not as far as I can tell. If they were, I wouldn’t have been able to block a single attack from the trio back there, as their Honed weapons would have cut clean through blade and bone alike.

A moment’s warning is all I have, but it’s enough to save my life as I narrowly avoid a thrust aimed at my heart. Retreating is no good, so I press the attack, which catches my speedy, stealthy foe off-guard. My Wraith blade cuts through his robes and bites deep into his chest, but I’ve no time to finish the job and must be away before more of my pursuers catch up. Stubborn and fearless to boot, my wounded foe grabs the hilt of my blade and traps the weapon in his flesh. Yet another moment’s hesitation costs me dearly as the wounded assassin brings his blade about and cuts deep into my right wrist, forcing me to abandon my last remaining weapon in order to Cloud-Step away, wounded and Healing when I should instead be thinking about a way out of this mess.

Desperate times call for desperate measures, I guess. I need a weapon, and the only one I have left is stuck in my gut.

As my left hand closes around the hilt of the blade, I’m struck with a sense of warm familiarity. Deja Vu, of a sorts, like I’ve somehow been in this exact situation before. Ah right, during my Binding Ceremony with Peace, but that took place inside my mind. I didn’t actually stab myself with Peace, not really, and in the end, the Binding Ceremony didn’t mean much, which is weird because everyone else puts so much emphasis on it.

What did Mila say about it? That it was ‘a ceremony that occurs in your mind, when you brand your weapon. A symbol of joining between you and the weapon. You do something that makes it a part of you.’

I made Peace a part of me. I am the sword. The sword is me. Did the ceremony really take place in my mind? I’m not so sure anymore...

Yanking the Wraith blade out of my stomach, I give it a once over before ruling it out as an option. The Wraith blade reminded me of Peace, but this is a killing tool, a dark, ugly thing of murder and suffering. Dad gifted me Peace when I was thirteen, a beautifully crafted weapon forged in the likeness of his own, but that is not all it was. He gifted it to me back when I was only his Disciple and not yet his son, as I was still in my trial period as a possibly Defiled foundling, but the sword was proof he loved me like his own already. Mom took longer to come around, but Dad had already accepted me, while my sweet sister Alsantset took me into her family the second she spotted me limping alongside the riverbed. All this and more is what I used to think about every time I looked at Peace, but I lost that when Gen Shi ruined my weapons and shattered my Core.

Or maybe not. I am the sword. The sword is me.

Still fleeing from my pursuers with all speed, I heft the Wraith blade and use it to finish what the last assassin started, carving away the flesh of my right hand and leaving nothing but meat and exposed bone behind. Technically, I probably don’t have to go this far, but suffering seems part and parcel of everything I do, which means it just doesn’t feel right if it doesn’t hurt. Casting the Wraith weapon behind me, I hear a metallic cling which tells me someone blocked the errant throw, but I’ve already put them out of mind. Closing my eyes and blocking out the wind whipping through my robes, I envision myself as I was all those years ago, when Dad first gave me Peace like it was a cabbage he picked up in the market, rather than a priceless gift he was eager to give to the son he loved so much. There I stood, with Peace hanging from my belt, the hilt in my right hand as I readied to strike down my nemesis and training partner, Sir Woody Woodson. I’ve since knighted him as he died in combat, but for a short period of time, he became my most hated foe. I spent many an hour that first week, wielding Peace and chipping away at Woody Woodson and his many clones in an effort to replicate Dad’s feat, as he used the very same sword in my hand to cleave clean through a metal block.

Those were the best of times, my years in the village, and it was a long time before I realized it. Even tainted by the knowledge that everyone suspected I was Defiled, I still miss those simple days, when I wandered the forest with only Pafu and Suret for company and didn’t know I had Concealed Warriors watching my every move. I trained with Dad, studied with Taduk, played with the twins and kept Lin-Lin company, all while slowly recovering from my time in the mines.

Reliving these memories elicit new emotions from within, emotions I long since forgot about and subsequently severed away some three months ago. A mistake, I see this now, because those emotions are every bit as precious as the memories they accompany, perhaps even more so because memories can be forgotten, but those emotions will stay with me forever. Peace was a symbol of those emotions, of the loving gift I received from my socially awkward Dad, the help Mila and Husolt gave without question, and even the battles I fought and the victories I won with Peace in hand. I Guided this sword into Situ Gulong’s shin, and then beat him unconscious before extorting his comrades. I used this sword in a duel against Zhong Lang, Elder Ming’s beloved nephew who I killed when I could have instead let him live. I did it because I was angry, but I couldn’t kill an unarmed man, so I gave him his weapon back and forced him to fight. The wrong move, not because of the consequences which followed, but because that was a life I could have spared, and I didn’t. That’s not me. That’s not why I wield Peace, and while I want to say that this one mistake is the only one I made, I’m not so sure that’s the case.

These memories and more flow through my mind as I Heal my injured hand. The pain from growing new flesh is barely noticeable, but the experiences from my memories are fresh as the day I lived them. My victories, my failures, my accomplishments and mistakes, I had Peace by my side in almost all of them, right up until I lost it. Even then, I tried to keep my broken sword safe, because I thought there might be some way to fix them, so long as I fixed my shattered Core in time. That didn’t happen, as the remains of my Spiritual Weapon were scattered to the winds when those half-step Divinity Wraiths came for the Legate’s head, and a part of me died that day. I wanted to become strong again, to wield Peace, Tranquility, and Unity on the battlefield once again, for they were comrades just like everyone else I fought alongside.

I thought that dream died the day I lost my weapons.

I was wrong.

I am the sword. The sword is me.

As I set Panacea to Heal my hand, I task it to Heal Peace as well, for though it was crafted from cold steel, it is still a part of my very being, to the point where my Soul could call upon it even while trapped within Bei’s Natal Palace. I remember it now, the thrill and exultation I felt while fighting off hordes of Spectres with my blade of shining light, with Peace illuminating the darkness of the Void and banishing the cold around me. The cold steel is not what makes Peace my Spiritual Weapon, but rather the bond we share as weapon and wielder, a bond forged during my Binding Ceremony and quenched in blood.

I was wrong to say the Binding Ceremony isn’t real. It doesn’t take place in reality, but it’s still real, for like the title suggests, a bond between Warrior and Spiritual Weapon is one forged in the Soul.

Time passes. A minute, an hour, a day, I don't know how long.

My nerves tingle, from my scalp down to my toes.

The pores on my skin open.

I feel safe. Alive. Accepted. Protected.

Nestled in the warm embrace of the Mother.

I open my eyes and smile as I greet my old friend, Peace exactly as I remember it, reforged through Panacea minus the lovely wrapped hilt and decoration. Mila can wrap it again later, but first, I have some business to take care of now that I’ve found my fangs again.

Peace. I rejected it at first, feared having to pick up the sword to use against my foes, feared I would instead turn it against myself. Peace is a weapon, but it is also a deterrent, a tool to protect and defend those who cannot protect themselves. Though I use it to kill, I only kill in search of peace, a lesson I’ve learned and forgotten too many times to count, but this time, I won’t forget.

My foes have come to kill me and kill those I love, so I will deliver them Peace, so that I might one day find peace for myself.

I am Falling Rain, and this is my Path. The Path of the peace-keeper, protector, guardian, and Sentinel. Path of the Legate, Path of the revolutionary, Path of a man who seeks a better future for all. This is who I am, and it is high time I stopped fighting it, because despite my lofty ideals, I know my Path will be long and bloody indeed.

But such is life, trials and tribulations abound, so it’s high time I stopped complaining, and started taking steps in the right direction.

Starting with the fifty-one remaining stepping stones so conveniently hot on my heels...

Chapter Meme
