And then heaviness filled the air, like a titan had slipped into the room without Shiv noticing. “You will not provoke me into giving you more Curses. I have already struck you enough. I will not be outplayed by your childish psychological games. I will hold my course. I will let you languish without that thing you treasure. Without that thing you assume to be an art. Cooking. I know what you are doing, Deathless, and it does not impress me.”

“And I know what you are: a big felling disappointment,” Shiv replied. “And you can keep those Curses just where they are. I'll find a way to deal with them myself. I'm gonna take a trip into the Fairwoods. See what the Courts there can do.”

“Nothing.” Maiden lied as easily as she breathed, but it was a lie. The world itself trembled to his Gardener of Doubt, betraying her.

“Then how did Georges break free from Longinus?” Shiv asked. No one replied. He grinned. “Yeah, I know about that. There are only two explanations right now. You can't remember because you're too rotted upstairs, or you’re afraid I’ll find out. And I will find out. However many deaths it takes. I'm gonna be very honest with you, Maiden. One last chance, because I'm feeling especially nice today. If you take the Curse away from me right now, I'm going to make life much easier for you. You don't take the Curse away, and I'm going to get very, very specific about how I hurt you and how I hurt your daughter.”

“You already intend to hurt her. There is no way back for either of us. We are both committed to this animosity.”

“I'm not,” Shiv replied casually. “I'm not committed to anything. Frankly, I don't want to do anything that makes the System happy in the end. I'm giving all of you a way out. If you stop sacrificing those orphans, if you take away these Curses, I think we can still find a way to coexist. I'm going to help you with the wars you have on your doorstep. I don't need any blood gods or Frost Giants ruining my life on top of you assholes anyway.”

Shiv snapped his fingers. “Oh, and I promise you I'm not going to cause any collateral damage in your city. I could have Adam fire a corrosive arrow into my body and blow up the whole city at any time. Or find a Necromantic object and use it on myself. Causing mass death and carnage is pretty easy for me. But I'm not gonna be that guy anymore. Doesn't mean I'm a pacifist or anything; I'll still kill Inquisitors who smuggle children into cruel rituals. But aside from that, if I can let someone live, I'll let them live. Especially out of spite.”

“Is that your offer, then?” Veronica asked, sounding unimpressed. “You give us some breathing room, and you want some in return.”

“No, my offer is much more complicated than that. The Starhawk’s near the Abyss now, but after hearing his plan for the future and the Republic, I have second thoughts about helping him. I have second thoughts about anyone reaching the Great One. You think on that for a little bit.”

Veronica didn't need long to understand. “Are you offering to betray the Starhawk?”

“Not betraying anyone. I wasn't on any great player’s side to begin with. I am with Adam. I am with the people I care about, the people I decide to fight for. I'm not that complicated of a guy, Veronica. There's no great code guiding me here. No grand ideals or utopian visions or whatever. I am here doing what I think is right. And that’s all there is to it. And I don't think anybody should fuck with the Great One anymore. And I do mean anybody.”

“We all have to justify things to ourselves however we can,” Veronica breathed. But something about her body language opened up. She saw an opportunity here. “Is this what you told Cripple? Is this why it refuses to come out and speak with us anymore? You convinced it to side with you?”

“I didn't convince Cripple of shit. Cripple can't convince itself of anything either. That's Cripple's greatest problem. Cripple the Strongest is a bullshit name. More like Cripple the Indecisivest Bitch.”

More cries of blasphemy and heresy echoed from the shadows. Shiv didn't care. He was right. Cripple knew he was right. Everyone who had any idea about the situation knew he was right. There was no point in being nice about all this.

“Look, as much as I'd like to continue shit-talking all the Ascendants, that's not going to get us anywhere. So I'm going to maybe make you an offer, and you can maybe think about it. But in the meantime, can we all just take a step back and not ruin each other's day for, I don't know, about a week or so?”

“Long enough for your vacation in the Fairwoods to conclude?” Veronica asked.

“Something like that,” Shiv said. “In the meantime, I think I have a perfectly terrible idea for how we can communicate better: How about we of Gate Piety offer the Yellowstone Republic the chance to make an embassy inside our wonderful little dimension?”

Through Shiv's Severed Shadow, Uva heard his offer. “What?”

And connected to her mind, Adam echoed her cry: “WHAT?”

Most staggered of all was Veronica, who didn't see this coming at all. “You… break out of our prison, you do everything you've done, and now you pretend to be a nation-state, offering us an embassy.”

“Yeah, why not? Why can't we offer you an embassy spot? Gate Theborn had one before it got blown up. And you already have someone there right now. She's a Legend. She can keep a close eye on us. And if you guys want to do something, well, formal declarations of war are better than random bullshit happening. It keeps things clear, no?”

Veronica's expression remained incredulous. “Why would we ever agree to this?”

“I don't know, why do you let New Albion have an embassy inside the capital?”

The Councilwoman glared at him. "I hate the fact that that's a valid question. But I really don't see the game you're playing. I suspect you don't either, do you? You're just making things up as you go along, pulling ideas out of your rear end.”

“Shiv, Shiv, we are not letting them inside my Gate!” Adam snarled.

“Don't worry, Adam. They're staying near the bunker, on the orc side. Orcs solve all our problems.”

“So? What do you say?” Shiv smirked. “We could formalize our hostilities and do this thing properly. Or we can keep this messy until someone oversteps a bit too far. And then you start sending me hate-letters of mass destruction, and I’ll keep throwing expendable bodies at you until the Republic is little more than a series of craters, and the Frost Giants and Southern freaks come up to gobble up all that territory.”

“I’d say you’re an exceptionally special boy that’s touched in the head and has no understanding of diplomacy or geopolitics.”

“Let’s agree on the exceptionally special part and ignore the rest,” Shiv said, smiling genially. “But back on the topic, let’s start with you pulling the Prismatic Guard outside our Gate back first, because if this fails, I’m either going to bomb them with an expendable body or dump the orcs on them.”

“After that, it will be war,” Veronica warned.

“Yeah. A three-front war for the Republic. Great idea.”

“Hm. Aptly considered for one lacking education, but a single Low-Tier Gate is not a power.”

Shiv hummed thoughtfully. “Is the Tutorial a power?”

The Councilwoman didn’t answer. And that was all the answer Shiv needed.

“Because it really doesn’t take much for us to become less of a Gate and more of an endless orc tunnel,” Shiv noted.

Veronica almost laughed. “You sow the seeds of your own destruction with such wanton joy.”

“No. I sow the seeds of random bullshit and try to make the plants fight each other. Now, are you going to let me bury these seeds so you can be part of the fight, or are my other plants going to shit all over you?” Shiv’s left arm promptly fell off and turned into pale soup on the ground. “Answer quickly, because all this thinking has given me a fatal sweating condition. I got maybe… twenty seconds before I’m just a puddle.”

The Councilwoman unfolded her arms. “No. Absolutely not.”

A translucent needle of mana speared out from her mind. “Open your Sync-Letter later. If you are honest about your wildcard status, I think we should discuss your treacherous future at length and in detail.”

“Sure thing, Veronica. Wait. This isn’t going to be another moment where you use your Rhetoric to—”

She interrupted him verbally. “If you are already dying, then let me help you on your way. Begone, Deathless. Scatter and be one with the ashes.” Her Rhetoric clawed into his already crumbling biology. He burst apart in a spray of flaking viscera before he could respond. That body ceased to be, but the bulk of Shiv’s senses shifted back to his Severed Shadow, where it remained idle for a few seconds, trying to process what just happened.

Pillar of Orichalcum 375 > 383

“Shiv?” Uva asked. “Shiv? Are you alright?”

“No. I think she just stole the last word from me. I was going to say something really funny or mean.”

“You were about to invite the Republic into the Gate!” Adam cried.

Shiv just chuckled. “Still am. Time to write a letter. See what we can get out of each other. Veronica’s personal interest and the Republic’s public response wasn’t gonna be the same. Knew I could use that.”

A beat of apprehension spilled over from Uva. “Before you gloat to yourself too much, recall what she did last time, and open your letter somewhere remote and private.”

“And never in Gate Piety,” Adam hissed, establishing new rules.

“That as well,” Uva agreed.

“Alright, alright,” Shiv replied. “But honestly? I think that went pretty well. I think I got the makings of a pretty damned good politician.”

“Well, you are stupidly confident and spared from permanent consequence,” Adam grumbled. “Oh, dear gods… You already bloody are one.”

“Right,” Shiv said. “You know what? I think I’m going to do my letter writing outside the surface gateway. In front of the Prismatic Guard.”

“What? Why?” Both Adam and Uva cried.

Shiv snickered. “Because the idea of Veronica hitting me with a nasty Rhetoric blast and killing thousands of her own is kind of funny to me in a twisted piece of shit kind of way.”
