"Consider it done. They'll arrive with Helios and his brother."

Obolis clapped his hands, sending out a shockwave in the room he lingered in. He turned towards us,

"Message our logistical team when and where you wish to arrive. We shall be waiting."

The meeting closed, and everybody took a breath. I turned to them, "You guys okay?"

Althea winced, "Even through a hologram, he's scary."

Kessiah blinked, "It's like talking to an Overseer and then some."

I didn't notice pressure around him anymore, but maybe I was just used to talking to the guy. We continued the meeting for a little bit before finishing our discussions. With our plans organized, we stood up and went back to business. Althea and I exchanged a hug along with a light kiss before I walked out of the room.

Torix waited for me. He waved me over, Althea and I walking over. Turning to the lich, I smiled,

"What's up?"

He walked up and gave me a hug, something I didn't expect. I hugged the guy back before he grabbed my shoulders with his arms extended out,

"Daniel, I cannot thank you enough for the obelisks. They shall make a world of difference for me."

I gave him a thumbs-up, "No problem. Elemental furnaces can wait. We need you rested for your plans to really work."

The necromancer lowered his hands, "And so they shall. I'm off to find Helios and see if I can't begin automating functions right away."

Torix turned away before Althea gave him a light punch on the shoulder,

"Hey, don't forget me."

Torix scoffed, "Forgetting the unforgettable? Impossible."

They hugged before the lich walked down the hallway. Right as Torix turned the corner, the lich raised his hands,

"Well, isn't this a pleasant surprise? I see you brought company as well."

A deep voice spoke out with disdain, "Is it truly pleasant?" Helios continued, "For me, I'd say not. On the other hand, you appear eager to see me, likely due to the obelisks. Take them and leave me be."

Helios handed Torix a fancy obelisk, eyeing it with hunger,

"Ah, perfect." He turned to Helios's company, "We'll handle introductions later as I simply must automate a few of my duties. My workload has been unbearable as of late you see."

A lighter voice replied, "Think nothing of it, and I look forward to a proper meeting."

The lich waltzed away with excitement. The ruler of worlds walked through the corner, another figure beside him of equal size and stature. Unlike Helios, this albony didn't wear a cape with armor like the other high ranking albony I met. This guy wore fitted robes, desert wear that was folded in such a way that it wouldn't fall off.

The new albony's demeanor matched his clothes. He walked with a skip in his step, peering around at our architecture. In a lighter voice, he nodded at the hallways,

"Huh, how quaint."

Pacing up to Althea and I, Helios and the new guy met my eye. Helios opened a hand towards this other albony,

"This is Florence, my brother. Please do avoid hating him. However, if you don't accomplish that goal, I wouldn't blame you."

Helios sighed, "As is obvious, how can I expect others to succeed where I have failed?"

Florence turned towards Helios, slapping his back, "Don't worry, brother. That wasn't the first thing I've seen you fail at. It surely won't be the last."

Florence turned to us and let me get a good look at the dude. He wore a black mask with six holes drilled in it, showing none of his face as usual. Unlike a normal albony, Florence didn't let his fur go wild. Instead, he kept it trimmed and kept, doing so with steel bands that bound his white hair.

Compared with Helios and the Emperor, this new guy looked stylish. His peppered fur was accentuated by flowing robes of white and black folded over him. He lacked any armor like Helios or the Emperor. In fact, Helios often glared with a low chin as if ready for a fight. Florence kept his chin high with a confident swagger that his brother lacked.

Florence inspected us, the large albony giving off a jovial and relaxed presence, though he didn't lack an imposing air despite that. Florence spread his arms towards us, peering between Althea and I,

"It's good to meet you both. I'm Florence Novas, and I've just been demoted from the ruler of a world to an assistant in an ally's army."

Helios winced as Florence placed his hands on my shoulders, "And I could not be happier. This will be far less boring than managing simple decisions and pushing paperwork. Those tasks tire me, as they would many. Working under the Harbinger, however? Now that is interesting."

Florence let go of my shoulders before nudging Helios,

"Wouldn't you agree?"

Helios raised a flat palm to Florence, "Don't inject me into your disobedient tangents. Unlike you, I actually labored for my position, so I valued my post. Losing it is a slap to the face, and being placed in an appointment beside you is like daggers between my ribs."

Florence draped his arm over Helios's shoulders, "Come now. Anyone could see that you despised the monotony of running a world as much as I did. If anything, Obolis chained us down as to stifle our growth. This, this is an opportunity to regain the ground we lost."

Helios seethed, "Ever positive, aren't you?"

Florence shook his brother, "Come on, we're in the presence of a beautiful lady and greatness. Speaking of the lady, would you mind if I asked for your name, darling?"

Althea blushed, "Althea Tolstoy."

"It is a pretty name suiting the pretty lady." Florence gave my shoulder a firm, familiar pat,

"And you're the big man himself, the Killer of Yawm and the Destroyer of the Blighted. I've been meaning to meet with you, but my position bogged me down. Now that I see you in person, you're larger in life than even in the legends told about you."

Florence gave me a small bow, "I look forward to following your command, Harbinger. May you take us to many worlds where we shall see many sights."

I raised an eyebrow at the guy, kind of taken aback. For all the flack the Emperor and Helios gave this guy, he really commanded a room. He also carried an effortless, natural charisma. Hell, he gave off the same sensation that an old friend would, and if it wasn't for my stats, I might've gotten caught up in his ambiance.

This made him valuable, so I took note while raising a hand to him,

"It's good to see you're excited. We'll be spilling blood together, so I'll need you to watch my back."

For a split second, Florence stared at my hand with a moment of indecision. With a smooth gesture right after, he grabbed my hand as if he'd given a thousand handshakes before,

"You'll need to watch both our backs, though, I'm sure you're able. Now, is there anywhere to eat and drink here? I'd like to meet the people here if you wouldn't mind."

I opened my status, "Send me a friend request, and I can give you the blueprints to this place. It will be a 3-D map of the area."

Florence tilted his head, "Giving a map of your base to a stranger? Doesn't that seem...unwise?"

I smiled, "If we get attacked, assassins aren't what I'm worried about. Lehesion will crash through this place like a boulder through a glass window. Having blueprints won't change that."

Florence raised his eyebrows, "Huh...Fair point. I'll keep them safe."

I gave him a nod, "I'll need a report on what your skills are, along with maybe an interview or something. You seem more like the talking type than a fighter, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. We could use more talkers around here anyways."

Florence stood taller, "Well...thank you."

I turned to Helios, "How resistant are you to portal sickness?"

Helios scoffed, "I am all but immune."

I grinned, "That's good. I could've taken out more cities on Giess with your help then, but that's in the past. I'll be needing your help with our transport to the worlds your uncle will be giving us the word to go to."

Helios crossed his arms, "So I am now a glorified wagon. Excellent."

I shrugged, "If that's what you think, then that's fine. Do as you're commanded, and we'll get along just fine." I put a hand on his shoulder,

"You see, unlike some people, I don't feel the need to encase others in ice just to make a point. Either way, I'll definitely think of more for you to do. This is just a quick briefing for now."

Helios shrunk a bit, his shoulders sinking, "Then...then I shall find somewhere to rest until I am needed."

In a flash, he portalled elsewhere. Florence shook his head, "Gagh, he'll cheer up with time. He doesn't know it, but this is, in fact, an act of love by the Emperor."

Althea frowned, "How?"

Florence turned to meet her eye, "It was obvious to anyone who's known him, but he was not happy with ruling his worlds. Even if he believes those positions would give him happiness, that does not make it so; he is a fighter through and through. In time, he'll learn that."

I narrowed my eyes, "You seem to see through people pretty well."

Florence put his hands on his hips, "Does it seem that way? It was just a lucky guess I suppose."

Althea rolled her eyes, "Okay. Sure."

Florence coughed into a hand, "Ahem, now where is that feasting hall?"

I pointed down, "There are several places to check out, though I'd say they're more like cafeterias or eateries."

Florence shrugged, "It shall suffice. Both of you rest well and let us kill the blighted in droves."

Florence turned and walked off, inspecting the nearby architecture as he did. Once he was gone, I turned to Althea, "So, what did you think of him?"

"He was a lot cooler than Helios, that's for sure."

I nodded, "Yeah, I think so too. I'm wondering how his worlds ended up rebelling? I mean, the guy seemed competent enough."

Althea turned up to me, "Hm, we'll learn eventually. For now, we've got a lot of business to take care of."

I grabbed her by the hip, "Oh, definitely."
