The teacher for the upcoming lesson wasn’t the only one who was incredibly nervous leading up to the Chosen of the Malefic Viper’s lesson. It was decided there would only be a thousand attendees, significantly fewer than usual at such an event.

Naturally, this led to quite a bit of competition to secure a spot. Several of the internal factions of the Order leveraged their political power to get a few slots, but the vast majority were distributed based on performance and recommendations of respected teachers and experts within the Order.

It didn’t matter if the students even dabbled in formation and ritual magic to the factions that wanted a member there, as ultimately, simply attending would be a massive boon.

This was the first time the Chosen of the Malefic Viper would give any kind of lesson, and the sheer Records associated with such an event were nothing to scoff at. The exclusivity of limiting it to only a thousand people made the opportunity more valuable and increased competition further.

As the day approached, all the slots had slowly been filled, with the excitement of the event growing by the day. The Malefic Viper’s teasing words about the D-grades celebrating being able to attend a three-hour lesson that likely wouldn’t even include any useful knowledge hadn’t even been hyperbolic in the slightest.

On the day itself, all one thousand members of the Academy showed up, not a single one missing, and every one of them at least two hours early. These were all geniuses in their own right or scions of powerful factions, with many taking the time before the lesson would actually begin to mingle and make friends with other influential figures.

Risen, dragonkin, humans, elves, beastkin, and monsters of all sorts, all in a shared great mood as they looked forward to what was about to happen. Jake would have been relieved if he had known what kind of conversation many of them had, and what the higher-ups behind them had already talked about before this lesson.

Expectations had been severely tempered, and truthfully, no one besides the most optimistic of the bunch had come expecting much from the lesson itself, considering the complete inexperience of the teacher. It was everything around the lesson and the significance of this being the Chosen’s first one that mattered most. No one doubted the talents of the Chosen, but so far, he had done nothing that indicated he was good at, or at all interested in, teaching. Even if he was, few did a good job during their first time, but needed a lot of practice before anyone would classify them as decent.

All of this is to say, nearly everyone had arrived with their expectations already as low as they could go, and it was up to Jake to prove them wrong…

… well, that, or bomb even worse than any of them could have possibly seen coming.
