Ren took off the VR headset and Denise took it from him.

“How are you feeling?” She asked.

“Not too badly, actually.” Ren said, and Denise unbuttoned his shirt. The bruise had gotten darker, and she shook her head.

“That's going to be really painful tonight.” She said, leaned forward a bit, and took a sniff. “Ew. I think you need a bath.”

“Really?” Ren lifted his arm and sniffed his armpit. “It's not too bad.”

Denise chuckled. “If you're going to let Elise snuggle up on the bed like you did the last time, you need to get that sweat off.”

“I guess worrying about that giant attack made me sweat more than usual.” Ren said, and started to sit up. “Ow.” He stopped trying and laid back down. “Dammit.”

“It's already stiffening up.” Denise said and put her hands on his chest. Ren winced, and she nodded. “It looks like you're going to need a lot of help for the next few days.”

“I hate that I can get hurt so easily.” Ren sighed and looked at Denise. “Can you help me sit up?”

She took his weight and lifted him into a sitting position.

“Thanks.” Ren said and slid off the bed to the floor. “At least it's not stopping me from moving around.”

“Only from getting up and probably sitting down, too.” Denise said as she walked to the bathroom with him. “You won't be able to lift anything for a while, because it pulls on your pectoral muscles.”

Ren nodded and started to get undressed. Denise ran the water, and put the stopper in the tub drain.

“They have the high flow taps, so it should fill up fast.” She said, and looked at him. He pulled his pajama bottoms down a little, and then stopped.

“Now I can't even undress myself properly.” Ren said, with disappointment in his voice.

“It's okay.” Denise said and knelt in front of him. “Grab onto my shoulders, and I'll get them off for you.”

“Um... just a minute.” Ren said, and turned to the toilet instead. He took care of the business he needed to take care of first, then wiped everything off. “I just have to wash my hands.” He said, then turned to her when he was done and put his hands on her shoulders. “Okay.”

Denise pulled his pajamas and underwear down the rest of the way, and he stepped out of them. He slid off the pajama top and laid it on the other clothes while she tended the bath water.

“This should be good enough.” She said, and stood up to take off her top. Ren didn't stare at her this time, and she felt a little disappointment. She squashed that thought right away. I'm here to help him, not live out my fantasies.

“It's going to be mostly you holding me.” Ren said as he stepped into the bathtub. “Once I start to sit down...”

“These muscles aren't just for show.” Denise said, and did an arm curl to show off her well-defined bicep. She wasn't really muscular, but she looked strong. Ren smiled and held his arms out a little, so she could grip him under the armpits.

“You want me to hold you up by those smelly things?” Denise chuckled, put her hands under his arms with her thumbs pointed up and she held him steady as he bent his legs.

“Here's the hard part.” Ren said, and slid one leg out straight. He eased down into the water, then slid the other leg out.

Denise held his weight easily, and sat him on the bottom of the bathtub.

“Well, I guess that wasn't really the hard part.” Ren said, and lathered up a sponge.

“Speak for yourself.” Denise said, with a little sweat on her forehead. “You're not that heavy, but it's awkward bending over the tub to hold you like that.”

“Maybe if I turned backwards?” Ren asked as he rubbed the sponge up one of his arms. “I could sit on the edge of the tub first, put my legs in, then you can slide me into the water.”

Denise shook her head and smiled. “Why didn't you think of that before we did it this way?”

“I didn't think about it.” Ren shrugged, and scrubbed the underside of his arm. “Sorry.”

Denise chuckled. “You don't have to apologize for that.” She said and took the sponge from him. She gave his top half a good scrubbing, and was very careful of his bruised chest and abdomen. “Do you feel like laying back while I do your legs?”

Ren nodded, and she helped him recline in the bath. Denise lathered up the sponge again, and scrubbed both of his legs. She helped him sit back up, lathered up the sponge again, and handed it to him to do the last spot.

“Don't you want to do that?” Ren asked with a grin on his face.

“Of course I do.” Denise said. “But this bath is for you to get clean, not for me to have fun.”

“Oh.” Ren said, and scrubbed himself. “Sorry.”

“Once again, you don't have to apologize.” She said. “I'd rather you keep acting innocent, instead of like a womanizer, though.”

Ren looked at her with his head tilted slightly to the side. “What do you mean?”

“You should keep pretending to be innocent and likable.” Denise said. “It's really cute.” She started to shampoo his hair. “Even if you've already got us wrapped around your little finger, you shouldn't act like we'll jump you whenever you think we will.”

“Is... is that what you think I'm doing?” Ren asked, his eyes wide. “Just... pretending?”

“You haven't even glanced at my chest, even though your eyes were all over it this morning.” Denise said.

Ren took in a deep breath and let it out slowly. “Finish washing my hair, please.”

Denise used the shampoo twice, like she did that morning, and rinsed it out. Ren slid over to the side of the bathtub, with his back to her.

“Lift me up to the side of the tub.” Ren said, and held his arms out. Denise lifted him out and he sat on the edge of the tub. She got a towel and dried his top half off, including his hair. He took that towel and put it on the floor, then turned around to put his feet on the towel. She dried off his legs, and then helped him stand.

“Bathrobe, please.” Ren said, and she handed it to him. “Thank you for the bath.” He said, and left the bathroom. He went to his closet and picked out the blue set of pajamas, then went back into the bathroom. He handed the pajamas to her, and took off his bathrobe.

“I need your help again.” Ren said, and put the top on. He buttoned it up properly this time, and looked at her. “I can't bend over, so could you put the underwear and pajama pants on me, please?”

Denise nodded and knelt down. Ren put his hands on her shoulders, and she dressed him.

“Thanks.” Ren said, and left the bathroom.

“Ren.” Denise grabbed her top and followed him as she put it on. “What's wrong?”

“Nothing.” Ren said, and stood by the bed. “I think you should change the bed sheets, in case there's a lingering smell.”

Denise took the sheets off the bed. “Why are you acting like this?”

“Like what?” Ren asked.

“Like I'm just a servant.” Denise said as she got out clean bed sheets.

“So, you can tell when I'm actually acting.” Ren said. “That's good to know.”

“Ren...”

“No.” Ren said. “I can't believe that you think I'm just playing around and pretending.” He shook his head. “You said I was faking being innocent and likable.”

“That's not what I said.”

“Yes, it is.” He responded. “Telling me you'd rather I act that way, means you think it's fake.”

Denise sighed. “I'm sorry, Ren. I misspoke.”

“I don't think you did.” Ren said. “I believe you said exactly what you think of me.”

“Ren, I...” Denise sighed again. “You don't know how hard it is for me to-”

“I know exactly how hard it is!” Ren said, and interrupted her. “I'm sorry that I wasn't staring at your breasts, okay?” He said. “Does that make you happy? How about if I tell you that I was too busy staring at your face to notice your chest? Would that make you change your opinion of me?”

Denise looked at him with wide eyes, opened her mouth to say something, and Ren held a hand up to stop her from talking.

“You don't have to answer that.” Ren said. “If you think that all I see when I look at you is something to have sex with...” He sighed, and motioned to the bed. “Can you finish making the bed, and then get me something to eat for supper, please? I'm kind of hungry.”

Denise hesitated for a moment, nodded, and quickly made the bed. She helped him climb up, and adjusted it so he could sit up easily and not strain his bruised muscles.

“Thanks.” Ren said.

“I'll be back with supper in a few minutes.” Denise said, her voice a little sad, and left the room.

*

I probably could have handled that a little better. Denise thought as she got the food ready.

*

I probably could have handled that a little better. Ren thought and changed the channel on the television to Channel 8. The show's going to start in half an hour.

“Hey, there!” Barbara said as she came into his room. “Elise isn't here yet?”

Ren shook his head, and she walked across the room and sat beside the bed on the side away from the door. Denise came in with a tray of food.

“How was your day?” Barbara asked. Denise put the tray on the rollaway table, and didn't look at him.

“Enlightening.” Ren said, and he heard Denise sigh before she pulled the table over so he could eat. The cell phone rang and Barbara picked it up.

“Uh huh.” “Yes.” “Okay.” “See you soon.” Barbara hung up the cell phone and looked at Ren. “Elise ran a little late, but she'll be here before the episode starts.”

Ren nodded and ate quietly. He didn't rush, and was careful not to spill anything. The last thing he wanted was to have to change again. When he finished, Denise moved the table out of the way and took the tray back to the kitchen.

“How's your chest?” Barbara asked.

“It's getting painful.” Ren said. “I can't sit up or down without it hurting, or without help.”

Barbara nodded. “It's a deep muscle bruise over your whole chest and abdomen, so it's going to be sore for a while.” She gently pat his arm. “At least you aren't thinking about your bruised arms.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I haven't thought about them for a few days.” He said. “I honestly didn't need something to distract me from them.”

Barbara smiled and stood up. “I'll be right back. I'm going to grab a quick bite.”

Ren nodded and she left the room.

*

Barbara went into the kitchen, and looked at Denise while she washed the dishes.

“Okay, tell me what happened.”

Denise gave Barbara a rundown of everything Ren did that day, and when she was done of both the story and the dishes, Barbara stared at her.

“That's what he did today after I left.” Barbara said. “Now, tell me what happened between the two of you.”

Denise sighed, and filled her in on their interactions. Barbara sighed and rubbed her forehead with a hand.

“How could you accuse him like that?”

“I didn't accuse him of anything.” Denise said.

“You accused him of manipulating us by acting innocent.” Barbara said. “Is that really what you think?”

“I...” Denise sighed. “I don't know.” She said. “Sometimes he can be so cuddly and adorable, and sometimes he acts like he's sex on a stick.”

Barbara shook her head. “You do realize he's never had any kind of social interactions except with us, right? We are the ones that shape his perceptions and his expectations.”

“What do you mean?”

“What I mean is... now he's going to try and act professional, and he's not going to relax around any of us...” Barbara frowned at Denise. “...because of you.”

“But I didn't do anything!” Denise said to defend herself. “Why would that change how he acts around us?”

“Because you've put that thought in his head! He's going to question if we all think it's just an act!”

“I'm sorry.” Denise couldn't look at Barbara's accusing face, and turned away. “It could all be an act.”

“So what?!?” Barbara exclaimed, and Denise looked back at her. “Does it really matter if it's all an act or not?”

“Yes!” Denise said. “If he's just pretending, and we... we do stuff with him... he's manipulating us! Don't you see that?”

Barbara sighed. “You're throwing your own preconceptions onto him.” She stepped close and Denise had to look up slightly to keep eye contact. “You are going to apologize to Ren the next chance you get. Tell him you were hurt by an ex-boyfriend who did that to you.”

“How did you know...”

“We've all had someone manipulate us in the past, Denise.” Barbara said. “If you don't take the blame from Ren, he's going to keep it; and it's going to eat away at him.”

“I... okay.” Denise said. “I've already admitted to myself that I could have handled this better than I have.”

“I was going to make a joke about how to handle it better, but I don't want to make you laugh before you go apologize.”

“All right, I get the point.” Denise said, and went to the kitchen's door. “Give me a few minutes.”

Barbara nodded and Denise went to talk to Ren.

*

Ren was watching television, but he wasn't really seeing it. If you asked him what had just happened on the screen, he couldn't tell you; even if his life depended on it. Denise came into the room and he looked at her. There was hurt in his eyes, and disappointment, then he looked back at the television screen.

“Ren...”

“It's okay.” Ren said. “I didn't handle that well, but I've got a handle on it now.”

Denise sat down beside the bed and took his hand. Ren didn't pull away like she thought he would, and she smiled mentally.

“Ren, this is my fault.”

“No, it's mine.” Ren said. “I shouldn't have assumed certain things.”

“Let me finish.” Denise said, and he looked at her. She could see that he was looking at her with the same expression that he had when he looked at the television. It hurt her heart a little to have him look through her like that, and she didn't want that to be how he looked at everyone.

“Ren, I...” Denise sighed and held his hand firmly. “My... my ex-boyfriend John... he...”

Ren's eyes widened as she stumbled over an explanation as to why she thought Ren was faking it. By the time she got to the end, the both of them were fighting back tears. He lifted the hand that held his to his lips, and kissed the back of her hand. He held his lips against it for 10 seconds, then let it go.

“Denise, I would never, ever, treat you like that.” Ren said. “I am so sorry that you went through that.”

Denise wasn't sure how, but she could almost feel his sincerity and how much he cared. She let a tear escape, because the feeling was so intense. Ren wiped the tear away with his thumb and cupped the side of her face.

“Thank you for telling me.” Ren said. “I'm sorry for the way I acted.”

