“I... I'm sorry for the way I acted, too.” Denise said. She leaned in with her lips slightly puckered, and Ren took the obvious hint. He very lightly kissed her, barely touched her lips, and it sent a thrill right through her. She closed her eyes because it went right to the bottom of her heart, and she'd never felt anything like it before. Ren broke the chaste kiss and leaned back.

Denise opened her eyes and looked at him, and didn't know what to say. She searched through her head and looked for something, anything, to say... and she came up with... nothing.

Is this what people mean when they say their minds go blank? Denise thought, and then the room's door opened.

“It's almost time for the show.” Barbara said, and walked around the bed to the other side. “You've already got it on the right channel.” She said and sat. Ren and Denise looked at her, and she looked back at them. “I assume you two made up?”

Ren looked at Barbara with surprise on his face. “How did you know...”

“Please.” Barbara said. “I've taken care of you for years. I know when something is bothering you.”

Ren let the surprise fade and smiled instead. “Yeah, if anyone would know, it would be you.”

Barbara chuckled, and the room door opened.

“Hey, sexy!” Elise said as she came into the room, and Ren looked at her.

“You mean me, right?” Ren asked and grinned. “Since Stella's not here.”

Elise laughed and walked over to the bed. “Yes, I mean you this time, too.”

“You're just in time.” He said, and moved over to make room for Elise to sit on the bed with him. “It's about to start.”

“I'm glad I didn't miss the start.” She said, and took off her suit coat and hung it up. “I came right here after work.”

“You're getting really busy over there these days.” Ren said as she climbed up onto the bed with him.

“We are.” Elise said, and got comfortable. With the both of them sitting up, she could easily put her arm around his shoulders. The theme music for the show came on, and she did put her arm around him. Ren looked at her, and she took the opportunity that presented and kissed him. It was brief, since she wanted to watch the show, and they smiled as they turned to look at the television.

*

The show started with Onscreen Ren getting his first mining pick from the blacksmith, and then he ran down the street. His clothing flapped in the breeze from all the damage from the last wolf attack, and he looked down at himself. “I guess I better go see Sally before heading out to the mines.”

He ran down the street to Sally's Shop and went inside. She asked him what she could help with, and Ren said he needed new clothes, and wanted to use the recipe she'd given him for Travelling Clothes. He bought some fabric from her, asked to use a workbench, and went to it.

On the screen three popups appeared. One showed a picture of the clothing made by the system, one was the clothing guided by the system with the player doing some of the work, and the last was the player doing all the work with only the outline provided by the system. That option was highlighted, and then the popups disappeared.

*

“I never saw anything like that.” Ren whispered, and Elise smiled.

“It's to show the people who want to play the game, that different options are available.” Elise whispered back. “Plus, it shows which option you took.”

“Ah.” Ren whispered. “That makes sense.”

They kept watching as the cloth was cut up, dyed at the dye station, and sewed together.

*

Onscreen Ren made the set of clothing a lot faster than it actually took, but the result was the same. He received a set of High Quality Travelling Clothes and changed into them. Sally was so impressed by his work, that she named him her student, and Onscreen Ren hugged her. He bid her a good day, and walked down the street.

*

This was where I logged out. Ren thought, but his onscreen persona kept walking down the street. It was at this point that three pretty girls cornered him by a building.

“This is where I come in.” Elise said, with a huge smile on her face.

*

The three girls badgered Onscreen Ren and he shivered and sweated with their constant pestering, and a voice came out of the distance. Onscreen Ren didn't notice until he heard it much closer, and looked around. A tall busty redheaded elf woman bowled the three girls over, and took Ren into a tight hug.

“REEENN! I found you!” Onscreen Elise laughed as Ren's face was buried into her cleavage and he flailed his arms around.

*

Barbara, Elise, and Ren laughed.

“I remember that.” Ren said. “I was saved and captured at the same time.”

Elise held him close and he put his arm around her, too. He looked up at her, and smiled.

“At the time, I didn't mind being cushioned like that.” Ren said, and Elise grinned at him.

*

The three girls confronted Onscreen Elise, and she let Onscreen Ren go to face them. While they argued over who was going to have him join them, Onscreen Ren took that opportunity to slip away.

*

“You got away from me, you little sneak.” Elise said, and Ren chuckled.

“I didn't realize who you were.” He said, and then his onscreen persona said the same thing, and that she looked familiar.

*

Onscreen Ren walked out of the city, and hitched a ride on a wagon going to the mines. He and the driver had a quick conversation, and Ren was dropped off at the mine. The theme played, and then the commercials started.

*

“It's really neat going back and watching all of this.” Ren said.

“I know!” Elise said. “When I went back and started watching it, I knew it could be adapted into a show easily.”

“I'm glad you did.” Ren said. “If it wasn't for that, none of this would have been possible.”

Elise was going to say that it was all because of him; but she knew he wouldn't agree, so she just nodded.

“Does anyone want a snack?” Barbara asked.

“I'd like that.” Elise said. “I haven't had anything to eat since lunch.”

“What?” Ren said, surprised. “Elise, you should have gotten something to eat before coming here.”

“I barely had enough time to drive here.” Elise laughed. “I couldn't even get fast food.”

“We'll make up something quick for you.” Barbara said and tapped Denise's arm as she walked by.

“You don't have to go to any trouble.” Elise said, as Denise followed Barbara to the door.

“It's no trouble.” Barbara said. “We've got a couple of minutes before the show will be back on.”

“Thank you.” Elise said.

The two nurses left, and Elise looked at Ren.

“So, do you think they left us alone on purpose?”

“Yep.” Ren said, and she smiled.

“I guess now I can kiss you without an audience.” Elise said, in a sultry voice.

“Only if you want to.” Ren said, his voice a little deeper than normal.

“Oh, I do.” Elise said, and leaned down to kiss him. This lasted for a minute, then she broke the kiss and sat up straight. “Never doubt that I do.” She said, and ran a hand through his hair. “Wow.” She said. “It's even softer and fluffier.” She said, and rubbed her face through it. Ren chuckled as Elise rubbed the top of his head like a cat scent-marking.

“A double shampoo and rinse does wonders.” Ren said.

The room door opened and Barbara and Denise came in with a couple of plates full of sandwiches.

“It's just ham and cheese, so no diet breakers.” Barbara smiled. “Help yourself.”

“Thank you.” Elise said, and took one of the angled cut pieces. She ate it in only three bites, and Ren laughed.

“You eat like I usually do.” He said, and she looked at him with wide eyes.

“Really?” Elise asked, and Ren nodded.

“You should see him on a good day.” Denise said. “He's like a vacuum.”

Barbara snorted a laugh, and Elise chuckled. The theme music started up, and they watched as the show continued.

*

After a relatively quick trip to the mine, Onscreen Ren went to the foreman to explain the situation, then he was introduced to Fritz. They grabbed a couple of mine carts, and went into the mines. A short montage of Onscreen Ren digging and gaining the Mining skill, and they went out to the weighing station. He got a quest to double the ore he just delivered, so he and Fritz ate quickly and went back into the mine.

Onscreen Ren worked hard, and Fritz stood there and waited for him to finish so they could return the carts at the same time, and then delivered the ore. The man at the weighing station congratulated him on completing the quest, ruffled Onscreen Ren's hair, and paid him 3 silver. Onscreen Ren told Fritz that he was tired, and would be back to learn more. He went to one of the little tents, laid down inside, and then the theme music started again for another commercial.

*

“I still think it's neat they can compress hours of footage into only a few minutes, and you can't tell that's what they did.” Ren said.

“It's great, isn't it?” Elise said as she ate another sandwich. “I especially liked the transition where you walked down the street, and instead of logging out, you kept walking down the street.” She smiled. “If you didn't know it wasn't supposed to happen that way, no one that saw this episode would even notice it didn't.”

“I was thinking that.” Ren said. “In my head I was like, 'this is where I logged out'; but, the show kept going.”

“They discussed cutting you going into the tent at the mine, too.” Elise said. “When they ran the time comparison, it made a perfect spot for a commercial; so, they left it in.”

“I'll be waking up after the commercial, then?” He asked.

“Yes, and then there's another digging montage.”

“Hey, spoilers!” Barbara said, and put her hands over her ears.

Elise laughed. “Sorry, Barbara.”

“That's okay.” Barbara said. “I saw a lot of this the first time around, so I know what's coming; but, it's also different enough that it's also new.”

“I know what you mean.” Elise said. “I watched the original footage, and you're right. This is just different enough that it's like I didn't see everything the first time.”

“Yes! That's exactly what it's like.” Barbara said. The theme music came on, and they watched the show.

*

After a montage of Onscreen Ren digging, sleeping, and digging some more, it cut to him and Fritz as they sat in the cafeteria. Fritz taught Ren his Metal Detection skill, and the people around them cheered. The celebration was short-lived, however. One of the miners came in and said an accident hurt the blacksmith of the mine, which would shut down production for a couple of days.

There was a loud uproar from the miners, complaining that they couldn't dig with their hands, and Fritz dragged Onscreen Ren to the front of the group and told the mine foreman that he was the city's blacksmith apprentice. The foreman begged Onscreen Ren for help. He reluctantly agreed and received a new quest to keep the blacksmith's forge going and the mine in operation.

Onscreen Ren was led to the blacksmith's area and the forge there, and the small mountain of tools that needed repair desperately. His first repair was met with cheers, and another quick montage was shown. It stopped when he did his first manual repair at the end of the day. He heated the metal, used his blacksmith hammer to hammer out the ends to their proper shape, and it came out almost as good as it did when he let the system do it. It had taken a lot longer, though.

After another montage of repairs showing days pass, and several popups about his Repair skills increasing, the replacement blacksmith showed up and Onscreen Ren completed the quest and was paid handsomely. He asked for a loan of a cart and horse so he could do his own mining in a different spot, and went to Fritz to thank him for teaching him everything he knew. Fritz gave him the dwarf medallion, showing Onscreen Ren was a friend to dwarves. They shook hands, and Ren left the mine.

The theme music started, and the end credits rolled.
