“Yes.” He had given a half smile. “Who and what you are, physically, is decidedly influenced by many, many outside factors. So while claiming it as your own is good—and even required—it is not truly Reforging in the most potent sense. In fact, it cements ties, restrictions, and influences, making Ascension essentially impossible.”

At the time, she had thought he was saying that it was impossible to Reforge while leaving connections to others, that doing so would make Ascension impossible. But that’s what she’d wanted to hear, what she’d expected to hear. Instead, he had been saying that simply ‘laying claim’ wasn’t enough. That wasn’t Reforging.

She had to actually remake herself, not as untouched by those around her, but as she was and wanted to be: Truly connected to both her roots and to where she was heading.

She wasn’t supposed to be divorced from those around her. She was supposed to accept those ties and remake herself with them in mind, framing them as she desired.

* *  *

The next memory was from when Tala had picked up the work of art that was Mistress Holly’s schema. The woman had said, “Truly, thank you for this opportunity. Even though it is effectively a purely theoretical exercise, it is one that I doubt I will ever forget. More than that, I believe that what I’ve learned will help me push inscriptions forward yet again.”

That more than anything else should have stood out to her at the time. Mistress Holly didn’t believe anything was purely theoretical. She lived for direct applications, but Tala had already told the woman that she was going to make her own version.

The Inscriptionist hadn’t argued in the least. That should have been a clue as well.

Mistress Holly had helped her with a ‘theoretical’ project anyway, and laid out a truly obvious sign-post of sorts, if Tala had ever cared to look back on it.

Now, she had. Now, she understood.

* *  *

A final memory came to her from Alat, even if it was the first, chronologically.

Tala had yet again been speaking with Master Grediv, and she had been telling him what she thought Reforging was.“Reforging is effectively Refining, but where I will be required to control every part of the process myself, through my own magics and through inscriptions that will be added to me for that purpose. There can be no outside assistance or interference. It is the remaking of myself, by myself, for myself.”

Master Grediv had held up a finger. “Yes and no.”

He’d been trying to guide her to this very revelation. Later he’d tried to walk her through it.

“Your new physical body must be untainted by anyone else’s ownership or authority.” He waved a hand dismissively at his own words. “This is not precisely correct, but it will help to convey what you need to know for the moment."

“Does that mean a familiar or spouse could help?”

He smiled broadly. “They could, yes. But that isn’t what I was driving at.”

“Alright. I’m listening.” And right there, she’d missed the almost throwaway response. Her bound companion or a spouse could help. Of course they could, but that hadn’t been what he was driving at.

“The resources you use to Reforge yourself must be your own. Master Jevin is a nearly perfect example in this regard. He uses the earned, excess resources of his entire city to push himself forward every cycle, and yet he has barely moved toward being Reforged.” He held up a hand to forestall her obvious objections. “True, he has other issues limiting his Reforging speed, but the idea stands.”

“Alright, but I still don’t quite understand. What resources? What could I need?”

He shrugged at the question. “Precious metals in the thousands of pounds to be made into the inscriptions that you will need to empower throughout the process. Food that is yours on a fundamental level, rather than purchased from someone else. Things of that nature.”

He had been trying to show her that it was authority that mattered. He hadn’t suggested that she mine the metal herself, grow the food herself. She’d taken the wrong lesson from his words.

Now? Now she finally understood. She understood, and she had everything that she needed ready to hand.

* *  *

When Tala opened her eyes again, Alan was looking at her curiously. Their eyes met, and he gave a tired smile. “I don’t understand how or why, but it’s clear you just had an epiphany of sorts.”

She frowned. “What?”

He shook his head. “Go, whatever it is, it’s obviously important, and I won’t stand in the way of such things. You have the look you used to get when there was something that you needed to do.”

“Alan, I can wait. You are—”

He cut across her weakly. “An old man, ready to die. Goodbye, Mistress Tala.” He gave a sad smile. “It was my honor to know you. Please, don’t delay whatever this is on my account.”

She almost argued further, but then she realized he was right. She had everything she needed in order to Reforge at long last, and that task was calling to her. Her very soul felt like it was trembling with anticipation.

Tala turned, looking up at Rane, and he smiled down at her. “Go. I’ll stay with Lea. Do you need Terry?”

Tala hesitated, almost saying that no, she didn’t. She had to do this on her own, but that wasn’t right. She’d even been planning on her own version of the merging magics to not include him at all. Now though? She smiled. “Yes.”

Terry flickered to her shoulder without a moment’s delay, and the terror bird had a gleam in his eyes.

“Ready, Terry?”

He let out a short, decisive squawk.

Lea was clearly confused, but she met her mother’s gaze and smiled. “Love you, mom. Thank you.”

Tala smiled in return. “Love you, sweet. Listen to your father, alright?”

“Always.” But when she glanced toward her father, Rane theatrically rolled his eyes, and Lea chuckled. “Fine, ‘often’, and I’ll try while you’re gone.”

Tala nodded once more. “Good. Martha, thank you for your hospitality. Alan… thank you for your words.”

The two smiled, giving slight bows of their heads.

And Tala was off.

Her aura and authority was expansive, and by aspect mirroring Terry’s magics, she was able to easily flicker back through the city to where Kit waited.

-I’ve warned Lyn, they’re closing up Ironhold. It’ll be less than five minutes until they are ready, and there’s no reason for delay.-

Thank you, Alat.

-Absolutely.-

Tala took a deep breath, then willed herself into Kit.

It was time to Reforge.
