Aliandra

The body that had once been Maeria Runeweaver squelched in a pool of blood as the heavy-set, creaking skeleton stepped off of her, advancing toward the table. The longsword hung loose from bony fingers, the tip screeching as it was dragged along the bloody flagstones. Mismatched pieces of armor hung from the bones, clanking discordantly with each step.

Ali jerked back, her stomach heaving as everyone fled, their screaming unable to drown out the hammering of her heart. Her chair toppled backward, spilling her onto the floor with a bruising thump. Splinters of wood pelted her as the skeleton’s blade bit deep into the wooden table right where she had been sitting. Flickers of light rippled throughout the library as those who could evacuated using personal teleportation skills, talismans, or artifacts.

… she’s… dead…

Ali scrambled backward on her butt, unable to tear her eyes away from the creaking bones, the dripping sword, and the sheer malevolence as it transfixed her with its horrifying, glowing gaze. A loud muffled thump shook the library, and the skeleton stumbled drunkenly to the side. With a burst of adrenaline lending her arms and legs sudden strength, she scrambled to her feet and fled, heart racing as she gasped for breath.

I couldn’t… I should have…

Ali had seen death only a couple of times before, but never with such sudden brutality. And never a person dying at the hands of a monster.

That… that was a skeleton…

The undead were horrors for the combat classes. It was terrifying to even read about them in books. That one had appeared in the library… she simply couldn’t believe it. And yet she was fleeing for her life.

She shot out of the library, desperately trying to outrun the clanking footsteps that chased her. It grew louder and louder as the urge to look became unbearable, but then she suddenly caught sight of a flash of slithering bronze scales. A burst of wind buffeted her as it flew past, and suddenly a loud crash echoed off the walls behind her. She tripped, rolling head-over-heels, landing in a pile of something hard and pointy, but her eyes were glued upon the terrible battle.

Outlined in the gigantic doorway, a gleaming Desert Naga unleashed a dizzying flurry of attacks with four saber-wielding arms as thick as Ali’s torso. He hissed as the skeleton’s blade sliced a long gash across his ribs, but his double-overhanded strike cleaved the monster’s bony arm clean off its body.

“Armand,” she whispered, her body suddenly weak with relief. But still, she held up her library book like an improbable shield.

But to Ali’s horror, the loss of its arm did not even slow the skeleton down. It returned with another devastating jab which Armand barely parried. Furious battle ensued, with a dizzying blur of attacks and counterattacks, Armand hissing and the skeleton clacking its jaws while the ring of steel echoed through the plaza.

A moment later, Armand lashed out with his enormous tail, knocking the skeleton down, crushing a femur, and the flurry of swords rained down, decapitating the monster. Still, it twitched upon the pavement clawing toward her with its one remaining arm.

Armand hit it again and again, until he had separated every bone from the monster, beating the unholy unlife from its bones with sheer brute force. Ali stared at the remains for a long time, ready to scream, run, or something. But it failed to move.

“Ali? Are you hurt?” Armand asked, slithering up to her.

“No, I don’t think so,” she said, checking herself. “But…Maeria… she…” She choked up as the gruesome memory proved too much for her.

“The others fled already,” Armand said. “But you didn’t come out. And then there were the skeletons… What is going on?”

“I don’t…” Skeletons? Ali glanced around, registering for the first time that the previously bustling plaza was deserted, abandoned carts and possessions dotting the open space like so much discarded trash, under the pulsing red of the emergency lights. Smoke billowed from a few burning carts, shrouding the plaza in a haze. But when her eyes fell to her surroundings, she found herself sitting among a pile of dark gray shattered bones. She yelped, springing to her feet and launched herself toward Armand and safety.

“We need to go,” Ali said. It was the one clear thought in her mind. The alarm had said to go home and wait for the guard, so that was what she was going to do. Safe. Inside the barriers. They were already up, giant domes of purple magic, beckoning to her with the promise of safety through the apocalyptic red haze.

“Yes,” Armand said. “I can take you home.”

Ali could have hugged him right then.

“Can you call us a transport?” Armand asked. “My communication panel broke in the fight.” He carefully sheathed two of his blades, keeping two scimitars at the ready, slithering slowly beside her, slow enough to accommodate her small stride, but still with a sense of urgency.

Ali hurried along, reaching into her pocket, but found her communicator was offline. “It’s not working,” she said, shaking the thing and checking again. Another explosion shook the ground and she caught herself against Armand. But instead of hard, smooth scales, her fingers encountered something warm and sticky. Pulling her hand back she gasped at the sight of blood. “Armand! You’re bleeding!”

“I’ll be ok,” he said lightly, but his grim expression told a different story. “Why are the undead here?” he asked, changing the subject.

“I don’t know,” Ali answered, shivering. It would be a long walk to get home, but the further from those horrible skeletons and that terrible tear in the fabric of reality, the better. They walked – or slithered – side by side for a while in silence until they reached the feet of the three kings.

“Where’s the guard?” Ali asked, looking about. Where, for that matter, was anyone? The deserted plaza had been one thing, but staring out at the main boulevard, now empty of all traffic, sent a fresh chill down her spine.

“I don’t see anyone,” Armand said. “I’m not sure I like this.”

“We have to remain positive,” Ali said. At least that’s what she had always been told. “We just need to reach the barriers and then we’ll be safe.” But her own words sounded hollow. There should have been a barrier around the library. And there should be guards swarming the area. High level combat classes.

She pressed on, following Armand, leaving her worries to fester in the background of her mind. It was not like there was anything she could do about them. They walked for almost half an hour, past the administration buildings and community centers ringing the plaza, and Ali’s legs were getting tired. It was when they approached the first terrace that Armand suddenly stiffened up, stopping in the middle of the street.

“What is it?”

“I hear something,” he said. His head swiveled quickly from side to side scanning the area, and then he gestured with one of his lower arms. “Stay behind me.”

There was a soft schink as he drew his other two swords and he slithered forward, pausing to listen carefully before turning onto the next street. Ali could hear nothing but when she followed him around the corner she immediately froze at the sight of the gruesome scene. It wasn’t so much what was there, but what was not. Right in the middle of the street, garishly red upon the dark stone pavement, were several large pools of blood. And leading away from each was a trail painted across the street, where something – or someone – had been dragged away.

“Armand…” she whispered.

“I know,” he said, his voice just as low as hers.

But he slithered forward, his muscular body rippling across the stained pavement without so much as a sound. Up ahead, Ali heard a clang, the rattle of steel touching steel, and her head snapped up to see a skeleton emerging from a side street. Her heart began to race, and her throat spasmed involuntarily as she suddenly noticed that half of the skeleton’s body had been bathed in something crimson.

Armand did not hesitate. His form blurred as he shot across the street, trash and dust bursting into the air in the vacuum of his wake. Swords clanged against plates of armor and cracked against bone.

Ali hid, pressing herself up against a wall, trying to make herself as small as possible behind a set of stone stairs. She was not a combat class like Armand – worse, she didn’t even have a Class yet. All she could do was stay hidden and be grateful for Armand – she would never have made it out of the plaza without him.

She poked her head up when the banging and crashing stopped and the street grew suddenly silent, finding Armand standing over a pile of bones, looking cautiously around. Ali stepped out and joined him. He’s injured again, she thought, spying several fresh cuts dripping blood down his arms. And I can’t even help him.

“I leveled up again,” Armand said, grinning. “I had no idea it could be this fast.”

Ali blinked at the incongruity of his happiness. But upon a moment’s reflection, she realized what it meant – a stronger Armand would make both of them safer. “That’s awesome, Armand,” she said, quietly. And truly it was, but her thoughts, and eyes, returned to the blood stains in the street, and the pile of crushed and chopped bones at their feet.

In the middle of the residential area. Without a barrier protecting it.

And still, no sign of the city guards.

Another muffled thump shook the city, and in the distance, one of the great purple barrier domes flickered once. Twice. And then suddenly it shattered into a cloud of purple smoke and glittering sparks that drifted upward toward the floating solar orbs, still pulsing with the red of the alarm.

“Hey, Armand,” she said, suddenly making a decision. “I’m worried about my mom. Do you mind if we go there first? I know it’s a little further...” In truth, the worry was clawing at her heart with the cold fingers of dread. Something was very wrong. There shouldn’t be skeletons this far into the residential district. There shouldn’t be skeletons in the city at all. But they hadn’t seen a single person since leaving the library, no guards, no fleeing people, nobody riding on a late transport. Nothing.

And one of the barriers had just gone down.

We need to leave the city.

She didn’t want to go hide at home behind a barrier that might break, hoping for guards that wouldn’t show up. She needed to leave the city entirely. And there was no way she was leaving her mom down here with the skeletons. At least, with Armand’s help, she could get her mom to safety.

“Yup, that’s a good idea, Ali,” Armand said, inclining his head. “That way, right? The Eastern Quarter?”

“Yes, inner ring, so it’s not too far,” Ali added, previously unnoticed tension suddenly easing from her shoulders as Armand agreed to her plan. “Thank you.”

“Your mom is well connected, she should be able to tell us what’s going on,” Armand said, his voice oozing calm and confidence. But he kept close by, setting an urgent pace, and Ali rushed to keep up.

As they drew closer to the glowing purple wall of the barrier, muscles Ali didn’t even know she was clenching began to ease. “It’s just over here,” she called out to Armand. He was slowing down now, and his breathing was labored, but at least most of his bleeding seemed to have stopped. She led the way confidently. Even though her communicator panel wasn’t working, just the fact that she had it in her pocket should allow them both access through the protective magic promising safety just up ahead.

And her mom lived just a few streets up from here.

“Ali, wait up,” Armand said.

She turned, finding him breathing heavily, struggling now to keep pace with her urgent rush. Behind him, the bakery she had promised to stop by at on the way to dinner loomed shuttered and deserted. She stopped, giving him the chance to catch up, smiling encouragement. “Mom keeps emergency healing potions at her house,” she said. “We’ll get you fixed up in a minute.”

But his eyes suddenly widened, staring past her, and his fists clenched around his swords. “Ali!” he shouted, his body suddenly blurring with speed.

Ali turned her head to look back at whatever was lurking behind her, but her body moved too slowly. Everything happened so quickly. Armand’s enormous body slammed into her. She flew across the street as something drew a line of burning pain down her arm, and she bounced off the purple barrier with enough force to knock the wind out of her. Her body hit the pavement, head cracking painfully against the stone, but she scrambled to her feet, struggling to move her right arm as her amber blood spilled from her fingers onto the ground.

She gasped, struggling for breath that wouldn’t come. But her heart froze at the sight of the gleaming sword protruding from Armand’s back.

Armand… she reached with her dripping hand, stumbling toward him.

The giant skeleton stood a head taller than even Armand’s enormous height. In the frozen moment of silence, her mind registered the heavy armor and the shining greatsword. Before she could utter a single sound, the skeleton wrenched the sword sideways out of Armand’s body. It blurred in the air and came down in a vicious overhand chop that tore through Armand’s scaled torso from his shoulder, winding up lodged in his sternum.

Crimson sprayed up into the air splashing against her face and neck, drenching her coat. Four sabers clattered loudly as they hit the ground.

“Armand…” she said, her voice weak and tiny.

“… Ali… run…” he whispered, blood gurgling out of his mouth. And then he hit the ground with a heavy thump.

Whether she screamed or not, she did not know, all she knew was she found herself scrambling toward the barrier in a frantic state of sheer panic. She hammered her hands against the unyielding magic before her mind caught up.

Key…

Clanking footsteps echoed behind her.

She reached into her pocket and fumbled the communicator panel with blood-slick hands. It fell to the ground and bounced, skittering away from her grasping fingers.

Metal scraped against stone as she frantically chased the panel. Wind whipped past her ears as she ducked to pick it up. The clang of steel rang out loudly as the heavy sword hit the impervious barrier. Grabbing with all her might, she slammed the panel against the barrier, and suddenly it gave, pitching her through the wall of magic to land sprawled and bruised on the stone beyond.

