She leapt to her feet and flinched as the sword hit the barrier again, right in front of her face, but it bounced off as the skeleton glared at her through the transparent magic. It took another strike before Ali breathed, realizing she was finally safe.

Her eyes found Armand’s crumpled, unmoving body, and her heart sank, weighed down by a sudden flood of guilt. I shouldn’t have rushed ahead…

Tears spilling from her eyes, and blood dripping from her fingers, she turned and fled. Familiar streets flew by in a blur, but all she could see was the horrific spray of crimson blood and hear the terrible whisper of his last words. Even as he died, his thoughts were for her safety.

Her hand left bloody amber prints upon the door as she hammered on it.

The door suddenly opened, and she pitched forward into her mother’s surprised arms.

“Ali! Oh my goodness, what happened? You’re bleeding!”

Ali struggled to form the words, but her mother did not wait, pulling her inside and slamming the door shut. She yanked the first-aid kit from the hallway cupboard, reached in and grabbed a red vial and upended the contents into Ali’s mouth.

Ali spluttered and choked, but she managed to swallow it down. Warmth blossomed from her stomach, rapidly spreading as it infused her shaking limbs and trembling body with its magic. Pain receded, and her arm stopped bleeding as the gash from the skeleton’s sword knit itself closed.

“Aliandra, what happened? I heard the alarm and the evacuation warnings, but the communication panel isn’t working. I have been trying to get hold of you for ages.”

“I… they’re… he’s dead,” Ali gasped.

“Easy, breathe first.”

Ali took a deep breath. The potion pulsed again, filling her with healing magic. Her headache faded and her mind steadied.

“Now, why don’t you start at the beginning? You were supposed to be meeting Professor Maeria Runeweaver in the library…”

“She’s dead,” Ali said, the words simply blurted out. Her mom gasped, but she continued. “It was a skeleton, it stepped out of something… a tear in the fabric of reality? A portal?” And as soon as she started, the entire story tumbled out of her, words spilling over each other like a river breaking its banks.

“But that’s impossible,” her mom said. “Where was the guard? And the barriers?”

“There was nobody, mom,” she said. “Not just the guards, it was just me and Armand. And we had to walk from the library. There was no barrier around the plaza, nor anything around the first terrace.”

“I… that shouldn’t be possible,” her mom said. “But you’re safe now, the barrier will keep them out.”

“Mom, I saw one of the barriers fail. I really think we need to get out of the city.”

“Look, Ali, I know you’ve had a horrible day. You said you ran all the way from the library with skeletons chasing you, you were injured, and Armand…” Her mom trailed off for a moment staring intently at her. “All I’m saying is, maybe you were mistaken? The barriers are indestructible. If we stay here, we will be safe – if we go outside, we might run into monsters.”

“It really broke,” Ali said. Somehow, she needed to convince her mother. If they stayed here, she knew they would die, just like Maeria. Just like Armand. “The entire western residential district barrier shattered with one of the explosions. Please believe me, we need to hurry.”

Her mom held her gaze for a few moments in silence.

“Please, mom…”

“I believe you Ali. Let me get a few things, we can leave by the southern gate and meet up with your father in the Grove. His domain and elementals should be able to protect us.”

She believes me? Knots of tension dissolved from her neck and back and she reached out a hand. Her mother took it and gave her a reassuring squeeze before she began collecting a few important items.

Ali shrugged out of her blood-soaked coat, dumping it with a wet splat in the bathroom for now. She slipped her library card between the pages of her library book, closed it, and tucked it under her arm. By the time she was done, her mother was ready. They stepped out of her mom’s studio apartment and walked cautiously down the deserted street. Even though her mother’s wings worked just fine, she chose to walk beside Ali, and for that she was incredibly grateful.

It took a few minutes to reach the purple barrier – a soaring dome wall of magic that arched high overhead, protecting the entire district. But Ali’s eyes were glued on the street beyond, and the bloodstains that were all that remained of Armand.

“Where… where is he?”

“Ali, that is an undead skeleton,” her mom said, and following her gaze past the stained pavement Ali caught sight of the huge skeleton that had slain Armand. “And where there are skeletons, you can be sure there is a necromancer. And I have a feeling I know who it is.” Her fists were clenched tight at her sides, and her eyes were narrowed frowning at the monster as if she could unmake it with the force of her glare.

A necromancer… Armand is… her eyes fell upon the terrifying armored skeleton given ghastly unlife by the necromancer’s magic.

A loud thump shook the ground and suddenly all the lights went out, leaving just the glowing purple dome. Ali yelped as she hit the ground, but a second more powerful blast detonated right in her face as the entire dome shattered, filling the air with sparks and shards that slowly faded, leaving them in utter darkness.

Ali sat up in a daze. Mana prickled along her skin and suddenly a golden wall appeared right before them, and the giant skeleton clattered loudly as it slammed into the barrier magic and bounced off.

Ali caught her mother’s eyes and saw both fear and determination in her. All her life she had been taught that the barriers were invulnerable. No matter what, she could shelter under their magical protection and be safe. She knew her mom had believed it too.

Not anymore.

Ali scrambled to her feet, reaching for her mother’s free arm. Mana surged again and a second golden wall appeared, trapping the skeleton in a side alley, and they fled.

On and on they ran through the pitch-dark deserted city, navigating by the light of her mother’s golden barrier magic. But the city was far from silent. The muffled clanks and scraping of steel, or the clacking of bone footsteps announced each new skeleton. Her mother was no combat class, but her barriers blocked each monster, leaving them time to escape.

Distant ethereal screams floated through the air, punctuated by explosions. And still they ran, pausing for breath only when Ali ran out of stamina – and then only long enough for Ali to drink a stamina potion. At least her mom had had the foresight to pack potions.

The southern entrance into Dal’mohra was an enormous chamber hewn from the bedrock of the mountains themselves. The city’s largest radial boulevard emerged from the entrance hall, normally teeming with traffic of all kinds. Carts pulled by tamed beasts, flying people or mounts, magically engineered transports of infinite variety. Now, however, it lay silent in the darkness.

Ali hugged herself, rubbing her bare arms against the sudden icy breeze.

“Nearly there,” her mom said, trying to be cheerful. Outside the gate they would simply follow the short passageway upward, and then they would find themselves above ground in the Grove.

Safe.

Ali followed her mom inside.

What she found was a scene of utter destruction. The giant stone doors that protected the city from the outside world lay shattered, strewn across the chamber as giant boulders and rubble. Among the jagged stone lay the bodies of the missing defenders, crushed and mutilated.

Ali’s gut tightened, clenching painfully as her eyes recoiled from the terrible carnage. Over by the far entrance, two dozen defenders stood; their expressions frozen in abject terror by the enormous blocks of ice that entombed them.

An unnatural, bone-chilling wave of cold rippled through the room. Frost coated her eyelashes, and her hair as visibly growing ice crackled and crept across the floor.

Ali shivered as the aura hit her, dragging her mind into a frozen pit of terror and despair.

What happened?

She struggled, her body shaking from fear and icy cold as the blood drained from her face. Something moved. A crunch of a heavy footstep on ice. Shuddering, and unable to flee, or even to scream, she slowly turned.

The dark figure emerged from the shadows; its huge bulk shrouded by a black, hooded cloak. Leather creaked as it moved. Metallic clanking echoed from the chamber walls, the sound of heavy plate armor. Another heavy footstep as dark steel crunched against the ice.

A frigid blue glow emanated from under the black cloak, illuminating the splintering ice growing around its feet. And when that shrouded head turned toward her, she was transfixed by two piercing pinpoints of blue and the sudden wave of intense cold crawling across her skin. Ali’s heavy breathing echoed loudly in her ears.

“Don’t be afraid,” her mom whispered. A warm hand grabbed Ali’s frozen one and a rush of sparkling mana filled her, banishing the fear instantly.

Ali reeled at the sudden whiplash of her emotions.

Magical fear?

What is that thing?

“He has come for you, Elowynn Amariel.” When it spoke, it set the very chamber to trembling. Shards of ice cracked, coming away from the walls and falling to the ground in loud splintering crashes. It resonated from everywhere and nowhere, like an echo from the underworld lingering unnaturally long in the ice-laden air.

Ali gripped her mother’s hand with the force of desperation; grabbing onto a tiny lifeline in a world turned suddenly incomprehensible and terrifying.

“Tell your master he will get nothing from me,” her mother said. She spoke with defiance, her chin raised as she locked eyes with the horrifying apparition.

In response, the blue eyes blazed with intensity, and a vast towering presence unleashed from the monster, a wave of palpable cold that Ali knew without a doubt would annihilate her. Ice crystallized in the air, large lances hovering, humming with power.

But an equally potent force blossomed from beside her. The familiar sparkling prickle of her mother’s magic, only thousands of times more potent than she had ever felt. And suddenly a large sphere of golden barrier magic snapped into place around the shrouded ice knight.

Ali suddenly grabbed at her hand as her mother stumbled, catching her before she hit the ground.

“Thanks, Ali,” she gasped. “We need to leave, that won’t hold him for long.” Her chest was heaving as she struggled with ragged breaths. Whatever she had just done had clearly taken a huge toll on her and Ali supported her mother as they scrambled across the rubble and treacherous ice and fled out through the shattered gates.
