In this camp, one found the usual suspects that everyone wanted to avoid making an enemy of. The Holy Church, Risen, Automatons, and, of course, the Endless Empire. These factions were all massive and incredibly powerful, and they were by far the most vengeful. Factions like the Holy Church also always moved with the assumption that they were morally in the right and that even if they exterminated someone who had only fought to defend themselves, they were in the right. To deny the Holy Church was a sinful act in itself, after all.

Finally, there were the factions that simply made everyone hesitate. The odd ones that were powerful, yes, but equally weird and unpredictable. The Primordial Church fell under this umbrella; its members were usually seen as fanatical and sometimes even insane, which made it rare for them to organize and take over as the dominant faction, but it had happened in a few places where one or more particularly powerful figures had taken control in the name of the Primordials.

Powerful, smaller individual factions associated with certain gods were also included here. Small factions controlled by Void Followers, followers of Eversmile, Aeon, Stormild, and many others who didn’t usually have big factions, but still had representation within this system event. No one fully knew their agenda or how they would act if provoked, making everyone vary.

Oh, and of course, there was perhaps the most enigmatic yet powerful faction in the entire multiverse:

The Dao Sect.

A faction that rarely got involved in any kind of conflict, but mostly stuck to itself, even avoiding interacting with other factions for diplomatic purposes. However, that did not mean weakness.

In fact, if there was one faction that even the Holy Church, Risen, Altmar Empire, Automatons, and Endless Empire would avoid getting into conflict with, it was the Dao Sect. Because whenever they had entered conflicts, it tended to end very swiftly. In nearly all cases, the other party would surrender when met with overwhelming power, and, as the mostly peaceful faction they were, the Dao Sect would accept the surrender and let bygones be bygones. Unless someone went too far, that is. In those few cases, the factions that crossed the line made history.

All this knowledge of the multiversal factions was what everyone entered the World of the Exalted Prima operating based on. It was what they used to plan. However, perhaps they all seemed to forget one important thing:

This was all a simulation. The usual rules and norms of the multiverse could be bent here, as death was not a true factor. Truly offending other factions by killing their members was impossible. Given that, what stopped the many factions from truly fighting with all they had? What stopped the geniuses of this generation from truly battling things out and learning from one another?

In some ways, wasn’t that the greatest boon of this simulation? The ability to battle those who stood at the forefront of the generation in true duels to the death without actually risking killing one another? An invaluable opportunity for sure...

One that perhaps even the most peaceful and usually passive factions would be willing to embrace, as they were known to enjoy spars.
