Eppie took a moment to digest her mentor’s aphorism.

“Valorie Sanders has a charmed life. She is incredibly beautiful. She is talented too. She was born rich, and then her father became a sitting Senator. As a person, as an artist, the choices she had were limitless.”

And yet.And yet.“And yet,” Vaughan said. “She chose to punish Luciana Mio for working harder, for being born poorer. I don’t know if she chose the method of Miss Mio’s execution, but she made the first choice all on her own.”

Eppie stared at her mentor’s hands. Vaughan’s skin looked and felt like paper.

“Then she chose to punish you for helping Mio. For daring to show compassion to someone she disliked. I dare say William was involved, though we cannot deny that Miss Sanders could have stopped it at any time. Not choosing is also a choice. She is a Senior. They’ve spent two months on Hamlet. There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. She has learned nothing from Hamlet.”

Eppie heard Simone’s voice, quiet as a whisper, snake its way through her chest. Valorie stared at William for a long time. Then she wanted Ramen.

“Now, she may come to her senses,” Vaughan said. “Or she will choose to go with that man. Mr Grein is not a good person, Eppie. Nonetheless, he is a good businessman. He is a good campaigner. Unlike this William creature, Mr Grein is a real Producer.”

Eppie watched Valorie move. Midway to the balcony, she was accosted by Sir Woodhouse. The man listened to her speak; his expression changed three times, from surprise to horror to angst. He pleaded with her. He spoke to her with his teeth clenched. He gesticulated. Eppie felt sorry for her father’s rival. He was watching his child being snatched by a bigger, meaner hawk.

Valorie did not move from the trajectory of her path.

“What Valorie does tonight is her choice,” Vaughan's voice was sad, wise and stern. “I don’t agree with it, but for my purpose, for your purpose. I shall respect it. As a Sander, her life is no less charmed without Grein. It’s her choice, Eppie. As your choice is yours.”

Eppie also leaned over the edge, her eyes glued to her foe for all the wrong reasons.

“Mirabelle called it a test. She thinks everything is a test. That I am some kind of old crone setting gingerbread for little girls sauntering through the dark woods.” Her mentor placed her hands on Eppie’s bare shoulders, as if to bestow upon her a mantle piece. “There’s no gift, Euphemia Fontaine.”

“This—ma dauphine—is veritas.”
