He floated tiny holes in front of his eyes, this way and that, to spy upon the world, to see that Eralis of the Songli Highlands was doing fine, and its Void Wall shaped like Rozeta and its Node Network were keeping the millions of people there safe as could be. The Wasteland Kingdoms were doing well, along the river that ran through the middle of their lands, where incani farmed the marshes and the lakes and the land didn’t look much like a ‘wasteland’ at all. Greensoil and its humans were doing fine, though there was still a lot of racial prejudice there, and Erick saw some dragonkin getting chewed out for loitering by some human guards on the street… Erick almost got involved there, but that would be overstepping. Treehome and the orcols and all the arbors were doing well, surrounded by the Forest of Glaquin on one side and the Wyrmridge Mountains on the other.

Yggdrasil was easy to see far, far in the distance, far beyond Treehome, from Erick’s kilometers-high mini-[Gate]. He was like a mountain of green fire, surrounded by a rainbow, far, far into the Forest, well past the Arbors and their similarly eclectic bodies of flame, or steel, or rot, or red…

Hmm.

Red.

Well. No Red Sparks. Just the normal red bark on Redarrow… Who was the prognostication specialist of the Arbors of Treehome. This realization caused Erick to do a thorough investigation of the tree, which probably caught his attention, but Erick was circumspect about it as much as he could be and no Red Sparks gathered in the air. Redarrow was clean.

Erick wondered if he was now traumatized by the simple color red.

Probably.

Not many Red Sparks in most of the world. Just the normal amount, really, which was almost none.

Phagar walked beside Erick, looking like his twin in every respect, except he was smiling. “Finally decided to come out of Benevolence?”

“I did.” Erick asked, “Any idea if unsealing Yggdrasil is going to happen?”

“It could happen. I need to know why, though. Also why you won’t let any mortals touch your mind, why Quilatalap has the Shield, and why he’s acting cagey with mental barriers up tall, and why you weren’t willing to spill the secrets to your family, either.”

“Ahh… So did Rozeta hit a roadblock in discussions? Or she simply decided ‘no’?”

Phagar said, “You’re avoiding the question.”

“I am; yes.”

Erick was also watching the world for Red Sparks. None seemed to be approaching, which was great, but also suspicious. Erick opened a good thirty tiny [Gate]s, most of them into nowhere in particular; the air high in the sky in several places across the Surface, inside some major tunnels of the Underworld, a few places closer to the Core, but not in the Core at all. Erick kept his Domain heavily pressed against them all to ensure nothing came through, not even the Domains of monsters down there in the depths. He felt a minor pushback in those deep places, but nothing approaching the level of a Domain; just some auras.

Phagar noticed all of that. His initial smile turned into an even expression. “You’re avoiding something big, Erick.”

“Did you know? I had a daughter named Debby. She died not too long ago.”

“… I am aware that you believe you had a daughter named Debby, but there was never any soul there, Erick.”

Phagar was trying to gently tell Erick that he needed help, and that he might be influenced by something that did not exist. Perhaps Melemizargo was fucking with him. Perhaps he had stared too long at the mana, and the mana was influencing him with possibilities that did not exist. Phagar didn’t want to say that, though, because to say it was either to be incredibly rude or to be met with disbelief. Anything more than what he had already said would have been pushing the issue too far.

Erick tried a different tack, saying, “All this New Cosmology has people from other lands constantly visiting Veird. We call them planars. Outworlders. Outsiders. A few different names for them; all meanings are the same. People from outside Veird, like me.” Erick looked up and out. “Most people assume they come here as a vagary of magic. Accidents. Perhaps some do come here as accidents. But the fact remains that they exist out there, and something is stopping us from being a part of that larger community.” Erick looked to Phagar, saying, “Melemizargo is not a problem. I would bet my life on that fact on most days, especially considering how close we’ve come to the Sundering Search, to figuring out that most evil of Evils, and also considering all the good things we’ve pulled out of the Dark, to stabilize Veird.”

Phagar looked at Erick a moment longer, then he turned his face forward and simply walked alongside Erick. Northern winds blew the smell of greenery across the land. It smelled a little bit like flowers. A little bit like moisture and rot. New life, and the like.

Erick and the God of the End and Time walked in thoughtful silence for a little while.

Phagar asked, “Would Yggdrasil allow people to come to all his hidden locations, to check to make sure he isn’t making seeds?”

“I’ll ask him. He might say yes. What happens if he does?”

“Then we go back to the Relevant Entities with that development and see how the vote shakes out.”

“How is the vote looking right now?”

“Not great.”

“How would a voluntarily monitored Yggdrasil make the vote shake out?”

“Better than ‘not great’.”

Erick walked along, thinking.

Did he tell Phagar about the Red Leviathan? Did he throw out those Big Names that would draw attention? Could he go back to Benevolence and invite Phagar in there? Or would that be inviting the Red Sparks into his sanctuary, and dooming himself and everyone else?

Erick had not been taking it truly easy these last weeks. He had been looking at the world from ten thousand angles, viewing the Red working its magic everywhere. He had had long talks with Melemizargo, and Quilatalap. Ophiel could talk about this stuff but was too young to discuss the topic at length. Yggdrasil had not been a part of those talks. Erick suspected that Yggdrasil didn’t know about any of those Red Talks with anyone inside Benevolence, which was only possible through any number of explanations, but there was no reason to go exploring that problem right now, so Erick hadn’t talked about any of this with Yggdrasil at all. When Yggdrasil separated, he could send the big guy a huge [Telepathy] packet to detail everything...

… Erick wondered if he could ‘info bomb’ other people with a deep explanation of the Red Sparks and rapidly bring individuals up to speed on this whole problem, without the Red Sparks being able to act fast enough… It probably wouldn’t work that way. Erick could already see the Red problem forming in the air around him as he considered info bombing Phagar through one of Phagar’s head priests. Maybe Xerixio down at the Grand Unified Cathedral of Candlepoint? Phagar’s Head Priest was a rather great old man.

Red Sparks crawled through the air, touching Erick and Phagar and passing right through both of them. Nothanganathor’s Sight was not upon them, but his Element was doing its automatic thing right now, trying to latch on to the worst possible futures and make them happen, or maybe to prevent others from knowing about him. The Red couldn’t actually touch Erick or Phagar, though, which was informative.

It could probably touch them if Erick poked at them, though.

Red Sparks tended to cling and activate when someone poked at them.

Erick had avoided every single Big Conversation with everyone else because every time he spoke to others anywhere near the real world, he imagined divulging information, and then Red Sparks would begin to gather, like the charge before a storm.

Erick changed tacks again. “You never tell anyone what you see, but you see everything, yes? The whole multiversal possibility arrayed against us, and for us. All the different ways Veird can either succeed or fail long-term.”

“I do not see everything—”

Erick almost gasped when Phagar said that. As it was, he stopped in his tracks, right in the middle of a crossroads.

Phagar eyed him, then stopped with him, eyeing him as he continued, “… Though I do see a great majority. Hmm. Erick?”

Erick’s mind was whirring.

Phagar said, “Seems you have realized something big.”

Phagar was the arbiter of the God Pact; the thing which Erick suspected was the main reason how Veird had managed to keep and stay ahead of Nothanganathor all this time. And if Phagar couldn’t see the Red Sparks, it was because... He existed outside of alignment with the Red Sparks, maybe? Erick had just made that up; ‘alignment’. But it seemed correct. Phagar and —now that Erick was thinking of it— maybe all the other gods who were part of the God Pact, literally could not interact with the Red Sparks because they were on a different wavelength than the Red Sparks. If they did interact with the Red Sparks, then they ended up falling off the God Pact, leaving the other gods behind… Maybe.

But the God Pact remained, and the pieces of the gods who chose to ignore the Red remained.

Melemizargo was a god, though, and he was heavily affected by the Red Sparks, but he had a physical body, so...

Erick had lost his train of thought because there were too many holes in that burgeoning theory.

Was the God Pact stable because Phagar was more powerful than Nothanganathor? Or was Veird outrunning Nothanganathor through multiversal shenanigans? Or was something else going on there?

No way to know until it was too late, and it was infuriating to not know exactly how this shit worked. ‘A Wizard Is Doing This’ was probably the best explanation. Wizards inflicting pain, Gods saying ‘nuh uh!’, and thus the conflict between realities…

Which was probably exactly right.

There was one test he could do to understand what was happening here. He just didn’t want to, because the ‘good’ result was all of Veird being put into the sights of Nothanganathor, which was still really bad, and the bad result was Erick having to escape the Red Realm again. Erick wasn’t so sure he could continually escape the Red Realm. Surely, if the Red Sparks were alive and controlled by someone —and they were, based on that Red Eye Erick had seen last month— then that person would directly confront Erick eventually, and with his full power.

Erick looked at the god who looked like him.

He saw Benevolence trying to guide him away from this action.

And yet, he knew this was the right action to take.

The Path shifted; Erick had made it shift.

And Erick asked, “How secure can you make an area?”

A shadow rose from the side of the road, poking into the daylight.

Melemizargo said, “We’re not ready for this.”

Phagar smiled a little and the world timed out.

The very air froze. The light of the sun went out. Nothing moved at all, except for Erick, Melemizargo, and Phagar, all of them standing upon an unimportant crossroads northeast of the Greater Candlepoint area, like they were inside a bubble of muted light and all the world was gone. Phagar almost said something—

But Erick instantly said, “I need to know that the rest of the God Pact world still exists as I speak to you, Phagar. Can you do that?”

Phagar paused for a moment, then said, “Yes. All the rest of the world still exists. We’re in a time apart; nothing else happens beyond this land.”

“Good.” Erick began, “Do you know of the Red Sp—”

“It’s not going to work like that, Erick,” Melemizargo’s shadow said, interrupting him, as though he was fearful of the Red appearing. “We’re not ready for this and all these gods are figments in the mana. I told you already: Debby tried to speak to Phagar and Rozeta, and both of them simply forgot what they were told. Debby tried Rozeta twice, both times Rozeta seemed like she would be able to do something, but then Rozeta did nothing because she forgot.” Melemizargo looked at Phagar, who looked concerned, and added, “And if you try to interact with Phagar in this way then I am not sure what the outcome will be. Bad, I assume.”

Erick said, “I heard you, but this could work. Besides that, I want Yggdrasil released, and that vote needs to happen in a certain way, and soon.”

“I’ll work on that.” Melemizargo said, “But will you please be more careful when dealing with gods. Your chaos is astounding and I didn’t even see this happening, and that worries me.”

“I didn’t see it happening either, Melemizargo,” Phagar said to the shadows. “It’s hard for me to predict anything in this conversation, or past this area of severed time. But I assume this has to do with the anti-meme and the Sundering Search.” Phagar said to Erick. “If the danger of me knowing the truth is too much, then I will lose my memory after this moment, and that is not a large worry. I simply don’t have a corporeal form, so if this part of me comes back to the whole with intolerable memories, then I will cut it off and never know what you said, but I will know that some interaction had taken place and that the outcome was a cutting. Rozeta does the same thing. All gods have this capability so as not to infect the whole with something intolerable. It’s why we could ‘fall to Veird’ in the first place, and why Melemizargo calls us all phantoms. Because we are phantoms. Veird could never have held our true forms at all.”

“… I didn’t know any of that,” Erick said. And then he asked, “So this conversation with you does not matter?”

“No, it does. But only if my larger self determines it does, which it will not based on the words already said here. It will think that you have infected this part of me with a memetic threat that even I could not overcome. The outcome of this moment will likely be everyone leaving you alone, and your threat level rising high, and Rozeta telling me that I should have known better than to get into this conversation with you.” Phagar said, “It’s honestly terrifying, Erick, because it’s not often that I die, even in smaller pieces.”

“Exactly!” Melemizargo said to Erick, “Phantoms. Just like I said. On the off chance that they decided to accept the parts that you infect with the Red, then bad things could happen. We’re not ready for this, Erick.”

Erick frowned. “Fine. Good to know how gods actually work, though. Didn’t know that before.”

Melemizargo huffed in annoyance.

Phagar said, “Tell me the big secret, Erick. Let me decide.”

Melemizargo bared his glowing white fangs, saying, “This is a bad idea.”

