“I would side halfway with Melemizargo on this one, Phagar.” Erick said, “In that regard: Are you aware of just how much of yourselves have been purged from yourselves? With just the knowledge that you truly are phantoms, and that parts of you are simply not there, shouldn’t you know that you should know about the New Cosmology? Like. There is no way that you shouldn’t know everything about this land, from the part of the universe we are in, to the shape of the galaxy, to where the Other Fae are, to the reasons for Planars, to all of that. And yet you don’t.

“Is this failure to know a blind spot of yours? Or something more sinister?

“And if it is something more sinister, then should I tell you about it, or not?

“Adding to all of that, I have just had another big thought.” Erick said, “Melemizargo has previously spoken about this New Cosmology being a trap for him. Is there any way at all that he is correct? That, since you are a phantom, that something has tried to trap the larger part of you and all the other gods and him in this place? I don’t believe we are trapped at all. I believe that Veird is a lifeboat. I also believe that something is eating at you always, but you cannot see it. The ocean we ride upon devours, Phagar.

“So why can’t you see it?”

A moment passed in thoughtful, black silence.

Erick added, “And why do I sometimes have conversations that I am sure that Melemizargo has overseen, and that you have overseen, but that don’t lead to the Bad Ending for us all, and that Melemizargo doesn’t remember? Does every god constantly clip yourselves away from yourselves?”

“What have I forgotten!”

“The concept of Many Worlds.”

“I still don’t believe that one.”

Phagar said, “I’m going to ignore those big questions because those are the answers of gods, and we trust you a lot, Erick, but not that much. Never. Every mortal comes into godhood in their own way, because to do otherwise is to make oneself vulnerable. No god ever helps another rise to power without those freshly ascended becoming beholden to the gods that help them up. If anyone ever helps you to godhood, you should be truly scared of them, Erick. No good ever comes from accepting a rise to godhood—”

“I disagree when it is me raising gods to power,” Melemizargo said.

Phagar ignored the Darkness and said to Erick, “You should tell me how you became immune to it when we gods are not.”

“Benevolence is the counter.” Erick said, “Everyone thinks that Benevolence will one day go bad, or that someone will figure out a way to make Benevolence’s opposite, and thus cause another Sundering. But that couldn’t be further from the truth. The truth is, Phagar, that That Other Element was invented first. It caused the Sundering, and Benevolence is the counter.”

Melemizargo’s shadow looked like it wanted to say something else, but he refrained. He relegated himself to watching Phagar’s reactions.

Phagar paused. “… Well that would explain a few things. I assume that the Other Element is still here? Invisible. Intangible. The anti-meme. Hmm.” He paused again, and then he said, “I will be putting what you previously said beyond a little wall for myself to open in case of any Prophesied Storm-like phenomenon. What comes next is what I might allow through; that, and a personal message for myself. So. Erick. Tell me how to best help you help us all.”

Erick said, “I need Yggdrasil’s seal released. It’s fine if he has watchers. Melemizargo won’t be trying shit. The danger is not my son or what he can do, at all, and it never will be.” Erick wasn’t sure why he said the melodrama he said next, but he knew it was right, as he spoke, “Yggdrasil is the answer to questions I cannot answer, and which you cannot know.”

Phagar nodded. “Good. Short and poignant.”

And then Phagar vanished, the time bubble popped, and Melemizargo’s shadow drifted on the light of the sun—

Phagar came back to the crossroads. He looked a little miffed, as he said, “I am trying rather hard to not look at that tiny portion of myself I just sealed away, Erick. Please don’t go spreading around how gods work. Don’t know how you found out about that or the God Pact, or any of these larger secrets. They’re secret for a reason.” And then he relaxed. “That said… When are you going to invite us all to see Ophiel officially? I have a present for him. It looks like I’ll have to make one for Yggdrasil, too, if your message works, which I believe it will.”

Melemizargo drifted away, looking relieved.

Erick was relieved, too.

And so, Erick walked for a while with Phagar, talking of children and the future, allowing Phagar to see that nothing too untoward was happening between Erick and Melemizargo, and also to simply be a friend. The Benevolent Path gathering in Erick’s mind wasn’t perfect, but with every step Erick took, every word he spoke, he made it clearer.

Red Sparks touched the world around them, but not them directly.

- - - -

A fishing shack mansion stood poised upon a large white root that crested above illuminated waters, under a glowing, yet dim green sky. The sun was not visible down here, beneath Yggdrasil’s dense canopy, but the light of his white roots and his green canopy was enough to constantly color the world with soft brilliance.

It was nice.

Yggdrasil kept this land mostly in order, but this land was a part of the Forest of Glaquin, located close to the headwaters of a half-continent-spanning assortment of rivers. And the Forest was dangerous. Even in this age of dungeons, monsters of all kinds still prowled that dark Forest. The fish that came up that system of rivers, and the fish that lived here to begin with, were either fast or smart enough to get away from the big eaters, dangerous enough to be the big eaters, or prolific enough that their population survived through sheer numbers.

And then there were the orcols.

They were not the undisputed masters of these lands, but they were close.

They were out there on boats of all kinds, some large, some small, hauling fish out of the waters with [Watershape] and [Telekinesis]. Some men and women dove into those waters and breathed in those waters, their Abilities or spellwork allowing them to survive on air or water or others, as they took their spears and themselves to the deeper parts, to hunt out the fish that never came to the surface. Sometimes they hunted for food. Sometimes they hunted to kill. More often than not the big fish were more invasive than useful.

Those dangerous fish struck hard and fast, trying to clip off legs or arms or heads, and sometimes they succeeded, but then healing magics happened, and the orcols showed off how good they were at endurance hunting, at surviving blows that would kill all others.

Erick glanced down there, deep deep down, looking through Yggdrasil, watching as a man speared a false rivergrieve from the side and the eel-like monster whipped around, [Force Jaw]s flaring from all sides of its body, to snatch at the man. But the man twisted away from the multi-pronged attack, more slippery than the water around him, as the rest of his team attacked from the other side.

There were two heavy hitters and five on backup, with two of those five trying to learn how to fight as the heavies, but they were mostly kept out of danger. The heavies had some great friction-based magics that they controlled for more friction or less friction depending on the moment, allowing them to slip in and out of danger. Some of that anti-friction magic even allowed them to disregard some of the attacks of the false rivergrieve, but Force was Force, and it didn’t wholly care about if something was too slick to rip at, or not. The hunting team seemed to be doing fine, though, baiting the monster to attack and then falling away into the control of the anchors, who were part of the reserve 5.

Their team had two anchors; one older woman, and one young woman who seemed like an apprentice. They were responsible for creating barriers in the water, to control how the water flowed with Force of their own, but more so with water currents than Force since this was a false rivergrieve. Those eel monsters almost had [Force Body], allowing them to move through Force at will. It was a difficult battle for the team to maintain, but they managed. They didn’t seem like Mind Mages, but they certainly had some coordination going on in that sort of way.

Two heavies, two anchors, two apprentices, and the last person, a young girl of maybe 16 who looked like she didn’t want to be there at all, but she was still there, spear in hand, trying to stay out of everyone’s way and still get in some attacks now and then. She was a Metal Mage of some sort, for sure. She had bracelets wrapped around her arms, legs, and waist, and she moved those around in the water to move herself, instead of the slippery spellwork that the others in her hunting group employed. Her spear was also fully metal, instead of the bone spears that everyone else used, but everyone in the group used their weapons as extensions of themselves anyway, so it would have been hard to tell that without Erick’s extra senses, and Yggdrasil’s sights.

The odd girl out was named Darnella Bastion.

She was Yggdrasil’s ‘girlfriend’, but that wasn’t quite what she was at all.

Erick would have to wait until their fishing was done to get to know the girl, and he looked forward to that.

“Here you go, my dear,” said the old woman named Oga Bastion, who lived in the fishing shack with her family, as she set down a cup of tea next to Erick. “I’m sure they’ll be back soon. Rivergrieve sightings are never a sure thing, but the Bastion family has taken care of them for long enough that we’re rather sure we can take care of this one, even if it ends up being a real rivergrieve.”

Erick was not currently shaped as himself. Instead, he was a rather average orcol man of black hair and black eyes, wearing the suit of a man from House Benevolence. It was a bit of subterfuge that Erick had agreed to before he came here because Yggdrasil had asked it of him, and so Erick had agreed. Yggdrasil didn’t want to disturb Darnella’s life too much; she was already the odd-woman-out in her family.

‘And we’re not even really dating,’ Yggdrasil had confessed an hour ago. ‘We’re just… really good friends. And… I want good things for her?’

Yggdrasil was still coming to terms with what it meant to ‘like like’ other people.

Erick accepted the tea, saying, “Thank you, Missus Bastion.” He took a sip. “I’m assuming it’s usually a false rivergrieve, though?”

“Oh my yes,” Oga said, as she sat down across from Erick. “A True Rivergrieve is a rare sighting indeed. Yggdrasil ended up taking care of the last one to plague these wonderful lands and we’re thankful for that, as well as for the land to build this fishing house. There were never any opportunities for us nomadic fishers to settle down anywhere truly nice until he came along.”

The two of them were seated on an outcropping of the fisher house, overlooking the depths of Yggdrasil’s territorial waters. The home itself was meant to be a generational home with a good dozen rooms and several stories, but it had only been built recently. It was seated on one of Yggdrasil’s largest roots, about thirty kilometers from his trunk. Erick’s largest son rose upon the horizon like a mountain of light, supporting a green conflagration overhead, while the depths below were illuminated by distant, deep roots, looking like white lines far, far below the blue. There were other houses and structures like this one seated upon other massive roots here and there in the far distances, but many such places were smaller than this one. The Bastions had a certain amount of pull in their community, which is why they got this particular spot of land. But it wasn’t the largest ‘land’ in the area.

One of the largest roots to the north was a collection of roots and that place had a whole city built upon it. That ‘city’ was rather cramped and built taller than it was wider, but it also had a whole lot of docks that made it even larger than its footprint. That place was home to the Local Area Gate Network and House Benevolence's offices.

That minor city overlooked the artifact known as the Fishery that Erick had retrieved from the Dark for Yggdrasil a while ago. It wasn’t the same Fishery that he had given to the Freelands, but both were similar to the Million Fish Grass that Erick had planted in the lake at Candlepoint which facilitated the health and wellbeing of every fish that ever got close, as well as providing for general water quality and everything else within the nearby area. ‘Nearby’, in the meaning of this particular artifact, meant ‘within a hundred kilometers’.

So the fishing business was booming.

Erick was happy for them.

But he was also slightly worried.

Erick said, “I heard about the new Fishery they got installed down there, in the north. Do you believe the rivergrieve appearance was because of that?”

“Oh of course!” Oga said. “But you can’t have the best fishing ever seen on Veird without some monsters cropping up. Those dungeons suck down most monsters that appear in the area, so it’s not that bad out here in the real world. Kinda sad that the kids these days need to go hunting to find a good challenge, though. Back in my day, we risked our lives daily to eke out a great living...” She smiled at fond memories as she looked out across the waters. “But this is a good life, too.”

Erick smiled a little, saying, “It is a rather nice place.”

“Which makes me sad that Darnella doesn’t want to be a part of this life.”

Erick had arrived at the Bastion’s household pretending to be a part of an outreach program from Candlepoint Arcanaeum and University, for Darnella had secretly filled out some paperwork months ago to apply for a scholarship. That secret had gotten out to the rest of the Bastions two weeks ago, but they hadn’t been expecting anyone to show up for a while. According to Yggdrasil, the family was heavily divided on Darnella’s choice of futures. Also according to Yggdrasil—

“It’s all that boy’s fault,” Oga said, without much rancor at all. “Yorgol Forest. I assume you got an application from him, too? They put in their applications together.”

“I’m not at liberty to discuss information regarding anyone except those who I am scheduled to meet with today, and even then, only with their direct family.”

