Oga chuckled. “Good luck finding that kid. We all have bets on where he lives, but only Darnella can find him with any reliability. They both got those Illusion Magics going for them, so it’s no surprise. We would have grabbed him and gotten him adopted somewhere but he’s slippery. He seems to do alright, though. Growing into a fine young man, that one.” She eyed Erick. “You sure you can’t tell me about him?”

“I cannot.”

“… A shame. I used to worry about him and Darnella being so close, but… It’s probably fine.” Oga went silent as she sipped her tea. Erick sipped his tea, too. It was rather nice tea. And then Oga said, “We don’t have much money, but I’ll make sure Darnella can do this arcanaeum thing no matter what it takes. Is there anything I can do to ensure this happens for her?”

Oga was a kind matriarch to her family, and Erick saw that quite clearly. This whole conversation kinda felt like the conversations of another time, another place, half a universe and a whole lifetime ago.

Erick said, “The first year is usually the hardest because your granddaughter will need to prove that she can gain a rounded understanding of the world, from how a dungeon works to math to history to basic Script understandings and all of that. Most students from nomadic tribes without much formal education fail that first year, but since her background is a nomadic background without much formal schooling, her tuition is completely free. Housing, all of that, is provided by the House. Such a huge change of lifestyle from nomadic to sedentary usually causes problems and she will have to navigate those problems, of course, but money is not one of those problems.

“The tests at the end of that first year determine what level of assistance the House is willing to provide to students for the following year. According to the preliminary tests that Darnella filled out in her application, she will likely fall somewhere along a spectrum of 50% to 100% subsidized for her second year, provided there are no unforeseen issues.

“A lot of students choose to subsidize their lives through mana payments to the node network, but those prices are rather underworld-bottom these days, so most students get part-time work. Candlepoint has a great fishery scene, so Darnella may be able to subsidize her own life down there.”

Oga nodded along, but she spoke up now, saying, “I want her learning what we never had the opportunity to learn in this family. I want to provide for her because I know that as soon as she gets to the books she will never want to do anything but schoolwork and learning. So how can I help that happen?”

Erick nodded, saying, “I understand your family is currently divided on her enrollment. It would be better for her if she weren’t worried about leaving behind hurt feelings. That is the major problem that we always encounter among the children of nomads. Orcols especially.”

Oga got a far-off look in her eyes as she thought, saying, “I can work that—” She asked, “Did you leave behind a family when you went to Candlepoint?”

Erick smiled sadly, and then he put that emotion away, and said, “My entire world was gone, but I’m rebuilding another one down in Candlepoint. It’s a good place. Best place in the world, in my opinion.”

Oga nodded and Erick saw her heart go out to him, but she had other, more personal concerns. She decided not to pry at all, and then she started with, “How much is a loaf of bread down there?”

Erick answered, “Depending on the bakery, just a few copper to a full gold, but half a silver is normal.”

“What about eggs? Milk?”

Erick started answering questions about the cost of things. Oga was trying to gauge how much money to send Darnella, or something like that. Erick wasn’t entirely sure. It was a good conversation to have anyway since they needed to kill time before Darnella and the family showed up.

Half an hour later, a pillar of water lifted from the waters outside of the Bastion residence, carrying with it the swimming forms of Darnella’s father, mother, and Darnella herself. The other four must have peeled off somewhere else earlier, perhaps to take the kill to the city to get it vetted and get paid.

Erick stood and walked down to the landing zone, just below the deck where he had taken tea with Oga. He was the only one wearing formal wear. The Bastions wore skin tight swimwear.

Erick stepped to the edge of the entrance platform and stood tall, while Mister and Missus Bastion eyed Erick, and Darnella looked like she was caught in a [Force Cage] that was rapidly closing in.

But she also looked incredibly hopeful.

Erick tried to greet them, but Mister Bastion slammed his spear into its holder to the side and stormed into the house. Oga intercepted her son with harsh, yet quiet words, and he tried to brush his mother off. He wasn’t nearly as capable of brushing off Oga, though, for that old woman was on his case.

Darnella’s mother eyed Erick for a moment. “Candlepoint arrives earlier than expected.”

“Correct, ma’am.”

“You’re here for my daughter?”

“Preliminarily. She filled out the applications, and I’m here to assess her for a full scholarship for one year of university. Everything beyond that she will have to gain on her own.”

“She would have a better life here,” said the mother, and then she placed her spear into the holder beside her husband’s and walked off, adding, “Talk here in the open; not on our tea porch. Then you may leave. Darnella should be learning the stories of our people; not whatever fool things you teach down there.”

Erick nodded at the woman, then he turned to Darnella. With a wave of his hand, he conjured a table and a pair of chairs on the entrance zone, making sure to keep them basic, yet sturdy. “Let’s sit then, shall we, Darnella Bastion?”

The teenager’s eyes flicked to behind Erick, to see her mother watching from the shadows in the depths of the house. She turned back to Erick. Hope bloomed, and she rushed over to set her spear into its holder along with the others, before she rushed back to take a seat at the conjured chair, marveling, for a moment, at its solidity. She was envious. She wanted to learn magic.

And then she started talking about her qualifications and her hopes, and Erick knew her as a perfectly normal teenage girl.

Years ago, Yggdrasil had met her when he had adopted a temporary avatar form that he had cobbled together from his current one, trying to make himself look younger. That would be the ‘Yorgol Forest’ that Oga had spoken about. Yggdrasil had pretended to be an orphan of the Forest, and it had worked. Erick didn’t get the full details of their childhood relationship from Yggdrasil, for he did not ask, and he would not ask Darnella for those details, either.

But Erick did end up asking her, “You appear to be a Classed Metal Mage? But that’s not all.”

“Oh yes, sir!” Darnella held up a bracelet and transformed that black metal into a knife that went into her hand, and then back into a bracelet. “This is adamantium, too— Well. No. It’s not adamantium.” She looked ashamed that she had lied, but she hadn’t lied completely. “You can’t [Metalshape] adamantium. It’s just steel.” She pulled away her spellwork from the metal completely, showing it as plain steel. And then she flowed her aura into the metal again, and it transformed back to black. “I’m adding some strong Illusion Magics to the metal to make it function as adamantium, though.” She looked at the chair and the table again, touching the simple stone, saying, “I really want to learn how to do stuff like this. This is… This is quality work.”

Erick smiled a little. “How did you get into Illusion Magics?”

“Telling stories. Better to have visual aids, yeah? That’s how I got into math, too; to make perfect spirals and grids and… And a lot.” She looked embarrassed. “But math isn’t important for all magic.”

“Of course it is. I never got into too much of that myself, but a lot of people see great success doing things by equations and all of that.”

Darnella’s eyes seemed to light up as Erick spoke. “I hope to learn more at university. There’s…” Her sight faltered for a moment. “There’s not a whole lot of math out here.”

Erick nodded. Darnella’s practice math scores were in the top percentile of all applicants coming from this part of the world; from any nomadic background, really. Merchant families stood out in that particular arena as well, but pure nomads like the Bastions were always low on the math scores. Darnella was an exception there, most of all.

“Is that how you unlocked your aura, too? Math visualization with illusions?”

“Ah… That was when I was trapped under some roots trying to escape a monster. It was sightless and my illusions weren’t doing so well. That was when I learned that I needed metal to back up my magic. Simple illusions just didn’t cleave it. I kinda… felt a calling to the Metal. To this, actually.” She held out her necklace, which was little more than a leather thong with a wrapping of wire around a twist of what looked to be a tiny spearhead made of illusion steel. The light bent around it, making the spearhead look brighter and darker than normal grey. “It’s a good luck charm about making sure your spear strikes true through all the illusions of life. I decided to do the Metal Mage because of all that and… It was a contentious decision.”

“I bet it was,” Erick said, without judgment.

Darnella felt that Erick understood at that moment. She opened up a little bit more.

Erick spoke with the young girl for a while longer, and Darnella talked about math. Erick easily pretended to be interested in all of that, because that’s what you did for kids.

“I have a small dream of wanting to win the youngster’s bracket of the math tournament at Oceanside, too…” It was a lot larger than a ‘small dream’, based on what Erick was seeing, but Darnella moved on. “I want to come back here, too, but… When I’ve seen all the rest of the world, you know?”

Erick nodded. And then he stood, saying, “It was lovely to meet you, Darnella Bastion. Your first year is approved. You’ll be getting a letter in the mail—”

Darnella went into frozen shock. And then she squealed as she hopped out of her chair and grabbed Erick in a sudden hug, and then she backed off, saying, “Thank you! Thank you!”

Erick smiled softly. “You’ll be getting letters in the mail detailing all of what is to come. The fourth quarter semester starts in a month…” Erick almost continued, but Darnella went quiet and concerned. “Yes?”

“… There’s a guy who probably sent you an application. Yorgol Forest? He’s a… A good friend. We sent our paperwork in together.” With her voice full of understated hope, Darnella asked, “Did he get in, too?” She rapidly said, “I know his math scores aren’t as high but he’s strong and smart and—” She cut herself off, knowing that she was saying way too much.

“I’m not at liberty to discuss the applications of others, but if this ‘Yorgol Forest’ is a child of nomads and he passed the application tests as well as you, even if his math was not as good, then his chances are rather high that he’ll get a visit from someone like me.”

Darnella wasn’t fully happy with that answer, but she decided to let that answer be enough. She nodded.

Erick tried to have some final words with the parents, but Oga was the one to see him off, saying, “I’ll make them understand, sir. This is good for Darnella; we all know that, even if we don’t say it.”

Darnella blushed.

Erick nodded, and then he called out to the air, “Yggdrasil. Back to Candlepoint, please.”

A [Gate] opened up on the edge of the entrance platform, Erick took a bow while the family stood in awe and Oga elbowed her son, muttering, ‘I told you he was for real’, and then Erick left.
