"What is it that I have to offer?"

The old man thinks to himself for a moment, then speaks again.

"I could offer many things. Our ancient techniques, allowing one to let go of their physical body and even separate from the system itself; however, you have awakened your true core and have begun to walk down a far different path. Learning our way would only be a hindrance to your progression."

He smiles.

"What I can offer you is new information. I've studied this world and awaited this day for over three centuries. My natural end is near, and I feel it is my duty to pass on knowledge to a candidate for the throne I believe will serve this world's future the best."

He chuckles to himself while looking back up at the ceiling.

"And what is it that I want? Nothing is free in this world anymore, isn't that right...?"

He sighs, and the two younger men by his sides, who look not much older than myself, still stare at me with eyes of awe.

"All I want is to make sure this world stays in the hands of the humans. That we do not become merely a number, forgotten in the cosmic scale of the system's great game. Could I at least have your word that you will never forget your humanity?"

I raise an eyebrow, and after a pause, reply.

"That's an easy enough request. I'll accept... What do you mean by the system's great game...? And before—you said you couldn't challenge the throne even if you wanted to because you're not connected to the system... How is this so?"

The old man's eyes tighten their gaze, and the corner of his lips turn upward.

"Right down to business, that does seem to be your style."

I nod and await his next words.

"It is true, I am not connected to the system as some of my disciples, and a majority of this world, are. This is because I started my progression down this path long before this world linked to the source. I tempered my body and mind using a power source that is actively being forgotten by this universe—Qi."

I open my mouth to ask more, but the old man continues his speech before I do.

"It is the remnant of an old system that has long been forgotten and eroded away into nothing but a pure and strange energy source left behind. Who made it? Who controlled it? Why is it everywhere—in our soil, air, and imbued in undetectable artifacts scattered among this world? There is no definitive answer to these questions..."

He stares me in the eyes.

"Just as in a million years, a new race born on a planet far away may begin their exploration of the stars and find thick mana shielding that has decayed for millennia here. There is no correct translation for the ancient texts, just as many scientists and craftsmen today debate the correct or most efficient use of mana to create potions and gear."

He lets out a sigh and looks back up at the ceiling.

"So know this: what I tell you are my personal predictions and observations. Reality has a way of shifting its gaze when great forces interact with it."

His words resonate deeply with other conversations I've had with Ember, Celia, and many others, but I've never heard anyone contextualize it quite like this.

The old man is saying that Qi wasn't always in this form, and there's no way for us to know the true secrets of what it was, as they're lost in time. An ancient technology, belonging to a long extinct race that most likely spread its power throughout many stars and worlds...

It is awe-inspiring, but at the same time makes me shiver as an understanding washes over me, and I reply.

"So mana... the system itself... it is the manifestation of a new powerful entity spreading its power from this so-called source. This is why you're calling it a game?"

I think back to my limited conversations with demons at the top of labyrinths, and their obsession with bringing pure mana from this world back to theirs, and the formation of dungeons, systematically growing and giving gifts of loot to hunters that allow them to grow stronger while draining them of mana when they use their skills within.

So many more things are starting to make sense, but at the same time, this opens up more and more holes of knowledge and possibilities that make my head spin.

The old man replies.

"That is quite a good theory—that mana is a tool for a larger entity to control every planet it touches. However, it is not the only source of power that is prevalent and spreading. If anything, demonic energy is the prominent energy in the local system. Just like mana, it too can be mixed with Qi to create a powerful Soul Energy. I was not aware of this fact until thirty years after the system connected to this world, and a Demon arrived to plant the throne."

Celia spoke of a similar thing happening on many other worlds, as demons would find a target, plant a seed, and slowly consume the world's energy until it was ready to awaken and be claimed.

However, Raven's eyes widen at this statement, as apparently this is very new knowledge to her.

She interjects.

"A Demon planted the throne? And you saw it? Do the other council members know of this fact?"

The Saint looks at Raven beside me and thinks for a moment before speaking again.

"I don't know if they're aware of this fact, but considering their control over the labyrinths in Central, I can only assume they know far more about the demons than we do. If anything, they may know it is futile for them to face the demons in their current forms and have brokered a deal long ago to sacrifice this world in exchange for survival. It is one of the major reasons I wish to help the Flame Emperor now. I've watched many kingdoms rise and fall. His has been the fastest and most promising, and it is where I wish to make my final bet on humanity."

I'm the one to interject next.

"Are you saying there are demons on this world who wield divine energy as well? Stronger than True Cores?"

He nods and turns to me.

"On this world? I'm not so sure. But waiting for their time to arrive once the throne awakens? I'm certain of it. The throne itself is a Type-C Originator artifact, it holds divine power, so it would make sense if they too wield this power."

I reply, remembering at the start of our conversation when he mentioned something similar to this as well...

"What is a Type-C Originator artifact...? And earlier you mentioned that it was impressive for me to be using mana while in contact with this temple? What does this all mean?"

Both of the orange-cored men sitting on the opposite ends of the table lean in as they're incredibly interested once I bring this question up. The Saint smiles at their curiosity and replies.

"A great question, we've been studying this phenomenon very closely the last few years. I'll give my disciples a chance to speak. Please, tell our guests our recent findings."

As the old man stops talking, the two men to his sides both perk up, and the one to his right speaks in a clear and confident tone.

"Type-A originator stone is what we are standing in right now, the most prominent type of ancient material found on this world. It stores Qi, can be used to craft interesting structures and perform simple tasks like the moving doors in this fortress; and most interesting of all, it completely negates pure mana and shuts off the system itself when physical contact is made."

The Saint nods and turns to his other disciple, and he speaks in a younger-sounding voice, excited to add to the conversation.

"Type-B originator artifacts are far more rare. We only found small traces of it while inside a Demonic Rift one time... It works almost the opposite as Type-A, storing pure Qi in the same capacity, but negating the use of demonic energy entirely."

The old man nods and finishes the explanations.

"Type-C is what we call any originator artifacts that react with divine energy in any way. Every time we've come in contact with them, we have never had a single study match results. It is rather unpredictable, no two Type-C artifacts are the same. Some absorb divine threads, others act as a barrier, some are unaffected, while others grow or shrink, some serve a purpose and become complex machines, or even become living entities once exposed. The strength of the divine energy certainly plays a role in the reaction as well—red, orange, yellow, there is always a different result. The only true definition I can give for this is strange."

As he describes this artifact type, my mind wanders back to the black seeds I found within Celia's construct, and the fact that they only reacted to my divine energy. The definition of "strange" is very fitting...

I don't reply just yet, and let the old man finish.

"The throne itself is one of these Type-C artifacts. Over the years, I've tried to study it many times, but something always makes me forget what I've learned or why I've even forgotten it. The closer to the throne I travel each time, the more bewildered I become once I leave. The only notes I've ever managed to take down were from the day I watched the demon place it on this world. It was that despite the throne's black appearance, deep within it, the energy it stored was made of a shimmering silver light."

The room goes silent as everyone is momentarily stumped by this conclusion, but my thoughts race.

Divine silver light... I've only encountered a similar description twice before.

Once within the silver shimmering core of the Lich King, and also within Ember's core; though his had a blend of golden and silver threads.

Divine Beasts are involved in this whole awakening as well...

I finally speak after a long pause.

"In that case, I think we should enter the Abyss and conduct a few more tests. I'd like to examine this throne myself before it awakens and more dangerous powers arrive."

The old man nods, then rises from his seat.

"As I hoped and expected, this will be a great opportunity. I'd also like to share my unique predictions of the trials you will face when the doors open. You will need every advantage you can get."
