“Full extermination. We can’t just seal this nest off and hope they die out. Face-Eater Moths can dig.”
The harder part was actually clearing the cave. Only Pisces and Ceria knew flame spells, and theirs were weak. Armed with torches, the adventurers headed into the cave and began igniting the eggs or just stomping on them. The half-formed moths came out of their eggs, biting and making screeching sounds. It was ugly work and Ceria needed a bath when it was done.
Everyone did. Yvlon cursed as she tried to scrape goo from her armor. Ceria obligingly showered her with some water, but even that didn’t help. Tired, disgusted, the adventurers were relieved when Hissle announced they were done for the day.
“There’s no point in continuing the scouting tired. We’ll head back, let you take a break, and get clean. Good work, Humans.”
He led them at a slow trot back towards the road. The adventurers moved in weary silence, a few speculating about leveling up, or muttering jokes. Talking. They were all more easy around each other, having fought together. Ceria was complimenting Alais’ spells. The [Aeromancer] grinned.
“Your [Ice Walls] put my [Lightning Bolt] to shame, Ceria. That’s a great new spell. Lots of utility. And fast.”
“Well, I’ve been practicing. You have to, you know.”
Behind her, Yvlon snorted. Ceria turned red. Alais glanced at the Horns, and then, to Ceria’s surprise, addressed Pisces for the first time.
“So, you’re a [Necromancer]. Pisces, right? We talked in Celum’s Guild. Before the brawl.”
He looked up from a conversation with Ksmvr about the Bloodfields. Pisces nodded.
“That’s right, Captain Alais.”
“Why’d you ever want to be…you know? I mean, it’s disgust—isn’t it—”
The woman gestured at him uncomfortably. Pisces paused. Ceria knew everyone was listening in. She hoped—
But she didn’t need to. Instead of answering Alais with a sniff, Pisces nodded, keeping his face open and polite.
“Personal preference, Captain Alais. You prefer lightning magic, do you not? I have an affinity with death magic. And to be honest, I enjoy [Necromancy].”
“How? Don’t you find it—I mean, those are dead bodies. No offense, but I can’t imagine using people as tools. Or making zombies.”
Alais was struggling to express herself and Ceria knew how she felt. Pisces paused thoughtfully. He looked around, pausing as he met Ceria’s eyes.
“I believe there is a certain elegance to [Necromancy]. I understand many find it abhorrent. And I do not personally enjoy the presence of rotten corpses. Zombies, Ghouls, Fleshwalkers—I do see the inherent horror on them. Which is why my specialization is bone. That may not make my abilities more appealing, but [Necromancy] is not all just raising the dead.”
He reached for his side and produced a white bone, a femur. Alais shivered, but Pisces lifted it. The bone spun in the air, shedding bits and pieces, changing, the fragments moving to one side. Yvlon stared. Pisces was sculpting the bone! He spoke casually.
“It is true it comes from death. But there is a beauty in it. Like so.”
The pieces of bone fell away, revealing a flower in its place. A rose, made of bone. Sculpted, nearly perfect in detail. Pisces presented the flower made out of bone to Alais. She stared at it and hesitated. She nearly reached for it, but Pisces withdrew it, much to her visible relief.
“That is one of the abilities that many do not associate with [Necromancy]. The Bone Horror was made in much that fashion, Captain Alais. It was made solely from bear bone, by the way. Does that make you uncomfortable?”
“No. Alright, bears are different from skeletons. And that Bone Horror was sturdy. We might have gotten hurt but not for that. T-thank you. Even so…”
Flustered, Alais looked unsure of herself. Pisces didn’t press her, and a thoughtful silence accompanied the adventurers as they looked at Pisces on the way back. Yvlon leaned over, still scrubbing at her armor.
“That wasn’t half-bad. Good on you for not pressing Alais.”
Pisces’ eyes flickered, and he nodded at Yvlon, smiling slightly.
“I simply took a…bit of advice I’d been given. In the past, I would have pressed the point. But that would have been at Wistram. We are encouraged to debate until our point is emphatically proven. The real world is not so simple. Nor do opinions change overnight.”
Yvlon looked at Pisces, surprised. He was trying. After a moment, Ceria stepped over. She grinned at her team, tired from the spellcasting and nodded the way they’d come. Hissle had told them they’d have to check the caves later to make sure something wasn’t eating all the moths they’d killed.
“Not bad. It wasn’t pretty, but it beats rats, right? I could do this. How’re you feeling?”
“I am very content in exterminating the moths, Captain Ceria. I have fulfilled my obligations and am not a waste of existence.”
Ksmvr smiled, raising his mandibles. Yvlon agreed. And Pisces nodded as Ceria turned to him. He couldn’t resist one sniff, but he’d done well all day.
“It was somewhat menial, but I will admit, I see the value in it. For now, I consent.”
“Good. I mean, we can’t do much. And with Montressa and her team around—”
Ceria paused. The Horns looked at her. At last, Yvlon brought it up.
“So what do we do about them? They’re not going to stop, you know, Ceria, Pisces. And now Pisces has a bounty on his head.”
“Yeah.”
The half-Elf sighed. She looked at Pisces.
“I don’t know. Maybe Erin can help? She said she was going to try to talk to the Centaur. Palt. I’d like to talk to Montressa myself. See if we can come to an understanding.”
“After what they did? I’d settle for beating the lot of them into pulp and stripping them of their gear.”
Yvlon glowered. Ksmvr nodded. He raised a hand as he walked, turning to Ceria.
“Captain Ceria, if we exclude the Selphid and barrier mage, Montressa, I am reasonably certain I am capable of killing any of the other three [Mages] in a surprise attack. One, certainly.”
“Ksmvr—we’re not killing them. They’re protected by Liscor’s laws, same as us.”
“So, no preemptive strike?”
“No.”
The Antinium looked disappointed. Yvlon patted him on the shoulder and looked at her team.
“If it comes to a second fight, I’ll go for my sword. If they don’t steal it away again. What do you think, Ceria? They won’t try to get us in Liscor, will they?”
“I can’t imagine they’d want to go against Zevara. Or Erin. But we need to watch our backs. We’re probably safe out here, with other teams and people from Liscor—but you’re right. If we can’t talk to Montressa, we’ll have to fight them.”
Ceria bit her lip. Pisces nodded. He put a hand on his rapier.
“And next time, it will not go their way. Yvlon, we may purchase a charm for your sword to prevent it being stolen. However, I will admit, I would rather not fight all five [Mages] at once. They underestimated our abilities the first time. The second—could prove fatal. At the very least, we will have to kill them to avoid being killed in turn.”
The Horns looked at Pisces. Ceria’s face went pale. Yvlon glanced at Pisces.
“They’re that dangerous? I know the Minotauress is strong, but you seemed confident you could take that Drake. And Erin and her friends stomped the rest. What can they do that any other [Mage] can’t? What’s Wistram got that you and Ceria don’t, Pisces?”
“Linked spells? Homing magic? Magical fields? Their understanding of spellcraft is more advanced than ours.”
It looked like it cost Pisces to admit that. Yvlon and Ceria and Ksmvr all stared at him. He turned around, flushing slightly.
“What?”
“There’s someone better than you at magic, Pisces?”
He glowered.
“I am attempting to be realistic and…humble. And frankly, Montressa proved she had more advanced spells than either Ceria or I can command. She allegedly blocked a bombardment spell from Liscor’s walls. Her [Five-Fold Arcane Barrier] spell is Tier 5.”
“What? No. [Arcane Barrier] is Tier 4, Pisces.”
“And five of them, layered together? She blocked a siege spell, Ceria. That’s what formal magical training does. Isceil, the Drake, is a poor duelist. But a single breath attack could kill all of us if he used it. If we do battle, I would be forced to kill him. That is what I am referring to. There can be no mercy given their abilities. Montressa herself could kill us all with [Chain Lightning].”
The [Cryomancer] bit her lip. Yvlon silently agreed with Pisces. If it couldn’t be peacefully resolved…she put a hand on her sword. Aside from Montressa, she doubted the other [Mages] could block a full swing from her Sword of Weight.
After a moment, Ksmvr raised one hand.
“What is linked magic, Comrade Pisces?”
The others relaxed. Pisces smiled.
“Combining their magic. Recall what I did with Falene during the Face-Eater Moth attack? Imagine how much more powerful a spell can be if they combine their mana pools. It is an advanced technique.”
“Can you do it, Captain Ceria? Comrade Pisces?”
Ceria looked embarrassed as she shook her head.
“No. Falene can, but I can’t do any of the advanced stuff. Homing spells are something Wistram teaches. That’s what Illphres said. You can get a Skill, but it’s true they have more magical experience.”
“And we have more battle experience. It evens out. But can you talk them out of it? Ceria? Pisces? I know what happened with Montressa. But is there a chance you could persuade her?”
Ceria looked at Pisces. He stared back, and their history lay before them. After a moment, the [Necromancer] sighed.
“It is unlikely. Perhaps Montressa’s friends can be persuaded. They are all from different factions, or so I believe. Perhaps some might be swayed. The Selphid, this Centaur, Palt. But the Drake, the Minotauress, and Montressa…doubtful.”
“But we’ll try. Otherwise…”
Ceria trailed off. The adventurers looked at each other. Then they silently glanced around. Thunder’s Solace, Hauntgheist, were chattering as they neared the road, already moving up into the hills.
Master Builder Reikhle was shouting that they needed a smooth, gentle slope for the wagons, and so the Drakes and Gnolls were terraforming the hills, swearing as they broke stones, pushing dirt into place, pounding it down.
The Horns looked at each other, thinking of the uncertain future. Then they got back to work.
 
——
 
The Horns worked around the Bloodfields, but keeping clear of the deadly red stain on the earth. In Liscor, Montressa’s team did their form of work. Enmities aside, everyone had to eat. But one member of the Wistram [Mages] wasn’t selling her wares.
No—his, now. Ulinde sat in a chair in an inn that wasn’t The Wandering Inn. He had been banned, and unlike Palt, hadn’t tried to get in Erin Solstice’s good graces. The Selphid wore a slightly rotten body, of a heavyset man who had died of a heart attack.
It…wasn’t a good body, even for a desperate Selphid. His muscles were atrophied, and he stank, even with Ulinde’s best attempts to make the body not smell. The Drake [Innkeeper] had charged him just to have a seat. Ulinde had paid that, but he was visibly upset. The blubbery face, slightly bloated with the dead man’s gasses being released, crinkled into an expression of grief.
It was an ugly sight. And no one, Drakes or Gnolls, wanted to sit anywhere near him, hence the corner booth. Yet, someone was sitting with Ulinde as he made faint crying sounds out of the dead man’s mouth.
“It’s not fair. I wanted to be friends with Miss Ivirith so much. But now she hates me. Why did Montressa have to pick a fight? I didn’t want to do it! I thought Pisces was a criminal! I never wanted to fight anyone else or get in trouble! I came here just so I could meet Miss Ivirith, and now—”
His nose didn’t run since there wasn’t any mucus left. Instead, a squelching noise came from within the Selphid’s body. That was gross too. Honestly, it was hard, even for someone who knew Selphids to be around Ulinde’s current body. But Moore did his best. He gingerly, very gingerly, patted Ulinde on the back.
“It’s fine. I’m sure Jelaqua will forgive you. I did.”
“But she was so mad.”
Tearfully—or rather, tearfully if her body still had unrotted tear ducts—Ulinde turned to the half-Giant. Moore had a drink in front of him. He’d had two so far and he waved for another now. A Drake [Server] rushed up, dropped the drink, and rushed away. Moore couldn’t blame him.
Ulinde was a mess. Moore had found him curled up in front of the inn like this. The Selphid was so distraught he couldn’t manage his body properly, and that was a problem, especially given that his current corpse was beyond decayed. Moore had experience with bodies and he knew Jelaqua would have considered this vessel an act of sheer desperation to inhabit. But Selphids needed corpses and Ulinde had run out.
The half-Giant cleared his throat, looking around the mostly vacated inn. The [Innkeeper] mouthed ‘get it out’ across the inn’s floor. Moore waved a hand at him and the Drake stormed away. Ulinde had paid the Drake in gold. That was surely enough.
“Miss Ulinde. I’m sure Jelaqua will forgive you. But please pull yourself together.”
He meant it literally. The young Selphid groaned.
“I’m trying! But—but—she was so—it hurt. I had a bit of healing potion, but—she hurt me! It hurt so much!”
Moore nodded. He didn’t know what Jelaqua had done, but he’d been told Selphids could fight battles with their real forms. And whatever Jelaqua had done, Ulinde was still recovering. He turned to Moore, face wretched.
“I know I deserved it! And I’m so sorry about attacking you—”
“It’s fine. You’ve apologized many times.”
Moore rubbed at his chest, murmuring. Ulinde shook his head.
“It’s not fine! The Halfseekers are my heroes! And I—I—”
He made another blubbering sound. Moore tried another pat on the shoulders and realized Ulinde might not have the nerves to feel it. He spoke soothingly.
“I forgive you, Miss Ulinde. You were fighting with your team. You must simply apologize to Jelaqua. And Seborn.”
“I will. But it’s not enough! I wanted you to like me!”
The [Spellslinger] wailed. Moore winced. After a moment, the half-Giant took another huge gulp of his drink.
“How did you know about our team, Miss Ulinde? We’re not famous.”
At least, Moore didn’t think they were. The Halfseekers in their glory days had been a good Gold-rank team, but Ulinde hailed from Baleros. Yet the Selphid looked incredulous.
“What? But you’re, like, famous among Selphids! All the ones I know, at least!”
“We are?”
Moore blinked. Ulinde nodded rapidly, coming out of his funk.
