Pisces spoke after a moment, sounding thoughtful. He eyed the [Scouts] that Reikhle had indicated, following Ceria as she led the way. He stared at the Bloodfields in the distance.
“So these are the Bloodfields in bloom. I travelled this way last year. Purely to see the Bloodfields, but even dormant, I refused to move any closer.”
“We saw a demonstration of the Bloodfields’ dangers. I can recite the content if you would like, Comrade Pisces.”
“That would be welcome, Ksmvr. But later.”
Not all the adventurers were assigned to guard the main labor force. Over half the teams were actually on patrol, eliminating threats and finding the best place for the road to be built around the Bloodfields. Yvlon recognized the Drake who was waiting for them. He introduced himself to Pisces; Thunder’s Solace was already waiting.
“My name’s Hissle. Please don’t laugh. I’m working with your team today.”
“Hi there, Yvlon.”
Alais gave Yvlon a cautious nod. Yvlon nodded back and stared at Caddin. Then she listened to Hissle. The other adventurers, wearing chitin or wood armor, glanced at Pisces, but then turned to the [Scout]. It was indeed all business, and they had a lot of work to do.
“The city decided on an eastern route, along the route we scouted on the first day. So the [Builders] and so on are beginning to clear a road. Some adventuring teams will be guarding them or helping make the road. We will be clearing monster nests and looking for threats. Follow me.”
Hissle led their team at a fast march past the road. To Yvlon’s amazement, the workers had already done nearly a dozen feet more of space. They were working fast. Master Reikhle must have had Skills, or his team did. Probably both.
“So, what was the scene with the Wistram [Mages]? I heard a bit…”
Alais was the first to speak up. She drifted over to Ceria as they walked ahead of the others. The two Captains put their heads together. The rest of their teams looked at each other and stayed apart. Yvlon knew some of the adventurers in Thunder’s Solace, but not well. So she turned to Ksmvr and Pieces instead. None of them had trouble keeping the pace; if anything, Ceria and Alais were having the most trouble in robes and as [Mages] who were less used to exertion.
“It’s not too bad, huh, Pisces?”
“Within Liscor. I fear I’ll have a less welcome reception elsewhere.”
Pisces smiled crookedly. Yvlon looked at him. He was holding up well. As well as could be expected. She glanced back towards the already-distant team working on the road and cleared her throat. A thought struck her.
“You know, undead would be pretty useful in digging and clearing stuff like we did at Albez.”
Pisces and Ksmvr both looked at Yvlon. She shrugged.
“It would. Why didn’t you suggest that to Master Reikhle?”
The [Necromancer] raised an eyebrow as they began to climb a bluff. Yvlon knew Caddin was staring at her from the side. Ksmvr turned his head and Yvlon nudged him before he could whisper ‘dominance’.
“Yvlon, I don’t believe Master Builder Reikhle would appreciate undead. Or any of the other workers, frankly. Would you accept that sort of help given Liscor’s history and the…allegations made against me?”
“I suppose not. But they are useful. How many could you animate and make work if you had to?”
Pisces blinked. He looked at Yvlon, but she genuinely wanted to know. He shrugged, awkward.
“If I had some source of mana to sustain them? At least…a hundred?”
“A hundred?”
“I’ve never tested my upper limits. Undead are costly to maintain. They require…sources of mana. I work in small groups that I can personally direct. Realistically, I could have two dozen working without doing more than depleting my personal mana.”
“And they don’t stop, and they work fast. It’s something to consider. Didn’t you once tell me that undead were better than regular [Laborers]? I know a lot of continents don’t allow undead, but is there any place they do?”
Pisces hesitated. He stared towards the sky and replied slowly.
“It is true that the undead are a valuable labor force. Cheaper than Golems, other constructs, or summoned beings. Some nations have used them in place of regular workers. Some still do, like Khelt. But it is also true that the undead can…lose control. Even experienced [Necromancers] risk that. And I have certainly experienced the same.”
“Huh. But under your direct control?”
“Never. Even so, I imagine they would be unwelcome. I will refrain from using undead unless it comes to battle. And then, Bone Horrors.”
“Bone Horrors?”
The whisper came from the side. Yvlon looked up and saw a young woman in Thunder’s Solace look away quickly. Pisces paused, but then nodded.
“I can animate Bone Horrors. They are completely under my control.”
Thunder’s Solace stared at him and looked at each other. Caddin muttered something, and they moved back a bit, marching even further from the Horns of Hammerad. Yvlon clenched her jaw and flexed one arm.
“It’s safe, Caddin. It’s like having a [Summoner] on the team. Relax and stop being such cowards.”
Alais glanced back over her shoulder. Ceria glared at Yvlon, but the stinging words did make Thunder’s Solace drift closer. Yvlon turned and saw Ksmvr staring at her arm.
“The [Healer] said you should not exacerbate your arm, Yvlon.”
“True. Are you well enough to fight, Yvlon? I inspected your arm, and the bone supports are stable. Your flesh on the other hand…”
Pisces eyed Yvlon. She shook her head impatiently.
“She said it might provoke the infection—or cure it. It’s a risk. Either way, if I’m wounded, I’d rather use a potion than die.”
“But you could rest—”
“And do what? Sit around? It’s just a minor infection, anyways. That’s what she said.”
“But it may get worse. What if it does?”
“Then it does. Pisces, there’s no fixing my arms. Short of visiting someone like the fabled Healer of Tenbault.”
“There may be a way to remove the metal from the bone. As I said, it is beyond me at present, but I have hopes that at Level 40 it may be possible…”
“Well then, we adventure until then. Hey, Pisces, you saw the other teams, right? I’ll have to introduce you to Captain Kam. You noticed the scales on the side of her face? She’s got a Drake mother, but don’t bring that up. And Pelico’s team, with the [Raider]? They’re a bit shady—they’ll take contracts that aren’t sanctioned by the guild, but they’re decent. I know Pelico. Well, my team had issues back with his in the day. Thefts. But we sorted it out. Still, watch your coin purses…”
The Horns began chatting, relaxing as they continued marching. In time, Ceria drifted back with them and they adopted a moving, sometimes chattering, sometimes silent pace as Thunder’s Solace did the same. It was nearly two hours before Hissle called a halt. He’d received a [Message] on the portable scroll, and he pointed.
“Another team’s found a nest. We’ve been asked to help in clearing it. This way.”
The adventurers felt a spike of excitement flood them. Yvlon nodded to Ceria and checked her sword. They hurried after Hissle, suddenly ready for a fight. It was a familiar feeling to the career adventurers. Guard duty like this was tedium filled with moments of danger.
But this time it wasn’t an ambush or a sudden fight. Another team, the Hauntgheists, had discovered one of the threats to the new road in a series of natural dirt entrances in the hills. Pelico and the [Scout] came back, stealthily sliding back down the hill to all three teams.
“We’ve got monsters. And not docile types either.”
“What’ve we got?”
Alais was checking her staff, electricity running down it. Yvlon sidled away; the [Aeromancer]’s control was poor and her lightning was trying to earth itself on her armor. Pelico grimaced.
“Face-Eater Moths.”
The Drake [Scouts] and the Horns swore. Face-Eater Moths. Not all had died at Liscor. Some had fled. And a group of survivors had set up a colony in the slopes bordering the Bloodfields.
“They have to go. They’re aggressive, too near where we might build the road, and they reproduce fast. We have three Silver-rank teams here. Do we need reinforcements?”
Hissle asked the three Captains. Ceria turned to Pelico. The [Rogue] shrugged.
“I’ve never fought them. How dangerous?”
“Silver-rank threat. Alais is perfect against them, honestly. But they swarm, and that’s Gold-rank. How many are there? That determines whether we can take them.”
Ceria turned to the other [Scout]. The Drake frowned.
“[Foefinder’s Scan]. I’m getting a fairly small colony. About…twenty-three adults, but lots of eggs and smaller moths.”
“What do you think, Ceria? Your team had to fight off the ones attacking Liscor.”
Ceria glanced at Yvlon and got a swift nod. The [Cryomancer] turned back.
“Twenty-three? I say we’re fine. We can seal the nest, funnel them and kill them. Hissle?”
The [Scout] was writing in his [Message] scroll.
“I will ask for permission, but I agree.”
The adventurer teams waited only five minutes for the go-ahead. Then they began making a plan of attack. None of them got near the caves, but they began outlining who would move first.
“I’ll seal the other openings. I can get at least half, but if the moths swarm out, that might be a problem. Alais, can you control your shock magic?”
“No. It might arc to any metal. My team can stand in front, though.”
Alais grimaced. Pelico nodded.
“My group’ll be in back, then. We all have ranged weapons.”
“Hold on! Twenty moths versus my team? We can’t hold, even if Ceria gets all the tunnels!”
“My team doesn’t have a [Mage] who can do barriers. Just a [Swamp Mage]. She’ll poison our weapons, but that’s not great in a fast fight. She could throw some light poison inside—”
“Can she run fast? Moths are quick. Hey, listen.”
Ceria looked up from the conference. She glanced at Pisces, then looked around.
“I’ll get my [Mage], Pisces, to help me seal the tunnels. He can use [Bone Wall]. And as for the moths and the front line with Alais’ team—I say we let Pisces pull up his Bone Horror and put it in front.”
The two adventurer captains stiffened. Alais opened her mouth.
“A Bone Horror? Ceria!”
The half-Elf glared at Alais.
“It’s under his control. If you want to risk your team fighting the first wave of moths, be my guest, Alais. But Yvlon and Ksmvr will guard the flanks, not hold the breach. No one else can get in range of your lightning.”
That was true. Alais bit her lip. Pelico raised his hands.
“Bone Horror’s fine by me. It’s your call, Alais.”
The [Aeromancer] hesitated, but one look at her team and the tunnels made her nod.
“Do it.”
 
——
 
The adventurers watched as Pisces let bones flow out of his bag of holding. They shuddered when they saw the Bone Warbear that Pisces summoned. But as it lumbered forwards, Ceria saw even Caddin looked relieved as it took a position in front of them. Desril whistled.
“Fucking hells. Smola couldn’t do that!”
“Everyone ready?”
Pelico called out in a low voice. The three teams nodded. Ceria raised her wand and her bone hand. She was sweating. It was all on her. Pelico gave her the nod. She looked at Pisces. He’d drawn his rapier. Ceria took a breath and shouted.
“Now!”
The adventurers raced up the slope. Alais’ team was in front, Yvlon and Ksmvr on the sides. Thunder’s Solace crouched low, bracing behind their shields as the Warbear took the largest entrance. Hauntgheist scrambled up rocks, taking positions to fire at the opening.
Ceria ran forwards. She pointed her wand, shouting, as the moths noticed the intruders outside. There was a thrum of wings, sounds from within. The half-Elf pointed.
“[Ice Wall]! [Ice Wall]!”
Ice shot up from the ground, blocking openings in the hillside. It was quick! Grimalkin’s training had paid off, but there were a lot of gaps and the walls had to be thick. Ceria saw Pisces conjuring a wall of bone, but slower than she was. She began sealing entrances, reinforcing the ice. But the first moths were already moving.
One hurled itself against a wall of ice and cracked it before Ceria could complete it. Sweating, she created another one. Almost done—
A moth, huge, far larger than a Human, flew out of the cave, circular mouth gaping, ready to tear flesh with its jagged limbs. Ceria flinched, but a dozen bolts struck the moth.
“Seal the entrances! We’ve got you!”
Pelico bellowed as his team reloaded. Ceria conjured the last ice wall, watching it run up and seal an entrance. Pisces [Flash Stepped] backwards, three walls of thick bone sealing his tunnels. The moths buzzed around inside. Then, realizing they only had one way out now, they swarmed the main tunnel.
“Here they come! Thunder’s Solace, I’m casting!”
Alais shouted. She raised her staff and everyone wearing metal ducked away from her. The Face-Eater Moths poured down the tunnel. Alais cast her spells as the adventurers shot.
Lightning and arrows flew. Ksmvr calmly dropped one moth while electricity crackled around the Bone Warbear. The Bone Horror took a lot of the uncontrolled spell, but the moths got the rest. Eight dropped from the bolts of lightning flying from Alais’ staff, charred to ash. The rest jerked, but came on as Alais, panting, fell back.
“Alright! Hold the line! Take them down!”
The [Warriors] rushed forwards as the moths attacked the Warbear. The bone monstrosity took the first charge, tearing a moth down and savaging it, then biting another and crushing its abdomen. The Face-Eater moths swarmed it, until they realized the undead had nothing they wanted and was almost all bone. They turned, but the ranged adventurers were firing into their sides. Thunder’s Solace held back the moths as they tried to fly past them as Yvlon and Ksmvr rushed forwards.
“Take them down!”
Caught in the narrow gap by Ceria’s ice walls, the moths never stood a chance. The ones still in the air were brought down by the adventurers with melee weapons. Yvlon hacked the largest moth apart with one slash and Pisces blasted two more with flames, rapier at the ready. But it was a total massacre.
Two minutes of fighting more, and then the last moth was twitching on the ground, burning from Ksmvr’s dagger. The adventurers caught their breath, looking for enemies, and then realized they’d won. A few of them cheered; the rest just grinned, high on battle fury.
“Nice work! Anyone hurt?”
“I have a piece taken out of my armor!”
“Dead gods! One took a chunk out of Calico’s arm! Healing potion!”
But that was the worst of it. The adventurers had fought the Face-Eater Moths off with barely any wounds. But their work wasn’t done. Hissle pointed to the cave, and the adventurers reluctantly looked at him.
