“The Flesh Worms will need to be disposed of separately from the bodies. They have contaminated the other corpses. As have the acidic bugs.”
He was speaking to a Worker trotting next to him. The Worker replied, verbally and mentally, echoing the Free Queen’s voice.
“It is not a huge loss of sustenance, Klbkchhezeim. You were quite efficient. Is your new body more suited, as I had hoped?”
Klbkch the Slayer shrugged slightly.
“I have found the limits of the form, my Queen. It is still markedly better than before, although I still must become used to fighting with two fewer arms.”
“So I see. If you wish to repeat the demonstration, I shall entertain it. I am glad to see your abilities have not waned, Klbkchhezeim.”
“Yes, my Queen. Thank you.”
Klbkch bowed and the Queen was gone. The Worker started and then scuttled back to his fellows. Klbkch turned to Yellow Splatters and Anand. They stared at him.
“That was a demonstration. Your thoughts?”
“Revalantor. What was—your ability in battle is remarkable.”
“It is less than I once possessed. But my new body is more capable of moving like my first one.”
The Antinium’s voice was devoid of anything like a boast. Yellow Splatters hesitated. He gestured to the place where Klbkch had been fighting.
“You stumbled once, Revalantor. Why?”
“I attempted to use a Skill that was once in my possession. However, it was still unusable for me.”
“Use a Skill…? But you don’t have it? Or you have it and you can’t use it?”
“It was lost to me in the Rite of Anastases. I have yet to gain many of my Skills back. I understand you have recovered yours, Yellow Splatters.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch. Is it—can you use Skills you do not own?”
Klbkch turned his head and nodded as he cleaned his blades.
“Some Skills are impossible to copy with mere physical technique, such as [Triple Thrust], which is three literally simultaneous strikes. However, others are simply crystallizations of form. Some can be learnt. If it were possible, I would instruct you, Yellow Splatters. However, all the Centenium experts of unarmed combat were lost to sea during the crossing. Nevertheless, I will attempt to do so. Later. Report to me tomorrow at the same time. And we shall continue your instruction.”
“Tomorrow?”
“Again?”
Both Antinium reacted, greatly surprised. Klbkch nodded coolly.
“The Hive may not have an excess of Soldiers, so I will instruct Yellow Splatters in the function of combat and leadership. Strategist Anand will also learn to split his attention and engage non-monster foes. Including [Mages], different species, and airborne foes. I will make an allowance of my time outside of my [Guardsman] duties in the Watch for this. Do you have any objections?”
“No, Revalantor.”
“No.”
The Antinium replied. Klbkch nodded and strode off. It was so brisk and detached that it caught Anand and Yellow Splatters off-guard. They watched him go. But that was Klbkch. Yellow Splatters looked around. Then one of the Soldiers fell down. He was bleeding severely from the chest.
“Healing potion.”
Yellow Splatters reached for his belt, but he’d used all the ones allotted to him. He turned to Anand, but the [Strategist] had given him his only one as well. The [Sergeant] looked around. Then he turned to the Antinium.
“Pick him up. We go to Pawn. Now! Run!”
The wounded Antinium gathered up the dying Soldier and they raced from the room. More Soldiers and Workers filing in made way for them. Anand watched them go. And then he was truly alone. He looked around. Klbkch was gone. The Queen was busy. Yellow Splatters was gone.
That left only him. And it had happened so fast that Anand hadn’t been able to ask the thing he’d been meaning to ask all day. He looked around. His hearts were pounding too hard. But he had to do it.
 
——
 
Klbkch was working at his desk, writing up some observations, making a note to have the Listeners find out more about Mister Soot and Bearclaw for his job, and so on when Anand poked his head around the corner of the entryway. Klbkch looked up sharply.
“Strategist Anand. What is it?”
“Revalantor, I wished to confer with you about an additional detail that I did not have the opportunity to earlier. Is now an acceptable time?”
“Yes. Enter.”
Anand did. He was fidgeting, clearly nervous. Klbkch eyed him. His hands reflexively twitched towards his sides. But Anand was no Aberration. Klbkch spoke crisply.
“What is it? I have little time to waste.”
He didn’t have any. With his duties in the Hive, he generally had three hours to sleep before he had to work. Anand wavered, but then he spoke, clasping all four hands behind his back.
“Revalantor Klbkch, would I be right in assuming I am the most valuable, most useful member of the Individuals?”
“That is a presumptuous statement.”
Klbkch was getting back to his paperwork. He underlined a number—the Hive’s budget. It was almost always positive, but today it was negative. The Council wanted funds, and he was prepared to give them more than they wanted. If he could receive more concessions. Or perhaps not?
“Oh. But I had assumed that I was most important because of my efforts and the other’s flaws…”
Anand’s downcast mandibles made Klbkch look up.
“Why is that important? None of the Individuals are considered expendable.”
The [Strategist] hesitated.
“It is just that I would like to have acknowledged worth beyond any other, Revalantor Klbkch. That I might…have permission to address you more informally.”
“Informally?”
Klbkch stared at Anand. He had no idea what the [Strategist] wanted. After a moment, Klbkch shrugged.
“I am aware of each Individual’s personality quirks. And I have made allowances for every other Individual. If you have some need, I will entertain it so long as it is not detrimental.”
“Oh! Then, may I have permission to address you in the manner of my choosing?”
Anand brightened at once. Klbkch hesitated. Something like a [Dangersense] was going off in his head, but he couldn’t figure out why. But he intuited that Erin had something to do with this.
“…What did you have in mind?”
The [Strategist] took a few breaths. He clicked his mandibles twice, and then he spoke.
“Can I call you ‘Father’? Or ‘Dad’?”
Klbkch was checking his notes. He paused as Anand spoke. He stared at the papers on his desk. For a minute. Then two. Then he slowly looked up.
“What did you say?”
Anand looked at him. The [Strategist] fumbled with his words. And he danced from one foot to another.
“I would like to call you father. Erin has told me you are like a father. Not biologically, and you have contributed no genetic material to me. But she has said you are my parental figure. An unnurturing one. May—may I call you father? And hug you?”
Senior Guardsman Klbkch, Klbkch of the Centenium, Klbkch the Slayer, and Revalantor Klbkch all stared at Anand. His mandibles opened and closed a few times. He looked at the [Strategist]. And for the first time he saw the shining light in Anand’s eyes. Admiration. And longing.
Klbkch paused.
“No.”
 
——
 
Sometimes, Yvlon thought of Ksmvr like a…little brother. It was a silly thought. Yvlon had a brother. An older one in Ylawes. And an older sister too. And she hadn’t known Ksmvr long. But she liked him.
No. She cared for the desperate, slightly broken Antinium. Her friend. When she had first met him, she had thought he was closer to the image of Antinium in her head. More monster than person. But now, Yvlon remembered the cold, heartless thing that had tortured Pawn and endangered Liscor and Erin’s inn. And she wondered if she’d been hating a child.
Because he was only three years old. If you heard that, you wouldn’t believe it. But the Antinium were born fully-grown. And capable of fighting and killing. So in that sense they were adult. But another?
The Horns of Hammerad stood outside Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild. They looked at each other. Pisces’ shoulders were tense with trepidation. Two days had passed since they had fought with Wistram’s team. This was the first time they’d gone into the Guild since then.
And the first time they’d be seeing the other Silver-rank teams with Pisces. By now, his bounty had been circulated across the Mage’s Guilds of Izril. It might be of little note to anyone in other cities, but Yvlon would have bet gemstones against coppers that everyone in the Adventurer’s Guild had read the bounty.
“Well, it’s nearly time. We’ve got to get to work. Can’t stand around all day, right?”
Ceria muttered. It was midmorning; they’d been assigned to the second shift of adventuring teams. The half-Elf was clearly nervous as she looked at Pisces. But the [Necromancer] just nodded tightly. He’d agreed to come.
“Whenever you are ready, Ceria.”
He made no snide comment. Nor did he sniff. Even his customary look of disdain was gone. It was proof that he was trying. Since they’d made up after their argument, the [Necromancer] had been trying to be pleasant. And his team trusted him. But the knowledge of the bounty and Wistram still hung over them.
That was why Yvlon turned to Ksmvr. The [Skirmisher] was tense; she could see his three hands hovering around his weapons. So the [Wounded Warrior] reached out and put an arm around Ksmvr’s shoulders. He started; Yvlon squeezed. She could feel the sensation vaguely, but parts of her arm were—numb. She smiled at him.
“It will be fine. Right, Ceria? We’re used to gossip. But I promise I won’t start any fights.”
The half-Elf blinked, but then smiled at her friend. She cast a glance at Pisces.
“That’s right. You know Yvlon, always getting us in hot water. As bad as—Calruz.”
Pisces blinked. But then a smile flashed across his features.
“I’ve often made the comparison.”
Ksmvr’s head turned from Pisces to Ceria, and then he gave Yvlon a stare. She grinned, and the Antinium slowly nodded after a second.
“Ah. This is humor. Ha! Hahaha…ha?”
He trailed off. The rest of the Horns of Hammerad did laugh then. Yvlon squeezed Ksmvr’s shoulder gently. Ah, Ksmvr. She’d always wanted a younger brother. It was hard being the youngest sibling in the Byres family. When the family had a [Merchant] and [Knight] to uphold both sides of the family, what was the third sibling to do?
Do this. Yvlon looked at Pisces. She nodded to him and saw his chin rise. She met his eyes for a moment, then tilted her head towards the door.
“Let’s go in, then.”
It was Yvlon who pushed open the door to the guild. And the Horns of Hammerad followed her. The adventurers, nearly six teams in total, looked up and stared as they walked in. For a moment there was silence. Every eye fell on Pisces. Then someone spoke.
“Ceria! Dead gods, you’re alright!”
Captain Kam trotted over. The [Bow Rider] and Captain of the Whistling Bows looked at Ceria, relief written across her face. Yvlon blinked. Kam looked Ceria and Yvlon up and down anxiously.
“You managed to beat those damn mages? We woke up in the bar after being hit by those dead gods damned [Mages]. And when we woke up, it was all over. And we heard—”
She glanced at Pisces. Ceria smiled, but tightly.
“We’re fine, Kam. Are you alright? We didn’t get to ask.”
“What? Most of us just got webbed. We’ve been back at work the last two days. But it’s good to see you’re all well. Yvlon. Ksm—kissemveir. And—”
She looked at Pisces. But then, she already knew who he saw. Pisces tried to smile, but Yvlon saw his face was tight. Ceria coughed and gestured at him. She raised her voice to be heard.
“This is Pisces, Kam. Pisces, this is Captain Kam, an old friend. Kam, Pisces is our fourth member. He’s a—”
“[Necromancer].”
The word came from behind Kam. Yvlon looked up. One of the adventurers had said that. They were all staring at Pisces. Some hard, others with distaste, a few warily. Kam hesitated.
“Oh. Right. I heard—it’s good to see you, Ceria. We’ll catch up if we can during the work. And you—nice to meet you. Pisces.”
“Likewise.”
Pisces nodded tightly, trying to smile. Kam walked back. Normally, other teams would have drifted over to talk, but no one did. They just stood where they were. And stared.
“The [Necromancer].”
The words came from several mouths. They weren’t even trying to hide the whispers. Yvlon stood with her team, counting faces. She didn’t see Crossbow Stan. His team must have been on another shift. But she did recognize Alais’ team. And Walt and his Ensoldier Shields. She bit her tongue. He was a hothead and he didn’t like things that bothered him. As for Ceria?
The half-Elf was hesitating. She glanced around, then back at Pisces. He was standing with his back straight, staring past the adventurers at a far wall. He didn’t react, but she knew he had to be hearing the muffled conversations. And reading lips.
“That’s him? Doesn’t seem like the ones I’ve seen.”
“Looks close enough. You can’t tell, usually. Some bastard raises the dead and digs up coffins in the night. Usually male.”
“My team got a female [Necromancer], once. Trying to poison a river. She was twisted.”
“You think? What I read…”
Whispers. Ceria Springwalker heard them with a pit in her stomach. But also—memory. A sense of déjà vu so strong she felt like she’d been teleported into the past. Into another life. When she’d been a student at Wistram.
They were the same. The whispers, the stares. It was such a familiar feeling. The place and the people were different, but the feeling was the same. Whispers, hostile expressions. The only difference was that Ceria was older. She’d lost a hand. And this time, she stood with Pisces rather than with the whisperers.
“I’ll talk to Walt. If he’s not spoken to, he’ll make an ass of himself.”
Yvlon murmured, eying the Ensoldier Shields who were gathered around their leader. She began to move, and Ceria shook her head.
“No. Let me.”
Slowly, heart beating, the half-Elf walked forwards. The conversation grew quieter. Ceria saw Pisces glancing at her, questioningly. He’d known what would happen when he came with her into the guild. He’d gotten enough looks these last few days in Erin’s inn. But he’d come anyways.
Yes, it was like the past. But some things were different. This time, Pisces was in her team. And this time—Ceria listened to the whispers. She knew what the whispers led to. She had seen it once. So this time she raised her voice.
“Hey! Listen up!”
The adventurers fell silent. At far tables, the non-Human teams not taking part in the Bloodfields assignment glanced over. They’d been watching covertly too. Ceria pitched her voice so everyone, adventurers, [Receptionists], could hear.
