“My name’s Ceria Springwalker. You probably know me. I’m Captain of the Horns of Hammerad. Two days ago, our team was attacked by Wistram [Mages]. You’ve seen them? They went after my entire team to get one of my teammates. Pisces, here.”
She pointed back at the [Necromancer]. Pisces blinked at Ceria. She went on before her voice could quaver. She’d frozen her knees to keep them from shaking.
“I don’t know what you’ve heard. I bet you’ve all seen the bounty that Wistram put up. Well, guess what? Pisces has done stupid things. He’s committed crimes, but he’s no murderer. There was an accident at Wistram. But it was an accident. Yes, he’s a [Necromancer]. But he’s part of the Horns of Hammerad.”
Silence. Ceria felt like the eyes were boring holes into her body. She looked around, her mouth dry. She hadn’t planned this. But she had to say something. So she clenched her skeletal fist and held it up.
“That’s all I wanted to say. Pisces isn’t evil. And he’s part of my team. My teammate, get it? He’s helped save Liscor at least three times, and he’s my friend. Wistram doesn’t get him, and if anyone wants to claim that bounty, I’ll—I’ll find out what you taste like.”
The adventurers stared. Ceria heard a sound from behind her as her brain caught up with her mouth. She turned her head and saw Yvlon looking away, covering her mouth with her hand. Ceria slowly turned red all the way up to her pointed ears. Pisces coughed and covered his mouth.
“Was that a threat?”
One of Kam’s teammates whispered incredulously. Captain Kam glanced at the red-faced Ceria. One of Walt’s adventurers grinned.
“She can find out what I taste like.”
Someone laughed. Kam just turned her head and fixed the man with a cool look.
“Kedel, Ceria eats bugs. I once saw her try to eat a squirrel raw. Ever wonder how she survived in those coffins for days on end? She might actually try to eat you.”
Kam nodded at Ceria’s skeletal hand. Kedel paused uneasily. Ceria turned an even brighter red.
“I didn’t—”
“That was Kam’s way of helping. Shh.”
Yvlon nudged Ceria. Then both women turned and looked at Pisces. They saw his closed expression had changed. He looked—amused. He was still trying not to guffaw in their faces. Ceria flushed again, but then she smiled.
Slowly, the Horns walked forwards. The other teams didn’t encircle them, but they didn’t pull back. Pisces murmured to Ceria as they stood together.
“I appreciate the gesture.”
“I’m just…doing what I should have done a while back. Mind you, I still owe you a good kick for keeping what you were a secret from me. We were best friends.”
“Yes. I suppose I should have told you. But I was nervous. Imagine what would have happened if I had confessed my identity another time?”
“I could have handled it. I hope. It was just because it was so sudden, back then. And everyone was telling me…”
“Hey. You’re the [Necromancer].”
One of the adventurers spoke up. Ceria and Pisces froze. They turned and saw a scarred adventurer, part of Pelico’s team, look over. Pelico, the [Rogue] and leader of Hauntgheist, was right behind him. Pisces nodded tightly, but then put a smile on his face.
“That is correct. And you are, sir?”
The guild waited. The scarred adventurer looked Pisces up and down. Then he grinned crookedly.
“Desril. I ran with a [Necromancer] once. Back in the day. My gang and I were [Raiders] far north of here. ‘Round the Eldessale Foothills. Bitch’s name was Smola. I hated her guts. But my gang got used to the smell of her fucking corpses. And they made great shields. You know her?”
Pisces blinked.
“Not personally. I can assure you I will not use any corpses of people. And refrain from using necromancy unduly. I know more spells outside my field.”
Desril shrugged, grinning crookedly. Yvlon glanced at Pelico, and the [Rogue] nodded at her.
“Don’t bother me. I like having bodies in front of me in a fight.”
“What happened to this Smola, may I ask?”
“She got knifed in the middle of the night because she was a damn [Thief].”
“Ah. A common hazard among [Necromancers]. This is why I prefer the company of the undead.”
Pisces’ face was completely straight. The joke made Desril laugh. And it even got laughs from some other adventurers, out of shock more than anything else. But it eased the tension again. Desril squared his shoulders, eying Pisces up and down. The [Necromancer] looked just as interested.
“So you are a former raider, Mister Desril?”
“It’s just Desril. ‘Mister’ makes me itchy. That’s right. But I’m reformed now. Pelico and his lot took me in. Hauntgheist’s totally law-abiding. We even wipe our asses. You know any more [Necromancers]? I met a few. Did some jobs for them back in the [Raider] days.”
“I have met a few. But I don’t associate with most of them. My class does attract a somewhat unsavory group at times.”
“You should meet [Raiders]. Half of my gang got these worms one time. Fucking most disgusting thing I ever saw. Right in the groins. That’s when I quit—”
To Yvlon’s relief, the conversation was interrupted by a sharp rapping sound. The adventurers turned and saw Tekshia Shivertail. She’d come down from her office. The Guildmistress didn’t just demand silence; she hauled it over the table and dropped it at her feet. The Drake clearly knew the score too, because her first glare went straight for the group of adventurers and the Horns.
“I see you’re all playing nice and wagging your tails. Good. I thought I’d have to stab a few idiots who decided to start a brawl in my guild. Everyone read the bounty on the [Necromancer]? Yes? Good! Anyone trying to take it in Liscor gets stabbed, got it? We don’t recognize a group of upstart idiots with wands shoved so far up their behinds they think they own this city.”
She glared around at the adventurers. A few of the Drake and Gnoll teams nodded slowly. Tekshia paused. Then she pointed at the Human teams.
“Now, if you’re all done gossiping, you have work to do. Get moving!”
The teams needed no further instruction. They began filing towards the doors. Yvlon felt a surge of relief as she turned, nodding to Ceria. Tekshia’s voice rang out, stopping the Horns in their tracks.
“And you—Horns.”
The team turned back apprehensively. Tekshia stared at Pisces and Yvlon felt a cold chill. But then the Drake glared at the rest of the team and jerked her head towards the door.
“You’re not getting paid for yesterday since you had ‘broken bones’ and you were ‘resting’. Necromancer, next time you let my granddaughter get hexed, you’d better kill whoever did it or stay out of my Guild. Get lost, all of you!”
 
——
 
The trip to The Wandering Inn and then the Bloodfields was unremarkable. In fact, the only thing of note was the adventurers grumbling that it would be easier to muster in the inn rather than have to walk there to use the magic door.
“We should have that guild moved closer since the inn’s so important. Why not?”
“The inn’s only been here a hot minute, Sekil.”
“Yeah, well, since the city’s renovating the guild, they should move it closer.”
There was one Liscorian team among the Human teams as it turned out. The Drakes and Gnolls were Bronze-rank, new to their jobs, but made up of former [Guards] and [Warriors]. They seemed more casual around Pisces than the Humans, having seen him around. And seen him fight.
Erin was present in her inn as well. She waved the adventurers through the door, calling out to the Horns.
“Hey! Pisces, Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr! You’re going to the Bloodfields? Want some cookies to go with you? I’ve got a special deal! Mystery cookie bag! Each one’s different! You could eat something nice—or nasty!”
She waved a bag of cookies that Lyonette was selling from a table for gouging prices. All the adventurers looked interested, and Ceria caught a bag Erin threw at her. She opened it and peered inside.
“All different?”
“Each one’s a different flavor. We’ve got vanilla, lemon, um—fish—it’s a game!”
The half-Elf was shaking her head as she sniffed a cookie. But there was no time to gossip with Erin. She walked through the door and came out into the sunlight.
The Bloodfields were there, in the distance. A red stain on the earth. But unlike last time, Ceria and her team weren’t getting lessons about the Bloodfields. And the grassy landscape was hardly empty. The Horns stared as they found nearly a hundred people hard at work. Gnolls and Drakes were tearing up the earth, and more were pouring dirt down, pounding it flat with mallets.
Creating a road. Just like that, in the middle of nowhere. No—Yvlon turned and saw there was already a road! It stretched nearly a thousand feet already! Nothing fancy—just a wide stretch of dirt in the grass, wide enough for two wagons to travel comfortably at once.
She stared. Captain Kam looked up from her bag of cookies. She was sniffing a freebie normal cookie.
“Looks like they’ve made good work since yesterday. Dead gods, but those [Builders] work fast. We’ll catch up, Ceria. Whistling Bows, to me! We’re on watch!”
She led her team past the Horns. Walt and his group tromped after Kam. Walt was exclaiming.
“These things taste good! They’re sweet!”
“Dead gods. What did I eat? This one’s spicy.”
One of his teammates spat out his cookie as his fellows laughed. At a loss, the Horns looked around. Ceria called out to Pelico.
“Wait, where are we going?”
The [Rogue] looked at her, blinking. His team was already moving off towards a group of [Scouts], some on horseback.
“Right, I forgot you weren’t here the last two days. Ceria, go find Master…Reikhle. Yeah, Reikhle, right? He’s the one in charge. Gnoll. He’ll tell you where to go.”
Pelico glanced over his shoulder, and his team nodded. They pointed towards the [Workers] near the road. The other teams began dispersing. Ceria looked around. Pisces was glancing about, Yvlon gagging on a cookie. Ksmvr was happily discovering his had acid flies in them.
“Okay, then. I guess…”
The first Drake pointed Master Reikhle out to Ceria. The Gnoll was standing on a small bluff, giving orders as he looked around with a small vision-enhancing monocle.
[Master Builder] Reikhle was a Gnoll. He hailed from Pallass, and he was all business. He didn’t even blink as he turned to see the Horns of Hammerad.
“New team, yes? One moment. I will find you a place to work.”
“No, we were part of the scouting party. We had an—incident so we couldn’t work the last two days.”
The Gnoll raised his eyebrows. He looked Ceria up and down and then focused on Pisces and Yvlon. He stiffened when he saw Ksmvr, but he must have been warned, because he just sniffed warily.
“Ah, you’re that team. The Horns of Hammerad? Well, if you’re working here today, I’ll make use of you. What are your unique abilities? Anything you can do to help with the construction will be welcome. Except fire. I’m not burning down everything around here just to clear my road, yes?”
“Unique abilities?”
Ceria was surprised by the question. The Gnoll rolled his eyes impatiently, gesturing at the Gnolls and Drakes hard at work, sweating under the sun. Yvlon saw a few unhappy adventurers were actually helping them, like Walt, being forced to haul some heavy bags filled with dirt and swearing at everyone in earshot.
“Liscor has given me a number of [Builders], [Diggers], [Laborers], and so on. No Antinium; they have rules about them leaving Liscor and I wouldn’t want to work with…them. Even if they’re apparently excellent at their jobs and they work without complaint and follow orders perfectly—but no. So I must improvise, hm?”
Reikhle shuddered, paused, shook his head, and shuddered again.
“Anything that speeds up the labor. Are any of you [Geomancers]? I will pay you three times—or five times the daily rate—if you can cast [Shape Earth]. But you must be willing to listen to orders, yes?”
“What is the issue with [Geomancers], Master Reikhle? Surely any architect would hire one wherever present. I am surprised one wasn’t contracted. Unless there are none in the region.”
Pisces was interested. Reikhle shot him a look. He grumbled to himself, shaking his head.
“A good [Geomancer] might be able to create a road, but do they know where to place it or how to build it so it will not disintegrate in the next rain? No! They love casting spells without consulting anyone else. Many of their walls have basic flaws in the structure! Ask them to make a wall and guess what they make? A straight wall. Not even rooted deeply in the earth! You could push them over yourself!”
He glowered at the adventurers. Pisces nodded and so did Yvlon and Ksmvr. Ceria just looked blank; she didn’t understand the problem.
“Hrr. Well, ideally we would work together, but Pallass’ two [Geomancers] are both on contract working to excavate mines. I may be able to acquire one, but not yet. Now, enough wasting time! Time is money, yes! If you are not [Geomancers], what are your talents?”
“Well, I can cast ice magic. Make walls, ice floors…”
Ceria gestured, conjuring a bit of snow. Reikhle nodded and scribbled on his clipboard and papers.
“Might be useful for moving heavy objects. Or creating temporary supports. We’ll add you to our lists. Does Miss Human here have a powerful strength Skill?”
Yvlon smiled crookedly as he eyed her up and down.
“No. And I have orders not to use my arms much. I can fight, but lifting isn’t my specialty to begin with.”
“Fine. Hrm. And the—the—”
“Hello, Master Builder Reikhle. I am Ksmvr.”
Ksmvr held out a hand. Reikhle retreated in alarm. The Antinium lowered his hands and bobbed his head helpfully.
“I am an Antinium, but my ability to dig is somewhat hampered. I specialize in mobility.”
“So not a Worker?”
The Gnoll sniffed again, eying Ksmvr warily. The Antinium shook his head.
“I possess the body of a Worker, but my designation was Prognugator. However, I was cast out of my Hive for extreme ineptitude—”
“He’s not a Worker.”
Ceria cut in. Yvlon patted Ksmvr on the shoulders, and Reikhle blinked a few times. Then he looked at Pisces.
“And a [Necromancer].”
Even he knew Pisces. The young man nodded stiffly, but then he tried to smile. The Gnoll eyed him, then nodded.
“Scouting it is. Report to the [Scouts] over there.”
He gestured and strode away. The Horns looked at each other. Ceria shrugged.
“That could have been worse. How do you feel, Pisces?”
“Aside from hot? I must confess, slightly relieved. Guildmistress Tekshia did us a favor. And we are here to work.”
