Senior Guardsman Klbkch walked through the city of Liscor, leaving the Watch barracks behind. He was off-duty, having signed out for the day. And it had been a long day. Nearly nine hours straight, excluding breaks for meals. But being a [Guardsman] was a strenuous job. You didn’t quit the job, even when you were out of uniform.
As he walked down the street, Klbkch greeted people, nodding, exchanging comments, his pace slowed due to the number of people who recognized him. That was inevitable. Not only was he a Senior Guardsman, a position of respect, he was noticeable because he was…Klbkch. The Antinium.
The Slayer. But also, to the people of Liscor, Senior Guardsman Klbkch, who had been the only real face of the Antinium for over a decade. And over that decade, he’d found a place in the hearts of all but the most die-hard Antinium haters.
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch. A word, please? I had a break in last night—”
“I’m afraid I’m off-duty, sir. The nearest Watch patrol will be able to investigate the crime.”
“Guardsman, you must do something about the roaches in my apartments! It’s beyond neglect! The prices are one thing, but we need [Exterminators]!”
“Please inquire into the Watch Barracks, miss. Otherwise, I will look into it when I sign in tomorrow.”
“Senior Guardsman! Over here!”
Klbkch didn’t sigh or groan, and he might have. Instead, he politely and swiftly stepped over to the angry Gnoll waving a paw at him. It was one of the reasons why people liked him. The City had about thirty Senior Guards, a very small number that was essentially a rank below Watch Captain in a city like Liscor. But even the best of them, like Beilmark, hated being bothered on their days off.
But Klbkch never complained. He inclined his head as the Gnoll, who had a few white marks along the fur on her neck, began to speak in a glowering tone.
“Guardsman, you’ve got to settle this dispute between me and my neighbor! He’s up all night, bothering me with his damn thumping.”
“Ma’am, I am off-duty. If the situation cannot be resolved amicably, the nearest Watch patrol—”
“I don’t want some Drakes! I’ve asked, but they don’t get my problem! I have sensitive ears and that Drake doesn’t care! I wanted to ask for Beilmark, but she’s on desk duty! You’re the only Senior Guardsman I could find! Can’t you do something?”
The Gnoll whined at him. Klbkch shook his head slightly.
“Miss, I am afraid you must wait until tomorrow for me to resume my duties. However, I can recommend you a pair on patrol at this moment. Guardsman Tkrn and Guardswoman Jerci are both on patrol down Market Street right now…”
He gave the female Gnoll directions, patiently reassuring her that they would do their utmost to resolve her situation. Then Klbkch went on.
The exchange had taken five minutes. But when the female Gnoll was hurrying off, Klbkch calmly went back on his way. And still his ‘expression’, the mandibles, insectile eyes, antennae, never seemed to change. He might be alien, a bug, but he was polite. He never got angry. And dead gods damn it; he was good at his job!
That was why people liked him. Not just Erin Solstice. There had been a wake when he died. And when he came back to life, people had been happy. Because Klbkch was the Senior Guardsman who’d taken down criminals. He managed his partner Relc, who was the definition of a loose flaming arrow, and he always had time for people. You got the impression he cared. Because he did.
Klbkch rounded the corner and came to the empty street that held the entrance to the Antinium Hive. A few Workers were exiting, holding buckets filled with tools. They squeezed themselves to one side despite the large street as the taller Antinium walked down into the Hive, ignoring the concealed Soldiers who stiffened as he passed by. Only then did he sigh, letting loose a soft breath.
Klbkch’s mandibles clicked slightly as he entered the underground. The Hive moved around him and he readjusted his thoughts. Senior Guardsman Klbkch became Revalantor Klbkch. If there was a Klbkch above, who worked tirelessly each day of the week, there was another below. He worked just as hard. But it had never been said of him below that he was kind.
 
——
 
“We believe there is a Heaven. We believe in a place after death. We believe in forgiveness. Salvation of the soul. We believe that pain ends, that life has a meaning, and that we will be together when we pass. We believe in Heaven. No, we know it to be true.”
The Free Antinium of Liscor stood in silence as a voice spoke down to them. Workers and Soldier stood side by side, listening. Looking up at the figure who spoke from the podium. Pawn’s voice was quiet, but the room was so silent his words were clearly audible no matter where you stood. And there was a resonance to Pawn’s tone. A certainty that rang through.
Hope. The Antinium spoke briefly, but with emotion as he looked down at the Painted Antinium. His flock.
“Remember that you must live. Death is not something to be craved. But know that it matters. Every Antinium who has fallen lives beyond. Remember that. Go dreaming of peace. Amen.”
Just that. He did not give long sermons. Most of the Antinium didn’t have the time for that. They had duties. Jobs. And Pawn gave his sermon thrice daily, before each meal. He didn’t need to change the words, but he did, sometimes. To keep it fresh. But the content was always the same.
Hope. A dream of Heaven. As Pawn raised his head, the Antinium stirred. They looked to him. And then, as they always did, they turned to a giant among Antinium. He was…a bit taller than the other Soldiers. But in that way, he stood out. The Painted Soldiers all wore unique colors, each one different in that way. But Yellow Splatters was truly different.
He had come back. He had been reborn. And he had seen heaven. He was proof of Pawn’s words. So the Antinium looked at him and then began to eat.
“Dream of peace. A good meal to you. The sky exists.”
Pawn murmured as he went down the rows of tables and chairs. Well, mounds of dirt, packed hard for the Antinium to sit on. The cafeteria/sermon hall was the latest addition to the growing barracks that was now the realm of the Painted Antinium. And there were nearly seven hundred of them. Pawn looked around and remembered a time when there had only been a bunch of Soldiers. And before that, just a few chess tables with Workers.
Now there was something else. The Worker walked over to where Yellow Splatters was sitting. The table was filled with Workers and Soldiers. They gravitated towards him. The [Sergeant] looked up.
“Pawn.”
“Yellow Splatters.”
It was still startling to hear the Soldier speak. Startling, but good. Yellow Splatters inclined his head.
“Will you eat here?”
The Workers and Soldiers looked up, all ready to rise. Pawn shook his head.
“No. You should all enjoy your meal. But—thank you for your own words today. You give them all hope. More than I can by myself.”
Yellow Splatters had spoken before Pawn. He did that sometimes, at the sermons. The [Sergeant] paused. And his voice was deep, slow, as he shook his head.
“I only told them what I saw. Without you, there would have been nothing.”
“But you were there. You saw it.”
Pawn whispered the words. Heaven. A tiny thing, but there. Yellow Splatters had seen it, glimpsed a place where Antinium would go when they died. The [Sergeant] nodded slowly.
“It must grow.”
“Yes.”
That was all they said. Pawn nodded to Yellow Splatters and looked down the room. Soldiers and Workers were eating the nutritional paste that was so…unique to the Antinium. It was brownish-yellow today, for reasons that couldn’t be explained. Pawn knew what it tasted like. Sometimes there was nuance, but the flavor was always uniquely that. He shuddered. And then, because he knew what it tasted like, he raised his hands.
“[Create Bread].”
The Free Antinium looked up. And they saw a miracle. Pawn pressed his four arms to his chest, cradling something. At first it was just air. But then, suddenly, he held loaves of bread. Thick, steaming with warmth. Not loaves like Erin considered ‘proper’, in the quintessential breadbox shape that had been developed and cemented as sandwich bread in America, but a loaf, rounded, even cut across the top and baked perfectly.
Bread. Pawn remembered it because it was one of the first and only times he’d eaten bread at Erin’s inn when she’d first gained baking soda. And gotten promptly sick afterwards. But the memory had stayed.
Now, it reappeared in his arms. Pawn slowly and carefully put the loaves down on one of the ‘tables’. The Workers and Soldiers stared. But Pawn was carefully breaking up the bread. He put a tiny piece, barely a pebble’s size, in front of a Soldier.
“Take and eat it. This is bread, but it will not make you ill with this much. It is fluffy because it was made with baking soda. Or magic.”
He slowly went down the table. Yellow Splatters accepted the morsel and chewed it slowly. It was good bread. Soft. Fluffy, as Pawn had said, but with enough chew to make it worth the bite. And fresh. Hot! The other Workers and Soldiers savored their bites, masticating the morsel slowly.
First Yellow Splatters’ table, then the others. Pawn walked down the room, doling out the bread loaves in tiny pieces, so that every Worker and Soldier got a piece. He was so preoccupied with his task he barely noticed the other Worker sitting at a far table until he handed the last piece of bread and looked up.
“Anand?”
The [Strategist] regarded the piece of bread thoughtfully in his hand. He was eating from a bowl with a bunch of the Workers who had been turned into [Archers]. They carried their bows everywhere they went. Archer B23 was nibbling at his bite of bread. Anand just looked intrigued.
“Hello, Pawn. It is good to see you. I had to come here to witness your Skill for myself. You have leveled up.”
“I—yes. I have. Four days ago, I gained this Skill.”
Pawn stared at Anand. He hadn’t seen his friend, one of the original Workers, for nearly two weeks. It happened like that, even in the Hive. Anand was a [Strategist], always working to keep the Hive safe. Now, Anand carefully bit into the piece of bread. His mandibles tore a piece loose and he consumed it.
“Hm. It tastes exactly like the bread Miss Erin gave us. The very bread that made us sick. You recall?”
“How could I not? I think that is the memory that makes this bread.”
Anand nodded.
“Fascinating. And I believe it is real bread. Not even just magic bread, from a cornucopia artifact. I thought it might be, but apparently, that bread is not actually bread. It is simply nutrition which dissolves if not eaten. But this—am I right in thinking this will make me sick if I eat too much?”
“Not if it’s just a bite. That is why I divide it. I wish I had gained another Skill, but I think creating bread is traditional.”
Pawn explained. Anand nodded as he inspected the bread, feeling it with his fingers on two of his four hands.
“If I leave it alone, will it vanish?”
“No.”
The [Strategist] was very intrigued at this.
“Really? Not even after a few hours? Magical bread—”
“I thought the same thing, Anand. I have a dry crust over there. It is four days old.”
Pawn pointed across the barracks. Anand looked down the rows of tables. Past a dirt pillar—training Soldiers boxing in little rings, a Worker holding a book open for two Soldiers, the paints section—all the way to an area with cubicles in the walls. Rows and columns of them, for Antinium to sit inside and sleep. There was a little table with a bit of bread on it. It was very dry and very stale, but it was still there. Pawn had left it to give the Antinium good dreams.
“Incredible. This is a very useful Skill, Pawn. If only it weren’t bread. But even so—it allows you to provide a small amount of rations each day! There are very few Skills capable of doing the same. I wonder, is it because Miss Erin is an [Innkeeper]? Some of them have Skills that provide free food each day, like this. But only very powerful spells—Tier 6, I think—can even conjure temporary food!”
Anand mused out loud. Pawn shrugged helplessly.
“I only know that I am leveling, Anand. Slowly, but I do level. I gained this at Level 20. Along with my ability to conjure light.”
“Ah, yes. That is tactically useful. Well, I am glad, Pawn. You are leveling up and gaining useful Skills.”
“And you? Are you…how is Belgrade?”
“We are both leveling. Well, Belgrade continues to level. I have stopped this month. It is distressing me, but I hope that will soon change.”
The [Strategist] was conversational. It was—odd. Pawn felt a bit removed from Anand. He was so important. More important than Pawn, and they seldom got to talk. Even the way he regarded Pawn’s Skills reflected his position. He didn’t feel the sheer wonder Pawn did at being able to make food. To share something with Workers and Soldiers who had never tasted bread. That was the gift. But Anand…the Worker was turning to one of the [Archers] who had raised his hand.
“Strategist Anand, may I ask a question? What is this bread and why will it make Antinium sick? Is this a form of poison?”
“No, Archer B2. This is bread. It is simply unhealthy for Antinium to consume because we cannot process it. In large quantities, it will make us sluggish or manifest in other symptoms. You may eat your piece. Relish it.”
“Yes, Strategist Anand.”
Strange. It hurt Pawn a bit to see the other [Strategist], amid the bevy of Autonomous Workers, his personal ‘team’. He could remember the last time he had spoken with Belgrade. And how the [Strategist] had informed Pawn that he cared about few Antinium outside of his circle. The same held true of Anand, it seemed. They had to send Workers and Soldiers to their deaths each day. And it had changed them.
“Do you have time to speak? I would like that.”
Pawn burst out at last. Anand looked up, surprised. He hesitated, but then shook his head.
“I am afraid I cannot, Pawn. I have a limited break. In fact, I am taking my meal here to meet with Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Klbkch? Oh.”
Pawn shrank in his shell a bit. Anand looked at him thoughtfully. His businesslike atmosphere faded for a moment.
“Has he interacted much with you, Pawn? He often instructs Belgrade and I, and he has instructed me to meet with him today. As well as Yellow Splatters.”
“Oh. No. I don’t talk with him. I don’t like him that—”
“You know, he interacts with me more than Belgrade. And he considers my performance superior to Belgrade’s, even accounting for the traps that Belgrade creates.”
Anand’s voice made Pawn look up sharply. He stared at the [Strategist].
“What—why did you say that?”
“Because it is true.”
