Anand looked at Pawn. The Worker stared at his friend.
“But that is a hurtful statement.”
“But it is a true one. I believe Revalantor Klbkch prizes me more than Belgrade. I hope it is true.”
“What? Anand. I do not believe Klbkch—”
“Revalantor Klbkch.”
“I…do not believe Revalantor Klbkch prizes any of us. We are all tools to him.”
“Perhaps. But I would like to be the first of tools. Or something more. I have been thinking on this, Pawn.”
Anand looked speculatively at Pawn. The other Antinium looked back, mystified. Anand had changed. He had spoken with Belgrade. The other [Trapsetter Tactician]—or was he a [Strategist] now?—was different too. He had…broken a bit, when he spoke to Pawn about the Workers and Soldiers that had died under his command. Pawn had brought him to Erin. Now Belgrade went to visit her three times a week and he was better. But Anand had not needed the same. Pawn stared at the [Strategist].
“Anand. Have you spoken to Belgrade? Did he speak to you about the pressures of—”
“My position? Ordering Soldiers and Workers into battle? Yes. He told me he was very distressed and spoke to Erin. I was assigned time to speak with her as well, but I did not need it as Belgrade does. Even so, I enjoyed the experience, and Erin has provided me with useful advice regarding Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Advice? Like what?”
Anand paused. He looked Pawn up and down and slowly opened his mandibles. And lowered them.
“I do not wish to tell you, Pawn. I believe the information may affect my relationship with Revalantor Klbkch and I would not like you to interfere.”
The comment stunned Pawn. The Worker actually walked back a step. Was Anand—he had changed beyond recognition. Pawn knew Garry had changed too, becoming more timid, withdrawn, but passionate about cooking. And Bird had become more…Bird. Even Pawn himself had changed. He liked Lyonette. And he had found religion. But Anand’s refusal to say something was somehow a greater divergence in personality than anything else.
“Anand. Why have you—what has—I did not mean—what did Erin—”
Before Pawn could finish a thought, a figure appeared at the other end of the barracks. And he brought silence with him. It swept across the Workers and Soldiers nearest to him, and the other Antinium caught onto it. Like a wave, a flash across the room, they all fell silent, not that more than Anand and Pawn and Yellow Splatters had been talking, and looked up.
Klbkch stood in the entrance to the barracks. He was taller than a Worker, nearly as tall as a Soldier. But leaner. He had only two arms, and his body was graceful. He had been changed in death, like Yellow Splatters. But he still wore the two silver swords at his belt. He opened his mandibles.
“Yellow Splatters, Anand. To me.”
From their tables, the [Strategist] and [Sergeant] rose to their feet. They strode towards Klbkch. The Revalantor stared at them. His voice was flat. Cold.
He regarded them like…insects. Or rather, not with disgust so much as a remove. Dispassion. For all they had many of the same features, they were different.
He was True Antinium. Ancient. As separate from the other Antinium as the Queen. They’d all known it, even when Klbkch had worn a Worker’s body. Now, Klbkch just had the appearance to match. He strode out of the room, and Anand and Yellow Splatters followed.
It was quiet when they left. Workers and Soldiers sat at their tables, finishing their meals. Pawn tended to the three Antinium. But they had left his world. This barracks, this place of comfort, of…of memory, from the markings in paint on the walls to the little pile of books, that was what he had built. That, and The Wandering Inn. He could do nothing to change the fate of the Antinium outside this room. And even those inside would fight and some would die.
But still. Pawn walked along the room. He put his hands on Workers and Soldiers’ shoulders. And he murmured.
“[Benediction of Hope].”
Three times, he whispered the Skill. Three times, a group of Antinium straightened. And they relaxed. They gazed up. And they raised their mandibles. Smiling. Hope shone in them. It was all Pawn could do.
Some of the waiting Antinium had injuries. Deep cuts in their carapaces, injuries that had cracked their shells, revealing green blood. To those, Pawn used another Skill.
“[Heal Minor Wounds]. Be healed. Be better. I am sorry I cannot heal you all.”
He could barely heal twelve before fatigue forced him to stop. But the Antinium never complained. In fact, they moved away with the twelfth cured Worker, refusing to let Pawn try again. They had seen him overdo it in days before. Pawn would have used his Skill till collapsing, three more times, but he knew that might mean he could heal less tomorrow.
So he endured. All of his pain was pain of the heart. Pain of the soul, trying to tend to his…his flock. They had to endure real pain.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry! I wish I could help you all! I wish I was not so weak! I shouldn’t go above, to the inn. You should go in my place. I wish—”
Sometimes, it burst out of him. Workers and Soldiers turned as stared at Pawn. The Worker hurt. He hurt for all of them. But they never said a word. Slowly, they surrounded him. A pair of Soldiers, one missing an arm, the other scarred, but whole, approached. They hugged at Pawn, gingerly. And the Worker felt their cold embrace. But that calmed him. Soothed him.
He thought about Chesacre and Thaina. They had chosen unique names. And they had named themselves, using the alphabet in the corner of the room. They had written their names on their fronts. And they were a pair. They had danced together in the darkness of the dungeon after their fellow Soldiers had died. And they had been saved by…a skeleton. From Face Stealer itself.
“I’m sorry. I don’t mean to scare you. I just wish you could all be happy and never suffer again.”
Pawn whispered as he hugged the two Soldiers. Chesacre and Thaina gathered around him. And so did all the other Antinium. Purple Smile, the Archer groups. Silently hugging him. And Pawn relaxed. He opened his arms for them all.
“I will try to make you happy. Come. Belgrade is overseeing construction at the inn. Purple Smile, let’s lead a patrol. Chesacre, Thaina, will you watch the others while we’re gone?”
The two [Acolytes] bowed. And Pawn turned. The Worker inspected his flock as he picked up the staff from which a censer had been attached. A faint smell of cinammon wafted through the air. After a moment, the [Priest] raised his staff.
“I am a poor leader. But even grass sits under the sky. Come. And see. This is what I saw when I first looked up. When I saw her face. [Holy Radiance].”
And there was light. Pawn’s body began to shine. And the light was blinding. It was so bright it destroyed vision. But only to Pawn’s enemies. To the Antinium, he glowed with a brilliant glow. A wonderful blue. A soft inn’s radiance. The color of the clouds. Of a smiling face. Pawn smiled.
He was weak. Uncertain. But everything slowly changed.
Heaven was real.
 
——
 
“Strategist Anand, report on Pawn’s newest Skills.”
Klbkch had no time for pretty lights or heaven. Nor did he waste time. As Yellow Splatters and Anand fell in beside him, he strode down the corridors, taking a route away from the Painted Antinium’s barracks. Workers and Soldiers in the tunnels moved aside to give him space.
Yellow Splatters and Anand followed. Yellow Splatters keeping at the bare maximum of distance to be following Klbkch, Anand almost right next to Klbkch. The [Sergeant] was silent, but Anand immediately began speaking after Klbkch’s order.
“Pawn has been measured, Revalantor Klbkch. His levels are now Level 23 [Priest], a low increase in levels, but it has effected a class change.”
“Priest. An agent of…go on. His Skills included healing. I witnessed some of the tests to ascertain its abilities.”
“Yes, Revalantor. Pawn is able to heal one moderate wound or repeat using his Skill to close a larger wound, but inefficiently. Tests show he can use the Skill up to twelve times, although he must rest after using the Skill repeatedly, and he becomes extremely fatigued afterwards.”
Even so, that was free healing. Klbkch nodded.
“Go on. And his ability to create…bread? Why bread?”
“Pawn believes it is a function of his class, Revalantor.”
“To create bread. Specifically. The Antinium cannot eat bread.”
Well, he could, thanks to the Queen correcting his digestive functions. But generally, Antinium grew sick from it. Anand nodded rapidly, scurrying after Klbkch.
“That is correct, Revalantor. It is a fault of Pawn’s abilities, but it still has some strategic applications—”
“More than that. Pawn is able to heal and give sustenance. He can also blind his foes. He is invaluable to the Hive. Klbkch.”
Anand froze. Yellow Splatters strode forwards. Klbkch turned his head to regard the giant Soldier. His voice was impassive.
“Your evaluation of Pawn has been noted. Has his ability to emit light been tested in battle?”
“Once. All but the undead and armored suits fled the light. And the undead seemed…weaker. Far weaker.”
Klbkch nodded. He regarded Yellow Splatters for a moment.
“I would not risk Pawn in battle, but his abilities are very well-suited to a support role in combat. Even so, is it your recommendation that Pawn still be exempted from taking a leadership role in defense of the Hive?”
“In all but the most dire circumstances, yes.”
“That was my appraisal.”
Klbkch nodded at Yellow Splatters. After a second, the [Sergeant] inclined his head. Anand looked at Yellow Splatters and Klbkch, and his antennae twitched.
“Revalantor Klbkch, I can present the rest of my analysis of Pawn’s abilities, or Bird’s if you would like—”
“No. Follow me.”
Klbkch strode down the tunnel. Yellow Splatters and Anand followed. Both knew where they were going, having trod this very same path countless times.
If Pawn tended to his flock, and if he had created a place of happiness in the Hive he tended to with his every waking hour, then surely Anand and Belgrade had changed their part of the Hive as well.
The area of the Hive bordering the dungeon, or at least, the breaches in the dungeon was a constant battlefield of incursions and Antinium guarding their Hive. Or it had been before Belgrade had devised a series of trapped corridors and a kill box that had reduced Antinium fatalities by nearly 56%.
Now, Klbkch strode into a vast, cleared space, the last part of the trapped corridors. Any monster entering this spot—and they did get here, even past crushing rock falls, improvised traps, spikes, and so on—would face ranks of waiting Soldiers, and in their alcoves, the new Workers armed with bows.
It was an impressive design, and one that had made Belgrade invaluable. Of course, Anand was the superior [Strategist] in combat, so he was invaluable as well. They all were, the Individuals. Now, Yellow Splatters and Anand stopped.
“Revalantor, why are we here?”
Yellow Splatters addressed Klbkch. The Antinium turned. There were more Soldiers and Workers in the room than usual, several hundred more. Both Yellow Splatters and Anand were alert; as the two leaders of the Hive’s defense, they were ready for news about a heavy monster incursion. Or worse, Face Stealer. He’d been attacking the Hive just a few days ago.
“I have little time today to waste. However, I have noted both your leveling has slowed of late. You are both in the mid-twenties. Which is superior for Antinium. Inferior among other species.”
Klbkch’s voice was crisp and cold. He glanced from Anand to Yellow Splatters. The [Strategist] shifted uneasily. Yellow Splatters did not move. Klbkch went on.
“My own leveling is slow and…mixed. Given my number of classes, which I now believe may be inefficient. However, your total levels are far lower than mine. You have ceased leveling with speed. To rectify this situation, I have placed four hundred and thirty-eight combined Workers and Soldiers in this room, the Hive’s excess numbers. I had intended to send them into the dungeon, but this will be a more efficient use of them.”
The statement made Yellow Splatters uncross his arms slightly. Anand just opened and closed his mandibles, seeming a bit worried at the tone in Klbkch’s voice. The [Sergeant] looked at Klbkch sharply.
“Excess?”
“Yes. Due to Face Stealer’s incursions where he slew two hundred and eleven Antinium, the Hive overproduced its numbers. Belgrade’s traps have largely cut back on Antinium losses.”
“And my tactics, Revalantor Klbkch?”
Anand looked up eagerly. Klbkch paused.
“And that, yes. The Painted Antinium also played their part, as has Yellow Splatters' leadership in battle. The Hive now regularly produces excess numbers above our set limitations. The Free Queen does not desire expansion given our nutritional intake. Therefore, they are excess.”
He said it so calmly. Anand was nodding along, but Yellow Splatters was not. His voice was low.
“So they are sent into the dungeon.”
“Yes. To cull monster populations and possibly discover artifact locations.”
“Only two Soldiers survived last time. Chesacre and Thaina.”
“What?”
“Two Soldiers became Autonomous. Possibly even Individual. They are already Pawn’s [Acolytes].”
Klbkch paused. His mandibles slowly clicked together, and he studied Yellow Splatters with surprise.
“Really? I was unaware of this change. Then I consider this method even more potentially valuable, despite the inefficiency of conversion. Nevertheless, in this case, the excess—”
“Why are they excess?”
Yellow Splatters interrupted Klbkch. The Revalantor slowly swung back towards him. He clicked his mandibles softly.
“Because the Hive does not produce enough food to accommodate more bodies, Sergeant Yellow Splatters. Thus, it is in the Queen’s interests and mine to remove unnecessary bodies. Without wasting them of course.”
“They are not useless.”
Yellow Splatters’ voice was ominous. Klbkch stared up at the [Sergeant].
“If they are not Painted Antinium, Autonomous, or Individual, the Hive is able to create more at will. You have stated your views on the lives of Soldiers and Workers. If you would like to preserve them, you will pass today’s instruction capably.”
“Instruction?”
The word caught both Antinium off-guard. Klbkch nodded.
“You two are the most proficient commanders among the Antinium. Thus, the Free Queen has decided to treat both of you as Prognugators. And so you will be…trained.”
The word was unfamiliar. The Antinium didn’t train. Or instruct. Teach. They sprang forth, ready to fulfill their function, all save for the Queens. And Prognugators.
“What does this training entail, Revalantor? And why are we here? Also, Revalantor…”
