Numbtongue experimentally smothered it with a finger. The flaming saliva refused to go out. Alarmed, Octavia got a flame-retarding powder and sprinkled it on Numbtongue’s fingers and the table from a distance. That put out the flame, but the saliva was still hot.
She shuddered as she shook her head.
“Dead gods, I hate fire. But this would sell really well. Especially among Drakes. They’ll make me rich! And it only needs rubies and a tiny bit of gold.”
“It could be useful. But it feels hot. Inside. Like Erin’s soup, but hotter.”
Numbtongue agreed. He prodded at his stomach.
“Don’t worry, the flame resistance will last a lot longer than the fire effect. That’s just common sense. And I can actually brew a flame resistant potion for you whenever you want.”
Octavia assured the Hobgoblin. Numbtongue nodded. He sighed as he smacked his lips, letting a bit of flame escape. He coughed—stood up.
“Bathroom.”
“Oh, sure. Got it. Let me know if the saliva-stuff gets unbearable. I can give you a nullifying potion. But if I just tweak my process…”
Numbtongue wandered into the bathroom as Octavia bent over her formula, trying to figure out what she’d done wrong. Or right. After a few seconds Octavia heard the Hobgoblin shout. It turned out saliva wasn’t the only liquid that was now fiery.
Octavia’s toilet caught on fire.
 
——
 
Fire danced along the inside of the cave, sending Fortress Beavers fleeing to their nest. They tried to put out the flames, desperately, cowering in fear as the skeleton danced. Ijvani laughed, throwing flames in the air. Her body did a jig in the floor.
“My master wants me! He loves me! He needs me! So he said! I am wanted!”
At last, he had reached out for her. And so Ijvani, one of Az’kerash’s Chosen, celebrated. She twirled about the small cave, sending the Defenders of the Cave fleeing. Fortress Beavers and Shield Spiders hid from the horrible intruder who was death. They did not try to dislodge her; they just hid. Because Ijvani was more terrible than any Creler.
She was death. But she had not left. She had lain in this cave for days, unmoving, pausing only to roast the errant animals or spider that came near her. But now she stood. She cried out.
“Master! I am sorry! I will obey you! Because you love me!”
Joy. Simple, pure, joy rang in her tones. Her skull, always grinning, rejoiced. And the golden lights in her eye sockets flared. The skeleton danced and the Defenders of the Cave fled. But the Healing Slime could not. It wriggled and trembled in the bars of its cell. It watched as Ijvani threw fire, seeing the hands raise and flames shoot across the cave.
The Healing Slime was imprisoned. Inside Ijvani. It had kept trying to sneak away, so the skeleton had eventually stuck the slime in her ribcage. The black-metal coated bones were nigh-on impenetrable to mundane weapons, and with a judicious application of the standard [Forcewall] spell, the slime found itself in a cage with no escape. It rolled against Ijvani’s ribs, pressing up against an invisible barrier. Ijvani was too excited to notice.
After a while, she calmed herself. Ijvani stood, perfectly still, and her exuberance faded. Her voice, a hollow echo, grew more thoughtful. She tapped a finger against her jawbone, in an imitation of Az’kerash herself.
“Stay here and watch, though? Why? Watch the [Necromancer]? And the inn?”
Az’kerash had contacted her, indeed. But not to demand Ijvani’s immediate return. After some lengthy questioning in which the skeleton had squirmed and stammered answers, her master had given her very specific instructions. Ijvani paused.
“Pisces Jealnet. Montressa du Valeross.”
The names meant nothing to her. They were flies to Ijvani. Apparently there was a team of [Mages] from Wistram here? And her master wanted this ‘Pisces’ monitored. With the perfect memory of the undead, Ijvani recalled his words exactly.
She had to set up a proper observation incantation, not some instant [Scrying] spell. Her master had taught her proper magic, and Ijvani knew that instantaneous spellcasting was far, far weaker than what could be accomplished with time, material, and effort.
The trickiest part would be making everything undetectable. Regular people wouldn’t be able to detect the magic, or even most [Mages], but if you knew how to look, you could detect even invisible eyes and follow the spell back to the source.
“Wistram [Mages]. And the Drake. Grimalkin.”
The skeleton paced down the length of the cave, looking for a good place to trace the runes. It would take her hours to set up. And it was arduous work. Boring work. So it was a good thing Ijvani didn’t get bored. And she was high on…unlife.
Her master had forgiven her. And he wanted her back. The skeleton took the little slime out of her ribcage and tossed it up and down happily, ignoring the terrified creature.
“Wait? I will wait! And cast all the spells you wish. For you, master, I would destroy that inn and everything in the city.”
She had doubted him. She had wavered. She had been weak. Ijvani saw that now. But the instant her master had touched her mind, all of Ijvani’s doubts had vanished. She had realized how much she missed him. How much she needed him. He might have a…flaw. But she had missed him. He had made her. And she lived for him.
Now, the skeleton got to work, faithfully carrying out Az’kerash’s orders. The shadows grew deeper on the wall as the skeleton prepared her spells. The undead creature flawlessly wove the magic as she had been taught. Creating a temporary nexus of power to fuel the magic. To draw upon if need be. And accordingly, the spell was stronger, no temporary thing but an enduring spell that could do far more than a quick magic.
To watch. To observe. And also—a teleportation rune. So she had two diagrams to trace on the floor. The skeleton mage decided that the teleportation rune would be better to do first. She bent, inscribing a circuit of magic into the stone floor. She’d need to ideally fill it with magicore. And she had some components in her bag of holding. But first was the task of shaping the magic.
Ijvani began the arduous task of programming coordinates towards her master’s lair. Or rather, just to the west of the Bloodfields, as far as the [Teleport] spell could take her. It would be faster to walk, but when it was done, she could send herself that far in an instant.
Or someone else. Az’kerash had ordered her to design the spell so that it could be used by two people. Another mystery to Ijvani, but she would faithfully watch and report to him. She had the authority to contact him, via spell! And he would answer at any time!
The power made Ijvani giddy. But she had one more thought, so she paused in drawing the teleportation rune. Her master had given her three instructions, actually. To watch, via divination magic. To prepare for a return, using runecraft, the height of magical theory, teleportation magic.
And to prepare for combat. The skeleton whispered a word, holding one skeletal palm upright.
“[Bound Spell – Blackfire Fireball].”
A fiery orb appeared in her hand. It was a contained spell, but it blazed with such heat and ferocity that the animals and spiders fled from it, sensing the death within. The Healing Slime tried to press itself into a corner of Ijvani’s ribcage as she concentrated on the spell. Feeding it. Giving it power.
She was forming the [Blackfire Fireball] into her palm. But not preparing it for immediate use. No, the fire compressed into a pinpoint, the fury of the Tier 5 spell condensing, stabilizing. It was far, far more difficult than simply casting the spell.
Ijvani’s eyes dimmed despite the steady mana flow coming from her master. And she devoted all of her energy and focus to controlling the spell lest it activate prematurely. Bound spells were a powerful magical technique; usually a Skill, but Ijvani had none, so she had to rely on pure magical craft to accomplish the same result.
It took nearly forty minutes of straight concentration, but then it was done. Her most powerful spell was ready to be used at once. Ijvani stared at the glowing marble-sized orb of fire. Then she put it in her jaw, just behind the teeth. Ready to fire.
She sat down, doing the mental equivalent of panting. But after a few minutes, Ijvani got up, and kept drawing the teleportation rune. Then she hopped over, did a bit of work on the observation spell.
She couldn’t stop moving. She was giddy! She was going home. Az’kerash, her master, had promised it. But not yet. She had to wait. Wait and report. On the [Mages] from Wistram. On this Pisces. Wait and see what they did. If they attacked him. If he attacked them. For some reason, the Necromancer wanted to know about this Pisces’ fate.
Ijvani didn’t. She was content to wait, though. Because her master was going to check on her every day.
He’d promised.
Ijvani grinned happily, and patted the slime. It would be really too bad when she had to leave this cave. But orders were orders. If she didn’t use the [Blackfire Fireball] she’d set it to detonate when she left. To get rid of evidence she’d been here. It would be too bad about the slime; she was enjoying it, like a simple Oom. But orders were orders.
And Ijvani was ready to obey again.
 
——
 
“Adventurers. And [Mages]. You know, why can’t we have one quiet month?”
“It’s never quiet in our line of work. And it’s never quiet at The Wandering Inn. You know the crazy Human. What I can’t believe is that the [Necromancer] isn’t being run off. Did you see that bounty?”
Bevussa looked testily at Keldrass. They were standing and talking. All the adventurers were gossiping about the latest news. But the two team captains were reserved enough to voice their opinions only to each other. The Drake was glowering, but Bevussa was more thoughtful. She shrugged.
“I saw it. But—look, we’ve been around this Pisces fellow for ages. He even fought for Liscor! Against the moths, Skinner—”
“He’s a damn [Necromancer]. How can that [Innkeeper] tolerate him?”
“Get over it, Keldrass. You know her. She likes the [Necromancer] so he stays. Just like the Hobgoblin, the Antinium—frankly, it’s one of the reasons why we don’t go there every time.”
“My team as well. I just can’t sit across from that Hobgoblin.”
“Hey—you saw them fighting the Humans.”
“So?”
“I’m not saying you’re wrong about how you feel, Keldrass. Dead gods, I’ve fought Goblins as much as you. But all I’m saying is—it’s her inn. Her rules. And there’s such a thing as variety. Not all Goblins are bad. That’s what I’ve concluded. And if that’s so, why not all [Necromancers]?”
The Drake hesitated. He folded his arms, growling.
“I don’t like it.”
“You don’t have to. But let me ask you this: who helped you get that flashy armor, huh? Did I hear you complaining when you got it? Or when Erin said she could help us rescue all those Gnolls and kill the Raskghar? Oh, wait, I did. But we all trusted her and thanks to that you have the shiny armor you’re wearing.”
“Yeah, but—”
“But?”
Keldrass hesitated. He threw up his claws at last.
“Okay, fine. I’ve benefitted from her. And so has Liscor. But she’s not always right.”
“I’m not saying she is. I’m just saying—look, Wistram attacked the Horns first. You think Ceria and Yvlon and that Ksmvr were criminals too?”
“Guilt by association?”
“That doesn’t fly in Pallass.”
“Fine. But he’s Antinium—”
Bevussa smacked Keldrass. Her wing hit him on the head since his magical armor covered the rest of his body. He cried out.
“Ancestors, Bevussa!”
“Don’t be a Lizard, Keldrass. I’ve talked to the Antinium. Like Bird. Variety. They’re not all monsters. With that said, yeah, I’m not relaxed around them. Another reason I’m not at the inn all the time. But let’s focus on Pisces.”
“Fine. Damn, you cut my scales.”
“Poor hatchling. You want me to spit on you and make it better?”
Keldrass edged away from Bevussa.
“Why are you so angry today?”
“Why are you so stubborn? I’m talking about a team we’ve worked with. The Horns. Wistram’s after their [Necromancer]. What do you think’s going to happen?”
“Well, the bounty’s out. They’ll have a target on his head. But they could always leave him outside a city. Still, that’s no life. Frankly, it makes me a bit uneasy.”
“A bit. Wistram slaps a bounty that Ceria says is way over-exaggerated. Two thousand gold pieces. Most Silver-ranks would kill for that.”
“Gold-ranks won’t. But I see your point. Okay, it’s wrong. But what do we do about it?”
“Nothing. I just—”
“You like that team.”
“A bit.”
The Garuda admitted, leaning against the stone wall of the dungeon. She and Keldrass were behind one of the barriers the adventurers had installed to guard safe zones. They were relaxing before returning above; they’d had a profitable day of killing monsters for their body parts. Keldrass sighed, rubbing his jaw.
“I get you. I see those Silver-ranks and sometimes I remember what it was like, running about. But I’m not getting involved in adventurers fighting adventurers. Or [Mages]. That’s a bad scene. Look, why don’t we go to the inn later? Talk.”
“You can handle the Antinium and Hobgoblin and [Necromancer]? You sure? Need a second set of armor?”
“I. Get. It. I’ll be civil. Look, it’s just—I grew up when the Necromancer’s armies came south and hit Pallass.”
“So did I. Just be civil, Keldrass. And I’m not saying we interfere. I just want—Ancestors. I’d just like someone not to die this time. A month without a disaster. I think Erin deserves that, don’t you?”
“Yeah. Although, Bevussa. Have you considered it might not be her?”
The Garuda paused. She looked back at Keldrass.
“How do you mean?”
“I was talking with Nailren. You know, the Silver-rank? He says that all the Gnolls in his team are uneasy about the little Gnoll in Erin’s inn. The white one. Apparently, they believe she’s got a Skill or a…a curse. That’s attracting bad luck. Disaster, even. Now hear me out. I know it’s Gnollish superstition, but you have to admit—”
The two adventurers walked off, Bevussa arguing loudly with Keldrass. After a second, the sound of her slapping him with a wing and an outraged shout echoed back down the dungeon’s tunnel. But no one heard it.
No one, except for the skeleton standing on the other side of the barrier. Toren stopped pressing his head against the wood-and-metal wall the adventurers had set up. He took a few steps backwards.
Erin. It was the fourth time he’d heard her name today. The skeleton stumbled back. He looked around. Then he walked over to a wall, drew his head back and smashed his skull into it.
