“As you were. Thank you for the cookies and the update on Miss Solstice’s inn. And telling me that the crazed Human with the axe is an [Actor]. It does help to know these things, even if I’m aware of Miss Solstice’s antics.”
The [Princess] retreated. Zevara watched the door shut and smiled to herself. Pricey as the cookies were, it was worth it to score a victory for herself. And she did have the cookies now. She began chewing on the one she’d taken out. Her brows rose and her tail curled with satisfaction.
“Mm. This is good. Sour. Sweet. Soft.”
The Watch Captain was inspecting the bag—which was generously laden with all sorts of cookies, some foul, but mostly good in different flavors, when there was a rap at the door. Zevara looked up and heard a familiar, growling voice.
“Watch Captain, I have a report from Senior Guardsman Klbkch. I was wondering if you had a moment to confer?”
“I suppose I do. Come in. What’s the matter, Beilmark?”
Zevara sighed. She pushed the cookie bag to one side and watched Senior Guardswoman Beilmark march in. The Gnoll saluted.
“I have word there’s a new player in Liscor, Watch Captain. Senior Guardsman Klbkch came across a meeting with Mister Soot and a new Gnoll named only as ‘Bearclaw’ while on patrol. He believes she may be a known criminal in the other cities.”
“What? Damn. Another one?”
The female Drake sat up, her good mood vanishing. Beilmark nodded.
Her eyes lingered on the bag on the desk. Zevara glanced at her sharply.
“Did this Bearclaw have anyone else with her?”
“Not that I know of, Watch Captain. But she was new to the city. She nearly attacked Senior Guardsman Klbkch. But for Mister Soot, she might have.”
“That damned [Fence]. If we can get him—Bearclaw, you said?”
Beilmark nodded. She glanced at the bag of cookies again. Zevara’s eyes narrowed.
“I haven’t heard the name. But I’ll send word for the Mage’s Guild to inquire about her directly. Why didn’t Senior Guardsman Klbkch try to arrest her?”
“Relc wasn’t on duty, Watch Captain. Klbkch was with two Junior Guards.”
The Gnoll coughed. The Watch Captain bit her tongue.
“Ah. Well, in that case—Ancestors, Beilmark. Do you want a cookie?”
The Senior Guardswoman brightened as Zevara glared at her. She approached the desk, and Zevara shoved the bag towards her.
“If you insist, Watch Captain…hrm. They all smell so different.”
“Just take one. They’re a new thing from the inn. Which I paid for.”
“I wouldn’t trouble you, Watch Captain…”
“Take the cookie before I roast you.”
Beilmark did without any argument. She inspected the parchment and then bit.
“Baked beans. Mm. This is very good.”
Zevara shook her head, eying Beilmark dourly.
“If you’re done? I assume the Mage’s Guild is already inquiring about this Bearclaw?”
“Yes, Watch Captain. I’ll have the report on your desk when it arrives. But she may be a criminal among Plains Gnolls. If so, I’ll inquire, but it will take longer.”
The Gnoll looked a bit embarrassed. Zevara glowered, then stood up.
“Good. In that case, I’m going on my lunch break. Hold down the fortress until I get back, would you?”
She grabbed the bag of cookies. Reluctantly, Beilmark nodded, licking crumbs off her paw. Zevara was grabbing her actual lunch when someone else rapped on the door and it opened.
“Watch Captain, I have a report—”
A Gnoll entered the room, a scroll of parchment in paw. He was sniffing the air, but he paused, seeing Beilmark and Zevara. The Gnoll [Guardswoman] coughed into one paw. Zevara’s eyes narrowed.
“Get out.”
She grabbed the bag of cookies and stalked out of her office, ignoring the suddenly very interested Gnoll [Guards] who wanted to chat with her. That was the problem with Gnolls in your workplace; forget people simply stealing your lunches, they knew exactly what you ate and when it came back out. The worst ones were the ones who told you how bland your meals were.
Escaping with her treats mostly intact, Zevara hurried down the streets of Liscor. She moved fast, and came to the prison in only five minutes, puffing a bit. Her lunch break wasn’t that long.
The [Guards] on duty in the jail straightened when they saw her. They were both Drakes and attentive given the easy job. But then, they knew why it mattered. Zevara nodded at them.
“I won’t be long. Amulet?”
“Here, Watch Captain.”
One of the Drakes fumbled over an amulet that was linked to the cells inside the prison to Zevara. She put it on, and strode down the cells.
The jail had few prisoners, and most of them didn’t want to attract the Watch Captain’s ire. And few were serious. But there was one cell at the far end which held a familiar face. He was lifting a barbell, a strange device made out of iron, when Zevara arrived. Calruz looked up.
“Watch Captain Zevara. Good morning.”
“Calruz. Sorry I couldn’t make it yesterday. How are you holding up since that Minotauress visited you?”
Zevara took a seat. There was a chair in front of the cell. The Minotaur kept lifting the barbell after a moment. A rat, grey-furred, was balanced on his head, while another tried to climb his horn. Zevara was used to both rats. And indeed, to Calruz, because their conversation didn’t waste time.
“I am fine. She only spoke the truth. What’s that you have?”
“My lunch. Have you been fed?”
“Yes.”
Zevara smiled.
“In that case, I’ve got something to eat. Here.”
She showed Calruz the bag and took two cookies out of it. She passed two across the force field. Calruz gingerly accepted the cookies; the magical barrier was dangerous to him, not her. He stared down at the soft discs.
“What’s this? It says…carrot cookie. And…blood cookie?”
“Damn. That must be one of the strange ones Lyonette warned me about. They come from The Wandering Inn. Erin Solstice. Here. There’s probably a better one…here’s ‘boring vanilla’.”
“It’s fine. Thank you. Watch Captain, you need not visit me every day.”
“Who else does? Besides the half-Elf. I generally eat alone. The Watch Captain shouldn’t be one of the regular [Guards].”
The Drake shrugged self-consciously. Calruz looked at her.
“Nor should she be overly familiar with prisoners accused of murder and treachery.”
The Drake paused, then nodded.
“True.”
There was nothing more to say than that. But both acknowledged the truth. Honor and duty. They understood each other in that. After a moment, Zevara dug into her meal. Ground beef and sauce, mainly. And some bread. She made whatever she could for a meal. Calruz began eating one of his cookies, sharing crumbs with his pet rats.
“I can’t stay long. I just wanted to see how you were doing.”
“Will I take Bezale’s instructions, do you mean? Fear not, Zevara. I would stay alive to spite her. But—she is a Wistram [Mage]. They all are. They found no spells on me. Doesn’t that confirm everything?”
Zevara scowled, shoveling down her meal.
“Not if I don’t trust the [Mages]. And none of them are [Enchanters] or specialists in mind-altering magic aside from the Centaur. And I wouldn’t trust him with—”
“Zevara. If you do not trust him, who can tell my innocence? Not Grimalkin of Pallass, apparently, and not a [Mage] of Wistram. So then, how long? You keep the law, Watch Captain. Why am I the exception?”
The weariness in the Minotaur’s voice made Zevara look up. She hesitated. But Calruz was looking at her, from his small cell. It was a conversation they’d had before. She hesitated and lowered her fork.
“…I suppose I am biased. But I also trust my instincts. And they say I’m not wrong. Look, Calruz, we do have an [Enchanter] scheduled to visit the city. I trust his word. But I also trust my gut.”
“And if he finds nothing?”
“Then I make another judgment call. But it is my choice.”
Zevara looked at Calruz. He stared back. She knew how he had to feel. So Zevara hesitated, and then leaned forwards.
“Don’t worry. You won’t be in here forever. There’s something I have planned that might help with your wait. Entirely legal.”
The Minotaur’s eyes narrowed.
“Zevara. I would not want you to compromise your own integrity—”
“I won’t. What I intend to do is honorable. Just wait, Calruz. But believe me when I say that I don’t see the monster that I witnessed in the dungeon. There is something wrong with you and I will find out what it is.”
Zevara pointed her fork at the Minotaur. And he almost smiled. He picked up the cookie and let Rhata nibble at it. Then he finished the cookie in a big bite.
“I’m glad, you know. That someone believes in me. And thank you. For visiting. And the food.”
The Watch Captain coughed. She waved a claw, counting down the minutes of her lunch break.
“It’s not hard. Have another cookie. How’s the blood one?”
Calruz tried it. He frowned.
“Salty. Why is Erin Solstice making them?”
Zevara paused. She chewed, gulped, and then shrugged.
“I have no idea.”
 
——
 
Salt was an ingredient in potions. So was Sage’s Grass—the red, glowing stuff that tasted horrible—magical salamanders, Corusdeer horns, and all kinds of insects. Numbtongue had a list, and it included…well, almost everything when you got down to it.
Ironically, the one category of items that didn’t usually make it into potions were traditional foods, like pumpkin, or carrots, or green peas or so on. According to Octavia, that was because alchemy wasn’t cooking. She’d referenced Erin’s abilities as being an example of someone who could unlock the potential of food.
“But that’s a different kind of creation. It’s really magic-intensive. I saw Erin making her Scale Soup—which tastes like melted three-day old butter mixed with pond slime by the way—and she doesn’t use an [Alchemist]’s methods at all.”
It was also harder to cook magically, and you often needed more expensive items or Skills to make it work. But alchemy was theoretically possible for even amateurs, although good [Alchemists] could make better potions or simplify recipes. Nevertheless, Numbtongue was learning how to make healing potions.
He was also having lunch with Octavia. He chewed down one of the blood cookies Erin had made. It was an acquired taste, according to Erin, but Numbtongue liked it.
Octavia did not. She looked up from her actual sausages and shuddered.
“Do those…actually taste good?”
“Better than bugs. Most bugs.”
The Hobgoblin shrugged. He chewed, swallowed, and reached for the next mystery cookie. Octavia took another and eyed it.
“What do you think this one is?”
Numbtongue eyed it. He’d seen Erin hard at work in the kitchen so he had a good idea which ones were which, despite Erin’s best attempts to hide their nature.
“Almonds.”
“Ooh, I’ll have that.”
Octavia took a bite. After a minute of chewing, she looked up.
“So what’s the worst cookie in the bag here?”
Numbtongue thought for a moment.
“Dirt cookie? Or acid fly cookie. Too crunchy.”
Octavia paused mid-swallow. She eyed the cookie and was relieved when she saw the almonds baked into the insides.
“…Why’d Erin make these again?”
“For fun?”
“Huh. And she’s already cleared up all of the damage from the fight with those [Mages]?”
“Yup. She fixed the tables. With her Skill.”
“So all that happened while I was in my shop?”
“Mhm.”
The [Goblin Soulbard] nodded. Octavia shook her head.
“I’m sorry I missed it. Then again—probably not. Do you think they’re dangerous?”
“Yup.”
“What’s—what’s Erin going to do about it?”
Numbtongue sneered.
“Make friends with the Centaur. Probably. I won’t. So I’ll sit here. Want a cookie?”
“Uh—no.”
Octavia refused a second helping. She glanced sideways at Numbtongue. He was a semi-regular guest now, and they often entertained each other, he with his guitar, her with alchemy lessons. But the Goblin was restless today. He kept glancing back towards the door that led to The Wandering Inn, though it was inactive for the moment.
“Something wrong, Numbtongue?”
He started and then shook his head.
“Nothing.”
But that was a lie. Octavia had seen him come in this morning as if he was escaping something. Until Erin had closed the door, he’d kept looking over his shoulder. As if something kept grabbing his attention. Whatever it was, he clearly didn’t like it. The [Alchemist] opened her mouth, saw Numbtongue’s hunched shoulders, and decided against. Instead, she hefted the bottle she’d been working on while they chatted.
“Hey, want to taste this potion? I’ve been experimenting with some ruby dust. I’ve mixed it with the strongest flameproofing potion I know; I bought some ingredients by selling some of the stuff you gave me. But this is proof of all the work.”
“What does it do?”
Numbtongue eyed the yellow-orange potion with swirling liquids mixed around inside. Octavia frowned at the mixture; she’d had a heck of a time dissolving all the stuff she wanted into it.
“Make you breathe fire. Probably. I tried it on myself, so it’s not deadly. Again, probably. But I’ve tried three samples and each time I just belch smoke. Want to try?”
The Hobgoblin hesitated. But Octavia was sure she’d made something that ranked on the ‘safe’ end of trying things. Otherwise she would have fed the mixture to a rat or trusted in her Stitch-Person body to help alleviate the worst of it. The truth was she didn’t like anything that had to do with fire.
After a moment, Numbtongue accepted the bottle. He drank down the liquid, not even grimacing at the taste. He smacked his lips, and then tried to exhale flame.
Nothing happened. Octavia’s face fell.
“Damn. What do you feel?”
“Hot. In mouth. But nothing—”
The Hobgoblin mumble. Then he went cross-eyed. He swished something in his mouth, then leaned forwards and spat suddenly.
The flaming saliva landed on the table. Numbtongue let it drip out of his mouth. It wasn’t burning him, but the fiery liquid instantly caught flame in the air. He opened his maw and Octavia saw the entire inside of his mouth was on fire!
“Dead gods! Don’t spit at me! Water, water! Does it hurt?”
The Stitch-Girl leapt up in alarm, backing away from the fire. Numbtongue hastily swallowed, and then his eyes went wide with alarm. He prodded his stomach—but the fire resistance nullified the heat.
“It doesn’t hurt. But it feels hot.”
“I’ll say! Look at that spit!”
Octavia and Numbtongue watched the superheated liquid slowly try to ignite the table while it burned through the metal top. Octavia raised a finger.
“Okay, that’s close. But—help me put out the fire, would you?”
