Erin Solstice. Was. Alive. On the fourth impact, Toren felt his skull crack. He stepped back, feeling the magic in him automatically repairing the crack. The skeleton stared at the wall. Blankly.
She was alive. Unless they were all mistaken? Maybe it was someone else named Erin Solstice. It had to be. It couldn’t be…
The skeleton sat down on the ground. He took off his skull and stared back at his body. Erin Solstice was alive.
Alive.
It had been over a week since Toren had heard her name. Since then, he’d been…him. She wasn’t coming out. He wouldn’t let her. He hadn’t put on the mask. Rather, he’d been skulking, shadowing the adventurers. Listening for her name.
He kept hearing it. But he didn’t believe. Erin was alive. But she couldn’t be. She’d died. He’d felt the link break.
Or he thought he had. Maybe she’d just severed it. Maybe she’d—
She wasn’t alive. She couldn’t be.
Why would they say her name? What were the odds?
Erin Solstice was a perfectly…normal name.
It wasn’t. She was alive.
Maybe she’d nearly died?
No.
Toren heard the voice in his mind. It wasn’t her. It was just another him. Telling the rest of him what he didn’t want to think of. But here were the facts.
Someone named Erin Solstice was above. She ran an inn. The Wandering Inn. She was an [Innkeeper]. She had a Goblin guest that the adventurers didn’t like. And an Antinium. And a white Gnoll. She was up there. And she was definitely alive.
Unless she was a ghost. Maybe she was a ghost! Toren sat up, brightening with the idea. That would explain all of it! She was just a ghost, so that meant—
She’s not a ghost. Adventurers kill ghosts. She is alive.
Toren paused. Then he bent over, hunching. No. It couldn’t be. Because if she was alive, that meant only one thing.
She’d severed the bond with him. She’d tried to kill him. She’d tried to kill him and she was alive. And if that was true—
Rage flashed through the skeleton. Rage. It made him shudder, made his bones shake. He shook, so hard that the Flesh Worm slithering down the dungeon took one look at the skeleton and paused. The skeleton looked up. Its eyes flashed and the Flesh Worm slowly writhed backwards.
SHE IS ALIVE. SHE TRIED TO KILL YOU.
The skeleton reached for his sword. He shook and then—suddenly, his rage flickered out. Like a spent torch. He lowered his head again.
Toren sat there a long time, too…tired…to even stand. When he eventually moved, it was only because a shadow had blocked the faint light coming from behind the adventurer’s barricades, where they’d placed [Light] spells. Toren looked up and saw a lumbering shape.
A Crypt Lord. It stood silently, surrounded by the lesser undead. It was not a mindless creature. Something—a primitive awareness lurked in its gaze, more than the feral minds of the Ghouls and zombies and skeletons.
Intelligence. A different sort than what animals or people had. But it was there. And yet, the Crypt Lord held still. It was ‘looking’ at Toren, the rotten eyes in its body focused on him. Subservient. Its left side bore many, numerous cut marks in the flesh. It had been…disobedient. But now it stood, awaiting orders from its leader.
It looked down at the [Undead Leader]. And the undead waited too. At last, Toren did stand. He peered through the adventurer’s barricade. There was real light beyond it.
It wasn’t hard for Toren to remove the barricade. Not for a thinking creature to do so. The adventurers knew that, which was why they conducted sweeps; the barriers only held back monsters as a stopgap. The skeleton shoved the barrier aside after unlocking it and he led the undead forwards. The Crypt Lord, ghouls, zombies, all followed him silently.
The adventurers had left. They’d travelled up from the abyss that led into the dungeon, climbing ropes upwards. Now, sunlight shone down, and the ropes were gone. Toren stood in the opening, staring up at the blue sky, a small thing high above.
He had to see her. Knowing, not knowing—he had to see her to believe it. And then? Toren looked at his sword. Part of him said no. Never. But the rest of him—
She killed him. If he was alive. If she was alive, then—
The skeleton stood silently, listening to the screaming voices in his mind. And his bones felt heavier than they ever had in his life. He looked up and thought of the inn. He felt his bones, burning magic. He couldn’t go up there. Not for long. It was death.
But he had to know. The mask at Toren’s side whispered to him. It spoke of what he had learned. What she had experienced. Of teammates. Friendship.
Toren looked at the mask. He looked up. And the skeleton slowly lifted the mask. He inspected it for a moment, turning it, admiring it. Then, without a word, he tossed it on the ground.
She pulled his arm out, reaching for it. Toren pulled back. He resisted her. And slowly, fighting her, he raised a foot. And brought it down hard.
The mask shattered. The dry chitin, held together with webbing cracked, splintered apart. Toren screamed, silently. She lurched backwards—
And he caught himself. Toren looked around. At the silent undead. He stared down at the broken mask. Listening for her. But there was only him. Perhaps…perhaps there had always been only him. Maybe she was what he thought Erin was. Or maybe she was real.
But not right now. Right now, Toren only had one thing in mind. It overrode everything. And that was the thing. He could be anything. He had tried to be anything, a friend to adventurers, a skeleton who created rather than just killed. He could learn. Level. Grow.
But one thing had anchored him. Given him purpose. He had rebelled against her, hated her, and loved her too. In his way. She was the center of his being. The reason for his creation. There was one thing that gave Toren purpose, rooted him. Held him back, and pushed him forwards.
And that was Erin Solstice. She had so many things, so many people she loved. For others, she had dared death and given all that she had. But she had never extended the same to him. He, alone, had never had anything from her. He alone had always been a thing. And she had turned the bugs into people and saved Goblins.
But he, he alone. He had nothing from her. And he had tried to let her die. Perhaps it was fitting that she had tried to kill him from afar. If it was her.
And if it was her? Toren leaned against the wall and looked up. He had been a poor servant. But he had just wanted something from her. Something he’d never had. He couldn’t name it. The skeleton supposed that he’d just wanted something like the way she smiled at the people who came to her inn. But that had been denied.
Perhaps she was dead. And that would be a terrible thing. For she had defined his world. He could still remember the song. But perhaps she was alive. And she had tried to kill him. And if so, if so—he would go above and find out.
Silently, the undead waited. Toren reached for his sword. He touched it, and then looked at the mask. It lay silent on the ground. And Toren felt an empty part in his being. He’d remake it. He’d change. He’d…do something. But only if she was dead.
And if she lives? If she is alive?
Then…
Toren knew so little. But he knew this. If she was the inspiration, the living, beating heart of the inn who acted according to her heart, he was her dark shadow. Erin was resolve, courage, and the audacity to do as she pleased, what she thought was right. And he? He was the dark side of her triumph. He was the mistake that had never died.
He was the consequence.
