“Definitely! Don’t you know? There are so few Gold-rank teams that aren’t pure Selphid! Let alone on other continents! When I heard there was an opportunity to meet you, I just had to! And Miss Ivirith is famous too! She was a Silver-rank adventurer in Baleros.”
“She mentioned that. She’s…older than I am.”
“She’s over five decades old, I think. I really respect her. She started as a Bronze-rank adventurer and made it to Gold-rank! With a team of non-Selphids. I really admire that. And—I wanted to talk to her because I have a…relative of hers. Well, my—parent? Knew her, growing up.”
“Really?”
Moore blinked. Ulinde nodded a few times and took a sip of his drink.
“We’re not related, because it’s complicated with Selphids how we…make new Selphids. Not babies. But I had a progenitor who said they knew Miss Ivirith; they were both coiled together in the same body!”
“Coiling. That’s…”
The half-Giant frowned, recalling Jelaqua speaking of it once. Ulinde gestured at his body.
“It’s a thing baby Selphids do when they’re um…born? Split, really. You get a bunch of little Selphids and you put them in a body so they figure out how to…do things. They can’t be outside, but they can’t work a body; no one’s big enough. So you work together for a few years until you can do it yourself.”
“That’s interesting.”
Moore’s stomach roiled a bit, imagining it. And it wasn’t hard—he knew what Jelaqua looked like. Ulinde nodded, then slumped in his chair.
“Now she hates me.”
“She doesn’t hate you. She…”
The half-Giant trailed off. He couldn’t lie well. Ulinde looked up at Moore.
“I am so sorry. Again. If there’s anything I can do—I’ll do it. I want to make amends. I’m so sorry.”
“It’s fine. It’s interesting you say you’re a fan of the Halfseekers, though. We don’t have fans.”
“You do among Selphids! I know a bunch of others who were so torn up when we heard about the Halfseekers dying. And—and I am a huge fan. I’m sorry, I’ve heard stories about Moore the [Green Mage]! If you have time, I’d love to talk to you.”
The half-rotted, middle-aged man edged over in the chair, looking up eagerly at the half-Giant. Moore scooted away quickly. Ulinde’s face fell as he glanced down at his body. Flustered, he moved back.
“Oh. The body. I’m so sorry. It’s just that I don’t have many—it’s hard to import them even at Wistram, and my other two got maggots. In the bag of holding. People think living things can’t survive in bags of holding, but really, that’s just because the spell doesn’t let air in. So I didn’t catch them and when I checked the bodies out, there were so many maggots that I couldn’t eat all of—”
She saw Moore’s expression and stopped. The half-Giant paused.
“It’s just the rot. I’m familiar with Jelaqua, don’t worry. But even for me, it’s difficult.”
“I know. I am so sorry—”
“It’s fine. Do you—do you have any other bodies? Or can you find any? At all?”
Ulinde slumped in her chair.
“No. And it’s really hard getting a good body. I mean, every city has people that die, but Drakes and Gnolls don’t know Selphids, so few of them will even think of selling a body—if I can’t get a good one, I’ll have to live in a squirrel or something until my team can find one. My good body’s gone, the Halfseekers hate me—”
The Selphid was really down. Moore hesitated. He couldn’t bear the stench any longer, but he felt for the Selphid, he really did. The half-Giant cleared his throat, thinking carefully.
“Miss Ulinde. Or—no, Ulinde. I…do know where Jelaqua has a few bodies. She has a large number after the Raskghar incident. Maybe I could speak to her. Explain the situation. Even though you’ve made her angry, you are a fellow Selphid.”
“You’d do that for me?”
Ulinde’s eyes went round. She looked up at Moore. And he couldn’t help but think that it was a pity she wasn’t wearing the female Drake’s body. He nodded slowly.
“I could ask. Or—I know where a few are. In the inn. I could speak to Erin. Jelaqua might not be happy, but if you paid—”
“Absolutely. Thank you, oh, thank you, thank you—”
Ulinde bounced up. Moore looked at the [Innkeeper] and the relieved Drake was nodding and waving them off. They headed for the door—and a [Rogue] appeared in the doorway. Seborn glared up at Moore as Ulinde halted in his tracks.
“There you are. Where have you—”
The [Rogue] spotted Ulinde, and the human half of his face turned instantly hostile. The Selphid instantly retreated, and Moore raised his hands.
“Seborn, listen. Ulinde is terribly sorry for what she’s done. I’ve been talking with her—him. I’m sorry. And he wants to apologize to Jelaqua. And you. ”
“That’s right! I’m so sorry. If there’s anything I can do—”
Seborn ignored Ulinde. He was glaring at Moore. The half-Giant winced. He knew the [Rogue] was in a poor temper since Jelaqua had begun dating Maughin. He lowered his voice, although Ulinde could probably still hear him.
“Seborn, look. Ulinde is truly sorry. And Jelaqua did something to him. I was thinking. We could bring him to the inn, get one of Jelaqua’s bodies. I mean, look at him. His is all worn out. We’ll talk to Jelaqua, patch things over, let her have—”
“What? Give away—you idiot!”
Seborn hissed at Moore. He dragged the half-Giant towards the door as Ulinde watched them anxiously. The Drowned Man glared up at Moore.
“You are not giving away Jelaqua’s bodies. Do you know how much each one’s worth? And stop talking with that Selphid! She nearly put a hole in my chest!”
He jabbed at Moore’s own chest. The half-Giant glowered; the flesh was still tender.
“Ulinde’s genuinely sorry, Seborn! It wasn’t his fault he had to fight—he has orders! A team! You know how it is. And you did stab him first.”
“I didn’t try to kill the [Mages]. If I did, they’d all be dead. I don’t care if this Selphid says sorry a thousand times. Stop listening to every pity story you hear—”
“Why don’t you listen just once?”
The two arguing Halfseekers glared at each other, Moore out of patience for once. He glared, leaning on his replacement quarterstaff. A tremulous voice interrupted Seborn and lifted his claw-hand.
“I am so sorry. Can I make it up to you somehow? Please?”
The [Rogue] turned. The younger voice coming out of the half-dead body belonging to a much older Human was hard to deal with, even for Seborn and Moore. But Ulinde was pleading.
“Anything. Anything at all I can do to make it right, I will. I can get you some scrolls. Beza sells them. Or—can I trade you some artifacts? I sell them from Wistram. I’d be glad to do anything.”
“You don’t need to give us anything.”
“Shut up. And you, Selphid. Why do you care so much about meeting us?”
Seborn glared at Ulinde. The Selphid gulped.
“You’re—I’m a fan of the Halfseekers.”
“We don’t have fans. You don’t know anything about us.”
Seborn glared at Ulinde, echoing Moore. Ulinde shook his head, eyes wide in protest.
“No! I do! Seborn Sailwinds, a former [Pirate], right? I’ve heard stories about you! You were the [Rogue] who slew the Cyclops by yourself when your entire team was downed! I heard it took you five minutes to take him down! You’re a hero.”
She stared at Seborn. The Drowned Man blinked. Moore blinked. They stared at Ulinde. Moore glanced at his teammate.
“They tell stories about us?”
“All the time. In Selphid communities. You don’t know?”
Ulinde was wide-eyed. The Drowned Man as he wavered, and Ulinde spoke hurriedly.
“Please, I’d love to ask the real legends what it was like! I grew up hearing tales of how your group fought through the Caverns of Eils! And how you rescue people who are—are different. Like Selphids! Can I buy you a drink? Please.”
The Drowned Man hesitated. He looked at Moore, then at Ulinde. After a moment, he glanced around the inn, then wrinkled his nose at Ulinde.
“Your body is disgusting. Even Jelaqua would let you have a body. I suppose. You can borrow one of hers. So…what have you heard about our team?”
He led the way out of the inn, much to the Drake [Innkeeper]’s relief. Behind him, Moore rolled his eyes, a rare expression of annoyance on his face. But they both felt it. A sense of wonder. They had…fans?
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin stared out the window of Zevara’s office as Moore, Seborn, and Ulinde passed by. She’d spotted them because, well, all three were fairly noticeable. She nearly fumbled getting the last coin out of her belt pouch, but caught it before it could tumble off the desk. She placed it down with a flourish.
“There.”
Zevara eyed the three gold coins. She nodded briskly and swept them across the desk.
“That’s nineteen so far. Your bounty is nearly half-paid, Miss Lyonette. But why not have that Human pay it all for you? I’m sure she can.”
She eyed Lyonette. The [Princess] was sitting in Zevara’s office. She had just stopped here to pay off more of the fine on her artifacts, but to her surprise, Zevara had invited her into the office. The Watch Captain had a small stack of papers, but she’d clearly made time to speak to Lyonette.
The [Worldly Princess] smiled at Zevara. She didn’t try to be charming, but she did try to charm Zevara, as naturally as possible. The Watch Captain was someone she could respect, and she had actually been hoping to meet with her. She felt at her belt as she replied, conversationally.
“That’s my salary. I haven’t asked Erin to pay off the rest of it. She could, but frankly, she needs it all for her inn’s renovations. The taxes also ate into her funds.”
Zevara nodded. She and Lyonette had a civil relationship, far better than she had with Erin. The two respected each other in fact. Zevara glanced with interest as Lyonette pulled a little bag out and put it on the table.
“You manage Miss Solstice’s coin? That’s unusual for a [Barmaid].”
“Well, I’m a bit more than that for the inn. I have to be. Erin’s a good [Innkeeper] in some ways—poor in others. For instance, she manages her finances as well as Mrsha in front of a street vendor with hot food.”
Zevara snorted.
“I can only imagine. What’s this?”
Lyonette smiled as the Drake prodded the bag with a claw. She pushed it forwards.
“Cookies. The Wandering Inn is selling them. It’s an assorted bundle; each one’s different in taste and texture. It’s actually meant as a game since some of the cookies don’t taste good, but I labeled all of these. It’s a little gift.”
Lyonette smiled sweetly at Watch Captain Zevara. The Drake stared down into the bag and slowly removed one cookie. She inspected the little piece of parchment wrapping it.
“Lemon cookie. Sour. And this one says…beans? Baked bean cookie?”
“They’re different, but most are tasty. Stay away from the one made out of dirt.”
“And this is for me?”
“That’s right. It’s just—”
Zevara pushed back the bag.
“I don’t accept bribes.”
“What?”
Lyonette’s face fell. Zevara glared at Lyonette and gestured to a covered tonic bottle on her desk.
“Bribes. I’m a Watch Captain. I don’t accept gifts or bribes, Miss Lyonette. I appreciate speaking with you and your candor about the situation in Miss Solstice’s inn. But I’ve received one bribe from the [Mages] this morning. I didn’t want it and I don’t want this. I cannot have my position compromised.”
She said that, but she eyed the treats in the bag with clear reluctance as she tossed the cookies in and pushed it back towards the [Princess]. Lyonette put a smile on her face. She recited a few lines from memory. Who knew what her mother had taught her would be so useful? She really should have practiced. Or taken any interest in politics growing up.
“Watch Captain Zevara, it’s not a bribe. It’s just a gift as thanks for doing so much for the inn.”
“That sounds exactly like a bribe. Even one that incentivizes me to do my job is one that sways my opinions, Miss Lyonette.”
Zevara folded her arms, narrowing her eyes at the young woman. The [Princess] sighed and shook her head.
“Watch Captain, you surely have your own opinions about Erin and her inn by now, don’t you? I wouldn’t expect a bag of cookies to sway you, unless I’d enchanted the gift or used a Skill. And I haven’t. This is just a gesture of thanks. I understand your neutrality matters, but no one is truly neutral. It would be a poor thing if I couldn’t offer a Watch Captain some food in gratitude for stopping a dozen disasters, wouldn’t it? I imagine the [Mage] who gave you the potion—Miss Montressa?”
Zevara nodded grudgingly. Lyonette nodded. Du Valeross. She was familiar with the family, but she wished she had her family’s genealogy of bloodlines to look them up. She was careful around Montressa; she hoped her red hair wouldn’t give her away, but she also felt there was potential there.
“I imagine Miss Montressa said the same thing as I did. A token of gratitude—or apology—is not the same as a bribe. I know this may be different to you, but as Lady Montressa and I hail from Terandria, I can assure you we don’t mean anything significant by it.”
But a gift was a gift, and it didn’t hurt to give some to people in authority. Lyonette kept the pleasant smile on her face as Zevara eyed her. After a moment the Drake sighed.
“If I tell you I don’t want it—”
“I won’t take it back. I’d imagine Miss Montressa was the same, wasn’t she?”
“Yes. And I couldn’t get rid of her. ‘Wistram must make some reparations…’ bah. Very well. I’ll take it. And as thanks…”
Zevara reached for her own belt. Lyonette blinked as the Drake spoke absently.
“The law must be flexible, and yet never bend where it matters. Here. That’s probably the price, isn’t it? Your inn costs a tail and a leg, you know.”
She slapped four silver coins on the table. Lyonette’s smile vanished. Zevara eyed her.
“I asked about the price of the tonic I was given. Miss Montressa will be receiving the cost by Street Runner. You’ll get the same if you don’t take the coins now. I can be just as stubborn. Thank you for the cookies.”
The [Princess] opened her mouth.
“You don’t have to—”
“Take the coins or I’ll make sure you get them. Congratulations on your sale, Miss Lyonette.”
Zevara blandly reached into the bag and inspected the cookie she pulled out. Lemon. Lyonette opened her mouth, saw the glint in the Drake’s eye, and curtsied, embarrassed. She’d lost this verbal spar.
“Thank you for having me, Watch Captain.”
