Alden had known that it wasn’t normal for him to have unlimited wandering rights on the Mother Planet. He adjusted his grip on his bag.

“It’s giving me an option,” Alden admitted. “But no timer. Maybe it thought I deserved some space after everything that happened.”

Stuart blinked. “Maybe it did.”

“Bye.”

“Goodbye.”

“Teleport to Anesidora,” Alden said, bracing himself.

[Teleportation in 19 seconds]

“In a few months,” Stuart said suddenly, “I will probably have…a lot of time off from school. I think I will use it for cultural studies. I know you will still be on your official leave. But maybe I could arrange for you to come over then. And you could help me learn about human culture. If you wanted to be my guest again…”

Alden considered it.

“I would like that. But, we’d need to plan it out in advance. And agree on exactly how long I’d be here. Maybe just on one of my weekends or something. I’m going to have school and life and stuff going on, too, you know.”

Stuart looked happy. “I know.”

What an unexpected ending to my first trip as an Avowed.

The teleportation hit him, and he was suddenly in the nothingness, where before there had been that completely baffling sense of his own authority wrapped around him and whatever he carried like a cocoon.

It was different now.

He could feel the shape of himself. Sore, grieving, enraged, struggling. Overly sensitive and feeling a little existentially electrocuted by the teleport because of it.

But in a way, it was better like this.

He was Alden Thorn.

Whether his authority was bound into a skill or free, it was strong enough to keep him Alden Thorn through this. And through many other things, too.

It was easier to understand that here.

And then he was opening his eyes inside one of the teleportation bays on Anesidora. He took a deep breath. The air smelled like Earth.

Earth totally had a smell

He smiled at the plain metal door in front of him. What a beautiful thing to know.

“Welcome to Anesidora, Mr. Thorn,” said a voice.

It sounded like it might even have been the same woman who’d done his security check the last time he came. But she was more flustered now.

“Um…just a minute. I see we’re expecting you. And this is your first arrival as an Avowed, but it’s also your first return from the Triplanets…that’s a new one for me. Let me call my supervisor about security procedures. Sorry for the delay.”

“I don’t mind waiting,” Alden said. “I’m just really glad to be home.”
