“I have not invited a guest to the <<Rapport>> from among my classmates. I planned to. But then nobody was exactly what I was expecting. And bringing people here…it is delicate.”

Alden could imagine like eighteen different ways for Stuart interacting with his classmates to be “delicate.” But it still shouldn’t be that hard to invite a friend over for a weekend sleepover, or whatever the alien equivalent was. His family was operating on a different level, but they didn’t seem like they were impossible to get along with.

“Guess I kind of invited myself over,” Alden said. “Sorry about that. Consider it a trial run.”

Stuart blinked at him. “I will.”

Alden finished off the second cup of wevvi.

“I should have asked if you were all right,” Stuart said suddenly.

“Hmm?”

“You just teleported from a chaos incident. Into the forest. I should have asked if you were all right, but I was focused on my own state of mind. And then I was excited to have a guest.”

Guests are so dang important to him.“It’s okay. Don’t worry about it.”

“Are you?”

“What?”

“Are you all right?”

“I’m good.”

“You are very dirty.”

“Well, I ran across a lot of a moon in this shirt. And then I…fell down when I arrived.”

Stuart tilted his head. “Were you injured on Thegund?”

Alden glanced down at himself.

“Yeah. I was. But I’m fine now. You don’t need to worry. Your aunt’s icorlax healer took care of me for an entire week. Rrorro. It was quite the experience. And I’m healthy now.” Alden looked at Stuart’s foot pointedly. “Getting fully healed doesn’t prevent contemplation.”

The boy sighed. “My family says the same thing.”

“Then why—”

“It’s an ancient <<practice,>>” he said in an annoyed tone. “I wish to follow it. For multiple, long-considered personal reasons.”

Alden examined him for a moment.

“Yeah. It’s your decision. Sorry I brought it up after you’d already told me what you were doing.” He snorted. “I guess that was me being a prick.”

Stuart looked surprised. Then, he smiled. “You are different than I thought when I first—”

He was interrupted by a loud thumping sound from the door where the splashing noises had been coming from all this time. Alden glanced over.

“What’s in there?”

“It’s…an indoor <<habitat>> for my pet.”

More thumping. Scratching sounds. A plaintive trill.

“It sounds like it wants to get out.”

“She does. I usually take her out for flight training in the evenings. She has excess energy, and it is necessary for her development at this age. She thinks I’ve forgotten.”

Flight training?

“Oh! Is she a ryeh-b’t?” Alden asked, the spark of an old interest rekindling. He had wanted to see one in person, but although they were supposedly common pets, he hadn’t managed to spot one during his entire time at LeafSong.

Stuart nodded. “I bought her egg several months ago.”

“Can I see?”

The Artonan boy stood up. “You should stand against the far wall I think. She’s never smelled a human before. She might be scared of you.”

Alden did as he was told, and a moment later, a scaled, horned, spiny thing with large wings hopped and flapped its way across the room straight toward him. The ryeh-b’t was about twice the size of a full grown cat. She looked a little like a dragon, but with smaller forelimbs than hind ones and more of a naturally upright stance that reminded Alden of bipedal dinosaurs.

She was bright red, with blunted gold caps on her claws to keep her from scratching up the floors, and she sniffed Alden’s knees and made a gurgling, enthusiastic squawk at him.

“Look out,” said Stuart, hurrying over. “She’s going to—”

The ryeh-b’t half-flapped, half-clawed her way up Alden’s body to rest all fifteen or so pounds of herself on top of his neck and shoulders while he hunched over trying to figure out how you were supposed to hold an animal shaped like this anyway.

Pretty sure this isn’t the way, he thought in amusement, as the ryeh-b’t lost her grip on him and tumbled to the floor.

“Don’t climb him,” Stuart said in exasperation, grabbing the creature by one of the large hind feet and letting her hang upside down from his fist like a huge red bat. “You are too big for that now.”

Alden stood up and examined the animal with interest. The ryeh-b’t was damp all over, and through the open door, it looked like she had a whole terrarium and pool situation going on in her special room.

“She’s awesome!”

“She’s a large <<breed>>. Much faster and stronger than usual,” Stuart said, lifting her proudly. “The message carrying and flight competitions are only for child trainers, but I am teaching her anyway because exercise is good for her.”

Kawaahh! the ryeh-b’t said exuberantly. She seemed to like dangling upside down.

“I do not think it is immoral to ask a healer to extend her lifespan,” Stuart said, as he stroked the shiny scales on the ryeh-b’t’s neck. “So we will be together for a long time. And she likes the forest. I will import appropriate small <<game animals>> for her to hunt when she is responsible enough to feed herself.”

It was the easiest conversation topic the two of them had found, so Alden leaned into it. He asked every question he’d ever had about ryeh-b’ts and got lots of detailed answered from Stuart, who was now letting the animal drape herself over his head despite what he’d told her about being too big for that kind of thing a moment before.

One of her wings was blocking half of his face, and she was gnawing lightly on his ear.

“I can’t believe I didn’t ask to start with,” said Alden. “The most important question. What’s her name?”

Stuart stiffened up like a board.

Alden frowned. “I mean…unless ryeh-b’ts don’t usually have them?”

Suddenly, the Artonan was blushing so hard his neck had gone from having a purplish undertone to being actually, undeniably purple.

“She has a name!” he croaked.

“Okay…”

“It’s a normal name.”

“Right. What is it?”

Stuart’s one visible eye shot up toward the ceiling, then down toward the floor, then off to the side like it was looking for answers around the room.

“Ryeh-b’t!” he shouted.

And then he closed his eye, and his whole face dropped. Like he wanted to die on the spot.

“You’re…you’re not great at lying, are you?”

Stuart’s face was continuing to grapify.

“I have endeavored not to do it for so long that I believe I have lost the <<knack>> for it,” he said faintly. “If I ever possessed it.”

“You don’t have to tell me her name if you don’t want to for some reason.”

Maybe he was one of those people who gave their pets stupid names on purpose and he didn’t want to reveal that?

But then some of Alden’s brain cells sprang to life, and he remembered Rel-art’h, just an hour or so ago, saying Like the ryeh-b’t? after Alden had introduced himself.

Stuart said he got her egg a few months ago…

I knew it was weird that Rel-art’h recognized my name!

“Did…did you buy a pet and name it after me when you thought I’d died?” Alden asked, managing to hold back actual laughter but not his amusement. “Why would you do a thing like that?”

She had said Stuart was upset Alden had died, but Alden hadn’t taken it that seriously.

“I’m so sorry,” Stuart whispered. “I humbly apologize. I am very sorry. I—”

“I don’t mind at all. I think it’s funny but not in a bad way. I just don’t understand.”

He reached out cautiously and patted the ryeh-b’t’s warm, smooth wing.

“You’re a good girl, aren’t you, Alden?” he said, just to prove he didn’t have a problem with it.

At the petting and the sound of her name, the ryeh-b’t trilled.

Stuart’s eyes were still clenched shut. “I thought…it was awful and sad that you had died. And that nobody on the Triplanets would mourn you. And I thought, maybe, based on things you had said during the incident, and my father had said in its aftermath, that I might have made the last few days of your life worse. So I decided I should mourn you.”

“It was only a couple of bad hours. I don’t think you should take credit for ruining entire days of my life.” Alden paused. “And you weren’t enjoying yourself either. Unless you liked having a limb eaten. And then exploded.”

“I didn’t. I’m not a <<masochist>>.” Stuart finally opened his eye. “I researched on the internet how to mourn a human—”

“Listen. You need to send me a message in the future every time you use Earth’s internet, so that I can offer you some perspectiveon the things you might read there.”

“Initially, I favored a funeral service in which a boat with your body in it was set adrift and lit on fire. Though further research indicated that was not a traditional or common method—”

“That would have been so much cooler than what my school did.”

“As an alternative, I read that I could name my first born after you,” said Stuart. “But we didn’t know each other that well, and people should choose their own mourning names if they want to. Not have them bestowed by their parents. And I have already taken my own.”

Some Artonans took a mourning name in honor of a person who had died. It went at the beginning. Like the “Worli” in front of Joe’s name.

“So instead you bought a ryeh-b’t,” Alden concluded.

“It occurs to me now that you might find this insulting,” said Stuart. “My family thought it was weird. I meant well, but if you hate it—”

Alden lifted the wing covering Stuart’s face. “I like it,” he said slowly. “It was a little weird. And it was also kind. I really doubt anyone else apart from my aunt and my friends cared that much that I was gone.”

Stuart stared at him.

“Can I try holding the ryeh-b’t upside down now? I feel like I should be allowed to. For obvious reasons.”

********

After that, Stuart didn’t want to let Alden leave. He didn’t say it. But it was clear. He kept finding excuses to talk about new subjects whenever the conversation hit a snag.

Alden didn’t know why the Artonan was so eager for company when he lived in a sort of mini-neighborhood packed with relatives and other “household members.” But he did discover that Stuart had never really interacted with people outside of the community of Knight Rapports. He’d lived here and gone to school here, and it was only now that he was in the wizard version of college that he was actually meeting the rest of the world.

He seemed conflicted about the other students at school.

Alden couldn’t begin to unravel the nuances, but it seemed like they weren’t what Stuart had hoped they would be and hewasn’t what they’d hoped he would be, and everyone was mutually disappointed in each other.

Finally, with a great deal of regret in his voice, Stuart said, “You wanted to go home. I shouldn’t keep you here all night.”

Alden gave his namesake one more scratch on the chin and stood up. “Yep. Spent half a year in a corruption field. Now I get to rest.”

“You look like you need rest.”

“One of those twins down the hall said that.”

“They’re my cousins. Aunt Alis’s daughters.”

Alden turned to the door.

“Let’s go out the window,” Stuart said suddenly. He strode over to what Alden had thought was a blank stretch of paneled wall and pressed his hand to a spot. The wood slid back to reveal a wide window with an expansive view of the surrounding forest.

“Why don’t you keep that open all the time?” Alden asked, surprised.

Half a second later, the other Alden crooned and raced across the room to leap at the window. Stuart grabbed her just before she could smash into the glass.

“Never mind. That answered my question.” He watched the Artonan boy drop the ryeh-b’t into its habitat. “Why go out the window, though?”

“If my family realizes that you are just here instead of here after being summoned, they will want you to form a contract with someone.”

At Alden’s alarmed look, he hastily added, “Only the standard Privacy of the House agreement. It’s like a promise not to share certain kinds of personal information you might learn here. Anyone who works for us has to do it. I could argue that you are my guest, and therefore should be exempt, but I’m not sure…”

That was no big deal. Except that it was.

Alden wasn’t sure, but he thought that forming a contract might hurt like hell right now.

“The window sounds like a fantastic idea.”

It was too dark for Alden to see outside, but Stuart cast a spell to increase his own night vision and reported when the coast was clear. Then he casually jumped out of the second floor window and landed on the ground below like it was only a short hop.

Alden didn’t think it was an ankle-breaking distance, but it still shouldn’t have been that easy.

The guy supposedly has physical enhancements, he remembered.

Alden jumped too. He landed well, but it still sent a jolt through his skeleton. He grunted.

“I should have cast a spell on you,” Stuart said apologetically.

“No. I’m fine.”

The summonarium was a fairly long walk away down a winding path. It was almost as large as the one at LeafSong.

“Is it so big for teleporting in giant things? Or large numbers?” Alden asked as they entered.

“Either. It’s also easier to make them extremely powerful if they’re large.”

He pointed toward a big runic design, and Alden went to stand inside it.

“You should be getting an option to teleport away from there?” Stuart’s tone was curious. “I can’t initiate a cycle for an Avowed myself yet. But even if there was some reason for it not to directly teleport you out of the woods, the Contract should have already forced you to…<<shoo>>?”

