Lara chuckled. “She sprung a lot of things on me over the years, Ren. It's about time I paid her back.”

“Lisa...”

“Please, go along with this.” Lara said. “It's going to be such a surprise for her.”

Ren sighed. “Will it be a good surprise or a bad one?”

“I don't know!” Lara said and laughed. “Isn't that great?”

Ren felt her happiness and gave her a quick kiss. “Whatever makes you happy.”

“Thank you.” Lara said and kissed him again, then she watched him continue to work. After another hour, she let her curiosity about something get the better of her. “Ren, why don't you read all of the glyphs in Issac's Book of Runes and then read the recipes?”

“I don't want his runes and glyphs to mix with the same things I can do.” Ren said. “I'm only looking up specific glyphs for the recipes and not their rune components, at least until I find one that I don't know.”

“I guess having duplicate runes might mess up some of the enchantments.” Lara said.

Ren nodded. “I have the basic rune for Fire because Issac gave it to me, but my multiple rune glyphs are completely different from his.” He said. “He told me that each enchanter does things differently, and you don't realize that until you delve deep into the work of someone else.”

“It's almost bedtime.” Teepo hollered from the ceiling of the next room.

Ren closed up the books and stored them, then he and Lara went into the next room. “Thanks, Teepo.”

“You're welcome.” Teepo said.

Ren and Lara went into the large bedroom and saw Artemis was already in bed and faced away from them. He and Lara stored their clothing, then Lara tapped his shoulder and pointed to Artemis. Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and she chuckled and climbed onto the bed. He stood there and looked at her, and she motioned to Artemis again and then tapped the new amulet he had given her.

Ren nodded and walked over to Artemis, then put a hand on her shoulder. She lifted her head to look at him, and he waved to the bed with Lara in it. Artemis raised both eyebrows at him, and he held a hand out to her. She slowly reached up for it, then sighed and gripped his hand tightly. He helped her stand up and walked her over to the bed, and they climbed into it together.

“Ren, I...” Artemis tried to speak and he cut her off.

“Shh.” Ren said and kissed her on the lips.

“But, I...” Artemis tried again, and it was Lara who cut her off this time.

“Shh.” Lara said and kissed her on the lips, then she activated the new Aura Ren had given her. Artemis was surprised by this as Lara's Aura and Ren's Aura merged for the first time. Ren and Lara exchanged glances and smiled, then they each grabbed one of Artemis' warm metal breasts. She gasped at that and stared at them with wide eyes as her body reacted to the attention, then Ren and Lara dove down to suck on the very prominent and erect tips.
