Mistress Airim huffed, shaking her head. “Per se? Per se, she says. It’s now bound with a non-standard iron, and I’m detecting traces of both Void and Reality within the weapon.” She locked gazes with Tala. “Let me be clear. I did not say void magic and reality magic. I said Void and Reality. This weapon is a nascent Existence weapon.”

Tala blinked a few times. “What is a ‘nascent Existence weapon?’ I’ve thought of it as an Existence blade in that form, but nascent?”

“I have no idea. I just made the term up because it seemed to fit.”

Tala gave her a flat look.

Mistress Airim lifted her hands defensively. “Hey, I’m just working with what I have here. I call it nascent, because while the aspects are there, they are minor, weak even. I feel like if you wanted to purge them you could with relative ease. ‘Existence weapon’ should be self explanatory given the fact that it uses all three pillars, or seems like it can.”

Tala shrugged. “I’ve been thinking of it as an Ending Blade, given the form the pillars are used to activate.”

Mistress Airim gave her an unamused look. “Yes, Mistress Tala. If this were a flaming blade, I could and would still call it a magical weapon. It is a nascent Existence weapon, and the form that takes is an Ending effect. Do you realize how terrifying that is in concept?”

“Powerful, yes, but terrifying? More like useful.”

The woman sighed. “You aren’t thinking it through. Take the flame blade. You could say that it is a magical flame blade, right?”

“Right.”

“Good, then you could equally say that your weapon is an Existence Ending blade… a nascent one.”

“...Oh.”

“Yeah.” The woman nodded slowly, meaningfully.

“That’s little more than word play, though. It’s not actually what it does.”

“Sure, I suppose. I don’t know what it does, but the very fact that you named it that, and I got the same sense in my examination is terrifying to consider.”

Tala regarded Flow for a moment as it lay there in its rather mundane knife form. “So… can you make the sheath?”

Mistress Airim was unamused. “No, Mistress Tala, I cannot effectively sheath an Existence Ending weapon. I don’t even know exactly what such a weapon could do. So, there is no way I could create something that effectively contained it.”

Tala grunted. “What if I just wanted the sheath to contain it when not using those aspects of the weapon?”

Mistress Airim grimaced, clearly considering. “So long as it was understood that it could never be used with that aspect?”

“Yes.”

“Then… Most likely, yes. It will be expensive, and I’ll want to make it as robust as I possibly can.” She shifted, ensuring she had direct eye contact with Tala. “Let me be clear. This will be the most durable I am capable of making, which means it is the most durable that can be made by human hands. I may not be that advanced, but I have delved deeply into this craft, and I use augments that make up for the potential issue of raw power. I doubt even many arcanes could surpass what I will create. Even so, if you activate those magics while your weapon is within the sheath, I cannot guarantee it will last even the briefest of instants.”

Tala nodded. “Understood.”

There was a long moment of silence before the woman added, “And it will be expensive.”

“You said that.”

“You haven’t commented on it.”

“Well, it will cost what it costs.”

That got a look. “You haven’t asked how expensive.”

“You haven’t said. Connect with Mistress Ingrit, and arrange for payment. If she tells me it’s too expensive, then it won’t happen. Otherwise, you’ll get your payment.”

Mistress Airim grunted at that. “Very well.” She took a deep breath, then nodded once. “Now, your husband wanted to discuss a sheath of his own?”
