I am the Undying Savage, Falling Rain. Son of Baatar and Sarnai, Brother of Alsantset and Charok, Uncle to Tali and Tate, Grandson to Akanai and Husolt. Student to Taduk, Betrothed to Sumila, Du Min Yan, and Mei Lin, Consort to Zheng Luo, and unwilling Master to Li Song. I am a Khishig of the Bekhai by choice, a soldier of the Empire by punishment, an herbalist by hobby, merchant by obligation, and politician by necessity.

It’s a long introduction, which is about to get longer, because now I get to add ‘Divine Turtle Whisperer’ to the list.

Last night’s unprompted and impromptu visit into Pong Pong’s Natal Palace came as quite the surprise, but a welcome one to be sure. We both had so much fun splashing around and playing tag, and I learned a lot about Chi-powered water travel. Pong Pong was sandbagging from the start, but I eventually picked up enough to give him a bit of a challenge and keep him on his toes during our games of chase, though I never did end up catching him even once. Eventually, he got bored of winning and we stopped to figure out what to do next, or rather, he decided what we were gonna do. One moment we were chilling by his coral throne trying to make conversation through emotions and body language, and then I blinked and we were sitting in a beautiful field of vibrant seaweed which took my breath away.

Thus began our journey through the undersea vistas of Pong Pong’s Natal Palace, and I gotta say, it’s a lot bigger than I expected. Granted, it’s hard to pin down an exact size of the place with Pong Pong teleporting us around at the speed of thought, but after going through almost a dozen unique and awe-inspiring aquatic biomes, I began to wonder if there was an actual end to his Natal Palace. From colourful coral reefs and verdant undersea forests, to decrepit sunken shipwrecks and natural nautical necropolises, Pong Pong’s inner world has it all and more. While I obviously didn’t recognize any of the underwater landmarks, considering how Pong Pong brought me to so many different environments and habitats without ever coming across the darkness of the void, I’m almost certain the tiny Divine Turtle modelled his Natal Palace after the entirety of the Azure Sea.

Which is pretty damned impressive considering mine was only as big as a village. Hell, Mahakala was a human Divinity, and his Natal Palace was a courtyard like... forty football fields wide. Maybe more, I don’t know, it was a huge empty space and I had more pressing matters to attend to at the time, like the wave of lethal Anathema closing in from all sides. Either way, Mahakala’s Natal Palace was huge, but nowhere close to the size of the Azure Sea, closer to a big pond, or maybe a small lake if I’m being generous.

Over the course of our sight-seeing journey, there were only two places Pong Pong refused to bring me, even though I spotted them several times from different angles in various locations and politely inquired through Aura. One was a dark, undersea cave system that was devoid of colour and plant life, and the other was the only dry land I’d seen throughout our entire journey, a white, sandy beach that seemed untouched by human life. In both instances, Pong Pong responded to my polite inquiries with a surge of sorrow and distress, so I didn’t push him to share any more than he wanted to, but he was quick to recover, and we were off to see new and exciting vistas in no time flat.

I learned quite a bit from my trip through Pong Pong’s Natal Palace, and not just about controlling Water and swimming. For starters, the little guy really loves to travel, but that’s besides the point. The important thing is he’s a lot smarter than I gave him credit for and an incredible story teller, which is really saying something since he can’t actually speak. Instead, he reenacted his stories in the locations they took place, while sending bursts of emotions over to convey what was going through his mind. Most of his stories have to do with escaping predators, monstrous creatures he brought into existence using Chi and imagination, but oddly enough, he never let his facsimiles take part in the story telling. In fact, I noticed he made an effort to will them out of existence as quickly as possible, before going back to dipping, ducking, and diving around. It could be because he lacks the resources to add anything permanent to his Natal Palace, but I got the feeling he didn’t like having living creatures around, even if he was the one who created them. Honestly, I kind of get why, because I never felt comfortable around my soulless mannequin villagers either, back when that was a whole thing. I really only put them there because I wanted the village to feel like home, but it kinda backfired and made me avoid wandering down those familiar paths in my own Natal Palace.

It was so creepy having them hang around doing the one task I assigned them, yet somehow it felt like they were always watching me go by...

Another thing I learned was that time flies when you’re in someone else’s Natal Palace, or maybe we were just having too much fun. One moment, I was giving Pong Pong a big hug to celebrate his daring escape from a nightmarish goblin-swordfish thing, and then out of nowhere, I was back in the real world with the sun shining in my tired eyes and Lin-Lin announcing that lunch is ready. This brought me to my next discovery, which was that going on adventures in Pong Pong land is not the same as getting a good night’s sleep, because despite having lain in bed for almost twelve hours straight, I was still dog-tired and grouchy to boot. Pong Pong also looked a little fatigued, but he perked right up after I dropped him off in a box of shrimp, which is where he stayed for the entirety of Nian Zu’s naggy lecture.

Annoying and judgmental as the old man was, the Living Legend made some good points. Yea, the locals here are batshit crazy, but if I know bees sting, and go out naked to collect honey, then I can’t really blame the bees now, can I? Thus, after confirming that I was still indeed a Chi-less peasant out here in the real world, I spent the next hour or so on my best behaviour under house arrest. Sadly, there’s only so many things to do without internet, and my floofs weren’t picking up the tricks I was throwing down, so I was already going a little stir-crazy by the time Lin-Lin suggested we go see Ping Ping. That’s why I jumped at the suggestion, because I was excited to have some fun, but then enters Binesi, the disapproving mountain man who scowls more than Mila, which is to say he’s always scowling. Always. The dude even scowls while taking orders from Nian Zu, but I bet his current posting has something to do with it. Again though, he also made some good points, because I should know how my guards are being deployed and giving them fair warning to make sure things are safe is just plain smart.

Armed with a trusty steel sword and armoured in my fancy Sentinel leathers, I head out with Lin-Lin to visit Ping Ping and see if my Natal Palace diving ability is limited to one turtle and one turtle only. Being the sweet girl that she is, Ping Ping was more than happy to curl up for a snooze, and she is surprisingly comfortable to snuggle with. With my legs tucked under her neck and my cheek pressed against her shoulder, I give her a big smile and a wave goodnight before drifting off into peaceful, dreamless sleep.

Time passes once again, and I wake only seconds after I’ve closed my eyes. At least that’s what it feels like, but the sun’s position tells me otherwise, with about an hour or two having gone by during those brief moments of darkness. Alerted by Ping Ping’s sub-vocal squeak, I rub my eyes and look around to find nothing wrong and the big girl still wrapped around me. I can hear Song and Binesi hashing it out about me being exposed out here by the lake, and once again, he has a point, but he can’t expect me to spend the next week under lock and key. I’m as safe as can be just outside the manor, with Ping Ping and all my guards to watch over me. Lin-Lin’s guards too, since they’re always on alert, but I didn’t tell Binesi about them because he called me foundling and used it like an insult. Stupid non-Bekhai isolationist mountain dweller. If you’re so against outsiders, then why are you so gung ho about the military? Pick a side and stick with it, jerk.

Patting Ping Ping’s neck to soothe her nerves, I hum ‘Go to Sleep Little Turtle’ under my breath and send my good vibes over to her. Poor girl, she’s probably stressed from all the excitement, bloodshed, and unfamiliar company, because despite what he said about not being my nursemaid, I’m certain Binesi has guards stationed around us much closer than Ping Ping likes. The People and Protectorate are more considerate of her needs and stay further away if they’re going to remain in Concealment, but Binesi’s people are probably close enough to touch her. Bad idea to stress out the Divine Turtle, especially since she just killed an assassin yesterday, and I should’ve said something about it earlier. Thankfully, my song is enough to reassure her that there’s no danger here, and I feel the tension drain from her turtilian frame as she blinks her dark, beady eyes in an adorably sleepy manner. Giving me one last, careful snuggle to get as close as possible, she exhales softly before finally falling asleep, and I focus on nothing once more while continuing to hum the peaceful little melody.

Huh. Did I just pull a Luo-Luo and music my emotions to Ping Ping? Man, today is just full of surprises.

The realization of my minor success comes with a burst of mental clarity as my weary lethargy melts away like a cloak falling off my shoulders. All of a sudden, I’m awake and alert as can be, but I’m no longer sitting outside the manor nestled in Ping Ping’s embrace. Instead, I’m standing with my head in the clouds and the void off in the distance, almost close enough to reach out and touch but still a vast, insurmountable distance away.

A chorus of happy squeaks and squeals draws my attention, and the world changes around me. One moment I have my head in the clouds, and the next I’m standing at the edge of a bamboo forest on the mudbank of a fast flowing river, face to face with the most adorable version of Ping Ping I could ever imagine. All full of soft points and rounded edges rather than the jagged, pointed dinosaur she is in real life, she’s much smaller in her Natal Palace than she is in real life, about the size of a large dog and even smaller than Aurie, my runtiest of wildcats. Tippy tapping in place out of pure delight, the sweet girl needs no Aura or conversation to convince her I’m who I appear to be, which is both good and bad considering I could’ve been a Spectre here to take over and Demonize her. I hope they don’t wise up and trick her using my form, but that’s a concern for another day, because right now, I need to do something I’ve always wanted to do.

“Hi Ping Ping!” I cry, while running over to embrace her, and she snuggles back so aggressively she lifts me off my feet. Laughing in delight, I lavish the sweet girl with plenty of snuggles and affection while we play around in the mud, and even lift her around for a bit, though not for long since my Natal Palace powers does not include herculean strength. Too excited to sit still, she prances in slow circles around me while nuzzling me from all sides, utterly charmed by my presence here where she never expected me to show. Making sure to give her plenty of love through Aura and actions, I pat her head, scritch her chin, rub her cheeks, and essentially give her the full floofy treatment as if she were a normal sized pet, and Ping Ping loves every minute of it.

As she bumps and jostles me around out of sheer excitement, it occurs to me how hard she has it out in the real world, having to always tip-toe carefully around while remaining aware of her surroundings, even though no one would really blame her for barrelling through everyone and everything in her path. She really is the sweetest of girls, and it warms my heart to see her running around without a care in the world, her hearty stomps and lashing tail splashing mud and water in all directions.

In between the praise and scritches, I glance around Ping Ping’s Natal Palace and recognize it as a muddy riverbank outside Ping Yao. When I first laid eyes on her, she was lying in a similar clearing with a similar river, perhaps even this exact same place, but I can’t be sure. Like Pong Pong, Ping Ping eventually calms down and brings me around for a look, diving head-first into the river before emerging to see if I’ll follow. To my great surprise, Ping Ping isn’t as fast as her tinier counterpart, preferring to slowly amble through the river instead of jumping around from place to place. She doesn’t swim the same way either, using her legs to power herself through the current whereas Pong Pong just sort of glides through it with ease, a trick I learned was about finding the right angle to cut through the resistance so it’s almost negligible, and in some rare cases can even help you along. There’s a lot of subtle Water-Chi manipulation that goes along with aquatic locomotion, and I can’t really explain it well, but it’s sort of like if you surrender yourself to the flow, it will pick you up and carry you wherever you want to go, but not necessarily along the path you wanted.

