Either Ping Ping hasn’t learned this particular lesson yet, or she might just want to see the sights with me as we take a leisurely swim through her personal world. Another difference is that the sweet girl has no qualms about bringing things to life inside her Natal Palace, with schools of fish daring around us and hordes of furry critters to visit as we make our way around. A family of giant, dog-sized squirrels chitter and follows along the riverbank, while a colony of tiny cloud chaser hares hops through the bamboo trees above them. Deer, monkeys, sheep, and more are seen drinking from the river or splashing about the shallows, and there are even quins darting through the waters and sunning themselves on the grass. The animals are more real and lifelike than I could ever create them, so realistic I wouldn’t even know they were fake if I wasn’t clearly in Ping Ping’s Natal Palace, and I’m more than happy to swim over and give them a cuddle alongside the big girl. At the end of our journey, we come across a massive group of red-pandas playing in a clearing, and Ping Ping introduces me to the biggest red-panda I’ve ever seen, a grumpy chubby chonker the size of an elephant who lifts Ping Ping into a warm embrace without ever dropping his scowl, while the sweet girl looks at me and squeaks oh so happily.

As I throw myself against the chonker’s leg to see what it’s like, I immediately swear to hug this giant red panda in real life. I hope he’s still somewhere out there, living in the forests of Ping Yao. I should take Ping Ping back there and see what floofs she brings me to...

There are even a few people present in her Natal Palace, though they’re not as realistic as the animals, their faces shrouded in shadow and only recognizable as the Protectorate due to their woodsman clothing. They only ever stop in to bow and pray, and I somehow get the feeling Ping Ping wishes they would come a little closer and play. Eventually though, much like Pong Pong’s facsimiles, the animals and humans in Ping Ping’s Natal Palace fade away and disappear, the only proof I’ve seen that she’s making and unmaking them as we go. The giant red panda sticks around the longest, and from her mournful squeaks and questioning gazes, I can tell she’s trying to ask something, but I’ll be damned if I understand what she’s talking about. Maybe she misses her friend and wants to go back and visit, but I can’t do that just yet, so I give her a pat and try to tell her that everything will be okay through Aura. Oddly enough, it doesn’t cheer her up much, but she eventually accepts my assurances and settles down.

Keeping Binesi’s warnings in mind, I decide to cut our little journey short and head back to the real world, but I run into an unexpected, if somewhat predictable, pitfall. I can’t leave on my own, and it’s difficult to convince Ping Ping to send me away using only Aura. As much as I miss having it out in the real world, I’d almost forgotten how frustrating Aura could be since it’s not exactly a universal language. After struggling to convey the emotion of a fond farewell, I smack myself on the head for being an idiot and just wave goodbye. “I need to go now, big girl. Bye!”

Though saddened to see me leave, Ping Ping waves back and I wake out in the real world, nestled in her warm embrace as she watches me with bated breath. Smiling at her curiosity, I wave hello and say, “Hi again, big girl.” Though unable to move for fear of injuring me, she blinks and squeaks in delight as I push myself to my feet and wrap my arms around her beak. So excited by these new developments, she snuggles back ever so gently, which is to say hard enough to lift me off my feet and leave a few bruised ribs, but I hang in there to show her I’m not as fragile as she thinks. “Poor girl,” I whisper, reaching over to scritch her eyeridge. “Life must be hard when you’re so much bigger than everyone around you, especially when you just wanna cuddle with the floofs. I knew you were a big sweetheart, but I didn’t think you were a fellow floof lover too.”

“You’re so silly hubby.” Lin-Lin’s giggle sounds only a split second before her airy frame settles on top of my back and Blackjack hops down to greet Ping Ping himself. “Of course she loves floofs, ya? Remember how she played with the quins in Nan Ping Bay?”

“Right you are, wifey.” Unable to speak freely about my Natal Palace jaunting abilities with Binesi lurking nearby, I spend longer than usual saying goodbye to Ping Ping before heading back into the manor with Song in tow, and immediately dismiss Kuang Biao from his duties because as far as I can tell, he hasn’t had a day off since entering my employ. The other Death Corps guards take shifts, but the former Royal Guardian never leaves my side, and I never thought to tell him to take a personal day. I’m a terrible employer, but at least some good has come from Nian Zu and Binesi’s meddling, so I suppose I should thank them both for pushing me to become a better commander.

Thing is, I don’t want to command, but they’re right. I’m a leader, whether I like it or not, and if I want to keep my followers alive, I’ll need to learn how to command them.

Problem is, it’s not like there’s a class I can take, so I have to keep learning as I go or look to Dad or Binesi for advice. For now, even though I’ve done quite a bit this afternoon, it’s still four o’ clock and dinner is several hours away, so I settle down in the courtyard and go back to teaching tricks to the wildcats and bunnies. Imagine my surprise when Aurie gets it right on the first try, bringing his paw to mouth as if trying to shovel food in there as quickly as possible. I can almost see the captions which read ‘eat?’, and I squeal in ecstatic delight as I give him the biggest piece of jerky I have on me. Jimjam plods over to do the same, and Sarankho slides over on her back like a dainty little sweetheart to beg for treats, and I surrender everything I have on me to reinforce the behaviour.

Then, once I’ve run out, they continue asking for treats, and I realize I’ve made a huge mistake.

“I told Li-Li this would happen.” Still snuggling me from behind, Lin-Lin giggles and adds, “It’s really cute though.”

“It sure is.” Heartbreaking too, because I can’t keep feeding them all day. They eat enough as it is, and as adorable as fat animals are, I need these floofs to be healthy so they’ll outlive me. “How’d Song get them to learn?”

“With love and patience, hubby.” Kissing me lightly on the cheek, Lin-Lin sighs and says, “You have lots of the first, but none of the second, ya? You need to reward them for small successes, and then gradually build up to the final trick.”

...This sounds suspiciously a lot like what Pong Pong was doing, letting me get closer and closer before zipping away so I wouldn’t lose motivation.

Am... am I being trained by a turtle?

...I’m not sure how I feel about this.

Annoyed I can’t talk about it yet because Binesi is still lurking around, I wordlessly reassure Lin-Lin that nothing’s wrong and go back to playing with the floofs and chatting about nothing with my wifey. Having long since grown bored of us, Song is off in a corner practising the Forms, or more specifically several Movements of Tiger Form. Stalks the Dragon into Swipes the Rushes, followed by Reversing the Flow into Fanged Clutch. I’ve seen her use the combination before, but it looks like she’s trying something new and can’t quite figure it out, because she keeps starting and stopping before starting again, and just pushing on through without changing anything even though she feels it’s not exactly right.

Step. Draw. Stop.

Step. Draw. Slash. Stop.

Step. Draw. Slash. Turn. Stop.

Step. Draw. Slash. Turn. Twist. Stop.

Step. Draw. Slash. Turn. Twist. Growl. Stop.

She’s made some progress, but it looks like she’s too frustrated to go on, because each new step brings more issues she doesn’t know how to resolve. “You’re trying to combine those Movements right?” Coming to my feet with Lin-Lin still clinging to my back, I head over to offer my own two cents as Song reluctantly nods in reply. Taking this as permission to meddle, I explain, “If that’s the case, you should stop trying to keep them separate.” Her puzzled frown is answer enough, and I smile as I take in this rare moment of expression. “You’re too fixated on the base Movements. When you fight, you move so perfectly that it’s easy to see the Movements your actions are based on. This speaks to your high level of mastery, but also shows you have a rigid and inflexible perspective.”

Puffing up her cheeks in vehement disagreement, Song otherwise remains silent and unconvinced. Holding my hands up in apology, I continue, “It’s not a bad thing. You have a clear impression of what each Movement can do and how you can use it, which cuts down on thinking and decision making during the heat of the moment. Instead of trying to adapt a Movement on the fly, you simply pull out the right Movement for the right job. It’s efficient and effective, and it’s also why it’s so easy to identify the Movements in your actions, but in this one instance, it’s hindering your progress.”

Drawing my mundane sword, I swing it about in a figure eight pattern to limber up and familiarize myself with its weight and heft, but no matter how much I move it about, it still doesn’t feel right. Repressing a sigh, I put the weapon away and settle for just showing Song with my bare hands and an imaginary sword as I adopt the same stance and copy her earlier moments. Step, cross, step on a forward angle. “Stalks the Dragon.” Quick draw into a horizontal slash. “Swipes the Rushes.” As my sword arrives at the end of the slash, I gently turn my wrist so the edge faces my opponent once more and slash again, this time on a downward diagonal slant. “Reversing the Flow.” My free hand moves up to meet my sword as I bring the weapon up, around, and down in a powerful, two-handed, overhead smash, an attack designed to take advantage of the previous three Movements to strike at a foe whose guard has been broken through. “Fanged Clutch.”

Catching myself trying to sheathe my non-existent sword, my cheeks burn ever so slightly as I try to pretend that didn’t happen. Either way, that wasn’t a bad performance for a crippled dude with no Chi, with an adorable half-hare wifey hanging on his shoulders to boot. “That’s how you normally use those Movements. Four separate attacks, one followed by the other, all neat and delineated as can be.” Trying to think of a way to better explain it, I turn to the arts for an analogy. “It’s like four musical notes.” Wait, that’s Luo-Luo. Song’s Dao has more to do with poetry. “Or better yet, four separate words, like in Chengyu.”

Chengyu is one of the most popular forms of poetry in the Empire, which usually take the form of four word idioms. They generally encompass the bleak and desolate outlook most people have wholeheartedly embraced, like ‘man proposes, Heaven disposes’, or ‘revel in another’s misfortune’, and let’s not forget the overused, ‘a dragon among men’. I decided the last one is depressing because it implies men are supposed to suffer in this world, where only dragons can thrive.

Inner commentary aside, I explain, “Individually, there’s nothing wrong with the four words or Movements you’ve been using, and they even make sense when put together, but that’s not enough to make a Chengyu. Take the statement, ‘this man is a standout talent’. Perfectly reasonable and understandable by all. However, one could also say ‘this man is a dragon among men’. Two statements using different words yet sharing the same meaning, but one can be considered Chengyu, because there’s more to it than just the individual words. What I’m trying to say is that when you normally fight, you speak in clear, delineated sentences, but right now, in attempting to combine the Movements, you’re writing Chengyu.”

My efforts are rewarded with a flash of comprehension in Song’s lovely, pale green eyes, which buoys my confidence to never before seen heights. Continuing with my explanation, I emphasize, “Again, it’s perfectly fine to use the Movements the way you normally do. Reversing the Flow is even followed by Fanged Clutch in the classical order of the Forms, so it feels normal and natural to do so in combat. However, if you’re trying to take things to the next level and do more than just use four Movements in sequence, then you need to remember that the final product must be greater than the sum of its parts.”

Silence greets my declaration, and I can see I’ve lost Song somewhere along the way, which is surprising since I thought this was self-explanatory. “You’re trying to take four individual Movements and mash them into one rigid combination, yea? But if your final product is only as powerful as the four initial Movements, then why bother going to all the effort? Keeping the Movements separate offers more flexibility, so there needs to be a good reason to combine them. That’s why we have idioms after all, to say something besides what the individual words might convey.”

