Comprehension dawns as Song mentally retreats to rethink her approach, and I step away to leave her in peace. Having found a glaring flaw of my own, I set to familiarizing myself with the steel sword on my hip in case I should ever actually need to use it, while also keeping an eye on Song’s progress. Truth be told, I already have the final answer on how she could combine the four Movements, since I figured it out during my first battlefield duel against Gen, the one that took place a few hours before Zhen Shi took him over and shattered my Spiritual Weapons. Thing is, I could show her and explain my reasoning for each and every step along the way, but it’d be like explaining Akanai’s charging attack all over again. There are just too many moving parts and minor details to explain in depth, especially when you factor in the need to micro-Amplify certain Movements at certain moments to pull Song’s move off right. I’m not even sure I could perform those Movements here and now as I am, but I’m confident that once I point her in the right direction, she’ll understand why it doesn’t feel right and figure the rest out all on her own.

That’s faith, I suppose, faith in Song’s skills and competence, so maybe the Mother will work Her magic and send some Insight the half-cat’s way.

If only things were so easy for me. Whatever Chi-benefits I get from being in someone else’s Natal Palace doesn’t translate over to real life, and between humming Ping Ping to sleep and my short performance just now, I might very well have hastened my eventual deterioration. It might just be nerves, but I feel a little weaker than I did yesterday, not just tired, but burdened and sore, with phantom pangs of future aches already settling into place. The Heavenly Energy I Devoured in Sinuji won’t last me a lifetime, but I pray it lasts at least another week or two so I can make it through this banquet in good health. There was a time when the sword on my waist would’ve felt light as a feather, but now this hunk of steel feels much too large and unwieldy to swing more than a few times, much less for an entire hour of battle. My Spiritual Weapons, Peace and Tranquility, always felt like extensions of my arms, and even Unity never felt this odd and out of place in my hands, which is just another Martial Warrior benefit I never really appreciated until I lost it. Once again, the urge to destroy the remains of my Spiritual Weapons in a fit of pique bubbles to the top, but I swallow my injured pride and tell myself to stop being an idiot.

Not having to look at or sense them won’t change a thing, and it might very well cause the ruined remains of my shattered Core to unravel completely. No one knows for sure, but I for one intend to find the one person who might offer insight into my situation during this trip to the Central Citadel.

Broken Blade Pichai, you ignored my letters and dodged my requests for several months now, but now your luck has run out. According to Dad’s contacts, you’ve already left the Southern Citadel to attend the banquet, and when I see you, you will answer my questions, or I’ll sic not one, but two Divine Turtles on your old ass and drown you in a sea of turtle spit.

For I am Falling Rain, the Savage Turtle Whisperer.

...Yea, not a title which inspires fear. Turtle commander? Turtle friend?

Whatever. Who cares. I have turtles, and I’m not afraid to use them, so suck it.

Chapter Meme
