A part of him looked at Ophiel bounding around among the slimes, looking like a slime and therefore not a target at all, and Erick thought of his own Light Slime Familiar Form… But he discarded that option. The slimes couldn’t see him anymore, anyway, which removed all confrontation as he traveled to the hole in the northern-ish side of the dungeon. Ophiel tired of slime games when Erick passed by, or maybe he knew to be present instead of playing around, so Ophiel turned back into a bird-ish form and landed, invisibly, upon Erick’s shoulder.

With a voice filled with childlike need, Ophiel whispered, “We play slimes?”

He wanted Erick to join him in slime-time.

And Erick… Needed to do that, because Ophiel asked, and Erick was a good father.

“We’ll do some slime-time later, okay? I have to do something else, first.”

Ophiel fluffed up happy as could be, whistling in violins that filled the air with joy.

The slimes all started looking around, trying to find the source of the noise, each of them looking slightly agitated or joyful at the noise. Big purple did a full-body shake, and then rolled out of the lazy river, to follow where he had heard the noise.

Erick left big purple behind, smiling softly as the big slime stopped where Ophiel had cried out.

Ophiel whispered, “We be back soon!”

Erick smiled wider at that.

Soon, Erick reached the hole in the northern side of the dungeon floor. It was not just a hole, though. It was also a very large ridge, which no slimes could accidentally climb over, to fall into the space beyond.

Erick descended. Beyond that hole lay a second floor which was much smaller than the first floor, and with several key differences.

The land itself was a domed space, while the inside of that dome had some sort of intricate illusion painted on the whole thing, giving the impression that this cavern was on the Surface, in the forest up above. Dark trees lined the land, and the sky was full of stars, except the hole that Erick had arrived through; that hole was just black, and looked like a new moon perpetually hanging in the sky above.

And then there was the house sitting in the middle of the cavern.

The property around the house was barren, orange-ish stone, which could easily be turned into sand, and then with some [Grow] and some water and some clover, it could be turned into proper soil, for growing things. It was a familiar-looking land surrounding the house, but the house itself was more familiar by far. It was not the cottage house that Erick and Quilatalap had shared at all, and Erick was glad for that. It would have been weird to see his and Quilatalap’s house here, in this place.

It was his house from Spur, though, and that was almost as disconcerting.

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that.

Three stories tall, with a mage tower on the north and south sides, and with balconies on the second floor and third floor, it was an intimately familiar house. The original one, from way before Erick and Jane had gotten to it and then [Mend]ed it from destroyed foundation into ‘new’ house, had been so well destroyed by time that the [Mend]ed version had turned out lumpy and indistinct. And so Al had helped to fix it up properly, since he was a Stone Mage capable of architecture-level stonework. Jane had wanted a ‘Victorian’ style house, but Al had had no idea what ‘Victorian’ meant, but he was accomplished in stone, and he had figured out what she wanted soon enough. The actual style of the house had become ‘Newood’ style due to that interaction, while most of the other houses of Spur remained flat-roofed places that weren’t too well suited for rain.

A lot of Spur had adopted the Newood style because of that house and Erick and his rain, but a lot of places in Spur had just opted for some slopes and drainage to their usual desert style.

Erick had lived in that house with Poi, Teressa, Kiri, and Jane, for a long while, when Jane wasn’t out gallivanting around the world, or delving into Ar’Kendrithyst or other dangerous places.

The original house in Spur was gone, and had been gone for many years by now. People kept either trying to destroy it, or venerate it, and neither of those outcomes was acceptable, so Silverite had ordered it demolished. Al had turned it into sand and brushed away that sand into the Crystal Forest preserve that surrounded Spur. Now, the only thing left in Spur where Erick had started his life was an empty space upon the orange stone.

But here was that house again, inside a dungeon, located just outside of the ‘New Ar’Kendrithyst’.

Ophiel was also having a prolonged confusing moment, but his moment was completely distinct from Erick’s. The little guy fluffed up and took off of Erick’s shoulder to fly inside the house, to look around at the furniture and at the books on the shelves, and at the chocolate bars sitting on the kitchen table, alongside freshly–seeming baked cookies. Or at least those cookies had been freshly baked. Ophiel disturbed [Preservation Ward]s everywhere he flew, breaking them as he twittered in concerned, unsure guitar noises, as he poked around at cans of coffee and at frozen beef in the chill room. The little guy was having a lot of trouble understanding what he was seeing because he wasn’t a real person with real memories, and yet he had some memories, and that was disturbing to him.

He remembered the house, but not enough to really know what it was.

Erick steeled himself and walked through the front door of the house.

Steeling himself wasn’t enough to completely nullify the emotional response of stepping into the past like this. His heart pumped. His breath hitched. And then he walked forward, into the well-lit house that was lit with wardlights exactly as Erick had once lit it with wardlights, over a decade ago.

Everything about the house was old-tech compared to what Erick now had in his cloud castle. The wardlights weren’t shuttered at all; they were just always on. The [Air Conditioning Ward] had lapsed, and it needed to be remade, so Erick did that, and then he began tying all the magic in the house together with a proper node network, casting the lines of the network into the stone, so that everything was hidden from sight. With casual gestures of his aura control, he began remaking the lights into more perfect lights, righting a tilted one he had put up in the second floor hallway so that it pointed directly down, instead of at a tiny angle. Why did he cast the original one at an angle? Erick wasn’t sure; probably just so he didn’t look perfect, so guests could see that magic and say to themselves ‘oh, he’s not perfect, I feel better about myself now’.

His bedroom looked the same as it did, oh so long ago. The other rooms looked similar to how they had looked a decade ago. Erick’s mage tower even had most of his copy of Earth’s Solar System, done in stone, hanging on the ceiling.

“But that’s different,” Erick said, looking up at the ‘sun’, and then at a few spots in the ‘asteroid belt’.

‘The sun’ was the dungeon core. That was the only thing it could have been. Bright white and iridescent, the core was a good meter across and radiating power. The planets were just plain orange/white stone. 17 of the asteroid belt’s asteroids were [Ward]ed and secured dungeon master slimes. They looked like fist-sized amoeba-shaped plops of goo suspended in crystal spheres.

“Whelp,” Erick said, “No time like the present… I suppose.”

Erick finished off the second core in his stomach and put his hand under his shirt, into his stomach, reshaping his flesh to pull out that second core. A small bit of blood scattered away as he did so, but there wasn’t much pain at all. Erick held up the iridescent white core below one of the crystallized dungeon master slimes. Drops of blood slid off of the core, past Erick’s hand, to fall upon and mar the otherwise clean orange-and-white stone ground.

As if knowing that it was time to become real, the dungeon master slime that Erick held his core under began to flex. The protective seal burst into fragments of dissolving magic. The slime fell through the air and Erick guided it to gently plop directly onto the core. It still splattered, but that splatter rapidly came back together, to subsume the core into itself. Erick held onto the proto-him, the little guy flexing and squirming over the core to right itself into the correct position, as Erick walked out of the mage tower, and into the hallway that led to his room.

Erick set ‘himself’ down atop a bed that was not his, but which was his, and would become his, soon enough.

And then Erick took a seat, to watch himself come into being.

This was going to be traumatic for himself, and he needed to be here for this.

Slowly, the slime began to flex upon the covers and veins of magic began to appear within the amoeba. Those veins went up to the head area, and down to the arms and legs, with the core in the middle, outsizing the amoeba twice over, for now. Within minutes the basic structure had stabilized, and those arms and legs began to grow in size.

When the repro was the size of a small child, Erick put the covers over its lower half.

It took an hour for ‘himself’ to appear in the slime.

Erick looked at ‘Erick 2’, sleeping in his bed. There were still some small problems here and there, in the shape of the hair still made out of slime, and in the fingers not being fully realized, and in the insides being all made of slime and not real organs at all, but Erick 2 opened his eyes anyway.

Erick 2 looked at Erick, sitting in his chair on the other side of the room, startled for a moment, and then he relaxed, and said, “Ahhh. Fuck. Put me to sleep, please. I’m too fucked up right now to think right.”

Erick tried not to wince. ‘Erick 2’ must have been out of it, still, because if he wasn’t, he would have known… “Sorry, Erick. [Merciful Ether] doesn’t work that well on slimes.”

“Try anyway.”

Erick did so.

Erick 2 frowned, whispered some curses about how he should have figured out a name before he did this, but eventually he fell asleep again. Erick silently chided himself for not picking out a name, too. Erick had to reapply [Merciful Ether] a few times to keep Erick 2 asleep.

Two more hours later, and Erick 2 was completely himself, without any trace of slime-parts at all. Erick let the Particle sleeping spell lapse.

Erick 2 woke up again, looking groggy.

Erick figured that would happen, so he dispelled the [Preservation Ward] on the pot full of coffee he had made earlier. He poured a mug out for his other self, and for himself, with a liberal amount of sugar and cream for both of them; this was not a wake-up coffee, this was an ‘ease you into the horror’ sort of coffee.

Erick 2 sat up in bed and took the cup, drinking deep, as the ether in his system was further purged by a lingering [Cleanse] that Erick had already cast. At least [Cleanse] was working right in this dungeon; it was more often that [Cleanse] didn’t work at all in these spaces.

Erick 2 savored the warmth of the coffee entering his body and the heat seeping into his hands, and then he set the cup down. He looked to Erick, then Ophiel, who was having another surreal moment, then to the band of gold on Erick’s left arm.

“I want the staff.”

The staff materialized in the air and then slipped onto Erick 2’s wrist.

Erick went, “Uhh…”

Erick 2 went, “… Well. I was… Expecting something of a talk after making that request.”

Erick tried, “On my wrist, staff?”

The staff flexed through the air and went right back onto Erick’s wrist. Erick looked down at the golden twist of not-wheat, and said, “Ah. Well. Weird.”

Erick 2 said, “We are copies of each other— Well…” He frowned.

“We are copies of each other,” Erick said, solidly. “But we’re not perfect copies. And I’m really sorry for not figuring out a name before I did this.”

Erick 2 sighed a little, and then he chuckled. “The only one I have to blame for me being ‘Erick 2’ is myself.”

Erick gave a small smile. “We sorta ran out of good names.”

Erick 2 smiled a little toward nothing in particular, and then he got up, and started putting on the clothes that Erick had [Duplicate]ed for him. “Now that I’m here… Now that I can argue with myself, I don’t think Jane should make copies.”

Erick instantly countered, “I sure as shit know that I would want Jane to be with me, if I were you.” Erick had expected this conversation, for he had been waiting for it. “You can’t do this life alone.”

“And I know that her repro wouldn’t be my Jane. My Jane would be the one out there, talking with Shades like she was a Shade herself, or at the very least Melemizargo’s Champion. Whoever comes out of a dungeon master slime would just be a repro.” Erick 2 adjusted his clothes, and then picked up his coffee mug, saying, “Because no matter how much I pretend that this person standing before me is me, I know they’re not. I know Jane’s repro wouldn’t be Jane. I like to pretend that repros are their originals, and I like to legally treat them the same, but they’re not the same at all. And now that I’m on this side, I can say what the original can’t.”

Erick frowned. “So what if we’re not perfectly empathetic all the time—”

“A lot less these days than it used to be, too.” Erick 2 walked out of the room. “But what does that matter at all? We’re kings of the world.”

Erick carried the coffee pot and his mug, saying, “Don’t you get unmoored on me, now.”

The two of them walked down to the kitchen.

Erick 2 sat down by the window, saying, “I’m not unmoored, but I do wish to leave behind all the uncomfortable conversation for when we aren’t faced with a world-ending threat that needs to be explored, lest less-capable hands do the exploring. I’d also prefer there not be any world-level threats at all, but we never get to choose our real battles, do we.”

Erick joined Erick 2 at the window, and moved onto a different topic. “Are you going to be okay down here?”

“… That’s not ‘leaving it alone until later’, is it.”

Erick stared at Erick 2, his question standing.

Erick 2 said, “I have a whole dungeon to explore and remake and then extend out into the Dark, searching for… whatever we decide to search for. But more than that, I kinda want to make a dungeon, too. Quilatalap has a lot of fun with them, after all… and I have a few ideas about what I’d like a Second Script to look like, anyway. It’s magic making, and I love that, so it’ll be fine.”

