Erick nodded. “Okay. Good.” Erick had been worried about the health and wellbeing of repros for a very long time, ever since the concept came along with dungeon cores all those years ago, which is why he had never made one until Rozeta demanded he make one, as a backup for himself, in case the worst should happen on this journey. Making that first one had been very stressful, but Ezekiel was doing okay as far as Erick knew, and so making a second repro had been easier. Not ‘easy’; not by a [Far Bolt]. But easier. “It helps that we’ve kinda wanted to make a dungeon for a while, after that Glittering Depths event. And now you get to do that; I can only watch.”

Erick 2 smiled. “I was thinking the same thing.” And then he waved a hand to the left, and a bunch of black screens with white text appeared. “We’ve got a basic set up, but we can change it however we want.”

- -

RULES:

1: Script Interface, minimal settings

2: Auto-Resurrection, unlimited lives

3: Maximum Life Support, slime generation set to maximum; PLAIN SLIMES ONLY

4: Sanctity of Space, golem enforcement of life form level; MAXIMUM LETHALITY

~ Exceptions: Fallopolis, slimes, Erick Flatt, Jane Flatt, Ophiel, Yggdrasil, + Accompaniment

5: Direct access to Darkness

Note: Rules Changes Locked for <09D:23H:16M>

- -

- -

Inflow: 1,740,000 per day

Outflow: 23,580,000 per day

Use: 197,500 per day

Masters: Erick 2, <awaiting> x16

Bosses: Master Golem

- -

- -

Welcome to the starter dungeon for the Flatts! If you are reading this message and you are not Erick Flatt or Jane Flatt, then the Dark will be with you shortly. Running will not save you. Otherwise, Melemizargo wishes Erick or Jane a bountiful dungeon, and a fruitful search of the Dark!

- -

Erick’s eyes went wide at those numbers. “Holy shi—”

“There are a lot of slimes up there!” Erick 2 said, chuckling as he finished the thought.

“It can’t be more than ten square kilometers of space?” Erick asked.

“The math does work out a lot faster than one would assume—” Erick 2 lifted a hand… And then he lifted a hand again. “Ah?”

Erick understood. “No map function?”

“Not a whole lot, actually,” Erick 2 frowned at the air— He pulled back. “Got it.”

Another menu appeared.

- -

Basic numbers:

Floors: 1.5

Livable space: 103 square kilometers.

Monsters: ~25,750,000 slimes

Other: 500 golems, 1 master golem, 1 Erick-repro, 16 master slimes (stasis)

Visitors: 1 Erick

- -

“… Huh,” Erick and Erick 2 said at the same time.

“I guess slimes don’t even do a full mana per day?” Erick asked.

“Did not know that,” Erick 2 said. “A basic slime dungeon still does… a whole lot more mana than I thought it did.”

Erick said, “A whole fucking lot.”

Erick 2 had an exciting idea. “Could we make a spaceship out of a mountain and stock it full of slimes? Full slime-based mana-harvesting life support?”

“It might be possible. It’d have to be a mountain-sized spaceship to have any hope of braving the penetrative power of cosmic rays.”

“And if it was that big, we would have lots of room to be able to install all sorts of magnetic shielding and life support and all of that.”

Erick laughed. “Oh wow. They really could restart the cosmology on slimes, couldn’t they!”

Erick 2 smiled softly, and Erick saw the hidden pain in Erick 2’s eyes. He wanted to play around with mana crystals and magic in space, too. Erick almost said something, but Erick 2 saw Erick see him have those thoughts, so he steeled himself, and said, “Don’t worry about me and my fate. Worry about everyone’s fate, including your own. When I’m done here, and all the world is safe until the next crisis—” He said to the air, “Which I hope to all the gods is not world-ending!” He spoke softer to Erick, “I’ll move on and… I’m not sure… What I am sure of is that I’m changing this body into something else.”

Erick 2 flickered with perfected [Polymorph] magics, his form becoming something different. Something older. Instead of Erick’s usual semi-muscular 30-year-old’s body, with strong black hair, Erick 2 became older. 55-ish, and a little more comfortable; less physically strong. More friendly-looking, really, as his black hair became salt-and-pepper. He smiled when he was done, his clothes hanging a lot looser on his body, until he fixed those too.

“Still haven’t decided on a proper name,” Erick 2 said, “But what do you think?”

Erick smiled a little, saying, “You look like how we used to look, before we fell to Veird, but a lot better. Like we had time to go for hikes in the woods, or hit the gym once a week.”

“Did I manage to hit that ‘hot dad’ energy?”

Erick chuckled. “Yes.” And then he looked down. “But I’m rather sure we weren’t ever that gifted down there.”

Erick 2 smiled brightly, saying, “I’m allowed to be different from you.”

A laugh. “You’re going to go after Baxter, aren’t you!”

“Maybe! But more than him— Did you see how Debiza was looking at us?” Erick 2 waggled his eyebrows. “I don’t have to worry about Jane hating her because of me. Maybe I can date a woman again!”

Erick laughed again.

“But all that doesn’t matter right now,” Erick 2 added, “What does matter is figuring out what Veird needs to be safer.”

“Right!” Erick said, “So where do you think we should actually start?”

“I think I want to start with either another pot of coffee, or something stronger.”

Erick slapped his legs, and joked, “It’s like we’re the same person!”

Erick 2 smiled.

- - - -

Two men shared shots of whiskey in a house that hadn’t existed in years, and the air filled with talk of Evil Gods and Creation Wizards, and much smaller things, like making a form of Healing Magic that was usable outside of the Script, and mana crystals, and what it meant to be a Wizard, and the topic of a name for Erick 2.

It wasn’t long till ‘The Name’ became a central conversation point.

“Chad?” Erick offered, as a joke.

“Ha! No. John?”

“Oh no, I could never be a ‘John’. Could you? That one guy was a total asshole to us back in grade school.”

“Yeah… But, years later we met him again at the parent teacher conferences and he turned out okay,” Erick 2 said.

“Yes, but we still hated him. We can at least admit that to ourselves.”

“... Yeah. Now that I’m thinking of it, ‘John’ is a bad name.”

Erick offered, “How about Adam? Alexander? Or something mythical. Atlas?”

“Ha! I’ll be holding up the world, eh?” Erick 2 considered it… And then he moved on, “Maybe the name of a star would be nice. We have that Sun Form, and that’s kinda our thing— Well. It’s Kirginatharp’s thing. And then we kinda stole it.”

“Baxter does the Sun Form, too. It’s a powerful symbol as well as a powerful magic.”

“We never really leaned into it though, did we?”

Erick asked, “You think you want to lean into that?”

Erick 2 furrowed his brows. “… It’s a way to be individualized a bit more. Know any white stars? Or I could shift to a different color, actually. Ezekiel went magenta.”

“I don’t know any white stars anyway—” Erick rapidly added, “But the Sun is a white star. Veird’s sun is white outside of the atmosphere.”

“ ‘Soltic’ is already down in Storm’s Edge with Quilatalap.” Erick 2 thought. “I think ‘Sirius’ was a white dwarf star… But fuck that’s digging deep into the memory. ‘Sirius’ would be appropriate anyway, since white dwarfs are the remnants of stars that burned out and are no longer what they once were.” Erick 2 scowled at himself. “No. Let’s not go that naming route.”

Erick nodded proudly, happy that Erick 2 had pulled himself back from that depression. He declared, “Only the biggest, bestest star names for us! The biggest ones are all blue-white as far as I remember, too… Maybe rare exceptions of purple/white? Ah… Hmm.”

Erick 2 nodded, and downed the rest of his rum before refilling it, and saying, “The memory is a bit hazy that far— OH! We should look into memory enhancement magics.”

“Oh my gods, yes! That magic would have to be Wizardry, because that magic would have to create stuff that doesn’t exist.” Erick merrily clapped his hands, saying, “Bravo! You’ve solved the Sundering mystery! Now we just have to make it happen.”

Erick 2 laughed. “Remember that guy in the Paradox? All we gotta do is show the mana who has the bigger dick, and then whammo! We win.”

Erick chuckled. “Then we’ve already won.”

Erick 2 almost said something, but then his eyes went wide. “I remember something else; All the biggest stars are in the Tarantula nebula!”

“No more spiders, please.”

Erick 2 laughed happily— “Oh! I just remembered the brightest star is called ‘Godzilla’!”

“We’d need kaijus to fight kaijus in the Dark. Do you want to be a kaiju?”

“... Suddenly, no.”

“Let’s not tempt fate,” Erick said, nodding.

“How about Gemini, then?”

“… The twins?” Erick raised an eyebrow. “You look like you’re old enough to be my father. Old man.”

“Ha!” Erick 2 said, “How about we get away from stars, and go to languages. How about ‘Delta’?”

… Erick did not hate it. Which was probably why Erick 2 floated the name. “A ‘change’, then?”

“Maybe.”

“Oh!” Erick touched the All-Seeing Eye on his chest, and then he smiled. “Want to find out what we look like with this thing? It might help with the naming.”

“… I do. Yes,” Erick 2 said, very seriously.

Erick flicked his power through the All-Seeing Eye, and Erick 2…

“Well you look like an emaciated Melemizargo,” Erick said, “There’s the eyes replaced by white eyes, the wings and arms sort of crammed in where your arms are. Soul impression looks bigger than your soul, but also confined to your body… And your soul, which is inside your core.” Erick held out the trinket to Erick 2. “You do me.”

Erick 2 smiled as he took the Eye— His eyes went wide and his breath hitched. “Ah. Well. You know that fear that we never really talked about, like we’re somehow Melemizargo, but time displaced, or some shit like that?”

Erick frowned.

Erick 2 set down the All-Seeing Eye on the table between them, saying, “You look like him. Same feeling and everything. It’s like I’m seated not with the original Erick, but with him. You’re in the shadows all around, and in your body, yet not. Ophiel is a collection of white eyes and black wings. And you’re… A lot of Darkness, spread out everywhere, and yet still… You. Ah…” Erick 2 sat up, and said, “Yeah. We’re not the same anymore, at all. Well shit… I’m gonna change my dragon color, too, now. Silver… Or maybe just white.”

Erick put the amulet back on, trying not to worry about anything too existential, as he asked, “Dragon names, then? ‘Bahamut’ comes to mind. ‘Ouroboros’, with the whole [Renew] thing going on, like Jane once said.”

Erick 2 shook his head. “No… But that’s the right track.” And then he looked at his hands. “… And I need more mana regeneration and Stats. I think I’m level 0. But with a core and all my spells.” He touched his chest. “… I have some innate regen due to the dragon-thing— Bah. I’ll get to it later.”

The conversation moved back toward solving existential problems and ‘repairing’ memory that never existed in the first place, and then it went on to mana crystals again. They spoke for a long while, [Duplicate]ing the food in the pantry as desired, and making a feast of the night, with just the two of them. Erick offered to take Erick 2 out of the dungeon to hunt for some monsters, but…

Erick 2 scrunched his face. “… No. That… Is suddenly another thing that marks us as different. I didn’t think it would be difficult to leave when I decided on this course of action, because Ezekiel could leave right away. But. I’m tied to the dungeon right now because I’m the only master. I… could probably leave to defend the dungeon. But not to… just go outside.” He scrunched his face as he went silent in thought. “That is a bridge too far.”

Erick moved the conversation back onto better topics, like what Erick 2 wanted for breakfast, since it was somewhere around that time.

Erick 2 said, “I want to talk about doing some real Wizardry research, now that we have a dungeon to use for Wizardry experiments. You’d have to actually do those experiments, though, since I am not a Wizard.”

“Okay,” Erick said. “And you need to appoint a slime as another dungeon master, so you can leave this land and be your own person, too.”

“... That could work.” Erick 2 paused for a moment, then asked, “Or how about we ask Poi if he wants to come and make a repro?”

Erick winced. He could have theoretically conceived of such a solution to his own loneliness, to desire to have his best friend there with him, but he most certainly had not thought to ask Poi to subject himself to this sort of existence. It appeared that the differentiation between him and Erick 2 was already well under way. And yet, Erick could still very much imagine himself in Erick 2’s shoes. He would probably want to have Poi there with him, too.

And so, Erick said, “I will ask him—”

“I changed my mind already. He’d say no, and he’d be right to say no.”

Erick felt that Poi would actually say yes.

Erick 2 knew that Poi would say yes, too.

But both of them dropped that thought.

Erick moved on, saying, “Poi wouldn’t want to be around Shades anyway.”

“He’s always about that calm life, and this won’t be calm at all,” Erick 2 agreed.

“... We could still ask him?”

Erick 2 wasn’t sure. “Would we need some anti-memetic people?” he asked, already knowing the answer was ‘yes’.

“We probably do.”

Erick 2 nodded.
