The dungeon with the extra slimes was located about 25 kilometers beyond the city, on the southern slope of the northern crack of Mount Ascendant. The Platform had carried them beyond its physical lightrail, onto Lapis’s manually-created railing, and past a good twenty visible crystal guardians and another few thousand invisible guardians. The automatons did not attack, of course. Lapis explained that Erick, Jane, Ophiel, and Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye, were all approved parties of the Mountain, but also that they shouldn’t go into the dangerous parts of the Mountain unless they wanted the challenge. As long as they stayed in the air and away from everything important, like the patrolling guardians that held the keys to the Grand Dungeons, they should be safe.

As the platform landed on the forest floor, and a prime shadowolf attempted to attack and Erick killed it with a swipe of light, Erick chuckled a little bit, saying, “Nowhere around here is truly safe, though.”

“Untrue!” Lapis said, smiling. “The shadeling city is very safe for all people, and the adventurer city is safe for you as long as you stay away from the color-coded patrols.” And then she gestured forward, to where a copse of trees was bent and layered upon itself, weighed down and festooned with multicolored crystal that held it in that position. Beyond those rainbow stones lay a portal into shadows. “This area is only safe for you, Jane, and the people you bring here. I’m only safe right now because you’re here. It’s not completely secure, of course, because complete security is death. But it’s close enough.”

Erick raised an eyebrow at that and looked to the gore of the shadowolf he had just spread out across the land to the right.

Lapis shrugged. “It only appeared when you were here, so perhaps it was technically considered a guest of yours? The defense is made of golems, Erick. They’re not people.”

Erick glanced back through the manasphere, into the past— Ah. He came back to himself, and said, “Looks like the crystals are the golems.”

“Correct.” Lapis cast her glowing white gaze over the rock-candy-like crystals. “They’re dormant when you’re around. This dungeon has a lot of these golems inside, overseeing the area and ensuring it is stable. I believe I saw a shadowolf in there last I looked, but the golems have been killing every non-slime that makes its way into there, and then depositing them back out here.” She glanced toward the shadow-laced gore, saying, “That might have been one such unlucky wolf. Hard to say.”

Erick took a moment to look over the whole land, with all of his senses.

And he felt a supreme moment like he was standing on yet another edge, peering at the shadows below. All these recent upsets with the Sundering search, and the Glittering Depths, and Ashes, and Quilatalap being stuck in that dungeon at Storm’s Edge and the Storm Prophecy…

All of that stuff was way too large.

Erick knew that he had positioned himself as ‘The Wizard who deals with the big stuff’, but he had tried to step back from all of that recently with his attempts at making cover Familiar Forms for himself; to hide in plain sight, and to experience the world from a smaller perspective. He had even said to Yggdrasil recently that being smaller was even more important when you were overly large, because if you didn’t try to see the leaves of the forest, you’d never get to see how real people lived their lives, and you’d lose touch with them, and with yourself.

And now he was about to charge headfirst into the most dangerous problems that had ever faced Veird.

This was going too fast.

He needed to pause.

Erick had asked to come here, to this dungeon, to potentially pick up a few copies of himself and then… Search out the Sundering, or something like that. He was still in the information gathering stage right now, so his plan hadn’t been too solid, but it wasn’t like Melemizargo’s imposition was overly large. The Sundering search needed to happen eventually, and soon, but there was no rush.

Jane had been about to rush into all of this, too… Or maybe she would have taken her time? Hard to say. Erick obviously needed to have another talk with her about all of that…

Erick decided to ask her about all that right now. “Jane? Based on what you’ve seen so far, what should be our next step?”

Lapis and Erick both looked to Jane.

And Jane raised an eyebrow. Then she rapidly said, “Something small and directed toward the goal. Nothing major. Eventually, I would learn enough at the Well in order to go into this dungeon and then make a dungeon of my own, and then use that dungeon to make more of me. Only two or three at first. My copies and I would go out and gain base mana regen in the surrounding dungeons, then use the Well to narrow down dungeons that need breaking, then we’d go out and break those dungeons that need breaking, and witness history in the Dark, searching for answers.

“The first thing I’d search for would be some monsters from the Old Cosmology that could better survive the Dark. Once there were four of us with that capability, then we’d search for anti-anti-memetic threats, but only for half of us. Two of us would remain unprotected. It’s entirely possible that this threat with the Sundering is anti-memetic in nature, or, the threat is memetic itself, and everyone who learns of the Sundering dies automatically.

“So we’d protect ourselves in both of those ways, and whoever dies would die, with the unprotected Janes serving as canaries, so we’d first cross off the anti-memetic/memetic threat nature of the Sundering. That, to me, would be the first concern of the Sundering to lay to rest. As long as the threat isn’t knowledge-based, then the rest of the search would proceed as planned.

“But considering the Goddess of Knowledge was catatonic at the end of the Sundering, then I’m pretty sure the threat is some sort of knowledge-based attack.” Jane said, “One [Far Bolt] idea that is looking rather attractive to me right now is trying to bring back the Goddess of Knowledge, and letting her solve the Sundering problem for us.”

Lapis stood stunned.

“… Well now there’s an idea I hadn’t considered,” Erick said. “Is it a valid idea, though? Is such a thing actually possible?”

Lapis stood there for a moment, then said, “I would have to get back to you on that.” She rapidly, and very seriously added, “That solution of resurrecting a goddess is way, way above my level of expertise. I would direct you to the Champion of Melemizargo to ask those sorts of questions, but we don’t have one of those right now. Fallopolis would be the closest suggestion, or Melemizargo Himself, of course.”

“Well… I like the idea of bringing back Knowledge, on the surface,” Erick said.

“Obviously, yes,” Jane said. “I barely know anything about gods and next to nothing about the Goddess of Knowledge, so all I have is that idea. Nothing more.” Jane gestured toward the crystallized grove ahead, saying, “I do know that one of me isn’t nearly enough to solve this problem, which is why I was going to make more of me.”

Erick nodded, then turned back toward the dungeon. He didn’t move. The others expected him to move, but…

Erick said, “I think we should take a day or three to digest the information we have, and then get back to all of this later.”

Jane nodded.

Lapis gestured back to the Platform they had come in on, saying, “Shall we return to the city?” But then she saw that Erick wanted to do something else, so she added, “Or I can leave the research I’ve already done at the Well in your rooms, and leave you to the rest. Fallopolis would likely wish to speak to you in the morning, after you’ve made some decisions.”

“Let’s do that,” Erick said, “There’s a dinner feast I need to get back to at Aniduun—”

Jane went toward the Platform, saying, “I’ll join you later, dad. I’m going back to the rooms to speak with Lapis and go over the research.”

“… Sure,” Erick said. Lapis bowed, and then joined Jane on the Platform. Erick said, “That works. See you later.”

Lapis bowed again, saying, “Till the morrow, Fire of the Age.”

They took off into the air.

… Eventually, Erick took a white-lightning portal back to Aniduun.

- - - -

As the approved people left the area, except for an Ophiel high overhead, the crystals growing on the trees began to flex and shift like gelatin moving on its own. That soft stone fell back together, and soon golems made of crystal stood among the trees, ready and willing to cut down anything that might appear.

Another shadowolf slipped out of the dungeon, holding to the shadows, but a crystal spear stabbed it through its core and pulled it out of those shadows, killing it in the process.

- - - -

Erick sipped his after-dinner coffee, and made a decision, “When I was first told to come here, there was a certain dangling of dungeon creation laid out there for me. That had been my primary expectation, months ago. But now I have gotten here, and everything is much larger than I initially expected. And so, I think I will simply make a dungeon, for now.”

Guildmasters Baxter, Golgoro, and Debiza, were the only ones left in the dining hall of Aniduun’s largest dining hall, after the feast. The major talking had been done. The major questions of the state of the island, and of the known facts of the Sundering search, had all been gone through, and Erick had solved a good hundred small problems and rescued a bunch of people from dungeons they had no business being inside, all while eating wonderfully herb-roasted pork, and lots of different side dishes. Erick had done a lot to solidify the current state of Dungeon Island in the matter of a few hours, and then he had a very well-prepared flank steak as a reward for himself.

The Cook of that steak was none other than Donny, who had been among the first to get a [Reincarnation] years and years ago. The former Cook from Nelboor had tried and somewhat succeeded in becoming a famous Cook within House Benevolence, especially after his involvement with the food at the Shadow’s Feast right before the Teleport Exodus, but he had moved on to Dungeon Island years ago, and now there were franchises with his name on the signage in all three major cities. He had risen to franchise power, exactly as he wanted to.

It was always nice to see people he had helped long ago; to see them once again rise to power, and prestige. It was especially nice to help Cooks, because then Erick got to eat all the nice things they made, and this was yet another example of that wonderfulness. Dinner was long over, but Erick almost wanted to ask the kitchen to bring him another steak. Alas, it was time for after-dinner coffee, and some final talks of serious topics.

“But before I make a dungeon…” Erick said to Golgoro, “You’re all old enough to have been through Ar’Kendrithyst,” he looked to Baxter and Debiza, “Or if not there, then other places.” He asked, “Obviously dungeons and Ascendant Mountain are vastly different from the threats of ‘normal’ danger… But how has the usual ultimate danger been? The threat of the Dark Itself. Are you scared of shadows eating you if you were to speak out poorly against Melemizargo? Are Shades pressuring you into doing things you wouldn’t normally do? Or are they just being incredibly smart about their pressures?”

Golgoro rumbled with disapproval, baring his lower fangs at such a deep question. He was from the old guard of the world, and had been a sort-of ‘mercenary’ in the Adventurer Guild near Spur for a long time, taking people into Ar’Kendrithyst and then back out. Most of his charges survived those trips. But not all.

Golgoro shook his head, not willing to speak on that subject right now, then he drained his beer and got up to go refill it.

Debiza sipped her wine, her dark eyes dutifully not-focused on the shadows in the corners of the room. The jewelry on her black horns seemed to glitter just a bit more as she manually empowered the magical trinkets to do… something? Heighten her awareness? Yes, that was probably it. She took a moment to decide what to say, and then she said, “I will never be comfortable speaking of shadows, but they have never imposed upon us at Zawindi as they used to impose upon us at the Magisterium of the Wasteland. They were never terrible impositions, of course, because we did what they asked when we could, and because it never seemed horrible until looking back at it from a larger scope. A lot of Quiet War events were that way, too.” Her lips were an unknowable line, and her eyes and face gave nothing away, as she said, “If the shadows are playing a longer game than usual then we’re all dead anyway, so we might as well play along.”

Golgoro scoffed, but said nothing.

Baxter had been sipping his lemon-lime soda mixer, but he set that down and said, “If the Dark asked you to come here to make a dungeon, then make one. If he asked you to search for the Sundering, then delay, delay, delay. Everything between those two extremes is not something I can help you decide upon.”

At that, Golgoro had to speak up, and so he did. “I don’t trust gods and I don’t trust the Dark. But I do trust interests. I trust what drives people. For the longest time, with Ar’Kendrithyst and all the rest, I knew what drove the Dark, and his Clergy. And then everything changed. But did it, really? No. It did not. Melemizargo still wants off this rock of a world, but this time he’s being nice about it. ‘Nice’ is a lie. That nice lie has gone on for a long time and some people have forgotten how it used to be. But I didn’t forget, and you sure as steel didn’t forget, either. Or maybe you did. Maybe you were never actually subjected to the full lie, Wizard.

“Not quite your fault, for the Dark has ensnared you, too.

“Right now Miss Jane is off with the shadows, and they’re all working together! Bah! Never thought I’d see that damned day. Point is she’s there, and she’s the pawn to get you to move how the Dark wants you to move.

“Maybe the Dark is too damned smart for all of us, as Debiza thinks. But I took rookies into Ar’Kendrithyst all the time, and those that came back out came out warriors. If anything of history still remains true, then that one fact remains the same. The Dark is a carving stone, Wizard Flatt.

“It is not a guiding Path. It is not a virtue, or a fault. It is a thing that one must test oneself against, never forgetting that it wants to kill you if it can, and is always trying to lure you back with gold and treasure, so it can have another chance to kill you.

