“So delay, delay, delay, like Baxter says, but in that delay, take the Dark for everything you can possibly grab, and make this world a true unassailable bastion.”

Debiza instantly countered, “But those trinkets stolen from the Dark could turn on us—”

“Yes, they could,” Golgoro said, strongly, “You can never escape the carving stone; you can only grind yourself against it, and hope your edges come out sharper than how you started.” He stood. “I am done talking. It was a good feast. Blessings upon you all.”

And then Golgoro left, turning to pink light as he lightstepped away. Erick had almost forgotten that the giant warrior orcol king had a pink mana signature, but Golgoro’s departure reminded him of that fact again. Erick wasn’t sure exactly why he liked that nuance to the man, but he did. Golgoro was a straight-shooter.

“When he talks, he makes a good point,” Erick said. “So a dungeon and delays.”

“What sort of dungeon will you be making?” Baxter asked.

“I would like to know that as well,” Debiza said, standing, “But it is getting late, and I must go. It was a pleasure to see you again, Wizard Flatt. I look forward to your presence on the Island for a while.”

Erick grinned politely as he also stood, saying, “I suppose I must be going as well, but I do look forward to being here for a while. If you need anything, just ask; either personally, or through the House.”

Debiza said, “If you have no plans for a residency on the Island yet, Zawindi would be honored to host you.”

Baxter had taken his time to stand, but he stood with Erick and Debiza, and now he offered, “We’ve houses here, too, Erick.”

“Thank you both for your hospitality and for the wonderful meal and talk, but I will be staying at the Mountain. I’ll let you know if something should change. I also won’t be allowing people to challenge the Mountain for the next few days, at least; I told you I saw that one team get pulled apart, well I’m not letting that happen again, even if it is their choice to be there. Let the others know, will you. Or at least let them know that they will be removed should they appear.”

Debiza and Baxter both accepted this task, and then they bowed.

Erick said, “It was a wonderful evening.” And then he stepped through a portal.

- - - -

Erick had thought he had stepped onto the cliff outside of the hotel.

But the air shifted, and he appeared on Melemizargo’s Throne, and Melemizargo was there.

“A delay is fine, Erick, but I would appreciate a delay of months, not years.” He frowned. “And I cannot believe that you would not just ask me about the goings-on around here; that you would need to ask the tested if the tests are too much.”

Erick frowned right back at the big guy. “This is the biggest thing you could have possibly ever asked of me or anyone else, so take your disbelief that I would investigate you down a notch.”

A sigh.

“… Fair.”

Erick suddenly added, “And I barely told them anything, because even if all the Relevant Entities are on board with this project, I’m terrified of this task, Melemizargo, and if I told everyone everything they’d panic and attack. You should be just as scared of this, too.”

Melemizargo sighed again, and rolled his eyes at Erick, who was so far down below him, there on the floor of the Throne, while Melemizargo’s head was at least 30 meters above it all.

“And another thing!” Erick did not like speaking upward, so he conjured a Platform and rose into the air, to look Melemizargo in the eyes. “While we’re here! What about bringing the Goddess of Knowledge back? What’s up with that? Is that a valid idea?”

Melemizargo stared at Erick, floating level with his face. His voice was tense, “She was sacrificed in more ways than such a simple word could ever convey. She’s not coming back. You don’t even know her name, do you? I don’t remember her name, either.” He frowned a little, and then discarded the attitude, saying, “All that is left is her Mantle, and there are no good candidates for that position at this time. If you want to find a good candidate, then you’re welcome to do so, but I have tried giving that Mantle to others before, and they all go insane within minutes. Perhaps my choices had been in error, for I was not wholly myself when I made those decisions, but perhaps the Script itself and the lack of enough True Knowledge is the real reason for the failure of a Knowledge god to rise again.

“For the longest time, I felt that particular failure was due to this world being a cage, and all True Knowledge being locked away from me.

“But I’ve gotten better since then. Now, I believe that there simply isn’t enough civilization to support the rise of any True God, of any flavor. Minor gods, sure, but the major ones? Not happening. Even the major gods that exist these days are bare fragments holding onto themselves more than they hold onto the world, because otherwise they would fall apart.”

Erick asked, “Are you responsible for the rise or denial of all gods?”

“The majority of them, but not all. Zephyrspray of Travel was born here on Veird, and is sized to this land. After the original Wild God finally died for their failure to hold themselves together in this tamed land, Fangorl of The Wilds created themselves, making a new Wild Mantle out of possibility. I still have the original Wild Mantle hanging around in my hoard alongside many others, waiting for someone to take up that power in truth. It won’t happen under the Script, though, for this land is not Wild at all, though some who don’t know any better might call it that.

“Knowledge is certainly not coming back under the Script unless you want another Mad God.” Melemizargo added, “But I’m rather sure we’re not doing Evil Gods anymore.”

Erick took a moment to think, then he asked, “Do you really want a Creation Wizard?”

Melemizargo frowned slightly. “The answers the Well might give you are different from my own. Personally, a Creation Wizard on level with yourself would be too dangerous to allow into this world, for without a Destruction Wizard to counter them they could create untold horrors and dangers, and no one wants a Destruction Wizard to appear right now. So: No. A Creation Wizard deprived of their Creation might work, but even that is a dangerous ask.” Melemizargo said, “Whatever might come, we should do this slowly, and methodically.”

“I’m glad to hear that, because I feel the need to make a bulwark against the worst possible outcomes, so I’m going to make a dungeon, and have that be the center stage for all the horrors that might come out of the Dark.” Erick asked, “If such a thing is possible.”

Melemizargo grinned. “The Dark is full of possibilities, Erick, and you are a Wizard. In order to make your possibilities happen, all you need to do is make them happen.”

Erick nodded at that.

Melemizargo nodded in return, and then floated backward, turning into shadow and nothing as he vanished into the night.

And then Erick was left alone in the middle of the air above the white disk of the Throne. The white crystal of the Throne glowed softly at Melemizargo’s departure, almost like the land was bathed in the light of full moons, but the moons were only slivers in the sky overhead, and the stars looked almost cold as they glimmered in the deep.

The air was cool. Erick decided to walk to the hotel. It was a nice night for a walk.

- - - -

Erick had almost gone into the hotel, but Jane was there with Lapis and Fallopolis and they were deep in a discussion about searching for three specific targets in the Dark. Based on the setups around the planning room, they looked like targets in the Radiant Depths, the Wild Green, and the Endless Library; a Wizard collective of sorts, an eternal font of life, and a separate collection of Wizards based around knowledge. If Erick interrupted that then all the conversation would focus on him, but Jane was definitely the most qualified for searching in the Dark, based on how she was talking of navigating around this or that horror she’d already seen in the Dark. He’d talk to Jane about all of that later.

There were other things that Erick could do to propel this project forward.

So he had an Ophiel appear in that planning room, and say, “No need to interrupt based on me. Just letting you know I’m going to instantiate that dungeon we saw earlier under a repro of myself, in order to have a firm bulwark against whatever might come from our searching.”

Jane softened a little, saying, “Okay, dad. Yeah. That seems like it would be for the best.”

Her tone was solid, as though she had been worried about asking him to do exactly what he planned on doing, and then Erick had made the decision on his own. It only took a moment longer for Erick to understand why, for he had already had half of that thought himself.

Erick easily said, “It’d be easier for either of us to kill a version of me than it would be for you to kill a version of you, or for me to kill a version of you.”

“Yes,” Jane said. “… Theoretically, anyway.”

Erick nodded through Ophiel, and then he departed the planning room.

- - - -

Erick stood before a copse of trees all crusted over with rainbow crystal. The night was dark, and full of monsters, but the crystals glowed faintly, making the darkness inside those crystallized trees look truly deep. Erick strode forward, under heavy boughs, into—

- - - -

As shadows peeled from Erick’s sight he found himself upon a wide, floating stone staircase, somewhere near the bottom of an endless stretch of floating stone, but not actually near the bottom at all.

There was nothing to his left and his right except a great, black openness. Perhaps there were walls somewhere out there, but Erick couldn’t see or sense any walls at all. There was still light, of course. The black world was illuminated from some unseen overhead space, mostly showing on the staircase under Erick’s feet, and upon the vast, tumbled and smooth white stone land far below.

That land reminded Erick a lot of the Light Dungeon he had made for Kirginatharp all those years ago, with small water features here and there inside depressions in the white, and flowing down slides here and there. Glowing prismatic power floated in lazy trails above that ground, tracing arcane patterns over the land, providing sustenance to the creatures that inhabited the dungeon, to the slimes.

Slimes of every color bounced and tumbled and played in the water and in the light, and there were so many of them that Erick could not hope to count them all. They mushed into each other, and then trailed away to find others to play with, with small colonies of single-color slimes gathering here and there, but mostly mixing up everywhere else. It was a land of color, and white stone, and water.

Ophiel slipped forward off of Erick’s shoulder to fly down, past the end of the staircase, and then further down into that far-away land below. Soon Ophiel had taken on a ball-of-feathers form, to play with a particularly large purple slime that trundled down a lazy river. The purple slime was a little too large to be able to float down the river like all of its friends, but it tried. It was not the only overly-large slime in the dungeon, but Ophiel liked purple, and so Ophiel played with the purple slime.

Erick let that happen as he turned his attentions to the rest of the space.

The staircase led back the way he came, ending somewhere… far above. The white staircase seemed almost ephemeral past a few kilometers up, where shadows crawled across the glowing white stone slats, like clouds passing across the sun.

Looking down again, Erick noticed there were only a few hundred steps to get to a landing. That landing was still high above the slime land below.

Erick walked to that landing, taking his time to test his magics, to see if anything was barred from him. He cast a Bolt spell into the air, and then tried to cancel it, but found that canceling wasn’t possible. A Script-assisted Bolt did not happen; so the Script was partially blocked, but Erick felt his mana coming back to him through the Script, so it wasn’t fully blocked. His Intelligence and Perception seemed normal enough, too, and when he began accreting a second core in his stomach, Rozeta’s Accretion seemed to be working out perfectly normally, as well.

Rozeta’s Accretion

Your core now passively repairs itself. Gaining extra cores is easier. All Script-gained spellwork can now be copied between your cores at will, providing a backup, the perfect fuel for core-magics, or a specific loadout for whatever reasons, such as going incognito.

Erick began fully developing the second core as he continued down the stairs, testing his magics to make sure that everything worked more or less normally. And it did. However this dungeon was currently programmed, it was rather minimally programmed. Which is why Erick next flowed out Elemental Book into the air, to see if he could ping the dungeon for stats about itself. He did not get a return signal like in the Glittering Depths. He got impressions.

A riot of color, surrounded by black, being teased out in every direction by claws made of both light and shadow. There was a frizzy-haired old woman, with a big black staff. A house of welcome, and known capability. A place of security in the Dark.

“Ah,” Erick said to the air, “Looks like Melemizargo and Fallopolis made this dungeon themselves, eh?” Erick stepped on the platform, and the platform began to descend toward the ground, more than a kilometer below. Looking over the edge, and through Ophiel, Erick saw Ophiel playing with a trio of orange-colored slimes now, following them up and down a waterway splash zone. Casting his gaze forward, Erick saw the dungeon core… “Or at least the entrance to the core.”

The platform stopped about 5 meters above the ground, in the southern-middle of the large, slime playground. Erick hopped off of the platform and landed on the ground where he was instantly attacked by a pair of red and yellow slimes.

‘Attacked’ was perhaps too strong of a word for what the slimes were trying to do to him.

They definitely butted up against his legs and backed up to launch themselves at his shins, which was sort of like an attack, but they didn’t actually do anything except to hurt themselves, because they trailed away little bits of color in the wake of their [Strike]s. As the big purple slime and a white slime came in to join their brethren, to attack the interloper, Erick decided to wrap himself in light and turn invisible. A bit more magic, and he stepped into the air, to avoid a confrontation entirely.

