‘Good. Now channel the Imperial Merit in your seal every time you need to lie.’

Twenty minutes later, Emily sat inside her little cottage with a reluctant Inda on the opposite side of the table.

“Why are you looking at me like I drowned your puppy? I saved your life!” Emily scoffed. “Bunch of fools running in blind. Interfering cost me a thousand merit, you know?”

“You also forced me to divulge secret information. I’ll be questioned when I leave. Do you think the Phusudor Republic will look the other way? Or the Grand Unity Hall, for that matter?”

“I was curious about the bastards who screwed over Zecia, okay? Giving me the inside scoop was the least you could do,” Emily said with a shrug. “Beats getting carted off to the dungeons like your companions.”

Inda Endemire had become an outer disciple of the Radiant Temple after seizing a Soultaker Seal during the war. Both the temple and Havarok Dynasty were part of a coalition led by the Phusudor Republic. The republic was a Peak B-grade faction with a Taoist tradition that wasn’t dominated by a single clan.

Instead, the top families held office for roughly 50,000 years before handing over the reins. The mortals and lower factions didn’t know it was an intentional process, believing it was a natural rise and fall of dynasties. Both Emily and Zac had suspected that the ultimate controller above the Phusudor Republic was the Seven Heavens, or at least one of the peak Human Dynasties.

It turned out they were wrong. While any top-tier human faction was bound to have some dealings with the Seven Imperial Clans, the utmost leader was actually a sect called the Grand Unity Hall. Inda didn’t know many details since her handler was only a descendant of the republic who’d bought passage from the Kan’Tanu Sect.

Apparently, the Grand Unity Hall was considered the origin of the “Hundred Schools of Thought” of Taoism. The Phusudor Republic was only one of multiple factions under their control. While not considered an absolute peak faction like the Buddhist Sangha or the Seven Heavens, the three schools of Confucianism, Legalism, and Daoism all had a Supremacy presiding. It was also a major player connected to the Peak of Order, which held certain advantages in the current Era.

Reportedly, the Grand Unity Hall was also among those who’d benefited the most from the Limitless Empire’s fall. The sect only appeared after the Dark Ages, but many of its heritages could be traced to the Limitless Empire. While they sounded impressive enough, Emily didn’t have a good impression of them. Those scumbags were complicit in Zecia’s fall.

The Grand Unity Hall wasn’t above purchasing dozens of seals from the Kan’Tanu Cult, providing the cultists with high-grade resources not available in the frontier. While the top-echelon fighters would still have been stronger on the cult’s side, their contribution had made the situation worse. The Hall Masters of the cult had grown stronger thanks to the Grand Unity Hall, adding to the high casualties of Monarchs within the Zecia Alliance. Without enough fighters at the top, the alliance eventually crumbled.

The Grand Unity Hall wasn’t here to compete for Ultom. Many of their inheritances were incomplete, and their sealbearers were tasked with finding specific treasures and manuals inside the outer courts.

“Don’t worry so much. You can still finish your mission. Do you think the sect will care if some fool from a subsidiary faction died if you managed to bring out a valuable inheritance? If all else fails, you can come live with us. My master owes your grandpa a favor, so he’ll welcome you with open arms. I’ll protect you in his stead until then,” Emily grinned.

“Please, everyone knows you got all that contribution from riding Lord Atwood’s coattails,” Inda muttered under her breath, though she did look a bit better.

“What was that?” Emily said as malice began seeping from her tomahawks.

“N-nothing.”

“Then let’s head out. We lose face every day the Radiant Court remains in last place,” Emily said.

“How is that my problem? I’m a Soultaker of Ultom,” Inda complained as she followed Emily out the door.

“Not since you got your hands on that lantern.”

“Didn’t ask for that either. Who in their right mind would come here willingly? Those templars are insane.”

“Should have thought about that before you started flirting with that young master,” Emily snickered.

“What do you know!” Inda said with a glare. “My whole clan collapsed after the Patriarch was killed, and the Allbright Empire was going up in flames. I would have ended up like Mesin sooner or later if I didn’t find myself a new backer.”

“A love story for the ages,” Emily mocked. “Well, why not try shaking those hips for me, cutie? I happen to know where to get one of the items on your list. I’ll tell you all about it after you’ve helped me with a few things.”

Emily snickered upon seeing a calculative gleam of ambition appear in Inda’s eyes. Inda was right, the templars were crazy, and there were plenty of dangerous sealbearers running around. It couldn’t hurt to bring along a patsy.
