Viv’s hope that the campaign would start right away got dashed immediately. It turned out that although everyone important was present, they were missing a plethora of stuff ranging from actual camping supplies to their favorite concubines. Portals didn’t solve every logistical problem. It was super fast transportation; but it didn’t suddenly replace an effective supply chain. To her dismay, terms like ‘logistics’ simply didn’t register in the brains of commanders who cared more about the comfort of their concubines than they did about spare swords.

Once everyone was more or less ready, the second problem made itself known. It was possible for knights to emerge from the fortified gates for a daring attack, since they had skills to operate on rough terrain. That was not the case for supply carts. The issue was that the rough terrain couldn’t easily be flattened, since it consisted of years of compacted beastling corpses. The layer was crusty and mummified on the outside and moist and putrid on the inside, a revolting mass with an eye-watering stench that chased away the walls’ sentries once uncovered. It was that bad. Viv disintegrated a large swath from high on, then used Eldritch walls to push the rest away and even up there in the sky, the place still demolished her nostrils.

“And I thought it was nasty before.”

Sidjin came up with a colorless spell that spared her the worst of the stench later but the horrible memory of that stinky morass would pursue her to the end of her days.

Hopefully it would fade away after they left the vicinity of the wall.

“The path is clear,” she said in her short-range device. Rollo didn’t answer, but battle horns sounded. The gates opened and out came the Knights of the Blue Rose. Fifty of them trotted out in good order, fanning out in a line as soon as they cleared the worst of the obstruction. The heavies, led by the One Hundred, followed in silence, then it was the crossbows and war machines. The mages stuck to their shield arrays, except for a small contingent under Lana and Sidjin. The blue mage woman had decided to join now that her wards were more eager to test their limits. She led a messy bunch of Frostbay graduates, Rakan’s older proteges, and freed Helockians. They all bickered when they managed to speak the same language. Viv wondered if there was something about being a mage that made people stubborn and obnoxious.

The Hadals hadn’t shown up yet. Honestly, she wasn’t sure where they were.

It took some time to get the supply train through the gap because the stench spooked both horses and cornudons. The Bitter Hearts closed the march, as was tradition.

Abe flew next to Viv. She’d been surprised when the redeemed lich asked to come, but in retrospect, this was as much about restoring life as it was about reclaiming the land. His long gray dreads floated in the wan wind that mercilessly made the high air breathable.

“Ah, young Viviane. Look west, and you will see the servants of my mistress.”

Far to her left, the next Paramese Alliance contingent left the wall in turn. A black and gold column emerged from the other gate. The well-ordered group was smaller than the Harrakan army, but Viv knew they were not to be underestimated. A short inspection of their rank-and-file confirmed her suspicions.

[Archer Sister of the Golden Order, not dangerous. One who follows a path of martial worship through archery. Third step. Can see the threads of death upon her target. Expert markswoman. Decent melee combatant. Killer. Beastling slayer.]

[Paladin of the Golden Order, not dangerous. One who follows a path of martial worship through sword and spear mastery. Fourth step. Can see the threads of death upon her target. Expert markswoman…]

Each of the warrior priestesses she inspected had killed dozens of beastlings. Their gear was also excellent and they finished deploying before the Harrakans did.

“I think this flank is secure.”

“I agree with your assessment. The other, however…”

Abe was not the kind of person to badmouth others. He was probably one of the nicest people around, but Viv knew what he meant. The Enorians on their right were barely getting out of the gate now in semi-organized groups. She recognized many of the battle standards, well, the few that they had. Those were the fading colors of loyalist houses that had fled the post-war purges. Along them were a few experienced mages but also a lot of people who had no business being here. Viv counted city guards, hunters, militias. They carried a variety of gear that ranged from heirloom knight plate to stained gambeson and even in some cases, shirts. She could spot at least two dozen farming implements in the spear lines. Well. Spear blobs. A few inspections showed that a majority of them were on the third step, but their paths were not always those of field soldiers. They weren’t particularly bad. They were just too much of a motley group for her to trust.

“I’ll keep an eye on them. They have a solid core but after a couple of battles…”

“Those who fight in the defense of mankind must support each other.”

Abe frowned.

“And yrieskind, I suppose. I am not quite used to you working with several species. I believe… yes, I believe that no multi-species army has existed in the history of the empire beyond temporary alliances and mercenary groups. This is quite unexpected.”

“No one has used non-magical flamethrowers before either.”

“Yes, those engineers of yours are… certainly motivated.”

Viv looked down. On the lead liberator, Lak-tak was removing little pots of blue honey from a box, religiously distributing them among his peers. She scowled. She still wasn’t sure how the mild hallucinogenic substance affected the owl folks but she hoped to hell it wasn’t addictive.

Another horn blast informed her that the deployment was complete. It had gone reasonably fast. She sent a message to her paramour.

“Alright, we’re set. Send the signal.”

Sidjin cast a large flare. The red ball surged up before exploding in a wave of soundless light. A similar golden flare emerged from the Order’s rank a few minutes later, then one of hybrid caster mercenaries managed a purple haze of decent power. It was interesting to Viv because that was good old Efestar’s new color, which meant that the God of Second Chances had already found echoes among the people of the continent. After that, they still had to wait for another half an hour in the fetid heat before the Glastian Keep lit up. Magical flares climbed in a great, luminous conflagration, and throughout the city, horns sounded.

“Harrak Eternal!” Viv yelled, and the army answered. Horns blew left and right. Far, far to her left, she could spot the Baranese contingent moving forward, knights’ pennants like colorful sparks on a bleak background.

The beastling purge had begun.

***

The army walked in a loose battle formation to the edge of the corpse trench. Though the stench became more manageable, the air kept a nasty scent Viv couldn’t quite identify, something beastly and rotten. The deadlands almost felt homey now that she basically drank the mana into her core. This place was now officially the most inhospitable shithole on the planet in her book. And that was with her flying over the formation like a grumpy pidgeon. She kept an eye on the distant masses of beastlings. There were four main groups, all centered around larger, misshapen specimens. Probably the mutations mentioned during the briefing. Why were they not attacking? Beastlings were cunning, but also too aggressive to come up with smart strategies and that was on a normal day. Those beastlings were starving. Starving humans were dumber than that.

She kept watching the small… tribes for a better word, as they maneuvered around each other. Each was several thousand creatures strong, so the moves were organic and instinctive, a bit like watching a flock of migrating birds. The blobs extended then retracted as the larger creatures caught up with their more agile cousins. Viv couldn’t get the logic of what was happening until one of the groups, slowly, ended up cornered by the other three.

It went very fast. From maneuvering, the surrounded group started to run and its formation turned long and narrow, its flanks exposed. The flight stirred the other three into a frenzy. They fell on the overextended group with absolute savagery. It took less than ten seconds for the careful dance to turn into a slaughter, then into a buffet.

“Hooooly crap.”

Viv didn’t even want to cast a long view spell. She notified Ban below as to what was going on, but the old warrior didn’t seem worried.

“Just means there’ll be less for us to kill.”

“They are starving,” Sidjin added. “Beastlings always eat weaker members of the tribe when food is scarce.”

Viv now realized her mistake. She should have gathered a war council of Harrakan teenagers, the world experts in beastling extermination. She bet they would have had excellent — albeit horrifying ideas on how to handle the situation.

“I should have at least asked them for advice.”

“The children?”

“Yes.”

“I’m sure it will be fine, my dear. We don’t need to learn how to lure them into an ambush. See, they are coming for us.”

And they were, Viv realized. The frenzy ended very quickly, some of the meat left uneaten which was… odd. One group each was now moving towards each formation. Viv frowned. It made little sense unless those tribes were really territorial. They should be merging under a dominant chieftain or shaman… what was going on?

“It’s almost like they’re testing us.”

“They could be. You remember how the tide started, right?”

Viv did.

“They killed a massive monster.”

“The beastling that struck the last blow. We don’t know if we killed it.”

Ah.

“They have grown more coordinated over the years. We too, of course, and the walls have held, but that doesn’t mean that there isn’t a central authority. I suppose the fortress might be connected.”

“Yes.”

“Your Majesty, they will be here soon,” Ban said. “What are your orders?”

Damn she really, really needed that general. That would probably be her next stop if everything went well here.

“Ban, maintain formation and engage. Poacher?”

“Yeah?” the rude old woman acting as leader of the crossbowmen replied.

She could almost hear Ban seething at the lack of decorum, but Poacher was irredeemably adverse to authority and too competent to be replaced.

“Hold fire. We’re going to need your quarrels later.”

“Aye.”

“Lak-Tak, I want to see what those liberators can do in a combat situation. And how the beastlings respond to them. Go wild and take notes.”

“Yessss.”

“Rollo, you may do as you see fit.”

“It would be best to conserve our mounts for now, Your Majesty. I am concerned about the mercenaries’ ability to survive.”

“Agreed, then, you have your orders. Mages on standby as well. Let’s see what those aberrants can do.”

Objectively, Viv could just obliterate the group from up high before they closed in but something was telling her this was going to be a week of nonstop battle. She couldn’t last a week without pause or sleep. She might as well wait until a decisive moment to get started. [A light that never dims] meant she grew stronger as time went by while in combat. It didn’t make her immune to fatigue.

No, this was going to be a matter of endurance.

Viv looked on from above, ready to intervene just in case, but after that she’d float down and let one of Frosthawk’s students take sentry duty.

***

The Baranese general used his spyglass to look right, where beastlings were already engaging the Alliance. As expected, the Golden Order attacked the creatures with confidence and the power of the God of Death backing their blows, the gold of their armor shimmering in the dull light of the late morning sun. Whatever filtered through that disgusting air.

At least those southerners knew how to fight. Cavalry, and a solid core of infantry with archers as support. That was the proper way to wage war. He looked beyond, to the ‘empire’ and its upstarts. The enchantments on the eyepiece strained but it was a good object, crafted by the capital’s best artisans. They soon caught the battle, if one could even call it that.

Steel, that was what qualified the Harrakans. No pedigree and no old traditions, no stories of glorious deeds inspire them, no colors and heraldry of noble houses. All of their techniques, all of their stories were stolen from a long dead corpse, puppeteered by that woman. But steel, that, they had aplenty. Enough to equip a force three times that size. The barded squares of heavies advanced between hulks of spikes piloted by subhumans. As soon as the beastling tide charged, they spat fire.

“Neriad’s mercy,” his assistant whispered. “What in the name of all light gods?”

The armored carriages let out long strings of… something. A strange spell as orange as the sun and most likely as hot if the beastlings’ reactions were any indication. Fire stuck to the tightly packed bodies in great deadly curtains. They were too far to hear screams, but the twisted forms convulsing in the thrall of agony made them redundant.

“Where did they find fire cores?”

“Perhaps they traded for them,” the general hazarded.

But with whom? There were tales the woman had taken over the lost tribes of Harrak before their existence even became common knowledge — and before anyone could guarantee their independence to box the witch in. Perhaps they had stashes left from the glory days of their ancestors.

In the distance, the mass of beastlings split. Some ran, the screeches of their dying allies too much to tolerate. Others kept charging. The larger ones. The most blighted of their brethren.

