They rushed through the gaps into the loose formation of the heavies, and the armor-clad soldiers leisurely killed them. They didn’t even stop to form a proper shield wall. A large beastling attacked the head of the formation, only to be felled by precise spear thrusts that skewered its vitals before it could close the final distance. The closest a beastling managed to get was when a wounded one had its skull crushed under a tower shield.

Behind them, the crossbows hadn’t even grabbed their weapons.

The mages stood around doing nothing.

A cavalry force trotted to the edge of the formation, away, towards the Enorian mercenaries.

The general looked up to see the distant form of the so-called empress. She floated over the battlefield, searching it for… he didn’t know what.

“Is it the lack of beastling sharpshooters or merely inexperience?” his assistant wondered.

“No. Strong shield.”

“That is daring.”

“I have seen her cast during the Dawn Empire battle. She has strong shields. And good reflexes. It will take a lot of attrition to take her down.”

“Would, sir?”

The general turned, distracted.

“It would take a lot of attrition to take her down?”

The man was getting cocky, as his bitter smirk confirmed. The general knew what he meant, however.

The king was right. His assistant had also guessed his thoughts. They should have quashed her when she was weak. Now, it was too late to do so without unthinkable sacrifices, and the shadows of an old enemy darkened the throne of Baran once more. For three centuries now, his nation had enjoyed its independence from the yoke of the empire to become the dominating power of the continent. Now, the upstart witch was bringing back an old terror. The one that their forefathers had warned them about. Harrak. The ancient monster.

They would not find allies for this task on the continent. Only the Pure League hated her enough to join their cause, and they had their hands full. Portals made the world too convenient. Even Baran was forced to join the network at the cost of the Guild of Caravaneers, or risk being left behind.

What a mess.

“Sir, our forces are victorious.”

“Regroup and resume the march. I want to be out of reach of Glastia’s stench by tonight.”

“Yessir.”

***

Rollo raised his fist. Once he was sure everyone was in place, he closed his helmet.

The world became two slits. It was simpler now, but the thought of killing beastling aberrants left a sour taste on his tongue. Witchery and dark god things. He hated those with a passion.

A sign and the formation pivoted from the back of the Enorian formation to their beleaguered flank. The beastlings that saw them ran. It was too late for that.

“The Rose!” he yelled.

His leadership ability picked up. The knights closed rank, spears lowering to catch the larger monsters.

“ And the thorns!”

Impact.

Crushing sounds beneath the hooves of his charger. The crunch when his spear caught a larger beastling in the chest. Some resistance, then the beastlings broke and the fifty knights rode on, crushing everything to death. He skirted the edge of the Enorian formation on their left flank then they were off. A gesture, and the knights made a short loop. The horses slowed down. With their left flank mostly cleared, the Enorians regrouped and pushed the beastlings away, yet Rollo could see the dead and the dying, their bodies taken over by a strange illness. He tsked.

Those jokers were supposed to be covering them.

“We’ll finish the loop and clear their front next.”

“Must we wipe their arses as well?” his lover said, damn him and his timing.

Men chuckled. Lady Seris huffed her displeasure, the recently arrived recruit completely devoid of a sense of humor.

“Enough chatter. Ride. Crush. Kill.”

“Aye!”

They did so, and they did so well. Rollo was proud. The foes could not stop them but mistakes would leave openings. None were committed. This time.

After the battle was over, Rollo rode ahead to greet the Enorian leader and get his measure. It was a nobleman in shining armor, though his banner was tattered and burnt.

“We… appreciate your assistance. Though it wasn’t needed,” the man said between gritted teeth. “I am the Blue Duke. Do not think this will make us forget the roles you played in the death of the true heir to the crown of Enoria.”

Rollo took the man’s measure. He’d met the true Blue Duke, this man’s nephew, a more… agile thinker. The deposed Blue Duke bristled in the ensuing silence. In the distance, someone’s screams were cut short.

The Blue Duke winced.

“I see. We will be riding back, then. A good day to you.”

Rollo blew his horns, then the Harrakans were off.

“Not an auspicious first meeting,” his lover commented.

“I know old assholes like him. He will only swallow his pride if he has no choice.”

“Can’t anything be done?”

“Reinforce our right flank and hope the beastlings are not too contagious. Fuck those Enorians. I care not what happens to them. Let the witch handle diplomacy.”

“She is not the smoothest negotiator.”

“That is, I believe, the most entertaining part.”

***

“That thing is disgusting,” Viv confessed at the sight of the specimen on the dissection table.

The beastling’s emaciated body showed an ugly, beastly face, thin long limbs and ugly spikes growing from the skull, all covered in a diseased skin that clung to the creature’s bones, but now new additions added to the revolting package: a claw-like appendage extending from a right arm that should have been too frail to lift it. The cancerous growth repulsed Viv by its very presence. It seemed to quiver when she was looking away.

“Good observation,” Abe said with a patient smile, “though rather obvious. That is not what I want you to focus on.”

“The mana…” Viv whispered.

Beastlings were weak, and so was their connection to mana. The misbegotten horror on the table was no exception and whatever feeble power it possessed while alive, it had long evaporated. The claw was the exception. A lingering presence corrupted the air around, swallowing the ambient mana with little sips even though its host had died.

It was an aberrant limb.

“Aberrants are anathema to the planet. How can a creature merge with aberrant flesh? Don’t answer that, I know how. I just can scarcely believe it.”

“More concretely, the limb is dangerous dead and even more so alive. The bodies will have to be burned in the future, to prevent their corruptions from spreading to nearby corpses. Just in case.”

“Just in case indeed. I was going to build a portal anyway since we’ll need more naptha for the liberators. We will just have to double the deliveries.”

“There is something else. Wounds will instantly drain the mana from the wounded, which prevents them from fighting off the infection. Healing magic will only help so much. As expected, divine mana will function best to fight off the deleterious effects of this dark power.”

“Worst case scenario, amputate the limb. We can regrow it later.”

“I will pass on the instruction. We are lucky to have had no casualties thus far. It might change.”

“I’d be surprised, yeah.”

“I have more. Just conjectures, so far.”

The redeemed lich passed his hand over his beard, the gesture slow and methodical.

“Two of them. First, the corruption is somehow helping the specimens coordinate. You may not have noticed it, but the larger, more diseased ones moved almost in unison. Second, I surmise we will face true aberrants soon enough, or at least creatures so corrupted by the influence of the dead one that it makes no practical difference. I see no way of preparing for them that we have not already done, however.”

“More fire.”

“That is certainly an option.”

***

To receive the Alliance’s leaders on this first night of the purge, the Glastians had selected a hillock near the center of the loose Paramese army. A crimson pavillion rose from its heights in colorful defiance to the devastated land around. Red-garbed soldiers provided a protective cordon while the Glastian army itself camped a small distance away. A few gray mages flew around to provide cover. None challenged Viv and Sidjin when they landed.

The overlook still had a few of those white trees she’d seen from afar. She took a moment to look at them. Their bark was chaffed and fibrous. She looked again.

Now, those were teeth marks. The forest was made of normal trees, only every last piece of bark and every last leaf had been gnawed off by tiny teeth until the tree died. She shook her head. The pavilion beckoned.

The elite sentries lifted the tent’s flap to let her in with a courteous bow. The opening revealed a shaft of bright light and a very loud voice.

“— supposed to be covering each other’s flanks, not sod off to chase two dozen beastlings fucking in the woods!”

“They’re already arguing,” Viv noted.

“A Paramese tradition,” Sidjin commented sadly.

Viv walked in on a massive argument, decided she wouldn’t start the evening with this travesty and walked off to serve herself a nice cup of kava instead. The diversion allowed her to eavesdrop while Sidjin poured warm klod into his own mug with a judgmental frown.

“What? Kava’s nice.”

“Not you darling, people arguing after a single day out.”

The argument was taking place between a Pure League group she wasn’t familiar with and the Zazas group. Since Zazas was her only ally among the northern cities, she discreetly backed them with her presence even though, from what she could tell, they were wrong. Zazas favored javelin throwers and those had hunted roaming bands of beastlings, leaving the nearby northern formation to be attacked on their flank. There had been casualties.

She frowned, looking at the ever-present map on the center table. The left flank of the strike force, opposite to her, covered a much larger segment of land while also expecting less violent attacks. As such, smaller yet more numerous armies extended past the official big names like the Royal Baranese Army detachment. Those were supposed to stay relatively close to each other for safety. Clearly, there had been a fuckup.

“I appreciate that you had losses,” General Jaratalassi finally said.

The old man still seemed energetic, a sign things were going well for now. Or that he hadn’t had the time to grow sleep-deprived yet.

“However, our friends from Zazas only followed orders by pursuing fleeing beastling before they could regroup with other tribes… or feed them. If you must blame someone, blame me for my lack of foresight.”

The Pure League noble gnashed his teeth. His respect for old Steel Trap forced him to silence, however, and the general continued.

“The beastlings have done something I never expected from half-feral monsters. I assume you know what I am talking about.”

He looked around. It was an old habit from class he never quite shed. Viv actually expected most people present to know what he meant, but nobody dared say it in case they were wrong. Looking stupid in front of the class was worse when the class was made of famous generals.

“They’re using strategy?” she hazarded.

“Elaborate,” Jaratalassi ordered her as if they were still at the Academy.

“They’re testing us. Some groups are sacrificed to see how we perform. Larger groups are aimed at smaller formations to chip them off. And other groups are trying to lure us. It’s as if there is an intelligence directing them from afar even though individuals remain feral.”

“Precisely. We are seeing sporadic shows of strategic thinking in several spots across the frontline. I can tell some of the attacks are nonsensical, but others feel clearly directed.”

No one dared contradict the old man, though disbelief marred a few faces.

“How does this affect our strategy?” the Baranese general asked.

Jaratalassi waved, and the formations on the map shivered. Viv noticed with pleasure that the Harrakan flag looked just as weird as she hoped — a mix between edgy graffiti and Pink Floyd album art.

Right now, the armies formed a loose line made of different–sized blotches, each one as large as the army it represented. Glastia was several times larger than the rest since they had gone all in. As Jaratalassi waved, the pieces moved forward into a triangle while tightening their ranks.

“Right now, the beastling horde lacks coordination, but I suspect it will stop mattering as we move on and encounter larger tribes. The optimal strategy for them would be to focus on our wings and leave the center alone for later. As we are forming a line and we cannot cover each other that effectively, a concentrated assault could overwhelm the smaller formations before the rest of us can react. As such, we will close it a little to improve responsiveness.”

“The purpose of this purge was to kill all of the beastlings,” the Enorian representative said. “If we cover less ground, that means we could miss a lot of them.”

Jaratalassi shook his head.

“If they can use strategy, then the mind behind their attacks already knows we are here. They will use everything they have to kill us, eat us, and find the walls less defended. We do not need to worry about going to them. They will come to us.”

“Are you sure they will? They could just attack the walls at our backs.”

Jaratalassi nodded in agreement.

“That is correct, which is why I am going to request you to form cavalry detachment and mage wings. I will suggest banner groups at the end of the council. I have, however, good reasons to believe they will fight.”

He pointed at the devastated land, somewhere north into the wilderness.

