“The jungle is dead to the last tree so the only food left is other beastlings, therefore there should be no more of the nasty things after a few dozen leagues past the walls, simply because it takes food in one’s stomach to run and there is no more food to be found there. They would starve before reaching the sea. All of the remaining beastlings are here, around us. I also believe that the fortress houses their chieftains, or at least holds something important. If we attack it, they will surely defend it, or at least use the opportunity to try and stab us in the back.”

Viv thought it made sense. Building a fortress took time and effort, so even creatures as vile and base as the beastlings wouldn’t do it for no reason.

“We will adapt if those creatures try anything. In the meantime, I’ll tell you what our priests have found about the aberrants. Bishop, if you’d please?”

Viv listened with one ear. It wasn’t anything she hadn’t already found out besides one observation that the more mutated the creatures were, the less dependent on food they became. They still felt like they were starving, their bodies were just not falling apart. It explained why they’d lasted for so long.

Viv signaled Jaratalassi that she wanted to talk towards the end of the war council, then she kindly waited until the bigwigs had finished taking his undivided attention. The old general smiled at her once he was done juggling egos.

“Ah, you two, just the people I wanted to talk to,” Jaratalassi started, which immediately set off alarms in Viv’s mind.

“Is this about the siege?”

“Not yet.”

He guided them to a corner of the room while the pavilion slowly emptied itself. Viv understood a pointed wink, casting a sound enchantment to keep the conversation private.

“I have unfortunate news. Your asshole brother intends to use the campaign to slander you, Sidjin. He’s spread the word that you are not fighting on the frontlines at all.”

Sidjin’s grip tightened on his cup. Viv was ready to go off and nuke the little shit from orbit.

“He’s just being obnoxious. There is little harm he can do to you.”

“He can have Glastia’s doors close on me. He needs not reverse my pardon. Making it impossible for me to enter would be the same as a banishment.”

“You’re right,” Jaratalassi said. “And you know how I hate those little fuckers who use the good fight to advance their little causes. That is why I would like to name you as the head of the mage wing on our right flank.”

Jaratalassi waited for Viv’s answer. Technically, she was the strongest mage around, but that didn’t mean she needed to show off.

“That sounds like a good idea,” she replied.

“I wanted to ignore my brother dear, but now it looks like I will have to… resort to drastic measures.”

“Don’t do anything you would regret,” Jaratalssi warned. “Or that I would regret.”

“I need time to think and no, I will not endanger the future of the city for my own satisfaction. But I will get my satisfaction. On him. And those who have supported him. It seems he is too afraid to face me now, so he prefers to talk behind my back. How sadly predictable.”

Viv could tell he was fuming. She grabbed his hand. He gave her a little squeeze then returned to the doomed prince broody routine he often had at the start of their relationship. She let him be. He needed some time to process.

“So, I wanted to propose something as well,” Viv said.

“Do tell.”

“Allow the Enorian mercenaries to join up with us if they accept. They are too vulnerable, especially if the beastlings start testing our flanks.”

“I was considering a swap but the farther you are from the center and the more likely it will be that you need to cross a large distance to reach the fortress. I agree. I am only concerned about losing control over too much territory.”

“Not to worry,” Viv said. “I asked some of my Children of the Scale recruits earlier today for tricks on how to handle large groups of beastlings. They suggested sound. A loud enough noise, or a song, will stir them into a frenzy until they either charge or flee.

“And you intend to… sing to them?”

“Oh, something of the sort.”

Sidjin slapped his forehead, dragged from his funk by his impending doom.

“For the love of all that is good, not the Spice Girls karaoke again!”
