At this, Shiv turned to regard Valor with a look of wariness. The old Legend was dim for now, but Veronica still felt the soft and slumbering touch of Divinity upon him—a Divinity that might have compromised his greatest skill.

Judging from how he held himself, this outcome likely wasn’t expected on his part nor the Paragon’s—especially not in active battle.

“He is still inexperienced with his powers,” Kathereine hissed. “He is no substitute for us.”

I never imagined him to be a replacement, grandmother—just a cure. Or a model.

“Your recommended strategy has unfolded better than I assumed.” Veronica held to an indifferent facade as she addressed him, keeping her expression blank. “And there is no indication they suspect anything is amiss?”

“I do not believe so,” Anthony answered—though there was something in his gaze that hinted at a personal discussion between him and the rest of the Council right after. Doubtless something to do with Valor Thann’s compromise. “We kept the Evangelizing Temple’s approach well-masked in advance; the Deathless mixed in his Pyromancy with its gaze. When the Jotun finally pushed their way in, its image as a divine weapon was well portrayed. Things should proceed as expected.”

“Good,” Veronica said. “I will convene the Council and issue subsequent edicts. The Prismatic Guard will be placed on high alert—orders will be issued to all commanders to be prepared for a move on the North. Time to see if they can be forced into a mistake born of haste. Have the elimination team double their drills in the meantime; if all goes well, then our target will soon be close at hand.”

“Seems like the reward for performing well is more work right after,” Shiv playfully pouted.

“Not reward: Necessity,” Veronica corrected. “And speaking of necessity, I ask that you dispatch an honor guard to receive me in a day’s time. I will be personally visiting Gate Piety.”

Practically everyone did a double-take at that—which was the desired outcome. She had consulted no one before making the decision, after all.

As said, mistakes are easily born of haste.

“You—why?” Shiv muttered.

His paranoia was valid, but pointless. “Because I want to offer my regards to our newest Ascendant-to-be.”

Anthony’s pupils dilated. Shiv’s body language screamed of reactive violence, but he didn’t know how or where to use it.

“He is no Ascendant, Legend Chandler,” Valor rebuked. “And you will not envelop my disciple in your schemes.”

“No schemes,” Veronica said, hiding a quiet lie in a louder truth—nothing was in motion yet, but soon, they just might be. “And you are right; I apologize. But a new and proper Demigod born of our Republic is a thing to celebrate, is it not?”

“Our Republic that tortured him and betrayed his home,” Shiv added coolly.

“Our Republic which must now face its past actions and settle things properly,” Veronica pushed. “Despite sour emotions, I think neither of us are in any state to reject an outreach of deeper cooperation—for we have enough adversaries in wait already, do we not?”

To that, Shiv was left with tension, but no true rebuttal.
