While conducting in-field operations, the term "beheading" is globally used to describe the elimination of elite Pathbearers or critical specialists for a specific operation of war.

Though critical points of interest themselves, beheadings rarely target army commanders due to usually being too guarded and fundamentally replaceable, even if their replacement is to be of a lower quality.

Instead, if the operation is built upon detection and evasion, then the beheading you must conduct is the preemptive elimination of their highest-tier Scout, or perhaps, in more specific situations, a Scout with the most applicable skill that counters your stealth specialists. In other circumstances, a beheading usually causes a cascading collapse in terms of morale damage, or the obliteration of an army in kind. Though the final circumstance is rare, it is still common enough when fighting swarm-type monsters who summon and use their offspring as expendable munitions and actual living shields.

Furthermore, when fighting monstrous Pathbearers, should the strongest of their number be cut down, the rest will likely scatter. For most lead through domination and fear, and the natural priority of an animal is to preserve its own life rather than fighting to further the ambition of its now-slain alpha.

A comparative, but not entirely equivalent, level of damage can be inflicted on individual adversaries, because even individual foes suffer severe moral damage when the strongest among them is cut down. Depending on culture and discipline, they might be able to fight on, but watching the most essential member of your force fall in combat will often render your mission ineffective. Thus, the only thing to do thereafter is to retreat or, in the worst case, surrender.

Remember this: never force your enemy to die fighting if you can help it. Your goal is not to kill every single enemy in those cases, but to eliminate them, to make them ineffective. Do not trade lives for life. Trade nothing and take everything from your foes.

Such is the philosophy behind these beheadings: to break your enemy's central focus before you are forced to contend with the mass of their body.

—In-Field Targeted Liquidations (Aviary)

434

Trojan

A blanket of eternal night and fear fell upon the southeastern edge of the Moon’s Bones. The stratosphere-piercing walls of the Jotun borders were besieged without end for three days and three nights, though there was no difference while they were trapped in that unnatural dark.

The darkness was an animated thing, a ravenous thing, a cruel thing. It moved like a sprawl of ink, gliding of its own will. When blocked from sight and sound, it disturbed every diviner who gazed into its depths, for it didn't hide, but it obscured.

It projected a wall of flame, a carrier of the System's favor, burning bright, descending upon the North. The moment Mulva glanced at it, her scream was heard. The voice of her gods speaking in trinary, all their breaths hitched in rising fear, sounded within her.

“It is he. The System's undying war-slave has come. He comes in the shape of black and red. He comes, the trespasser, the butcher, the undying of the South, seeking to devour the beast of his likeness—the Endhound that rages in our cage.”

The voice of the Child, the Crone, and the Warrior spoke on, and it pulsed through not only Mulva, but all others who were imbued with the Path of the Prophetess. Thus, the North stood on guard, prepared for an attack to burst free from the black, prepared to slay the Deathless as he came upon them time and time again.

He proved an insidious, calculated, and economical foe. He didn't throw himself against the Moon's Bones like a base beast. Instead, he simply held his curtain high, banishing the light of the sun and spreading wider, staining the weakest numbers among them with fear.

The slaves had to be drawn back, for their dread fueled the crawling blackness, and it swelled until it was a full fifty kilometers in length—only stopped from crawling further by repeated sacrifices of lives and struggle.

The first to be cast into the black by the Bone Guard were the expendable slaves: Janissaries stolen from this world and swallowed whole, humans, elves, goblins, and the wretched machine-kind, devoid of purified flesh—unable to inherit the mantle of the Pale.

This proved to be a mistake.

The Janissaries were well-trained by those who walked the Path of the Kennel-Master. But though their discipline was true and they remained bound by spell-chains and mental conditioning, so too did a fear burn inside them. A fear that couldn't be denied and fed the black.

As the blessed Cryomancers shaped siege towers out from the Moon's Bones, the Janissaries went sailing across, galloping in their ordered formations, ten thousand at a time, flanked by spell and Paleborn dimensionals. Even so, charge after charge, they walked into the black born of that trespasser's shade of dread and null, and none came back. None found what they sought.

Through the eyes of the war slaves, the Kennel-Masters glimpsed a horrid truth: the darkness was not to be so easily penetrated. So long as one feared, the dark grew, and even those braver than most could only struggle and writhe in an attempt to tear the denseness of the shadows that surrounded them. Then there was that which resided in the black, that which melted into the black itself, with there being no difference at the core. Yet every difference had to be made if they were to strike down their looming foe.

Five assaults and 85,000 missing Janissaries later, the Jotun themselves took to the field, and so came Mulva, dubbed the Falconress by her kind. With her Biomancy and Awareness bound, she had a habit of reshaping the flesh of her pretties. She was different from the others. She was a Prophetess at heart, but she dabbled in the field of a Kennel-Master from time to time. Others here called her the Scout Matron, for she had spent almost three centuries on these walls.

Serving the Moon's Bones was not kind to the Jotun. It was not kind to anyone. The butchers of the South sometimes tested their defenses, and they never found the Moon's Bones or its guardians wanting, but that price, like today, was paid in blood and toil. She would give her blood, toil, and love to see that which lay behind her guarded from all the tainted hands of the blighted flamebloods that littered this world as locusts.

On the sixth assault, Mulva placed her falcons at the center of the ensemble. The outer edges were now led by Vanguards—proper warriors, their minds boosted by Psychomancy, Pyromancy, and Psychology skill fusions, ensuring that they knew only passion and fervor rather than any kind of fear. Their bodies were further coated in dense plates of Hulfrost, allowing the Pale to guard them from spell and steel alike. Even so, they made peace with their deaths. They composed their funeral songs and offered them to those they cherished before mounting their steeds and assuming their arms.

With the oppressive darkness now creeping over the southeastern walls, the plan was simple: using the fearlessness imbued upon their warriors, they would drive the black back, and then they would tear the darkness down the middle until they found the perpetrator and fed him to the winter eternal. With them would fly Mulva's falcons: humans, elves, and goblins, granted hollowed bones and feathered wings, and empowered by her Biomancy, but more importantly, trained to her love.

She stood over them, thrice their height, as she scattered their favorite food down, watching with joy as they pecked at offerings. She reveled in the control. She reveled in the affection she'd trained them to feel toward her. She knew then that it would be her glory on this day. It would be her blood, her toil, her sacrifice, conducted through her falcons.

Something nearing sadness ached inside her heart, but she pinned it down and slaughtered it, as she did the weakest of her children on high. She whispered to her falcons, "Fly true! Fly! As you carry my heart, I carry your burdens. Fly and lift me with you!"

Her falcons shrieked, their voices rising as a keening wail in this ever-present night. When the klaxon sounded and the call went out for them to charge once more, it was her falcons that speared past even the line of the Vanguards. It was her falcons that moved the fastest, that tore the deepest. It was her falcons that tunneled their way through dread and null, fighting inch after inch until they reached the core, until they exposed the clearing at the center.

There was no darkness there, no Deathless either. Instead, it was a small temple hovering above. A temple that emitted a stream of blinding light into the sky. That light fell, and it immolated everyone who dared reach through the black. And though they were seared and branded in a way, no harm came to their flesh.

But then fell the arrows, shards of blazing incandescence. They struck and burned, obliterating warriors from within. They combusted while their Magical Resistances failed, and the temple, though small as a hill, was immediately retaliated upon by artillery and spell. Colossal blasts of frost capable of gouging the land down to the bedrock exploded in massive snowflakes. Cleaving winds capable of shearing the horizon free of clouds crashed down upon the temple in razor-sharp tsunamis. Then came the foulness of the frozen flame. The flame was purified by the Pale, but the flame was enslaved. Nonetheless, it detonated in pockets of solidified fire, burning everything trapped within its blast.

All to no avail. The temple drifted on. That small hill remained unmarred, the tessellating materials that made up the pagoda and the figure within utterly unblemished as Mulva's falcons ascended upon it, their bodies turning hard with frost, their blood pounding rich with impending violence.

They slammed down upon the temple, seeking to wrench its thunder from the soil to the stone, but then they froze, for they touched the mists, and suddenly a dire, fouler will took hold inside of them. They were stripped of their ability to conduct violence.

Though Mulva was not severed of her command, she cried for her children to continue attacking, to heed her orders. She cried that she loved them, that they needed to overcome all for her, for the Pale, for the Crone, the Warrior, and the Child. But though her voice carried, her will did not, for what was natural once now became an impossibility, and through them she felt that effect. That intrusive peace. It was, in a word: tyrannical. Beyond her ability to dissuade.

And so the small temple drifted on in the black, but something in the darkness shifted. Something behind them congealed and sealed, and then the Vanguards began to die en masse. They were struck by something heavy and fast, tearing through the air and painting the gaps they made in the black. Most of them didn't even get a chance to fight back, but the Prophetesses—the warrior Prophetesses that ventured out among them—gave cries of warning, though their portents were vague and unhelpful.

And then, from the other side, came scintillating fire, one that burned mana and flashed hot like a molten scream. As the flame stained her chains, those links of biomancy which tethered her to her falcons, her magic was ignited until it fell away from her in crystallized chunks.

The agony was like that of a slave being pressed against a stove. A second, keening wave arose into the air, but this time there were no falcons to utter that scream. This time the voices that sang were those of the magi manning the Moon's Bones, for they all shared in mutual strain, and then the Prophetesses in the walls began to die. Warriors, scoutmasters, leaders, and elites. They fell as the Vanguard fell—in perfect tandem; the sheer chaos caused by the timing made it hard to uncover just what was happening in the moment.

It was only when the Pale began howling that Mulva understood, but she understood too late to stop a blade from punching into the base of her skull and chiseling until Necromancy-touched metal kissed the softness of her brain.

But the giantess had suffered wounds aplenty while training her falcons, and thus she shed this flesh of hers, ejecting her new body out from the desiccated husk of the old. She found herself weaker, more vulnerable, but spared of death for once, even as she crashed out, sloppy and naked, slick with the umbilical fluids of her restorative Toughness Skill. As she tumbled down the steps, crashing into other Jotunn, there came a shadow that blurred over her—and then it was gone, but in its wake descended a rain of severed limbs and ruptured organs, and the screaming grew louder as the butchery continued. The darkness slammed down fully upon the southeastern wall, imprinting itself hard as the warriors who held fear at bay were assassinated one after another.

Terror rose once more, like an unwelcome flame, upon the bones of fallen frost. Terror in Mulva. Terror in all the warriors, more than just the Janissaries.

The first line was collapsing, and the only thing they could do now was to call a retreat.

“No!” the Pale screamed inside the Prophetess. “Stand! Fight! They cannot reach in! They cannot be allowed to trespass into our domain! Fight and die! Your place in the Pale is guaranteed if you do. Guard the Pale. Guard these walls. Give all you have for all that remains of our home.”

And so, bolstered by purpose beyond dread, Mulva rose once more as she tried to call her falcons back, but the moment she used her Biomancy, she nearly went down again as a spasm of exquisite agony cast her into the throes of a seizure. It had been years since she'd strained her magic to such a breaking point. It had been years, and never so severely.

