As Mulva wrestled to retain control over her body, she saw him for the first time: the Deathless, or at least one of his vessels. He touched down upon the walls. Towering and black, like the manifestation of darkness itself and the shadows born of dread, and all peeled out from him in a flowing cape that ascended upward into the sky. Beside him was someone else, a man no less haunting of presence, a visage of death that radiated with unnatural energy, who appeared without warning. There seemed to be something wrong with him, for his body, too, was stained with the incandescence cast by the star that hovered over the temple.

Thereafter, two more joined the intruders. The first was a tar-black figure that burst out from the desiccated corpse of a towering frost giant, slicing through him with a long dagger like there was nothing in the way. That flowing tar was unmistakable to Mulva. This was the Deadly in the flesh, and out from her shadow stepped another. A manifestation of Harlock the Midnight, perhaps.

Mulva understood then: The Republic’s gods had begun their onslaught—

But then came the sun, oh, that terrible, horrible sunrise that the darkness had been hiding all this time. Dawn followed that ever-night, and dawn fell upon Mulva, burning her to the soul, inscribing its hateful awareness upon her like a permanent immolation she couldn't shake. And now she was to share a fate with her kindred and falcons.

Or so Mulva thought. Instead of continuing the slaughter, they sent the Deathless and the Undying alongside the departed once more, disappearing as one, as a darkness swept down to envelop them, hiding their departure. The silence that followed was broken only by moans of pain and cries of terror and anguish. After that, for no reason at all, the pall that terrorized the southeastern section of the Moon's Bones drew away, drifting into the distance like storm clouds come and gone.

But though the darkness fled, the light endured. The temple remained hanging in the sky above. And to top it, a gleaming star burned bright, and it stayed there just beyond the borders of the cleaved North, watching, waiting, glaring. And Mulva felt the essence of its eyes. It burned inside of her. It stained her deep, and she realized her soul wasn’t fully hers any longer.

The Tyrant-Paragon has cast his glare upon you…

The weight of a hostile god pressed down on Mulva—an unwelcome weight that seeped into her soul and torched the essence of the Pale. The avatar of the fallen moon cried out, and the Crone answered in kind. Mulva felt her body ignite with foul flame as she was boiled once more, but this time, a divine fire spread out from her—sickening fire that enervated her flesh and soul to empower a godly spell to follow.

But though Mulva shriveled and withered, she felt herself plunge deeper into the Pale’s embrace, and knew she had done enough—that she was worthy of resting in the Garden of the Pale Moon, Whole and Eternal in the Fated Tomorrow.

The last thing the Falconress saw before her flesh flaked apart was other fires blasting up into the sky—tainted flames devouring her kindred who tried to comprise a swirling dimensional spell to capture the divine weapon left on the field by the enemy. Before her gaze went blank, the sky went dark again as a fiery dimensional spell turned to brightest frost and then shattered, leaving nothing in its wake.

No temple.

No glaring star.

No Mulva.

Only hope, and then null.

***

360 km away, ensconced secretly within her Divination center at the heart of Fortress-City Vermind, the architects of the Tarrasque Elimination Force studied the aftermath of their first true shaping operation.

Scenes were re-enacted in vivid detail upon a ten-meter-long Diviner's table. From light and sand, the shape of the Moon's Bones was replicated, and every individual Pathbearer on the enemy side that had been detected was also simulated in kind. They littered the outer platforms of the wall's first layer, swarming out like wasps, preparing to defend their frozen hide. Veronica watched from the second-floor balcony alongside the other Avatars as a patch of simulated darkness drew away.

Shiv, Harlock, Valor, and Daughter had escaped without any trouble. But more importantly, the first infield test of the Paragon's Legendary Skill had taken effect. Even after the others were extracted, thousands of Jotun and war slaves alike remained cast in that azure glow. The Lord of Gate Piety had left the brand of his Awareness upon them, and even after turning his gaze aside, the fire of his knowing still burned.

His Immolating Omniscience burned so blindingly bright that not even the System could hide how severe his power was, and a faint flicker of mist bled through the ones he marked—a representation of his power, one that went deeper than mana itself, or so it was suggested. And it wasn't just the enemy that burned. When Valor disappeared, an imprint of him still lingered in space, flitting every few seconds as his peerless Stealth Skill struggled against the boy's Awareness.

The fact that there was a struggle at all was a horrifying thing. The sheer potency possessed by the young Demigod’s newest skill was such that even Veronica found herself unnerved.

The simulation played on as spells and distant projectiles smashed into Adam's flying temple. It all proved to be for naught. It suffered no harm. It abided by no violence and simply continued hovering forth, sliding slowly northward past the first layer of defenses, then into the second, and with a third following thereafter, dragging the incandescent star above with it.

And then, at long last, the beasts of the North committed to that final mistake. They formed a dimensional cage around Adam's heaven and sealed it away into a pocket plane of their own choosing. In doing so, they sealed their own fate as well, for though they trapped the Paragon's Temple, the Deathless was still attached to it via a temporal anchor. He could arrive and begin performing reconnaissance behind enemy lines at any point. The Dimensionalists of the North were passable in Veronica's opinion, but if they thought they could deny her or those she'd personally trained, theirs was hubris unmatched.

"At least it's still affected by magic, just nothing related to destruction or violence." Despite the success of their operation, Veronica couldn't shake the coldness building inside. She couldn't help but see Yellowstone or the rest of the Republic in place of the North. She couldn't help but imagine what might follow if the Paragon was allowed to crusade across the lands using that indestructible temple—forever bathed in the glorious light of his beaming Awareness.

As usual, Shiv was understating events happening back within Gate Piety. But Veronica's in-Gate agents had also failed to express just how extreme an evolution Adam Arrow had experienced. And it was more than just this skill. The Ascendants felt his advancement into the threshold of demigodhood. Kathereine was besieged with visions dispatched to her directly from the System, portraying scenes and new scripture information of the Tyrant of Peace facing the Beast of Strife within his own realm, piercing the bleak and war-torn skies beneath an invasive, imperialistic sunrise.

The System then gifted Veronica with the tome as well: The Unfinished Testament of the Tyrant-Paragon.

The pages were still being filled, but the contents that were already there left Veronica shaken. Not only was Adam Arrow embarking on a path to godhood, but it was a truer, or at least more antediluvian, godhood than that which the Ascendants had seized. Furthermore, the Phylactery the Starhawk had procured for Adam was something else entirely as well. Then there was the way he changed to embody the nature of his subjects. Right now, Adam Arrow resembled an orc, an orc with long flowing red hair and a bright, incandescent left eye, sporting a band of sky-blue wrapped around his brow.

The likely cause of his changed appearance was perhaps the part that worried Veronica the most. Gate Piety suddenly had an army again. The temporary discord between them and the Challenger had evolved into something else, and two million orcs had turned away from the Red Rider. Perhaps it was a bargain struck, or perhaps the words within the Testament were actually true, and some of the grayskins truly sought a new path to follow.

Whatever the case, Gate Piety was experiencing as explosive a growth as her grandson who called it home. That growth needed to be observed and contained. Even now, those who operated as eyes and ears within the Gate reported on the new budding alliance between representatives from Lone Star and Gate Piety. There was also ample evidence to suggest the Descender's Union, High Harbor’s Dragon Brokers, and Weave especially were more than intent on joining this little endeavor as well.

Of course, there was also the invasion on the horizon, with the Quest update indicating the Challenger's involvement, but Veronica erred on the side of consistency. Despite the power of the Challenger, she didn't think he wanted to destroy Gate Piety. No, if the Testament was right, he had a nemesis to cultivate now, and this struggle would feed the Gate more strength than it took.

Given more time and no restrictions, what might become of Gate Piety, and how great of a threat would it pose against the Yellowstone Republic?

“I warned you of this,” Kathereine seethed inside her granddaughter. “I told you we should have finished that boy off and then seized the Deathless vessel that remained by force.”

“If it were only so simple,” Veronica replied, her tone dry. “Though he's content to allow his creation to suffer, Udraal will not abide if we interfere in his experiment too vulgarly.”

“Then we strike him down!” Kathereine whined more than she bellowed. “Then we gather our power—”

“And humiliate ourselves once again, destroying one of his expendable vessels by trading half a dozen valuable Avatars and risking him dealing actual damage to you or your Domains?” Veronica scowled internally. “No. And just years prior, you would have told me differently—you would have commanded that I beguile Gate Piety and resolve matters through the softest force possible.”

“There is no softness of force that will allow us to fix what has been unbalanced,” the Songbringer pushed. “The Starhawk has done this. The Starhawk will be the death of our Republic.”

Veronica paused as her thoughts suddenly inverted. Why was she so intent on viewing Adam Arrow as an invading force? The boy still loved the Republic; he might not trust Veronica or the Ascendants, but he would not inflict torments upon the people or revel in the destruction of the nation. If nothing else, he would intervene should the Pale or the gods of the South sound their war-drums.

And more importantly, the Paragon was a stable Demigod who functioned without being affected by the Great One’s legend—at least so far. “We are looking at this wrong. He is not going to be our enemy, but our evolution.”

“Him?” Kathereine spat. “That Godling wretch spewed from Roland’s loins?”

Veronica ignored her grandmother—and mentally repressed her subsequent diatribe on how Roland was a fool to resist her those years ago, and that she could have made specific parts of his flesh sing. Of course, to make such an impossibility happen, she needed to act through an expendable Avatar, as Veronica would never demean herself to serve as a mating conduit—and Roland would have been utterly unwilling besides.

But unwillingness was never a deterrent for Kathereine’s lusts. She would sing, the sound would take root, and minds resistant would become yearning bodies for a time, until the sound in the skulls grew dim, and the darkness of what was done to them followed.

Such was the Songbringer’s degeneration—to go from a Legendary diplomat and songstress that stood at the heart of the Republic to a depraved crone of undeniable power.

Yet, that might not be an inevitable fate, for the longer Veronica regarded Adam’s visage, the higher her hopes climbed. If the Starhawk could create a new and untainted Ascendant, then what will it take to purify the old? And should that be impossible, could Veronica engender new Ascendants all her own as a recourse?

“No,” Kathereine said, trying to dissuade Veronica from a reasonable course of action. “You will not do this! You will not see us replaced!”

“I will see you made better, grandmother, as you would have wanted when you were whole,” Veronica replied.

A pulse of dimensional mana sent a tingle across her field; the Trojan team were back. She teleported herself the very next second to meet them outside their designated anchor.

“And besides, I want to take the measure of Young Lord Arrow myself,” Veronica said as she arrived outside a set of opening doors in a burst of static mana. “I grow weary of making firm enemies with nothing to show for it; I think it’s time that the Republic sinks itself into Gate Piety as well.”

For if they wish to establish a coalition to defend themselves from invasion, then I will teach them the measure of using politics as a sword and a shield, Veronica finished internally as Shiv and the others emerged. Mutual interests are not so easy to arrange and ensure, boy. But worry not, I will educate you in this theater most promptly.

“They bit,” Shiv grunted as he saw her. “Adam thinks his temple is somewhere deep in the Pale’s territory now. Not sure if the Tarrasque is anywhere nearby, but he still has full Awareness radiating from everyone he immolated.”

