Matt took the time as he entered the room to inspect Councilor Samuel. Older, somewhere in his late sixties, but otherwise fit and generally healthy. Someone, potentially the Republic T40, had hit the man with a healing spell or two recently. As he wasn’t even awakened, it left no trace on the man’s spirit, but some portions of the man’s biology were in notably better shape than the tissues around them, which he could only really attribute to skills..

Appearance-wise, he was like most darker skinned humans, with no non-baseline features which would have made him extraordinary, but the man had a presence to him that Matt rarely encountered in mortals. Not that he interacted with mortals too much these days, and Matt made a note that he needed to correct that immediately.

“Good day Councilor Samuel, my name is Matthew Moore, and this is my wife, Elizabeth. We are the Empire representatives who have taken ownership of Soerilia. We are Dukes, and if you don’t fully understand that context, we can go over that in a few moments, but we would ask you to call for a gathering of the world leaders. I was informed that power is within your purview.”

“Yes, sir.” the man’s heart rate spiked, “Sire? Your majesty? I… don’t want to offend you, but I don’t know how best to address you. I was given a lot of papers about your Empire, but I haven’t had the ability to read through them all. I mean no offense, sir.”

Matt cringed at the obvious fear Councilor Samuel showed at his misstep. The man must think they were monsters to be that fearful of their reaction to a minor slip up.

Liz shook her head. “We understand you're not fully up to speed with customs and courtesies. We won’t hold that against you, but we would appreciate you calling for that meeting as soon as possible. We have stopped three wars, and are trying to keep any more people from dying, but the fake messages to the generals will only hold up for so long before a real message gets through, so we need those leaders here immediately.”

Councilor Samuel swallowed hard and Matt had a bad feeling about what he was about to say. “I don’t… have authority to call the assembly on my own, and it will be at least three days before they can. But to do that, we will need to bring in Councilor Jolene. She’s my counterpart within the Conventions, and it is her role to call the assembly, not mine. It will be somewhat difficult to persuade her, but… it will be done, ma’am. Sir. Sire? Umm… Lady?”

Matt closed his eyes and considered just pulling all of the world leaders to this AC building, but knew that was the excessive power that would see these people fearing him instead of working with them.

“Then can you initiate that and get the countries actively fighting to agree to a temporary armistice? We don’t care what reason you give, just get them to stop fighting.”

Councilor Samuel seemed like a man spared from execution as he nodded and picked up a device on his desk he used to communicate with others.

While he did that, Matt closed his eyes and counted down from ten.

This was going to be a trial, but he could at least stop the senseless deaths from continuing without making it too obvious.

That was a good start.
