Before he could finish, phoenix Liz ‘accidentally’ smacked him in the face as Liz finished his sentence. “I bid you rise, Marchioness Sural. With your rise in rank, we remind you that said rank is to be used for the betterment of the Empire.”

After shooting a dirty look at phoenix Liz, who just groomed a feather as if she didn’t see him, Matt repeated the same thing, completing the ceremony.

As Marchioness Sural rose, Margaret congratulated her. “You deserve it.”

Abigail demurred. “We’ll see. It's a major step up that I will have to work to ensure I don’t waste. I stand ready to be commanded, your graces.”

Matt shrugged her comment away. “It’s not like we have any planets for you to control yet. You are free to do as you wish until then.”

“Then let me act to reign in your soon to arrive vassals. A firm hand will be needed to keep them in line until they have their own lands.”

After sharing a glance with Liz, Matt looked to Cato and Isabella, confirming the assignment.

As the formalities were handled, things settled into a more informal mood and the four of them chatted after Cato and Isabella took their leave to finish settling and preparing for the arrival of Soerilia.

It took another month and a half for Matt and Liz to feel the approach of the world, even while inside Lily’s real space. The presence of another world moving through chaotic space was like the rising tide, and anyone with enough range could sense the turbulence.

After saying their goodbyes to Margaret and Abigail, Matt and Liz ripped their way into chaotic space, with Cato and Isabella following them a moment later.

The four of them waited as a small firefly of light moved closer and closer through the corrosive energies of chaotic space.

Planets with essence became dots of light, embers, or fireflies of light in the swirling darkness that was chaotic space and were typically called a world. Most worlds were their own entire universes, but that was only because a world was created when life on a planet reached the critical mass of mana for essence to form within the core of the world. That didn’t mean only a single world could exist in a universe at a time. You could travel to another star system in real space, create a new essence planet, and therefore another spark in chaotic space. It’s just extremely unlikely that the new node would be usefully close to anything in chaotic space, and they were entirely separate entities. That was the basis of real space crossings, which were used to cross great distances of chaotic space via traveling to a nearby real space star system that was one of the rare exceptions

The term ‘world’ was generally the accepted one because, thanks to the ability to have multiple planets in a single star system, it was more appropriate to use the more generic term. But they were used so interchangeably that ‘node’ had been coming into fashion for any world that was linked into the greater whole of the eight intertwined Great Powers.

Moving a world in chaotic space didn’t change its location in its local universe, and was generally not dangerous, but mishandling by someone a high enough Tier from the outside could all too easily destroy the local star system.

Thankfully, nothing so dramatic happened with Soerilia.

Accompanying the world was a Tier 40 who, after initiating the linkage between Soerilia and Lily, turned and said, “Republican veil world, Soerilia delivered and integrated safely. Do you have any reasons to reject the delivery?”

Liz shook her head. “Delivery accepted in good condition. Thank you and we will take good care of the world.”

The Tier 40 worked his jaw, shaking his head as if arguing with himself, before looking back to the planet and saying, “If you mean that, please remember that their ancestors had good reason to want to escape the rat race. The planet's representative is aware of the truth of the realm and can act as an intermediary. I just ask you to remember you are turning their world upside down, and try to have a little empathy for that.”

With that, the Tier 40 vanished into the swirls of chaotic space and Matt took a moment to mull over what he said.

He knew the Republic had a different outlook on cultivation, and Matt tried to put himself in their shoes.

Giving a veil world to the Empire might feel like the Empire giving a world to the Federation, or to a lesser degree, the Sects. Except it would be even worse, as at least Empire civilians were aware of the greater realm, whilst these people would have no idea that they were just a small blip in the wider realm.

That was where Matt had a disconnect.

Supposedly, these peoples' ancestors had willingly chosen this, as though that was any kind of excuse for hiding the true nature of reality from their descendants.

If the Republic didn’t allow people to shove their heads in the sand, these people wouldn't be having these issues.

Still, the Tier 40’s words resonated with Manny’s.

Matt looked to Liz and saw in her face that she felt the same way.

They had been together so long, they didn’t need to speak to come to an agreement that they should tread carefully.

With a thought, Matt pulled the four of them into Soerilia’s real space, using his Intent to cloak them from any type of surveillance.

He had heard a lot of things about Republic veil worlds, but he had never seen one up close.

As they floated above the planet, all four of them spread their spiritual perceptions across the planet and Matt raised an eyebrow at what he saw.

It was only a Tier 3 world, but he hadn’t expected a population of almost a billion people. That just didn’t really happen on low Tier worlds in the Empire, but then again, that number was slightly artificial, as any planet that had been settled for close to fifty thousand years in the Empire wouldn’t have remained a Tier 3 world. It was still jarring, and took a moment for him to process it.

What was more shocking was that there was a war going on.

The very thought would be anathema on an Empire world.

Sure, there might be a fight, a brawl, two guilds coming to blows, but a genuine war? That would never be permitted among the populous like what he was seeing.

Matt stepped, and with flex of his Intent, arrived on the battlefield.

Explosions went off all around him, but his clothes weren’t even rippled as he got a good look at things. Letting his perception reach Tier 26 levels, Matt let the action slow to a crawl as he stood there and watched.

Why were they fighting?

Just on this battlefield there were 217,159 men and women— men, Matt corrected himself, as the only women he saw were noncombatant healers, fighting.

Having just fought his own way through a bloody war, Matt was no stranger to blood, guts, and gore. But why were they fighting?

Why was a Tier 0 unawakened man pushing through waves of bullets to reach the next berm alone, after most of his group of fellow soldiers had already been felled by the stream of bullets? What drove a man to do such things?

Matt wanted to reach out and stop this foolishness, but he tried to remember that as of yet he was an interloper. He didn’t know these people or why they would fight so fiercely.

As the man fell in a spray of bullets, one which hit him in the chest and shattered the plate of ceramic that covered his torso.

The plate had saved his life, but instead of laying there in the blood and boot churned mud, the soldier grit his teeth, forced his wounded arm under his body, and retrieved a grenade.

He pulled the safety out with a yank of his teeth that cracked two of them, and threw the grenade into the berm where the bullets were coming from.

The throw was almost perfect and bounced right next to the top of the berm and rolled in, even as Matt contemplated stopping the burning fuse.

He wanted to. It would be the right thing to do. Why did these people need to die? What did their petty squabbles matter in the Empire?

That thought is what stopped Matt from just stopping the war outright.

He could do it with a thought.

Unawakened mortals using mostly Tier 1 or Tier 2 materials could do nothing to stop him from ending this fight.

Matt considered it, but instead, he looked and analyzed as his mind raced.

The first thing he noticed beyond the war was the fact these people were speaking two different languages, neither of which were the standard Republican. Matt understood the idea of letting veil worlds develop on their own, but he found it hard to believe that the Republic didn’t even nudge things enough to stop such language drift.

Language was a carefully controlled thing in the Empire, as the basics of civilization was being able to communicate with each other. The Empire would have never let things drift so far out of the baseline. But as Matt inspected more and more, he was shocked to see one of the two sides wasn’t even a republic. Instead, it was some kind semi-oligarchical, semi-communal governing system that he wasn’t sure made sense.

Analyzing more of the world, he was shocked to see there were sixty three major languages spoken across eighty two countries, of which only two thirds of which had any semblance of a connection to the republic standard. The rest were a mishmash of communist, corporatocracy, feudalist, and weird mixes of all three.

Matt just didn’t understand how any Great Power would allow such things to happen inside its borders. What if someone from one of the other government types became a cultivator?

How did the Republic handle that?

How did this not split their society through endless fissures and sub groups?

As the grenade went off, Matt mentality nudged a few pieces of the shrapnel to ensure that no one died from the attack.

Not willing to let such senseless death continue any longer, Matt sent a modest million mana into his [AI] and had it hack all the various nets he found.

It took almost a full second to download and process the entire collective PlanetNet equivalent, but once his [AI] had done so, Matt had it send out orders from the countries’ respective leaders that there was a ceasefire going into effect.

The generals on both sides tried to call their leaders to confirm the orders, but Matt’s [AI] intercepted the calls and faked their leaders' agreement.

Liz appeared next to him, a spear manifested out of feathers clutched in her hand.

“I took care of the other battlefields.”

Her words were terse, but Matt fully agreed with her emotions.

“I just don't get it. Why are they fighting?”

Matt snorted as his [AI] had already processed everything and had given him a ready answer for that.

The two countries had a small dispute that escalated into an ideological war that had already cost close to a hundred thousand lives, and seriously injured eight times that number.

As Liz heard the answer, she shook her head. “This is senseless.” With a sigh she let her spear dissolve and Matt did the same with his buffs. It was just a reflex at this point even if wholly unnecessary against unawakened.

As the ceasefire spread and bullets stopped flying, Matt marked a place on the planet.

It was called the Arbitration Convention, a pseudo government, but not quite. Their stated purpose was to act as a diplomatic and political international organization, with the goal of mediating wars, disputes, and treaties as a neutral third party.

But most relevantly for him, it would be where the planetary representative was. Even though not all of the political forces on this planet were full members of the AC, it was the place where the highest percentage of the planet’s population was represented. Therefore the planetary representative would be whoever was the nominal leader, chairman, councilor, or whoever had the highest authority of the group. It was their job to represent the entire planet in the eyes of the grander Republic.

Matt wasn’t sure how much a mortal with a mortal’s lifespan could contribute to such a system. A single motion could remain in debate for longer than a mortal's entire lifespan let alone their elective tenure.

That was doubly the case when the active Councilor kept changing every handful of years. There were probably five or six people who had served as the planetary representative, all of whom were sworn and bound to secrecy.

Really, the whole thing was much too complicated by far, and wasn’t even in the service of anything worthwhile. People had a right to choose to pursue immortality, not to have some stuffy, overly old bureaucrat decide that no, they did want to make it illegal for anyone with a healing skill to come to the planet and heal people.

Councilor Samuel, the active representative, looked far too old for the job he held, but he was at least alone in his office, which made things simpler.

Matt almost teleported directly into the man's office, but not only would that be rude, he was genuinely worried that Councilor Samuel was old enough he might die from the shock. Councilor Samuel should have been informed about the transfer, but Matt didn’t want to risk it.

With as much control as he had, Matt reached out and politely knocked on the door. He watched as the man swallowed and called for them to enter.

He was actually speaking Republic standard, which Matt was grateful for, as with that, he could be sure there wasn’t any odd language misunderstandings muddling communication. His [AI] was good, but the languages it had processed had almost no relation with Republic standard in either word choice, syntax, or sentence structure.

