I spat out the liquid and grimaced.

“Gross.”

That was a habit I probably should not try to keep; I had been pretending to drink and eat since I had to be around Humans all the time, but it was starting to seep into my reflexes.

There was a light cough and I glanced up. Edithe shifted uncomfortably in her seat as her face burned.

“Thank you, uh, Salvos. But that wasn’t really necessary.”

“It was!”

I spoke simply.

“These people have been bad mouthing you all week now. They’re mad because the Valiant Dreamers Company can no longer help them take care of their stupid problems. But who asked them to be so weak in the first place?”

“But—”

“I’ll have to agree with Salvos, Edithe.”

Daniel added from the side.

“You’re one of the few Gold Ranks from the Valiant Dreamers who are actively trying to aid the guild and local adventurers by taking up their excess jobs for them. And it’s not like it’s your fault the Valiant Dreamers are now wrapped up in this stupid war with the Iron Champions Company.”

Edithe chewed on her lower lip as Daniel rested a hand on her shoulder.

“Don’t let them get you down. And let us stand up for you.”

“Yep! I’ll beat up any stupid Human who says any mean thing about you!”

I grinned and flexed an arm. Unfortunately, it did not look as terrifying as it would if I were not in my Human form. Especially since I only had two arms now. Four arms are great. I remember when I used to have over a dozen limbs…

My nostalgia was interrupted by Edithe suddenly standing up. She nodded at us quickly,

“Right. Thanks. Both of you. But I think we should be heading back now. Before Rachel gets worried.”

Starting out of the guild, Edithe almost left us behind as Daniel and I exchanged a glance. We both followed her, keeping a short distance behind the red haired woman. We had tried cheering her up to no avail.

I nudged Daniel.

“This is your fault! You shouldn’t have brought up how she’s stuck taking care of dumb missions while her companions are busy with the company war!”

“Me? What about you! You shouldn’t have made a scene in the first place!”

We spoke in hushed whispers, but the Gold Rank adventurer somehow heard us.

“Guys.”

She turned around, giving us a pained smile.

“It’s alright. You don’t have to worry so much over me.”

I blinked then pointed an accusing finger at Daniel.

“It’s his fault!”

He glared at me while Edithe shook her head.

“It’s neither of your faults. Would I prefer to be fighting alongside the other dreamers, against those assholes who killed Paige? Yes. Would I prefer if everyone in the Adventurers Guild didn’t look at me with such animosity and hate? Yes. But it’s my own fault that I’m in this situation.”

My companion, the red haired woman named Edithe, sighed as she spun back around. Her gaze turned towards the starry night sky, her voice vulnerable and quiet.

“It’s my own fault I can’t help them. After all, I am a [Summoner] who can no longer summon.”
