They had languished for a time at Candlepoint, living in the proverbial gutters (down in the slums in the sewers, actually) because both of them were good with numbers, and not much else, and Candlepoint didn’t need much of that right now.

And now they were here, clean, and well-dressed, both of them getting back into the wonderful mundanity of office work. They were happy, and Erick was glad for that. They also seemed to be rather good at their jobs, but what they knew and what the Office of the Castellan required of them were two different things.

Iloya had been instructing them before Erick had come in and dropped a new task on them. This was all a work in progress, though, and this was not the first time Erick had interrupted them, nor would it be the last.

... Erick briefly considered if it was time to introduce computers to the office.

Iloya and Zolan would probably love making spreadsheets on a laptop. Jane’s computers had to have Excel, or something similar, right? If not, then someone could probably learn to write code, or something… How hard could it be?

Probably rather hard, if Jane’s computer didn’t have any actual computer writing software— Ah! Could they go bad? Like, could the computers actually break? Even if they were just sitting around in protected spots, under preservation [Ward]s?

Hmm.

Erick had [Duplicate]d Jane’s laptop a dozen times and hid them in many different places.

They would keep for a long time.

No need to introduce computers, anyway.

Not right now.

Later, though? A year? Two years?

Whatever the case, if there was some sort of bottleneck with learning how to work a computer and learning how to build more computers, or make code, then Erick could simply give a few promising people Intelligence and let them keep trying. Later, though. Maybe next year? Halfway through next year.

Yes. That sounded fine.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, sitting in his warehouse. It was time to make another spell while he waited for Treehome to get back to him. It was time to make a spell to grow Elemental Benevolence.

A Rift-type spell!

Erick had a few Rift spells already, but he did not have a Rift spell for Benevolence. A lot of his spells had changed when he solidified Elemental Benevolence, but [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] was not one of them.

Kaleidoscopic Radiance, instant, medium range, permanent, 500 mana

A medium-sized lightward of evershifting brilliance supports the growth of Light Essence creatures.

That spell had come about the last time Erick had made a dungeon; specifically the Light Dungeon over at Oceanside. It was one of his first real successes with permanency-type magic, combining a Particle understanding of light, and the natural permanency of [Ward]. He hadn’t been purposefully trying to make that spell, though. It had simply happened after casting the same sort of lightward over and over and over.

Essence growth spells for Fire, Water, Stone, and Air, were rather simple things. They were just Rifts that opened a minor tear into the element of choice, allowing that element to spill out into the world. Of course, back at Oceanside, that’s not how they taught Erick or the rest of the dungeoneering class. They had stuck to making plain dungeons, without the use of Rifts.

Putting Rifts inside dungeons was actually rather dangerous, which is why they didn’t teach that sort of thing to first year students. When [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] had happened, and Erick offered to cast that spell into the Light Dungeon, Kirginatharp had explicitly told him not to; it was hard to control slime growth when actual essence rifts were put into a dungeon. Those sorts of things were only to be used sparingly, if at all.

The best way to make a dungeon was the natural way. That’s how Mox and her people had made all of Erick’s current dungeons.

Wind whistled through carefully crafted pipes in the Air dungeon. Water trickled through many different rivers inside the Water dungeon. Everything was dry and stoney in the Stone dungeon, with piles of dirt everywhere. Fire burned brightly in long rows in the Fire dungeon. Shadows even crawled in the Shadow dungeon, aided by sparing bits of lightwork here and there. And not a single one of Erick’s dungeons had a Rift. That would lead to oozes, no doubt.

But there would be, perhaps, one Rift inside the Benevolence dungeon. Just one!

Just to see if it worked at all.

Erick had a think.

Benevolence was already inside several of his spells, Established to be that way at his creation of that Element.

Exalted Rain Aura, instant, super long range, 1 MP per second ~{Favored Spell}~

Anoint the land with blessed rain, rapidly growing all desired plants and restoring vibrancy to the soil. If used upon prepared fields for a full day, highly nutritious Erick Beans will sprout.

Particle Mage Only

Blessing of Empathy, instant, touch, 1500 mana

Let benevolence fill the soul, so that one might better understand others.

Blessing magnifies when committing harm.

[Exalted Rain Aura], which was usually shortened to [Exalted Rain] when people spoke of that spell, had a lot of Benevolence in it according to Rozeta. The [Blessing of Empathy] which Erick had gotten back from Koyabez looked a lot different than the one that Erick had created, himself, though; there was some Establishing there, for sure. Erick recalled what the original spell used to look like.

Blessing of Empathy, 30 seconds, Sound + Understanding + Acceptance, 1500 mana

Blessing magnifies when harm is committed.

[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]

All those little brackets had filled in, but more than that, all the normal parts of what it took to get someone to accept the Blessing, were gone. Now, Erick could just hit someone with this spell and force them to experience empathy. He had been able to do the same thing with the Crystal Star, too, back when he had that artifact, so Koyabez had gotten involved in that Establishing, too… Perhaps?

Eh. Who knew!

Anyway!

It was time to make a new spell, and suddenly, Erick realized exactly what it would look like, and how it would act. The dungeon Mox had made for Benevolence was both a tower, and a large pit, for no one was quite sure what a Benevolence dungeon needed to work.

But Erick knew; in a flash of inspiration, he knew.

Ophiels danced around Erick as he plotted out his magic. One of the Ophiels got the sound of Benevolence; the overarching sound of growth and plenty, and the distant sound of thunder. That Ophiel began to jolt a bit with [Pristine Benevolence], raising that song to new heights.

Another Ophiel got the sound of [Exalted Rain Aura], the sound of the rain cycle manifesting, and of Benevolence and growth. Oddly enough, [Grow] and Benevolence sounded a lot alike, but they were not exactly the same. They simply complemented each other.

Another Ophiel got [Kaleidoscopic Radiance]; it was the sound of light and growth, but slightly different than that. It was a Rift, but a rather primitive one. Something that could be built upon.

Like adding more voices to the choir, Erick sounded out a song of growth, and rain, and light. He worked Particle ideas into it all, ensuring that real, true things would come out of this working, and that those real things would fall down and gather, ensuring growth, spurred on by light from above. The spell itself would be contained, it would not violate the Propagation Ban, but the things it produced would spread far and wide—

“Ah,” Erick said, realizing what he was doing, while in the middle of casting, “It’s terraforming.”

Lightning crashed out of Erick like a branch of Yggdrasil touching the world.

That lightning transformed the air of the warehouse, striking deep into Benevolence. Briefly, Erick saw his own Gate Space beyond that strike, but then the world crashed inward and the spell became something more controlled. Something more subdued.

Gentle iridescent sparks held in the air like lightning moving inside an invisible, airy thing.

Air tried to gather, tried to flow through the space, trying to gather something of a minor storm.

But nope. The warehouse was sealed. This area was technically halfway to Fae Space, too. Erick doubted he would even see such an opening into Benevolence if he cast this spell out on Veird, closer to the real world.

Flickering, mostly-silent lightning tried to collect into a cloud, but all it could do was bounce around in a thirty-meter wide, roughly-spherical space. There was no wind to gather, therefore there was no magic to rain down. Erick would need to cast this in a much, much more open space, if he wanted to see it—

A blue box appeared.

Terraforming, instant, super long range, permanent, 10,000 mana

Anoint the land with endless bounty.

Supports the growth of all life, but especially life attuned to Elemental Benevolence.

Wanes and waxes according to resources and demands.

Erick canceled the spell in front of him, for, as it said, there were no demands here and no resources to meet those demands. Besides! He didn’t want this sort of spell inside his warehouse, anyway.

Light and lightning fizzled out of the air.

[Terraforming] wouldn’t do well here, but this spell would be great elsewhere. Erick got a move on, for it was time to visit Mox and Kiri and see about getting that Benevolence Dungeon up and running. Maybe he’d have time to settle that whole thing before Iloya got back to him about Treehome.

- - - -

Erick had Ophiel walk over to the Office of the Exterior.

It was a tower just as large as all the other Overseer towers, but it was emptier than most. The Office of the Exterior didn’t have a whole lot to do these days, but eventually they would.

There was a single paper shaper working in the main financial room.

Farazi was a human man of rather good looks from Ar’Cosmos. He had not always looked this good, or this happy. Farazi was one of the few half dragons who had been so messed up by their mutative heritage that when he took a dunk in the Renewal Tank, he had come out as something completely unexpected. Apparently, Farazi had been genetically/spiritually/Erick-didn’t-want-to-get-into-his-personal-life a woman. Farazi had been expecting this, though, and put up with his new body for only as long as it took for him to meet with Erick. All of this came out in that first meeting, where Farazi asked for a proper [Reincarnation] in that very same meeting. After his oath of office, Erick settled Farazi into the body that he actually wanted. Erick would have done it without the oath, but since Farazi had been on a track to become part of Erick’s House, the oath had been required.

The guy practically beamed with joy as Ophiel-as-Erick walked into the financials room. Farazi rapidly rose from his seat and bowed, saying, “Sir!”

“What’s the schedule for Mox, Tasar, and Kiri today?”

Erick could just do an Imaging to find them, or he could ask Poi, but he wanted to check up on his people whenever he could, and Farazi was good people. Besides, all of his targets could be deep underground somewhere.

Farazi walked over to a different desk, glanced at the paperwork there, then said, “Overseer Mox is testing Miss Flamecrash’s talents with land transformation on the western side of the lake. Later, they will come back here and plan out the hundred-kilometer landscaping of the lands around the lake.”

“Thank you,” Erick said. “How goes the Office of the Overseer?”

With a brightness to his whole self, Farazi said, “We’ve settled on the structure of the organization and how it will handle future problems. Since yesterday’s events with Overseer Aisha and Miss Rednail, and due to people finding out about those, we have gotten some small inquiries for the establishing of cities under your aegis. Mox does not consider them realistic inquiries, but she is following up with them and I’m preparing some initial reports on the matter. Would you care to look over those proposals?”

New people? New cities!

Ha!

Erick hadn’t expected that to start happening for at least a year!

“That’s great news! I would like to go over them— I can’t right now.” Erick said, “I’m working on the Benevolence dungeon, and I think I have a spell that will fix our lack of Benevolence Essence. I have to do that. Good work, Farazi. I’ll read those reports later.”

Farazi bowed.

Ophiel departed.

- - - -

Ophiel descended on the western side of the lake. It did not take much time at all to find Kiri, Tasar, and Mox. About 25 kilometers from the lakeside, the three women stood on one of Tasar’s [Teleporting Platform]s, while Kiri’s [Familiar] danced across the land ahead. Nine Sunnys formed a line, each separated from the other by ten meters, as they flew across the land like rainbow soil tillers, roiling desert dunes into something more arable.

Their [Stoneshape]s ripped the granular sands of the desert into something finer, to make silt and even some clay. The process by which one transformed desert sands into soil was a thing that the people of Spur and other Crystal Forest cities had long since figured out, though they were usually only able to make the land fruitful for short stretches of time before the mimics came back and began fucking with the soil composition again.

Crystal mimics truly were an insidious problem.

Not only did they eat and destroy all green life, they fucked up the ground itself! Everywhere the mimics went, good soil turned to lifeless sand. It was more than just taking all the organics out of the soil, too. Mimics killed the land—

Well. They certainly changed the land so that only certain types of life could exist on that land. Perhaps ‘kill’ was too strong a word. They certainly did kill all green life, though! All it really took to fix the damage done by mimics, though, was keeping the mimics away, and using some mana to fix the smaller, hard-to-see problems.

Ophiel made a show of descending onto the platform, but all three women saw Erick long before Ophiel actually made himself apparent. The three women stopped what they were doing.

Erick spoke as Ophiel got close, “I made a Benevolence Essence growth spell. It should work for the Benevolence dungeon. Is it ready?”

Tasar blinked, dumbfounded. Kiri smiled.

Mox paused; the Benevolence dungeon was mostly ready. She asked, “What sort of spell?”

Erick handed over the blue box. All three women eyed it, with Tasar’s eyes briefly going wider, and then she stopped all that, seeming to ask herself why she was still amazed at Erick’s accomplishments. Kiri just smiled.

