While he was still going through the message, Erick sent to Yggdrasil, ‘Try not to spend more than ten mana on a message, at the largest. [Telepathy] is a very cost-efficient spell, giving you a minute of open communication for every single mana spent, which means every single mana is capable of giving about 150 words. Also, you should narrow your thoughts before you send them, otherwise you will send everything you are thinking, which can be a lot.’

‘Okay!’ Yggdrasil continued to send, ‘I will send smaller messages now, written concisely and with the intention of being small— Ah! A fish— Wait! I did not mean to send that. How do I unsend these messages— I am not sure I like people sexing on my branches because the New Folks Home is a lot of sexing— Darn! I didn’t mean to send that, either. Narrowing one’s thoughts is hard and…’

As Yggdrasil’s first thousand-mana message was still playing in Erick’s mind, trying to understand Yggdrasil’s second thousand-mana message was like trying to catch rain with an already-full bucket.

All Erick could truly understand was that he had messed up a lot.

Erick began writing down the topics he could pluck out of the veritable rain onto a chalkboard to the side, just so that he could visibly show to Yggdrasil that he was listening, and then he could erase those topics from the board when he had answered them. When he got to the parts about sex, and just as Erick was starting to fully comprehend what Yggdrasil had sent him, Yggdrasil’s next thousand-mana message asked all about Erick’s sex life.

Erick had a flashback to several uncomfortable conversations over a decade ago, back when Jane was still a little girl and she wondered why she had to have a sitter; why couldn’t she also go out on a ‘date’ with her father and her father’s friend from work.

… Erick decided to give Yggdrasil the sex talk, now, even though he was only… 10 months old? No. Eleven months old tomorrow—

Oh.

Rapidly, Erick realized that there was only one more month left in the year. Then came Shadow’s Feast… if Melemizargo decided to do Shadow’s Feast again this year. Hopefully he wouldn’t.

Anyway.

Yggdrasil was less than a year old, but he was very advanced for his age.

So Erick decided to have some talks with him.

After getting another 1000-mana message, the first thing Erick did was explain that he should stop doing that. Erick used calm, yet firm words, and after two more incidents, Yggdrasil finally began to send smaller messages. 10-mana messages were still around 1,400 words, badly formed, but it was a heck of a lot better than the 140,000 word monstrosities that Yggdrasil had been sending.

And then Erick began going through Yggdrasil’s concerns.

He also handled some meetings elsewhere, through Ophiel, while talking to Yggdrasil. He was getting pretty good at multitasking.

On the subject of everyone at the New Folks Home fucking all the time… Erick could just straight-up tell them, ‘no hanky panky here on Yggdrasil’, but that seemed rather puritan.

Erick was not comfortable with his kid seeing so much sex all the time, though.

… But maybe that was rather puritan of him, too.

- - - -

Erick knew what he needed to do.

He needed to send his kid off to school.

To Treehome, with the other Arbors. That had been part of the plan before the Worldly Path; before all of this Wizardry stuff got out there. If Erick had planted Yggdrasil up with the orcols, he might have already learned how to make his own small-person body, like Holy O’kabil and the other Arbors, so that he could answer his own questions about ‘what does food taste like?’.

… Or maybe Erick could learn that spell and give it to Yggdrasil?

If it was indeed a spell.

Either way, it was time to set Yggdrasil on a good life path trajectory, along with all the other stuff he had planned for the day, like to make a [Benevolent Kaleidoscopic Radiance], and ensure that Kiri and Mox were doing fine with their wide scale landscaping...

And all the other stuff that was on his schedule.

But first! This Yggdrasil issue.

- - - -

Ophiel fluttered into the offices of the castellan, in a tower attached to the atrium, where Zolan and many others were already hard at work. In five different floors, with room to expand down when needed —and it would be needed— Zolan had gotten right to work sorting out the finances of House Benevolence, Erick’s own finances, and the city work of the Gate District. Later today Zolan would directly be working on Erick’s financials, for he would be speaking with some people whom Erick had invested with over in Songli, through Clan Star Song; the spidery, with Loremaster Riri rebuilding it all from scratch, Clan Red Ledger and the hospital, through Doctor Tsung (now Patriarch Tsung), and a bunch of other, smaller places.

But for now, Zolan was speaking with some people from the Wayfarer’s Guild, about something or other. As Ophiel floated through the office, Erick rapidly caught up to the conversation after a few words; they were talking about the feasibility of opening a Gate System for their own use, all across the Crystal Forest. A local area Gate Network had been a subject which kept coming up, and which Erick kept denying, because he was not ready to support that sort of infrastructure, and they wanted a flat rate instead of a tax rate.

They were actually only talking about flat rate agreements, though; not about a local area Gate Network. But Erick could read between the lines. Zolan could read between the lines, too, and was easily knocking down their requests for flat rate shipment to be implemented everywhere; it was one small step from flat rate costs to opening up a whole bunch of other Gates everywhere, and letting the Wayfarer’s Guild take over that part of the Network.

While giving ‘control’ of local Gates to the Wayfarer’s Guild was in the cards, it would not happen for a long time. But Erick fully expected this tax problem to come to a head sooner rather than later…

The problem was manifold. One of the unexpected, major problems was that the Surface did a lot of flat rate shipping, but the Underworld did a bunch of cost-of-goods shipping. Here, at Erick’s Gate Network, those two systems were coming into direct confrontation.

Shipments in the Underworld needed to physically move from point A to B, and they had to use caravans to get that done. Those caravans drove massive pillars of stone that floated down there, and which they defended from all oncoming monsters, and sometimes just drove straight through monster blockades instead of fighting them, bursting through half-blocked tunnels to get where they needed to go. Those caravan pillars were all the same size, but they carried vastly different riches. In a decision that was very old and had no reason to change, those caravans were taxed on the price of goods inside those shipments. And so, Erick had given Stratagold a tax-rate-based shipment agreement.

But here on the Surface, where [Teleporting Platform] and [Teleport] and other such Spatial Magics were widely used (and able to be used, unlike in the Underworld), the costs of those shipping methods were based on 250 mana per ton, or per person. Simply put, the costs of shipments on the Surface were weight-based, in almost all cases. Heavy stuff cost more to ship, but light stuff shipped rather easily.

That whole situation was, in actuality, a minor detail of how things were. These two tax rates of per-ton and per-value-of-items came into contact all the time, for everyone tried to ship over the Surface when they could, because things could move fast up here, and people shipped very, very heavy things underground when they could, because those things were weightless down there, even if it took a while to move that stuff. Shipping across the Surface oceans was a whole other nuance to the situation, where ships were weighed down with everything they could possibly carry, and then Ocean Mages worked overtime to get those massive loads across the ocean as fast as they could. These shipment complications had come into conflict a lot already, and all these problems and oddities of movement had long ago been turned into a morass of bureaucracy at every single transferal location that connected the Underworld to the Surface.

But now Erick was here.

A proper Gate Network, with absolutely no care of weight, or of the intricacies of transportation between the Surface and the Underworld or across oceans, was a game changer…

It all came down to this simple fact: the choices made by Erick, and the people here, would have ripple effects across the entire world. They would, eventually, be deciding how goods got moved from place to place, and the costs of those movements. It was a large burden of choice, and of opportunity.

… Maybe he should join the conversation with the Wayfarer’s Guild—

Ah.

But then he’d never get to all the other things he needed to do. Every single day was like this; Erick needed to be involved in these small, extremely widespread decisions. But! He had hired good people.

And so, he let Zolan work; it’s why he hired the man. It was why he hired everyone here, and why the people he hired had hired others.

Erick moved Ophiel onward.

He passed the office where Zolan was meeting with the Wayfarer’s Guild.

Ophiel fluttered through the office, up a staircase, and transformed into a facsimile of Erick before he came into sight of other people. He was still a [Familiar] made of white feathers and eyes and such, but with a proper use of Erick’s own [Pristine Benevolence] Ophiel did a decent impersonation. There were still some stray feathers all across ‘Erick’s’ whole entire ‘body’, though. It was fine.

He stopped and knocked on the open door of the financials room.

Iloya was in residence, along with a few new hires from Candlepoint. Iloya was practically Zolan’s second-in-command, which Erick was fine with. She was a tall, pale pink incani woman, with vibrantly white hair and horns that curved backward with multiple points. She wore a normal pantsuit, but of high quality. A lot of people had noticed ‘Erick’ walking through the office, but no one commented. Some people didn’t even see him, for they were too focused on their own work.

Iloya had managed to retain most of her previous life’s mana sense, though, so she saw Erick coming well before he got there. She was the only one in the financials room looking toward the door and bowing as Erick walked in, though the other two fresh hires were quick to follow her direction. Iloya and the other two had been standing over a table filled with paperwork.

Iloya rose from her bow, and asked, “What can I do for you, my king?”

Erick liked Iloya. She had been one of Erick’s medium picks for the various Overseer positions, and she would have gotten along well with Burhendurur in the Office of Enforcement, which was where Erick had initially placed her, but Zolan had used his very first pick to get Iloya here, under him, into the Castellan’s Office.

It was for the best, Erick supposed.

Because when Erick asked, “I need to see about getting Yggdrasil planted at Treehome, so he can grow up around other Arbors. Failing that, I want to put another Gate Set up there, or maybe a smaller, single Gate, so that they can all talk with each other. The point is to expose Yggdrasil to other Arbors, however it has to happen.”

Iloya had no problems at all, instantly, saying, “I will get a meeting with a real representative of Treehome within the hour, and this time they will not be [Force Walling] us. Will you be discussing shipping, or will this be a meeting purely for the introduction of Yggdrasil to Arbor society? They don’t seem to care about shipping, though that could be a front, but they will definitely respond to a request to teach Yggdrasil.”

“Keep it open ended. I have my goal of getting Yggdrasil introduced to the Arbors, and they can have their goals be whatever.”

“Your will be done, my king.”

“Also, I want a report on the intricacies of switching the Network to flat rate per tonnage shipment costs, both the Underworld Gates, and the Surface Gates. It’ll be a decision that shapes the whole world, Iloya, so take your time with it. Consult whoever you have to consult.”

“I have that report ready for you already.” Iloya said, “Zolan and I both considered that you might need it, and so, we made it. We also have some words in here about a full shift to value-rate shipment, too.” She walked over to a filing cabinet, pulled it out, and instantly grabbed the file she was looking for, amongst all the others. She handed it over to Ophiel, saying, “This debate is a long one, stemming back a literal millennium, though it has always been mostly theoretical. Now that we actually have a Gate Network, those theories are being refined. This was updated two days ago.”

Ophiel took the report and Erick smiled. “Thank you. Good work. Inform Poi if the time table changes; either way, I will be expecting a call in an hour.”

“Your will be done, my king.”

Erick had mostly ignored the other two people in the room with Iloya, for they were new and he didn’t want to scare them, but now he looked to them, saying, “Glad to see you two working on the numbers. Barlashi, Prudincia; welcome to the team.” He turned back to Iloya and nodded.

And then he left.

Barlashi and Prudincia both briefly looked star struck, but Iloya brought them back to attention, giving them a few commands about whatever it was they were doing before she could work on Erick’s new commands.

‘Whatever they were doing’ looked like in-depth explanations of the financials of the Gate District and how everything was tracked, and where the established bookkeeping methodology that Zolan and Iloya brought to the table had been incompatible with what Prudincia had done to the books.

Iloya was from Oceanside, and was 122 when she came to House Benevolence and got a [Reincarnation] to become 21 again, so she knew this sort of job inside and out, but Barlashi and Prudincia were both former shadelings from Candlepoint. They were also well over a hundred years old, but they had been shadelings most of that time. It wasn’t till they came to Candlepoint and regained sapience, though, that they became real people again. After that, both of them went for Melemizargo’s [Reincarnation]. Now they were a shifter owl man and a human woman, respectively. They had tried to leave Candlepoint and get back to their old lives, but those lives were gone, and they had been chased back here.

