I trembled as well. How he enacted this kind of magic was beyond me, but here he wielded a sort of terror I'd never seen from anyone but Obolis. At least in person. The sight left me shaken, my ideas of who and what I was falling to turmoil. I turned to Helios, and he watched with his fists squeezed tight. The destruction decimated city block after city block, the Harbinger culling the Hybrids without ceasing.

Helios stared with his eyes opened wide, though they did not see,

"Do you understand now? We're fighting among gods, and we are the mortals under their feet."

I turned towards the Harbinger, and he melted entire sections of Saphigia. No piece of Blegara's capitol would remain unscarred. It would be a wasteland when this behemoth was finished, his mark absolute and complete. Helios grimaced,

"We believed we were royalty. We believed we were chosen to be leaders, born higher than mere backwater savages. Daniel showed me his home town just yesterday. It was a primitive wasteland."

He met my eye, "Tell me this. If we are so special given our circumstances, then what is he?"

I stared on at the wake of his destruction, and I didn't have an answer.

-Daniel-

I stretched my back as we landed in another coral building in Saphigia. We finished the day early on Blegara, a beachhead established at the center of its capital city. I used the furnace today, all the meditation from yesterday paying off in spades. Without having to watch out for Alastair and Victoria beside me as well, I let loose in a way I rarely got to.

It was fun.

I tried to see just how many lances made of melted Hybrids I could hold at once using gravity wells. It left me stunned when I was casting a moving shadow over Saphigia of spears. In the end, I smothered the Blegarian capital with my magic. The only issue was watching out for friendly fire on the vagni, but it wasn't exactly challenging to avoid attacking them for the most part.

They tended to horde around temples, rifts, and specific tactical chokepoints. The temple guys were almost always civilians looking for a place to stay safe. They were praying to their old gods, the eldritch, for protection. From what I saw, the eldritch were terrified of me, and they avoided the city for that reason.

As for the vagni standing at rifts, they were usually priests praying to their old gods to give them protection. The vagni at tactical chokepoints, they guarded those places with their lives, the rebels forces mixed in among them. The vagni there fought us with vigor and zeal, and I admired them for it.

They made good warriors, their minds in the right place. They couldn't muster much of a defense against me, however. Killing them was poor sport, and I made sure they didn't suffer when they passed. It still left me numbed on the inside, however. I was getting better at switching my mind to that kind of mode recently.

That scared me.

My anxieties aside, we ended up sieging the entire center of the city. The Hybrids no longer crawled from every nook and cranny, and that gave us a tremendous amount of leeway in where we set up camp. That meant establishing a central location for handling the rest of the city's sectors was more than possible.

We were so far ahead of schedule, the Empire lacked the troops and resources to expand their new base further. I was a big part of that, but my usual magic lacked the sterilization necessary for absolute security. Victoria and Torix handled most of the smaller stuff I left behind, so I got to run wild. In particular, Victoria's light magic worked wonders for clearing out the Hybrid nanomachines.

I could've used Event Horizon for that purpose, but having someone else handle that cleansing for me gave me extra time. I used those moments to ravage everywhere else. In that way, I really got to stretch my legs and go full blast. That's why we had a camp established here with albony troops running about.

In the middle of the temporary camp, my guild packed up and got ready to leave. The albony mages established an aquatic air bubble sustained by magic. They fueled it using mana crystals harvested elsewhere, and tents composed the majority of housing so far. It wasn't much, but it was a first step.

That energy from victory got everyone riled up as we finished getting ready to go. Helios got a warp read right after, so Torix and Althea waved goodbye while I made sure everything was safe before heading out. Doing all that, I noticed Victoria looking around, her demeanor always calm and collected. I gave her a thumbs-up as I passed by,

"Yo, good work with clearing the Hybrids. The nanomachine soup is a pain in the ass, and you're doing a good job with handling it."

I turned to Alastair, the giant standing beside her,

"You too. Keeping Kessiah safe is extremely important. Healers of her caliber are rare, and she's why we're able to save this many people. Keeping her safe is an integral piece of this siege, so excellent work."

Alastair looked down, "Uhm, er, thank you."

The guy didn't talk much, and I liked that about him. We had to spare someday just so I could see what he was made of. I turned towards the warp to Mt. Verner, ready to walk away. As I did, Victoria lifted a hand,

"Uh, thanks for doing our jobs for us. We, er, appreciate it."

She stared down after saying that as if she said something wrong. I knew that feeling. I gave her a sad smile,

"No problem. Killing this many people isn't fun, but someone has to do it."

I stepped through the portalled veil,

"It's good you're thankful it isn't you that has to do this. Don't let that feeling go."

The warp closed behind me as Helios followed. A brisk wind whirled on my back as the sun set in the distance. We were back along the outskirts of Mt. Verner. Stepping on soft earth, I soaked in the feeling of Earth. The smell of pine trees and open woods filled my nose. It was good to be back home.

After getting back to our base, I reviewed my messages, making sure I wasn't missing any meetings. So far, I only missed one - a meeting with Amara, Hod, and Florence. I gave them a quick reply apologizing for my lateness, along with rescheduling the time. Florence replied in an instant, and before I knew it, a plan was already in motion.

I met with the three unlikely compatriots, each of them offering strange perspectives. They grouped near Amara's lair for eldritch research on the second floor. She tamed these monsters in reinforced cells, each holding several monsters who 'got along' so to speak. That just meant the eldritch couldn't kill each other too quickly, and that they were evenly matched.

That was about as good as you'd get for most eldritch.

The most vocal of the three chatted while Amara and Other Hod listened, all of them standing beside a prison cell full of gunk. Some slimy eldritch made its home there, and they talked as some green slug crawled around beside them. None of that surprised me.

What did was watching Florence chat away with both of them, the albony somehow making friends with those two,

"That's incredible. I never knew that eldritch had systems like that in place. Those systems, they mirror little societies. It's a wonder Schema hasn't already established some kind of contact with you guys. Some of you are pretty civilized, especially given the circumstances."

Amara lifted a palm to Florence, her chin held high,

"Of course we are. Wolves run packs. Though we are insatiable in our hunger, there is never an endless amount of food. That is why we organize and spread the food amongst...amongst..."

Amara froze in place, spotting me as I passed a corner. I raised a hand, "How's it going?"

Amara and Other Hod stood stunned, neither even able to move or breathe. I waved my hand in front of their faces, "Are you both alright?"

Florence scoffed, "What? These two alright? They've both been through hell and back. It will take more than just you walking up-"

Other Hod stammered, "Please. Stop. Flowing. Mana."

Oh yeah, the furnace. I dampened the mana flow, making sure I kept some restraint with its bonuses. I raised a hand,

"That better?"

They both took deep breaths, speaking in unison,

"Yes."

"Thank you."

Florence frowned under his mask, "Well, I was wrong. Apparently, you walking up is enough to make the two fall apart. There's still so much I need to learn."

I tapped my chest where the cipher hummed, "I got this yesterday. I'm letting it run, and apparently, it's pretty horrific to most eldritch. After seeing my own mana, I know why now. It's like a...squirming hydra."

Florence grinned at me, "I'd expect nothing less from the Harbinger. Come, we've much to discuss." The chatty albony wrapped his hands around his new eldritch buddies,

"Scared or not, we've got a plan to show him that we've thought up. Chin up. I'm not about to let you both stumble when you've put this much work in."

Amara took a breath or two, "I...Yes. We...shall."

I doubted it considering how shaken they both were, but Florence gave other Hod a firm pat on the back,

"You as well. You saved your species from imminent peril. You and the Harbinger have that in common. Go on. Act like it."

Other Hod stood taller after hearing that. I pointed towards the central elevators, "Come on, let's go somewhere secure to talk this out."

We worked our way up to the third floor, finding an empty meeting room. Once there, we sat down. Amara and Other Hod stared at me as if I were a literal demon from hell spawned to devour their souls. Florence took the floor, saving them from themselves,

"Seeing as how your stature has left them stunned, I shall offer up my skills and speak for them."

Florence raised his two hands, "I'll begin by describing a few important details I learned about the vagni and then detailing some important footnotes about the eldritch. These tidbits give context for my follow up for our plan. After discussing the details, we're open to any suggestions you have for changing the plan going forward."

He turned a palm to me and smiled, "Does that sound good?"

I gave him a nod of approval. Florence snapped his fingers, "Perfect. The first detail revolves around Blegara and their worship of the eldritch. We knew they followed them as their old gods, making sure to offer sacrifices and the like to stronger eldritch. This was supposed to appease them."

I frowned, "It probably didn't."

Florence raised a finger, "And that is what's most surprising - it did."

I leaned back, "What?"

Florence leaned back at the same time, "I know, I too was stunned by that realization. According to Schema, the eldritch are unable to be reasoned with, but my assumptions about them were correct. We've all been believing in lies, and this rebellion, along with Amara and Other Hod's insights have made that clear."

Heretical outbursts aside, Florence spoke about their pasts with depth. In fact, he might even understand more about Amara and Hod than I did. Florence did that in only two days, their histories unveiled to him. To me, that was damn near awe-inspiring.

Florence continued, "There are many classifications of eldritch. They carry many shapes, sizes, and forms. They arrive in many different ways as well, and their manifestations are often worshipped by primitive cultures. This is particularly true for cultures where Schema isn't present before the eldritch arrive. Given Earth's lateness in arriving in Schema's universe, I'd imagine your ancient cultures spoke of gods and deities as well?"

He was right about that. The Greeks worshipped titans and the Olympians alike. Many cultures invented tales that were extensive and far off from reality too. If what Florence said was true, then that wasn't a mere hunch anymore. It was a fact. I nodded,

"Yeah. We had all kinds of figures like that."

"That's my point exactly. It isn't as if the eldritch aren't here then arrive in a single day as Schema would have you believe. They come in a slow, meticulous process from dimensions clashing. It takes time for their forms to materialize from the ambient energy they normally manifest as. At least wherever they come from."

I frowned at Other Hod and Amara, "Guys, why didn't you tell me any of this?"

Other Hod raised a hand, "You never asked."

I bit my tongue, swallowing my words. Yeah, I never had. I accepted Schema's status quo because it was easier to do so. I didn't want to deal with guilt or doubt when I was trying to survive. For the most part, I lacked the time and resources for those second thoughts. That wasn't the case anymore.

I winced, "Yeah, you're right. I should've talked to you guys about it."

Other Hod raised his hands, "I didn't mean that as a criticism. Why would you want to know about monsters that are trying to kill your kind? We're natural enemies."

Florence shrugged, "There are several reasons, actually, and it wasn't the wisest idea to neglect the two of you as resources for so long. Aside from that, it's always a smart move to understand one's enemies."

Florence met my eye, "Of course, I mean that constructively. You don't mind my saying that?"

I shook my head, "Not at all. You're right."

Florence raised a fist, "That's why I'm glad I can help you catch up. I'm actually useful for once. My point is, the eldritch have systems and wants. We can abuse those wants for our plan on Blegara. Amara, tell him what you told me about his mana crystals."

Amara stayed silent. Florence nudged her, and she sighed,

"The mana crystals, they look delicious to us."

I pulled one out of storage, the crystallized quintessence shining white,

"This looks good? Is it like, I don't know, candy?"

Amara drooled. Yup, it was candy.

I turned to them both, "Why not ask for some, then?"

Other Hod raised a finger, "That is your flesh and blood, refined into a more palatable form. Asking for an important resource for mere pleasure seemed...absurd."

Amara's eyes on her palms narrowed, "He speaks for himself. I never wished to become a pet."

