"Your generated creatures often taste of sand and bark. These, however, are truly delicious. I've no idea why they are so...lifelike, but the taste is something to envy."

I didn't know whether to be grateful or insulted. Either way, I pointed at them,

"Glad you like them. Let's get this show started."

Ophelia got us ready by introducing me to a few exercises for controlling mana. They involved simple movements of magic that required some technique to get them right. One was clapping two stones. The other was telekinetically juggling them—the last involved making two halos of water, one smaller than the other. I then made them rotate like a gyroscope, one reversing the spin of the other.

That one actually impressed Ophelia. On the other hand, Chrona stayed relaxed the entire time, not worried about warming up at all. I figured I could use all the help I could get, so I finished all the warm-ups. After completing the drills, Ophelia lifted a hand, creating an orb of dark blue mana,

"This is primordial energy. It's a mix of dominion and origin mana, and generally speaking, it's all about absolute control. Origin mana lets you make things and energies. You can't choose the personality of what you create, however. The same could be said for dominion mana. Sure, you can control whoever or whatever you want, but you don't get to decide what you're controlling. It has to already be there."

A sly grin grew under her mask, "Primordial mana doesn't have that limitation. You can craft the mind you want to make then put it in the body of your choosing with this stuff. Some people have a natural affinity for it as I do. Other people want to come in and learn it, kind of like you."

She frowned, "Yeah, that doesn't work out often."

I lifted my hands, creating spheres of quintessence and ascendant mana above each,

"Eh, it worked twice."

Ophelia propped her weight onto one leg, "That doesn't mean it will work a third time. Either way, it's going to take a few years to really get this down pat, but I'm only going to stay here for three months. After that, you're on your own. Capeesh?"

Eh, that seemed fair.

Ophelia clapped her hands, "So we'll start with a few conceptualization exercises my teachers taught us in school. After that, you'll be meditating on your own for a while. You know, reflecting on what you learned and stuff."

Ophelia gestured to Chrona, "Since you have two primordial masters here, we'll both be giving you tips and tricks. That should help even if you're as much of a knucklehead as I think you are."

Chrona turned to Ophelia, and the gialgathen thought over,

"He's far more able than you may first imagine. I was put off by his fighting and appearance at first as well. I learned the folly of my ways, and now I serve under him. You may as well, one day, so I'd advise watching your words."

Ophelia pointed at Chrona, "Yeah, not gonna happen, but thanks for the advice either way. So, I'll start by letting you know what I thought of to make primordial mana the first time. For me, it was envisioning a simple concept - parenting."

Parenting, huh? I wasn't following, but I didn't interrupt her lecture.

"Yeah, I know what you're thinking, 'What? Parenting? That's ridiculous. I need magic to blow stuff up.' That's what I think you're thinking, at least. Either way, think about it like this."

She lifted a hand, origin mana appearing over her palm, "Origin mana is like...a free-spirited, go with the flow mom. She doesn't think about the consequences and just lets go of all her worries and cares."

She lifted her other hand, dominion mana spawning over it, "Dominion mana is like the stern father, and he really, really cares. He wants to make sure that his child is successful, and he controls his child's environment until that happens. Some might say he's tyrannical, and maybe he is, but he just wants what's best for his child. Well, if it makes him look good."

Ophelia pushed the mana orbs together, "And that's where primordial energy comes in. Those two parents, they balance each other out. Primordial mana wants the very best for whatever it makes, but it doesn't want its creations going crazy either. When I make primordial mana, that's what I think of myself as, two insane parents that come together in perfect harmony."

Ophelia shrugged, "Thats just me. What about you, Chrona?"

Chrona looked up at the stars, "Primordial mana? Hmm. I think of it differently. We gialgathens have little time with our parents as we are powerful the moment we leave our egg. That analogy was lost on me."

My dad was a real piece of work, and my mom passed away when I was young. The analogy was kind of lost on me too. Chrona thought out loud,

"This mana, it is a way of crafting my own world. I can build whatever I desire with it, and that is its true essence. It is the mana of a creator, one that wishes to craft their own world in their palm. It cannot be any world, but one that you truly wish for."

Chrona met my eye, "How you wish to enact your ideal world is important, however. You must think of making an environment you want, not changing yourself to suit what's around you."

I frowned, "Man, these are tough examples to go off of. If something doesn't work out for me, I don't like blaming my circumstances. It makes me feel helpless, and I'd rather blame myself, even if it wasn't my fault. At least I can change something then."

Chrona lifted her tail, pointing at me, "That's precisely my point. You must understand that your surroundings are under your control, even if only feebly. A primordial mage grips at those connections and uses them to their fullest potential. Eventually, those feeble beginnings may blossom into absolute control, over time."

Ophelia looked up at Chrona, "Hey, that was really well said. You should do this for a living."

Chrona shook her head, "I know of a professor, and his life is not one I wish to emulate. I'd rather focus on my music, sculpting, and sparring. Those pursuits sustain me."

Ophelia nodded, "Girl, I totally agree."

Chrona must've been talking about Torix. I guess his workload was pretty severe when compared to most. Thinking about their lessons, I sat down with my legs crossed. I rolled my shoulders, closed my eyes, and took a deep breath. As I went into a zen state of mind, Ophelia went back and sat down on her table of interlocked, stone crabs.

She pulled out her obelisk, scrolling through something similar to Facebook. Chrona wrapped her tail around herself, setting her head on it. She got in a little cat nap as I began my practice. To begin, I envisioned something like the parents Ophelia mentioned. I thought of my mom, and I couldn't remember her face.

A pang of guilt sliced through my chest, and I winced. I wished my skills and enhanced memories worked for older events in my life. I ended up moving on to my dad. Anytime I brought him up in my mind, a fight or flight response kicked up. I tightened my hands, my knuckles prominent on my fists.

A deep, built-in fear sprung up from just remembering the guy. He was a complete asshole, and his ego needed so much pampering that it might as well have been royalty. If he wasn't belittling someone else in a conversation, he considered the other person an enemy. I never wanted to be like that.

Yeah, the whole parent thing wasn't going to work out.

I moved on, trying out Chrona's method. The first step involved trying to think of something in my palm, a world perhaps. I expanded my awareness around me, mana siphoning from my furnace. Without my other senses bothering me, I viewed the world through mana.

Wielding that mana, I tried to bend the world's mana instead of my own. It rejected me utterly, the foreign entity resisting my control. Rolling my shoulders, I tried again. Bending nature by using my own energy took little effort, but actually enacting orders to it without using force, that was something much, much harder.

After a dozen attempts, I took this as a personal attack. At this point, the universe might as well have been mocking me. I wasn't about to let it win. Over and over, I attempted to grasp this external mana. Over and over, I failed. It became a point of contention and doubt for me. Was wielding primordial mana even possible for me?

I mean, Chrona wielded the space around her to warp time. Ophelia grafted external mana sources with minds to do her bidding. I only used my own energy, and everything else was cut off. I facepalmed. That's right. I was a dimension. Instead of grasping at this other universe's mana, I grabbed at my own.

It shifted, bending with fluid grace. The colors of it turned into black, blue, orange, red, and white. The shifting expanse danced around me, pleased to be of use. The sheer difference in pliability was like steel and stone versus playdough and puddles. One resisted with an iron will, and the other shifted to the touch, resisting little if at all.

It didn't seem like primordial mana, however. It was just me bending the mana I made to my will like normal. After a bit of brainstorming, an idea popped into my head. Using my furnace, I gave it a jolt of mana. It was enough to make another one of those mindless monstrosities. Once it formed, I wrestled with the arcane beast until it submitted to my will.

After doing so, I expunged the thing from my body and mind. A jinn of sorts spawned, one of chaotic temperament and with a destructive nature. It remained formless, invisible to other's eyes. I reached out a hand, ensuring a telepathic link remained between us. That connection served as shackles so this thing couldn't run wild.

With an experimental monster in front of me, I began molding it. It resisted at first, not wanting to take a form. It was kind of like a baby crying right after birth. It didn't want to experience the dramatic shift that came with coming to life. Despite that, the spirit yielded to my tampering eventually after I bribed it with some mana.

That was a useful trick I learned from Hod and Amara. Who knew how helpful it would be in the future.

At first, the jinn's mind and body had no form whatsoever. If anything, the only reason it even maintained a form was that I held it together. Otherwise, it was eager to spill out into the world around it. I needed this damn kamikaze to have a survival instinct so that I could work with it on any reasonable level.

That goal guided me as I attempted to make a mind with origin mana. A random, primitive entity spawned. Calling it a conscious would be an insult to the word but a compliment to this primal being. It worked for now. Planting this baseline series of thoughts, I swelled the jinn into the mind. The tiny entity went insane, the little being unable to handle the onslaught of madness.

As it died, I frowned. Man, working with this kind of magic was for the cold-hearted. I'd have to be the same. I settled myself down, steeling myself for what was to come. This experiment repeated several dozen times, and I kept at it since creating a raw consciousness was beyond me. Using the mana from the furnace would skip a lot of steps, and it worked with my temperament better anyways.

The restless furnace spirits would act as filler for the tiny beings I made. Once grafted together, I could bend the Frankenstein minds into what I wanted. It was hard, arduous work, however, and I showed no talent in this. As my progress stalled, I kept at it despite the natural resistance I was facing. I didn't want to quit now.

This was the most opposite kind of work I was used to as far as magic was concerned. Struggle, plateaus, and difficulty came with the new territory, so I took it all in with a smile. Once more, this was a fight I wanted to win. If I came out bloody and beaten on the other side, then that was a price I'd pay willingly.

And pay I did. Creating tiny, helpless minds and killing them took its toll on me. I splintered their souls, taking my time to try and make the assimilation work. This kind of tampering suited Torix, but it made me want to vomit. At the same time, this kind of price was something I expected. Primordial mana was ugly, and that meant something equally unsettling would be required to make it.

I resigned myself to this strange part of magic as I continued, on and on.

By the time morning arrived, my frustrations mounted. It reminded me of what I tried doing before with Chrona, the process just not budging no matter how hard I worked. I took a deep breath, pretending all of my anger and negativity was pooling in my chest. As I breathed out, I let all that irritation go.

Feeling lighter, I stood up before cracking my neck. The sound echoed a bit, waking Chrona up from her nap. Ophelia didn't hear at all since she left hours ago. She did what I needed her to do, so I wasn't precisely sour about her spending her time elsewhere. My remaining mentor didn't waste much time either, and she rubbed her eyes with her tail as she said,

"Ah, Daniel, it's good to see you. Did your mental exercises pay off?"

I shook my head, "Not yet, and I expected as much. Sometimes, things are hard and difficult. This happens to be one of those times."

She grinned, "Persevere then, as you always have."

I smiled back, reaching out a hand. I made some cool mist around Chrona, and she laughed,

"Hah, thank you. Your planet's not as humid as Giess. This reminds me of home."

"That's good. You've got a few more days off, so soak them in. We'll be fighting in a new world soon."

"Then I will be ready when that time comes. Good luck."

I left her sleeping, the silver gialgathen adjusting to Earth quickly. As I passed by the golem work stations, work died down, the engineers tired from a long night's work. I picked Diesel up and dropped him off, the guy less talkative than average from sheer exhaustion. He yawned in front of his house, waving goodbye,

"That was a long day. We've got a lot left to do."

