I tossed her a mana stone, "Don't think of it like that. You're both working hard here. Think of this as payment for doing my guild a service. I can give you both some of these as payment since neither of you is that interested in money."

I tapped my chest with a closed fist, "I do right by my own. If you want something, just ask. At the very least, I'll consider it."

Other Hod caught the mana I tossed, and Amara stared at the crystallized mana with the intensity someone starving. He offered her the entire crystal,

"You've worked very, er, hard lately. Here."

Amara snatched it out of Other Hod's hand, and he stared on as Amara opened her maw. She put the crystal in her mouth and began sapping out its energy kind of like a giant, mana loaded jawbreaker. Other Hod looked on, envious yet wanting her affection. It was obvious the guy liked her. I tossed another mana stone to Other Hod, and the poor guy rejoiced as he chowed down. Florence raised his eyebrows,

"They do say that a good leader gives his flesh and blood for those he leads. I see you take that quite literally."

I shrugged, "I'm just glad I can give them something they actually like. Anyways, what else did you figure out?"

"Aside from their hunger for mana, it would seem that there exist ancient versions of the eldritch that the vagni worshipped. Considering these are the old gods they worship, they should be the ones we target when tackling Blegara."

I crossed my arms, "Ahh, that makes sense. If we get their old gods on our side, we get the vagni too."

"You've caught on to my meaning. We've learned of several collecting points the eldritch use for accepting sacrifices. The most powerful and well respected of those places sits just several dozen miles from Saphigia. We should be able to lure many of the eldritch into this area using your mana crystals, and by doing so, we will have them within our grasp."

Florence gestured to the eldritch and me, "It would seem after that, you merely need to terrify the old gods as you have terrified these two."

Other Hod and Amara ate the mana with looks of bliss spread over their faces, ignoring Florence entirely. I revved up my furnace a bit, and both of them froze in place. After letting it die down, they went back to normal.

I gave Florence a smirk, "I think I already have the whole terrifying thing down pat."

Florence scoffed, "It must come naturally. Have you tried looking in a mirror lately?"

I snapped my fingers, "Dah, it's the damndest thing. Every time I try, the mirrors just shatter."

Florence let out a hearty chuckle before giving my shoulder a light punch, "You're getting wittier. It's good you're learning to turn others insults into humor. You'll win over many if you do so."

Considering how suave Florence was, I took that advice to heart. The albony spread out his arms, "How does the plan sound?"

"Solid. The only issue is getting the vagni to actually see their old gods submit. There's no doubt in my mind that Schema exiled them already, and I don't think the rebels will let us broadcast that over their system."

A sly grin crept up on Florence's face,

"They wouldn't do so if offered the choice, certainly."

He gestured to Amara, "But this eldritch understands Schema's system and how systems work. She can force the broadcast so that all are present and so that all vagni see the display of might. It will be glorious, along with throwing their civil war into utter disarray."

My eyes widened, "That's right. This is... a perfect plan, actually."

Florence gestured to the two distracted eldritch, "These two stand at the heart of it. I could not have asked for better members to pull the plan together with."

I nodded, but that was a bold-faced lie. Most people wouldn't have been able to get Amara talking or Other Hod to focus for more than a few minutes. Florence learned about them, their pasts, the history of the vagni, and pulled it all together into an effective plan. He did all that in two days.

I was dumbfounded.

I let my hands flop on my sides, "Why does your family act like you're some failure? You're a genius."

Florence looked up, not taking the compliment well. He raised his hands, "What? No, I just had some talent to work with. That's all. This wasn't from me like I just mentioned."

I rolled my eyes, "Come on, you forgot I've worked with these two. Yeah, I could've asked them for more advice, but getting them to speak up can be a real pain in the ass. You might as well be their family now."

Florence turned to the side, coughing into a hand, "I...well, thank you. I appreciate the compliment, regardless of its truthfulness."

He straightened up, "We're not finished yet, however. We came forward without really knowing what it was that made the eldritch afraid of you. Even if these two feel something sinister, neither could pin down exactly what it was. It was just a feeling."

I raised a hand, pointing behind me with a thumb, "Oh, I learned that yesterday. I trained with Helios to learn about elemental furnaces. He explained his mana sense to me, and that got me thinking about it. I meditated some, ended up learning the skill on accident, and I saw my mana."

I frowned, "That's what's horrifying them. They might not have known the terms for what it was, but it's pretty obvious to anyone that can sense mana."

Florence stared at me in awe, "Now I am the one who's surprised. How did you get Helios to explain his mana sense to you? In all my years of knowing him, Helios never uncovered that part of himself to me. I work off assumptions about him instead."

I furrowed my brow, "What? Seriously? I just asked."

Florence frowned, "Ah...I see. The distance between my brother and I is greater than I imagined."

"Why don't you think he'd tell you?"

A sad smile formed over Florence's face, "There are many reasons I suppose. For one, Helios calculates his every move. Telling me about his senses exposes himself, and that's not something he does lightly. Even more important than that, I believe the heart of the issue lies in how our family operates."

Florence raised a hand, "We decide each other's worth based upon respect. Unfortunately, combat ability garners much of that respect. Industriousness and work ethic may allow for greater placement as well, but I wish to work in areas that lack practical use. Therefore, I lack in many regards, so I am looked down upon."

Florence squeezed a hand into a fist, staring at it, "And Helios is not only gifted in combat. He is gifted at efficiency and warping as well. Those are rare skills, and he uses them to the fullest. In those areas, I cannot compare, and in many ways, he is a true mystery to me. I understand most people, but he remains ambiguous."

I felt bad for the guy as he continued,

"I crave his respect for those reasons and more, but Helios has scorned me since birth. It could've been from his upbringing. He is blind, and he was mocked and jeered for that trait many times. Children can be cruel at the best of times in that way. Still, Helios pushed past that disability, and he rose far above those that once taunted him."

Florence nodded slowly, "In many ways, it is ironic. He lives in darkness, yet to many, he shines brightly. For that perseverance in the face of adversity, I respect him more than he will ever know. I wish to one day be able to tell him that."

Florence met my eye, "But my history has left me estranged from my family. Perhaps that is why I'm enjoying my time here so much. This is more a family to me than my own."

He blinked before Florence recognized what he was saying. He swung his head back and forth before saying in a more upbeat tone,

"Excuse me for that. I have no idea why I'm telling you all this. Are you using some of Torix's mind magic on me, perhaps?"

I shook my head, "I think you just needed someone to hear it."

Florence turned to Hod and Amara, "Maybe so. These two are too busy eating mana to even hear us."

They were finishing the mana, neither even aware of us. I raised a hand, trying to change the conversation,

"Ah, now I know a way to make Hod quiet."

Florence spread his arms, "Now that, that is genius."

We spent a few minutes discussing the specifics of the plan, along with arranging a few details. Amara needed a few days to establish herself into the rebel's system, and doing so required her to be on an Elysium ruled world. Getting that done would be a real hurdle to overcome, but we had the people and tools to get it done.

We'd need to save that for another time. I made sure to draft up a few initial thoughts about their plan along with its contents. After sending it to some relevant parties, I took my leave. As I did, Florence scuttled away from Hod and Amara. He caught up to me, grabbing my shoulder,

"One last thing."

I winced, "What's up?"

He scoffed, "It won't be about my brother or family."

I let out a sigh of relief as Florence leaned close, "You must've noticed, but Hod is stricken with Amara, both sides of him, in fact."

I raised an eyebrow, "You don't say?"

"If it may interfere with a mission, then simply deny me this favor. Could you try to keep their assignments intertwined? Amara has yet to relish in Hod's company, but perhaps some time together would change that. I think they'd be lovely together."

I raised my brow, "So when did you become a matchmaker?"

He pulled back, "When I heard how difficult it was for Hod to communicate. You could do this, right?"

I raised a fist, "Yeah."

He gave me a pat on the back, "Thanks. Good luck with Ophelia. She's a handful."

With the situation situated, I made my way to Diesel's place. I passed the bottom floor's elevator, walking through the underground streets lit by lamplight. In his cranny of the cavern, Diesel was leaving home while waving bye to his lady,

"I'll be back in the morning. See you."

She reached out, "Stay safe, and I love you. It's dangerous out there."

"Quit worrying so much...And yeah, love you too."

Diesel reached me before tapping my elbow. It let out a metallic ring, "Besides, this big lug will keep me safe."

Melissa gave me a sharp stare, "You sure? He looks pretty shady to me."

I gave her a thumbs-up, "That's only because its nighttime outside."

Melissa put her hands on her hips, "I can never tell what time it is when we're in here. Both of you, have a good day at work. I'll have breakfast ready when you come back."

We walked off, and I turned to him, "She actually cooks? Woah."

He nodded, "Yeah, she really likes it. Before the change, her family wanted her to be a lawyer. That profession is, uh, a lot harder to come by these days."

Diesel blinked a few times, "It's crazy, but all those years of schooling turned out to be totally useless. I guess it wasn't all bad. She never enjoyed studying for the most part. She has time to raise a family now. You know, make a home."

Diesel shook his head in disbelief, "You know she actually wakes up early so that she can make me breakfast every day? I don't know what I did to deserve her."

I scoffed, "Pshhh, nothing. You got lucky."

Diesel looked forward, "Yeah, you're damn right. I do worry she's sometimes settling. I know she's smart. Very smart. I don't want her to feel like she can't do what she wants because of me."

I lifted us both up, Diesel used to gravitational flight at this point. I shook my head,

"I've seen the way she looks at you, man. She's in a good place."

"Thanks. I'll try to keep my worries outside my work."

"You and me both."

We got to the new work stations, everybody going ham on the golem project. Something about working with all these new technologies got everybody excited, and that fervor saturated the air around them. A pang of jealousy ran up my spine as Diesel joined them for work while I walked off to learn primordial mana.

Duty was a strange thing sometimes.

I floated myself up to Chrona's house, though it was more like a series of landing pads near a rocky cove. When I got there, Ophelia and Chrona were already talking. Chrona kept the conversation going on an opened telepathic wave, so I heard everything.

"Your sculptures are beautiful. I still can't believe you can use them to play music. You're like an ice band or something." Ophelia said.

Chrona flushed, her smooth, silver skin reddening, "What? Stop it. I'm just a hatchling when compared to true masters."

"Do you all just sit around and make sculptures all day? I couldn't imagine someone being better than you already are without an awful amount of practice."

"In all honesty, that isn't as far from the truth as you may first envision. We gialgathens are not an industrious, working species. We grew fat on the espen's bondage, and once that lifeline snapped, our days of leisure ended. Now we work for the Harbinger, and he demands efficiency and labor."

Chrona stared up, "It is no bad thing, I think. I've found joy in my work now, and that isn't something I could say before."

Ophelia leaned over on a table made of rock crabs, "I wish I could do that. I hate working. It's so boring, and none of it seems to do anything."

Chrona tilted her head, "Perhaps you should simply find different work then?"

"Girl, that's what I'm here for."

I hovered over, kind of stunned they were chatting away like this. Ophelia turned to me, saying aloud, "Oh, look who's arrived." Ophelia kicked the table of stone crabs,

"I learned how to use the rings. They look silly, ridiculous, and ugly...but yeah, they work. A deals a deal, so I'm here."

I put my hands on my hips, "Perfect. Let me know if you need anything with them. I can adjust them if they don't work right."

Ophelia leaned onto her hand, looking bored. She lifted her other hand, spraying crabs onto the flattened earth,

"Nope, they work just the way you said."

Chrona wrapped her tail around the crustaceans, picking them up and putting them in her jaws. She crunched down, telepathizing,

