[Skill – Boosted Morale (Unit) obtained!]
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51, [Crusader]
 
Thus was born Crab Battalion.
At first, Crusader 51 had no idea what they were talking about. The other Liscorian [Soldiers] camped next to the Antinium, but there was a bit of a divide. The Antinium did not speak, and Liscorians were trained not to ask their names or really interact.
There was a lot of staring that went on, but after the first battle, the [Soldiers] were celebrating, even the ones who hadn’t fought. A number of petitions were made for the officers to treat everyone for a few drinks…which Crusader 51 understood not to be water, but it was denied.
However, that night, Commander Olesm Swifttail himself gave a little speech to the [Soldiers] and Antinium [Crusaders].
“…and in recognition of their feats, I have awarded them a half-ration of supplies for their enjoyment and personally certify Battalion 3 of the Antinium with a new moniker.”
Murmurs of interest among the [Soldiers] standing to attention. They hadn’t really enjoyed the speech about the ‘valorous conduct’ of Battalion 3, for all it was true. Those were words.
But these words? Crusader 51’s antennae waved in the night air.
Moniker?
“What’s a moniker?”
“A monkey? From Baleros?”
“No, it’s monetary. He’s giving them a bounty?”
The whispering [Soldiers] were silenced by Division Leader Bepol’s glare. Olesm raised a claw.
“A moniker—that is, a name. In the future, each battalion may decide on theirs or find a nickname. However, in this case, given their stubbornness and ability to sneak up on the enemy by surprise, I declare Battalion 3 to be named…Crab Battalion. After our own Rock Crabs of Liscor and Little Crab football teams!”
Surprised murmurs and even chuckles. The [Soldiers], looking so bored or inattentive, came alive. They looked around, and Crusader 51 turned to the surprised Battalion 3. Who were now…
Crab Battalion. They looked at each other, much like Crusader 51 had done after he’d become a [Crusader]. Changed. Redefined.
And they got snacks. Crusader 51 watched as the [Quartermaster] carefully had a bundle of food remanded to Dekass’ care. Each [Soldier] in the five hundred stood up, collected a half-portion of food, and looked at it.
It was…yogurt.
The exigencies of Liscor being so close to the front, as well as holding spells, meant that yogurt was not impossible to store and carry. In addition, these were in handy pots. The [Soldiers] had been issued utensils designed for their hands, and the Workers had spoons. They stared into the pots as Crusader 51 looked at the food. Crab Battalion, thus named, had food and a moniker.
An odd feeling stole into Crusader 51’s chest. He had felt it before, but never as strongly. That unpleasant, possessive anger. Irritation too deep under his shell to be removed.
Jealousy.
 
 
 
 
Artur, [Flag Bearer]
 
He had not fought. He had carried the flag.
He might level for it, even so. However, before he slept, Belgrade found him.
“You must amend your flag. Crab Battalion is now a battalion. Therefore, they have a sigil. I have suggested they paint it on their armor.”
Artur looked up. The [Strategist] appeared quite happy, and even Tersk and Dekass, who had somehow allotted himself one of the yogurt rations, also looked pleased.
“This is a good endeavor. I may copy it among the Armored Antinium. What sigil will Crab Battalion have?”
Belgrade clacked his mandibles as the two Prognugators stood with him. He looked at Artur.
“…A crab? I do not know. Someone should draw it.”
Dekass delicately took a huge spoonful of yogurt and inserted it between his mandibles.
“Who? Who draws the Painted Antinium’s colors?”
“They do.”
Dekass nodded.
“Then who will do it for a battalion? You?”
Belgrade frowned, twitching his antennae slightly.
“I cannot draw. Dekass, you command them. You should draw.”
“I do not draw. I recommend Tersk.”
“I have never drawn anything except military-oriented maps.”
The three Antinium looked at each other helplessly, and then, as one, seemed to recall Artur. In a flash, Belgrade developed a true trait of command.
“Artur, you draw Crab Battalion’s new sigil. Yes. This is a good idea. I will go over here now and find something else to do.”
He hurried off, and the [Flag Bearer] stared at the flag he was holding and around at Crab Battalion. He looked around.
Draw? With what?
The Painted Antinium did have paints. Artur found some; the ‘quartermaster’ let him have some. After all, he was Antinium, and the Worker assigned to their supplies assumed he had orders. Which Artur did. So he could take anything he wanted. So he did.
He was finger-drawing a little orange crab onto a stone as a bunch of Antinium stared at him and trying to figure out if it was appropriate when he heard an argument.
“Belgrade. Belgrade. What are Battalion 3—Crab Battalion doing?”
Artur listened as Belgrade and Olesm stepped aside to talk in low voices next to him. He carefully put the flag in front of him and dipped his finger in the orange paint. Artur was so busy listening and working, he didn’t see one of the [Crusaders] in Crab Battalion edge over and dip a finger in the paint and watch Artur.
“They are sharing the food, I believe, Olesm.”
“With other battalions?”
Belgrade inspected the other [Crusaders].
“…Yes? Is this a problem?”
Artur glanced up. A lot of the [Crusaders] were offering spoonfuls of their rations to other Soldiers, who were lining up. The Liscorians were watching with fascination. Olesm made a sound.
“No, but—it’s their ration. I know it’s a virtue to share, but some of those Antinium didn’t even fight!”
Belgrade nodded reasonably.
“Yes, but it would be unfair for the others not to have a taste.”
“They can hardly share a bowl of yogurt among…six Antinium! That’s barely a mouthful each!”
“Ah, but the other Antinium would not get to experience it if it was not shared, Olesm.”
The Commander caught his breath. The blue-scaled Drake looked at Belgrade, not blankly, but thinking hard. He knew what Belgrade was getting at, but Olesm’s response surprised Artur and Belgrade.
“Perhaps that’s fairer.”
Belgrade stopped, and Artur glanced up. He saw the [Strategist]-[Leader] looking at Belgrade under the moonlight. For the first time, Belgrade looked uncertain.
“How would that be fairer? The other Antinium may never taste the yogurt again.”
“Yes, Belgrade. But Crab Battalion fought, and some of them died. That’s their reward. It’s not even much of one, but it’s theirs. That’s…the point. It’s unfair. It should be. They did something exceptional, so it’s theirs. I’m not saying they can’t share. But they don’t have to. Just…make sure they know that.”
He walked off, and Belgrade looked uncertainly at Crab Battalion. Artur ducked his head when Belgrade turned towards him, and lifted the flag.
A little, orange crab with a rocky, grey shell rose on Liscor’s standard. Artur held it high up, and later saw that little symbol appear on every member of Crab Battalion’s armor in some location over the next day. He also noticed that the yogurt didn’t get shared around as much. He never got a taste.
But he had not fought. Was that fair? Artur didn’t know, but when he saw the other Antinium looking at Crab Battalion, who walked as one, who the Drakes, Humans, and Gnolls pointed out as…Crab Battalion, he thought that was already unfair, so the yogurt was fairly unfair.
In the coming days, Crab Battalion would enter combat five times out of six days and receive commendations three times.
 
[Flag Bearer Level 10!]
[Skill – Flag: Inspiring Sight obtained!]
[Skill – Stainless Fabric obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Drawing obtained!]
 
…That last one felt like an insult to Artur.
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51, [Crusader]
 
On the fourteenth day, he never saw the arrow that killed Crusader 50. He was fighting forwards, trying to cut a screaming Gnoll who was running back, when he sensed a gap on his side. He looked left, and Crusader 50 was lying on the ground.
Each Antinium was issued with a single low-grade healing potion. Crusader 51 reached for it and turned Crusader 50 over and saw the arrow sticking out of his head.
He must have knelt there for a while. Long enough to see green blood running into the rocky soil. Long enough to see a tiny little beetle climbing on Crusader 50’s shoulder.
Someone tried to behead him. Crusader 51 heard a scream and saw Crusader 53 bring his mace down on a Drake’s head and leave a dent as the [Soldier] fell back, dead. The other [Crusader] had green blood on his armor. Someone had slashed through his chestplate, and he was leaking green.
The two Soldiers looked at each other for a moment, and Crusader 51 stood up. They turned and heard Tersk bellowing.
“Squads 5, 7! Fall back.”
So they did. Crusader 51 saw Soldiers running past Crusader 50’s body. A Worker with a halberd chopped down on a screaming figure. A Drake, who had been screaming and filling the air with sound as he blasted spells from a wand.
Crusader 51 hadn’t heard it. He looked up as Tersk bellowed.
“[Lightning Bolt]!”
All the [Crusaders] ducked, though the magic would run through them. Some raised their shields as if to block it. The spell arced across hundreds of fighting Antinium, Drakes, Gnolls—and exploded in midair as a [Mage] countered it.
A shower of ghostly arrows traced back the path towards the [Mage]. Commander Olesm’s [Instantaneous Barrage] Skill. Crusader 51 saw a Drake with a nimbus of crackling magic and two raised arms fall backwards as the arrows overloaded the barrier. The [Archers] in the formation dove for cover, and someone began to blow a horn.
“4th Company incoming! Move, move!”
Crusader 51 looked around and moved left—just in time to see a Drake riding past him, a spear raised. She surged past the [Crusaders] in front and rammed it into a Drake’s throat, whirling the spear.
The flash of red made Crusader 51 flinch. Some of it landed on him. He didn’t have a nose, but it smelled like iron.
That was what Hectval’s blood smelled like. Drakes and Gnolls.
Antinium blood smelled different. They smelled like insects, foreign to mammals when they died. Drakes lay staring blankly at the sky. Gnoll fur clotted with blood, but they lay like puppets.
Antinium curled up into little mounds of shell and limbs. Crusader 51 looked around at Battalion 1, Acid Jars, and realized he had made a mistake, somewhere.
 
——
 
Crab Battalion. How Crusader 51 had disliked them.
After the first day, it hadn’t been more than envy. Crusader 51 had not gotten any yogurt. Nor had he gotten something to draw on his armor.
They had. However, Olesm had been more cunning than anyone had known. He had created in the Antinium, for the first time…a sense of competition.
The fact that Crab Battalion had a name and award made them stand out. So had Olesm’s promise to commend the best fighting force. Naturally, the [Crusaders] decided that if you were going to get yogurt instead of your paste, they would fight for that.
Try hard. Not that they didn’t try, but there was an extra…keenness when they went into the fray tomorrow.
Passage-fighting. Narrow spaces to large areas for multiple squads to fight shoulder-to-shoulder. Dangerous if you ran into spells, but armor could save you.
Crusader 51 was ready. He and Crusader 53 were both Calruz’s students, and they were in the same squad. No other squad had two gifted Antinium. So naturally they would do better and receive the reward today.
…They did not. Mainly because they were both ordered to loose arrows as the first ranks of Battalion 1 repelled a few charges from [Riders]. The enemy did not attack Battalion 1.
They attacked Battalion 3 instead. That was—
Crab Battalion. As if Dekass were a lodestone, or for vengeance, the second day saw [Mages] taking potshots at Crab Battalion at range. Lightning spells. In response, Olesm mounted archers and had Maksie call out targets. [Mages] were an asset, and a limited one at that; if one of them cast a spell, they had better be ready to eat an arrow in return, and few [Mages] were of Magus Grimalkin’s caliber or even his students.
“For heroism in the face of an onslaught of spells, Commander Olesm has awarded Crab Battalion another commendation. News of their advance in the face of a storm of spells has reached Liscor, and the Council has commissioned an illustration of the advance.”
Tersk read out the announcement, and Crab Battalion was given pork tenderloin.
Crusader 51 had never known pork had a tender loin. This time, it was not shared. The scorched armor of the [Crusaders] still bore their crab symbol, and they ate slowly, savoring the meal while the other Antinium smelled it.
The next day, Dekass proudly strutted across the ground and announced to Tersk he had levelled up.
“My unit is now resistant to electricity. I therefore request permission to lead our advance. I also cite the increased levels among my command. The average is now 9, with many [Crusaders] having achieved their first capstone.”
Crusader 51 had never heard of the snowball effect, but he would have understood the dirtball analogy. Crab Battalion was leveling up. You could see there was a difference. Not just in levels, the Soldiers and Workers held their shields more confidently, and when they clashed, they looked—sharp.
Therefore, they got into the fighting more often as Olesm recognized that. Not that it was one or two skirmishes in the following days.
Liscor’s army took the ridgeline and emerged into what would become their main battleground: a series of gentler hills that nevertheless extended into a large network of caves and unexpected valleys.
Much like the Floodplains, but on a larger scale. The garrison force that had tried to slow Liscor’s advance fell back—and linked up with Hectval’s real army. That was when the first big engagements occurred.
 
——
 
Crusader 51 stabbed nine opponents and executed a slash that injured six more on the first day Battalion 1 saw massed combat. Squad 5 entered into pitched battle as the Antinium [Crusaders] met Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem in force.
He didn’t know the numbers, and he didn’t see the strategy at play. What Crusader 51 saw and heard were Drakes and Tersk’s orders.
“Antinium! Get them!”
“They’re wearing armor—don’t waver! That one’s a Prognugator! Get—”
“Traitors! You Lizardfolk traitors! Antinium and—”
They were angry. The forces of the Hectval alliance shouted insults and raged at their counterparts, but they were also afraid.
Afraid of the Antinium. This was the first time they met the [Crusaders] en masse, and that was when they experienced what their forces had felt before.
[Combined Skill: Wrath of the Righteous].
Suffer. Perish.
