The [Soldiers] went somber in a minute. Face burning, the Drake stepped out of line and retreated. Lulv went on.
“Don’t treat this like Armored Antinium. Think of this like a Twisted Antinium raid. Be prepared for anything, and if you slip up, you have something crawling out of your face. Report any oddities—and your officers will be debriefing me hourly, but report it to my face if you have to. We are not playing games here. I want those three thousand Antinium gone, and I will make sure that happens if I have to stab all three thousand myself. Since my arm gets tired, are you the [Soldiers] to back me up? Or do I have to get another group to—”
They shouted and roared too loudly for Lulv to continue. He raised his spear and nodded.
“Alright, then. Dragonspeaker Luciva is counting on us. Muster up—oh, and try not to antagonize Hectval. I don’t care what the Drakes do. If I don’t take a swing at them, you don’t.”
The cheering died down, and the [Soldiers] moved forwards to the waiting Wyverns. You needed a lot to transport even four hundred [Soldiers], but Manus was the City of War. If they needed to, they could have requisitioned [Mages] for teleportation or used horse relays.
Lulv climbed onto his Wyvern-transport, and the [Rider] shushed the unhappy creature. Shame these ones didn’t spit frost, but elemental Wyverns were notoriously even worse to train. Lulv sat back and waited. Just…waited, as the Wyvern took off. It would be a long flight, landing, forty mile march, introductions to whomever was commanding him, and then…
Then he’d see where to strike.
The [Spearmaster] waited, eyes half-closed, until it was time to move.
 
 
 
 
Embria, [Wing Commander]
 
Not one level.
They said adversity built character—and also raised your level. Well, Embria feared the war wasn’t adverse enough.
…Or she had her father’s problem, and that was that she was fairly high-level in two main classes. Not as much as the Gecko of Liscor—but enough such that leading 4th Company through so many victories wasn’t enough to guarantee her levelling, even in a warzone.
Embria was a Level 28 [Spear Hunter], having leveled twice after coming back to Liscor and training with her father.
She was a Level 28 [Wing Commander] too. Double-classed, same level.
Even one of those was enough to make her close to a prized veteran in Liscor’s army. Wikir, for instance, was one of the old-guard, and he wasn’t a Level 30 [Captain].
It was hard to pass your capstones. Mind you, Wikir had started from the ground and was old enough to remember the Antinium Wars, but he hadn’t always been in Liscor’s 4th. Pass Level 30 and Embria would be…
Well, she might be a [Spearmaster]. And if she also passed Level 30 in [Wing Commander]—she’d have passed Relc when he first began being called the Gecko of Liscor.
It was an odd thought. Embria was sure Relc was higher-level. But she’d gotten to where he was…faster? Around where he was?
She wanted to level. Frankly, if she could have traded two classes for, say, a Level 32 in one class…
Well, she wouldn’t do it, but she’d give it a damn good thought. Because your classes gave you variety, but the height of your levels dictated the power of a Skill.
Take Olesm, for example. He was new to leading armies, but Embria saw his [Instantaneous Barrage] Skill, which could launch hundreds of arrows in a free volley attack at least once per battle, and she saw what Level 30 meant. As a [Wing Commander] and [Spear Hunter], she could help take down a dangerous group, battle an enemy officer, and slay them.
Olesm could change the entire battle around, especially if he pointed at a high-level opponent.
Anyways, she wasn’t leveling today. Embria sighed. She scowled up at a hill as Liscor’s army advanced over the last battlefield. The confusing terrain behind them meant their army had kept moving from battlefield to battlefield, trying to box their foe in, and Hectval kept fighting back—then retreating.
Right now, she was overseeing the inspection of all the supplies they’d taken from eight hundred prisoners of war, who would be ransomed off or held in a prisoner train. Olesm had learned from last time, and they wouldn’t be breaking out any time soon. Nor would Hectval launch a sneak attack to free them.
“Nice arrows. Unenchanted gear, unenchanted gear…personal possessions…”
Vell, Wikir, Pielt, and Igissi were all present, showing other officers how to efficiently sort and strip enemy combatants. That was the kind of thing this new army didn’t know. Everything from how to organize your pack to how to loot properly.
“Is this…are we going to wear the enemy’s armor, Wing Commander? It seems a bit off.”
That was from Division Leader Ramia. The [Guardswoman] was patently uncomfortable with the idea of battlefield acquisitions. Embria turned to her and tried to explain as Vell made her squad sort the gear.
“It’s not theft, Ramia. Nor would I advise tossing on armor without checking it; there’s lice as well as all the crap enemy soldiers will put on their gear if they think you’ll get it—including crap. But if you’ve got a hole in your armor and you see some new chainmail…I advise you not to crack down on that so long as a [Soldier] trades their gear. Now, looting is different. This goes straight to command to divvy out. We’re not [Pirates], but we’ll definitely take healing potions, eh?”
Ramia nodded, a bit relieved by Embria’s reassurances. Wikir chipped in with a reassuring growl.
“Don’t worry, the fact that we have so many prisoners is a good sign. Taking eight hundred in one engagement—Hectval’s probably tearing their fur out over it. Look at them.”
He nodded in the distance to where the other army was camped on the hilltop. In theory, they had the high ground.
In practice, they had lost every other area of ground, and while they had the numbers, Liscor had beaten them again and again. Embria nudged Wikir.
“Don’t say that. They can probably conscript if they haven’t done a round already. Plus, they’ll empty their garrisons.”
“More loot, more levels, more prisoners, Wing Commander. Liscor’s army loves it all. Give me your best! I’ll sell your helmet with the rest!”
The Gnoll replied cheerfully, quoting one of Liscor’s army’s adages. The other members of 4th Company laughed and cheered, and Embria smiled. Ramia glanced at them.
“Liscor’s Army. I haven’t seen it in…ten years. I forgot how much I liked hearing the [Soldiers] on leave shouting that.”
Embria glanced at Ramia and then looked around for those familiar insects in armor. She saw Wikir frown, and Pielt looked up with a glower.
“Yeah. We miss the city too. But you know how it is. Always another front. We never came back too regularly.”
Ramia nodded uncertainly and brushed some fur out of her helm.
“But once every few years. Is it just…the Antinium? I wasn’t comfortable with them myself, but I’ve met some of them. Senior Guardsman Klbkch—everyone knew them, and they aren’t…monsters. Belgrade plays chess. Is it just that?”
Wing Commander Embria found she was suddenly very uncomfortable with this line of questioning. She coughed.
“Of course they’re not. But High Command and a lot of the veterans…fought against them. Sserys? General Sserys? Hero of Izril and Liscor? You know what they did.”
Twenty years ago. She was too young to remember that, not really. She just remembered Relc being really upset whenever she asked how he died later on. Liscor’s army had been with Sserys, a great number of them.
None had come back.
Ramia nodded, looking conflicted. Embria was grateful she was interrupted from another question.
“Speaking of adding to provisions, make sure you get it all checked for rot or poison, obviously. But if you take out a commander’s tent, you can find good eating. Let’s see what we eugh! Wing Commander!”
The Wing Commander and Ramia turned, and Vell nearly dropped what she was holding. She’d been going through Hectval’s rations, and she lifted a tin can in outrage.
“What, Vell? Is it asparagus? Grow up. Until you see an Asparagus-monster, I’m not convinced there’s a problem!”
Embria shouted and the other [Soldiers] laughed. Vell glared back, waving the tin.
“It’s not that! Wing Commander, take a look at what these Hectval bastards eat! If there was ever a good reason to go to war—this confirms we should wipe ‘em out!”
Curious now, Embria trotted over. She expected something revolting, although she couldn’t imagine what was worse than the Antinium’s paste. Not that they ate bugs. Did Hectval eat…?
She stared down into the tin perplexed for a moment. Ramia gave a huge sniff.
“Doesn’t smell bad. What is…”
The two women stared down into the tinned can of Hectval’s rations. They looked at Vell’s face, and Embria gingerly poked the half-eaten ration of…
“Is that…is it…pudding?”
The entire object wobbled from Embria’s poke. She saw Wikir crack open another tin and make a face.
“Eugh. It’s all of this. What is it?”
“Some kind of gelled…it’s not pudding. It looks like sausage mixed with congealed…what is this? Someone get me a prisoner!”
Embria was mildly revolted. Ramia was outraged. When one of the bruised Drakes was hauled up, he stared blankly at her when she thrust the tin into his face.
“What? You gonna feed us to the Ants? You’ve got our food—”
“Shut it. What is this?”
He went cross-eyed as she thrust the wobbling dish in front of his face.
“…Food? You gonna eat that?”
He looked hungrily at the can. Vell, Embria, Wikir, and Ramia traded glances. The Gnoll pointed a paw down.
“This is food? What, exactly, is it?”
The Drake considered the question.
“Looks like…beef stock sausage gelatin. Bit of boiled corn mixed in, and, uh, might be a lobster gelatin on the side. Nice. I remember eating that yesterday. Can’t imagine why anyone wouldn’t finish it up.”
Embria stared down at the wobbling not-liquid stuff. Beef stock, sausages, bits of boiled corn, all contained in a…gel. Like a slime, but less viscous.
Hard soup. That was what they eventually got out of the prisoner. Hectval, as it turned out, made gelatins.
The horrified 4th Company found, as they opened more tins, that the preserved rations were all like this. Apparently they had something that helped make gelatins, or just specialized in it, because they didn’t bother with canned soup or even sandwiches.
Why would you, when you had the glorious slice of gelatin with a hard boiled egg, pieces of turkey, carrots, and other components of a fine soup…frozen and turned into a slice of gelatin?
Mm. Spread that on some toast. Oh, wait, Hectval didn’t believe in toast. They believed in gelatin.
If one of the people of Earth could have been there, it would have answered one of the dark questions they lay awake at night pondering. Which was—would any other culture outside of Earth’s organically come up with a creation like spam?
Yes. Yes, and it was Hectval.
Why have a fish when you could have an artful bit of gelatin shaped like a fish, with fish-colored gelatin flavored with fish…matter…concentrate? Speckled within with juicy goodies—because the gelatin was going to be juicy, and soft, and you ate it with a spoon—or perhaps a giant, wet, pink blob of what turned out to be tuna-flavored something?
 
——
 
When Embria showed Olesm the objectionable goods, his face said it all.
“…I don’t think we need to replace the [Soldiers]’ rations with that. Will it keep?”
“Probably. I honestly think we can’t use it, unless we want riots or hungry [Soldiers].”
Olesm agreed. He rubbed at his face as the officers encountered true culture shock. Bepol couldn’t stop poking a wobbling tower of three kinds of gelatin he’d stacked together.
“Just insane. Who would do this to good food?”
Olesm almost agreed, but something bothered him. He remembered a conversation he’d had…with Selys? He was staring at the gelatin, trying to remember, when everyone heard a slurping sound.
Slowly, Embria and Olesm turned to see Belgrade slowly, and noisily, trying to suck bird-poultry-spam off a spoon. The [Strategist] looked around and slowly put down the spoon.
“It is tasty, though.”
Olesm blinked.
“You…enjoy this, Belgrade?”
Vell gagged as Belgrade took another wobbling bite with every sign of delight.
“I find the texture very palatable. Nostalgic. It reminds me of the Free Hive’s paste, but tastes impeccably better. In texture as well. Hectval has lessons Garry must learn.”
Olesm wavered, but his personal horror aside, it simplified a lot of issues to feed the prisoners their own food. And to let any excess be quietly given to the Antinium for…disposal.
 
——
 
That was one event Embria remembered vividly, even as she wrote an actual letter to her father—then to High Command—and sealed both for delivery. She didn’t include war talk to him, nor did she know if he was getting the letters.
However, it wasn’t as if the Runner’s Guild wasn’t making an effort.
Liscor’s army was not stranded from home, nor did they have to rely on [Messengers] or the long supply chain. It was late at night, and Embria was waiting in front of the odd door with a glowing purple gem set in the top when someone else stopped.
“Ah, excuse me, Wing Commander.”
She turned and nearly touched the spear on her back, but relaxed…slightly.
“Strategist Belgrade. Not joining the officers playing cards?”
They had a habit of doing that, those not on duty, and Embria knew Olesm abstained, but she occasionally went there to talk. Belgrade tilted his head. He had a bundle of letters too.
“Excuse me, Commanders? We’re opening in one minute by our count, and it’s fast. Transit? Supplies? Messages?”
“Just letters. Here. Thank you.”
“I, as well. To Pawn. My report is also meant for Xrn. I have labeled both.”
Belgrade handed the letters to the [Mage], who nodded a bit warily. Embria eyed Belgrade.
“…You report back regularly?”
“Every night.”
The two stepped back as the [Mage] counting down with a flashing timer-spell decided it was time. She threw the door open.
“Letters. Three wounded! Detritus—”
She passed letters through first, then three [Soldiers] were helped through, and then crates of trash or things meant for Liscor. Briskly, some muscular folk of all species dragged them through on the other end.
“Damn, mana’s going down. Refill! Damn door…”
A weary official on the other end was complaining, but a crate of supplies was pushed through—just potions, nothing heavy. Everything cost magic, and the line of people behind the door were clearly waiting to go through.
“Hey, is that the army? What’s the news?”
“We won again! Obviously!”
