“One after the other. But not yet. We will be with you until the end. Which is now.”
“Not now. Stay with us. Belgrade? Strategist?”
He heard nothing. The Antinium looked around, and the sodden arrow in his side leaked more blood despite the claws, hands, and paws on it.
“Yes. Bird was right.”
He went still. For one second, his antennae dropped. Then Belgrade stood. He pushed himself up and stood.
Swaying, bleeding, heedless of everything else. The Antinium hunched with the effort. But he moved his feet, angled his body…how? Where?
“I was right here. I was always here.”
There was no context to it. None at all, unless you had listened to his story. After all, he was one. Alone, he was a single statue in a ring.
Right here. Below him, squads looked up and formed their own rings of bodies. They pointed. There. The [Strategist] stood on the hill as the clouds of darkness began to break, so Liscor’s forces fought towards it.
I was always right here. Squad Leader Kerone had never thought to ask for an Antinium’s past. He had never cared, though he wouldn’t throw stones at Workers, and regarded them as strange but not necessarily evil.
He stood, propping Belgrade up, and looked at the [Strategist]. He knew his story, now. At least, one part.
Silently, Kerone promised himself one thing: if he should survive this day and this war, he would go back to Liscor. Walk out the gates and head up that hill. Go visit that ruined place where the inn had burned before being rebuilt elsewhere and see…
Where Belgrade had stood.
The Antinium was cold. He was always cold to the touch, but as the sun shone down on his armor and head—as Olesm’s banners came to view and they saw Hectval retreating, and the losses.
The officers were silent, but Kerone looked at Belgrade.
“Strategist Belgrade?”
The Antinium said nothing. Kerone’s grip loosened. The other Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans slowly looked around, and began to lower Belgrade down. They gathered around him, and Kerone went to unclasp Belgrade’s arm from the arrow and fold them across his chest.
The Antinium slapped Kerone’s claw away.
The [Squad Leader] jerked back. He saw Belgrade’s head move. The Antinium clicked his mandibles.
“Every time I try to sleep, the voice speaks to me. It is annoying.”
“Strategist!”
Kerone shouted. He turned and waved his arms.
“[Healer]! Get a [Healer]!”
 
 
 
 
Belgrade, [Strategist]
 
Belgrade sighed as Kerone grabbed at him. But he listened to the voice that told him he wasn’t dead. If he were, he would hear Erin saying something about popcorn with yeast.
All he heard was…
 
[Trapsetter Strategist Level 33!]
[Conditions Met: Trapsetter Strategist → Combined Arms Strategist Class!]
[Skill – Antinium-Expertise Command obtained!]
[Skill – Prepared Battleground: One Hour obtained!]
[Skill – Army: Springwood Supplies obtained!]
 
[Skill – Squad: The Chess Club’s Stand learned.]
 
 
 
 
Elirr, [Councilmember]
 
There was no celebrating the day after the new element entered the Hectval War. Every other time Olesm had sent a report through—he declined to waste the door’s precious mana—Lism had brought a bottle of something to pop, drink, and toast with.
The bottle of Amentus wine sat unopened on the table. Elirr could have used it, to be honest.
Anything to tell him the world wasn’t as it was, and he wasn’t reading the casualty numbers right. The rest of the army had taken terrible losses, but it was the Antinium’s numbers that made him read it again and again.
 
Antinium killed, estimated: 938.
Antinium wounded, estimated…
 
That one number.
“A third of the Antinium division. How? This is more than they’ve lost in the entire…”
The Council sat in a state of shock. Lism was hunched over, staring at the numbers. All of the forces had bled. Belgrade’s division had been cut off, in particular trouble, but the [Strategist] had apparently inspired them to keep fighting rather than be wiped out.
That number. Wounded lists were far, far higher. But the wounded tended to walk away because a potion was so powerful. So the real loss was the damage to armor, morale, or the loss of the potion.
The Antinium had been issued with potions and still. Elirr rubbed at his brows. It didn’t seem quite…he didn’t believe it, but he had seen the wounded being escorted through the magic door until it was shut down to be resupplied.
“We cannot move reinforcements through. We must advise Olesm that we don’t have the mana to do that. Potions? They need potions.”
“How many? I thought they had plenty, even…”
Guildmistress Alonna looked up. Elirr pointed.
“Down the page. Hectval went for their supply lines. We now have a shortage of potions.”
The council stirred. Tismel sat up.
“We can replenish them, though. Right?”
Lism glared, directing his vacant stare onto a familiar target for wrath.
“Oh, naturally. We can suddenly produce thousands of healing potions. A shortage is…we will issue an order to all [Alchemists]. Send for Celum, Invrisil’s stocks. Someone find our budget. But—we should make an announcement.”
“Surely not. That would be admitting we lost.”
Zalaiss spoke up. Elirr muttered.
“It will spread, regardless. Everyone talks.”
“We could order them not to—”
Lism closed his eyes.
“Zalaiss. Please don’t say anything stupid for one moment. Please.”
A terrible silence fell over the room. And they were not the ones fighting. Elirr looked at the lists. The army remained. The Antinium had lost a third of their forces, but it was mercifully—no, incredibly lighter on casualties, even though the loss of many supplies was a terrible thing. The rest of the army had taken a tenth of the losses per division.
Why was that? Olesm hadn’t written out anything definitive. But he had suspicions, and Elirr’s hair rose as he read them.
 
 
 
 
Embria, [Wing Commander]
 
She knew exactly who and how it had happened. It wasn’t hard. Embria had almost known, but Vell, lying in the [Healer]’s tent, had croaked confirmation to her.
“It’s Manus, Wing Commander. It’s Ancestors-damned Manus. That was their veterans. I’ll bet my tail on it. And I think that [Spearmaster]…that might’ve been him.”
“Spearmaster Lulv.”
Vell’s eyes flickered as she held her stomach. The enchanted spear’s wounds were not…easy to heal.
“You know him?”
“Reputation. His Skill made me suspect.”
“How many Ants did they kill?”
“Nearly a thousand.”
Vell put her head back. Embria didn’t know what to think. She had heard Belgrade had saved his entire division. And even if she bore the Antinium no good will…
Even she had trouble watching the remnants form up. Embria needed to talk to Olesm, though. Manus was in this war. They would probably deny it; that was their standard operating procedure, and there was no proof. But they had sent some of their best to kill the Antinium. She walked out of the tent and avoided looking at Tersk and Dekass. Both had survived, although someone had tried to snipe both with enchanted arrows.
Their armor had protected them, so the Prognugators were counting their forces.
 
 
 
 
Artur, [Flag Bearer]
 
Artur had been jealous of Crab Battalion. He was assigned to Battalion 4, Razorbeaks, and everyone had been envious of Crab Battalion, with their four commendations.
It felt so…wrong. Artur felt dirty, though his armor was still pristine. He had hung back in the fighting, holding the flag.
Doing nothing as Crab Battalion and the others died.
Crab Battalion…was gone. Tersk and Dekass looked at four squads, each with less than half their original number.
And that was it. The unknown soldiers with their enchanted blades had targeted Crab Battalion. Battalions 1, 3, and 5 had endured the worst fighting.
There were only two [Crusaders] left in Squad 5, Battalion 1. One had two arms missing. The other? The other had an enchanted blade, which Tersk inspected.
There was no counting how many of the enemy had died, but it was a low, low number. In fact, Tersk had reported to Olesm in Artur’s earshot that he could confirm six dead. And that had been with Dekass calling in volleys of arrows onto the [Crusaders]. In fact, that was the only thing that had made the enemy retreat. They had healed all wounds, retreated rather than stay and risk losses.
Artur could see other [Crusaders] looking at him and his flag. Perhaps it made them feel better. He hoped it did.
Artur felt so useless. He had been in the darkness, and if only…if only his flag could have done more. But he had seen Crab Battalion fighting against [Soldiers] three times their level at least. The difference was just that.
Levels.
 
 
 
 
Elirr, [Councilmember]
 
The Council of Liscor drafted a somber announcement to go out across the city. From their rooms, Elirr had a view of it from the windows. He heard the howls of Gnolls fearing their loved ones were lost as well.
“So what happens next? Do we retreat?”
Alonna sat wearily at the table. The first hour of their day had exhausted her, and Elirr just wanted to go to Jeckle, the Ice Wyvern he was training, and pet him and feed him.
However, Lism shook his head.
“Olesm hasn’t written that.”
They all looked at him. The purple-scaled Drake glanced around.
“I’m not being his uncle. I’m being realistic. You don’t surrender and roll over after one bad battle. He thinks there’s a chance. Maybe they retreat and fortify. Hectval is still out there.”
“But if Manus is in it…”
Jeiss had come back from delivering the news to Watch Captain Zevara. He had also run the news to the Free Hive. He closed the door to the Council’s chambers.
“That’s our job. If they are in it, we scream it as loud as possible and throw every accusation. Manus is interfering in other city’s battles. No Drake city likes that. I just told the Watch Captain; she got a copy anyways.”
“Smart of Olesm. What did she say?”
“She’ll take a muster of volunteers, make sure we’re ready for any Hectval groups sneaking around the Floodplains. Oh—and she’s answering one of his requests. But also…I have this. The Free Queen has written us a letter.”
The entire Council looked up sharply. Tismel blurted out.
“The Free Queen can write?”
Jeiss laid the letter on the table. It was unsealed, and he offered it to Alonna, who hesitated.
“Dictate, I think. Want to read it out loud, Alonna?”
The Guildmistress cleared her throat.
“The Free Queen…is she speaking in third person? It’s like a royal announcement. Er, let me…The Free Queen has been apprised of the casualty reports in Engagement #11. She congratulates Liscor’s army on its survival.”
“Congratulates…?”
Lism mouthed, but Alonna went on.
“The numbers of Antinium deceased are acceptable, the Free Queen feels, for a wartime scenario. She is prepared to resupply Workers and Soldiers in the same quantities, provided Liscor will authorize transit and aid in rearmament. She suggests the Antinium dead may have weapons or armor that can be repurposed for—does she not care?”
Alonna nearly tore up the paper. She whirled.
“Nearly a thousand Antinium die and she’s ready to send another thousand in!”
“They’ve seen worse battles. She might think it’s acceptable. But check the signature.”
Jeiss murmured. He’d already read the letter, then. Elirr saw Alonna go down the letter and blanch.
“What?”
The [Mage] pursed her lips.
“It’s signed…Xrn.”
The Council looked at each other, and Elirr felt that familiar prickling on his skin and fur. Well, that was one person who might not look at a thousand dead as a problem. But a thousand…
Was Belgrade alive? Elirr thought of Pawn, or Silveran, who cleaned his shop and would have done it for free just to pet the cats. The Gnoll put his head in his paws.
“Yet the war will continue. We can’t move the Soldiers and Workers through the door. On foot, then. And that replenishes the Antinium’s losses completely, doesn’t it?”
Tismel broke the silence, sounding almost cheerful. Even Zalaiss slapped his arm, but the Council began to break from its stasis.
“We need to send supplies. That damned door sucks more mana than a [Sailor] sucks down seawater. How did Erin ever make it work properly?”
Jeiss muttered. Alonna sighed.
“Her inn is a leyline. We could move the door…”
Lism interrupted.
“It’s disrespectful. And we can’t ship everyone through it.”
Alonna threw up her hands.
“Well, let’s prioritize! Send the [Healers] and any specialists. We have a few Olesm wants.”
“Anything. How many?”
“Just the [Healers] who we’re shuttling through. A poison-expert for Belgrade. Um…one from Zevara, and it looks like…three Antinium ‘specialists’ from the Free Hive. Huh?”
Alonna caught sight of the names on the list and stared down. Jeiss sat up, and Elirr leaned over. His face turned dark, and Jeiss looked at him.
“You okay with it, Elirr?”
The Gnoll hesitated, then nodded.
“Better Hectval than us. I won’t object. Who are the specialists from the Antinium?”
“No clue.”
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Leader]
 
Olesm had leveled after that night. As a [Leader]. He had heard that you did, even if you lost a battle, but he felt disgraced.
He waited for the reinforcements. The Antinium had to march, but Belgrade needed the poison-specialist, even though he’d survived the worst of it.
However, Olesm had written to Zevara the instant he’d learned Manus was on the attack. They were now low on potions, but more would come, and they’d have to make do.
Strangely, when he’d told Belgrade that, the Antinium had begged for him to write a request to Pawn. The [Strategist] had insisted on being carried to greet the visitors as well.
It did move Olesm, seeing that the Antinium had some volunteers from his division to do it. The maligned [Strategist] had won over his command in a single night. Olesm wanted to ask him how.
“Who are we expecting?”
“Help for…healing. They did not come with the other Antinium. But if they are needed, they will come. They are an…asset. I am not allowed to say their classes.”
“I see. But they can help heal?”
“Yes. And the Antinium will benefit from them in other ways. They are like Pawn.”
Olesm’s brows sharpened, but he saw the door open.
“Crates coming through! Stand clear!”
The first supplies of potions were shoved through the door, and the most wounded, who needed to get to Liscor, went through next. However, Olesm and Belgrade were waiting for a few people.
“Antidote specialist? Who am I treating?”
A cautious Human came through the door, spotted Belgrade, and hesitated. Olesm waved him over.
“Check with our [Healers], please.”
“I am allergic to wheat.”
Belgrade called out as the toxin-expert hurried past him. However, the two were waiting for the last specialists.
