The [Mage] shouted, to general cheers. Embria cleared her throat meaningfully.
“Don’t leak information.”
“Sorry, Commander.”
The [Mage] looked abashed. Embria stepped back as the door quickly closed with an agreed-upon time on both ends. She turned to Belgrade and found he hadn’t left.
The two leaders looked at each other, Embria far more uncomfortable than Belgrade.
“Well…it’s good to see Liscor. I shouldn’t keep you from the officer’s tent. I don’t see you playing card games, but, er, it’s open. Nightly.”
She wished she hadn’t suggested he come, but Embria was already edging away. Belgrade glanced at her, and replied in a fairly cheerful tone of voice.
“I do not attend. I am aware the other officers do not care for my presence. Yourself included.”
Embria swung back.
I don’t mind your presence…was a lie she didn’t utter because it would probably set off [Detect Lie] spells back in Liscor. She coughed instead.
“I, uh…apologize you’ve gotten that impression.”
“You attempt to hide it. But you are poor at subterfuge. I take no offense. I was told that Liscor’s 4th would not be hospitable or other elements of the army. I joined anyways.”
Embria did a double-take.
“…Why? You signed up?”
She had assumed the Antinium had joined because they had been ordered to. Belgrade looked at Embria oddly.
“Every Antinium in the army volunteered. We will hurt Hectval. For Erin.”
For…Erin Solstice? Embria blinked. Belgrade nodded at her.
“You see, they took a good thing away. Bird did not go to war; he must chase after Mrsha. Pawn stays with his people. Anand is elsewhere. Garry is a [Chef]. So I had to. One of us had to.”
“Is…there something about you five that makes that so important?”
Embria was wavering between the oddity of having a conversation with an Antinium—which she had never done, even with Klbkch, really—and finding out info on the Antinium. High Command had given her orders, but she had never thought to…ask.
Belgrade looked straight at Embria. He was like every other Worker, nothing visible in his insectoid eyes. They never moved. They had no pupils, and no eyeballs to rotate, and in that sense it was like talking to a statue. Creepy.
However, Belgrade’s tone was too…personable. He was cheerful, but there was a kind of edge to it that would have made Embria eye someone who said it at a bar. Or under her command.
“We were there at the beginning. We should have died before she did. Failing that…we will take revenge. Even if she comes back, someone will suffer.”
“Why Erin Solstice?”
Belgrade gave Embria a look like she was a [Recruit] and he was a [Veteran Lineholder] being asked why he held his spear like that.
“Because she fed us. Because she played chess with us. Because these things have never happened to us. You do not like Hectval’s food? You find it disgusting?”
“I—er, yes. Revolting.”
Belgrade nodded peaceably.
“It is the finest food I would have ever tasted had I not known Erin.”
“Do you mean you eat that paste every day?”
Embria was revolted by it. Belgrade looked her dead in the eyes.
“Of course.”
“But you don’t like it.”
The Drake tried again. Belgrade gave her another one of those looks.
“…Why would we enjoy it? Do you wish to have some?”
She raised her claws defensively.
“No, absolutely not!”
The [Strategist] nodded.
“Then why would we want to eat it?”
“Er…because you’re Antinium. I just thought…”
Well, that was it. Belgrade raised his mandibles, and Embria wondered if that meant he was angry.
“You are very funny, Wing Commander Embria. Do you think Antinium are…happy? That we are, on average, happy? Or that we do not feel?”
“…If I had to guess? I wouldn’t assume you were feeling much. Or that you’re happy in your Hive.”
A strange fluttering sound emerged from Belgrade’s mouth, like some vast moth making a weird noise. Embria jumped and put a hand on her sword, but Belgrade just shook his head.
“So funny. You are wrong, Wing Commander. Even about us not feeling anything. I did not know I was sad until I learned what happy was. Have a good night. If you find any bed bugs, give them to me, please.”
He turned and walked off, leaving Embria alone with mixed feelings in the night.
 
——
 
The Hectval army came at them an hour later. There was plenty of warning. Horns had Embria out of her tent and swearing. She had her armor on in a trice and saw Vell stumbling towards her, yanking a boot on as she cursed out Hectval.
“Those idiots want a night attack? Do they think the Antinium don’t see in the dark?”
“Do they?”
“I bet they do! I’m wiping my tail with a hundred of those [Soldiers]! 2nd Squad, with me!”
Angry 4th Company [Soldiers] formed up. They weren’t nervous—just pissed they had to fight sleepy. Even the regular Liscorian [Soldiers] looked more grumpy than nervous.
Morale was high, and Embria saw Olesm forming up a broad defensive line. Like always, the Antinium were on the left, and Embria saw Belgrade on the right while Bepol and Ramia, under Olesm, took center.
“4th Company! We’re maneuvering! Maksie, you see why Hectval’s in the air?”
The [Scout Leader]’s voice took a moment as Embria called into her speaking stone. Embria was marching her five hundred briskly, ready to hit targets of opportunity. Wikir had command of the other half of her forces and began to split off so they could hit more areas.
“I…I see a new group in the middle. Not big. I can’t tell anything from this high up. I’m…hold on. I feel like I’m being watched. Is there something up here with me?”
The uncertain note in Maksie’s voice made Embria hesitate. Olesm tuned in instantly too.
“Oldbloods? Watch for enemy [Scouts].”
“Yes, sir. It’s not that. I feel…no, I can’t see anything and cloud cover is nonexistent. There’s something off about this, though. Wing Commander, you feel that?”
Embria did. Whether it was Maksie provoking it or intuition…something like [Dangersense] stole over her. And in fact—Vell grunted.
“Wing Commander. My [Dangersense] just pinged me. Hard.”
Embria twisted in her saddle. She looked at Vell, then called out to Olesm.
“Commander, we’re getting…warning signs. Be advised, I’m expecting an ambush or something new.”
“Understood, Wing Commander. We’re braced. It looks like Hectval has called in reinforcements.”
It did indeed. Embria scanned the forces in the darkness for that odd group Maksie had spotted, but all she saw were [Light] spells, torches, and a lot of [Soldiers].
“Major push. It’ll be tight fighting.”
“I’m putting in a request to Liscor for our door and emergency forces. Just in case.”
Olesm’s voice was tight. Did he sense it? Embria sat up in her saddle, though she was watching for arrows. They were out of range as of yet, but…
What was that uneasy feeling? She shifted her grip on her enchanted spear. Something was out there.
“Charge! For Hectval!”
“Luldem’s walls—”
“In Drisshia’s—”
They didn’t even shout the same thing. Embria saw dull glints of metal as figures raced downhill, their armored tails skating across the ground. Looser formations, trying to keep pace. Scared faces behind the helmets.
Boys and girls. Gnolls in the front. They slammed into Liscor’s shields, and then she saw a line of figures, flailing, struggling to heave each other forwards, shouting…
Blood in the darkness. But once more, the attackers lost.
It was on the left side where their charge was forced back a step almost before it had come. The spectral arrows that landed among their ranks; the right side where screaming figures were tripping up their comrades, shouting about traps. Bear traps?
Wing Commander Embria wasn’t searching for a point to tear the charge to shreds, though. She was looking up at the hill.
The entire damn army’s coming down.
“They’re going in for a full attack. Commander, you seeing this?”
“They can’t even bring that to bear! They’ll be massed up!”
Bepol shouted in confusion. Olesm replied tersely.
“I see it. [Mages] will begin throwing [Fireballs]. Watch out.”
The army was clustering up, beginning to try to spread left and right around Liscor’s entrenched lines, but they were all heading down, save for their archers and mages. Embria’s eyes narrowed.
These are Antinium tactics. It was ludicrous, too. Their front ranks could fight Liscor’s forces, but everyone else would be bunched up, not fighting, and at risk of one [Fireball] exacting devastating losses.
Where is that group Maksie mentioned?
“Wikir! Take your side past the attackers and chop up their rear lines! Wipe out everything, including their command.”
“Aye, Wing Commander.”
He peeled off. In another battle, Embria would have elected to follow him and do as much damage, possibly even take out their commander.
However, she was growing more worried by the second. Where was it? It was out there. She had an instinct.
Relc, the Gecko of Liscor, had never talked about being a [Soldier] to his daughter when they went back to Liscor. Only as a girl while they traveled with the army did he tell her stories. One of the things that had kept her up at night was his comment about headhunters beside himself. Ambush teams.
“It’s like a feeling on your scales. They’re out there. They could be an innocent [Archer] or a green-as-grass Drake kid. Then they turn, and you see that you’re dead. They’re waiting for you. So you have to wait for them, even when you’re fighting.”
Embria had felt that a few times in battle. She waited, riding back and forth, as 4th Company watched her uncertainly.
“Wing Commander. We going in or…?”
Lieutenant Kesa began, but Captain Vell snapped at her.
“Shut up. There’s something in the air.”
She felt it too. Embria saw the [Soldiers] fighting the Antinium moving backwards. Once more, the massed voices of the [Crusaders] hummed in the air. Embria heard it.
…the sky. The…
Wrath and righteous fury. It made her scales tingle uncomfortably.
Hectval was pressed up against Liscor’s army, and Liscor was refusing to flinch. The alliance’s forces looked like they were going to break. Embria, watching the [Crusaders] fight, saw a strange group emerging from the retreating [Soldiers], disobeying their officer’s orders to keep fighting.
A panicked Drake was stumbling backwards when another [Soldier] knocked them aside. This Gnoll was bent over, hunched, and knocked another [Soldier] out of the way with his free arm.
He didn’t break stride. He was moving through Hectval’s ranks with a number of other [Soldiers], all of whom had a certain glitter about their armor that made Embria focus on them with alarm.
“Wing Commander! The left flank!”
“I see it, Maksie. 4th, on me!”
Embria began to ride towards that spot. Olesm was speaking into her earpiece.
“What have you seen? Scout Leader?”
How could either one describe it? It was something about the way those [Soldiers] moved. Too confidently. People were dying around them, and they were just alert, not panicking. They didn’t break formation, even with other [Soldiers] shoving them.
They had enchanted gear. Then, Embria saw their leader.
She picked him out like any other officer could have picked her out. He wasn’t at the front of the formation, but he led them. A Gnoll in black armor, stalking along with a spear held low.
That’s a [Spearmaster].
The [Spear Hunter] realized it in a flash. He had nearly reached the Antinium’s front lines. About three ranks separated his group of strange [Soldiers] from theirs, and the Antinium were calmly fighting. They had no idea—
“Tersk! Dekass! Elites incoming! [Spearmaster]!”
Embria shouted into her speaking stone. She saw the Antinium lines changing, maneuvering to bring their veterans to bear, angling their bows and crossbows down.
Too late. The [Spearmaster] saw the movement. He raised his paw and shouted something. Around him, the [Soldiers] charged. They knocked down the alliance’s forces in front of them. The Antinium in the front ranks looked up and saw the new threat coming.
The Gnoll shot past the others. Embria saw his spear raised, aiming at the first rank of [Crusaders] who pivoted, steel armor and shields gleaming.
Wrath. Perish.
Embria rode at the Gnoll, 4th Company accelerating.
“Skills! Now!”
Vell, Pielt, and Embria all began using their Skills to make the [Soldiers] following them as strong as could be. They were going to miss the first attack, but Embria was galloping now, racing ahead of the others.
“[Daring Charge]! [Piercing Arms]!”
“[First Strikes]! [Formation: Accelerate]!”
“[Blades of Glory]!”
The Gnoll reached the Antinium lines. Embria saw him jump. Jump? Why—
She saw his spear twist in the air. The glittering red tip of metal and dark shaft of ashwood twisted in the air. Curving impossibly, the spear’s tip striking down.
For a second, Embria saw something like a giant beast’s fang slice through the air. Left—right. So fast she nearly missed it.
Like a flash of lightning, it went through the Antinium in front of the Gnoll. One rank, two—
An Antinium Worker in the third rank lowered the bow he was carrying. He stared ahead, confused, at the collapsing Antinium in front of him and then at his third arm. He only saw green blood leaking from his torn armor. Where had his arm gone?
The Gnoll landed. Embria’s blood chilled. She pointed at him.
“Kill that—”
The [Spearmaster] raised his spear as the Antinium turned incredulously towards him. The wavering lines of Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem’s alliance clashing against Liscor looked up as something dark filled the night sky. Drenching torches and the light spells. Embria looked up as the Gnoll raised his spear overhead. She felt a dread creeping up inside of her.
[Fear].
Then everything went dark.
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
The Antinium looked like they always had.
Armored Antinium. He had fought them in the Second Antinium Wars, and after that in quiet skirmishes.
These ones were different. Not in arms. Lulv heard a voice.
Suffer. Perish.
Some kind of intimidation Skill? The Gnoll didn’t stop his advance, though it made his fur stand on end. A voice was still just a voice. He had seen far more terrifying things.
So these are Free Antinium. He caught a glimpse of their front rank. This was the battalion that had done so much damage to Hectval’s alliance? He could see why.
Heavy armor. Tight formation.
No gaps to exploit. The [Spearmaster] hadn’t expected any.
Sokkel was waiting for his signal. Lulv chose a spot. Someone had seen Manus’ advance. He felt a prickling in his mind. Threat incoming.
However, Manus’ forces needed a hole. So the [Spearmaster] leapt. His legs crouched on the rocky ground and then the Gnoll flew.
