It was broken. The shards broke against his hand. Crusader 51 didn’t know what to do. It was going dark. He…
He didn’t want to die. He lay there, and the world grew fuzzy…
Something wet poured over his stomach. Someone yanked his hands away, and it hurt, so Crusader 51 fought to put them back…but then the pain went away!
The Soldier uncurled as he felt the hole in his stomach closing. He felt the world focus and realized someone was kneeling over him.
Crusader 53. He’d found Crusader 52’s potion and was pouring it onto Crusader 51. The two Soldiers looked around. Squad 5 was gone.
Crusader 53 fell over onto his back. Crusader 51 saw his two severed arms bleeding weakly and scrambled to his feet. He ran over to the bodies, searching for a potion, and ran back to him. He knelt over Crusader 53, who didn’t rise, even when his wounds closed. But his antennae twitched when Crusader 51 tore off his helmet.
He was alive. Crusader 51 knelt by him, the enchanted sword raised, terrified the Gnoll would come back. Antinium ran around him. Drakes and Gnolls shouted, ran past him—some looked like enemies, but neither paid attention to the two still Antinium.
Crusader 51 knelt for a long time, holding Crusader 53. By the time his friend woke up, the cloud of darkness was thinning, and light was rising.
They had survived. But neither [Crusader] felt anything like warmth or happiness, though every squad who survived was commended that day.
Squad 5 was gone. Crusader 51…
Who was he now? He looked around at the dead Soldiers and wondered how this was fair.
 
[Crusader Level 13!]
[Skill – Blinding Flash (Sword) obtained!]
[Skill – Faith is My Strength obtained!]
 
Crusader 51 clenched and unclenched his hands.
He felt as weak as a bug.
 
 
 
 
Belgrade, [Strategist]
 
The instant the darkness descended, Belgrade knew they were in grave danger.
His first hint was the speaking stones.
“Commander Olesm. Please come in. What are your directives?”
He heard nothing. Belgrade tried again.
“Commander Olesm?”
Nothing.
Then the [Fear] effect struck. Belgrade felt a terrible terror seize him. Something was coming to kill him! He was going to die!
The Antinium wavered—but wait. He had felt like that many times.
The Antinium resisted the fear. The same could not be said for his forces.
“Run! Run! They’re everywhere!”
“They’ve broken through our ranks! Fall back!”
“Hold! Hold your ground!”
Some of the officers tried to stop the panic, but Belgrade raised his voice.
“No. Retreat. Fall back!”
He had seen Hectval piercing Liscor’s lines. The enemy might be flanking them. The [Soldiers] began retreating as Belgrade tried to raise Olesm. They had a backup system if the [Messages] and speaking stones went down.
“Get me our runners. I need to speak to Olesm.”
The problem was…they had never needed to use it. And either the designated messengers were dead or they’d fled.
All Belgrade could do was fall back and try to rally his forces. So the Antinium retreated and felt it was…
Familiar.
 
 
 
 
Kerone, [Squad Leader]
 
The officers were on the verge of running. Squad Leader Kerone was no hero; he didn’t even have a true military class, just [Squad Leader] rather than [Captain] or [Sergeant] because this wasn’t Liscor’s army. If he held and told the others to do the same and listen to the Antinium, it was because he knew they had no chance if they scattered.
However, their leader wasn’t Commander Olesm—it was Belgrade.
Kerone hadn’t been one of the officers who’d vocally objected to an Antinium leading them, but he had held his doubts. Now? He heard a babble of arguments as the Antinium surveyed the fighting in the darkness.
Where were they? They could barely read maps—and this was surely not the time to try! Hectval was everywhere, and they were fighting around…what? Caves? One of the hilltops?
Belgrade seemed to know. He was trying to give orders.
“Squad Leader Messk, move your forces to hold that position, there. I require a runner to the embattled squads…there.”
He pointed at fighting and shouting down the hill.
“They must retreat to this location.”
“You want to send us into that?”
“Yes. I must.”
A panicking Drake shook her head rapidly.
“No! No! I won’t let you send me to my death like some Antinium! We’re people, not—”
Belgrade clicked his mandibles together.
“We must fight or die. You will not be safer hiding here. Order. I must have more Skills to tell them from afar. These are not Antinium.”
“No, we’re not!”
The [Strategist] turned to the officers. He twitched visibly.
“That is not an insult. If you were Antinium, I could save your lives. Our forces cannot hear me. If we lose our cohesion, we will be routed.”
That brought some sense back into everyone, Kerone included. He stepped forwards.
“Messk, you heard the commander. Get down there! I can divide my squad up into runners.”
Messk hesitated, but then she obeyed. It was that or…or what? Belgrade at least had a plan.
Kerone had to admit—it was cowardly, because dividing up his squad meant he would stay here, coordinating them. Belgrade glanced at the Drake.
“Good. You are Kerone.”
“Yes, sir. They’re pushing.”
“Yes. But Hectval is equally uncoordinated.”
“…Are you sure?”
The Drake could see virtually nothing in the darkness, but either Belgrade had Skills or simply vision he didn’t…or he understood more in the flurry of shapes below. The Antinium pointed.
“I see multiple squads engaging each other, not battalions. Hectval has scattered its troops as much as we. This was an intelligent plan—poorly executed. We must draw together.”
“Absolutely, sir.”
Strength in numbers. Belgrade wasn’t saying anything Kerone disagreed with. The [Strategist] pointed down.
“Get me those squads. We will reform a defensive line around the hill. Deploy traps and wait for Olesm to contact us or find a point from which to strike.”
He was a defensive, organized leader. Kerone sent his [Soldiers] down into that darkness to pull back the squads.
…And they never came back.
Some tried. He saw groups heading towards him, but many ran into the enemy—or even attacked each other. Belgrade kept giving rapid-fire orders.
“Reinforce those squads, there. Squad Leader Itr, direct your [Archers]…there.”
However, he was trying to yank his command together and struggling. Kerone shifted from foot to foot. He saw Belgrade standing and looking down into the fighting. He didn’t know how long had passed. Thirty minutes? An hour? Belgrade seemed to be coming to a decision.
“We must go down there ourselves.”
The other officers gaped at Belgrade in shock.
“Down? Are you mad? We have a position!”
The [Strategist] calmly glanced around.
“We cannot inspire and unite the squads. Either we risk ourselves or…it’s familiar. They’re scattered. Someone used a [Fear] spell.”
Familiar? Kerone frowned at him. The Drake had heard of Belgrade. One of the Antinium, whatever that meant. Like the Yellow Splatters who was in the Watch. He knew there was a story there.
It revolved around…the inn. The [Innkeeper], who, depending on who you heard it from, was a menace, a strange miracle-worker, a blood-spewing maniac who went around stabbing people.
A martyr.
A friend to Goblins and Antinium.
He didn’t know which, but one of the reasons people would follow an Antinium at all was because Belgrade was part of that story. The [Strategist] drew an enchanted shortsword.
“We will go down. Squad Leader Kerone, form a bodyguard with me. Our app—”
Kerone saw Belgrade stumble as he walked towards them. The Squad Leader waited.
“Sir? Our approach?”
The Antinium felt at his side. He grasped something and turned. Kerone saw, in the magical darkness, the [Strategist] grasping at a feathered shaft.
“I have been sniped. Take cover.”
Everyone dove as Belgrade stumbled forwards. Kerone reached for him, and the Antinium collapsed behind a boulder. They looked for more arrows, but none fell. It was as if someone had aimed for Belgrade, through the darkness.
Kerone fumbled for his potion.
“We’ll get you on your feet. Just one…why isn’t it…”
He poured the glowing liquid onto Belgrade’s side. The arrow was buried deep, and the Antinium caught his arm as Kerone went to yank it out.
“It is barbed. My wound is not healing.”
He looked up at Kerone’s terrified face as the Drake shook his head. The Antinium clicked his mandibles. So softly.
“Poison. Of course.”
 
 
 
 
Belgrade, [Strategist]
 
“Familiar.”
That was all he said. It was hot.
He was dying. The poison was trying to kill him, but he was Antinium. He had been engineered to resist poisons.
However, it also stopped him from healing, so in that sense, the poison had done enough.
The arrow had hit him in the guts. Not the chest or head. In that sense, it was a…poor shot. Belgrade was in no position to feel fortunate.
The churning pain in his stomach had already turned into a feverish haze. That was a bad sign. He was lying propped at the top of the hill, as the officers panicked.
“Hold the line. [Deploy Trap: Bear Trap]. I needed more traps.”
He was speaking to Kerone and the others, trying to keep them from running. They would die, running about in the dungeon.
“We’re not in a dungeon, sir. We’re at war in Hectval’s foothills.”
The Drake addressed him. Belgrade’s mandibles opened and closed.
“Did I say that? Similar. You will die uncoordinated, alone. The squads must reform. Form a fighting line. Hold choke points. It is easy. If I die. You do it.”
The Drake paled at the thought.
“We can’t get the squads. They’re lost out there. Belgrade, commander. Don’t die on us. Olesm—Commander Olesm. Someone try to raise him!”
“You will not. They have jammed our spells. We are cut off. Surrounded. A fear-Skill was used. Or spell. That…that is familiar.”
Belgrade could see the fighting from where he was propped up. Someone had tried to compress the arrow to slow the bleeding. The bandage was already green with his blood.
“There. Wipeout.”
Belgrade wanted to point, but his arm was made of lead. He ordered Kerone to save that squad, but the Drake refused.
He knew what to do—but his limbs, his command, were unwilling to listen. Or unable?
They were not Antinium. Olesm had made a mistake. If you could not have your commands obeyed, your level was meaningless.
They were afraid. Which was fair. Everyone was afraid. This—this reminded Belgrade of the past. Yes. The day they had all died.
“You’re alive, sir. Keep awake. Where do we go? What do we do?”
Belgrade’s mandibles clicked together.
“Hm? There…they’re coming up the hill. Just like last time. There’s one of them out there.”
“Who?”
“Skinner.”
A gasp. They knew that name, too. That monster. Belgrade mumbled.
“I was there. I saw him die.”
It felt like he was dozing off. He would say something, then snap back to dreaming. Remembering? The [Strategist] heard something talking.
“The inn? You were at…”
The officers were around him. More or less? Were others listening too? Belgrade nodded. Poor little soldiers, dying out there.
“I was there. Very familiar. There weren’t many of us. Barely a few squads. Workers. Low-level. We fought. Knight. Bishop. Good names. Garry. Bird. Magnus. Belgrade…”
Yes. There he was, standing, fighting with the others. Around an inn with undead swarming at the windows. Leaping ghouls.
“Stand and fight together. Dying. Until the end, until the end, he said. Then I was still there, but they were all dead. I regretted it.”
“You’re alive. You’re still alive. Belgrade…Belgrade…stay with us.”
Someone was shaking him. Belgrade wanted to sleep…and knew he couldn’t.
“If I could go back. I could kill Skinner myself. With traps. With Skills. You can never go back. I should have been there. Six crossbow bolts. I could have taken one.”
Something was calling to him. A warm fire. A quiet inn. A smiling [Innkeeper]…but if he slept, he would never see it.
Perhaps in heaven?
“I do not believe in Pawn’s Heaven. I cannot see it. I want it. But I was there. We are all Knight.”
They were like him, in the end. They panicked, and they couldn’t think together, in that rare, wonderful moment. They had lived under the sky and ate good food and took it for granted, and they did not like him, but that was what he saw.
Squads of Antinium. Standing and dying together.
“Yes. Do that.”
“Do what? Sir? Sir…?”
“Stand. All you can do is…”
Belgrade tried to move. He could not, so he spoke. Below him, each squad, fighting—his voice could not pull them past their foes. But perhaps…
Stand. Back-to-back, in a ring. Around an inn. They didn’t have the number for grand strategy. They were not pieces on a chessboard, even if they named themselves after the game.
Stand, until the last one fell. A little chess club, fighting for each other. They did not have to be there. But they had to. And each one fought so the other wouldn’t fall. For one more second.
A hundred little chess clubs appeared in Belgrade’s vision. He smiled.
Yes. Someday they would kill Skinner. Then…then came Goblins. The [Innkeeper]. Join together. Reform the [Archers]. Send a light upwards.
We are here. Until Klbkch came from the Hive.
“We’re doing it. Sir? Sir…!”
Belgrade murmured.
“Hm? I’m awake. I’m awake. I’m…”
His voice trailed off. His side truly hurt, but it was a receding ache. Belgrade clung to something. As if he had eyes weary to close. He wanted to drift off, but not yet.
“One after the other. But not yet. We will be with you until the end. Which is now.”
His waving antennae slowly stopped moving. Then…Belgrade sighed.
“Yes. Bird was right.”
 
 
 
 
Kerone, [Squad Leader]
 
Delirious. The Antinium was delirious. He was alternating between strategy, telling them where an attack was coming. Promote the pawn. Bishop coming.
The inn. He kept talking about the inn. Below him, the squads had adopted a strange formation. The Hectval soldiers fighting with them saw them forming rings, slowly trying to link up with each other.
Squad fighting. Slowly drawing together. It was working.
But the [Strategist] was fading away. The officers were kneeling, listening. Almost…hypnotized by the story. They would get up and go, but the [Soldiers] healing, resting—heard the Antinium murmuring that oldest tale.
“It is such a strange thing, fear. I was afraid. She was afraid. But there are things worse than dying. Skinner was scary. When I woke up and everyone was gone but Pawn, Garry, Anand, and Bird…worse.”
This was Belgrade? The [Strategist] didn’t see the [Soldiers] listening. Nor…he was feverish. He spat out the water they gave him. He trailed off.
