“Magical attacks. Commander, permission to follow?”
“Denied.”
Olesm had followed the entire battle with reports through the speaking stones, and so Embria found herself riding back with 4th Company as the victorious Antinium checked wounds, and then prepared to continue their progress.
She broke the silence as 4th Company trudged back.
“Thoughts?”
“It’s the Armored Antinium fighting style. Textbook. I saw it during the Second Antinium War. They haven’t changed. Makes my fur stand on end.”
Captain Wikir growled. A few of his squad spat but said nothing else. Embria looked at Vell and the others.
“How do they stack up?”
“We can take ‘em, Wing Commander.”
Lieutenant Kesa opined. She kept chewing on some long-bladed grass from the Floodplains back home. Always some of it in her mouth.
“Obviously, but how do they stack up otherwise?”
Embria had her opinion, but she wanted them to say it so she knew she was right. Igissi looked at her fellow [Captains] and gave a reluctant answer.
“…They’re pretty good, Wing Commander. Not veterans, but for a first-time unit? They just flipped up Drisshia’s tail and gave them a spanking. Not that they ran into Drisshia’s best, but…”
But that’s what happens when you give average Soldiers armor? Vell spat, and Embria nodded. She felt a twinge of unease in her stomach.
“Just so long as they win the war…let’s head on back.”
“Glad we didn’t have to bail them out.”
Pielt muttered. No one particularly argued with that.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Leader]
 
The first battles in the ridgeline were messy, and Olesm hated them. He couldn’t see any of it. He was stuck coordinating the attack, and his training had prepared him, but this was the first time he was coordinating a battle where he didn’t see the attacks and maneuvering.
It threw him off, but he had officers on the ground who were supposed to deal with that, so Olesm’s biggest move was keeping an eye on the entire battle.
One of the things he did was to check each group’s advance as they clashed with the Hectval alliance’s forces hiding in the ridgeline. They were skirmishing, trying to bait groups into following them and getting lost and surrounded. Olesm refused to let it happen.
“Ramia, slow down. You’re coming to another intersection—Belgrade, prepare to link up. Scout Leader Maksie, do you have eyes?”
He waited and then heard three voices in quick succession.
“Slowing down. I see movement on the far end.”
“Commander Olesm, my forces are moving to meet Division Leader Ramia’s. Pausing two hundred feet from intersection. Please give word to advance.”
“Commander, I am moving into position. Forty seconds to eyes.”
Each one had a different style and cadence. Olesm waited, listening to more reports filtering in. He was timing them so that if an attack came…they wouldn’t be unsupported.
Advance and secure each pass. It was like a puzzle. Some [Strategists] wouldn’t try this for love or money, but Olesm had guessed that Hectval hadn’t put as many troops here as the passes. They probably wanted Olesm to slow down so they could turn this place into an impassible barricade.
Olesm wanted to take the ridgeline as fast as was safe. But the real test, the real fighting?
He didn’t see it. He heard it, and it was obvious to Olesm that one group was under attack the most.
“Prognugator Dekass. Reporting a second attack. Battalion 3 is holding.”
“Commander Olesm to Tersk. Slow your advance. I want you to prepare to reinforce Dekass’ lines.”
“Prognugator Tersk. Acknowledged, Commander.”
Olesm was overseeing Ramia and Belgrade’s link-up when another voice came down the line.
“Prognugator Dekass. Forces are retreating. Harassing fire from cliff face. Minimal casualties.”
Olesm snapped around.
“Someone get me a [Scrying] spell on Dekass!”
The [Mage] capable of the spell hurried to a scrying orb. It took five long minutes before Olesm saw another line of Drisshia’s soldiers clashing with Dekass and archers on the cliffs.
“Dekass, hold out. Pull our sharpshooters and take those [Archers] out. Pull one lightning-bolt [Mage] as well.”
If only he had fliers! Olesm saw the order go out and one of his specialist squads move in. [Hunters] from Liscor, experts with the bow…the cliff-[Archers] fell back as one took an arrow and fell—Olesm looked away with a grimace.
It wasn’t bad so far. He couldn’t detect anyone intercepting their messages, nor was this a full army in the pass, clearly.
But Ancestors, they had it in for the Antinium! Or maybe just Dekass’ battalion? No sooner had the infantry pulled back again than Olesm heard Maksie shout.
“Commander! I just saw a magic flare high up! All stop! All stop!”
“All troops, halt and watch for collapses!”
Olesm shouted. This time he heard the distant thump and crumbling groan of rocks collapsing. He whirled, ran out of his tent, and saw dust rising from above the ridgeline.
“Where was that?”
“Antinium got it. Looks like…Battalion 3!”
Maksie reported in, breathless, flying over the collapsed passage. Olesm’s stomach churned. He’d thought they hadn’t had time to do that!
“Was that a prepared spell?”
“Nope. Looks like they put a [Mage], Commander. I’m watching three—and two are puking their guts out. They’ve overdosed on mana to pull that. Want me to try and take a shot?”
Olesm hesitated. He dearly wanted to, but Maksie was one of his only fliers.
“No…no. If there are any of your [Scouts] up there, or [Archers] on the ground with an angle, have them take down those [Mages].”
“Yes, sir.”
Olesm turned back to Battalion 3. He tried to raise Dekass.
“Dekass? Prognugator Dekass, status?”
Silence. Olesm heard Tersk snapping into the stone.
“…assault on Battalion 2. They are engaged with a Drake force which has flanked them in Battalion 3’s absence. Battalions 1 and 4 are pulling back to support them.”
“Wing Commander, get to the fighting. Maksie, watch for more [Mages].”
“Two dead. Last one is surrendering.”
“Make sure they don’t cast a spell. Wing Commander?”
“On it. Three minutes.”
Olesm stared at the map as a [Tactician] fumbled to try and put the little painted pieces in an order showing what was happening. He heard Bepol speak up nervously.
“Commander, I’m looking at more forces headed my way. Not armored, but a lot of them.”
Olesm’s head snapped up.
“In that case, pull your riders forwards and prepare for a charge with your infantry. Your discretion, Bepol, but prepare one volley with all your [Archers]. Give me a mark and three countdown.”
The Division Leader paused, but his tone was suddenly exceptionally relieved. He knew what Olesm was doing, but the [Strategist] didn’t say it out loud—just in case they were being monitored.
“They’re raising shields.”
“Aim up—then straight ahead. Ready?”
“Ready in…”
Bepol was giving orders. Olesm heard him exhorting the [Archers], then the Drake spoke.
“Three…two…one…now! Volley!”
Olesm heard the snap of bows and gave it another second, then he shouted.
“[Instantaneous Barrage]!”
He didn’t get to see the second volley of arrows appear and hit Hectval’s forces, but Bepol’s tone said it all.
“That got them! Charge! [Victor’s Push]!”
He was good on the attack. Olesm switched back to Tersk as the Prognugator began speaking rapidly.
“Coordinated attack. 4th Company arriving. Commander, Drisshia in retreat. Battalion 2 engaged. Battalion 3 engaged. Pincer on three sides. Enemy falling back. Surrendering.”
Olesm snatched up the speaking stone.
“What was that?”
Then he heard a crackle from Dekass.
“Prognugator Dekass. Communications restored? Commander, Drisshia forces are retreating or have surrendered. Orders to engage?”
“We can wrap them.”
“I—yes! 4th Company, Tersk, advance! Dekass, what happened?”
The Prognugator of the Armored Antinium was calm, but ever-so-slightly smug.
“We were buried by falling rocks, Commander. However, the burial was ineffective. Mostly dirt. Poor collapse of tunnels. Battalion 3 is continuing to dig itself out; however, I ordered an attack on the enemy’s rear.”
Olesm exhaled hard. Battalion 3 was alive! Not only that—they’d dug their way out?
Nothing like Antinium to thwart collapsed passages. Olesm sat back as he heard Embria routing the rest of the attackers.
“First prisoners of war, Commander. Battalion 3’s looking battered, but they really didn’t expect their attack to go south. Permission to advance?”
“Pull Battalion 3 back, and yes, Wing Commander. Tersk? Full advance.”
 
——
 
That was the largest engagement on the twelfth day by far. By nightfall, Liscor held over half the ridgeline at secure defense points, and Olesm counted several [Mages] taken out, all with Luldem’s insignia on their armor, as well as over eighty prisoners and an estimated hundred casualties on the Hectval alliance’s side.
Not huge numbers, but the battles had gone one way, mostly. The probing attacks on the Antinium and aggressive assaults had all been foiled, and he guessed three times as many of the enemy had been wounded, forcing costly potions or treatments.
If there were a star of the hour—it was certainly down to one group, who had not only fought in four successive clashes, but survived an avalanche and then dug themselves out to flank the enemy from behind.
“Battalion 3 of the Antinium division deserves a commendation.”
Olesm was sitting in the command tent, relaxing, when he suddenly came to an understanding, as if someone had snuck up and poked him with a Wand of Jolt.
Bepol stopped sipping at his brandy from a cask he’d somehow brought from Invrisil. He was a bit off-guard, but he blinked at Olesm.
“They did well, I suppose.”
The Drake admitted grudgingly. Even Embria nodded, and Belgrade leaned forwards as he broke away from playing chess against Ramia.
“I believe they may experience higher-than-average leveling tonight, Commander Olesm. Perhaps if a commendatory speech is read out loud they will level even more? This is a good idea.”
“No, no. I’m not familiar with all army traditions, but Wing Commander Embria, isn’t rewarding the best unit a tradition in the army?”
Olesm turned to her and saw the Wing Commander blink uneasily.
“I…yes, of course. The [Sergeant]—er, soldier who takes the most heads of officers, the best fighting unit, or one that got thrown into the thick of it. Everyone knows, but sometimes High Command does something like give them leave when we get to a city first.”
“We can’t do that for the first battle.”
Bepol pointed out. Olesm waved a claw; he himself was sitting at the mess table, though he’d dearly have loved to pull up a chair and play chess. But he sat with the [Tacticians], [Lieutenant] Kesa, and a few other officers. He eyed Kesa dipping a blade of grass into a bowl of sauce and then sticking it into her mouth. Embria mouthed at her.
Stop that.
Kesa, embarrassed, took the grass out of her mouth.
“Well, we can certainly draft some kind of statement. Battalion 3 fought valiantly and against superior odds…”
Ramia began. Bepol interrupted.
“Not superior. Significant. It’s in the wording. In fact, we might want to not use that at all. That implies we think the foe is significant.”
A Drake raised her claw.
“How about, ‘Battalion 3 triumphed in the face of adversity against Hectval’s numerous attempts to overwhelm them?’ That implies numbers, but…”
“Ooh, I like that.”
The others present began debating the way to phrase it. Olesm turned to Kesa, Embria, and the rest of 4th Company.
“In your experience, how well-received are High Command’s…verbal…addresses?”
“Permission to speak candidly, Commander?”
Embria glared at Kesa as the Drake raised her claw eagerly.
“Permission denied. Not that effective, unless it really mattered, Commander. Something…tangible would be better. Words won’t hurt, though.”
Olesm nodded.
“Maybe…do we have anything in the rations we could give? Say, a half-ration of something Antinium like? Belgrade, what would that be?”
“Anything but wheat-based products.”
The [Strategist] replied instantly. Bepol frowned.
“Yes, but dates, fruits…”
Olesm smiled slightly.
“Belgrade means anything, doesn’t he? Antinium don’t eat anything other than their rations…wait. How much of their…food…are they eating?”
The [Trapsetter Strategist] considered the question.
“Enough for eighty-six protracted days of battle, Commander. It is highly storable, highly difficult to rot, and highly…nutritious.”
Olesm shuddered. Embria raised her brows, but she had probably never seen the Antinium’s food-paste. It could be green. Grey. Brown. Orange…but these colors were, in and of themselves, not offensive. Something about the paste…and those colors being dominant and speckled in with things Olesm thought he recognized, like a tooth or…
“Let’s give them a half-ration of other food. And a commendation to Battalion 3’s fighting spirit. We’ll do that every day there’s major fighting or someone to celebrate. It seems like a good tradition so long as we’re not low on supplies.”
The other officers nodded, even 4th Company. Olesm felt that alone was good, but something was bothering him. This was good, old-fashioned leadership. Manus’ teachers would have approved and probably given him examples of ways military leaders encouraged or chided their soldiers effectively.
So what was he missing? Olesm sat there as Bepol began to do a draft and Ramia lost a game of chess to Belgrade, prompting Kesa to try and then lose in eleven moves. Something was missing.
…Erin’s inn? Olesm thought of her inn. Here he was, at war. There was little of what Erin did or her inn—save for the Antinium. She hated wars, for all he thought she was a brilliant [Strategist] who hid it only as a love of chess. What would she do?
The blue-scaled Drake brushed at his armor, free of any blood or gore, and looked up at Belgrade. He remembered the Painted Antinium and Belgrade…
Belgrade. The [Strategist] glanced at him as Olesm blinked. He rose to his feet and exclaimed.
“That’s it.”
What they needed, as much as commendations, as much as a little gift? Olesm saw the other officers look at him and glanced at Embria. He couldn’t believe she hadn’t thought of it, being in 4th Company. But perhaps she had and just hadn’t volunteered it, or she didn’t think of it as something Antinium would do. Olesm took a breath.
“Battalion 3 of the Antinium division is faceless. No one knows Antinium. No offense, Belgrade, but they look alike.”
“This is very fair.”
Olesm looked around. He saw Embria raise her brows.
“They need…a name.”
 
[Leader Level 9!]
[Skill – Bird’s Eye View obtained!]
