Calruz slapped Tersk. Crusader 51 saw the hand come up and slap the Prognugator across the face so hard the crack sent Tersk sprawling. Instantly, Dekass whirled.
“Attack! Attack!”
He drew his sword, and some of the watching [Guards] surged to their feet, reaching for their weapons. But Calruz did not move.
Tersk rose, shortswords drawn, but eyed Calruz as the Minotaur stared down at him. He had two hatchets, two shortswords, and Calruz had one arm. Tersk…lowered the shortswords.
“Why did you hit me, Trainer Calruz? I do not think this was a friendly blow.”
The Minotaur snorted.
“It was not. You will not say that again, in my presence or on the battlefield.”
Tersk’s mandibles opened and closed.
“Is that an order, Trainer Calruz? The Armored Antinium do not listen to orders.”
Calruz shook his head. He looked at Tersk, and Crusader 51 saw him glance at the Antinium who had gone still. Calruz raised his voice and addressed them all.
“You will not. Not because I say it, but because a leader who speaks in that way deserves no loyalty from those he commands. If you ever wish to level—understand why you were wrong. I am not in the House of Minos, but if I heard that from any superior officer, be it [General] or anyone else, I would strike them or resign from my post. If you do not respect those who will fight and die for your words, you do not deserve to speak them.”
Tersk’s antennae were not visible under his helmet, but the Antinium backed up a step and stared at Calruz.
“I will…take that under advisement. What about that Worker, then?”
The Prognugator pointed at the trembling Worker, and Calruz frowned mightily.
“He should not be fighting. Sometimes there are those who cannot, by birth—or sheer…talent…”
He hesitated.
“…It is not their fault. Can that Worker not return to the Hive?”
Tersk shook his head instantly.
“He is a…special class. We have already allotted him to the war effort. What then?”
Calruz scratched at his head. He looked around and then had it. He snapped his fingers, and a little rat poked her head around his horns to see what he was pointing at. So did all the Antinium.
 
——
 
That was how, as Crusader 51 pitched camp on the fourth night, after climbing the hills, the Antinium making camp around him—which was really just them sitting down and leaning against their packs since they had no need for bedrolls or the like—were marked by a single flag.
An Antinium Worker holding the flag aloft nervously held it with all four arms. He had a simple job.
Do not drop the flag. It was one of Liscor’s, the only one attached to their division. The Worker, incidentally, was a Painted Worker who had volunteered for the army, but had been woefully unable to hit a target. His name was Artur, one of the ones taken from famous chess players. Crusader 51 was, by now, a Level 4 [Crusader]. The Soldier went to sleep since no one had orders and heard a voice.
 
[Swordsman Level 8!]
[Skill – Feint Slash obtained!]
 
[Crusader Level 5!]
[Skill – Lesser Endurance obtained!]
 
He started and awoke. Across from him, Crusader 53, who was holding the mace in his lap, raised it, but Crusader 51 waved a hand to show him all was well. He sat back, amazed.
He never leveled before this. But now he was. So strange.
 
——
 
In the distance, the Worker holding the flag aloft sat there, with it drifting in the night’s breeze. Someone marched by, inspecting his soldiers, and paused as he came to the hapless Worker.
“You are aware that you may remove the flag when not marching?”
Prognugator Dekass stared down at Artur. The Worker stared up at him and kept holding the flag as straight as an arrow. Dekass stared at the flag. He stared at the Worker.
“Very good. Hold that flag.”
He marched off. The Worker lowered his head. After a while, he fell asleep, still holding the flag.
 
[Flag Bearer Level 7!]
[Skill – Repair Fabric (Minor) Obtained!]
 
The Worker was just a bit pleased by that. He was a poor [Crusader]. So he did not level up as one. But the Minotaur, Calruz, had told him that a flag was important.
It meant something.
She had held the flag. A white one. This one was different and had a different sign, but it meant home, or so the blue Drake told him. Belgrade had told Artur that the flag was important too. So the Worker held the flag because that was what he could do. He held it as he marched. He held it as he ate.
He did not hold it when he excreted, but he made someone else hold it and washed his hands because that was what Miss Erin had told them to do.
He missed Miss Erin.
For her, he held the flag when battle was joined. When arrows fell, when swords clashed on metal…the flag flew overhead. That alone was what Artur could do.
 
 
 
 
Olesm, [Strategist]
 
The first fighting occurred eleven days in, and it was brief. By then, Olesm had already gained an unwelcome notification.
 
[Leader Level 6!]
 
“Oh no. Ancestors damn it. It’s [Strategist]! Get it right!”
He emerged from his tent shaking his fist at the sky. But the class remained. Worse, Olesm couldn’t find it in his heart to deny it—not that it was fitting.
Was he being a [Strategist] or a [Leader]? Well, it seemed to him like the answer was obvious. Olesm had drawn up the supply lists himself. He had plotted their course, checked for traps, briefed officers, done everything a [Strategist] might.
But he also settled disputes, or rather, found solutions to problems. Or just told people when to shut up. And one of the biggest problems he had?
“Squad Leader Holls, you are relieved of duty in Belgrade’s division.”
The angry Drake and small cluster of protesting officers relaxed slightly. Olesm looked up as he pulled a roster out.
“Thank you for understanding, Commander. To whom am I reporting now?”
“That would be…I will place you under Squad Leader Joit.”
Holls’ face went slack for a moment.
“Joit? But I’m a Squad Leader. Sir?”
Olesm looked up. His stare wasn’t hostile; he had learned hostile meant they thought they had something on him. His was cold. Flat. Maviola had told him to do that.
Which was ironic, given that Maviola and cold or collected were oxymorons when put together, but the [Lady] of the House of El had taught Olesm that there was a time for fire and a time for authority, and while the two could mix…
Not now.
“You are relieved of command, Squad Leader Holls. If you cannot obey a superior officer and insist on protesting to the commander of your army, you will get your wish.”
The Drake went pale. He began to protest, and in Olesm’s experience, getting to protest was also something he didn’t have to deal with. Maviola had said…oh, what had she said?
“When I lay down orders for the House of El, do the [Lords] and [Ladies] protest? Surely they do! They always do, because they are [Lords] and [Ladies] and I am not better, simply the matriarch. What they learn is that they may protest anywhere but to my face, for I am—was—the law of El. I do not have to listen to them. So I do not.”
“You are dismissed, Holls.”
Wait for it. Please argue, please argue…
Holls did. He began to splutter, and Olesm cleared his throat. A pair of [Soldiers] from 4th Company appeared, and the Drake found himself unkindly picked up. Then tossed.
Olesm looked up at the rest of the officers who had come to support, but not join, Holls.
“If you would like to resign your commission, please let me know now or privately if you wish. This is an army, not a nursery. I expect you to obey orders. Dismissed.”
They left fast, and Olesm sat back, glaring at nothing. Belgrade hadn’t even done anything wrong, but some people had a problem with him.
More than I thought. Did Erin not show them…? No, the issue wasn’t that the Antinium were fighting. Even 4th Company seemed to be grudgingly at peace with the Antinium fighting alongside them in this war. Every hand needed and all that, and Antinium had four.
The problem was that Belgrade was in charge of them.
Olesm happened to know how good Belgrade was—not from chess alone, but simply from seeing him direct Antinium during Liscor’s all-too-frequent battles. He had heard from Pawn, Garry, and Bird how Belgrade had cut down the Free Antinium’s casualty rate by an unbelievable number.
Did that mean he was ready for pitched battles with soldiers outside of his species? Olesm hated the niggling thought in his head, but the officers’ doubts put it there.
 
——
 
During the practice simulations, Belgrade moved each piece of his command adeptly. He had his own command Skills, so even with all the shouting, individual groups could maneuver. The question was…
“How’d an Ant get so good at strategy?”
Division Leader Bepol couldn’t hide his clear unease, watching Belgrade outflank Ramia. The former [Guardswoman] knew small-unit tactics, and her face said how flabbergasted she was as two lines of [Soldiers] neatly folded up her advance from both sides.
Olesm was impressed. He turned to Embria. The Wing Commander was scowling as she watched Belgrade’s [Soldiers] beat on their opponents.
Only a handful of troops were taking part in these exercises because of the clear danger of a Hectval attack, but Olesm had authorized it to prove Belgrade was good enough. Besides, they had time; they were approaching the first network of ridgelines.
If Olesm gazed across the hills in the shadow of the High Passes, he could see a pass in the plateau they had entered. Not up, but more like through a network of twined tunnels, like fingers on some overly-digited hand.
No way to go around, not without going down a lot of cliff faces and up more. However, the passes were wide enough for a huge column of [Soldiers] to pass through.
If they collapsed the passes, that would be a huge danger and problem, but Scout Leader Maksie had done several passes and hadn’t seen any magical traps or hiding figures up there. If there were lurking forces, they were in underhangs or within the ridgeline she couldn’t spot.
Olesm bet there were. He half-hoped Hectval would attack during the simulations, so they could bring all their forces to bear. 4th Company was slyly positioned on the outside, just waiting to greet any surprise attack.
None came. Olesm watched as Belgrade trounced Ramia and Bepol. The Pallassian-trained officer was better, but he ended up being flanked as well.
“How is he doing that?”
Ramia growled, dismayed. Embria broke in with a sour note in her voice.
“Harassing fire. My guess is it’s [Harassing Fire: Arrows of Slow]. He’s one-Skilling you both.”
It was lucky Bepol was still conceding defeat to Belgrade, because that might have started another fight. Olesm winced.
Ramia eyed him and Embria.
“I take it that’s a term I’m unfamiliar with?”
“Manus expression. It means he can hold down his opponent with one Skill. [Strategists] or [Generals] will do it in battle to…preserve Skills for the real opponent later on. It’s not necessarily an insult.”
Olesm saw Ramia bristle a bit, but Embria was looking pointedly at him and watching the Antinium—who was good. Olesm murmured as he scratched at his helmet.
“I’ve heard of General Shivertail one-Skilling [Strategists] like that. The same with Chaldion. [Steelscale Advance], you know? How does a Level 20 [Tactician] beat that? Belgrade’s using it to buy time to get his formations around you.”
Like chess pieces. There was something oddly static about the way Belgrade fought that Olesm thought was a weakness, but on the other hand—he issued orders so fast that it seemed like he wouldn’t ever flounder with a hundred things to watch.
Ramia ruefully shook her head.
“He should be commanding a larger share of the forces. No one’ll argue after today, I think, yes?”
Olesm nodded. If there were dissenters, well. They could grumble about the defeat, but then they had to call Bepol or Ramia’s talents into question. Which was another problem…
And that was why Olesm was leveling as a [Leader]. His first Skill?
As Bepol stomped back, Olesm gestured to him.
“Fine work, Bepol. Belgrade’s wrapped me up in chess games quite a lot. I’d give him a shot, but I think that proves he’s on-par with you two. Let’s move out. We’ll crack open a bottle from Liscor. Officer’s tents; Wing Commander, you’re on night duty. But I’ll, uh, send you a goat’s milk?”
Laughter. Embria rolled her eyes.
“Either spike it with Firebreath or I’ll go thirsty, Commander.”
However, there was no rancor in her tone, and she gave him an approving look. Just a flash—and Bepol relaxed almost magically.
Or…Skillfully.
[Soothe Ego]. Olesm didn’t have to touch him, but it was still a deft touch. The Drake sighed and Belgrade came over. At least he was levelling.
The rest of the day was spent marching towards the ridgeline. That first scouting party proved there were Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem [Soldiers] about, so everyone had their guard up. Contact came at dawn as the [Soldiers] were moving into the pass, and it was there that Olesm got to see the Antinium’s strength in battle again.
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51, [Crusader]
 
The lowly insects looked up one day and beheld the sky. It was the first time they had looked up since leaving their home.
The first notion they had was that the world was vast beyond the cramped darkness. They gazed upwards and beheld…
Giants. The ants quavered. They froze. Look up! Look up and see a face like theirs, hovering in the sky!
___s! For even the ants couldn’t articulate it. Giant effigies in their image! Titans walked among the heavens! It was a sign! It was—
 
——
 
The [Crusaders] of Squad 5 were squatting around, staring down in awe at the busy anthill. They were so still that only their twitching antennae gave them away as being alive.
What was this? Ants?
Yes, big, black ants, the kind that most other species would stay away from because they were big. Longer than a Human’s toe, if not all Drake claws. Step in that anthill and they’d be all over you.
However, the Antinium were fascinated. So these were ants. How strange.
Obviously, they occasionally found actual ants when tunneling around in the dirt of Liscor, but they were instantly destroyed or harvested by Workers. This was just…an anthill.
Crusader 51 stared at a little ant scrambling around near his foot. It bit his armor, decided he was actually inedible, and scurried away. Unlike other people or objects, the little ants seemed to know the Antinium [Crusaders] were real, and they were wavering between terror, awe, and a desire to defend their colony.
Now, how did he know that? Oddly, Crusader 51 thought he understood something about the little ant he was staring at. It had one mangled leg, still navigating the terrain nimbly. And it…was a she.
Female. Were all these little Worker ants female?
