Embria was the only member of Liscor’s 4th who had a horse. Wikir of 1st Squad, Vell, the other officers and [Soldiers]? No horses. Skywalker’s Company, as they were nicknamed for their use of the [Light Bridge] spell, were foot-sloggers, and Embria often fought on foot as well.
They looked like they were strolling uphill compared to the [Soldiers]. Vell stopped as a Drake windmilled his arms, cursing. She reached out, grabbed the [Soldier], and shoved him forwards.
“Put your pack lower down, idiot. Center of gravity! You’re so back-heavy no wonder you’re falling over. Dig your claws into the soil! You look like you’ve never climbed a hill in your life!”
“I have! I—well, the hills around the Floodplains aren’t this bad!”
The [Soldier] caught himself and tried to climb faster, but Vell snorted, and her squad marched past the [Soldiers], jeering—and giving out advice like that.
“It’s not just equipment, Commander. They don’t know anything. It’s like looking at babies. They can’t even adjust their armor, they can’t march, they get blisters…”
“They’ll learn. Faster, with us giving them tips.”
Embria had been writing in the saddle. Now, she addressed Pielt’s complaint out of the corner of her mouth. 3rd Squad’s [Captain] grunted.
“Fair, Commander. I just wish those bastards had more. Mind you, it’s hilarious when they fall down. So much for Antinium being good on any ground.”
He jerked his head, and Embria turned to look. She saw a tumbling shape rolling downhill, a flash of armor and a lot of clicking, and smirked.
The Antinium were having trouble too. The new, armored soldiers, which had chilled her to the core, were imposing with all their gear—but they rattled when they walked, and, like Liscor’s [Soldiers], they had trouble going uphill with all this new weight changing how they moved. She saw another Antinium racing downhill after the fallen [Crusader].
“Heard we’ve got a [Strategist] in their group.”
“Really?”
Embria saw Pielt and the [Soldiers] around him tune in with interest. Embria had already written her report, of course, and she nodded to the Antinium waving all four arms in distress.
“That one. Belgrade. Some kind of [Trapsetter Strategist]. Never heard of…well, I suppose his name came up. In the inn.”
4th Company looked at her, but no one brought up her father. They nodded—cautiously.
The inn was a sore point with them, as the soldiers of Liscor’s real army hadn’t liked what their city had become, and many had pointed to that [Innkeeper], as she’d been known, as one of the culprits.
However, she’d been killed by Hectval, and even the rowdiest member of 4th Company didn’t feel like insulting the dead. Especially when the commander of all these forces and a lot of Liscor’s citizens might overhear.
“At least they have a [Strategist]. What are we, a Baleros-led company? They should have put you in charge, Wing Commander.”
“Stow it. And shove your compliments back up your tailhole, Barkus. You all know I’m not about to take charge of an army. When I want pandering comments—I’ll go to Salazsar.”
Barkhus, whose name was adjusted for obvious reasons, laughed with the rest. They watched as another Antinium turned into a pillbug and rolled down the hill—and winced as a Gnoll did likewise.
“Hoi there! Commander says we’re breaking after the next hill! Get a move on and stop falling over!”
A voice from above. Embria saw an Oldblood Drake floating downwards.
“Huh. Hey, Maksie! You might be [Scout Leader] for an entire army, but give me lip again and I’ll poke holes in your wings!”
The Wing Commander shouted at one of 4th Company’s former members appointed to a larger role. The Oldblood Drake cheerfully made a gesture to the Wing Commander and flew on. She had wings—but no breath.
Stopping after only…? Embria saw it wasn’t past midday. Then again, the maddening hike uphill with all the falls and injuries must have been driving Olesm insane. She nodded to 4th Company.
“Double time up the hill. Let’s talk to Commander Olesm. And show these idiots how it’s done.”
 
——
 
A group of tired Drakes and Gnolls sat around on top of the steep hill they were climbing. Some were stretching or drinking water, but most were just sitting around. A few had even pulled off pieces of their armor—until one of the officers snapped at them to put them back on.
“It’s hot.”
“Yeah? The sky’s blue. Eat my tail.”
One of the Drakes snapped at a Gnoll. They were both young, below twenty, and the Gnoll growled back.
“It’s hot. You’re not wearing fur under your armor!”
“Yeah, well…I…you’ve never had to shed dry scales!”
“Oh, and that’s worse than split hair? Shedding fur? Lice? Why do Drakes have to always suffer worse? Just admit it, it’s hot for everyone.”
“Yeah, but it’s hotter for me because my scales are dark, and the sun—”
A helmet flew through the air, and the Drake ducked. It bounced along the ground and struck the feet of a [Soldier] who was bending over, inspecting something. She jumped and whirled.
“Gah! I nearly stepped on a fortune! Don’t do that!”
The other [Soldiers] looked up.
“What? Fortune?”
“Back off, I found it!”
The Drake waved her claw at the others. She plucked something from the ground and showed it to them.
“Look! I found a rare mushroom!”
She showed them all a mushroom with giant, vivid, rounded spots on it. It was purple, and each spot was a bright tan color. The Drake [Soldier] was delighted.
“I’ve never seen anything like it. I bet it’s a rare mushroom!”
“Could be worth something!”
Instantly, the other Drakes, Gnolls, and two Humans had gathered around. One of the Humans opined, backing away.
“Don’t touch it with your bare claws! Put some gloves on! It could be poisonous!”
“Yeah, but that’s still worth something to [Alchemists]. You know what? Don’t sell it. If it’s worth something, get it appraised and then culture more mushrooms.”
The squad of [Soldiers] stared at the purple shroom. One of them, a Gnoll without a helmet, pointed.
“Do we get a cut if it’s super valuable?”
“Hey! It’s mine!”
“We’re all in the same squad. Uell, don’t be stingy…”
“How’ll you even get it appraised?”
The Drake peered around furtively as she protectively held the mushroom to her chest.
“We have [Mages]. Maybe one of them knows how it works? Or I’ll put it in a bag of holding. Look, no one takes it from me, agreed? I’ll give you something if it’s worth it…does anyone have a container? It might be poisonous; look at those spots!”
“You can use my helmet. We’ll put something over it.”
The Gnoll eagerly offered. The squad was just about to look for more mushrooms when Wing Commander Embria rode past them.
“That’s not a rare mushroom.”
The [Soldiers] froze, and the one holding it tried to hide it behind her back. Embria sighed as she dismounted and looked around for Olesm.
“What, officer? What mushroom? We were just talking about, uh, a mushroom we dreamed about! A—”
An amused Captain Wikir cut the protesting [Soldier] off.
“That’s not a valuable mushroom. It’s just an ordinary purple one, yes?”
“Ah, but this one has spots!”
Wikir and Embria exchanged a weary, weary look. Embria sighed, and Wikir’s entire squad began laughing themselves sick. The new recruits looked uncertainly at the mushroom, and Wikir broke it to them.
“Those are insect eggs, you idiots. Haven’t you ever seen…?”
Embria saw the mushroom go sailing over the side of the cliff and rolled her eyes. But she had to confess…she’d done the exact same thing back in the day.
Everyone thought a mushroom with dust on it was the next big alchemical ingredient.
“Commander Olesm! Sir!”
She saluted and came to a stop as a Drake jumped and stopped arguing with two newly-instated [Division Leaders].
[Division Leaders]. Not [Division Captains] or [Marshals] or any combination of any military rank. This was derived from the [Leader] class and it meant…
Well, it meant the army wasn’t in the right shape to field a [General], much less most officer ranks. Liscor had an army, and they had countless officers. However, in lieu of such classes, or to make room, you had the [Leader] line.
[Wing Commander] Embria saw the Gnoll and Drake turn to her, and Olesm raised his head.
“You don’t need to stand on formality, Wing Commander. You’re second-in-command if need arises; speak to me.”
Embria glanced at the sub-officers and tried to be as diplomatic as possible.
“With respect, sir, is a halt a good idea now? We’re three days into our climb, and we were hoping to reach the fighting highlands yesterday.”
She glanced up towards a summit yet higher overhead, which marked more flat ground to maneuver around. To fight here, with an enemy occupying the high ground, was a nightmare, and her company would have already been lounging at the top.
But Liscor’s army was having trouble even getting into position. Olesm gave Embria a grimace that said he knew it too.
“The [Soldiers] are having difficulty climbing. Not yours…can I hope it’s due to a Skill? Do you have a terrain Skill, Wing Commander?”
She coughed into one claw.
“Er, [Mudgrip Boots] is the only one I have. I know one of my officers has [Climbing Expertise] as a unit-based Skill, but we have not had to use it, sir.”
Because it’s not hard to climb a hill. Olesm read between the words.
“Could he or she…use it to move a large body of soldiers?”
“The limit is forty, unfortunately, commander.”
Olesm rubbed at his temples.
“…We may still need that. I’m debating having someone cut stairs or some easier way of climbing up. Could we use your [Light Bridge] spell to…?”
Embria didn’t feel like wasting a scroll on getting [Soldiers] uphill. She looked around and raised a claw.
“A quiet word, Commander Olesm?”
He looked up, nodded, and abandoned his map to step closer. Embria whispered to him.
“It’s not bad for the [Soldiers] to learn climbing, sir. However, if we’re caught out—”
The Drake looked up at the summit and nodded, his face one of frustration as he observed the [Soldiers] arguing whether insect eggs were valuable to [Alchemists].
“That’s my thinking too. I’d send 4th Company to hold the top of the plateau, but 4th Company is an asset, and if they have to fight an entire squadron…”
Embria was glad to hear Olesm was thinking of their wellbeing—and a bit insulted by the suggestion they couldn’t hold the ground alone. Then again, one [Fireball] landing before they could dodge and Olesm lost his best [Soldiers].
“We could drag up some other recruits, Commander. Frankly, they’re wet Amentus fruits, but I’ve seen worse.”
Olesm brightened up a bit.
“You have?”
Embria felt the need to encourage him.
“They’re not worse than…well, a lot of rookies we get in Liscor’s main army. The difference is, we seperate ours, make sure they’re trained under a squad with enough veterans. They wash out or train up—and we fight with large numbers of green soldiers all the time. We’re famous for it, as you know.”
Liscor’s army used their officer-classes to turn even a Level 5 [Soldier] into a fighting whirlwind. Olesm rubbed at his chin.
“That’s true. Frankly, I was wondering if they were all somehow poisoned. Even Bronze-rank adventurers do better.”
He looked at the [Soldiers], and Embria murmured.
“A week ago, they were [Cobbler Apprentices], [Thugs], [Hunters], or any other civilian class. They’ve gone through training and can swing a sword, but it’ll be a bad first battle, too. However, they’ll level after tonight.”
Olesm nodded again. The first ten [Soldier] levels, or so they said in the army, were practically free. In that you could march, eat, dig latrines, use latrines, and complain about your pay and food and get to Level 10 without so much as sneezing at a battle.
When they went back to the table, Olesm took a breath.
“I think we need to restructure. Wing Commander, you’ve met our two [Division Leaders]? Bepol and Ramia, one from the Watch—[Guardsman], almost at her Senior Guardsman rank—and the other studied in Pallass’ academy.”
The Drake and Gnoll saluted Embria, and she saluted back.
Oh dead gods, a former [Guard] and an officer from Pallass’ academy. She knew Pallass graduated their officers at least Level 15, so they had a Level 15 [Trainee Officer] and a [Guard] who might be used to large-scale brawls or fighting since she had seen Liscor’s battles, but not a war.
Olesm read her look. So did the officers, unfortunately. Bepol’s tail twitched.
“I’ve served with Pallass’ 5th Army, Wing Commander, and you can rely on me to keep my formations in order. Frankly, I think we have more expertise than some Drake border cities.”
Embria opened her mouth to address the officer, bit her tongue on her words, then snapped back because she couldn’t help it.
“More experience than a border city…? Liscor is the most border-city of them all. Hectval, Luldem, and Drisshia might not be individually as large as Liscor, but they fight other cities constantly! The officers might not be Level 30 veterans all, but they will tear your tail off and feed it to you if you underestimate them!”
She regretted the outburst the moment it happened. Not because everyone had heard; the other [Soldiers] were too far away to hear, mostly. Mainly because it was unprofessional, and this army had to have discipline.
Bepol’s scales turned pale, but he threw a salute that said that he had been taught enough of when to shut up. Olesm was looking between Embria and Bepol, searching for something to say. He eventually snapped.
“Wing Commander Embria. A bit too frank. Division Leader Bepol and your company will serve together. Liscor’s army is inexperienced, but I’m sure you trust them as much as I, if you’re willing to fight alongside them.”
Embria’s cheeks darkened and she saluted, staring at the sky.
“Yes, Commander. I apologize for the outburst.”
Olesm exhaled. Then he heard a confusion of voices, and Embria was relieved to look sideways and see…
“Commander Olesm. Commander Embria, and Division Leaders Bepol and Ramia. I apologize, but my Antinium division has summited the hill and we are out-of-place. I apologize for preceding the other [Soldiers], but I did not realize we had moved ahead of them. Should we go back down and wait?”
Belgrade, the Antinium [Trapsetter Strategist], hurried over, looking distraught and embarrassed. Embria turned and saw his two fellow commanders, the Armored Antinium’s Prognugators, Tersk and Dekass, ordering the Antinium into neat ranks as they stood, some a bit dusty, but on the summit.
