He saw the Antinium in the front rank raising their heads to stare at him. An armored Antinium calling orders.
Antinium on the right flank. Belgrade the [Strategist]?
[Covert Target Mark]. Both glowed in the split-second Lulv saw them. Then he used his Skill.
[Spear Art: Fangs of the Dire Wolf]!
His enchanted spear struck twice, twin flashes through the Antinium’s lines. Lulv landed and saw bodies collapsing. The Antinium recoiled, looking right and left.
Dead? Just like—?
The spear had gone through armor and bodies without stopping. Unenchanted steel couldn’t stop Lulv’s spear. Nor low-level [Soldiers].
“Charge!”
An officer of Manus roared. [Soldiers] streamed around Lulv, and he raised his spear overhead in one paw.
The signal. The flash of surprise in the Antinium’s ranks wouldn’t last. The enemy commander had eyes on him.
So Sokkel closed the eyes. The sky began to turn dark. The clouds gathered at an impossible speed—but not regular grey ones, or even dark thunderclouds. Pitch black mist streamed down from the heavens, engulfing both armies. Liscor and the Hectval alliance were thrown into darkness, but one side had been expecting it.
[Storm of Clouded Darkness]. Now was the time. Lulv shouted as his spear rose.
“[Intimidation: Spear of a Thousand Graves]!”
And fear ran through Liscor’s army. Lulv pointed his spear straight ahead.
“Forwards!”
Manus’ veterans ran past him, towards the Antinium who’d held their ground. Lulv saw a Soldier swinging a sword and hatchet with decent coordination at one of Manus’ [Soldiers]. The Gnoll swept his own sword up and took one of the Antinium’s arms off. The Soldier staggered, brought up a shield, and the Gnoll whirled. The slash took off the Antinium’s head, armor or not.
“Split their lines.”
“[Lance Formation]! [Steelsundering Blades]! Go, go!”
One of the officers roared, and Hectval’s forces created a wedge along Liscor’s lines, through the Antinium gap. Surprised Drakes and Gnolls found themselves flanked.
Not his job to win this battle. However, it kept Liscor’s army off them. Sokkel had advised Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem’s command to split Liscor’s army in a charge. He had promised the Antinium wouldn’t stymie them.
Of all the groups fighting in the darkness, the Antinium were the most cohesive. They pivoted and fought—but they had no idea what they were fighting. They had never met high-level enemies.
Lulv ran forwards, his job done, as he heard screams of panic, chaos in Liscor’s ranks. He saw an Antinium Worker with three arms raising a shield to block him. He stabbed through the shield and the Antinium with the adamantium-tipped spear, drew it out, and turned.
[Hurricane Stabs]. [Ten-foot Reach]. His spear shot out, six, twelve, fourteen times, ramming through Antinium, creating another gap that Manus’ [Soldiers] streamed into. Enchanted blades cut through armor. They didn’t panic under the darkness cloud; they could see each other, so each soldier followed the other forwards, listening for orders in the chaos. Lulv was looking around.
Where’s that Prognugator?
“Spearmaster! Enemy charging!”
Lulv whirled and saw a single [Rider] leading a group of infantry straight at Manus’ forces. He growled.
“Liscor’s 4th! Anti-Liscor tactics! First Assault, turn and repel with me!”
Manus had met Liscor in combat. Drakes and Gnolls turned and set themselves as 4th Company rode in. Fast. Hard. Each [Soldier] must have had a dozen Skills boosting them.
One of Manus’ [Soldiers] raised his axe calmly. He looked at the first [Soldier] of Liscor’s 4th coming at him and spoke.
“[I’m As Good As You Are].”
He brought down the axe on the shield, knocked the charging [Soldier] flat, and another of Manus’ soldiers speared the downed warrior in an instant. Lulv murmured.
“[Spear Art: Scythe of the Field].”
This time his spear was a horizontal crescent sweeping across the [Soldiers]. It would have decapitated the front rank—but then Lulv saw the pinpoint of death and twisted out of the spear art. He flicked his spear up, deflected the thrust at his head, and aimed a killing thrust at the horse.
“[Superior Parry]!”
His spear bounced as the Drake holding it knocked his thrust astray. She turned, riding her mount left, and Lulv saw another expert with the spear.
No [Spearmaster], though. Liscor’s army used to have a famous one. Lulv advanced.
[Ricochet Stabs]…his spear tip shot towards the ground and then seemed to bounce upwards, aiming at the rider’s legs and the horse’s unarmored belly. She cursed, deflecting them, then leapt from her saddle.
Lulv could have killed the horse. He did not. The Drake landed, wise enough to know that the horse was dead weight.
She was not prepared for his charge, a single leap like a [Duelist], that carried him across the two dozen paces to ram his spear through her chest.
Almost. Lulv turned as a sword threatened to cut across his chest. He took a slash against his armor. A Drake [Captain] had saved her Wing Commander.
“[Spearmaster]! [Captains], on me!”
She was roaring. The Drake Wing Commander hesitated, but then the red-scaled Drake advanced with her [Captain]. Lulv saw more figures coming his way.
They didn’t need to fight Liscor’s 4th. He blocked the slash from the [Captain] with his spear, whirled it, and knocked the [Spear Hunter]’s stab away. She tried to cut low; he stomped the tip of her spear into the mud as she swept it towards his legs. The Drake with the sword was waiting, though, and lunged.
Lulv’s spear knocked the sword aside, so hard it would have gone flying but for her claw locking it into place with a Skill. The [Captain] stared up incredulously at Lulv as he whirled, parrying a crossbow bolt at close-range. An Antinium Soldier tried to reload as one of Manus’ officers ran him through with another spear.
The Drake [Captain] looked at Lulv, and her eyes focused on his spear. She gasped.
“Oh shit! Man—”
Lulv ran through her stomach with a grimace. The Drake fell backwards, holding at her guts as the Wing Commander slashed her spear up in a flurry of strikes.
“Vell! On me! Fall back! Fall—”
Someone lunged at Lulv, and he choked up on his spear, slashed across a throat, and fell back as well. Liscor’s 4th was retreating from Manus’ blades. Lulv whistled, and the soldiers around him retreated.
“On me. Take out those Antinium.”
He turned back to his target. The cover of darkness wouldn’t lift all night or until it was dispelled. In that time…Lulv saw the Antinium retreating, disorganized. He nodded.
“[Each Death, Another Breath].”
The [Spearmaster] formed a wedge with the soldiers under his command and advanced.
 
 
 
 
Crusader 51, [Crusader]
 
The strange soldiers were killing them. Battalion 1, Acid Jars, had been ready to fight. Not eager for a commendation, but ready.
Then Dekass had said ‘elites’, the sky had gone dark, and…
They’d begun dying.
The first [Crusader] who died took an arrow through the chest. It went through their armor, and five of the other Crusaders tried applying healing potions, because it wasn’t a fatal wound.
But it was poisoned, and the Worker stopped twitching as the Antinium waited for orders.
“Reform…Battalion 3…”
Tersk was out there, but his voice was distorted. Battalion 1 waited for their name, but they didn’t hear anything. Only shouting, howls…and a kind of eerie lack of noise.
The clash of metal-on-metal was normal to Crusader 51, by now. He didn’t hear it. Were they not fighting Drisshia’s heavies? He looked at Crusader 53, who had raised both his maces, confused, waiting.
The Antinium of Battalion 1 saw nothing through the darkness. Nothing, nothing…a hint of movement?
Then the Drakes and Gnolls were on top of them. One swung a sword through one of Squad 4’s pikemen without a sound. The blade cut through armor, left a green trail—the [Crusader] died as Crusader 51 jerked. He began to advance and saw a blade coming straight at his face.
Parry! Calruz’s roar was an echo of Crusader 51’s desperate instincts. He parried the blade and felt his sword…tear?
The steel was cut from the contact with the enemy blade, but it missed his face. The Drake cursed; he had a buckler in one hand, and Crusader 51’s stab with his shortsword bounced off it.
And Crusader 51’s arm went numb. The shortsword dropped from his arm as the enchanted shield rose. His sword jerked back from a slash, and the Drake raised his arm for a thrust. Crusader 51 raised his own shield and realized—
It wouldn’t stop that enchanted blade.
Inexperience. The Drake thrust his sword forwards, and Crusader 53 brought his mace down on the arm and snapped the bone.
It was an armored arm, with some thin scaled armor, but the descending mace caught the arm on the downswing…at the same time as Crusader 53’s other mace caught it on the upswing from the bottom.
With nowhere to go, the arm snapped, and the Drake screamed.
“Aaah!”
He leapt backwards. Crusader 51 ran forwards to stab him through the face, and his blade vanished as a Gnoll parried the blade off the sword. She whirled her own shortswords around.
“Injury! Fall back!”
“Watch out! Those two are better!”
The Gnoll woman turned, and two more of the strange soldiers moved to face Crusader 51 and Crusader 53. But by now, the rest of Squad 5 had seen them.
Multiple squads were engaged, and one of Squad 5 turned to thrust a spear forwards. One of the strange soldiers knocked the spear aside, lunged with a spear, and tried to stab Crusader 58 through the chest!
Crusader 51 and Crusader 53 saw it and reacted instinctively. Crusader 58 hadn’t realized they were enchanted blades, but the two Antinium knocked the blade down and stabbed forwards—only to nearly dissect themselves on the other two [Soldiers]’ blades.
“Huh. They are better.”
The spear-wielding Drake commented. The strange [Soldiers] pulled back, counted the nine Antinium, and, to Crusader 51’s surprise, backed up. They joined another group of their own, cutting into Squad 2.
Did they attack? Squad 5 didn’t know. Tersk wasn’t here. They had to attack. Did they fire arrows? Crusader 51 stared at his severed sword tip. He had no sword.
“Continue fighting! Assist other squads! Do not retreat!”
A voice broke through the stifling darkness. Dekass! Crusader 51 had never been more relieved to hear his voice.
Squad 5 instantly advanced. The enemy turned to face them, dividing themselves up, and Crusader 51 swung his shortsword in place of his regular one.
Strike—parried. Shield block—one of the Drakes took a piece out of it. Slash at an arm and a wince, but no blood because the armor was too tough—
Then Squad 5 was backing up. Crusader 53 was bleeding. Crusader 58 was dead.
Their weapons. One of the Drakes whirled his sword through an Antinium’s arm. He severed Crusader 51’s shortsword as their blades met and turned to stab Crusader 53 in the stomach. The Antinium wavered, falling back, and Crusader 51 planted the jagged end of his sword in the Drake’s eye.
The soldier dropped, and the others spun. Crusader 51 backed up, grabbing for something, and Squad 5 fell back.
“Soldier down.”
One of the Drakes announced with a calm bite to his tone. The others checked the fallen Drake, but the sword hilt was buried in his skull.
Crusader 53. Was he alright? Crusader 51 kept his guard up—and saw the other [Crusader] pouring his healing potion onto his stomach. The wound closed. He would live.
“Do not retreat! I demand reinforcements. Tersk, to me! I must have ranged support! They have enchanted weapons.”
Somewhere, Dekass was shouting at the top of his lungs. Squad 5, in the chaos of it all, found themselves holding with Squads 2, 4, and 9…what remained of them. The enemy advanced, confidently sundering blades and armor. A Drake used a Skill that made his blade set one of the Antinium on fire.
Another drew an arrow and loosed it through a shield. A third raised his shield, blocking a barrage of strikes from three Soldiers, including Crusader 53! A fourth drew his sword in a glittering arc, and Crusader 51’s [Quick Slash] took off his arm.
The Gnoll blinked at his arm, and Crusader 51 ran him through. The other soldiers looked at Crusader 51 and spotted what he was holding.
The enchanted sword. One of them cursed, and Squad 5 backed up, leaving their dead behind—and another one of theirs.
“Three casualties. Back it up.”
One of the officers spoke quietly. The enemy glared at Squad 5, but they didn’t advance. Squad 5 let Squad 2 go for their bows, and the soldiers…retreated.
Crusader 51 hesitated, but Dekass had said to hold their ground. And besides…but for Crusader 53 saving him and the enchanted sword, they wouldn’t have had a chance.
Squad 5 looked at one another. One of them, Crusader 52, broke from 53 and 51 to see if any of the others were alive. Crusader 51 and 53 decided to help turn over the still bodies.
Crusader 51’s hands were green with blood. He stared at them and then the sword he’d picked up. Magic. He had never seen a magic sword. Did he put it back? It wasn’t his.
No. I need it.
The [Crusader] realized it was the only thing that could help him kill the enemy. How many were there? Where was the rest of Battalion 1?
Something whispered over his head, and Crusaders 51, 52, and 53 flinched. They looked up—and then around. Crusader 51 froze.
Where was Squad 5? Where was Squad 2, 9? He saw a few figures staggering—and then the Gnoll appeared.
He had a spear. Just a spear, but the tip glittered. He thrust once, such a simple move that looked so easy.
It was beautiful. Concise, economical.
He killed one of the [Crusaders] with it, turned, stabbed another, and looked around.
Every other Antinium was dead. Something had cut through them at chest-height. The spear?
Crusaders 51, 52, and 53 rose as the [Spearmaster] spotted them. He said nothing, but the Gnoll raised his spear. Crusader 51 lunged, sword slashing low, as Crusader 52 fumbled to stab with his spear, and Crusader 53 darted left, maces swinging hard.
The [Spearmaster] parried Crusader 51’s sword, ran the Antinium through the belly, tore it left, took one of Crusader 53’s arms on his right, then the other, and beheaded Crusader 52. He looked at Crusader 51 as the Antinium fell, and turned to the staggering Crusader 53. He frowned, raised his head, and blurred away as a hail of arrows struck Crusader 53’s back and armor and the ground around him.
“Volley! Volley on my target! Advance!”
Dekass led more squads forwards as Crusader 53 sat down, staring at his arm. The [Spearmaster] blocked more arrows, leapt forwards, stabbed three Antinium in a moment, and then went for Dekass.
Crusader 51 didn’t see what happened next. He was curled up in pain. It hurt. It really hurt. He wanted his potion. Where was his potion?
