The sky. The sky!
Anger.
Voices that echoed in your head, in your very soul, that you couldn’t drown out. Voices from a group that had no tongues. What terrified the Drakes and Gnolls more, perhaps, was how the [Crusaders] expressed their fury. No great oaths, no litany of curses.
Just…
That. Crusader 51 saw Drakes go pale, back up, and run, even when they weren’t losing in the first few encounters. Even Drisshia’s heavy infantry did not want to fight the Antinium. A Drake would block a sword thrust—and the second dagger would bounce off their armor, slash, catch their weapon on a shield, open their mouth to call for help—and see a crossbow aimed at their face from the fourth arm at point-blank range.
 
——
 
Battalion 1 got their moment in the sun after that battle. And their name.
“They melted through their opponents. Acid Jars. That’s what we’ll call them. Acid Jars.”
Olesm excitedly commended Battalion 1 in the aftermath, along with three other groups. He had elected, given that there were four main divisions in his forces, to commend four battalions per day, one under each main commander.
The Acid Jars got their first meal of food, and it did not disappoint. Crusader 51 had never had the goat’s cheese and salsa before, yet he thought that when he took a bite of the loaded potato—it would have never tasted as good if it weren’t Battalion 1’s triumph.
He saw the other [Crusaders] watching him and almost went to share.
Almost. Then he remembered that Crab Battalion had eaten twice and not shared, so he did not.
A strange thing passed over Crusader 51 after that meal. He had never felt…hungry…after eating. Nor was he now, since the half-ration was in addition to his regular nutrients. But he wanted more. He wanted another day of victory.
 
[Crusader Level 9!]
[Skill – Enhanced Edge obtained!]
[Skill – Resistance: Sleep obtained!]
 
All was well. Crusader 51 woke up on the fourteenth day excited for battle.
Then Crusader 50 died. Crusader 51 wondered if his shield hadn’t been high enough. H-had it been his fault? Maybe he had moved out of line trying to kill more opponents so Battalion 1 would be commended again.
Battalion 4 got their first commendation and a nickname—Razorbeaks—that day. Crusader 51 didn’t care. He sat in his squad of nine and looked at the others. He looked left, and the [Crusader] who had stood in front of him and knelt before Pawn was gone.
Gone.
Soldiers died, but Crusader 50 had been…Crusader 50. Crusader 51 hadn’t known him to do anything iconic. He hadn’t been in Calruz’s class. But he’d been there. Somehow, Crusader 51 had forgotten, with his armor and the sky and everything else, that they could still die.
 
 
 
 
Embria, [Wing Commander]
 
Dear Dad,
 
We’re in the soup now. You know how it is. Though we never talked about it. Everyone told me that Sergeant Relc, the Gecko, always laughed going into it. That he would charge in and come out whistling and telling dumb jokes.
I can’t. I wonder if that’s a lie, like how they said old Durrell never flinched even when arrows struck him. He flinches. He just—doesn’t scream. 
It’s the soup. It’s not hot as some fronts. We’re better than they are.
The Ants Antinium fight well. It scares me. I know they’re green as new grass, but they’ve been fighting Drisshia since they’re both heavy armor, and I think Drisshia loses. They’re regulars, and the Antinium fold them up. Not that we haven’t taken casualties.
Barely over a hundred dead across the entire army after…I want to say a week of real fighting. I’m watching Hectval’s alliance fall back now. Potions did it, but the truth is they’ve got a bit more magic, maybe, more [Mages]. Roughly equal numbers…so we won.
4th Company must have sniped four low-level officers and three [Mages] along with a few battalions. Hectval probably lost some of their best attacking Liscor, or they really thought Olesm would be worse than whoever they sent. He’s got…a few big Skills. 
Remember [Instantaneous Barrage]? I can’t imagine how much they hate it. He’s also got [Vigor of Champions], so 4th Company goes in and doesn’t stop unless we need healing. So we got them.
It’s still the soup. But we’re winning. The question is—what does Hectval do next? They can maybe try to out-spell us, but [Mages] eat that [Instantaneous Barrage] or get sniped and they’re gone for good. They can’t out-shoot us. All those Workers with bows plus Liscor’s archers mean we tend to win. Either a cunning strategy or…
Hey Dad, I fought in another battle the next day. Idiots tried the Mellian Cascade. I really think they thought it would work. Liscor’s army might be green, but 4th Company just walked over and blocked each wedge when they went in, and they surrendered or got chopped up. Strange thing though—
There’s something off about those Antinium. I’ve heard that [Strategist]—Belgrade—and those two ‘Prognugators’ call them a strange class. I keep trying to get it right so I can report it, but I think it’s—[Crusader]? I’ve never heard of it. And they have weird powers. I’m beginning to think Hectval isn’t just incompentent.
Though they’re that, too. Either I tell you we’re at Hectval’s walls in a week or they surprise me, because we just took about eight hundred prisoners.
 
—Embria
 
 
 
 
Lulv, [Spearmaster]
 
The Mellian Cascade was an old tactic that originated from Manus. The theory was that you formed multiple spear-wedges and sent them into the enemy from multiple oblique angles while your hammer pinned them down from one angle.
Hit them hard enough and you popped the enemy formation. It had been famously unraveled by Chaldion when he was a young [Strategist], and the Antinium Wars had never seen it work that well.
It was what some thought of as a useful gambit against [Strategists] or [Commanders] who had never seen it happen to them.
“They tried it on the Antinium. See how they go in, there? Antinium turn—eat them. Same with Liscor’s army. There’s a shock—then that group of five hundred splits, hits two wedges, and they start crumbling.”
“4th Company. Liscor’s own. Looks like they’ve augmented it, but you can tell they’re veterans. They’ve seen the Mellian Cascade. Idiots.”
The ‘idiots’ were for Hectval’s commanders. Lulv agreed, but the Gnoll resting his paws on the table didn’t voice an opinion right away.
“I see…well, I see a lot of mistakes. See how they’re boxing in their opponents? They know this isn’t a border-conflict with Cauldus or another city, but they fight like it is. That’s a classic surrender pileup. Only, Liscor doesn’t surrender, and they eat a boosted charge from 4th Company. Again. And those were their veterans. Meanwhile, the Antinium just keep chewing up their left side.”
“Three battles. There’s some kind of morale-Skill at work; they’re not just running because they’re outmatched. Lulv, do you need a changeup? Lulv?”
The [Spearmaster] of Manus looked up. He focused on the High Command of Manus, the security council, and growled.
“No, Dragonspeaker Luciva. Apologies. I was thinking.”
The Dragonspeaker wore her armor like a second skin. An old, old sigil of Manus traced a line across her breastplate and helm; what was new was the feather. She added a feather with a blue plume, to match her scales purely as ornament.
The leader of Manus, Dragonspeaker Luciva, nodded as General Milka continued her breakdown of the last battle. She approached, and Lulv straightened.
“Hectval has accepted the mercenary offer for Wytel’s Spearlance. They were insisting upon direct leadership under one of their officers…until yesterday.”
She saw his grimace and grinned.
“We’re passing an attaché to them as well. A consultant for hire.”
“Do I know him?”
“Sokkel. He served in the Cyles Plains battle…”
“Huh. Good.”
Spearmaster Lulv looked at Dragonspeaker Luciva, armored almost like a [Knight]. To many of her kind, she was an example of her people. She had higher cheekbones, and her scales were predominantly blue, but mixed with white and yellow, a rare, tricolor blend. When she stood in the light from one of the crenelated windows, she looked like she held up the entire keep, sun playing off ancient armor.
Manus, the City of War. However, she had lost too much to be the young heroine to be cast in poetry. The notch at the edge of her lips dropped, where once it had just made her look battle-hardened. She had lost her daughter recently, and she walked heavier, spoke more deliberately.
Compared to her, Lulv knew, he looked far plainer. He wore dark armor, a rare lacquered wood rather than anything else, over dyed-black Wyvern hide. Lulv was lean compared to other Gnolls, but he had always been lean. When he walked, it was more like he stalked forwards, never fully tall, always slightly slouched—and he almost always carried the spear Luciva herself had given him.
Ashwood from Noelictus, written with Lulv’s name and title, and on the tip, the very finely-ground point of a dark red metal, crossing to a lighter pattern of off-gold. A near-perfect conical tip, not flattened or a teardrop or other type of spear. This one was almost like the tip of a lance, though he could cut with it if he had to.
Adamantium-tipped over Lord’s Bronze. A [Spearmaster]’s weapon.
That was the only thing immediately flashy about Lulv. He looked his part and admired Luciva for looking hers. Her ancient armor and the weapon she carried, the Fang of Manus, or Parentkiller, its true name, the glaive that permanently crackled with electricity, was just as showy.
And neither she nor he truly cared how they looked, only how they were seen. Lulv to skulk around in battle, Luciva to inspire. They both passed by the other’s attire as something they had seen a thousand times, the same with their faces.
If there was someone they would always scrutinize, to see if she was upset, bored, or anything else, it was the individual who wasn’t here. Wall Lady Rafaema.
Luciva was half-distracted, even now, speaking to Lulv. She was thinking of Oteslia, and Lulv had wanted to volunteer for that assignment. But this needed a [Spearmaster].
“Frankly, Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem have the numbers, but they’re worried about other attacks or a feint. Sokkel can improvise, but I think Milka will agree; they need to bring it to bear. They cannot trade equally against Liscor. I’ve identified three main assets: their [Strategist], who outlevels theirs, 4th Company from Liscor, and the Antinium. Do you want to amend that or requisition anyone else?”
The Antinium. Lulv focused in a heartbeat. He dipped his head for a second, thinking.
“No, Dragonspeaker. I’ll play it by ear, but I have my line of attack and fallbacks. Air support?”
“Six Wyverns. Although if we show them…”
“All I need are bombardments. I’ll head out within the hour.”
“Then I will wait on your report. Manus waits for you, Lulv.”
“Manus waits upon no foe. Thank you, Dragonspeaker Luciva. Before I go…is there anything from Makhir?”
Lulv turned once before he exited the security council. He saw Luciva’s commanding smile turn to a frown.
“Rafaema is withdrawn. She’s keeping time with Cirediel, and Makhir doesn’t cite him as a positive influence.”
“Has he ever?”
The Dragonspeaker tried to smile, but she flicked to their ongoing projection of the Oteslia-Zeres siege.
“We’ll make sure she’s safe. Get us a gauge on this new threat, Lulv. Or remove it.”
He picked up his spear and saluted her.
“With Dragon’s will, you’ll never know how good those Antinium are as a war asset. Spearmaster Lulv, sortieing.”
Then he left.
 
——
 
Lulv found his command waiting for him, ready to go by the time he reached the outer walls and the mustering point for them. He saw four hundred Drakes and Gnolls, packed and ostensibly wearing gear of [Mercenaries], albeit battle-trained ones.
No insignia, no other markers to show they were from Manus. However, subtlety tended to end there.
If Liscor’s 4th or any veteran group saw this lot coming at them in battle, they’d signal for reinforcements or retreat. It wasn’t hard to spot the faint…glimmer on weapons or armor that said that everything these [Soldiers] carried was enchanted.
Most of it wouldn’t be noticeable until it came out of its sheath, but this was not an infiltration group. The lowest-level [Soldier] here was Level 20.
“Officer present! Attention!”
The soldiers snapped to attention. Lulv addressed them quickly. He didn’t have a speech prepared, and he didn’t speak one now.
“Our designation is Wytel’s Spearlance. We are fighting for the Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem alliance, but our target is not Liscor’s general army. We will be fast-travelling via Wyvern to forty miles outside of Hectval’s war front and entering the engagement on foot. We will engage and decimate the Antinium contingent before withdrawing. If you are captured, you will be ransomed.”
He debated reinforcing the order not to identify themselves, but decided against it. These were not children. The [Soldiers] listened as Lulv rested his spear next to him.
“These current Antinium are Free Antinium that seem to have adopted Armored Antinium fighting styles. Do not assume they will stick to that strategy. Expect Skills. Mark any targets with unusual…abilities. I repeat, expect levels. We estimate most are still below Level 15. That is where they stop. Understood?”
A few quiet murmurs. Antinium with levels. That was one of Manus’ worst nightmares. Lulv heard a faint laugh amid the murmurs.
“So they’ve already out-levelled Hectval?”
Because they were veterans, Lulv didn’t expect or enforce silence, and he grinned along with the others.
“Our job isn’t to bail Hectval out. They started this mess; they can burn on it. Don’t let yourself get stabbed, but don’t clash hard with non-Antinium if you don’t have to.”
“Any veterans?”
A Gnoll raised her paw. Liscor’s army was a well-known outfit. Lulv shook his head.
“Only Liscor’s 4th. Our target is Antinium-only.”
“Sounds like we’ll be having a vacation. Level 15 Antinium? I thought this was a volunteer mission, not garrison duty.”
That wasn’t a comment to the group as a whole. Lulv’s ears perked up, and the Gnoll turned his head. The [Soldiers] recoiled instinctively as he grabbed his spear and pointed it.
“You. Out.”
A Drake froze as Lulv singled someone out in one of the columns.
“Sir?”
“Out. Get me a replacement. If any one of you thinks this is going to be an easy job where the hardest thing will be holding your tails out of the mud—step out now. The Antinium have deployed their newest combat unit. Free Antinium. Underestimate them and you’ll get your entire squad killed.”
