So odd. Crusader 51 had always vaguely assumed he was he, mainly because something told him that. He was based off of someone who had been male; ergo, he was.
However, it seemed like actual ant colonies had a lot of female ants. Crusader 51 debated what to do.
Destroy the Hive? They were by way of spoilage to foodstuffs, and one of the things a Soldier or Worker might do. However…none of the Antinium in Squad 5 moved.
Crusader 53, with his mace, kept raising it overhead to smash the opening and hesitating as the other Soldiers looked at him. He was clearly thinking the same thing.
They had to remove pests. Shield Spiders? They’d be paste in a second. Crelers? Sound the alarm!
But this wasn’t the Hive. Crusader 51 kept staring at the anthill. So…what did they do?
It never occurred to him that nothing was an option. The Crusaders squatted around the anthill during breakfast for over an hour, until Tersk spoke.
“Squads, assemble. March! Battalion 3, to the front!”
The [Crusaders] shot to their feet and strode away. Yet the petrified little ants realized not one had been stepped on or squished. The Titanomachy was over. Were they saved or spared?
They might never know. Crusader 51 marched smoothly into his squad’s position in Battalion 1. His squad of ten was boxed into a battalion of five hundred in an odd pattern, at least to Crusader 51.
The Antinium Soldiers were used to moving in a tightly-packed wave of bodies that surrounded foes and dragged them down. However, under Tersk and Dekass, the Antinium moved and fought in the Armored Antinium’s style.
In ranks. Spaced out to give each warrior room to swing a weapon, with a second rank buried behind the first.
In that way, Squads 1-5 might face the foe while Squads 6-10, armed with longer weapons like pikes or halberds, would thrust and stab through the gap or move in.
It was neat, orderly…and odd to Crusader 51. However, as part of Battalion 1, he was ready to fight. Which was why he was entirely confused when Batallion 3 marched ahead of the others into the first ridgeline pass as Liscor’s army cautiously advanced.
Why Battalion 3? Crusader 51 didn’t feel unhappy. Just confused. The battalion in front might get hurt. Die. It wasn’t that he pitied them either; he just didn’t understand the logic.
Some battalions in the Antinium division were armed with bows, or different assortments of weapons, but Battalion 1 and 3 were functionally similar. The main difference…was that Battalion 3 had crossbows instead of bows on their backs.
Crusader 51 had been issued with a Soldier-bow, which meant it was designed so even he could put an arrow on the string with his clumsy digits. The crossbows of Battalion 3 were in even shorter supply; they had oversized triggers so a Soldier could pull them. They were so cumbersome to reload you got one shot unless you had a break from the fighting.
One shot, as Dekass would happily point out, was more than zero. Math.
It was he who led Battalion 3 into battle. From the rear, but still ahead of the others. Crusader 51 had mixed feelings on that, too.
If Tersk and Dekass were new, they were still Prognugators and to be obeyed. Yet if Tersk, for all Calruz had struck him, was more like Pawn, then Dekass was the Ksmvr or Klbkch. Why, exactly, Crusader 51 couldn’t say. It was his…reputation?
These things spread through the Antinium without much verbal exchange. In Crusader 51’s mind, it simply was that Tersk was probably better to lead than Dekass. Dekass ate too much food. Dekass was greedy. Dekass was less intelligent. And Dekass was still better than Pivr, who Crusader 51 had never met and didn’t want to.
 
——
 
The Antinium advance ran into an attack in the first hour of marching. The [Crusaders] came to a stop as Dekass spotted movement down the pass. Then a line of Drakes and Gnolls advanced, and the first [Fireball] spell exploded among their ranks.
Contact! Battalion 3 was engaged!
“Tersk to Commander Olesm. One [Mage] capable of [Fireball]. Dekass is holding ground. Battalions 1 and 2, advance! Cover Battalion 3’s flank! That position! [Precise Orders]!”
Tersk was booming, and Crusader 51 marched forwards—not to join Battalion 3, which was fighting the Drakes and Gnolls, but to their left flank.
They had been attacked in a V-shaped intersection, and while fighting had engulfed the right, Tersk clearly thought another attack was coming on their left. Crusader 51 had his sword drawn, his long thrusting dagger, and two shields on his right raised.
You do not have the room to maneuver. Do not disrupt the fighting line if possible! Make economical strikes! Defense is paramount to offense; the enemy will tire and give you a weakness! 
Calruz’s words bellowed in his mind. Crusader 51 was ready. Stab through the gap, raise the shield to cover his face like so, angled such that only an arrow from dead ahead would even find the narrow gap between helmet and shield cover.
He waited.
And waited.
And realized the enemy was fighting Battalion 3. Crusader 51 hesitated. He saw Crusader 53 turning his head to check the enemy. The other Soldiers in Squad 5 shifted ever-so-slightly.
What a strange way to fight! This wasn’t like the Hive. In the Hive, they would be engaged now and fighting, sometimes surrounded by the foe.
Hundreds of swarming insect-monsters, or surrounding a whipping Flesh Worm. Or—Face Stealer would be there, and every Soldier would be falling over.
If the armored foes attacked, they would fill the tunnels after passing Belgrade’s traps. And each Soldier not resting or retreating would be moving to a new hotspot; when the dungeon attacked, it was fighting, sometimes for hours—until it was abruptly done.
This?
Battalion 3 was fighting a rank of Drakes and Gnolls, who very politely weren’t exploding through the stone to grab Antinium and drag them into the darkness. Nothing was scuttling on the ceiling, and there weren’t any fliers.
When an attack did come, it was from the left as Tersk had predicted. A second group of Drakes and Gnolls charged down the pass, shouting.
“Drisshia! Drisshia triumphant!”
They had long pikes and heavy armor. Battalion 3 was advancing as their opponents peeled away; Crusader 51 was aware of Tersk bellowing.
“Battalion 3—hold! Hold—”
They met in a clash. Crusader 51 saw a pike aimed at his chest and side-stepped it. The tip skated off his shield, ran into an Antinium behind Crusader 51, and stopped as the Antinium blocked it. The Drake holding the pike slammed to a stop, and one behind him darted forwards with a sword and shield of his own.
“Die, Ants!”
He lunged, stabbing at the only spot he could see; Crusader 51’s face. The Antinium parried the sword.
The Drake’s eyes bulged, and he swung his shield across his body. Crusader 51 saw the Drake stumble backwards as Crusader 53 brought his mace down on an arm and someone screamed.
Still less noisy than hearing a Flesh Worm shriek. And…Crusader 51 saw the panicked [Soldier]’s shield blocking his face and chest.
So he stabbed the Drake in the inner elbow of the sword arm. Not deep enough; the sword didn’t slice the arm off, but the Drake screamed.
“Miuss! Get back!”
The pike-Drake thrust his friend back and the Drake retreated. 
“Potion! Get a potion—”
“Fall back! Fall back! Allies away!”
Another Drake came at Crusader 51, and he blocked a sword that bounced off his shield. When he went to riposte, his opponents were running. Crusader 51 found himself, sword poised for a thrust, with no one to thrust at.
The attack had just come to test Battalion 1’s defenses, or let the other force fall back. Either way…Tersk hesitated.
“Hold ground! Bows!”
Crusader 51 fumbled for his bow and raised an arrow. He loosed as Tersk bellowed; he watched his arrow fall short and two Drakes fall. One got up as his friends pulled him to his feet. The other did not.
And then the battle was over. Crusader 51 was left with blood on the tip of his sword, a miffed feeling…and the Antinium’s first victory spreading across Liscor’s army.
However, it wasn’t Battalion 1, Squad 5’s victory. It was Battalion 3’s.
 
 
 
 
Embria, [Wing Commander]
 
When the first contact report came in, Olesm snapped an order through her speaking stone.
“Wing commander! To Tersk’s position! Be ready to assist!”
“Damn, damn, damn. We have to help the Ants?”
Vell shouted, but Wing Commander kicked her mare into a gallop.
“On me!”
4th Company didn’t waste time. They shot towards the pass where the Antinium were engaged and that was when Embria—and the rest of Liscor’s officers and Olesm himself—got to see how the Antinium did.
Embria had seen the [Crusaders] breaking the enemy morale before, but this was the first time these Antinium had gone into combat. She had to confess, aside from knowing the enemy, she was curious to know how they did.
Tersk and Dekass had been informed they should leave a passage for reinforcements like 4th Command to maneuver in the tighter passes, so 4th Company came to a halt behind the engaged battalions. Tersk was holding an intersection on one side, Dekass on the right.
“Idiots think they can take a two-pronged attack? Why not just pull back?”
“Can’t see what’s coming if they do. This isn’t bad strategy.”
Vell and Pielt argued the soundness of the two Prognugators’ strategy. Embria didn’t interject; she was watching the battalion who’d met the enemy in force.
It looked like these [Soldiers] were Drisshian. Embria knew the alliance, and Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem were a mixed army. Each city had a specialty. Hectval? Archers. Good fletching. Luldem had magic. Drisshia?
Armor. Their heavy infantry were decent. 4th Company could chew them up and spit them out, but they stacked up well against average groups. By the looks of it, their commander had known Antinium were coming and decided to try an old standby of the early Antinium wars on them.
Which was the armored charge. Pikes, longer weapons, ram into them, cut them up, and fall back. Superior damage and potentially no losses if you erased them.
…It was a solid Antinium Wars-era tactic, and Embria would have personally kicked anyone who suggested it on this group. That tactic worked because you were facing massed Antinium. It did work if they were boxed up in a narrow pass.
But these Antinium? They had armor.
You idiots. She growled at Drisshia’s forces as they slammed into Battalion 3 and it became a melee. Was she rooting for the enemy? No! But…
The Drakes and Gnolls slammed into the Antinium, and their long weapons failed to down their foes. The ones armed with swords and maces and whatnot charged forwards and ran into a line of Antinium. It was then that Embria recognized the tactics Dekass employed.
Armored Antinium fighting.
Each [Crusader] blocked and swung their weapons in a rhythmic pattern, fast, hard cuts or slashes, just like Calruz taught them. They hunkered behind shields and their armor, and their foes found themselves battering against foes with just as much armor as they had.
Few figures fell on either side. About six Antinium were down after that [Fireball], but they were stumbling up.
“To the rear! Squad 3, advance!”
Dekass smoothly let the wounded retreat, and another squad rotated in. The Prognugator was doing something…odd. Embria didn’t feel the need to charge and advised Olesm as much.
“We’re watching a punching match, Commander. Antinium…might be winning. Check that. They are.”
“Hold ground, then, Wing Commander.”
“Received.”
The Drakes and Gnolls were getting the worst of it. Drisshia might have veteran soldiers, but they did not like four arms. They were hesitant, watching for more attacks and struggling to deal with the simple fact of two blades coming at them when a [Crusader] struck.
However, armor was armor, and the truth was…neither side was hurting the other. Embria didn’t see any amazing bladework, so Liscor’s and Drisshia’s forces just hit each other as hard as they could. If one side dropped a shield or fell, then they were likely to die, especially as heavy as the armor was.
Enchanted weapons could cut through armor. Veterans like 4th Company could aim for gaps. Skills changed things, or a charge…this was good, old-fashioned Golem boxing.
Golem boxing, a term for heavy infantry fighting. Embria watched for a minute, then two, as neither side gave in. Then that peculiar thing happened.
Dekass had been doing something odd, standing behind Battalion 3, his enchanted shield raised to cover his face in case of spells or attacks. He had made the Workers with bows shower that [Mage] and other [Archers], but no Antinium were dying as some arrows rattled off shields and helmets.
However, Dekass had been…head bobbing? Ever-so-slightly, his head had been going up and down, up and down. Embria had wondered if he were sick, but she now knew what the Prognugator was doing.
“Squads 1, 3, 4, fall back! Squads 5, 6, 7, advance!”
The [Crusaders] fighting Drisshia’s front line…disengaged and stepped backwards, and the Drakes and Gnolls, surprised, watched a second squad advance straight into them. Fresh Soldiers hammered down Drisshia’s front as the Drakes backed up.
“Huh. What was that?”
Vell blinked at the odd tactic. Embria heard a grunt. Captain Wikir was glaring at Dekass.
“That’s Armored Antinium tactics. They’re rotating [Soldiers].”
4th Company murmured. Embria was familiar with the tactic; you simply rotated in a new line of fresh [Soldiers] every so often. Liscor’s Army didn’t use it; they had Skills that made up for exhaustion, and that took a lot of numbers and training.
It made sense to do with the Antinium, though. She watched Dekass head-bobbing and realized—he was counting.
Two minutes of fighting and he’d order a change. Drisshia’s own began to fall as their commander was unable to pull off the same maneuver and the exhausted front fell back in disarray.
Whoever was leading Drisshia’s forces tried to retreat. Embria saw the heavy infantry turn—and then saw Dekass raise an arm.
“Crossbows! Loose!”
The snap of Crusaders in the back ranks firing their crossbows made Embria and all of 4th wince. Now she understood why the Prognugator hadn’t ordered them to fire during the charge.
More screaming [Soldiers] went down. Drisshia turned, bringing up shields to try to cover their retreat, which slowed them down. And Dekass?
“Advance!”
He rolled Battalion 3 at them in a slow onslaught as fresh [Crusaders] marched on the retreating Drisshian forces.
“Flanking charge. Looks like they’re bailing their buddies out.”
Pielt pointed, and Embria saw a second charge coming down from the left. It did about as well as the first one, but both groups were fleeing. Dekass continued advancing until a wall of flames burst from the ground.
