Ameliah shook her head. “Once we’re out. Come on.” She walked past a disappointed-looking Carten and skirted around the pillar in the center of the room. She was heading for the portal, which had appeared on the far wall. The group followed her, chatting happily at the prospect of fresh air and sunlight.

As Rain passed the core, he paused. It was at around eye-level, and despite the lightening of the lair, it still looked unbelievably black. It was so dark that he had trouble telling if it was three dimensional, all sense of depth having been swallowed in its reflectionless surface. Only the shape of the stone holding it allowed him to get any sense of its form. It wasn’t perfectly spherical, more of a lopsided oval. He couldn’t tell if—

“Rain,” Ameliah said.

He turned to see her waiting for him at the portal. The others had already gone through. “Come on. We’ll come back for it later.”

“Right,” he said, hurrying to follow. He stepped through the portal after her and found himself back in the tiled stone hallway that led to the entrance of the lair. He turned back to look at the portal. It appeared exactly the same as it had before. He placed his hand on it and the same glowing symbols appeared: the five, showing the lair’s rank, and the percentage, now reading as zero.

“How long before it’s back to full?” Val asked.

“It depends,” Jamus said. “This was quite an adventure for a rank 5 lair. I’d expect it would take a while. Ameliah?”

“Yes. This was unusually difficult. A maze type, with several distinct monster varieties, a blue, and several traps. I’d say at least a month.”

“What!? A month?!” Carten roared. “You never said we’d be out here a month!”

“Quiet,” she said, staring at him. “No need to overreact. It will take a month to get back to full, yes, but it should recover enough by tomorrow for it to be worth coming back. Lairs recover quickly when they are fully depleted. However, I wouldn’t expect it to recover enough to resummon the maze for at least a week. Longer if you want any hope of another blue.”

“Oh,” Carten said, mollified.

The walk back up the tunnel had been slow and excruciating. Rain was in constant discomfort the entire way, and from the look on Val’s face, so was he. The feeling was odd; it wasn’t like soreness after a workout or anything else he had experienced before. It wasn’t just tiredness; everything felt weak and tender. His muscles and bones ached with every movement. He’d asked Jamus about it after hauling himself up the ledge that led back into the mine. It turned out to be something about the differences between the different types of soulstrain. The mage had been happy to explain as they slowly wound their way back up to the surface.

Health soulstrain caused weakness like he was feeling. It could be triggered by losing too much health all at once, or by excessive healing. Stamina soulstrain was characterized by soreness and lethargy, and you could get it in a similar way. Mana soulstrain, on the other hand, caused crippling headaches and sensory problems.

Jamus apparently had issues with something called ‘mana starvation’, saying that he got cranky and sensitive to light if he got below a third of his maximum mana. He said it was a related effect to mana soulstrain, but not entirely the same thing. Rain had no idea if he was right, his own headaches having gone away completely somewhere around the 100 Clarity mark. They hadn’t even been that bad to begin with.

There were other types of soulstrain as well. Experience soulstrain caused intense nausea, sweating, and a whole litany of other symptoms that he’d already had the pleasure of sampling. Equipment soulstrain was an interesting one that Val had told him about, lamenting the untimely death of his jacket. Apparently, there was a maximum combined strength for enchantments worn on your body that had something to do with your level. It was the reason a random farmer couldn’t just pick up a legendary sword and go kill a dragon—also, dragons were a thing.

Eventually, they made it to the entrance of the mine. They hadn’t encountered any monsters along the way, nor run into Tallheart, though there were signs of his activity in the form of pulverized walls and piles of rocks lying around. He wasn’t a very tidy miner, it seemed.

Carten pushed open the wooden door to the mine and sighed in relief at the sight of the evening sun. Rain followed him out. He shivered as he moved out into the open. The cold was quite painful to his tender skin as he blinked in the evening light.

Oh hey, it’s snowing! I guess that means we’re in winter now.

He looked around at the thin blanket of white powder covering the ground. There were more slow, lazy flakes falling from the sky.

“Gah! Fuck that’s cold!” Val said as he followed Rain out. His entire chest was bare due to the damage to his clothing. Rain could sympathize. His own skin felt frozen and raw, as if he’d been out in the elements for hours, not just a few seconds.

Damn soulstrain.

Carten stomped down the slope, following a set of boot tracks. Rain trailed after him, eager to meet up with Tallheart, then get something to drink and sit down beside a nice warm fire.
