Erick responded right away. Jane succeeded in keeping her emotions out of the line, as they talked about easy subjects. Erick talked of his first day hunting for wyrms; they’d found none, of course. Jane asked after his defenses and sleeping arrangements. Poi had set up all of that. Jane smiled, secure in the fact that her father was okay, for tonight.

Erick sent, ‘And oh yeah! I made this really nice spell. [Pure Force Beam Bolt]. Here’. An image came down the line, a snapshot sight of [Pure Force Beam Bolt] and another of normal [Force Beam Bolt].

Her father’s version of the spell, was, of course, twice as good as the original.

Jane laughed.

‘I thought it might help you to know that there’s a resonance between [Force Beam] and [Force Bolt]. They’re already so close, you just have to feel that resonance and match the spells together. Imagine constructive interference. I would have never felt it if I didn’t know about enchanting.’

Jane smiled. ‘I’ll have to try that later.’ She added, ‘I made a new spell today, too.’ Jane sent him an image of [Shadoward], sending, ‘Lets me escape any situation with [Shadowalk].’

Erick’s happiness flowed through the line, as he said, ‘That’s really good, Jane.’

Yetta and her people appeared at the end of the road. Jane stood up, making herself obviously visible to anyone with eyes to see. Yetta's entire adventuring party froze for a brief moment.

A telepathic connection from Yetta touched Jane’s mind, ‘Jane?’

‘Yup! Sorry about the delay.’

Yetta’s party walked across the glowing bridge toward Jane. Dorthy waved. Yetta cut her connection to Jane.

Jane sent to Erick, ‘I’ll talk to you later, Dad. I gotta go. I love you.’

‘Love you too. Good night.’

‘Good night.'

Jane [Shadowalk]ed to ten meters away from Yetta. [Scry] eyes filled the air around the Champion, but at Jane’s entrance some of them transferred to her. Night had fully seized the sky while Jane was communicating with her father. Ar’Kendrithyst glowed from within, illuminating everyone and everything in brilliant reds and bright violets, while shadows relaxed inside the crystal.

Yetta asked, “Rutile is dead?”

Jane nodded, choosing her words very carefully, and with great help from Killzone, “I took him by surprise, but I did not kill him. His downfall was his own arrogance. A dungeon of antirhine? What sort of idiot does that?”

The laughter of every single Shade around Jane and Yetta echoed across the glowing kendrithyst towers of the Dead City; an orchestra of schadenfreude.

Yetta simply nodded, as she pointed forward, past Jane. “The next Daydropper is over there, twenty kilometers. We have ten dungeons left until Planter. There will be no rest until he’s dead.”

Jane had slept in till noon for exactly this reason. She was ready for a full night of work, and rescues.

She nodded, saying, “That would be Skyhook. Expect monsters made of air.”

Basil asked, “Spider form?”

Jane obliged, dispelling her armor, transforming, and remaking her armor, practically all at once.

Yetta and her team fell in behind Jane, as Jane led the way, her spider legs tapping across the glowing red and purple roads of Ar’Kendrithyst, far under a starry sky.
