“Can you guys see down here?” Jane asked, tapping ahead of Yetta’s party.

Even with her spider senses and eight watchful eyes, the sunlight of the world above was a very far thing, all the way down here. Jane, Yetta, Dorthy, Cyril, Basil, and Allan, were at least forty kilometers below the towering peaks of Ar’Kendrithyst. Down here, the crystal was kilometers thick and space was at a premium; the gaps between the kendrithyst sometimes only a meter wide.

Yet the land down here was not truly dark; not yet, and certainly not to Jane. The crystal glowed dark purple and darker red; even normal people could eventually adjust to the darkness down here. But most normal people never got the chance. Shadows moved inside the crystal, always waiting, always watching. Monsters lived down here, but they were either the small ones, that were able to move in the cramped quarters, or monsters able to move through the kendrithyst like it was an ocean.

Jane watched those monsters now, deep in the crystal, all around. But the monsters never attacked; they never stuck a single tentacle out of the crystal to swipe at anyone.

The danger down here was compounded by the terrain. If you couldn’t glide through the crystal, you had to walk along the walls, or create your own paths. Jane walked along the walls. She had expended more HP through physical exertion and [Hunter’s Instincts] than [Shadowalk]-sticking to the outside of the crystal, as she guided Yetta and her crew through the maze of the lowest, lower reaches. The occasional [Invisible Rejuvenation] kept Jane’s health high, while her mana never dropped below 2900.

Yetta said, “It’s not that dark.”

Yetta’s party each followed Jane in their own way. The Champion herself glowed with a [Fly] spell, as she moved through the air with the greatest of ease, sticking close to Jane, ruining everyone’s nightvision. But she wasn’t the only one glowing. Allan and Dorthy floated on a dark [Force Platform] Allan had conjured, while Cyril floated on a glittering white cloud of his own, keeping to the center of their formation.

Basil was a brown owl of some sort. He flew completely silent and completely dark, in an easy, lazy way, [Airshape] holding him aloft. Command didn’t know Basil’s Class, but they suspected it was Polymage. Jane almost had questions for him, but now was not the time.

Not when the eyes of Ar’Kendrithyst were upon them, and they were walking into an ambush.

Yetta had her [Cleanse Aura] on right now, too, probably as a precaution against Daydroppers, considering the air didn’t get around much this far down into the city. Thick air flowed around Yetta, touching everything for tens of meters, spilling clean air though tunnels that were not used to movement.

Jane looked forward, saw the danger waiting, and decided that her previous warning about the darkness was not being taken seriously. Jane said, “It’s very warm down here in the lower reaches, isn’t it?”

Yetta looked at Jane. Telepathic conversation fluttered between her and her party, as she said, “It’s warm, but we’re okay.” She asked, “Are you?”

“[Shadowalk] is pretty cooling, all on its own.”

Jane watched Yetta with a backward-facing eye, as she simultaneously scanned ahead, trying to decipher the ambush waiting for them in the open space beyond the tunnel. Yetta gave no indication that she was preparing for anything.

… Jane would just have to trust that Yetta was capable.

Tap tap tap, were the last sounds Jane made, as she fully activated [Hunter’s Instincts] and [Shadowalk], and all her movements turned completely silent. The hair on her legs picked up the faintest vibrations; she knew there was some sort of danger waiting for them in the vast open space just beyond the tunnel; where nothing moved yet violet light poured into the tunnel. But she didn’t quite understand what she was seeing. As soon as she rounded the bend, gliding into the room, Jane [Shadowalk]ed fully into the crystal under her feet, scurrying around the edge, preparing for pain.

The room in front of the dungeon was like two football fields, one tilted and dumping onto the other, the lower one full of kendrithyst shards deep enough to form something of a flat floor, while the larger field above was slanted, save for outcrops of dark crystal here and there. Hangings overhead, like crystal stalactites, gave off a violet glow, casting the room into deep shadows.

Between the shard pit and the slanted part of the room, was a hole; the start of the dungeon. The dungeon was completely dark to Jane’s [Eyes of Magic], because even though it was through the kendrithyst, the tunnel was also full of antirhine. This was Rutile’s sanctum, the Blacksmith, and Jane was very worried about Yetta’s chances. No one ever gave Rutile enough respect as an enemy; antirhine weapons carved through all magic.

And that shard pit looked weird. It was partially invisible to Jane’s [Eyes of Magic]; there was lead in that pit, but why?

Boom boom boom.

The tunnel behind Jane began to collapse. Yetta and her team rushed out of the tunnel, following Jane into the larger room, as the ceiling of the tunnel fully caved in, billowing dust and debris across the much of Yetta’s people. Yetta, Cyril, and Basil spread out as chunks of crystal crashed into the shard pit below. Dorthy and Allan moved in, but not much. They stabilized just outside of the collapsed tunnel, riding Allan’s dark [Force Platform], waiting for something more to happen.

Where the chunks of crystal hit the pit, the shards began to glow, began to swirl, and to Jane’s eyes, it was like a million separate pieces of a scattered monster were coming to life, as threads of power wound through each individual shard of crystal, but not all the way. Something was strange; and Jane thought she knew what it was, when she noticed that the monster’s threads of power which should have been whole and unbroken, were instead dotted; like half the pile of stone shards was blocking her vision.

That was probably exactly it. Rutile made golems; this was not a monster. It was, somehow, a lead golem.

The golem flowed together, rock tumbling over rock; sounding like an avalanche and a groaning, straining beast all at once.

Allan threw two dozen [Force Buzzsaws], gleaming white and black things that ripped through the air, but the golem flexed, bringing together its lead parts against Allan’s spell. The buzzsaw touched the golem only to spark apart into dust and loose mana.

The shard pit fully came together, lifting from the bottom of the ravine like a monster made of stone tentacles, standing upon pillars of itself as it clutched the ceiling. Every single shard was not actually a shard, but a piece of kendrithyst with a ring of antirhine fully encircling what was probably a buffering layer of kendrithyst, and an inner enchanted center.

The golem reached for Yetta, but she moved much too fast for such a slow attack. Yetta casually eyed the failed attack as bits of the golem splashed against the kendrithyst at her back. Yetta flew further out of the way, avoiding the chaotic jumble of half-lead pieces that ricocheted off the wall, half of the golem-parts breaking as they hit the side of the cavern, sending kendrithyst dust and chips of lead into the air.

This wasn’t a very well made golem; but it didn’t have to be. All it had to do was touch one of them, and they were dead. If any of their flight spells failed they would fall into the ravine, into the churning, crushing swirl of stone and lead that was the golem’s base. If that didn’t kill them, all the monster would have to do was to sit down, and any of them would die under tons and tons of lead.

Yetta and Basil flew around the room, distracting the golem with tiny [Force Bolts]; it didn’t seem to care. The golem flexed so that the bolts touched lead; the spells did nothing.

Allan gathered power, ripping fire out of the air, throwing it around the room in steady arcs, igniting the air around the monster, as he flew himself and Dorthy out of range of a counter attack. Allan's spell was an indirect attack, meant to heat the air and thus melt the lead of the golem. It might have worked, if the golem didn’t instantly recognize the threat and swing itself through the airborne spell, shattering the magic sustaining the heat.

Tentacles of smashing stone whipped around the room. Basil dodged a hail of shards that crashed into the wall behind him. Most of that attack slid to the bottom of the room, to rejoin the storm of shards rising back into the air, while the golem was already attacking Cyril. Cyril dodged, but shards clipped the clouds holding the prince in the air; he didn’t fall, the cloud didn’t break, but less of the cloud was there than before. Cyril quickly pumped out a white-gold cloud of magic, that reinforced his flight spell; he suddenly moved a lot faster than before.

But if the lead golem decided to become a hurricane, every single person in the room would die; a [Teleport Lock] hung in the air, pressing against Jane’s consciousness like a bad memory.

Jane could probably make it out, though. [Teleport Lock] didn’t block [Shadowalk].

Yetta yelled, “We’re moving on!” She ignored the hole in the ceiling that led straight up, and the wide, open road at the top of the slanted room. Yetta pointed at the third most obvious way out; a crack in the nearby stone that led to a dark canyon. “Move it, Jane!”

Jane yelled, before the boos from the audience could rival the noise of the golem and anyone had a chance to move to the exit, “Rutile always makes fantastic weapons! It will help you kill Planter!”

The audience of Shades went silent, except for a few cheers; they wanted to see a fight. They wanted blood and death.

The golem became a wave, became a moving mass, crawling up the walls of the room, aiming for all of Yetta's party, all at once.

Dorthy held onto Allan’s force platform as Allan flew around the arena, casting some sort of glowing, minor magic, like he was scattering flying grains of glowing, black rice. A wave of lead-rimmed shards flowed to reach for Allan, dispersing much of the armored mage’s black rice magic, but some of the black rice touched the kendrithyst space behind the lead rims of the golem's body.

The magic links between the shards of the golem vanished as black rice turned into buzzsaws, ripping through the enchanted kendrithyst centers of each piece of the golem. The spell didn’t get far, but it didn’t have to; Allan was chain casting his spell. More black rice filled the air, continually cutting through more and more of the golem, sending more and more of it to the bottom of the ravine; broken and unmoving.

Jane watched, as everyone avoided the golem’s multi-pronged attacks like they were nothing. Allan’s magic did all the work of slowly, methodically, disassembling the golem from the inside out.

It took ten rock crashing minutes, but the lead golem was reduced to actual shards, with little actual difficulty. Cyril had to redo his cloud several times, and a piece of Allan’s force platform came loose and Dorthy had to scramble to keep in the sky, but killing this lead golem, which Jane had no idea how she would even begin to disassemble, was easy for them. Yetta and her people just had to make the decision to actually kill the golem.

That’s probably what made Jane angrier than anything.

It made the people talking in Jane’s mind rather mad, too.

She yelled, “What the fuck! I’ve never even seen an antirhine golem like that, and you guys tear it apart! What the fuck, Allan! Why did you accept that pact! You could have killed that Umbral Wyrm!”

A dozen Shady voices agreed, and Jane realized she fucked up.

Jane yelled out, just as loud, “Nevermind! I don’t need to know.”

That got a round of minor booing out of the Shades.

‘Everything they show is another tactic that Planter can plan against,’ Killzone sent.

Jane felt mortified. Of course Planter could plan against anything he saw; Jane knew this. She just let her anger get the better of her. She tried to salvage the situation, saying, “Maybe Rutile will have the perfect weapon to use against Planter.”

Tiny laughter filled the otherwise silent canyon.

Killzone sent, ‘That might have been good; we’ll find out.’

Yetta glared daggers at Jane, while [Telepathy] bounced around their group. Basil flew closer to the tunnel, like he wanted to go inside. He hovered outside of the dungeon, while the rest of their party adjusted their positions around the room.

The golem in the ravine might have been transformed into dust and debris, but that didn’t stop Allan from feeding buzzsaw rice down into the shardpile, making sure the creature was dead, while they talked amongst themselves.

Jane watched as shapes moved through the dark kendrithyst walls of the room; none of the shapes looked particularly worrisome.

Allan stopped scattering black rice and flew his platform toward the tunnel; Yetta and Cyril followed, with owl-Basil taking up the rear. Dorthy leapt from Allan’s platform, onto the ground in front of the tunnel, just a meter away from the shard pit.

They were going in.

Jane almost cheered! They were going to rescue the hostages!

Violet light errupted into the air, fully illuminating the room, as ribbons of white light flowed out from the tunnel, not touching the antirhine walls as they unfurled in front of Yetta's people. The ribbon lights crawled everywhere, across the ceiling, illuminating the whole of the shard-golem's room.

Above the dungeon tunnel, the ribbons spelled out, “Congratulations! You have a choice! Delve for the hostages, or accept a weapon to use against Planter!”

“Weapon,” Allan said, with zero hesitation.

Jane wanted to scream.

So she did. “Allan! You mother fucker!”

The ribbons of light changed, “If Jane wants to rescue the hostages on her own, she can! I’ll even tone down the difficulty, Shade’s Honor!”

Yetta floated in the center of the room, speaking to Jane, “We will not enter this antirhine dungeon, if we don't have to. We will take the weapon. If you want to risk your life in there, go ahead.” A thin pulse of intent flashed out of Yetta. “The Daydropper here has been killed. We have no reason to venture into certain death. Neither do you, Jane.” She pointed up, at the hole in the ceiling. “We’re going to the next dungeon.”

‘What about us? Are we sending anyone inside?’ Jane asked Command.

Killzone sent, 'We’re having an argument about. If you want to go, you can. Your choice; make it fast.’

