The fountains burbled wonderfully. The grass and flowers had been manicured one last, rushed-yet-perfect time. The windows and the walls were cleaned recently.

And a trumpeter announced Erick’s arrival with a rapid blast of sound.

A good forty knights and other assorted important people stood at rapt attention, lining both sides of the road leading into the castle. Down the blue road, standing in the massive archway leading inside, waited Regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker, Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker, and off to the side, Lord Aroido Tidewalker.

Augustive and Aroido possessed similar features; a normal height for a man, black hair with a bit of grey in it, though Augustive had a lot more grey, and similar builds. They were older men who still clung to power, and it showed. More so in Augustive’s position at the center of the arrangement though, and since he had a gold-coin shoulder cape to go along with his grey suit. That shoulder cape was the mark of his office of Regent, passed down from the former Last King of the Archipelago some few hundred years ago to the Tidewalker family. The Tidewalkers were the regents until the Stormcaller family returned, but those last, hidden family members had been killed by Shades before they could retake the throne. And now, the Regency held power.

Archmage Wiloza was an elderly woman, maybe 85, with grey hair done up in a bun, and tanned skin. She looked wiry, and rather perturbed at finally seeing Erick in the flesh. A lot of people here shared that sort of look as they gazed upon Erick. Erick had once made vague promises to never come here unless it was absolutely needed, and now, the need was here, and everyone was on edge.

Where was Head Priestess Tiza Nindi, though? Erick supposed he did specify 3 people, at most, but he still expected Tiza to ignore that command and come anyway. A quick check with Ophiel showed that Tiza was at the Blue Church, currently arguing with Sailor Asmus, who was giving just as good as he got. Erick decided not to pay attention to that anymore.

A bunch of thoughts and concerns flitted through Erick’s mind as he strode forward, down the blue road, to stand before the Regent and his people. The soldiers on both sides of the road barely breathed, holding their tension in their lungs and shoulders and in their legs. Some people peeked out from windows high up in the castle; worry writ large on their faces.

What was the Wizard going to do?

What indignity were they going to suffer?

Would the Wizard stay long—

Regent Augustive began to speak before Erick got all the way to a proper speaking distance. “The Regency greets you and welcomes you to Storm’s Edge, Wizard Flatt. We would ask your intentions in this unprompted visit.”

Erick stood before Augustive, and said, “I heard a great calamity was either coming or already here, and I came to ensure the best possible outcome for all. How would you like to proceed, Regent Augustive?”

“We would proceed first with telling the Wizard that he is on foreign soil at the moment, and that though we are allies, he has little power over our internal matters. Secondly, we do welcome your assistance, but only in the ways that we wish for your assistance to occur. To discuss the coming order of events, please join us in the meeting hall, where we have prepared a briefing of events and some light appetizers, for what is happening right now is well under control. If, when we are done with the briefing, that you decide there is further need for your assistance, we would discuss that. But as of right now, all that needs to be done is being done, and you’ve never been here before, Wizard Flatt.” Regent Augustive smiled diplomatically, saying, “So let the Regency treat you to our bounty.”

“I accept.” And then more friendly, “I heard you have some good fishing here.”

A polite chuckle. “Some of the best in the world!”

After the act out front, Erick followed Augustive into the castle, down the hallway, talking of nothing of much importance at all, such as the state of the ocean and the weather, which was under control. People were watching, after all.

Erick saw no sign of Everbless.

- - - -

The meeting hall was a rather normal affair of one grand table in the center, some paper shapers and similar sorts standing off to the side who were waiting for their turn to speak or to hand out papers, if necessary. There was also a nice, multi-window view of Storm’s Edge, spread out below, across the mountainside and all the way down to the harbor.

Aroido shut the doors to the meeting hall and flicked a switch on the wall, connecting a latent Privacy spellwork to the node network, and enveloping the room in a modicum of security. It wasn’t perfect, but it was the latest, publicly available model of Privacy runework, available for purchase by governments, through House Benevolence. The windows occluded, turning messy, like someone had dragged a hand through a painting of the world outside, but it was just a Privacy filling up the windows, and also running through the walls.

Erick spoke first. “Augustive. The prophecy is a true one. Storm’s Edge is facing some sort of danger, and the dungeons must be made into something to contain and protect the people of this land. I will be assisting here in some deep capacity to ensure that happens, but I will also be combating whatever this disaster is, however it should appear. I would like for my assistance here at this end of solving this prophecy to be minimally disruptive for your people, but it will happen, and the treaties we have between our two powers will ensure that whatever we decide here will remain in place going forward, even after I deal with whatever storms are coming.” Erick said, “Also, Sininindi has finally given me leave to visit Everbless, so I am going to be doing that occasionally from now on.”

Hitting them with so much stuff that they couldn’t properly form a response was a tried and true tactic.

Mostly, everyone from the Regency bristled, unsure where to begin. Archmage Wiloza had an idea of where to begin, but it was not her place to speak first, though Erick saw her visibly holding herself back from breaking that protocol. Lord Aroido seemed relaxed, but he was anything but relaxed…

Ah. He was ready to face his death.

Did he think that Erick was going to erase him, his brothers, and the dungeons? Probably.

Augustive bristled, too, but he formed a response fast enough. “You’d have to go to Everbless himself if you would wish to speak with him. As for this recent disaster, we greatly dislike the entire idea of putting a shelter into a dungeon, and especially since a cultist has just taken over dungeon 6! Now you and your lot might be fine with cultists walking around and doing whatever, but even you would balk at one of them taking over the infrastructure of one of your dungeons, and then turning it into whatever she wanted! She is probably the cause of the coming disaster, we are sure of it, and so, if there is anything at all that you can do for us, we ask you to eradicate Vanya Silver and Soltic Cross from dungeon 6, before we begin to entertain the idea of turning the dungeons into a shelter. Maybe, if this Vanya and Soltic were Ended, then your Benevolent Sky would clear, and there would be no need for your interference in our business.”

“… I know some of this event already, so I was under the impression that Vanya and Soltic were here on Sininindi’s orders. What makes you think that their inclusion is a bad idea?”

Aroido was surprised at that response; at the fact that Erick knew that information at all. But then he realized that of course the Wizard would know about that.

Wiloza seemed a little vindicated that Erick was willing to let Vanya and Soltic live, or maybe she was vindicated for another reason.

Augustive said, “Sininindi tests us with storms and hardship sometimes, and this must be one of those times. Perhaps her true goal is the utter destruction of the dungeons, and then to have them remade into something else. Who can say; certainly not me, and certainly not you. All your Benevolent Sky can tell us is that something bad is happening.”

“… I would hear your briefing, if you would tell it. Perhaps I will hear something I did not know before now.”

Augustive gestured to the table, to a chair for Erick, while Aroido went to the front of the room and Wiloza went to her own chair. And then, with the help of the other people in the room, Aroido rapidly began his presentation, dishing out paperwork and speaking of the history of the dungeons and how they had been trying to make them better for the past several years, but it was only in the last few years where the constant dungeon breaks stopped. This was due to some techniques worked out between the Regency and some other people that Erick would be meeting later. Dungeon breaks still happened these days, though, for Sininindi was constantly sending dungeon masters in to remake the dungeons into something better.

It was one way to look at the situation, for sure.

An incorrect way, some would say.

There was no mention of the Maryols, or of the Storm Priests, or of the Dungeon Guild, or of the fact that the dungeons were still breaking, even now, with their ‘new techniques’, and that the dungeons were barely functional right now. There was no explanation of why the dungeon breaks kept happening, actually, or how Everbless had been the only ‘solution’ to the dungeon breaks that actually worked. There was no word at all about Aroido’s potential mismanagement of the situation, or how the Regency’s primary use for the dungeons —as a monster lure and kill box— was not how the dungeons were supposed to be used, and therefore, that was their major reason for breaking all this time.

Aroido was painting all of Storm’s Edge in a very good light, and he was also trying to save his own life, no doubt. When he was about 80% through with his propaganda-filled talk, and since he didn’t seem to be getting to any of the real information—

“I’m going to stop you there,” Erick said, “Sininindi wants the dungeons better. She invited a pair of accomplished, if secretive masters to come here, and they’re probably immortal through any number of means so of course they’re secretive. They gave you a decent presentation, according to your own words. Why not let them do what they want to do down there?”

Aroido went silent.

Regent Augustive simply said, “They are unlawfully enacting their will upon this land, and that is all I really need to know in order to condemn them. Again, I would ask for your assistance in removing them from our dungeons, if anything at all, and then we can talk about creating a proper dungeon in accordance with the prophecy received today.”

Erick pretended to consider that option, then he said, “What caused this happening over there at the Pit? What caused Vanya and Soltic to lock you out?”

Aroido looked to Augustive.

Augustive nodded.

Aroido began, “I took Miss Silver and Mister Cross into dungeon 6 in order to show them around, for everyone was eager for the dungeons to get made, for Miss Silver’s presentation on her ideas was phenomenal. So I did the tour. Halfway through they turned on me, killing me. Luckily I respawned before they could take over the place, and the dungeon master managed to get me some of my prized fish out of there before they forced the dungeon master to detach from that dungeon, and then leave. Gold Taker is recuperating from— He’s the dungeon master; Gold Taker. He’s an octopus archmage, and he’s recuperating from the ordeal right now. He cannot be with us at this moment.”

Augustive winced, and tried not to show it, when Gold Taker was mentioned.

Wiloza wanted to speak, but she knew not to.

“… Okay. Now that is something I did not know.” Erick stood from his chair. “I’ve heard enough. I’m going to go knock on the dungeon entrance now and get their side of the story. With any luck, I can resolve this in an hour or two.”

Augustive stood, with Archmage Wiloza following a second behind. Augustive gestured at the other Tidewalkers in the room as he spoke, “Archmage Wiloza has already cordoned off the area with her vast Stone magics, and her plan is to continue to do that in preparation for the eventual dungeon shelter that your House has suggested we construct. She is our person who does all of that exterior dungeon work. Lord Aroido is our main contact for the interior of the dungeons, and he knows everything about them. Please accept Aroido’s assistance in going inside the dungeon, for though Miss Vanya Silver has expressed that she has a great deal of knowledge with dungeons, we doubt she could have remade it into anything truly dangerous in the last three hours, for even the fastest repro she could have created would still be floundering around for another 9 hours, at least. She hasn’t even managed to move the dungeon entrance, so how good could she be! So now is the time to [Strike]. Aroido can assist you with that.”

Aside from the fact that Vanya wasn’t moving the entrance as a part of the deals she worked out with Aroido in those last minutes of interaction...

Erick actually considered the offer of Aroido’s assistance for a moment. “… Sure. I’ll take his assistance.”

Aroido looked both pleased and terrified.

Augustive had dropped the use of his royal ‘we’ when he got upset, but now he once again spoke as a king, “We are sure that with his knowledgeable guidance, you will see the crimes of Miss Silver and Mister Cross for what they are, and that even your vaunted benevolence will see that some problems need permanent solutions.”

Aroido continued to look both pleased and terrified, for he was expecting Augustive to say that.

Erick said no more. He opened a [Gate] directly to the Pit, and walked through.

Poi rapidly followed.

Wiloza and Aroido took a moment, but they followed fast enough, while Regent Augustive remained behind.

Erick shut the [Gate] behind them.

- - - -

Erick once again stood on the ledge of the Pit, but in his normal body, and with different people standing all around him. Poi at his left, Archmage Wiloza and Lord Aroido on the right. The situation was completely different from that first time that he was here, and the ledge of the Pit was different, too. Before, it had been a cliff, with a carved, bare-stone valley down below, with holes in the world where the dungeons lay, and Everbless in the sky directing mana in his Gold Taker form.

Erick noted a distinct lack of Everbless that entire meeting they had just come, and his ‘nephew’ was absent from the sky above the Pit, as well—

