Lightning flashed in the distance. No one cared about that.

Sininindi said, “The intervention is a weak thing, and though it is powerful now, it will break if Everbless removes too much of it from the world, and once it is removed from a person, they’re immune to reinfection. He knows this, and now you know this, too. Let the intervention stand while he is a child, please, Erick. He is learning how to be a person in as normal a way as one like him can learn; don’t take that away from him.”

A moment passed in quiet thought.

Erick suspected that he and Sininindi probably would have been closer if he had handled that first interaction with Sininindi’s priests better, years and years ago when he was giving those talks on Particle Magic in the Mage’s Guildhouse of Spur. Storm Priestess Tiza Nindi was the name of the head priest at the time. She was still the head priest, if Erick recalled correctly, and he did.

“I will be telling Everbless to remove the intervention from people he wishes to be friends with.”

Sininindi gave a little nod, slow and measured.

Erick departed.

- - - -

Erick stood inside his Gate Space, checking everything out while he still had a small bit of time. The Regency had been warned that he was coming, and everything was going fine at the dungeons right now, according to a rapid check with Ophiel. All delving had stopped at the Pit, though, and some battlements had been set up around dungeon 6.

From what Erick gathered through Ophiel...

The people of the Dungeon Guild were being told that they were preparing for a dungeon break.

Barda and Nero were wanted for questioning.

House Maryol was under the control of the Regency’s rapid response teams.

And Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker was standing inside stone battlements overlooking over the Pit, and furiously casting even more castlework, lining the entire Pit like she was preparing for something horrific to come out of all those black holes in the world. Or maybe she was preparing for something to assault the Pits from the outside. Hard to tell right now. She was probably playing that option close to the chest; able to switch her angles of attack and defense either outward or inward as needed.

Everyone was in a panic out there, at Storm’s Edge. But here in the Gate Space...

A calm breeze brushed against Erick, as he gazed upward into the sky.

The sky looked alright. The whole gate space looked fine, actually; it had grown a lot from what it had been eleven years ago, though. Back then it was a land of white stone hexagons, suspended in a vast white sky, with Yggdrasil floating off in the distance. A small fountain had burbled up from the center of that land, flickering with flame at the top while also flowing water up into the air, and then outward, across the hexagon land, into the air again but sideways, and then over to Yggdrasil, connecting Yggdrasil to this gate space by way of floating water. Back then Yggdrasil had looked like a very large tree growing from a floating lake, off in the near distance.

It was the same sort of look these days, but the scale was a lot different. A lot more.

Yggdrasil was fifty kilometers tall and twice that wide. He did not cover the sky at all, though, for he was far, far away from the fountain. At least a hundred kilometers away, for he always looked the same sort of height he always had, but distance and size played grand tricks on anyone’s sight inside this land.

The platform itself was now fifty kilometers wide at the smallest parts and dotted with wild, green spaces amongst the hexagonal ground. Certain parts of the platform even extended out of sight, out past a lightning-filled horizon like stone bridges among the power lines. If one walked across those stone bridges, if they braved the lightning and the dense illuminated fog, they would eventually end up at the other gate spaces that Erick had made, all around Veird.

The fountain that existed in the center of this platform, and to a smaller extent, on every platform inside every one of Erick’s gate spaces, was no longer the small thing of the previous decade. It was now an overflowing lake, a good half a kilometer wide. The bottom of the fountain was a black abyss, while the top held a floating bonfire the size of a house, shaped like the curled-up rune of [Renew]. That rushing lake overflowed directly into several rivers, all of which flowed through deep channels, out to the edge, to form a moat around the main platform. That moat then flowed through the sky, to connect to Yggdrasil in the far, far distance.

If one hopped in that river, or in any river on any platform, and if they managed to keep floating and not fall out of the benevolent sky, they would eventually float to this central platform, and then to Yggdrasil.

Anyone taking such a trip would need to be mindful of the lightning, though.

Tangles of lightning held all around, like white lines of power, never thundering, but always making themselves known, especially with those few black tangles here and there. In those places the lightning did not flow freely like it should.

There weren’t a lot of those tangles these days. Most of them were rather more grey, than black, and those that did exist were generally good things.

Over there was the induction of a boy into Candlepoint university, and the subsequent creation of computers on Veird. Another tangle held the same eventuality but a good 60 more years in the future, so whatever was happening there was not too set in stone… Or set ‘in the sky’, as some people were saying these days. Erick kept his eyes on that particular tangle sometimes. Most days he ignored everything he saw, though, because it was all so ‘up in the air’, which was another multi-meaning saying that was spreading amongst the people of House Benevolence. None of these things were absolutes. All of these futures were possibilities, deeper than most. The only ones that were truly visible as ‘this will happen now’ were the ones that were closest to the edge of the platform...

Erick looked around, trying to find the tangle that was for Storm’s Edge…

He found it.

It was a grey tangle, about forty meters away from the edge of the platform. It was rather a lot less defined than most tangles out there, but it was the closest one to ‘now’.

All Erick could really see, though, was that something was happening at Storm’s Edge, and that situation would be developing over the course of a few months, give or take half a year. Sometimes Erick hated that he couldn’t read the sky as well as other people could. Teressa and Aisha, in particular, saw way more inside Benevolence than he did all the time.

Perhaps he could ask Rozeta or Melemizargo about that phenomenon again, now that he ‘was here’? Maybe they would give a different answer, or maybe he could have a different solution to his lack of capability.

The last time he had asked either of them for a better explanation as to why Teressa could read the sky better than he could, both Rozeta and Melemizargo had spoken about how Erick was the source and other people were the boats, so while he could direct the river wherever he wanted, a lot of it simply went outside of his control once he spent that mana. So of course other people could read the waters better than he could. It was the same phenomenon all Wizards experienced to a degree, with Creation Wizards —and certain Wizards like Erick— experiencing this phenomenon most of all.

Benevolence was Erick, and Erick was Benevolence, but Benevolence itself was rather autonomous when not consciously directed, or after Erick created it from his soul. That’s how that Element was able to do what it did, up there in the sky, showing off potential futures. If Erick had to control it to make it do all that it did, then he would have found the whole thing impossible. Indeed, if he did have control over it, then it wouldn’t have been able to operate like it was supposed to operate.

And so, Erick looked to the sky one last time, checking to see that there weren’t any upcoming disasters except this one down in the archipelago.

Annnnnd… Nope.

Of course, Erick got the feeling that he was missing something big, because there were Silences in the Script, and there were anti-memes, and there were mental monsters out there that fucked with the mind, and then there were fairies, too. Someone was hiding something from his Benevolence and his Sight, for sure. But then again, Erick had always known that there had been things hidden from him. That fact rarely came up, though.

That fact was the main reason he wanted to become a Full Wizard, though. Once he achieved that, then no one could influence him through magic, without his permission, ever again.

- - - -

Zolan delivered a litany of news, “The Regency, through its Regent Augustive Glorious Tidewalker, is politely demanding that you forgo your trip to Storm’s Edge. They have tried to assure us that they have the situation in control. This is a lie. Burhendurur’s elites have already moved into the land, and they’re reporting back a number of untoward events. Archmage Wiloza Tidewalker, a Slime Mage, is acting semi-autonomously, and Shaping the land around the Pit into something else. We’re unsure of her ultimate goals right now, but reports indicate she wants to make the land defensible. She started doing that when Lord Aroido Tidewalker came out of the dungeon carrying a bunch of wildlife he prized, and they had a private conversation. After depositing his wildlife into dungeon 1, in the center of the dungeon space, Lord Aroido ordered the normal dungeons to move their entrances, and all the other dungeon entrances have moved out of the pit, leaving only dungeon 6 there. Dungeon six is still closed to outsiders.

“That’s it for actual action.

“There’s a lot of talking happening in the halls of power down there, as they’re still deciding on their ultimate actions. All of the Regency is currently in emergency meetings with the Storm Priests, their trading guilds, the guard, the Sailors, and a few others from nearby in the Archipelago.” Zolan finished with, “Wizard Destiny got the letter detailing the current events. She wishes to speak with you about —and I quote— ‘Whatever the fuck this is’. She wants to become involved whenever it’s a good time for her to become involved.”

Erick said, “Send Destiny a letter with the details today, and tomorrow I’ll get her with a [Gate].

“Get some people into those meetings with the Regency and everyone else.

“I’ll be taking a meeting with the Regent, privately. No more than 3 important people. Make that happen.

“And then I’m going to the pit, to see all this disaster for myself.” Erick looked over to Poi, who nodded at the glance. “And Poi will be coming with me. No Teressa or Aisha?”

Poi said, “They’re staring at the sky right now, trying to pin down exactly what Teressa saw. Results are inconclusive.”

“That’s fine.” Erick looked to Zolan.

Zolan had tendrils of thoughts coming off of his head, but none of them were in-depth conversations with others, for he had already anticipated Erick’s answers and had prepared accordingly; he just needed final confirmation in order to— Zolan winced a little, and then began speaking, “I’ll get the letter done and sent within the hour. Mox is attempting to send people to those meetings now that she has your permission; they’re already nearby. The Regent is prepared for you; you can appear at the front of the castle in ten minutes at the earliest. They ask you to not approach the Pit without escorts.”

“All acceptable. Then I’m leaving now.” Erick looked to Poi. “One detour, first.”

Erick opened a [Gate] back to his gate space, inside Benevolence, and walked through.

Poi followed.

Erick shut the [Gate] behind them.

- - - -

Erick said, “No time to really process what’s happening, so was I here, or not? These last eleven-ish years?”

Poi said, “I think Melemizargo thinks you weren’t here, and he’s not a liar so there’s surely something to that declaration, but I’m pretty sure you were here. If there was a difference, I could not tell the difference.”

Erick breathed out a little, feeling better already. “So I didn’t skip out on my kids, on the kingdom?”

“I would say you were here, Erick. The gods can say what they want to say, though.”

Erick nodded, and then he went on to easier topics. “This intervention?”

“Standard anti-meme put forth by the Script. Now that you’re immune to it, I can talk about it, but it wasn’t affecting anything at the House, or otherwise. And yes, there are other anti-memes out there. Usually it's we Mind Mages enacting those sorts of things, in order to erase some dangerous magical working from the public consciousness. Forgotten Campaigns and all that.”

“I did not expect to encounter one down in Storm’s Edge. I hope Everbless turns out okay. He seemed like a good kid. Hopefully he isn’t freaking out down there right now, with all the sudden changes.” And then Erick asked a big question, “Do I need to come back to the House, to be in charge of everything?”

“You want me to say ‘yes’, but I can honestly say ‘no’. We’re adjusting, but we’ll be fine. Besides, you have an obligation to Yggdrasil.”

“Is Kiri really doing okay, though? I’m worried about her.”

Poi smiled at the rapid series of questions and concerns, and at how deeply Erick cared. “Kiri is adjusting the most of any of us, but she’s doing fine, too.”

“Okay. Good.” Erick breathed deep, then he said, “Let’s get through this disaster, and then I’m off to help Atunir, or something.”

Poi nodded serenely.

The Apparent King adjusted his clothes a little, checked himself over with some mana sense, and then he was ready. Black horns like a crown. Impeccable suit/robe; white and black and a touch of silver. Poi was dressed for deployment into a political zone, too.

He opened the [Gate] to Storm’s Edge.

- - - -

Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence and Apparent King, stepped down onto the blue-stone road that wound into Regency Castle. The castle itself loomed ahead. From this angle, it was a rather normal-looking collection of white stone buildings and bright blue roofs, and with enough architectural flourishes to mark it as a truly important place. It looked the same as it did the last time Erick was here; when Soltic and Vanya had accompanied Jarod and Glariol into the castle, to give their presentation to Lord Aroido. The guards lining the blue road were different, though.

Guards stood at attention on both sides of the pathway, all of them wearing their dress armor or uniforms.

The place was set up for the arrival of the Apparent King.

