Hovering in the air then was City Lord Havel Stormhalt. His helmet was back on, and the dark blue Aeromancy mana he possessed spilled from his dense helmet in a horizontal beam of light.

"I thought you said it was gonna be easy," Bonk grumbled. "I slammed my club into his cock three times down there. Three times. Once is usually enough to put down one of your human males."

"Yeah, well, I didn't know he had two Ascendants hiding up his ass," Shiv replied with a grimace.

The City Lord held out his mace. "You made a mistake coming here. I take you now into Inquisitorial custody, showing you the leniency you failed to offer my Pathbearers. But thereafter, I will put you to the question, and I will drive every confession from your lips. Until there is nothing but truth left inside you. Until there are no lies left for me to discover.”

Stormhalt’s voice shook the chamber, but Shiv knew that wasn’t the City Lord’s own power. Havel had ripped his knuckles open, hitting Shiv. Now, he was on a whole other level of power.

Shiv looked around the room. The ethereal figures were nowhere to be seen, yet there was still a pressure in the atmosphere, and that massive pillar of black lightning continued to stream upward from Stormhalt's body, binding him to the skies above.

"Yeah, I don't really think so," Shiv said. "Tell you what, if you throw that mace down and you come with me as a hostage so I can blackmail Hawgrave into releasing Blackedge, we'll call it even."

The City Lord leaned back. "So she already has the town in her blade, then?"

Shiv winced. Maybe he should have thought about what he was going to say before he said it. Bonk lightly flicked Shiv over the back of the head with his free hand. "Operational security, Insul. Come now. This isn't your first fight."

Shiv tried to project his Psychomancy to Bonk, hoping to establish a telepathic link, but it only made him wince in pain. His Biomancy and Chronomancy had recovered thanks to their high skill levels, but his other magical skills remained shredded from his earlier encounter with the Tarrasque. Shiv sighed. "Alright, Bonk, new plan."

"Which is?" Bonk asked.

“I make shit up and improvise. Can Hu,” Shiv whispered. “If you can hear me, fly the ship toward the Tarrasque and get us into the fight. The City Lord wants a fight, so drag him into it. Bail before you get close.”

A vicious scoff escaped Stormhalt as he twirled the mace in his hands. He drifted through the air as branching lengths of lightning pulled him through the devastated chamber. As he moved, the column of lightning connecting him to the sky continued cleaving a large gap into the ceiling above. "And while we are here, I wish to know exactly why you possess the capacity to return from death. The orc has told us such interesting things about you…”

Shiv reminded himself to kill 812 as painfully and debilitatingly as he possibly could when he next ran into the orc. Which was hopefully soon, because that was where Blackedge was found as well, within Hawgrave's greatsword. Cords of lightning connected to Stormhalt reared back as if they were serpents, but Shiv's Psycho-Cartography skill triggered within him, and he realized he had more options than just brute force.

Psycho-Cartography: He has engaged you repeatedly because his pride is wounded, and he wants to gain a feeling of retribution from you. It can be exploited—as can his hatred of Roland Arrow. Use that to focus his attention.

"Well, let me tell you something first, Stormhalt," Shiv said, pointing a finger at the City Lord. "Roland Arrow isn't yours to kill. He's mine. In fact, I wouldn't be here trying to take you prisoner if I weren't going for Roland Arrow. Truth be told, I don't care about your whole Ascendant civil war bullshit, Sacred Phylacteries, whatever." The Deathless caught a slight curl of Bonk's lip. The orc intuitively knew what he was doing. In fact, Shiv would probably guess that the orc also had something of a Master-Tier psychology skill. "I'm here for one thing and one thing alone: Roland Arrow's head, and I'll be godsdamned if you or any Ascendants are going to stop me from getting to him."

Silver Tongue 33 > 34

Rather than shooting forward, the bolts of lightning connected to Havel slackened as they lost tension. The City Lord lowered his black mace slightly. "Then that wasn't a ruse? What you told us earlier, when you infiltrated this ship, that was true?"

Shiv wanted to struggle against the lightning holding him, but they cut into his flesh and soul with every movement. But he didn’t need to be the one that broke this deadlock. He just needed to delay long enough to… Well, come up with some other bullshit as Can Hu drove them closer to the battlefield.

Shiv wasn't sure that the City Lord could contend with the Tarrasque, but considering how he'd managed to survive both Bonk and Shiv's attacks with contemptuous ease, the Deathless decided that he wanted to find out just how powerful an Avatar of the Ascendants truly was—but secondhand this time.

Because learning first-hand sucked all the ass in the world.
