After a few more seconds of silence, he sighed. “I suppose…I don’t really know. I was so angry when I left…” He shook his head. “You don’t want to hear this. I know I’ve hinted at what happened, but…”

“It’s okay. You can tell me.”

Jamus sighed and, lacking any proper seating, sat down on a piled mound of snow. He immediately had to fend off Cloud, who rushed over and tried to lick his face. He smiled, running his fingers through Cloud’s thick fur as Meloni joined him. She was wearing one of the company-issued gambesons and a cloak, so the cold wouldn’t bother her, for all that she wasn’t awakened.

Jamus’s mouth worked, then he spoke. “Well, I told you before how my…wife cheated on me, but I didn’t tell you that my children are, well… They’re not my children. At least, I don’t think so.”

“Jamus…” Meloni said, laying a hand on his arm.

“It’s fine,” Jamus said. “I still love them. I just couldn’t bear to be around with that bastard…living in my house. Sleeping with my wife. Once it was all out in the open, he just sort of moved in. He was a noble, you know, and not even a powerful one. Knowing what I know now, he was probably only level five or something, but in Vestvall, that made him practically a king.”

“What are you going to do if he’s still alive when we get there?”

Jamus pulled off his hat and ran a hand through his hair. “Why does everyone assume I want revenge?”

Cloud pressed his head against him, unhappy that he wasn’t the one being petted anymore. Jamus pulled the squirming puppy into a hug, then shook his head. “I want nothing to do with the man, or with…her. But my children…” He sighed. “I’d like to see them again. I was thinking…if they’re alive, they could come with me. Join Ascension. Bens is old enough. He’ll have turned twenty-three as of a few weeks ago, and by now, he’s likely married that girl of his, or maybe a different one.” Jamus laughed sadly. “For all I know, I could be a grandpa.”

“That would be wonderful,” Meloni said, wrapping both him and Cloud in a hug. She buried her face into his shoulder, squeezing tightly. “They’re alive. I can feel it.”

Jamus lowered his head to rest atop hers, blinking away sudden tears. An image of the smiling face of his baby daughter had flashed through his mind, clear and sharp as anything, even without Rain’s aura influencing his memory. “Thank you,” he said, extracting his arm so he could hug back, taking comfort in her warmth against him.

“Oi!” Carten’s voice shouted as he crunched up to them through the snow. “Ain’t ya supposed ta be cooking? You’re makin’ me sad. Don’t ya know I just got dumped by the love o’ me life? Bloody insensitive of you, Jamus!”

Jamus groaned, not looking up.

Meloni laughed and pulled away. “Hello, Carten,” she said, pushing herself to her feet. “Did you get what we sent you for?”

“What you…? Oh, uh… Couldn’t find any. Found this, though. Look, Jamus! Beer!”

Jamus snorted and looked up. Carten was holding a small wooden keg above his head, staring up at it rapturously as if it was some sort of holy artifact. Jamus released Cloud and grabbed his hat before getting back to his feet. “Carten, you oaf, stop talking and pour me a mug.”

Rain woke, disoriented, to the sound of voices. The words seemed to come to him from a distance. He became aware of a gentle rocking, as if he was in a car rolling slowly down a bumpy dirt road.

“Tallheart?” he slurred sleepily, looking over to the driver’s seat, but the person driving wasn’t who he’d expected. Ameliah was sitting there, smiling at him as she pedaled.

“Hey you, you’re finally awake,” she said. “You were trying to cross the border, right?”

What? That line… It sounds familiar…

“Ah, oops, we woke him,” said Mlem, who had been the other voice Rain had heard. “Oh well. Probably for the best, anyway. Like I was saying, I recognized that rock. We’re almost there. The village should be just on the other side of this hill.”

Rain rubbed at his eyes blearily, reality coming back into focus. He blinked as he realized that the sun, which had been almost directly overhead, had jumped across the sky and was now filtering through frost-laden branches. The forest had thickened, the snowy road now more like a tunnel. He blinked again, fighting against the disorientation.

“Perhaps another cup of coffee, Rain?” Mlem said, laughing and twiddling his fingers. “To help you wake up?”

“I…fell asleep?” Rain asked.

“Hmm, perhaps the coffee isn’t a bad idea,” Ameliah said. “I don’t know how you drink that stuff, Rain, but it’s supposed to give you energy, right? You were really out of it. You didn’t even stir when I moved you. I told you you haven’t been sleeping enough.”

“When you…what?” Rain looked down, then jumped as he realized that he wasn’t where he’d been when he’d closed his eyes to meditate. He was sitting in the passenger seat now, which meant…

“Shit!” Rain swore, throwing off his cloak and patting his chest, feeling for the accolades. There were only two. The third, the one he’d been experimenting with, was gone. He looked up, his heart hammering. “Ameliah, did you find…I was holding…”

“What in the depths?” Mlem shouted. “Ameliah, stop!”

Rain shouted as the forgewagon lurched, fighting to stay in his seat. Ameliah had engaged the levers for the brakes without disengaging the drive, snapping a belt in the process.

“Shit,” she swore as they rattled to a bouncing halt.

Rain barely even registered her words. He was staring forward, eyes wide. They’d crested a rise, and in the distance, he could now see a violent squall of snow through the trees. It was like someone had built a wall out of a blizzard.

“By all that glitters in the southern seas…” Mlem said, staring at the snowy wall. ”Is that what I think it is?”

Ameliah stood up, staring at the swirling barrier ahead. Her eyes narrowed, then opened wide in recognition. “Yes, it is.” She glanced down at Rain. “Didn’t you say you had a Diviner scout this way?”

Rain just stared up at her.

Ameliah pushed a strand of hair out of her eyes and sat back in her chair, returning her gaze to the squall. “How the hells did he miss a lair on the damn surface?”
