Rain shrugged, taking another sip of coffee, savoring it. “I guess for today we’re working on even-split again. Do you have the total for what we got last night?”

“Three hundred fifty-seven Tel, eight Chem, and two Cold,” Vanna said.

“Damn,” Rain said, rubbing at his eyes. “I was afraid of that.”

“What?” Vanna asked. “Sounds like a lot to me.”

“Yeah, but most of that came from the first few hours,” Rain said, fighting a jaw-cracking yawn. “If we’d been going at that pace all night, it would have been thousands, not hundreds. Only the older monsters seem to drop anything. They came out of hiding once night fell, but once we killed them all, the freshly-spawned stuff was basically worthless.”

“Not completely worthless,” said Carten, approaching from the left. He had a steaming plate in his hand. “Here, Rain, try one’a these.”

Rain blinked, staring at the large plate. There were crispy black…sticks on it, covered in some sort of reddish sauce.

“What are they?” Rain asked dubiously as Carten clonked the plate on top of the pile of documents and pulled up a stool.

“Do ya really wanna know?” Carten asked, picking up one of the sticks. He bit into it with a crunch and made a wiggling gesture with his hand. He dipped the stick in some of the sauce and took another bite, speaking with his mouth full. “Tha sauce helps a lot. Jamus made it.”

Hesitantly, Rain reached out and took one. Upon further inspection, it looked like—

”Carten, are these Coal Lurker legs?”

“Frost Lurker,” Carten said, crunching away industriously. “A big pile of ‘em showed up at, oh, sixth bell. They’ve gotta layer of ice or some shit on ‘em, but once tha’ melts, the shell’s thin. Nice’n crunchy.”

“Eew,” Rain said. “I’m not quite that tired of Stumper yet.”

“Suit yerself,” Carten said. He grabbed another leg and began munching on it with gusto.

Rain looked down at the lurker leg he was still holding, then up at Vanna, who had turned a bit green. Shaking his head, he peeked under the table, then lobbed the charred leg toward Dozer, who engulfed it immediately. Rain snorted as the slime’s delight washed over him. Good garbage disposal.

Getting underway took surprisingly little time. Ameliah left the fortifications mostly intact, merely lowering a section of the wall to allow the sleds to escape. She wasn’t going to be scouting ahead today, so Rain was expecting there to be a bit more monster trouble as they traveled. It was all a part of the plan for getting people used to combat.

After Rain had finished his discussion with Vanna, he’d let her call the company to order and update them on the spoils from last night and brief them on the plan for the day. The news of the bounty of Tel was well-received, though there was some grumbling from those who hadn’t been in favor of an even split. On the whole, though, most were happy. To a common laborer, seven Tel was two-weeks salary, and they’d earned it in a single night.

To lessen the grumbling, Rain had pushed through a modification to the even-split rule for today’s march. The top five participants in any encounter—judged by the cumulative level of monsters killed—would now be entitled to a higher reward, with first-place getting ten shares, second-place getting five, and third, fourth, and fifth getting three. It was going to be a bit of a competitive shit-show with people like Val involved, but there was no helping that.

The company was still working in Tel and Crysts, as the credit system needed some significant revision. Unless they found a lair or something, which was unlikely, it would be fine. It was just annoying. Without the credit system or an established exchange rate for Crysts, Rain couldn’t use them for anything. The Cold Crysts, for example, Tallheart could probably use to make him something to boost his Cold resistance. That would let him use Refrigerate at full power without frost-burning himself. If they kept finding Crysts and Tallheart came around on the whole equipment thing, Rain could see every member of the company eventually getting an amulet or something that would let him use Refrigerate freely. That would be amazing…

Rain shook his head. It would all come with time. It had only been a few days since he’d founded the company, after all.

The group set out with Rain marching beside the forgewagon so Meloni could ride for the morning, it being her turn. Tallheart didn’t seem to mind letting others ride, though he didn’t really speak with anyone other than Rain, Jamus, and Ameliah. Again, it was only the second proper day. In this case, Cloud would bring him around, Rain thought. Meloni was riding with the puppy on her lap, though it looked ridiculous, as Cloud was decidedly not going to be a lapdog once he was done growing.

As the day wore on, the company made good progress. Monster attacks were more frequent than the first day, but with the competition in place, the awakened were on high alert. It didn’t even seem to be about the reward, with Val, Mahria, and Kettel being the most caught up in the competition, surprising no one. Rain’s money was on Val. Kettel’s aim was shit, and a good proportion of the monsters out here had some measure of Cold resistance, which was making things difficult for Mahria.

The kind of monsters that would spawn in a ranked zone depended on ambient elemental mana concentration. One of the maps Rain had seen included notations for the dominant mana-aspect of various cities. Fel Sadanis was Chemical, obviously. As for why Cold monsters were spawning, that was simply because it was winter. Ambient Heat and Cold mana fluctuated with the seasons, which was why those were the two most common elements when it came to Crysts. You could find them almost anywhere, in theory.

Vestvall had been marked on the map as neutral, so unless things had changed with the Shift, they’d cross out of Stumper territory at some point. It was, therefore, all the more important for them to identify an alternate food source. Preferably not Frost Lurkers.

They stopped for lunch around noon, just after they were attacked by a small pack of Ice Coursers. It looked like Rain was about to find out what cat tasted like, as Ujesh, who’d been a trapper, was already butchering one of the feline creatures. He was working on removing its entrails, having already stripped it of its pelt and set the thick fur aside. Someone here doubtless knew the process of turning demon-cat skin into mittens, which was good, as Kettel—who was currently soulstrained out of his mind and riding on the forgewagon—had managed to burn his own gloves off.

Whatever you wanted to say about Kettel’s magical expertise, he was working hard, at least. He’d kept chucking Firebolts long after Mahria had given up, right up until he’d collapsed. Rain couldn’t throw stones, having done worse to himself on several occasions. Val had also pulled a Val, of course, but he at least was still in a condition to walk.

Rain wasn’t that concerned that they would get into a situation they couldn’t handle, even with several overtaxed mages. Ameliah was there, and Jamus, at least, was pacing himself. Also, Rain was confident that Mahria’s whining about her headache wouldn’t stop her from casting if she really needed to. He was getting the sense that she wasn’t overly fond of training, but still, it was surprising how quickly soulstrain had crippled her. Kettel’s adolescent stubbornness shouldn’t have been enough to overcome all the experience she’d had slinging mana for who knew how many years.

Rain snorted and put it out of his mind. People seemed to have things well in hand setting up for lunch, so after some indecision, he decided that it was high time that he just took a little time to himself. He hadn’t had a chance to meditate yesterday, and there was something he’d been meaning to do for a while now.

Rain walked over to the forgewagon. Kettel was dragging himself away, clutching his head as he fled from Tallheart, who had already ousted Dozer from the bed and was working noisily on something at the anvil. Rain waved to him, and Tallheart paused his hammering to raise an eyebrow.

“Hey Tallheart,” Rain said tiredly. “I’m just going to sit up front while I meditate. Can you do me a favor and glare at anyone who looks like they’re going to bother me? I’m going to be in Aura Focus, and I don’t really want to be disturbed until we’re ready to move again.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, nodding and resuming his work.

“Thanks, Tallheart,” Rain said.

Stopping next to the passenger seat, Rain slipped off his helmet and slid it into the footwell next to the pedals. He then removed his gauntlets, playing the ring-game to avoid losing his buffed health. He kept going, removing bits of armor until finally, he was standing self-consciously in his forceweave underwear. It was a full bodysuit, and thick enough so it wasn’t indecent or anything, but still.

Rain hurriedly wrapped his cloak around his shoulders, then quick-stepped around the front of the forgewagon, the snow frigid against his bare feet. He clambered into the driver’s seat beside his piled armor and sat back, thankful for the warmth of the smelter. Whew. This feels so weird. Is this what it’s like to be a hermit crab?

He shook his head, then stretched out the neck of the bodysuit and reached in to retrieve one of three metal plates that were tucked into pockets on the inside. Removing the armor had been necessary just to get access to them. Raising his cloak to screen the object from view, Rain pulled it out and peeked at it before settling down in the seat again.

Accolade of the Hoarfrost Labyrinth

Settling his cloak about him, Rain sat back with the accolade held in his lap, both hands touching the metal, still warm from his body heat despite the color. Okay, let’s see if I can do something here.

Focusing on his breathing, Rain slipped into Essence Meditation, blocking out the world with Aura Focus and disabling his auto-triggered macros to avoid distractions. He’d gotten better at suppressing extraneous thoughts, but it still took him a good twenty minutes before he felt as if he was getting close to the required state of mind for access to his soul. Being dead tired helped. He kept his grip firm on the metal plate, though he couldn’t feel it against his skin thanks to Aura Focus.

Connection…

Rain switched his focus from his breath to the image of the accolade, picturing it in his mind. He let his mental eye roam over the memory. He traced the engraved grooves of the text, and let himself get lost in the deep blue sheen of the metal. He concentrated on the smooth sensation of the plate against his fingertips and tried to picture a connection spreading from his skin to the metal.

Another ten minutes passed; then, chaos.

Rain didn’t react. That was the key. He remained focused on his image, ignoring the tumult, as a monk beneath a waterfall ignores the pounding spray. There was a rapid flicker, then another. Rain began to get a sense of a bond forming, extending off through the chaos. He started to get a sense of something, lurking out there in the tumult. If I could just…

“Shit!”

Rain swore, opening his eyes as the chaos overwhelmed him, kicking him out of tranquility and back into his physical body. The ringing of Tallheart’s hammer pounded on his ears as he squinted against the noon sun’s light, reflected from the snow.

A few people were looking in his direction, but he ignored them. Gritting his teeth, he squeezed his eyes back shut, activating Aura Focus again. Damn it, I was so close. That must have been like four whole seconds. I’ve never gotten that far before. I could feel a connection between the plate and my…avatar? No, it wasn’t like that; it’s not soulspace. It was like…the chaos is my soul…meat? The substance of my soul? Whatever. The connection was going through it, out to the plate from…me? My brain? An organ in my soul? Rain thought back to some of the phrasing the Majistraal obelisk had used, fixing on one particular word. My core?

Rain clamped down on the excitement, taking a deep breath and letting it out slowly. Excited was the last thing he needed to be right now.

Try again.

Jamus slowly stirred the simmering cauldron of stew with a long-handled wooden spoon, watching as Meloni tempted Cloud with a morsel of raw meat.

“Okay, Cloud, sit,” she commanded.

Cloud sat.

“Lie down.”

Cloud lay down.

“Roll over.”

Cloud flopped onto his back, paws waggling in the air as he squirmed excitedly in the snow before completing the roll.

“He picked that up quickly,” said Jamus, raising an eyebrow. “Didn’t you just start teaching him that one last night?”

Cloud snapped the piece of meat out of the air as Meloni tossed it to him. She tilted her head. “Now that you mention it, yes, it is a bit… Say, do you think that aura of Rain’s works on animals?”

Jamus stopped stirring. “Huh.”

Meloni lowered her hand, allowing Cloud to happily lick the blood from her fingers. “I mean, I don’t see why it wouldn’t.” She glanced down at Cloud. “Animals remember stuff. The aura boosts memory. It makes sense that it would…”

“I think you’re right,” Jamus said, letting go of the spoon. It was time to add the meat, so he rolled up his sleeves and started filling a bowl with the cubed pieces that Meloni had been preparing. He nodded to her as he worked. “The first adventure I went on with Rain, we had this horse that, well… Let’s just say it was a little odd by the end.”

“Odd how?” Meloni asked, looking down at Cloud, who was sitting patiently, his tail violently brushing a hole in the snow as he stared at the meat.

“Just…odd,” Jamus said with a shrug. “I wouldn’t worry about it, but maybe we should talk to Rain. He can exclude Cloud from the aura if he wants to.”

“Hmm,” Meloni said, looking down at the happy dog. “No, I don’t think I want him to do that. You’re a smart boy, aren’t you?” she asked, raising the pitch of her voice.

Cloud barked happily. Jamus smiled as he tipped the bowlful of meat into the cauldron.

“Um, Jamus…” Meloni said.

Something in her tone made him look up.

“I’ve been meaning to ask you…” she said, hesitantly. “I know you probably don’t want to talk about your old family. But since we’re going to Vestvall… What are you going to do if they’re…”

“Dead?” Jamus asked.

“Alive,” Meloni said.

“Oh…” Jamus said, looking down at his bloody hands. He bent to wipe them in the snow, then searched around for a towel as he tried to think of a response.

