She knew the Eldest was an Eldritch god without peer, predating most others as progenitor to their like. Their death was unlikely, even if she managed to destroy this Avatar connected to them, but she could traumatize the Eldest. She could leave them scarred, and she would. By the time she finished with the Hatchling, even if the System offered them infinite rewards, unlimited power, Mythic Skill after Mythic Skill, they would turn away. They would never want to see or face Uva Mettabon in open battle for as long as there was time and reality left to endure.

But if she wanted to do that, she needed to make a few calculated choices. The most important of which was deciding what her Legendary Skill Evolution was going to attain. For every skill she possessed, so too did the Hatchling. In a contest of direct power, she was always fated to lose, because the Hatchling was further blessed by the Starhawk, and she had nothing that was capable of—

“No, wait, stop. That isn't quite right.” Harkness interceded, calling for Uva to focus. “Remember what it took for everyone to steal back your soul. You weren't only infested by the Eldest. A good portion of the Stranger was also within you. That was the only reason why the Eldest's metamorphosis didn't overwhelm you. And right now, the System has granted a direct reward to one Eldritch God but not the other. Quite curious, isn’t it?”

That was actually something worth considering. “The Stranger should still be incapable of noticing the Eldest. Perhaps the System rewarded the Eldest because they were the first to successfully breach my soul and take hold of me. Perhaps it thinks that the struggle between me and the Hatchling was undone, that someone else intervened and stole my battle away from me. Perhaps a rematch is what the System wants.”

A low note of derision escaped from Harkness. “Perhaps, perhaps, perhaps, always perhaps. Now is not the time to think about maybes or possibles; now is the time to test, strategize, and find out. You still have control here. Don't let this thing rattle you, girl. You reset the Delve you started back to your first encounter. The Hatchling does not have the advantage you do; it simply has overwhelming power, but it cannot decide when or how it engages with you. If you are not ready, then simply reset the Delve. From our previous engagement, we know a few things: The Starhawk will be with it. Its power will be perfectly symmetrical to yours, but its behavior isn't. Remember, it came for you blindly, wildly, no strategy at all. It's desperate to take hold of you. I would dare say that it's more savage and bestial than even that immortal mastiff you call a lover.”

Though Uva held Harkness in little regard in terms of character and dignity, the Owl's advice when it came to combat and tactical situations was begrudgingly of value. And at this moment, she wanted Uva to win. For whatever reason, she despised the Eldest as much as Uva did.

“Not for whatever reason, because they are the epitome of a noble,” Harkness spat. “Someone else bled for them. Someone else spent their blood upon an altar, and the benefits were rewarded to them through no struggle of their own. They are a god because of what exactly? They were born before everything else, and so it has the right to feed off of the successes and struggles of their children, and unsuspecting Seekers? Now, I despise you because you are my enemy, because you trapped me here, but it is a natural, pure kind of hate. I find myself reviled by the Eldest because they are more disease than individual, a creature of the lowest design. What the System was thinking when it allowed the survival of such a wretch I will never understand.”

A low, bitter laugh escaped Uva as she came to comprehend Harkness better than ever before. “Good to know we share some common ground along the lines of mutual hate. So then what is your advice? How should we approach this?”

“First, you need to—”

Hymn reappeared in a burst of faint blue and cut Harkness off. “Alright, news is mostly bad, one bit of good. First, I can't get the Hatchling out of the Delve. The Eldest seems to have concentrated it entirely within here, which makes me suspect that whatever skill you're going to evolve in the end is going to be further boosted by the Hatchling's essence. But the little bit of sunshine here is that it's bottled deep at the very bottom layer of the Delve, and it can't get out, so the only time it can come to face you is when you descend to the Fifth Encounter. That means we’ll have ample time to prepare and potentially strategize. I suggest you start by changing your skill into something that demands more expertise and creativity rather than raw power.”

“Wait, I was going to say that, you bastard!” Harkness cried out.

“I also have a slightly more dubious but potentially interesting suggestion for you to consider,” Hymn continued. “Now, I want you to hear me very, very carefully. Understand that I'm not trying to trap or betray you. Understand that I wouldn't come up with this idea unless I found it very interesting and that I didn't think it might be to your advantage. Now, your Eldritch metamorphosis was mixed. A part of you is of the Stranger; the other part is the Hatchling.”

Harkness seethed with pure offense at this point. “I was going to suggest this as well! Hymn! Stop stealing knowledge from my mind!”

“And with the Stranger so compromised and closer to humanity than ever before, I suspect something else is at play,” Hymn said, ignoring her. “I suspect the Stranger no longer counts as a full Outsider, or at least has drifted far enough that he can actually perceive his progenitor. Well, he might be able to. I think it's time we test that theory somehow.”

“And how are we supposed to test this theory?” Uva said, quirking a single eyebrow. “And you are right. It's very suspicious that you're proposing this plan.”

“I'm not compromised, if that's what you're asking. Nor do I intend for you to be swallowed by the Stranger. We have the Stranger blackmailed. It doesn't want to act against us, thanks to what your boyfriend did. Now, I think we might be able to leverage something more out of it, and I might be able to get something out of its labor as well.” Hymn’s expression resembled that of a starving fox. “I might not be able to break a god, but we may be able to make a servant of a half-Eldritch Divinity nonetheless. And that might balance the scales, a Divinity in your corner against a Divinity in the Hatchling's. I suspect the System might even be pushing us in this direction. It knows I'm here to advise after all.”

“Even if I'm foolish or desperate enough to agree to such a mad plan, how would it work? Shall I just call out to the Stranger, beseech him to bestow me his gaze as a favor?” Uva really didn’t like the idea. Even if the Stranger was decaying, even if he was veering away from the Outside, he was still outside of her control. Despite his arrangement with Shiv, he wasn't a whole person, and her existence was at stake. That was a lot to bid on a possibility, and Hymn couldn't see that. He was still blinded by a chance at further retribution—even if it wasn't complete retribution.

“You don't need to do anything. I could potentially call upon the Stranger through the Fingerling bound to you. I can wake its Eldritch essence and communicate with the progenitor it was spawned from. I can serve as the bridge if need be.”

Despite her misgivings, Uva didn't reject the plan outright. She didn't want the Stranger to merge with her. She definitely didn't want to become an avatar to an eldritch god, no matter how partial. But it was as the Headmaster said earlier. She needed to be more flexible. She needed to open her mind to new possibilities, be creative, and that had her thinking up other schemes.

“You say that the System has concentrated the Hatchling's essence within my legendary Delve,” Uva said.

“That's the way it appears.”

Uva hesitated before she proposed her following idea. “Instead of summoning the Stranger's presence, can you pour the Fingerling into the Delve as well, fuse it with the existing Eldritch matter, or however the Hatchling is manifesting itself here? See both essences commingled, and when the Fifth Encounter begins, only then do you call the Stranger through its lesser offspring.”

Hymn thought about that for a second, and a peculiar look came over his face, as if he hadn't considered this. “It might work. It might. Again, this is a unique situation, but as with you three, unique situations are relatively common in your life. Maybe, but we'll have to be careful and prepared and make a fast attempt. I'm assuming you want to confuse and make the Hatchling struggle against itself to force an ongoing metamorphosis upon it, the same way it forced one upon you?”

“That is the direction of my hope,” Uva admitted. “If the Stranger truly is departing from the Outside, then that means he has enough categorized skills, normal skills, untainted by the Eldritch. If so, then that can be possessed by the Hatchling and the Eldest it's connected to. The Stranger can bear my burden, or perhaps the Stranger can use his power against his parent and spare me from this contest. If nothing else, I will leave the Eldest confounded, trying to overcome another presence within its mind and soul—distracting it from claiming mine.”

As Uva finished describing her desired strategy, Hymn smirked and nodded. “That's one part reckless, one part devious, and one part I don't know what the fuck might happen. Which makes it exactly the kind of plan I like. A little pre-psychological warfare before the mind magic. But this has me thinking about something else myself: There is a third source of eldritch influence flowing through you right now. It's the greatest source. The Dreamtaker’s dimension and skill leftovers have been bestowed upon you. I wonder what might come of throwing that in the mix as well. It can't hurt… Well, it might hurt. It might destroy your soul, so be ready to kill yourself and reset the Delve.”

“Every day I am compelled to be more like Shiv,” Uva muttered with a sigh. “I suspect this is part of the System's plan as well, giving me a twisted insight into how he operates, probably so I can be used against him down the line.” A disgruntled breath slipped out of her. “I can't tell who I'm being built to counter anymore: him or Adam.”

“Maybe both,” Hymn mused. “If you want me to place my bid right now, I'd say the System is making all three of you capable of threatening one another. It just depends on the circumstance. And if the fires of your favor continue to spread, that's going to be all of us as well.” He fell silent as he considered telling her something else. Something personal. “Uva, across the time I spent with you in this Delve, I've gained ten levels.” At first, she failed to process the significance of that claim. Then he elaborated, and everything clicked into place. “I haven't gained ten levels in a month for over fifty years—for it to happen across a single afternoon is beyond absurd. It is the changing of a paradigm. We are spiraling out of control, and the System is no longer catching up internally anymore. I do not think we are going to be suited for our current ambient mana threshold for much longer, so whatever Incursion follows is going to be extreme.”

Neither of them said anything to the other, not even when the notification for the First Encounter returned.

“Anyhow.” Hymn cleared his throat. “Before we consider our terrible future, let's get done with our terrible present, and before invoking the Stranger or what remains of the Dreamtaker, let's see if we can make that skill of yours evolve along a desired path.”

“And how am I supposed to do that?”

“Quite simple: You implore the System inside this Delve. You think about what you created within the minds of your victims, that replica city, and see if that is legend enough for you to get a skill that allows you to imprint your mind over matter. If not, we can try again and again and again. If nothing else, it will make the contest between you and the Hatchling less determined by raw power alone.”

“If nothing else,” Uva muttered. She cleared her mind and cast those specifications toward the System, begging for an evolution that would see Adam delivered from his fate and see her powers changed for something more constructive, for something weaker, for something esoteric. Yet, though she knew this was necessary and she accepted the fact she wasn't keeping her storms, she still lamented losing her prior skill. It felt so suitable for her. It flowed naturally to the will of her mind. Though she couldn't use it to overcome the Hatchling, it still seemed like there were many mysteries she hadn't unlocked, nuances to the skill she hadn't learned.

It was with that pure lament, with the special condition she locked inside this Delve, and with that specified request to evolve toward another specific Eldritch skill that the System did something peculiar. The System altered something inside Uva. She felt it immediately, and as parts of her mind burst apart in a newfound surge of mind mana, a new storm erupted out from her, swelling through the anchor as the lightning that she once possessed was further imbued with something else.

The kaleidoscopic essence it contained cracked apart, and rather than simply leaving an imprint on the world, it created a bottled reality within reality, an expression of Uva's mind held together beneath falling rain and crashing lightning. It created an umbrella where her mind expanded. A metaphysical projection of her thoughts trapped in the bottle of her yet present storm.

