The nobility and degeneracy of gods are sourced from our virtues and shame. Divinity, after all, is manifested through worship, and worship is an expression of history and culture—the merger that results is named mythology. There are no gods that exist in a vacuum. The Challenger is not a blind evil manifested by the System's will to punish us and to further its desire for ceaseless war.

The System is not to blame. We are to blame. The System is here to further advancement. And more than strife, it rewards growth. It desires the extreme. It wants us to break through thresholds and ceilings, to become powers unto ourselves, powers of grotesque magnitudes that cause individuals to mutilate their environments.

Consider a goblin—the most common race across Integration—with over twelve thousand subspecies, yet all known to be subterranean by instinct and desire, capable of surviving off the most minimal amount of resources and sustenance, and needing only to feed from moss to function for days, if not weeks. Furthermore, their reproduction, their strong communal urge, their written and oral histories, along with their instinctive drive to delve into the physical sciences, are universal aspects of them. What isn't universal is the gods. They are bound to goblins, which are neither good nor evil; few races are; unless specifically designed, they will show a spectrum of behavior. The environments we were birthed from are not tested based on ethics or moral virtue, but rather simply scarcity. The System is uninterested or unburdened by such limits, yet we are constrained from the top down by a ceiling. That ceiling exists in the form of gods in our face, turned back upon us by the weaponization and enforcement of belief.

To this end, it is best to see the gods as a fail-safe, a means of protection for the masses to stand against the tyranny of the individual. For the System, it rewards the individual in ways that are vulgar and extreme, making a single person capable of killing worlds and massacring entire nations. If not for the fact that from a nation can a god be birthed, and at the god's will, even a Legend or Myth be cut down with comparative ease.

Yet gods do not seem to be wardens, for their authority and value are far more expansive than that of an executioner of powerful mortals. They seem to occupy a role as pillars in reality, expressions of specific concepts, attunements that aren't for the individual but are for the world. Attunements without fixed laws, yet rooted in a specific expression: war, peace, prosperity, fertility, knowledge, invention, broad and narrow, so many things that are connected to so many skills, bound to the gods. One must wonder what interplay the System has with its most potent extensions. For that is what the gods are: extensions of the System's will. No one else is so favored. No one else is imbued with such extreme power. Gods are not limited like mortals. They can reach the very ceilings of mana capacity for whatever dimension they dwell within. Since they fill all realities, what then is their purpose? Since we are all bound to grow and level, what then is a god for if not driven by the same drive?

And so we return to the idea of the ceiling. We return to the idea of a blockade. We return to the idea that perhaps it is not the system that seeks to constrain us, but rather we who seek to free it ourselves, pouring the collective manner, the collective levels that are connected to an entire civilization, into a single entity, a manifest will born of a common gestalt. To see that some measure of prosperity endures, to see a pillar beyond the individual Divinity, is that which we aspire to: a legend greater than the one, the legend of all.

And if such is true, if gods are the great shadows we collectively cast upon this cave wall we call Integration, then it is best we keep our actions in mind for the deeds of the individual. Chip away and build or deform culture. The gods that are born from us are born of trauma or born of joy or all the things in between.

With that, I posit this: The tyrants of individualism are responsible for the birth of tyrants from the collective. One does not exist without the shadow cast by the other.

Gods are the idea of total dominance itself given form—A place beyond the reach of any levels or evolutions.

A final salvation from the will of one.

—The Shadow and the Highest, Author Unknown

407

The Storm that Dreamed [II]

A few thousand limbs of branching lightning slashed up into the sky from all of Weave’s surviving spires. The world was riven by veins of translucence, and they left imprints of kaleidoscopic energy in the aftermath, staining reality with colors from the Outside. But though Uva's new Legendary Skill gave her more power than ever before, and even if she'd bested a most bestial version of Shiv, a god empowering the body of her Eldritch-possessed self was another enemy entirely.

Uva's Lurking Noostorm ascended, crashing into the sky as if an inverted calamity seeking to scour the clouds from the heavens.

But the Hatchling possessed all of Uva's abilities, and then some. In an instant, a counter-cast descended. A rival storm rained down upon Uva's converging lightning and tore clean through her bolts like a splitting blade that severed lesser lengths of steel. Incandescence infused the Hatchling's lightning bolts—incandescence empowered by the Starhawk, quivering with the Domains of Retribution and Justice.

A spike of agony struck the base of Uva’s skull. Her mana field had been hewn down to the quick; the considerable ocean of mind magic she harvested from all her pawns was spent—and before she could generate any new storms, the Hatchling struck first. Her glowing lightning, empowered by Divinity, speared through Uva's batteries, stealing them away from her in an instant. Uva's reflex triggered, and by the barest of instances, she severed herself from those compromised minds before the Hatchling could reach across and tear Uva’s ego asunder from within.

This exchange immediately set the tone for this final encounter: power was not going to be Uva's ally here. Whatever might she could accrue, a god would always dwarf her, and right now, seeing the Hatchling blessed by the Starhawk, she knew that she needed to find some way to outthink or surprise her adversary, because there was no other path to victory.

But Uva's intuition was never her strong suit. She wasn't the kind to come up with a brilliant plan in the most dire of circumstances. Instead, she relied on preparation and intelligence, thinking things out beforehand or with a buffer. And that was what she tried to buy herself: a buffer. She drew in what remaining minds she had, harvesting the mental essence to create a dense storm around Passage. She accepted her pawns were lost and knew the Hatchling would turn the remnants of the city against her in the next few seconds.

But it was only through creating a protective storm around Passage that Uva survived a few seconds more at all. Another lance of incandescent lightning fell. It cleaved clean through the outer shell of the storms, but Uva managed to create layers of protection, fusing crystalline stalagmites around her, imbued with the power to stop time. Even that barely served as a barricade against the Starhawk's might.

In combat, though, barely was often the difference between life and death. Uva dodged the bolt of lightning by the barest of margins, sparing herself an undue death—or worse—by bending her body along an impossible geometry. Her flesh folded into the contours of the walls as the lightning cast by the Hatchling ripped through the room she was in. The bolt was wider than some buildings, and its edge barely brushed against Uva. Again, barely. It didn't come close enough, and she lived to survive another second—granting her another moment to think, to desperately plan.

The many layers of Uva's consciousness chattered to one another, forming a one-Umbral war council as she tried to plan her way out of this oncoming demise.

The Delve shouldn't be like this. There's something wrong with this Encounter. We can sense the Hatchling. It still has the stench of the Eldest. It feels like it's alive, like it's come to claim us once more. We can't let that happen. We can't let it take us again. We won't.

But what can we do? We know the Starhawk's power firsthand. There is nothing we have that can match the might of a god. There is no power we can possess, even as a Legend, to stand against him for long.

We can still delay. We aren't without options. We aren't without skills. Remember the weaknesses of Psychomancy. Our power right now still affects minds, and the more complicated a mind is, the more alien it is, the harder it is to push through.

We should release what's left of our Terrorspawn. Use them as a protective shell. They'll be seized soon enough, and it will feed the Hatchling more power. We are simply giving her a greater advantage eventually, but it will give us a bit more time, just a bit more time to think, to plan. That's what we need right now. No amount of power will match the Starhawk—

And then there was another presence in her mind, brushing against her like oil over water for the briefest of heartbeats. Uva’s mind wailed with horror, worried that the Hatchling might have breached her defenses without her noticing—but then Hymn spoke, and her terror was abated.

“Remember this: Delves are not impossible. There is no way you're damned to defeat right now. It can be done, even if it's difficult, but you need to find a way. I can feel that thing's presence. It's a part of you, but it just detached from your soul… I'm going to leave for a moment to see if I can restrain it from the outside. I don't know how the System did this, but it gave the Eldest another chance.” Hymn let out a snarl of genuine outrage. “I've stolen a glance from its perspective. The System just gave them a Quest, an opportunity to take you again if they manage to capture your mind—but they can't stop you from resetting the Delve. So, as wrong as this sounds, I think it's time for you to steal a page from your boyfriend's playbook.”

Uva immediately realized what he was telling her to do, and she didn't hesitate—frankly, she should have thought about this from the start. Instead of trying to dodge again, she drew a swarm of fractured spiderlings from a place across from her abnormal Physicality and shaped them into a shortsword.

A mind-shaking scream of unparalleled fury and desperate need filled the entirety of the Delve. “No! You won't escape from me! You won't get away from me! I won't let you! You will become mine! I will be as you, as you are me. We will be one. We will be one. You will not escape my will—we will be merged, and I will exist in truth. I will be made whole. I will not be silenced inside of you anymore. I will not—”

Uva's reply came in the form of a suicide. She drove her blade deep into her body, and her Viper's Kiss skill activated, causing the shortsword to spring forth, displacing her geometric flesh and splitting her down the middle. Her body was cleaved apart, and death followed. With that, the conditions of her defeat were fulfilled, a half-second before another bolt of divinely charged lightning came for her. It barely touched her, and she felt that overwhelming force brush her mind, but before the Hatchling got a chance to do anything to Uva's consciousness, everything blinked, and she was back at Encounter One once more.

“My Delve, my soul, my choice,” Uva spat at the empty air, unsure if the Eldest could hear her. Something told her they could. Something made her feel their seething rage boiling deep within her soul, seeping over into this Delve, into her skill.

Why the System was aiding the Hatchling so vulgarly, Uva didn't understand. The only person she could have consulted was currently missing. Hymn wasn't in the Delve with her anymore. Instead, he was on the other side, and she could feel faint pressure sinking deep into her soul, but what he was doing exactly and if he was having any success was beyond her. Inside the Delve, her physical body was numb and distant, like a dream across from a dream, with the sensations befalling her true form displaced by magnitudes and dilated time.

For now, she needed to start again and figure things out. But she knew what was waiting for her this time. More importantly, she had options. Maybe she could avoid triggering that special encounter. Maybe she should just wait the time out when fighting Shiv, but she also didn't want to; that didn't seem like Legendary behavior to her. More importantly, she felt an urge take hold. It wasn't a logical, rational urge, but rather an emotional, cold need to see the indignities visited upon her by the Hatchling returned.

She didn't want to simply perform to the specifications of a Quest. She wanted to exceed the System's demands. She wanted to humiliate it by debasing its chosen champion, by seizing the Hatchling's body and ruining the Eldest's hope of finding a compliant host.

“Fine, then, System, be vulgar. Tilt the table. Stack the deck. Weigh the die. Place yourself against me. I will make you regret this. I will taint you with scorn and shame and disgrace.” She looked up, staring at the metallic roof of the anchor she'd been returned to. Spell shapes swirled around her, feeding this place with power as Uva's mind was overcome by an unnatural calm.

The duration of this Delve was no longer her main concern. She had two objectives: to see Adam return to whole health of mind, soul, and flesh, and to see the Hatchling devastated and the Eldest traumatized.

