Scalp aching and hair thinned from a little heavy-handed brushing, Luo-Luo followed Mila into the courtyard with the bears ambling at their heels. A quick glance around failed to reveal her gift, only Lin-Lin teasing the wildcats with a bundle of feather on a string while Yan played with the pups under the watchful eyes of the older quins. Confused, she turned to her strong-armed sister-wife for direction, but Mila merely smiled and pointed at Mafu, flopped on his side and grooming a pup. Yesterday, Luo-Luo would have shied away and called Mafu over to her, but today, things were different. Unwilling to lose face in front of Mila (and Yan too, now that she thought about it), Luo-Luo summoned her courage and approached the quins with as much dignity as her trembling legs allowed her. When she stepped into range of the pups, the adult quins collectively turned towards her with teeth bared, and for a split second, Luo-Luo believed she’d made a huge mistake. Then, after the longest fraction of a second in her life, Mafu blinked, squeaked, and plodded over with the pup in his arms, his head lowered and eyes pleading for a hug and a kiss.

Only then did the other quins visibly relax, and Luo-Luo made a mental promise to buy sweet Mafu an entire basket of fresh seafood. Fish, clams, lobsters, or squid, let him gorge to his heart’s content and engrave her into memory so he might recognize her that much sooner.

With his furry head nestling in her arms, Luo-Luo noticed Mafu had been harnessed and guessed her mysterious gift was at yet another location. Moving around to his side to mount, she froze for the third time today when she spotted a dark metallic sceptre sitting upright in his harness. Recognizing it for what it was, Luo-Luo’s stomach flopped about and threatened to expel her hearty breakfast as she broke into a cold sweat, her mind blanking in sheer panic at the enormity of this gift. While Luo-Luo struggled to draw breath, Mila cheerily confirmed her fear. “It’s a Spiritual Weapon. Your Spiritual Weapon. Pick it up and see how it feels.”

Luo-Luo wanted to do exactly the opposite, to run away screaming and hide in her room, but her legs failed her once more. “Sister Mila,” she whispered, her throat too tight to speak loudly, “This is too precious a gift. This one dares not –”

“Hmph.” The kind, considerate Mila was nowhere to be found and the fearsome, no-nonsense Mila stood in her place. “I won’t force you, but if you don’t dare accept it, then it must mean you don’t see me as family.”

And there it was. Earlier, Mila said, ‘The Bekhai have no useless Martial Warriors’. Though she left the rest unsaid, Luo-Luo understood the implication and knew a decision was upon her. To her new family, black was black and white was white, with no grey areas in between. Take up the weapon or be cast out from the Bekhai, those were the only two choices. A choice between life and death because Luo-Luo had nowhere else to go, so what sort of choice was it, really?

Cold and decisive, Mila was far more fearsome than Lin-Lin.

Tears spilling down her cheeks, Luo-Luo took the sceptre in hand and nearly dropped it on her foot, the weapon far heavier than she expected. Expecting this outcome, Mila chuckled and said, “Heavy right? That’s good, it means it’ll do plenty of damage when it connects. I finished crafting it yesterday and Papa says it might be my best work. I didn’t make it with you in mind, but while considering possible candidates, you stood out among the rest. See, your height and build are perfect...”

As Mila expounded on the finer details of the weapon, Luo-Luo blinked away the tears and tried to keep up. Though only a little longer than her arm and less than two thumbs thick, the sceptre was almost too heavy for Luo-Luo to carry, much less swing. Still, it was truly a beautiful piece, with the predominantly black metal sporting thin veins of silver throughout the shaft, spiralling ever upwards as if streaking towards the top, where an obsidian orb half the size of her fist rested neatly atop an octagonal setting. So dark it seemed to drink in the light, she saw only herself reflected in the orb’s flawless, inky surface, but nothing else, as if the weapon had chosen her to wield it.

A silly flight of fancy is all it was, for a quick test showed it merely needed to be held at the right angle to reflect Mafu’s curious expression.

This was to be Luo-Luo’s weapon, a sceptre to wield in battle against the Enemy. The thought left her utterly terrified, especially once Mila showed her how to turn the sceptre into what was essentially a three-meter long whip, the cord so thin one might mistake it for twine. How did she expect Luo-Luo to control such a beast?

In response to the question, Mila smiled and answered, “When Rain comes back with Tursinai, I’ll ask her to teach you, but in the meantime you can learn the basics of rope weapons with Lin and the wildcats.” Beaming in sadistic glee, Lin-Lin hopped and squealed in delight, but Mila wasn’t done delivering bad news. “Don’t worry, Jorani picked it up in less than a year without any help, so I’m sure you’ll figure it out soon enough. You’ll require a lot more muscle to wield your weapon effectively though, so you’ll have to put more time and effort into practising your Forms. I was going to oversee your workouts, but since Yan will be around with nothing to do, I... she volunteered to help. You’ll also have less time to run Rain’s business, so she can help with that too. Isn’t this great?” Mila asked, proud as a popinjay as she took in Luo-Luo’s reaction. “Neither of you knows the other very well, but now that you’ll be practically spending every minute of every day together, you’ll be thick as thieves in no time.”

“What fun,” Yan said, her tone sickly sweet while her eyes implied otherwise. Luo-Luo felt the same way, but lacked the courage to retort. Instead, she nodded mutely and clutched the sceptre to her chest, wondering if it’d be better to use it to hang herself. A quick and painless death now would be far more merciful than suffering through the days ahead, to say nothing of what would happen if the Defiled captured her alive on the battlefield.

...

No.

Had Luo-Luo wanted to end her life, she would have done so long ago. She had thought about almost every day after her fateful zither performance where she, an Imperial Servant, received a standing ovation from the Emperor himself. To most, she lived a cursed life, a first generation daughter of nobility sacrificed to Service due to a cruel twist of fate, then left to rot because she was so dazzling no one dared accept her.

An Imperial Servant too talented to employ, and as much as this haunted Luo-Luo, she also took pride in her excellence, for it was only fitting.

Though not everything came easily, thanks to her hard work and dedication, she excelled in every subject she ever tried her hand at, so why should combat be any different? She was already a Martial Warrior, so how difficult could it to become an Expert? Others might struggle their entire lives and never succeed, but for her? Not difficult at all. She couldn’t even remember forming her Core, for she’d been young and she’d succeeded as easily as breathing, but more importantly, once she put her mind to a task, past experience showed that success was not a question of if, but when.

For she was Zheng Luo, a daughter of Heaven with the blood of Emperors flowing through her veins. Excellence was merely what was expected of her, and she would achieve no less.

Chapter Meme
