The Organized

They left the Floor 21 rest node in the hour before the Tower's ambient shifted to its morning register — not light, not warmth, but a change in the frequency of the pre-System stone, something Solenne had begun tracking as a circadian marker since the early floors. The party moved without requiring it to be named. Formation three called with Dayo's hand signal at the corridor entrance. Tomás out with Eagle Eye at full reach before the first junction.

The Architect documentation was in Solenne's inner pocket. She had read the legible sections three times during the rest period, alone, with the paper held at the angle she used for detail work. She had not read the untranslatable sections. She was not avoiding them — she had tried and the notation refused to resolve into anything her pattern recognition could approach. The gaps in the document were not damaged or obscured. They were written in a different system entirely.

She had not resolved the untranslatable sections into anything her pattern recognition could approach. She left them at the edge of her attention, available but not pressed.

The legible sections she carried with her.

---

Floor 22 opened wider than Floor 21. Solenne noted it through the Conductor's ambient read: the pre-System stone frequency present as on every floor above ground level, but the ceiling height changed the acoustic quality — a half-second longer reverberation on Dayo's shield impact during their first encounter, a different texture to the formation's footfall. The Tower was built with the same design logic across every floor. The proportions changed.

The enemies were Hollow Wardens again — two in the first section, spread, with the joint-articulation behavior Vesper had been cataloging. She watched them the way she now watched everything on this floor: with the Workframe running and the known conclusion already present underneath the new data. She moved through the encounter at the edge of her assigned zone and examined what she needed to examine without interrupting the formation's efficiency.

"Consistent," she said, when the second Warden had collapsed. She was crouching over the joint section, palm flat, not looking at the party. "The construction signature. Same load distribution as Floor 21." She paused. "Same as Floor 20."

Tomás noted it.

"Same as every floor we've been on," Vesper said. She stood. The Workframe had stopped running at full extension — she had what she needed. "I went back through my catalog during the rest period. The Warden construction has been consistent since the first encounter. I didn't have the comparison point until Cartographer's Truth showed what was underneath the floor."

"The Builder built the Wardens," Miriam said. Not a question.

"Or the same documentation," Vesper said. "The result is the same."

The corridor was quiet.

"Something designed this place to challenge us," Dayo said, "and also built it to let us through." She was assessing the next section already, not looking back at the collapsed Warden. "That's a strange thing to do."

Nobody had an answer. The formation reformed and continued.

---

Solenne read the first legible section aloud at the second rest pause, standing in a natural widening where the corridor bent and the floor leveled and there was room to stop without the formation compressing.

She said: "I want to read you something."

The party stilled. Not the disclosure-stillness — the practical attention they gave when she was about to share Conductor information. She noted the distinction.

She read:

*"A party of six, each bearing a single Aspect in full expression, represents the theoretical maximum of the Harmony architecture as designed. The six Aspects were not chosen arbitrarily: they map to the six primary functions required for sustained Composite operation at the Summit threshold. Each function requires genuine development — the Aspect does not operate at full capacity in an unresolved bearer. The Tower's assessment structure has been designed to advance development on all six vectors simultaneously, with escalating revelatory pressure at each section boundary. This is not a test of capability. It is a mechanism for becoming."*

She stopped reading.

The widening was quiet. The pre-System stone frequency ran through the load-bearing structure around them — the same frequency that was woven through Floor 3's boss chamber, Floor 9's joint geometry, Floor 21's Aspect signal layer. She had been reading it as ambient. It was not ambient. It had been doing something specific this whole time.

"A mechanism for becoming," Tomás said. He was looking at the notation surface. He had been looking at it since she began reading, building the index as she spoke. "Not a test."

"The Proving Gate individual trials," Miriam said. Her voice was at the clinical register, not quite. "Each trial was specific to the bearer. Not randomly assigned."

"The notice board entry," Nadia said. She was looking at the corridor ceiling — not at anyone. "It described things that hadn't happened yet. Because they weren't things that had happened. They were things that were going to happen because the Tower was going to make them happen."

The room absorbed this.

Dayo said: "We were always going to become this."

"Or something like this," Solenne said. She folded the paper. "The document doesn't say the outcome is certain. It says the mechanism is designed to maximize the probability."

Dayo looked at her. The Steadfast signal at a quality Solenne had not previously filed correctly — not the recalibrating register, not the weight-and-one-foot-forward operational mode. Something underneath both. She filed it now: the register of a person who has just been told that her choices were anticipated, and is deciding what that means.

"It doesn't change the choices," Dayo said. "We still made them."

She turned and walked back into the formation without waiting for a response.

Solenne noted: the register had not closed. Dayo was still holding it. She had answered out loud and was continuing to answer to herself.

---

They encountered the Greybacks at the third section widening.

Tomás's Eagle Eye had given thirty seconds of warning: large presences in the widening ahead, not moving toward the party, stationary in the configuration he described without alarm as "already arranged." Solenne ran the Conductor at range before entry. The signals she received were not Harmony signals. They were not anything she had a catalog entry for. She held them without a name and continued.

The Greybacks were seven of them — large, broader through the shoulder than any Hollow Warden, the posture more vertical than the System's average construct. Vaguely simian was the description her pattern recognition reached for and then revised. Not simian — something that had arrived at bilateral symmetry and upright posture through a different path than human or simian biology. They were positioned in a loose arc at the far side of the widening, facing the corridor entrance. Not blocking it. Watching it.

The System provided a designation when Solenne ran Arcane Analysis: [THE ORGANIZED — CLASSIFICATION: NON-HOSTILE UNLESS PROVOKED]. No level. No HP. No threat assessment.

She had never seen an enemy entity without a level notation.

Dayo stopped the formation at the widening's entrance. Not because the Greybacks were in the way — the corridor continued past them without obstruction. Because stopping was the correct read.

They stood there for a moment: six humans with Harmony Aspects in formation three, and seven of something else in a considered arrangement, looking at each other across twenty meters of pre-System stone.

The Greyback at the center of the arc moved. Not toward them — it turned its head slightly, the movement unhurried and deliberate, to look at something to the left of the corridor entrance. Three paces from where Nadia was standing.

There was a cache there. Solenne had not noticed it on entry — a pile of objects arranged against the wall with a specificity that did not suggest accident. Stone fragments of unusual geometry. Something that might have been a Core, dull and exhausted. A folded section of material she could not identify from distance.

She ran the Conductor on the Greyback that had indicated the cache.

The signal was — present. That was the only word that worked. Not hostile, not curious in the way a System entity read as curious. The quality of something that had been watching them for longer than this corridor, from positions she had not noticed, and had decided to mark a thing as significant for them to find.

"It wants us to look at it," Nadia said. Her voice was low and her hand was not on the dulcimer case. She was looking at the Greyback that had moved. "The cache."

"Wants is a large word," Tomás said.

"Yes," Nadia said. She looked at him. "It's the right word anyway."

Tomás looked at the Greyback for a long moment. He looked at his notation surface. He did not write anything. He looked at the Greyback again.

He walked to the cache. Unhurried, no weapon drawn, trajectory clear and non-threatening. He crouched and examined the contents without touching. He stood.

"Stone fragments," he said. "Junction geometry — the joint section where two load-bearing elements meet at this floor's specific angle. Cut, not broken. Someone selected these pieces." He looked at the Greyback. "Precision Shot joint targeting. They've been watching us fight."

The Greyback made a sound. Not language — not anything the System translated — but a sound with cadence to it, a variation in pitch and duration that had structure. The other six shifted slightly in response. Not alarm. The register of something confirmed.

Nadia inhaled.

Solenne ran the Conductor on Nadia: the Brightspirit signal at a quality she had been building the catalog entry for since Floor 21. Not the reverberation, not the open-present. The specific quality of someone who has been receiving a signal and is now receiving confirmation that the signal was real.

"They know the joint section," Nadia said. Quietly. Not to the party — or not only to the party. "They've been studying the same thing."

Vesper was very still. She looked at the stone fragments in the cache. She looked at the Greybacks. The Workframe was running at full extension.

She said: "They've been here the whole time."

---

They passed through the widening without taking anything from the cache. Tomás documented the arrangement with Eagle Eye and notation. Dayo called the formation back with a word when the documentation was complete, and they continued.

The Greybacks did not follow. Solenne ran the Conductor on them as the party moved away, reading the ambient of the widening as it receded behind them. The signals were still present, still arranged in the considered arc, still watching the corridor entrance.

She filed them under: something she would need new notation for.

---

At the Floor 22 rest node, Dayo said: "Did Vasic say how many parties have made it to the Summit?"

They were settled — packs down, equipment in rest configuration. The question landed in a specific kind of quiet. Not the silence of not knowing what to say. The silence of recognizing the exact shape of the thing being asked.

"No," Solenne said.

"She would know," Dayo said. It was not a complaint. She was looking at the terminal display — party status, floor completion, the standard rest node readout. "If the Architects have been building documentation since before Day Zero, they've been counting the parties who reached it."

"The System's been active for less than two years," Tomás said. "Nobody's reached the Summit. No one's confirmed above Floor 70."

"That's public record," Dayo said. "I want to know what Vasic's record says." She paused. "The Tower was built to bring a specific party to the Summit. We're on Floor 22. The record she's been building predates the System. There might be earlier attempts. Documentation in the notation we can't read."

The question sat in the rest node.

Miriam had her clinical notebook open. Main text. She was writing without looking up. She had been writing since the second rest pause, when Solenne had read from the Architect document. The pen did not stop.

Nadia was looking at the notebook. Not at its contents — at Miriam's hand moving. She had been looking at it since the widening.

"We ask her," Solenne said. "Next time she finds us."

"She will," Tomás said. He was cross-referencing the Architect paper and his notation surface, the index he had been building since the second rest pause. "She's been finding us since Floor 11."

Dayo looked at the terminal. The floor completion percentage was higher than it had been at the Floor 21 rest node. They were making progress.

"Eight floors," she said.

Eight floors to the Section 30 boundary. Eight floors to the point where the Section 11-30 cooldown reset. Eight floors before they had to decide whether to come back for the Floor 21 Composite lock or continue.

Eight floors in which the Greybacks were ahead of them, or parallel to them, or watching from positions the Conductor had not yet located.

Eight floors in which the Tower continued to be a mechanism for becoming, and they continued to move through it.

"Then we'd better keep moving," Dayo said.

She looked at the rest node terminal for another moment — the party status display, all six green — and then looked away, the operational assessment filed, the next section already beginning to resolve in her attention.

Nadia opened her skill window.

She had opened it once before, on Floor 20, and closed it without allocating. She read it again now — the same text, the same requirement. The Brightspirit signal in the Greyback widening had not been performance. She had not been managing the room. She had not known what to do and she had stayed present with that and said the right word regardless.

She accepted.

```stat-screen
[SKILL ACQUIRED — CLEAR NOTE]
Tier II — Brightspirit
Cost: 20 MP / Cooldown: 3 min
Effect: Full Brightspirit expression — 8 seconds
Note: Authenticity required.
```

She closed the window. She did not say anything.

Solenne ran the Conductor on all six.

The post-Greyback register was different from the post-Vasic register, which was different from the post-Cartographer's-Truth register. She was building a new entry again. The catalog required it.

She noted this not as a problem.

Filed it under: the work.
