I stare at her. Octavia’s face is still flesh, but without her eyes I can literally look into two empty sockets. They gape at me, and I feel my lunch coming up.
“I—”
“Oh wait, it’s the sockets, isn’t it? Sorry.”
She closes her eyelids and I can finally look away. I pick up both eyes very gingerly, and press them into her hands. Octavia smiles.
“Thanks, Ryoka. I wasn’t expecting that to hurt as much as it did. Wow. Good thing you came along, or I’d be looking for these forever.”
I nod dumbly, and then realize she can’t see me. Octavia carefully feels at the table in front of her as I stare at her.
“You’re…okay?”
“Oh, sure! Sorry if I scared you—I was just testing that potion you had me make. It’s strong stuff, let me tell you. Worth every copper piece you invested, and as soon as I clean the mixture off I’ll be happy to show you the others.”
She fumbles around, nearly knocks over the pepper-spray potion, and steadies it just in time.
“Hey, Ryoka, I’ve got a basin of water around here. Can you find it for me?”
Silently, I locate the bucket and put it in front of Octavia. She tosses the eyes in and begins to scrub at them gently.
“Hm. Feels like the oil in the potion is sticking rather well. I know I’ve got a cleansing potion on my shelves. Can you grab it? It’s green with streaks of blue.”
It takes me a few minutes to locate the correct potion, but when I give it to Octavia she adds a tiny bit to the water. It instantly turns clear, and less than ten seconds later she pulls her eyes out of the water and gently pats them down with a towel before popping them back into her face.
Octavia turns and beams at me, blinking a few times and wiping her eyes.
“Whew! Sorry about that. It’s always a challenge getting the cloth clean after a spill. I should just keep the cleansing potion on my belt, but you know how it is.”
I stare at her. I just can’t quite erase the image of her sightless gaze from my head.
“You’re…okay?”
“Just fine, thanks for asking! I’ll admit it hurt a lot getting that stuff on my eyes, but I can safely say that this potion’s complete. I’d ask if you want to try it, but you can’t pull your eyes out of their sockets, so just take it on faith, huh?”
I blink at the pepper potion as Octavia lifts it and recoil.
“Get that out of my face.”
“Oops, sorry, sorry. Let me just cork that.”
Octavia stoppers the potion before handing it back to me. I gingerly shake the potion and watch the thick liquid sloshing around inside.
“One pepper potion, ready to blind anyone you really don’t like. It should cover a lot of space. Just make sure you don’t throw it upwind or you’ll be just as blind when it hits you.”
“Got it. I mean—thanks.”
Yeah, a pepper potion. To be more accurate, this is this world’s equivalent of pepper spray. Octavia took every hot pepper and painful substance she could and mixed it into something that would probably make mace look like lemon water.
And yes, I asked her to make it for me. I just didn’t expect her to test it out on herself.
I eye Octavia’s eyes. They’re still a bit red and the skin around her face is a bit irritated.
“You’re sure you’re okay? That stuff is giving you a rash.”
“Eh, it’s not worse than anything I get from spilling acid on myself. I might try and get it fixed later, but I’m fine for now.”
Of course. Stitch-people wouldn’t need healing potions. Or if they did, it would only be as a last resort. But it’s far easier just to replace some fabric or stitch something together.
“…Well, good. I uh—”
I shake my head and remember why I’m here.
“Do you have any healing potions? Good ones. I need one.”
“Healing potions? I’ve got lots! Any particular potency you desire? The good ones are all over a gold coin’s worth.”
“I need one for Garia.”
“Oh?”
Briefly, I explain to Octavia what happened. The stitched girl’s eyes widen.
“That’s terrible! Of course I’ve got a healing potion. The girl needs it! Here, I’ll give you a discount. Garia can pay me back.”
She reaches for a potion, but I stop her.
“Garia said she couldn’t afford one. She’s not rich, so she could probably afford only a few silver coins’ worth.”
Octavia frowns.
“That’s…not really enough. I suppose I could give her something weak, but if she’s running she’ll need a strong one.”
“Right, so give me a healing potion that’s only a few silver coins. Here’s the payment.”
I place a gold coin and four silver coins down on the counter. Octavia’s eyebrows shoot up and she stares at me.
“Ah.”
“Got a problem?”
She hesitates, and then pushes the coins back towards me.
“Keep it. Garia’s a good kid, and she’s been a long-time customer of mine. I’d hate to see her get hurt—more than she already is, I mean.”
That surprises me, but Octavia takes a yellow potion off the shelf and puts it on the counter.
“This one should be worth only a few silver coins. And best yet, she can use it sparingly if the wound isn’t deep. Tell her I’ve got more in the shop. Tell the other Runners, too!”
“I will. Um. Thanks.”
Awkwardly, I take the potion. Octavia smiles at me.
“Now, is that all? As you can see, I’m still in the middle of testing and creating some of the things you asked for, but I’ve got some if you need them.”
I hesitate, then nod. I might as well. I’m not due to head back to Erin’s inn for a few more days, but better safe than sorry. Garia’s just illustrated that point.
“I’ll take whatever you’ve got ready. How many did you manage to complete?”
Octavia turns and moves to a small crate, talking as she opens the lid and shows me what’s within.
“The pepper spray potion is ready, although I didn’t come up with a way to spray it like you asked just yet. But you can still hurl it. I’ve got two bags done, and two more bottles for you.”
She hands me some bags with the drawstrings tightly closed. They’re supposed to be special cloths that won’t let anything through, but I make sure the knots are tight before I put them in my pack.
Octavia places a warning hand on my arm before she gives me the two other potions.
“Careful with these. I had to buy enchanted glass for both. There’s a cork on the top—pull it out and the glass will weaken so you can smash the bottles if you want. But be careful. Break it anywhere near you and—”
“I’ll be careful. You’ll keep working on the other two?”
“Of course! When you come back I’ll have multiples of each. And then we can talk about another deal, perhaps? I’d love to work on any more projects, if you’ve got the coin.”
“I should, when I get back.”
I store all the potions in my pack, carefully wrapping them in the blanket I bring for long runs. I nod at Octavia.
“I’ve got to get back to Garia. I’ll see you—”
“—Later. You Runners are always busy. Come back soon, and with more coin!”
I leave the shop and jog down the street. That was an exciting few minutes, but the most important thing is that I’ve got a potion. With that in mind, I double-time it back to the Runner’s Guild and nearly run into another Runner coming in.
“Sorry.”
“My fault. You first.”
He grins at me, and I nod and walk inside. I haven’t seen him before, but then maybe he’s from further away. I find Garia and the others more or less where I’ve left them, only now Garia’s got food and drink in front of her and a blanket on her shoulder.
Fals looks over as I walk towards him. He raises his eyes.
“Ryoka, where have you been?”
“Getting something. Here.”
I take the potion out and put it on the table in front of Garia. She goes wide-eyed at the sight of the glowing mixture.
“Free of charge. Octavia’s compliments. She says she’ll give a discount to any Runner who wants a healing potion.”
The other Runners murmur appreciatively, and I feel more than one hand slap me on the back. Well, maybe Octavia will get some business from this after all. Probably as she intended.
That thought’s unworthy of her. She gave me the potion for Garia’s sake. She might have known it would engender goodwill, but that’s just good business sense along with a kind heart.
Garia stares at the potion and then up at me. She turns red again.
“I can’t—this looks expensive. I can’t take this. I’ll pay you—her back.”
“It’s a gift. Take it and use it.”
“But—”
Fals nudges Garia gently and winks quickly at me. For once I’m grateful he’s here.
“Listen to Ryoka, Garia. Octavia knows she can get us buying her potions if she can prove she’s got quality. Besides, you need something for emergencies like today.”
He pauses and snaps his fingers lightly.
“I’ve got a spare wand with a single cast of [Slow] enchanted in it. It won’t stop arrows, but it should let you get away from any group of bandits next time. You can come by my room later and pick it up.”
The other Runners like that notion. One offers a stamina potion, and another tells Garia he’s got a dagger she can have. The good mood lasts right up until I hear the high-pitched voice from just opposite me.
“Some of us make enough money to provide for ourselves. We don’t need to bother other Runners.”
I look up. Now, why couldn’t the bandits have attacked Persua? She sniffs at both me and Garia. Her eyes flick towards Fals, and then shoot daggers at Garia.
“What’s the big deal? Garia got away with only a little scratch. If she were faster, she wouldn’t have been caught at all.”
I’m no expert, but even I know that was the wrong thing to say. A lot of Runners glare, but to my disgust, some seem to agree with Persua. Bastards.
“Anyways, Garia should pay Ryoka—I’m sorry, I mean Octavia back for the potion. We all earn enough, don’t we? At least, I do.”
Garia’s face is a tomato, and my chest is too tight. My hand clenches. Can I punch her? She’s not too far away. I could turn her stupid face into a paste before anyone could stop me.
But—no, damn it. I can’t do that. I loosen my hands and force myself to smile at Persua. She wants to use words? I can do words.
“Oh, really? How much do you earn, Persua? I’m curious. Do you earn a few silver coins each day or are they all copper? I earn quite a lot. Want to compare numbers?”
Persua’s sallow* face goes slack, and then she gives me a look of pure, unrefined hatred.
 
*Still not sure that’s the right word.
 
“At least I don’t run off whenever I please. I’m a dedicated Runner to the Guild, not some aimless drifter.”
That was weak. I open my mouth to retort, and Fals breaks in. He glares at both of us from Garia’s side.
“Persua. Ryoka. Not the time.”
She tosses her hair and I close my mouth, ashamed. Damn it. That was catty. I should know better, but Persua—
I’ve never had girls in high school run me over with a wagon. Just try to push me down the stairs. Persua’s on a whole new level. But Fals is right.
He waits until he’s sure we’re not going to start anything, and then turns back to Garia. He talks to her soothingly.
“We’ll ask the Watch to put a few patrols on the roads. What happened to the ones who jumped you, Garia?”
She shudders, and begins to speak, but someone cuts her off. A tall guy steps forwards and raises his voice.
“They’re all dead. I’ve reported the incident to the local Watch.”
Everyone looks at him. Garia opens her mouth and gapes, and I realize I’m standing right next to the guy who I saw outside the Runner’s Guild.
The tall Runner who I saw entering the Guild nods to the other Runners. He looks with interest at Garia’s head and speaks to her.
“Good to see you didn’t get too badly hurt, Miss Runner. I was worried, but you got away before I could look for you.”
Garia’s eyes widen, and she tries to get to her feet. Fals stops her, but Garia points her finger at the newcomer.
“You—you’re the one who saved me!”
He’s not quite as handsome as Fals is – someone broke his nose once, and it was never set quite right. But he’s got something the other Runners don’t, and that’s a presence. He looks like some of the athletes you see in the Olympics and in sports—someone with enough self-confidence in what they do that it shows in everything they do.
Fals smiles at the new Runner, and gets up to extend a hand.
“You saved Garia on the road? Thank you, from me and everyone in the Guild.”
“Think nothing of it.”
The stranger returns Fals’ handshake and smiles in reply. His eyes flick towards me, and then at the other Runners.
“It’s a good Guild you’ve got here. Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Valceif Godfrey. I’m a Courier from First Landing. I’ve come down this way to do a delivery to the city of Liscor.”
He nods at the stunned room.
“Pleased to meet you all.”
 
—-
 
“I can’t stay. I’ve got an important delivery to make.”
That was the first thing Valceif said after the uproar had died down enough for him to be heard. He balanced on the balls of his feet, looking from Fals to the map on the wall.
“In truth, I’d like to have been on the road an hour ago, but I had to take care of those bandits and deal with the local Watch. And…I’m lost.”
He stands in the center of the room as if he’s used to the looks of amazement he’s getting. I’m the one who’s not used to it. The other Runners, both City Runners and Street Runners, are treating this guy as if he’s some kind of rock star. Even Fals looks amazed.
“It’s great to meet you. I’ve only seen two Couriers before, and never this far south. My name is Fals. I’m sorry the guilds didn’t notify us you were coming down this way, ah, Valceif.”
“Call me Val. It’s a pleasure to meet you, Fals.”
“Can we get you anything? You must be tired. Again, if we knew you were coming…”
Valceif shakes his head.
“I haven’t stopped running since I passed Invrisil. Unless you’ve got a mage in your guild, I’m not surprised you haven’t heard I was coming this way.”
A mage in a Runner’s Guild? I could see how that would be helpful, but that speaks to a far larger guild than the small one here. And did he say he came from Invrisil? Isn’t that the city six hundred miles north of here?
Fals looks like he can’t believe it either, but Val just smiles.
“I’m fine. Truly. I wouldn’t have stopped, but I’ve never come this far south and the snow makes it hard to tell where I’m headed. If you could point me to one of the main roads, I’d be grateful.”
“But we’d love to talk to you. If it’s not an imposition—I know a lot of Runners aspire to be a Courier one day. Could you spare an hour from your journey to rest?”
Again, the Courier declines.
