“My delivery’s a priority. I can’t stop even to chat. Apologies, but I’ll be coming back up this way. There will be plenty of time then.”
Fals nods immediately. I wonder what’s so important that a Courier wouldn’t even be allowed to stop to rest.
“We can have a Runner show you to the spot. We also have a map if you need one—”
“A Runner is fine. Preferably someone fast?”
Fals nods. Flustered, he looks around. Well, this seems like a good opportunity. I raise my voice and step forwards.
“I’m heading down that way myself. Mind if I join you?”
The other Runners look at me, and Val glances questioningly at Fals. He nods, relieved.
“Ryoka is the fastest City Runner in the region. She can take you to the road fastest.”
“Well then, if it’s not too much trouble, I’d like to move out soon. Is that okay with you?”
He raises an eyebrow at me, challengingly. I think I almost like this guy. He’s confident, not just cocky. He reminds me of other athletes I’ve met.
“Give me five minutes. If that’s not too long?”
Fals looks like he’s going to inhale his tongue, but Val grins broadly.
“Five minutes is fine. I’ll be here.”
I nod and move towards the counter. The receptionist is staring at Vals behind it, but she jumps and looks at me as I cough.
“I still need my payment.”
“What? Oh! Of course! Just let me—”
It takes her slightly longer than five minutes to get me my coin, mainly because her hands are shaking so bad. But eventually I have my money and I secure my pack as I tighten my shoes.
Vals nods at me and extricates himself from the crowd of Runners.
“Ready to go?”
“Follow me.”
He turns and nods at the room.
“Runners, Miss Garia. It was a pleasure to meet you all.”
“Thank you for saving—”
Oops. The door closes behind me and Val. We’re already out the door. I glance at him. He’s a Courier? I wonder how fast he is.
As if he’s reading my mind, Val glances at my feet and then at the open street.
“Slippery road. If you want to take it slow, I’ll match your pace. Just point me in the right direction and I’ll be on my way.”
“I have business in Liscor too. I might join you.”
“You’re welcome to.”
If you can. Neither he or I need to hear the unspoken words. I grit my teeth. My body’s tired, but this is a challenge. This is a race. Me against a Courier. Time to see how high the bar is.
“Let’s go. Try to keep up.”
I don’t break into a sprint right away. Unless you’re running a race that’s a terrible idea. But I do set a fast pace through the city.
Val keeps pace effortlessly with me, and I can tell he’s watching me as I run. I know because I’m doing the same.
“You have good form. It’s nice to see someone else who knows how to run.”
He says that, but that’s my line. When I first came to this world, I thought no one else knew how to run properly. Even Fals tends to waste a bit of motion in his movements, and most of the Runners don’t have good posture or form.
But Val runs like any athlete on the track. Short stride, center of gravity light, stepping with the fore and middle of his foot rather than landing on his heels. He and I both run as if we’re falling forwards, bodies relaxed, feet flashing across the frozen ground.
The city disappears behind us and I decide it’s time to test how fast this guy really is. I move into my fast run, the speed I run at in a marathon. Val doesn’t even blink as he speeds up.
Huh. Okay…
I move faster. I’m at a dead-run now, racing speed. He stays right next to me, not even blinking. So I sprint. I push into the ground and take off. My feet might be hampered by these damn shoes, but even with them I can go terrifically fast.
The world blurs around me and becomes a tunnel. I strike the frozen earth with my feet as fast as possible, leaving a flurry of powdery snow as I dash ahead. That should do it. That should—
Val runs right next to me, legs flashing through the snow, grinning. Not mockingly; not even in challenge. He’s enjoying the run, and he’s right next to me as I run as fast as I ever have.
You’ve got to be—
“You don’t have any Skills, or Classes, do you? That you can run this fast is truly impressive.”
Val shouts that over the rushing wind. I can’t even spare the effort to look at him—I’m putting everything I have into the run. But I hear his voice, not even out of breath. I feel like I’m gasping for air over here.
“That’s what the pinched-face girl in your Guild told me. She doesn’t seem to like you.”
Persua? In five minutes—she talked?—what a bitch.
Can’t even think. I try to increase speed, but Val doesn’t even look strained.
“I don’t want to hurt your pride, but I do have a job to do. You’re quick, but I need to get to Liscor by tonight at the latest. So—pardon me.”
He runs a tiny bit faster, so he can nod back at me. Then he says two words.
“[Double Step].”
The world is a blur around me, but Val was like the center of a focused lens. Since he and I are keeping the same pace, it’s like we’re the only two people in a world of blurred colors. But when he speaks, he suddenly blurs forwards.
I can’t believe it. But suddenly, Val is taking two steps for every one of mine. His feet aren’t just blurring on the ground—I can barely see his legs moving. He accelerates forwards, running twice as fast as I do.
In seconds, he’s a hundred meters ahead of me. It’s like I’m standing still while he’s running. That’s how fast he’s moving.
The blur of motion that is the Courier accelerates to the main road, and then seems to pause. Suddenly the blur reverses direction and Val appears by my side, effortlessly keeping pace with me.
“I’ll see you in Liscor! I’m looking for some strange person who plays chess there. I’m told a Drake [Tactician] is the best player in the city. After I locate him we can have a drink or two.”
I can’t do anything else but nod. Val grins, and raises two fingers to his forehead. He accelerates, and then he’s moving faster than I am, faster than any human from my world has ever moved. He dashes down the snowy road, kicking up massive spays of snow into the air.
In less than a minute, he’s pulled so far ahead of me he’s a speck in the distance. I lose sight of him shortly after that.
I slow down and stop sprinting. My shoes slide a bit on packed snow, and I feel my feet rubbing at the leather and chafing horribly. I probably already have a blister or two, but that doesn’t concern me at the moment.
My heart is beating out of my chest. The cold air burns my lungs. I feel my body trying to recover as my legs scream in agony. I stare down the empty road, and say one word.
“…Fuck.”
