This place feels… alive. Somehow, he was certain that wasn’t just a metaphor; the Labyrinth itself was aware. Its presence was sinister, cruel, and insatiable—driven to consume and grow.

“This place is terrifying,” Kenji spoke in a small voice that echoed endlessly off the water and stone.

“I can feel its hunger… its hatred. No wonder the monsters are so warped. I doubt anything can live down here for long without being corrupted. The Earth seems to be buffered from the effect. I think the nodes are self-contained pockets of stable space, whereas these conduits are an extension of the ever-expanding maze.”

As they continued their journey, Nick pondered the significance of what they were sensing. He had thought the Labyrinth was merely Taltos’s realm, but now that he was standing here in the flesh, he was certain the truth was more complex.

He wasn’t sure if the Mad God was the uncontested master of this maze, merely its caretaker, or if the malevolent deity served a greater power far beyond Nick’s comprehension.

Regardless of the details, it didn’t change what they had come here to do. The duo needed to meet their party and survive the trek to the quarantine zone. Then it would be time wipe out the dreadbeasts and secure the reward.

When the men made it back, he would do everything in his power to help his people grow strong enough to survive what came after the year of protection ended, and Earth had to contend with its new neighbors without the System’s shield in the way.

An hour passed in silence. The route they followed was wide open. He suspected that other places along their route would be far more confined. For now, it let him breathe a little easier, although he had no intention of lowering his guard.

The duo stayed as far away from the water as possible, prepared for an ambush from ahead or below. They turned when the System’s arrow pointed down a side passage that was half as wide and studded with support beams thicker than his outstretched arms.

Nick scanned their path with Size Up while Kenji watched their backs. The men could only use Blend into the Background for an hour each day, so it made sense to save the trait’s energy for battles or when their environment seemed unusually dangerous.

They spotted several monsters as they proceeded deeper into the rotting guts of the conduit, sneaking past a pair of voidbears that were feasting on a pile of refuse.

While this place lacked a true ecosystem, it was far from lifeless. He felt the prickle of hostile minds when they entered a passage filled with wrist-thick roots that stretched on for miles.

Monstrous insects lurked between the pipes lining the walls. Nick was certain the creatures would attack if they sensed vulnerability, so he unleashed his killing intent. Predatory Domain washed over the critters in a menacing wave, causing the vicious scavengers to skitter away with the scrabble of claws against metal.

After that, the bugs stayed out his way, hiding until he passed through the area while watching with hungry eyes.

A few miles later, their surroundings began to change. The walls narrowed and the ceiling lowered until they were walking along a tunnel that was only a hundred feet wide. The corroded pipework transitioned into ancient bricks—covered in graffiti from an unknown language.

From time to time, Nick came across a decaying artifact from a fallen world. He recorded everything with his PDA for his people to analyze later as the men proceeded deeper into conduit.

Somehow, he was certain that Labyrinth’s influence was weak here. These jumbled scraps of other planets had been added recently and were only infused with a nascent tendril of the ancient evil he’d sensed when stepping through the veil.

It made him wonder how things would change as time went on, and what the maze was like closer to the center. Hopefully, humanity will never have to find out. The fringe is dangerous enough. We wouldn’t survive five minutes closer to the Labyrinth’s heart.

Not long after, the arrow they were following pointed to an archway with the word “Saferoom” painted across the top.

“It’s time to meet the rest of our party.” Kenji stepped past the threshold with Nick at his side. “I wonder what manner of friendly beasts the System paired us with.”

He was about to reply when he came across the last thing he’d expected to find in this place—an old friend.

When Nick spotted the lemur sitting on top a giant boulder covered in moss that looked a great deal like shaggy gray fur, he sheathed Blightbane and spread his arms wide.

Although the clever beast had changed greatly since their tutorial on the Searing Isle, he would recognize the black banding around those curious eyes anywhere.

“Bandit,” he cried. “You’re alive! I’m so happy to see you.”

His good cheer took an abrupt one eighty when the boulder Bandit was perched on woke up and rose to its feet, revealing the profile of a powerful predator that towered above him in a mountain of muscle and ill-will.

“Nick,” Kenji spoke in a low voice while remaining perfectly still. “You never told me you were friends with a dinosaur.”

“That is not a friendly beast.” Nick activated Force Acceleration as killing intent exploded from the creature like a star going nova. “Run!”

No sooner had those words left his lips than the lurk opened its cavernous maw and issued a bone-shaking roar, lunging for him with the promise of murder gleaming in its eyes.
