It was an open type, the kind without an orderly entrance. The spatial tear omened a strange, menace as it caused an unnatural silence throughout the city's downtown area.

Outside of the booming thunder, of course.

Bordering the rift, dark electricity zapped out in searching sparks. These sparks hit nearby stone, steel, and glass. Everything it touched warped in odd, deranged ways. Pieces of granite molded into screaming faces. Panels of clear glass moved like water at sea. A Fire hydrant hummed along to a catchy tune.

Following the madness, a strange oscillation waved at the edges of the rift. It was as if the dimensions around it were two seas clashing, each fighting to overcome the other. It thrummed with an undeniable violence, and it made my stomach sink. To think dungeoneers walked in through this.

I'd have to change the labor laws of the guild at this rate.

Either way, I'd ensure they were adequately compensated for getting close to this thing. Sending that message to Torix, I squared that away before stepping closer. A different world unveiled itself in the rived space-time.

Walking around the rip, it was a two-dimensional object in a three-dimensional world. The portal itself lacked any depth. At its side, the warp disappeared into a tiny black line, and from the back, it disappeared entirely. In other words, it was fully visible from only one angle but invisible from another. Weird.

The surreal scene grated my nerves. It was as if someone opened a portal but never closed it. Before stepping in, I pulled out a rod of my dimensional fabric. I bent it into a circle and wrapped it around the portal's edge. Like a chain link, it would stop the rip from mending while I explored deeper inside.

As I snapped the link together, I gawked at the strangeness of it. From one side of the rip, my chain link floated in the air on nothing. On the other side of the portal, it wrapped into the dimensional void. It was an impossible object, like staring at a set of Penrose stairs in real life. While tripping me out, I'd seen plenty of impossibilities since Schema arrived.

This was likely some eccentricity of portals I didn't know about, and that's part of the reason I took safety precautions. Being trapped in a rift was a nightmare, and I didn't feel like discovering what terrors it hid. Having thoroughly scared myself, I made a few extra links before feeling safe enough to step into the tear.

Inside the portal, a Serengeti spread out in all directions for miles. Tall grasses waved in the wind. These grasses all bent toward a single orientation as if the wind only ever blew from the East. As I stepped in, my dimensional wake changed that. The greenery pulled toward me at its center.

I didn't like that at all, so I pulled my wake inward. The plants turned towards their standard direction, one I followed. As I stepped onto the soft earth, a constant rumbling quaked below, mammoth creatures burrowing underground. Above, islands floated with a few clouds spotting between them.

The drier world lacked trees and the like, leaving wide-open views for many miles in all directions. As I dove deeper, I ensured my minimap worked in my status. Considering how similar this all felt, it was an easy place to get lost in. Still, my map operated well, though it maintained an extended lag as I was in the dungeon.

Crossing over to my minimap's edge, I reached a shadow. One of the floating islands crossed overhead. As it did, the rumbling roared until a fluffy worm swarmed out of the ground. An eldritchian horror, the worm's mouth opened with teeth circling its innards deep into its body.

Peering closer, it lacked fur. My skin crawled as I beheld the thousands of legs on its frame writhing about like nests of spiders. Before it reached me, the shadow over me deepened in its darkness. An enormous, flying pterodactyl flowed down from above. It was a far less grotesque creature, lacking the many legs all over its body. Instead, it sported eyes on every surface.

By now, I hated this place deeply. I digress.

The pterodactyl stripped the ground bare with the flow of its four wings, and it cawed with enough force to uproot trees. With a sword-like beak, it sliced the worm apart. The two worm halves tried crawling into the ground, the many legs squirming and scittering. One half escaped, but the flying behemoth stripped the other half from the dirt. The giant bug writhed in the even larger pterodactyl's beak. As the worm slapped against the pterodactyl's skin, it stripped scales, skin, and scabs off the monster.

The bird reptile didn't seem to mind, and its eyes gazed toward its home on the floating islands. Done watching the spectacle, I stomped my foot into the ground. A wave of force flowed through the region, silencing the rumbling below. I spread my hands, a gravity panel pulling the territory into two pieces.

As if parting a sea of soil, I sliced a thousand feet into the ground below. Dirt billowed up and out, exposing the disgusting worms and their larva. They bundled up into furballs that feasted on enormous, underground root systems.

Oh yeah. They were all dead.

Growing their young around glowing ores of mana, they expanded at unnatural rates, and their flesh writhed. They screamed out in hunger like the wails of the dammed. Wanting to figure out what they were hiding, I came close to some before vaporizing the grotesque creatures with Event Horizon.

The mana crystals exposed themselves, their blue glow mirroring origin mana. They could be mined, but my mana crystals were superior in quality and stability. As for the animals, I hated looking in their direction, let alone finding a use for them. Leaving them alone, I headed deeper underground, eventually hitting the planet's mantle. Endless magma spread below.

Welp, this wasn't the dungeon's end.

I turned towards the islands far above. I bolted up, passing all the churned magma and disgusting worms. I flew over the islands, and they were resting spots for the pterodactyls. They nested with eggs while slicing up worms to feed their young. Inspecting closer, I found no dungeon core atop the islands.

Diving within, each island carried dense clusters of mana crystals, allowing the island to float and the creatures to grow so large. Alas, still no dungeon core. I checked a dozen islands, finding nothing among them. I searched for miles upon miles, the day dragging on in an endless hunt. As the sun settled, a darkness draped over the world. I gazed at the absolute darkness above and below, the planet lacking any moons or stars.

Shattering the darkness, a swarm erupted from below. Fireflies, or more like fire moths, coursed into the sky and enveloped the world in a frenzy of light. Like an ethereal cascade of yellow lanterns, they flocked in all directions, brandishing eternal dark in a limited imitation of day. It was a quiet kind of beauty, and I floated in it for a while, the droning sound like cicadas.

As one of the fire moths landed on me, I recognized the source. It was one of the detached legs from the worms. The legs split over its back to form wings, and they revealed the dark moth and glow hidden during the day. Furry and far cuter than it had any right to be, one moth nestled into the palm of my hand.

A spark of guilt struck through me. Something like this found shelter in the ugliness of this world. The war the worms waged let these creatures live the night, yet I had judged them. I considered them hideous and ugly and vile. As I raised my hand, the moth flew into the horde.

They did what they had to do in order to survive. We all did.

Floating over the expanse, I flowed through the endless swarm in all directions. Endless. Hm. I opened my status, wondering how far I drifted during the day. So far, I crossed three hundred miles in this world. Despite that, no discernible end appeared, and this dwarfed the size of most dungeons by orders of magnitudes.

Heading back to the entrance, I found the links still holding strong and the rip in space-time oscillating. The fire moths flew into our world by the hundreds, and I stood, watching them wander around. They darted from one territory to another, escaping into another dimension. My eyes widened as the solution popped into my head.

This wasn't a rift. It was a genuine tear in space. I flowed a distance from the entryway before sending a message to Helios. Minutes later, he opened a portal and walked out in sleeping wear. He pinched the bridge of his nose.

"Ah, what do you want in the middle of the night, your majesty?"

I gestured behind me.

"You see this, right?"

Still groggy, Helios wiped the sleep out of his eyes before a bolt of dark lightning snapped into the ground beside him. The boom and thunder woke him up seconds before Helios tilted his head. He closed his eyes and rubbed his temples.

"What have you done now? Running an experiment to see if you could collapse the fabric of reality?"

I shook my head.

"What? C'mon. Cut me some slack."

I peered at the portal.

"But I am wondering if someone else is."
