The complex magic circle shrank from the size of a washbasin until it fused with Zac’s forehead as a pitch-black stylized urna. An immense flood of Abyssal Death surged through his body as the region’s glaring Stellar Dao almost faded to nothingness. The surge was temporary, though Zac could vaguely sense a hidden tapestry covering his pathways, Soul Aperture, and Duplicity Core.

“It’s curious how your human half retains such an affinity for Death.”

“There are plenty of humans who practice the Dao of Death.”

“Granted, but they wouldn’t be walking around with Life-attuned Constitutions,” Tavza said. “I simply cannot understand the mechanics behind it. And why can I sense the Branch of Eoz on you despite lacking a Draugr bloodline? It’s no wonder you’re working so hard to protect your secrets.”

“Clearly not working hard enough,” Zac muttered as he inspected his state.

He felt himself ensconced in an invisible cocoon of Abyssal Death. It wasn’t the suffocating darkness he’d experienced when Tavza first used her bloodline ability against him. It was closer to the welcoming warmth he’d experienced in his visions and during his dip in the abyssal pond.

Having the mark left Zac somewhat nauseated, and he needed to keep his bloodline in check to prevent them from expelling the foreign influence. It wasn’t enough to become a distraction. He rotated his energy and activated a few skills. Tavza’s array didn’t interfere at all, though he noticed a slight fluctuation of Miasma from her. It looked like fighting would drain both his and Tavza’s reserves.

“And this will protect me?”

“The Abyssal Mark is based on my second bloodline talent. It’s effective against most tracking methods, and I believe that extends to Mox’s method of tracking you. Her proliferator should have caught a piece of your memories or emotions during your clash, and she’s using that to find you. The Abyss can sever those emotional bonds,” Tavza said. “Then again, this is an ancient Supremacy. There are no guarantees.”

It had been an hour since the An’Azol descendant found him. They’d compared notes after ironing out their new agreement while Tavza modified the Abyssal Mark. It was originally meant to protect her subordinates and provide them with a steady stream of Miasma. She had discarded the energy supply and protection, instead focusing the seal to use all its energy to extend Tavza’s domain.

“Take this, just in case,” Tavza said, handing him a platinum earring with a drop-shaped black opal.

Zac pushed it through his earlobe, and the wound immediately closed, securing it in place. An ethereal light flickered in the gem’s depths when he infused it with some Earthly Dao of Sealed Death. Zac could feel a slight ripple of fate from within. It was eight parts similar to the streak of supreme Abyssal Dao that helped him create [Fatehew]. It was a Fate-protecting treasure made by the Ur’Mez clan.

“Pure Death,” Tavza mused.

Zac could almost hear the gears turning in her head. “You have to stop studying me like a praying mantis or we’ll never get out of here.”

“You’re right. My apologies,” Tavza said. “I’m ready.”

Zac turned toward the memory domain. Just as he was about to step through, he stopped and activated [Conformation of Supremacy]. A swirl of life enveloped him, and both [Ossuary Bulwark] and his skin grew a few shades darker as they drew closer to the ochre rocks. He also grew half a head taller as he felt his legs fill with explosive power.

The first two levels of the skill had covered the basics. The warchief form added explosive offenses while the Ent Elder focused on defenses and recovery. Zac had considered having a third state that mainly focused on infighting and elevating the Evolutionary Stance. He ultimately decided to first add some utility by incorporating a form that boosted speed and, to some degree, hid his presence.

Zac felt like a predator that stalked its prey until it drew close enough to erupt in a burst of speed and violence. Satisfied with the result, he decided to call it his Stalker form. Tavza gave the go-ahead when Zac glanced at her, confirming that maintaining his skill wasn’t a problem for her or the Abyssal Mark.

“I guess we’re about to find out if this works,” Zac said. “Last chance to back down.”

“The mark won’t last ten minutes without me to maintain it. Besides, I believe I’ll be better off sticking close,” Tavza said.

Zac nodded and turned to face the shimmering swirl on the other side of the memory domain’s border. There were still many uncertainties, but he couldn’t wait any longer. Two more halos had appeared on the Outer Courts over the past week, each one expanding the border to the inner regions. More than half the memory domain was already inside, and he might be locked out if another halo suddenly appeared.

The brand on his left hand undulated as he stepped through, taking on Tam Brooks’ identity. He’d confirmed that his choice of identity made no difference to Mox, and his Veteran identity had a strong connection with the Hollow Court and the Order of Fertile Earth—a requirement for his plan.

Zac grunted as he was exposed to the domain’s ambient Dao. Even [Ossuary Bulwark]’s protection couldn’t prevent the painful itch digging at his skin. It felt as though he was being sanded from head to toe with the coarsest sandpaper. The pain barely registered as Zac's full attention was on his Danger Sense. He’d even brought out his broken [Lucky Beads] to maximize the effect.

Mox’s particular feeling of danger was still present, though significantly weaker than before. At its current rate of increase, Zac had more than a day or two before it reached critical levels. However, he also knew Tavza’s Abyssal Mark wouldn’t last that long. To be safe, he needed to be ready within half a day.

“Oblivion and Stellar Dao,” Tavza said as she appeared by his side. “Apocalyptic Dao. How apt.”

“What’s that?”

“The combination is occasionally called as such. It’s an unstable Dao that naturally appears near collapsing stars.”

“Well, let’s go before one drops on our heads,” Zac said.

He didn’t need to ask if Tavza was fine. Her methods were clearly effective even in such intense environments, though the drain on her Vigor had to be much greater. The two cut through the haze, heading straight for the domain’s center. Haro’s slithering vines helped investigate the obscured surroundings, and windows kept popping up around Tavza.

Their scans yielded the same results: nothing of note. Much like the storm where he picked up Tam’s lantern, any structures or landmarks had been eroded by the Apocalyptic Dao.

“Jump up,” Zac eventually said while Haro formed a chair. Tavza silently regarded the vines. She said nothing, but Zac could somewhat intuit her thoughts this time. “It’s not that I doubt your ability to keep up. There’s no point in you wasting your energy on movement skills.”

Tavza lightly sighed and draped a fine Death-attuned quilt over the Life-attuned vines. She sat down, and Zac shot off like a bullet. His legs were filled with boundless explosive power, allowing [Skystriker] to cut through the vast deposits of Apocalyptic Dao with ease. Each step covered over a mile, leaving a tremendous storm in his wake.

Zac only stopped upon reaching a pocket of calm. As expected, there was something in the domain’s center: a temple that kept the Apocalypse at bay with an aura of Sacrificial Dao and what may have been the Inverse Peak. It resembled Roman architecture, and while deserted, it was in decent condition. There were a few cracks on its surface, but its arrays remained steady.

“Interesting. Preli Epoch, maybe?” Tavza muttered as she stepped down from her seat.

“My companions must have entered,” Zac said as he stepped forward. There was no sense of danger coming from the building, and their search still hadn’t uncovered anything else.

“Wait.”

Zac looked over to see a notepad in Tavza’s hands. She rifled through the pages until reaching a section filled with unreadable notes. The writing appeared to have some form of encryption to prevent prying.

“Did you discover something?”

“This arrangement seems familiar to something I saw in the Imperial Graveyard. Please give me a moment,” Tavza said as a flock of small creatures flew out of her sleeves.

The creatures resembled feathered fish, and Zac sensed no true spirituality from them. While they looked like Undead Beasts, they were energy constructs made from an array. A few took up positions where the temple’s energy flow was the strongest. They began to vibrate and morph until they transformed into unfamiliar runes. A few more flew into the temple, which did not react to their presence.

“I see. It’s a shelter designed to protect civilization in case of catastrophe,” Tavza said, nodding with satisfaction.

“Can you see my friends?”

“No. The temple is a gateway to the sanctuary. Your companions should have been sent there.”

“Did you see something similar outside? Is this something the Limitless Empire built in anticipation of the Dark Ages?” Zac asked.

“No. This temple was built at the end of the Preli Epoch, which predates the Limitless Empire,” Tavza replied. “It’s likely the work of a lost civilization from the Left Imperial Expanse.”

“How can you tell? It looks like some of their buildings.”

“You need to understand the language of history,” Tavza said.

“I’ll add it to the list,” Zac said. “Is it safe to enter?”

“It depends. There’s no telling what’s waiting on the other side. A Mystic Realm, a hidden location on the continent, maybe a high-grade Spatial Treasure. Considering the situation, I assume it’s a one-way route,” Tavza sighed. “These projects rarely end well. If they’re not breached, they turn into prisons. With limited resources, the survivors descend into tribalism.”

“Well, there’s a solution since it became a memory,” Zac shrugged and walked inside.

The temple only held one large room. Each wall held two alcoves with large piles of dust. Whatever had been placed inside had long since been eroded by time. The only thing left intact was a large stone cube placed in the center. Unfamiliar runes were carved onto it, but it didn’t emit any energies.

“‘The Evi’Shi shall endure, even should the final sacrament fail,’” Tavza said, giving Zac a sidelong gaze. “No, I don’t know what it means. I simply used an ability to translate the script.”

Zac wasn’t surprised Tavza had something superior to [Primal Polyglot], which remained an E-grade skill without stages.

“The method of teleportation is quite unusual. Looking at the stone is enough to be sent over. It doesn’t appear to use the Dao of Space. At least one Late Stage Autarch was involved in this temple’s construction. We’ll be sent over the moment I stop my interference,” Tavza looked at Zac.

“Do it.”

Tavza waved her hand, and her conjured creatures flew back. They barely had time to return to her sleeves before the surroundings shifted. They appeared on a small, cracked platform in the middle of a sprawling slum. Zac gaped at the crude buildings stacked on top of each other, quickly closing his mouth when the stench hit him like a brick.

It was as though the residents were in a constant battle for space. The shelter was likely underground. The buildings stretched over a thousand feet before reaching a gray ceiling. Not an inch was wasted, to the point he couldn’t see much further with his eyes than with Soul Sense. The city was illuminated by enormous bulbs installed haphazardly, half of which were out of order.

Only the platform’s immediate surroundings were awarded a few dozen meters of breathing room. Beyond that, the streets were narrow alleyways barely wide enough for three people to walk in line. The buildings were in an advanced state of decay, and refuse was everywhere, yet they clearly weren’t abandoned.

Humans and humanoid species moved about like busy ants, too many to count and all gaunt from malnutrition. The clamor of mortals was almost deafening. It was the most impoverished place Zac had ever seen. The rickety skyscrapers looked like they could collapse at any moment, and the claustrophobic experience was worsened by the dearth of ambient energy.

The misery shattered Tavza’s placid demeanor. She took in the scene with horror and confusion but reacted the moment Zac sensed hostility from all directions. Zac disappeared in a flash, leaving two footprints on the platform. [Conformation of Supremacy] had turned him into a speeding train, transforming his body into a weapon.

Two Early Hegemons hidden in an alleyway exploded in a cloud of gore without Zac needing to attack. He simply stopped in his tracks and released some of the kinetic energy gathered in his legs. A swift swing with [Verun’s Bite] killed the third enemy lying in wait, and Zac was already in another alley when his head hit the ground.

Meanwhile, explosive eruptions of Death shook the surrounding buildings as Tavza cleared the area. Hiding behind walls or corners offered no protection against Tavza’s superior cultivation and Draugr Vision. Each enemy would light up like a beacon of Life in Tavza’s eyes. They tried to fight back, but the trio of weak Early Hegemons were among the strongest in the welcoming party. It wasn’t a fair fight.

