After my sobbing subsides, I finally open my eyes once again, gingerly wiping my face on my sleeve, trying to compose myself while avoiding using my pinky and touching my mouth, failing in each respective attempt. Thankful that we are alone and isolated with no witnesses, my entire body feeling like one enormous amalgamation of painful injuries, every movement I make causing me some form of pain or discomfort. I want nothing more than to beg Tokta just to heal everything and then drug me up until the pain goes away, or take the easy way out and stop trying, waiting for Taduk to make everything better, staying in his villa until this war ends, letting my every need be cared for by his army of servants.

Unfortunately, my dreams and aspirations won't let me just coast through this life. If this world was just normal and without any fucking magic, I would probably do something to that extent, be a merchant or a farmer, or something safe. Unfortunately, knowing that I can regenerate an arm and not learning how to is simply unacceptable to me, and this is the cost of knowledge. Life would be so much simpler without morals or scruples, testing on people or animals, but unfortunately, I was born with a conscience.

Who knew pulling a tooth would hurt so fucking much? I feel a little bad for just ripping out Zabu's, but that was a necessity.

Failing at smiling, I simply give Tokta a thumbs up, wondering if the gesture translates, but he simply looks at me with concern without saying a word. Getting out of his chair, I move back to my spot on the floor and lean back against a rock, resting as I wait for the pain to subside and prepare myself to heal. Taking a deep breath, I crumple over in pain as the cold air whistles past the gap in my teeth, eliciting a pained groan from me and a panicked charge over from Tokta. Fucking hell, there has to be a better way.

Once again reaching for Balance, I watch carefully as I direct my chi to heal my mouth. A fracture along the jaw and severe bruising in the gums tells me that I should probably rethink asking Tokta to do this again. I don't think his nightmarish tooth-breaker is meant for healthy teeth, causing far too much collateral damage, so I better figure this out in one try. I already know what to expect, having regrown a few teeth already in the span of a few hours, but to my intense regret, I never really paid any attention to the process. My patience wears thin as I finish fixing all the peripheral damage, wanting no distractions while I watch my tooth grow, keeping in mind his earlier words, that chi is simply fuel for the process.

Once I am ready, I gently check the abscess in my mouth, comparing and contrasting with the surrounding teeth, trying to visualize what to expect. The root is still present in the form of a tangle of blood vessels, but other than that, the gum in empty of all else. I am 100% positive that, were I not in this world, I would be short a tooth for the rest of my life. Things are different here, but I cannot believe that regrowing teeth is a natural phenomenon unique to the normal humans of this world. I mean, of all the things to be different, why something so minor and almost inconsequential? Figure out why there's a difference, and maybe it can offer insight on something else, something important.

Immediately upon beginning, an anomaly grabs my attention, causing me to grow immensely excited. A type of bodily substance is being produced at the tips of the broken root, something I am unfamiliar with. Slowing the process as much as possible, I note that the substance is a byproduct of my blood, only the tiniest of portions splitting off while the remainder continues to flow past. Usually, all of the blood will be consumed in the healing process in one form or another, but in this instance, only the smallest part is left behind, pooling together as if in preparation for something. Without warning, following some unknown signal, the substance begins to transform into different parts of the tooth, beginning from a tiny bud and growing slowly, folding down in two halves that will eventually connect to the remnant blood vessels to form the root, then beginning to peak upwards in the early stages of the tooth crown.

All throughout the process, the same unknown substance continues to split off from my blood, the base material of every part of the tooth despite the complex composition. While not that strange, as blood will generally be used in a multitude of ways throughout the healing process, there are usually more stages of change in between. Even in a simple cut, blood will clot, collagen will form, then tissue, then skin, and only then will the body begin to truly heal, a multiple stage process. In this case, I am simply going from simple, unknown substance to complex tooth in one single step, as if the substance were a panacea capable of becoming anything that was required of it.

Barely able to contain my excitement, I continue to watch the process unfold, the panacea seeming more important the more I think about it. While possible that it is a unique substance required solely for the growth of teeth, if it turns out that it can truly become any substance in my body, then I can cut out many of the steps involved in the regeneration process. While perhaps not the mindless regeneration I was hoping for, it could help save me a lot of time and effort.

My tooth fully healed and only briefly stopping to inform Tokta that I will be working on my arm, I quickly return to the State of Balance, my heart pounding in anticipation. This time fully in control, I direct my chi to begin creating the same substance as before, depositing it all at my stump, praying that I don't somehow grow a bunch of teeth, shuddering at the mental image of a tooth-studded meatball exploding out of my arm. No problem, at worst, Tokta chops off more of my arm and I go back to the drawing board.

Both disappointed and relieved, nothing happens as the unknown substance seems to drain away as it is created, unable to grow in volume and explode into action like it did with my tooth. Still, I continue to direct my chi to create more, focused entirely on that one, single task at the detriment of all else, attempting to speed up the process. Why isn't it pooling? Is it just being cannibalized by my body's natural responses? Maybe it really is only for teeth.

Regardless of all my doubts, I sit there maintaining my efforts to create the unknown substance from my blood until I am drained, both mentally and physically. Letting out a dejected sigh, I slump down and rub my eyes, upset at my failure, dreading what I come up with next to try. Maybe I should give up, I'm just useless. Opening my eyes, I jolt back in fright as I see Tokta crouched before me, staring intently. His hands reach out to grasp my shoulders and I feel the cool intrusion of his chi entering my body, examining me from head to toe. “What did you do boy? Tell me in detail, take your time.” His eyes are wide and penetrating, his grip steely and almost painful.

Snorting loudly, I shake my head, too tired to explain properly. “I failed. I know, just as expected. Maybe we should take another tooth out, but do you have a better way? You almost broke my jaw with that thing.”

Blinking owlishly at me, he quickly rummages through his pockets for a moment and holds out a piece of string with a knot in it, the measuring device we use for checking my progress. Lifting my arm up, he holds it in place for me to see, the knot a full finger-width above my stump. Staring at the string, my mind blanks for several seconds before I snap back to reality. My arm stump is more than a centimeter longer than it was yesterday.

It worked?

Bubbling up and bursting out of me, a laugh escapes my mouth as I cackle in glee, the sound tinted with a hint of madness, the rare and incredible feeling of success filling me with pride.

It fucking worked!

…

Next project: Bear Arms.

The dream is alive.

Chapter Meme
