As Shiv used his Legion of Self to guide his physical body and attend to the needs of his guests, his Severed Shadow picked up that fried length of Biomancy jerky and held it up in the glow of the mana core. It was glistening, gleaming, brilliant, and well done. Shiv wanted to bite into it to hear it crack, to know what biomancy tasted like, if it had any taste unto itself, or if it was going to be just like the tray.

As he did this, his Pyromancy hovered nearby, a diminished orb compared to what it once was. All magical evolutions changed one's mana field. Some expanded your fields outright, making them stronger and denser while also encompassing a far larger area. Others made your fields more modular, more flexible, or changed their architecture so much that you were capable of stealth, subterfuge, or simply asymmetric warfare. Uva knew that evolution well.

Legion of Self 158 > 163

But then there were the quantitative and qualitative changes, such as when a bound mana field was in use. Shiv's Chronomancy could break and reform in an instant, but his Harbinger was fueled by emotion, and it endured. It functioned as a lingering set of armor, albeit one most fragile.

And now the nihilistic flame he wielded was something else entirely. It needed to be kindled, to be fed by philosophy first, before it could unleash, and it carried within it the wrath of culinary brilliance and the nature of an unchained inferno. Such meant that he could amass a great amount of flame and unleash it all at once in a devastating instant to turn the world around him into foodstuff. But that meant it was also easily spent as well. Every bit of fire mana Shiv channeled was consumed in its totality.

“And in the end, only a spark will remain of me.” The Nihilist chuckled. “A spark that does not burn on its own. I demand kindling. I demand perspective to latch on to and use as fuel. Wood for flame. Nothing can be obtained from nothing, even if nothing is the backdrop to all.”

“You know what, man? You can be as weird and creepy as you want to be, and I'll find you all the philosophies I can if it means you let me fry literally anything without even needing pots or pans.”

“How utilitarian.”

Shiv stared at his fire. “Was that an insult or something?”

“No. It’s a philosophy. Something that would feed me, if only anyone here truly believed in such a thing.”

“Huh,” Shiv muttered. “So wait, what is my actual philosophy?”

“Me, of course.”

He frowned. “Don’t take this the wrong way, but I don’t believe in nothing.”

“The void does not require your belief to exist. The void is, but nihilism is not about the belief in nothing. It's about the recognition of nothing and the construction of meaning regardless of the nothing. You told Valor that you wanted to live by your own will, and not one of greater design, correct? You wish to be the arbiter of your own fate. And so you decide. And so you struggle. And so you believe in that which you bestow worth—and that alone.” The gray flame crackled with growing delight. “You are not moral because of morality itself. Yes, you feel bad for those who have died, but your feelings about the fallen and those who are caught in your battles are far diminished compared to what Adam might feel or what a normal person might suffer. It is not emotion that governs you. It is a want for the world to be one way—your way—and not some other way.”

The contrarian part of Shiv wanted to disagree, but that will to power the Nihilist spoke of was the deepest truth Shiv had ever known—even when he was a miserable street rat.

As he ruminated on that thought, the pillar to his primary philosophy hardened, and a flicker disturbed his flames as he used himself as enduring fuel. Once more, he wasn't the only source, and this skill was one that nourished itself upon the firewood of community more than a single being.

“Given enough time, a respectable flame might be built from you alone, but it is the clashing of philosophies and the myriad of worldviews that will truly see my fires rise to strike at the heartless heavens and boil the absence between worlds until it too is as if broth to be swallowed.”

And the Nihilist's words were only halfway a sardonic boast. Both it and Shiv truly believed that someday they would become powerful enough to reshape the foundational fabric of existence. After all, at some point down the line, somewhere along his countless futures, he finds himself capable of cleaving the arm free from a god.

“Shiv!” Roland's voice made Shiv turn. The Town Lord descended, and his fiery wings stilled until they fluttered like a flapping cape behind him. He landed not a few steps away from Shiv's Severed Shadow, and he looked upon the piece of jerky Shiv made from his own Biomancy with a tight expression. “Is that…”

“You wanna try?” Shiv offered.

Roland’s pupils dilated. “Are you offering me a strip of Biomancy ?”

“…Yeah. You can also have one of the potstickers or some of the stone and metal I fired, or maybe even the tray, but you better be fast.” The Dragon-Brokers and Descenders attacked everything Shiv cooked with curiosity and a genuine hunger. Tall Ben, for one, left Shiv staggered as all twelve of his heads began biting chunks out of the ground, gleefully swallowing without bothering to chew.

“I don't know about all yous,” Tall Ben proclaimed, “but I think our collective philosophies and such tastes pretty good!”

With how his gargantuan guests were tearing into this current batch of food like ravenous animals, Shiv had his physical body hide away a few potstickers for Rose, Roland, Uva, and Adam—if he could be made to eat at all. At the same time, he had resurrected once more, unleashing another body that he dispatched to man the block-length rolling pin and continue preparing food.

With more guests filtering in by the second, there were going to be a great many more mouths to feed.

Oh, wait, I can have ten bodies now. Got another bump to my Feat capacity, Shiv realized. Another vessel I can spend—oh, wait, I know what I’ll do with the extra. Merrielmel’s brother is still lost, and maybe I can get further into the Stranger’s Garden now. Yeah. Time for another run. I can do that while doing everything else. Between Legion of Self, the Nihilist, and the Harbinger, I don’t know which skill I like more.

“All of us are diminished from what we could be without the others,” the Harbinger answered.

The Nihilist scoffed. “You should like me the most. With me comes a new fire to inspire your art.”

“Even if some skills are more arrogant than others,” the Harbinger chided. “Over-pride is no virtue.”

“But is there a reason to be convinced otherwise?”

The Harbinger flared into shape around Shiv in a flash of crystallizing gold and enkindled flame. “A great many arrogances will see us betray ourselves and be brought low from victory while standing on the cusp.”

“But what is defeat to us if not another experience?” the Nihilist questioned. “We learn from our defeats. We are fed and nourished by each demise. If nothing else, it is a novelty to enjoy, a thrill to indulge. An expression of our might upon the world, for we return while no one else can.”

While two of Shiv's skills began debating with one another, Shiv held out the Biomancy jerky to Roland. “Yeah, my skills like to do a lot of talking.”

“I know,” Roland whispered, looking at the Harbinger and the gray flame nearby—both focused on glaring the other down. “Doesn’t it get… agitating?”

“Honestly? I’m kind of used to it. And I like it.” Shiv smirked. “I feel like a one-man party.”

Roland let out a disbelieving laugh. “I see. You're a far different man than I. So much noise inside my own skull would drive me mad and see my focus perpetually compromised.”

“Well, good thing about being me: I never had too much problem dealing with chaos.”

With a mix of borderline reluctance and a measure of gratitude, Roland picked up the Biomancy jerky and tentatively nibbled a bit away. Suddenly, his body spasmed, and his expression went stiff. “That’s… Starhawk, that’s something else. I don’t know if I want to… Hm.” He swallowed. “I thought I wanted to retch for a moment, but I actually like it. It improved my Biomancy as well.”

“By how much?” Shiv asked.

“The notification says I can muster enough additional mana for an Initiate-Tier spell,” Roland answered.

“Not bad for a nibble, huh?”

“Not bad indeed.” Roland took a full bite this time, and he regarded Shiv with new eyes. “You know, Shiv, if I'm going to try to be different with you, if I'm going to try to make things right, I wish to be honest—even if it might make you feel uncomfortable. Do I have your permission to do so?”

“I prefer your honesty anyway. And frankly, I don't give a shit about feeling uncomfortable. Give it to me. What ugly truths or worries you got to spit?”

Roland spent a few seconds chewing, a few seconds too long. He was using the meal to delay his answer. When he finally gathered his resolve, he looked Shiv dead in the eye and said something the Deathless had heard time and time again. “You remind me of her.”

He barely stopped himself from rolling his eyes. “Veronica or Kathereine?”

Roland's expression darkened. “The Songbringer. Before her fall, before her decay. When she was still at her prime, at her best, when she was… I don’t know if I would ever call her a heroine, but an icon. When she still cared about something but her own influence.” His eyes went someplace distant. “I don't like to admit my pride aloud, but there are few Pathbearers that ever inspired envy in me. She was one. Her words forged peace, and her songs ended wars before they began. What you did with Marikos earlier… I didn't witness her at her rawest, at her earliest, but from what the Starhawk claimed, she was always a presence that knew how to play the heart like an instrument.”

And Shiv did just that as Roland spoke. He stared dead-on into the man's core and realized it was filling with as much anxiety as it was reverence. “And you're worried that I might use this as a weapon against you or someone else in the Gate? That I might fall like her?”

Roland had the decency to be ashamed. “I try to avoid it, but I can't shake it. I've seen what she can do. I know the true danger that a Pathbearer with prodigious Social Skills possesses. My skill is in war and combat. By shifting my levels, I can gain incredible evolutions for my Social Skills, but if I am to confess something, I never possessed the instinct for people, or even myself. Emotions are… difficult. And the mind and the heart are ever at odds.”

But as Roland spoke, Shiv noted something to his own amusement: his mind and heart were actually in accord. He was weaponizing his honesty and trying to gain a measure of sympathy from Shiv. “Hey Roland. What happened to honesty?”

Roland appeared startled. “What?”

“I see what you’re doing: this modesty shit. ‘Ah, I’m not good with feelings and social skills like you or your god-bitch great-great-grandma or whatever.’ You’re not that bad; it’s a real subtle game.”

“I wasn’t…” Roland’s expression cracked as he leaned in and stared at Shiv in disbelief. “I wasn’t really trying to—it just happened and—”

“You took the opportunity. Sneaky shit.” Shiv laughed and smacked Roland on the right side of his arm. The Town Lord cringed with discomfort. “Yeah, this is the kind of stuff Adam would never do. If Adam said all that, I’d buy it, but you, Roland? You got more hidden, don’t you? More skills. More tricks.”

“You make me sound like a scoundrel,” Roland said, almost blushing.

“Nah. Not a scoundrel. But enough of a snake—because being a good liar and a good fighter are actually pretty close to each other, aren’t they?”

Roland didn’t answer that. Instead, he decided to take another bite of Shiv’s jerky, who let him do so and sniffled. “You wanna show me how good of a liar you are?”

Roland paused mid-bite. “Spar?”

“Yeah, sure. Call it what you want. Call it venting our negative emotions. Call it my humbling or my revenge. I wanna see you for what you are: and I want to know if I have what it takes to kick your ass.”

“Shiv,” Roland began, trying to sound nice. “You’ve come a long way in a very short time.”

“But.”

“I didn’t say but.”

“You thought it.”

Roland’s face twitched—he shifted one of his golden locks aside. “That’s just an assumption.”

“It’s right.”

Roland shook his head. “Certainty is an insidious killer.”

“Really? You gonna teach me why?”

“Are you determined to insist?” Roland asked, a hint of seriousness creeping into his voice.

Shiv looked over his shoulder at the Descenders and Brokers—who were eating and watching the twosome—and at Uva’s elongated head, suddenly staring down at him from the skies above. “Yeah. I think I am. I think I’m going to have one of my bodies keep making more food—and frying everything I can get my hands on, another studying, another in the Fairwoods, another with the Republic, another to take a new swing at the Stranger and Merrielmel’s brother… Which still leaves plenty of bodies I can throw at you.” He smirked. “You got your bullshit, and I got mine. It’s not my fault you can’t clone yourself and use several forms at the same time.” At that, Roland’s eyes glittered with mockery. “Ah, fuck, you can.”

“Another assumption, Deathless.”

“Eat my shit, Dread Horizon.”

“A day,” Roland said.

“Hm?”

