Everyone underestimates Non-Martial Skills—especially the simple fucks with Martial Paths. Yeah, I guess Cooking isn't as powerful as your Sword Proficiency. Whoop-de-whoop. I'm glad you figured that out. What's this? You can kill a thousand people with a sword in the time it takes me to make a single pancake? Oh, you must be really, really strong. Quick, let me hire someone to suck you off or ram something into your hole of preference—up to you, really.

Really, we should just consider all Non-Martials slaves and treat them like shit. They’ll never be of any use. The only useful skills are for war and combat and magic used for war and combat, right? Right?

No! Wrong! Fucking wrong! Entirely and deeply fucking wrong! In fact, the dullest, easiest people to kill are simple-fuck Martials with unfused skills. Because where's the surprise? Huh? Oh, your Sword Proficiency is Legendary? Your Pyromancy is Legendary? I sure wonder what all that does. I sure wonder how I can counter that. It has to be really surprising. It has to be real esoteric and confusing. It must be a real special skill you have there, something no one's ever seen before. Oh, oh, look, you’re swinging your sword super fast, and there are ghostly echoes of your sword that let you perform a hundred cuts at the same time! How in the fuck shall I counter that?

Certainly not with my Cooking Skill—my pathetic little Cooking Skill that’s a joke! My worthless, sad-fuck Cooking Skill that’s fused with Dimensionality and lets me literally COOK SPATIAL MANA and distill the flavor of a certain place. Nope, useless. Aside from the fact that I can use my pots as teleportation points too. No way I can just jump down a pot or a bowl and get away from you and murder you in your sleep.

Unimaginative fucks.

You're supposed to use skills. Yeah, they're not as pure and well-understood as common Skill Evolutions—That’s the point. We know what to do when running into the thousandth dumbshit with Adamantine Aegis! We know what to do when facing someone with Manticore Style Spear Proficiency. So many people have those skills that I don’t even need to think before I solve those problems. Trailblazing gives you an edge; uncharted territory means that a lot of people don’t know what to expect. Surprise matters! It matters a whole fucking lot. Surprise and weird evolutions are the same way that a sniveling rat-fuck like me is still alive after fleeing across Integration for centuries—because what you can do and someone else can’t is an absolute advantage that gets you out of a bad situation even if your enemy is a Tier or two higher.

You wanna know how many Vanguards I cucked out of an easy victory by asking for a last meal and then throwing myself into the pot? You know how funny it is when their eyes go wide? It’s hilarious! Because they got one trick: smash me up close. And I have all the tricks in the world.

So, diversify, dumbshits. Diversify and get yourself some new tickets out of death. Because you’re gonna need them bad! And also, you’ll be surprised how unique the taste of a place is when it seeps into your food. I won’t say good, but unique.

—The Realmrunner

383

Novel Flavor

Shiv’s opinion of his new skill swung from hate to love in a whiplash of an instant. His nihilistic fire started as an annoyance and now glowed and crackled between his fingers like a glorious treasure. Flames he once thought to be hollow now burned with scintillating brilliance, and seared magic and matter alike into novel consumables.

The potstickers were easy to get done, another blessing provided by his new skill. The Chef Unwavering ensured that he did things perfectly, with absolute focus, so long as he was committed to something in the kitchen. Now, the essence of the kitchen was contained within his Pyromancy, and what his flames touched, his scintillation infected. He wielded temperature and intensity like it was a scalpel, and so the gray flames combusted first within the potstickers, readying the chives, the cabbages, the mushrooms, and the ground pork that was stored at the meal's heart. The central flame also stood as a bulwark against its kindred, for the heat of the outside was another degree of intensity. The dough was fried and hardened until it was crusted in a layer of near gold that was as tantalizing to look upon as it was to consume.

After which, he severed the potsticker clean through the middle using his cutting aura. There, steam erupted in twin pillars, both clashing against each other, commingling like serpents twisting their sinuous bodies until they were merged into a twine. With the exhalation of heat came a blast of pure flavor. The scents and ingredients within the potstickers were taken to the point of near perfection, and the winds carried a harmony of flavors: the inviting dough, the tasteful vegetables, the filling meat, and that incomprehensible sauce of smoked philosophy harnessed as fuel. But there was still something missing, something higher. Shiv's instincts in the kitchen had also been honed, yet he couldn't quite sense what this meal was bereft of.

“That smell…” Yellowbelly sniffled at the air, his immense snout drawing in so much wind that he created a minor typhoon. The others tasted it too, but kept their reactions muted. “You added something to the potsticker. What even is that bloody scent? I have neither word nor memory of it—and I possess both in ample supply.”

Shiv didn't reply verbally. Instead, his twin bodies—one, the Severed Shadow; another, a resurrection—gathered the bifurcated potsticker and carried it in opposing directions. His physical body brought one half to Candles and offered it to him to sample. His Severed Shadow did the same thing, bestowing a gift of first tasting upon Marikos.

“See if you like it,” Shiv said. “You honored me with your assistance. I’ll honor you with the right of this tasting—and the naming of the flavor.”

Marikos stilled as he leaned down, his long neck almost serpent-like, gliding through the air as he lowered himself to examine his half of the potsticker directly.

“Sir Marikos,” Tallowine called out, sounding uncertain.

“It's not poison or venom or anything,” Shiv reassured. “That's not how my skills work, and that is not how a chef does things—not to decent customers. I think this is an infusion of Philosophy. My flames burned away at our perspectives and somehow distilled all that into this potsticker. So if you all want to know what your collective worldviews taste like, here it is.”

“An edible philosophy,” Marikos hummed a note of near laughter. He shook his head in disbelief. “I fear this meal may be bordering on the over-intellectual for me, Deathless.”

Such words provoked Shiv into a calculated scowl. “I'm going to let that one go, Sir Marikos, but if I hear you speak ill of my guest once more, we're going to have problems.” His sudden threat caught Marikos off guard—as he had hoped. “Don't insult any of the Gate’s guests, please. Not in my presence. Not even yourself. You deserve more dignity for your deeds.”

Understanding flooded Marikos's gaze and heart, and Shiv's Rhetoric felt a pull unlike any other as he wrenched an ocean's worth of respect and affection for defending Marikos from his own self-deprecation.

“I apologize,” Marikos said, bowing his head. His mind quivered, as did his voice; his core was wrought by a storm of warmth. “Allow me to offer my greatest apology and my most honest praise after I consume this offering.”

And as large as the dumpling was, vaster than any one of Shiv's baseline bodies, it was little more than finger food for Marikos. He pinched it using a clawed thumb and index finger before dropping it down along his wide tongue. And then came the savoring and the silence. Marikos said nothing. Shiv waited, his own breath bated, his own tension drawn. It was like a string inside of him was being pulled to the point of breaking. Cooking was an art, and it held all the vulnerabilities that art demanded. To fail in your pursuit of artistry and be a disappointment to another and yourself in turn is a wound you had to take directly upon your ego.

“But take it, you must,” the Harbinger said. “For we are sculptors of ourselves, and the act of sculpting begins in the form of deformation of stone. The rawness must break for a true shape to take form. Let his honesty terrify us if it must. We will face it, and we will improve. Always and forever, improvement before self-delusion.”

Shiv watched as something else filled the insides of Marikos' emotional core. It was a feeling that Shiv had never seen before, one he couldn't decipher, as unique as the infusion of philosophy's flavor into a tangible meal.

“This potsticker is satisfying. Biting into it feels like cracking an egg and tasting flavors hot and delightful on the inside. But there is something else in the aftertaste, something I cannot shake.” Marikos chuffed as if a drunkard trying to find soberness. “I like the potsticker itself, but this aftertaste… I don't have words. I think I need another.”

Shiv let out half a breath. His relief wasn't complete, but when someone asked for another helping, it usually meant that they weren't full—and that was the fundamental purpose of being a chef. Before taste, before aesthetic, before any kind of expression or design, you needed to satisfy hunger itself.

So said the best chef Shiv ever knew.

With a sweeping gesture, Shiv sent an arc of flame through the nearest potsticker and kept it going. He guided his fire like it was a whip, striking and frying with pristine precision. His gray flames flowed like a moving river, and soon the entire tray was swept through, turned from raw ingredients into finalized meals. Shiv would have regarded the skill as Heroic for that feat alone, without being beholden to a pot or major infrastructure. The way and his needs when it came to cooking were altered irrevocably and most marvelously.

“Wait,” Marikos suddenly said. “I am getting a boost from your potsticker.”

Shiv grunted in acknowledgment. “That comes with The Chef Unwavering. What’s the notification say?”

“That my satiety and endurance have been greatly enhanced,” Marikos proclaimed. He let out a rumbling laugh. “What a fool I was to be so hesitant. I would have devoured that potsticker for the boost to my endurance alone. Wait, hold, Deathless. You took a bite out of the tray earlier, and I see more of its fry. Did you gain an improvement from the table itself?”

“Hm? Oh, yeah, but it’s nothing special.” Shiv pulled the notification back up.

Your total carrying capacity has been increased by 0.5%.

Shiv snorted. “It just lets me carry a bit more stuff, is all.”

“Did it taste good?” Marikos pressed.

That made Shiv think for a bit. “I… uh… it was different. Like you said. The tray itself doesn't have a taste. The texture is nice and feels good to chew. It's like something between really lean meat and also a layer of seaweed, but the only true flavoring is smoked philosophy.”

A beat of hesitation seized Marikos. “Can I try it?”

“The tray?”

“Yes.”

Shiv blinked and turned to regard the Dragon-Brokers. “You fine with me cooking this thing? I got it from you.”

Instead of answering in the positive or the negative, all four Dragon-Brokers regarded him in mutual displays of utter befuddlement.

“Only if we get to have a bite as well,” Know-Nothing said, adjusting his monocle as if it wasn’t working right. “We wish to discover what our philosophy tastes like as well.”

Garrulous gave a grumbling assent.

With permission granted, Shiv broadened his flames, unleashing it in a wider torrent that drowned the entire tray and the foundations of stone and metal surrounding it. His firestorm glittered ever brighter, and the flame atop his palm swirled like a small star exploding. All that lacked Magical Resistance was transformed into a consumable, and the textures, though different, were inviting and glistening like meals just fresh from a stove, pot, or a grill. But that made Shiv's mind wander further. He questioned if he could turn mana into a meal as the Nihilist claimed.

The skill laughed. “Discover and explore, then. Imagination alone will get you nowhere.”

That was all the incentive Shiv needed. He directed his Pyromancy against a portion of his Biomancy in an unnatural instant, clashing his twin mana fields together. Where his Pyromancy was something that needed to be fueled and then shaped, his Biomancy was rigged to his person, a protective bulwark that functioned as a fortress and a set of limbs. On top of that, it too was a Heroic Skill, one that regenerated from strain at a staggering rate.

The first thing Shiv felt was a gnawing sting. The pain was dull, but it built in intensity like holding one's finger against a naked flame. As fast as it burned, it also converted, and though Shiv's nihilistic flames burned hot, the Biomancy he possessed was a bulwark indeed. It took a staggering amount of heat to even begin eating through the mana hydra’s scales, but after enough time and with the final strain of effort, the flames finally bit through.

Shiv's eyes widened in avarice as a piece of one of its necks wrinkled, hardened, and then tumbled free, sloughing from the rest of the mana field like a crispy layer of skin. It clattered free from Shiv, bouncing off the ground like a crystallized length of jerky. “Okay. I’ve mutilated myself for an advantage before—even tried to feed my own corpse to a fae. But this is another level of felling weird.”

