ecause their ability to analyze things would make my job a lot easier," Yattina huffed as she shook her head."Off the rails, as in they explode, or off the rails, as in…" Quee trailed off, and Yattina shot them both confused looks at their intense expressions. Why did they want to know so badly?"They hit an evolving loop function. Drain everything in the immediate area of mana to fuel the process, and when they run out, they explode with dangerous force," she explained patiently.Silence was their response, and Yattina tried to assure them with a smile."Only an idiot would employ them. They need massive work and a dozen permissions to even be worked on," she promised them.Still, it wasn't like the He-Ro units or the Pro-Tag ones were the worst. She was obligated not to mention the theoretical designs the company wanted to make.The Courageous Regent model.Singular model.Her stomach twisted, but while she was not under contract not to talk about it since she had no core to be contracted with… they had ways of knowing if one spoke about a project or not."What's behind this door?" she announced and threw it open to reveal a massive dark blue skinned demon with burning eyes and an aura that reeked of sulfur and bacon.They stared at each other."Nice eye," the demon grunted."Nice beard," was all she could reply with.The tension was awkward, so Yattina did what any sane person would do.She got so stressed she caused a spontaneous nosebleed that rocketed out of her nose like a defensive weapon.There was a long pause."We should grab a drink," the demon said, looking impressed.Not the response Yattina had hoped for, honestly.---Delta tried to make sense of the arm she had absorbed, but it was hurting her mind. The core piece inside, the robots themselves, were almost designed to be growing and evolving bombs. There was no logic in place to go 'enough.' They consumed and gorged until they could find no more food.Getting inside them was growing easier as they continued to adapt. While her Mana was used and torn apart, their make-up was still used as the foundation for the robots' upgrades. It was there she made a horrible discovery.The shards weren't dead as she first thought. They were akin to an unfortunate person in a vegetative state, unresponsive to any stimuli, except they kept working. What was worse was that she saw how the constant Mana surges were causing the tips of the shard to grow.These weren't pieces of a Dungeon Core.These were cuttings.Like Delta needed anymore provocation to destroy these things.But there was a silver lining.These machines were only resistant to her when 'active'. She followed the gossamer thread connection to the He-Ro models outside, where she found dozens more waiting.Delta held her hand out and closed her eyes."Rest," she said with sorrow, and every inactive model had its core shattered. The act of releasing the shards didn't do anything other than put an end to a disgusting existence. If they were alive, sentient, and able to learn as individuals, Delta would have saved them.These were just broken brain matter stuck on loops with no self to govern it.Wait… Delta blinked at that thought.If the Core itself wasn't giving the orders to the He-Ros themselves, what was? She gave them another look, using the Speed Model as her sample as it was the most developed, looking closer to a space hurricane than a black hole now.In the robot's body, moving around the core, was a weird flat piece of metal. It took a lot of effort, but Delta saw it had been stamped with a symbol.A sort of 'T' with its left arm cut off. A weird 'r'.Delta knew that symbol.It was on her front door.Gamma.She tried to examine it, but it had a power not unlike her own to repel and see."What are you?" she asked it.'I am that which is left behind. I am that which is left behind. I am that which is left behind.'"Are you Gamma?" she yelled, frustrated with all of this.'I am that which is left behind. I am that which will surpass. I am that which will leave behind.'"I don't understand," Delta whispered.'To be discarded, or to discard. A sword cannot change its nature. I am that which is left behind. I am that which will use you to surpass. I am that which was left behind. I am that which was left behind number 255.'Delta moved her massive symbolic hands together, cracking her knuckles."You may not be one of my kids, but I'll educate you all the same," she warned as the air became charged."School's in session, and today's lesson is on how badly you done goofed," she added.'I am that which-'"-is about to get a butt-whooping. I know, you may be able to replicate a Dungeon and Gamma in one form, but I am Delta… I don't replicate. I break," she said, and her aura began to grow.'I will upgrade. I will evolve-'"With CDs?" Delta asked suddenly. It threw the sentient, but not quite alive fragment off.'CDs? I do not-'Delta hurled a wave of spinning salty Mana at the robots that ignited the stars all around her."CEEDEEZNUTS!"The war was on.
