Yinah yowled as she swiped at the Cat Golem’s head. The other creature didn’t react, but the Crafters were amused as the two faced each other. Yinah knew the Cat Golem was fake, but she kept sniffing it and making sounds, waiting for it to react.
The bone Golem didn’t move. It was not…alive. Nsiia looked at it. And after her time in Elbe, her creation, her hard work disgusted her.
What had she expected? This—was just a toy. It was not a cat. It had nothing of an animal in it. Animals were thinking creatures. This was—a perfect imitation of a cat. That the Crafters loved it and wanted it more than an actual cat sickened Nsiia.
“I made it because I thought it would…be useful for me. I am sorry for lying to you, Femithain. But would you have done otherwise?”
The man looked at Nsiia and shook his head wryly.
“Not at all. This is my fault. And I will take responsibility. It is a wondrous Golem, Nsiia. Your craft is incredible as a Shaper. The Inscribing was also well done…”
“Femithain, we have to resume those prototypes of other animals! Imagine a Dog Golem! We might be even able to make more Horse Golems with her knowledge!”
Se was pleading with the Magus-Crafter. And he was tempted. But he had to know word of this would reach Savere and Nerrhavia.
A cry came from below. Yinah was disturbed by the Golem Cat. She knew it was bone. She begged to be picked up and Nsiia obliged. The Cat Golem was walking back and forth, followed by a crowd of cooing Crafters. She looked at it—and knew, suddenly, what to do.
“I’ve placed you in a difficult position, Femithain.”
“As you will, Empress. You know that it is a matter of…perspective. Depending on how the King of Destruction’s campaign goes.”
The Magus-Crafter quietly nodded to her. As if to reassure her that her tricks and escapades were not that bothersome. He really was hedging his bets. Wisely—if he knew the King of Destruction’s legends. And he surely did.
Nsiia nodded. Her eyes were fixed on her Golem. She walked over.
“Even so. I must take responsibility. And I know how.”
Femithain saw the former-[Empress] raise a foot. His mind was quick—but he couldn’t fully comprehend what she was planning for that crucial moment.
“Nsiia. Don’t—!’
It took one stomp. [Elephant’s Strength]. Nsiia smashed the Cat Golem across the face and her foot went through the fragile bone and crushed it. The Crafters screamed as if she had done that to an actual cat.
“What have you done?”
Se nearly attacked Nsiia, before she was pulled back. Calmly, Nsiia brushed aside the broken front of the Golem. She had avoided the back and legs. She picked up the pieces—and turned to Femithain. Yinah sniffed at the inner circuitry of the Golem and recoiled. Then she looked at the Magus-Crafter too.
He was white-faced with the destruction of the Golem. Nsiia lifted the legs.
“Can you give them to Yinah?”
“The Golem—”
He almost stuttered. She got to see genuine shock on his face. Nsiia looked at the broken face of her creation.
“It is just a Golem, Magus-Crafter. This is a cat.”
She held up Yinah. The cat meowed at the Magus-Crafter. Nsiia smiled.
“I know which one I value more. Golems were made to serve. Not to rule. Is that not so?”
He stared at her for a long moment. Then the Magus-Crafter adjusted his spectacles and smiled ruefully.
“Empress. You never fail to make my day interesting.”
 
—-
 
A day later, Nsiia returned to Elba. The city was abuzz and crowded. Crafters and layfolk flocked to the coliseum—the Testing was about to begin.
The Golem Fights. But people still stared as she walked towards the Magus-Crafter’s box. They pointed, offended, amazed, both.
There was Nsiia, who had created a Golem Cat! With such skill that the Crafters were all in awe of her understanding of anatomy! But she had also broken the Golem. And the proof of that walked proudly behind Nsiia, meowing the entire time.
When Yinah stopped, her legs actually kept walking for a half-second and made her stumble forwards. And they weren’t that agile. Femithain was going to adjust the circuitry, but he’d actually adapted them to get Yinah to walk. She had to move in a certain way to trigger the walking cycle, and Nsiia had needed to teach her.
But the cat was happily walking around with her new Golem-legs. Nsiia was quite pleased by it.
It was scandalous of course, but some of the Crafters seemed amused more than horrified.
“It’s quite an idea. I can’t say I disapprove now, can I? Magus-Crafter.”
“Crafter Inerta. Is your Golem ready?”
“The Hammer of Elbe is ready to win once more, Magus-Crafter, if that’s what you mean.”
It was amusing to see Femithain actually grit his teeth and smile as he and Inerta met before heading to their boxes. He really was loyal to his state. And it was a competition between states to see who had made the best Golem.
Nsiia found herself in the Magus-Crafter’s booth, which was really Dellva’s state booth to watch the bouts. It was simple. In other times, there might be a scrum of multiple Golems, or interesting features like an underwater battle, traps that a Golem’s programming should navigate around while fighting—even monsters to battle.
Elbe’s coliseum had all those features. But in the Testing of Mirrhen, each state would field a Golem against another via random lottery. Then the winners would clash…and so on…and so on until the finalists fought and the winner was crowned.
It wasn’t just pageantry. The winning state got a lot of funds, prestige, and its innovations in the Golem would be added to other workshops. But mostly—it was about pride.
There was a lot on the line for Femithain. Apparently, Dellva’s Golems had won twice when he was in office, but it wasn’t actually a guaranteed thing. States poured a lot into their Golems and Femithain was excellent at Forming and making a Golem more adaptive, a better tool…not necessarily pure warfare.
Plus, the competition was actually weighted. The Dellva Crafters with Nsiia and Femithain were only too happy to explain as Yinah curled up in Femithain’s lap and he carefully pet her.
“The winner of each year’s Testing gets to keep their Golem. Even if it’s damaged—that’s a head start. That damn Hammera has two years of innovations packed into her.”
“Hammera?”
It was the nickname of the ‘Hammer of Elbe’, just like Domehead’s official title was ‘Delaxi of Dellva’. Nsiia saw the Golems lined up below.
There were some interesting Golems out there. The spitting Golem who could shoot oil and then light an opponent on fire, a Golem armed with a spear—Domehead, with his axe, adjusted thanks to Armsmaster Dellic and Nsiia herself, his head sparkling, the most radiant of the lot—
And the Hammer of Elbe.
Hammera, as she was named, was actually a female Golem. Nsiia started laughing in her box and couldn’t stop. Because—the Crafters had no idea why, but Femithain did—they’d actually given the titanic war-machine, the Dwarfsteel Golem armed with a huge maul with a spike—a breastplate.
As in…they didn’t look like that! No one made armor for female bodies. But that was Crafters for you. Hammera actually had a face, instead of Domehead, and she was a statuesque Garuda in armor. Unrealistic, silly—
–And capable of wiping out a lesser Golem in a single blow. Nsiia stopped laughing when the games began and Hammera charged out against the first State’s Golem, the spitting-Golem from Unst.
It tried to project oil and back up, but Hammera was fast. She lifted her maul up, ignoring the spear-jab, and brought it down—
“Dead gods!”
The Crafters winced as Unst’s Golem tried to dodge and went down as the hammer destroyed its upper torso. One hit! Unst’s crowd cried out as if they were in physical pain, but it was drowned by Elbe’s people’s cheers.
“That damn Golem is even faster than last year! How? They’re not allowed to give it [Haste]! But the rotation speed on that swing—”
“It’s magicore. They’re giving her a moment of acceleration. She overcharges based on the stored mana. It was a poor match. Unst made their Golem to light up the other Golems and stay away. Hammera’s too fast.”
Se shook her head as a Crafter-team ran out onto the Testing ground’s floor and crowded around their fallen Golem. They were actually crying. Nsiia felt for them. It had to be a year’s worth of work, destroyed in a moment.
Hammera actually had a victory routine. She raised her hammer as she strutted around the stadium to the cheers of the audience.
It was a show, it was silly—and it was entertaining as all heck. Nsiia was eating olives and feeding Yinah bites of meat.
“This should be on the Wistram networks, Femithain!”
The Magus-Crafter was surprised by the suggestion.
“You think so, Nsiia? I find this endlessly fascinating, but it is Golems. I never considered it, actually.”
Nsiia nodded rapidly. Wistram’s television was for grand events, like the clash with the King of Destruction. But she had also seen the Titan playing a chess game remotely against Tulm! And this?
“You think the world would truly enjoy watching this?”
Se eagerly looked at Nsiia. The former-[Empress] stared down at the arena, where two more Golems were about to square off.
“You mean, two giant Golems smashing each other to bits?”
Femithain and Se looked at each other. It was funny how they’d never thought of it. And Nsiia—she blinked for a moment.
“Perhaps the world would have liked to see the migration of Rocs. Or their hatching.”
“That occurs in Tiqr?”
Se turned to Nsiia. The woman had never thought of it like that. Of course people would have loved to see it. Perhaps—it might have cheapened the moment.
But the Testing? Femithain would have liked to arrange for an orb and Wistram’s attention, but the Testing was underway and he wasn’t about to call for several hour’s delay.
“Next time. There will be other Golem F—tests in the arena. I will ask if Wistram is interested. Hold. Domehead’s moment is coming.”
Everyone in the box, including Nsiia, leaned forwards. Domehead strutted into the arena, axe on his shoulder, the secondary crystals in its domed head gleaming. It was poised, perfectly calibrated; Nsiia saw the opponent from Ziozem walking smoothly, but with less perfection of Inscription.
Still—it was a nerve-racking moment and exhilarating as the two Golems faced each other across the empty arena. Hundreds of feet separated them, but when the activation order was given, both Golems surged forwards.
Ziozem’s actually carried a miniature ballista in the form of a crossbow. It fired once, dropped the weapon, and armed itself with a mace and shield. Domehead actually dodged the bolt.
“How did it do that?”
“Projectile Deflection Routine #4! It only works well in gladiatorial matches, but—”
Se screamed in Nsiia’s ear. Then the two both turned and saw Domehead lunging forwards. It brought its axe down in a chopping blow—
Then broke off as Ziozem’s golem tried to bash forwards with a shield. Nsiia saw Domehead’s crystals flicker as it moved into another routine and moved sideways, swinging the axe.
It was brilliant. Like a chess match, only automated. Both Golems were reacting, sensing an attack wouldn’t go through and moving to backup routines. They’d break off an attack and move smoothly or erratically into another one, creating scenarios even their creators couldn’t envision.
However—Femithain’s genius showed here. Ziozem’s Golem kept pivoting, raising the huge shield and trying to bash Domehead. But the other Golem was more adaptive. It stepped back and swung its axe—hard. Biting into the shield. Instantly, Ziozem’s Shield-Golem lashed out with a strike. But—Domehead was stepping back, striking from outside the other Golem’s range with its longer axe.
“It’s working!”
Delighted, Nsiia watched as a [Warrior], not the Crafters who were screaming routines and talking nonsense. From her perspective, it was like watching a superior [Warrior] wailing on the other Golem’s shield while preventing it from advancing. Ziozem’s programming kept it lashing out when it was attacked, but it never got close.
The audience saw Domehead take down Ziozem’s shield and cut into the arm. Then a horn was blown and someone screamed a halt-command. Both Golems froze.
“What happened?”
“A flawless victory. Just beautiful! They called a halt!”
Ziozem’s state had surrendered rather than lose their Golem when the outcome was obvious. It was a smart move, but more than that—Domehead had emerged without a scratch. Every state had time to repair their Golem, but the shining armor of their Golem led Dellva’s people to cheer wildly. Even the other states were applauding the show of superior Inscription.
 
—-
 
The Testing continued. And Nsiia found something interesting happening.
She did not care for Golems. Or admire them like Illivere’s people did. But she found herself cheering for Domehead. She cared for him more than any other Golem.
Despite him just following commands, with no notion of victory or defeat. It was as the poem Femithain had written had said:
Yet the satisfaction, aye, that may be it all.
She felt as if the Golem was enjoying the task to which it had been made. Armsmaster Dellic was cheering for the Golem which carried his buckler in it. A heart.
And it was clear—to Nsiia, at least—that Domehead’s opponent would be Hammera. They were the two best Golems. The others weren’t as fast, powerful, or adaptive as the other two.
As the states clashed, all the Golems took ‘injuries’. Nsiia was heartened when a careless swing got Hammera a crushing blow across her shoulder. It was repaired by the next bout, but it was a weak point.
Then Domehead took a spear to the knee. She groaned and Femithain and half the Crafters ran down to check on him. They came back reporting the damage was fixed—but it was still a structural weakness.
“Elbe might tell Hammera to go for the knees. Adapt her attack routine. We should counter.”
“They might not. Leave Domehead his instructions. Adjusting them now will only ruin it. He has two sets of command lines. Even Hammera can’t adapt like he can.”
Femithain overrode the other’s objections. He was nervous as the last two Golems lined up for the finals. Before the horn blew, he was leaning forwards, hands on his knees. Yinah meowed as she kept nuzzling him. Possibly to reassure him it would be well, win or lose and that he’d done his best. Possibly for an ear-scratching.
Nsiia had given Yinah some intelligence, but cats were cats. She herself was leaning forwards, watching the two Golems go through their pre-fight ‘showoff’ routines. Domehead showed no signs of limping, and Hammera’s arm seemed fine.
