It might be just an act. But as the horns blew and both Golems charged—Nsiia found herself cheering.
“Go, Domehead!”
The two met in a clash. Hammera’s maul swing, and Domehead’s axe hit it along the haft. Neither had stopped their swing! The impact tore the air. And Hammera—stumbled!
“It got a superior rotation! It swung first!”
Se was leaping up and down. Domehead had calculated the velocity and swung faster than Hammera, even with her magicore acceleration. So far more momentum had been behind his blow! Elbe’s stand were going insane as Domehead swung his axe up. Hammera swung and he stepped back.
Perfect positioning. Nsiia had stopped breathing to watch. Look how smoothly Domehead calculated the strike! He placed an axe blow on Hammera’s chest, her weak point. She deflected the axe, once, twice, but her arm was moving a tiny bit too slowly! And the maul was too heavy! Dellic was screaming the same thing!
“You made it too heavy! Get them, Domehead!”
Domehead raised his axe as Hammera struggled to bring her weapon up to guard. He swung it down, burying the head in the body—
And the battleaxe snapped at the haft.
The wild cheering from around Nsiia stopped. Dellva’s representatives saw Domehead back up. He swung the broken haft, and then froze.
“Oh no. The steel—”
Nsiia turned. The axe head was buried in Hammera’s chest. She was clearly trying to figure out what to do too. Nsiia saw the metal haft…
“You made it out of metal?”
She stared at the battleaxe. It was steel—adjusted to Dellic’s specifications and hers. But they had made the battleaxe out of steel, rather than giving it a wooden haft.
“Why not?”
Se looked at Nsiia. The [Exile] was horrified.
“You can’t make it out of steel! No wonder it broke! It should have been wood! It would have flexed! You could have replaced the hafts! You—”
Everyone was staring at the battle. Femithain rose, his face grave.
“Can you call for a break?”
“There aren’t rules for that.”
Dellva’s representatives were trying, but the referee—who was from Elbe—was denying it. People began shouting from Dellva’s stands, but Hammera was rising. The axe head fell from her chest as she swung her hammer up.
Domehead began backing up. He kept swinging his broken axe, but paused each time, realizing, perhaps, that there was no axe. Femithain was hurrying around to argue with the referee—but it was too late.
Hammera charged. Domehead backed up, going into his defensive routines. He dodged backwards, practically running away, evading. He was fast. But he had no way to attack. He kept—running into that logical loop as he tried to swing the axe. Femithain had never given him a routine to find another weapon. It hadn’t occurred to him.
It hurt to see. Hammera doggedly cornered Domehead as half the stadium booed, demanding a stop for a weapon replacement. But the referee wasn’t calling it a problem. The axe was part of Domehead. Therefore, it’s breaking was not a problem. Also, go fuck yourselves, Elbe was going to win again.
That was what Nsiia understood past all the pedantic nitpicking of the rules. Femithain was actually shaking with fury.
“Do we call a stop?”
“No. We let it go. If Elbe wants to win this way—let them!”
The Crafters watched as Domehead was cornered. Hammera raised her maul and brought it down. Domehead dodged. Then he took a blow to the shoulder.
“Cheaters! Cowards!”
Dellva’s crowd was screaming, but this was Elbe’s turf and they drowned out the opposition with cheers. Nsiia was just staring at Domehead.
He was twitching. Trying to do something with the axe’s haft. She saw a glow in one of the crystals of the Golem’s head. And he lunged. The broken haft extended in a thrust!
“Attack Routine #11!”
Se stared. Domehead lunged at Hammera’s dented chest—
And she smashed the point of the maul into his chest and tore it open.
Silence. Elbe’s crowd cheered, and Dellva’s went silent. Domehead lay on the ground and Hammera yanked the metal cavity open. His heart—no. The heart remained, but she’d just destroyed so many magical bindings. Nsiia sat back down. Hammera raised her maul for the final blow. Too high—showy—
Domehead surged up and caught Hammera’s hand. The crystals in his dome glowed. Nsiia saw him bring his other hand up—
And he belted Hammera in the face.
The audience went silent. Nsiia stared. Hammera staggered. She brought the maul back down. Tried to strike.
Domehead walked sideways and struck her in the chin with a palm. Hammera rocked and backed up again.
“What’s happening?”
Se, Femithain—everyone was staring. But Nsiia saw Dellic jerk and look up. At her. They knew.
This was—Domehead lunged again and grabbed Hammera’s hand as she tried to swing. He punched her in the face a second time! It was an exact copy of what Nsiia had tried to do to Dellic in the sparring match!
“The backup routines!”
Femithain stared. Domehead had recorded it! It was—it stepped sideways again. Palm to the face. Elbe’s crowd was going wild.
“He’s using the unarmed combat routines! It saved the routine! WE can win! We can win!”
Se was shouting. Nsiia heard a roar from Dellva and cheering. But there was a problem. Domehead lunged again—punch to the face!
Punch to the face! Hammera staggered back! Domehead hit her, once, twice—her routines were struggling to adapt! But—
“Oh no. He’s only going for her face. I never tried to hit you anywhere else!”
Dellic and Nsiia saw Domehead punching Hammera’s head. The Garuda-head was a mash. Any ordinary person would be dead. But—this was a Golem. Hammera kept moving.
Domehead froze again as she swung an axe and he executed a dodge. Hammera didn’t have a face left, just a mangled bit of steel. Yet she was attacking, furiously striking. There were no valuable command lines in her head! All that was leaking out was magicore—her acceleration booster.
“Oh no.”
The Golem froze as Hammera came at him. He took a blow to the chest and fell down. It had nearly broken his Golem’s Heart, but Hammera was also handicapped in that she wasn’t designed to always aim for his head, where his secondary routines were.
“If only we’d given him one more attack routine! If only—”
The Crafters were pulling their hair out. Nsiia’s fists were clenched. Yinah was being held tightly by Femithain as he watched in silence.
“Anyone else—”
Dellic stared down at the Golem. Nsiia nodded. She stood up, shaking.
“He just has to punch!”
She threw a punch forwards, frustrated, and turned away. She couldn’t watch this! She punched the air as Dellic did the same, as if they were on the ground. Either one of them could have taken Hammera to pieces!
Domehead’s crystal dome lit up. Slowly, it swiveled on its torso as Hammera advanced slowly. Nsiia’s punch was reflected, distantly from the stands.
But what was distance to a Golem? Nsiia was turning to stalk away for the bathrooms when she heard a roar. And a thump.
She turned—and saw Domehead’s fist hit Hammera’s chest again. The other Golem staggered back. Domehead advanced. It punched—
“Impossible.”
The whisper came from the stands. Nsiia saw Domehead punch—and take another blow to the shoulder. Hammera was still attacking.
“It just—”
“Dodge.”
Dellic breathed. Nsiia looked at him.
“Show it how to dodge!”
Nsiia saw Domehead’s ‘face’ swiveling. Flashing. She saw the hammer swing up—
The [Exile] leaned and Domehead copied her. She threw a punch—and Hammera fell down. Everyone was staring at her.
Domehead threw an empty punch, tried the face-attack—palm strike. Hammera was getting up.
“Empress! Show him more! Keep attacking!”
Nsiia’s mind went blank. She saw Dellic shouting at her. Femithain was frozen. She raised a foot and stomped. 
The Golem below hit Hammera in the chest with an impact that rocked her back. Elbe’s Golem actually rolled away and tried to get up again. In response, Nsiia kicked. Domehead raised a leg and froze. She heard a scream of metal—
“Don’t kick! He doesn’t have the joints for it!”
Se screamed in her ears. Nsiia put her foot down. She saw Hammera was on her feet. And she had the maul. But Domehead was waiting. Nsiia raised her fists, and it copied her.
“It can sweep the leg! Like this—”
Dellic demonstrated a leg-hook. And Domehead lunged before Nsiia could copy him. It copied the [Armsmaster of Steel]. Down Hammera went! He stomped without prompting and demolished the rest of her face!
Nsiia’s ears were shaking with the sound in the stadium. Domehead turned. He watched the flurry of blows and lifted a fist. Hammera rose—and he tackled her into a wall. She was moving fast—and she had unarmed routines. But he was moving faster.
She struck at him—he blocked and punched her. The second time, she countered. Domehead was moving even faster than the fastest Golems in the Testing grounds. It was as if—Nsiia stopped moving, but he was still copying what he’d seen. It looked fluid—
Alive.
Hammera collapsed. Her chest was dented inwards. The Golem’s Heart animating her couldn’t keep her upright. But Domehead still kept attacking in a flurry. He kept lashing the other Golem’s body, pounding her into the wall until someone called the deactivation command. He stopped, stepped back—
And looked up. Nsiia saw his crystals flashing. The Golem looked up at her. At the stands. Amid the cheering, the shouting—
The stunned silence from those who knew what had happened. Nsiia heard a meow.
Yinah was relieved all the noise had stopped hurting her ears. She wanted to be picked up now. Nsiia obeyed. The animal peered down at Domehead. It stood there. Yinah’s Golem-legs were cold against her arm. Foreign.
A brilliant achievement in Golem-creation? Yes. But not from her. Crafter-Magus Femithain sat in the stands. And if he slept, he would surely hear it.
 
[Skill – Sentience-class Crafting obtained!]
 
—-
 
Perhaps they felt it. Or would simply hear of it. Cognita of Wistram smiled for a second, later that day. The few Golems who knew—listened.
And the Oracle of Elbe laughed. She laughed in her room.
“Once again! Once more, we ask again!”
 
—-
 
Golems. Undead.
The Chosen saw the Necromancer standing with Belavierr. She was making something. Not their joint effort on one of the new Chosen.
“A…Golem?”
It was made of cloth. Belavierr had been working on it. It was…a Gnoll.
Perfect in every way. The [Stitch Witch] looked up.
“Yes.”
The Necromancer waited. But true to her nature, Belavierr did not elaborate. He flicked a finger and a book appeared.
“I did not inquire last time. But you were there when the String People were first sewn. Or rather—when they were freed. They have a name for you.”
“Yes.”
Belavierr looked at the book Az’kerash held. He made a note. She tilted her head and her orange eyes fixed on his black ones.
“Why do you ask?”
“I am writing a history of the world. A correct one. It is a small thing that few will ever read. But it gives me some satisfaction. And my Chosen should know the truth. If you would consent to tell me of that time, I would be…interested. Tell me, Belavierr—this Cloth Golem. What is it for? I see it has no Golem’s Heart.”
Az’kerash closed the book. The [Witch] nodded.
“I do not want a mind. I am not the Threadmakers. I wish for a puppet.”
And the Golem was that. It was so perfectly done…cloth became flesh as it opened its eyes. The [Necromancer] shook his head.
“A masterpiece. You could give it life. Even without my aid.”
Again, the [Stitch Witch] seemed confused.
“Why would I do that? I do not wish to make the Threadmaker’s mistake. If I do wish for something that lives and levels—it must be greater than the parts of what you and I are. My…second child.”
Did undead shiver? Az’kerash looked at Belavierr. He nodded slowly.
“So, the puppet.”
Belavierr bade it rise. It walked away as she spoke.
“Too long has it been since I wove minds like I did flesh. I grew complacent in Terandria. In immortality. My bindings came undone. This time—a grander web. Finer thread. Can’t you feel it moving? The world is changing again.”
She pointed at something Az’kerash could not see. But he heard it, later.
 
—-
 
Nsiia stood in front of Domehead. The Crafter-Magus had become something, in that moment. Illivere would not be the same.
He had no voice. He was not…Cognita. But look at him. She lifted Yinah, and the cat rested on the flashing dome. And Domehead looked at her. Nsiia smiled.
“So that’s what he sees.”
It was never boring around Femithain, either.
