Ryoka was still wearing a bunch of the looted gear. Salamani grumbled as Fierre giggled.
“That was so much more impressive in my head.”
When he cast the spell again, Ryoka felt a familiar sensation. The world—slowed—around her. Or perhaps her mind and body sped up to create the same effect. It wasn’t the same rush as when she’d taken Teriarch’s potion. But it was—something.
“AaahI’mgoingsofastthisisamazing!”
Fierre zipped past Salamani and Ryoka before the young woman was given the spell. Then she, Salamani, and Fierre were running in their own world of speed. The rest of the world was a slow blur behind them, people turning in wagons, moving slowly.
“Wow! And you run like this all the time?”
“Mage. Runner. Do you think I’d ever run without magic?”
Salamani grinned at Ryoka. She resolved to buy a Wand of Haste or something to have this effect at will. This—this was Courier speed.
“What are you going to do with your money, Salamani? That spellbook with a Tier 6 spell?”
The Courier nodded.
“That. And I’m going to buy something I should have bought a long time ago. Well—I couldn’t afford a good one. A Golem! Fierre, you work as an Opener, right? You should invest in one!”
“Golems? From where?”
The Vampire girl stopped running ahead to run with them. Ryoka was interested too. Salamani shrugged.
“If I can get a discount? From home—I mean, the academy. Wistram makes some. Not high-grade, but we can manufacture up to Autonomous-Combat type Golems—mostly in the Steelbody forms. Nothing like Cognizant-Steward types like Cognita—if she’s not above that, even.”
The words rolled over Ryoka, but each one was fascinating in its implications. Fierre, predictably, seemed to know part of what Salamani meant.
“Which one would you buy, Salamani?”
“Either one of those huge, hulking types that can fight and perform tasks—or a Golem horse.”
“A what?”
Fierre brightened.
“I’ve read about those, actually. D-do you think I could buy a Golem?”
“With how much gold we’ve got? Surely!”
Salamani grinned. Ryoka tapped him on the shoulder.
“Where do you buy Golems? Wistram?”
He nodded.
“That’s one spot. There aren’t many places capable of producing…good…Golems anymore. Illivere is by far the best place to commission an order from. But Wistram might discount me if I call in some favors. It’s expensive—very expensive—but at a Courier’s income, you can afford one! You should consider it.”
“A Golem.”
Ryoka had a sudden image of a Golem from a video game punching someone in her way. Like…a certain sallow-faced girl. It was a tempting thought. Then she remembered the Snow Golem during the winter run with Ivolethe.
“They’re so useful. Guard duty, lifting things—heck, I could get one to dig a new well for the farm. That’s actually a great idea, Salamani. It’d really make me a credible Opener with some security like that…”
Fierre was musing aloud. Ryoka nodded. Golems did sound great. Which begged the question.
“So…why aren’t Golems common? If they’re at all affordable and that useful…I haven’t seen any on my runs, except maybe Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion and Valeterisa’s. Are they just not common in Izril because they’re made in Chandrar and Wistram?”
Fierre and Salamani looked amused. The Mage Runner laughed.
“Visit House Terland, Ryoka. They’re the ones who buy all the Golems. Further north than Reizmelt.”
“Oh.”
Ryoka blushed. The other two ran on, now chattering about Golems.
Golems. Owning a…well, to Ryoka, it was like a magical robot. There were parallels to Earth’s understanding of such things. They weren’t Elementals—which had existed and still might, but manufactured things. Few had actual intelligence. Buying a Golem with her money?
It felt too big to imagine. But Ryoka was rich. She could afford a Golem? Well, unless it could fit in a bag of holding, there might not be a point. But what if…?
Ryoka ran on, imagining a giant rock Golem wearing a maid’s outfit and sweeping a broom while a white Gnoll sat on its head and probably threw things at the peons below.
Yeah. Yeah, that wouldn’t turn out badly at all.
 
—-
 
Among the numerous duties of Magus-Crafter Femithain was resolving issues of…discipline within the ranks of the exalted Crafters of Illivere.
The Illivere Federation, a group of smaller states that formed the federation, was a semi-longstanding nation. In that they could boast of several thousand years of unity in its current incarnation and roots in the art of crafting Golems far before that.
Today, Illivere bordered Nerrhavia’s Fallen and was a small fish in the large pond. Which was better than being a large guppy in the smaller puddles. The might of Illivere, as everyone knew, rested in Golems.
They were a democracy as well. In that the people of each state voted on a smaller group of Crafters—the elite of Illivere’s society who manufactured or managed Golems—into positions of authority. And then those people voted in the Magus-Crafter. Some people objected now and then that this wasn’t true democracy per se and as such, but the Crafters of Illivere weren’t about to hand over all the power to the common folk, now, were they?
Anyways, about Golems. If you owned no Golems in Illivere, you were poor. If you helped make Golems you were working in the best job there was. Of course—there were differences there too.
Some were just lowly artisans who shaped a calf, or produced raw materials. Others helped make the binding spells, repaired Golems, and so on. The ‘Crafters’ were the ones who were in charge. Who laid out plans. Who ‘made’ the Golems. And the dozens, possibly hundreds of workers who contributed to the process just helped out.
It was different from Wistram, where a [Golem Artificer] might create an entire Golem on their own. In Illivere, it was an industry. And as such, the Crafters were often businesspeople as well as artisans. All of this to say that a Golem Crafter was hard to discipline, so it fell to the First Crafters of each state—or the Magus-Crafter, Femithain, to oversee breaches in conduct.
All of this…Femithain stared up three feet and eyed the Golem from head to toe, ignoring the murmurs in the square. All of this still didn’t explain why he was staring at a 9-foot tall, nude Nsiia currently posing in the capital of Illivere, Demarsel.
“It uh—you can see why we’ve asked for your presence, Crafter-Magus. The creator, Siddin of Veule, refuses to take his creation elsewhere. He claims it’s art and has dedicated it to the Empress and the Tiqr resistance.”
The Watch Captain was staring at Nsiia. So were a lot of people in the crowds, many of whom were objecting. Well—some were objecting.
“Former Empress, Watch Captain.”
“Excuse me, Magus-Crafter?”
The man tore his eyes away from Nsiia’s chest. Femithain regarded the posing Golem steadily.
Hm. Clay. It was quick-fired, clearly a fast creation. He could see some cracking disguised around the seams. The artist had forgone paint—a wise move. Statues painted always had this garish look to them. He’d even gotten the clay to her skin tone. However…the anatomy was just off.
Femithain had seen Nsiia topless. Also, naked. The artist of this Golem clearly had not—and he also had a poor understanding of how breasts worked. He’d clearly seen the real thing before—but had decided ‘art’ need not obey gravity.
The Magus-Crafter had a headache. And it wasn’t even mid-morning. He rubbed at his head again and addressed the Watch Captain.
“Nsiia abdicated her throne with the surrender of Tiqr. She is not an [Empress] and it is politic to remember that, Watch Captain. Furthermore, the ‘resistance’ in Tiqr lead by General Vasraf is in fact, an unlawful rebellion. Please adjust your comments accordingly.”
“Of course, Magus-Crafter.”
Chastened, the Watch Captain saluted and stared back at the statue.
“The uh, Golem, Magus-Crafter?”
“Have young Siddin remove it.”
“He claims—”
“I heard. Crafter Siddin! You will return this Golem to your workshop now! Or it will be destroyed as a public nuisance!”
The Magus-Crafter used a spell to enhance his voice and called out to the Crafter who had created the Golem. He was kneeling in front of the Golem-Nsiia, and supplicating the real one in Femithain’s quarters, at a higher elevation from the plaza.
“You can’t stop me! I dedicate this to the Empress of Beasts! Make Tiqr free once more! I—”
“Take a sledgehammer to the statue. Arrest Siddin and have him escorted to his family’s estates.”
The Magus-Crafter ignored the wail as the young Crafter tried to protect his golem. He walked off, sighing. Siddin’s family might object—or they might not. Either way—he resolved to have a word with Nsiia.
It wasn’t that people sympathized with the definitely-a-prisoner Nsiia that was the problem. Or that they supported Tiqr. It was a problem if Illivere did that, but Femithain had reassured the other rulers that it was just a small movement. He could always deal with that if it grew louder.
The real issue, as far as he was concerned, was that this was the sixth time someone had caused an incident like this. Nsiia was encouraging them. She was certainly bored, but enough was enough.
 
—-
 
“Nsiia. I would like to ask you to stop encouraging these young Crafters to their…adoration of you. They waste time, resources, and get themselves in trouble creating odes to you. Like the Golem that attempted to sing outside my workshop.”
Femithain broached the issue at a late breakfast, twelve minutes later. Nsiia looked up from an almost-raw strip of meat she was eating. Femithain stared at her over his morning cup of stamina potion and a banana.
They both gave each other disdainful looks for the other’s meal and Nsiia chewed her mouthful before replying.
“I don’t encourage them. They just show up.”
“You sit on the roof. Occasionally, nude. And you have agreed to model for two of the young Crafters who later proclaimed their undying fealty towards you.”
Nsiia’s lips twitched.
“At their request. And what’s wrong with sitting on rooftops?”
Femithain sighed. She was determined not to give him this. He could be diplomatic. Femithain was known as a calm, patient negotiator. However, he was also adaptable.
“Stop encouraging them, please. Or I will have to make an example of the next one.”
The woman pursed her lips. She eyed Femithain. Because she knew him, Nsiia did not test the Magus-Crafter. He was not impressive, in the sense that his rumpled mage’s robe, spectacles, and lean physique did not convey danger or physical might. But Femithain meant what he said, which was another kind of danger.
“Very well. And a good morning to you.”
The Magus-Crafter had another draft of stamina potion. That made him feel better.
Once again, he was having breakfast on his veranda, overlooking the pool, and past it, the capital of Illivere, Demarsel. The entire city had multiple levels, although it was no Pallass. Still, it had high walls, and brick or stone buildings built along the steep streets; the rooftops below were a maze unto themselves.
Sometimes, [Thieves] would try to escape via rooftop and fall to their deaths. There was no such danger in the Magus-Crafter’s residence, of course. It had proper security. Why, their prisoner, Nsiia, had no chance of escaping her quarters.
Except if she hopped over the ledge to have breakfast. She was eating another strip of meat. As she did, a bird fluttered down and landed on the balcony.
Femithain eyed it. He was no ornithologist, let alone a [Bird Watcher], so he had no idea what it was. But it was big, had a curved beak and sharp talons along with the dusky ash feathers speckled with blue, and he didn’t like it.
“Nsiia, is that bird an acquaintance of yours?”
The former Empress of Beasts turned and regarded the bird calmly. She smiled.
“I’ve never seen it before. It looks like a Dustwing Warhawk. See how big it is compared to a regular hawk? It could take a finger off.”
“I quite notice.”
Femithain mentally prepared a [Dust Arrow] volley in his head. Nsiia, fearless, offered some meat to the bird. It ­pecked and snatched the meat. Then it let her gently pet its head.
That was Nsiia. Beloved by animals. They came to her, mostly birds, but Femithain had woken up one day to find a crab had somehow made it into the pool. The former-Empress stroked its head.
“You’ve travelled quite a long way, haven’t you? Where are you going? Do you want more food? Here.”
She seemed to listen to the bird as it pecked at her breakfast. Femithain watched, interested.
They were two very different people, she and he. For instance, Femithain had woken up to deal with the Golem issue this morning after having literally fallen asleep in his workshop. By contrast—Nsiia had gone to bed quite rested after a day full of activity. She liked to stand on the rooftops, climb about as nimbly as a cat, and loved animals and they her.
Femithain’s passion was Golems. And it was unrequited, if love could be ascribed to such creations. And it could not.
“I see. You’re lost. Go north. There’s not much food here that won’t get you hunted. North. Don’t look at me like that. I know where food is.”
Nsiia pushed the Warhawk as it cawed at her. It flapped its wings, shedding some feathers and dander. Nsiia plucked some more meat to eat—it tried to snatch it and she flicked it on the forehead as she nimbly spirited the meat into her mouth.
“I won’t be bullied by a fledgling. Go on. Eat and go. You’re making my friend nervous.”
The giant bird eyed Femithain. He realized it wasn’t even adult, to judge by Nsiia’s words. It hopped over and pecked two more strips of meat off Nsiia’s plate. Then it took off.
Femithain watched it fly upwards, soaring on thermals in Chandrar’s drier climate. The rains that had come were short-lived in Illivere—even a magical typhoon couldn’t change that much.
“Do you hear their replies as words, Nsiia? Or is it just impressions? Guesswork?”
“They have their own thoughts. No language, and no words. But I’ve had much practice. I was ruler of Tiqr.”
The woman settled back. She looked content—then sad—then playful again. Femithain wasn’t fooled by the last expression.
There sat the woman who had been [Empress of Beasts], ruler of Tiqr, a land blessed by many wild friends, a proud nation who had stood amongst its peers and refused to bow when every nation within a hundred miles of its borders declared war. Nsiia had been a powerful ruler.
Now she was his prisoner. A guest? Certainly better-treated than in Savere or Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But a prisoner nonetheless.
“I hear Roshal made another bid for you to sell me to them. And Savere. How much was it this time?”
