It was a work of art, if Nsiia did say so herself. The cat’s body moved like scale armor, sliding together so as not to leave a gap even if it had to flex downwards or upwards. She had learned a lot of lessons; a Golem needed to have the instruction-circuits connected at all times or parts of it stopped working.
Her first Golem had been a simple shell of a humanoid thing. Made of clay that animals had dug up for her and fired with a bit of fire magic and a few fireplace incidents. It had taken over a dozen tries but Nsiia had gotten it to walk around, punch clumsily, and try to move wherever she pointed.
It had been an unsteady, fragile thing which had begun to break even with its first steps due to how she’d made it. And it had run out of power after three minutes, eating through the six small mana stones she’d placed in it for power.
Nevertheless, it had been her first Golem. Nsiia had celebrated—before smashing it to dust and burying the remains. She had just needed to know how a Golem was made—even if the power supply had escaped her.
But this Cat Golem—this was the one that would be able to do so much more. Steal for her, deliver messages, travel—she was sure she’d figured out each minute detail of most of the Golem-making.
Parts were easy. If you had unlimited time, patience, and Nsiia’s mind, you could copy Femithain’s arm-circuitry and see how it made an arm move up, flex, move down…it was just a matter of making three dozen clay copies, inscribing your own magical instructions, and seeing what did what.
Nsiia had learned magic from her tutors. This was not new to her. She just didn’t know how to make the Golem obey more complex instructions, or give it a permanent power source, or…er…how she was supposed to get it to function without her direct, constant supervision.
It was possible to do! Nsiia had guard-Golems. In fact, she walked out of her closet to stare at them.
They stared back. They were about eight feet tall, to allow for them in the hallways of the Magus-Crafter’s estate. These ones were standard, in that they resembled giant suits of armor. They’d be animated, and fight with sword and shield, or mace and shield, or…
They were ordered to keep Nsiia safe. Nothing more. They didn’t stop her as she walked around them and this pair exclusively guarded her rooms. She narrowed her eyes as they stood there.
They appeared to be motionless and she had not, in fact, seen them move except when the staff had ordered them to one side so they could dust. However. These Golems would defend her to their end even if no one told them to swing a sword.
She hadn’t made her first Golem do that. She had been forced to tell it to ‘take a step’, raise its right hand, and so on, in minute detail. She couldn’t just say ‘walk over there’ or ‘dig me a hole’.
She was missing instructions and energy. With those two aspects, she’d have a complete Golem, or close enough.
But how to get that knowledge? Nsiia pondered it. Her scavenging of Femithain’s genius had reached its end. She had copied and experimented, but she was just…lost. It was time to seek the knowledge. Today, in fact. So Nsiia turned—and broke out of her prison.
The former [Empress] opened the door to the Magus-Crafter’s estates and turned to one of the squad stationed there.
“Excuse me, Guardsman. I would like to see what the Magus-Crafter is working on.”
The [Guard] on duty saluted.
“Yes, Empress! Er—Miss Nsiia? Your ladyship! Right this way. We’ll arrange a patrol…hey! Give me four Wargolems!”
 
—-
 
Nsiia’s daring escape from her captivity reached Femithain’s ears just a moment before she did.
He was working in one of the state-owned workshops of Demarsel. Two dozen [Golem Artificers] were standing with him, sweating over their masterpiece.
“…Golem’s heart will be the factor, along with our extended combat cycles, Magus-Crafter. Can we leave it to you?”
“Of course. I have both ready—and the perfect catalyst. Ah, Nsiia? The [Guards] told me you wished to see me? I am pressed for time. We must finish this Golem’s calibrations if it is to be complete by the competition.”
“Three days!”
One of the [Golem Artificers] swore. They were Dellva’s best and brightest, collaborating on this joint-project. Even the Magus-Crafter himself had taken time out of his schedule to represent his state.
“This is to be Dellva’s entry into the Golem Fights?”
Nsiia stared up at the glittering domed head made of clear crystal, the huge, armored body coated in some bronze-steel alloy, and especially at the inner workings of the Golem, and the giant glass orb that was sitting on a pedestal, waiting to be added.
“Nsiia. They are not ‘Golem Fights’. The proper name is ‘the Test of Mirrhen’.”
“Mhm. Golem fights. I should quite like to see them. I have seen [Gladiators] battling, but this should be even more interesting.”
“It’s not an arena! It’s a test of workmanship, design—”
One of the [Golem Artificers] was incensed. Femithain knew Nsiia was teasing them and held up a hand.
“Crafter Se, please finish the Golem’s legs.”
“As you will, Magus-Crafter. And if another apprentice slips and ruins our command spells, I will see to it they never touch a brush again!”
The [Golem Artificer] stalked off, to the fear of her apprentices. Nsiia saw Femithain turn back to the Golem.
“Does it have a name?”
“We are calling it—er—Domehead.”
For once, the Magus-Crafter actually blushed. Nsiia laughed. It was a fitting name, and clearly, not one that the designers meant to be shared before the actual event.
The Golem resembled many War Golems that Nsiia had seen. Humanoid, armored—with two Human-like hands to grasp weapons with. In this case—a waiting, unenchanted double-handed battleaxe.
Since the point was to have Golems from each state prove which design was most efficient, the weapon wasn’t enchanted but Nsiia thought the ten-foot Domehead would still be able to wield the huge weapon with crushing strength. Certainly, enough to break a rival Golem’s armor.
Anyways, Domehead resembled those armored constructs except in its head. It’s head was…well, a half-dome. Instead of a helmet or carved face, the creators had installed a far broader crystal dome, transparent but thick, and inside placed…Nsiia squinted.
“Are those crystals?”
“Command crystals, yes. Supplementary. Er—Domehead is experimental. Instead of placing all the command matrices in the chest area, we’ve created two separate interfaces. One in the head as well as the chest, for redundant backups. It should be able to keep fighting even if it takes a great deal of damage to one of the command areas—and the other states will be aiming for that, as will we. The head is exposed, but we’ve reinforced the dome and there are few other places we can install a backup ‘mind’ as it is.”
Nsiia nodded. She knew how to kill Golems and you generally had to hit their command-spells. Enough damage and the Golem would malfunction or just ‘die’. It was that, or destroy their limbs so they couldn’t function. Golems were hard to kill and they could be repaired with annoying ease sometimes.
“It looks expensive.”
“Extremely.”
Half a dozen [Artificers] chorused in the vicinity. Femithain was one of them. He grimaced, and then—grinned. He looked far younger than he did anywhere else as he pointed at the dome.
“The command crystals and ‘helmet’ alone cost half as much as the rest of Domehead. However—if we win the Golem F—the Testing, we can make a case for backup command spells to be installed in all Golems worth more than twenty thousand gold pieces. And if it is possible to reduce the overhead and spacing issues, Dellva will pioneer this advancement in Golem technology for decades to come!”
The other [Artificers] let out a subdued cheer at that. This was no room filled with lesser staff; each [Golem Artificer] was the kind who still knew how to do the work themselves and they would entrust it to no one less.
Passion, energy—all into making sure their Golem beat the other Golems into dust. Nsiia sighed. She had been informed that [Golem Artificers] were predominantly male over female. And mostly Human with a smaller section of Dullahans and Lizardfolk as the primary species of choice.
None of that had surprised her. Also—Femithain was still talking.
“—greatest competition might be in Ferule’s inspired ‘Spitshot’ Golems, which are employing actual liquids since no spells are allowed.”
“What…kind of liquids?”
“I’ve heard magma, but that sounds like a ruse unless they’re actually investing in that much heating spells and a container. My guess is oil followed by flame. Or maybe an alchemical substance?”
“They won’t be able to make a case their Golem is superior if they win because of the most volatile liquid!”
One of the other members of Dellva’s team complained. Femithain waved a hand at him.
“That’s why we’ve taken steps with our armor, Hecii. You worry about those fingers.”
Nsiia stared at the fingers being attached and looked at Femithain. Here came the important bit. She licked her lips.
“I can see you’re quite busy. I didn’t want to disturb you—”
“Thank you. Also, I note that here you are.”
Nsiia smiled.
“I am indeed. Actually—I just wanted to watch. There isn’t much to do in my rooms if I can’t sit nude on the roofs. I thought about doing that here, but I can see you’re too busy.”
A young [Golem Maker] nearly slipped as he shaved a bit of metal off Domehead’s knee. Nsiia was quite pleased by that. Femithain sighed.
“I gave you access to the library, didn’t I?”
“You did…”
But there are no damned manuals on how to make Golems there since your people keep them in their workshops and yours are all too advanced…was what Nsiia didn’t say. Instead, she pointed at Domehead’s…head-dome.
“Are those ah, command-crystals standard? I’ve never seen them before.”
“Hardly!”
Artificer Se was back with the legs. As they were being installed, she pointed proudly at the crystals.
“They’re each a solid unit. Two halves of crystal, see? Usually a large gem with almost zero defect—we have to remove impurities by hand, so we buy from Salazsar when the Drakes aren’t price-gouging—and then we write the instructions on the inside of the crystals before fusing them together. We have to do that, you see, since they’re external to the Golems and the linkage spells have to be on the outside. However, with this method we can effectively increase the amount of command-space because of the crystals—”
“Se. Se. While your commentary is fascinating, I don’t believe Nsiia cares to follow the advancements in command crystals.”
Femithain interrupted the [Golem Artificer] after the sixth try. Nsiia caught her breath as the woman deflated—she actually had a fake eye, Nsiia noticed. It was stone and kept swiveling around in her head. Not at all creepy and why her apprentices were terrified of her, of course.
“Actually, Magus-Crafter Femithain, Crafter Se—I am finding Golems to be quite interesting. I have no idea how they work, though. Can you explain how Domehead will get his…energy?”
Femithain blinked. Crafter Se brightened.
“Ah, well, we have the most efficient mana-draw spells inscribed on his heart. Once Femithain finishes his activation and Forming—”
“I have this, Se. You really have an interest, Nsiia?”
She gave him her most interested look—which wasn’t hard because Femithain didn’t look suspicious, but pleased!
“Of course. I would love to know—if you have time?”
“I should be pleased to. Golems are my passion. We can certainly chat about it while I wait for the heart to be prepared—and later, of course. Let me know if I am bothering you, but this is a quite pleasing development, Nsiia.”
The Magus-Crafter smiled. Nsiia swallowed ten thousand oaths. She should have done this from the start!
“So…how do Golems gain their energy? Mana crystals?”
The former-Empress saw Femithain’s eyes bulge. Then he and every [Golem Artificer] in the room burst out laughing. Even the apprentices attaching the legs had to stop to avoid dropping it.
Nsiia glowered. Clearly—the answer was ‘no’. Femithain looked amused—and embarrassed as he shook his head.
“Not at all, Nsiia. Excuse me. It’s just that—I believe every single apprentice has asked that of their master. I did the same when I was, oh, twelve…no. I can understand why most would assume that.”
“Incorrectly. You’d burn through even a big mana crystal in an hour! Hah!”
Se pulled out her fake eye with a laugh to wipe at the socket. Femithain nodded. He walked over to the orb, the same as Nsiia had seen in his other golems.
“This, Nsiia. This is a Golem’s Heart as we call it. Do you see the command spells running across it? They connect to the entire body.”
He pointed to the intricate runes that would match up with all the ones running across Domehead’s body just so when the heart was installed. Nsiia nodded, her own heart racing. So that was it! But…
“But there’s no magic in there, surely?”
Femithain smiled as another chuckle ran around the room. Now Nsiia was playing the willing fool, and the Crafters were clearly pleased to show off their knowledge.
“Actually, there will be. A Golem’s Heart is meant to draw mana from the world around it. No…vessel could hope to hold enough mana unless it produced itself, and since Golems cannot do that, and it is inefficient to link them to [Mages] unless they’re temporary—Golem Hearts store and draw magic from the world around them. Sometimes they need additional mana, but…that is their secret.”
“Ah. That makes so much sense! Forgive my ignorance!”
I’m going to steal your best Golem Heart. Femithain smiled at Nsiia’s credulous look.
“There are exceptions, of course, Nsiia. Some Golems did run off of unique Golem Hearts that produced mana. Unicorn horns, a Kraken’s eye, even…I’ve heard of a Sage’s Grass heart, but it requires at least a decade-old plant and keeping it alive is too difficult…”
“Easier to draw mana. But how did Illivere march it’s army to Tiqr? There were four hundred Golems, were there not? They should have drained the area dry.”
Femithain sighed.
“Indeed they did. We had to bring mana potions and split them up to reduce the strain. Mostly however—a [Golem Leader] or [Golem Artificer] generally gains the [Mana Well] Skill. It allows us to build reservoirs to cast spells from or power Golems. A necessity.”
“Oh. Like [Summoners] and [Necromancers], you mean. [Golem Makers] are much like those two classes, or so I understand.”
