It was the wrong thing to say. The good mood of the workshop went dark at once. Someone actually threw something at Nsiia. The woman caught it and stared at Se’s eye, which gave her a dirty look. Nsiia tossed it over her shoulder, and Se ran after it, cursing.
“[Golem Artificers]…are not the same as [Necromancers]. Or…[Summoners], Lady Nsiia.”
One of the older Crafters said with a strained smile. Nsiia gave him the same smile.
“And how not? You all three create beings, don’t you?”
“Yes, but theirs are inefficient wastes of—”
Femithain held up a hand.
“I believe what Crafter Merk was trying to say, Nsiia, was that our disciplines have similarities—but are quite different. Summoned beings and undead are usually highly inefficient compared to Golems. They leak mana like sieves, to put it politely.”
“Why?”
Se had reclaimed her eye. She walked over to Domehead and tapped his legs.
“Structure. See? Domehead is one thing. A skeleton? A zombie? Holes everywhere. Animation spell has to keep the damn bones floating. It’s why they’re so expensive. Although…they do generate death magic. But that’s because they were once alive! Golems are more efficient. And summoned beings? Wastes of mana, the lot.”
“But you can reuse summoned creatures and not fear damage or death.”
“Ah! Ah! But can you get the efficiency of a hundred pound arm turning your fancy summoned warrior’s face into—”
Femithain actually had to grab Se to prevent her from storming Nsiia. The [Exile] sensed a definite…rivalry…between the classes.
“Se, Se—remember that Sand Golems are temporary by and large. They need to be filled with magic by the caster. Dust Golems too…”
“Those don’t count! We create legacies! You show me an undead that lasts a century!”
“Why don’t we fill Domehead’s Heart and calibrate him? I’ll do the forming. You bring Domehead to the practice yard.”
Femithain ushered Nsiia out of the room before she could get herself stabbed by a chisel. She walked with him, wondering if she’d actually managed to annoy him—then she heard his chuckling.
“Artificer Se has stabbed apprentices for less in her classes, Nsiia.”
“Classes?”
“Oh yes. She’s one of our [Teachers] as well as Crafters. We can do a tour on our trip—I forget you have never seen Illivere’s education systems. For now—we should complete Domehead’s activation. We are on a schedule.”
True enough. Nsiia watched Femithain take the Golem’s Heart out of the workshop, carefully transporting the glass vessel to be…
“What was that? Formed? What does that mean?”
Femithain adjusted his spectacles with his wrists as he carried the heart—although Nsiia was pretty sure she’d have trouble breaking it with a hammer.
“Ah. Forming. There are three disciplines, broadly speaking, in Golem-making. Shaping, Inscribing, and Forming. Each one is well…self-explanatory. Shapers create the Golem’s body. Inscribers, their instructions by which they move. Formers…well, it is more of a tertiary thing these days. Not truly practiced by all. I am considered the best Former in my state.”
“What is forming?”
Femithain looked uncomfortable.
“Giving a Golem it’s…being. It differs from instructions. I should explain. Domehead had thousands of commands. Intricate—sequences that allow it to raise an arm, swing the axe—that’s why we put so much time into it.”
Like I did, figuring out how to make a cat’s body move properly. Nsiia nodded. She had to create entire cycles for the Cat Golem—walking without falling on its face was an incredible task.
“Forming is different. It is giving the Golem—intention. The Steel Golems outside your room? They would only be able to follow orders if their Golem Heart was not formed. They would be Puppet-class Golems, rather than Autonomous-class.”
“More words I don’t know, Femithain.”
The Crafter-Magus blinked.
“Ah. Well—Puppet, Autonomous, Sentient, and Cognizant are the four classes of Golems. You may hear Autonomous-Sentry. The second word defines purpose. But the four designations refer to the will of a Golem. Puppet means it only obeys orders. It needs no Golem Heart, just the ability to take instructions.”
Nsiia had made a Puppet-class Golem. She nodded.
“And the other three?”
“Autonomous is most common. Actually…almost all Golems you will run into are variations of that idea. Able to take comments more or less efficiently—there is quite a lot of variation in the class. But, say, able to improvise on a comment. Not take initiative.”
“I see. Then Sentience is—”
The Magus-Crafter halted. And on his face was a look Nsiia had never seen before. A longing.
“True intelligence. No—at least the capacity for thought. Like…an animal. Or a child. There is a distinction. Cognizant-class, of which I know of less than ten in the world—those are Golems, undead, or even summoned beings that can think and act of their own will.”
Nsiia knew of one too.
“Like Cognita of Wistram?”
“Just so.”
The Magus-crafter’s spectacles moved towards her for a second, then away.
“I had the honor of meeting Cognita of Wistram, once. She was unlike any Golem I have ever met, before or since. I wish I had the time to travel to Wistram to meet her there as well. Once the states vote another Magus-Crafter, I intend to.”
“You met this Golem outside of Wistram?”
Nsiia was startled. Femithain nodded.
“Once. She visited Illivere. It is rare, but Cognita is able to go where she pleases. She still has…had…a master whose will she carries out. But she herself can adapt as you or I could. Perhaps she is more intelligent than either of us. She is what Crafters aspire to create. But—no one in Illivere can even craft Sentient-class Golems.”
“I see.”
And Nsiia did. Completely. She saw it on Femithain’s face. If that young Crafter from this morning had looked one way when he had created the imitation of Nsiia, well—that was how Femithain looked now. It was not love. But it had captured him like a dream.
Nsiia wondered if Cognita had posed nude for Femithain, or if he’d been attracted to her for other reasons. Either way, she looked at the Golem heart.
“So how will you form Domehead’s heart? And why is it difficult to make Sentient-class Golems?”
The man came back into the world.
“You mean, impossible? Because we have lost the knowledge, Nsiia. As it is—Forming is an art. In truth, I do not know if the time I put into each Golem heart makes them…better. I believe there is some improvement, but a [Golem Artificer] can spend five minutes on a Golem heart’s forming and get the same result.”
“Why?”
“Here. Look at this and tell me what you see.”
The Magus-Crafter sighed and rotated the orb to Nsiia. She saw the hollow center, waiting for something to go in the glass hole at the top that would be sealed and create the perfect sphere into which mana would flow. Command spells ran like the world’s most convoluted maze all over the orb, connecting it to Domehead’s other lines of instructions.
But there—in the center—was something strange. Nsiia saw it, connected yet separate. Not written in the language of magic, but in…words.
It was a poem.
 
What purpose has the hammer who strikes?
What joy has the fang which bites?
The sword reaps no reward that it cuts.
Yet the satisfaction, aye, that may be it all.
 
“What is this?”
It was a poem written on the Golem’s Heart. Femithain smiled slightly.
“Intention. That is forming, Nsiia. And I will add a material thing to the center of the heart. Something to give the Golem—a purpose. As I said—another [Golem Artificer] could take five minute and copy that poem or another commonly-used speech, or even picture. I…customize each one.”
“But why…?”
“So they are more than words and metal. How else would you make a heart? If you leave it empty, they are just shells. Puppet-class. At least in this way, we can create Autonomous-class Golems.”
That was all the Magus-Crafter said. He led Nsiia onwards to find his Golem’s Heart. She followed, understanding more and less about Golems by the moment.
 
—-
 
The thing that would be Domehead’s Golem’s Heart was important. At least, to Femithain. Others were less caring about intention. They might put in a flower, a few rose petals, a bit of seawater. But apparently, the Golem hearts of old had been truly magnificent and Femithain believed that was the key to creating a Sentient-class Golem.
“So what will be Domehead’s heart?”
“I asked for the one thing I think would be appropriate. And he will also help us ‘teach’ Domehead by refining his move set before the Golem F—the Testing. And here he is. Armsmaster, my thanks!”
Armsmaster Dellic, the same man who had led Illivere’s living armies during the war, turned and bowed. He hesitated as he saw Nsiia, but she smiled.
“Armsmaster. You look as well as the day I surrendered.”
“It’s good to see you in health, Empress.”
The man muttered. Nsiia took pity.
“A [Soldier] does what he must, Armsmaster. Vasraf would have done the same if the situations were reversed. I hold no grudge against you.”
She winked and the man straightened.
“It’s kind of you to say, Empress.”
“Former-Empress, Armsmaster.”
“Very good, Magus-Crafter. I ah, have what you requested right here.”
The man produced a little bundle wrapped in white cloth, looking embarrassed for some reason. The Magus-Crafter smiled.
“Thank you. Did you wait long?”
The [Armsmaster] shook his head mutely. He looked around at the Crafter’s workshops, set in this most prestigious, most important part of the city. The ‘practice courts’ were not for people with swords, incidentally. They were for Golems to walk around in, even spar.
“I made good time, Magus-Crafter. It’s an honor to help with the Testing.”
It was a strange thing. Dellic was a rather good fighter, as Nsiia understood it. As [Armsmaster of Steel], he was a formidable man and Nsiia would have placed him highly in her own armies, especially as a trainer of new warriors. He seemed loyal, an excellent virtue, and Magus-Crafter Femithain clearly held the man in some regard, and the same was more than true of Dellic.
However—the man was in charge of all of Illivere’s armed forces. An [Armsmaster]? And to judge by the way some of the Crafters were looking down their noses at this intruder, even the way Dellic stood, it was clear they regarded him as being little more than an elevated [Guard].
It annoyed Nsiia no end. She was a non-Crafter, and thus inferior, but like a peacock, she was awarded a significance as a former [Empress] as well as her beauty and fighting grace, which Illivere’s citizens had in short supply. But that only meant she empathized with Dellic; to some, she was an exotic beauty, excellent to be turned into a Golem—but not a person.
“Armsmaster, do you have much to do in times of peace? These wars with Reim must surely keep you busy.”
The man started and bowed again.
“I am much less busy in times of peace, Empr—Highborn Nsiia, it’s true. I maintain Illivere’s Sword Regiment…s…with volunteers. Right now I’m drilling as many as I can get to enlist. The Magus-Crafter has kept us from war…”
And long may he continue to do so. That was the man’s unspoken message. Nsiia nodded.
“What’s the latest with the King of Destruction?”
Femithain was busy unwrapping Dellic’s gift. The two stood to the side, talking knowledgably, even agreeably. If Nsiia liked Femithain—she and Dellic shared a bond of understanding.
“Armies are pouring into Reim. Hellios being encouraged to rebel—but no one’s jumping up yet, just a few idiots who got squashed. Not with the Steward shooting across the borders. Er—the King of Destruction’s slowed Medain and his eastern flank, though. Mars and Orthenon both sacked cities.”
“By themselves?”
“Small group. Apparently the Illusionist broke through the gates, climbed onto the walls, and fought for six hours until the defenders broke and ran.”
Nsiia nodded.
“That sounds like her, at least. No small city could stop the Illusionist—or the Steward. What of Pathseeker?”
“Gazi the Omniscient? Nowhere to be seen. But that just makes everyone worried.”
The two chuckled over that. Nsiia heard a sigh and turned. Femithain had Dellic’s object that he wanted to place in the heart. Nsiia saw…
“Is that…a shield?”
It was, in fact, a buckler. Old, worn—and split in two, so definitely not actually useful as a shield anymore. It was good steel though, and had clearly seen countless battles before it had split. Nsiia looked at Dellic. The [Armsmaster] shuffled his feet.
“It’s ah, mine, Highborn Nsiia.”
“Nsiia will do, thank you, Dellic. Your buckler?”
He nodded.
“It’s seen me through years of fighting. Carried it everywhere as a soldier of fortune. I hung onto it because it saved my life. Sentimental. I mentioned it to the Magus-Crafter and he asked to use it.”
“Ah.”
Nsiia inhaled. Dellic just shook his head.
“It’s nothing special, Magus-Crafter. Not even enchanted. It’s an honor, you wanting to place it in the Golem’s Heart, though. Especially to represent the Testing.”
“I believe it will make a difference, Dellic. Something of this value matters to Golem Hearts, or so I have observed myself.”
Femithain quietly inserted the pieces of the buckler. They lay there, nothing special to look at. But Nsiia saw the value.
“Value, Magus-Crafter? Only to me and the people it’s helped me kill.”
“As I said, Armsmaster. Value beyond what I could give Dom—the Golem.”
The man flushed with pride and clasped a hand to his chest. Nsiia reflected that Femithain was more bureaucrat and [Golem Artificer] than ruler. But he was not bad at leading men.
 
—-
 
The activation of Domehead was simple. The entire body was wheeled out into the courtyard. Femithain placed the Golem heart in the chest and it was secured, the chest-cavity closed. Then he placed a hand on the chest, spoke a word, and the Golem moved.
Nothing fancy. Yet—suddenly, the giant of bronze-steel armor moved. The glowing dome and crystals lit up. It stood—and picked up the axe.
Nsiia tensed reflexively. She still remembered the War Golems in battle at Tiqr, and Domehead was a paragon compared to them. Not in height or mass—but in construction.
“Steady, Empress.”
The Armsmaster placed a hand on Nsiia’s shoulder. She relaxed and nodded gratefully towards him.
“Domehead—Attack Routine #1. Execute!”
Crafter Se ordered and the Golem swung its axe around. It stepped forwards, bringing down the axe in mighty sweeps and cuts. The watchers in the courtyard murmured—and it was every Crafter in this commune and more visitors besides.
“Magnificent. Look at that fluidity of motion!”
