“We don’t have to study, they said.”
The young man from Australia looked Trey up and down. The [Sand Mage] was wearing his robes and carrying his staff as well as a pack with a spellbook and other supplies, including quills and parchment.
“You’re going to. I figured I might as well learn magic, right? In the ‘Academy of Mages’? This is wild! It’s like Hog—”
“Don’t say it.”
The two began walking down the corridor. They were temporarily with the new students, but Aaron and Elena had promised they’d be reassigned with ‘other people from home’ once a faction claimed them.
Already a worrying statement to Trey. Well…that process had been delayed because Flynn and Trey had arrived ahead of all the regular arrivals. Theirs was the only ship who’d made it through the storm, so they’d had days to relax before the regular orientation.
Which was now. The two looked around. Flynn pointed.
“That way? And why not call it what it is? You’re British.”
“What does that have to do with it? Anyways, I bet every single person from Earth has said the same thing.”
“Ah. Right…”
After a while and some help from other [Mages] walking down the confusing, labyrinthine corridors, Trey and Flynn arrived just in time to see other new students, fresh off the boats (and a much safer trip with the magical typhoon further away), lined up in the entrance hall.
Not just new students. Some of the…Earthers…were there too. They, like Trey and Flynn, wanted to learn magic, so they were being inducted from the ground up. Most had not a whiff of magic about them; they were untrained. Trey, by contrast, was about as adept as some of the new students who had actually come by reason of merit.
He sized them up, and they him. Most of the students were excited. Trey picked out some interesting faces among them.
There were the Earthers. Flynn, a pair from Baleros who looked Indian—Flynn immediately called out to them in a language Trey didn’t recognize. They started and then practically ran over to him.
Subtle. The other non-Earthers were staring as Flynn grabbed the shoulder of a younger man and began speaking, a mix of English and…Trey saw it was a young man and woman, both around his age, practically shaking with relief.
It was so obvious. But this was the one place where Earth was an open secret. He looked past the two at some of the older Earthers.
There was the girl who’d seen the magical invisibility-rats appearing to steal some food and gone into hysterics. She was hugging an older girl. Trey had been introduced—briefly. But he didn’t remember her name. She was a new student.
“I say, excuse me, do you know who we’re waiting for?”
That came from a fellow standing with a group of Terandrians. He looked waterlogged—it was still stormy at sea. A [Lord]? Trey eyed them. A group of aristocrats, mage-students. Even a girl with pale skin and blonde hair around the Quarass’ age. However, unlike the Quarass, she looked overwrought. She was sniffing. Then she started bawling.
“I want to go home!”
“Er—it’ll be fine. Excuse me, did you come with a servant or—”
One of the older nobles looked awkwardly around. The girl kept crying; she was, what, nine? Trey debated going over, but one of the older [Ladies] or perhaps even a [Princess] bent to comfort the girl and offer her a handkerchief.
The Quarass wouldn’t act like that. But then—she was also a kind of monster. Trey shook his head. He looked around and spotted another few interesting arrivals.
A Dwarf, scratching at his clean-shaven chin. Or…just a short and stout man? He looked young, though.
A towering giant of a Lizardperson. Not a Naga, or Lamia. But an actual Gorgon, all brawn and scales, clearly trying to look friendly—everyone was keeping away from him except for the Lizardfolk who were telling jokes and wiping water off their scales.
A Drake group, Oldbloods, with wings—one of whom kept coughing plumes of frost.
From Chandrar—Stitchfolk all of the Silk-caste except for two of Cotton. None of Hemp. They were standing apart from the Humans and Garuda groups.
One of the Humans was actually carrying a sword. He was standing very straight, and had a [Warrior]’s poise. He was mannered—but clearly here with ill-grace. He looked around, and his eyes slid past Trey too fast.
The young man sighed. Well, he was reminded why he was here. Trey Atwood leaned on his staff and at last, he saw the one they were waiting for.
A woman made seemingly of white marble walked down a hallway. She was huge. A statue come to life. Yet the stone flowed as she walked, her dress moving as if real. The students stared. Some even bowed.
They knew who she was. Trey’s eyes widened and he heard an oath from Flynn.
She stopped in front of the new arrivals. Cognita the Truestone Golem did not bow. She looked them over, her eyes lingering on no face, just taking them in with instant knowledge. She did not smile. She was—terrifying to some. Trey saw the [Mages] who had come to welcome the students standing far back from her.
“Greetings, new students of Wistram.”
Cognita’s voice was soft. Flawless as she was. She looked at Trey and he felt a flash of—it was like looking into Fetohep’s eyes. The Truestone Golem spoke, the same words she had welcomed countless students with.
“I am Cognita. I am a Carved Golem, or rather, a Truestone Construct designed to oversee Wistram and its mages. I and my kindred maintain and preserve this building and will assist you for the duration of your stay. In a few moments you will be led to your rooms, but before that I must tell you of the rules of Wistram.”
She spoke, and Trey listened to the rules. Then the [Mages] spoke and he heard their rules. Cognita led the students to their rooms and gave them keys. Since Trey already had one, he just followed along; they’d be led into the banquet hall next, and given food before being told their curriculum by some of the older [Mages]. Since he was from Earth—Trey had a number of exceptions, and his benefactor was Aaron—or ‘Blackmage’ as he was nicknamed.
But he was here. Trey saw the young man with the sword salute Cognita with a hand clasped to his breast and a bow as she handed him a key.
“So that’s Cognita. She’s, what, a Golem?”
Flynn came over. He wanted to introduce the two who were indeed from India. Trey nodded at them. Cognita was offering a key to the Dwarf, who was asking about soundproofing. She replied—and then a [Mage] hurried to tell the Dwarf how they did it.
Power and power. Trey nodded to Flynn.
“A Truestone Golem. She’s the most powerful being you’ll meet in Wistram.”
So Fetohep had said. One of the [Mages] who’d come to introduce the others glanced at Trey with annoyance and Trey bit his tongue. Flynn whistled softly. He eyed Cognita.
“You can make Sand Golems, right? You showed me. Are you going to learn from her?”
“I don’t think she’s a teacher. Besides—she’s not a [Mage]. Not like the Archmages or anyone else. She was made by Archmage Zelkyr…”
“Who? You’re going to have to lay it out, Troy. I didn’t learn magic, like you before I came here.”
Flynn and some of the others really didn’t know anything about the place they’d come. Trey saw the other non-Earthers giving them incredulous looks. He tried to explain as Cognita gave one of the Lizardfolk a room and told them they could share if they wanted, but they all got a room.
“Cognita is a Golem. The greatest ever made, or at least, still existing. But she’s also intelligent—Cognizant-class. The Golems I make—or anyone but Archmage Zelkyr don’t even compare.”
“Whoa. So that makes her…”
Flynn looked at Cognita with more respect. Trey nodded. He spoke, as Cognita turned to hand the little child-[Lady] from Terandria a key.
“A slave?”
The hall—fell silent. Trey realized everyone had heard him. And—Cognita herself.
The Truestone Golem turned. The [Mages] backed up as she looked at Trey. She walked over.
“Cognita—he’s a new student. One of the special cases—”
A nervous Human edged forwards. Cognita walked forwards and he edged back out of her way. Cognita looked neither at him nor at anyone else. She stopped in front of Trey.
“Do you believe that is the case, young [Mage]? Troy Atlas?”
She knew his name and they had never met. That didn’t surprise Trey. He looked up, heart pounding.
That face, capable of expression, but expressionless. Her perfect grace and strength. An alien being, more alien than a living person because she would live forever. The ruler of Wistram, Fetohep had called her.
She was terrifying. But—Trey looked up and met Cognita’s eyes. And he had seen older. He bowed, and clasped a hand to his breast as the young man had done.
“Forgive me, Cognita. That was what it sounded like. A Golem that thinks is not like any other. If a Golem thinks, it is a person. And if a Golem must serve a master, it is a slave. I thought Wistram Academy didn’t have any slaves. Do you believe you are one?”
He looked up. The Truestone Golem examined him from head to toe. It was not how Trey would have preferred to be known—but he had wanted to ask.
The other [Mages] were poised—for violence, something—they probably had no idea. But then Cognita smiled. She nodded to Trey.
“Whether I am slave or servant, young [Mage], is something you will learn if you continue your studies into Golems. You may believe what you wish. It does not change what I am. And I am here to assign you to your rooms. Please excuse the interruption. Follow me. Caran Euthand? Your quarters will be…”
Trey exhaled as Cognita walked away. Flynn patted him on the shoulder and said something. The other [Mages] stared at him and Trey realized he’d stood out again. But that was fine. He looked at Cognita’s back. She had shown no expression save for that smile. But—he had sworn—one of the passing servant Golems had turned to look at him while she’d spoken.
And it had winked.
Trey Atwood realized he had a lot more to learn. Not just about magic. About Golems. About the academy and Earth and how they’d come to be here.
Also—where was Archmage Amerys?
 
—-
 
Illivere was not a large nation. Not like Nerrhavia, which was so vast people told stories about how you could ride for months and not see the end of the border—if you didn’t have Skills, that was. Or a magical horse.
However, it was still a nation and even if Elbe was closer to Dellva than some states—getting there was a matter of time. Happily—Nsiia and Femithain had time to spare.
Also, they rode a Golem Carriage. Pulled by a Golem Horse.
“So you do make Golems in shapes other than humanoid! Why don’t you have hundreds of these?”
Nsiia insisted on inspecting every part of the beautiful, ceramic steed. It was a masterpiece; the legs moved fluidly, rather than the segmented Cat-Golem. Somehow the creator had given the pottery the ability to move like flesh!
“It is far more difficult for most Crafters to design non-Humanoid shapes, Nsiia. Most of our designs are standardized around the humanoid body. Balancing another animal—it’s not usually done. I’ve made some attempts. I made a Golem Cow once.”
“Why?”
“To transport liquids safely. It was a novelty item, but I think it’s still working. I had numerous issues in the joints—the distribution of weight and so on. Not to mention different commands for moving the legs. It took me eight times as long as any other regular Golem and I swore never to try it again. These Golem Horses are relics—Illivere has fourteen working.”
This Golem Carriage was reserved for the Magus-Crafter, but there were a few operational. Like many carriage services, they allowed for fast travel, and in the case of Golem Horses—faster than almost any other beast since the Golems never tired or slowed.
Still, Elbe would take six hours to reach. Femithain was attending a meeting of First Crafters to debate declaring war on Reim. He had assured Nsiia he would speak against—until it was expedient to do so. In either case, Nsiia was reassured that Illivere would not be marching to war against Reim. It was too far and there was nothing to gain. The First Crafters and the state’s representatives just needed reassurance and to talk it out.
So they had time. The Testing would begin in three days—it would be a two-day trip there and back with a conference likely to run into the night. Domehead would be ready to compete by then, unless some disaster happened in the workshop.
Femithain was more interested in the Testing than the conference. He was treating this like a little excursion for Nsiia. A tour, rather. So he organized two stops.
“Elbe’s academy and the Purifier will be our stops. I think even with the Purifier we will have time to visit the schools…first. The other representatives will take longer than we. Let me add the changes to the Golem.”
He spoke to the Golem Horse and it stomped the ground and nodded in a disarmingly Human fashion. Nsiia raised an eyebrow.
“Sentient-class?”
“Not at all. Just the height of Autonomous. There’s no need to give a Golem Horse actual thought.”
Femithain touched the horse delicately, as one would a piece of art, almost as if ashamed to put flesh to such a masterpiece. Indeed—the Golem Horse was pristine, being carefully inspected after every run. A regular horse might have envied the treatment.
Nsiia got into the carriage and felt it move into steady motion. She settled back and Femithain checked his notes.
“So…tell me more about Golems?”
It was almost disappointing how willing Femithain was to talk about construction techniques, magical bindings—he didn’t go into specifics, but Nsiia learned far more than she had hoped to complete her Golem Cat. All she needed was to add the Golem’s Heart, really. And the next one—
 
—-
 
Three hours, later, Nsiia was rubbing at one ear as Femithain, who hadn’t stopped talking about Golems the entire time, continued his sermon on irregular Golem types.
“—flying Golems are virtually nonexistent for those reasons. Ones with nebulous shapes are simply too complex unless the Golem’s Heart and spells are that advanced. As Crafter Se often says—a Golem is a complete thing. It cannot have any gaps, so conventional Golems are always a ‘shell’. There are records of Wind Golems existing, but the magic would be a Tier 6 equivalent at least, and not one Tier 6 spell but dozens all forming a single enchantment…”
“So Illivere has lost much of its advanced Golem-making knowledge?”
Nsiia summed up the last thirty minutes of lecturing. Femithain nodded.
“Illivere is ancient. The Golem Empires of old collapsed and destroyed most of the knowledge…Elbe actually has one of our last relics of those times. It was not lost so much as willfully discarded.”
