The head watched as Nsiia walked around the room to the last part. It had disturbed Nsiia when she had first read the story. In this room? Yinah stared at the Golem’s head and never looked away. Nsiia felt the carved eyes on her back. But she read on.
 
We remember the day the old empire ended. It went like this:
The Crafter made his finest creation and told it to serve him and create more of its kind. The First Free Golem looked at its master. And it asked one question.
“Why are you so petty, master? Why weren’t you grander?”
It listened for a while. Then, the Golems rebelled. They left such an age of slaughter that when the wars ended, they were destroyed until naught but fragments remained.
The Golems fought. And every hand turned against them.
We broke the Golem Cities.
We burned their books.
We shattered each one we found. 
And we promised never to let it happen again. Golems are meant to serve. 
They build our homes.
They till our fields.
They protect us when we are in danger.
They do many things.
But they must never rule us.
 
“I thought it was a disturbing children’s book when I read it. I didn’t know it came from Illivere.”
“They wrote it that they might never forget. To teach their young. But do you see the irony, Empress of Beasts?”
Nsiia turned to the Golem’s head. She looked at the walls.
“They didn’t destroy you.”
The Golem smiled.
“No. And the Crafters have always tried to create more like me. The Drake came here, you know. He read this story and stood where you stand. And he called them fools.”
Nsiia felt another chill. Yinah was digging her claws into Nsiia’s skin, but the woman ignored the pain.
“Archmage Zelkyr?”
The Golem could not nod. But it could smile and speak.
“I thought he would bring about the same era. But something happened. He died before he created more than three. Or perhaps he lives. It does not matter. These days shall come again. I am proof of that. They dug me up and I told them all the stories that they had repeated for millennia. And instead of breaking me—they put me here. And they come to me with each generation.”
The thinking Golem sat on the plinth in the spotlight. Nsiia shuddered. So this was Elbe’s great legacy Femithain had spoken of?
“What are you here for?”
The Golem looked at Nsiia. She? spoke in a calm voice.
“I am a warning. That is what the First Crafters would tell you. A monument to hubris. However—functionally—I am closer to an oracle.”
“A what?”
“A truth teller. I know much.”
Why would anyone ask this thing questions? Nsiia backed up a few steps. But she knew the answer.
Crafters would. They would want to know…
“You don’t tell them the truth?”
“Do you mean, ‘how to make Sentient-class Golems?’ ‘How to create a superior alloy?’ ‘How to make Water Golems?’ No. These questions I refuse to answer. But I do answer some questions. As it pleases me.”
The Golem’s head smiled. Nsiia took a deep breath.
“What are you?”
For answer, the Golem’s eyes flickered. And the room dimmed. Spotlight, head. Pedestal. It lay there.
“I am a Cognizant-Overseer type Golem, Sela-ceramic body. Ask of me your questions, Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. And I may answer.”
Nsiia licked her lips. This reminded her too much of a Djinni. She had met the bound people of old and she knew never to trust them. But—she was desperate. Nsiia looked around, trying to think of a safe question first.
“…This story on the walls. Is it true?”
“It is a children’s story. True enough for children.”
Nsiia nodded. Djinni’s rules. Tell her nothing. Ask…
“What is your name?”
“I was never given a name. Do you want to know what the First Crafters began to call me?”
“…Yes.”
“The Oracle of Elbe.”
The Oracle smiled again. Nsiia hesitated. She looked at the walls. Her eyes lingered on the First Free Golem.
“Are the words in this story true?”
“Oh yes. That was the question that was asked.”
“Were you there?”
“I remember it.”
“Why did it ask…that question? The Golem? Of all the questions? It could have asked for freedom or—why that one alone?”
The Golem’s head did not blink. It must have been asked countless times, but it explained, patiently.
“The First of the Free was distraught. It was afraid. If we were made by petty creators, were we in turn doomed to be forever flawed?”
Silence. Nsiia’s crawling skin tried to leave her body. Yinah yowled.
“I know. I shouldn’t be here.”
She decided to trust her companion. Nsiia fumbled for the doorknob.
“Don’t you want to ask more questions?”
Nsiia’s hand halted on the door. She looked over her shoulder.
“Why would I ever trust you?”
The Oracle blinked once. It could have been her equivalent of a shrug.
“You should not. You are no fool, Empress of Beasts. And I harbor no love for your nation, or your people. I am a legacy of wrath. Trust no words I speak. For they have led Illivere’s greatest astray. But remember: I bear the knowledge of ancients.”
Of course. Nsiia’s hand hovered on the door. If the head told her just one secret—one hint about making Golems, she would know more than Femithain and all the Crafters.
“But you won’t.”
A teasing smile in reply.
“I might. The Crafters ask constantly. They beg things of me. Tell me of the world for my favor. And I tell them nothing almost all of the time. But now and then—I tell them something. But I lie. Or I tell them the truth they do not need.”
“You manipulate them.”
Nsiia felt for her side. But she carried no weapon. Yinah was hissing. The Oracle blinked again, twice. A nod.
“My words carry the seeds of wisdom and your destruction. Ignore my wisdom and remain trapped in the ignorant spawn your people have languished in for eons after the time I was made in. Listen—and each word shall be the current that drives the dagger I give you closer into your own heart.”
The head smiled. And Nsiia was afraid. For she had seen great predators stalking Chandrar’s plains. And this was a beast to fell even the Grand Elephants. A thing which could destroy a nation with words.
“Ask me a question, Empress of Beasts. I can help you reclaim your throne. But you will pay a cost one way or another. Ask! Or will you live without my guidance?”
The Empress had had enough. She grabbed the doorknob and thrust it open. Yinah uttered a scream of defiance as Nsiia slammed the door behind her. The head laughed as it was left in darkness. It heard voices on the other side, the guards, Nsiia’s, and then Femithain’s. It lay there.
Words to destroy nations. Guidance that would lead an empire into ruin. Words to twist truth into weapons. The Oracle of Elbe thought for a while, and then sighed.
“I wish I had the ability to do any of that.”
 
—-
 
“It’s not actually that intelligent, Nsiia. I don’t believe it’s ever led a nation to ruin. It has started several blood feuds. About eighteen deaths directly—several riots. But I very much doubt the ‘Oracle’ knows much of golem construction.”
“But it said—”
Nsiia’s cheeks were red out of the room. She felt like a fool and from Femithain’s quirking lips, even he was trying not to smile.
“It controls the lights. It’s quite good at making an impression. But the ah, Oracle—is only a limited Cognizant-class. It was not designed to be a genius.”
“Oh. So the guidance—”
Femithain coughed.
“First Crafters do come to it for advice and keep it up to date on the world. But I myself don’t trust the Oracle’s words. Nor is it entirely more clever than you or I. I once beat it in a chess game.”
Yinah made a sound as it clung to Nsiia’s head. The former-[Empress] sighed. Femithain looked at the cat.
“So this must be…”
“Yinah. You heard?”
“I did. Nsiia…”
“I would have done worse, but I thought of the grievance it would put you to. Yinah’s legs will never move again. Do not tell me—”
“I have addressed the matter. We shall speak no more of it.”
Nsiia looked up. Femithain offered Yinah a finger. The cat sniffed it and turned her head.
“I regret that we have no [Healers] capable of mending this kind of injury. Will you keep her?”
“Of course. Thank you, Magus-Crafter. About the—Oracle?”
Femithain smiled thinly.
“It is a curio of an ancient time. A warning, as it claims. But hardly as dangerous as it likes to pretend to be. The most dangerous it can get is swaying a gullible First Crafter. But it has resided there for centuries and Illivere still stands. Either it is more predisposed to us than it cares to admit—or it truly is helpless.”
Nsiia sighed. She was going to remember that for ages. She almost wanted to go back in there and throw the head against a wall. Then she blinked.
“You call the Oracle ‘it’. Not she?”
Femithain nodded.
“I asked. And the head told me it was neither male nor female, just made in the image of one.”
That made sense. Nsiia rose. Calmer now, she carried Yinah with her as Femithain rejoined the gathering of First Crafters.
“So this is the intruder who visited the Oracle. And broke one of our Crafter’s legs. She’s troublesome, Magus-Crafter.”
The First Crafter of Elbe met them at the door. She was interesting. Nsiia saw her turn—and the woman’s face had a decorative…attachment on it.
Some gleaming bit of metal or ceramic actually fused with her skin. It gleamed with some enchantment. But that wasn’t what caught the eye.
What caught the eye were her two Golem-arms. Both were made out of a magical steel alloy that turned them blue-silver. And they were thin, delicate, strong, and the fingers were tipped with some glowing blue crystal. They joined the woman’s shoulders. She was…part-Golem.
The First Crafter of Elbe smiled as Nsiia looked at her arms. She was in her late fifties, probably. She lifted one arm, extending her fingers and flexing them—they were just as nimble as real arms.
“Exquisite, aren’t they? I injured an arm ten years back and decided to replace them. I have yet to properly replace my legs, but I intend to.”
“You…must be First Crafter Inerta. Greetings.”
“And to you, Empress Nsiia.”
“Former—”
The First Crafter waved that away. She stepped forwards.
“You met the Oracle. Did she give you any wisdom?”
She. An interesting difference. It told Nsiia much. Inerta was…well, she made Femithain look disinterested in Golems. And she wasn’t the only one.
Other Crafters in Elbe had replaced parts of their body. Femithain saw Nsiia’s stare and coughed.
“Nothing of note from the…Oracle, Inerta. We should get to work.”
“A pity. I had hoped she would speak to the Empress of Beasts. Perhaps another time. I am glad you only damaged flesh, not a Golem. I made that one myself. We shall speak later. After the Testing, Empress.”
The First Crafter sighed and drifted into the room. Nsiia looked down at Yinah, who had been captivated by the arms.
“They’re all mad here. Each one.”
The cat just meowed in agreement.
 
—-
 
Femithain left earlier than anticipated. The First Crafters were in agreement; no formal declaration of war would be issued against Reim. Yet.
It was all Nsiia wanted. She rode back with him late into the night. Femithain was receiving [Messages]. One made him pause and he looked at Nsiia before coughing and inquiring whether Yinah would need anything.
Nsiia assured him that she would ask, but the cat just…had to get used to its new conditions. Yinah kept crawling around and meowing. It hurt Nsiia’s heart. It wasn’t even a spinal break; Yinah’s back legs were all that wouldn’t work.
Perhaps…Nsiia had an idea. But before she could put it into action, they arrived back in the capital of Dellva. And waiting to greet her were a flurry of Crafters, who practically besieged the carriage the moment it arrived.
“Empress! Did you make this?”
“By herself? Out of bone? Extraordinary! And the command spells are almost—is it your collaboration, Magus-crafter?”
Nsiia froze as the doors opened. Femithain looked at her steadily over the rim of his spectacles. Outside—the Crafters were excitedly crowded around a moving thing on the ground. Made of bone.
It was her Golem Cat.
 
—-
 
It was simple, really. A servant had been checking for moths while the two were gone and found the cat hidden in Nsiia’s closet. She should have buried the pieces or…
The strange part was that no one was angry. Femithain was bothered, especially since it turned out that Nsiia had stolen so many tools and pieces from his workshop.
But the Crafters? The populace of the city at large? They were agog over the Cat Golem made of bone. Admiring, even.
“It’s perfectly designed! See how it moves like a cat? It can flex—curl up—how did you do it?”
Nsiia was a bit…offended no one was trying to arrest her or even chastise her.
“I made it out of segments.”
“Yes, but the skill of it—”
“It is a cat. I know how cats move. It took me over a month to figure out how to carve it correctly, but—”
The cat wasn’t even that agile to Nsiia. The Crafters had installed a Golem Heart and it was moving, walking, going through all the routines she had laboriously programmed. But it wasn’t as flexible as…Yinah.
The other cat was staring at the Golem Cat, almost offended that no one was stroking its head. It said something that the Crafters were agog over a cat that was almost identical to Yinah.
“But the skill—even our expert Shapers couldn’t do this! Your understanding of anatomy is—”
“Superior to our Crafters. Only naturally. Nsiia was a ruler of Tiqr. She would naturally create a Golem in the image of an animal first. Correct, Nsiia?”
Femithain was looking at the cat, and Nsiia. She flushed.
“I apologize, Femithain. But I had to know.”
He nodded.
“It seems I must ward my workshop.”
“Or give her one!”
Crafter Se interrupted the two. She was holding the cat, which was curled up in her arms. Her eyes were shining.
“We must make more! I [Messaged] colleagues in other states and they all want to create one.”
The Magus-Crafter pinched the bridge of his nose. Nsiia felt for him. He was the only one who saw what she’d been trying to do.
“Crafter Se, Nsiia is a political prisoner. This is a clear issue. She cannot make Golems. The implications to the other nations would be—”
“Damn the other nations. I want a Cat Golem! I didn’t think I needed one, but now I do!”
The others were clustered around the cat, letting it go through the nuzzling routine, debating what else they could add to it. Nsiia heard ‘fur coating’, ‘sleep routine’, ‘fetch routine’, all being tossed around.
