And posted a squad to make sure she didn’t leave by accident. Nsiia bore it with good grace. The old building had plenty of murals and historical artifacts, anyways. It was half government, half museum.
“What is there to see, Senior Guardsman?”
She spoke to one of Elbe’s [Guards] who had been assigned to her. Even the City Watch had its Illiverian twist to it; the patrol had a Security Golem attached, a rock-hewn giant, crude, but armed with a club. It might fail to catch a fleeing [Thief], but no one was about to give it lip.
In Tiqr, some of the City Watches had used hyenas instead of dogs. Hyenas were scarier.
The man flushed; like Dellic, he seemed used to being the inferior class and Nsiia’s respect for his rank was unprecedented. He touched his wide-brimmed steel helmet-hat and pointed.
“The old Testing Champions are enshrined along that hallway, Empress. Begging your pardon, Highborn. They’re what most come to see. Crafters and layfolk all.”
Nsiia nodded. She walked down that way and came to one of the features of the palace.
Old Golems lay or stood, some in pieces, others simply…done. None were functional, but all were the greatest Golems of Illivere’s past.
The first Golem was actually so hot it permanently warmed the palace. In the summer, the windows were opened to vent the heat. Nsiia read the plaque.
 
Obsidel, the Magma Golem. Autonomous-Gladiatorial Class. Victor of 8 Testings. At rest.
 
She looked up—and the Golem was alive.
No—not alive. Just…resting. Obsidel had been a Magma Golem, the rock of it’s body permanently heated. But it had broken—or malfunctioned over the years and two thirds had turned to slag. The rest glowed as its Golem heart still functioned, but it would never move again.
People had actually placed semi-precious gems, or little tokens, figurines made of clay, in front of the Golem. They treated all the champions here with respect. Especially the living ones.
Nsiia found it strange and disturbing. She knew of Tiqr’s people who treated great animals with respect. Even as superior beings, like the Rocs, or Grand Elephants, or other mythical animals. But Golems? She saw the [Guard] patrol bow to Obsidel. It sat there, mindless, waiting for instructions that would never come.
It was sad to her, but Nsiia said none of that.
There were typical Golems, crushing ones with hammers for arms, weird ones like the Golem that was a horse armed with a lance—it had won one victory—and even Golems that relied on more than just sheer might.
A broken copper Golem had once, apparently, been nicknamed Voltson. Because it had possessed the ability to generate bolts of lightning and conduct it through its copper body.
“Wistram Academy actually came to inspect it. Even now, it’s a work of art.”
The tour guide—and that was actually [Guide], a class designed for such things—was proudly telling an audience. Nsiia shuddered. That was a dangerous Golem.
She came to one last Golem that caught her immediate attention. This one was almost entirely rubble. It had been—according to the plaques which listed physical details as well as history—forty feet high, and possessed of multiple magical shields, as well as mounted ballistae, and armor made of an advanced alloy.
It was also quite modern—just three hundred years old. Nsiia stared at the plaque.
“Zimedoan. What destroyed this Golem?”
The [Guards] chuckled—before they realized she was serious. The Senior Guardsman, whose name was Cerin, pointed with reverence.
“Why, it was none other than Archmage Zelkyr himself, Empress. This was the result of Zelkyr’s Challenge to Illivere. When the Drake sailed here to prove whose mastery of Golems was strongest.”
Nsiia looked up at the history—which was mounted above the pieces. Her skin tingled pleasantly. Archmage Zelkyr had fought this? And won.
“Do you hold him in high esteem?”
“Archmage Zelkyr? The Truestone Shaper? Of course, Highborn! He is the finest Drake the Walled Cities ever produced. No one in living memory ever equaled his achievements. If he had been born in Illivere…”
Cerin trailed off. Envy and longing in his voice. Nsiia looked at him.
“Did you want to be a crafter, Cerin?”
The man jumped.
“Doesn’t anyone, Highborn? But I wasn’t ever that good with my hands in the school classes and I wasn’t born into a Crafter-family. I am saving up for a Golem, though…”
Before he could go on, Nsiia heard and felt something break the contemplative silence of the palace. It was a scream of pain. No—a yowl.
She took off running before her escort. Nsiia leapt down the hallways towards the screaming and found—
A cat. And blood.
It was lying outside the palace, hind legs mangled. Lower body too—a Golem had walked over it and the cat hadn’t dodged in time.
“Those damn animals! It’s got blood all over my Golem!”
A man was quite upset—about his Golem. The ceramic Garuda looked light, but she was doubtless heavier than any actual Garuda. Nsiia stared at the cat. No one was helping the poor creature.
“Healing potion.”
She snapped at the panting squad. The [Senior Guardsman] fumbled for a potion and Nsiia grabbed it. Everyone stared as she bent to the cat.
Rather than slash at her it tried to crawl forwards. It knew her. Nsiia poured the potion on the body and saw flesh heal—but not the shattered bones.
“You poor thing.”
She whispered. The cat looked up at her, trying to move its legs and making a sound of entreaty.
“What are you doing, woman? It’s a wild cat! We have enough of them without wasting potions!”
The Golem’s owner was disgusted. Nsiia rose, slowly, picking up the cat and cradling it in her arms.
“This cat will never walk again because your Golem broke its legs.”
“And? Animals are temporary. This shall last for centuries.”
The man pointed at the beautiful statue accompanying him. Nsiia’s eyes narrowed. She looked around at Elbe, a city who loved Golems more than animals—or people. The man was pouring water on the bloody talons of the Garuda-Golem.
“Take that thing away if you must. It’s already ruined the paint on Sheka. I will have to have it redone! And who will pay for…?”
 
—-
 
“…And she broke the Golem’s legs?”
Femithain had been listening to the whispered report in his ear during the debate with the First Crafters. He rubbed at his forehead. Of course it had happened like that. And he couldn’t rightly blame Nsiia.
That sentiment the foolish owner had expressed was not all-encompassing, but a large number of Golem-owning citizens did have similar views. Femithain did not, but people or animals or things being injured by Golems was a leading cause of injuries in Illivere.
“Er…no, Magus-Crafter.”
“Really?”
Femithain brightened. The [Senior Guardsman] hesitated and Femithain’s face fell.
“She…?”
“She broke his feet, sir. Two stomps was all it took. We couldn’t stop her.”
The Magus-Crafter winced. He looked around; the other First Crafters were wrapping up anyways for a recess.
“I will address the matter. See the man’s injuries are tended to—where is Nsiia now?”
“She ah, went into the heart of the palace, sir.”
“I see. First Crafters, I must extend our recess to take care of an issue that has arisen.”
The First Crafter of Elbe smiled archly. She was refreshingly unconcerned with Reim. However, she pointed at him and called out in a taunting voice.
“Dellva can take as much time as it likes, Magus-Crafter. But come the testing, Elbe’s Golem will be the champion, just like last year!”
The other First Crafters and representatives, who had been worried about the Reim business, immediately turned hostile. They began arguing about their Golems and trying to ferret information about the competitions.
That was Crafters for you. Femithain walked off, shaking his head.
“Not going to say anything, Magus-Crafter?”
The [Senior Guardsman] was impressed with Femithain’s restraint. The man turned and adjusted his spectacles. He spoke in a carrying voice before he left the sealed room.
“Hardly. I expect to demonstrate our Golem’s superiority. Needing to vouch for its capabilities is typical Elbian arrogance.”
He smiled and shut the door as the argument got really heated.
 
—-
 
“I’m sorry. I can’t help you.”
Nsiia cried over the cat. It was blonde and ash-furred, a coloration born of eating magical grasses or something that altered a natural camouflage in its parents. Either that—or there were some unusual landscapes around Illivere.
It meowed, softly. It understood—and didn’t understand. But its legs were shattered. And Nsiia had neither the Skill nor knowledge of how to fix it. Shattered bone…she or a [Healer] could set broken bones. But the cat would not walk again.
“You won’t starve. I promise. I’ll bring you with me and you will want for nothing. Come, little one.”
The former [Empress of Beasts] thought of Thef. So many animals had died. She should have never asked the herds to fight. She should have sent them away. Bled the people who had come to destroy her home with other people.
But the animals had wanted to fight. It was their home.
It was still not right. Nsiia hated Golems in this moment. Hated Femithain.
He had broken the Grand Elephant’s charge with his Golems. It had been war and he had done it for his nation. But she had not forgiven him. Nor had he asked for it.
Someday, they would reckon it out between them. But for now—Nsiia carried it in her heart. She cuddled the meowing cat, which was trying to reassure her.
And people thought animals had no thought or heart or feeling. Such people were beyond fools. Nsiia walked deeper into the palace. The [Guards] followed at a remove. They had seen her break that fool’s feet. It had not been the Golem’s fault.
But…ah. One moment’s cruelty or carelessness and it changed this cat’s life. Nsiia closed her eyes. She wished she had the [Boneweaver Druids] of Tiqr, or access to A’ctelios’ [Fleshshapers]. She might have summoned them for a wounded Grand Elephant and persuaded them to heal the many injuries when they came. But both were gone. The [Druids] had left after leaving half their Circle dead.
All she could do was this. So Nsiia walked—until she came to a door in the center of the palace.
This door was different from all the others. It looked…magnificent. Nsiia felt the power and the cat—sensed it too. It hissed softly; cats could avoid many magic traps.
“I know. It’s only a warding spell, little one. But the power…”
Nsiia marveled at it. She looked over her shoulder—the [Guard] patrol wavered as they saw here there.
“Empress—that room is—”
“Off-limits? Dangerous?”
They debated. One of the other [Guards] stepped forwards.
“Only the First Crafters and Magus-Crafter may access it, Empress.”
“I see.”
She walked over to the door and tried the handle. It was not locked.
“Empress!”
“I will just look around.”
She closed the door in their faces. They hurried after her, but didn’t come in. She heard them debating loudly. They clearly knew what was in this room, but were too afraid to trespass. Nsiia looked ahead.
The room was dark. Not just ‘shadowed’ or ‘black’, but devoid of light. The cat—whom Nsiia had decided to call Yinah, made an uncertain sound.
“It is dark. You can’t see any more than I can, can you?”
No. The cat didn’t like it. It asked Nsiia to turn back. The Empress was about to.
“[Light]. Let me just…[Light].”
The spell didn’t work. Nsiia frowned. Her magic was being suppressed. Why? She reached for the doorknob…
“You are not a Crafter of Illivere. You must be the Empress of Beasts they tell me about. Stay a moment, Nsiia of Tiqr.”
A voice from the darkness. Nsiia whirled. The cat made a sound. Neither had sensed something in the room!
But it was not a…breathing thing that spoke. A light appeared. A single crystal shining down, illuminating a stark room of stone. And sitting on a single marble pedestal was…
A Golem’s head.
It was large. Made of that perfect ceramic the Golem Horses had been made of. It was looking at Nsiia.
Perhaps it had been painted, once. But if it had been—Nsiia stared. The head was neither Human. Nor Garuda or Stitchfolk. It was…stylized. Human…ish. If a Human had a different bone structure. More Half-Elven in places. And horns? Not Minotaur horns…
One was broken. The strange Golem looked beautiful, nevertheless. A face unparalleled in beauty. A strange creature. It had been broken again—at the neck. It lay on its side. When it spoke—the lips moved.
“Greetings.”
Yinah tried to climb over Nsiia to get away. The woman soothed the animal. But she did not approach the head.
“What are you?”
The face smiled.
“If you do not know, you were not invited here. But you are not being pursued, so you have wandered in accidentally. Ergo, you are still a guest. And you must know what I am.”
Nsiia stared. The voice was so knowing. So…she felt her skin crawling. She vocalized the only answer.
“You’re a thinking Golem.”
The head smiled.
“Correct.”
The room lit up. Yinah and Nsiia both blinked in the light. And Nsiia saw—around the room that there was color. It was a bare stone floor, windowless. But someone had drawn…a mural around the room?
It started at the door. And continued in a clockwise pattern around the room, telling a story. It looked like a children’s story. No—Nsiia recognized it. It was a children’s story. The kind she had read in Illivere’s books.
A story every child knew, even Nsiia. It was the story of Golems. The story read thusly:
 
Once upon a time, there were Golems. Wondrous Golems of all shapes and sizes. Great Crafter-Artisans made Golems out of water and clay and magic. 
There were Golems of the air, which flew.
There were Golems made of shadows, which could travel a hundred miles in a moment.
There were shining Golems, so the cities were never dark.
There were Golems made of cloth and sinew in those days.
There were mighty war Golems, who fought Giants and Dragons and kept the people safe.
And there were Golems who could think.
 
The pictures changed. Nsiia saw, past each Golem, an archetypal ‘wise Crafter’ pointing and a Golem forging a sword. Another writing a book.
 
The old empire made thinking Golems and the most powerful Crafter-Magi made Golems who could lead other Golems.
Golems who could make other Golems.
They could cast spells.
They could build grand structures.
They could forge armor and weapons.
Some thought these Golems could think too much. But the Crafters did not listen. They made Golems smarter and smarter. Sentient-class Golems were common until one day…
A Crafter made a special Golem.
 
