The rain was still falling as the Lischelle-Drakle family bade farewell to Fierre and Ryoka. Magical typhoon Erannda was still chewing up Baleros’ coastline and provoking sympathetic storms around the world.
“But neither rain nor snow and all that.”
Fierre looked at Ryoka, confused. The City Runner coughed.
“Sorry. Just a saying from back home. ‘Neither rain nor snow nor gloom of night shall stay these messengers about their business.’ I think that’s how it goes.”
“Nice saying. Where’s it from, exactly?”
Shit. The problem with being friends with an informant was that she could look that up. Fierre saw Ryoka’s face go slack. She raised her hands.
“If you don’t want to talk about it—I won’t look into it, Ryoka. I—my entire family—my species owes you.”
Ryoka smiled. She looked at Fierre, who was extra-bundled up. Hood, gloves, long clothing—she burned even faster by daylight. But she was no longer coughing.
She was healthy. Ryoka was so glad. So relieved.
So angry. If she thought of it too long, Ryoka’s hands would start shaking.
Ylawes. House Byres. The—evil of it. Poisoning an entire continent.
Damn them. But also—because she was Ryoka—part of her mind whispered treacherously.
What if they’re right? What if they had good reasons? What if—
“Ryoka? Are we going?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka. The City Runner glanced up.
“What? Oh. Sorry, Fierre. It was just—I was thinking.”
“About the silver?”
The two started jogging back towards Reizmelt. Ryoka started and eyed her friend. Fierre gestured.
“It was written on your face. Also, your heartbeat picked up.”
“Nice to know I’m friends with a walking lie-detector.”
The young woman groused. Fierre grinned slyly as she adjusted her hood.
“It comes in handy.”
For a while, the two ran through the morning. Ryoka saw Fierre matching her pace, despite having shorter legs, copying her running style. Fierre lost a bit of her superhuman speed and strength in the sun. But not as much as the legends indicated. It was mostly the ‘catching on fire’ thing that made Vampires weaker in daylight.
After a bit, as they ran past grazing cows—a number of farmers lived here along with Fierre’s family—Ryoka felt compelled to bring it up again.
“So, what are you all going to do? We didn’t have much time with the other [Farmer]’s families to talk about it…”
Fierre bit her lip.
“We’re talking about it. We might…move. Somewhere far, far away. That’d be huge. But—”
“Fierre! You forgot your lunch!”
Someone called out after them. Fierre turned red as a man ran after them, moving faster than he had any right to.
“Dad!”
“You left it behind. Don’t give me that look.”
Himilt appeared unapologetically. The [Farmer] stopped Fierre like every parent in the world—except he’d just broken most athlete’s records for a thousand meter dash. Ryoka looked around, but only the cows had observed.
“Here. Meat, bloody—don’t open the bag. You’ll have it go bad! And blood…”
“Dad. Please. Thank you, but you didn’t need to run after us. What if someone had seen you?”
Fierre, embarrassed, shoved the packages into her bag of holding. Himilt gave her a long look and adjusted his scarf and hat.
“You need it. It’s not as if we can give you the farm’s blood. We had to pay for a breeding-goat we were sure came from Chandrar. It might’ve grazed on the way here, but…”
Ryoka saw him flick his eyes back to their farm. And the well, freshly topped-up with silver. The Lischelle-Drakle family had been forced to boil water and collect the evaporated droplets rather than drink from the well. Hiding that from the non-Vampires during the storm had been a trick and a half.
“Be careful, Fierre. You’ll have to find a supply yourself.”
“I will. Thanks.”
Fierre looked at Ryoka. The young woman nodded slightly to Himilt.
“Is your family leaving, Mister Himilt?”
“We’re still talking. We need to spread word. Bamer and Rivel are going to deliver the news already.”
The Vampire farmer replied quietly. Ryoka nodded.
“And what will you do? Leave Izril?”
Both Himilt and Fierre were quiet. The farmer glanced back towards the ruined keep. He sighed.
“It’s not so simple. My family is one thing, Miss Ryoka. Vampires as a whole? Another. The thing about wells and groundwater and such is…it takes more than that to chase us off. Now we know what is ailing us, we can at least clean the wells, dig new ones, and perhaps…we’ll have those pills made up for us and try them. I will, at least.”
Charcoal pills. Ryoka nodded. The Vampires were also going to use different methods to clean their water. The problem was…she was no expert in metal poisoning and they had lived here for generations.
“So you’ll try first?”
Himilt nodded.
“If we must move, we must. However, that would be what House Byres wants. If we flee—they win. I’d rather try to save what can be saved, first.”
His eyes were flinty and crimson. Fierre nodded, folding her arms. Ryoka couldn’t imagine what they were feeling.
Himilt went on after a pregnant pause.
“For now, we have too much to do. We need new flocks. We were lucky to buy some breeding pairs from overseas that had just come in. Colfa knows [Breeders] and [Herders] the continent over; her family can get us animals. New animals. Ones who weren’t raised in Izril.”
“And the old ones?”
Himilt blinked as Ryoka glanced back at the plentiful herds, being led out by Colfa herself to graze. He shrugged.
“We’ll keep most. Fluffles, of course. He just won’t give blood.”
“Oh. Well, good.”
Fierre’s jaw dropped. She stared at Ryoka.
“Did you think we were going to kill him? He’s my favorite sheep! I’d eat anyone who hurt him!”
“I just—I’m sorry.”
Ryoka raised her hands defensively. Fluffles the Seventh—or was it Sixth?—was an odd pet for a Vampire girl.
“We will keep talking. And decide as a group. For now—Vampires are in your debt, Miss Griffin. We won’t pass on your name, as you asked. But word will spread.”
Himilt nodded at her. He’d said as much this morning. Ryoka felt embarrassed again. But this time—a thought occurred to her she’d forgotten to ask.
“Himilt. Can I ask how many Vampires there are in Izril?”
She hadn’t ever inquired. Fierre and Himilt glanced at each other.
“That’s normally secret, Ryoka.”
“Well then I—”
“But for you, it’s fine. There are several thousand of us.”
Ryoka’s jaw dropped.
“Several…”
That was a lot. Wait. Was it? Several thousand for a continent of Izril’s size? Was it a lot or a little? Himilt nodded.
“They’re not all scattered families like ours. There are…settlements. Larger clans. Even…towns. Fierre can tell you more. So you can imagine moving all of us will be difficult indeed. Everywhere House Byres has gone is poisoned. If we can clean the area, well and good. But they have had centuries to turn Izril against us.”
He shook his head. Fierre spat. Ryoka nodded. Then she had a thought. She glanced at Fierre, and then south.
“I’ll bet they never made it past Liscor. House Byres, I mean. Did Vampires?”
Fierre and Himilt exchanged a quick look. The farmer looked around. Then he walked over and lowered his voice even further.
“We went everywhere. The Vampires of Drakes and Gnolls…were hunted differently than we. More bitterly, by their kind. If they exist—we lost touch with them long ago. But that is a good point. We will think on that, as well. Thank you once more, Miss Griffin. You will be welcome here anytime. Fierre—watch your meals.”
“I’ve got one right here, father.”
Fierre grabbed Ryoka’s arm with a smirk. Himilt rapped the top of his daughter’s head and she scowled.
“Don’t be arrogant. We will have to talk later about your…change. Later.”
He waved them off, brusquely, and jogged back towards the farm. Fierre glared at her father’s back, but she smiled before she saw Ryoka looking. The two ran on.
“Your father’s nice.”
“He’s overprotective. But…yes. I’ve never met your family, Ryoka. Are they…?”
“I have my issues.”
Ryoka bit back saying ‘I hate their guts’. It was—true. But Ryoka, now, wondered if maybe it was partly her. Well—it probably was. But her father was still an asshole. Compared to Himilt, it was night and day. Her father had never burned his hands down to bone to lie for his daughter. He had bribed people, though.
The City Runner shook that off. The two ran on. And in time—they encountered someone running towards them.
“Salamani! Morning!”
“Ryoka, Fierre! Everyone still alive?”
“It’s been two days. No one’s gotten sick or been hurt yet.”
The Courier slowed as he turned to jog with them. Salamani had yet to go running on his journey as well.
“Given how long I’ve known you two…have you settled things at Fierre’s home?”
“Just about. Now, back to business.”
The three ran on, and Ryoka saw Reizmelt appearing in the distance as Fierre gave Salamani some of the cheese her family produced and thanked him for his help. The Mage Runner waved it off.
“What’s next for you two?”
Ryoka smiled, brought back to life. As they covered the last three miles, she turned to Fierre and Salamani.
“Now? After all this, I think we deserve a reward, don’t you?”
Fierre grinned toothily before she covered her mouth. She looked at Salamani and back at Ryoka.
“We’re rich. I’ve got enough items to turn every adventurer in Reizmelt into Silver-rank teams, at least. We might be carrying multiple sets of Gold-rank gear. That’s money. Enough money to do…anything.”
“So, that means appraisals. Selling some of it?”
“That’s right. I was thinking—”
As Ryoka Griffin ran through the gates of Reizmelt, she heard a shout from the walls. She waved at the [Guards] there. She turned back to Salamani and someone on the streets pointed.
“It’s the Wind Runner!”
Ryoka Griffin slowed. Fierre, Salamani, and Ryoka heard more shouting. Warily, they all checked themselves. Ryoka reached for one of her new wands, taken from Valeterisa’s mansion.
“What’s that about?”
Salamani shrugged. He drew his wand. Ryoka jogged forwards, seeing more people streaming towards her in the distance, pointing. She took another few strides past a corner—
And walked into a storm of applause. Ryoka Griffin heard cheers, and people shouting her name.
Wind Runner! Children and adults both came running to see her. To applaud and cheer her. She had no idea why.
“Wind Runner! Wind Runner! Can you write your name on this? It’s an auto-graph!”
A boy came running up, holding a bit of white cardboard and a quill pre-dipped in ink. Ryoka was thrown—and she saw more people cheering her. But why were they applauding?
“What’s going on?”
Salamani started laughing. After a moment, so did Fierre. Ryoka was bemused, until Fierre made it so obvious.
“You woke the Archmage of Izril. You did, Ryoka. That’s why!”
“It was a group effort. We barely survived! It wasn’t…”
Ryoka trailed off. ‘It wasn’t anything big?’ No…perhaps…
She looked around. The people were cheering her. Asking for autographs. Asking her what the Archmage was like, how she’d done it.
Perhaps it was something. Ryoka had run greater deliveries. She would never forget running away from the Goblin Lord’s army. Meeting the Necromancer face-to-face. Taking her delivery from a Dragon. Her run to the Bloodfields, full of anger and self-loathing.
But no one knew about those runs. This was the first time Ryoka had done something that people talked about. She looked about, and blushed in the face of the genuine adoration. Fierre started laughing at her.
 
—-
 
It took a while for Ryoka to get out of the crowds. She was tempted to run off, but Salamani and Fierre caught her before she could make a break for the gates.
At least Mad Madain treated her like normal. And Alber. Ryoka found herself waving to the guards by the gates. Her red cheeks still hadn’t vanished.
“Well, Wind Runner of Reizmelt—where are we off to?”
Fierre teased Ryoka. The City Runner looked at her friend.
“Got your lunch, Fierre? I don’t want to tell Himilt you lost it.”
The Vampire shoved Ryoka. Salamani watched, with urbane amusement. Ryoka stumbled, and then sighed.
“Liscor has herd animals. And Hedault owes me a favor. I think…I need to pay Invrisil another visit. To talk to Lady Ieka as well. I think she said she was still there and hopefully she hasn’t left because of the typhoon.”
“Sounds good.”
Fierre stretched, copying Ryoka. The Wind Runner eyed her.
“You’re coming too?”
The Vampire thought about this.
“Suuuuuuure. I can…yeah, why not? I’ve already been out of work. And this is—for the artifacts—yes.”
Ryoka grinned. That would make her run interesting. And if they got to Invrisil—Fierre might be able to meet Mrsha and Erin! How—strange. And exciting.
Salamani interrupted Ryoka’s musings.
“I’m going too.”
The two younger women looked at him. Ryoka raised one hand.
“Salamani, you don’t have to keep following us around. If you want to pay off your debt, I’m fine with saying there is one. But—”
The Mage Runner pointed a finger at her.
“At this point, I need you to have one day when no one’s sick or dying before I’ll feel better about leaving you two alone. And at least two days where someone isn’t beating Ryoka into mash. Besides, we’re all prime targets for [Thieves] until we get the loot stowed away.”
He was right about all that. Ryoka nodded with a smile. Fierre frowned.
“Who’s beating up Ryoka? Besides me?”
Ryoka and Salamani glanced at each other. It felt like ages ago. But it had happened. Ryoka coughed.
“Er…it was Mihaela Godfrey. She stopped by to punch me and left.”
It didn’t sound real, even to her. Fierre opened her mouth and chuckled.
“Wh—hah. That’s a…are you being…?”
“To Invrisil we go, then!”
Ryoka took off. Fierre caught up after a second, Salamani in two strides. He sighed.
“It’s a long ways to Invrisil. I don’t suppose we could get that carriage again…?”
The other two laughed.
“Doubt it. It’s not that cheap, Salamani.”
“Alas.”
“Sure you don’t want to split up? We’re going to slow you down. I’m not that fast compared to a Courier.”
Ryoka turned to Salamani. He winked at her.
“Not by much. And not if I do this.”
He produced his wand and flicked it as he touched it to Ryoka’s arm, lightly.
“[Haste].”
Ryoka’s eyes widened. She stepped forwards—
…And nearly tripped on a rock. The City Runner swore as she nearly split her big toe. Salamani eyed his wand. Then he sighed.
“You must be wearing an anti-enchantment artifact. I think it’s the necklace. You’ll uh, have to take it off for me to enchant you.”
“Oh.”
