“Hm. Eight hundred thousand gold pieces and numerous gifts by Roshal. About a tenth of that and threats from Savere. And promises that I very much doubt could be enforced by contract.”
Nsiia blinked as she sipped from her tea cup.
“They couldn’t make that off me even in an open auction. Or could they? If they could, I should be flattered.”
“I understand it’s the prestige of selling an [Empress] that motivates Emir Yazdil and the other [Slavers] to make such an oversized offer.”
“And? When am I leaving?”
Nsiia smiled playfully. Femithain reached for his bag of holding and produced a small notebook. It was magical, and contained many times more pages than the slim binding indicated. It had all of his records, from taxes to resources to personal notes.
“Hm. Three days from now.”
Nsiia blinked. She stared at Femithain’s face, and then started laughing. He smiled slightly at his own joke.
“I forget you have a sense of humor! I nearly believed—you should have called in one of the guards to escort me to my room and shackled me!”
“That would have been cruel, not a joke.”
“Not in Tiqr. I’d have done that. Just for an hour.”
The two sat there, chuckling over breakfast. Femithain was checking the position of the sun and the sun dial he’d had installed by the pool just for such occasions.
“Nearly time. I must oversee Dellva’s entry into the competition. Nsiia, do you still wish to tour Elbe?”
“I do. I’m too tired of Demarsel and since you won’t let me leave the city because I’d steal a horse and ride off—I will gladly join you in Elbe.”
She stretched. Elbe was the capital of one of the neighboring city-states. The nation’s capital was Demarsel—for now. That was because Femithain belonged to the state of Dellva, whose capital was Demarsel. When the next Magus-Crafter was elected, the head of Illivere would shift. It bothered Illivere and the Crafters not at all, but it was apparently exceedingly annoying to the [Diplomats] and [Emissaries] who were assigned to the federation.
“Two hours, then. We will take to the roads then. Excuse me.”
Femithain rose, placed his cup on his plate so the staff would be spared the extra effort of combining the two themselves, and left. Nsiia watched him go, all efficiency and order.
She sat there for a bit, until she heard the housekeeping coming. Instead of greeting them, Nsiia leapt from Femithain’s balcony over to hers. It was a decent gap, but she did the jump effortlessly, moving as nimbly as an animal.
[Cat’s Grace]. [Gazelle’s Leap]. What were spells for others were Skills for Nsiia. She still had them—even if her [Empress] class was gone. Some of her greater Skills were missing, though. The Laughing Brigade’s Skill was gone. Her royal abilities—likewise missing.
“For the best, in some ways.”
Nsiia swung herself up onto the terrace roof and lay on the beams as she saw the servants enter, take the dishes, wipe the table, and leave. They looked for her, but she was as still as stone. She could still hide like a bat, run with hyena packs, fight Gemlions…
But she could not rule her nation. The former-[Empress] closed her eyes. She had lost many Skills. Including—[Wild Riot]. That was something.
[Wild Riot]—A Skill earned in madness. In bloodshed, and war. It was not a skill the [Empress of Beasts] should have had. To compel animals to fight and die? No, there were other Skills far more suited to a class that ruled. That Skill had been—
Nsiia shuddered. She had gained it with Thef’s death. Her beloved Grand Elephant friend, whom she had shared so many Skills with—it had come to her in her grief and rage. She had used it and begun heading down a dark path. One she was glad Flos Reimarch had saved her from.
Odd, to be grateful to a man she was still so angry with. He had denied Tiqr’s strength. Had failed to be the King of Destruction even in his return as he had in his youth. Even now, she could not believe a single army had laid him low. Where was the [King] who destroyed eight nation’s armies in a battle over a month? Where was the man who had come to Tiqr and received its loyalty without a drop of blood shed?
Yet wisdom was perhaps in surrender. For all Tiqr’s animals had died or fled. For all its people were slaves…for all that. Nsiia hoped she would one day reclaim her nation. And neither she nor Flos could do that if she was dead.
Anyways. She had lost her [Empress]’s Skills, but kept some thanks to her new class.
[Animalfriend Exile]. Interestingly—not [Prisoner], but [Exile]. Femithain truly had put few shackles on her, making her more of a dignitary than hostage.
Either way. She’d lost many Skills. Gained a few in return, like her [Famous Name] Skill—and the ones that led young golem-artisans to create endless copies of her. Was it temporary? Depending on if she ever got her Empress class back—she might keep the class, or return herself to her throne. Or combine the two.
All that was for the future, though. In this moment, Nsiia listened to the staff walking away, murmuring—and then she was alone. The Warhawk was far north already, Femithain had gone to oversee the Golem his state was working on under his direction for the grand gladiatorial competition, and they were due to visit Elbe, both on business for Femithain, and to relieve Nsiia’s boredom. She would see some of Illivere’s glories.
And she had two hours before all that. So Nsiia sighed, and flicked out the fork she’d taken from the breakfast table without anyone noticing. It was good silverware, with actual silver in the alloy. Not a knife, but decent.
Nsiia raised it—and stabbed it into her arm as hard as she could. The flash of pain made her double over, clutching at her arm. Blood ran from around the tines and she gripped her arm as pain shot up her arm.
She did not move. Slowly—Nsiia pulled the fork out of her arm. It had gone down as far as it could, nearly hitting bone. She pulled it out slowly, her teeth grinding with the pain. Then, with trembling fingers, she reached for a healing potion and poured just a drop over the bleeding wound.
It closed. Nsiia wiped away the blood.
“Forty three days.”
She whispered. Her punishment for the morning done, she swung herself back down and leapt back towards Femithain’s balcony. She crept inside and looked around.
Golems. Six unfinished Golems stood around the room, each one in the process of being made or adjusted. They were like…toys. Nsiia saw an arm, perfectly sculpted out of metal, ready to be attached to the body.
The arm was iron, thick, but not solid. Rather, hollow, lined with an inner clay between the iron armor, and laced with runes drawn in gemstone ‘ink’ on the interior. It would be added to the towering figure, sixteen feet tall and so heavy that Femithain’s workshop had to be reinforced or it would collapse under the weight.
Nsiia inspected the glowing core in the exposed Golem’s chest. Femithain had added…well, that was interesting. She traced the runes across the inside of the Golem’s chest radiating outwards.
“So that’s how it’s supposed to look? And he used—a different magical binding. Where is it?”
She scoured the workbench in front of the Golem, trying to remember exactly what was changed from yesterday. This is what Nsiia did; not sunbathe on rooftops to tease young men, and possibly women, or prowl around like some animal or talk to dogs or birds. She did that to distract from the fact that she was often in here.
Learning. Nsiia frowned over the Golem’s innards.
“This…Femithain would not make an ordinary Iron Golem. So what’s different?”
Well, for one thing, she was sure that ordinary [Golem Artificers] couldn’t have created half as intricate magical circuitry on the inside of the Golem’s shell. Femithain had written the magical ‘instructions’ that allowed the Golem to move and function with a brush the width of a pencil. Nsiia had seen him completing a custom-Golem with standard instructions—the binding spell had been written four or even five times as large. The complexity here spoke to…
“Aha! Spells! It’s a Golem that shoots—magic?”
Nsiia had it at last when she checked some of the scrolls lying around and realized they were copies of attack spells she knew. [Sticky Webs], [Arrows of Light]…Femithain was binding the spells into the Golem so it could activate them at once.
Iron armor, with clay in the middle to cushion the impacts. That was shell. Intricate writing? Instructions. Now…where was the energy?
Nsiia had never been taught how to make Golems. So all the terms and ideas were things she’d picked up observing Femithain or stealing around his workshop when he was asleep. As far as she understood it—Golems had three parts.
Shell, instructions, energy. The shell of a Golem was the armor. Steel, stone, even other substances. Instructions were what…made the Golems move. They had to tell the Golems how to raise arms, punch things—it was what took the most time, even more than creating the steel-bodies for Wargolems.
But the last key was energy. Golems were not infinitely-sustainable creatures. Each one needed magical energy to function. And the more powerful—the more magic. It had puzzled Nsiia no end, trying to figure out how such powerful, giant creations could move. On mana stones? It seemed so…inefficient.
“Where’s the power supply? Here? No, here…no!”
She looked around, frustrated. Once again, she couldn’t find it! It seemed obvious, didn’t it? The Golems had to have a mana stone. But she saw the armor, layered, the glowing instructions written on the inside—but no power source.
There was an empty orb in the center of the golem, with…Nsiia stared inside. Something broken inside? It looked like shards of metal. But the orb was not magical. Nsiia had learned magic—she sensed nothing from the orb, despite it being covered with the most intricate runework yet. There was no magic here! The closest she could find was, interestingly, jars of magicore embedded in points along the war golem’s body.
Glass tubes, filled with the glowing molten rock. Each one a different color. Nsiia eyed a glowing red one that radiated heat—an eyesearingly-bright one, a standard, element-less magicore tube…
“This must be to power the spells. Fire magicore for [Fireball]. Light for [Light Arrow]. Smart. The Golem can take energy from here and be given more power. But this can’t power the Golem itself, surely? Damn, damn—where is the power source?”
She wished she knew more about Golems. But Nsiia had no books—and no teacher despite Femithain being a very amiable host. She had seen them in battle, even destroyed them herself. But Nsiia had never been able to take the time to dissect one.
Now, she was lost. Frustrated, Nsiia sat down and growled. She went to the other five Golems. Let’s see. One was made of glass, and waiting to be filled with magicore. But that wasn’t a good example; Femithain had said it was highly experimental, a walking mana-battery Golem if it worked.
Another was extremely lifelike. Male, Human, around…sixteen? The sculpted ‘hair’ was just grown past short-cropped and the youth’s features were extremely pretty. He had no pubic hair, and, Nsiia was relieved to see, no genitals.
She eyed the Golem with distaste. This one was made of ceramics, white, and the Golem would be one of the servant-Golems, probably for some rich commissioner. Femithain had groused about this one, but his ability to create Golems was such that this looked like a perfect serving boy.
“May you delight whichever fool purchases you, Golem. Lack of genitals and all. Not that it will stop them, I’m sure.”
Nsiia laid a hand on the Golem-boy’s head and gave it her blessing. The Golem stared ahead, all but finished. It was sealed, but she had seen Femithain make it in a single week, grousing all the while and clearly not enjoying the task. But he’d done it professionally and not once had she seen the power source. Just another orb in the center, the nexus of the command spells.
“Hm.”
The other three Golems were too early in the process of creation for Nsiia to learn more. She shook her head, dispirited, and looked around the workshop. If she couldn’t solve this last puzzle…
“I’ll take this. And this. And this…”
A tube of raw magicore, one of Femithain’s magical brushes, and some of his ‘paint’ went into Nsiia’s bag of holding. She looked around, rearranged some of Femithain’s supplies so he wouldn’t notice the thefts, and leapt back to her balcony.
Nsiia was no [Thief]. She had debated taking the class, but ended up turning it down. She’d never level high enough stealing like this, and it wasn’t a class that would help her, even if it gave her amazing stealth Skills. She could not help Tiqr just by running away.
No—it was Nsiia’s other new class, [Golem Maker] that she believed in. Nsiia returned to her rooms and then, carefully, entered her largest closet, now cleared of clothing. It was her workshop, and all of the tools were normally hidden in neatly-folded rugs and blankets in there. Nsiia had asked the staff not to clean her personal room in any case.
Now, she withdrew the product of over a month of stealing from Femithain. Piece by piece, it came out, shining in the light coming from the closet’s slats. And from within, the glowing binding-spells, laboriously copied over from Femithain’s Golems. The material this Golem was made of shone palely—but not like porcelain.
It was bone. Nsiia had obtained each piece of bone, carving it, gluing it together and polishing it until it was almost seamless. She was good at carving, and it was easy to steal a knife from a table after asking for a steak.
However—the material had been the hardest thing. Nsiia had tried pieces of furniture in her room, but the wood was soft and a missing chair would surely go noticed. So she had asked for help.
Dogs from across the city had given up treats or fetched or stolen bones for her. She had rewarded them with pieces of her dinner, and scratching. And at last—she had completed—to their disgust—
A Cat Golem. Nsiia stared at it, inspecting each piece. Tail, legs—the trick was a Golem was not an undead, so she had to just make the legs, identical, the torso, the tail, head…
It was just a cat. A housecat, not one of the wilder ones Tiqr’s people might encounter. Nsiia had created her second Golem as a cat because she knew them so well. She had purposely jointed the legs, trying to give it the mobility a real cat would. It would bend and stretch, segmented as the Golem pieces were, each part fitting together…
