Someone commented. Nsiia just gulped. She had seen the Iron War Golems fighting and they were slow—if deadly swings. You could dodge them—Nsiia had, cutting into their legs. They were more of a terror when supported; an unstoppable blow you had to evade or die from unless you had a high-level Skill.
Those Golems were slow. Domehead? He moved as fast as a man with a hatchet, not a huge battleaxe. Maybe even a bit faster than your average Level 15 [Warrior].
“Imagine one of those bastards in a fight. Not er, Tiqr. Just any fight.”
Armsmaster Dellic breathed as the Golem ran through more attack patterns. Nsiia nodded.
“Illivere was once a far larger empire when Golems were still widespread, weren’t they, Armsmaster?”
“An empire the likes of which we’ll never see again. Not with the way it ended.”
Nsiia glanced at Dellic.
“True enough.”
“Defense Routine #16. Execute.”
Domehead’s axe was a blur of blocking at different levels. Nsiia felt compelled to ask why he had routines.
“It’s simple. We give them routines so it can improvise in a fight. Autonomous-Class won’t deviate from what they know. And they’re too simple to think to use a chop; some’ll just use the same thrust over and over. Giving them routines makes them more efficient. And Femithain has created the most adaptive command-inscription Illivere has. Domehead will use different tactics if it senses it’s being ineffective. It’s as close to Sentient-class as you can ask for.”
Nsiia watched Domehead parry some strikes that the [Golem Artificers] were making with longspears and nodded slowly. Crafter Se looked proud of her creation. And yet…
“That’s enough. Domehead has no issues in its execution of all attack and defense routines. However…we can still improve the basic routines themselves. Armsmaster Dellic. What do you think?”
The man had been watching Domehead with an increasingly critical eye as it went through the routines. Now he bowed and spoke, nervously.
“I ah, do see places where—Domehead—can be improved, Magus-Crafter. A few openings and inefficiencies in how it moves, begging your pardon.”
The Crafters muttered. They didn’t like that. Nsiia pursed her lips. She’d seen the exact same thing.
“Can you elaborate, Armsmaster?”
The man tried.
“It’s uh—I think it was Attack Routine #5, Magus-Crafter. You see, when the Golem’s raising his axe like this—it’s a bit too high, you see? Too open. I’d slide in and cut a man trying that on me. And the motion whenever Domehead swings his axe sideways…”
He tried to show the skeptical crowd, but he looked silly and Domehead looked impressive when you lined up the motions. And that was because they were flashy attacks. But not good ones.
They looked like, well, a non-[Warrior]’s idea of what fighting should look like. Dellic was completely right in Nsiia’s eyes. Unfortunately, experience had taught her that meant very little.
“That jab looks all wrong, though. With a battleaxe like the one Domehead’s carrying, what does a jab like that do?”
One of the Crafters didn’t like the feedback the [Armsmaster] was giving him. He jabbed in a parody of Dellic’s motions. The [Armsmaster of Steel] spoke to a point over the man’s head as he clasped one hand to his breast.
“No offense, Crafter, Sir. It’s just that it works in combat. The axe is a bit oversized and er, fanciful for that matter. Looks a bit too heavy from the blade-end the way the Golem’s swinging it.”
“Not Golem-combat, you mean. This axe is designed to pierce enemy Golem’s armor.”
“Yessir. I only meant…yessir.”
Nsiia could bear no more of it. She strode forwards before Femithain, who was busy overseeing the inscription changes, could interrupt.
“I rather think Armsmaster Dellic has the right of it. I happen to know how to fight myself and I agreed with everything he said—only more strongly. Or would anyone who’s slain more foes on the battlefield care to object to your [Armsmaster of Steel]?”
Her tone was derisive. Femithain looked up and the red-faced Crafter hesitated.
“But surely—”
“Fast blows work in combat. More than wide swings. Domehead doesn’t use his weight. He could lean into me and I would be cut. He doesn’t seem to shove, does he, Dellic?”
Nsiia looked at the Armsmaster. Encouraged, the man shook his head.
“Not at all, Empress Nsiia. He could bring that axe up, just like that and just—”
He demonstrated and the audience muttered. Nsiia saw many were unconvinced, but she’d given them pause.
“Why don’t you demonstrate, Armsmaster? Only, it’s hard to see for non-[Warriors]. So—try me. Have you practice swords? Or sticks?”
The [Armsmaster] blinked as Nsiia looked around. Femithain raised his brows.
“It might be illuminating to have two [Warriors] of your calibers spar, Nsiia. Would you be willing to do a demonstration?”
“Surely. If Armsmaster Dellic has no objections?”
“I—with practice weapons, not at all, Lady Nsiia.”
The man looked embarrassed, but he was an [Armsmaster]. He accepted an axe and Nsiia a spear—clearly meant for Golems to use. They were rough on the hands and poorly weighted—but she felt a thrill as she lifted the weapon.
“One of the Golems uses a spear. From Thun. Can you u—”
“Golem tits!”
Dellic deflected the strike from the wooden spear that flashed at his chin. Nsiia would have pulled the blow if she’d felt it would have landed, but the man flicked the spear back without even jerking back much. That showed training.
The audience gasped. Nsiia winked.
“I have heard there are Golems of that sort, Armsmaster. Magus-Crafter Femithain hasn’t explained where they’re to be found, however.”
The Magus-Crafter closed his eyes. He was never going to talk about that practice in Illivere. And it did exist. But then his attention was drawn to Nsiia.
Because she was quite good with a spear. She might have been an [Empress], but she had fought with the Tusk of Tiqr and she lashed out fast, jabbing at Dellic. Nothing fancy—just a clean thrust that would go through you if it landed.
The man held still, using the axe, and knocked the spear butt away. Unlike Domehead’s defensive routines, he could do so moving or standing still and with an economy of motion, nothing fancy.
It made more sense to just knock the spear off-target than to whirl your axe and send it flying. With the whirl of the axe, both you and your opponent needed to bring your weapon into line. With Dellic? He knocked the spear thrust down and attacked in the same motion.
That was skill. And the audience, willingly or not, saw it. Femithain murmured to the [Golem Artificers] working on Domehead’s head-dome.
“Can we directly copy some of Dellic’s moves? We had extra space in the command-crystals in the head-dome, didn’t we? Just execute a copy-order and we can wipe it later.”
Magical lines began appearing in one of the blank crystals as a [Golem Artificer] ordered Domehead to do just that. The Golem watched as the two went back and forth and the Inscription-specialists argued over how to translate the basic attacks into Domehead’s movements.
 
—-
 
Nsiia went for several bouts with Dellic and felt more invigorated than she had in a while. He was good. And she was a former-[Empress], not [General] Vasraf whose Skills were more combat-focused.
If it was a battle to the death, she could have used a number of Skills. But since this was a display of talent, she refrained from using [Elephant’s Strength] for a temporary advantage. That would have made Dellic sweat.
But he was better, and she didn’t mind admitting it. Nsiia went for a slashing lunge and he swung his axe up and actually severed the tip of her spear.
“Sorry about that, Empress! [Sundering Strikes]. Forgot to turn it off.”
The man looked embarrassed as he lowered the axe. Nsiia stared at the spear and tossed it aside.
“And that’s where you die. Unless you’re a Golem and can be put back together. What would you do then, Empress Nsiia?”
Crafter Se looked amused. Nsiia looked up at the needling tone and smiled. She saw Dellic tense—and lunged out in a punch as she grabbed for his axe.
He recoiled and shoved her aside. She tried to hook his legs as her palm went for his face. He was still too fast! He backed up, placing his axe up.
“Foul! And enough, please, Nsiia. I don’t think hand-to-hand fighting versus an axe is something you would actually practice, is it?”
But Femithain looked amused. Nsiia shrugged.
“If I had vambraces and gauntlets, I might risk it against someone half my level. If it were a fight to the death, though—and it was Armsmaster Dellic, I’d just run away. Can you teach Domehead that?”
“We can—but not for the Testing. Thank you Armsmaster.”
The man bowed to the Magus-Crafter and then to Nsiia. He looked relieved—and grateful as the other Crafters expressed the same sentiment after seeing his actual skill with a blade.
“It’s an honor, Magus-Crafter. I shall be at the Testing, of course. Best of luck on Dellva’s victory!”
The others could all cheer at that. Nsiia took her compliments and a towel and water and immediately struck down several more apprentice Crafters as she rinsed herself. Femithain was pleased. Dellic was pleased. Domehead was taken back to the workshop to be adjusted for the matches.
And after that—Nsiia went on a tour of Illivere.
 
—-
 
Gazi Pathseeker stood on a hill, surrounded by enemies. The sand crumbled underneath her armored boots. She looked around, holding the two-handed claymore. Fearless.
There were so many. They came up the hill in a swarm, without giving her the chance to duel. A swarm of faces. The first—was Rasea Zecrew, leering, brandishing a sword.
Dozens of [Pirates] followed her, along with other foes. A Manticore, soldiers—Flos, Orthenon—Gazi spun her claymore around.
She beheaded Rasea, and then impaled the first [Pirate] on her sword. She leapt down the hill as the clumsier attackers swung at her. Their blades and weapons bounced off her armor. Gazi brought her sword up and chopped down—into Flos’ head.
The King of Destruction fell down, dead. Gazi kicked Orthenon and then ran him through. She turned, hit the Manticore with her fist and actually shoved it backwards, overpowering the larger foe. She saw Flos was still moving and stomped his head into dust.
At this point, Trey decided the sand war-games should probably not include friends. It got too weird. He stared down at the little Sand Golems and the Lifesand Golem he’d made in Gazi’s face. She was currently stomping around the sand lot he’d made in his rooms, tearing apart nearly three dozen Sand Golems he’d made to attack her.
“This is research. It’s not just sand games. This is so cool.”
Trey made a mudball and put it into a sand catapult. It actually fired, and knocked the Lifesand Golem of Gazi flat. The little Golem—remarkably accurate, just with a slightly oversized head—got back up and charged the sandapult. One of the sand [Soldiers] tried to block her at Trey’s direction. It put up a sand-shield and Gazi put a fist through the entire Golem, punching through hardened sand.
“Whoa.”
There was probably a lot that went into the reason Trey had chosen to make Gazi the image he’d sculpted his Lifesand Golem into. Lots of trauma, and his image of her. And perhaps—that he was lonely, in Wistram. But determined.
Also, she looked really cool with the claymore. It was actually sharp, despite being made of sand. But then—her reddish, blood-sand body was unlike any other Sand Golem that Trey Atwood could make.
She was a [Lifesand Golem], and the Quarass had given him the ability to create her. Did Trey harbor a grudge? Did he have a sudden trauma regarding daggers and throats? Yes. But he had to admit—the Lifesand Golem was faster, stronger, tougher, and…smarter than other Golems?
Hard to say. A phalanx of Sand Golems formed up at Trey’s will. They were perfect Puppet-class Golems. Temporary, but he could make them do whatever sand could do. And that was a lot. However—
Mini-Gazi halted her charge at them and actually ran left before hitting them in the flank. The Sand Golems were too slow to pivot and she ran past their spears to start hacking them into lifeless sand.
Trey had only given the Lifesand Golem the order to ‘attack’. But despite that, there was something of him in Mini-Gazi. A bit of his intention along with his blood.
The battle raged on. Trey kept animating tiny Sand Golems to fight Gazi—he even went for a giant colossus four feet high to battle Gazi made up of all the sand he’s brought to the Academy. It didn’t matter. Mini-Gazi could not be killed by regular sand. It buried her and she just hacked her way out. When it was done, she stood amid a sea of sand. That was when Trey picked her up and put her in his pack.
“Well, you’re going to be useful. Now, do I tell my teachers I can make you? No…no I don’t. And not the other Earth-people either.”
Mini-Gazi nodded obediently. Trey had made her do that, of course. She wasn’t a thinking Golem. Autonomous-class, maybe, even if he hadn’t given her a Golem Heart. She was temporary; Sand Golems almost always were, as one of the lowest classes of Golems. However, this Lifesand Golem wouldn’t decay and didn’t take mana like regular Sand Golems. She could absorb it from the atmosphere—and Wistram Academy had more mana in the air than any place Trey had ever been.
She only required one additional thing that a regular Golem wouldn’t want. Trey grimaced. The sand was looking a bit crumbly on Mini-Gazi, so he drew a dagger and cut his wrist.
Blood dripped down onto Mini-Gazi’s head and the sand brightened. She waved her arms and grinned.
“You’re welcome.”
Lifesand Golems required blood. Mini-Gazi was only a foot high, so she required only a bit every day, or a good amount would see her a few days. Trey wondered if he could get her to spy. But he hadn’t figured out how to see through her eyes. Especially since her ‘eyes’ were made of sand.
“Off we go. Stay in the pack and don’t move.”
He saw the Golem nod before he closed the pack. Mini-Gazi was mostly just to keep him company for now, but she was an asset. Oh—and she was really good at keeping the magical rats out of his room at night. Wistram had a rat problem.
It didn’t bother Trey, but one of the new girls who’d been added to the incoming students class had been in hysterics. Trey walked out of his room and waved.
“Hey…Flynn. Where’re we going? I forgot.”
Flynn Patel, who was rooming next to Trey, closed the door and stretched.
“Uh…I have no idea.”
Trey gave him a look and Flynn grinned.
“Pricky’s the one who has a good sense of direction! And since she has to be in the kennels if I’m in class—”
