“Because of the uprising.”
Femithain’s eyes flickered. Regret? Wariness?
“Just so. But you will have time to see that in Elbe. Here—we have one of the last examples of a nebulous-type Golem. This way.”
He’d led her to a cistern by a river. Nsiia blinked as she got out of the Golem Carriage and stretched. Now, as part of her tour of his nation, the Magus-Crafter had led her to one of the enduring cornerstones of Illivere’s industry.
Nsiia’s nation had traded with Illivere, but she had not inquired too much into their sources of material. She knew what everyone knew; Golems provided for much of their workforce’s needs, such that the Illivere Federation was often compared to Khelt.
Unfavorably, of course in purely economic terms; Golems were fewer in number and less adaptable than undead in many cases. For instance—few Golems had the dexterity to plant seeds, while Khelt’s undead could plant, till, water, and harvest all without more than a single [Farmer] lounging in a hammock and occasionally shooting an arrow at a bird.
However. In some ways Golems were superior to undead. Nsiia expected to be shown one of the famed quarries that produced fine-cut stone for the entire region. Only Hellios had finer, and theirs was far more costly. Or—perhaps the Golems unloading cargo? Or pulling ploughs?
What she found was more startling still. A Golem was standing in a vast cistern. Into which…water was being poured and siphoned from at the same time.
It was a simple system, really. Water from the high ground ran down into a single access-point that could be closed at need. From there—it was directed into lower pools by said Golem. And below the Golem itself was a second…basin. Into which objects, large, as large as Nsiia’s head or even half as tall as she or Femithain and just as wide were dropping.
They fell from the Golem’s body as it produced the chunks of sea salt. Materializing, seemingly out of the glistening water and falling out of the Golem.
The Water Golem stood still, a giant, in the cistern. Its body was constantly being made up of the salty seawater being pumped into the cistern, and depositing freshwater into the pools below.
“Oliphant’s horns.”
“I thought you would be impressed. Had you heard of the Purifier of Illivere before, Empress?”
“No.”
Nsiia shook herself. Each nation on Chandrar not blessed with bountiful rivers or access to water had their own ways of obtaining vital freshwater. Tiqr guarded its plentiful oases and rivers. And Savere had the Siren as well as access to the sea; any good [Hydromancer] could separate salt from water.
Yet, Illivere had done away with even the need for a [Mage]. Wonderingly, Nsiia looked up. The Golem stood still, a towering figure.
“It has to be twenty feet tall.”
“Twenty two point four. A masterpiece. It has been running nonstop in this capacity for the last 1,203 years. With sixty one interruptions for calamity or combat. We lack the technology to create more such.”
“And its job is just to…? Where does Illivere get the saltwater?”
The Illivere Federation did not border a coast. Femithain adjusted his spectacles and produced a map.
“…This river, here. The Aleyss flows upstream. Magical phenomena. Either a spell or some feature of the geography. We harness its waters. Frankly—the Purifier is needed. Before its inception here, the ground was completely saturated with salt.”
Plop. Nsiia watched a huge chunk of salt, rounded, almost perfectly spherical, actually, drop into the water basin below the golem. Carefully, a lesser Golem with a long-handled net fished it out and carried it, dripping, over to a cart.
“Salt. Salt, and purest water. And you have all that for free? Tell me, Femithain. Is it a Water Golem or is there a special name for this…Purifier?”
She was outraged, and envious. Femithain nodded. He gestured at the Golem.
“You’re correct, Nsiia. It is a Water Golem. Type—Autonomous-Limited. Still more intelligent than the ones we create, but it was never designed to be as valuable as it is today. The size and quality set it apart. Frankly, its creators might not have dreamed we’d put it to this use.”
“Filtering seawater into pure water and salt. Does it provide for all of Illivere?”
Too late, Nsiia knew how silly that was. Even the endless stream of water could not quench a nation’s thirst. Femithain simply shook his head slightly. He consulted his magical notebook.
“It has limits. But yes—it supplies 47% of all of Illivere’s salt by itself. And a smaller, but still considerable amount of freshwater.”
“If I had known of it before, Femithain, I might have been tempted to steal it. Savere, surely would. Or destroy it so their water was worth more.”
The Magus-Crafter sighed.
“That’s indeed a problem. However, the Purifier can defend itself…and we do keep its existence somewhat secret. It has security, Empress. Still, I would count it as one of our nation’s assets. Which are almost entirely Golem-based. Surely…Tiqr had similar treasures?”
The question paused Nsiia. Of course, Tiqr did. The Roc Pact had delivered fabulous mounts and companions. They would not be migrating there on their six-year route anymore, though. And of course, Tiqr had other magical beasts whose products had been worth far more than mere salt.
For instance, only Tiqr’s [Druids], [Beast Tamers], and so on had ever managed to encourage Nightmares to let themselves be sheared. Stitchfolk paid a hundred times the weight of a single bale of the magical horse-hair which could render you invisible in shade…
Yet all that was different than this. Nsiia turned with a bitter smile for Femithain.
“We had our value, Magus-Crafter. But Tiqr’s great treasure is not something like this. It is in our animals. Our great herds, our ties with the creatures of the land. In taking Tiqr, your coalition destroyed all that was of worth.”
He looked at her. And the awe and pleasure of the moment was lost. He nodded slightly.
“Just so.”
It was one of the reasons why Nsiia had chosen him to surrender to. If he had prevaricated—she would have stabbed him. She looked back at the Water Golem. If it had been Illivere instead of Tiqr, would it have fought, drowning the foes as the Grand Elephants had with their tusks and feet, until they brought it down and muddied the waters forever?
It was a passing thought for her. But Femithain had to worry. His nation was not yet lost.
 
—-
 
After the Purifier, the two had a break to eat along the way to Elbe. Nsiia enjoyed some olives and cheese as a snack—the tough olive trees were common to Illivere and she quite enjoyed them. She kept spitting the pits out the window though, which mildly horrified Femithain who had a bowl for them. Nsiia considered that putting the saliva-covered pits in a bowl was the more barbaric thing.
Anyways, Elbe was a splendid old capital, much more flat than Dellva’s. Worn buildings of stone and the coliseum that the Testing would be conducted in were the hallmarks of this place—as well as an ancient palace.
“One feels that this is the true capital of Illivere.”
“That is Elbe’s belief. But each state has its own wonders.”
Femithain had a bit of national pride there as he looked around the old streets. Golems carried burdens to shops, or walked in place of horses. Most were the lumbering sorts, but there were a few disarmingly humanoid ones you might think was a Human—or Garuda or even Stitchfolk, they were so decorated—walking down the street with a basket of goods, or sweeping in front of a shop.
“Humans tend towards Golems more than Stitchfolk or Garuda.”
“Well—few Golems fly so Garuda must remain with the Golems. But there is a market for Garuda who dwell in settlements rather than migrate. Stitchfolk employ Golems at times…but they are a bit more reticent to adopt them.”
“Why?”
Again, the Magus-Crafter had to pause as he checked the Golem Horse into the custom stables.
“Because String People are Cloth Golems. In…a sense. Which I will never repeat in front of Nerrhavian dignitaries and deny I ever made. But it is why we do not build Golems out of cloth anymore. Just like we make little out of bone.”
“For fear of rebellion?”
He did not reply to that. But Nsiia knew she was right. Golem Makers had endured more rebellions than any other class. Not only had the String People won their freedom and become a race—all Golems had once done the same.
And in Elbe there was proof of that. Apparently. It resided in the palace, a circular building with a dome, to match the open coliseum of old. Elbe seemed to have a thing for circles.
But first—Femithain took Nsiia to school.
 
—-
 
The institutions of learning in Illivere were actual buildings and classrooms which enrolled thousands of students each year. It was not mandatory, and in fact, Nsiia was touring an academy meant for students in their early teens. But any citizen of Illivere could enroll in a school free of charge, up to a certain level where a modest admission fee was charged.
It was bizarre to Nsiia. Schools? She walked down the hallways and stared into classrooms of young people sitting in desks before…instructors…conveying knowledge. Who would come up with such a backwards system?
Like all of Tiqr’s monarchs, Nsiia had been taught by fine [Tutors] and given the secrets of her own monarchy. Not that Tiqr had such royal educations as, say Terandrian [Princes] and [Princesses]. To be a ruler of Tiqr was to know how to hunt and fish and take care of animals more than administer a bureaucracy—although Nsiia had learned both.
Yet, it was her first introduction to this kind of class. Or this kind of…class.
She peeked into the classroom at the [Teacher] going over the fundamentals of metallurgy, specifically, the creation of forges and how iron became steel. It was—strange.
“He is teaching them to forge steel? But this man is no [Blacksmith]!”
It seemed wrong to Nsiia. Especially because these were secrets of the smith’s craft, like the exact forging temperature of steel, which the students were copying onto notebooks. And they were [Students]. Not [Apprentice Smiths] or…
Femithain didn’t share Nsiia’s horror. He nodded calmly at the scene of busy students, who kept peeking at the two rulers.
“[Student] and [Teacher] are complimentary classes, Nsiia. Both allow for knowledge to be spread far more efficiently than a [Blacksmith] might, even if he were to take a dozen apprentices. A difficult task for most. Is it not better to teach dozens, even hundreds at the same time?”
“Perhaps if you never wield a blade forged by students taught by words on a board! Or used a pot made by a smith who hasn’t created ten thousand over her apprenticeship!”
The former [Empress] folded her arms, adamantly. Her voice was a bit too loud though, because there was a titter of laughter from the classroom and the [Teacher] paused, much abashed.
Femithain’s lips moved up in a slight smile. He answered Nsiia in a carrying tone.
“In that you are correct, Empress Nsiia. However—not all [Students] who learn from this specific class will become [Blacksmiths]. Those that do will learn the craft by hand, through practice. But consider—some students may help create forges, not shape steel alone. The knowledge of how steel is made is invaluable in many regards. And given the need for steel in Golems—steel in quantity, not elegant masterworks—a class like this is more efficient.”
“But why split classes? What will being a [Student] do?”
Femithain once again nodded at the [Students], who looked worried about the [Empress]’ scorn for their class.
“A [Student] has Skills that increase their capacity to learn. It may be that they will lack the complete training from infanthood that some [Warriors] or other classes possess. However—a [Student] may become a [Learned Warrior], or gain Skills a regular [Warrior] might not. [Indirect Bombardment], for instance, is a Skill that [Archers] who have studied the physics of ballistics sometimes gain. Mainly though, [Empress], it is a class for those who are seeking their place. They need only learn in school, not commit themselves to a path that may not suit them.”
It seemed like a poor excuse to Nsiia, but she was willing to accept Femithain’s reasoning to some degree. Throwing yourself entirely into a class and realizing it was not for you was…painful. She had seen many like that, trapped below Level 20 because they were not good or interested in what defined them.
However, Femithain’s next words sold the entire class and Nsiia.
“For proof there is some success in Illivere’s teaching methods, consider that I was a [Student] myself. I graduated with top marks before earning my apprenticeship among the Golem Manufactoriums. My education was wide, and I believe it helped me become Magus-Crafter. Of course, it does require effort. And we should not distract from the student’s learning time. Teacher, our pardons.”
He nodded and the [Teacher] bowed. Nsiia walked away, feeling eyes on her back. She peeked back only once. Femithain saw the former monarch scribbling something down on a piece of paper. After all, if someone was going to write the secret of steel’s heat down…
The students were all abuzz with the visit of the two. The [Teacher] called for order—three times.
“Settle down. I’d like your attention—we have a curriculum we must stick to and we’ve already lost enough time to the er, war with Tiqr. I said—”
He saw that his students were whispering, too excited to actually take Femithain’s advice and study. So the [Teacher] sighed. Then smiled and clapped his hands.
[Thunderclap Palms]. The students recoiled from the explosion of sound. The [Teacher] tapped the board with a ruler.
“[Memory-Fixed Words]. As I was saying, the method of forging iron into steel is the following—this will not be on the test since you will remember this part—”
The students groaned as the lesson was embedded in their long-term memory as if the teacher had smacked it into their skulls. The [Teacher] sighed. What would you do without Skills, eh?
 
—-
 
By the time Nsiia was done touring the school, she had decided that it might be useful. In some ways. She still believed an apprentice learned more from a master, but if there weren’t enough masters…
Tiqr would need to rebuild and many of the high-level craftspeople were dead. Perhaps this would be better.
That was a thing long in the future, though. If it would even come to pass. But it gave her something to imagine and hope for.
The other First Crafters of their state had arrived, so Femithain had to go to the senatorial palace now. Nsiia was not permitted in the room where the First Crafters and lesser representatives would debate, but Femithain gave her run of the old palace.
