Zac frowned and readied himself for an ambush as the attendant approached. A deathsworn wouldn’t care about the defenses or patrolling guards, and Kaltosa Lu’s right-hand man might very well have something similar to Sendor’s brands. Then again, a deathsworn wouldn’t look so embarrassed.

“It was our pleasure making your acquaintance, Master Umbri’Zi. We do apologize about the misunderstanding,” Lompo said with a strained cough as a patterned Cosmos Sack floated over. “The Centigrade Constellation is sincere in all its dealings, honoring agreements and offering market-leading rates. If Master Umbri’Zi can assist the Prince during his outing, we will be happy to provide further compensation.”

Zac didn’t accept the Cosmos Sack. Instead, he released some Miasma and Killing Intent around the Spatial Treasure, prompting a return of the powerful perceptions. They repeatedly scanned Zac and the floating Cosmos Sack before retreating again. A displeased snort shook Zac’s mind, warning him not to do such a thing again. Zac bowed toward the domain’s inner region before accepting the bag.

Since it wasn’t dangerous, why wouldn’t he? Zac had seen just how rich the Centigrade Pryer’s descendant was. Of course, some baubles weren’t enough to resolve the grudge. This was the second time the Centigrade Constellation had targeted him, the first being the tracker snuck onto the Yphelion. If the opportunity presented itself, Zac would certainly return the favor.

“We should go,” Kaltosa Lu said with some annoyance. “We wasted over a week on this little diversion. It’s embarrassing enough we didn’t trigger the court’s awakening. Any further delays will make me look incompetent to my wives.”

“Performing the reversals of fate is the job of the Realmsingers. Young Master had more important matters to worry about,” the butler quickly praised. “Young Master's epistolatory epic is coming along nicely.”

“You’re right! Lompo, hear my decree!”

“I hear and obey.”

“You are hereby promoted to… Uh, let’s go with Master of Ceremony.”

“Young Master is too kind,” Lompo said with what was almost certainly long-suffering indulgence.

“Still, we need to leave our mark to maintain our prestige,” Kaltosa said just as they stepped through the memory domain, leaving the Transformation Docks without giving it a second look.

A regal ship formed beneath their feet, and they flew off into the horizon, leaving a flummoxed Zac behind. He looked down at the Cosmos Sack and moved to the memory domain’s edge.

Standing at the border, Zac finally got a proper look at the flickering buildings outside. It was a complete city, barring the lack of people. The scope was completely different from the scattered structures that started appearing over the past week. Zac still couldn’t tell if they were real or illusory or whether they were projections of the present or memories of the past.

The first signs appeared when the Daedalian court gained its first halo. It began as some dancing lights clumped around the memory domains and the Imperial Road, and more appeared with every awakening. Furthermore, the other eight courts combined couldn’t compare to the change brought by the two newly added halos on the Mercurial Court. It was only after their appearance the lights gained tangible shape.

Interestingly, the continent’s outer layer, where his human side remained, looked the same. The effect of the halos was far more pronounced on the hidden regions surrounding the courts. Esmeralda had suggested the buildings were projections bleeding through from an even deeper spatial layer. She theorized the Left Imperial Expanse was built like an onion, with countless isolating layers that protected an incredible secret.

Zac shook his head, returning his focus to the Cosmos Sack. The guardians didn’t consider it a danger, but that wasn’t enough of a guarantee. Zac moved the bag right next to the barrier, and he was ready to throw it out if it showed any hint of danger. That way, it wouldn’t matter if it held a Spatial Bomb powerful enough to create a black hole.

There was no bomb or sinister poison hidden inside. The wealth waiting for him was possibly more shocking.
