Erin walked down the street, and she felt like sighing. No—she felt like her entire existence was a long, slow sigh.
She was tired. Tired and weary in her very bones. But more than that, she was just disappointed. And that was the worst feeling of all.
Humans.
She’d missed them. Really, she had. She’d missed her friends and being back in her home. She even missed the way people said hello as you walked into the supermarket. And she’d been missing all of that so hard that she’d forgotten how nasty people could be.
They didn’t like Drakes or Gnolls. Humans. And now that Erin knew that and heard the way Cervial and Goeln talked about Drakes and Gnolls—or at least Goeln—she understood why the feeling was mutual.
It was pretty rude to insult an entire species in their own city. Erin wasn’t too sure about much when it came to talking about race, but she was sure of that.
Erin scuffed along Market Street. She wasn’t sure she wanted to buy anything, but she didn’t want to leave the city just yet. Not because she had anything to do here—it was just that the trek back to her inn was too much for her at the moment.
Politeness. It was only right to be polite. And that went double for judging an entire species just because you didn’t like their smell. Sure, Gnolls could be prickly, but they could also be really nice. The same went for Drakes.
“There she is! There’s the [Thief]!”
Then again, there were jerks in every species.
Erin turned around at the voice. It was a familiar voice that set her teeth on edge and made her check her money pouch. Not just because of the thief comment.
Approaching at a high-speed strut down the street was a Drake shopkeeper. Erin’s eyes narrowed as he barged up to her and began shouting.
“I know it was you! You couldn’t resist attacking an honest merchant, and you decide to have a bit of revenge, eh?”
“What?”
Erin blinked at the Drake. He was visibly red with rage. He jabbed at her with a finger, and she stepped back.
“Enough!”
Another Drake pushed his way through the crowd. This one was a Guardsman, and he was visibly harried. He interposed himself between the shopkeeper and Erin.
“Lism, I’ve told you before. You can’t just start accusing Humans at random!”
“Ah, but this one is different!”
Lism the shopkeeper pointed at Erin around the guard and raised his voice so more people could hear.
“This is the Human who robbed me of my merchandise! She also cheated at the chess game with my nephew, I’ve no doubt! She’s been nothing but trouble since she entered the city, and now she’s stealing from honest folk trying to make a living!”
What was it about Erin and trouble? It seemed it followed her wherever she went. Erin gritted her teeth.
“I didn’t steal anything. I haven’t even been in the city—”
“Miss, please.”
The guardsman cut her off. He gently moved Lism back.
“I’ll look into your claims, sir, but I can’t make any arrests. Unless you have proof—”
“Hey, I said I didn’t steal anything!”
“Hah! Another Human lie!”
Lism jabbed a claw at Erin again, despite the guard’s best attempts to move them apart. Now, Erin was getting mad. She opened her mouth and clenched her fists.
“I was out of the city all day! I have proof!”
“Well—”
The shopkeeper hesitated, but now he was too far in to back down.
“It could have been her. You know how Humans get! They’re always sneaking around, going where they’re not wanted.”
“We’ll investigate your claims. Just please move back—”
“You can’t trust her word! Get a truth stone! All of these Humans have caused nothing but trouble since they got here! First, they start stealing, and then what? They’ll take our jobs, attack us on the streets—”
“Please! Move back!”
The guard finally managed to pull the enraged shopkeeper away from Erin. He struggled and hollered, but eventually, he let himself be led away. He still shot venomous glances over his shoulder at Erin, which she returned in kind.
That was unpleasant. Erin was just about to leave before the jerk came back and shouted some more when the [Guard] returned.
“Miss?”
“Oh, hi. Thanks for getting rid of him for me. Was he mad about someone stealing his stuff?”
The Drake nodded. He looked out of sorts and tired.
“There have been a number of petty thefts across the city. Shopkeeper Lism was the latest one to be stolen from.”
“Well…I’m sorry about that. Good luck finding the criminal.”
Erin tried to excuse herself, but the guardsman shook his head.
“I’m sorry, Miss, but I’m afraid I’ll have to investigate his claims. If you’ll follow me, I’ll take a statement from you. Just with a truth spell. I’ll also need proof that you were out of the city this morning.”
“What?”
“It’s standard procedure—”
“But I—he—he’s just mad because I beat him at a game of chess! Or—I beat his nephew and—look, I didn’t do anything.”
The guardsman sighed wearily and raised his hands.
“I understand, Miss, but I have to investigate all leads. Please, this won’t take too long…”
Erin looked around helplessly. This wasn’t fair. But who could help her? The other Drakes and Gnolls, well, some of them looked indifferent, others even sympathetic. But some of them were eying her. And none of them would help. What could they do?
A lot, if one of the people in the crowd was a certain female Gnoll who pushed her way through the throng and marched up to the guardsman. He visibly wilted as Krshia, shopkeeper, Gnoll, and currently Erin’s number one hero folded her arms.
“What are you doing, if I may ask, guardsman? I hear you are taking an innocent Human away on the word of a petty shopkeeper. But that would be wrong, yes?”
The guardsman backed up two steps from the angry Gnoll. He wasn’t a small Drake, but Krshia was big even for a Gnoll, and a few more Gnolls in the crowd were drifting her way.
“Look, Mistress Krshia, I’m just investigating—”
“I heard.”
Krshia sniffed and glanced down the street. Lism, the shopkeeper, ducked back into his stall as she glared in his direction.
“Lism, the sheddings that he is, talks too much and lies when he knows nothing. Someone broke into his stall, but he saw nothing, heard nothing. But he claims it was a girl who bested him out of spite. And you would bother her without evidence?”
“That’s not—I’m just doing my job. It’s just a truth spell to make sure she’s innocent. In fact, she can rely on that as proof.”
That made sense, and Erin felt it was sorta reasonable, but Krshia’s eyes narrowed.
“This does make sense—if you had any reason to suspect Miss Solstice. But all you have is Lism’s unfounded claims. She was outside the city most of the day—your colleagues can surely attest to her being at the gates, yes? Why waste truth spells on her? This seems close to harassing her for being a Human…much like one might question a Gnoll who was anywhere near a crime being committed in another city. But Liscor is not like other Drake cities, no?”
“I—”
The guardsman was torn between duty and not wanting to deal with anything remotely approaching the trouble written on Krshia’s face. He hesitated and then decided as several Gnolls casually walked out of the crowd and joined Krshia. They stood behind her and Erin, not looming but certainly projecting an aura.
“I believe I’ll continue my investigations into the break-in separately. And confirm with the Watch at the gates before I take up Miss Solstice’s valuable time.”
Krshia smiled coldly.
“Yes, that is wise.”
“Well then.”
The guardsman backed off fast. Erin blinked, still confused by what had just happened. The entire moment—well she was grateful for Krshia obviously—but it struck her as slightly wrong that the local law enforcement would back down to a bunch of civilians.
Then again, when the civilians in question were Gnolls, Erin could see why. Even at their best, they did give off a much more…bestial feel than the Drakes. It wasn’t that Erin expected them to lose their tempers, but she also wouldn’t be too surprised if they did. That kind of feeling.
Krshia smiled down at Erin as the other Gnolls around her muttered or barked to her. She growled something back to them, and they walked back into the flow of the crowd.
“Erin Solstice. I have been looking for you. And it is good that I found you just now, yes?”
“Yes. Thanks for that, Krshia. I didn’t know what to do, and that shopkeeper guy—”
Krshia narrowed her eyes and snorted.
“Lism. He causes trouble, yes? Even though you bested him fairly and his nephew is most admiring of you. But enough—I will make sure he causes no trouble. I wish to speak with you.”
“Um, okay? About what? The thief?”
Krshia flicked her fingers.
“Pshaw. It is a cowardly thing that hides and steals from us on Market Street and elsewhere. No one knows if it is Human or another, but the thefts are small. Low-level. No, I do not worry about such a [Thief]. I wish to speak with you privately. I invite you to my home for food and drink.”
Again, Erin hesitated. She was grateful but—
“Um, does it have to be now? I’m really beat, Krshia. I could use a nap—”
“I have a bed in my home too. You may use it and rest if you wish. Come.”
Gnolls were pushy. Or maybe it was just Krshia. But Erin found herself being dragged down the street before she quite knew what was happening.
“Look, I’m grateful, really, but this isn’t a good time. I just had to deal with some evil spiders and—”
“Erin!”
Krshia ignored Erin and the person calling her name. She marched through the crowd at speed.
“If we wait for a good time, we will never have time. Come, my home is not far.”
“Erin! Erin Solstice!”
Krshia visibly sighed, and her ears twitched as the mysterious name-caller drew closer. She halted in the street, and Erin finally managed to extract her hand from the Gnoll’s huge paw. She turned and saw another Drake heading her way.
“Olesm?”
The smaller, younger Drake stopped in front of Erin and Krshia, panting. He was clutching a piece of parchment and a quill and inkpot of all things. For a second, Erin was struck by the sheer inconvenience of not having pens in this world, but then Olesm shoved the paper into her face.
“Take a look at this, Erin! I just received this, and it’s the most fascinating thing ever! A new way to play chess!”
Erin blinked, but then the paper disappeared as Krshia gently but firmly pulled Olesm away.
“Most interesting, but Erin Solstice is busy. I will talk with her, and you will find her later, yes?”
She wanted to pull Erin away, but to the Gnoll’s dismay, Erin was already standing next to Olesm.
“What was that about a new way to play chess?”
This time, Krshia groaned, but Erin was already staring at the piece of paper Olesm was eagerly waving about. She tried one last attempt.
“There is time to play such games later, yes? Erin—”
But by that point, Erin and Olesm were already engrossed. Krshia’s ears twitched again, but there was nothing she could do.
“Just look at this, Erin!”
“I will if you stop moving. What is it?”
Erin snatched the paper from Olesm’s claw and stared at it. Well, it was a piece of paper. And on that paper was an inked…illustration? Erin frowned, but then she got it. It was chess. Someone had drawn a chess board on the piece of paper.
She stared down at a picture—or rather, a drawing of a chess board. Someone had taken the time to draw out the grid and then illustrate—in quite fine detail—each piece on the imaginary board. She stared down at a white king piece, a queen piece in the corner, a knight and a pawn caught in the middle of a game against two black pawn pieces, two rooks, and naturally, a king piece hiding in behind the pawns in the upper left-hand corner.
Olesm hovered over Erin’s shoulder, chattering into her ear.
“I just received a long-distance delivery that went out to all the known [Tacticians] and chess players on the continent! From the Titan of Baleros! Okay, his Great Company, the Forgotten Wing. On Baleros? He can definitely afford it. It was this paper—and it’s a challenge, see? You have to—”
“Solve it in five moves?”
“How’d you know?”
Olesm stared at Erin. She pointed.
“It’s written right here. And white moves first.”
“Yes, isn’t it amazing? I would never have thought of that—but someone’s come up with a way to play chess across long distances without a spell! But this isn’t a game at all—”
“Oh, I know. It’s a chess puzzle.”
Olesm visibly deflated.
“You know what it is? But of course—how silly of me.”
Krshia walked over to stare at the chess boards. She squinted down at the paper and frowned at the pieces.
“I fail to understand this—puzzle. Why has someone sent it to you, Olesm?”
“It’s more like a challenge to anyone.”
Erin explained absently as she stared at the chess pieces.
“It’s a challenge or a problem for players. You have to find a way to win the game in a certain number of moves. It helps people learn to play chess, and this way, you can write it down.”
Olesm nodded eagerly. He pointed to the paper.
“In this case, the solution is to checkmate the black king, but I haven’t been able to figure it out yet. I imagine most of the players across the continent are trying to figure it out. It might take some time, but I hope to be one of the first to figure—”
Erin was still staring at the paper. She blinked, frowned, and then snapped her fingers. Both Krshia and Olesm jumped.
“Hm~! Got it!”
Erin smiled and flicked the chess puzzle with one hand.
“Done and done!”
“What?”
Olesm froze and stared at Erin. She grinned at him.
“You—you finished it? Just like that?”
“Yep. It wasn’t too bad a problem. But I’ve seen several like it, so…”
Krshia glanced sympathetically at Olesm. The poor Drake stared at Erin and then down at the chess puzzle.
“—I would deeply love to know how you solved it so quickly. But I should—yes, I should solve it on my own. Shouldn’t I?”
He looked longingly at the piece of parchment Erin was holding. She grinned and folded it up.
“You should. It will help you in the long run. Don’t feel bad—I just happened to know how that particular problem goes. But it was quite fun.”
“Fun.”
Olesm repeated the word. He looked down at the paper.
“I’ve been wrestling with this problem for an hour. But—of course with someone of your level I shouldn’t expect this to faze you. Of course.”
“Do you have any more?”
Olesm shook his head. He accepted the piece of parchment back from Erin.
