Erin glared over her shoulder at the adventurer. Pisces eyed her. There was something familiar—well, unfamiliar, really. He had never seen a Gazer of Baleros. Obviously, he knew the species, but there was only one famous member of them he knew by name.
…It wasn’t her. Obviously. Erin hadn’t mentioned a name when she wandered into the inn with her guest, but it wasn’t her. That would be unbelievable. Pisces was keeping his ear out for a name as Erin ranted. Just because it couldn’t be her.
“Who asks that? Honestly!”
The adventurer shrugged. She was looking around the inn—with more than one eye? Pisces’ brows snapped together as he stared at her.
“Is it strange that other species do not know much about Human reproduction?”
“Yes! No! I just—”
Erin threw up her hands.
“Forget it. This is my inn. I’ll get you some food. You can take a seat. Watch out for Pisces, the jerk over there. He steals stuff. Like my food.”
She glared at the half-eaten pastries on Pisces’ table, and the mage flinched. Then she stomped into the kitchen, leaving him alone with…with…
As the adventurer took a table near him, Pisces’ eyes widened as he noticed her armor and sword. Her armor didn’t look magical to him—which had made him certain it wasn’t her and she was some other Gazer. But that sword…
A claymore. And she was sitting there and staring at him…and now Pisces began to sweat. There was no way. There was no way one of the King’s Seven was in this inn.
Staring at him.
If Pisces had been eating food, he would have choked on it. If he’d been drinking, he probably would have sprayed it out his mouth and nose. Since he wasn’t doing either, he just stared, wide-eyed, at Gazi.
She smiled at him. And as the last voices of denial tried to obfuscate the truth from his panicking mind, the Named-rank adventurer looked him in the eyes and said the most robe-wetting thing Pisces could imagine.
“Greetings, [Necromancer].”
 
——
 
Erin rattled around in her kitchen, searching for something to serve up. She put a pot of pasta on the stove, poured out some blue juice—which Pisces had also helped himself to—and sliced up some bread with cheese and sausage. She realized she had no idea what Gazi or her kind ate, but she took it out anyways.
Pisces was sitting in his seat, looking meeker than Erin had ever seen him as he chatted with Gazi. Well, it was more like her asking questions and him replying quickly and nervously. Every few seconds, he would duck his head as if bowing. 
Another person who recognized the famed adventurer.
“Here you go.”
Erin put the appetizers in front of Gazi.
“Let me know if there’s anything you want or can’t eat. Also, this is blue juice. It’s…it’s blue. But it tastes sweet.”
“This looks delightful. Thank you for allowing me to impose.”
“No problem. I rarely get visitors—”
Erin stopped as the door opened.
“I rarely get visitors.”
She was expecting the Goblins to enter or perhaps Olesm or even Pawn and some Workers. But instead the last person she expected walked in.
Relc.
He grinned at her and sauntered into the inn, spear over one shoulder. And he wasn’t alone. Four more Drakes—all guardsmen by the look of them—entered the inn, looking around warily.
Erin wasn’t sure what to say. She stared at Relc. The Drake met her eyes and then looked away.
“Hi, Relc.”
“Miss Erin. How’re you doing?”
“Good. Um. You brought friends?”
“For a meal. Mind putting something on for us? I’m hungry.”
“Of—of course.”
Flustered, Erin retreated into the kitchen to double up on her dinner preparations. She reemerged to find Relc and his friends sitting close to Gazi. Since she’d chosen to sit next to Pisces, there was an odd triangle in the center of her inn.
There was also dead silence. Awkwardly, Erin put out drinks and appetizers for the guardsmen and Relc. The other Drakes accepted her drinks and stared at the blue juice warily, but they were polite. Relc, on the other hand, was boisterous and noisy, thanking her and gulping down the juice quickly. He looked everywhere—except at her and Gazi, that was.
That was Erin’s first clue, but she was so busy running around the inn that she didn’t pick up on it. But as she began draining boiled noodles and mixing it with sautéed onions, she heard Relc get up and walk over to Gazi.
“So. You’re the famous adventurer entering our small city. Nice to meet you.”
Erin peeked her head out of the kitchen just in time to see Relc leaning over the table. He stuck out one massive hand.
“I’m Relc. A Senior Guardsman here in Liscor.”
Was it just her or was Relc…bigger than before? But Gazi just smiled up at him and shook his hand with her gauntleted one. She saw the muscles in his arm tense, but Gazi didn’t even blink as she shook his hand.
“I am Gazi Pathseeker, a travelling adventurer.”
“Who?” 
Half the [Guards] looked at Relc, but the Drake pretended not to have any idea who Gazi was. Then he picked at his teeth with a claw.
“Oh, right. I think I’ve heard the name before. An adventurer? That’s nice. I thought about being one, but it sounded like too much hassle.”
“The life of an adventurer is not for everyone.”
“No, there’s all the dirt and mud and monsters trying to kill you.”
“It becomes occasionally unpleasant.”
“Right, right.”
Erin didn’t need any special skills to sense the underlying tension in the air. She saw the four guardsmen Relc had brought surreptitiously eying Gazi. Meanwhile, Pisces had scooted around the edge of the table to get away from the two.
Relc paused. Then he cleared his throat and eyed Gazi.
“So…mind telling me what you’re doing in my city? And, uh, how long you’re going to be staying around here? Not going to start a war, are you?”
Relc put a heavy emphasis on my. And he was leaning over Gazi in a not-so-subtle way. She didn’t seem to be bothered by his looming, though.
“I am merely exploring this continent. Rest assured, I mean to cause no disruptions while I am here. Reim is far from here, and my liege sleeps. I am…peaceful.”
She said that last part with an edge that made the entire inn go silent. Everyone looked ready to change the subject, especially because Relc’s last comment had gotten on Gazi’s nerves. Her large eye had narrowed ever-so-slightly. However, the big Drake nodded agreeably, or in a way that suggested agreeability while the tone of his voice was anything but.
“That’s good. I’d hate for any of that. It seems like every other day I have to deal with uppity adventurers causing trouble. It’s because I’m the highest-level member of the Watch, you know. All the guys always call on me for help.”
“It sounds like you have quite a tough job. I am impressed.”
Gazi’s voice was getting less and less friendly, and the notes of sarcasm…well, let’s just say that Erin was sensing a lot of it in the air. Relc flexed one arm and checked his bicep.
“Yeah, well, I’m just that good. [Spearmaster], you know? One of Izril’s few.”
“Indeed? A fascinating class. I myself have killed only a few.”
The room became quieter. Relc’s gaze snapped up, and he opened his mouth—but didn’t have a ready retort. Gazi seemed content with that. Relc scratched at his scales. His tail twitched a few times on the floor.
“Funny person. Anyways. So. What I’m saying is, I’d hate for your visit to get unpleasant, understand? This isn’t a good place for you to cause any trouble like the kind you get up to on your continent. You get—”
He was leaning forwards, and Gazi’s main pupil was narrowing to a fine point of annoyance as the [Guards] looked like they were bracing for the worst—which they had come here to avoid. Pisces was opening a window and peering outside. The air was turning bad—
And then Erin tapped Relc on the back of the head with a plate full of food. Hard.
“Ow!”
He turned and glared at her. She glared back.
“Oi. Stop harassing my guest.”
Gazi blinked. Pisces turned back, incredulous, and the Senior Guardsman looked at Erin. He glared—then ducked a second tap of the plate.
“I wasn’t—”
“Stop harassing. My guest. And sit back down. The food’s ready.”
Relc glared, but then he looked at Gazi—and the tense air was lost. He opened his mouth, closed it—stared at Erin, and growled. The Drake stomped back to his table as everyone sighed in relief. Gazi smiled at Erin, amused.
“Ah. Pasta? It looks quite delicious. Thank you, Erin.”
“Yeah, looks good! Have a bite and let me know if that’s an illusion.”
Relc began digging into his food the instant Erin left it at his table. After some hesitation, the other guardsmen did as well. Their wary expressions changed, and they soon began slurping down the noodles with good humor.
Pisces glanced around. Everyone else was eating—and Erin had even brought out some food for herself. But he was notably bereft of a plate and food.
“Ah, I believe you missed someone.”
“Did I?”
Erin eyed him balefully. She quite pointedly stared at the remains of her pastries on his table.
“Too bad. I guess I only have food for paying customers.”
He smirked at her.
“As a matter of fact, I believe today is the day I will pay off my tab. I have come into quite a bit of money as of late.”
“Really?”
Erin raised a skeptical eyebrow. Pisces pulled out a bulging pouch and showed her the contents.
“If you would observe.”
She stared.
“That’s a lot of gold. Hey! Did you steal that?”
Relc’s head rose, but Pisces looked insulted.
“Not at all. I merely performed a complex bit of magic and received remuneration. But I believe this is more than enough to pay off my tab many times over. Allow me to repay my debts in full and tip you for your time.”
He reached a hand into the pouch, but before he could take any gold out, the bag disappeared from underneath his hand. Relc pulled it away and deposited the bag on his table.
“Yoink.”
“Hey!”
Pisces shot to his feet. He grabbed for the money, but Relc raised the bag out of arm’s reach.
“Give that back! It is my property!”
“Nope! Confiscated by the City Watch!”
“Relc!”
Erin shouted at the Drake as Pisces grew redder and redder. The mage pointed a trembling finger at Relc.
“This is an abuse of authority! You have no right to steal my property—”
Relc grinned and waggled a claw at Pisces.
“I have every right. Or did you forget—you’re still wanted for all those thefts you did earlier. Scaring people—robbing graves—all of that should be nicely covered by this donation to the city, shouldn’t it?”
Pisces turned white and then red again with outrage. He spluttered, but didn’t really have anything to respond with except unrighteous indignation. Relc laughed at the mage—until Erin punched him in the shoulder.
“Ow. Have you gotten stronger?”
“It’s a Skill. Stop bothering my customers.”
“Fine. But I’m keeping this. Necromancer Pisces will be allowed back in the city, and we won’t stab him with all his fines paid off—but I’ll be watching him.”
“This is unjust—not right—”
Pisces clenched his fists, but Erin managed to get him back to his seat. He sat there in a huff, so she got him his own plate and food to calm him down.
“Honestly. I have a new guest here. Can’t you two behave for one night?”
“I am quite enjoying the spectacle. Do not mind me.”
Relc glanced sideways at Gazi. But then he ignored her and grinned at Erin.
“Sorry, Erin. I just wanted to say hi—after so long.”
She eyed him doubtfully.
“Really?”
“Really. I saw you just this morning and thought—well, it would be nice to see a friendly Human again. I had to deal with so many rude adventuring types and annoying mages each day.”
Pisces muttered something darkly. Erin shot him a look, and he shut up.
“I saw that. You were pretty impressive out there. I didn’t know you were that good.”
Relc grinned and put his hands behind his head as he leaned back in his chair.
“I try, I try. I’m not the greatest guardsman in the city for no reason.”
The four guardsmen stopped their meal and looked up at Relc. One of them snorted.
“Greatest guardsman? Sure, one who can’t even catch a Human Runner.”
The other three chuckled. Relc thumped back down on his chair and glared at them.
“I was wearing armor, and I had my spear, alright? She got lucky!”
Erin blinked at Relc as the other guardsmen made more jokes at his expense.
“You got outrun by a Runner?”
“She was really fast! I’ve never seen anything like it! Any other Runner I’d leave in the dust. But her—”
“Sure you didn’t lose while you were admiring her? Relc, the Gecko, lost to a mere Human. The mighty have fallen.”
“Too busy panting and not enough breathing while you were running?”
“Shut up! Don’t call me that stupid name!”
Relc glared at the two guards and threw a bit of food at them. That earned him another buffet from Erin. He glared at her, but then switched tone.
“—By the way, Miss Erin. You…wouldn’t happen to know any female Runners, would you?”
“Me?”
Erin blinked at him. Relc nodded.
“Sure, I mean, maybe, right? She was about your age.”
“What did she look like?”
This question came from Pisces. The mage was staring with some interest at Relc. The Drake frowned and shrugged awkwardly.
“She had…black hair. And she was—tall? Taller than Erin. And, uh, she was fast. Ring any bells?”
Pisces and Erin exchanged a look. Erin planted her hands on her hips.
“How am I supposed to know someone by all that?”
“Hey, I’m doing the best I can! All you Humans—you’re sort of similar. Anyways, I just thought you’d know her.”
“Because I’m Human? And all Humans know other Humans?”
Relc scratched at the side of his head.
“Um. Yeah?”
“Unbelievable.”
Erin began banging together empty dishes as she glared at Relc, and the Drake spread his claws out innocently.
“Hey, I just wondered—that isn’t the only reason I’m here! I was going to tell you about the thief in the city.”
“I already know about the thief in the city! And before you cause more trouble, it wasn’t Pisces. If he were the thief, you’d have caught him already.”
“Oh, we know that. The [Guards] would have spotted him entering the city, his stupid invisible trick or not. No, it’s probably just some Human. But I wanted to tell you to hire some protection around here. You got lucky with those Shield Spiders, but you’re not going to be lucky forever. Hire an adventurer already.”
“And pay them with what? Adventurers are expensive!”
One of the guards nodded.
“They are. Unless you know one personally, the rates they charge are far too high.”
Relc glared at the guardsman.
“Way to help, thick-tail.”
“I don’t have money for that. Unless—”
