“This was the first—I mean, I suppose we might expect more of the same in the future, wouldn’t we? This puzzle was sent to countless cities. From the Titan. To find good opponents, I bet, and promote his game. I wouldn’t be surprised if more appear soon.”
Erin nodded.
“Oh, you mean sort of like a magazine, right? Or a newspaper?”
“A what?”
Both Krshia and Olesm looked at Erin blankly. She tried to explain. Olesm nodded his head uncertainly.
“Yes—yes, that sounds about right.”
“I’m just surprised. I thought sending stuff was supposed to be costly.”
Olesm shook his head.
“It’s not that expensive, especially if you send it with the slower deliveries.”
“Slower deliveries…?”
The Drake nodded. He gestured to the parchment in his hand.
“This was sent via magic. The Mage’s Guild can print images as well as text—but it’s extremely expensive. If it was a letter…again, the Titan can definitely afford magic, but a letter’s a fraction of the cost. And slower. Heck, you don’t even need the Runner’s Guild. You see, Runners deliver things quickly, but merchants and caravans and even ship captains will pass on long-distance deliveries for a very small fee.”
Erin frowned. She sort of got it. It was like snail mail by boat versus sending stuff by plane. And [Message] spells? That sounded like emails! But part of the process still confused her.
“How does that work if you trade the letter more than once? Do you pay the first guy a lot and have him give the money to the next person? That sounds risky.”
Olesm scratched at his scales as he tried to explain.
“It’s more like—well, I suppose you could call the letters a form of currency. Travellers will buy them for a few coins and complete the delivery in hopes of earning more when they sell them later or deliver them to their owner. Really, the Runner’s Guild is far more reliable but expensive.”
“Oh. So it’s sort of a gamble.”
“Exactly, but it’s fairly certain that the letter will get to your destination in the end. Of course, sending something private is a bad idea, but you can send a message to another continent for only a copper coin or two. It might take a month or two, but it will get there.”
Erin nodded. It all made sense. And it reminded her of—well, it reminded her of the post office in a way. Just without stamps. It was useful, it really was.
It was just that she was dreaming of email, the internet, and being able to call her family in two seconds at that moment. So she wasn’t that impressed, even though she was really trying to be.
“I wonder—do you think I could send the answer to the person who sent you the puzzle?”
Olesm hesitated.
“I don’t see why not. I mean, I won’t get in touch with the Titan, just his company. And it costs a bit, but it’s only a few silver for a [Message] spell…I bet he’ll check for answers soon, but not within an hour of sending the puzzle!”
It seemed pricier than he wanted, but Erin was getting excited. And so was Olesm at the thought of contacting and impressing this Titan. Was he actually that big?
“I can write down the answer. Do you have any paper…?”
“Write it down here. I won’t look.”
Olesm handed Erin another piece of parchment and averted his eyes as she scribbled on it. She handed it back to him folded up.
“Okay, so you send it to this person. And then this person will send me something harder?”
“Perhaps. Or perhaps they might wait until others have sent in their reply. It could take a few weeks or up to a month for a new puzzle.”
“Aw. That’s a long time.”
“But it’s so fascinating to play games across such a long distance, isn’t it?”
Erin tried to find the enthusiasm Olesm was giving off, but the truth was this revolutionary idea was small potatoes in her world. She sighed, but then she had a thought.
“I’ve got a better idea. Here, give me the paper back.”
She took the pen and dipped it in the ink pot Olesm held out.
“They sent me a puzzle, so I can send one back. Let’s see how they like this.”
Erin drew out a chess board with every piece in the starting position. She wasn’t an artist, but she did the best she could. Then she wrote in the upper left hand corner:
‘Black side will mirror white side’s every move. Force checkmate in 4 moves.’
“It’s a bit elementary, but it should be a good challenge for a beginner. You can send this via letter, if not a [Message] spell thingy?”
She showed it to Olesm and Krshia. Olesm frowned at the paper while Krshia shook her head in confusion, but then he smiled.
“I’m definitely not paying for [Messaging] an image. But I could probably send a letter via one of the bulk deliveries! What a fun puzzle! Wait…ah. I actually know this one.”
Olesm perked right back up and puffed his chest out proudly. Erin’s smile turned upside-down.
“Wait, what?”
“Several new players like to challenge me this way. So I grew quite adept at beating them. It is quite a simple solution as I’m sure you know. If you move the queen like so—”
Erin scowled and snatched the parchment back.
“Give me that.”
She flipped it over and began writing furiously on the backside. Olesm blinked, and Krshia grinned in amusement. When Erin showed Olesm the new problem, he blinked.
“That’s a—a lot of pieces.”
“Checkmate in four moves. Black moves first.”
Erin grinned evilly at Olesm.
“Four moves?”
He goggled at the paper. Erin had heard of goggling, but she’d never seen someone actually do it.
“No. That’s impossible. But—no, it shouldn’t be—”
He frowned, his tail lashing the ground.
“I can’t even begin to—how did you come up with this so quickly?”
“It was one of the puzzles that gave me a headache back when I was playing a lot. It took me nearly a week to figure it out.”
“I can’t—may I copy this? Please?”
“Go ahead. And if you’ll send this back to the person who sent the other puzzle—I’ll pay for delivery.”
“Oh, of course. Certainly. Um, you can give me a few silver coins and it will get there, but more money means a faster delivery. Sorry, but it is overseas. Maybe I could get someone to pay for an image-[Message]? But that’s gold. How about two silver and I’ll copy this to Baleros for a slow Runner letter—and to Pallass? Maybe someone will send it back to the Titan. They’re all rich in the Walled City. Tons of famous [Strategists]. Heck, the Cyclops of Pallass lives there. Uh, the Grand Strategist of the Drakes.”
“I get it. Well, not anything of what you just said, but it’s pricey. Okay…”
Erin thought about that and dug in her money pouch. She was feeling generous, so she handed Olesm two silver coins. From what Selys had told her, she’d be rolling in bits of shiny metal soon enough.
The Drake blinked down at the coins, but accepted them and promised to send the letter as soon as he copied down Erin’s puzzle. He hurried off, leaving Krshia and Erin behind.
She smiled, wondered a bit maliciously how long it would take the mysterious chess puzzler to solve her problem, and then completely forgot about it a minute later.
Krshia was still trying to get Erin to have a meal with her, but Erin was tired, still sore, and for that matter, hungry. And despite her best wishes towards Gnolls, their food was more than a little raw by Human standards.
“Look, I’d really love to visit. And I will—how about tomorrow?”
“But today is quicker, yes?”
“Yes, but—”
Erin wavered. Krshia enticed her with promises of baked food and meat. And it would be nice, even if she had the feeling the Gnoll wanted to talk to her about something important. Maybe she could relax?
But just as she was about to leave with Krshia, someone else called out Erin’s name. This time, Krshia’s ears laid flat on her head, and she turned with a glare. But the Gnoll stopped.
Gazi Pathseeker stood behind Erin in a vortex of attention. She smiled up at Krshia, and the Gnoll stared at her. Erin blinked and sighed as the half-Gazer greeted her.
“Erin. Is now a good time?”
“I guess. Did you meet all the important people you were supposed to?”
Gazi shrugged.
“I have met with various individuals. But I am sure others will introduce themselves when they realize I am in the city. However, I wonder if I might take you up on your offer.”
“Offer? What offer?”
Erin blinked at Gazi. The adventurer smiled and waved her hand.
“You mentioned you had an inn. If you wouldn’t mind, I would very much like to see it and have a meal, if I may.”
“Oh. Of course.”
Erin glanced at Krshia.
“Sorry, Krshia. It’s just that I promised Gazi—she helped me out earlier today. You don’t mind…?”
Krshia stood stock still and waved a hand silently at Erin. Gazi smiled in the Gnoll’s direction.
“Thank you, Shopkeeper Krshia. I apologize for my rudeness.”
The Gnoll murmured something, but Erin was already leading Gazi away. Krshia stared at the adventurer’s back and then shook her head. She turned, grabbed the nearest Gnoll, and began speaking quickly with him. She kept casting glances at Gazi’s back the entire time the adventurer was walking away. She hadn’t dared meet the half-Gazer’s eyes, and even now, Krshia’s hair was puffed out.
She watched Gazi, but Krshia had no idea—or perhaps she did—that she was being watched right back.
 
——
 
Erin stared in horrified fascination as one of Gazi’s eyeballs slowly rotated to face forwards in her head as the two walked down the street. Apparently, Gazers had 360° vision, which was awesome and incredibly disturbing.
She talked to Gazi while the female adventurer’s eyes roamed. She kept her big eye focused on Erin as she walked—out of politeness, Erin guessed, but her other four eyes were all moving in other directions. In fact, it was quite disturbing how Gazi’s big eye didn’t move away from Erin the entire time. Since she had other eyes, she could focus entirely on Erin even while avoiding other pedestrians.
Not that there were any to get in her or Erin’s way. The other people on the street either knew Gazi or didn’t want to walk in front of the adventurer. She was still dressed like a warrior, and even if her armor looked rusty, she seemed like serious business.
All in all—no, Erin wasn’t going to think it. But she couldn’t help it. It really felt like she was talking to a female version of Mad Eye Moody, as wrong as that sounded. A lot less grumpy and with more than one crazy eyeball, but the thought was in her head, and she couldn’t shake it.
And like the Harry Potter characters, Gazi seemed to be a sinkhole for attention. So much so that Erin felt uncomfortable as the two walked down the street towards the gates. She was used to scrutiny, but this time, the Drakes and Gnolls weren’t even bothering to hide their stares. And sure, most were staring at Gazi, but a lot of them were also staring at the weird Human talking to her.
“You’re really that famous, huh?”
Gazi shrugged, and the armor on her shoulders rolled back.
“Some might say so. I apologize if the attention bothers you. Do you dislike such things?”
“Dunno. I’ve never been famous—or popular.”
Gazi nodded.
“I believe I am more infamous than famous.”
“I’ve never been that either.”
“I believe the difference between the two is quite minute in some senses. In others however—well, suffice it to say I appreciate staring as opposed to other reactions. Some cities would not let me past the gates—or even in range of the walls. Nor will I blame them for that.”
“Right, right. I get you. I think.”
Erin and Gazi stopped at a crowded intersection. Today seemed like a weekend—not that Erin had a good grasp of the week days in this world. She spotted several families out and about, which meant that they’d entered a residential district. She seldom went there, so the sight of children was—
They were so small. And cute! Well, the Gnoll kids reminded Erin of vicious puppies, but the small Drakes were terrifyingly cute. They ran about like normal kids, dragging their shorter tails about as they scuffled, played…did all the things normal kids did, really.
As they caught sight of Erin and Gazi, some of the adults stared. But a gang of Drakes and a few Gnolls pointed at Erin instead. One of the children ran up to the two and then away. It was a boy Drake—at least, she thought it was.
That was charming, especially the way the group of kids was clearly fascinated with her. Erin was smiling—until she saw the parents.
Two Drakes, both with lighter blue scales, watched their offspring run about with his friends with affectionate interest. He ran up to her, and his parents called out, not wanting him to bother Erin. She was caught by the moment and the thought struck her before she could banish it.
Mother, father, and child.
Her smile flickered and vanished. But then Erin put it back on her face. She bent down towards the young Drake, not looking towards either of the parents.
“Hi there!”
Erin smiled at the Drake child. He immediately took a step back, but the other children pushed him forward.
“Can I ask you something?”
The boy Drake’s parents waved at him, telling him not to bother the Human. But Erin smiled. She forced the smile, but it was a smile.
“Go on, I don’t mind. Ask me any question you want.”
The Drake grinned up at her. He had very sharp teeth. But it was still an innocent smile. A mischievous smile, too.
“Can you really shoot blood out of your—”
 
——
 
Pisces was sitting at a table in The Wandering Inn, sipping from a mug at his leisure as he put his feet up on one table. At his side, he’d dragged over another table and organized a smorgasbord of cheese, meats, bread, and some sweet pastries Erin had bought for herself last time she’d been in the city.
He jumped as the door to the inn smashed open, and Erin stormed in. She was wearing a terrific frown on her face, which contrasted sharply with the amusement on the face of the half-Gazer who followed her in.
She didn’t even have to say anything. One look and Pisces’ feet came off the table, and he began industriously polishing the wood with his considerably dirtier robe.
“Greetings, Mistress Solstice. Ah, are you well?”
Erin stood in the center of the room and glared at everything and nothing.
“I hate kids. I hate Drakes, and I hate people who don’t understand anything about female anatomy.”
That last comment was accompanied by a glare for Pisces. He opened his mouth to protest and then wisely shut up.
“In case anyone’s wondering, I cannot shoot blood out of my crotch.”
“I did not wonder. But it was quite amusing to see your reaction when the child asked you the question.”
