Thasius has to struggle with his next delivery and for good reason. I blink as he pulls out a long, long package and small wrapped parcels of powder, tiny vials, and most curious of all—
“Milk?”
Yes, several large jugs of goat’s milk. I stare at the odd collection of items that sits on the table in front of me, and Thasius explains.
“Lady Rie delivered a short message with the gifts. She understands Your Majesty is uh—uh—”
“Blind?”
“Um. Yes. So she ordered me to deliver the message verbally. It is as follows.”
I sense Thasius closing his eyes and he speaks slowly and carefully.
“To [Emperor] Laken, I am Lady Rie Valerund of Invrisil. I offer you my greetings and hope that the people you have chosen to protect fare well in these troubled times. I understand you have taken several villages under your aegis, and offer these medicines, ointments, and powders that have been created to ease children into this world. The young are our future, and the taxing requirements of raising them should be lessened if at all possible. I hope and trust we shall meet in the future as circumstances allow. I wish you the best of luck in your endeavors, Lady Rie.”
The young man is panting when he finishes. I stare at the gift Lady Rie has sent me. Piles of—of—baby powder? And milk? I can’t help it.
I laugh. The sound makes Thasius start, but then I stand up. For a second I debate making him memorize a reply of my own, but then I relent.
“Please tell Lady Rie that I am most grateful for her thoughtful—and insightful gift. I would welcome a meeting between us and hope I can return her gift in time. I am most humbly in her debt as Emperor Laken of the Unseen Empire.”
Chuckling, I sit down. Thasius stares at me before scrambling to break the next gift out. That night I share around soaps, candied treats, and other goodies. I don’t really want any of the things myself, and Wiskeria can use the potions. The only thing I keep is three of the soaps. They’re useful and Durene wants to use them. We try the first soap that night and conclude that the soaps are good, but we need a bigger bathtub. A hot tub would be very nice.
 
Day 80
 
The trebuchet arm broke, but at least we knocked down a tree. Now, if only we could aim the damned thing. Ryoka said the arm had to be…what was it? A ratio of 1:3.75? That’s really hard to put into practice.
And yet, a trebuchet…I see Tessia’s eyes shining as she fires a tiny prototype, and it sends a rock flying across the village. It’s a good idea. I just have to make sure none of the kids make models of the trebuchet themselves. The stone brained Mister Helm and nearly cracked his skull.
 
Day 81
 
Another town attacked. This one fought the Goblins off, but at a heavy cost. The attacks are all coming from around a mountain far to the east, and there’s a rumor going around that some kind of Great Chieftain of the Goblins lives there. All the better—or worse, I suppose. A Great Chieftain sounds bad, but if they’re further away, it means raiding parties won’t bother to travel this far. We’d have to have something they really wanted for them to attack, and the Unseen Empire’s greatest asset is that we’re poor.
We’re poor. Hold on, what’s moving down the north road? It’s just at the limits of my senses, but it feels like it’s headed north. And isn’t that where…?
 
Day 82
 
The attack was sudden, fierce, and came at dawn. Over two hundred and twenty Goblins poured out of the snowy landscape, and twenty six Hobs were leading them. It was a force that might take a town, or raze a village in less than an hour. But it was not a village nor a town that was attacked.
It was a mansion. Nestled comfortably adjacent to a small town, the home of Lady Rie and the Valerund family’s estate was, in theory, safe from bandits. The magical wards on the walls and the lady’s own private guard were more than a match for any monster or bandit attack.
But not Goblins. A [Shaman] blasted the wards off as the other Goblins swarmed through the town, setting it alight. Hobs cut down the shocked defenders as people fled towards the mansion.
No one made it.
The Goblins encircled the mansion, pounding on walls, trying to break the magically-reinforced glass. One Hob managed to bash through a window, but magefire and a hail of arrows dissuaded other Goblins from entering that way. Too dangerous. Instead, the [Shaman] began dancing in front of the door and the remaining Hobs brought out the battering rams. They began pounding on the doors as the lesser Goblins around them shouted, whipped into a frenzy by the [Shaman]’s dancing and spells.
Inside the mansion, Lady Rie Valerund and what remained of her guard sat and counted weapons. They had few bows, although there was a surplus of arrows for each one. Her servants and protectors were all gripping weapons, but they were only good steel, not enchanted. The Valerund family was not heir to the Reinhart legacy, and their bloodline had been whittled down over the years to one sole member.
The scion of the Valerund blood sat in one of her upholstered chairs and looked towards the captain of her guard. He, a brawny man who’d been an accomplished [Street Brawler] before she’d met him, was injured. Blood ran thickly down one arm before he poured a splash of healing potion on the wound. Lady Rie eyed the bloodstains on her carpet and said not a word about it.
“Have you sent a [Message] spell to Invrisil, to Lady Reinhart?”
She turned to her [Mage], a young man who had attended Wistram but failed to receive his mage certification. The pale-faced man nodded.
“I did—but they said that help won’t arrive for hours yet!”
“In which time we shall be dead. And Lady Reinhart?”
Lady Rie’s face was calm. Only one shaking leg betrayed her, but she kept the motion hidden by one of her gowns. Her captain of the guard, the man who’d been known as Geram Redfist, looked at his mistress and then away. The young [Mage] gulped.
“She—was unavailable, my lady. I tried and tried, but the [Mage] who answered said—said there was nothing she could do anyways.”
Rie tapped at one lip thoughtfully. A loud thump echoed down the corridors and her face paled, but she went on as if she hadn’t heard.
“Either her magical carriages have broken down again or her staff are…indisposed. No aid from her then. It seems the Goblins will break in within the hour. Unless I am wrong, Geram?”
The big man lowered his head. He carried no weapons, but he had two gauntlets on each hand and he had beaten the Hob who’d entered to death with his bare fists.
“They’ll be in sooner than that, Miss Rie. That damn [Shaman]’s creating something big out there and the Hobs are breaking the doors bit by bit.”
Lady Rie bit her lip.
“I thought those enchantments were meant to hold a Troll off. They were Wistram-certified. Nesor, you told me they were powerful.”
Nesor, the young [Mage], gulped.
“They are, Lady Rie. But—but no enchantment lasts forever! If you could shoot the Goblins or—or chase them away, the magic might replenish. I could cast a spell—”
Geram shook his head.
“Open a window and you’ll be filled with arrows before you can raise your hands, boy. There are Goblins climbing the roof. They’re banging on the windows upstairs.”
“They won’t get in, surely.”
Rie looked at Geram. He shrugged.
“Before the Hobs bust down the doors? No.”
She understood what he was saying. And what he wasn’t saying. Rie looked around, at the frightened faces around her and stood up slowly.
“Well then. It appears we all have an engagement with destiny. My loyal staff, Geram, Nesor, it has been a pleasure, truly.”
The gathered servants, [Maids], lone [Gardener], and [Cook] stared at their mistress in horror. She looked around and sighed.
“For all my scheming and plans, I didn’t expect it to end like this. Not…not so inelegantly.”
“We’ll hold them off as long as we can. I’ve already barricaded the main corridor and we’ve got every bow at each end. We’ll make them bleed before they get to us, I swear.”
Geram clenched one fist as the thundering blows on the door intensified. Outside the Goblins screamed and the [Shaman] roared a word that made the silverware on the tables flash for a second. Rie flinched. Geram looked towards Nesor and the [Mage] hesitated before hurrying towards the makeshift barricades. The captain of the guard drew closer to Rie and lowered his voice. He took something off of his belt and handed it to her.
Rie stared at the object. It was a dagger. She looked up at Geram’s face. The man’s expression was grim.
“I won’t lie, Lady Rie, there’s no way out for us. I could try opening a window and making a break for it, but the Goblins would catch us before we went half a yard. As for holding here—we don’t have the manpower for it.”
She nodded and tried to laugh lightly.
“I suppose I should have hired that Silver-rank team like you’d always advised me, shouldn’t I, Geram?”
He smiled back. Someone screamed and his head turned. It was only a servant, seeing a Goblin’s face pressed against one of the windows. He shook his head.
“Three Silver-rank teams wouldn’t have made a difference, milady. But here.”
He offered her the dagger again. Rie stared at it.
“For me? I’m sure I’ll fight my best Geram, but I’m no warrior. If there’s someone who can use it better—”
“We’re all armed, milady. No. This is for the last.”
Geram’s bald head was sweating. He looked into Rie’s eyes.
“I’ll die fighting, with a Goblin’s throat in my hands. But milady, the Goblins are known to capture—that is, take women prisoner and—”
Lady Rie’s face paled further. Geram hastily raised a hand in case she fainted, but she caught herself.
“I see. I understand Geram, but that won’t be necessary.”
“But Lady Rie—”
She drew something out of her pocket with trembling hands. Geram stared at the viscous orange liquid within. Rie smiled bitterly.
“We all have plans for the end, Geram. In this case, this poison will kill me quicker than any dagger. And better, it will poison my body. If I am to die, I will make sure any…indignities…are repaid in kind.”
The bald man looked at Rie and smiled. He offered her a hand and Rie took it as if she were being led onto the dance floor at a ball. The two proceeded towards the barricade. Heads turned to follow them as they walked. Geram lowered his head towards her as he walked.
“It has been an honor to serve you, my lady. I was nothing until I met you.”
Rie whispered.
“Nonsense. You were always worthy. Now. It is time.”
The doors were splintering. The Hobs roared as they smashed the battering ram into it again and again. The magic wards were failing. Rie turned and raised her voice. It could hardly be heard above the shrieking of the Goblins just outside, or the pounding at the doors, but still her words reached each one of her servants.
“Ladies, gentlemen, this is it. The end. I am afraid we will die here. Perhaps horribly. And that is our fate.”
They stared at her. Lady Rie’s chin lifted. The shaking in her knees stopped.
“Did you expect otherwise? No. I did not. No matter how much we beg or plead, there is no mercy here. This is Izril. Here we fight and live and die without respite, all of us. Life is a battle. We use words like knives and fight with politics and swords. None of us are ever safe, and it is an illusion to say otherwise.”
She paused. A thundering roar came from outside. Rie closed her eyes, and then opened them. She looked each of her servants in the face.
“But remember this. We will be avenged. Because that is Izril as well. We repay death with death. These Goblins may win today, but they will not celebrate long. We will be avenged. Remember that, and sell your lives wisely—”
“Milady!”
Nesor’s voice, desperate and shrill. Rie closed her eyes. He had lost his grip, the poor child. She opened her mouth, tried to speak over him.
“Remember that! Do not give the Goblins any quarter—”
“Milady Rie!”
“Silence!”
Geram roared at the young [Mage]. He strode over to Nesor, and froze as the [Mage] pointed out the window. He stared. Rie turned, aware that something was happening.
“What’s going on? Nesor? Geram?”
No one answered her. Rie strode over to one of the windows. Her first impression was a heaving sea of green bodies, but then her eyes focused on something in the distance. They widened.
“What on earth…?”
There was another sound. Rie turned left and saw Nesor falling backwards. His eyes were flickering and she saw the telltale signs of an incoming [Message] spell. He gasped and she rushed over to him.
“What is it?”
“It’s—a [Message]. To you. Lady Rie. It says—says—”
Nesor was a poor [Mage], unable to process [Message] spells like an experienced spellcaster. Normally Rie didn’t care, but at the moment she couldn’t bear to wait. She shook him impatiently.
“Well? Out with it!”
The young man choked. Geram pulled Rie back, and then Nesor’s head rose. He spoke slowly, each word ringing in the sudden silence outside.
“Lady Rie. I thank you for your gift. Though it is humble, I seek to return the favor. In this dire hour, I offer you the gift of swords.”
Slowly, Rie’s head rose. She looked back towards the window and all the pieces fell into place. She walked towards the windows and saw the army, shining as it marched towards the Goblins. She breathed the words slowly.
“Emperor Laken.”
 
—-
 
An army halts within range of the mansion. I have to pause when I see the numbers. Over a hundred—two hundred Goblins. And so many Hobs! And one of them is a powerful spellcaster.
It’s a force that could swallow Riverfarm whole. Far greater than the last one we faced or any since. And normally I wouldn’t dare risk my army fighting them. But it’s not just my army here.
Wiskeria gallops her horse forwards. Her voice is a shout that echoes as Goblins break away from pounding on the mansion’s doors and stream towards us.
“[Archers], aim! Hold, hold I said! Wait for them to draw nearer. Cavalry, on my signal! Infantry, brace!”
A hundred bows rise at her order. A hundred. Or more. I didn’t count. They’re not our bowmen, not just ours, at any rate. No, they’re [Guardsmen], retired [Hunters], warriors, even a few adventurers. From each town and village we could reach. And not just them. Rows of armored [Warriors] brace themselves in a line while mounted warriors line up. They’re carrying banners, and Beniar’s voice rises with Wiskeria’s. He trots them left as the Goblins approach.
“Loose!”
