Money only went so far. She had been gratified, in a way, to see Erin’s <Quest>, but the girl was still new to using her influence. She was a hammer, and while a hammer solved a lot of problems, it did not solve, say, a leaking wall.
But then, Erin Solstice didn’t see the Antinium as a threat. Magnolia cordially disagreed with many points of Erin’s beliefs, but she listened enough to understand where Erin was coming from.
She listened to Erin and Ryoka Griffin, which was why she, of all the Five Families, did not need to be told how the crusade had come to be. She waited as Theofore rode straight into the camps, bearing her banners.
He was challenged, which told Magnolia at least a few commanders were canny enough to know that they needed to secure their borders. Magnolia saw Ressa was taking notes as Theofore disembarked and met a [Lieutenant] riding up the road.
“He’s familiar. Who is that, Ressa?”
“Mm. Gershal of Vaunt. He fought with the Tidebreaker.”
“Oh my. Flag him. Vaunt was brave enough to ride in Orefell’s defense? Make a note. I should be nicer to them, cheese-freaks as they are.”
Ressa made a few quick notes as Theofore confirmed his identity. Magnolia waved at the [Lieutenant] as Theofore held up the scrying orb, and the poor fellow nearly fell out of his saddle in shock.
“Hello, hello! Lieutenant Gershal, isn’t it? I believe this is twice we’ve met! I shall send all the approbations to your city for your bravery later. But I would be exceptionally grateful if you would find the Antinium or Antinium—plural—in charge and convey my man, Theofore, to them?”
“At once, Lady Reinhart!”
It was never that simple, of course. Magnolia had some coffee with sugar and hummed as Ressa took some of the new beverage herself. She still liked tea more, but Ressa loved the stuff, drat her. And she’d begun hiding the sugar bowl.
A few people had to stop Theofore on his mission. They always did when Magnolia announced herself, only this time, it was quite germane to meet them.
Especially the mustached [Brigadier], Forount. The woman came riding up, twirling her mustache, and Magnolia actually laughed.
“Brigadier Forount of Wales! Good day to you!”
“Lady Reinhart, it is an honor! I wished to convey my personal respects to House Reinhart—and the hopes that you’ll look kindly upon these, ah, outsiders. They did pull us out of the fire at the last moment.”
Magnolia nodded graciously to the [Brigadier]. She had a soft spot for Forount of Wales. Why not? She had helped fund the [Brigadier]’s education as an officer.
“Your heroism notwithstanding, of course, [Brigadier]? Wales was an inspiration to the local cities—but I do wish you’d waited for more backup. It was a close battle.”
The woman puffed up even further.
“The lances you sponsored for Wales’ armored core need a target, Lady Reinhart! It was a close-run thing, but better to strike first than let the enemy do the same.”
“Quite noble of you, Brigadier.”
She might die saying those same words. But at least she had some support, and if Magnolia had to pump more aid into Wales to give the [Brigadier] a proper army in the south—there were worse candidates. Forount had proven herself, and that was a rare quality.
Magnolia was less pleased by how few Gold-rank teams were present. She had personally reached out to a number, and while the Silver Swords were a constant, Invrisil should have sent five times this number.
Theofore had reached the Antinium by this point, and Magnolia was telling him to find Yvlon Byres, and Ylawes too, in order that they might meet. Yet all those thoughts left her mind the instant she saw the Antinium.
Artur, the [Banner Commander], Embraim, the [Battalion Leader], and two [Templars] all stood, waiting for Theofore with Lieutenant Gershal. Theofore came to a halt, presented Magnolia to the Antinium, and had everyone move back as he deployed the proper privacy spells.
“Good evening, Banner Commander Artur. Battalion Leader Embraim, who I believe is Templar Theogrin, and I don’t know the last of your number.”
The Antinium jerked in surprise as Magnolia Reinhart greeted them smoothly. They exchanged glances, and their antennae waved, then Theogrin replied.
“This is Priest Zimrah.”
“Hello.”
The [Priest] wore armor, which was why Magnolia had mistaken her for a [Templar]. She sounded…sleepy. Magnolia clapped her hands together, feigning delight.
“My! A [Priest]! What an interesting class! And you are the commanders of this crusade, I take it?”
“We have no formal commander, Lady Reinhart. It is good to meet you. May I ask why you desire to speak with us? If Orefell is part of your lands, we wish to assure you on behalf of the Free Hive of Liscor that we are not here as enemies.”
Artur spoke carefully and with the most understanding of who she was. Magnolia’s heart was beating fast, but Ressa was a steadying presence.
“Ah, yes, well. I imagine it is something of a surprise that I might reach out. I am Magnolia Reinhart, leader of House Reinhart of the Five Families. Do forgive my late introductions. May I ask if you…know me?”
The Antinium glanced at her and Ressa in the scrying orb. They exchanged a look, then—as one—they shook their heads.
Even Artur.
“We know House Reinhart, but I have never heard your name, Lady Reinhart, except in passing.”
Magnolia’s smile wavered.
“Really. Not once? The Antinium do not remember me? What about Zel Shivertail?”
“The Tidebreaker? Yes, we know him. Hero of Liscor.”
Hero of Liscor. Magnolia sat back, and Ressa’s brows rose so high that they almost escaped into her hairline. Well now. Was that humbling or did it make her job easier?
Easier, most definitely. Magnolia nodded thoughtfully.
“Well then, I can tell you that I have been an enemy of the Antinium during the First and Second Antinium Wars, but I would like to discuss the affairs of state with this crusade peacefully, without the shackles of history. Would that be acceptable?”
Another moment of palpable confusion before the [Priest] stepped forwards. She—and it sounded like a she—spoke.
“We do not hold grudges for the Antinium Wars, Lady Reinhart. None of us were there. Are you…upset by our presence in the north? We are aware many would be. Already, we have been recalled by the Free Queen to Liscor.”
“And by Revalantor Klbkch. For punishment.”
Embraim broke in, and this time, Magnolia noticed how the four Antinium shifted and looked at each other. This…this was everything she had hoped for.
“Punishment? Oh dear. I understand this crusade was somewhat impromptu, but do not tell me the Antinium who fought to save Orefell from a terrible slaughter are to be punished?”
“Some of us may be declared Aberration. Or removed from command.”
Artur spoke slowly, and from the way all eyes swung to him, it was clear what that was. Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes opened wide. Her lips moved, and she spoke, a touch breathlessly.
“As I understand it, being declared Aberration is somewhat permanent.”
“It will not happen.”
Zimrah spoke up suddenly, and Embraim tried to put a hand over her mandibles. But she slapped it down.
“No one will be Aberration. I refuse.”
“No one.”
The [Templar], Theogrin, nodded, and Magnolia saw Embraim and Artur glance at each other. They were so—unguarded. But this was what Magnolia had expected.
From the outset, the instant Ressa had told her the Antinium were marching, Magnolia had guessed, had hoped none of the Queens had ordered this crusade. The rest of her family, Tyrion, no one saw what this was. The greatest of opportunities.
“Excuse me, Antinium. Am I to understand your crusade was an independent action for which you may well be punished upon your return to the Hive?”
“Yes. This is so. We did not march north to invade, only to stop the monsters. Someone had to. No one else would get there in time.”
Artur replied, and Magnolia Reinhart herself ducked her head.
“It is embarrassingly true. My arrangements would not have made an impact until today—or later. Sadly. The bravery of Brigadier Forount stands at odds with the north’s inaction, and you have my gratitude. Which is why I have come to you with an offer. For your crusade.”
The Antinium stirred. Embraim clacked his mandibles together uneasily, and Artur hesitated.
“We have orders to return at once, Lady Reinhart. With respect—I am a member of Liscor’s Second Army, pending my removal from the ranks. Our loyalties prohibit us from taking actions for House Reinhart.”
She put her trembling fingers together.
“Oh, I understand that more than you would think, Banner Commander. But it has occurred to me that Orefell is not out of danger yet. There are still remnants of the monsters being eliminated, and the city is vulnerable. Why, the potential for undead to rise from the dead monsters is extreme.”
Artur nodded slowly.
“This is true. Yet we have definitive orders.”
“Indeed, indeed. Which is why, I, Magnolia Reinhart, am offering your crusade a substantial sum, be it in food, coin, or even Orefell’s productions, for you to…delay your departure. I understand the Free Queen or Revalantor Klbkch has given you an order. Could I pay you to ignore it?”
It was the most bald-faced attempt she had ever made, but Magnolia suspected the Antinium would not get a less-direct ploy. They stood there so silently she saw Theofore, holding the scrying orb, tense.
Ready to run. But the Antinium broke the frozen moment without reaching for their blades. After a long, long silence, one of them spoke. Zimrah.
“…We can do that?”
There it was. The first chink in the most united force to threaten Izril. Magnolia began speaking at once.
“Don’t think of it as disobeying exactly, Priest Zimrah. Consider it my counteroffer. Do your Antinium need better armor? Potions? Orefell has a lot of jade, very beautiful material. A single day’s delay, perhaps more? And might I add that it seems unreasonable for a single Antinium to be executed for your noble actions.”
“It does.”
Theogrin murmured. Magnolia nodded repeatedly.
“Let me simply say this, Antinium of the Free Hive. Nay, Crusaders of the Free Hive. If ever you should feel that your lives are in jeopardy upon return to the Hive of Liscor, there are alternatives. You may politely refuse such impossible commands, and I personally will offer you support. At the very least, enough food to maintain separation from the Hive without issue! Let us discuss the issue, and I will leave each of you with a token that you might contact me or my people at any time.”
She settled back as the Antinium nodded, and Ressa squeezed her shoulder hard. The army of Antinium would create problems; they could not stay around Orefell long, and the risk of a Human force taking shots at them was high, but if they could stay intact, even diminished—Magnolia locked her eyes on the Antinium. The first group of disobedient Antinium to the will of a Queen.
 
——
 
The day was full of strange events. Pisces Jealnet had known, the moment the Antinium showed up, that the world would never be the same.
He hadn’t expected Magnolia Reinhart. Or for Rags to become a Goblin [Mercenary]. Or for the crusade to stay around Orefell, but then again—what was the [Governor] supposed to do?
She had a city full of people who’d lost possessions or abandoned their homes, now looting, the stragglers returning, arguing, blaming people who’d fled their posts—she had already asked Gershal and the [Brigadier] to help restore order.
Worse, there were Eater Goats and that damn Void Goat on the loose. Heck, five Gargoyles were a Gold-rank threat. So when she accepted Magnolia Reinhart’s offer to keep the Free Antinium here, only the rest of the world was surprised and outraged.
It turned out the Antinium crusade was willing to be paid to hang around and slay monsters. In fact, their Workers could even help repair and build. What they ended up doing all this for was amusing, though.
“Four wagonloads of jade? What do Antinium want with jade?”
It was a handsome sum. Uncut, unpolished jade panned from the rivers was one of Orefell’s exports. When Pisces heard it via Ksmvr, he was confused. It was worth a lot—but Ksmvr had to explain the idea.
“The [Crusaders] believe the Free Queen and Liscor may accept it in return for their actions. There is a precedent.”
“…What precedent?”
Yvlon Byres was eying the black-clad [Assassin] carrying Magnolia Reinhart’s scrying orb on a tour of the Antinium camp. Ksmvr replied as if it were obvious.
“Each time Liscor’s army has marched, it traditionally sends back the spoils of a large campaign to the city.”
“You mean…Liscor’s mercenary army?”
Yvlon’s mouth opened, and Pisces snorted. Ksmvr just nodded seriously.
“Commander Artur has claimed that as he is an officer of Liscor’s army, he is technically Liscor’s army as the Antinium have been accepted as a fighting force of Liscor. He…hopes that will prevent their censure.”
Antinium logic. It might even work. Pisces just wondered why Magnolia Reinhart of all people was being so helpful. Then he wondered if Erin had anything to do with this.
Then, Magnolia Reinhart came their way, and the [Necromancer] nearly fell into the campfire. The [Assassin] walked over, and Yvlon rose, and Ksmvr poked Ceria awake as the half-Elf rolled out of her sleeping bags.
“Wh—is it time to eat? Magnolia Reinhart?”
“Hello, Horns of Hammerad! Ksmvr—am I pronouncing that right?—Pisces, Ceria, and dear niece Yvlon! It has been a while! You’ve grown up. And you, dear child, your arms! You should have told me you were in need, but you leveled out of the problem. Classic House Byres. Is Ylawes avoiding me? I thought I saw him running to the side.”
“Aunt Magnolia?”
Yvlon stuttered. Out of all the people, Magnolia Reinhart had singled out their team! Pisces remembered Ressa collecting Ryoka, but Magnolia Reinhart was now staring at him.
He didn’t like it. He bowed, and Ksmvr copied him as Ceria scratched at her head, then dipped a bow. Yvlon spoke slowly.
“It’s—wonderful to hear your voice, Aunt.”
“Call me Magnolia, Yvlon! And I insist on doing likewise! I must say, it is such a treat to meet such a rising Gold-rank team. Much less to see my little niece as a fine adventurer! If I was in Celum or Invrisil, I would have to have you at my estates. Alas, you might have heard I’m in Oteslia.”
“The entire continent knows.”
Ceria muttered a bit too loudly. Magnolia focused on her, and the half-Elf jumped.
