The Antinium really knew how to ruin someone’s day. And by ‘someone’, that was everyone. There was something sobering, in a truly unpleasant way, in seeing the distant Antinium threat on the wrong side of the High Passes.
It told men like Calidus Reinhart that the Antinium had a route to the north. Not just that; they’d probably had one for a while. And that now, something, some confluence of factors, had made them bold enough to ignore any reactions of the north. He sat, wine spilling onto some briefs, as an [Assassin] gave him a side-eye at breakfast.
Even for the famous Assassin’s Guild, there was something odd about a [Lord] who invited a trained killer to breakfast and showed up without any clothing, chugging wine out of a bottle.
 
——
 
If Calidus’ reluctantly-trained mind was going a mile a minute, well, his wasn’t the only one. The problem was—for the logical, the purely empirical observers with no grounding in Antinium culture, the actions of the Antinium were hard to predict.
They had always been a foreign species, but why assist the north by saving a city? To level up their army? However, they had made what seemed to be numerous strategic errors. Unless…
“They’re onto us. This is a clear provocation, but I suggest the Walled Cities do not react instantaneously to the Antinium presence, Dragonspeaker, Security Council. May I present my theory in full?”
A [Strategist] was giving a hurried report as Spearmaster Lulv, Wall Lady Rafaema, and the rest of Manus High Command listened. Rafaema was watching the Antinium in the scrying orb and listening with half her attention.
“Proceed, Strategist Rollend.”
The Drake nodded and began to point out a very specific map that had recently been added to with Magnolia Reinhart’s unprecedented intelligence boon.
“We have always known the Antinium likely had passages to the north. In fact, we placed one of their exits in roughly the area they emerged from. It’s clear now that the Antinium were aware of our surveillance. They revealed the exits as part of a complex mind-game. The Queens have been notably cunning in this respect. As for the army, this ‘crusade’ of the Free Antinium, I believe it to be bait.”
“For the North or for us?”
A growling voice from the side. The [Strategist] adjusted his pointing stick as he gazed around solemnly.
“Likely both, Spearmaster Lulv. As you yourself observed, the other Hives were waiting for your entry into the Hectval war. I propose that they are hoping for a series of protracted conflicts to level up their soldiers, despite heavy losses.”
“Counter-levelling one for a thousand. Antinium strategy at its finest. They can attack monsters, and if they’re attacked—they still win even if they pull a hundred troops out at Level 20. But what about that Antinium who’s stolen General Sserys’ Skill? [Company, On Me]?”
“Another mind-game, [General]. And a clear warning; these are not low-level Antinium anymore.”
Solemn nods around the table. Rafaema rubbed at her forehead. It could well be that the Antinium were playing a game on par with the greatest strategists of the south. Unfortunately, the [Strategist] had missed something when Lulv asked who the Antinium were baiting.
The Gnoll had been speaking ironically. Right now, he was giving Rafaema a side-eye, and Luciva had noticed. She was thus politely listening to one of their [Strategists], and Lulv would have his moment after the Drake had his say.
 
——
 
The thing was, the logical inferences about Antinium actions were sometimes wrong. It was like looking at a Lizardfolk army that disbanded on Pallass’ borders during the Naga incursions.
“Not to be too antiquated, but I was young enough to remember those conflicts. Not the battles themselves, mind you, but they were still being taught when I was in Manus’ academies.”
Archmage Zelkyr had been alive back then. That reminded Chaldion’s audience exactly how old the Drake was. He waited for a few chuckles as he went over the latest incident to give him a churning pool of acid in his stomach.
The [Grand Strategist] had his own council, but he’d actually pulled in junior [Tacticians] of Pallass as well as General Shirka and the other top brass. General Edellein was clearly annoyed by the ‘lesser’ officers being present, but how else were they supposed to learn? Chaldion was pointing out the same message he’d sent to Manus’ High Command, and it was this:
“In the Naga Incursions, a lot of [Strategists] assumed that the Lizardfolk knew something we didn’t. Pallass was vulnerable to having some of its cities lost or suffering a direct siege, which would have taken us out of the war until it could be broken. Yet the Lizardfolk forces disbanded within a week of marching into our territories. Why? [Strategists] assumed they had foreseen some kind of counter or danger; Ancestors, we were even scouting for Adult Crelers. Perhaps a Drake city had come to the defense? The truth was far simpler.”
Chaldion’s eyepatch was in place, and he paused, his grey scales flexing as one hand lifted the stomach medication that Saliss had brewed up. He took a long draft, and then one of the new coffee stuff. It had been a long night. An early dawn’s light shone through a window, and it seemed like blood. He could almost smell it.
Damn Antinium. Yet he went on, because this lesson had to be learned.
“…It turned out none of that was the case. The Lizardfolk army that disbanded? It had nothing to do with their strategy or a threat or anything else. It turned out they’d run out of food because someone had miscounted how much supplies they’d had left, and the Lizardfolk had been forced to retreat.”
Chuckles among the audience. Chaldion looked around sardonically and then nodded to something he had commissioned that Manus lacked. An important element of their strategic understanding of the Antinium could not be logical because a logical enemy never did anything surprising. People were harder to predict, and damn that Human, because she’d created uncertainty in what Chaldion had thought he’d already analyzed as a threat.
Every eye swung, some affronted, others amused, to a huge illustration of an Antinium. It was, in fact, Bird the Hunter. The famous ‘Prognugator’, the Antinium to stand on Pallass’ walls, a dangerous threat to Drakes and a formidable foe with his unprecedented archery abilities.
The illustration was not of him standing upon the corpse of a Wyvern, offering war. It was, actually, a picture of Bird trying to fly off the roof of the inn with two ‘wings’ made of feathers. He was mid-leap as an [Innkeeper] waved her arms, trying to get him to stop.
“The Wandering Inn. Have a drink there. In fact, I encourage every officer to go there and witness the Free Antinium in a natural element at least once. I am minded to believe that this event, if not directly the fault of Erin Solstice herself, is in line with the changes in the Free Hive I have personally witnessed.”
“Meaning, Strategist Chaldion?”
The old Drake sighed. Edellein really was as stupid as half a brick coated in butter. Why half a brick and the butter? He couldn’t even get to full-brick. Thrissiam had been sharp.
“Meaning, General Edellein, this might not have been an action condoned by the Free Queen. In other words—the Antinium are beginning to take independent action. They are levelling. But this might well have been…”
Chaldion’s lips twisted, but he said it anyways.
“A simple mission of mercy.”
His audience gave him the blankest looks in the world, and the Grand Strategist had another sip of the bitter coffee. It needed sugar, he decided. Or something else? What did that note say? Milk?
 
——
 
There was a reason why Chaldion was considered the Grand Strategist of the Drakes. His insight was unique among a lot of strategic meetings taking place. However, it was not impossible for other people to reach this conclusion, even if they were not visitors of Liscor.
Niers, for instance, had already factored in a Bird-like element into these moves. Calidus Reinhart might worry, and so might Regis Reinhart and any number of other nobles, but at least one prominent member of the Five Families had insights about the Antinium beyond the war machine.
Well, Ryoka thought Magnolia Reinhart did. She, herself, was currently trying to impart some understanding to no less than Tyrion Veltras.
Tyrion Veltras and—Ryoka felt like peeing a bit and had gone to the restroom twice—Ulva Terland. Ulva Terland and Captain Etril Wellfar and, Ryoka suspected, the [Lady] of House El might be reporting back to Lord Deilan El himself.
Which meant that she was sitting and speaking by proxy to three leaders of the Five Families. Not bad for a brunch, eh? Ryoka would have preferred to be anywhere else.
Unfortunately, she’d done this to herself. Lord Tyrion had been getting into his saddle to begin racing south and muster an even larger army than the one going to fight the monsters to repel the Antinium. Then, Ryoka had told him there were facts not in his possession, and the idiot had listened.
Quite how she had ended up with Ulva Terland at brunch was probably due to all of First Landing having long ears. The invitation, strongly-worded, had come within ten minutes, and Tyrion had dragged her here.
Now, Ryoka was looking around and sweating as she kicked her bare feet against one of the mansions belonging to House Terland in First Landing. A [Servant] stared at the barefoot Courier with a vague horror—and at Sammial Veltras, who was currently harassing the help.
Not the mundane help. Rather, two permanently-smiling Golems were following him around as he wandered Terland’s halls, staring at serving and security Golems. Sammial reached out to poke a statue-knight Golem with an incredibly sharp sword that Ryoka suspected wasn’t ornamental. Jericha caught his hand.
“Why don’t we proceed somewhere else, Lord Sammial? There are Golems for the entertainment of Terland’s folk.”
“Indeed, Lord Sammial. Would you like to have a bout with a Fencing Golem?”
“Would I?”
Sammial instantly brightened up, and Jericha closed her eyes, because that meant he’d be holding a sword. Ulva Terland’s lips twitched.
As before, she was ensconced in magical protective spells, and she sat at the ‘intimate’ table for brunch with a selection of rich foods no one had really touched. Ryoka saw Etril inspecting some huge shrimps filled with a pilaf or whatever, but what she noticed about Ulva were, uh, her bodyguards.
Two Golems, one with an enchanted sword and shield, another with a staff, both porcelain, both standing right behind Ulva.
Paranoid was about the right word when it came to her. It was more amazing that the other nobles barely reacted. Tyrion himself sat like a piece of wood—no, wait, the empty chair across from him had a bit more personality, since it was a half-Elven heirloom from Terandria. As far as Ryoka could tell, everything was an heirloom, including the table itself; it was one piece, long enough to seat fifty people, and cut from some gigantic tree she was sure would have upset any [Druid] to gaze upon.
Never let it be said that the Five Families lacked for personality, though. As Ulva watched Sammial go, she leaned over and murmured out of the corner of her mouth.
“That son of yours may well enjoy the Fencing Golems, Tyrion. He had better not break any like you did when you were a boy.”
Tyrion twitched slightly.
“Sammial has not been trained in swordsmanship, Lady Ulva.”
“No indeed? I am sure he will find a way. Not for fondness or politics did I suffer your presence and lift the ban on you, Tyrion. Your other boy, Hethon, would have been a better guest. Far more polite.”
Tyrion hesitated, and the [Lady] of El moved a fan over what Ryoka was sure was a smiling mouth. Etril didn’t even try to hide a grin as Tyrion replied.
“I was not aware I was banned, Lady Ulva.”
The other [Lady] gave him a long look.
“We have not invited you to the Terland estates in eleven years, Tyrion.”
“I do not make a habit of social events.”
“Quite apparently.”
Ulva rolled her eyes, and Ryoka couldn’t help but hide a smile. Ulva noticed, and she lifted one hand. Instantly, a serving Golem moved.
“The rolled hibiscus.”
A beautiful red roll of what Ryoka had almost thought was ornamentation rather than food appeared on a plate in front of Ulva. She produced a fork and knife and cut away a cross-section to reveal a neatly-packed roll of very floral, bright ingredients. She nodded to it as she lifted it to her mouth.
“It may not suit your tastes, Courier Griffin. Some of these dishes are made for my enduring health. Perhaps you might enjoy it? These ‘spring rolls’ come from Drath, as I understand it.”
Ryoka blinked at the now-familiar dish, albeit instead of an outer shell of dough, it was…the hibiscus flower? Some kind of ultimate health dish, possibly even vegan if it was really made from plants.
Then she glanced at Ulva, because while there was no formal head of House Wellfar, the sailors and seafolk, Ryoka had met Tyrion, Magnolia, and Deilan. Ulva was the most mysterious, for all she had been at the Summer Solstice party.
History had her as the only living member of the Five Families who had been entrenched in power during the First and Second Antinium Wars. Unlike Tyrion and Magnolia’s rise to fame and Maviola’s passing this year, Ulva was a relic from that time.
And yet…she was not old. Oh, she had an age to her. To Ryoka’s amazement, the [Lady] had faintly green hair, sparkling brown eyes dotted with bright motes of yellow, and she could walk swiftly or ride without need of an enchanted chair.
Yet the lines on her face gave her an age far beyond what Ryoka realized was barely sixty years—and that was filled with so many alchemical ingredients for health and wellbeing that she seemed in very good shape.
Lines, wrinkles from fear, a paranoia that kept her ensconced in bodyguards. She had once had a twin sister, Petria Terland, and they had been two powerful leaders of House Terland.
No longer. Still, Ulva was the leader of her house without question and sharp enough to call on Ryoka and Tyrion. Ryoka delicately inspected a bit of flank steak and took a nibble.
Lemony. No wonder Lady Buscrei had put some on her plate then pushed the plate away. Although some of the other Terlands were clearly savoring it. No accounting for taste.
Ulva noticed the reactions from Swey and some of House Veltras. She crooked a finger, and Ryoka was amazed by the responsiveness of the serving Golems. One leaned over, and she spoke quietly.
“Order the chef to amend his menu. Find a fresh piece of meat and serve it barely cooked past bloody. Medium rare or rare. No garnishings; provide them on the side. That should satisfy Veltras appetites.”
