He said that as if it were normal, and Pisces suspected Archmage Feor would have to do more than just…speak a spell to have it done so quickly. He dipped his head and hesitated.
He was afraid of Az’kerash. It occurred to Pisces this altercation was the perfect excuse.
“I fear I may be needed elsewhere, Archmage. I, ah, must support my team, and an altercation would be dangerous to all.”
“Hm. Perhaps. Hold one moment. It may not come to that. Named-rank or not, it seems this Crowdcaller does not want to die.”
Pisces hurried in the direction of Merdon and saw the Named Adventurer had stopped screaming—and stopped his assault on Rags’ tribe.
Mostly because he was facing an army of annoyed [Crusaders] who were getting tired of his shouting. The Named-Rank adventurer and his Gold-rank supporters were a tiny knot compared to thousands of Antinium. Even if they thought Merdon was a match for them—he was quailing in the face of someone else.
“Crowdcaller Merdon, you are late, and this shouting is hurting my ears! I have paid you your fee for your efforts, but there is no more fighting to be done. Much less here!”
Magnolia Reinhart’s voice was coming out of her speaking stone as her [Assassin] trotted forwards. A furious adventurer wearing armor strode towards her, and the two embarked in a heated discussion.
“She must have hired him to assault the horde. Predictably, he dragged his feet for what he assumed was a grand entrance and a weakened force. Or perhaps he was simply incapable of moving this fast from Tenbault.”
Az’kerash was both urbanely amused and disdainful. Pisces couldn’t fault the analysis either; if Ylawes and his team had made it, Merdon could have roused himself to join the battle. Nevertheless, it seemed like the Goblins, already moving towards their Wyverns, weren’t in as much danger with Magnolia Reinhart present.
Still, Pisces saw Rags mounting up and suspected she wouldn’t risk it. Which meant Dwarves and Goblins were heading away from the fighting. Pisces realized this was the perfect moment to sidle back to the battlefield.
It was dark, and the people working on harvesting the Gargoyles paid him no mind as Az’kerash discussed the battle with Pisces.
“Your team was, as ever, at the forefront of the fighting. I took some small note, as a Void Eater Goat is an interesting monster.”
Was he mocking Pisces? The [Necromancer] had been in the fighting, but he had felt like part of the effort, not the center.
“We were…less adept against so many monsters than we could have hoped, Great Necromancer.”
Pisces subvocalized. Az’kerash laughed quietly.
“Your team stood out nevertheless. As for the Void Eater Goat…that was a dangerous threat. They have been known to eat even Level 50 adventurers, although that is the required level range to handle them. You observed the weakness in their ability to generate their void spell?”
“Is it possible to circumvent that ability when it’s active, Archmage?”
Pisces wavered as he bent over the remains of a corpse. Probably a Bossel. He bent, and bones emerged from the bloody flesh. Despite his reservations, the great Necromancer was a fount of knowledge, and in their brief talks, Pisces learned a lot.
“Of course. Exceedingly difficult, but the goat cannot eat everything. Although I might note that even if your [Cryomancer] tried to freeze it—she might fail. It can swallow temperature, it is highly resistant, and it can hurl the contents of its stomach as a last-ditch resort. When facing one, it might behoove you to learn a spell rather like the Crowdcaller.”
“Sonic-based attacks?”
“Just so. [Death Wail]. Do you have the requisite spell among your studies?”
Pisces thought of the Djinni’s spellbook and shook his head.
“No, Great Necromancer.”
“Hm. Intriguing. I may have the time to locate a scroll. And I note you are collecting Gargoyle bones. Most perspicacious. Have you advanced past your Bone Behemoth attempts?”
“As a matter of fact…”
Pisces had not discussed Ivery and the Skeleton Lord mishaps, but when Az’kerash heard about the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones], he actually chuckled. Pisces was so astounded that he stopped stuffing bones into his bag of holding like a thief in the night.
“Great Archmage?”
“Ah—it is nothing. It is simply that the, ah, ritual failing is a common mistake most [Necromancers] make. There are no instructions, and more than one [Necromancer] has fused a lot of valuable gemstones into their Skeleton Lord or bound less-than-helpful objects to them. I knew quite a few who did the exact same thing as you.”
Pisces was fascinated.
“Really?”
“Oh, quite. It used to be a joke in Silvaria that a [Necromancer]’s first Skeleton Lord went into battle with an empty mug of beer or a quill. Armed with whatever pastimes they were about when they snatched the nearest object at hand. One Skeleton Lord was once sighted wearing some pantaloons by a young [Necromancer] caught in a romantic fling…”
Pisces was trying not to laugh. He was so caught up in the story as he took Gargoyle bones that he didn’t notice the patrol before Vaunt’s [Soldiers] were shining a lantern at him.
“Halt, thief!”
The [Necromancer] froze, and Az’kerash cut off as a squad of Humans with spears surrounded him.
“I’m—just walking around at night!”
He hid the bag of holding behind him as an old, familiar panic crept up. Oh, dead gods! Why hadn’t he gone invisible? Idiot! You idiot—
He was about to run and deal with the consequences later when something unprecedented happened. One of the [Soldiers] saw Pisces and called out.
“Wait! Wait, it’s Adventurer Pisces! The Horns!”
“Oh. Sorry, Adventurer Pisces! Of course, he’s a [Necromancer]—”
The shining lantern light dimmed, and a somewhat embarrassed [Sergeant] saluted.
“Just checking that no scavengers or [Rogues] are stealing the monster parts, sir! We forgot a [Necromancer] was about. Uh—taking bones? Bodies?”
“Just—just bones.”
Az’kerash was silent as Pisces felt as flustered as could be. Stealing from graveyards or battlefields was a very [Necromancer] thing to do, and it earned them a terrible reputation, but the awkward soldiers just nodded.
“For that Frostmarrow Behemoth. I should imagine you need more. We actually have a pile of bones from the harvesting, sir. Hundreds. We could direct you to them?”
“Really?”
“What.”
Az’kerash was as stunned as Pisces. The [Necromancer] actually found himself walking with a squad who were too keen to offer him the largely useless bones.
“Some [Alchemists] want them, and the dogs’re slavering over them, but bones aren’t good for much, sir. And if it’s between them and you—help yourself. I apologize if we startled you.”
“Er—not at all, good [Sergeant]. I quite understand.”
Pisces felt off-kilter, and the [Sergeant] smiled, then he coughed.
“Speaking of which, if those were your undead, we apologize for destroying them. Just when we see any zombies rising, goats or Gargoyles…”
The adventurer was rapidly warming to the [Soldiers] of Vaunt. Not only was the [Lieutenant] a brave fellow, they were quite decent folk. So he was only too keen to smile around.
“Oh, not at all. Those would be natural undead. Direct them to me if they are dangerous, by all means. I would put them down as quickly as you.”
The [Sergeant] nodded, clearly relieved.
“As we thought, sir. But those Gargoyle zombies were rising fast. And some were even coming out of the bone pile. We almost burned the lot.”
“That is quick. Then again—it was a bloody battlefield.”
Pisces frowned, but as they reached the bone-pile he’d been promised, the [Sergeant] cursed.
“Dead gods damnit! There’s another one! Spears up!”
Pisces caught sight of a skeletal Gargoyle, still glistening with bits of flesh, stomping away from the pile of bones. A few [Soldiers] were racing away, calling for backup, but the undead skeleton didn’t pay attention to them. A glowing red flame in both sockets, it was walking towards the distant hilltop and forest. And Pisces…froze.
“If you want to do something, Adventurer, sir, now would be a great time! Not that we can’t handle one, but they are big.”
Indeed, the Gargoyle was still nine feet tall even without flesh, and it had thick bones. It was a powerful minion for even Pisces; if he summoned skeleton Gargoyles instead of regular humanoid skeletons, he’d have a powerful fighting force.
And it would be just the thing for a low-level [Necromancer]. Which was why Pisces stared at the animated Gargoyle skeleton, and his eyes slowly narrowed.
That wasn’t a natural animation at all. Normal skeletons didn’t rise this fast, not on a patrolled battlefield. Even if they did, they’d be attacking the wary soldiers at once.
“Just how many skeletons did you see rising, [Sergeant]?”
Pisces murmured, and the [Sergeant] scowled.
“No less than sixteen today and yesterday! Popped up like flies, but I heard the Antinium were knocking them down constantly. We took over, and it’s been nonstop. Caught a few people running around too. Stealing hides and the like.”
It was entirely possible that some of Orefell’s unscrupulous citizens were doing just that, but Pisces had another, sudden suspicion. Ironically, it was Az’kerash who didn’t get it.
“A poor animation spell. Simple, and it is bound to a distant location. Long-range, no doubt. I sense multiple sources. Could this be…?”
Pisces reminded himself that Az’kerash had been born and raised in Silvaria. Even if he had become the terror of Terandria, he had never been a [Necromancer] in the modern era.
In other words, he didn’t know that most [Necromancers] were famous carrion-scavengers of graveyards instead of being awarded bones. Pisces gazed at the animated skeleton and felt nostalgic.
Oh, the old raise-and-run. And a few idiots probably had a cheap bag of holding. If they made it in and out, they might have a free Eater Goat zombie or Gargoyle—but they probably hadn’t realized their bags of holding were too small to hold an entire Gargoyle corpse. That was why you went for bones, you idiots. Far more portable.
He pointed at the Gargoyle moving away and casually crooked his finger. The neck-bone cracked, and the entire skeleton dropped into pieces.
A perfect move for someone who understood how animation spells worked. Pisces sensed the magic flee, and the [Sergeant] jumped.
“That’s amazing, sir! Makes our efforts look way too hard!”
He only sounded a bit begrudging. Pisces coughed into his sleeve.
“Purely a [Necromancer] ability, I assure you, [Sergeant]. My teammates would have to hack or blast it apart.”
“Well, if you wouldn’t mind doing that for a few more…?”
The [Sergeant] sounded hopeful, and that was how Pisces found himself on defense-duty for the corpses. By now, he’d realized there were at least a few [Necromancers] trying to steal powerful bodies for their work, but Pisces didn’t realize how many there were until he concentrated.
“…Eight. Eight of them. You sense them too.”
“Yes, of course.”
Pisces murmured as he put down another Gargoyle with a point of the finger. No less than eight [Necromancers] of various lower levels seemed to be out there. A few fled Vaunt’s patrols as they noticed more figures skulking around, and Pisces hit one of the fleeing figures with a [Sticky Webs] spell.
But that just turned out to be a [Thief], who was quickly dragged off for trying to cut some Bossel hide off in the dark. Not an easy task for an amateur.
Nevertheless, so many [Necromancers] was odd. One or two? Definitely, for this region. But eight wasn’t a mistake. It spoke to Pisces of an organized group.
A cabal. A term for a group of [Necromancers] or [Cultists] or a mix of the unsavory classes working together. Pisces had met a few in Izril on his way south, but they didn’t tend to last long. He suspected this group would run off, but to his surprise, they only got bolder. In fact—the first undead attack began no less than thirty minutes after he began helping Vaunt.
“Skeletons! Zombies! Ten of them are attacking!”
Pisces heard the [Sergeant] curse, and he ran to find ten undead Gargoyles and a bunch of Eater Goats biting at some [Soldiers]. He put them down fast as an Antinium ran into the fighting and swung a mace.
Crusader 53’s [Weapon of Faith] blew apart a skeleton’s head as if it were made of paper. Pisces blinked, but then saw more undead rising.
“What’s going on? Some kind of undead horde?”
The [Sergeant] glanced at Pisces, but the [Necromancer] was wavering. Did he play it off or let those idiots kill some of these soldiers? He was angry, and he realized why.
Az’kerash put it best.
“A [Necromancer] is no monster by definition, but these scavengers threaten to injure brave warriors at rest. They are a disgrace to the class. I am tempted to…rectify their presence.”
That was it. They were causing trouble, raising undead that could hurt or injure people, even if they were Zombies, just to gather their bones. Pisces’ brows snapped together, and he began snapping necks left and right. The undead tumbled down as the [Sergeant] and Crusader 53 stared at Pisces in respect.
“I believe we have a confluence of death magic, [Sergeant]. Permit me…access to your bone pile? I believe I can solve both issues at once.”
What’s the second issue? The [Sergeant] was only too grateful to pull back his forces. Pisces stepped over to the bone pile and busied himself for a second. Then he stepped back and calmly lit the rest of the bones on fire.
It wasn’t hard to get them burning. A sustained [Flame Jet] spell and they began to crackle and smoke. The marrow and other grease lit fast enough. Pisces kept pouring on the flames until the entire pile was alight, and he turned.
That should do it. Their target was gone, and while there were bodies, it was a clear message. He was about to make some excuses and head out when Pisces’ head snapped back around.
“You arrogant, petty little—”
He shouted into the night to the confusion of the Humans and Antinium when something charged out of the darkness. Pisces saw an undead coming straight for him as some enraged [Necromancer] or cabal of them directed a foe at him.
“Pitiful.”
Az’kerash’s voice was filled with disdain. Pisces didn’t know what it was, but he felt an actually dangerous undead coming at high-speed towards him. Something on the level of…a Bone Horror. Maybe with more magic in it, a custom-built undead.
It would have pressed him if he were at the level when he first met Erin, but right now, Pisces was about to throw a [Shatterbolt] and kick the rest of the bones apart with his shoes. He was so angry at whomever these rogue [Necromancers] were because they reminded him of, well…him.
