The Goblins groaned, but Rags glared, and instantly, a ball of lye soap was produced and grumbling Goblins did as they were told. Ironically, that made Rags’ entire tribe the most hygienic of all the species, because she brooked no arguments.
Even so, the entire event was going to go horribly wrong in time. An unstoppable force could be mitigated with soap and hot water and grilling the meat, but it was still a powerful plague. A plague! A—
Zimrah kept putting her hands on people and curing them. Rags watched the Antinium with fascination, because she had seen her own Ogres working their magic, but she hadn’t ever seen this. She wondered what they’d make of the Antinium [Priest], because her magic was not like theirs, hard-won via mana potions. Zimrah, the Antinium Worker with robes and a censer, just put her hands on an Antinium who felt a bit ‘off’.
“[Cure Ailments]. You are done. Pat, pat.”
She patted the Antinium on the head, and the Soldier trundled away. Zimrah turned and stretched.
“I am getting tired. Artur, I may need to rest. Can you tell Crusader 445-2 to take over? I am unusually…tired.”
The [Banner Commander] walked over.
“You have never been so tired. Most Antinium were not wounded.”
Zimrah nodded, puzzled.
“I know. But I feel exhausted. If someone is hurt, please wake me. Otherwise, I must sleep.”
Artur agreed instantly.
“You have worked enough, Zimrah. A Fortress of Fluff has been prepared there.”
He pointed, and Rags saw the curious mounds where Antinium sat were being made out of pillows and blankets. Zimrah walked over, sat down, and began snoozing.
…For about five minutes. Then she stood up.
“I have leveled four times! Why!?”
To her credit, while Artur hurried over to hear Zimrah’s new levels, this was hardly the only person counter-levelling hard. Rags wandered over, still eating her breakfast, and listened to Zimrah speaking. The thing Rags loved about the Antinium was that they were not private. They didn’t whisper, and she got a perfect earful.
“Level 28! Four levels. This is statistically improbable, Artur.”
“It may be. But you did survive the Void Eater Goat as I believe it was called. Perhaps you are being rewarded for healing all the colds?”
“Perhaps. Or maybe other species. Some came to me and asked for me to heal them. Should I heal them when I wake?”
“This would be wise, and I believe Commander Olesm would agree. What Skills have you learned?”
“Oh. Um. [Icon of Faith: Unclaimed]. And [Minor Radiance of Healing].”
Rags was fascinated. What the heck were those Skills? Radiance of healing? Did that mean…? On a hunch, as Artur speculated what kind of icon Zimrah needed, Rags produced a dagger and cut herself. Just a jab to her hand. She stared at it and narrowed her eyes.
It took nearly fifteen seconds before she noticed a change, and the wound began to scab. That was fast. It was a very slow scabbing, but on the other hand, Rags wondered how fast that was compared to normal.
“[Priest]. [Priest]. Got to get one.”
The Goblin muttered as she stared at Zimrah. The Worker was snoozing, but she was hardly the only Antinium who had the unique power of faith.
 
——
 
It was just that only two Antinium had cure Skills. Or rather—Miracles.
There was a joke in The Wandering Inn that if someone had a notepad and was writing, they were either Mrsha or pulling a Grimalkin. However, more than one person outside of Orefell was doing a full Grimalkin, because the Antinium were talking.
Talking. Gershal of Vaunt watched as one of the [Templars] placed his hand on a nervous horse’s back. The animal nearly reared, but the Antinium spoke.
“[Heal Damage — Strike]. I am done.”
He stepped back, and the torn flesh along the horse’s foreleg mended in a glow of light.
“That is not what the [Priest] did.”
The difference in how the Skill was worded was not lost on some of the observers. Gershal saw the [Templar], an Antinium Soldier with a voice, turn and elucidate to a curious Dwarf, female Garuda, and even Brigadier Forount. He nodded and replied slowly.
“I am not a [Priest]. Zimrah is capable of using [Cure Mundane Wounds] a number of times per battle. That cures any wounds not inflicted by magic.”
“Any?”
Someone made a choking sound. Peki was nibbling at some grapes that Forount had shared from her rations—everyone was sharing food, and Gershal had given out Vaunt’s cheeses with liberty. To Antinium, no less! The [Templar] had a piece of brie on a toothpick, and he nibbled at it as he spoke; with four arms, he could pretty much eat and talk.
“Indeed. Any non-magical wounds. I am not Zimrah. I am capable of using the Miracle [Heal Damage] twice per battle.”
“What was that part about ‘strike’, though?”
Rlint, the [Field Captain], the Dwarf, pressed the [Templar], whose name was Theogrin. An Antinium with a name.
Gershal had avoided saying ‘dead gods’, or ‘this is incredible’, or ‘impossible’ thus far. He felt like it made him look like a fool since this was clearly happening. Besides, he had once served under the Tidebreaker, Zel Shivertail, and he had seen at least one improbable event take place.
“That means I can cure exactly how much damage I could inflict. Or close enough. A deep cut, a broken bone. No more.”
Fascinating. Rlint looked at one of the other Dwarves, and the [Stone Magus] shook his head.
“Nothing like [Restoration], Captain. Not at all. There’s no…mana cost to these ‘miracles’, are there?”
The Dwarf addressed Theogrin, and the Antinium tilted his head. His antennae waved wildly, like Gershal had seen tiny ants do.
“No. This is a Miracle, not a Skill. The cost is faith.”
“Faith?”
“My conviction wanes. I feel emptier. Weaker. If I was Crusader 51, I would never lack for faith. Or Pawn.”
Pawn. Gershal had heard that name before, along with Crusader 51. Many of the Antinium referenced them when they spoke.
And how they spoke! Skills, classes—Gershal was hardly an important [Lieutenant of the Line], but even he had a few secrets and tricks he only told his closest friends. Like how his [Piercing Leap] had been a move to carry him off his back and onto his feet; that was a valuable little trick.
But the Antinium were sharing huge information, even a kind of—of spell-Skill without hesitation! Gershal felt a bit bad about stealing this knowledge, but he listened as the [Stone Magus] tried to understand.
“It is not a spell or a Skill, then.”
“No. It comes when Skills do, but it is clearly labeled. That is how we know.”
“So it calls itself a miracle?”
“Yes.”
The Dwarf tugged at his beard hard. He looked around with a kind of hilarity and disbelief on his face.
“I haven’t studied at Wistram, but I have graduated from a magical academy! Not in any of the books—not once have I heard of a miracle. Nor anything that heals so easily! There are regeneration-type Skills and spells, but they are rare beyond belief!”
“A potion can heal. Our Miracles heal. It is handy, but not unique. If you would like to gain the ability, you should have a few warriors of faith in your armies.”
Theogrin pointed out reasonably. At that, Peki tilted her head.
“Faith. I have faith I can punch people. What are ‘warriors of faith’?”
And that led down such a rabbithole of confusion that all the listeners needed Theogrin to explain what he was. Again.
 
——
 
[Templar].
Even the word was provocative. [Templar] and [Crusader]. These were not unknown classes. Far from it.
[Crusader], like the idea of a Crusade, was intrinsic to [Knights]. A [Knight of the Crusade] was a known class, but the class by itself hinted at something. [Templar]…that was like an itch. Like [Paladin], it was an esoteric class. But it bothered Ylawes Byres because it sounded…unique.
Even more so than a [Knight] was. Why should Antinium have it? Why did they have abilities that overshadowed even his? He could, by virtue of his levels, training, and class, create a shield that could block countless foes in battle.
They could call a shield of faith. Even a sword! The Human man watched the Antinium with arms folded, at a remove from the other officers. It was safe to say there was some animosity there.
Or was it respect? Because Ylawes’ huge scowl was only matched by a kind of grudging envy. He had ridden from the coast after being rescued from the disastrous Wistram breakout by the Drakes. They had graciously stopped at a Human harbor to let the Silver Swords disembark, but the Earthers had stayed. Ylawes had gone to the High Passes instead of to Liscor like he’d planned.
He had known the odds were bleak, but the [Knight] had been determined to make a stand. For that was what was right and righteous. It was just…he’d done his best and had accounted for a number of monsters.
Yet the Antinium had, without question, saved them all. They stood, warriors of faith in armor, and there was a level of—of—shine to them that even the [Knight] lacked.
A purity of intent. Ylawes watched. Look.
A line of insects wearing armor knelt in the grass. Away from the bloodied corpses of Eater Goats and Gargoyles attracting a storm of insects. Some of the [Mages] had cast spells to keep away the insects and scavengers, but the harvesting of flesh and other parts had sped up. Soon, the rest would be unusable.
Grisly work, and the blood was not dried on many pieces of armor fully. Ylawes himself had mud in his socks and grit ground with every move of his silvered armor.
The Antinium were no less dirty. It stuck to their brown carapaces. Some still had traces of green blood, though their wounds had closed. Yet they knelt in a patch of soft grass, under a tree. At peace.
No—more than that. Proud. Their heads rose as one as an Antinium passed by. Some [Acolyte], another odd class, wearing robes of pale blue cotton. A Worker, chosen to hold the censer that leaked faintly with the smell of cinnamon.
Gently and carefully, the Worker passed each kneeling [Crusader]. The smoke drifted across their still antennae, over their mandibles, and a second Antinium spoke.
The [Templar] was a Worker. Yet he seemed, in his armor, as large as any Soldier. His voice was confident, as Ylawes had never heard from their kind.
“Look up.”
The Antinium did. The [Templar] corrected them gently.
“Not at me. Look up. There. Do you see the sky?”
They gazed upwards, and Ylawes’ head rose. He saw a clear dawn light, turning the sky from a blackness to a faint yellow, and brighter, until the blue reclaimed the fall air. It was a beautiful sight, and some part of him smiled at it.
But the Antinium had a wonder in them that he envied. They stared up at the sky, and there was such a reverence in them that Ylawes began to understand. There was more than just…enjoyment there. There was an intensity of the emotions that made him feel almost voyeuristic.
This was faith? The [Templar] resumed speaking, and Ylawes listened like the quiet Drowned Man leaning against the tree.
“You are no longer Workers and Soldiers, who will sleep and wake underground in the Hive. You are [Crusaders]. We are called forth for battle. We march to our deaths. But we do it under glorious sky. Soon, we will tell you how it all began, at an inn. With her. Know this, before even that. When you die, when you fall—Heaven awaits. It is not something to covet. Nor to go towards. However, we are Antinium without fear of death. When you are outnumbered, alone, believe. Pray and believe—and in the darkness, underground, before monsters—the sky will follow you.”
He raised a hand, and Ylawes thought the Antinium cast no spell. From Falene’s reaction, she sensed no mana. Yet the two Silver Swords saw the [Templar] raise a hand—and it was no [Light] spell he cast.
He held a sliver of something wrong. Like he had cut a triangle, a piece of bright blue glass and sunlight straight out of the world above. The [Templar] lifted the miracle of light as the [Crusaders] looked at him.
“Faith is your weapon.”
Faith. What was it? Ylawes trembled, gauntlets clenched, and perhaps it was mistaken as rage by some. But it was, in truth, like a man who realized he had only been using one hand all his life. The [Knight] saw a completeness there, an answer to the gift of magic that sometimes seemed overwhelming and superior to the sword.
How could he obtain…that?
 
——
 
If the Humans, Dwarves, and others who watched the Antinium had found something to obsess over, well, the same was true for regular Antinium.
The [Crusaders] were listening, witnessing what they could be. But the higher ideals of faith and salvation were also mixed with mundane pleasures.
Like the simple act of eating food. These were Workers and Soldiers of the Free Hive, not even Painted Antinium or ones taken on patrol. They had eaten some rations on the march here, but today, an Antinium held a piece of wood in its hand.
Just a long, straight stick. With pieces of carefully-seared meat stuck onto it, amid globs of brie. Globs, running with the heat it had been exposed to. Antinium mandibles were ideally suited for the kebabs which they could tear pieces off of. To add to the entire glorious mess were huge bits of bell-pepper, blackened with char, but no less tasty. In fact—more, because the dish was hot.
Hot. The Antinium Worker tore a bite free and then raised his other hand. It held a mug. Of mead. He took a deep draft of mead, and the frothy, cool beverage was another moment of—clarity.
Now, contrast this to the Antinium’s food in the Hive. They got paste.
Room-temperature paste. Never warm, never cold. Their water was sometimes cold, but often lukewarm. You never needed to worry about starving, but no Antinium ever went back for seconds. The portions were perfectly calculated, but even if they’d been allowed to…no one wanted seconds.
Sometimes the paste was green. Sometimes it was brown. Sometimes it was black or grey. There were bits in it, and it tasted like…like…
The Worker began screaming as he had another bite. He stood, legs spread, waving his other two free arms as he shouted.
“Hot food! HOT FOOD. Beer! Is this what I have been missing? I am never going back to the Hive! Never! Damn the Hive! Damn the Queen and dying there! I am eating hot food! Cheese!? Is this cheese? What is that? Give me that!”
He began running around, snatching more treats and stuffing them into his mouth.
“Dead gods. Crusader 57 is going crazy again. Even for him.”
A few amused [Crusaders] from Battalion 3 were sitting around. They knew what he meant, but a few affected to be more like the other [Soldiers]. They even had begun picking up expressions like ‘dead gods’.
Squad 5 glanced up for a second, and one of their number who was napping sat up.
“Who’s calling my name, asshole? Hey. What’s up with that weirdo?”
