“Pardon me, Miss Springwalker. I know, I made a fuss. I just wanted to introduce myself, especially to Yvlon, and convey my personal thanks for your bravery today. It will not go unnoticed, I promise. Spoken Vow, the Pact, the Halfseekers, and the Silver Swords are all credits to your rank.”
“Thank you, Lady Reinhart.”
Ceria blushed faintly, and Pisces couldn’t help but interject.
“This gratitude would not happen to be material, would it, Lady Reinhart?”
Yvlon kicked him, prompting Ksmvr to do the exact same. Magnolia glanced at Pisces and put a finger to her lips.
“Adventurer Pisces. Rather forwards of you.”
“Er, I apologize for—”
“—Fortunately, forwards befits a Gold-rank adventurer. And you are quite right. How about this? I can’t tell how much of that new <Quest> bounty you were paid, but in honor of your deeds, I will have a word with the Mage’s Guild and Wistram. I believe it’s two thousand gold pieces on your head, Adventurer Pisces? I will have it removed by the end of the week, regardless of the price. I can do nothing about Roshal; they do not bandy words with me, but that bounty will be cleared, and I will have the [Mercenaries] of Izril aware of that fact.”
Pisces blinked and stuttered.
“The—the bounty? You can do that? But it was posted in Terandria and—”
“—And this is Izril and the Five Families hold some sway. I am aware of Wistram’s…shenanigans. Frankly, if Archmage Nailihuaile were still alive, it might be harder, but she is not, and I would like to prove my sincerity. I hope you will remember it if I should be in need of competent service in the future.”
“Of course, Lady Reinhart! I mean, Aunt—Magnolia. Thank you!”
Yvlon nodded again, and Magnolia smiled and raised a hand.
“I won’t keep you long. I know how tiring it is to deal with the nobility—well, the boring nobility, pardon me, Yvlon. Do remember me to your mother, and tell Ylawes I am not some ravening beast.”
“Except for sugar.”
Who said that? Magnolia looked peeved, and Yvlon choked as the [Maid] leaned over. The [Assassin] bowed, and, giving Pisces a look of long agony behind his masked expression, trotted off to meet someone else.
“Whew. That is one crazy [Lady].”
Ceria exhaled after a moment. Yvlon went to kick her, but the half-Elf skipped out of the way.
“Ceria! She’s got ears everywhere!”
“So? She’s speaking to us. We’re on her list, Yvlon. We just talked with one of the most powerful [Ladies] in the north. She was headhunting us for requests in the future.”
Ceria rubbed at her head, somehow the least astonished of everyone. Pisces blinked. That was what she’d done, wasn’t it? Done them a favor—removed his bounty? Ceria shook her head.
“This is wild. The north’s never going to be the same. Magnolia in bed with Antinium and Goblins?”
“Ceria, I swear to Silver Dragons—”
A peal of laughter came from the scrying orb in the distance, and Ceria actually ducked behind Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] put a warning fist on Ceria’s head.
“Someday, your tongue is going to get you into trouble, Ceria.”
“And your fists don’t?”
Yvlon began to chase Ceria around, and Pisces exhaled. It was becoming night again, and where had the day gone?
Chatting to [Crusaders], watching the news, watching people file back into Orefell and thank him—him!
…And catching up with the other teams. But through it all, the Horns watched Pisces, their friend who had suffered in Roshal. Case in point, even now, while Yvlon chased Ceria into camp, Ksmvr stayed with Pisces. His people were all around him, but he followed Pisces around as the [Necromancer] looked about for someone else to talk to. Perhaps the Dwarves.
“Ksmvr, you can go elsewhere if you wish.”
He turned his head after two minutes of Ksmvr following his steps perfectly, like some game where you copied someone. It was so entertaining that two other Workers and a Goblin had followed Pisces like a living centipede.
“I cannot, Comrade Pisces. If Roshal attacks you, I must kill them. I will not let them grab you again, I promise.”
Pisces turned to look at the [Skirmisher]’s serious face. He halted and patted Ksmvr on the shoulder.
“They won’t attack here, Ksmvr.”
“They could. I should be vigilant.”
“I appreciate it…but you should relax.”
Ksmvr hesitated, then patted Pisces on the head. The [Necromancer] scowled, but lightly.
“Ksmvr, stop that.”
“May I scratch you under the chin?”
“I am not a cat.”
“You may still enjoy it.”
The [Necromancer]’s lips twitched, and then he was off, striding through the crowd. He had, of course, met countless people over the course of the day. The [Brigadier], with her mustache, the [Crusaders], including the one who had Erin’s glory fire. But it was, as always, home which sometimes called to him.
The Dwarves of Deríthal-Vel were packing up to leave. The few hundred that had come had collected their dead, and Pisces’ smile sombered as he saw a cart loaded with bodies. In fact, two adventurers were hanging around, helping the Dwarves load up and prepare their dead.
Selphids. Jelaqua was gently spreading something over a face.
“It’ll keep them. Watch out for carrion, but we can’t do much about death magic. Maybe Pisces can…?”
Field Captain Rlint glanced up. It said something about the Dwarves’ armor and tactics that there were only two wagons—but it was two too many. Many Dwarves had their helmets under their arms, and Pisces saw tears.
And Dawil. That Garuda, Peki, too. The [Field Captain] gave Pisces a slow nod.
“Adventurer Pisces. I know you. We’re transporting our fallen back. If we were pressed for time or safety, we’d take possessions, but there are wagons, and Orefell’s granted us some horses. We hope to send them all the way to Dwarfhome, but it’s a task.”
“That’s a long way. Can you…put them in bags of holding?”
“That’s what I said. The problem is they have so much armor on—and asking them to strip the bodies is, um…”
Jelaqua whispered to Pisces. Rlint nodded somberly.
“We won’t do that here. Better to march to Dwarfhome, with respect. We have some gel Captain Jelaqua was kind enough to give us, and there are customs our people in Dwarfhalls Rest can perform; some will meet us on the road.”
“You’re leaving now?”
The [Field Captain] nodded. He chuckled into his beard tiredly.
“We are on a time limit. The sooner we can get to Dwarfhalls and properly settle it the better. The Goblins…”
He cast a glance at Rags and her tribe and shook his head.
“…Have mostly abandoned the mountain, as I understand it. Some might be there, but that Chieftain Rags has told us they’ll likely flee, and there is no powerful tribe remaining. I have orders to return. But if you knew how to suppress the death magic and the chances of undead…”
That would be the worst thing, and Pisces hesitated. Splitting up the bodies was better, but he thought quickly.
“There has to be at least one [Gravetender] in Orefell. They’ll have gravesalt. Or ask—Ylawes Byres.”
“The Silver Swords’ Captain?”
Dawil glanced up, confused, and Pisces nodded.
“Gravesalt is salt, ash, silver—it suppresses death magic. Ah—you could get some potted plants. Put them in the center of the wagon.
“Potted plants?”
Even Jelaqua hadn’t heard of that, but Pisces elaborated.
“Living beings and the earth make it harder for undead to rise. Plants eat death magic.”
“A [Gravetender], gravesalt, and plants. That’ll work. Thank you, Adventurer. Do you hail from Noelictus? I heard you were from the home continent.”
Rlint nodded at Pisces as he flagged someone over to find the materials. The [Necromancer]’s smile wavered, but—he had already talked about Roshal. Ksmvr patted Pisces on the head and got a mild swat.
“Not Noelictus, Field Captain. As a matter of fact…I come from Ailendamus. Not that I have strong ties to the Kingdom of Glass and Glory.”
It was the first time he had ever said that. Even Jelaqua looked surprised, but Rlint just nodded thoughtfully.
“Not a home for [Necromancers].”
“No indeed. Nor was it Ailendamus proper; mine was a province absorbed in recent years.”
“Ah. That explains it. Well, you are a friend to Dwarves, Adventurer. This has been a striking meeting. I am sorry to leave, but I will remember it. Nor do I think marching to fight at Orefell was wrong.”
The Dwarf said that even as he stood before the lines of bodies. Pisces nodded slowly, and Rlint looked at the Antinium.
“Goblins. Antinium. The kindness of Selphids, and a [Necromancer]’s wisdom. We even had that [Priest] of the Antinium come here and bless our dead. I don’t know what their ‘Heaven’ is, but if it’s the opposite of Rhir, may our kin rest there.”
Strange times indeed. Pisces nodded and stepped back, but only after shaking hands with a number of Dwarves. Peki did likewise.
“I will tell Merrik I met you all. He was crying. Which is why I came.”
Rlint actually laughed at that.
“Tell him to visit, and we’ll all buy him a round! Dwarfhalls Rest will be sending Dwarfsteel before winter’s first snows, my oath on it! All of you are welcome to visit!”
“And you to visit Liscor! Or Invrisil or Celum—it’s all connected. Just mention you met us at The Wandering Inn, and I promise you, you’ll get a warm welcome and a free meal.”
Jelaqua grinned, and the Dwarves looked up. Rlint’s gaze sharpened.
“Ah, there’s a name I’ve heard. I promise we’ll do that. For now—Adventurer Dawil, an honor. Get that axe looked at by Master Pelt. If anyone can mend it—it’s him. Otherwise, you may need to go home.”
“That I know.”
Dawil spoke solemnly, and all the Dwarves filed past him. Pisces was curious because he knew the axe they meant, but Rlint just shook his head.
“A sign of the times. Not your fault. But a sign…well, you are a Gold-rank adventurer. You’ve earned a meeting and a tale. Grandfathers’ blessings on all.”
Then, one more round of handshakes and they were marching off.
“Poor bastards. They came, fought for Orefell, and now they’re leaving without so much as a wagonload of jade. Dwarves are too nice. I’m gonna cry.”
Jelaqua was quieter than Ceria. She produced a handkerchief and blew her nose into it.
“Did someone offer…?”
Pisces wasn’t sure if they’d missed their opportunity, but Dawil walked over, hands in his pockets.
“Nah, they refused it outright. It’s a bit of politics; shows they want to be good neighbors. But the rest is pride. They can call every Dwarf who fell here a hero who went without reward to fight the monsters. They’ll go home upon the shields. But yes. Thanks for helping, Jelaqua.”
“Don’t mention it. At least we gave them some of the skins.”
That caught Pisces’ ears.
“Skins?”
“Gargoyle hide.”
Jelaqua clarified. She pointed over to the battlefield where the insects and carrion had finally descended, and Pisces saw Humans with masks, Antinium, and Goblins all performing the nasty task of working with rotting flesh.
“A bunch of Bossel hides. That’s the toughest of the lot. It might still lose to Dwarfsteel, but it’ll be a bit lighter, and they know how to tan it. So do the Goblins.”
Pisces knew each monster had its value, and while the Eater Goats weren’t worth much aside from their teeth and hides like regular goats, Bossels and Gargoyles had hide that made armor better than leather.
Speaking of which, it seemed like Orefell was reclaiming some of its losses from the Gargoyles. They left the flesh alone, and the bones, but the hides were being carted to Orefell for tanning. Though it’d be a high-level [Tailor] or [Armorer] who could work it.
That gave Pisces a thought. Amidst the falling night, he gazed at the battlefield and stared at all those…bones.
Lovely bones. In fact, Gargoyle bones, which were notoriously tough. Pisces had always suffered from a lack of good bones. The Mothbears were still a mainstay of his collection, and he’d left an entire Warbear with his Skeleton Lord back on Chandrar.
They were still active. But Gargoyle bones? Pisces glanced around innocently, then two things happened.
The first was that someone spoke in his head. A telepathic voice of a great, dangerous being that made goosebumps ripple down Pisces’ spine.
The second was that someone spoke out loud. A shivering shout coming from the north of outrage, malice, and fury.
The Necromancer, Az’kerash, spoke to Pisces alone.
“Young Pisces. I have seen your battle against the monsters of the High Passes. You have done well.”
He sounded almost pleased. On the other hand, the Named-rank Adventurer—who roared so loudly everyone flinched and Jelaqua groaned—was decidedly unhappy.
“GOBLINS.”
The Selphid put two fingers in her ears.
“Oh, dead gods damnit. Who invited him? It’s Merdon!”
“Who?”
Then Pisces realized who it was. The Named-rank adventurer. Crowdcaller Merdon was coming from the north, and he had recognized some old foes.
“—personal congratulations. Did you fare—THE DAMN GOBLINS—Bossels quite handily? I—PREPARE FOR BATTLE!—return to Izril.”
Pisces simultaneously got both people speaking in his ears and heard exactly none of both conversations. He spoke, half to Jelaqua, half to Az’kerash.
“It’s Crowdcaller Merdon! He’s going to attack Rags’ tribe?”
“Crowdcaller Merdon? One second—”
Pisces thought he actually heard the Necromancer get a bit of the operatic voice raging—it sounded like an echo of Merdon’s shouting. So now deafened physically and mentally, Pisces was turning to what might be a bad battle.
Bad, because Merdon was the best person to attack a huge number of people. Even armies feared his voice, and it might have been why he had come to fight the Gargoyles and Eater Goats.
If so, he was two days late. And the Goblins were not a threat. Worse—he might go after the Antinium!
“We have to stop him. Dawil—come on.”
Jelaqua pounded ahead, and Ksmvr followed as the Necromancer spoke testily.
“I see. This is an opportune time. Do you know any [Hush] spells, Necromancer Pisces?”
“Only paltry ones, Archmage. [Silence]—”
Merdon’s next shout blew through the entire spell. Az’kerash’s whisper cut through the voice.
“Yes. A Named-rank adventurer can defeat basic spells. Try this. [Hush].”
And then there was silence. Pisces looked around, rattled. He still heard Merdon’s voice, but dimmed. It wasn’t perfect, but—
“Did you—cast that through me, Archmage Chandler?”
The Necromancer’s voice was amused.
“Hardly. You and I are not linked. I merely cast a long-range spell centered upon your location. Even the Archmages of Wistram can perform this trick.”
