Thoughtless. Greedy. And uncaring for the sacrifice of Vaunt and the Dwarves and the others. Pisces leveled his ring, and then he blinked. He said something at the same time as Az’kerash repeated it in his head.
“A…cat?”
“Cat?”
Pisces saw the undead burst into the firelight as the [Soldiers] cried out. He looked at a loping beast, six feet tall along its arched spine, its skull perfectly configured not to resemble a skull, but the actual features of…a housecat.
A giant bone housecat bared its fangs and leapt towards Pisces. The [Necromancer] blinked, [Flash Stepped] sideways as it whirled, and hesitated.
“No way.”
The animal leapt—and he snapped its neck. The entire bone creation went down, and Pisces stared down at the carefully-shaved bone. The articulated ears. Dead gods, someone had even carved whiskers into the huge head.
“What is that, sir?”
“An…a spontaneous cat undead. Very common in some parts of the world.”
“A what?”
The [Soldiers] gave Pisces a long look, but he bent down and then glanced up into the distance.
 
——
 
The [Necromancers] were throwing a fit. Not only had they lost most of the bones they’d hoped to loot—their best undead was gone.
She was going berserk, and the rest of the cabal hunkered down.
“My personal undead! Who is that bastard down there? I’ll kill him! We’re raising Ghouls!”
“Come on—they know we’re here, and they have horses. Let’s go, Ama.”
One of them whispered, but three of the newest members were hesitating. Death magic from below. It could be those Ants or an adventurer, but they thought it might be someone else using death magic. They weren’t good at sensing; no one here had been to Wistram, but if so—hadn’t a certain team gone to Orefell?
It was rare any of them got in range of a scrying orb, so they only knew of the battle from people fleeing, and they’d obviously come for corpses. Whose? It didn’t matter. But their angry leader had lost her temper.
“Link up! We’re raising a Ghoul, and you three are grabbing corpses. We—wait a second. What’s that?”
All eight froze as, below, the empty grass of the night began to move. Just once, a flattening—but then another one twelve feet distant. It was faint, but the moonlight was good, and their already-paranoid instincts flared.
“Invisible adventurer! Run!”
The [Necromancers] leapt to their feet in a terror. They were made! They turned—and Pisces appeared, a [Light] spell in his hands.
He had a rapier in one hand, and he caught all eight, wearing robes of various hues of black, skulking in the grass. One of them leapt for cover and tripped and face-planted into the grass.
“Adventurer! Run and meet at the hideout!”
A scream, but then one of the youngest [Necromancers] actually tore the mask from her face.
“Wait! Stop, stop—Adventurer Pisces! It’s us! Remember?”
One of the three [Necromancers] who’d gotten his autograph in Invrisil held up their hands. Pisces stared down at them, and his rapier lowered. Not that it had ever really risen. He looked down at the cabal and sighed.
“I knew it.”
The eight frozen [Necromancers] stared at the most famous [Necromancer] of Izril. Pisces rubbed at his face.
“If it was anyone but me, you would be dead. Ylawes Byres wouldn’t even wait for a [Guardsman]. Raising undead to attack soldiers? Are you—? Nevermind. I was a young [Necromancer] too, but this is ridiculous. Leave.”
He pointed at them, and the eight [Necromancers] looked at each other. He, a Gold-rank adventurer, executioners of their class, had spotted them and…?
“Pisces?”
One of the masked, hooded figures whispered. Pisces was fumbling around in his bag of holding. Then, to their astonishment, he dumped a pile of huge Gargoyle bones on the ground.
“There. Half. Try not to cause trouble, will you? Who made the giant cat? That was halfway artful.”
He glanced around, and the three fans of his looked around. Then—Pisces Jealnet saw the leader of the coven slowly move. She stepped forwards and tugged the hood off her face. The mask fell, and Pisces blinked as someone scowled up at him.
Pale, virtually bone-white features from the chalk on her face. She’d even colored her nose black to mimic a skeleton. Pisces nearly dropped his rapier as the leader of the cabal, the owner of the giant cat undead, spoke with a snap.
“You—you call that halfway artful? If Gewilena or Feren had done that, you’d call it a masterpiece. You—you—”
His eyes bulged. Pisces’ mouth opened, and he gobbled as he pointed at her. He was as shocked as she was—although everyone had told her it was Pisces, she had denied he could be alive. It was someone else. She was the only survivor from the massacre aside from Feren.
Pisces pointed at a completely different face, far older, years apart. But the makeup was the same, and the artistry in bone?
He whispered a name from his childhood. From the first cabal he had ever joined as he looked her in the eye.
“Ama?”
A stranger’s face peered back at him, just as uncertain. Someone Pisces had never thought to see again, framed in nostalgia and grief and…
A complete stranger. A woman, not a girl, far changed from sneaking out of her mother’s shop with alchemical supplies to put on makeup with Gewilena that her village and family wouldn’t approve of.
She looked at Pisces with much the same expression. How had she come here, to Izril, stealing bones? And he…how had he become a Gold-rank adventurer, defending soldiers from the undead?
He wanted to reach out and hug her, but she was just as tense as the cat-skeleton she’d always carried with her, that silently-hissing menace that scratched everything, a barely-controlled housecat she’d loved to death. But when Pisces saw her—
“You’re alive. Everyone else was executed. I saw Gewilena’s…”
“Yeah. I heard they got you.”
“Did anyone else—?”
Suddenly, the question was red-hot on Pisces’ tongue. All his certainties were gone, and Ama hesitated.
“I don’t know where they are. How are you here? A Gold-rank adventurer working with House Byres and an Ant?”
The rest of the [Necromancers] were silent, watching, and Pisces was aware of the unseen Az’kerash in his head. He tried to speak through a dry throat, and behind him, he heard a voice.
“This isn’t right!”
For a second, Pisces thought it was his inner self shouting it. Then he realized it was that odious fool, that poor excuse for a Named-rank Adventurer.
Crowdcaller Merdon. Despite the late hour, he was kicking up a second fuss. Pisces whirled as the [Necromancers] flattened themselves, but it wasn’t them.
Merdon had heard the Antinium were getting a huge bounty of jade and a guard-contract. Pisces snapped back at Ama.
“We’ll talk later. Hide before they see you! I’ll find you later—”
His voice was met only by eight hooded figures running for the hills. Ama shouted back.
“I’ll find you.”
Then she was gone. Cursing and determined to shove his rapier somewhere Merdon would find objectionable, Pisces stormed down the hill. He saw Merdon face-to-face with an unmoved Theogrin. But his voice was rising, and Pisces was well aware that if he couldn’t take on an army, he could probably blow out everyone’s eardrums in a mile’s radius.
“I could lend you a [Complete Hush] scroll to reprimand that fool, young Pisces.”
Az’kerash sounded as annoyed as Pisces. But Merdon was, well—brave or foolhardy if nothing else. And as Shriekblade had said, that made a Named-rank Adventurer.
“Merdon, calm down!”
Ylawes was remonstrating with the man, but Merdon shoved the [Knight]’s arms away. He struck his huge shield with a mace, creating a tremendous clash of metal that made everyone wince.
“Calm down? The Antinium are infesting our lands, and you want me to tuck my tail behind my legs, Byres? An army’s right here! If none of you have the stones to take them on, I’ll do it myself! Any true Humans of the north will have my back. Do you think I fear a thousand Antinium? Ten thousand? I am Crowdcaller Merdon.”
Ah, hells. His voice was getting louder. Pisces looked around for his team and saw Yvlon clenching a fist. Ceria was sidling around Merdon with what looked like icy earmuffs, lifting a wand casually. But all he had to do was shout.
The stalemate was about to turn ugly. All it took was someone casting a spell, and the Antinium would charge or defend themselves. And a Named-rank Adventurer was a hard foe. Pisces was about to take Az’kerash up on his offer when the Necromancer said something.
“Ah. That is concerning.”
Pisces bit his tongue. Then he looked up and agreed.
“Oh my. That is very concerning.”
Merdon’s howling voice was still growing louder as he watched his corners, his team silently pleading with him not to get them into a bloodbath. But he was canny enough to notice Ceria on his side and other adventurers and Antinium watching him. He was so busy looking around, it took him a split-second longer to look…up. Straight up. It wasn’t a direction most threats came from.
“Shit.”
Then the flying Antinium pointed down, and Merdon’s entire body flailed as his feet left the ground.
“[Reverse Gravity].”
Xrn, the Small Queen, watched Merdon go flying past her. The Named-rank Adventurer began to shout—then he realized he was falling. Falling into the sky.
“Go ahead and shout, Crowdcaller Merdon. I might drop you.”
The Small Queen called out as he fell past her. The man’s eyes were rolling wildly.
“Merdon!”
Ylawes shouted, and then he focused on Xrn, and the cry went up.
“The Small Queen!”
It was—uncertain. Unlike Klbkch or Wrymvr, Xrn was not as immediately dangerous looking. Immediately…until you realized how she’d gotten here. She had probably used the door to Celum or Invrisil, but the rest?
Only she could teleport and fly to this spot. Let alone with passengers.
Chesacre and Thaina were hugging the ground as some of the [Crusaders] stared at their mottled, colorful carapaces. The Small Queen glanced up as Merdon began to shout in alarm. He was currently a thousand feet up and flying higher.
“[Defy Gravity].”
He stopped, like a flailing balloon, high overhead. Xrn pointed up at him and then glanced down.
“If he shouts or you move, I will [Disintegrate] him. Then every single adventurer with a weapon raised.”
Instantly, everyone from Ceria to Merdon’s team lowered their weapons. Pisces himself hastily put his rapier down. Az’kerash was silent in his mind as Xrn spoke, and that glowing radiance coming out of her head was mirrored by her eyes.
They were bright. They found Pisces, found Magnolia Reinhart, staring up with hostility and nervousness from Theofore’s shaking grip. They found Ceria, even the distant, fleeing [Necromancers]—but they fixed on only one spot.
The Antinium. The [Crusaders], the [Templar], Embraim, Artur—all of them, watching with fear and a kind of resignation. Here came the consequences, and unlike Klbkch…even Zimrah seemed uncertain how to stop her.
The Small Queen smiled. Magic crackled out of her mind, unformed, as she looked around. The Queens were in total uproar. So followed the north and south of Izril. But the Small Queen was smiling.
Smiling, as Klbkch watched her float there on the scrying orbs. He already knew what she would say, yet it still came as a shock. The Twisted Queen laughed, once, as she plucked a single Birther Sac and prepared it for transit.
A gift. A gift for…
“I am the Small Queen of the Antinium. Xrn, you call me. I declare myself the Queen of the Seventh Hive of the Antinium. I will lead this crusade of the Antinium. Send to me your Soldiers and Workers, arms and supplies. This army will have no home below ground. It shall take every cause it finds righteous. Do what you will, [Crusaders]. Live, level, die as you see fit. I will answer your foes with the fury that broke Rhir’s walls.”
She floated there as the [Crusaders] looked at each other. The Small Queen’s gaze brightened until a second sun of a hundred colors seemed to be floating just above the treetops. Slowly, Pisces looked up and realized what Az’kerash had.
The Crusade of the Antinium was here to stay. Faith and steel and magic, for hire. Liscor’s famous army had competition.
