The scrying spell was already being cut in major Drake cities, but fortunately, the viewer had an uninterrupted feed. Artur replied cheerfully.
“No, Sir Relz, it was not an act of cooperation.”
“Aha! Then what was it?”
“The right thing to do. Monsters should not be allowed to kill people.”
Sir Relz looked like he was going to be sick. His lips twisted, and he was about to respond when Rags strode into frame.
“A Goblin?”
The horrified exclamation came from back-stage in Sir Relz’s picture. Drassi shouted.
“Rags?”
Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe marched up to the [Mage] holding the scrying spell and stopped. She grinned, but carefully, showing only some of her teeth as a Carn Wolf slunk into frame behind her. A magnificent animal who was in fact Thunderfur, posing for the scene.
“And here’s the Goblin Chieftain. Another do-gooder fighting monsters purely for the altruistic benefits, I suppose? If you’re tuning in, folks, I am Sir Relz, and this is an unprecedented broadcast. Who are you, Goblin? I warn you—the [Mage] in front of you is under Wistram’s direct protection and the protection of Pallass!”
Relz glared down at Rags, and she eyed the [Mage] unseen with a grin that never changed. At this, by the sounds of it, Drassi began to kick Noass harder off-stage, but Sir Relz was the better interviewer.
After all—his opinions directly matched up with what the rest of the world felt about Goblins. Drassi was, for once, the wrong [Reporter] for the task.
What would Rags say? She stared into the camera with all the deliberateness Artur had lacked. She knew she was putting her tribe in the crosshairs of countless foes, so why?
In this moment, Rags had the attention of the world, and the little Goblin, perhaps, wanted to say something entirely silly like, ‘we are a people’. ‘We are not monsters’. ‘Please don’t kill us’.
It would be the wrong thing to say. It was the right thing to speak, but it would land across countless deaf ears. The little Goblin was too knowledgeable, by now, to do that. So her grin never changed as she looked Sir Relz in the eyes.
“Do good? Hah! My tribe fights for good gold. Lots of gold. And food. Big <Heroic Quest> got posted, stupid Drake. Everyone know that. Even Goblins.”
Sir Relz’s jaw dropped as Rags spoke in, well, Ulvama-speak. Which was harder than proper language, but entirely in character as she posed with the giant crossbow on her back.
“Goblins know about the <Heroic Quest>?”
“Duh. Drake have bad hearing? Good gold, shiny weapons and armor. We take food, too. You pay us, we hit enemies. Like Ants.”
She jerked a thumb at Artur, and the [Banner Commander] opened his mandibles, but he hesitated. Sir Relz was fascinated.
“Are you telling me your tribe…”
“Flooded Waters.”
“The Flooded Waters tribe is fighting for coin? Who are you, Goblin Chieftain?”
She bared her teeth even wider.
“Rags. I am Chieftain Rags. Mighty tribe in High Passes! But I fight for whomever pays me, not kill Drakes or Humans or Gnolls.”
Sir Relz’s eyes narrowed, and he consulted some notes Noass thrust over to him before hurrying to shoulder-check Drassi out of frame.
“Wait a second. Are you the Goblins who kidnapped the famous Healer of Tenbault months ago?”
Rags narrowed her eyes.
“No…maybe.”
The Drake looked around triumphantly, and the camera zoomed in on his face as he sat forwards, suddenly on high-alert, sensing even more drama.
“You’ve made an enemy of the north, Chieftain Rags. What do you say to that? Are you even aware the Five Families are out to find your tribe after what you’ve done?”
The image zoomed in on Rags’ face and then zoomed out hurriedly because she stuck a finger up her nose and began to pick it. The Goblin flicked something off to the side and spat. She was hamming it up a bit, but it was working.
“What, stupid healer? We brought back. Is just job.”
“Job? Wait, say that again. Are you implying someone hired you to—”
There were truth spells now part of Wistram’s broadcast as a matter of course, but they flashed an undecided amber at Rags’ statement. And the Chieftain began to look bored instantly.
“Psh. You is boring. You have big job for my tribe? Beat up Drakes? Fight monsters?”
“No, but did someone hire you to—”
“Boring! You want to talk to me, you pay! I have Wyverns, Carn Wolves, Goblins with big hammers! You pay me, and I kill foes. Got it? Chieftain Rags. Greatest Chieftain ever.”
Rags jerked a thumb into her chest. She smiled around proudly, and some Goblins off-screen cheered and held their sides, trying not to laugh. Rags turned to the camera, and if you were Drassi, looking close, or someone who knew her—Rags’ eyes softened slightly, and she spoke possibly the only true words in the entire interview.
“I do not kill people without reason. I promise.”
Sir Relz saw her turn away, but the Drake was not about to lose this interview. He lunged, and the [Mage] holding the scrying orb pursued Rags a few steps as if Sir Relz had reached across the world and pushed them forwards. The Drake scrambled over the desk and came so close to the scrying orb you could see up his nose-holes.
“Wait! How did a Goblin Chieftain learn how to speak the proper language? How did your tribe come to be? Do you have any relationship with the Redfang Tribe? With…any individuals who taught you to interact with people?”
He had a name in mind, and Rags slowly swung back towards the camera, looking wary for a second. Now—now Chaldion of Pallass was sending one of the Eyes to cut the feed, but it was too late. Because there was a name on Rags’ tongue, and a lot of people knew it.
Erin Solstice. But if she said that—how much trouble would Erin be in? Even if she could deny sending the crusade, Goblins and Antinium?
If she said it, did Hectval’s assassination repeat itself? Yet she had to say something. It was funny, but no one would believe Rags if she told them she’d taught herself. A Goblin wasn’t that smart. So she needed a name.
A true one, unfortunately, because of those damn truth spells. Rags had a lot of names that might work well enough. Unfortunately…each one had consequences.
Reiss, the Goblin Lord? Not a good look. Garen Redfang? The same, and it put the Halfseekers into the spotlight. Tremborag? Forget about it. P-Pisces? He was not going to thank her for that.
Erin Solstice. She could say it, but Rags hesitated because she felt it was not the time. Not yet. Like telling everyone she was just a person and…and wanted to be left alone, it was not a message that Sir Relz or the world was ready to hear.
Then Rags had an idea. She had the perfect name, and she smiled crookedly. The truth spells flashed blue with truth as Rags spoke.
“Me? I learned from a famous Goblin. You called him…the Golden Goblin. Pyrite, the Goldstone Chieftain.”
“The Golden Goblin?”
Sir Relz blinked, and someone began to research the urban legend of the north’s Adventurer Guilds. He began to demand more answers, but Rags was already leaping onto Thunderfur’s back, and the Carn Wolf padded off.
An enigmatic, less-threatening Goblin Chieftain mercenary. The legacy of the Golden Goblin of the High Passes. Rags kept her head high as the camera followed her. They didn’t need to know the truth. This was the best truth.
For now.
 
——
 
The entire interview was wonderful. It was well-done, to the point, and it left an impact on the memory. The young Goblin was a natural, and there was also something about the Antinium that just—caught the eye.
Faith. The way they spoke with such disarming innocence, like Artur being interviewed by Sir Relz, who patently did not believe that an Antinium army would risk their lives fighting monsters because it was right.
Despite the Silver Swords being the embodiment of that very ideal. To give Sir Relz some credit—no one else believed it either.
“We must destroy them at once. Someone retrieve the Crown of Flowers! Why is House Veltras not advancing? Those monsters are one thing, but this requires an army!”
Even House Reinhart, the famously aloof member of the Five Families, was alarmed by all this hubbub. But the [Lady] who had just watched Rags’ interview, who had, in fact, watched the entire affair from her mansion in Oteslia, spoke crisply into the scrying orb linking the many representatives of House Reinhart together.
Few were in the same room; Reinharts didn’t get along with each other. Oh, they were loyal to the family, but vipers recognized each other, and she was uncertain whether or not she should feel happy so many of her family were attending the group chat.
Even Calidus had pulled himself out of the bottom of a beer barrel to join in. He seemed relieved by her presence, but the rest of her family was spitting demands for her to muster an army.
As if she had one. Magnolia Reinhart sighed and spoke.
“Maid Calte? Do slap Tourois if he doesn’t shut up. Thank you.”
The [Lord] of House Reinhart spun and backed up as one of her maids calmly bowed to the camera. Calte didn’t raise a hand, but the rest of the unhappy Reinharts fell silent. Ressa twitched beside Magnolia.
She would have loved to do that. Alas, she and Magnolia were in Oteslia, and to judge by her family’s expressions, they not only held a grudge for her ‘Drake affairs’, but also her lack of action on the Goblins and Antinium.
As if they’d so much as bestirred themselves when the monster horde had come down from the High Passes. Magnolia had been the one making arrangements, as few as she could at this remove, and her smile was…well, not vexed.
In fact, to the surprise of many, it was pleased, delighted, happy, even. Rare emotions when she had to look at any of her family members.
“Tourois, my extended family. It is a delight to say that I have not had the pleasure of seeing your faces for quite some time.”
A few of her family scowled, but only the ones with working wits. The others just looked blank until they caught on. Calidus laughed and fell silent as glares went his way. Magnolia went on, pressing two gloved fingers together.
“Rest assured, I have seen the Antinium and Goblin ‘threat’ along with everyone else. In fact, I was aware they were on the march before they encountered the monsters. So before someone accuses me of not raising an army and marching to the defense of Orefell—I remind you how well that worked at Invrisil.”
A short silence as her family remembered that incident, although judging from a few smirks or looks of triumph, they regarded Zel Shivertail’s death as a net boon to all. Magnolia looked from face to face and got an unpleasant surprise.
Even the old man was here. Regis Reinhart was pretending to be a somewhat pale member of the family in his corner of the group scrying spell. She locked eyes with him, and he seemed worried and vexed. So no worse than usual. But he listened.
Calidus, Regis, a few other members of her family were the ones Magnolia was addressing. They were the ones who could think. The others just needed to stop panicking. Magnolia went on, and her smile didn’t change.
“The Goblins are, by their own words, entirely mercenary. They are the same ones who kidnapped the Healer of Tenbault—”
“Under your authority. We nearly lost the greatest healer in the north, and you did nothing, Magnolia!”
That was dear old Aunt Cecille, breaking in with her classic bad timing. Magnolia paused and, without looking at Cecille, lifted a finger.
“Someone silence dear Cecille, please? I don’t have the time to deal with any interruptions, and I will happily have Wistram eliminate you from this discussion if you break in again. Thankyousoverymuch. Now. If I had lost our great Healer of Tenbault, I would shed no tears. As you may recall, I helped her rise to her position. It is to my discredit that she is so objectionably greedy that paying for her services costs tens of thousands of gold pieces. She is a separate matter from the Goblins. Yes, they are here, and yes, they have Wyverns. I don’t believe even our dear Veltras cousins would want to chase them into the High Passes. If they continue attacking cities in the north, we deal with them. The Antinium are the true threat. As we speak, I am sending an agent to deal with them.”
Calidus relaxed at once and beamed as he uncorked a bottle of champagne, but the rest of the family were less willing to take her on credit. Regis himself interrupted, as if daring her to kick him out of the call.
“A single agent? How do you intend to deal with our breached borders, Magnolia? Much less the threat of levelling Antinium and whatever classes they h—”
His face vanished from the group call, courtesy of Wistram’s new network spells. Magnolia’s smile widened as the rest of the Reinharts burst into nervous whispers. Magnolia waited, and a furious Regis reappeared less than ten seconds later.
“Silence, dear family. As I said, I am dealing with it. Would you have an issue if this were just monsters? Would you even know of the issue?”
They glared at her, but they did listen as Magnolia put her hands behind her back. She was still smiling.
“You have left the Antinium to me since the First Antinium War. So, do try to understand the following statement I am about to make. Sleep on it. Consult a [Strategist]. Drink a Potion of Wits, but listen to me when I say: this is the greatest boon we could ask for. This is a moment to claim for our advantage, and the first idiot who spoils my moves by attacking or paying for a hired killer, I will personally hang.”
Silence. The Reinharts gasped in outrage or shock, but Calidus thoughtfully stopped drinking, and Regis’ burning gaze turned to confusion. Magnolia Reinhart kept smiling as Ressa held up a second scrying orb cued to a racing saddle and a rather woebegone [Assassin].
Oh, excellent. Theofore was almost there. Magnolia could actually see the Antinium. She waved at the rest of her family.
“You are free to try and scry my conversations, but bear in mind what I said. I must bid you farewell, everyone. Business awaits.”
She cut the feed as the outrage began and the voices began calling for her to explain, but Ressa turned off the scrying orb and held the other one up.
“Regis will be demanding answers, Magnolia.”
“Let him. He’s canny enough to know these aren’t the days when Reinharts could march behind Earth Elementals and Golems. I was surprised Calidus was sober enough to join in.”
“He’s not an idiot.”
“No, and that’s why he’s the most dangerous and helpfully useless of the lot. Have someone check in on him.”
Magnolia sighed and pressed two fingers to her temples. Oh, she hated dealing with her family. And it was harder now that she had ‘fled’ the north to deal with problems like this.
