It was extremely unsettling for Klbkch, because the Antinium did not do art. Nothing like this. Even the statues of the Centenium each Queen made were accurate, not exaggerated. He hastened his footsteps; he could hear two voices below.
One was bright, sing-song, and chirped in a way that was sometimes deliberately annoying, other times as innocent as Mrsha could be. The second was deeper, and it had—strains like each emotion reflected in her eyes. So much power it altered her voice. It was annoyed and dangerous.
“You are refusing my orders, Bird? I told you. You are not permitted to return to the surface. Stop running away. Chesacre and Thaina keep retrieving you. Their patience is infinite. Mine is not.”
Klbkch halted dead in his tracks. What in the name of Rhir’s hells was that? He thought he actually tasted one of the words. It crackled through the air, and he actually inhaled ozone. He rounded a corner as the streaks of glass and colors grew brighter. There she was.
Xrn, the Small Queen. Azure chitin body, the most ant-like of all the Antinium, ironically. She had never been made in Galuc the Builder’s image, and she had an abdomen like an actual Antinium, no shell. Her arms were only two, and one held a staff while the other gesticulated to a bouncing little Worker holding his bow.
That was Xrn, wondrous, the [Thaumaturge] who inspired even other Queens to action. Or—it had been.
For the glowing radiance in her eyes, reflecting her emotions and constantly changing like a kaleidoscope of magic—was torn. Possibly forever by that monstrous guardian of the dungeon.
Facestealer. In her battle with Belavierr, he had been summoned and tried to tear off Xrn’s head. He had ripped apart one eye, part of her very head—
A killing wound that had torn into her mind. It should have been her end, but Xrn’s magic had saved her. Its radiance, like her eyes, was a shifting rainbow of colors. Only—it now leaked from a glowing wound in her face.
It was a miracle she had two arms, even. But at least she had managed to reattach the other limb since it had only been torn off. If Klbkch looked very closely, he saw a hairline fracture where it had been detached, but the Free Queen could reattach a limb. Not fix…the rest.
Klbkchhezeim halted, and Xrniavxxel turned. He knew he looked nothing like his old self, even with his new body. Only his swords were the same. He had long since resigned himself to walking around in a Worker’s pitiful form, the helpless feeling of decay.
But it was one thing to see his reflection and see her wounded like this. If they were back among the True Antinium, her body could be repaired! But none of the simple gels they’d recreated or saved would mend that scar.
“Klbkch. There you are. Good, the Grand Queen has not distracted you too long? We shall speak of this Crusade. But first, deal with Bird. He is insubordinate.”
Again, there it was! A flash of color in her words, and correspondingly—Klbkch saw the radiance emanating from Xrn’s head change.
A flash of gold, like inspiration or pride or the very light the [Crusaders] summoned. Happiness? Yet it flashed outwards, uncontrolled, and left a golden patch of glass on the domed chamber Xrn sat in.
Now, it made sense. No wonder she had requested space away from anyone else. Xrn’s magic had always been powerful, but her control had been legendary.
She had lost it. Or perhaps she could control it, but chose not to, here. Klbkch was so stunned that he barely noticed Xrn’s two followers before one moved.
Chesacre and Thaina. The Free Antinium’s two female Soldiers had vanished from the ranks of the Painted Antinium into Xrn’s custody one time. Klbkch had not inquired, much, nor seen them again. Their appearance was as shocking as Bird’s.
Their armored carapaces had changed color. The brown-black chitin had mottled, turned red like a rose, green as an emerald, a grey-white—a patchwork just like the walls. They were a discordant mix of colors, surely the product of proximity to Xrn’s magic.
But that wasn’t what made Klbkch do a double-take. What made him halt and truly look at them were their eyes.
Antinium eyes had no pupils nor glow or any other quality to them. What unsettled other species was the lack of any whites, any facsimile of eyes. They were just a bug’s eyes, which saw a compound picture. But Chesacre and Thaina’s had turned…
Transparent. They looked like glass and reflected far more than most eyes. There was still no pupil, but Klbkch felt a sheer unease as one of the Soldiers waved at him. It reminded him of Xrn’s gaze, but unlit. Yet with each flash of Xrn’s light, he almost felt like he saw an echo in their gaze.
Magic. This was not a place for a warrior like Klbkch. He felt uneasy here; the rules were different. Not that Centenium ever fought but to train and test new concepts, but he hated enemies where a swing of the sword did worse than nothing.
Not that they were going to fight. But Bird was excited when he saw Klbkch, and he waved his hands.
“There he is! I told you someone would come, you mean—mean Xrn! I am free! Although I did think it would be Erin. Or Ishkr. Or Pawn. Or Garry, before Klbkch. Klbkch, I have been captured! Free me!”
“Bird. You have not been captured. Xrn—I wished to speak, and I noticed Bird was present. You appear to be—well.”
“Is that small talk, Klbkchhezeim? It is not an Antinium thing. You have changed as much as Bird. Your body is somewhat better.”
Xrn’s voice was still leaking colors. Klbkch shifted slightly and deliberately folded his arms. She was definitely upset.
“You enjoyed it last we spoke. What is this about Bird being kidnapped?”
“I have been restrained here for three days against my will! Fed horrible treats from Garry’s kitchen! Including all the bird-related foods I could want! Which wasn’t so bad. But I was not allowed to leave.”
“Three days? Nonsense. I saw you in your tower yesterday on patrol.”
Bird gave Klbkch a highly offended look.
“No, you did not. I was here.”
“I saw you, Bird. Do not lie, even if that is your class. I saw…”
Then Klbkch hesitated, and Xrn turned her head and opened her mandibles.
“You see, little Bird? No one noticed. Not even Klbkchhezeim. A simple Worker fooled even the inn’s guests. You have no place there you claim.”
Bird glowered, and his antennae waved furiously.
“That is because you did not ask Ishkr! He noticed! Probably. Erin was not there, so it does not count. She would notice the moment she saw that fake!”
“It does not matter. You will stay here. Klbkch, I have summoned Bird repeatedly to study his abilities. The Free Queen has done likewise. He refuses to stay.”
Xrn calmed down a bit, and Klbkch sensed less of the colorized words that seemed to hover in the air. He stepped forwards as she beckoned him over, and Bird indignantly moved. Only then did Klbkch see the shackles of light keeping Bird from getting up and running.
Alright. At this point, if Klbkch had been on patrol and he had come across a similar scene, he would have called in backup. Since there was no backup besides the Free Queen…he relied on his familiarity and long acquaintance with Xrn as fellow Centenium.
Then he remembered she’d tried to have Wrymvr killed to reset his personality.
“What is so problematic about Bird returning to the inn, Xrn?”
“I told him not to. He disobeyed me. He is capable of maintaining a Unitasis Network, Klbkch. Not just maintaining one like a lesser Prognugator. Generating one. The Queens have never been able to do that as far as the Great Plains, but he generated one.”
“With all the Queens’ help. I was there. And Wrymvr.”
Klbkch pointed out, slightly hurt. Xrn stared at him, and the lights emanating from her head changed with her eye to a vexed grey.
“Yes. You were there. Shut up.”
Klbkch shut up. Bird bounced in his seat as Thaina offered him a drink. He sipped furiously from a straw.
“I left because I have a duty which supercedes creating a Unitasis Something for all the Antinium.”
“Which is?”
Xrn turned and glowered at him. Bird replied happily.
“Hunting birds, teasing Mrsha, and enjoying myself at the inn. I was appointed by Revalantor Klbkch. Who is sitting right there, incidentally. And the Free Queen. You are merely Prognugator Xrn of the Grand Queen. Therefore, you are outranked, and I should go back and sit in my tower and have fun. Tell her, Klbkch.”
“Bird. Shut up.”
Klbkch whispered. Xrn’s bright gaze flickered in colors so fast that Klbkch was sure this was not the start of their argument. He wondered what three days of speaking to Bird felt like.
“I am Xrn, The Small Queen of the Antinium. Centenium of the First Queen.”
“Yes. And?”
Then Klbkch ducked. Chesacre and Thaina had already taken cover, but he saw the second effect of Xrn’s wounds aside from her personality. The Small Queen twitched—and the light from her head turned into a spell.
It looked like a snake made out of lightning. It flashed, curving upwards, and blew a chunk out of the ceiling. Stone, glass, and debris showered down as Xrn made a kcrching sound of fury. Bird twitched a bit in his restraints.
“Ooh. Pretty.”
For some reason, that seemed to calm Xrn down again. Or maybe it was the output of power. Klbkch got up and saw Chesacre edge over, behind him. She had a wand, and the Soldier bumped into him. Klbkch moved her away with one arm as he sat back down. He stared down at his hands as Xrn spoke.
Calmly.
“Bird, what do you want? Do you want to hunt a Roc? I will find one for you. Do you wish to have a better bow? One is surely in the armories of the Queens. Speak what you wish, and I will give it to you if you cooperate.”
Bird thought hard, and the little [Liar] chirped as he spoke. Unfortunately, he often told the truth, which made the lies even harder to detect.
“Me? Well, thank you for asking, Xrn. My answer is…I want to live in the inn forever.”
Klbkch slapped his forehead so hard he nearly dropped the bit of paper Chesacre had handed him. He caught it quickly as Xrn stared.
“What else?”
Bird replied.
“Nothing else. I will be there until I die. That is my happiest outcome.”
Xrn laughed, and it was a fluttering sound, like another insect. Klbkch stared down at the note Chesacre had given him. He had no idea Soldiers could write, but she must have learned. It was still clumsy, but legible.
Scary Xrn. Want to leave. Us. She will kill him.
Klbkch’s head snapped up. He saw Xrn lean forwards.
“Bird. You do not know this, but True Antinium have never feared dying from long lifespans. We know how to rejuvenate bodies, replace limbs. If you were made correctly—if the Queens treated you, you would only perish in battle. But you were not. You were made for a shorter lifespan. You will never see the rest of that inn grow old, Bird. You will not live longer than a mere Goblin.”
Bird listened to Xrn as Klbkch glanced around. The two Soldiers were watching him. Bird replied as Klbkch got up slowly.
“That is not a problem so long as I am at the inn. Even if it is tomorrow. If I saw everything there was to see, if I was there, I would be happy.”
“Is that your final answer?”
Xrn’s voice was soft. Bird nodded.
“Xrn—”
She lifted her staff and, ignoring Klbkch, aimed it straight at Bird. The jeweled tip, normally a gemstone hovering in place, was instead a spear of glowing light. Bird leaned back as it aimed at his chest.
“Um. I do not believe killing me is allowed. I can make a Unitasis Network. You should not kill me. That is not a lie.”
His cheerful voice grew uncertain as Xrn ignored Klbkch standing right behind her. The Small Queen was smiling, and Klbkch saw the light warping towards him. He had a hand on his sword hilt.
“You are not the basis for True Antinium. But your power is essential. I will take the risk that your corpse will be that basis. If you will not cooperate—I will kill you. Klbkch, do not be a fool. Or the Silent Queen will be forced to make you another body.”
Her voice was light, even filled with levity. Klbkch spoke as Bird froze.
“If you slay him, my position in Liscor will be in jeopardy. Bird is too valuable to kill.”
Xrn never turned her head.
“I am offering him an ultimatum. As for your position—your social ties will be in jeopardy. Which is more valuable, Klbkchhezeim? The Antinium or your friendships?”
He didn’t answer. Klbkch just thought of what Erin would say. What her face would look like. But he felt a creeping paralysis running up his arms. She’d already begun casting a spell.
Or was she thinking it? The stalemate between the two was broken as Bird suddenly raised his hands.
“I understand. I understand. I do not wish to die. I will cooperate.”
Klbkch and Xrn’s antennae both twitched. She looked around, and the spear of light abruptly ended. She peered at Bird, and the restraints vanished.
“You agree?”
Bird nodded. He dusted himself off. Then he looked at Xrn and threw her a salute, like one of Klbkch’s [Guard] colleagues. His voice was suddenly, abruptly, serious.
“You have made the dilemma clear to me, Prognugator Xrn. I understand that I have no choice. Very well. I shall therefore collect my possessions from the inn. I will be back shortly.”
Xrn tilted her head. Klbkch’s mandibles opened and closed. Bird was going to obey? Well then—he was halfway through sheathing his sword when something tingled the back of Klbkch’s mind.
Wait a second, Bird would hate going to the Hive. He’d sworn never to go back. Was he—?
The [Convincing Lie] worked on the two Centenium for about six seconds after Bird marched out of the room. Klbkch and Xrn both held still for another second, then Klbkch coughed into his mandibles and muttered.
“…He’s running away.”
Xrn sat in her chair another heartbeat, then the light coming out of her head turned black. Like a storm deep in the ocean twisting with green blood of the Antinium. Klbkch drew his swords and swung for her staff, a second blade going f—
 
——
 
Someone shook him awake. Chesacre and Thaina bent over Klbkch as he jerked upright. He looked around and then realized he was on his back.
Also, there was a hole in his chest. Klbkch stared at the still-smoking crater and spoke.
“Ow.”
He looked around and saw one of his swords embedded up to the hilt in the ceiling of the room. The second was lying on the ground. Klbkch got up slowly as Xrn floated back into the chambers.
With Bird. He was wriggling in another series of magical chains. Xrn tossed him down, then raised her staff.
“Uh oh. Uh oh.”
Bird was trying to get at his bow. But Xrn’s voice was now filled with wrath. Like an Aberration—Chesacre and Thaina fled as Klbkch saw her one good eye flash at him.
