Crusader 57, the real Crusader 57, turned and pointed to the Worker running about. The rest of Squad 5 looked at each other.
Oh yes, there were some real changes coming over the new [Crusaders]. Crusader 53 was polishing his mace, and that was no euphemism. He noticed someone was watching him and turned.
A Dwarf waved at him. Crusader 53 hesitated—then waved back. He waited a second, but Dawil stomped over with a mug in hand. The Dwarf hesitated.
“Er—morning to you. Anyone care for a drink? They’re still rolling them out from Orefell’s distillery.”
The Antinium looked around. Crusader 57 sat up with interest, but after a second, Crusader 53 shrugged.
“Fair enough. The name’s Dawil. Silver Swords.”
Oh, the adventurers. The Antinium looked interested as the Dwarf crouched down.
“Would you mind me taking a look at that? What’s your name? Is that a Dragonbone mace?”
Crusader 53 needed one of the other members of Squad 5 to speak for him, but he was quite pleased Dawil had noticed. He let the Dwarf inspect it. Look what I found in battle!
“Dead gods. And I thought that Vaunt fellow had gotten lucky. I, er, don’t suppose you’d consider an offer for this? I could muster a lot of gold up.”
Crusader 53 gently tugged his mace free, and Dawil sighed.
“Yeah, thought so. Here. Want to see my hammer?”
No euphemisms. Yet. But it was true that there were a number of…interesting items that had appeared since the completion of the <Heroic Quest>.
Items and levels. Most of the Antinium had barely known that a quest existed, but if they had, a few things would have made sense.
Like some of the rewards, but especially something that had been part of it being posted.
Experience in <Combat>, <Aid> class categories.
What that meant was that, although some individuals with high-levels did not level, almost every single [Soldier] on the field had gained at least one level. Usually more.
That wasn’t unusual either, for a big battle. What was unusual were the magic items.
Gershal of Vaunt finally got to hold the magic longsword that had appeared nearly nine hours later. Falene Skystrall handed it to him, holding the plain steel blade with a bit of cloth. It was a plain blade, yet Gershal still felt a chill as she presented it to him.
For, the hilt was made of a strange, faintly green metal that looked at first to maybe be copper if it was exposed to the air. It certainly had a bronze tinge, but there was a luster that belied that notion. The handle had a kind of twist to the metal such that it looked like a [Smith] had twisted a straight handle with a wrench.
However, that was not the strangest bit. The strangest bit was that at the base of the steel was an equally curving etching on the blade. Normally, this was a bit of acid-work done to show a name, a crest of a city, a noble house, and so on. This…was more like a work of art.
Waving lines, much like the currents of a sea imagined upon the steel, rising upwards. It was beautiful and occupied the bottom third of the blade. It was also—frankly—confusing as heck.
The art of the handle and sword blade made sense. It was a fine blade and clearly magical, because it had that faint shine that was too-bright. [Detect Magic] also clearly showed the sword was magical, but Falene had ascertained a few things when she’d taken it.
“There was no magic sword listed in the entire quest rewards. Not once. Secondly, this…blade is of no style I can imagine. Most [Smiths] have some kind of subtle signature. None for this one. I do not know what the metal is; the Dwarves suspect it’s some kind of alloy that involves Treecopper.”
“And the enchantment, Adventurer Skystrall?”
She sighed and fiddled with the glasses she wore.
“…Inconclusive, but the sword has some kind of—strong gravity-grip spell. It’s strengthened and has a sharpness enchantment, but the main effect is, ah, odd. You could try it on an opponent, but I caution you not to try to strike them. Just have them try to parry a blow.”
Gershal held the blade up, and to his profound disappointment, he felt like the balance was off. It was a bit top-heavy. Not a blade you could perfectly balance mid-way on your thumb.
Yet it was his. It had appeared, given him a bruise on his jaw, and it seemed to be a random reward. One of his [Soldiers] offered to let him take a few swings, and Gershal gingerly cut the air a few times, then pretended he was on the attack.
One swing as the grinning [Soldier] raised a sword to deflect, and Gershal saw and felt what Falene meant. As the two swords connected lightly and the other blade made to sweep it away, he saw the other [Soldier] flinch. They had [Dangersense] and tried to pull the blade away, but too late.
The instant they touched, the magical sword twisted the other one. The second blade—and arm of the [Soldier]—rotated, and Gershal’s sword slipped under the blow. He could have brought it down and hacked through his opponent.
Of course, he didn’t, and the other [Soldier] rubbed at his hand.
“Dead gods, sir! What was that?”
“A kind of gravity spell. It grabs and twists whatever it runs into. Shields are harder, but I imagine it is quite a potent weapon for a [Swordsman].”
Falene observed. Gershal was astounded and delighted. Just the thing for a [Soldier]! It didn’t work well on a shield; the [Shieldsister] grimaced when it struck her shield and reported a heavy pull, but on anyone with a good grip, it had little effect.
“Some reward! I say, is this the quality of item one gets from a <Heroic Quest>? I’d wager anyone would want to take them on if this is what’s received!”
“Just imagine what a <Mythical Quest> does, then. Hey, is that a [Mage] galloping into camp?”
Everyone turned, and Gershal put up his new blade as he saw someone emerging from Orefell. The [Governor] and—what was now a familiar sight—a [Mage] with a scrying orb. Instantly, everyone began checking their hair, and Falene produced a comb and two earrings.
They were going to be on television! Gershal wondered if the [Mage] would interview one of the first forces to show up. What should he say? Could this day get any better? It was strange, marvelous, and—
 
——
 
“Disastrous. This is a disaster, and I hold you accountable, Free Queen. We have exposed our tunnel to the north, ruined relationships, and I was not informed about any of these actions.”
The Grand Queen of the Antinium was not happy. Nor was Klbkch the Slayer. He stood in the Free Hive as she shouted at the Free Queen, and only after twelve minutes of ranting could the Free Queen even respond.
“As I have reiterated 35 times, my Queen, I gave no orders for the crusade to march. This event was spontaneous and unplanned by me or Klbkchhezeim.”
“Impossible! Antinium Soldiers and Workers do not make autonomous decisions! It was your Prognugator, Bird! Or another of the Hive’s Prognugators. I will not accept excuses! Antinium make no decisions of their own—”
“—Unless they are True Antinium.”
The Free Queen’s retort silenced the Grand Queen. Klbkch twisted his head around and stared at the Free Queen. She sat there, feeding her tiny Rock Crab, looking as pleased as could be.
Not furious? Not worried? Klbkch and the Grand Queen were not often on the same side, but he was so upset his hands were clenched on his swords’ hilts. The Grand Queen stopped speaking, then replied with a slow click of her mandibles.
“They are not True Antinium. Any statements to that effect would be incredibly misleading, and I would order the censure of such to other Queens. Especially in Klbkchhezeim’s presence.”
She glanced to either side, as if worried other scrying mirrors would come alight. However, this private chastisement was between the two of them. The Free Queen nodded slowly. Yet the triumphant note did not vanish.
“Say rather, then, that the Free Antinium have demonstrated one quality of the Antinium we were, my Queen. I did not authorize this mission. I understand there are dire consequences, but it is still proof that my Antinium are changing.”
The Grand Queen hesitated, and Klbkch knew she wasn’t going to give the Free Queen credit so easily.
“That is debatable. I still, currently, view their actions as a net-negative. What benefit to the Hives were obtained besides a few levels? No—before you answer that, Klbkchhezeim, Free Queen—how were you so lax that the crusade could leave your Hive without your knowledge?”
That was fair critique, and Klbkch answered for the Free Queen.
“Grand Queen, I regret that both the Free Queen and I were occupied by our duties and did not sense the change. I was above, and the Hive’s signals are blocked by Liscor’s sewers.”
“And the Free Queen?”
“I was asleep, a necessary function for my continued existence and fulfillment of my duties.”
The Free Queen sounded a bit too snide, there. Like one of Elirr’s cats. Catty was a good word for it. The Grand Queen rumbled.
“Yet they armed themselves. I have a report from Prognugator Maev that stated she was overruled when they began this action. Why were they allowed access to the armory?”
“For that, my Queen, you must credit Prognugator Pivr, who authorized that action.”
“Pivr? The Flying Queen’s—we will now address that issue with her. Hold while I summon the Flying Queen.”
This looked like it was going to take hours of arguing. Klbkch shifted—then made an authority call.
“My Queens, I must leave you to discuss the issue. My business as Revalantor demands I be elsewhere.”
“As you will, Klbkchhezeim.”
The Free Queen waved a feeler. Garry hurried forwards with a snack, but the Grand Queen was enraged all over.
“Klbkchhezeim! I did not give you authority to leave! Where is Xrn? She must also be an instrument of my will! Klbkchhezeim, I am the Grand Queen.”
He nodded and felt a twinge of real irritation in him. Klbkch responded succinctly as he strode away.
“Yes, my Queen. I understand this, but Xrn is apparently conducting her own business. We are Centenium. You are the Grand Queen. Perhaps recall how they are supposed to act.”
He left before she could find the words to respond.
 
——
 
In truth, Klbkch reflected that the Grand Queen had organized the Queens by force of will after their calamitous landing. She was not incompetent—it was just that the years had changed her. Even among the True Antinium, there were Queens who proved to be less-suited to their positions, and it was dealt with.
The difference was that among the True Antinium, such issues had been full of far less strife in most cases and resolved faster, more efficiently, and with understanding among all.
There had been a time, he remembered, when the Antinium had been much like Drakes. They had squabbled, fought, and occasionally, Queens had even had to eliminate other Queens despite their common goals.
To fix that, the First Queen, creator of the Centenium, the unsurpassed, had created what later Antinium called the Unitasis Network. The telepathy that made the First Antinium so dangerous and so connected. Each Hive had been semi-linked, but this had made all the Antinium surpass their foes and become the dominant force in Rhir’s soil.
Even now, it was the power that allowed Antinium armies to fight with armies that had levels and magic and come out on top. It was their trump card and exceptionally difficult to employ, because not only did the Antinium have to be in range of a Queen, the Queens needed a proxy like a Prognugator, the closest thing they could make to a True Antinium.
However. That might all change, and Klbkch thought about that. Who would have known that out of all the Antinium in that original batch. Out of all of them, the one he had thought was the worst failure, the most annoying, the most…random, would prove to hold the key to salvation. And yet, what a curse.
For Bird was Bird, and if every Antinium must become Bird to use the power of the Unitasis Network—Klbkch feared for them all.
The truth was that Bird was now the most valuable Antinium in all the Hives. Bar none. If he possessed the ability to change all Antinium, his worth outstripped even Wrymvr’s.
And the Antinium knew it. There was a reason that Bird had not left on the crusade, despite the Gargoyles having wings and therefore being a very bird-like target. Even if the [Crusaders] had wanted Bird to go with them…there was no chance they would have been able to smuggle Bird on their quest.
After all, she was watching Bird. In Klbkch’s experience, she always got what she wanted in time. Wrymvr was direct and acted as the Hives needed, as he saw it. His relationship with the Twisted Queen was at odds with the rest of the Antinium on Izril. By contrast—Xrn had always been much like the [Crusaders]. Which meant Wrymvr was, by that theory…more like Erin?
Klbkch’s head hurt. He decided to drop the metaphors before he began feeling the urge to hug Wrymvr. Then his stomach began to hurt, because he was listening to a conversation deep within the Hive. The Antinium had left the Queen’s sanctum, travelled down, down, and because so many [Crusaders] had left, the Hive was emptier, allowing him to swiftly bypass Antinium on patrol or carrying loads of dirt or resources elsewhere.
These tunnels were barely used. Normally, the Hive had little ‘empty space’; everything needed to be patrolled, but since Xrn had been wounded by Facestealer, she had needed to convalesce and requested her own area.
It had been granted to her. Klbkch had not come down here more than a few times. Xrn had been…unhappy. And dodging lightning bolts was still not fun, even in his new body.
Months after her injuries, it was clear that her very presence and magic had begun to warp the area. Klbkch halted as he heard two voices echoing up from below. The Hive had no doors in most cases, so sound travelled, but the compacted dirt walls and occasional stones were not generally prone to letting sound echo.
These walls, and even the ceiling, were different. Klbkch passed his hand over craggy, blue stone and stared at the glassy streaks on the walls and floor.
“Glass? Is she terraforming…”
It was disconcerting. Not because he thought it impossible of Xrn; she could turn any corridor into glass with pure heat and magic. But it wasn’t consistent. Streaks of glass ran crazily along the corridor at odd angles. Blue, green, and even violet stone had replaced the dirt in places.
Some kind of transformation spell? Klbkch had never been too interested in Xrn’s magic aside from its utility. But again, this was a patchwork change. Like an avante-garde art show piece, the entire tunnel stretched downwards, replete with such colors that a few Workers kept staring as they hurried by.
