“i hAve HAd eNouGH oF wAIting. Enough of that [Innkeeper]’s little lies and delays. I will freeze your head and have the Silent Queen copy your brain a hundred thousand times if I must! You are worthless by yourself.”
“I am cooperating! I will cooperate 110%, and you cannot go higher than that! Tell her, Klbkch!”
Bird shouted frantically. Xrn ignored him.
“Xrn—you are behaving irrationally. Bird is too valuable to destroy.”
“The Klbkchhezeim of old would never say that. You have grown weak in spirit as well as body.”
She stared down at him. Then she rotated the staff, and a blade like a guillotine, blue and curved, formed in the air. Klbkch had to—do what? Stab her?
She would not desist nor quit once she saw something. And if he killed her—
The Rite of Anastasis could restore the soul at a cost. Was this Xrn being affected by her wounded mind? Klbkch’s hand closed around the hilt of his sword. Bird cried out as the blue blade poised, and Xrn aimed a finger down at him.
“Klbkch, tell Erin—no, tell the Titan this was all his fault! I knew I should have kept refusing that Skill!”
The blue blade shot downwards, then halted, quivering, a foot from Bird’s face. Klbkch paused mid-lunge, or tried to. Xrn flew sideways, and he swiveled in midair, landed on his feet, and stared at her pointing staff, but neither Centenium moved. They both slowly turned their heads.
“…What was that, Bird?”
Klbkch couldn’t believe what he had just heard. If he had ears, he would have yanked one off or whatever Humans did. It had to be another lie, but…Xrn turned her head sideways, and the light coming out of her head was suddenly blue tinged with pink, wondering and excited.
“…Unitasis Network is a Skill?”
Bird looked between the two Centenium, as confused as they were. He stared at Klbkch, Xrn, as Klbkch strode towards him.
“You can learn the Unitasis Network as a Skill, Bird? Acquire it on a level-up?”
The [Liar] was so confused because he’d used the truth again. Bird’s mandibles opened and closed.
“Well, yes. H-how else are you supposed to do it?”
Klbkch was lost for words. With your head, obviously. It was as intrinsic to True Antinium as breathing. It was like getting a Skill called [I Breathe in Air]. But now that he thought of it…not everyone could breathe Dragonfire like Drakes. Could you, then, get a Skill to mimic that ability?
Could an Antinium gain a Skill that replaced what they’d lost? He felt like a fool, but then he realized this was a lie. After all, Xrn was the only spellcaster that the Antinium had. She’d surely cast—
“—praisal].”
Klbkch heard the whisper from behind him. He turned his head slowly as Bird sat up, and Xrn stared down at Bird. Then she put her hands behind her back, slowly floated downwards, and walked away.
“We will revisit this later. Let us discuss the Crusade now, Klbkchhezeim. What has the Grand Queen said?”
Bird stared at Xrn’s back in pure, furious indignation as Klbkch slowly let him go. He got up and looked around. In the end, he threw a cup at Xrn’s head.
“You big dummy! I hate you! Come on, Thaina, Chesacre. Let us go find Garry.”
 
——
 
Xrn’s change in personality was not lost on Klbkch. Nor anyone else. Her wound, while not fatal, had decreased the Antinium’s war potential as a whole.
That was how much she mattered. And that was how distressing it was for her to abandon her role as the trusted instrument of the Grand Queen’s will.
It distressed the Grand Queen a lot. In fact, this entire affair had changed how each Queen saw their continued existence.
The Free Queen was obnoxiously happy. The Grand Queen knew it was to spite her. She did not believe the Free Queen had no role in this, and if Xrn were still faithfully reporting in, the Grand Queen would have had her investigate the matter and assign punishments.
But Xrn was hurt. Possibly never to recover. Xrn was hurt, and so the Grand Queen had no great subordinate except her Custodium, and Klbkchhezeim had proven he was still superior to all of them combined. Even so, she would have rested upon her laurels if it weren’t for the Free Queen’s damned levelling Antinium.
They made her Hive more valuable than even the Grand Queen’s Custodium. They proved she had been right and, therefore, the Grand Queen wrong. It was an attempt to destabilize her power!
This was how the Grand Queen thought. She knew the other five Queens were devoted to the cause, to going back to Rhir after conquering Izril. But she also knew none of them could do what she could.
Someone had to lead them. They all had their qualities, even the Twisted Queen and Free Queen, but only the Grand Queen could do it. The Armored Queen was a follower, the Silent Queen was too arrogant and too much a perfectionist, the Flying Queen a scatter-brained radical.
This was not how the Grand Queen used to think. She had once been a young ingenue in the corps of Antinium Queens assigned to overseeing supply lines and distribution. But the terrible battle at sea, the landing, had forced her ever into a position of command. Perhaps not even the great War Queens and Shaper Queens of old had known her burden.
Now, Xrn, her trusted Centenium, was gone. The Grand Queen ruminated as she sulkily ate mundane stores of food looted from the Drakes. Nothing like that Garry’s…foodstuffs. She had suggested, hinted many times that he would best serve all the Queens in her Hive, but the Free Queen had refused. To her face!
She needed to do something to prove the Grand Hive’s superiority. She needed to create…high-level Antinium of her own. Yes, and credit the Free Queen, but maintain the superiority of the Grand Hive.
After all, the Grand Hive had the most Antinium, resources, and knowledge of any Hive because the other Hives sent it material. Why couldn’t her Antinium level?
It was so frustrating. She had made an entire ‘town’ where they bought and sold goods, to emulate Liscor, but all the Workers and Soldiers did was stand around or constantly perform basic tasks without derivation. They were not like Anand.
She needed insight. But Xrn was hurt, and so the Grand Queen needed a replacement. She could probably requisition any Prognugator or Revalantor the other Queens had. They’d argue, but she could do it. Yet if she thought of requesting Pivr or Xeu or…no, there were only three Antinium worthy of serving her. Intelligent enough for her to listen to.
Klbkchhezeim, Xrniavxxel, and Wrymvr. True Centenium, who had served the First Queen. The problem was…
Xrn was eminently the best choice to serve. She was unique, had wide-ranging abilities, and she was ever-polite, if sometimes firm in her opinions.
Contrasted to her, Klbkch was…erratic. He fiercely disagreed with the Grand Queen during the levelling arguments that had seen the Free Queen join Liscor. He was opinionated and, unfortunately, had lost his body and was weaker. So she had regretfully let him go.
Even now, he was the Free Queen’s Revalantor. Which left…the final option. The Grand Queen didn’t like it, but she had to have a high-level servant. So she reached out and telepathically summoned Wrymvr.
Wrymvr the Deathless. Even before the Antinium had reached Izril, that had been his identity. A bodyguard for War Queens in battle. Modeled after Elder Crelers and other great foes.
His scream sent the Grand Hive into a panic as he descended, wings beating. The largest Antinium besides the Queens, an immortal warrior. The Grand Queen received him in her throne chambers as he flew in and perched. Even she feared him. A tiny bit.
His voices were succinct in how they spoke. His mind…closed off. He communicated very little, and even now, she did not understand why he had gravitated towards the Twisted Queen, that poor, wounded being filled with a madness like the one Xrn was developing.
Yet the Grand Queen raised her mandibles in a smile and gestured grandly as she sat on a throne modeled after the ones she had seen.
“Wrymvr. It is good of you to enter our presence. Sit. Will you refresh yourself with foodstuffs we have acquired?”
The great Centenium, his body ever-changing, ever-evolving, had nineteen legs today. Some stabbed into the dirt floor as he shuffled forwards. Six mouths on various parts of his body spoke, some drooling acid onto the floor. Another produced wisps of terrible cold. Wrymvr spoke as the Custodium eyed him, hands on their blades. All of them could attack him all day, and he would not take a wound, even if he lay there. He regarded the Grand Queen’s feast of goods and replied.
“No.”
The Grand Queen rubbed her feelers together anxiously. Communication. That was one of her fortes, and she felt like Wrymvr was, uh, weak in this area.
“No? Er, very well. If you are not in need of sustenance, let us cut to the point. Wrymvr, as I am sure you understand, ah, as we understand it, Xrn has become injured. Nevertheless, the Grand Hive is the Antinium, and we must have an instrument of our will. As Klbkchhezeim is working for the Free Queen, we have elected you to replace Xrn until such time as she recovers, if ever. I trust that is clear?”
The Centenium rubbed his own feelers together and made much the sound of metal screeching on metal. Some of the Custodium shifted.
“It is understood.”
“Excellent. Then you shall report to me tomorrow after making such arrangements to leave the Twisted Hive and convey the necessity to the Twisted Queen. Is that clear?”
“Respectfully disagree, no.”
The Grand Queen sat there, wrestling with the limited issues of speech as opposed to telepathy. She tried again.
“Am I…are our orders not being conveyed clearly, Wrymvr? I have given you instructions as the Grand Queen.”
“Yes. Respectfully disagree.”
Now that was different. The Grand Queen tried to put her feeler against her face as if she was resting her head on her chin, although her body was far too big to do that like a more humanoid figure.
“You respectfully disagree. What if I were to order you, right now, to become my Revalantor?”
Wrymvr’s wings fanned out.
“Would respectfully disagree.”
“And if I asked you for an affirmative or negative?”
The Grand Queen snapped back, losing her patience. Wrymvr shifted, and one eye peered at her from within his armored body.
“Then. I. Would give an affirmative or negative.”
The Grand Queen sat there, and ‘miffed’ was not enough to describe how she felt. But Wrymvr was being…careful, and she realized that the mighty warrior did not want to push the issue. Nor did she.
“Very well. Begone.”
She turned her head, and he flew out with another, quieter, screech. The Grand Queen sat, fuming, on her throne.
Am I losing control of the Antinium? Impossible! Inconceivable, and it was—or had been. Yet maybe they were taking lessons from the Drakes. Perhaps their loyalties were wavering? Paranoia warred with fear in her mind.
I must have powerful Antinium. I must. The Free Queen’s methods to levelling are still incomprehensible. 
It was clear that was what separated the Antinium from becoming the dominant force in Izril. However, as the Grand Queen sat there, mulling over the issue, she tried to break it down into component parts. Like someone solving a logistical issue, she focused on the dilemma, broke it into pieces, and reassembled the criteria parts. That was how she thought. And it occurred to the Grand Queen there was something interesting.
I must have powerful individuals with high-levels. There was that issue and the issue of the Grand Hive’s superiority. But if you eliminated one criterion, suddenly the issue was phrased differently.
I must have high-level Antinium.
I must have high-level subordinates.
Two completely separate concerns. Hither-to, the Grand Queen had never considered any non-Antinium species as worthy, but now, she reconsidered. It was true that any normal species—Drakes, Humans—were inherently dangerous as they represented their own species. But what was that place she had seen in the news? She rumbled to herself as she looked around.
“Custodium 1. Fetch me…fetch me that object we took from the caravans. Documents about a certain city. Called, uh…Roshal.”
Loyalty was the most important thing of all. Loyalty to the Grand Hive. The Antinium as a whole, but the Grand Queen was thinking. Thinking about all the artifacts and gold in her vaults. She had never needed to employ them to excess, and the Antinium were wealthy on spoils of war. She found a catalog and began to browse it.
“Oh.”
She loved numbers, and when she ran the values against her personal stockpiles of wealth—the Grand Queen was very pleased. Oh, how interesting. You could hire more than just one or two. You could buy entire armies. But how loyal were they?
That evening, the city of Lailight Scintillation received the most interesting message it had received in, well, perhaps ever. Such that even the Emir Yazdil sat up and took notice.
 
——
 
Each Queen reacted to the Crusade in different ways. The Grand Queen saw a threat. The Silent Queen saw a puzzle.
“Recall Xeu. I must have an accounting of what motivates these…Antinium of faith. The Free Queen is distressingly silent when it comes to the exact methods of reproduction.”
Like a scientist presented with insufficient data, The Silent Queen sulked, wishing Klbkchhezeim were here. She felt undervalued, especially because her Silent Antinium were the most unique, valuable, and extraordinary creations of the Antinium, having rediscovered the camouflage carapaces.
She had done that. The Flying Antinium hadn’t even gotten flying right. But the Free Queen was so…erratically successful. None of her Antinium’s successes could be reproduced consistently, but they were consistently valuable.
“Unfortunate. Unfair. Tell Xeu to bring back methods of generating more levelling Antinium, Maev. Even if she…even if she must take a few Antinium with her.”
The Silent Queen thought long and hard about that second order, but she did give it. She, unlike the Grand Queen, still believed in a shared conscience of all. The Shaper Queens hid nothing from each other. Oh, some were better than others, but the other Queens hiding their projects, their knowledge?
It was wrong. As the Silent Queen saw it, a few of the Free Antinium would not go amiss, and she could make excuses to the Free Queen. But she wanted whatever the Free Queen had. Klbkchhezeim, the levelling…the Silent Queen despaired slightly.
Oh, how we have fallen. If only she had the knowledge to make real Antinium of old. They would sweep this continent in a year. So she waited, telling Xeu to steal a valuable Antinium for her. All she needed was one or two.
 
——
 
By contrast, the Silent Queen’s sulking and the Grand Queen’s paranoia seemed wrong to the Flying Queen. She was excited.
