“Oh, geez.” Ren said. “I don't have a lot of history knowledge.” He said. “I know when it was made that it was just a bell.” He thought about it. “I know Paul Revere rang a bell when the British were coming; but, I don't know if the Liberty Bell was rung after the war, even though that sounds like the best option.” He sighed. “I think that's a trick answer, though. It couldn't be the nineteenth century, since I'm pretty sure it had the name longer than that, so I'm going to have to go with none of the above.”

“Ennnh!” Denise made the buzzer sound. “It was the nineteenth century when it became the symbol of ending slavery.”

“Ha, you got me.” Ren chuckled. “The slaves were liberated.”

Denise nodded and pointed to the teetering stack of wood. “Go ahead and have Gretchen knock it over.”

“Yeah, right.” Ren said and waved Gretchen to come close.

“Ren, she's right. It's going to topple any second.” Gretchen said as she bent down.

“Nonsense.” Ren said and touched her shoulder to bring her in closer to whisper in her ear. “You see that block, all by itself near the bottom?”

Gretchen turned her head to look and saw it, nodded, and turned back to him.

“I want you to straddle the spot in front of it, as if you were going to ride a horse.” Ren whispered. “Bend down and grab the end of that block, and pull on it as hard as you can.”

“What? You can't be serious!” Gretchen exclaimed.

“In that position, you can get a lot of force, and with your legs out of the way, you have lots of room to get the block out of the way before the tower falls.”

Gretchen shook her head. “No, it can't be done.”

“I'd tell you to trust me; but, I'd rather you trust yourself and just listen to my advice.” Ren said. “You're my arms, aren't you? So, be my arms.” He smiled. “Oh, and watch your skirt. It's going to ride up a little.”

Gretchen stood up straight and looked at his happy and unworried face, then sighed. “You're crazy.”

“Yep.” Ren grinned at her.

Gretchen walked over to the wooden block tower and did what he said. She pretended there was a saddle on the ground and straddled it just enough to give her some room between her legs and her skirt hiked up a few inches. She bent down and it went up a little higher, but it didn't show anything. She took a deep breath, gripped the end of the block Ren had indicated, then yanked it as hard as she could.

The block of wood was the only thing holding up the rest of the tower; but instead of knocking everything over, it popped out like a cork from a bottle and the whole tower dropped down through the empty space the missing block had left, clanked against the wooden blocks underneath and stayed there, perfectly balanced.

“Oh, my god! It worked!” Gretchen exclaimed. She had fallen back onto the grass because she had forgotten to keep her own balance.

“That was amazing!” Dana said and helped Gretchen stand up and gave her a hug. “How did you do that?”

Gretchen pointed at Ren.

“I think we can call the game here.” Elise said and touched the wooden block tower with a fingertip, and the whole thing toppled over and clattered to the ground in a pile. “There's no way anyone could follow up after that move.”

Denise rolled Ren over to Gretchen.

“I told you it would work.” Ren said.

“How did you know it would?” Gretchen asked.

“You were my arms.” Ren grinned.

“Now that was entertaining.” Stella said. “Good job, you two.”

Gretchen turned to her and smiled. “Thanks.”

“Gretchen, your skirt has grass stains on it.” Ren said and started to reach for it to wipe it off, and Denise quickly caught his hand before he could.

“What?” Gretchen turned her upper torso to look down at herself, and saw the edge of the stain. “Oh, damn.” She said and tried to wipe at it.

“Don't worry, we've got industrial washers in the house.” Stella said. “Come on, we'll see if we can get it cleaned for you.”

“No, that's okay.” Gretchen said. “I can just...”

“I won't take no for an answer.” Stella said. “It'll only take a few minutes to see if it'll come out, anyway.”

“If it doesn't come out completely, I'll replace it.” Ren said. “You got it dirty on my behalf, so it's only fair.”

“But...”

“Come on, let's try and clean it before it sets in.” Stella said and started to lead her towards the house.

“I'll come, too.” Dana said and walked after them.

“Ren, who won?” Lisa asked and looked down at the score sheet he had, and Ren quickly counted up the points.

“With a grand total of 11 right answers, the winner is Elise.”

“I didn't even have to touch the wood until the end.” Elise said.

“Oh, right! You knocked the tower over.” Ren said. “Minus 1 point.”

“What? You little sneak!” Elise laughed. “Now who's the winner?”

“It's a two way tie between you and Lisa.” Ren said. “She only touched the tower once, too.”

“I got a question wrong, though.” Lisa said.

“All that matters is the points.” Ren said and smiled at her, and she chuckled and gave him a kiss.

“Now that the winners have been determined, what exactly did we win?” Elise asked.

“My eternal love and gratitude.” Ren said. “Oh, and supervised cuddle time.”

Elise chuckled and gave him a kiss, too. “Sounds wonderful.”

“It'll have to wait until after lunch.” Barbara said. “They've got the barbecues going already.”

Ren held his hands out to the sides and took in a deep breath through his nose. “I smell beef!”

“We should head over to the eating area and get a good spot.” Denise said.

“Good idea.” Elise said. “I'll take Ren and you can get what he needs to eat for a balanced meal.”

Denise nodded and went ahead, and Elise pushed the wheelchair as they all went over to the food serving area.
