Living through a near-death experience is never pleasant, but it sure as hell beats the alternative.

Or at least that’s the theory, but my aching spleen begs to differ. It feels like someone filled my stomach with gasoline and lit it on fire, then set off a claymore mine that’d been stuffed with spiky, nerve-rending pellets of pain and agony. Two out of ten, would not recommend.

Complain later. Survive now.

Forcing my eyes open with a groan, I’m greeted by a pair of pristine, white loafers, belonging to none other than the seneschal who stabbed me. Comfy slipper shoes, but hardly appropriate winter attire. Then again, considering how clean they are, I doubt he does much walking outside. Even the Legate’s butler has servants to do his bidding, but I guess the old bastard likes to do his own dirty work.

Luckily for me, he doesn’t get a lot of practice in, because he done fucked up.

“You should’ve gone for the head,” I snarl as my hand sweeps his feet out from underneath him and brings him toppling to the ground. Then it’s just a simple matter of mounting his torso, controlling his knife hand, and smashing his wrinkled face in with fist, knee, or elbow, and then I’m home free.

Or at least that’s how I planned it out in my head.

In reality, my witty quip is cut short by a strangled squeal of pain as a spotless cloth loafer stomps hard on my hand and pins it in place. Never one to give up, I pivot around my trapped hand and slam both boots into the side of his other knee, but despite giving it my best effort, the Seneschal barely shifts in place. Almost blacking out again as the pain flares up in protest, my body goes limp as I marvel at how cool and comfortable the hardwood floors are. “You took out the carpets,” I state, finally putting the pieces together. “Smart. It’s a real bitch getting blood out of fabric.”

Though he doesn’t respond, the Seneschal’s weight shifts ever so slightly so he can stare at me in confusion, and I seize the opportunity to wrench my hand free from under his foot. Surprised by my own success, it takes a moment for my pain-addled, adrenaline pumped brain to figure out my next genius move, and it decides the best course of action is to tackle the Seneschal’s knees. Although my mind is game to keep fighting, my body appears to have given up, so the tackle comes out as more of a flop which leaves my face pressed against his lower thigh while I pant and wheeze in helpless exhaustion.

Stupid legs. Why aren’t you working right?

“For once in my life, I’m thrilled to be short. If I were any taller, I’d have a face full of old man crotch instead.”

Only after the words have left my mouth do I realize I said them out loud. I might not be entirely in my right mind, but the thing about shock is that there’s not much you can do about it, especially whilst embroiled in the midst of a life and death conflict. Not much is still more than nothing though, and seeing as the Seneschal doesn’t seem to be in any rush to finish the job, I take a few seconds to gather my wits about me and find a way out of this mess. Sadly, nothing comes to mind and I even lack the strength to move myself into a less shameful position, so all I can do is stem my bleeding and keep him talking to... to buy as much time...

“Where’s my wound?” Bracing my forehead against his thigh, I peer down at my stomach to better understand the situation. There’s a tear in my shirt and dark, wet blood everywhere, as well as a few finger-thick holes around my chest which are new, but beneath all the gore and viscera is whole, healthy flesh, with no sign of a gaping knife wound to be found.

Instead of answering, the Seneschal merely snorts in reply and knees me away from his thigh. Hesitating to cling to a man’s leg no matter how tired I might be, I flop back and crash hard against the floor which sets my head to spinning. Note to self: next time, tuck your chin and grit your teeth. Seeing how the old man makes no move to follow up, I give in and stop trying to make sense of the insanity. “Rude,” I gasp, already choking on my own hysterical and possibly deranged laughter. “You this rough... with everyone you penetrate?”

Again, silence is all that greets me, and I inwardly grumble about how no one appreciates my humour. Having rested long enough, I slowly push myself back up onto my elbows and slowly but surely drag myself away from the maybe-homicidal geriatric. I must’ve Healed my injury when I blacked out, so all I need to do is play for time and... well, pass out again. “So,” I wheeze, racking my brain for the old bastard’s name and ultimately coming up short. “Seneschal. Why does the Legate want me dead? At least tell me that much.”

This time, the silence is accompanied by a curl of the Seneschal’s lip and punctuated by a flourish of his dagger which sends droplets of my life’s blood arcing off into the air. Then he takes a step towards me and my initial response is to scream in fright, but I settle for a grunt of alarm instead. Redoubling my efforts to get away, I drag myself back while keeping my eyes fixed on the dagger, ready to give it my all and fight to the bitter end. “What will you tell my family?” That makes him hesitate, if only for a half-step, but then he continues with his cat and mouse game. “Make sure your story makes sense and the blame falls on someone plausible and expendable. My family might rebel for anything less, and neither of us want that.” The Legate can’t afford to have the North’s second-in-command take up arms against the Empire and I don’t want my loved ones to die, so whatever story he’s cooked up to explain my death had best be good.

I haven’t given up yet, but there’s no harm in preparing for the worst.

Then my futile escape comes to an end as the Seneschal reaches down and grabs me by the throat. Hauling me to my feet, he keeps me at arm’s length and on the tips of my toes with his iron grip fastened around my neck, slowly choking the air from my lungs while studying me with his cold, impassive stare. Still trying to bide my time, I put up a token resistance while waiting for the dagger to come into play, because it is the only hope I have of turning the tides. While dangerous, it’s also the only weapon in the room since I didn’t bring one with me, so if I can get it away from the Seneschal, I might be able to use it against him. It’s a long shot, but it’s the only one I’ve got, so I fight for every scrap of air I can get and wait for my moment to strike.

And wait.

Anytime now. It’s coming.

Still waiting...

Soon.

...And I’m fucked.

Lungs burning and head light, my last reserves of patience, discipline, and oxygen are squandered away while waiting for the Seneschal to act, so all that’s left to do is panic. Without tools of iron, I must rely on flesh and indefatigable purpose, so I grab his forearm with both hands, lift my knees up to my chest, and hammer both feet into his stomach. A steel post would’ve given me more of a reaction as the Seneschal all but ignores the attack, holding me in place as easily as turning his hand. A second kick results in more of the same, and the third time around, I get the bright idea to brace my feet against him and use it as leverage to draw a breath. That earns me a reaction, but not one I can use as his eyes flash with displeasure and he lifts me even higher until my feet fall away from his midsection to dangle helplessly in the air. Guess he doesn’t like being stepped on. Noted. Lacking the strength to lift my legs up to wrap around his arm or possible rest on his face, I fight through the pain and hammer my fist against his elbow, first into the bone to try and break the joint, then into the socket to try and force his arm to bend so I might break his hold, but it’s no use. In my desperation, I resort to digging my fingers into the meaty flesh of his palm and trying to wrench his hand away, but it’s no use. I trimmed my nails for happy fun times with Mila and Yan, but even if I didn’t, I doubt it would’ve made any difference. The Seneschal is too strong, or rather I’m too weak, unable to Reinforce or Amplify my attacks to any degree, and utterly helpless to do anything but watch as he raises his dagger to my jugular.

Then the darkness consumes me once more and I beseech the Mother to look after my loved ones.

Coming to with a gasp, I’m once again greeted by the sight of the Seneschal’s white cloth loafers. Fight or flight kicks in and I shove myself away from the old sadist, sliding across the hardwood floor for all of a second before slamming into two solid posts behind me. The air rushes out of my lungs and leaves me gasping for breath, but I still have the presence of mind to check my surroundings before simply skirting around the obstacle, and a good thing too. If I hadn’t, I might’ve literally crawled between the Legate’s legs to hide under his robes, and if that had happened, the Seneschal would no longer have to knife me because I would simply curl up and die of shame. After a long, silent minute of staring at the Legate’s handsome features and insufferable smirk, I eke out a small, “Hello.” Swallowing hard, I glance warily at the Seneschal behind me and ask, “Is my death sentence on hold or are you here to watch? Just wondering if I should keep struggling against the inevitable.”

“Your life is in no danger for now,” the Legate replies, smiling as he none too gently nudges me away with his feet. “Unless you’ve stained my robes of office. As you so astutely pointed out earlier, it is ‘a bitch’ to get blood out of fabric.”

Too weak to actually stand up, I lean away from the Legate’s legs and slide back ever so slightly. It’s the bare minimum of courtesy, but the bastard did just have me stabbed and choked. If he didn’t want my blood all over his shiny golden robes, then he shouldn’t have sent his stupid seneschal to gut me while he was Concealed in the room.

Hang on. Shiny golden robes. That’s important, but why? Ah, right. Robes of Office are made from Halcyon silk. Expensive shit. If the Legate is wearing them, then that means this is serious, official business, something he’s handling with the Emperor’s Authority. Since the robes are representative of such, it wouldn’t surprise me if the penalty for ruining someone’s Robes of Office is death or worse, so the Legate probably isn’t cracking wise and I should refrain from touching his shiny golden self. He also has his jade fan open and in hand, with the Imperial Clan’s Dragon sigil on full display, which if I recall correctly means I need to kneel and bow or something. The best I can manage is a grunt and slight incline of my head, because while my wounds have been Healed, my side still hurts like a bitch since my body hasn’t quite realized I’m no longer dying and still won’t for a few minutes more.

Thankfully, the Legate is magnanimous enough to overlook my lack of respect, which is good because if he made an issue of it I was going to shove my boot up his ass. Or try to, at least, no matter how suicidal it might seem, because a man has his limits and mine are so far back I can’t even see them anymore. I don’t take kindly to being stabbed, but for now, all I can do is swallow my pride and suffer in silence.

“You must forgive my deception,” the Legate begins, not so much offering an apology as he is granting clemency for his own actions on my behalf. “Facts needed to be verified and assurances made.”

“...You had the old bastard stab me just to see if I’ve been faking my injuries?”

“Old bastard he might be,” the Legate replies, his smile never faltering as his tone grows cold and merciless, “But you will afford Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao the respect he deserves.”

“I see.” Glancing at the old Seneschal as he puffs up with pride, I can’t help but open my mouth and say, “I’m not up to date on old, forgotten has-beens, so you’ll have to forgive me. Exactly how much respect does he deserve?”

That sucks the wind out of the old bastard’s sails, and the Legate even clears his throat to hide what I suspect is a chuckle. Can’t believe that earns me a laugh when my penetration innuendo fell flat. “Your lacking education is no excuse,” the Legate says, waving a hand to signal the end of the matter. “He is my Seneschal, and therefore his actions are an extension of my will. Disrespect him, and you disrespect myself.”

I’m angry and stupid, but not quite suicidal, so I swallow my first, second, and third retorts before finally coming up with an appropriate response. “Then in that case, allow this Imperial Consort to amend his statement. You had your lackey stab me to see if I’ve been faking my injuries?”

Okay, maybe I’m pushing my luck by calling the Seneschal a lackey, but I don’t care if I hurt his feelings. The motherfucker stabbed me.

