Using silence and a stern glare to make his displeasure known, the Legate gently taps his open fan against his lap, which I suppose is a hint that he could use his authority to do horrible things to me, but I’m too tired and injured to care. If he wants respect, then I need answers, because there’s no point in being cordial to someone who means to kill me, so I weather his glare with exhausted indifference and wait patiently for an answer. After a long minute of staring, the Legate actually backs down first and says, “Matters are not as simple as they seem. Consider your situation from an outsider’s perspective. A young, Imperial warrior is crippled and sent to the front lines to die. Once there, his most hated Defiled foe gathers a million strong army to march out against him, who then manipulates events so that the two might meet in private. During this meeting, the only impartial, Imperial witness present hears the young Defiled General make a comment about ‘playing games’ and offers advice regarding negotiating from a position of strength.” Leaning forward, the Legate’s smile disappears as he continues his explanation. “Then, to our witness’s great surprise, he hears the young warrior greet his foe by a name which has long faded into legend, a being even this Imperial Legate must treat with respect, if said being were truly still alive after eight centuries since his supposed death.”

In hindsight, I probably shouldn’t have brought Kuang Biao along to my meeting with Zhen Shi, but this all happened before I knew the Bannermen were skulking in the shadows. Incredible warriors they might be, but the People in general are sorely lacking in communication skills, and I plain forgot they'd come to Sinuji with me.

After studying my reaction for all of an eternity, the Legate sits back and continues his narration. “The introductions complete, the young warrior and old legend share a brief exchange which our impartial witness is not privy to, aside from the tail end of the conversation in which said legend makes an offer of alliance, an offer which the young warrior takes time to consider. All parties then return to their respective sides, and not two hours later, the crippled young hero demonstrates strength far beyond what a warrior his age should possess, and even later offers no plausible explanation for how he came about it.” Resting his chin on his free hand, he gently fans himself with the symbol of Imperial Authority and says, “Knowing all this, you might understand why it was necessary to go to such extremes to verify all the facts. A wiser man might even suspect that someone in power went to no small lengths to ensure there was no chance of you suffering more permanent harm, accidental or otherwise, for there are many who would rather err on the side of caution and simply have you killed outright instead.”

I hate when people are logical and convincing. I’m not smart enough to poke holes through his theories. I guess there was a lot more riding on this meeting than I initially suspected. Then again, if I had any inkling of what awaited me, I probably would’ve never come back to the Citadel in the first place and just asked Dad to bring me and everyone else back home. “So... what’s the verdict?”

Taking a deep breath which may or may not have hidden a sigh, the Legate slumps ever so slightly in his chair without ever taking his eyes off me. “Difficult to say, though after seeing you almost die three times without using Chi to fight back, this Imperial Legate is reasonably certain your ignorance is not feigned. Others were not so easily convinced since you were still making jokes and wanted to continue testing, but the Healers warned us that your chances of survival were slim to none if we were to continue our testing, so we had no choice but to force a decision.”

...Hang on. I almost died three times? Why do I only remember two? Is that how I got the holes in my shirt? Were they testing Chi attacks or did a bunch of Eastern Nobles take turns poking me? Also, I guess I didn’t go all Primal Instinct on them, else I wouldn’t have needed a Healer. Probably because there’s no Heavenly Energy to Devour, but I’m actually kind of glad it worked out like this. If I’d gone all psycho, I’m pretty sure they would’ve cut my throat for being Defiled and call a Purge on the People.

Since his withering stare is failing to make me shake in my boots and change my quippy ways, the Legate gives up on intimidation and continues. “With some effort, I made them see reason to spare you, or at least raise enough doubt to keep them from demanding your death outright.”

Pretending to take the Legate at his word, I muster up the strength to push myself to my feet and bow in thanks. “I am grateful for your assistance.” Suspicious as to your motives, but grateful nonetheless.

Accepting my thanks with a nod, the Legate snaps his fan shut and tucks it away into a sleeve. “Gratitude is not enough. I will have answers now. How long have you known about... him?”

Fan goes away, but robes are still on. Is this Emperor business still or not? Am confused. Also, are we not saying ‘Zhen Shi’ out loud? ‘Speak of the devil, and he doth appear’, that sort of silly nonsense? Then again, seeing how he’s hooked up to Spectre Radio, it’s entirely possible he has eyes and ears everywhere reporting back every use of his name, so there’s no harm in being cautious. “Ever since I shattered my Core.”

“And you never thought to share this pertinent information?”

Shrugging, I offer my prepared excuse, one I came up with months ago and never had a chance to use. “Insanity is a defining trait amongst the Defiled. I never actually believed it was an eight-hundred year old monster puppeting the idiot, but it’s easier to humour him than anything else. Hell, I still don’t entirely believe it.” Eyeing the Legate’s reaction and reading his displeasure, I add, “But you do. You’re convinced it’s actually him. Why?”

“The Imperial Clan has long since suspected he faked his death,” the Legate replies, saying much without saying anything at all. “And if anyone could survive so long undetected, it would be him.” Again, the Legate doesn’t say why he believes it’s Zhen Shi, but this leads to some interesting questions. Does the Imperial Clan know about body-snatching? Or do they have some other secret to long life? Questions which need answering, but I’d be stupid to voice them out loud here, and the Legate doesn’t give me the chance to anyways. “Regardless of your foe’s true identity,” he says, drumming his fingers against his armrest in a rhythmic staccato, “I must know. What did he say to you in private?”

“Mostly senseless ranting.” Knowing he wants more, I explain, “First, I asked him questions and tried to figure out if Gen was just crazy or if it was really the other guy.” Which fits the narrative, since the Sound Barrier went up after I accused him of not being in complete control. “Then he did a bunch of boasting about his notes which I didn’t understand, because apparently I don’t have the complete set.” Pausing to see if the Legate will give anything away, I get nothing and decide I’m too tired to care anymore. “Then came the bog standard recruitment spiel. He started off with ‘Join or die’, ‘I’ll spare your people if you do’, then moved onto ‘we’re kindred minds’, and finished off strong with ‘we will rule humanity together’. You know, an employment pitch, chock full of insane lunacy and death threats.” I leave out the bit about how Zhen Shi said the Emperor would have me killed if he knew all my secrets, because as loathe as I am to take the old coot at his word, I’m equally hesitant to rely upon Imperial Mercy, which as far as I can tell, doesn’t actually exist.

The Legate might’ve bent over backwards to keep me alive, but I doubt he’d so much as lift a finger if he didn’t stand to benefit from my continued existence. Or conversely, he might’ve saved my life because my death would’ve impacted him negatively, like losing face for backing the wrong horse or something. Chances are, he’s either grossly overstating the danger to my life, or he saved me for a multitude of reasons rather than just one, but I’ll be damned if I can come up with any other guesses.

While I contemplate his motives, the Legate tap-tap-taps his fingers and silently ponders my fate, and I’d be lying if I said it wasn’t nerve wracking. There’s something in his eyes which leaves me quivering in fear, as if I’ve been stripped bare of everything besides value and risk. He’s calculating my worth and weighing me upon his scales, and if the costs outweigh the benefits, then the Legate will not hesitate to cut me loose with all my friends and family alongside me.

“You,” he begins, after an insufferably long wait, “Present me with something of a conundrum. You’ve played your part well as my sacrificial pawn, but your continued survival means you can still be used against me. Now you are almost more trouble than you are worth, yet an investment so tempting even a fool can see your potential.”

Well I’m sorry I bothered you with my existence. None too pleased at being treated like a commodity, I shift my feet and pray this doesn’t go poorly. “One must not forget to put a price on peace of mind. Some troubled waters are not worth sailing.”

Amused, the Legate’s smile returns in full force, so charming and almost genuine enough to trust, but not quite. “Are you advocating against your own survival?”

“Of course not.” I don’t want to be a pawn again, but it sure as hell beats dying. “But like you said, I’m more trouble than I’m worth. Part of that is because I’m too... visible and your enemies will act against you the moment I’m put into play. If that’s the case, then instead of devoting resources to my management, why not just leave me be to distract your foes while you concentrate on... less demanding and more reliable investments. I won’t act against you or your interests, this I promise you. I’m a simple man, Legate. All I want is to recover, fight the Defiled, and then, when it’s all over, go home and live out the rest of my days in peace.”

“It appears Imperial Servant Zheng Luo might make a politician of you yet,” the Legate replies, still resting his chin on one hand. “You are correct. You are far too visible a piece, and since I’ve already used you as a distraction once, my foes will not fall victim to the same ploy twice. However, what if I made you my pawn in truth? You could be the ignored sacrifice who makes the winning play.” Fixing me with an intense stare, he continues, “Never once have I made this offer twice, and you, Falling Rain, require my help now more than ever. Accept my aid, swear yourself into my service, and I will devote everything towards speeding along your recovery. I can even promise to allow you your freedom once I no longer require your services.”

A tempting offer, especially since I’m already firmly in the palm of his hand without enjoying any of the benefits, but when it comes right down to it, I don’t want to be anyone’s patsy. “Is working together really so out of the question?”

“If you understood the stakes at hand, you too would understand.” His smile melting away, the Legate’s eyes unfocus as he stares off into nothingness, no doubt contemplating some future or another. “I will not leave anything to chance, and you, Falling Rain, are a confluence of chance and calamity.”

How flattering. I bet he tells that to all the boys though. You can never trust a man that handsome. Then again, if I end up regretting swearing myself to his service, I already know how to break my Oaths. All I gotta do is shatter my Core again and I’ll be a free man again. Plus, it’s not like I have to swear an Oath right this second, because I couldn’t even if I wanted to. Even then, I’m loathe to give him my word while intending to break it later, because... I dunno. It doesn’t sit well with me. Is that stupid? Probably, but it’s who I am, and try as I might, I can’t be anyone else. “I cannot accept your generous offer,” I reply, turning down the Legate’s offer once again, despite knowing it’ll upset him. “Because if I did, then I would no longer have reason to pursue strength.”

“The boy speaks true, insofar as he understands it.” An unfamiliar voice sounds, and I turn to find Chief Beardie standing by the door with his hands clasped behind his back. Or maybe it’s not Chief Beardie, and it’s one of the other two Beardies. I can’t really tell, they all look the same, but I do know he was sitting at the table for Divinities the night Mahakala died, or a fourth person indistinguishable from the other three. A human Divinity in the flesh, which is both terrifying and awe inspiring at the same time. “Swearing service would be in direct conflict with his Dao and ruin whatever value he might have.” Shrugging, he adds, “Such is life.”

“How disappointing.” Slumping back in his chair with a sigh, the Legate carries out a brief and silent exchange with Beardie, and I do my best not to panic. I’m not one to go down without a fight, but I can’t even beat the Seneschal, who I suspect might very well be the weakest person in the room besides myself, so my life is pretty much in the Legate’s hands. Can’t say I like that much, but there’s nothing I can do about it except resign myself to fate.

