“Pull up a chair and sit,” the Legate commands, and I hesitate briefly before complying. Wordlessly asking if I should bring chairs for the other two, the Seneschal quietly shakes his head and I plop the closest chair down across from the Legate. “Now tell me everything,” the Legate says, still displeased by my refusal but willing to let it drop. “Starting with your arrival in Sinuji.”

Launching into the tale without preamble, I tell him mostly everything while avoiding any topic regarding my dissociative identity disorder, my close brush with Defilement, Blobby’s existence, Devouring, one with the self, rejecting the world, and a whole host of other uncomfortable topics. Easy enough.

Then the Legate makes me tell the story again, and things become less easy, because now I have to stop and think about what I left out.

The third time around, the Legate takes the lead and questions me on the events in no particular order. This of course adds to the difficulty, but I navigate the pitfalls rather well without giving the game away.

Then he asks me about my Martial Path, and things get really complicated.

Several hours later, the Legate sits back and calls for tea to be served while I sit and stew in concern. It’s not easy to lie in front of a master interrogator, and it’s clear as day that the Legate knows I’m keeping many secrets. I don’t think he suspects I’m Defiled anymore, but he suspects there’s something about my Martial Path which I haven’t told him, because there is. I considered telling him about Baledagh and my mental health issues, but I suspect it would not be good for my physical health if I did. In fact, I’m pretty sure he’d have me killed out of hand, because he doesn’t seem like the trusting type, and there’s nothing trustworthy about the clinically insane.

“You hide many truths,” he declares, the accusation given while gesturing at me to pour tea. “But it matters not. Your Martial Dao is your own, and I will not begrudge you your secrets.” Because he doesn’t think they’re of any value? Or because he already knows about them? Does he know because I’ve stumbled upon the secret to Imperial Strength? Taking from both sides, Imperial and Defiled alike? “I have given it some thought,” he continues, speaking over my inner turmoil while snacking on a pastry, “And I agree to your earlier suggestion. To work together,” he clarifies, upon seeing my confusion. “You will cooperate with me against my enemies, and if you betray me, I will visit untold death and suffering upon you and everyone you hold dear.”

Delivered with all the emotion of a rock, the Legate isn’t so much threatening me as telling me how it is. If I don’t play ball, people will suffer and die. That’s the cold, hard truth, so it’s on me to comply. Not too much better than straight up servitude, but at least now I have a choice. Not much of one, but it’s still there, so I guess it’s something. After filling his teacup, then mine, I drain my cup dry in one gulp before putting it down with trembling hands. “Okay.” Taking a deep breath, I still my nerves and accept my fate before picking out a snack of my own, a flaky sort of strudel stuffed with red bean paste. It’s good, but it’s not tofu pudding good, which I suppose is an appropriate representation of my current value. “So what do you need me to do?”

Maybe things aren’t all that bad. Everyone’s been telling me that life, and the Martial Dao, is all about perspective. I’m paraphrasing here, but in the end, isn’t it all about finding the truth that suits you, and move on from there?

So I’m not a slave, vassal, or lackey. I’m... an unpaid intern.

Yea, freedom is so much better than silly things like a salary and benefits. Totes worth.

I should form a union, or at least make some demands, like tofu pudding and a pet lion or five...

Chapter Meme
