"Watch the color," he said, not looking back. "Dark means water. Light means root."

She watched the color. She moved in small arcs. Her boots got muddy but not soaked.

The fen opened ahead of her.

It was not what she had imagined. She had pictured a bog -- flat, featureless, dark water. This was not flat. The ground rose and fell in subtle hummocks, each hummock crowning with a distinctive plant: narrow-leaved, knee-high, with stems that were almost white at their base and faded to green at the tip. Between the hummocks, the water was not water-colored -- it was pale amber, the color of watered-down tea, with a faint shimmer on its surface that was not quite reflection.

The smell was different here. Not the Thornwild's pervasive sweetness -- that was still present, layered underneath -- but over it, a green, sharp, living smell that caught the back of her throat differently. Not unpleasant. Rich in the way that compost is rich, in the way that river mud after rain is rich. The smell of things breaking down to become other things.

The Ashbrook was here. She could hear it before she could see it -- a sound different from the plateau river, from the wide, slow current she had heard from her father's notes and from the supply post porch in autumn when the water was high. This was the same water, technically. The same snow-melt and limestone-filtered source. But it had done something between there and here. It had split. She could hear two currents, maybe three, moving at different velocities, and when she pushed through the mirewillow stand that screened the nearest channel she found it: a braided stream, barely a meter wide, running amber-clear over a gravel bed that was not quite gravel but something whiter, finer.

She stopped at the bank.

The river looked like her father. That was irrational, and she knew it, and she thought it anyway. It had his quality of attention -- moving steadily without drama, observing everything it passed through without comment, doing its work without any requirement to be noticed. Callum Galley measured this river every spring and every autumn, noted its height and clarity on a chart that went back forty years. He had dropped his compass into it once, at a ford he knew well, because he had been looking at the western bank instead of his footing. He had told her that story as an example of how distraction worked.

She felt the Warden's Shelf in her chest.

It was fainter today, more distant -- the miles between her and the physical ledge adding up, attenuating the echo. But it was there. The stone's steadiness. The curved ceiling. The rowan's roots. It was there the way the millwheel was there in her bones, the way her father's voice was there when she needed it, a kind of structural presence that didn't require attention to exist.

She reached into her pack for her journal.

The letter was there.

She had written it last night, in the starlight through the canopy gap. *Dear Mum and Dad.* She had folded it and slid it into the journal cover and then she had lain back and listened to the insect chorus and thought about the ghost-elm hum and the root spirals and the Crying Forest and she had not thought about the letter at all until this moment.

The letter was there. She had written it. She had not given it to Hadley.

She stood at the river's edge and looked at the braided channels and thought: *I forgot.* Not with guilt, exactly -- guilt required an act of will, a choice to neglect. This had not been a choice. It had been the Thornwild arriving so completely, so specifically, so *loud* with things to notice that the letter had simply slipped out of the front of her mind. She had written it and then she had been absorbed, and the letter had sat in her journal all night while she slept and all morning while she walked and she had not once thought *I should give this to Hadley.*

*Oh,* she thought. *There it is.*

She looked at the Ashbrook. She thought about her mother's face -- Sera, who ran the supply post with the efficiency of a person who had accepted that efficiency was love, who had packed Wren's provisions with the specific care of someone who could not say *please come back* without crying. She thought about her father's hands on the compass. His second-best compass, the brass worn smooth where he had held it for thirty years.

She pulled the letter from the journal. She put it in her shirt pocket, close, where she could not forget it was there.

*Give it to Hadley when you get back,* she told herself. *Today. Before dinner.*

Then she opened her journal to a fresh page and started sketching the river.

---

She made the salve by the river's edge.

Hadley was twenty meters upstream, harvesting mirewillow bark with the decisive, economical cuts of a gatherer who had done this before. The bark came off in long strips that he rolled without looking, tucking them into the satchel at his hip, moving down the bank from tree to tree with the rhythm of someone in good thought. She could hear him thinking -- the soft, non-word sounds of internal processing -- and understood that he was giving her space without making a point of it.

She had no clay pot. She had a tin cup, which was close. She had a small spirit lamp that folded to the size of her fist, which her father had told her was excessive weight and which she had packed anyway because she believed in excess heat. She filled the cup from the clearest channel, the one running over white gravel, and set it on the lamp and watched it.

*Not boiling,* Hesta had said. *Hot enough to open the structure.*

The water reached the temperature where steam appeared without bubbling. She placed the silvervein moss in, using her thumbnail to tamp it down. The silver threads caught the light from the lamp, then dimmed as the water covered them. She waited. The moss released something -- not color, the water stayed amber-clear from the river tint, but the smell changed, a slight sharpening, a green-metal note that settled on the back of her tongue.

Two minutes, she thought. She had nothing to base this on except Hesta's hands moving at the right pace and the general principle that tissue repair required heat activation, not sustained cooking.

She pulled the cup off the lamp at two minutes. The moss had expanded slightly, the fronds opening in the heat. She used a folded corner of her notebook to press them against the cup's side, squeezing gently until the water had a faint greenish tint and the moss mat was consolidated against the metal.

The gel that clung to the cup's side was thin, barely visible. She pressed a finger to it and felt the texture: cooler than the tin, denser than water, with the faint structural resistance of something that had thickened slightly but not set. She thought about the blister, about the pack strap, about the way she had compensated her stride yesterday without deciding to.

She applied the gel to the blister.

The effect was not dramatic. It was not instant. It was the sensation of something she had not known was irritated becoming less irritated -- a small, specific relief that located itself precisely at the blister site and did not spread further. The inflammation eased the way inflammation eases when you actually let it rest instead of walking on it, but faster, and without the rest.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  CRAFTING RECORD
  Item: Basic Silvervein Salve (crude grade)
  Materials: Silvervein moss (fresh), river water
  Method: Moderate heat extraction, 2 minutes
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Tissue repair: minor (surface abrasion, blistering)
  Duration: 4-6 hours

  Quality ceiling: 45/100 (limited by DEX 8, FOC 8)
  Actual quality: 38/100 (first preparation)

  +30 XP (new recipe)
  Herbalism: +4 proficiency
  Crafting (general): +2 proficiency

  ACHIEVEMENT UNLOCKED: FIRST CREATION
  You have made your first thing.
  Reward: +1 DEX (permanent)

  "Making something requires understanding what it
   is made of. You have begun."
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

The achievement notification arrived with a warmth she had not expected. Not the cool efficiency of a discovery log -- something more personal. She read the quoted line twice, the way she had read *The world is full of places that have never been properly met* on the Warden's Shelf, because both lines felt addressed to her specifically and not to a general class of Wayfinders.

*Making something requires understanding what it is made of.*

She looked at the crude salve she had produced with a tin cup and guesswork and an imperfect memory of a woman's hands. She looked at the blister, which had quieted. She thought about Hesta's supply room, the rows of small ceramic jars, the labels in Hesta's cramped hand. She had been watching Hesta work for years without understanding that the watching was a form of gathering.

She made a note in her journal. Not the stat screen contents -- she had those -- but the texture of the experience. *The gel needs to be thicker. The moss should steep longer, maybe three minutes. I held the temperature too low -- need more practice judging "not boiling." The quality ceiling is probably my hands, not the recipe. Dexterity is a skill as much as a stat.*

Then, because the +1 DEX had arrived along with the FIRST CREATION notification, she updated her internal stat record with the precision that her father had taught her: write it down before you forget, because memory is a resource that depletes like any other.

She was still writing when the compass moved.

---

She had the compass out of her coat pocket without deciding to -- a habit, a reflex, the way she checked north when she was somewhere she could not orient by landmarks. The compass sat in her palm, brass warm, the needle swinging to its usual five-degree oscillation.

Then it pulled.

Not oscillated. Pulled -- a clear, directed lean in the needle that was not the Thornwild's magnetic deviation, was not compass error, was not anything she had experienced before. The needle wanted south. Not magnetic south, not the suggestion that passed for north down here. It wanted something to the south, something specific, and the wanting was so distinct and so directional that she picked up her head and looked.

Trees. The fen's edge, mirewillow stands, amber water threading through the hummocks. Nothing visible.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  CLASS ABILITY UPDATE
  [Lay the Path] — Compass Sensitivity
  Unlocked at Level 3 (1 of 3)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Your father's compass has attuned to your class.
  It now responds to undiscovered features within
  your [Wayfinder's Eye] detection range with a
  directional lean.

  Current pull: SSW, approximately 200m.
  Feature type: unknown.

  The pull fades at 200m distance or upon discovery.
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

She stared at the notification for a full three seconds.

Level 3. She had reached Level 3, somewhere between the moss and the salve and the river sketches, accumulated in the gaps between attention. And the first thing the level had given her was not a new stat block or an unlocked skill -- it had given her *the compass.*

Her father's compass.

She turned it over in her palm, the brass warm and smooth. He had used this for thirty years. He had dropped the first one in this river and bought a second one at Millhaven's one instrument shop and used it for thirty years more. He had checked north the way other people checked the time -- reflexively, frequently, building a continuous record of where he was in relation to where he had been. And now the compass was pointing at something two hundred meters to her southwest that she had not found yet.

*Callum Galley gave you the tool for finding roads,* she thought. *The System has made it a tool for finding the things that aren't on any road.*

She felt something tighten in her chest -- not the Warden's Shelf, which was its own quiet presence, but something else, above and around it. Something that was her father's hands on her shoulder at the Naming Day, the specific weight of his approval when he did not say much but meant it all.

She stood. She oriented herself by the compass's pull. She looked SSW.

"Hadley," she called.

He appeared from behind a mirewillow stand, strips of bark in his hands, looking alert. "What? Did you find something?"

"I'm going to find something." She showed him the compass. The needle was still pulling, steady and clear, a direction rather than a deviation. "My class upgraded the compass. Two hundred meters south-southwest. Do you know what's there?"

Hadley looked at the compass, then at the treeline, then back at the compass. His face was doing the cataloging thing -- rapid assessment, forming the report aloud.

"South-southwest from here puts you at the edge of the deep mirewillow stand, and beyond that --" He paused. "There's a pool. A deep one. Theron calls it the Eye. He's never -- he doesn't go there. He doesn't say why. He just doesn't."

Wren looked at the compass.

The needle pulled.

"Is it in the five-mile boundary?" she asked.

Hadley calculated -- she could see him doing it, mapping distance in his head. "At the boundary. Maybe just inside."

She checked her position in the mental map she had been building since the camp. Landmarks noted. Route clear. Return straightforward if she tracked backward along the Ashbrook channel. She had two hours of good light. She had the compass. She had the Warden's Shelf in her chest, steady as always, a reference point that corruption and disorientation could not touch.

"Come with me," she said.

He tucked the bark strips into his satchel without question and fell into step at her side.

---

The pool was not dramatic.

That was the first thing she noticed: it was understated, in the way the best places often were. No dramatic clearing, no light falling in a shaft, no sense of stage-set. Just the mirewillow stand ending at a particular point, the ground firming slightly underfoot, and then the water -- dark, still, not amber-clear like the Ashbrook channels but a deep green-black that reflected the canopy above it without distorting it. The pool was perhaps fifteen meters across. Its edges were overgrown with a dense green-grey plant she did not recognize, something between a reed and a fern, tall enough to reach her shoulder. The surface was unbroken. Not a ripple.

