Lungs burning and muscles aching, I signal Zabu to stop and hurl Unity like a javelin, spearing a fleeing cannibal clean through the torso until the crossbars lift him off his feet. Drawing Peace as a precaution, I check the surroundings for threats and find none, though some still could be lurking about in the murky darkness or tall grass. Unless the Enemy regroups and returns for a second attack, the Imperial Forces are victorious tonight, or at least they are in the area around Sinuji, only a single sliver of the front lines. While retrieving Unity, I hear the faint sounds of battle off in the distance, where another section is still engaged with the Enemy, but only dead and dying Defiled remain as far as the eye can see.

As the adrenaline fades and exhaustion settles in, I leave Rustram, Bulat, and Ravil to handle the aftermath under Daxian’s supervision. They’re as well-rested as can be considering the circumstances. Five days of hard travel wasn’t too bad especially considering no one had to walk, but I’d like to have a full day to recuperate before heading out on patrol. Rest is a luxury the Empire can ill-afford, but I think Colonel Hongji will be willing to accommodate. Even if he isn’t, I’m happy to have a commander who’s willing to listen.

Honestly, I’m astonished at how receptive the Colonel’s been with regards to my suggestions, immediately implementing a handful in the few hours since I arrived. Lighting the fields was a given, since you can’t hit what you can’t see, but keeping our outer perimeter in darkness was all him, though I’m undecided on how useful it is. Another suggestion he jumped on was establishing independent rapid-response teams, allowing certain units to bolster the front lines as they saw fit without need for micromanagement. While Sending is handy for quick communication over a distance, it’s not without its flaws. Although I’m unsure of what the exact requirements are, I know the Sender needs to to be familiar with the recipient, since they need to pick the target out of a crowd of hundreds, or perhaps even thousands. With so many foreign soldiers under his command, most of Hongji’s orders are hand delivered through sealed writ, slowing the lines of communication down to a crawl.

I made other suggestions like scattering rubble around the fields and creating firebreaks, but those will take time to implement. Truth be told, when I made my first suggestion, I was ready to be politely ignored or worse, but Hongji was more than happy to discuss my ‘unorthodox’ ideas. Maybe it’s his age, which at fifty-five years old, is surprisingly young. Being a Martial Warrior, he’s still in the prime of life, but I figured there’d be someone... with more experience holding a position as important as the centre, or at least someone of higher rank. Since the Legate picked Hongji, I assume the Colonel either has plenty of political clout or is so outstanding no one could argue the choice. Regardless, Chen Hongji is a man I’ll want to befriend, since one can never have too many well-connected and/or talented allies.

Ha, I’m finally learning the ins and outs of politics. Luo-Luo will be so proud.

Upon returning to camp, I impose on my Death Corps Guards to prepare a hot bath so I can wash away all the blood and gore. It’s not so bad in the middle of battle, but no one likes to be covered in dried, caked blood, not even quins. Tired from lugging my heavy ass around all day and night, Zabu lays on his side as the wagon quins gather around to groom him, an adorable sight to behold. Unfortunately, I’m not sure if my dignity would survive a quin-tongue bath and I know my skin certainly won’t, so I rinse off my weapons and wait for the water to heat while listening to reports from Rustram.

Idling in Nan Ping has spoiled me, as I can no long stomach bathing in cold water. I couldn’t bear to part with the fancy stone tub, so I brought it with me to the front lines, but the way I see it, the more baths I take, the happier Ping Ping will be. The happier Ping Ping is, the more likely she is to stick around, so it’s a win-win, especially when you consider the bigger picture.

While Ping Ping and Guan Suo are idle slackers, the Protectorate are monsters on the battlefield.

Tonight was the first time they saw action under my command, but I discovered the Protectorate were made of sterner stuff after convincing them to join in on group training. Their shabby clothing and inconspicuous manner kept me from seeing the truth before my eyes, as their ranks hid more Experts and Captain-level talents than any other unit under my command, all gathered for what they consider a Holy Purpose. They lived a hard life out in the wilds of Ping Yao, keeping the Divine Turtle safe from poachers and other unsavoury sorts, but under Guan Suo’s supervision, they trained themselves into an elite unit on par with Akanai’s Khishigs. Bow and long-axe are their favoured weapons, and they handily dispatched all Defiled forces sent against them on the northernmost flank of Sinuji’s defences, with minimal injuries and no deaths.

Or at least that’s what Rustram’s report says. I never made it that far to see for myself, as by the time I cleaned up the Southern flank, there were no more Defiled left to kill. Cowards. Where are the Defiled who fight to the bitter end? I was just getting warmed up. Granted, I’d much rather soak in hot water and listen to reports than slog through a mire of mud and blood, but variety is the spice of life.

The reports continue coming in as I scrub myself clean, and a clear picture of our first proper battle emerges. Dastan’s unit took the most injuries, which makes sense considering they saw the most action, but even the worst off will recover without Healer intervention. We lost a few horses which stings, but better a warhorse than a Martial Warrior. Other than Dastan’s, most of my other units played a support role, firing projectiles from behind our allied meat shields, but I’m not thrilled with the results. The new repeating crossbows designed by Diyako’s team are lacking in power, and even though the Defiled will eventually go down if you fill them with enough bolts, it now becomes a question of cost versus benefit. With how ineffective the crossbows are, is it even worth carrying them around? We have about six-hundred repeating crossbows and a metric shit-tonne of bolts, which equals to a whole lot of extra wagons slowing us down.

It’s something to think about, but I’m not ready to give up the ranged advantage. At least the Monstrosity still holds up, though not many of my soldiers can handle the aptly-named triple shot arbalests. Since most were there to begin with, I put all the beefy Monstrosity wielders into Ulfsaar’s unit. According to Pran’s report, they performed well and ‘maked much death’, which is a huge leap in Pran’s literacy, if nothing else. Other than that, there isn’t much else to say. The Protectorate cleaned house, Ravil and Bulat stood around with their thumbs up their asses, and Li Song and Yellow Unit proved their worth by fighting side by side with a scion of the Xue Clan. It’s always nice to make new friends, and I’m glad to see Song reaching out, though her choice of ally is a little worrisome. On paper, the Xue Clan are allies of the Han Clan and the Han Clan are allies with the Bekhai, but in reality things aren’t so simple. Due to our personal friendship, BoShui’s father, the Han Clan Patriarch, needs to think twice about his original plan, in which BoShui plays the part of sacrificial lamb for the true heir. A cold and heartless way to treat your own son, but such is the world we live in. This has understandably strained on our inter-faction relationship, though the world at large isn’t privy to the details.

Truth be told, I’m not entirely certain how it changes anything. On the surface, the Han Clan is as supportive of the Bekhai as ever, though I think it’s more to piss off the Situ Clan than anything else. Besides, it’s not like it matters, my status makes me all but untouchable, so BoShui and Zian should be safe from their respective Patriarchs.

For the time being at least. Who knows what’ll happen if the Legate disavows me, or worse.

As the last report rolls in and Rustram heads off to bed, I lay back in my heated tub and relax beneath the night sky. I’ve already asked my guards to top off the water twice now, but I still can’t bring myself to get out, so luxuriantly comfortable I could fall asleep. Alas, there’s still work to be done, for Ping Ping waits eagerly overhead for her Spiritual Water treat, a twice-weekly requirement if I ever want to leave her sight. Even then, she’s unwilling to let me stray too far, though how she tracks my position is still a mystery. All I know is she throws a big squeaky fit if I move more than a kilometre away, a radius which rapidly shrinks the longer she goes without Spiritual Water.

I love the big girl, but she’s so needy, unlike Pong Pong. Maybe it’s because I’ve never tried to abandon him, or maybe he’s smarter than Ping Ping and knows that if all my stuff is here, I’ll eventually come back, but the tiny Turtle Divinity is more than happy to chill in my yurt with Mama Bun and Blackjack. As tempting as it was to bring him into battle, I can’t in good conscience convince myself to do so, not to mention all the extra complications that would come from revealing his presence. GangShu is still lurking about and I’d rather not fall out with him over Pong Pong. I have enough shit to deal with as is, so there’s no need to add murderous Ancestral Rat to the list.

I doubt I can keep Pong Pong a secret forever, but that doesn’t mean I shouldn’t try. Then again, I’m fairly certain the little turtle stole Blobby from me, so if he dies, I might get my droplet back... No, I like Pong Pong more than Blobby. That stupid droplet was a worthless freeloader, and Pong Pong is adorbs.

Having delayed long enough, I close my eyes, reach for Balance, and slip into my Natal Palace. Materializing in the brightly lit bedroom, I take a moment to appreciate the elaborately carved ceiling before hopping out of bed. After setting into motion the process of creating Chi-Water, I gaze out the glass windows at all the recent additions, mildly disgruntled by the lack of cohesion. That’s the problem with a modular design like what I’ve gone with, but it works, so if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. Besides, even though it’s not much to look at, my Natal Palace is comprised of my favourite places in the world, which makes it as close to paradise as can be.

Assuming the foot of my bed is south, then Taduk’s underground cottage sits to the east, complete with my first ever keystone, the first aid kit. I still haven’t figured out how to limit its Healing effects to serious injuries only or prioritize those over cuts and bruises, but that doesn’t mean it’s worthless. I just need to be smart about it, using it only when necessary instead of leaving it on all the time, though turning it on is as easy as snapping my fingers. On the other side of the bed to the west sits my favourite cliff-side perch overlooking the village, though here it overlooks my Natal Palace instead. There sits my second Keystone, a single feather planted in the dirt. If not for its immense size, as long as I am tall and about half as wide, the feather looks like it could have fallen off of Roc’s wings, mostly brown with a shimmering, light-blue tip. When activated, the feather sways in the wind and Lightens my body, allowing me to climb trees and ease Zabu’s burdens.

As for its flaws... I can’t control the amount of Lightening it conveys, so it’s always working at maximum power, reducing about a quarter of my (naked) weight. Kind of a waste for everyday riding, since it’d drain me dry in about thirty minutes, and if used in battle it fucks with my centre of balance, but it’s something, I guess.

Moving on is my last new addition, which sits to the north of my bedroom. I styled it after Mila’s forge at the Northern Wall, the one she designed with a bedroom in the back. Only after recreating it in my Natal Palace did I realize she built the bedroom specifically for our naughty little trysts, a place which was hidden from sight and noisy enough to keep Martial Warriors from listening in. It’s a thought which warms my heart and sets fire to my loins, but sadly, Mila isn’t around to break my hand. Inside sits not one, but two Keystones, mostly because I wanted to see if it’d work, but also because I felt my Natal Palace approaching its limits. In pure volume, it’s still a long ways short of my village replica, but I’m guessing the Keystones count for more than empty real estate. Either way, Mila’s forge is the perfect place for my final two keystones, both thematically and emotionally. First up, in the bedroom is an inflated five-pointed star. Plump and yellow, it bounces about as if possessed of a mind of its own, which is why I had to get rid of the cartoonish eyes it originally came with. This Keystone occupies the bedroom because it represents Reinforcement, a skill I use constantly to interact with my beloved Mila. When active, the star flashes with light, and the more Reinforcement I need, the faster it flashes and bounces around, until at maximum power it’s moving and flashing so quickly I can’t hardly stand to look at it.

All in all, it’s my most sophisticated and well-designed keystone because I desperately need Reinforcement to survive my beloved’s affection. It’s such a relief to not have panic attacks whenever I see Mila running towards me, knowing I can catch her without hurting myself.

