Then there’s my fourth and final Keystone, my most complex working yet, a two-piece hammer and anvil set. Whereas the other three Keystones are used to manage relatively straightforward functions, Amplification is a whole different beast. The way it was explained to me is that Amplification is a three part process. You begin by building up your Chi, then move it in tandem with a strike, culminating with an explosion of Chi at the time of impact. Done correctly, you can multiply the force of an attack, and when combined with Reinforcement it allows you to hit two or more times harder than normal, depending on the amount of Chi used. Done incorrectly and you wasted a bunch of Chi.

It was too much work manipulating my Chi while moving my body, and I couldn’t get the hang of it in practice, much less in combat. On a good day, I had a one in three chance of success, so I rarely used Amplification in the past. Instead, I favoured using my Chi on more reliable methods like Healing and Reinforcement, but with great risks comes great rewards. There are few things more satisfying than smashing your enemies to a bloody pulp, and this is a sensation only made possible with Amplification.

...Is it possible I’ve become too bloodthirsty?

Whatever. Survival first, ethics later.

While my Lightening and Reinforcement Keystones were crafted in a day each, I spent the better part of a week figuring out what to do with Amplification. My first thought was to use the forge and bellows, pumping air into furnace to represent the build up, then unleashing in when I strike, but after practising with it a few thousand times to no success, I took a step back and started from the beginning. What was I hoping to accomplish with an Amplification Keystone? Amplification is a matter of building up energy and releasing it at the proper time and location, a process which I hoped to simplify, but with the forge and bellows, I’d already failed. Instead, I turned my attention to the hammer and anvil, two objects which were not only already in the forge room, they were also perfect for representing the same process. Lift the hammer to build up energy, smack the anvil to release it. Higher equals more energy, louder equals bigger boom, can’t get any easier than that. What’s more, the metallic clang gave a far more visceral response than the heated bellows, and as I played the sound in my head, the pieces fell into place.

Did I really need to envision lifting the hammer and striking it down? With my other Keystones, I briefly picture each one to activate or deactivate it, and then it manipulates my Chi in the background, so why can’t I do the same with Amplification? The hammer lifts and builds up Chi, moves the Chi to the proper location while descending, and explodes the Chi when hammer meets anvil, a wholly automated process from start to finish. All that’s left is to get the timing right, which is much easier than it sounds given that the hammer is an imaginary object, it technically moves at the speed of thought, so all I have to do is imagine the clang as my weapon strikes and the hammer would move to match it.

It’s a little like tapping a beat with your foot and matching it by snapping your fingers. Super easy to sync up, except in this case, the snapping is a quasi-complex Chi action. When swinging a weapon, you more or less know when you’re going to hit, unless your opponent does some tricky dodging or parrying, so now, my success rate with Amplification has shot up to nine out of ten. The funny thing is, I still can’t figure out the rock flicking thing, where Charok fires pebbles off with his fingers using Amplification. I suppose it goes to show that everyone learns things differently, so I guess the Bekhai teaching method of ‘figure it out on your own’ isn’t entirely full of shit.

We all must forge our own Martial Path, yadda yadda. I’d still like a few pointers every now and then and a lot less mystical mumbo-jumbo.

There are still a lot of Keystones I’d like to make, but thus far, I’ve yet to come up with any working ideas. A Honing Keystone would be nice, but I’m pretty good at Honing already so it’s not exactly a priority, and I’d probably need a separate Keystone for each weapon. Otherwise, I might accidentally Hone Peace while it’s still in the scabbard, which would not only be a waste of Chi, it’d also be embarrassing when it drops out of its broken sheathe and onto my foot. I could also make something for Guiding, but the process is so instinctual I’m afraid to fuck things up by thinking about it. Reverberation is an option, sending shock waves through my weapons to attack my opponent’s internal organs, but I don’t know how to Reverberate yet, so a Keystone is out of reach. I’d also like to automate Chi gathering and Chi Water creation, but I’ve had no success with either venture. I figured the first would be as easy as using my Runic ring as a Keystone, but sadly, it fell flat and I couldn’t figure out why.

My best guess? It doesn’t work because reaching Balance requires a modicum of effort and concentration. When I’m not meditating, I’m not Balanced, and without Balance, I can’t commune with the Energy of the Heavens. No Balance, no Chi or Chi Water, Keystone or not. Who knows for sure though. It’s all guesswork from here on out, though it’d be nice to get a second opinion. I suppose it’ll have to wait until I meet with Mom and Dad again, though with luck, I’ll have a big surprise in store for both.

Stepping out of my room, I peer into the void where hundreds of Spectres wail and screech, offering threats of violence and promises of power if I’ll only set them free. Pleased with my harvest, I take a deep breath and prepare for the coming unpleasantness. Opening my mouth, I regurgitate all the Chi Water I’ve bound in the past month and send it surging out to cleanse the Spectres, all while wincing at the unpleasant phantom sensation of vomiting more than my stomach can hold.

This is all Blobby’s fault. Not only is he not here to deal with this, because of his actions, I can’t imagine storing Chi Water any other way.

After turning all the Spectres into sweet Heavenly Energy, I deposit their remains into the wooden chalice and slurp up the excess Chi Water. Somehow, this is even less pleasant than puking it out, probably because now it’s like drinking second hand vomit. I’d love a better storage method like a squirt gun or something, but sadly, I can’t get it to work. Whatever, it’s a small price to pay for the energy of creation, as Taduk so aptly put it, and while a few hundred Spectres are far from enough, there are still plenty more out there to Devour. With a little luck, a lot of hard work, and drinking  like a thousand litres of Spiritual Back-wash, I’ll eventually gather enough Heavenly Energy to help Mom walk again.

And maybe, just maybe, I’ll have enough left over to treat myself to a little something special. Dare I say it? Can this really be happening? Is the dream alive?

Two words: Bear. Hands.

Please, Mother in Heaven, make it so...

Chapter Meme
