“Too late. And the army’s never here. And you came in the wrong way, kid. You strode in and expected to take command. That’s not how it works.”
Embria sagged. She leaned on the battlements, looking dispirited.
“I know. I just—I’m trying to do my job, Dad. Why is it so hard?”
Relc eyed Embria in alarm. His tail hesitated, and then nearly went over to touch Embria’s. At the last moment it stopped. He cleared his throat and looked around uncertainly.
“I think it’s because people don’t know you. But I’m sure they’d like you. I mean, you’re my kid. So why don’t we go and say hi to some people? Get your face out there? Buy some people some drinks?”
The young female Drake stared into the lake. Then she turned her head.
“That was your best idea?”
“Yeah.”
“I see.”
The two stood there for a while. Then Embria raised her head. She turned it and stared. Relc looked around as well. Both Drakes heard a loud, familiar voice.
“Yeah, I know it’s off limits! I need to speak with whoever’s up there! Is it Captain Zevara? No? Where is she? Okay, who’s up there? I know it’s someone important? Olesm? Embria? Okay, well then let me talk to her! Excuse me! Excuse me!”
They saw Erin push her way up the steps. The Gnoll [Guardsman] tried to stop her, but not very hard. He stepped to one side as Erin spotted Embria and Relc.
“Great! You’re on my list! Hi, Embria right?”
“What are you doing up here?”
Embria barked at Erin. The young woman paused. Embria grabbed her spear and pointed it at Erin.
“Are you insane? We are under martial law! Access to the ramparts is forbidden! I could execute you here and now!”
“Yeah, yeah. Look, I need to talk to you. Now.”
To the female Drake’s shock, Erin reached out and pushed the spearhead away from her chest. She advanced and Embria stared at her.
“I’ve got a plan. Relc, can you tell Zevara I need to speak with her? And Klbkch! I definitely need Klbkch. Get them to meet me in the inn in like, five minutes. Be there or be square. Got it?”
Relc covered a laugh as Embria spluttered.
“You can’t just order a Watch Captain—I’m a Wing Commander! What are you talking about? A plan?”
“That’s right. And you should be there. Bring a few [Captains] so they can listen if you want. I’m getting Ilvriss and Olesm now. Relc?”
“On it! Is this plan going to be awesome?”
“So awesome. Or we die.”
Erin gave Relc a thumbs up. He grinned. Erin turned to go, but Embria’s spear shot out.
“Hold it.”
Both Erin and Relc looked at Embria. The Wing Commander looked beyond peeved. She stared at Erin, anger written all over her face.
“This is insane! Da—Senior Guardsman Relc, get back to your post! You, Human. Why should we listen to you or follow your orders?”
“Why?”
“That’s right. You’re no [Leader]. You run an inn! What gives you the right to order anyone about?”
Erin gave Embria the blankest look the Drake had ever seen on someone who wasn’t a corpse. She thought for a second, and then shrugged.
“You don’t have to follow my orders. I just thought you’d want to be part of my plan. I don’t need you. I could use your help, but you need me more than I need you. So…see you maybe?”
The Wing Commander gaped at Erin. The young woman went to push aside her spear, but it didn’t budge. Relc coughed. He lifted the spear up and Erin ducked under it.
“Five minutes! Or ten! I can’t run that fast. All the Gold-ranks are going to be there! I’ll tell everyone my plan, then we have to hurry and get ready! Find Zevara and Klbkch!”
She ran down the battlements. The Gnoll [Guardsman] stared at Embria and then decided he needed to follow Erin. Relc and his daughter stood together. Embria looked at Relc. He grinned.
“See that? That’s why. You coming?”
 
——
 
“Yes, I don’t think Pallass can commit any more adventurers. It’s not a question of cost—they’re not willing to empty their city and they’ve sent two thirds of their Gold-ranks to Liscor already. They do have a Named Adventurer, but they can’t force him to comply. Yes, I’ve tried to approach him directly. But I’m banned from entering the city as you know—”
Ilvriss was speaking into his personal scrying orb to someone in Salazsar. He and Olesm sat in the meeting room usually used by the Council in their infrequent meetings. Now it was a war room complete with a map of the dungeon. Olesm was poring over the transcripts of the Gnoll prisoner’s accounts of the dungeon. He was trying to piece together an image of the Raskghar camps. And he was succeeding, much to his chagrin.
“Too many Raskghar. If we fill the corridors like this and this—we can’t complete the encirclement. But without more adventurers, we can’t hold these positions. Especially against the awakened. If they can beat a Hob—what’s Headscratcher’s level?”
Olesm was muttering to himself as he did calculations. Each time he studied the numbers of the Raskghar his heart sank. Just too many to take on with all the Gold-ranks. If they were defending it was doable. But the objective was to free prisoners and the Raskghar could run or encircle the Gold-ranks. They had to do something other than a full-scale assault. Use subterfuge. Unfortunately, even the best Gold-ranks like Seborn had flatly refused to try and infiltrate the Raskghar camp.
“We must do something. Some of the Gnolls are free, but the rest will be sacrificed. Can you hire a Courier to send an artifact—yes, it’s worth the risk! No, the Heartflame Breastplate can’t solve this issue! The Selphid wearing it can fight a hundred Raskghar in it, and there are thousands in the dungeon! I don’t care about the cost! Give me a solution! Salazsar has—”
Ilvriss was arguing passionately with his fellow Salazsarian Wall Lords and Ladies. He had really committed all he could to the dungeon. Olesm had to admire that. But his fellow nobility from Salazsar were removed from Liscor’s situation. Ilvriss had been talking with them for the last hour and gotten nowhere. But Olesm had hopes. If he could get Salazsar to send some of their elites or adventurers of their own—or just one of the artifacts that the Walled Cities held in their vaults, maybe—
“Hey! Let me in!”
The Wall Lord glanced up with Olesm. They both heard the shout from below. Olesm closed his eyes. He recognized that voice.
“Hey Ilvriss! Hey! I know you’re up there! Your guards won’t let me in! Move aside! I need to talk with you!”
Olesm looked at Ilvriss. The Drake covered the scrying orb with one claw and motioned him towards the window. The [Strategist] looked outside. Sure enough, there was Erin. A pair of Drakes were trying to usher her away, but she was shouting up at the windows.
“I have a plan! I need you to come to my inn! Now! It’s about the Gnolls!”
Ilvriss paused. He looked at Olesm. The [Strategist] gave him a weak grin and shrug, but part of him stirred. Erin couldn’t have a plan. He had no plan and he was a [Strategist] now! But she played chess. And it was Erin…
“Hold on. I need to address this. Stay near the orb. We haven’t finished our discussion.”
Ilvriss snapped into the scrying orb and placed it on the table. He stalked over to the window and unlatched it. He shouted down at Erin as the two Drakes began to haul her back.
“Hold! Solstice, what are you talking about?”
Erin fought free of the Drakes and waved her arms up at Ilvriss.
“I have a plan! It involves you and Olesm and Zevara and Embria! They’re all coming to my inn! I think!”
Ilvriss glanced swiftly at Olesm. The [Strategist] whispered.
“I haven’t heard anything from Captain Zevara. But Erin probably talked to her just before this.”
The Wall Lord nodded. He called down at Erin.
“You can’t have a plan.”
“What? Why not?”
Ilvriss glared at Erin.
“There is no way you can resolve this situation. I’m sorry, but there isn’t. Not in this case. The Raskghar are a threat, not a stain on your inn’s floors you can wipe away. This is not something you can make a difference with, Solstice.”
“I can with your help! Believe me!”
“She is quite good at strategy, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss glanced at Olesm with irritation.
“Good at strategy doesn’t change facts, Swifttail! There are thousands of Raskghar! We’ve been racking our brains trying to figure out how to assist the Gold-ranks. What can she do that we can’t?”
“Hey! I heard that!”
In the streets, Erin raised a fist and shook it at Ilvriss. The volume of her shouting rose.
“You think I can’t help? I can’t fight, but I can think! And my plan needs you, Ilvriss! It needs you, and Klbkch, and Zevara—it needs everyone! Only I can pull it off. Because I’m me!”
The Drakes hesitated. Olesm stared down at Erin. He put down his papers and grabbed an ink pot, some fresh parchment and a quill. Ilvriss stared at him.
“What are you doing?”
“Going to her inn.”
“What? That’s ridiculous. Stay here. Swifttail! I command you!”
Ilvriss reached out. Olesm turned. He had a hand on the doorknob.
“Apologies, Wall Lord, but I believe Erin.”
“But she’s just—”
“Erin. She killed Skinner. And I believe she’s the best chess player in this world. Better than Niers Astoragon. She saved me from Liscor’s crypt. I’m going.”
Olesm threw the door open. He disappeared out of it. Ilvriss turned back to the window. He stared down at Erin as Olesm hurried past her.
“You can’t do anything. If you could—what can you do that we cannot?”
The young woman stared up at him. Her voice echoed from the houses. The rain fell, but Erin shouted over the roar.
“I am Erin Solstice! I’m the craziest Human you know! And I have a plan! I can save the Gnolls! I can save Ceria! I can save Mrsha! Look me in the eye and tell me I can’t!”
She met Ilvriss’ gaze. The Wall Lord stared down at her. Then he turned. He strode down the steps and out the door. He folded his arms as he met Erin in the rain.
“Let’s hear it.”
She grinned. Erin was wet and sweaty. She was dirty from falling once. But her eyes were alight. And Ilvriss dared to hope.
“I’ll give you the cliff notes as we run to the inn. Come on!”
She ran with Ilvriss following her and cursing at his adjutants to keep up. By the time they got to the inn, Relc, Klbkch, Zevara, and Embria were there. So were Pisces, Yvlon, Ksmvr, the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords, and every Gold-rank captain. They stared as Erin ran inside. She turned to face them.
“I have a plan. It’s very simple. Ready? Here it is.”
She spoke. They listened for five minutes. Then they argued, and then agreed. Zevara, Embria, Ilvriss, and Klbkch raced out of the inn. The Gold-rank Captains were hot on their heels. They ran into the city. Erin stood in her suddenly empty inn. She turned and looked at those remaining. Lyonette was staring at Erin with hope. Olesm was smacking himself on the forehead. Relc just grinned. Erin smiled at them all.
“Let’s do this thing. Come on, we need to get ready. Get those tables out of the way! Move, move, move! Time is running out!”
 
——
 
It was early nightfall when the Raskghar finished restoring order to their camp. The dead Raskghar and Goblins were removed or processed into food. Two of the exits were fortified, sealed off in case Snatcher returned. Calruz had the Raskghar on high-alert. And the Cave Goblins were busy at work.
It always amazed Ceria how many there were. And how subservient they were. The Raskghar seemed to have a limitless supply of bodies—Cave Goblins were always moving in and out of the camp, bringing water, supplies from other spots, or fixing stuff up. Performing tasks the Raskghar wouldn’t. She saw a group of Goblins butchering a dead Raskghar, carefully removing the bones to be placed with the dead. And another group was constructing mobile barricades.
“We might be able to drag them into place if Snatcher returns. Or block the adventurers. We have a supply of metal and wood—but it’s limited. We have more metal than wood, actually. The Goblins occasionally go above to forage for wood, but Liscor is limited in that as well. Hide works best for most structures.”
Calruz grimaced as he pointed out the old and often moldy wood the Cave Goblins were lugging into place. They had crude nails and hammers and were creating metal sheets. Ceria saw the Raskghar supervising the task. They didn’t do any of the work themselves, but they made the Goblins work faster with calculated blows. She saw one small Goblin flinch as a Raskghar swung at her. She redoubled her pace, bringing nails to the Goblins making a large sheet of metal that could be used to block the tunnel entrance.
“It won’t stop Snatcher. You saw how strong he was.”
“Not if he fights. But you saw him. It. That thing only looked for heads. And it barely paid any notice to anything else, even when it was being attacked.”
“Because we did nothing to it! If it wanted to, I bet it could kill half your camp by itself. And you want to move locations with it hanging about?”
Calruz snorted.
“Of course. The adventurers could have our location. We move again! We’ll take care on the trip, that’s all.”
He glanced around. Ceria folded her arms. The other Raskghar looked at each other. Some shook their heads. Nokha and a few of the awakened growled. She perfunctorily dipped her head.
“Dangerous, Chieftain. Would be better if we had more awakened. Stronger.”
“No. We keep the Gnolls as prisoners. Under watch. And I’ll question the small one now. I want to know how they got out.”
Nokha growled.
“Little white one used magic.”
“Impossible. Gnolls can’t—”
Ceria began to object, then remembered what Calvaron had told her once. She bit her lip and stared at Mrsha. Calruz raised his eyebrows.
“They can’t use magic, correct?”
Before Ceria could reply, Nokha jumped in.
“Can. This one is special. White fur. Must sacrifice. Tonight!”
“I said no.”
Calruz bared his teeth. Nokha’s hackles rose. She looked at her companions. Ceria saw the other Raskghar look up. The Goblins froze as they dragged the sheet of metal towards one of the walls, ready to be shoved into position. There were five entrances to the Raskghar camp. Two had been sealed, and now three metal barricades were in place. The Cave Goblins crept around them, reinforcing the solid slabs of metal. Watching the Raskghar.
They could sense it too. Calruz stared at Nokha.
“Are you questioning your Chieftain?”
The awakened Raskghar hesitated. She looked at the others and then looked back.
“Yes.”
“I see.”
