Nokha’s ears flattened in displeasure. Calruz snorted. He cast his eyes towards the eastern entrance to the camp and Ceria saw more Raskghar dragging or carrying limp Gnolls.
“One Gnoll versus dozens? Think, fool! At least the others caught more than a single Gnoll child.”
“This one is special. White fur. Cast magic! Will sacrifice now. Get others later.”
The awakened Raskghar bared her teeth as she pointed at Mrsha. The other Gnolls were shielding her from sight protectively. Calruz’s eyes narrowed.
“That is not your decision. I am Chieftain and I say if we sacrifice any Gnoll! Understand?”
He locked eyes with Nokha. The air grew tense again and the Raskghar around Nokha grew still. The eighteen awakened Raskghar stared at her. Three had died to Snatcher. Nokha glanced around, her expression savage. Then she seemed to note the dead Raskghar and Goblins. Snatcher had barely fought save to defend himself and still a score of corpses lay on the ground. She glanced at Calruz and inclined her head ever so slightly.
“Yes.”
There was no ‘Chieftain’, or any other sign of acknowledgment. Nokha turned and stalked towards the Raskghar who weren’t working. Calruz stared at her back. His hand clenched in anger and his brows drew together, but he seemed to think twice about calling her back. He turned to look at Ceria.
“Use a potion if you need to. And find one for your belt.”
He stomped off to shout at the Cave Goblins and Raskghar laboring at the entrance. Ceria watched him go and then looked around. The air in the camp was tense. Snatcher’s attack might not have been Calruz’s fault, but the Raskghar were shaken. And they were already chafing at his restrictions. They kept staring at the remaining Gnolls. And the awakened Raskghar, led by Nokha?
They were looking at Calruz. Not fearfully, but with a calculating look in their gazes that made Ceria shiver. She stared at the remaining Gnolls in cages and at Calruz. The Minotaur looked around. He could sense it too. He adjusted the axe strapped to his back and stood taller.
“Get to work!”
The Raskghar obeyed. But it was only a matter of time. Ceria was certain now. She looked around, and then backed up to the cages. The Gnolls looked up at Ceria.
“Is she…?”
“Hurt. But not critically.”
“I’ll get you a healing potion. For all of you. If I can.”
The Gnolls nodded. Ceria hesitated, and then bent. Pretending to inspect Mrsha, she concentrated. A little fiery bug crawled out from her hands. It fluttered upwards, vanished, carrying a message for Pisces.
 
Gnolls escaped. Mrsha here. Raskghar rebel soon. Hurry.
 
The Gnolls stared at the fiery bug as it disappeared. They looked at Ceria. She gave them a slight nod and straightened. None of the Goblins and Raskghar around her had noticed. But then she turned and saw one of them staring at her.
Nokha. The Raskghar had snuck up on her from the side! She stared at the Gnolls and Ceria. At Ceria’s hands.
She’d seen the spell! Ceria felt a chill of fear, but the Raskghar didn’t immediately shout what Ceria had done. Instead, she locked gazes with Ceria and smiled. The half-Elf met her gaze. She glanced at Calruz’s back. She gave Nokha a frozen smile.
“Just try it.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice paced back and forth in her inn. She had a plan. It was a good one, or at least, it was simple. The best plans were simple. Except that they weren’t in chess. Chess was an ever-moving game of attack and defense and opportunity. You had to think a hundred moves ahead of your opponent. That was why computers were so good. But her plan had only one moving part. She couldn’t adjust it. It worked or it wouldn’t.
It would work. But first, Erin had to know where the Raskghar camp was. And for that, the Redfang Warriors had to return. It had been four hours. The magic door to the Goblin’s cave was open. Only a few people were in Erin’s inn. Pisces had gone out with Yvlon and Ksmvr to bring back the Gold-rank adventurers. Erin hoped she wouldn’t have to tell them her plan wouldn’t work today.
“Lyonette, have you eaten anything today?”
“No.”
“You should.”
“Okay.”
The [Princess] sat at a table and didn’t move. Erin looked at her. Lyonette stared past Erin. Apista buzzed around her anxiously.
“Have you fed Apista?”
Lyonette blinked. She looked at the Ashfire Bee and a bit of life entered her eyes.
“No. I—”
She half got up and had to put her hands on the table. Erin looked around.
“Drassi.”
“On it! I’ll get honey for Apista, and what do you want, Lyonette?”
The young woman hesitated. She sat back down.
“I don’t want—”
“Water and a bit of meat and cheese, maybe. Crackers? Yeah, crackers and meat and cheese. Just have a few bites, Lyonette.”
Erin tried to encourage the young woman. She frowned and tried to remember if she’d had breakfast. Maybe not? Well, she was in better shape than Lyonette. Erin stared back towards the Goblin cave. Then she heard a shout from outside her inn and whirled.
“Erin! Get out here!”
That was Yvlon’s voice! Erin hesitated, grabbed the knife and one of Octavia’s potions she’d put on the table and raced outside. The rain pounded her face. She blinked, nearly cut herself as she went to wipe her face, and then saw the boats. The Gold-rank adventurers had returned! And they had brought—
“Headscratcher! Rabbiteater!”
Two of the Hobs looked up. Headscratcher tried to rise, but Rabbiteater forced him down. The boat rocked as he leapt out of it and began swimming to shore. The adventurers rowed towards Erin’s inn. But another group was heading straight for Liscor. And in them—
“They found the Gnolls! There was an escape! Erin, we need stamina potions!”
“What?”
Erin stared in disbelief. Yes, some of the boats had Gnolls in them! They huddled together, staring around. The Gold-ranks were escorting them to Liscor and a cry went up from the walls. Erin saw more boats headed her way. The Horns and Halfseekers rowing boats with Gnolls in them. And Cave Goblins. And the Redfangs. Erin stared at all of the Gnolls, looking for a flash of white. But there wasn’t any.
“Mrsha? Where’s Mrsha?”
The adventurers looked at each other. Yvlon stood up in her boat.
“They think she’s captured. Erin! We need stamina potions! Now!”
For a second the [Innkeeper] wavered, but then she realized Yvlon was right. She turned and ran into her inn as Rabbiteater ran up the slope.
“Drassi, get me all our stamina potions! Some of the Gnolls are back!”
“What?”
The Drake turned. Lyonette shot up, knocking her plate of food aside.
“Is Mrsha—”
“Potions! Now!”
Erin met words with action. She grabbed her crate of potions and ran out with it. The adventurers were still rowing towards her inn.
“Catch!”
Erin threw a potion through the air. The glowing potion flew straight at Pisces, who ducked. Yvlon fielded the bottle and yanked the cork out. Erin didn’t know why they needed stamina potions, but when she saw the Gnolls lying weakly in the boats she understood. The adventurers had enough healing potions to cover them, but they hadn’t brought many stamina potions. And the Gnolls looked half-dead.
“Get them in here! Drassi, get me food! Lyonette—”
The young woman ran past Erin. She splashed into the water.
“Mrsha! Is she okay? Where is she?”
The Gnolls in the boat were rousing themselves. Some looked at Lyonette and shook their heads, but one, an older, grey-haired Gnoll with red stripes, spoke weakly.
“She ran back. She distracted the Raskghar. To save us. She freed us too. She is alive, we think. But maybe—”
Lyonette stared in horror at the Gnoll. The adventurers ran their boats aground and leapt out. They helped the Gnolls out as Erin saw the people on Liscor’s walls trying to do the same for the Gnolls there.
In the end, all the boats had to come to Erin’s inn. The Gnolls had exhausted the last of their energy fleeing from the Raskghar and now, in safety, could barely move even with the stamina potions. Erin changed the door from her cave to Liscor and had to step back as the Watch and Gnoll families flooded into her inn. She opened her pantry and soon the Gnolls were eating small portions.
“Not too much. You’ll injure yourselves. Eat only small bits. And we must check you for broken bones and other injuries. The healing potions will not heal everything. They may make some things worse, but the adventurers have taken care not to heal wounds incorrectly.”
A Drake [Healer] was cautioning the Gnolls as they sat at Erin’s tables. They ate slowly, some surrounded by their loved ones. Many were in tears as they ate simple foods. A few spoke to Zevara and the others, recounting what they’d seen and heard.
“It was the child who saved us. She used a—a—”
Elirr glanced at the Drakes and hesitated.
“She used her voice! The Raskghar thought her mute, but she howled and brought the monster down on them. We fled in the confusion, but Mrsha, she ran back when it became clear the Hobs would fall. She bought us all time to flee.”
“Mrsha. Oh, Mrsha.”
Lyonette buried her head in her hands, weeping. Erin stared at the Hobs. They were intact, although Headscratcher was still weak. They all looked like they’d healed wounds recently. None of them could meet her eyes.
“You say these awakened Raskghar were smarter? And stronger?”
“They were leaders among the others. Terrifying. The ritual—it must be stopped. And the Minotaur is insane. I saw him beat the half-Elf when she tried to stop him. But I think—I think neither will be alive much longer. The awakened are too intelligent. They will dispose of both if they are not stopped.”
The Horns and other adventurers exchanged uneasy looks. Zevara just nodded. Another Gnoll spoke up.
“We remember where they’ve gone. But I am sure—the Raskghar keep their camps watched. And there are so many. They will surely move their camp tonight.”
“And if we attack them, they’ll just fight us off. We don’t have enough bodies!”
Keldrass pounded a scaly fist into his other clawed hand. Zevara glanced at him and shook her head.
“The fact that any of you were able to escape is a miracle. Mister Elirr, I know you and the others must be exhausted. But if you’ll speak to our [Strategist], I’d be deeply grateful. Rest assured we’ll try to save the others if at all possible.”
Again, she glanced at the Gold-rank adventurers who looked away. Some of them shook their heads. Elirr bowed his.
“We owe Mrsha a debt we cannot repay. To think we blamed her—and the Goblins! They saved us.”
“Yes. Them.”
Zevara met Erin’s gaze. She shook her head.
“We’ll get a full accounting of this later. For now, let’s bring you back to the city. The Council will want your statements and then we’ll issue an announcement. Solstice, we’ll settle the costs later. Is that fine?”
“What? Yes. Go on.”
Erin nodded. She was talking with Numbtongue. The Hob’s head was bowed.
“We tried. But there were many. And the female one—”
“I understand. You weren’t supposed to fight them. It’s okay, Numbtongue.”
The Hob looked up wretchedly.
“But Mrsha—”
Erin grabbed the Hob’s shoulder, squeezing hard.
“We still have a chance. Did you find the Raskghar camp?”
“Yes. But it is…what is the word? Fortified. The adventurers will not take it. And there are many Raskghar.”
“I know. But you know where it is, right?”
“Yes.”
“Then come with me. Drassi! Change the door as soon as I’m through. Then let us back when everyone’s in Liscor!”
Erin pushed past the crowd and headed to her magic door. She slapped the red mana stone on, opened the door, and strode through. She heard an exclamation behind her and an oath from Zevara and slammed the door. She looked around.
“Pebblesnatch! Where’s Pebblesnatch?”
The Cave Goblins looked up. They stared at Numbtongue and raced over. Erin looked around wildly and saw a familiar face. Pebblesnatch and a bunch of smaller Goblins looked up from Erin’s magic chessboard. They’d constructed a very tall tower out of the ghostly chess pieces. They scrambled back guiltily as Erin marched over.
“It’s okay. Pebblesnatch, I need your help. Will you listen? Numbtongue, can you translate?”
The Hob nodded. The Cave Goblins could understand Erin well enough, probably thanks to Calruz, but the Hob translated with word and gesture so Erin was certain that Pebblesnatch understood every word she said. She crouched next to the Cave Goblin.
“The Raskghar are bad. They kidnapped Gnolls. And they’re mean to you and the other Cave Goblins. The adventurers have been fighting them. So have the Redfangs. But the Raskghar have some of my friends. Two people very important to me. I want them back.”
Pebblesnatch stared up at Erin with round eyes. She glanced at Numbtongue and at Erin. She nodded hesitantly, but then gave Erin a Goblin shrug. Numbtongue didn’t have to translate. Erin smiled ruefully.
“Yeah, that’s bad, but what can you do about it? Well, there is something. The Redfangs found the Raskghar camp. And I have a plan to get back my friends. But I need your help. It might be dangerous, but not too much. And it will save my friends. Will you do it, Pebblesnatch?”
The small Goblin looked alarmed. She looked at Numbtongue. The Hob stared at Erin. The young woman looked from Numbtongue to Pebblesnatch.
“I won’t ask her to steal a key or anything. It’s very safe. So long as you can get her there. Can you?”
“We can.”
Numbtongue nodded at once. Pebblesnatch began to quiver. She looked at Erin and the [Innkeeper] could tell that Pebblesnatch was afraid to see a Raskghar again. Erin reached out and touched Pebblesnatch’s hands.
“I know it must be terrifying. But you’re the only one I can ask. The Hobs can’t do it. And you—well, your name is actually important. Pebblesnatch. It’s part of how I came up with my plan, actually.”
All the Goblins looked astonished at that. Pebblesnatch touched her chest. Erin nodded.
“It’s true. And I know this is a lot. I know it’s scary. But I need your help. You’re the only one who can do it. So will you?”
The small Goblin stared up at Erin. She hesitated. She looked at Numbtongue and the Hob nodded. But the Cave Goblin was still afraid. She met Erin’s eyes. The young woman stared into hers.
“Please?”
Pebblesnatch wavered. Then, slowly, she nodded. Erin smiled.
“Thank you. It’s very simple. All you have to do is take these—and do exactly what I say.”
She reached into her pocket and pulled something out. Pebblesnatch’s eyes went round and the other Cave Goblins gasped. Numbtongue stared at Erin, and his eyes lit up in sudden comprehension.
“Ah. Good plan.”
Erin turned and smiled at him.
