“I know, right? I thought of it myself. Now, I need Pebblesnatch to go now, but we need to time this exactly right. So here’s what we’re going to do…”
 
——
 
“Keep all the camps on alert. Snatcher may strike at them. I want the watches doubled, but no patrols. They’re dead if they run into him. Go!”
Calruz was giving commands like normal. The Raskghar he was addressing bowed its head and moved with speed. Like normal. But the mood in the camp was on edge.
It was strange for Ceria to think of ‘normal’ and ‘not normal’ after only having been in the Raskghar camp a few days. But she could tell that the Raskghar were growing discontent. Calruz would have called it insubordinate. Ceria just thought they were finally confident enough not to need him any longer. And the source of that confidence were the awakened.
They were intelligent. They would keep being intelligent when the moons fell. Of that Ceria and Calruz were now sure. The other Raskghar seemed nervous about the absence of the full moon, only one more day away. But the awakened? They moved about without fear, followed by a pack of lesser Raskghar who ran to fulfill their every whim. And Nokha led them all.
It was like two tribes, now, really. Calruz strode about, giving orders, but the awakened did the same. And while they moved when he looked at them and told them what to do, there was an air of…expectancy. As if they were waiting to strike.
But they kept watching Calruz for now. Because he was still important. Ceria saw Nokha listening, pretending to be listening at attention as Calruz dealt with an issue that had reared its head in one of the smaller camps.
“How many sick? And what are the symptoms?”
The Raskghar growled. Calruz frowned and made Nokha translate.
“Hotness. Shaking. Throwing up. Blood in…leavings. And lumps. Yellow pus.”
Nokha gestured and Ceria made a face. Calruz wrinkled his bull’s nose.
“And the cause? Did they not cook their food again? What monsters did they eat?”
“No, Chieftain. They say it was adventurers. A few Raskghar were wounded by…arrows? And spells. They thought it minor, but the wounds grew worse. Now many are sick.”
Calruz cursed. He looked at Ceria.
“Poison.”
“Or plague.”
Ceria felt a bit sick. She knew some adventurers used those tactics, but it was cruel, even against Raskghar. And dangerous. She’d heard stories of adventurers who’d used poison against rats and killed thousands in major cities, or spread disease for hundreds of miles by accident. The Adventurer’s Guild was very strict about that sort of thing. Calruz frowned.
“Quarantine the camp. That means no one goes in or out. Not Cave Goblins, not Raskghar. No one touches the sick. Burn the bodies.”
The Raskghar didn’t like that. They tried to argue until Calruz cuffed the scout across the face. He glanced at Ceria as the Raskghar whined and Nokha barked at him sharply.
“Anything else, Springwalker?”
Ceria had to think.
“No healing potions. That can help with some diseases, but it might spread the plague faster. And…wash with hot water? There’s not much we can do without seeing what it is. And I’m not going to inspect it in person.”
The Minotaur nodded grimly.
“True. If we had an [Alchemist] or [Healer], we might try something. But we don’t. Quarantine the camp. Do as Ceria says. The surviving Raskghar and Cave Goblins will remain in place for…”
He glanced at Ceria. She shrugged.
“Four days after getting better? And don’t bring them here.”
Calruz nodded.
“Four days. They’ll patrol with healthy Raskghar or Cave Goblins to make sure they’re well.”
The Raskghar whined unhappily, but Nokha snapped and he went. Calruz growled under his breath.
“Adventurers. Damn them. I need to make sure they haven’t infected any other camps. Where are my other scouts?”
He looked around and stomped towards some Raskghar who were eating by a fire. Ceria and Nokha were left. The half-Elf eyed the Raskghar. The awakened smiled.
“You know things about adventuring. Like Chieftain.”
“Yup. More than you do.”
Ceria smiled and Nokha bared her teeth.
“True. We need Chieftain. He is smart. Knows much.”
“Even if he won’t let you kill the Gnolls? Even if you’re smart when the moon isn’t full?”
Ceria saw Nokha’s grin waver. The Raskghar looked concerned. She glanced swiftly at Calruz and back at Ceria. The half-Elf kept her smiling mask up.
That’s right. We know.
But far from being nervous, Nokha instead just smiled again.
“Yes. We still need. Someone who knows what we do not. Very important. Chieftain is valuable. Important. But won’t let us sacrifice Gnolls. Too bad.”
“Yeah, well, you’ll have to live with it. Unless you want to take his place? But oh wait, then you don’t have Calruz. Shame about that, especially if you run into something like infected Raskghar, huh?”
The half-Elf smiled mockingly. Nokha nodded. She drew closer suddenly.
“Yes. Very bad. If Chieftain was only one. Good thing we have two.”
She grabbed Ceria’s arm suddenly. The half-Elf tensed. She raised a fist, but too slow. Nokha leaned forwards—
And licked Ceria.
The action was so surprising that Ceria forgot to hit Nokha. She spluttered and tried to back up, but Nokha licked her across her face. Her tongue was rough and wet. Ceria twisted out of her grip. She wiped at her face.
“What in the name of tree crap was—”
She backed up and saw Nokha smiling at her. The Raskghar stood back, smiling. Ceria stared at her, and then remembered something about animals. They liked to mark their territory, didn’t they? Was that—
“Unacceptable!”
Calruz had seen the entire thing. He stormed over and Nokha backed up. The Minotaur snarled at her, much like a Raskghar himself and she backed up.
“Forgiveness, Chieftain.”
“Back to your work!”
Calruz roared at her. His fist clenched, but Nokha moved out of range before he could strike. She sauntered back to the other Raskghar, who had of course been watching. Ceria scrubbed at the saliva, blushing. That had felt like more than just a challenge against Calruz. It had been an attack on multiple levels. She was his companion, and that had felt like an oddly sexual jab from Nokha against Calruz as well. She glanced sideways at Calruz to see what he thought.
The Minotaur was clearly furious. He stared at Ceria, clenching his hand, and spoke through gritted teeth.
“Why did she do that?”
“She was telling me that she only needed one of us for our knowledge. She’s not afraid of you, Calruz.”
The Minotaur breathed heavily.
“No. She’s growing bolder. I should crush her. But if I do, the Raskghar might revolt. I need her to challenge me. That is their custom. This is—provocation. The next time she does that, blast her with magic.”
“I was going to, but she’s quick!”
“Do it faster next time. This is an affront on my honor. On my reputation! I have to make a reply, demonstrate—”
Calruz broke off, muttering to himself. Ceria eyed him and sidled away a step.
“Lick me and I’ll punch you.”
The Minotaur glanced at Ceria. Then he snorted. Ceria laughed and Calruz joined in. The Raskghar looked back at them, and Nokha’s smile vanished for a moment in annoyed confusion. The two adventurers laughed louder, and Ceria felt a bit of madness herself take over. Every day it felt like the old Calruz again. And not. Here they were, fighting to keep him Chieftain of a Raskghar camp. And being licked! She laughed and laughed.
And knew it would be over soon.
 
——
 
Evening fell on Liscor. Not that you could tell in the rain. Relc Grasstongue grumbled as he stood on the walls.
“When’s it going to stop? Next week? The week after next? It should end soon, right? It has to! There’s not enough water in the sky for all this. And why do I have to stand guard duty right now? For the sixth straight day? I wanna patrol, but no…I’m too high-level to patrol in a nice warm tavern for an hour or two. Captain Z makes me stand here because I’m the highest-level [Guardsman] in the city. Which is true. I’m awesome. But still.”
His griping went unheard by the other [Guardspeople] who were actually patrolling the walls. It was a slippery, wet beat and Relc was standing beneath a temporary awning out of the rain. Occasionally one of them would shoot him a dirty glance or make a comment, but they generally left Relc alone. Because if a monster or Raskghar attacked, he’d be the first one into the fight and everyone knew it.
Still, that didn’t mean they had to stand near him. Relc stood alone, leaning on the battlements and yawning while scratching his tail until a pair of crisp footfalls made him look around. He blinked and waved as a Drake with red scales marched towards him. Wing Commander Embria’s armor was polished and she walked swiftly with her enchanted spear in hand. A helmet was on her head and her posture was perfect. Relc waved at her as he leaned on his spear and the wall.
“Hey kid. What’s up?”
Embria stopped in front of Relc. She turned to face him and stared down at Relc, which was a trick since he was taller than she was. Her voice was cold.
“Senior Guardsman Relc.”
“What?”
“Senior Guardsman Relc.”
A note in Embria’s voice made Relc pause. Embria stared at him without a trace of affection.
“We are on duty. You will address me by my rank.”
The Drake paused. He looked at Embria and then straightened and gave her a grudging salute. He looked past her head as he spoke.
“Yes. Wing Commander Embria.”
His voice was hurt. Embria colored, making her red scales turn a darker shade. She nodded and Relc went back to leaning on the battlements, not looking at her. Embria looked around quickly and hissed.
“Stand up straight! You’re on duty!”
Relc looked back at Embria, clearly upset. His tail swept the wet stones beneath his feet as he replied.
“I’m not in the army anymore. The Watch doesn’t make us keep perfect posture except when we’re talking to Captain Z.”
Embria hissed at her father, keeping an eye out for passing [Guardsman] or her [Soldiers]. A few had been assigned to man the walls at regular intervals.
“You’re a former [Sergeant]! You should remember how to stand at least!”
“My former commander never made me stand at attention. He was cool.”
Relc folded his arms, looking peeved. Embria hesitated.
“Wing Commander Weillmet? He’s dead.”
“What? No.”
The big Drake froze. He stared at Embria.
“When?”
The Wing Commander had to think. She shook her head.
“About a year ago. During a holding action at Shivering Straits. His flank was exposed—a division from Oteslia’s Second Infantry overwhelmed his position.”
“Damn. I didn’t know.”
Relc turned away. He stared at the water surrounding Liscor in silence. Embria stared at his back. Her tail moved restlessly.
“You didn’t hear? The army sends back regular reports—”
“I don’t read them. Too many names I recognize and a lot I don’t. Plus, it’s always about where we’re fighting next, who’s paying us. It’s always the same stuff.”
“I’m…sorry. Wing Commander Weillmet was a good officer. I served with him for a few months. He taught me a few spear techniques.”
“Yeah. He always was good with the spear. Nearly as good as I was, but he was a better leader than a soldier. Man…so why are you up here, Wing Commander?”
Embria colored again. She stepped up and stood next to Relc. After a moment she relaxed her posture a tiny bit.
“I…wanted to talk with you.”
“You can find me at my home. I’m on duty. Can’t casually chat and all that.”
“You’ve been pulling double shifts all week.”
“That’s Captain Z’s fault, not mine. I just follow orders.”
Embria bit her tongue. She stared at Relc’s side. The Drake was staring into the waters, his expression bleak. After a moment, Embria went on.
“It’s about the Human.”
“Erin?”
“Yes. I have…questions. You know I’m here for more than just defense of the city, don’t you?”
“Yeah, yeah. Making sure we’re not getting eaten by the Antinium, prodding the Council in the tails, all that. How’s that going?”
Embria ignored the question.
“One of the things I was instructed to look into were the Antinium. I know what you think—but they’re acting oddly. And the other Hives have been…irregular of late. When Xrn, the Small Queen was sighted in Liscor, the High Command was alarmed.”
“Oh, so that’s why they sent you? Not because of the Goblin Lord running about?”
“It was one of their concerns. Father, you know this is an issue. And the Small Queen and the Slayer—”
“Klbkch.”
“—They both went to her inn. The Human’s.”
“Erin’s. They have names, you know.”
“Why?”
Relc paused. He stared across Liscor’s lake and then responded slowly.
“Well, you know, back in the old days, I guess people were tired of saying ‘hey you’, all the time. So they invented this thing called names, and most people—”
Embria stomped on Relc’s tail. He bit back a shout and whirled. She glared at him.
“Don’t evade the question!”
“I don’t know, okay? Erin’s special! Klb likes her and that blue Antinium likes her too, I guess! She plays chess with Workers!”
“But why? Why do you and everyone else listen to her?”
Embria raked her claws across the spines on the back of her neck, clearly frustrated. She gripped her spear and twirled it.
“Every time something happens, not only does Watch Captain Zevara listen to her, but Wall Lord Ilvriss—a Wall Lord—listens to her! And your [Strategist]! And everyone else! They listen to her opinion even when she says the most idiotic things! And apparently Zel Shivertail himself stayed at her inn! Why?”
“Because she’s Erin.”
This time Relc pulled his tail out of the way of Embria’s foot. He cradled it protectively as she stared at him.
“I don’t know, kid. All I know is that Erin has something. But I have no idea what that is. She likes Goblins, she plays a mean game of chess apparently…and she’s just different. But I can’t say why. I just go to her inn because I like the food. And because she called me a Dragon.”
The Wing Commander snorted and turned away. Relc stared at her back for a while, and then let go of his tail. It curled up a bit, and then he sidled a bit closer to her. He leaned on the battlements.
“You know, I think it’s because people like her. They didn’t at first, but Erin grows on you. Like a mushroom.”
“And what? They don’t like me? Is that why I have to request to join every planning session and why Watch Captain Zevara keeps forgetting to notify me of important events?”
“Yeah. Probably.”
Embria clenched her claws into fists.
“I came here to defend Liscor!”
