And soon, orc mages found themselves splattering before the sudden emergence of orichalcum battering rams that burst through the flames, crashed through all wards, and ground flesh and bone into sand and glass like a pestle grinding away at the base of its mortar.

Golemancy 47 > 49

***

"Wiiiild," Jessica muttered, clutching the sides of her head, "absolutely wild! You teach this kid any of this shit? Come on, you got to have coached him. You got to."

The ancient lich to her left just laughed as he shook his head. They hovered in the sky slightly to the side of the arena, having moved slightly to avoid being singed, and they watched as the kid pulled one trick out of his ass after another.

First was that overly complicated disappearing act. Jessica had to admit that overly complicated had probably been necessary in this case, since he was running up against a bunch of Heroic Diviners. Leaving a decoy, a golem, and one of his allies within that Trojan corpse was quite the idea, but it worked. The System did register part of him as being present. And all that confusing Vitae and mana probably fooled the Diviners—long enough to allow him to start skirmishing and turn the fight around.

The way he butchered the Cryomancers, being a thing of chance or not, freed up Candles to unleash his own carnage. And then the Pyromancer surprised Jessica too, showing a flicker of who he likely was before the Rubix Well broke him. He was powerful, and he clearly had more than a little aptitude for meticulousness with how he kept his allies safe amidst his inferno.

Then the kid unleashed a final gift on the orcs. He started using his golems in a creative way: He turned them into missiles. Pillar of Orichalcum, paired with his Shapeless Tides, allowed him to slam down on orcs using his ever-hardening projectiles. The Golems were economical too. They would run out of Vitae eventually, but they would keep smashing into the orcs for as long as they existed—and that was more firepower and endurance than a great many offensive spells offered.

Valor hummed and shook his head. "The boy simply has a mind for deception and surprise. When he spends some time thinking, he can surprise a great many people, especially himself. Unfortunately, I think he still needs to practice that more."

"Thinking?" Jessica asked.

"Quite so."

"Well, I'd say he thought this one through pretty good. He managed to figure it out. You've got to skirmish with the orcs. You've got to break their structure down and force them to fight for their own lives. Think after this, he'll probably have an easier time fighting them in the future. Till he runs into a competent Maestro, that is." And speaking of competent Maestros, Jessica's eyes fell on a particular orc waiting at the edge of the audience stands. The Culturist was easy to pick out from all the other gray-skinned monsters. He was larger than most, but not by much. What stood out most were the way he carried himself and his peculiar choice of outfit, the owl-like ensemble billowing in the air, making his presence moonlit and practically ghostly.

“Speaking of competent Maestros,” she said, voicing her thoughts, “I hope our boy enjoys this moment, because after he finishes killing these orc heroes, I think he's going to start learning a real bitter lesson.”

Valor regarded Jessica as if she'd said something wrong. "Bitter?"

"Look, I'll pat his oversized ass right now and admit a few things: He's built for war, he's pretty clever when it comes down to figuring out how to screw people over to kill them in creative ways. But that's not going to be enough against the Culturist." She frowned as she tried to judge her own chances. "Shit, I don't know if I'm enough against the Culturist. He's got this overly humble attitude toward us, but looking at that damn orc makes my bones ache. If it were me, I'd try to pin him in place and force him into a head-on fight. But he strikes me as the type with plans within plans and more plans hidden up his ass—more skills than a hundred other Pathbearers combined."

"Your assessment is quite accurate," Valor said, nodding faintly. "So, how do you think Shiv might be able to best him?"

"Again, I don't think he can."

Valor huffed. "Come now. Think like a swordsmaster who must see their disciples succeed against a hated foe. It is not about likelihood or percentages. It is about must. If he must cut down the Culturist, if he must fight for our honor and dignity, for our very lives, how would he prevail?"

Jessica got to thinking. She folded her arms and studied the Culturist. Then, as the flames unleashed by Candles danced and a wave of light washed over the cowled orc Legend, she realized his eyes weren't on Shiv, but on her and Valor instead.

And she got the feeling that she was being challenged.

The Giantsbane sneered. It was a mistake to challenge Jessica Hawgrave.
