Orcs taste best when they're stir-fried. Now, don't flip away from the page. This is not a joke. I mean this entirely seriously. Orcs are made of meat. They have a decent layer of fat. And that layer of fat has a bunch of other chemicals inside it that I don't really know the name of yet. But they have this wonderful, sweet, bitter layer of salt. It rests on your tongue, and, well, I think you can even use it as a special kind of grease or something. That's how thick it is. Actually, I think I can extract it from an orc and apply it to other meals. Might allow me to soak some of that orc taste into other things.

Now, for those of you who think it's wrong to eat an orc because of moral, ethical, or dietary concerns, let me assure you, they're a different species from you (unless an orc is reading this, in which case, come over and say hello), and they have no problem with cannibalism. If you're worried about morally offending an orc, well, you can only do that by refusing to kill them. Trust me, I've discovered this the hardest way possible. They also find it really funny when you trick them into eating their own kind. Mostly.

But that's just what you get from eating orcs at a baseline. If you have a decent cooking skill, you'll end up getting some other surprise alterations. As it turns out, eating expertly cooked orc meat makes you a lot more aggressive and also has the capability of blunting your emotional affect down to nothing, except for acts of cruelty and physical violence. Makes you a little bit more orc-like, to be honest.

This might be good for certain soldiers or Pathbearers who are in the field, especially the ones who are a little bit kill-shy. For everyone else, though, I think that'll just turn them psychotic. But the emotional blunting effect can be countered by a balanced diet. If eating stir-fried orc meat on its own positions you for violence, then having an assortment of vegetables and mendules mellows someone out enough, usually, that they just end up in a clear-headed state.

That's something I need to explore more: balanced diets. Frankly, people focus too much on the main course. It's not everything. A well-rounded set of meals is important for your body and mind. You gotta have more vegetables and meat. You have to have plenty of water. And you have to have all the right nutrition. Because that's what it takes to get to tranquility instead of psychopathy. Just a bit of balance.

-Exotic Beasts and How to Cook Them by Shiv the Deathless of Blackedge

296

Path of the Chefless [III]

The Sky My Lash 444 > 445

Downpour, though he personally disagreed strongly with the assessment, was what the other orcs would call a “pathetic coward,” being unwilling to participate in what his brethren considered “festivities” and generally risk-averse, not stepping up to a fight unless everything was guaranteed to go his way. He also had what he liked to describe as an "adverse relationship" with pain. Ultimately, Downpour was an orc that liked to win—and would rather not suffer a torturous death if things went the other way.

In his own mind, that didn't make him unworthy of respect. He was simply looking out for his own best interests, and he believed the fact that he consistently reached Heroic-Tier while so many of his fellows bottlenecked at Adept, dying over and over again in the most pointless of battles, to be proof enough of his mindset being the correct one.

It was also why Downpour continued unleashing bolts of kilometers-sprawling lightning down upon the shifting, miasmic blackness where the Deathless hid. Even as the other orcs told him to stop, that he was creating too much dust and mana distortions in the area for them to properly sense if the Insul was even still alive, Downpour didn't.

Every single one of the thousands of bolts that fell from where he hovered in the sky unleashed a blinding whiteness that seared Downpour's very retinas and resounded with individual thunderclaps that burst his eardrums almost faster than his Regeneration Skill could keep up. Just the side effects of his Aeromancy were hazardous to anyone in the vicinity, himself included, and could be outright debilitating without the ability to heal oneself.

Downpour smirked at the cries and curses sounding from all around as his optical lenses reshaped themselves between blinks. Good thing he had that ability.

Besides being so destructively potent that it damaged even its user, his lightning was also a concentrated skill. Every bit of damage he sought to deliver was concentrated on that patch of darkness, without spreading anywhere outside of his control. As such, his spells each struck like hammers flung down by a titan, shaking the coliseum and turning the sands to glass.

With enough heat and force to evaporate a lake in seconds, Downpour tore a deep crater into the ground, impacting the spot where he knew the Insul to be over and over again until his pillar of red-gold matter finally shattered and vanished.

But even still, Downpour kept going. For a full minute, in fact. He continued until the strain grew too much for even him to bear, until his arms spasmed violently and the smell of ozone was beginning to overpower his senses.

When he stopped his casting and the deafening cacophony of thunder abruptly ceased, he took in his work with satisfaction. Everything below him appeared like a wrathful god from the old stories that the humans liked so much had laid waste to the world. The air cracked with static. Smoke and dust rose, blending with miasmic obfuscation on the ground. The Insul’s Creeping Void skill was a pitiful measure of protection. Of the 420 or so orc Heroes that remained, half of them had some form of Divination magic, and furthermore, the Awareness of most of them was Heroic as well.

Even if they couldn't detect the Deathless, it didn't matter. They'd shaped a series of wards around the Creeping Void, creating a sort of encircled pit that was forged from Chronomancy, Dimensionality, and Geomancy. A looming wall of adamantine fused to glowing and static mana ensured the Deathless couldn't simply flee. A layer of gravity covered the top of the enormous pit, serving as a sort of lid in case anyone wanted to ascend. Said lid didn't prevent any spells from plunging down from on high, and so the orcs simply bombarded the Deathless with every spell they had.

That didn't mean their strategy came with no casualties. The Insul had undergone a Skill Evolution of some sort in the middle of this fight, and he'd parried more than a few siege-tier spells right back at their casters. Downpour survived because he always followed this one rule: Let someone else cast the first spell.

Letting someone else make the initial approach had never failed him in any of his lives. When the impatient and foolish died, the wise learned from their mistakes and reaped the final rewards.

And now, coward or not, Downpour was on the verge of claiming a most delectable glory. The Insul was quite the monster to put down, and the orc Heroes who achieved such a feat would doubtless be held in higher regard by their peers. Such regard would translate to the only currency orcs cared about: experience, memory, and reputation. He would be among the elite few who managed to kill the Deathless in a direct confrontation. And he wasn't even Legendary-Tier yet.

The Sky My Lash 445 > 446

As Downpour's Heroic-Tier Aeromancy advanced another level, a smile crept across his face, and he finally let his arms sag. He blinked repeatedly, shaking his head. He'd come close to blacking out. He'd pushed himself hard and farther than he normally would have.

As he tried to slow his breathing, something struck Downpour in the back of the head. He turned right and realized one of his fellow orc mages was glaring at him. Erosion-114 was the biggest sourpuss of an orc. A swirl of grains danced around the Geomancer's body and they vibrated with agitation. "What part of 'stop' don't you understand, Downpour? I need to spread my sand grains through the area. We need proper confirmation that he's actually dead."

Downpour performed a dramatic flourish, spreading his arms out by his side as he concluded his courtesy. "Then, by all means. I was simply ensuring that there would be no body left to discover. We'll be digging out the strings of his vitality from the soil, I think."

"Don't be so hopeful." The reverberating words of Prism 99997 came from the left of Downpour. Prism was more of a brawler-mage hybrid, preferring to dash in and out of battle, skirmishing instead of casting spells from afar. However, he supported the other dedicated mages in this encounter, for he was among the orcs that Downpour respected—Prism knew his limitations. He knew it would be stupid to fight someone like the Deathless head-on. That was a pleasure for someone like the Culturist or the Breaker to indulge. Clad in jagged plates that made up a glittering rainbow, Prism was a devastating but ultimately fragile orc. And that fragility had taught Prism his own lessons, mainly to never underestimate an enemy and to always be certain, always be wary.

He was still a bit more willing to risk his life than Downpour, but they were more akin to one another than most other orcs were. Which is why Downpour listened when Prism spoke.

"He stopped fighting back in the last five seconds," Prism said. "We could have overwhelmed him. We could have knocked him unconscious, but I don't think it's likely we did. The Psychological Shadow I've constructed of our Insul indicates that he is likely to continue fighting and maintain his aggression until he is utterly disabled. For him to stop counter-attacking, we must have gotten him a lucky strike and laid him low. Or more likely, he is planning something."

"But what?" Downpour said sardonically, smacking his lips together. "I know. Let's send in the filthy Shadows and Vanguards. Let them handle this matter. We've already done the bulk of the work."

The very instant he finished speaking those words, an arrow tore a strip of flesh free from his left cheek. The whistling projectile then proceeded to perform an impossible turn along the back of Downpour's neck before it gouged a deep wound in his right cheek, exposing his teeth on both sides. The arrow tore back off into the distance, toward where the Creeping Void was finally dissipating. There, a towering orc that carried a massive longbow in one hand and a wicked machete in the other called out to Downpour, "I heard you, you yellow-bellied bastard! When this is over, I'm gonna take your ears!"

Downpour let out a belly laugh—and reacted in an instant as his Danger Sense screamed. He spun on his heel, calling down a dense column of lightning upon himself. It slammed against his body, shielding him from a wave of all-consuming flame. The gleeful shrieks of that maddened Pyromancer on the ground assailed Downpour’s ears. The flaming skeleton's limbs were coated in a dense layer of frost, but even with the desperate efforts put up by the orc Cryomancers, the ice was melting fast.

To Downpour's greater displeasure, he found his lightning catching fire as well. A searing agony spread through the orc's mind, and he dismissed his mana to spare himself the misery. The bolt reeled back up in the sky, and the rust-red heavens above flashed once before going dark again. In the fraction of a second it took him to do that, the Pyromancer had cleared 400 meters of distance down in the arena, and was getting further by the second. He tumbled across the stands, a spinning ball of fire chased by a chain of plunging icicles that unleashed cascading tsunamis in their wake.

"Come out!" Downpour cried out at the orc Cryomancers hovering 500 meters down and to the left of him. Pale white mana bled out from their bodies as they formed new spells every second, trying to contain the Pyromancer. "We're already dealing with the Deathless and that undersized wolverine of his. Hold up your end of the struggle!"

The Cryomancers parted their focus just a bit to create a frosted representation of Downpour getting ripped in half from groin to head. That told Downpour they weren't truly putting their all into the struggle.

"What a lamentable state of affairs," Downpour tutted. "Look at the stragglers we fight alongside, Prism. I fear we are the only ones that are putting in our fullest efforts."

"Yeah, tell me about it."

Downpour's frown intensified as he noted something was off about Prism. The other orc’s voice didn't reverberate that much anymore, and it sounded downright human. In fact, it sounded a bit like—

The bones inside Downpour’s torso exploded apart in a series of sickening cracks. Something wet and hard erupted out from his chest, but there came no pain, for a numb, static feeling was already spreading through his sinews. Downpour's vision went dark for an uncertain length of time, and when it returned, he found himself lying at the edge of the arena, blood dribbling free from his tusks. He also found most of his ribcage and part of his spine dislodged from his chest, while the rest of his body was bent at an odd angle. It seemed like the skin and meat of his torso had gone one way, while the bones and organs inside of him had been shoved out the other, resulting in a prolapsed sack of inner biomatter swaying free from the gory chasm that ran from his chest to stomach.

A pale, bone-coated gauntlet gripped the sack that contained Downpour’s innards. The orc's confusion lasted a second longer before he found himself hoisted in the air. It was then that he discovered Prism. What was left of his friend, anyway. The crystal-plated orc had been crushed and shredded to ambiguous pulp within the fractured remnants of his armor. Bits of Prism leaked out between the cracks. Erosion, meanwhile, lay in three vertical slices. The Geomancer had died with a confused look on his face.

