And then there was the Deathless. Who'd somehow slipped past all the Shadows and Vanguards, who'd somehow gotten to Downpour and the other orc magi. The Insul’s armor was broken and frayed, but actively regenerating before Downpour’s eyes. Half of the Insul’s torso was exposed, his musculature sporting slight burns and a map of bruises. Aside from that, however, he exhibited no other serious injuries.

"How?" Downpour wanted to ask. But his lungs wouldn't cooperate, mainly because they were mashed into bloody sludge with the remainder of his removed organs. He had no idea how the Deathless had managed to escape. Did he have another stealth skill they didn't know about, or some other technique? The Insul’s body briefly flashed gold with Chronomancy, and he imprinted something on Downpour—just as he crushed the orc's spine.

This time, the world went black for Downpour, and it stayed black. Even so, he didn't die. His Heroic-tier Regeneration Skill was still at work. And that was what the Deathless counted on.

***

Scheming Bastard 1 > 4

Golemancy 45 > 47

Vitaemancy 137 > 145

Strider of the Unbending Path 178 > 181

The Creeping Void 145 > 147

Whip Proficiency 25 > 29

Non-Sequitur 133 > 136

Vitality Drain 124 > 130

Deepest Edge 83 > 90

Return to Sender 104 > 105

Shiv's surprise breakthrough had been a performance of confusion and chaos.

His mad plan to escape from the orcs' constant bombardments had him pulling out every remaining corpse and spare bone armor he'd stored within his cape. From there, he constructed a larger version of himself, something huge, something that could house multiple entities inside. It would also provide cushioning for said multiple entities. Such was how Shiv managed to hide both a Vitae Golem and Gone within the same Trojan corpse.

He created the golem using his Bifurcated Processing. It was a logistical golem, possessed of only one skill: Pillar of Orichalcum. Its duty was simple: make the pillar as tough as possible and keep going until it was out of vitality or the orcs somehow managed to break the pillar. At the same time, Gone was tasked with pushing the decoy corpse around. As she did this, Shiv went Non-Sequitur, leaving his Vitae decoy within the decoy corpse—creating a sort of nesting doll of decoys in an attempt to overwhelm or simply blindside the orc Diviners.

In the meantime, he fled, slipping through the wards and adamantine walls the orcs were forming around his distraction. He'd never stopped filling the air with Creeping Void. Ultimately, his concealment mattered more than true stealth, hiding his layered deception long enough for him to reach the most distant of the orc magi.

From there, he started working his way back in. He managed to slay the first group of orcs without any of the others noticing. Though Deepest Edge was merely an Adept skill, the damage it inflicted was devastating when paired with The Last Morsel's orichalcum edges and Shiv’s Legendary Physicality. Two of the orc magi had more esoteric Toughness Skill fusions, their bodies turning to water and lightning respectively as they tried to reposition. However, Shiv's Shapeless Tides were built for countering and interacting with mana, and he came down on them like an avalanche. Seizing them close to his chest, he squeezed them to death as he broke their mana forms and then mangled their bodies thereafter.

From there, he got to his next group, exploiting a rising wall of fire left over by Candles to hide his approach. By that point, the orcs stopped unleashing siege spells where Gone and his Vitae golem were hidden within the decoy corpse. He felt a bit of worry when he realized he couldn't see the red-gold tower of his golem anymore, but he suspected Gone was most likely fine. She was a Legend after all, and she was covered by so much corpse meat, bone, and expendable armor that she would only have to endure the most penetrative of mana types, such as Psychomancy.

After another cadre of butchered orcish mages, Shiv found himself in the brutal present. The badly mutilated orc he'd just struck from the sky and then tossed served as his actual movement vector, his temporal echo imprinted on him. It was what would allow him to reposition and continue his attack on the other orc mages. And just when the other orcs realized something had gone terribly wrong and noticed him standing in their rear line, he flung the Aeromancer over the Cryomancers before accelerating toward another group of orc mages.

The Cryomancers turned away from trying to resolve the problem that was Candles to face the Deathless that was all too close for their comfort. They almost completed a full siege spell when he appeared right next to them in a flash of flickering gold and descended upon them, whip, Biomancy, and Morsel tracing crimson death though the air.

He became a blur of crimson, practically shredding the unprepared ice mages, dismemberment and decapitation occurring faster than most of his enemies could blink.

As he stomped the last surviving orc ice mage's head into paste, Shiv absorbed a rush of vitality from his Enchained Heart and refueled the Vitae he spent. A crackle of static came from his right. Shiv dodged out of reflex, phasing through a beam of concentrated electricity. It carved a deep wound through the ground beneath him and curved up to split the stands. However, a series of wards formed in front of the orc spectators, and the siege spell splashed apart against the combined mana of a few hundred thousand other orcs. Collateral damage was a lesser worry when everyone in the audience was also an accomplished martial Pathbearer.

Phase Frame 51 > 53

Cracking his neck, Shiv turned to face the other magical attacks coming his way. He sought to return them to sender—a struggle made far more manageable as the spells came in staggered sequences. The orcs were unprepared for his repositioning. Furthermore, he saw a burst of golden lightning flash in the distance. Gone had broken free of the protective perimeter as well. The orcs were no longer pumping their mana into keeping his decoy caged. However, before the other spells could reach him, a sky-high tide of flame smashed into them and consumed their mana in a burst of all-devouring Pyromancy. Without the ice mages, Candles was free to wreak havoc, and he wanted to do only one thing.

Candles shrieked. He rose high above the arena, trailing fire like a comet’s tail and bringing a source of pure light to this bleak and miserable place. "Burn!" he screamed, and he grew even brighter. For a moment, he didn't look skeletal anymore. His flesh returned, and at the center of the inferno, Shiv saw the shadow of an elf, before even that faded. It disintegrated. Candles became one with the flame, and he shone like a star on the verge of exploding. "Burn," he called one final time, “burn for me, baby!”

And with a sound like a high-pitched scream and a devastating mana bomb going off, a flood of world-swallowing flame consumed the coliseum. Shiv braced and bade his tides to resist the ocean of fire spilling free from Candles just before it washed down over him, but to his surprise, it parted perfectly around him, leaving a small space around his person untouched.

In the air, it was like an endless waterfall pouring out from the sun itself. The sphere around Candles was a cracked egg, and the mana it birthed was endless, only growing more with every passing instant. The flood spilled forth, vaporizing millions of tons of soil and excavating the floor of the coliseum deep enough to drop a mountain inside. Where the Pyromantic detonation scoured the earth clean of matter unimpeded below, it crashed against the colossal wards caging the arena on the sides and drilled up into the heavens like being directed out of a funnel.

Throughout the confines of the arena, spiraling spell patterns turned into vortexes as the orc magi did all they could do to keep the flames at bay. Small pockets of sanctuary formed amidst the spreading conflagration. But not all the orcs were so fortunate or powerful enough to spare their own lives.

Keeping himself afloat with his tides, Shiv watched in bewildered amazement as dozens of Heroic-Tier were simply dissolved in the wake of the flames. He could track them using his Atlas; their life signatures burned bright, their Toughness and Magical Resistance allowed them to endure for a few seconds, but ultimately, Candles' power overcame them. They vanished in motes of ash and ultimately left nothing in their wake. As he scanned his surroundings, he guessed a good 30% of the orc Heroes had been annihilated in an instant. That made the grin that had spread across his face falter ever so slightly. This one attack had been more potent than everything Shiv had thrown at the orcs over the course of the entire battle. Combined.

If Candles had this much power…

Was he just waiting for a real opening to unleash it all? Shiv wondered to himself. Or maybe he didn't have a chance earlier with all the orc mages trying to pin him down.

Whatever the case, Candles flared bright, and he demanded that all the world burn with him.

Shiv took a step forward, saw how the fire parted before him, and then charged forward into the inferno without fear. Shiv offered the Pyromancer a thumbs-up and kept going. Wherever he went, the way ahead cleared. Soon, he found himself picking off groups of orc mages as he burst into their warded sanctuaries, cutting their bubbles open with Morsel in hand and tides flaring.

Now the fight was turning the other way around. And the weaknesses of the orcs were becoming more evident. Ironically, it was aggression that undid them. When the grayskins had the momentum, they were a nightmare to face. They coordinated intuitively with one another and seemed nearly impossible to plan for. They thrived on causing chaos and overwhelming their adversaries by unleashing an unceasing load of chaotic and even esoteric attacks.

But when their momentum was halted, when the momentum worked against them, then the orcs broke down. They didn't have a command structure. They didn't care about one another the same way races of Earth did. Orcs abandoned the most vulnerable members of their group to their fates without hesitation, and generally defaulted to fighting alone.

A battle that started as three Legends facing off against a few hundred Heroes was suddenly changed. Now, it wasn't a few hundred Heroes fighting Shiv at once. Now, it was him cutting them down in detail, engaging four to five of them every other second while they tried to turn things around and cut Candles from the sky.

The Vanguards and Shadows did what they could, but caught out of place and without the support of their dedicated mages, they started dying en masse as well. With how fast their life signatures were vanishing, Shiv suspected that Candles was doing the same thing for Gone—creating tunnels in the fire she could rush down, allowing her to slaughter rows of orcs in quick succession.

And over the roar of flames, Shiv could hear raucous cheering. The crowds loved the bloodletting. They loved the sudden twist of tension, and they loved him and his fellow prisoners. He could hear his name being chanted. He could see magic rising into the air. Spell patterns that twisted the light itself to show representations of what was actively happening in the arena. Shiv watched a visual illusion of himself rip the head off an orc Geomancer. He couldn't help but smile.

This was the fight he'd chosen. It wasn't a meaningful fight. It didn't alter his faith or fate. It didn't need to happen. It was killing and fighting for pleasure and practice and without true consequence, but it was something he wanted. It was something the orcs wanted too. He thought back to what the Culturist had said. If the itch didn't have its hooks in their souls, or if they could only control it, would they be as vile as the Challenger had designed them to be? He'd seen them take interest and pride in things besides slaughter and torture, even experienced them bonding with others and building friendships firsthand, in the case of 811 and his anger over Shiv's murder of his vampire friend Isaiah before they entered Gate Theborn.

The slightest adjustment would make them more than just monsters, would bring them closer to being individuals. And if that were to happen, if they could keep their love for the struggle and be stripped of that insatiable urge for cruelty, then how wonderful could they become?

That was the question which churned through the Deathless's mind as he obliterated the face of another orc using the flat end of his Legendary frying pan.

Maybe I should think about that later, Shiv thought to himself. Right now, let's finish this appetizer so I can get to the main course. The Culturist is still waiting…

And given a moment to breathe, Shiv decided to try something else. He used his Bifurcated Processing to create another golem. This one he designated his Bullet Golem. Its duty was simple: to accelerate into his enemies and to crush them using sheer momentum and overwhelming durability.

The golem received Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides and Pillar of Orichalcum before it emerged from Shiv, snapping free from his vital substance in a flash of white and red before quickly being joined by a brilliant golden shine as a pillar manifested around the golem.

Go! Shiv telepathically instructed his golem. Smash into every orc you can see until they turn to paste!

Psychomancy 33 > 34

And it flew off, rushing ahead, twisting its body so that its Pillar of Orichalcum functioned as a plow. Candles created more gaps in the Grand Inferno to suit Shiv's mobile projectile, the Deathless created another, and another after that.

