Game changing surprise chapter!!!

—————

Apparently, until Antonin arrived, the Light boss had been almost impossible to contain. It could do nothing against Corruption mana, though.

It was more than a little disturbing how quickly the Light boss started to boil away. Just like what had happened to the electric boss, once it was on its back foot, everyone struck at once. Within moments, the last of the motes of Light energy was fading away.

It left some nice loot behind, even though Thomas had nothing to do with its death. Thomas spotted an A-grade light mana crystal and a skill shard. A large part of him wanted to investigate further, but his team looked like they had been chewed up and spit back out again.

Unsurprisingly, Twitch was in the worst shape, as he had served as the Tank. He had taken several more beams of light, which had ripped holes straight through him. Luckily, nothing had hit his heart, though Thomas was mostly sure that at least one had hit his liver. The only reason he was still standing was because of his crazy Gift of endurance.

Zach's right arm lay limp and dead at his side, but he waved Thomas off at his questioning look, instead grabbing a healing crystal to take care of it.

Courtney had heat rashes covering swaths of her arms, and one side of her face looked blistered. She was grimacing, but that too could be handled with a standard healing crystal.

Jo... okay, she looked good. Even her ashy blonde hair was artfully mussed.

"Okay, how did you not get hit?" Thomas asked, wondering if she'd picked up a maneuverability skill during her dungeon adventure.

She flashed him a weary smile. "Stayed behind Twitch. He makes a good meat shield."

"This is a kick-ass shield," Twitch said, lifting the mutable shield and looking it over with a possessive fondness Thomas didn't like.

"That's my shield," Thomas reminded him.

"I don't see your name on it," Courtney replied in a joking way. Somehow, Thomas didn't think she was joking, though.

Thomas rolled his eyes and got started working on Twitch. Now that he was concentrating, his Healing Sight also showed some weirdness around Twitch's organs. Hadn't Twitch taken a few hits without any visible impact? "Uh... I think the thing was trying to microwave you from the inside. You didn't feel that?"

"Not if I keep moving, you know what I mean?" Twitch said, shifting from foot to foot. The man was almost always on the move in some way, which made it a little annoying while trying to heal him, but Thomas could work with it.

Courtney watched Twitch's wounds heal up with undisguised curiosity. "I don't get what the point of this is," she said. "Why can't he just absorb healing crystals like the rest of us?" Her burns were gone, and everybody else, except for Antonin, was taking their dose of healing crystals.

"Healing mana fixes most problems, but it can't regrow large amounts of missing flesh, and I'm pretty sure Twitch is missing at least part of his liver," Thomas said.

Twitch stilled for a vital half second. "So, wait, I can't even have a beer after all this?"

"You will once I'm done." Thomas reconcentrated, telling his body to repair what was missing. To his annoyance, he found that the first of Twitch's injuries he'd patched up during the fight had reopened. His patch job hadn't held.

Smoothing that over and convincing Twitch's body to repair the rest wasn't that hard. Twitch was a level two, and at this point Thomas was working with level five mana.

As he worked, he kept half his attention on the rest of the team. Jo looked understandably disturbed. She kept glancing back at the dungeon boss entrance and shaking her head.

"I don't understand it. Tiny's never been like this before," she said, looking bleak. "Those feelings I felt were really his? I trusted him. I never would have thought he would have run off or... or..." She couldn't finish.

"You've never seen him run because he's never not been in control before," Zach said. He also sent a look to the entrance, though his gaze was more reassessing. "Once he collects himself, he'll come back. We need to figure out what to do before then."

"No," Jo shook her head. "With Sue and Holton along with him, he'll be headed towards the main entrance."

Thomas grimaced. "Not very fast. I gave him a good dose of Purge. He'll be busy with that for a good half hour, forty-five minutes."

Zach laughed out loud.

Jo, however, took it a bit more seriously. "Then he'll be stronger afterwards. I know I have been." She nodded meaningfully towards scattered blades on the ground that were slowly dissolving back into mana.

"You did what to him now?" Twitch asked, half turning to look back at Thomas.

"Healer thing," Thomas replied shortly, turning him back so he could continue patching up the final hole through him. "He'll be puking and shitting himself uncontrollably, but it happens to get rid of all the toxins his body ever built up."

Twitch went momentarily still, and then proved that he actually had a mind under all those tattoos because he jerked a finger at Jo. "Is that why she's hot now? Not that you weren't hot before," he quickly added to Jo, as if worried he'd offended her.

She just scowled back at him.

"Wait, none of the healers in the Family can do that," Courtney said, and oh boy that was a huge flashing sign for Thomas to shut up about his Abilities. She was not part of his team. He wasn't even sure if she was actually on their side at all.

Zach stepped in. "You know that the Family's healers were basic, and new Gifts after the System announcement are more powerful than what they'd been before."

She nodded, though Thomas wasn't sure if she believed what Zach had to say. Not that it mattered. The healing thing was always supposed to be a cover story for his real Gift.

Speaking of which, Twitch was finally done. Thomas stepped back. "How do you feel?"

"Good as new." Twitch flexed a skinny arm. Courtney beamed at him.

Wanting nothing to do with...whatever was happening between the two of them, Thomas looked around eagerly for the boss drops.

The Electric boss had dropped two A-grade crystals: a Wellspring and a glowing green mana that reeked of Corruption. Lying between them was a skill shard.

Thomas didn't touch the Corruption but gleefully picked up the Wellspring and the shard.

The System labeled it: The Electric-Struck Eye.

Thomas slipped that in his pocket. The only one who could use an electric skill was Twitch, and he was currently at the Nature boss drops, angling for something there.

To no one's surprise, the Nature mana boss had left an A-grade Nature mana crystal and a truly ugly vest made of moss and dried lichen.

Moss-Heart Vest

It was ugly as hell, but Twitch was insistent he put it on, and no one really argued. He was the only one with Nature mana, and...well, it was hideous.

Twitch, however, was delighted. Spreading his arms, he turned to the others. "Hit me."

He'd probably meant that someone should punch him, but Jo moved without hesitation and sent a flying needle straight at his stomach.

Twitch 'oofed' and bent over slightly, but the blade had bounced off and clattered to the cave floor.

"Jo," Thomas said.

"You would have healed him," she said, lip twitching, and Thomas suspected that she still hadn't gotten over everything that happened back in the Grizzly dungeon, or Twitch's crack about her being sexy a few minutes ago.

Twitch wasn't concerned at all. He lifted up his vest to show not a mark on his sunken-in stomach. "Stopped it cold. Hell yeah, I have armor now." He turned, lifting up his hand, and Courtney obligingly gave him a high five.

Well, Thomas was glad someone was happy. Meanwhile, he had a final boss's loot to look over.

The Light Boss had dropped, of course, an A-grade Light mana crystal and a second Wellspring Crystal. Thomas regretted a little that he was level 4 and the Wellspring was below him, but surely it could fetch a good price at the market.

Plus, the boss had dropped a second skill shard. The name was less fancy than he'd grown used to, but it was still full of possibilities:

Bring Light into the Darkness

"I could use that," Courtney chirped. "I have Dark mana, so maybe I could run some of that through the shard. Dark on dark, you know?"

This was met with silence from the group, except for a stern, "You gotta be kidding," from Jo.

Thomas shook his head and tucked it into his backpack. It was a little telling that Twitch didn't even come to her defense. She wasn't part of the team.

Courtney pouted but said nothing.

Of course, that wasn't all the loot this place had to offer. Switching to his Eyes of Riches, Thomas turned and carefully scanned the gems that stuck out of the walls.

"These gems look different to you guys, too?" he asked, even though he knew very well that with normal eyes, there was no difference from the wall gems outside.

Not waiting for an answer, he pried one out. It glowed in his hand like a soft lightbulb. His Eyes of Riches told him a different story. Curious, he slammed it on the ground, and it cracked open like an egg.

Inside was a B-grade Light mana crystal.

Thomas grinned. "I don't think we're done with this boss room yet."

Soon, everybody was smashing gems. It was free level three mana, and no one was going to pass that up.

They even let Courtney have some, though Thomas noted that she and Twitch traded gems, with Twitch giving her Light mana and she giving him Electric mana. They made short work of the walls, and the light inside the boss room grew dimmer.

Now came the reward room. Thomas wasn't that excited about it. From what he heard, the reward chest in the exit room had some of the best stuff to be found in a dungeon. However, with his Gift, that was never the case.

So, as they went through the exit door, his mind was chewing over what they'd do next.

There was no way that Tiny and company had time to get all the way back through the dungeon and the entrance room yet, but Thomas's team still had to exit before they did.

They'd have to turn their elf disguises back on, make up some story about a party wipe, and get Jo out.

Thomas, though, really wanted to get access to that inventory room he'd heard about.

Courtney was going to be a whole other problem. From the glances Zach and Jo sent her, they knew it too. Thomas didn't regret not letting Tiny kill, of course, but he had no illusions that she was on their side. Maybe they could tie her up and leave her here, or Thomas could Purge her, and that would give them some lead time to get out and away. Twitch might object, though.

His thoughts were completely derailed when he stepped into the exit room and saw not the usual exit reward chest sitting there. Instead, there were five chests.

The usual reward chest sat in the center, exactly where it would normally be, but arranged around that in a loose half-circle were four smaller chests. These were patterned.

One was covered in a crust of jewels—real jewels, not mana stones. One was made of what looked like black onyx or maybe ebony. One was carved of expensive mahogany, and the final chest looked like it was made of white gold, maybe platinum.

Oh, and each one had a name emblazoned on the front in glowing script:

Thomas Coldstrike

Zach de'Montvallon

Joanna Fitzsimmons

Twitch

An incredulous part of Thomas's mind wondered why Twitch got the Cher or Zendaya one-name treatment.

"Dudes... anyone ever see anything like this before?" Zach asked, voice pitched low and almost reverent.

No one answered.

"Why don't I get a chest?" Courtney whined, then pointed at the reward chest. "Is that mine then?"

"I don't see your name on it," Thomas snarked back, then stepped to his chest. They all did.

His was white gold, and maybe it was his imagination, but he thought it was almost calling to him. He would have known it was his from across the room, even unable to read the lettering.

It was too heavy to pick up, so he just opened the lid.

Soft light spilled out of it, and sitting on a velvet pillow was a vellum scroll that looked like the one that had announced his Gift on his very first dungeon dive.

Thomas glanced around and saw that everybody else, except for Courtney and Antonin, had received a scroll, too.

Does the System want to tell me something? Thomas wondered, before he unwound his and read:

Thomas Coldstrike,

This Light Elven colony of Aether, acting under the guise of intermediaries, has been found in breach of the terms accepted for entry to this world. As you are part of the native population directly harmed by their actions, and have demonstrated both the willingness and capability to rectify it, you have been assigned a quest.

Be aware the System does not grant you the mantle of Champion, nor the Burdens that come with it. This quest represents a special dispensation where you and your team are charged with the following:

Cast out, kill, or drive the influence of the Light Elves from this dungeon and see this ground returned to the native population of your planet, who are the true and rightful owners.

In recognition that you have been asked to undertake this quest at a profound disadvantage, the System grants you a one-time boon.

Boon: For twelve hours after leaving this dungeon instance, your Gift of Loot will be significantly amplified. Additional rewards and quest opportunities may be granted depending on performance.