It began with a quiet in the morning, a hush as the incessant rainfall ceased. Erin Solstice woke up and looked out into a soggy landscape at the crack of dawn. She heard shuffling feet and knew there were others who had woken up at the same time as her.
The door to her inn opened as Erin got up and blearily brushed her teeth and changed clothes.
“I should probably get my own room. Yup, yup. Why do I sleep down here anyways? Because the kitchen floor is soft? Well, it is, actually. But I need a dressing room, at least. The actors could use one and so could I.”
“Probably. Then again, I don’t mind the view.”
Erin whirled around.
“Jelaqua!”
The Selphid grinned at her, looking tired. She was up early. She eyed Erin as the young woman finished dressing.
“Hey, Erin. Nice forearms.”
Only a Selphid would compliment someone about the state of their forearms. Or someone really concerned about body fitness. Erin sighed.
“Morning, Jelaqua. Breakfast’s not ready yet, so you can go back to sleep.”
“I know that. Normally I’d be in bed, but I couldn’t help it. I heard that lot getting up, so…”
Jelaqua nodded over her shoulder. Erin walked out of the kitchen and stared out of one of her inn’s windows.
“What, the Goblins? They do this every day.”
“Really?”
“Every day since I gave them their rooms upstairs, yeah.”
“So they’ve done this today and yesterday is what you mean.”
“Um…yes.”
The Selphid woman and Erin stared out the windows. The Redfang Goblins were standing outside in the dewy grass in that not-quite-darkness that was the sky before the sun fully rose. Actually, standing was a bad word. They were sparring.
Five Hobgoblins, each taller than Erin, each green, and each strong and fit. They kicked and punched at each other, sparring in pairs or two-on-one and then switching to swords in scabbards and calisthenics. That meant Headscratcher would whale on Badarrow with a sword as the other Goblin cursed and dodged, while Rabbiteater did pushups and Shorthilt and Numbtongue sprinted up and down the hill.
Jelaqua shook her head as Erin readied breakfast. The Selphid stared hard at the Goblins as they performed a demanding workout. It wasn’t just physically tough—the Goblins hit each other hard, and Erin had seen them draw blood with their swords while sparring.
“Plague corpses, that’s unnerving.”
“What is?”
The Selphid absently picked at the stitches around her crown. A bit of skin fell off around her skull, and Erin made a note to bar Jelaqua from the kitchen. The Selphid was a bit smelly at close quarters, and her body looked decidedly worse than it had when Erin first met her. Jelaqua noticed Erin flick the dead skin off the table and wipe the offending spot and grimaced.
“Really sorry about that. My body’s not doing too well right now. It’s time for a change, but I haven’t been able to find a fresh corpse for the life of me. No one in Celum or Liscor’s eager to sell a body to a Selphid, you see.”
“Not a problem. Just don’t, uh, drop any part of yourself in today’s breakfast. You got hurt defending my inn, after all.”
“Huh. I suppose I did.”
Jelaqua scratched at her stitches again, seemingly surprised that Erin remembered. She stared at the Goblins and shook her head again.
“They’re like copies of Garen.”
“Who? Oh, that’s the Hobgoblin that betrayed…”
Erin broke off. Jelaqua nodded, her face unreadable.
“Yeah. I know I shouldn’t think they’re the same, but damn me if Garen didn’t teach them to fight and train like him. He learned those exercises from us. And seeing these Goblins do the same…”
Her fist clenched. Erin nodded slowly.
“Hard?”
The Selphid paused.
“Nah. They’re different, in the end. That’s what I keep telling myself now, thanks to you. And I’d be lying if I said I didn’t enjoy the view. Look at those calf muscles! And the way those sweat glands are working!”
She licked her lips, staring avidly at the way Shorthilt’s pectoral muscles moved as the Goblin charged up the hill with Numbtongue right behind him. Erin stared at Jelaqua. The Selphid really did have the oddest interests in people. Namely, their bodies. There was a lot to look at as the Goblins sparred in their loincloths, and their sturdy big toes weren’t normally the subject of interest for most Humans.
Most Humans. Erin saw Jelaqua break off from ogling the Goblins to look at her with a grin.
“This doing anything for you?”
Erin stared blankly at the five Goblins as Badarrow began loosing arrows at the other four Goblins. The Hob was using arrows that had no arrowhead, but he was aiming at close range and the other Redfang Warriors were getting hit hard. She heard a yelp as Badarrow shot Rabbiteater in the groin and shook her head.
“Nope. But, uh, I’m not thinking of the Goblins in any kind of intimate sense.”
“Mm. I could give it a shot. I mean, Goblin bodies are—well, it’s a bit daring, if you get my meaning, but what Selphid would turn their tendrils up at one of these specimens? But I totally get that you’re not into having sex with Goblins.”
“Thanks for understanding?”
It was weird talking with Selphids. This wasn’t the first time either. Jelaqua knew more about the Human body than Erin did, and that was despite Erin’s education in biology. There was just something a bit off-putting about someone who could tell you exactly what you felt like from the inside.
But Jelaqua was a good person. Erin leaned over the windowsill, watching the Goblins. The Selphid stared at them again.
“Funny though, they really do look sort of like Garen. Do you ever get confused by them? They look mostly alike to me.”
“Really?”
Erin looked at Jelaqua with a frown. The Selphid nodded.
“Oh, their bodies are different, but I can’t tell them apart. Can you?”
“Yup! They’re all unique. It’s easy to tell them apart when you know how. Here, let me show you. The easiest one to spot is Badarrow. That’s him with the bow.”
Erin pointed to the Hob who was shooting at the other Hobs, trying to keep them from attacking him while they ducked and tried to avoid his arrows. The [Innkeeper] smiled.
“He’s the bad-tempered one. He always looks grumpy, and he’s always grouching to the others. He really likes bows and arrows, so he sometimes stares at Bird’s bow. I think he’s jealous.”
“Huh. I do get that vibe from him. [Archers] love bows. The entire Gnoll species seems to love them too. We had a half-Gnoll that always—well, never mind. Who’s the Hob charging him?”
Erin saw a Hobgoblin charge up the hill, willingly taking an arrow in the shoulder to tackle Badarrow to the ground. There was triumphant shouting as the two Hobs rolled around, punching each other.
“That’s Headscratcher. He’s like the cool emotional leader guy. The other Hobs listen to him mainly, and he’s always leaping into the fight. But he has a soft side.”
“You sure?”
Jelaqua watched Headscratcher put Badarrow in an arm lock before the other three Goblins decided it was time for two-versus-three battle. Headscratcher and Shorthilt charged the other three with wild shouts, fighting ferociously. Erin nodded knowingly as she stared at Headscratcher walloping Rabbiteater.
“Oh yeah. Total softie. He cried during the play last night, you know.”
“You’re joking. No? Okay, that makes sense. Moore was blubbering on me, and I would have cried, but my tear ducts are all clogged up. Seborn’s a cold-hearted bastard though. Who’s the other Hob with him?”
“Shorthilt? Weapon dude. He likes sharpening swords. He’s always maintaining that sword he has, and he doesn’t let the other Goblins touch it. He’s like a snob-Goblin.”
Erin saw Shorthilt pirouette with his blade, warding off Badarrow and smacking Numbtongue with a fast cut to the shoulder. He was probably the best of the Hobs with his sword. Erin frowned, a bit vexed.
“I think he’s a good guy. Silent type. But he means too well, you know? He sharpened my knives one time, and I nearly cut through my cutting board!”
“Huh. Okay, what about that Hob?”
Jelaqua pointed, and Erin saw Numbtongue backing up, cursing loudly as he tried to flank Shorthilt and the Hob kept him and Rabbiteater at bay.
“Oh, that’s Numbtongue. Easy to spot, too. See how he’s the only Goblin saying anything? He’s the only one who can really talk.”
“I have never heard one of the Goblins say more than five words together, Erin.”
“Yeah, but he could if he wanted to. Remember when I was singing? I swear he was singing the entire song with me after the first go round. He’s got a great memory, and I’m pretty sure he now knows both plays by heart.”
“A talking Goblin who doesn’t talk.”
“That’s right. And so we have our last Goblin. Rabbiteater.”
Erin stared at the Goblin, who looked grumpy as he and the other twot defeated Goblins watched the victors of their mock battle, Headscratcher and Shorthilt, celebrate. Jelaqua looked at Erin.
“So what’s his special feature?”
“Nothing.”
“Nothing?”
“Nope. He’s good at most things, and he likes to eat. He’s a hard worker, and the other Goblins like him because he doesn’t get on their nerves. He’s a Hufflepuff, poor guy.”
“A what?”
“That’s like…you know, someone who works hard but doesn’t have any defining features?”
“Oh, a loser?”
“No! They’re good people, and Rabbiteater’s good in a lot of ways! He just doesn’t stand out. Hufflepuffs are nice! Okay, I was a Gryffindor, but…”
“I have literally no idea what you’re talking about, Erin.”
“I know.”
As the Selphid and Human girl talked and the Redfang Warriors trooped inside for breakfast—fruit and oatmeal with honey—more people began waking up and walking downstairs. The Wandering Inn woke up as Drassi arrived for her morning shift. But the small crowd would soon have some more visitors. A band of three Gold-rank adventurers set out from Liscor, walking through the wet grasslands, arguing as they headed to The Wandering Inn.
The Silver Swords were a group of three adventurers known for their championing of just causes and for protecting those in need. They had grown famous in the north, enough so that their name was recognizable in most Adventurer’s Guilds across the continent. Rarely did they stray so far south, though, and while they were a solid team who had worked together for six years already, they were known for arguing. Mainly because each of the three members of the Silver Swords hailed from a different race.
Their leader, Ylawes Byres, was Human. He was a [Knight] who strode ahead of the group. Just behind him walked the half-Elf Falene Skystrall, a [Battlemage] who had graduated from Wistram. Behind the two, stomping along and muttering into his beard, was Dawil, a Dwarf [Axe Champion] dressed in full plate armor.
Such an unusual combination of species was rare to see, not least because half-Elves and Dwarves were known for their distaste for one another. That was a long-held stereotype, at least, and while it might not have fit in general, it seemed to fit with this group, for whom the word stereotype was sometimes understated.
It was Dawil who was complaining this morning, his deep voice loud in the morning hush. He stomped along, growling at Ylawes’ back. All three adventurers were armored up despite the early time—Dawil’s armor and Ylawes’ silver plate shone bright in the sunlight, as did Falene’s magical robes that caught and enhanced the light. None of that made the Dwarf’s mood any better.
“Bah! We had to get up early, and for what? Breakfast in that inn? Hah! I’d rather have Drakes rubbing their tails all over my head and Gnolls shedding in my soup than have Goblins stinking up the place! And you! Why are you walking in front of me, you giant shining lummox? Bad enough that I have to get up at the crack of dawn when we’re not on an adventure. I’m not staring at a flashing mirror all day!”
He cut ahead of Ylawes, grumbling about [Knights] and polished armor. Ylawes sighed, but it was Falene who cut Dawil off. The half-Elf looked down her nose at the Dwarf.
“If you’ve stopped grumbling, I’ll present my findings, Dwarf. I was telling you about the group Ylawes’ sister has found herself with.”
“Oh good, the half-Elf has done some research. Let’s all applaud her woodsy majesty then!”
“Dawil…”
Ylawes’ tone was patient. The Dwarf grumbled, but let Falene go on as the Human [Knight] nodded to her.
“As I was saying. It seems the half-Elf, Ceria Springwalker, and the [Necromancer], Pisces, truly are Wistram graduates. I had my sincere doubts, but I received a brief note from a colleague in Wistram affirming their claims. However, it seems they left Wistram prematurely…I sense there was an incident that the academy is attempting to cover up. I’ve sent follow up letters and hope to know more soon.”
“Two [Mages] from Wistram, eh? And one’s a [Necromancer]? I didn’t know that the Academy graduated [Necromancers]. And didn’t I hear you say that you’d never work willingly with someone who raised the undead, Byres?”
“The mages don’t let [Necromancers] join the academy. At least, they don’t encourage it. And my family has fought against the undead and those that command them for generations, Dawil. I don’t understand why my sister would work with this [Necromancer]. As for the Antinium—anything, Falene?”
Ylawes turned to Falene hopefully. The half-Elf hesitated and shook her head.
“Nothing. The Antinium are supposed to be a mindless mass. Why one of them would join an adventuring group—much less have a name—is a mystery to me. He could be a Prognugator, but those are supposed to be exceedingly rare. And why would he be exiled from his Hive?”
“Outcast, probably. So let’s see, we have a half-Elf with a missing hand and a [Necromancer], both of whom left Wistram under dodgy circumstances, and an Antinium from the Hives. Tell me again how your sister’s mixed up in all this, Ylawes?”
The tall [Knight] grimaced. Ylawes could have walked out of a painting of a knight fighting a Dragon. He frowned at the inn as he ascended the hill with his companions.
“I don’t know. Yvlon lost her team in Liscor’s crypts, and I think she fell in with this group by accident. She knew the half-Elf—Ceria Springwalker—from the expedition. As for the [Necromancer] and Antinium…she refused to say. But I’ll take her back north safely regardless of whatever mess she’s gotten herself into.”
“If she’s willing to go. You’ve already committed us to finding a lost adventurer. In Liscor’s dungeon no less.”
Falene looked sideways at Ylawes. The man nodded grimly.
“It’s a just cause, and if there really is a Minotaur down there who’s survived this entire time, he deserves rescue.”
