“And we deserve a big bag of gold for finding him, but will we get that? No, it’s another one of your noble causes.”
Dawil grumbled. Ylawes gave him a stern look.
“If need be, I’ll pay the reward out of my own pockets, Dawil. I told you that I was looking for my sister and we might not find work here. You are free to join another team—”
“And leave you to get killed? Hah! Maybe the half-Elf would do that, but we Dwarves understand loyalty!”
Dawil thumped his chest. Then he pointed at Ylawes.
“But mark me, Byres. I’ll gladly eat and fight monsters in this city so long as there’s pay to be had and food in my belly, but if you’re really trying to get your sister to come back with you, you’ll take my advice. You’ve pestered your sister for a week now, and for what? Nothing. Listen, I’ve lived for thirty eight years—”
“And I’ve lived for twenty seven. Dawil, if you’re trying to give me sage advice…”
“Just listen! Y’see, I’ve been around for a while. Not as long as Miss Snooty half-Elf I’ll grant you, but—”
Ylawes rolled his eyes and Falene looked resigned as Dawil stroked his beard knowingly.
“Women aren’t so easy to manage. Sisters either. In my opinion, women are like metamorphological magic theory.”
Ylawes, who’d been opening his mouth to tell Dawil his advice was unwanted, stopped. He—and Falene—stared at the Dwarf.
“Go on.”
The Dwarf smiled.
“You see, it’s simple. Women are like metamorphological magic. I don’t understand it, and you don’t either. The half-Elf might, but if you go blundering about trying to tug your sister one way, it’ll do no good. Probably make things worse. Why not ask for advice before you keep prodding her with a stick?”
He looked up at his companions and saw them looking at him thoughtfully. Ylawes nodded.
“You know, Dawil, you might be right.”
“Of course I’m right! Been around longer than you, haven’t I?”
Falene smiled drily.
“I suppose that sage advice comes from meeting women? You do seem oddly popular. Just the other day that Silver-rank adventurer was making passes at you. Remember? The part-Dwarf [Warrior] with the beard? She was quite handsome. Were you interested?”
“Her? Gah! Not on your life! Did you see that beard she had? It looks like she grew it with hair tonic, and the way she talked! Tall folk this, us short folk that! She’s not Dwarfish at all. No, I’d rather make eyes at a Drake. False beards are really disgusting.”
Dawil shuddered and shook his head. The Silver Swords laughed as they climbed the hill. Ylawes pushed open the door for his comrades, and they strode in. They paused as they saw the Redfang Warriors in the corner, and the inn stopped for a second in surprise.
Drassi was serving tables with Lyonette, Erin was chatting with the Halfseekers, and the Goblins were eating alone and massaging their bruises. The Silver Swords walked forwards, and Ylawes cleared his throat as he looked around. He nodded slightly to Erin.
“Is Yvlon—?”
“Not here! She’s still out on her mission-request thing.”
Erin cut him off brusquely. Ylawes looked disappointed.
“She told me she’d be back today.”
“Yeah, well, she told me the same thing. Maybe they couldn’t find enough Corusdeer?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged as she offered the adventurers a seat. The Horns of Hammerad had been absent for the last four days on a big contract for Esthelm. They’d been hired to provide meat for the city as Esthelm’s food supplies were low. To that end, they’d been asked to slay Corusdeer, which was a task that seasoned [Hunters] might balk at due to the danger.
Late-season Corusdeer were dangerous when they migrated, and Ceria had told Erin to expect them to take at least this long. Ylawes looked like he wanted to ask more, but Dawil was already sitting at the table and his stomach was rumbling loudly.
“Your sister’s not here, Ylawes! Too bad! Now let’s eat! I could eat a horse. What have you got?”
“Oatmeal! With fruit and honey!”
The Dwarf’s face fell. Erin smiled.
“I have ham and mayonnaise sandwiches and two fried steaks I could heat up if you wanted them.”
“What? You didn’t tell me you had steak!”
Jelaqua shot up at her table. Dawil chuckled.
“Steak? I’ll have one of those and that oatmeal mush. And what do you have to drink?”
Ylawes and Falene sat as Erin hovered over their table. Erin smiled as Lyonette hurried out with bowls of freshly chopped fruit and oatmeal for all three and began heating up Dawil’s steak on the pan. It was so easy to serve food! All you had to do was heat up something Erin had cooked twelve days ago and bam! Ready to eat! The only thing that didn’t last with her [Field of Preservation] Skill was soufflés.
“I just got some wine in today. I’m expanding my stock. So in addition to ale, mead, and whiskey, I’m now serving wines from Liscor and Celum! They’re local stocks, imported from Wales and, uh, I think Sasil. That’s a Drake village south of the Blood Fields.”
“Hm. Wine, eh?”
Dawil looked interested, which surprised Erin since she’d expected Falene or Ylawes to want wine instead. The Dwarf nodded at the bottles Erin had put up against the bar.
“I’ve heard of the white wines that Drakes make, and I’m fond of a bouquet now and then. I could have a cup of the red and wash it down with that mead!”
That sounded weird to Erin, but she nodded agreeably. Falene smirked slightly at Dawil.
“Really, Dawil? Wine and mead? What happened to your Dwarfish pride?”
“A Dwarf can like both, you prissy snob! And don’t pretend to be all elegant and refined you hypocrite—I know you drink hard spirits when no one’s watching!”
Dawil pounded his hand on the table, making his bowl of oatmeal jump. Falene shook her head as she turned to Erin. The half-Elf’s smile was just a bit too knowing as Dawil growled under his breath about judgmental half-Elves.
“I would gladly have a small cup of the Walesian Red—do you have a recent vintage or an older one I could sample?”
Erin gave her a blank look.
“Um. We have red wine if you want it? Or did you mean the maroon wine?”
Falene paused.
“I meant the Walesian Red. I assume that’s the bottle over there?”
Erin looked over her shoulder.
“Oh! Right. It probably is. I don’t use the names of wines. I just call them by how they look. I’ve got red, off red, sort of red, greenish yellow, maroon…hey, why do we call all those wines white if they look green? What about green wine? What’s wrong with calling it that?”
Falene stared at Erin for a long moment. Dawil roared with laughter as the half-Elf just stared at Erin, completely unsure of what to say. Erin gave Falene an innocent look of puzzlement. At last, the half-Elf coughed delicately and pointed.
“In that case I will have the second bottle to the left.”
“Sure thing! Coming up! And what about you, Mister Dawil?”
“The same.”
The Dwarf grinned broadly, and then his eyes widened as Erin turned away from Falene and gave him a conspiratorial wink. She returned with two cups of Walesian red, which met all expectations. The Silver Swords ate without further incident, and Dawil was ready to admit that the oatmeal made for a filling breakfast—if you added a steak on the side, that was.
The Gold-rank adventurers might not have quite fit in with the rest of the inn’s guests, especially given their wariness around the Goblins, but they were adventurers, and the Halfseekers seemed at home with another experienced team nearby. Jelaqua leaned across their table and called towards them as she finished her bowl.
“Hey Ylawes, guess what? There was a Creler infestation near here.”
“Really?”
All three Silver Swords turned at once, interested and concerned in equal parts. Ylawes put a hand on his sword.
“How big is the nest? Did you see any adults?”
“Nothing so bad! We actually got tipped off when Mrsha here came in with a Creler egg!”
Jelaqua pointed at Mrsha, who was sitting tenderly and rubbing her bottom. The Gnoll looked up guiltily as Jelaqua went on.
“Turns out she’d found them in a cave not two miles away! Can you imagine?”
“I take it you cleared the nest then?”
Again, the Selphid shook her head.
“Nah, the place was clear when we got there. Lots of Creler bodies, no live ones. Looks like they invaded a Fortress Beaver colony, and the beavers barely wiped them out. Cuddly little varmints must have been really lucky and fought only newborns or something. I thought about hunting a few of the beavers for their pelts, but Moore wouldn’t let us. He’s too fond of animals.”
She elbowed Moore, and the half-Giant grunted. He placidly dipped a huge serving spoon into his bowl of oatmeal. Drassi, who’d been serving the adventurer’s tables since she was still nervous around the Goblins, looked interested.
“Really? The Fortress Beavers killed them all? Why’s that? I thought they were really placid animals—unless you started breaking their dams, that was. They’re a real threat when it rains since they like to create huge forts, but I’ve never heard of them being aggressive—hey, anyone want more oatmeal?”
“Here!”
Jelaqua and Seborn raised their bowls. Drassi moved over to them with the serving pot. The Drake was in her element with people to talk to. The more people the better. It was Falene who answered her, sipping her wine and speaking so the room could hear.
“Even non-violent animals will attack Crelers, Miss Drake. Animals hate Crelers as much as the thinking races, and for good reason. A nest of Crelers will systematically wipe out all life in the area if left unchecked and then colonize a new location—or burrow underground to feed and reproduce.”
“So that’s why they have such huge bounties. Huh, Selys always talks about that and how it’s so hard to award coins to adventurers since they don’t collect trophies or all the Crelers are smashed to bits.”
Drassi looked interested. Ylawes nodded seriously.
“Crelers are a considerable threat. Hatchlings and baby Crelers are manageable for Silver or Bronze-rank teams if the nest is small, but larger nests and juvenile Crelers are a match for Silver-rank teams. Any larger and Gold-rank teams have to step in. And once Crelers pass into their adult stage, they’re a threat worthy of any Gold-rank team on their own.”
“Not fun. The bounty on them is high, but I’d rather kill sewer rats all day than fight one of those bastards! Gah, we used to send out suppression teams of three Gold-rank teams together to fight really big nests in Baleros!”
Jelaqua shuddered. Seborn raised his one eyebrow as he wiped oatmeal off his crab claw hand.
“Ever tried fighting them underwater?”
“Don’t joke, Seborn.”
“Who said I was?”
 
—-
 
The day began in earnest. The Silver Swords ate breakfast and chatted with the Halfseekers as Erin, Drassi, and Lyonette got about the business of business. Erin actually got to relax for most of it—her [Barmaids] were good at their job, and there wasn’t really that much to do. If it weren’t for her nightly performances, Erin would have been seriously concerned with paying Drassi, but as it was, she assured the Drake that she’d have a full load tonight.
“And I get to watch the play, right? I heard all about how it’s like a performance and a story in one. Selys says it’s amazing—she said you took her to a performance once, and she’s dying to see another one. I can’t wait to see one myself. It’s already the talk of Liscor!”
“How is it the talk of Liscor? I haven’t even advertised it yet! Most of Celum just found out about the plays today!”
Erin frowned in bemusement, and Drassi smiled.
“Well, I heard about the plays from Selys and then Lyonette told me that’s what I’d be doing today, so I’ve been telling everyone about it all day!”
“Without having seen a play?”
“Yup!”
The [Innkeeper] had to shake her head. Selys had warned her that Drassi was a gossip on an entirely different level. She even had that as a class! What happened if she got to a high level in that class? Did she turn into a [Chatterbox] capable of whispering around the world? Erin was listening to the Silver Swords quizzing the Halfseekers on the dungeon—hinting that they might want to join in today’s exploration, it seemed—when the door to her inn opened.
“Miss Solstice?”
Watch Captain Zevara strode in. Erin turned, surprised to see her. The Watch Captain looked busy as usual, and she cut to the chase.
“I’m here on duty Miss Solstice. I won’t take much of your time—but I’ve just gotten an official message from Pallass. They’re ready to open the door to your inn, and I’m told that the Assembly of Crafts has dropped all sanctions against our city. As far as they’re concerned, your inn is off-limits.”
“What, really? That was fast!”
Erin stared at Zevara and hurried to get her mana stone. Her guests stared at her with interest as Zevara nodded.
“You can thank Wall Lord Ilvriss for the rapid response. He’s been in communication with his Walled City for days now—there’s been a political struggle going on between Pallass and Salazsar, and it looks like Salazsar won.”
“Whoa, this was a big thing, then?”
“We’re just pawns in the larger conflict. But yes, this is meaningful. I’ll be making an announcement in Liscor later today—I’ll try to explain the limited capacity of your door, but you might get a lot of people wanting to walk through to Pallass. I’m here to tell you not to let them use your door. Celum’s fine, but you only have enough mana to send two people through, is that correct?”
“Without recharging, yeah.”
Zevara nodded.
“In that case, we’ll be offering a request form to be filled out at the Watch’s barracks. Citizens and interested parties can sign up to travel to Pallass. If they’re approved—and most will be—I send a [Message] to Pallass and get confirmation. That way, they can clear individuals from their end and deny entry if they choose. And if no one from Pallass wants to return, we’ll send two people through. If they want to come back, they need to follow the same protocol in Pallass or pay a [Mage] to charge up the door enough to let them return.”
Erin frowned as she placed the mana stone on the door.
“Wow, that’s so complicated. Official, too! Hey, thanks for doing this! I guess it would be bad if people kept trying to go to Pallass. This way it’s slow, but people can get on a waiting list!”
The Watch Captain nodded.
“It’s not ideal, but it will allow for a small bit of traffic per day. I’d like to ask you to expand the door’s capabilities if it’s possible—ideally, Liscor would like to send five or ten individuals through and have the same number coming into our city per day. But I told the Council that might be impossible.”
