“My [Dangersense] is going off. It’s faint, but I feel like something’s…coming.”
The Horns of Hammerad checked, but they saw nothing. Uneasily, Yvlon gripped the handle of her sword, and Ksmvr reached for his weapons. Pisces, frowning, looked at the wet landscape and shook his head.
“Let us enter the inn, Springwalker. Inside will be safer regardless of what occurs.”
He made sense. Ceria nodded and opened the door. She walked into The Wandering Inn and saw the warm fire, people sitting around tables, five Goblins hunkering in a corner, a Drake serving drinks to a table of adventurers, and then a beaming face as Erin Solstice turned.
“Ceria! Yvlon! Ksmvr! And Pisces! Hey, how have you guys been?”
She strode over to them, and Ceria saw a man in silver armor stand up. Yvlon, who had been distracted by the heap of waffles that Mrsha was digging into with a fork, froze for a second as Ylawes strode towards her with a welcoming smile. She managed one of her own.
“Oh, brother.”
“Oh brother.”
Pisces muttered under his voice as Ylawes strode towards his mud-spattered sister. Ksmvr poked Pisces in the side.
“Comrade Pisces, why did you say that? He is not your brother, is he? Or is he?”
The [Necromancer] was saved from the intimates of language and Human genetics by Erin ushering the Horns of Hammerad to a table.
“Come in, come in! Ylawes, don’t bother your sister. Whew, you’re all covered in mud! Sit, sit. Hey, Pisces’ robes and Ceria’s are nice and clean. Can’t you get your armor to do that, Yvlon? Lyonette, drinks for everyone! Drassi—”
“Waffles, hot from the kitchen! You want honey and butter with that?”
The Horns of Hammerad could have cried. In between grabbing for plates and elbowing Pisces out of the way, they simultaneously said hello, explained where they’d been and why they were so hungry, and talked about Ceria’s strange episode at the door. Erin turned to a munching half-Elf.
“What, you too, Ceria? I felt the same thing! I thought it was just a funny feeling until I realized it was my [Dangersense]. What could it be? Did you see any monsters about on the way here, Ceria?”
Ceria talked with a mouthful of waffle, spraying crumbs onto the table and making Falene shoot her a disgusted glance.
“Nothing worth mentioning. Has anything happened over here?”
Erin shot a glance towards the door to Pallass and shook her head hesitantly.
“I…hm. Anyone want more waffles? I’m planning on a big dinner tonight—hey, you won’t believe what happened! I’ve got the [Actors] coming here to do a play each night, Ceria! Remember them? They’re going to put on a performance, and I’m going to fill this inn with hundreds of people and earn tons of money!”
“Actors? You mean that play? That’s a brilliant idea, Erin!”
Ceria smiled, and Pisces sat up at his table with interest. Ksmvr, about to poke, was stopped by Yvlon as she whispered in his earhole. Ceria paused as she wiped dirt and food off her mouth.
“I can imagine you’ll have tons of guests. But—hundreds of people? Are you planning on holding the shows outside? It’s going to keep raining, Erin, and unless you want to set up a second roof—”
“What, no! I’ll have them all in here of course!”
Erin waved at the common room of the inn. Ceria and the other adventurers stared around the common room. Jelaqua raised a skeptical eyebrow.
“Uh, how? By packing them in like tadpoles?”
“No! I’ve got plenty of room! Wait—oh!”
Erin looked around the inn and slapped her forehead.
“Oh right, I disabled it. Of course you think I’m an idiot! Okay, watch this! I got this Skill two days ago, and I totally forgot to show it to you all! Ready? [Grand Theatre]!”
She clapped her hands together. The eyes of everyone in the room were on Erin. They heard the clap, and then the echo. The sound was deeper, larger than it should be. The others looked around the room and gasped.
The perspective of the common room had changed. One second it had been small, still large enough to hold a crowd, but hardly enough for the hundreds Erin had described. But now, in the blink of an eye, it was vaster. A dark, massive room stretched out behind the guests, barely lit by the dim glow of the fireplace. The common room had tripled in size and ended at a stage at the back of the room, clearly visible above the tables and chairs.
The extended common room was devoid of any furniture. The floorboards were of the same quality as the rest of Erin’s inn, as were the walls, but the windows hadn’t been copied further than the walls. The extended part of the common room was dark, like an indoors theatre, and the sound of Erin’s clap continued for a little bit in the silence. The room was vast, welcoming, expectantly waiting for noise and drama to fill the room with life.
Erin’s guests stared. Pisces’ jaw was fully open. Yvlon’s eyes were wide. Moore was quietly choking on his waffles. Seborn looked around in disbelief, and Mrsha was hiding behind Lyonette with Apista. Dawil fell out of his chair, and Falene dropped her cup. It shattered with a crash in the silence as everyone stared around the gigantic common room.
Ceria looked at Erin. The young woman grinned at her. The half-Elf took one deep breath and then another. She left for five days. Just five! She looked at Erin and couldn’t help it. Ceria shouted.
“Erin! What in the name of trees is this?”
And the inn exploded into noise. Mrsha ran across the common room as the adventurers and other guests clustered around Erin. The Redfang Goblins, forgotten for a moment, stared at Erin as Badarrow and Shorthilt slapped Rabbiteater, who’d fainted. Erin grinned as she raised her hands and tried to explain over the shouting—
And that warning feeling in the back of her head twinged. Erin stopped smiling and looked towards the windows.
Something was coming.
 
—-
 
Watch Captain Zevara had felt it too. She strode onto Liscor’s walls, shouting for the Drake officer on duty to find her. To her surprise and pleasure, it was Olesm who hurried up.
“Olesm! I thought you were off-duty today?”
“I was! But I felt my [Dangersense] go off and—you felt it too?”
Zevara nodded grimly. She surveyed the empty Floodplains around Liscor. She could see Rock Crabs on the ground, a few Razorbeaks and other birds in the air, but nothing else. But her [Dangersense] had interrupted her meeting with Liscor’s Council, and Zevara did not ignore such warnings lightly.
“Have you seen anything?”
“Nothing, Captain. I thought about sending a message to you, but I knew you were in a Council meeting—glad to see you.”
Olesm smiled, and Zevara’s heart leapt a bit in her chest. She still carried a small candle for the Drake [Tactician] and hoped they could be more than just fellow civil servants. But right now they needed to focus on business, and Zevara was just glad Olesm was here. He was the city’s best [Tactician], and if he wasn’t that high-level, he was sharp and good in a pinch.
“How many [Guardsmen] are on the walls right now?”
“Just the usual rotation. I’ve told them to be alert, but I didn’t want to make anyone nervous by requesting more.”
“Well, I’m already nervous. And I’d rather call the alarm now than be caught off guard.”
Zevara turned.
“Street Runner!”
She bellowed, keeping her voice as loud and deep as possible. Why was it that people said female leaders screamed while male Drakes could shout as much as they wanted? She wasn’t a shrinking flower! But raise your pitch just an octave and your men thought you were panicking. Zevara had worked hard to earn her reputation as a steady Watch Captain, and she’d be damned if she showed weakness now.
The figures below had heard her call and one of the Street Runners that hung out near the wall ran up the stairs swiftly. Zevara eyed the young Gnoll and pointed.
“Run to the Watch Barracks and have them send me every off-duty [Guardsman] they have! If you find more in taverns, get them! I want ten Street Runners getting [Guardsmen]. Go, now!”
The Gnoll’s eyes widened, and he raced down the steps, already shouting at his friends. They scattered as Olesm turned back to Zevara. She tried to look calm and collected, like she knew what she was doing.
The [Guardsmen] around her had also heard her orders, and they scanned the Floodplains with increasing alertness. Some looked to Zevara, but they were well-trained enough to keep their attention where it should be. Olesm’s gaze flicked back into the city. She could tell he was calculating how long it would take them to have more [Guardsmen] on the walls. Five minutes if they were ready, ten or fifteen otherwise. They could have six hundred members of the City Watch on the walls soon, but would they need them? Zevara’s stomach ached.
“You’re not going to sound an all-call, Captain?”
The Watch could blast a horn throughout the city that would alert everyone to muster on the walls—or warn the citizens they were under attack. Zevara shook her head, keeping her voice calm though she didn’t feel that way inside.
“No reason to. Not yet. It could be that the danger’s not near us, or that we can handle it on the walls. Remember the Carn Wolves prowling the Floodplains three years back? That had everyone’s [Dangersenses] warning them not to go outdoors, but we were safe.”
“You’re right.”
Olesm tried to sound confident. Zevara tried to believe her own words. She scanned the landscape, waiting. She kept her eyes on four spots as she glanced around the landscape. The first was the raised rampart of dirt around the dungeon’s official entrance. Ancestors, was it the dungeon? It might be the dungeon. Zevara bet it was the dungeon.
“Damn those Pallass fools. They think this dungeon’s like their three dungeons? They’ve cleared all three of their spots, and I know those are Bronze and Silver-rank dungeons! That’s nothing like the one we have here! We have no idea how large it is, and how dangerous—we could use some of their soldiers!”
She muttered to herself anxiously. Olesm glanced at her.
“Pallass denied your request? I thought we’d settled things with them.”
“We did. But they’re still not going to help us in any way. Once they realized they weren’t getting Solstice’s magic door without a fight, they lost all interest in it—and us! All they want to do is ship goods to Liscor. No one in their scale-rotting city wants to visit Liscor. They think we’re a backwater city with nothing interesting to see!”
Zevara ground her teeth together. Olesm spluttered.
“Well that’s not—who thinks that?”
“All of them. And our dungeon’s not a concern to Pallass.”
She stared at the second landmark, the place where a rift led down into the dungeon from the Floodplains. That entrance should be partially flooded already, but it was another spot of worry. She’d considered having it filled with dirt, but hopefully the water should deter some of the monsters.
Zevara shifted her attention to the next spot—the road leading north. If the Goblin Lord had sent his forces south or a hostile group of monsters had come out of the High Passes, they would come from that direction. But Esthelm would have warned them, surely? Or did they not have enough [Mages] capable of casting [Message] spells anymore?
No way to know. Zevara would send a message to them if nothing happened in the next few minutes. She stared at the last spot of worry—Erin Solstice’s inn. It was the target of more strange happenings than Zevara had ever seen. Rogue Named Adventurers, undead skeletons, Hobs, portals to other cities—Zevara’s stomach clenched and did backflips at the thought of what the young woman might have done in the short hours since she’d seen her.
Dungeon entrance, rift, road, inn. Zevara alternated between them until she heard pounding boots and turned. The rest of the City Watch poured onto the walls. A Senior Guardsman stopped in front of her. The Gnoll saluted, his hand on his sword.
“What news, Captain?”
“Nothing yet. My [Dangersense] is going off and so is Olesm’s. Have everyone spread out along the walls—west side a priority, and shout if you see anything!”
“Yes, Captain!”
The Gnoll began ordering the [Guardsmen] around the walls. They spread out, and Zevara saw more marching down the street, called to action by the Street Runners. She heard a loud and familiar voice grousing as Relc climbed the stairs.
“What? We don’t know what’s out there? Come on, it’s my day off! This better not be like the time with the Carn Wolves, or I’m gonna get mad!”
“Shut up, Relc! Get your fat tail moving, or I’ll kick you off the walls!”
Zevara bellowed at him, and the nervous [Guardsmen] laughed. She was privately relieved to see Relc as he grumbled and raised a single claw in her direction. The [Sergeant] was a famous [Soldier] when all was said and done, and there were far worse people to have at your back. She turned back to ask Olesm if Erin had mentioned anything, anything unusual when it happened. Her [Dangersense] blared an alarm into her skull, and Olesm jerked. Zevara’s head spun wildly.
Inn, dungeon entrance, road, rif—there it was. The rift was hidden from her sight by a large hill, but Zevara clearly saw the geyser of water spraying into the air. It shot upwards as both she and Olesm watched, propelled into the air by a massive force. And then she saw a leg rise above the crest of the hill. It was long, insectile, and—furry? Zevara only got a moment’s glimpse before it lowered, and she saw water spraying down.
“What in the name of the Ancestors is…?”
Olesm never got a chance to finish his question. Something rose out of the rift, something massive. Zevara saw a head poke above the line of the hill, wet, covered with hair, a giant furry head and then a long, long body. A huge abdomen shook; gargantuan wings unfolded and exposed a staring pattern of black spots and brown chitin. Two fuzzy antennae swiveled, and Zevara saw the jaws open.
The mouth, oh, but it shouldn’t have a mouth! But this species, this horrible offshoot, was known for its mouth, infamous for it! The razor-sharp opening gaped wide as the gigantic moth shook its wings, spraying water everywhere. Zevara’s heart stopped as she saw its body rustle. Thousands of smaller moths were clinging to the adult, and as the mother spread her wings, they began to take off as well. The Drake stared at the moth as it fanned its wings, ridding itself of the water. Olesm’s voice quavered in the silence.
“Face-Eater Moth.”
It was larger than Erin’s inn. The Face-Eater moth flapped its wings once and sounded like thunder. Its carnivorous children flew upwards searching for prey. The huge swarm covered the sun. Zevara looked up and screamed. Anyone would have screamed.
“Sound the alarm!”
