She looked quizzically at Erin, and the young woman gnawed at her lip.
“Yeah…my inn’s already filled with mana apparently, but I have no idea if it’s all going to the door or what. Pisces might know. He was working on it with Typhenous and Moore. When he gets back, I’ll ask him to get all his mage buddies together and do some more experiments, okay?”
“Just so long as it doesn’t cause another diplomatic incident.”
“Hey! That was—okay, that’s fair. Uh, the door’s ready. Are we supposed to wait?”
“Watch Captain Venim should be on the other side already. He’ll be making the same announcement on his end—he might have done so already. I can pull up some [Guardsmen] if there’s too much of a crowd from Liscor—I want to handle this calmly and without incident, Miss Solstice. You might also have a few members of the Council here to make a speech when the first person from Pallass arrives and we send our first visitor through.”
“Whoa! It’s going to be that big?”
The Drake nodded. Erin looked at her with round eyes and then opened the door.
“Okay then, let’s make my inn fam—oh. Hi, Watch Captain Venim.”
Sunlight poured through her doorway. Ylawes stood up in astonishment, and the other guests in the inn stared in fascination as the blue skies and huge city of Pallass appeared in the doorway in front of Erin. A Drake was standing on the other side of the door, dressed in yellow armor. He had a helmet under one arm and saluted Watch Captain Zevara.
“Watch Captain Zevara, I’m pleased to see you.”
“Likewise, Watch Captain Venim. My apologies for the slight delay. I was just letting Miss Solstice know what to expect.”
Watch Captain Venim nodded. He was standing in the sun, and Erin saw, to her great surprise, that she was no longer looking into the alleyway! It looked like they’d been placed on some kind of side street. She stared at Venim in fascination.
“You moved my door! Hey! That’s so cool! I forgot I could do that! Maybe I’ll move my door out of Octavia’s shop!”
She peered around the street excitedly. There seemed to be a crowd behind Venim! She hoped they wouldn’t rush through the door. He didn’t seem to have many [Guardsmen] posted to keep them back. Zevara saluted, looking slightly worried as she eyed the gathering.
“Watch Captain Venim, a pleasure. Have you already made the announcement on your end? We’re not quite ready here for the ceremony although we could speed it up if there’s excitement on your side. I hope you haven’t had to keep the mob from the doors.”
“The mob?”
The Drake in yellow armor looked blank and then stared over his shoulder at the crowd.
“Oh. Ah, no, Watch Captain Zevara, it’s peaceful here. I understand the door’s inactive until Miss Erin connects it, so we’ve installed it here. It should be perfectly fine. We announced the doorway this morning with the regular morning news. I believe the [Belldrakes] have spread the word and there is some interest.”
“Good thing you opened the door now before a huge crowd appeared!”
Erin excitedly looked at the Drakes and few Gnolls in the crowd. She waved, expecting them to gasp or cheer in return. The Drakes stared at her with raised eyebrows. A little Drake child waved back, and a few adults peeled away from the crowd and walked down the street.
Erin frowned. So did Zevara. Venim didn’t notice the confusion on the other side of the door. He was talking, waving a small sheet of parchment in front of Erin to get her attention.
“Watch Captain Zevara has informed you of the waiting system in place, Miss Solstice? We have our own sheet in the Watch Barracks. I don’t think we’ll get much interest at first, but we’ll inform you or the city of Liscor if any of our citizens intend to pass through your doorway. Otherwise we’ll arrange a time to open the doorway each morning, say, just past midday?”
“If your people want to come to Liscor? But—wait a second, don’t they all want to come?”
Erin pointed at the crowd of Drakes, dismayed. More were leaving. Venim hesitated.
“I believe they’re just looking, Miss Solstice. Pallass did have a deep interest in your door, but that was with the intent of moving large bodies of goods and people through. Since the Assembly of Crafts was apprised of the strict limits on your doorway—and that your inn was in fact a focal point of magic to begin with—they’ve lost interest in its economic viabilities.”
The Drake smiled as if it was good news. Erin and Zevara just stared at him.
“We may experiment with transporting a set number of objects through the door instead of people per day, but the [Merchants] are still arguing about how to set up such a system. They want a representative of their own on Liscor’s side to handle the influx of goods, and none of their senior members want to cross over—”
The penny dropped. Erin stared at the disinterested Drakes, at Watch Captain Venim’s apologetic expression, and realized what he was saying.
“Wait, people don’t want to come to Liscor? Why not?”
Her incredulous question provoked a response from the crowd at last. A Drake with a slash of red across his blue scales raised his voice.
“What do you mean, why not? What’s Liscor got that Pallass hasn’t, Human?”
Erin stared at him. That was a silly question! Liscor had—Liscor had—she opened her mouth and drew a blank. Okay, Pallass was bigger…and a Walled City, but Liscor had stuff! It was different, wasn’t that enough?
Apparently not. Another heckler in the crowd raised her voice and drawled sarcastically.
“Wow, Liscor. I’d just love to see the…what do they have over there? Grass? Shorter walls? More smelly Humans?”
There was a laugh from the crowd. Erin stared at the Drakes, dismayed. Zevara looked dumbfounded.
“You don’t think Liscor’s cool? Come on, it’s another city! Four hundred miles north! There’s this new dungeon filled with monsters that just appeared and everything!”
“Oh yeah? So what? We have three dungeons in the area!”
“Exactly! What’s this about travelling? Who wants to do that? Do I want to spend a week in Liscor, home of the rain, the Antinium, and boredom? Your city is a border city! Maybe I’ll pop by to visit Celum, but only if I feel like talking to fleshy Humans all day! Pallass is six times larger than Liscor!”
“I thought it was eight!”
“With walls that short, how would you be able to tell? Hah! Got ‘em!”
The crowd laughed and joked as Watch Captain Venim leaned closer to the door. Zevara was just staring as Erin weakly protested and got ribbed for her trouble.
“I delivered your report to Pallass’ Assembly of Crafts, but they didn’t take it too seriously, Watch Captain Zevara. Monster raids from dungeons aren’t uncommon, and you are due reinforcements soon. Liscor’s army sent a detachment of their forces north, and Pallass spotted them over a week ago. They should be arriving soon if they’re marching at a steady pace. But as for Pallass sending aid to help guard the dungeon…”
He grimaced and spread his claws helplessly. Venim looked apologetic as he continued, nodding to the crowd that was breaking up behind him despite Erin’s best efforts.
“Well, we’ll approve your visitors, and I’m sure some [Merchants] and perhaps some adventurers will be coming through from time to time on our end. Who knows, there might be some tourism your way, but we’ll approve both people you want to send through today. I, uh, think we could get one or two of the senators to arrive for a small ceremony as long as it doesn’t last too long.”
He stepped back. The crowd of Drakes had grown tired of heckling and was breaking up. Venim saluted again.
“Just send a [Message] spell when you want to send someone through. We’ll have a small escort ready and a few [Guardsmen]. More if I can get one of the senators to show up.”
He nodded and eyed Erin’s and Zevara’s faces. Somewhat sheepishly, Venim closed the door. There was a faint thump, and the portal closed. Zevara and Erin stood in front of the doorway, staring. At last, Erin looked at the Drake. Zevara’s face was pale, and she looked stunned. Erin shuffled her feet and then raised her voice.
“Wow. People in Pallass are jerks. They really don’t think Liscor’s cool?”
“Apparently.”
Zevara looked like she’d been stabbed. Her expression was the shock of someone finding out that their home wasn’t as well-respected as they thought it was. Erin could practically sense the thoughts running inside of Zevara’s head because they were parallel to her own. Of course Liscor wasn’t a Walled City, but wasn’t it a strategic landmark and all that?
Wasn’t Liscor famous for the Antinium, for defeating the Necromancer and…and more? But people thought it was just a rainy, boring place? That wasn’t fair! Okay, it wasn’t a major Drake city and it was far from the others, but—
She wondered what Liscor’s Council would say if Zevara told them what had happened. No, what would Liscor’s citizens say? They had a lot of pride in their home, and they’d believed until now that their home was the best. Mainly because visitors who badmouthed a city got in trouble fast and because they’d never actually met a bunch of people from Pallass all at once before. But now…
There would be trouble. There would be anger, indignation, and hurt feelings. For now, Erin looked at the doorway with narrowed eyes. She kicked the blank wall with her foot.
“Whatta bunch of arrogant snobs.”
Zevara paused. The Watch Captain’s pale face returned a bit of color, and she almost smiled at Erin.
“Absolutely. Well…thank you for your time, Erin Solstice. I have a report to deliver to the Council. And I’m sure they’re not going to like it.”
She walked off. Erin eyed the doorway. Pallass wasn’t all that great! All it had were huge walls, tons of cool things to see, magic elevators, about eight times as much horizontal landmass and about the same amount as much vertical space and…
“Darn it. Liscor’s cool.”
Erin scuffed away on the floor with her foot and walked away. The doorway remained closed. And underneath Liscor something, many somethings, moved in the dungeon.
 
—-
 
The warning signs began just after midday, as the Horns of Hammerad were returning from their long stay abroad. They were covered in muck, tired, sweaty, and currently sitting on a wagon. The wagon being pulled by undead bears.
It was not a smooth ride. Bears, unlike horses, moved with a loping gait, and the wagon jerked along, making the occupants quite, quite uncomfortable. It had been a long four, no, five days, and they were understandably unhappy. They argued as they rode over a hill, skirting the puddles of water. Another problem with undead bears was that if you didn’t pay attention to them, they’d drive you right through a pond. Or into a tree.
“All I’m saying is that it’s not our fault if we don’t see you when you’re invisible, Pisces! How was I supposed to know you were in the radius of my [Fireball] spell?”
“I told you I was going to attack one of the Corusdeer from behind, Springwalker! At what point does that not translate into my proximity to said creature?”
“I thought you were picking the ones off on the outskirts, not right in front of me! And Ksmvr, stop gnawing on the Corusdeer horn!”
“Itsh tasty.”
Yvlon sighed as Ksmvr hunched over his horn. Her stomach rumbled. Loudly. She stared up at the grey skies, grateful it had stopped raining at least.
“I’m not blaming anyone, but how did we run out of supplies a day ago? We’re hunting for food for Esthelm; how did we not take our own supplies into account?”
Ksmvr looked shamefaced as he opened his mandibles.
“I take full responsibility for my actions, Miss Yvlon. I bought supplies in accordance withAntinium policy for this trip.”
“Which means?”
The Antinium shifted guiltily.
“…Antinium policy is that we eat our foes on the march. Or our own dead. We are able to march most effectively with the reduced burden you see, and…”
He trailed off. The other three adventurers exchanged glances. Ceria covered her face with her good hand.
“Okay, Ksmvr doesn’t buy supplies next time.”
“Agreed.”
Pisces and Yvlon said it at once. Ksmvr deflated.
“I apologize for my continued failures.”
Yvlon patted him on the shoulder. When the Antinium looked up, she gave him a warm smile.
“We all make mistakes. Don’t worry—it’s not like we’ve starved, and we can eat as much as we want at The Wandering Inn. We’re nearly back.”
“About time, too.”
Pisces sniffed. The [Necromancer] had, surprisingly, fared best out of all four adventurers in the Horns of Hammerad. Despite Ceria being a half-Elf used to living in the forest, despite Yvlon Byres’ training to become a [Knight], despite Ksmvr’s hardiness, the [Necromancer] had endured the lack of food simply by the expedience of having a meal’s worth of snacks hidden away in his private bag of holding.
It had been the subject of much ire once it had been discovered. Ceria kicked him, and the [Necromancer] glared at her but didn’t dare retort back. His stomach growled noticeably less than his comrades, and he devoted his attention to steering the undead skeletons of the bears he had summoned towards the inn in silence.
That was the Horns of Hammerad. Ceria the half-Elf, the [Cryomancer] with her skeletal left hand, Pisces, a [Necromancer] with a rapier hanging at his belt and a haughty attitude, Yvlon, a [Wounded Warrior] whose armor didn’t gleam like her older brother’s, and Ksmvr, a three-armed Antinium cast out from his Hive.
They weren’t the best team around, and they had only adventured for a few months but…well, that was about it. They were a Silver-rank team on the verge of ascending to Gold-rank, but they were new. They’d survived one literal trial by fire, but they had yet to adopt the camaraderie of the Halfseekers or the Silver Swords. But they were adventurers.
And they were nearly home. The inn was in front of them, warm and inviting. The wagon drove up the hill and the Horns piled out before it had pulled to a stop. Pisces wasted no time in ending the spell that held the skeletal bears together; the bones fell into a heap, and he pushed them into his bag of holding as the rest of his team headed straight for the doors. Visions of hot food and warm beds assailed Ceria, and she could smell the lunch being served within. She put her hand on the door handle and froze. Yvlon and Ksmvr stared at her, practically dancing with impatience.
“Ceria, what is it?”
“Hold up, do you feel that?”
The Horns stopped as one. Pisces, hurrying to catch up, stopped and eyed the surroundings warily. A new team they might be, but they were used to heeding each other’s warnings. Ceria looked around, puzzled.
