“Not many did, but yes; I was made aware.” Ari said, “After that event, I was given some specific instructions of my own, and I will choose to follow them. Certain lessons will most definitely come after all the rest.”

Ezekiel nodded. He asked, “Is this how everyone learns?”

“Oh my no!” Ari said, “Directed healing is usually the first lesson. From there, paths vary. The normal way to healing mastery is through hard learning, accidental deaths, and mistakes that will haunt you for the rest of your life, as well as the presence of an overseeing Doctor or Priest who becomes very cross with any student who steps even the slightest bit out of line. There’s also a fair bit of learning about specific magical and mundane diseases which are mainly of the fungoid variety, parasites, and systemic disease that won’t go away with simple healing spells or through [Cleanse].

“Occasionally, someone breaks the mold, and rapidly advances, cutting out years of hard work. The most common variation is when a Healer desires to save a life and everything they know is not good enough. Most of the time, those patients die, but sometimes, the Healer will awaken their aura and thus they are able to stretch their healing spells to accomplish what they normally cannot. If they understand what they have done, and are able to repeat the process, then they go on to Remake the other healing spells.

“And then there are the people who come to this who already have a mana sense and a Greater Elemental Body, and the skill to use them properly. This is where you are at. Eventually, and likely sooner rather than later, you will be Remaking all of the healing spells we have already discussed.” Ari said, “There will be many days of learning ahead of us, but based on what I have seen today, it might take you a week to get through all of this early stuff. Once you gain the appropriate healing spells then we can move onto some of the more nuanced healing spells, such as [Blood Regeneration]. Once that is achieved, we can get to actual Blood Magic, which includes spells such as [Body Modification]. But we are done for today.” She said, “There are others who wish to use this room.”

It had been a few hours, and by now, there were several people as well as a teacher-like person waiting outside of the wax room for their turn at the place. They had been lining up, quietly, for the last fifteen minutes.

But a different person had been there for the last hour and a half. He was a boy of pale skin, maybe seven or eight years old, without horns, wearing fine white robes with black edging. His robes marked him as important, and also odd, for while his garb was of much finer make than the grey-robed inner disciples who also walked down that same hallway, they were also clearly of a specific design that was also not present anywhere else.

And the kid had silent guards next to him that wore black.

Ari had paused in her teachings, briefly, when the kid showed up, but then she resumed like nothing odd had happened. None of the obvious-teachers who also walked the halls seemed to bother the boy, either, even though he was obviously listening in on Ari’s private lesson, with his back to the adjoining wall and his head cocked to the side. He might even be mana sensing, but that seemed crazy.

Now that the lesson was over, though, the boy stood up and walked away.

Ezekiel said, “I thank you for your lesson. Tomorrow, at the same time?”

Ari said, “I’ll have to switch off with Xue tomorrow, but he knows all of this healing magic with a similar mastery as myself. Both of us can teach this part of the path toward actual Blood Magic, but after this is learned, then there will be specific and differing lessons. I will focus on combat, both defense and attack, while he will focus on enchanting.”

“I am eager to learn.”

Ari smiled politely, then added, “Also: we have rooms for you here in the mountain, if you wish.”

Ari had said those words in an offhand way, talking as though her suggestion was something that didn’t need to happen. But that was a lie. She wanted Ezekiel to room here in the mountain. Perhaps for personal gain, or for Clan gain, or to be properly polite; Ezekiel didn’t know. All he knew was that she wanted him here.

If Ezekiel had seen a single sign of something untoward, he would have instantly said no. But he hadn’t seen anything ‘Evil’, or whatever. He still wasn’t comfortable with being here, under the roof of an unknown power…

He had been fine being under the roof of an Arbor of Treehome, though.

… Those were two totally different things. Orcol society was based around communities that surrounded a colony of tree [Familiar]s, of which Yggdrasil would likely become a part of, sooner or later. But here in Eralis it was just people, with all their messy, dangerous, plotting lives.

Still.

They didn’t seem that bad.

Being here would give him a great deal more access to Clan Star Song. It’d be easier to check up on how Tadashi’s chelation therapy was progressing. He could pop in for visits, or whatever, and he would likely gain a few visits of his own.

The only problem with rooming here was that he didn’t want to talk to the people in power all that much. He wanted to see the city for what it truly was, and that went against rooming up here in Clan Star Song. That meant staying at the Sour House.

Except.

Star Song was one of the largest powers in Eralis; he had even heard them referred to as a ‘Head Clan’, which was something of a colloquial wording, for sure. Star Song didn’t call themselves that, but the common people did. It made sense, for Star Song had hands in everything, and deeper reaches than most of the other Clans.

So if he roomed here, he could see some of those expressions of power.

And besides that, as of today, Ezekiel was less wary of outright treachery and assassination, and more looking out for his own interests.

He did not want to move to the Highlands. He did not want to live in the Highlands. He had plans for the Crystal Forest.

But if he didn’t accept this offer of hospitality, then that would make Star Song worried, and there was no telling where that could lead.

He’d get spied on if he was here.

But it’s not like he wasn’t being spied on before. And he could spy on them in turn.

Who would benefit most from that interaction? Him, or Star Song? It might be a toss-up.

And if he were here, then it would be only Star Song spying on him. Back at the Sour House, he likely had every single Clan spying on him; or at least a few.

For that reason alone, it was a good idea to room here, for now.

A few seconds had passed since Ari raised the question. Ezekiel had thought over her offer of hospitality ever since she offered it the first time, but now, here they were, and the offer seemed more genuine.

So.

Ezekiel said, “I would be delighted to accept your continued hospitality.”

Ari’s violet eyes glinted with red light as she relaxed, and said, “Please allow me to direct you and your people to your temporary residence.” She walked toward the door.

Ezekiel followed. “You’re very good at this teaching. That was much nicer to hear all of this from you, personally, than to read in those books.”

Ari gave a subdued smile as she said, “We covered a great deal of Healing Magic in the last few hours that most people would never put down in a book. Of my own journal, I know that I didn’t spend more than ten pages on these early lessons.”

The two of them walked out of the wax room, into a grand hallway, with Paul and Tiffany following at a respectable distance behind. Ezekiel nodded at the professor and his grey-robed students who waited for Ezekiel and Ari to leave the Wax Room. The professor and his students all bowed to Ezekiel to varying degrees. Elder Arilitilo glanced at the other professor and his class, but casually turned her attention forward, mostly ignoring the man.

Ari said, “We have many classrooms here in the mountain, if you are interested in taking any other lessons, Scion Phoenix. Feel free to look around.”

Ezekiel smiled, and said, “I will. Thank you.”

“As for your rooms…”

She led them upward.

They hadn’t gotten to any actual blood magic today, so the extra lunch he had had with Grand Elder Lingxing had gone to waste, but that was fine.
