After accepting that, they turned to the Federation team where they finally got to see the Halvetic Exploration vessel’s captain. The man was surprisingly clean cut for the grizzled tone he had talked with earlier. But when he could only offer a Tier 8 pseudo Natural Treasure rock that none of them could identify, and which didn't seem that powerful, they were disgruntled at someone trying to take advantage of their leniency.

Allie took one look at it and vanished.

A moment later she reappeared, scoffing. “Your security is shit and you’re poor. Even your hidden compartment doesn't have anything good in it. Can you at least not be a walking disappointment next time we defeat you?”

Halvetic looked angry but said flatly, “That's why we were willing to fight over this world. We didn’t find a non-explored world on our way out. That was mere luck when we stopped to refill our mana reserves on an already explored planet. May we leave now, Slayer?”

Allie teleported back to their ship, leaving Liz to give the man and his team permission to leave.

He immediately did so while the Monster Collective team stuck around long enough to test their ship and ensure any physical damage to the hull and the exposed components from the exposure to chaotic space hadn’t managed to damage something critical.

Even with that delay, they were gone in under an hour, mostly likely to report back to their fleet where they were and the world they had found.

Matt wouldn’t mind if other teams of Tier 30s came to challenge them, but there was the possibility of Tier 35s leading a main fleet like that, and they couldn’t punch up that high even in their dreams, meaning they needed to be gone before reinforcements could arrive.

It was unlikely a Tier 35 would be willing to attack or kill them given their status. They could delay them from going after the resources on higher-Tier worlds, so they didn’t linger.

To that end, they didn’t sightsee.

The moment they were alone, the crew tore into the planet.

Sadly, it didn’t have any strange realms or even any noteworthy ruins.

Still, it was a Tier 21 world that hadn’t been explored in at least a few million years.

They suspected that age because they found a Tier 22 Sun Flower’s First Flame Natural Treasure growing next to an ever-bubbling volcano that towered into the atmosphere. The sunflower grew one additional seed per year that it lived and was exposed to starlight fairly reliably.

Eating a single seed would empower a cultivator's fire aptitude, making it easier to make fire Domains or modify fire spells.

That wasn’t even what made the Natural Treasure so valuable. When properly processed, the seeds could become a core strengthening component of pretty much every fire related potion, usually doubling or tripling the effect, while also keeping the original effect intact.

And with just over 1.1 million Tier 22 seeds, they had hit the jackpot.

They could turn around right then and there and make more than most first layer expeditions made in centuries of searching.

Even with each individual crew members' share being less than one full percent, they couldn’t stop smiling as they dug through fetid pools or pits of magma to pull out the plethora of rare or valuable resources.

There were so many of them, it took almost a full day for the harvesting crew to fully strip the world.

With fifteen Tier 22 Natural Treasures, nine of which they couldn’t identify, a few tons of rare enriched metals, replaced with Tier 1 conjured metals to ensure an ecological balance, over three hundred Tier 21 Natural Treasures, and tens of thousands of lesser finds, they had struck it rich.

But none of them wanted to turn around and go home.

They had just gotten to the edge of the Rasdale breach.

It was time to go deeper.

Much deeper.
