His opponent's spinal wound quickly healed itself but the elk man's follow-up attack was far more hesitant, as if expecting Matt to lash back out with titanic power once more.

His single rack of antlers continued to glow visually but the feeling they gave off in Matt’s spiritual perception changed dramatically. Instead of absorbing outside energy, it was gathering energy like a mana cannon about to explode.

Matt dodged the reaching hands, keeping his speed a hair slower than the Tier 30’s, letting his battle instincts guide him, trying to speed himself up with his Power but failing.

Still, despite the self-imposed limitations, it was a good fight. They had been delving against monsters for too long, even before their thirty year break, and he had missed this more cerebral back and forth between people.

That pleasure ended as he felt the elk man was growing frustrated and suspected he was about to call for help.

Instead of allowing that, Matt went on the offensive.

Thrusting, Matt slipped past the man's guard, tapping his blade to the man's lower chest.

To his credit, the elk tried to grab Matt’s blade and shove it away at the cost of a hand. In doing so he fell for Matt’s small muscle contractions trap that made it look like he would redirect the attack up to his head, which would have been a lethal strike.

Instead, the moment his blade touched the elk, Matt unleashed his [Mana Thrust], sending out a blade-thick beam of energy that cut through the Tier 30’s armor and body alike, punching over a mile into empty space.

Heart and lungs mangled, the elk started sending signals for help from anyone nearby, including the Federation explorers.

Matt watched the horror in his opponent’s eyes grow as he realized everyone fighting the seven of them was struggling and none of them could help him.

All of the Ascenders were using their opponents as training partners and exploring the things they had been working on during the trip.

Each were taking their time as Matt had.

The exceptions were Rah and Susanne, who were cutting loose.

Susanne, having integrated the Two Pupil Stone, had redefined herself.

While a peak elite from the moment she fell off the Path, she had always been a good fighter, having been considered a pinnacle elite after some training with Lila. Now, after her limited future sight upgrades, she had become a terror.

Relying on the contradiction of her future sight changing based on what she saw, she focused all of her attention on her blade, trusting herself to react to her future self’s actions.

Her new blade style was all about the extremes in its current phase of training.

While still flowing and elegant, Susanne’s writing had diverged from what it once was. Rather than sets of moves that flowed between and blended the lines of offence and defense, Susanne went fully on the offensive.

From their spars, Matt understood why the Federation explorer was delimbed in just three exchanges.

In raw power, Susanne might be weaker than her opponent but her Greatsword manifestation was terrifying and cut through even a Tier 30’s armor.

Seeing her own moves, Susanne had found she was better able to read the flow of battle if she went fully on the attack or kept fully on the defense. Ideally, she’d reintegrate more nuanced moves but she was reinventing her entire fighting style and it would take time for her to reach that endpoint.

Rah wasn’t dominating quite as much but he wasn’t struggling either, given he had used some of his wealth to buy enough essence stones that he was able to reach Tier 28 on their thirty year journey. Few people ever made essence stone essence less dense but the method was easy enough that he managed it in their first few weeks of travel allowing him to cultivate as they traveled.

Since entering their Realm, his fighting style had changed slightly. He currently leaned towards a more front-line fighter, relying on his defenses to take light hits while dodging the bigger attacks, waiting for his chance to land a devastating single blow.

For all that his cultivation method made him inherently weaker at his Tier, he had his own advantages.

His upgraded Talents were the biggest and most important. Already strong, his blades now rivaled the works that even Talented enchanter teams worked to create. Except he made them instantly and changed them out between blows, leaving his enemies guessing as to what would hit them.

In addition, the core of his skills were entirely unique to himself and gave him a decisive advantage against most opponents.

Together with the upgrade to his cultivation base that came from his Ascension, the cultivation technique he and Ciceron created had its own advantages that narrowed the theoretical gap between cultivation styles.

Having learned from Nahla of Waves Rise and her cultivation methods, Rah had copied her Realm’s method of interlocking cultivation layers to make his cultivation more stable, which let him surge his essence harder and longer, letting him fight at peak power for longer.

He had also copied one of their Realm’s former methods of carving runes into their cores. Rah set things up so that when he boosted himself, each part of his cultivation was amplified further by runes carved into his ‘stars’.

Combined with the interlocking layers, that effect would grow stronger as Rah Tiered up. But as of now, it put Rah at something close to a high-level elite and he was growing fast.

As the hole in the elk man’s chest started to heal, Matt darted back in, pressing his advantage, once more trying to feel out his Power.

Vines tore themselves out of the man's veins and lashed at Matt.

They smartly avoided his blade and tried to tangle up his limbs, but Matt fought through them. Using his unempowered body, he tore through them with pure physical might, hoping the struggle could push him to desperation enough that he’d figure out how the second part of a Power really worked.

It didn’t.

All letting himself get tangled did was end up with Matt locked in place.

The elk man, seeing an opportunity, finally unleashed the energy his remaining antler had been charging, but Matt let the spell wash over him, aspecting [Cracked Phantom Armor] to block his particular wood-based mana type.

Interestingly, the man's spell empowered his vines, making them incredibly resilient, instead of destroying them as he expected.

It was a good combination move which would defeat most average Tier 30s.

Matt cast [Dragonflame].

A new star was born and the vines burned away but people had already recognized him and everyone else thanks to [Cracked Phantom Armor] being unmistakable.

No longer bothering to hide themselves, the others started using their signature moves and cut loose.

Zack started casting smaller and faster spells his opponent failed to block or dodge quickly, whittling through their physical defenses and was the next to defeat his opponent.

Allie stopped dodging physically and started dodging magically, letting her land several nearly-lethal blows in rapid succession.

Liz started creating copies of herself and quickly overwhelmed her opponent.

Slowest, but only because she was trying to show off, Aster had her Tier 29 golems beat up her opponent but didn’t let them defeat the poor man. It was almost like how she messed with Gan Le, except the Federation fighter was no defensive power house, and it took everything he had not to die while being pummeled.

Having identified them, people from both sides started trying to surrender, even going so far as to offer unconditional surrenders which almost never happened in an exploration team.

They weren't trying to kill anyone and so let those who were already defeated surrender and retreat but those who were still able to fight were fair game and they rejected their requests as they came in.

That shifted the tide and the former enemies immediately banded together to try and fight back as best as they could.

Part of their surrender rejection had a clause that the better their opponents fought, the less the Ascenders would demand from them after they lost. And it worked exactly as they hoped. Any exploration group would trade a small to medium healing cooldown to keep more of their harvested resources after being defeated.

Joining his now fully-healed elk opponent were two others. One Federation man who was more metal than flesh and a Monster Collective human who had silver lightning flashing in his eyes.

Matt sized them up and decided it was worth a try, throwing himself forward.

He was immediately attacked by the elk man once more, who fired another large spell at him, not seeming to care about anything but hurting Matt.

Instead of a mixed utility spell, he went for a purely offensive force-based blast which was expertly aimed. If Matt tried to dodge, he had a direct line of fire to the Unsparing. It was unlikely the elk had the power to punch through their ship’s shields but if Matt dodged, he risked having their single vessel damaged.

It was a good move, and Matt accepted it as it was.

Taking the blow head-on, Matt reached out with his hand, catching as much of the spell as he could and keeping it away from his body with his Concept.

With a two Tier disadvantage and his identity exposed, the elk had unleashed his strongest blow, not bothering with his defenses at all, relying on the other two explorers to defend him.

Matt let [Cracked Phantom Armor] aspect to the new mana type and tried to boost his very first skill.

It was a thick cord in the mental image of his Power but as Matt tried to empower his spell in the way described, he once more felt like an engine with bad timing. Instead of growing stronger, the more additional power he tried to push into the spell via his Willpower, the weaker it became.

As the beam spell finally ended, Matt immediately came under fire from the other two.

The Federation explorer attacked with an ink-black baton with some illusion properties that tried to make Matt forget it existed. It wasn’t an antimemetic effect in the traditional sense but similar enough that Matt was interested in inspecting it up close.

He got the opportunity almost immediately as the Federation man swung it at him with the force of a falling moon.

Matt broke through the illusion hidden in the weapon to see its true form. It wasn’t a baton but rather a flail that used very well made and expensive cloaking enchantments to disguise its head.

It was a very interesting weapon and hit with a power that pushed the growth item into the peak of Tier 30.

[Cracked Phantom Armor] shattered under the blow, while the second Collective explorer appeared on Matt’s left in his sword's blind spot.

Matt punched out, meeting the six layered [Elemental Fist] with [Fist Blast].

His simpler spell met the layered mana type spell and exploded. Matt stepped forward to both dodge the worst of the back blast, while also getting into a better position to land a counter strike on the flail user.

Matt brought this blade up in a deceptively weak looking angle but the flail user dodged instead of trying to match the blow. Given that Matt had amplified the weight of his sword a thousand times, it was the right call.

Instead of letting the move go to waste, Matt changed the trajectory slightly and unleashed a [Mana Slash] at the fist fighter who had darted in, trying to attack Matt’s head.

The crescent of mana mangled the man's right arm but didn’t stop him.

Matt didn’t stop, either.

As he felt the flail user gathering his Willpower and engaging his Intent, Matt continued his slash until his blade was pointing at the elk once more.

For the second time in the fight, Matt cast [Mana Thrust] at the elk, punching right through the man's already-damaged chest armor.

His blow was in the exact same place as before, below the man's heart. The elk once more sent a request for surrender with a pleading fluctuation of spiritual perception.

Matt accepted it, as it seemed clear these opponents weren’t going to be the one who pushed him into discovering how to make his Power truly work.

That didn’t stop him from beating the other two Tier 30s around in his attempts to figure it out.

They fought on, clearly remembering their promise, but Matt got nothing out of it beyond a good spar.

When he finished, he waited with the others for Aster to finish off her remaining opponent, finally letting them break free of the ice she was terrorizing them with.

“These guys are no fun. Not even low-level elites.” Her comment made the collective group of shivering Tier 30s cringe.

Liz stood forward as her clones stepped back into herself seamlessly. “We are fine with letting both sides go or even repair here after we loot the place. We just want the most valuable item in your cargo or the following five most expensive items. As you guys fought well enough, we will let you pick but if we don’t believe you we are going to go looking for ourselves.”

All three crews must have been expecting something similar as, while they looked upset, they didn’t resist when their leaders offered items. They easily could have asked for more. Most of the time, winning teams, who didn’t simply slaughter the losers to take everything, demanded the right to take half of the gathered loot at their discretion, if not more.

Them demanding the single most valuable item was painful but still a good deal for the teams this early into the breach.

One of the Collective’s ships offered a Tier 7 Natural Treasure mote of light that felt like it would make illusions stronger if Aster’s guess was correct.

