“You've been on the payroll for how long now?” Ren asked. “Shouldn't you be getting another check soon?”

Elerlyth didn't say anything, and Ren sighed.

“Don't tell me you spent it already.”

“No, of course not.” Elerlyth said. “The problem is, I... I don't want to spend it.”

Ren smiled as he moved her black hair out of the way and kissed the back of her neck. “You've been so frugal all your life, you don't know how to splurge?”

“I bought some new circuit boards, and a few chips to test out.” Elerlyth said.

“That doesn't count.” Ren said. “Give the receipts to Stella and she'll add it to the budget and reimburse you.”

“But...”

“No buts.” Ren said and used a hand to grab hers.

“Hey!” Elerlyth said and rolled over, to see a huge smile on his face. “I thought you said I had a great butt!”

“It's absolutely wonderful.” Ren said as he grabbed it with both hands and rolled onto his back to put her on top. “Now sit up and turn around so I can enjoy watching it while you have fun.”

Elerlyth laughed and sat up, which pressed her private part onto Ren's private part, then she turned around to face away from him and sat back down onto him.

“Like this you mean?” Elerlyth asked and looked back at him over her shoulder.

“Up on your knees a little.” Ren said, and she moved up and he positioned himself. “Okay, sit.”

Elerlyth moaned as they joined again, and it felt much sharper this time. “Oh, god.”

“Have fun.” Ren said. When she didn't start to move, he grabbed her hips and started moving her up and down himself.

“N-no, wait!” Elerlyth said. “I wanted to... to feel... oh, god... oh, god... oh god!” She couldn't think anymore and lost herself to the sensations. It took about 20 minutes before she collapsed onto the bed beside him, completely spent. She had felt so good that nothing else had entered her mind while they were going at it.

“Did you have fun?” Ren asked, and she nodded several times. “In real life, I can't lift you like that.” He said, and she put a hand on his chest, and tenderly caressed it. “Other than that, it's almost the same.”

“A-almost?” Elerlyth asked.

“It takes a heck of a lot longer to clean up afterwards.” Ren said, and she laughed.

“Can you imagine having a storage system like an inventory in real life?” Elerlyth asked. “The cleaning industry would almost completely die out overnight!”

Ren chuckled. “That would be a tragedy, especially since it would remove the fun of showering together.”

“Even after having fun in bed?”

“I usually have to sit down in the shower, and that puts me at the right height for... you know.”

“Yeah, your favorite thing.”

“Hey, I can't help it.” Ren said. “The look of it. The feel of it.” He smiled. “Even the taste.”

Elerlyth chuckled. “I don't know why you like it so much.”

“Once I discovered the joy of it, I just can't get enough of it.”

Eerlyth frowned. “You didn't do it at all tonight.”

“That's because this wasn't for me.” Ren said and moved her hand from his chest and sat up. “Get dressed, and let's go find that stupid ass that nearly drained you.”

“Ren, I... I want you to...”

“We don't have time for me to indulge like that.” Ren said as he stood up and equipped his platinum armor. “You know I would camp out and just stay there for hours if you'd let me.” He grinned and put on the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and stored the chair. “Right now, though... we're in the High Elven Kingdom, and I would bet my left nut there's a doorway to the Underworld close by.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh as she stood up and equipped her bodysuit and armor. “Your left nut?”

“I like the right one more.” Ren joked, and she laughed.

“I don't want you to bet either one.” Elerlyth said and touched his cheek. “I haven't used them as much as I want, yet.”

Ren smiled and led her downstairs to the door, and they left the tower on a mission.
