His throat drier than the most desiccated of deserts, Gen stared daggers into Jianghong’s back, envisioning slicing his would-be brother’s throat and drinking the sweet nectar which poured out. The human body held more blood than Gen would have believed possible, enough to sate his thirst for days if rationed well. Then there was the meat, tender, succulent flesh wrapped around sturdy bone, concealing creamy, mouthwatering marrow in its delicious centre. If he was careful, Jianghong’s skin would make for a comfortable poncho, shielding him from the caustic environment for days until the wind and stone stripped it bare. It’d be poetic in a way, the older brother sheltering the younger even unto death, a grand, touching gesture.

Even if it wasn’t by choice.

Better, actually. It’d be more satisfying that way.

Just as Gen was about to make his move, Jianghong stopped in his tracks and hissed for silence. Dropping all notions of infighting, Gen acted as the circumstances dictated, stepping close to Jianghong while scanning their surroundings. His enhanced sight saw nothing of note, only dark shapes and darker shadows stretching on into infinity around them. Even with Jianghong at his elbow, he could barely make out a hazy silhouette, his claws outstretched and prepared for anything from treachery to ambush.

Yield.

Surprised by the voice’s improved vocabulary, Gen took his stance and bared his teeth, searching left and right for the unseen foe. Yield your mother, he was the Emissary of Flame, Chosen of the Heavens, and he would yield to no one. Drawing on the last of his reserves, Gen grinned and set the world aflame.

Light flooded the plains and revealed the shocked gazes of strangers barely two strides away, their skin blackening in an instant as they met their deaths. A shame, they would have been so delicious, but there were many more to be killed. Howling with glee, he leapt over the burning carcasses and readied to meet his foe.

YIELD

Gen’s mind exploded with pain at the emphatic demand, driving him to his knees as he screamed in denial. “I will not yield!”

Over and over Gen repeated the words, a mantra to soothe his troubled mind. Time passed and he found himself in the darkness once more, slung across a beast of burden like a sack of rice. As soon as he twitched, a sharp point dug into the soft flesh of his neck, a guttural voice uttering a string of incomprehensible words, but the intent was clear. Struggle, and die. Flee, and die. Fight, and die.

With no other choice, Gen bided his time, listening for clues and searching for opportunity, but it was all for naught. The weapon remained pressed against throat, his captor fearful of Gen’s prowess and leaving nothing to chance. Soon, their journey was at an end and a calloused hand pulled Gen off the foul-smelling creature and dragged him to his fate. Eighty-five footsteps later, Gen’s captor freed him without warning. So shocked by his sudden release, he almost missed his chance to act. Summoning the flames, he found himself encircled by all manner of deformed creatures lying in wait, their glowing eyes adjusting to the light in a fraction of a second.

Demons. Not one or two Demons, not ten or twelve Demons, but dozens of them, hundreds even. Unnaturally still, their forms stretched out beyond the range of his flames, the dark shadows hiding even more of their kin. Their combined attentions made Gen woozy with fear and excitement as he gazed upon their magnificence, taking in the sight of pure power given flesh.

“Good, good.” A hoarse, grating voice spoke, shocking Gen out of his stupor as he searched for the source. “Little worm, this Sovereign sees you’ve found the truth, treading the razor’s edge between surrender and resistance, taking power without being controlled by it. To reach this on your own, talent and luck, talent and luck. A shame. A hundred years too young and too late, else you might solve this Sovereign’s issues. Earth’s Fire to counter Sky’s Water, how fitting, but a worm is still a worm, no matter how lucky or talented. Not yet a dragon, not even a snake.”

The light of Gen’s fire finally landed on the speaker, an ancient, wizened old man sat amidst the sea of Demons. Sickly in appearance, his wispy, white strands of hair dangled over empty eye sockets which saw too much, unimpeded by his pointed, crooked nose. Broken and twisted, his torso sat entombed inside a scorpion shaped Demon, leaving only his head and shoulders uncovered in an unnatural melding of man and Demon. “A confluence of chance and calamity here in the north,” the creature continued, “Little bird falters and fails, plummeting from on high. Predator usurps devourer, turning this Sovereign's piece against him. Butchers stumble and disappoint. Hidden lords emerge from hiding, while worthless allies are too cowardly to face them. Worst of all, the hateful rain saps away this Sovereign's strength. Too many surprises, too many variables, too many unknowns. Unacceptable losses if met head on, a reshuffling of the board is called for, a reevaluation of tactics. No matter, no matter, time is not something this Sovereign lacks. You, little worm, will learn as we journey west and south, enough time for you to grow. Yes, you will learn, little worm, and you will grow, or you will die. Such is life.”

Enthralled by the bottomless abyss contained within those empty sockets, Gen saw oblivion. “Who are you,” he asked, as his fires sputtered out and died.

“The Empire calls me heretic. These children call me Master. Those misguided fools call me Uniter.” With every word, his voice grew closer and closer until his hot breath brushed against Gen’s ear. “You, you call me... Mentor.”

Chapter Meme
