In fact, the [Chef] was beaming nervously as he stood behind the bar. Mrsha, Ceria, and Snapjaw, all big eaters, stared at a sign next to the Goblin.
 
Omelets upon request. Please select spice level and toppings*.
*The Wandering Inn and staff are not accountable for any injuries arising due to excessive spice levels which invalidate the [Chef]’s [Hot Enough For You] Skill.
 
Omelets? Kevin smacked his lips as he eyed a mound of toppings ready to go into an equally obscene number of eggs, some already beaten and waiting to go into a pan.
“Ladies and gentlemen—please help yourselves. Today, we will be opening the inn for a small fee to anyone who wants to come in. No menus, no ordering; eat your fill.”
Lyonette’s eyes glittered with the avarice of someone who had discovered the secrets of buffet income. She gestured to the food.
“This is the, ah, breakfast buffet. We will have more formal meals later. For now, if you wish to look for activities, we have a list of every activity by time of day. Now, we cannot tell when the Antinium army and Brigadier Forount will enter their cities, but they have given us estimates. And we do have a parade for our adventurers as well! If you would like to go anywhere, be aware that the door will be in use all day. So Miss Liska will not be able to accommodate personal requests. Aside from that? I hope you enjoy! We have begun with magical illusions courtesy of Illusionist Palt and several [Mages] of Invrisil.”
It was then that Mrsha began to get a good feeling about today. And not just because she was eying the cakes.
She only noticed that Drassi was there with a small camera crew when she looked around. The Drake was broadcasting the moment! And…Mrsha realized something else.
Everyone was here. In fact, there were people staring in through the windows! And a line outdoors! Liska was, in fact, already letting people in, but they had to get through Alcaz first.
“Ten silver coins? That’s a ripoff!”
Relc stared in horror at the man as he tried to get into the inn’s common room. The rest of the inn, such as it was, the long hallway and portal room, were open to the general public. But to get in for breakfast?
“It may be, sir, but you’re getting the friend-of-the-inn discount. 50% off.”
“I am? Well, uh—here’s ten silver, then.”
Relc heard groans from behind him as he fumbled for coins. A lot of prospective guests peeled off instantly, and that was how Imani realized how Lyonette intended to make a profit on the sumptuous buffet.
She walked right past Alcaz without paying; she’d made a number of dishes! The Brother assured the other disappointed guests they’d be able to come back later.
“If you can’t make the breakfast buffet, we’ll have menus and even some free food later on today, sirs and madams. If you need a place to go—there’s a list of open establishments right here. And maps. Don’t take the map, please, sir.”
The inn was hopping, and everyone was there. In fact, a bleary witch, Nanette, was staring around at all the faces filing in.
A blue-scaled Drake was about to pay for an Antinium with a poofy hat when Garry was admitted, free-of-charge. After all, he had baked all three cakes.
Erin Solstice and even Imani had no time to bake a three-layer cake frosted with strawberry, vanilla, and lemon, a shortcake infused with acid flies—and clearly marked as such—and an experimental cheesecake with actual…cheese…
The point was that Garry was there. So was Olesm and more people that Mrsha knew were coming in. Venaz, Merrik, Wil, and even people from Invrisil! Like the Halfseekers, including Maughin!
Pelt, the Silver Swords—who were guests who’d been sleeping above—and a drooling Lehra. A few people were absent, like Qwera and Ysara, who were getting ready for a full day of sales and had no time for leisurely breakfasts, and Palt, who was coordinating the illusions.
In fact, Mrsha was so engrossed in watching the illusion spells that she didn’t even eat breakfast until someone handed her a breakfast burrito.
“Psst. Mrsha. You want me to put in an omelet order? You’d better hurry—my man Calescent’s on six pans, but he’s getting orders from everyone.”
Mrsha glanced over as a screaming Wyvern conjured by a spell ran into a hail of fireworks. Kevin stared out the window and whistled.
“Dude. Fireworks are a bit more impressive in the bang and explosions, but they can’t touch great illusion spells. Joseph, Imani, look at this!”
Mrsha took the piping hot burrito and found it was filled with, among other things, bacon and saffron rice. She began gobbling, then reconsidered and took slow bites.
One must savor this food.
Kevin was impressed by Mrsha’s slow pace. He was eating cake already, but he nearly spat out the cheesecake.
“Whoa. Does this have actual cheese in it? I don’t mean cottage cheese or ricotta—there’s brie in here. That’s…a taste. So what do you want?”
Mrsha scribbled down her order, and Kevin ran it off to Calescent. And this was how the day was starting?
Promising, promising. The people peering through the windows clearly thought so too, but a gold coin?
Lyonette had calculated the fiscal economics of the food she had put out. She had reasoned that even if you got the rare Relc, who could take down expensive food nonstop, or Moore, the other guests would overpay by a generous margin for breakfast. There was a limit to how much they could eat. Eggs were copper coins; if you filled up on Calescent’s ‘fancy’ omelets, chomped down two burgers, and had a slice of cake, you might pay, oh, eight silver, and that was a twelve silver win.
What made Lyonette sweat was Snapjaw, Moore, and, again, Relc. So even friends of the inn had to pay to get at the buffet. Most didn’t care, like Ceria, who practically tossed a handful of gold coins at Ishkr to elbow Kevin out of the way for her omelet order.
“Are those shrimp? From a port-city?”
Calescent hesitated. Ceria was pointing to some artfully arranged on a separate platter. Mrsha was sniffing them suspiciously.
“Yah.”
“Put them in. Alright, I’m going to want double whatever you thought you had for cheese, pieces of salami, uh—uh—slice up some green onions and peppers, and then you can put in some steak or other pieces of meat. Give me your ‘almost painfully spicy’ option, and can you put some ketchup and mayo on the side?”
Calescent stared at the half-Elf. She stared back, deadpan, and Lyonette looked over in concern. Would this new member of the staff rise to the occasion…?
Calescent eyed the pans he’d set up on the portable stove. He walked away from Ceria, into the kitchen, and came back with a wok. Then he poured in eight eggs without breaking eye-contact.
The [Cryomancer] smiled.
 
——
 
Among the people not smiling was the sniffing Gnoll who was almost in tears. Mrsha heard him outside and saw no less than Ekirra.
“T-ten silver coins? I don’t have enough!”
He looked heartbroken, and a concerned Alcaz was looking around for Lyonette. Mrsha reached for her bag of holding and realized it was upstairs. She was just about to tell Alcaz to let her friend in on credit when someone slapped two gold coins into the man’s hand.
“Let the kid in. Hey, and that’s for me’n Temile! And Miss Drake here.”
Grev, bold as could be, strode past Alcaz as Temile walked in along with Visma and Ekirra. He nodded to Mrsha and fixed his eyes on the food. Visma ran over as Ekirra brightened up.
“Grev! You needn’t do that—how many gold coins do you have?”
Temile was slightly scandalized, but Grev just rolled another coin over his fingers. The former street urchin winked at Temile and the people behind him.
“I’m a Player of Celum; Jasi sends me back lots of the profits. It pays to be a generous person on the streets. I’m a Face, aren’t I?”
“Oh, you’re the face of something. Hello, Mrsha—what a feast! Is that cake, uh…I may just take a slice or two back to the others. They’re all setting up.”
Temile headed for the cake, and Mrsha turned to Grev. She remembered him vaguely from Celum, but she hadn’t known him as long as Erin had. While Lyonette had taken care of her, Grev had been Erin’s ‘friend’ in Celum who had turned into an actual one after he’d stopped trying to mug her.
“Hey, it’s Nanette, right? The [Witch]? Whatcha doing today, Mrsha?”
The girl shrugged. She grabbed Nanette’s hand as the witch tipped her chef’s hat and greeted Grev.
“I’m not a [Witch] anymore. Just…a witch without a class.”
Grev grinned.
“That’s weird, but okay. Hey, maybe you can star in Macbeth if one of the [Actors] gets sick.”
Nanette had no context for that, and Grev was wandering off anyways. She looked around as Mrsha tugged Ekirra and Visma over to a table.
“That’s a lot of strange food, Mrsha. Can you recommend me something?”
Of course, of course. Ekirra, the omelets! Visma, get some of the mana candies! In that bowl! Nanette, you should try…a pizza!
Mrsha was showing the witch all the various foods, mainly by telling her what they were made of. When they were sitting down at a table, they all had full plates of food. But the four children would not be out of company for long.
“Mrsha? Do you want to sit together? Oh, hello there.”
Visma looked up as a shadow loomed over her and squeaked. Even though she knew Moore, he had that effect on people. The half-Giant instantly retreated, but Mrsha practically ran to bring his custom chair over, and he sat with more food than all the children combined. Ekirra’s mouth dropped as the half-Giant showed Mrsha his food.
“Miss Lyonette was very kind. She prepared an entire roasted chicken and food enough to fill me all day!”
The cynical Mrsha eyed the huge mound of pancakes, the roast chicken, the vast quantity of goat’s milk, and other slightly cheaper options for the half-Giant. But Moore seemed delighted, and so he sat with the children. Visma looked very nervous, as if Moore might fall on her, and Mrsha realized she hadn’t even eaten with the half-Giant much. Moore looked nervous of scaring her and tried not to open his mouth much as he introduced himself to Nanette.
Ekirra didn’t care. He was already face-deep in his own omelet—no spice, he had trauma—but Moore was saved from awkwardness by the arrival of more breakfast partners.
“Oh, Moore! Wailant, you sit with Mister Himilt and don’t talk his ear off about business. Today is a day of celebration.”
Viceria Strongheart came over as her husband and Himilt walked in. Then, almost as fast, Gire appeared with what Mrsha realized was an entire pizza—stacked onto her plate.
Different slices, to be fair, but you could organize them into an entire pizza. Between her and Moore, the table was groaning with food, and Ekirra almost choked trying to compete with the two giants.
“Are you Mrsha’s friend too? I’m Gireulashia. Ah—your road is long, half-Giant friend.”
Gire bowed very respectfully, and Moore smiled.
“Our stride is ever longer. You know half-Giant greetings?”
“I studied them. We met a few half-Giants. Are you…with any of the last clans?”
Moore shook his head, but he was so pleased that he and Gire shook hands, and Mrsha sighed in relief. Gire wasn’t nearly as jealous as she had been of Nanette.
Meanwhile, the witch was quite taken with Apista, who was nibbling at some syrup. She had not, in fact, met the bee, and Mrsha was glad she hadn’t freaked out.
“She’s so cute, Mrsha! For a bug.”
“You’re not afraid of her?”
Ekirra looked impressed. Nanette shrugged.
“A pet is a pet, and I’ve met Sephraic. He eats eyes—dead animals’ eyes, mainly. He’s a giant raven. All of Witch Mavika’s familiars are scarier.”
Apista fanned her wings approvingly as Nanette gently stroked her body. Why, another connoisseur of removing eyes from people? This raven sounded like an ally!
Mrsha’s own omelet appeared, courtesy of Ishkr, and she beamed at the stuffed omelet.
“What’s inside, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll investigated and found exactly what she’d ordered. Bacon and fish sauce! And cheese, of course. Ekirra sniffed at the omelet and wrinkled his nose.
“Ew. Gross. You put fish sauce in your food?”
Mrsha jabbed him with a fork. She didn’t want to hear that from someone who had put ketchup on his omelet!
 
——
 
As the children squabbled in the background, Drassi committed her first sin as a reporter. Which was unwitting; she was showing the merry inn and commentating at the same time.
“Now, folks, you can see that all the drama of yesterday is mostly gone, and it seems like a really fantastic start to a day of celebration! I’ll be taking you on tour of Liscor most of the day, but I will, sadly, be going back to the studio to cover other segments. However, please send a [Message] into the show and let us know how you rate this celebration or what you’d eat! Now, I’m going to try this…drink. Coffee, from Oteslia, drunk a certain way on advice of Coach Joseph himself!”
She nodded at Joseph, who was sitting with Imani and the others.
“If it tastes horrible I dump it on his head. Okay! You take a big mug of coffee—I love this stuff, by the way. You think tea wakes you up? This is like a stamina potion but without the taste! Then, according to Joseph, and I think this is almost criminal, instead of milk or sugar, you take a scoop of ice cream or gelato…”
She took an entire scoop of ice cream and put it into the mug. It began melting at once, and Drassi sniffed.
“Oh, that does look good. Now, what can we get to eat? I see a Goblin making omelets, and yes—that’s weird, even around here. Can a Goblin make a good omelet? Your [Reporter] is going to find out.”
 
——
 
Among the many complaints written into the show about featuring a Goblin, which put a lot of watchers off their breakfast, even more were about Drassi’s attitude itself.
Which was, namely, how dare you make me hungry? Especially if other people had to eat anything less fun than the spread she was showing off.
In fact, no less than Earl Altestiel was penning a missive on behalf of the Lord of the Dance and himself. They had been having a quite civilized meal of toasted bread and jam, whereupon they had planned on recreating some of Erin’s games and perhaps sparring in the dueling courts.
“‘…find your display of food quite upsetting to my stomach, and I am now forced to make my own omelet. Sincerely, A Hungry Earl.’ How does that sound, Lord Bel?”
The Lord of the Dance stared pensively at the ceiling as Kiish and a [Chef] hovered in the background. He nodded to himself thoughtfully as he stared at the scrying orb.
“…Sautéed oyster mushrooms, some common pork sausage, and an avocado on the side. Write that in.”
