“A [Supporter]? What kind of class is that?”
He was waving at the other adventurers and staring at the Goblin on the tower. But all of the people sitting there, adventurers and other classes, were eying the Antinium. In fact—the [Crusaders] were shuddering yet standing tall as if they were about to go into battle.
Because some of the people sitting there were giving them true stares of banked hostility. And if they weren’t all adventurers…
Garia Strongheart choked. She grabbed Fierre’s arm as the two of them stood in the crowd, and the Vampire gulped.
“Fierre! Fierre! It’s her! It’s her! I thought she never left First Landing except to murder Ryoka!”
“I see her. I see her—and look! Salamani!”
A Courier was sitting at a table near the central one. A white-maned horse was chewing on a salad placed for her. Couriers—Salamani and Ci.
They were guests at this inn. What kind of Courier didn’t know The Adventurer’s Haven and sit there? But it was her, the woman sitting with her friends, who was staring death at the Antinium. She coughed—but among her friends, she looked younger.
Mihaela Godfrey tapped one foot to the beat. She searched the crowds for Ryoka Griffin, but she didn’t see her. And her eyes focused once again, looking for that other one. Erin Solstice.
Or Klbkch the Slayer. Izril’s Courier narrowed her eyes. She lifted a cup to her mouth, but didn’t drink.
“Cheer up, Mihaela. We can put Deni in a headlock again later. It’ll entertain the crowds.”
Colth tried to cheer her up. Mihaela just grunted as the Named-rank glared at her.
“We have a reputation to maintain in public.”
“You have a reputation. And your dyed hair, you insecure poser. Do you dye your nethers as well or is that the surprise for all those adoring fans of yours?”
Mihaela didn’t even turn her head, but her shot hit Deni and turned him red and speechless. Colth started laughing as Eld tried not to snort.
“Mihaela, now?”
“Come on, Deni. Spill the beans. Dyed or not? Take off your pants and show the world. Ten thousand gold says you won’t.”
Colth was egging him on. The outraged [Violinist] turned his head and narrowed his eyes.
“I don’t want to hear that from a thirty-year old virgin.”
The [Supporter] lost his smile and frowned. Instantly, Mihaela turned and kicked him. Eldertuin smacked Deni’s other shoulder.
“Low blow.”
“My dyed hair isn’t?”
“You’re older. Show some decency.”
“I’ll rent out every brothel in Invrisil. Colth has chosen his—state of affairs.”
Salamani was trying not to laugh. Mihaela shot him a glare, and he adopted a smooth face—but Ci was rolling her eyes. The people in the center table being exclaimed over? They were just stupid kids.
“I’ve never met anyone I liked.”
“You were engaged to one of Izril’s most eligible bachelorettes.”
Deni hissed at Colth, and the [Supporter] turned his head.
“It didn’t work out. She’s happily married with a child on the way.”
“And how did you not once—”
“A gentleman doesn’t say. Act your age, Deni.”
The crowd was cheering them. Mihaela threw elbows, and both Colth and Deni winced.
“Sit up. Larra’s going to kill us.”
They all did, and Viecel muttered sidelong to the others.
“Those Antinium are giving me the creeps. I haven’t seen them since the last Antinium War. And that inn serves them?”
“Play. Nice.”
Since it was Mihaela who said it through gritted teeth, the others fell silent. Some of the other adventurers sitting at the tables were eying the Horns. One muttered.
“Halfseekers. I know them. Viecel, you know their leader?”
“Jelaqua Ivirith? Good Selphid from home. That’s speciesist, asking me if I know her.”
Viecel was flipping a coin up and down compulsively. He grimaced as he checked the face. The other Gold-rank lifted his hands defensively.
“I’m just asking.”
The [Gambler] flipped the coin again as he tossed a gold coin into the tips jar sitting on the table next to him with a sigh.
“She’s upstanding. Be nice to her or I’ll kick you harder than Mihaela does when she’s drunk.”
“Damn, fine. Do I have to be nice to the [Necromancer] too? Which one is he?”
“White robes. Some people say he’s a Silver-bell. We’ll see.”
Deni looked up. Mihaela turned to him, and she saw him feel at his neck. The bandage that was the only thing saving him from losing too much blood—an enchanted axe had struck him.
Kraken Eater’s tribe. She remembered getting the news and wondering if she’d have to attend another funeral. They had so few bodies. Too many paintings in Larra’s inn. She looked at the two members of Orchestra and spoke.
“…We should have put out a call, not let Larra do it. Made an even bigger show.”
Colth shrugged.
“She said she’s not here to compete with The Wandering Inn. Just make an impression.”
“So we should have done it for her. Called in the others. Like Loud Lad.”
Instantly, Deni and his teammate, Gores, with the trumpet, turned hostile. The two members of Orchestra crossed their arms.
“If he was here, we wouldn’t be. We’re quits, Mihaela.”
“Still?”
Deni turned his head.
“Merdon’s got steady work guarding the Healer of Tenbault. Hah, well, ‘guarding’. I heard he couldn’t even stop a single Goblin tribe. Wouldn’t be surprised if she canceled on him.”
Viecel leaned over to murmur behind a gloved hand.
“Didn’t he just get spanked by Xrn? I bet you loved that.”
“I won’t deny it was funny to see him lose. His team’s cheap. He never got why Orchestra works together.”
Deni smiled viciously as Mihaela kept her tongue silent. A rarity, for her. It felt like she could remember the day when the nervous young man, a Bronze-rank, was introduced to her. Loud Lad—because of his voice, you see?
By the time Orchestra became a Named-rank group, he was a fixture. Until he got too big and became a Named-rank after a fight that blew out every window in the inn and half the eardrums of everyone present.
Ancient history. Just like her son, which no one brought up. Just like all the names.
Colth was still the kid, despite being thirty years old, and Deni still bullied him. Despite his numerous relationships and celebrity status.
The world’s greatest [Supporter]. He was already gone from the table. Of course he was. Larra would kill him later. He couldn’t help it. He was partly his class.
So he was down there, playing with Barnethei and the band, taking over one of the drums and playing with one of the staff. As good—perhaps better than the Haven’s staff, who were musically gifted.
But he was the supporter. If he squared up with Eldertuin against a mob, he could go hand-to-hand against the biggest Hobs. If he ran with Mihaela, he kept up.
She still remembered the day he’d become Named-rank. And she hadn’t been there.
 
——
 
His sword had snapped a long time ago. So he was holding a claw he’d snapped off the last Cericel, the blood-frenzied beasts that hunted in packs.
An alpha pack of them. No Scourgequeen—but a dozen competing Fangs and three times that many underlings.
More than one team was supposed to handle, let alone a single Gold-rank team. But they were on the path to Named-rank, right? Beatist’s Brawlers, and he knew them.
He knew them all. Izril’s [Supporter]—a Silver-rank. Deni kept telling him that he was Gold-rank at least, but the Adventurer’s Guild didn’t know what to make of a man who only got better if he was partnered with someone else.
Out of mana. Out of potions. But Beatist’s Brawlers fought with their fists. So did he. Colth buried the tooth again in the empty eye socket he’d gouged out and realized—the Cericel Fangbeast was dead.
He pushed it off him, grateful for the Skills and strength to fight them off.
“Boss. Boss—let’s get the rest.”
The pack was running off. Colth was gasping for air, almost vomiting with exhaustion. How many of the team were left? There were eight of them. His blood was running, but if one Fangbeast were left, he and Beatist could take it down.
He looked around at the fallen bodies. The world’s greatest [Supporter] raised his fists, but all he saw were slumped bodies, broken skulls.
“Boss?”
He walked around, pushing bodies aside. Calling and calling, dragging bodies out and trying to heal them. By the time backup arrived, he was still in denial. He carried his friend and captain’s body to the [Healer].
“He’s got to be alive. I’m the support. He’s…”
Then Colth looked around and realized he was the last one who’d made it.
 
——
 
That was the day they made him Named-rank. Mihaela’s eyes lingered on Colth as she remembered that old story that she had pieced together.
Colth lied. He was a better liar than most thought, and he’d told the guild that the Brawlers had killed most of the monsters. The truth, Mihaela and the Guildmasters believed, was different.
His team had never really been strong Gold-ranks. They had fallen in the first minute of the engagement. The real power behind the team had killed all the Cericel.
They all had stories like that. Each and every one of them. Larra herself—they were all adventurers and Runners from the old days, and here the new days were, staring at them.
Goblins, a white Gnoll girl, Drakes, and Antinium. The Guildmistress rubbed at one eye and sighed to the others.
“We’re old. And you’re growing bald, Deni.”
“Would you stop saying that?”
He felt at his hair as the inn slowly began to lower. The cheering hadn’t stopped, and the band was marching themselves at the wagons. In fact, the inn was waiting as the one with the [Princess] and the [Innkeeper] slowly rolled forwards.
“What a monster.”
It was Colth who said that, panting as he climbed back up to their seats. Everyone looked at him, and he nodded ahead.
“I heard she hit Level 40+. What a monster. It took Larra decades to get to her level.”
“Well, she’s the second-best [Innkeeper] in Izril.”
Mihaela bristled with all the pride in the world for her friend. That was why she was here and why she’d ridden the damn slow inn all this way. Because…she looked at the other adventurers. They stared at the High Passes and what lay behind them.
An [Innkeeper] with a magic door. <Quests>. The group stirred, and a final figure slowly floated past them on another dais surrounding the main one. The slowly-turning building revealed a woman reading a book and trying not to throw up.
“Valley. Valley, what are you doing?”
“Oh, hello, Mihaela. It’s quite noisy out here, isn’t it? [Silence].”
The woman waved a wand vaguely, and Eld slapped his forehead. He had to raise his voice so she heard.
“No, you were supposed to be here. Valley—Valeterisa!”
The Archmage of Izril sat there, in the library building, just like the absent-minded [Mage] who would wander around the inn and disappear for ages. Eight years, this time.
And she had a kid. Well—an apprentice. Montressa nervously tugged Valeterisa’s arm, looking horrified by the angry Named-ranks and Couriers. Valeterisa looked up and blinked.
“Oh, the seating, the seats. Yes, here I am.”
She pointed and popped onto a seat next to Mihaela. She pretended not to be reading under the table as the Courier glared at her. She debated kicking Valeterisa, but even now, Valeterisa would just ask, ‘why did you do that?’
So she just stood instead. Valeterisa sat there until Eldertuin tugged her up. Then they were walking down a ramp as Barnethei joined them. One of the smaller daises rose—and then they were floating forwards, towards a young woman.
And Mihaela wondered who she was. She only knew one thing. Ryoka Griffin’s friend. She bristled—but Erin Solstice wasn’t looking at her.
Larra was watching the young woman.
 
——
 
“They’re coming this way. Oh, dead gods, I’m going to faint!”
Jelaqua squeaked at the others.
The Named-ranks, the Couriers, and the other high-level guests of The Adventurer’s Haven were standing. They must be what the Horns were to The Wandering Inn.
Friends. The oldest, the realest guests of the [Innkeeper]. And they were assembling. In fact, the group of Couriers and Adventurers gave way for one of the [Lords] to step forwards.
To the rest of the world, they were the legends of the north. Pisces couldn’t take his eyes off Deniusth. And the famous duelist was looking at him.
“He’s just got a gold bell. So? That’s like a [Spearmaster]. I can take him. Let me just get another spear. Klb can back me up.”
Relc was eying Deniusth and flexing one claw. Ceria gave him a disbelieving look.
“He’s not just a Gold-bell duelist, Relc! He’s—one of the conquerors of Chalence!”
“Okay?”
The Drake gave her a blank look and Selys looked aghast.
“Relc, even you have to know that name! Chalence? The dungeon two decades back?”
“You weren’t even a kid back then!”
“Yes, but—the teams came away with four million gold coins! They all became the richest adventurers—that’s one of the Named-rank adventurers who did that!”
Relc’s mouth fell open.
“Six million gold coins?”
Chalence, what an old name! Yet it came to everyone’s lips, and then—Relc looked past Deniusth and he stilled.
“Yeah. I don’t know about him, but I remember her. Izril’s Courier. Hero of the First Antinium Wars.”
Mihaela Godfrey. The Antinium shivered. Because they knew her name. She was walking side-by-side with Eldertuin the Fortress and the people who’d become the most famous names of their generation.
Not even just adventurers.
Lord Erill Fienst, the [Merchant Lord], stepped into place with the others. He had been just a [Trader] when he first visited the inn. Just like Valeterisa had once been a student of Wistram, reading books under the table while nibbling on the free bread. They looked up, and The Wandering Inn’s side saw stories.
The Adventurer’s Haven’s friends and guests saw a reflection.
The [Vice Innkeeper] lowered his horn, handed it to one of the other staff members, and joined the group on the dais.
They were approaching Erin Solstice. Half of them had auras, and Lyonette felt her hands grow clammy. As surprise attacks went—
She looked around desperately, but Erin Solstice was just peering into that group. The staff were flanking the guests. An elderly woman was handing Barnethei what looked like a notecard, another member of staff. Mihaela was staring at her and—
And the [Innkeeper] was waiting. Erin felt goosebumps on her flesh, but not hostility. She was just—curious.
She thought she understood something, but before she could move, someone spoke.
“We should get out of the wagon. Come on—Ceria, don’t make an ice ramp. We’ll slip off.”
Erin started and looked around. Then she saw someone by her side. Jelaqua Ivirith grinned at her.
“What are we doing? Aw—come on, guys.”
