They’d heard she was giving out free hugs.
 
——
 
Watching Mrsha run from city to city, often with splurges of coin and her friends bouncing from attraction to attraction, was mildly horrifying to anyone who might have observed how much gold she had to spend. Or her celebrity status—or the poor bodyguards.
Actually, it was more than just a temporary issue. Just like Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings made for poor bodyguards, the [Knights] were not all-encompassing child experts. They could provide for a lot of needs, but they were still there to keep someone safe, rather than raise them completely.
“Do they…do they not have teachers in Liscor? I mean, [Teachers]? Is this still all apprenticeships? Surely they have some for children too small to work, right? Right?”
It seemed incredible, but Celum had none, and neither did Liscor, not that Shassa could see. As for Invrisil?
Since Nalthaliarstrelous had so much gold, she decided to poke her head into the City of Adventurers too. The [Druid] had to admit, it was shocking to see Mrsha and the children running around. Oteslia had [Teachers] and [Minders] who led groups of young Drakes and Gnolls around the city and filled their days. Why, even she’d done that, teaching them how to garden.
What a strange city, but then, not everywhere was Oteslia. Shassa was poking around Invrisil and saw nothing like a teacher in the brief time she was about. And interestingly…less celebrations here.
Oh, there was definitely a feeling of celebration in the air, but Invrisil was less active than both Celum and Liscor, having sent some of their best performers over. Shassa noticed it, and Mrsha definitely noticed it as she galloped into the back of the Drake.
“Ow! Excuse me, Miss!”
Mrsha backed up and hastily flashed a ‘Sorry’ card at Shassa, but the Drake stopped her.
“Running around without looking where you’re going is very inconsiderate. And a quick sorry is not enough. May I receive a formal apology? You needn’t run everywhere in crowds—you may dodge around people, but you’re making them jump.”
Chastened, Mrsha wrote a formal apology, and the little children promised not to run so fast. Shassa nodded and then saw them looking around in dismay.
 
——
 
Hey, there aren’t any cool things over here! What gives?
Mrsha was put out by the lack of full fanfare and wonderful chaos. Oh, there were some performers like a [Bard] putting out a song commemorating the victory at Orefell, and people were certainly having fun.
“Adventure Room! Enter the Adventure Room and fight monsters and seek great mysteries! Become the [Adventurer] you always wanted to be! No danger, all thrills! Free trial!”
Mrsha’s ears perked up as she saw a young [Mage] calling out an advertisement—but the line was long, and as she looked about, she saw more signs that Invrisil was sort of festive, but not enough.
“We’ve got Liscor themed treats here! Spider Succulents, Rock Crab muffins, and all kinds of goods! Even cookies!”
Ekirra tugged Mrsha over to a likely bakery, but it was all paid goods and expensive. Mrsha put her hands on her hips.
Where was the free food? Where were the parties? She had been here to celebrate with the Players of Celum, and she knew they could throw wild stuff.
It seemed, though, that the Mayor of Invrisil was a bit more cautious, or perhaps the local vendors were. Spending a bunch of money to hopefully attract even more business made sense—if you weren’t competing with two other cities, though. Especially with a finite door’s worth of mana for teleportation.
However, Mrsha didn’t care about that. She just wanted a party for the Antinium and Humans and adventurers. She knew for a fact that the Horns and the other teams would do a small parade through here later today, and if this was what they got, they needn’t bother!
Heck, even Numbtongue was preparing for a few songs with the band—Kevin and Octavia, and he’d enlisted a few other people to play other instruments. Even Bird was going to sing!
Mrsha just knew that Lyonette had probably decided to focus on Liscor and probably didn’t know Invrisil wasn’t living up to snuff. It occurred to Mrsha that…she could do something.
Why not? Again, Shassa’s fears bore fruit as Mrsha du Marquin thought about how she, the [Emperor]-hobnobbing, important Mrsha Doomgirl, who was famous, could just nip into the Mayor’s office and make some deals.
Why not walk into the Adventurer’s Guild backrooms and assert some Ksmvr-style dominance? She was rubbing her paws together and formulating a plan when she had a thought.
An odd thought in the back of her head, as new to her as clothing, but annoyingly pervasive.
Wait a moment. Wait a moment. Is there the slightest, most inconceivable-yet-possible chance that this could end up in a lot of trouble?
No. No, surely not. Yet it occurred to Mrsha that maybe, just maybe, walking into a room full of Gold-ranks or haranguing a [Mayor] wasn’t a responsible move.
Where was this coming from? The voice sounded a bit like Lyonette. Mrsha prodded her head, scowling. Perhaps it was the kind of instinct that came from being kidnapped across Izril and seeing a war fought out.
Well, poo. She folded her arms as Ekirra bickered over which city was better right now, Liscor or Celum. Was this what being an adult felt like? Seeing the consequences of your actions? How horrible.
“Mrsha? What are you thinking about?”
Nanette was watching her—carefully—and Mrsha sighed. She was just about to suggest they go back to Liscor and just tell Lyonette and have her deal with it—when someone interrupted them.
“Hoi there! Is that you again, kid? This place is boring as feck, ain’t it? Invrisil really is letting us all down. ‘Specially Celum.”
Kid? Mrsha turned with the wrath of punching someone—and noticed Grev. He was hanging out with a gang of kids, who eyed the Drakes and Gnolls with wary interest.
Grev! Aren’t you going to have fun in Liscor and Celum? Want to come and play with us?
“Play?”
He spat, looking amused. Grev jerked a thumb at the gang of kids who definitely had no [Teacher] behind them.
“I’m no kid, Miss Mrsha. I’m a Face of Invrisil. I’ve been hanging out here hoping something fun was up—rumor is there’ll be some interesting guests soon. But this city’s dull as dishwater.”
No kidding. Your city sucks.
Grev grinned as some of his buddies who could read glowered. He glanced around casually.
“Well, Invrisil’s the kind of place where money and favors go hand in hand. I bet you that since the Players are performing in Celum, most’ve the big shoppies and merchies don’t want to put on a big show. See that rich baker? He could put out a buncha snacks for everyone, but he won’t because he’s being cheap.”
Grev had an interesting way of talking. He was right, however, and Mrsha nodded along with his understanding of the problem.
Lyonette’s busy. I was going to do something, but can you think of anything to make this place more hip-hoppity?
She tried to use slang that she’d heard from Erin. Grev’s lips moved as he read that last word, but he shrugged and grinned, puffing his chest out.
“I could. You don’t need Lyonette or Erin. If I got a few of the big shoppies to spread the word, we could throw in a party like when Elia Arcsinger came in. All flash and glamor.”
Mrsha laughed silently. Grev bristled. He pointed at the gang, mildly outraged. They were eying Ser Lormel’s armor and teasing the man; he was dying of exhaustion.
“Hey, like I said, I was a small fish in Celum, but I’m famous now. A Face, a Face, Mrsha. Don’t you know what that means? It means I’m so famous everyone in Invrisil knows me, or ought to.”
Oh yeah?
“Yeah. You aren’t cool when you have to hold up a notecard.”
Mrsha scribbled, ignoring the taunt.
Then prove it! Light this place up like Liscor. For Erin! For the Antinium! 
Grev hesitated, because he realized, too late, he’d made a mistake. The rest of his followers looked at him, and the boy glanced around Invrisil. The City of Adventurers. Which, true, knew the Players of Celum as one of the biggest groups ever.
But Grev? Was he actually a Face or…? The former [Street Urchin] squared his shoulders and exhaled—then he shot Mrsha a cocky grin.
“I can do it. Give me an hour, no, thirty minutes! But you need to have at least something interesting too! Everyone’s seen adventurers before. You have anything cool?”
Mrsha hmmed and put her chin in one paw. She thought of her friends, and then she brightened up.
Well—she had one interesting thing that might work. She scribbled on a notepad.
You do your thing, and I’ll do mine, deal? Coolest person is a Face.
“That’s not how it works, but deal. Come on, lads and lasses. Time for old Grev to pay Erin back.”
Grev adjusted his clothes, looking slightly nervous as Mrsha tugged on Nanette’s hand. The witch looked slightly concerned, but Mrsha wasn’t trying to bully a [Mayor], so was this progress? Grev glanced at Mrsha and then tilted his head to the skies.
“Say. If you’re gonna have a parade in Invrisil—maybe tell Lyonette you should bring all the cool people over. Antinium, adventurers, Forount—and Erin Solstice herself.”
Mrsha blinked at him, and then she grinned.
 
——
 
One hour later, Erin Solstice blinked as she found herself in a new lineup.
“Me? Go to Invrisil as part of the parade? Aw, I dunno, Lyonette.”
“Erin—you have to. Mrsha is right.”
The little Gnoll was dancing around Erin with an excited group of children. Erin didn’t know what had gotten into them, but they’d run back into the inn and began pestering some of the people in here for help for a ‘big thing’.
Which was naturally concerning, but Erin had been so busy greeting the [Crusaders] she hadn’t been able to deal with them.
Anyways, Ser Lormel had assured Lyonette it was ‘mostly harmless’. Which sounded better than most Mrsha escapades. Right now, the Horns, Halfseekers, and Silver Swords were preparing for their parade in Invrisil.
They appeared pleased by the honor, but as Dawil kept joking—
“We’re one team in a thousand that Invrisil’s honored. Don’t be upset if you get less applause than Liscor, Pisces. We’re not giving away free jade.”
“Perish the thought. When I am paraded through Invrisil, I expect it to be purely for my team’s accomplishments. This was a joint effort.”
The [Necromancer] sniffed, but he was adjusting his robes, and he’d even buckled his rapier to his side.
What was new was Erin being added to the group, and she was understandably reluctant.
“This is about adventurers, Mrsha. Not me.”
“But you played the chess game, Erin. And posted the quest. And frankly, we will have some of the [Crusaders] as well as Brigadier Forount, Lieutenant Gershal—I think they’re arriving now. Just go with them? For the occasion? Don’t think of it as you taking credit. You’re adding to the moment.”
“Eh…I don’t wanna walk that far. And I’m not getting in my wheelchair.”
Erin tried one last time, but Lyonette was ready.
“You won’t have to. Ser Dalimont suggested we decorate a wagon—so only a few people will be riding. The rest will be able to sit or stand. It will be a short tour and a small speech. Invrisil is, regrettably, smaller-scale. Please?”
“Is Drassi going to broadcast it?”
Lyonette waved this off, much to the adventurers’ disappointment.
“Unless she can find something more impressive than the other parades, I doubt it. How about it, Erin? Then we can come back to the inn and finish celebrating.”
“Oh, fine.”
Exasperated, Erin puffed out her cheeks and gave up. She looked over, and Numbtongue grinned as he stepped out after Mrsha, who was practically pushing him and Moore and…Saliss…
Hm.
Well, that wasn’t an odd mix of concerning people to be going to Invrisil. Erin shook her head as Lyonette dithered.
“No scrying orb? Come on, we’re heroes! Drassi, Drassi, can I twist your arm and show us off?”
Jelaqua was complaining lightly and mostly joking as she spotted Drassi and a full camera crew heading through the inn. Much to her surprise, Drassi stopped.
“Broadcast you? Of course! If the inn’s going to be there—come on, people, we need to be live in ten! Find a spot and get me multiple angles!”
They streamed down the hallway, and Erin groaned. Then she felt an odd tingling on the back of her neck. Jelaqua and the adventurers brightened up, though.
“We’re on the orb? Hear that, Erin? Come on, we’ll all have a grand time! Please?”
She had already just been on the orb, so Erin supposed she could have fun talking with the adventurers in the wagon. She stood up, stretched, and people began filing through the door.
Erin was last in line, and the door ran out of mana halfway through sending people through. There were a lot of complaints behind Erin too—they were cutting a line for people heading to Invrisil, so the shouting was incredibly noisy every time Liska opened the door.
“Sorry, sorry! Oh, damn. The door’s out.”
Lyonette cursed and looked for Mrsha. A [Mage] hurried over to recharge it, but to Erin’s surprise, someone put a claw against the door.
“Allow me. If you’ll let me join you? Miss Solstice.”
“Grimalkin!”
She beamed at him, and he gave her a slow nod. Erin laughed, and the Sinew Magus charged up the door in a heartbeat. She was chatting to him as Lyonette, the Thronebearers, and the Horns waited to go through.
“How are you doing, Grimalkin? It’s so great to see you. We should talk more! Where have you been, stranger? Did you like the p—”
Then the door opened, Erin walked through and went deaf. The noise and light swept over her—and then it looked like they had entered a warzone.
Grimalkin threw up his claws, but it was just the fireworks. Magical lights were blooming in the air so fast that it cast the people jumping up and down—jumping up and down like a mosh pit—into shadows.
Erin Solstice felt her jaw drop, and she nearly ran into the Halfseekers. They were frozen in place—because the quiet City of Adventurers had transformed in an hour. Antinium were clustered together as Brigadier Forount’s horse reared.
The cheering didn’t stop, but Erin just felt it become a background roar. Then she looked out and saw a celebration.
Mrsha herself had frozen when she saw the chaos. But when she saw Grev, waving at her from the back of one of the parade floats, she understood.
A Face of Invrisil had called in favors. How many favors? Well—Mrsha thought she saw no less than three different performing groups playing across the streets so far, and a [Tumbler] was doing backflips across a wire strung the length of the street.
