So in that sense it was well done. And they had none other than Brigadier Forount, who, while twirling a mustache and beaming into the camera, was a character who could hold up the entire parade by sheer personality alone.
Those poor flowers, though. A Drake sighed and stared at a basket of petals. But the Antinium had been sighted on the edge of the Floodplains, and so the visitors here had about thirty minutes to an hour to party. Then it was back to Liscor, because the Drake city had a different idea of how to party.
Aside from the magical animals, the waltzing Antinium—Liscor had paid for a far more relaxed atmosphere. They had a bazaar, streets filled with people, and a lot of private businesses were making a killing. For the Antinium especially, Lyonette had contrived a festival to welcome them in. Naturally, there would be cheering and a few speeches, but their parade would be less drawn-out.
Especially because the Antinium were a more contentious force to celebrate. However, people were unabashedly celebrating the Humans, even Drakes in the crowd. And Erin Solstice was awake.
The saddest person in all of Liscor, Celum, and Invrisil combined was Liska. Every time she opened a door to Celum, she heard cheering, and all the fun things outside the inn were being gossiped about by people in line or queuing up to various attractions.
Gloomily, she stared into Invrisil as a cartwheeling [Actor] passed by to cheers.
“The Players of Celum are putting on a public performance in Celum and Invrisil! The Players of Liscor for their city! Come attend the shows at half-past six and then every two hours afterwards until midnight!”
She got off work at eight. Liska perked up. Then she grumbled about having to work until eight!
Her bad mood was only slightly alleviated by all the food she was being supplied. A very useful Antinium Worker called Dots—because of all the dots of paint on their armor—kept bringing her everything she wanted. Ishkr did know how to placate his sister.
Anyways, she was just letting through the same Drake she’d sent to Celum. The Drake was holding two free tankards of beer, and she had an armful of breadsticks. She deposited the lot in front of a grumpy man who smelled like a bog and a Gnoll. All three wore very…natural clothing.
They were either vagrants or [Druids]. Given the nest of spiders in the Drake’s staff and Nalthaliarstrelous’ familiar look, Liska bet they were from Oteslia. They walked into the inn, now serving customers for money, and sat down. Not that this lot intended to pay.
They sat with the free food. For only the cost of travelling two ways—admittedly close to a gold coin—Shassa had contrived to have herself a good time, and she’d brought back as much of Celum’s free food as she could carry. She was telling the others about it, but she cautioned the Human man.
“Don’t go into Celum, Nalthaliarstrelous.”
“Why not? Don’t go into the garden, Shassa. See how you like being told what to do?”
The Drake heaved a huge sigh.
“That was an accident. Eforte, don’t go into the garden. Just…don’t go into Celum, Nalthaliarstrelous. We don’t need to cause more trouble.”
“How many people are mistreating animals?”
The [Druid] began to get up with a dark look, and Shassa tried to stop him.
“No one! They just—they’re tossing flower petals. The poor things!”
She sighed, and the Gnoll shook his head. Nalthal gave Shassa a blank look, then sat back down.
“Flowers? Who cares? I thought you meant people. What’s this, free? Give me that.”
He began to gnaw on the free breadsticks, and a squirrel poked its head out of the neck of his robes, and he fed it a huge chunk of bread. Shassa opened her mouth indignantly—then turned her head.
A little Gnoll girl scampered by without noticing her fellow [Druids]. Mrsha the Partier was racing around from place to place. A puffing Thronebearer, Ser Lormel, jogged after her.
“There’s our little Landfriend. Should we introduce…?”
“Do you want the [Princess] to break your legs? What’s the menu say? Everything’s expensive. How much gold do we have?”
The [Druids] gloomily checked their pockets. Shassa and Eforte, both [Druids] of Oteslia’s circle, received a modest stipend from the City of Growth, but their benefits were mainly in the city.
Free housing and food was cheap. Gold was not, if that made sense. Eforte turned to Nalthaliarstrelous.
“Don’t you get paid by Magnolia Reinhart?”
“Yes. And?”
“Where’s your gold?”
The [Druid] scratched at his beard.
“…I don’t know. I probably buried it in the maze or gave it to the circle in the Vale Forest. It’s just coins.”
Shassa gloomily stared at a pile of silver coins. Nalthal saw her expression and grunted. He reached in his bag of holding.
“Let me see. No…no…that’s mold. That’s dead worms. Aha!”
He pulled out several calcified worms, which he offered to some of the spiders in Shassa’s staff. Then he plonked a handful of dirt onto the clean tables, much to the vague horror of everyone around him. Nalthal blew half of it onto the floor, and gold glinted between the dirt.
“Dug up a bunch myself just the other day so I could travel to Oteslia. There. What are we buying?”
At this point, he was so noticeable that the [Druid] became part of the inn. Erin Solstice stopped patting Antherr on the hands long enough to turn.
“Hey! Who’s throwing dirt on the ground—is that Nalthaliarstrelous! The ultra-violent [Druid]!”
She bounced over in delight. And she was almost as happy as Silverstache, who bustled over with a dustpan and broom. All this dirt coming in! Tsk, tsk, they’d have to brush it up, then mop, then do some minute floorboard cleaning and then wax—
The adventurers looked amused as the nervous Shassa stood up. But Moore bowed to Nalthal, and he even grudgingly nodded back. Erin motioned him over to the tables where Nailren was looking slightly overwhelmed by all the Gold and the two Named-rank adventurers.
“Aha. [Druids]. Sell me reagents!”
Saliss rubbed his claws together, and Xif poked his head out from shaking paws with the Gnolls from the tribes. Nalthal put up with it grudgingly as Erin introduced him.
“Everyone, this is Nalthaliarstrelous. Don’t kick a dog or do anything to animals around him or he’ll kill you. He’s a nice g…he’s a [Druid]. But I like him. Oh, and he’s apparently someone who actually carries around pocket-dirt. And he’s the reason why people find buried treasure in the ground. Wild, huh?”
In any other time, he would be fascinating and Mrsha the Treasure Seeker would need a word with him. But she was already racing down the hill because—
The Antinium were coming.
Liscor had huge drums that were booming, and the Goblins started because it reminded them of far less welcome memories. But when they looked out, even Redscar smiled.
The Antinium were marching on Liscor, and for once, their arrival was not greeted with a rain of arrows, but magic instead. Magical fireworks began shooting up, and people began cheering.
Even Liscorians! Mrsha came to a stop, panting, as Visma’s family and Ekirra’s joined the people spilling out of the city and waving flags and cheering the Antinium.
Whoa! They’re so happy!
Gire and Moore had to be adults and shake hands, but Nanette could catch up with Mrsha, and so could Ekirra and Visma. The four kids stared at the merry adults as Ser Lormel clutched at his side.
“They’re happy?”
Visma stared blankly up at her parents. Her mother was a [Painter], and her father made drinks as far as Mrsha understood it. She only knew Visma’s parents as adults, and they smiled at her. Visma had a big brother who had a crush on Erin and…that was about it.
Ekirra had a larger extended family, and they were fighting to see—and pestering Ekirra to give them a bite of the ice cream he’d been given at the inn. He whined as his cone disappeared, and Mrsha promised she’d get him another.
“Mom is happy. I wonder why.”
Visma conferred with Ekirra, vaguely puzzled. Ekirra prodded his bigger sister—he was the youngest of his family.
“Hey. Why are you cheering? You don’t like Ants.”
He conferred briefly with his family, which resulted in ear-pullings, and he had to bribe one of his cousins with a pizza slice so Mrsha, Visma, and Nanette could join him in the front. But then they saw the first Crusaders marching into Liscor and waving. Mrsha beamed and waved at the Antinium, genuinely, but the cheering was coming from countless citizens.
Again—why? Well, her two local friends translated the answer to Mrsha.
“It’s because they’re gonna get free stuff! Mom says we could get jade! It’s like when the army comes back. They make trouble, but we get loot!”
Ah. It all made sense. Nanette looked amused, and Mrsha rolled her eyes. Then she saw the wagons rolling in, and the cheers grew louder. Nothing like the promise of free jade to add to the Antinium sentiments.
Well, the [Crusaders] looked pleased enough to be cheered at all. And Commander Olesm himself was poised to greet them with Liscor’s Council, who had medals and a speech.
It was great. Mrsha beamed as the entire army marched through the gates—then she decided she was done. When they came to the inn, she’d be back, but she had about as much desire to hear Lism give a speech as she did to hit herself on the head with a baseball bat. Repeatedly.
Besides—the two armies coming into both cities had really kicked off all the events! Mrsha had chased the magical creatures still floating about nonstop, and her fur was decorated with a bit of green and red, proof of her victories.
However, she wanted to see more!
“Mrsha, while everyone’s cheering—let’s get some Antinium dolls! Someone’s selling ones made out of black wood—they look perfect!”
“Aw. I don’t want to. Dolls are stupid.”
Ekirra grumbled, and Visma rounded on him.
“These ones have moving arms! Mister Jerome made them!”
“He did? Can I give mine a sword?”
“You won’t get any if you don’t come, stupid! Are you coming, Miss Nanette?”
“I’m coming.”
The witch seemed pleased to join Mrsha as she dashed off. Ser Lormel ran after them, and by the time they stopped in the line for the best dolls yet—he was making painful wheezing sounds.
Those turned into gasps as Mrsha and the rest dashed over to something Nanette wanted to see—Imani’s restaurant. They lined up as she offered food to people, and Mrsha importantly slapped some coins down, and they all received a skewer with eight different kinds of meat all stuffed together. Each child got a piece, and Mrsha’s first bite was trout!
Imagine! It was good stuff too, and she was licking her paw as Palt came out with a stamina potion to rescue Lormel. Then she noticed a girl staring at her. From the magical creature catching!
Kenva pointed at Mrsha as her father queued up for food for the family.
“You’re that Gnoll from the television! You’re Mrsha. You’re famous! Can I have your autograph? What are you eating? Is it good?”
And to Mrsha’s astonishment, she saw heads turn, and a few people stepped out of line.
“Wait, it is that Gnoll! Wasn’t she kidnapped? Is the bounty still on?”
“Don’t be stupid. Hey, little, um…Mrsha! Doom-girl! Can I get an autograph?”
A Drake hurried over and tried to get Mrsha to press her paw in some ink and put it on an autograph card. She gave him a long look, and disappointed, he tried to get back in line and found he’d lost his place.
However, Mrsha realized she was slightly famous. She had been on television more than most people could boast of, and her white fur was a reminder of recent events.
Mrsha the Celebrity preened as she offered Kenva some of the skewer and won instant friendship with the Drake girl. She was admiring Visma’s new doll when Mrsha pointed. She held up a card, and Kenva squinted.
“What’s that? You write? ‘Let’s go to Celum and see Forount and the cheese-people?’ Free food? Let’s go, let’s go! Can I go with them, Dad? Dad? Daaaaaad—”
That of course bought Lormel a few moments where he assured Venim his daughter was in good hands. Then he was running, running as the children raced off to the next encounter. And the [Knight], who was supposed to be trained for combat, reflected that he really should work harder on his running.
He took some solace in the fact that Watch Captain Venim was already swearing under his breath as he accompanied them. Children…children just ran until they stopped, and they had too much energy. They sprinted from spot to spot with sugar for blood.
 
——
 
The parade of the Antinium into the city was grand and celebratory.
Erin Solstice saw almost none of it. Not Peki, flying triumphantly above the Antinium marching with the wagons of jade or the crowds pointing at the monster parts or cheering them or Liscor’s army welcoming their soldiers back from the battlefield.
She stood with Antherr as the door to her inn opened and Antinium walked in. Pawn was patting Zimrah’s shoulder as Squad 5 poured into the inn after the Beriad.
They charged at Antherr and covered him in pats and hugs. The [Innkeeper] laughed. Then she had a bowl of something hot for the grumpy Worker with the huge sword.
“Hello, Crusader 57. Want to try some mana candies and some egg drop soup?”
“You…remember me?”
The Worker looked at Erin, uncrossing two arms, and she winked.
“How could I forget the grumpiest Worker in the entire Hive?”
“Grumpy? Me? I’m not grumpy.”
All of Squad 5 looked at him, and Crusader 57 snatched the bowl of soup so fast it almost spilled.
“Give me that. At least this inn is good for something.”
Crusader 53 raised a hand to chop 57 on the head, but then Erin Solstice was giving Crusader 57 a hug.
“Meh. Get off me.”
Nothing would do but for Squad 5 to all receive a hug, and then Erin was greeting the Beriad. She had only two arms, so it took a long time. But she had all day. Antinium poured into her inn, but not all stayed.
“Wait, where are you going? You can’t leave!”
No sooner had the Beriad, Battalion 5, come into the inn than they were all trying to leave. With Antherr! Erin was dismayed, until she realized—
“We are reporting to Captain Calruz. He cannot enter the city. We may return, Innkeeper Solstice.”
A Worker with a greathammer saluted her. The Horns stirred at their table, and Erin’s eyes flickered.
“If you’ve gotta go—you need to promise me you’ll be back. And before you go—”
She looked around, grabbed a bunch of pizza boxes, and demanded they take as much food as they could carry. For the Minotaur and his company.
Then Erin stood there as a thousand Antinium slowly circulated through her inn. Many left, to go to the army and tell them it was alright or report to their friends. But before they went, they came to the inn.
