When she woke up in the inn, Mihaela Godfrey felt like a young woman for the first second of every morning. In that brief moment—it felt like the inn hadn’t changed from when it first opened.
Which was silly because it did change. She had silk sheets instead of cotton covered by thick wool. These days, she had a suite instead of a cramped room with a crooked picture nailed to the wall.
But it felt like the same inn. And she felt like a young woman, a City Runner ready to run a hundred miles again.
Then she inhaled and coughed. She felt tired and parts of her broken.
Then she realized she was stuck in a body that seemed older than her soul. And she remembered her son was dead and that decades had passed.
That was why she avoided the inn, sometimes. It had all the memories. Good and bad. Yet Mihaela still clung to that illusion. If she sat there for a second, mastering her breath, she could pretend she was young again. Young, and as old as she was, as if everything that had gone on in her life had taken a single year.
Memory wasn’t that kind. It always caught up with her, along with her body. Mihaela coughed again and wiped her mouth on the clean sheets. She stared at the drops of blood and then swung herself out of bed. She dressed herself with one of the neatly-folded sets of clothing on the dresser; she never bothered to put them away.
Then she strode over to the door. It took her about three minutes, and that was slow, but a Courier was a Courier. And she was the Guildmistress of First Landing. It wouldn’t be the first time she’d had to get dressed in seconds while an [Assassin] was creeping up the stairs and then jump out the window.
Instead, she kicked the door open, and it hit Viecel in the face. The Selphid had the misfortune of walking past her door for the morning. In a sense, it was good it was just him. She stared down at the prone adventurer.
“Hey, Viecel.”
“Mihaela. I think you broke my nose. Let me fix it.”
The groaning Selphid got up. He rubbed at his crooked nose, and Mihaela shrugged.
“You know how I open doors.”
“Does it have to be a trap?”
Eld picked up his friend and gave her a look like she was a girl again, and she avoided his gaze. The responsible friend loved to lecture everyone.
“It keeps the [Assassins] guessing.”
“What about your guild? I’ve heard you’ve broken more toes than any other Guildmistress in the history of First Landing?”
He folded his arms, and Mihaela lifted a finger.
“Reflex training? Besides, Viecel shouldn’t complain. He’s an adventurer. Are you a he, today?”
The Selphid grumpily finished repairing his nose and indicated his Human body.
“As long as my nose holds up. This was a good body too. Barely rotten.”
“How many fingers have you got left?”
Mihaela looked down, and the Selphid waggled his fingers at her.
“Seven. I’ve been getting lucky recently.”
Eld sighed, and the three talked in the corridor of the private guest suite of the inn. The same rooms they had always had, even though it was different in almost every way. If you looked down, what did you see? Beyond the rich floorboards, the rooms—those changed. These days, the walls weren’t cheap, plaster over cabin wood, but old heartwood, the stuff Treants and the oldest trees were made of.
Not cut from the Treants themselves, no. That was how you got [Druids] after you. This was salvaged from an old ship, and it still was better than anything fresh-cut. Nor were there the embarrassing paintings and such of the guests themselves—Mihaela saw a flattering wood-cut of her face, and she resolved to bury it before she left.
“Nice bust of you.”
Viecel admired the latest addition to the inn. Mihaela changed her mind. She was picking it up off the podium it was resting on as a door opened and another old friend came bounding out with way too much energy.
But then, Colth was just a kid. He had always been the kid, and he wasn’t as old as the rest. He did a cartwheel, spun into a bow, and cried out.
“Today’s the day! Hello, Mihaela! Eld, Viecel, what’s wrong with you? Aren’t you excited?”
“You have too much energy, Colth.”
His friends looked resigned as the other adventurer beamed at them. Colth, the embodiment of energy, and Mihaela sometimes tried to kick him, her default solution to problems she didn’t like. But she had to admit, she did like Colth.
She liked all of them. Four of the gang were here. So she nodded to Colth as more doors opened and people she vaguely recognized—favorites of the inn, Larra’s special guests—came out to see what the noise was all about.
This wasn’t the quietest or even most luxurious part of the inn. Oh, no. This was for the real friends. You didn’t pay regularly. If you needed a space, you knew it was always here. And no one, not [Assassins] nor nobility could touch you here.
After all, this was The Adventurer’s Haven. And Colth, like Viecel, was important enough that the bright-eyed member of staff was peeking at them as she brought a load of fresh linens down the hall and began cleaning Eld, Viecel, Colth, and Mihaela’s rooms.
The staff sometimes made Mihaela feel old, but she didn’t recognize a lot of them. Barnethei had stayed around for a long time, and there were a few constant faces, but Larra was the inn. Anyways—Mihaela was used to looks.
“Colth, open that window, would you?”
“Sure, boss.”
He instantly moved to oblige her. Eld cleared his throat as he saw Mihaela picking up the bust of herself.
“Colth, don’t. Larra will kill you and Mihaela.”
The man hesitated and looked from Eld to Mihaela.
“Open the window, Colth.”
“You got it, boss.”
The older adventurer rubbed at his face as Colth obliged Mihaela. The member of staff and several of the other people in the inn watched as Mihaela Godfrey tossed the carving of her out the window.
She smiled—for about a second. Then she heard a scream and a crash of too many dishes. She winced, and Colth gave her a thumbs-up and a grin.
“Nearly hit the entire trolley of breakfast dishes. Good shot, boss?”
“Colth, you idiot. Tell me if there’s someone outside!”
“Oh.”
It must have been a delivery to one of the other buildings. Their rooms didn’t pass over a busy part of the inn—Mihaela slapped a hand over her head. Eld and Viecel slowly backed away from her because all of them knew what was happening next. There was a pause as someone called out—then a familiar voice rang through the inn.
“Mihaela.”
Larra was pissed. Mihaela looked down the corridor, and Colth ducked as five flying imps, spectral and made of magic, came charging at her with dusting cloths and a pitcher filled with ice water.
Arcane familiars. Mihaela bailed out the window. She did it like a professional. No judging what was below her, no hesitation. She grabbed the top of the window and swung herself out legs first.
The world was bright and spun below her as the Guildmistress of First Landing flew for a second. Early morning diners looked up, and Mihaela saw a panicking younger member of staff gaping up at her. A certain [Vice Innkeeper], Barnethei, saw Mihaela about to land on him as he bent over with a broom and pan.
He twisted, and the shattered glass and food below Mihaela disappeared in a flick of the wrist. Then he was stepping back, pulling the new member of staff to safety.
All of that took a moment. Mihaela landed and nodded at him.
“Thanks, Barnethei.”
“Mihaela!”
The Guildmistress ran, and the familiars chased after her. As did a thin bolt of lightning. But the woman just ran, laughing, and leapt for safety behind the nearest guest. Then she coughed—and cursed.
But the bolts of lightning and attacking familiars, the other half of the staff, never struck her. They vanished because Larra didn’t attack her guests.
And this guest in particular would have gotten herself fried or walked straight over the glass. Valley looked up from the book she was reading as a little girl squeaked.
Well, she was older than a girl, but she looked so terrified of Mihaela that the Guildmistress knew she hadn’t been to the inn before.
“Valley! Is that you?”
Flight forgotten, Mihaela stopped. Colth leapt out the window, mimicking her move to the awe of the people outside. Eld and Viecel came down more sedately, but they looked just as astonished to see Valley.
“Valley, when did you get in? It’s like a complete reunion, now. How in the name of anything did Larra get you?”
Colth came over, and Valley looked entirely surprised as he hugged her. The shy reclusive girl looked around—no, wait. She was a woman now, too.
“Yesterday. Oh, hello, Colth. Are you being bullied by Mihaela into pranks again? Should I find Larra?”
“No, it wasn’t a prank—”
Colth laughed, and Mihaela remembered too late why she should be dodging.
Thock. That was the sound of a familiar bouncing a mug off her head. Mihaela turned and made a fist at the imp—a miniature gargoyle with horns and wings. Lots of people compared them to Demons, but these ones were harmless unless Larra was mad at you or they were doing something stupid.
“Destroy my familiar and I’ll cast [Slippery Footing] on you.”
Larra warned Mihaela, and the Courier hesitated. She lowered her fist.
“Morning, Larra.”
“That was a bust I hired a [Carver] to make. If you didn’t like it—Barnethei, put it somewhere else.”
“At once, Larra.”
He bustled over to the bust, which was still objectionably intact. Mihaela rubbed her head as Valley looked around.
“Oh, hello, Larra. Where’s my breakfast?”
“Mihaela threw a bust at it.”
“Is she bullying me?”
Valley looked slightly worried, and Mihaela pointed at Colth.
“No, I was just getting rid of it. Colth was the idiot who didn’t tell me to stop.”
“Me? Mihaela was giving me orders—”
Larra slapped Colth on the arm, hard.
“You’re a grown man. Eld, didn’t you stop this?”
“I warned them both. They’re both grown adults.”
“No one’s an adult. Not even you, Eld.”
That was how they started their day. And today seemed like an auspicious day; four friends were already here, and with Valley and Larra, it made six of the old lot. It was rare for so many to be in one place.
In fact, the diners of the inn, the ‘normal’ guests, were giving them wide-eyed looks, and all of them were probably listening to the banter. No one paid attention. Not even Colth. They had done this from the start, before they had hangers-on and admirers. This was their inn.
Larra’s inn, and she left most of the day-to-day to Barnethei. So not even the haughty [Lady] eying Mihaela like a challenger dared intrude into this conversation. Although—Mihaela glanced around.
“Is that Lady Pryde Ulta staring me down?”
“Nevermind her. She wants to arm-wrestle you. Or have a weight-lifting competition.”
“Pass. You beat her, Eld.”
The strongest member of their group by far pretended not to see the woman mad-dogging them.
“No. Are you installing a weights-room in your inn, Larra?”
“I’ve been asked, and the answer is no. Maybe a separate building if it’s that popular, but it seems entirely unnecessary. The farm’s already hard enough to lift—”
Expanding The Adventurer’s Haven was no easy task. Larra shook her head, then gazed southwards. The sun was dappling the open road, and as always, Mihaela heard exclamations in the distance, cries of astonishment. After all—this inn was on the move.
And it was famous. Mihaela stared at distant faces below, travellers pointing up at her and at Larra’s inn. The [Innkeeper], though, was staring at something further south. A shape in the distance.
“It’ll be today, then. Took long enough. I could have gotten out and pushed and gotten us here faster.”
Mihaela groused. But she ducked behind Colth as Larra clicked her tongue at her.
“You had half a month to do it. Besides, not everyone’s here yet.”
That made all of them stop.
“Is someone else coming?”
“Deni and his team. They should be riding in any second now, actually.”
“No. I thought he was still injured.”
Even Colth, who knew where almost everyone in the adventuring world was, was astonished.
“He’s mobile.”
Mihaela’s heartbeat picked up. She turned too-casually to Larra, and the [Innkeeper]’s scowl vanished.
“So he’s not—crippled?”
Gently, the other woman pointed north.
“You’ll see him shortly. Every word is he may make a full recovery. Just with a scar. Most of Orchestra made it out of fighting the Goblins.”
“A Goblin tribe took him down. What was that one called?”
“Kraken Eaters.”
Eld and Viecel muttered. Colth nodded guardedly, and Mihaela let out a breath. She pretended not to be rattled. But they all looked at her, and she saw a name unspoken on their lips. They pretended to hide it, but she heard it.
Valceif.
Her son. Colth was the worst. He looked over and coughed.
“How’s Resber doing? I mean, are you keeping in touch with—”
Eld put a hand on his shoulder and squeezed, but it was too late. Mihaela blinked, and even Valley glanced up and decided to kick Colth. But—
She still felt like it had just been a day ago when a little boy had been running around this inn. Getting familiars to fly him around, pestering Valley with questions until she complained to Larra, and Mihaela was introducing him and her husband to her friends.
Then he was a young man, complaining about being mothered to Colth. Then—he was heading south to Liscor on a routine delivery.
And he never came back. Mihaela realized she’d been smiling this morning. Now, she remembered why she shouldn’t be.
The Guildmistress stood there for a second as Larra pointed and Colth shuffled back. But Mihaela just turned her head, and her eyes focused on someone she knew.
“Salamani. What are you doing?”
A man jumped at a table. Another Courier glanced up with his slitted, reptilian eyes, and the other person at the table sat up nervously too. The moonlight mare herself, Ci, part of a duo that would never ride again, looked almost as wary of Mihaela’s attention as Salamani.
Of course both knew her. Of course both were here—even if they weren’t part of Mihaela’s group.
“Guildmistress. Just having breakfast.”
“I see that. Why are you feeding Ci eggs? Horses don’t eat eggs.”
Salamani hesitated. He’d been offering the horse a boiled egg—shell and all. She opened her mouth and slowly crunched it off his hand as the others watched.
“…Apparently she does, Guildmistress. She even has chicken sometimes.”
“Horses eat chicken?”
Everyone but Eld and Colth looked surprised. Eld sighed.
“You can’t raise horses with chickens free-roam. Any [Farmer] knows that.”
“Right. I’ve done a lot of work with horse-handlers. Even horses like a bite of meat now and then. Sheep do it too.”
