It sounded like…music. To be more precise, it sounded like a cello. A deep strain, running across the ground and grass. The children stopped a second, and heads turned. Even the Goblins’, because this was not their doing.
“Wait. Is that…”
Crusader 57 recognized the sound before anyone else. He looked up as a second group emerged, and the crowd drew back once more. Then he covered his eyes.
“No. No! It’s so embarrassing. It’s so st—”
All of Squad 5 began slapping him on the shoulders to get him to shut up. For the sound coming out of the scrying orb was not the cello alone. It was quickly joined by a flute and other soft instruments. In fact, the orchestra was so astounding to many because—
It sounded Terandrian. In fact, it sounded exactly like Terandrian music, so much so that the Thronebearers and Lyonette started and looked around.
Then the [Princess]’ head rose, and she recognized that familiar music. As if she were in a ballroom listening to one of the famous songs that was played when…
When you danced. Antherr, striding up the hill, slowed, and his head turned. His antennae, waving, stopped, and then he stared as the second group that this day was all about finally emerged.
Pawn, the [Priest] of the Free Antinium, had returned. His mysterious absence the day before and the lack of Antinium was not accidental. Like Rags, they had been faced with a lack of…anything that defined them.
Unlike Rags, Pawn knew one thing that defined them. And for the Painted Antinium, it only took a bit of preparation to show everyone what they had learned.
The hardest part was finding musicians willing to play for them, but gold talked, and Pawn had gone to Invrisil to find the best. So a group of nervous Humans and some Drakes and Gnolls were performing a…Terandrian orchestra piece.
That was not what made the crowd stare. It was the Antinium coming across the grass. But not in a horde. Not marching, like the Crusade.
They were dancing. No, they were waltzing. Crusader 57 was muttering about how embarrassing it looked—but even the [Crusaders] were watching in awe.
Even they had not known that Antinium could dance. Much less in the way that a [Princess] had once taught a [Priest]. The artful steps, the carefully clasped hands and rotating bodies. An Antinium spun out from a hand, and another couple glided across the ground as if it were a palace ballroom.
They danced, coming across the grass as if flanking Antherr as he walked up to the hill. Painted Antinium, their carapaces decorated with their identities. Yellow Splatters and Purple Smile waltzed past Antherr as Pawn took his place at the top of the hill.
 
——
 
And it was all being broadcast.
Some people could not bear to see it. Goblins, suffered to live. Antinium, dancing. They turned away in disgust and horror at the folly of Drakes and everyone else who pretended the unnatural was natural.
Any number of nations had blacklisted the broadcast. However, some had not, and fascinated nobility and influential figures ignored the politics anyways.
Lord Belchaus, the Lord of the Dance, just watched. In silence.
“Any comments, Bel?”
Altestiel looked at the astounding sight, and the Lord of the Dance spoke softly.
“They do not all have the greatest of gifts. But some do. And most dance better than a nobleman’s son. I had no idea they could dance. And some…”
He raised his head, and his eyes shone with tears. He pointed at one Antinium, who twirled softly. Decorated, from their upper elbows on all four hands and along the lower parts of their legs, as if wearing gloves and leggings made of colorful flowers.
“Some dance.”
 
——
 
Silveran’s Cleaners had danced one kind of performance in the inn for Lord Bel to see. This? This was something else.
Antinium dancing and Goblin games. Antherr marched up to the inn slowly as the doors hung open and a hundred delicious, foreign smells invited him in. But he stopped as a [Driver] took off his cap and bowed.
“Miss Solstice ain’t here, is she?”
“She’s asleep. But she will be down as soon as she wakes. Hello, Mister Termin. Hello—Antherr, isn’t it? I’m sorry; I didn’t know you were coming. But I hope you will forgive me. This day will surely celebrate you.”
A [Princess] bowed slightly to Antherr, and he raised all three hands. As if to protest. But then Mrsha was waving at him, and Pawn stepped forwards.
“Welcome back, Antherr.”
He took Antherr’s hand in two of his, and the Soldier looked around. His antennae trembled, and Termin smiled as a young man hung back.
“Is that Nailren? What are you doing? Get in here and fill your plates! Where have you been?”
Ceria called out, and a group of Gnolls looked up. Weatherfur’s guards nodded as their Chief Warrior approached.
“On behalf of Chieftain Feshi, we have escorted the Antinium, Antherr, here. Is Honored Krshia present?”
“Here. You have done well, Chief Warrior Toresh. Come in.”
Krshia Silverfang appeared—behind the group of Gnolls—along with Lism and the Council. She smiled and grasped Toresh’s shoulders as he did the same.
Drassi let out a sigh as Termin turned to Antherr. The [Driver] stuck out a gloved hand and hesitantly shook Antherr’s. Then—he blinked and cursed.
“Ow. What was—”
A gold coin bounced off his brow. Then money began raining down. The [Driver] ran out of the hail of coins, which landed in a neat pile. He blinked, eyed the coins, and laughed—right until the saddle landed on his foot.
Quest fulfilled.
Antherr looked around as Mrsha reached out to shake one of his hands solemnly, and Numbtongue grinned and offered him a thumbs-up. He looked at the inn, and at that moment—the other Antinium realized this was the first time he had ever entered. He was no Painted Antinium, no lucky Soldier who had gone on patrol.
So it was a special moment. The Antinium hesitated in the doorway of the inn as a Gnoll, Ishkr, poked his head out and got a bowl of acid flies ready.
There was only one thing that could make it better. And that was—as the Antinium stepped through the doorway, a slumbering young woman who had occasionally punched at the air in her sleep stirred.
Above, in her room, Erin Solstice opened her eyes. She sat up—and laughed. By the time he reached the common room, she was waiting for him with open arms.
Then, the celebration really began.
 
——
 
He expected nothing. He was, after all, just a soldier. A member of the Beriad. He was no Painted Antinium, and an entire crusade was coming. They deserved more attention than he—they had fought two battles.
In that way, the Antinium really were silly, kind little children. Just like every member of the 7th Hive of the Antinium would have given all their accolades up for one of their own, with the exception of maybe Crusader 57, he would have done the same for them.
What Antherr didn’t realize was that the [Innkeeper] had something for every one of them. The first thing she did was ask his name.
“Is it…Antherr? Hello, I’m Erin Solstice. It’s so good to meet you.”
It’s good to meet you.
Words that had never been said to a Soldier. He smiled as he gently took her hand. But he clicked his mandibles helplessly, and Antherr had no lips. No voice to scream or speak with.
He wanted to be a Human again, if only so he could shout and weep. Laugh and be that person who could talk.
But this was good enough, and Antherr realized he was lying to himself. Nothing would ever be enough. What a greedy ant he was. Yet the [Innkeeper] looked him in the eyes.
“Can you tell me your full name? Or…Termin, is that you? What are you doing out there? Come in, come in! And who is this?”
She beckoned, and Termin walked in, beaming. A young man with black skin hung back. Timidly. This wasn’t his moment, and Erin didn’t quite notice him.
“Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus? You have a middle name? That’s so cool. Mine sucks.”
She winked at him, and the Soldier felt a strange tingle in his carapace. Because the [Innkeeper] was looking at his injuries, and she seemed sad—right before she looked at a little Gnoll girl trying to carry a bowl of acid flies to him.
“Mrsha, give me a hand. This is Mrsha—and you need to sit here and have some food. I wish I could—can you write?”
He couldn’t write, or read. It embarrassed Antherr, and he felt a helplessness that made him understand why some [Templars] had longed for a voice. He hung his head, and Erin rested a hand on his arm.
“At the very least, you should be able to tell everyone your great name. Mine’s lame, so I don’t use my middle name. Actually—my parents thought they were being so smart. Guess what it is?”
She leaned over as Mrsha’s ears perked up, and she brought out a notecard and began to write. Pisces, the guests, all looked over as Erin whispered something for only Antherr to hear. And Mrsha.
“It’s ‘Summer’. Erin Summer Solstice. Can you believe it?”
She rolled her eyes and snorted, and he longed to tell her what a great middle name that was. As if she could tell how frustrated that made him, she smiled—and then showed him something the little Gnoll was working on.
“This might be a temporary measure—but Mrsha’s going to help you out. She has her Mrsha signs, but people are stupid. So—you can do your own, but take a look at this. Good handwriting, Mrsha!”
She showed him a card with a scribble on it. Antherr recognized the writing, and he stared at it. Then he fixated on the words when Erin told him what it was.
“It’s your name. See? At least you can show people that. It says—‘Hello. My Name is Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus.’”
Mrsha handed the Antinium the notecard, and he took it like a priceless treasure. He—he needed to pin it to his chest. He’d put a little nail in his carapace. But Erin wasn’t done.
“Psst, Mrsha. Give him copies of your best cards. But without the sass.”
The little Gnoll nodded vigorously, and Erin turned to Antherr.
“I bet you could make your own, but—what if we gave you cards for ‘yes’, ‘no’, and ‘I’m hungry’? Then you can tell me to shut up, huh?”
He’d never need a card like that. The Soldier looked at Erin Solstice as he entered her inn, and he was swept away at once. He wished he’d met her a long time ago.
Termin the Omnipresent was there too, and new guests, and Erin Solstice saw them—but she kept returning to his table, even as she gave Termin a huge hug.
“I’m gonna make you stay, Termin. Okay? There are a lot of guests, but the quest worked, right? Hey, anything Termin wants, Ishkr? He gets! Him and anyone with him!”
“That will suit me just fine, Miss Solstice. Never you fear. And if you had a room or two…I have a helper somewhere around here.”
Termin looked for Rhaldon, but Erin was nodding. Drassi was trying to interview her again, but Erin headed straight back to Antherr. She only paused once.
“Lehra, is that you? Hi.”
“Uh—hi! I‘m making a good impression!”
The Gnoll jumped guiltily as she tried to hide half a pizza behind her back. However, Erin just laughed.
“Help yourself to the pizza. That’s what it’s there for. You should try a stuffed crust one Imani made—but she hates it. Oh, and have you met all the adventurers?”
“A lot of them. Nailren I knew—”
Lehra pointed vaguely at him, and Erin brightened up.
“Nailren? Get over here! He’s great. Oh, and this is Jewel. You should meet her, too. Jewel—wait, what are you doing?”
She pointed to someone, and the Gold-rank adventurer jumped. She and her team looked petrified, but Erin saw to her amusement that they were helping Alcaz stop the crowds from bursting through the inn. She nodded to Lehra.
“Jewel’s cool.”
She was? Jewel looked amazed, relieved, and gratified as Lehra instantly headed over with interest. Captain Todi, who was accompanying Selys, strolled over.
“And I’m Captain Todi—”
“Who? ‘Scuse me. Hey, aren’t you from the quest?”
The Gnoll shook Jewel’s hand as Erin sat back down. She winked at Antherr, and he smiled. Then Erin Solstice leaned on her hands.
“Now, what can I get you?”
Slowly, the Soldier picked up a notecard. He inspected it, and Erin told him what it said. And his smile grew wider.
 
——
 
When Brigadier Forount rode through the gates of Celum, she passed by the [Guards] and into the city so fast that Mayor Cetris was still hurrying over to the gates by the time she had reached one of the main plazas.
Never let it be said that the Brigadier of Wales was late for anything, let alone her own celebration. She had to actually ride back to the gates in order to begin the parade properly.
It began with marching drums, horns, and it had the elements of a military parade—so Wales obliged. The combined riders formed up and marched, horses stepping ahead of proudly marching [Soldiers].
Gershal of Vaunt was almost deafened by the cheers as Celum’s populace and visitors from the local region and beyond flocked to the streets. They were waving local flags. That was what made the local soldiers smile.
Ocre, Celum, Remendia—local heroes. But even Vaunt’s own flags were hanging over the city of Celum. The parade began before the Antinium reached Liscor, and Gershal found it was not tedious at all.
Imagine how an adventurer felt after, say, emerging from the Ruins of Albez to cheers and a celebration. That was spontaneous and deserved.
But a [Soldier] who’d just marched for days after fighting a grueling battle might get a bit tetchy if they had to stand and march around a city in an interminable parade. There was nothing like a grousing group of people being celebrated to bring the mood down.
That was why Lyonette had borrowed a tactic from home, and the [Soldiers] didn’t even have time to contemplate the parade’s length before they were accosted—by people passing out mugs and free food. Hamburgers, street-vendor food, which the [Soldiers] snatched at. Mostly non-alcoholic drinks because you could end up with a bunch of rowdy drunks.
Forount herself was caught snacking on a slice of pizza as Drassi hurried to showcase the parade. She preened, brushed at her mustache, and then gave the camera a salute with her sword. The cheering grew louder as a marching band accompanied people tossing flower petals like there was no tomorrow. Especially for the flowers.
It was…entirely military. Which struck a contrast with how Liscor was preparing. Liscor, Celum, Invrisil. Three cities were the center of the celebrations, and each one had styled themselves differently.
For Celum, wholesale destruction of flowers, cheap, filling food, and a military parade celebrating the local pride in what they’d done. It reminded some people from Drake cities of, well, military parades similar to the ones Pallass, Oteslia, and all Drake cities held.
