The [Chef] hurried off as Earl Altestiel gave Lord Belchaus a long look. He scribbled an addendum to the [Message].
“I have noted your preference, you monster. I shall have a far more civilized breakfast. A Desonian classic! Trout and green onion for my stuffing!”
The Lord of the Dance gagged behind a hand as Earl Altestiel folded his arms proudly. Both men turned to the scrying orb to see if Altestiel’s missive made it into the commentary.
It did. Drassi was happily eating her omelet as one of her staff read comments out loud.
“Um—someone’s claiming that all you need in an omelet is Yellats. And someone else has written that an omelet should have sautéed mushrooms and sausage with avocado on the side—or trout and green onion?”
Drassi stopped eating for a second and lowered her fork.
“All Yellat? Mushroom and sausage is…okay…what’s an avocado? But trout? Viewers, audience—please tell me this isn’t normal? S-should I try a trout omelet? It sounds disgusting. Well, let’s see. Hey, any takers to help me try three omelets?”
“I will!”
Drassi looked up and heaved a huge sigh of relief.
“Oh, good. I won’t have to suffer alone. Here’s Gold-rank adventurer Seborn, and it looks like we have Gold-rank adventurer Dawil here too. Hello!”
The Dwarf smoothed his beard importantly as Seborn appeared. He had beaten Ceria to the punch by tripping her, and Dawil had been heading over before anyone else.
“I believe we can add the Terandrian and sea palettes to what, a taste test, Miss Drassi? Plus, I want to be on the news.”
“I’ve eaten Chandrarian food and Balerosian. And a trout omelet sounds disgusting, but I’ll try one bite.”
Like Dawil, Seborn scented fame, and the two adventurers smirked at their teammates and other guests as they sat down. Drassi’s lips moved in silence as she sat there.
“…I think I foresee what Channel 3 of Wistram News Network is going to be. We’re going to need a sports channel, a food channel…alright, let’s start with the Yellat omelet. Who sent that one in?”
The Gnoll reading the notes out had a bevy of more suggestions as people tuned into the most successful channel yet again. He nearly dropped it as he stared at the note.
“The, um…um…King of Destruction.”
Drassi stared at the Gnoll for a second, then swallowed hard. She looked straight into the camera, hesitated, and then smiled.
“Well then. He has terrible taste.”
 
——
 
Wistram News Network was, among other things, passing out surveys about what you could add to its new television service in local Mage’s Guilds.
Popular features or news anchors could also be tabulated, and Drassi’s enduring popularity would be most notable in nations like Jecrass, Hellios, and any harboring an anti-Flos sentiment.
Rémi Canada, in his own Chandrarian newspaper, would later pay for the first political cartoon in this world’s history, which was a caption with one of those humorous, not-humorous images featuring an upset Flos Reimarch and his objectionable Yellat-omelet with Drassi laughing at him. The tagline would read:
‘The King of Destruction was burnt to a crisp by a Djinni, but Drassi really roasted him.’
After staring at the completed product in silence, Rémi would then try to remove the cartoon. However, his editors would sneak it back in, and the newspaper would end up breaking ten thousand daily sales, a barrier the fledgling paper had thus far failed to hit.
Rémi’s newspaper would later be banned in Reim for a week. But that was another story.
 
——
 
Alright, breakfast was a big thing. The inn was packed, despite the [Grand Theater] giving enough room—everyone was crowded around the buffet, so one side of the room was full, the other empty.
Still, it was delicious, fun, and almost everyone was there. Yes, and yes. However, there was an entire day of fun to be had, and if you spent all the time describing the conversations at breakfast, you’d get nowhere.
So Selys Shivertail, Olesm, Belgrade, and Pisces all piled their plates together and finished eating in the far, far quieter [Garden of Sanctuary].
Koi garden edition. Even the water-phobic Belgrade lingered a few minutes to keep tossing pizza crusts into the pond. A hundred koi fish fought over every scrap, and that had entertained the quartet for quite some time.
“I must admit, Lyonette can serve a most replete breakfast experience. But what, I wonder, will be her pursuant activity to begin the festivities?”
Pisces sniffed as Selys gave him an exasperated look. Olesm just grinned. They headed out to the inn and found their answer.
The city of Liscor had opened with the bazaar, hand-carved Antinium figurines (sold at a very minor price) which you could paint free of charge, and the ice-skating rink.
“Brigadier Forount is due to arrive in Celum in two hours! There will be an announcement—and a celebration over there! Celum is holding a horse-race, and they’ve hired [Bards]!”
There were [Criers] shouting the news over the largest bazaar that Pisces could remember seeing. It was like Market Street in principle, but it filled Shivertail Plaza, and there were [Merchants] from all over hawking wares while watchful [Guards] dueled with [Thieves] in quiet.
The Golden Gnoll herself was selling goods from the Meeting of Tribes, including the rarest of dyes, cloth bolts made by Longstalker’s Fang, and yes, even herbs and ingredients from Gaarh Marsh.
She had generously bought the tribes’ inventories, even from Plain’s Eye’s stocks, and she was looking to make a killing in Liscor. The dyes were in great demand for new clothing and for their quality, but as anyone knew, the rarer the good, the more expensively it could be sold even further north or abroad.
Thus, a lot of [Traders] were buying carefully or impulsively from Qwera, betting on making profits later.
“It’s going well! Lyonette did all this?”
Selys herself was surprised by the sheer scale on display—until someone laughed in her earhole.
“Lyonette? You’re giving her too much credit. [Princesses] love stealing praise for things they don’t really have much part in. This is Pallass’ bazaar, just adopted for here. She didn’t have to work hard at all.”
Saliss of Lights stood behind Selys, and the Drake put her claws on her hips. Belgrade put two hands over his eyes, but peeked.
“Adventurer Saliss! Will you ever put on clothes?”
For answer, Saliss spread his arms wide, and the horrified visitors from Invrisil met a Named-rank adventurer in the flesh. Scales, rather. All the scales.
However, Liscor was changing. Watch Captain Zevara came storming through the crowd.
“Adventurer Saliss! You are under arrest for public indecency! [Freeze, Criminal]!”
She pointed at him, and Saliss threw up his claws and pressed the back of one hand against his forehead dramatically.
“Oh no! Woe is me! Liscor’s Watch has me!”
He put out his claws as the Skill locked him down. Pisces and Olesm, on a hunch, pulled Selys back as Zevara strode over. Saliss didn’t move as he froze up for another second—then, as two magical handcuffs tried to encircle his wrists, he winked.
“Neat Skill, Watch Captain. Has Pallass tried to headhunt you yet?”
Zevara clicked the handcuffs around Saliss’ wrists and stepped back. Then she stared at the grinning Saliss…right up until he melted. His face turned from amusement to horror.
“Wait, are these handcuffs laced with copper? I’m allergic to copper! I’m melting! I’m meeeeeeeelting!”
The screaming Drake turned into a bubbling pile of fizz as horrified bystanders turned to stare at Zevara. Her face turned waxy—until someone tapped her on the shoulder.
“Fake Drake. He’s already run off. Probably invisible. Good luck.”
Zevara started breathing again. She looked around, and a Drake holding his daughter’s claw nodded to her. Watch Captain Venim and his daughter, on break, looked practically inured to Saliss of Lights.
Zevara looked around, and the Watch Captain of Pallass saluted her with a look of deepest sympathy.
 
——
 
A wise Watch Captain cut her losses. There was a lot to patrol, from petty theft to simple crowd work, and Liscor’s Watch did not have the time to chase around a top-level [Alchemist].
In fact, part of the issue was that there were so many festivities, people were getting run-into trying to hop from experience to experience.
Liscor Hunted was having a group hunt of Rock Crabs. The Antinium figurines were selling like cookies—and the street vendors were making a killing. There were even opportunists touring brave visitors around Liscor’s Crypt.
Not the dungeon; that had been sealed off, and good thing too. People fancying that numbers = power had tried to peek inside without realizing that more people just meant more food to some monsters inside the dungeon. Or a trap.
Anyways, there were a good number of festivities on offer. But you know who didn’t have any activities?
Goblins. And Antinium. The two races who, in theory, were partly being celebrated by today had no culture.
It was a deeper cut than Lyonette had realized when she had asked them yesterday for some activity. Drakes, Humans, Gnolls, every species had lots. Even if something wasn’t unique to them, they had their own take on it.
For instance, Humans played horseback polo. A Terandrian game where you rode on horses and swung mallets at little balls to knock them through hoops.
Riveting as that was, Drakes had a kind of bowling—albeit with different pins and no lanes. Gnolls had a game you could play on grass with no pins and just the balls.
Goblins and Antinium, though—had no variations or games. And that hurt Rags’ pride.
She sat in one of the guest rooms her tribe had been allotted, moodily chewing on some corn on the cob sprinkled with mayonnaise and cheese for some reason. It tasted like food, and that was all she had to say about it.
Well, part of her bad mood was that even if Goblins weren’t killed on sight, she would have to deploy illusion spells to shop in Liscor. Which she was going to do, but she was sitting in her room with some of her head Goblins.
Poisonbite, Snapjaw, Badarrow, Redscar, and Taganchiel. All her lieutenants, who were practically Chieftain-rank on their own. And judging from their faces, just loving being here.
“Chieftain. Can we go?”
“Where?”
Rags grumbled at Badarrow as he raised a claw. Snapjaw answered for him.
“Anywhere but here, Chieftain. Numbtongue?”
“What’s he doing? Going in the city?”
“Nope. Going to play in a band. With Kevin. Can we go? Or play on the com-pu-ter.”
Snapjaw savored the words as she gobbled down another cone of ice cream. Poisonbite nodded.
“Or skating.”
“Or buying swords. Pelt has swords for sale.”
Redscar was antsy too. None of the Goblins wanted to be here, but Rags slapped one knee.
“Culture! Anyone got ideas?”
They’d been side-tracked by Erin’s games, but Rags was determined not to leave without something to show for it. Or—at least—stealing a game or two.
“Maybe chess? Bring back some boards, Chieftain. Goblins play. Culture. Tada.”
Redscar tried valiantly as all of Rags’ officers smiled and nodded. Rags scowled at him.
“Something unique to Goblins, stupid.”
“Hurtful, Chieftain.”
The others groaned and looked at Taganchiel, their [Shaman], hopefully. Rags was in a mood, and it meant she probably needed something she considered useful before she’d relent. Unfortunately, the problem was that Rags, a thief of so many things, was having trouble.
Because ‘culture’ was not a trebuchet. It was not something one person could steal. The poor Goblins might have wasted more time they could have spent like Hedault. He hadn’t shown up for breakfast, but he was working on a 360 off a ramp as Poisonbite stared out the window.
That was culture. And Poisonbite, if she’d been lucid, might have made the case that of all the species to adopt Kevin’s unique imprint on this world, the Goblins of Goblinhome were certainly skateboarding enthusiasts.
…However, she did not think to say that. So, the Goblins hemmed and hawed. Redscar suggested that some of his Goblins offer to duel anyone. Badarrow offered a shooting contest. Snapjaw offered an eating contest, and Rags threw her finished cob at her, whereupon Snapjaw ate it.
The moment was ripe for someone to speak. Someone to prove that Goblins did have culture, but only a true [Shaman], not pathetic Taganchiel, would remember it.
Someone like…a [Shaman of the Old Ways], for instance. Someone super-valuable and definitely so important that Rags would have to respect and honor her.
Ulvama was crouching outside one of the windows that led out onto the inn’s roof. Bird had been staring at her for the last eight minutes straight, but she knew the value of a good entrance. She was just crawling back to her window to knock on Rags’ door when something unexpected happened.
The door opened, and another Goblin walked inside. Ulvama froze and stared as an unfamiliar Goblin entered.
“Chieftain Rags, you wanted to speak to me? Taganchiel sent for me via Wyvern, but I have only arrived just now. We had to ride here via Carn Wolf to hide the Wyvern’s flight path.”
This Goblin was notable in a few ways. Firstly, she was a she. Secondly, she was a spellcaster. Thirdly?
She had a mask.
A blonde Goblin with a tangle of hair like a spider’s nest adjusted a mask that appeared to be a cross between a snarling bear and a warthog over her mouth and nose. She also had a pointy hat.
The Goblin [Witch] tipped her hat to a wide-eyed Nanette passing by their rooms, and Prixall bowed to Rags. Anazurhe’s daughter, a Goblin of the Molten Stone Tribe, looked at Rags, and the Chieftain sat up.
“Taganchiel sent for you?”
The other [Shaman] smiled in relief. He pointed at Prixall and nodded.
“Culture, Chieftain.”
Prixall blinked, then smiled as he explained what Rags wanted. Her eyes lit up, and she nodded. The Goblin who had come from one of the world’s safest tribes after seeing Rabbiteater and Rags’ own tribe bowed.
“Of course I can show them a Goblin game, Chieftain. I know just the magic.”
“What!?”
Ulvama kicked the door open, and all the Goblins jumped. She pointed at Prixall, and the [Witch] turned and blinked at her.
“Ulvama.”
“You? Molten Stone? What about me? I have all the culture! I have more culture in half my butt than she does!”
Prixall bristled as Rags looked between Ulvama and her newest leader in magic—nay, witchcraft. She turned—and found Snapjaw climbing out the window. All her officers fled as Rags pinched the bridge of her nose. But then she brightened up a bit. Rags turned to the celebration outside and wondered why an Antinium on a wagon was rolling towards Liscor. Lots of Gnolls, too. She shrugged, then nodded at Ulvama and Prixall.
