This was the worst vacation ever. The Drake girl bit back tears as her tail curled up. She watched the Antinium walk past and do nothing interesting—and then the Goblin appeared.
“What the—is that a Goblin?”
Venim came to a halt as the parade neared the gates. The crowd stopped too and drew back. For just outside the gates was a Goblin. To be more precise, a group of Goblins.
The small Chieftain, Rags, stood with a pair of female Hobs and a few other Goblins who looked…big. Kenva hid behind her father as he put a claw on his sword.
“Keep calm. The Goblins are not entering the city.”
A [Guardswoman] was calling for quiet, and she seemed to be warning the Goblins as well. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark eyed Rags, Ulvama, and Prixall warily. Especially because she recognized spellcasters when she saw them.
Ulvama had her staff, and her magical paint was glowing. Prixall, wearing her terrifying…ly cool mask was adjusting her hat. She took it off and peered inside as if checking for something. Kenva stared behind her father.
These were Goblins? They didn’t look like monsters at all!
“I think we should go back and see about those dolls, Kenva. Come on.”
Venim didn’t like them. He was trying to lead his daughter away when Rags gave an order. The Humans, Gnolls, and Drakes stepped back as the two Hobs, Ulvama and Prixall, argued a moment.
It seemed like they were in competition—but then Prixall made a universal ‘give me’ gesture with her palm. Ulvama folded her arms and sneered until Rags glared at her. Then she grudgingly slapped something into Prixall’s palm and sulked.
What she had given Prixall was magic. Kenva was taking magic lessons since she had the aptitude, and she thought she saw a current of power. And she had never seen that before. She pointed it out, and Venim decided this was dangerous.
“Who knows what they’re doing? I need to find Watch Captain Zevara. She can’t be alright with this. Kenva, we’re going. How much magic did you say that was?”
Now, he and his daughter were engaged in a tug-of-war. And Kenva was only holding her own because she was going to start crying if she didn’t get to see what was going on. However, Venim almost had her hurrying away when someone interrupted with a deep growl.
“A tribe’s worth. Quite a lot, Watch Captain Venim. Don’t worry. Logic dictates that the Goblins won’t do something hostile. If they do, I will address it immediately.”
Kenva looked up—and realized why people were staring their way. Even in this moment, the sight of the most muscular Drake the world had ever seen deserved a second glance.
“Sinew Magus!”
Grimalkin of Pallass stood with his arms folded. Kenva stared up, awestruck, at him. The hero of Pallass’ Wyvern attack!
“Are you sure, Magus Grimalkin?”
Her father talked to him! The imposing [Mage] nodded. He wasn’t taking his eyes off Prixall as she put her hat on her head, and her red eyes flashed yellow a moment. She raised her claws and cupped them. Then blew into the cupped hands.
“She’s working something…large. Shamanic—no, [Witch] magic. I can’t quite tell what she’s doing. It’s probably not hostile. But it’s big. How does a Goblin know magic that complex? That mask. Where are my notes on Goblin tribes?”
He began fumbling for a journal as Venim and his daughter watched along with the crowd. Even the Antinium had slowed, and Kenva saw a sign of real magic appear.
Real magic, as her teacher had explained to the young Drakes, was magic manifesting itself. To make it simple, the bigger the magic, the more it affected the real world. Low-tier magic was temporary and vanished.
Big magical spells changed the air itself. Like how the sun seemed, suddenly, less bright. As if a shadow had fallen over the world, despite the relatively clear skies. A shade in the air, a humming in your teeth and bones.
“What is she…?”
Senior Guardswoman Beilmark was about to tell the Goblins to stop, and Sinew Magus Grimalkin was carefully preparing a dispel magic effect. But it was too late. Indeed, a group of children came tumbling out of the inn as they noticed the magic too.
“Whoa! What’re those Goblins doing?”
Grev, Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma all stared down at Ulvama, and Kenva pointed excitedly at the famous Gnoll girl. Mrsha, with the white fur! And there was Drassi!
“Dad, Dad, there’s Miss Drassi! I need an autograph or I’ll die!”
Her father was busy watching Prixall. The Goblin [Witch] lifted her cupped hands—and something was glowing inside them. She smiled—and then tossed something up into the magically darkened air.
Then, Kenva saw something float out of the Goblin’s grasp. Rags, Mrsha, Antherr, Rhaldon, everyone stared at the Goblin as the Molten Stone Tribe’s daughter answered Rags’ request.
Culture. More culture—a visible kind of culture that Rags wanted. Nevermind that the Mountain City Tribe had their own culture, like Ulvama’s painted skin. Or the Redfang’s own decorations and lifestyle. What Rags meant was—something like chess. Something like skating.
Tell me we at least have games? Something more than war and death?
The tribes of Izril had almost forgotten it. But [Shamans] remembered. And the Molten Stone Tribe’s Chieftain hailed from a place that had never been conquered. The Isle of Goblins.
From there to Anazurhe’s tribe to here. Prixall cast a magic spell. And a little, glowing fish made of bright orange light swam out of her cupped hands.
It had a trailing fin and a pair of catfish-like whiskers on each side of its face. Its eyes were bright green jewels, and the fish was like a beautiful decoration, like you might see in Drath—or the actual fish it was based on, swimming in deep waters, that Goblins admired and caught in their nets.
Yet this one was made of magic. The crowd stopped recoiling and stared as it swam through the air. A dancing fish, darting about, circling slowly, and then jerking away as Ulvama swatted at it and put her hands in her pockets grumpily. She had stolen a pair of pants.
“What is…that?”
Venim halted, worried, perhaps, that the fish was a harbinger of some Tier 5 [Fish Swarm] spell. But Grimalkin just blinked.
“That’s…a Tier 3 [Light] spell. Or something close. I could make that. But the aesthetics are beyond what half of Fissival’s graduates can do.”
By that, he meant it was a beautiful fish. It dazzled Kenva’s eyes, and in the darkened air, it shone even brighter. Rags was pointing at it and clearly asking—what the heck is this?
She reached out for the fish as it nosed around her, and the fish darted away. Prixall smiled. Then she made a grasping gesture as she spoke out of earshot.
Grab the fish? No, catch it! She looked around and then made a swishing gesture. With a net. Yes, grab it with a net!
The adults didn’t get it. But the children watching, all of them, instantly understood. They eyed the darting fish and saw how clever it was. Where Grimalkin saw an adept piece of magic—the children saw a fish you caught.
And what happened after that? Prixall demonstrated, and the fish came over as obediently as could be. She grabbed it—and it dissolved into a shower of sparkles.
“No, she killed it!”
Kenva was horrified—until she saw the shower of magical dust that coated the laughing [Witch]’s hands and arms. It clung to Prixall, a glowing, shining sparkle on her skin.
“Aha. Residual magic…must be a Tier 2 enchantment. You can definitely do this with an equivalent, nevermind the shamanic magic.”
Grimalkin was still muttering his notes. Kenva was still upset the fish was gone, but Prixall had demonstrated the rewards of the game, how it went—and then she clapped her hands.
Another fish swam out of the air. This one was long and sinuous—it was a silver eel! Then something flew out of the sky, and everyone gasped.
A regal bird, a Soerluing, the self-styled ‘king of birds’ due to the crest it had on its head, fluttered down, and the magical illusion fanned its wings. Prixall let it land on her arm with a laugh—
…Right before its head exploded. All the Goblins jerked as an arrow passed through the magical Soerluing, and Rags turned. She shook a fist up at the inn’s tower, and an Antinium with a bow lowered it. Then Bird tried to hide behind the lip of his tower.
That aside, more creatures were swimming out of the air. Fish were emerging, darting across the air, past the dazzled crowd and children rummaging around for something—sticks, cloth, netting—and there were birds!
Even squirrels! They began to scatter, and Venim looked around.
“Magus Grimalkin, what is this?”
“I believe…it’s a Goblin game.”
A game? Everyone looked at him, but then Kenva let go of her father’s hand and jumped.
“I’ve got it! I’ve got—”
A yellow squirrel leapt and spread its wings as the tree-squirrel flew. Kenva ran after it as Venim turned.
“Don’t! It could be danger—”
Too late. Kenva was chasing the squirrel. Another child, a Gnoll, had already caught a butterfly, and he was giggling as his worried mother peered at his face. But all he had was a shower of blue dust that made his fur light up like it was glowing.
“Catch the fish! I need a net!”
“Someone sell me a fishing net! I’ll make little nets, one silver each!”
“Nine copper per catching net!”
“Wood for a fishing net, two copper per rod!”
The adults and children began shouting, and suddenly, the little creatures were everywhere. They mostly flew around outside of the walls, but Prixall was casting a big spell. With all of the magic of a tribe behind her.
The adults were wary, but the children were delighted. They began running—and before Venim could halt his daughter, a flying Gnoll cannonballed into the back of his legs.
Ekirra stopped to apologize to the man—then he was running after Mrsha, Visma, and the others. The magical creatures were quick! Some were slow enough that even a baby could catch them, but some behaved like, well, the genuine article.
Have you ever tried to catch a squirrel? Kenva realized why the animals were mostly outside Liscor’s walls—with the windows, stalls, and whatnot in Liscor, the little creatures were impossible to catch. She leapt, and the eel-fish darted past her—
Right into the jabbing tip of a spear. It burst, and Hickery shielded her eyes. Then someone shouted.
“No fair! No spears!”
The Gnoll looked in delight at her ‘enchanted’ spear as more Gnolls ran out. The [Guards] were calling.
“Not in the city! Out in the grass—no spears!”
Children and a few adults began pursuing the magical creatures running about. Then—Kenva was laughing as a little Gnoll girl spotted some nets being made by someone with [Advanced Crafting]. She raced over, and Mrsha handed Kenva, Ekirra, and Visma each one. They began racing around, trying to find the most alluring creatures.
“Get the pink jellyfish! I want my scales to sparkle!”
Visma screeched, but Ekirra was racing.
“No, the white rabbit! Put it on my soccer ball! Ekirra kiiiick!”
He kicked the soccer ball, and it missed the rabbit and bounced off Palt’s chest as the Centaur trotted out to admire the illusion spells.
From the walls, Beilmark blew a whistle.
“No soccer balls, no spears!”
Ekirra’s ears flattened, and he went to put his ball away. But then Mrsha saw the Antinium standing still and staring at the beautiful creatures.
A Goblin’s game for children. The crowd had almost forgotten, but they turned back to Rags and the Hobs. Then—Mrsha went racing over the ground.
Antherr! It’s him! Antherr!
Grev, who was too cool to play catch, uncrossed his arms, and Nanette released a magical dove she’d caught. Everyone turned as the white Gnoll silently shouted and raced around the Soldier.
It’s Antherr! And Termin! And Nailren!
She recognized the Weatherfur Gnolls too, and they nodded to her. Mrsha fumbled for her notepad, realized she’d left it behind—then pointed at the inn. She mimed—wait, wait—and began racing up to the inn.
She realized what Antherr being here meant. Then Drassi, who had captured the entire Goblin game, focused on Antherr.
“Oh my. I believe we’re about to capture another quest being fulfilled live, folks. If I don’t miss my guess, that might be Antherr, a soldier of Liscor’s army who fought in the Meeting of Tribes, returning to the inn. We—is there time for a celebration?”
The Drake looked around, but Lyonette was already hurrying out the door to greet Antherr with the Thronebearers. And Erin was still asleep!
Pisces gently picked Mrsha up before the Gnoll could open Erin’s door and wake her up. Instead, the guests filed outside. It was not the full celebration he deserved, but it was on the scrying orb.
 
——
 
…He deserved more. Not that Antherr seemed to care. In the scrying orb, the Antinium silently looked up, mandibles parted, as he stared at glowing creatures flying around him. The magic-laden air was shaded, but not dark, and it seemed as beautiful as the morning had been.
But he deserved everything, and they were missing it. So a group of people watching the scrying orb furiously sped up.
“We’re going to miss the party! That’s Antherr! I knew that bastard was alive. He owes me money. Move faster you slow pieces of spidercrap!”
Thousands of Antinium were marching past Esthelm as the cheering Humans waved at them and the Antinium waved back. Crusader 57 was screaming at the Antinium as wagons rumbled behind them, laden with pieces of jade and other triumphs of the war. Crusader 53 nudged Crusader 57—but they all did increase their pace.
They wouldn’t make it. Even at full-tilt, they’d need another hour or two to get there. So every Antinium was watching the orb anxiously.
They felt that Antherr deserved more. Every promised fanfare, every moment the Crusade had earned—give it to him?
Perhaps that was enough. He was walking through a dark sea filled with vibrant creatures, shining, as children ran and laughed around him. Antherr shaded his eyes and stared up at the inn, newly-built walls gleaming, as an Antinium waved at him from the tower.
One of Antherr’s hands waved back, and a beaming Gnoll girl with white fur was leading Lyonette and four shining [Knights] in golden armor out. Adventurers stood, some waving at Antherr, others nodding to Nailren.
Wasn’t that enough? It should have been. Would have been for Antinium in any time but now. The Crusaders were learning greed. They wanted more. More, to fill empty hearts and heads which had never encompassed anything so glorious.
Into that desire, someone answered their request. The Antinium, staring at the scrying orb that Artur had mounted on top of his banner so everyone could see it, heard a strange sound coming from the orb.
