The City of Adventurers had high-level [Performers]. It had been home to a Level 40+ [Tumbler], and even Barelle the Bard. They had watched Liscor and Celum celebrating with urbane amusement, and when they’d gotten the prompt, they’d decided it was time to show off.
However, that was possibly also because Liscor, Celum, and yes, even Pallass had decided to add to the event. Grev had decided that if the three Gold-rank teams weren’t enough to warrant a celebration, why not add the Antinium and Forount’s group? And if you had them—you might as well celebrate everyone you could.
The Players of Liscor and the Players of Celum were striding across the street, handing out the coveted autographs to anyone whose card they managed to grab in the sea of waving hands. One of their number actually copied the [Tumbler] and managed three flips—she kept on going, did a flip and twist in the air, and blew a kiss at him.
Following them came a strange sight that provoked screams and cheers on its own. Saliss of Lights threw up his claws as Erin closed her eyes. He tossed vials into the air, and the sky, already filled with sparkling lights, turned into a full conflagration of explosions. The Drake posed as the Horns looked around.
“Is this all for us? I thought it was supposed to be quiet!”
Yvlon grabbed Lyonette—but then all of them saw someone beckoning frantically to them.
“Into the parade wagon! Come on! You and you—and you!”
“Me?”
Lyonette was astonished, but before she knew it, the Horns and Erin were piling into a wagon. And the [Princess] was going up with her Thronebearers.
They certainly fit the scene. Erin was screaming something at Lyonette about lies, but they were already rolling down the street.
And the sight of the [Innkeeper] made the screaming grow louder somehow. Erin looked around and saw more people in the line of celebrities.
That was what Invrisil respected, she realized. Saliss from the Meeting of Tribes, Lehra Ruinstrider in a float ahead of them—even Wil, Venaz, Merrik, and Peki. The Garuda was showing off kicks and punches as she perched on top of one of the wagons.
And at the head of the group? There were the two troublemakers who definitely needed some adult supervision! Mrsha and Grev were waving at the crowd, and they were getting a non-inconsequential number of cheers.
Actually, there were a lot of cheers, even for this being orchestrated by Grev. Something was growing in the distance, and Erin’s head turned to the northern edge of the city. The parade was headed that way, and her eyes narrowed.
Lyonette’s own head snapped up, and she looked confused, but she was watching the Antinium, and she was, well, smiling and waving at the crowd. Her instincts had kicked in, and she fit into the celebration better than some of the awestruck adventurers.
In fact, Dame Ushar had paused in the middle of joining the Thronebearers standing around Lyonette to write a brief missive. She sent a [Message] spell off, and it raced around the world.
It said this:
 
To Their Exalted Majesties:
Budget — 5000 Gold Pieces, breakdown 1000 Liscor, 3400 Invrisil, 600 Celum.
Organization time, ~half a day.
 
——
 
The note was hastily scribbled, and it appeared on Queen Ielane’s [Message] scroll before they saw their daughter, due to the time delay on Wistram’s broadcasts.
King Reclis peered over the [Message] scroll and read what it said. Her Majesty of Calanfer calmly eyed the celebration.
Reclis was tapping his foot and nodding to the beat of the music. But then—he was in a good mood after levelling up.
“She did quite well for her first celebration. Very positive sentiment about the Antinium, don’t you think, my dear?”
Ielane’s face was cold as she eyed the [Princess] waving and laughing and the adventurers on show.
“It’s hardly unique. She’s simply tapped into sentiment, not changed a narrative. Enabling an event is basic. If an [Innkeeper] can do it, any royal of Calanfer should be able to do likewise.”
Reclis didn’t pursue the argument. They just watched as Lyonette blew a kiss, looking mischievous. Ielane’s scowl grew larger. But then she blinked.
“Ah. The inn has arrived. That explains it.”
The scrying orb was moving—and the confused but gratified people on parade realized what was going on after the crowds. The cheering grew louder—and in the distance, Drassi pointed and shouted uselessly into the camera. The music was too loud. But it didn’t matter because everyone saw it.
An inn slowly came into sight. The inn. The Adventurer’s Haven had arrived in Invrisil, and it came in like a storm.
 
——
 
“The Adventurer’s Haven is coming! That’s why everyone’s cheering!”
“What? The inn is coming—so that’s why Mrsha saw that other [Innkeeper]!”
Lyonette broke off from enjoying the parade and looked aghast. She realized that this wasn’t all Grev and Mrsha’s doing! But now—her eyes darted up, and she gasped.
“They’re stealing our moment! Those clever little—how dare they!”
“You mean the Antinium’s moment!”
Erin hollered back. But it was too late. The parade was heading north, towards where the inn was arriving, and the cheering seemed to be taking on a different tone.
Almost like this was a competition. Which it wasn’t. Erin looked up, and Ceria shaded her brows.
“Is that an aura I feel? Or just magic? Did they just say The Adventurer’s Haven is coming? Pisces, Yvlon, have you ever been there?”
“What?”
Yvlon screamed back. She had two fingers in her ears. She shook her head.
“I’ve never been! But it’s famous! I wanted to be a Gold-rank and visit—it’s the best inn in Izril!”
The adventurers knew that name. Yvlon guiltily looked at Erin, but the [Innkeeper] was just frowning. Yet that was the comparison being made.
The Adventurer’s Haven, which was close to First Landing, was home to the best [Innkeeper]. Or had been the best inn?
Lism was riding a parade wagon he’d managed to smuggle the Council aboard, and he was pointing and shouting invectives.
“Liscorians, show them that we have the best inn! Let’s show them a real parade!”
His voice was magnified by a speaking stone. Erin nearly spat out her tongue hearing that, but Liscorian citizens and natives of Invrisil took up the cause.
Palt was firing illusion spells into the air along with Bezale and several [Mages]. Now, they conjured the opposite of the fireworks—a rain of magic spells began raining down. The first elements of the parade began riding through falling streaks of green light and glowing rays that looked like fire.
And that inn kept coming. Erin was standing on her tip-toes, but she was shorter than most of the people in the parade wagon, and she couldn’t see.
“What’s it look like? Pisces, Pisces—”
She turned to the tall [Necromancer] and flinched as the cheers grew wild. Mostly because Ksmvr had just leapt from the wagon. He landed on a four-story building and began hopping across buildings as people pointed at him.
“Ksmvr of Chandrar! Ksmvr of—”
Now, the adventurers were showing off. Saliss threw another potion into the crowd and turned everyone’s hair bright red. Then he threw a bottle down, and the explosion tossed him up past Ksmvr. He flew, spinning, through the air and landed on the ground before rolling to his feet.
“Guys, guys, it’s not a compet—”
Too late. Ceria leapt off the wagon and began sliding across the parade with Pisces on an [Icy Floor] spell. Dawil joined her—or tried to. He couldn’t balance, so he ran and leapt. Then he began skidding on his front, arms raised, to wild cheering.
Ylawes was more restrained, but Falene shot a jagged bolt of lightning into the air. To Erin’s bemusement, her friends seemed keen on proving a point. As if they were defending her honor.
It didn’t make her smile or flush with embarrassed pride at all. Absolutely not.
“Players of Celum, let’s hear it for our [Innkeeper]!”
Temile howled into Drassi’s microphone, and the crowd went wild as the [Actors] began activating Skills. From people in civilian’s clothes, a Drake spun—and emerged in full Juliet costume.
[Instant Clothing Change]. Another did a flip—and snapped his leg. The crowd screamed as he stared at the broken bone and his twisted skin—then he got up, and the broken leg vanished.
[Break a (Fake) Leg].
Jelaqua was trying to whirl her flail around to show off, but everyone was trying to stop her from killing everyone if she let go. Ulinde stood on the wagon, firing spells upwards—
And then they rounded a bend, and Erin saw the inn coming their way.
At first, she didn’t know what she was seeing. It was far enough in the distance for the people to be too small to make anything out—but the inn itself? Erin could see why it was a famous inn. She could see how it had gotten here in about a month’s time, even from First Landing.
Mainly because it was—floating. But it wasn’t an inn. Not exactly.
Erin’s first thought was that part of the landscape itself was moving. She saw a cluster of buildings slowly drifting over the ground. Then she realized—the largest building was the inn. And the entire cluster of buildings?
They were on wooden daises. And they were floating. There was a central building, and each smaller one was on a rounded dais that hovered around The Adventurer’s Haven. Not just buildings; there were even what looked like pens for animals, and Erin swore she saw an actual field of crops.
Floating! Or was it more complex than that? Because what Erin also saw, as the cheering died down for a moment, was that each dais was still being pulled.
They floated, yes, but they seemed anchored to huge pedestals being pulled by oxen, not horses. The animals were pulling the pedestals along, each one directly underneath the floating daises.
Like they were being held up by the magnetic repulsion—or magic itself. It was, Erin realized, like Fissival in miniature. She looked at the central building and saw, to her great surprise, that it was no building like her inn, which resembled a house adapted for the purposes of an inn.
This was multi-sided, because it might face in any direction. It had at least four floors, open balconies—but Erin didn’t miss what looked like turrets or towers. In fact, she recognized that design too.
It looked like a crown or the city of Reim in miniature. Wood and stone, painted a light, bright green visible for miles and highlighted by silver and viridian. The final thing she saw, even from afar, was the symbol, hanging prominently.
A wand in front of a mug and a bag of gold to the side. The crest of that famous inn.
The Adventurer’s Haven. And Erin just knew that the [Innkeeper] was coming her way. She felt it. But their aura was only half of what made the crowds gasp. Ceria slowed down, and Pisces nearly knocked her flat. Both [Mages] stared at the inn.
“The magic! Pisces, is she lifting the entire damn inn?”
“She’s supposed to be a former Named-rank adventurer, right? The [Mage]? Larracel the Haven?”
Her mana signature was so heavy that Pisces could see it from afar. And still, the Adventurer’s Haven drifted slowly to Invrisil. In dead silence, everyone stared at it for a moment. Then Mrsha slapped Grev on the shoulder.
Alright, let’s show them what we’ve got!
He started, glanced at her, and then nodded. Time to unveil their trump card.
Music and the sounds of another celebration were coming from the floating inn. It was hard to tell how many people could fit in the central inn—but with the other buildings combined? It had to have an occupancy in the thousands, not hundreds! If that were really a floating farmstead, the staff alone constituted a village.
Mrsha couldn’t tell who was making all that noise, but she could see a lot of people around the inn—even outdoor tables. Well—well—The Wandering Inn didn’t have outdoor tables because you got eaten by spiders if you sat outside!
And her inn had something cool too. So Grev stood up, and the cheering resumed as he encouraged the crowd to shout.
And if their voices were too weak—there was also music. However, the individual bands were fading out. A trumpeter was nervously adjusting his instrument and mouthing at his friends. Meanwhile, a grinning Kevin was adjusting the volume on his laptop while Palt cast a spell.
When the music began to play, it sounded like the Singer of Terandria’s music. It was an explosion, a shout—and Kevin began to strike the drums on a wagon as Octavia played along as best she could on a guitar. However, they were just the background.
The crowd’s heads turned. They expected to hear Cara’s voice because that was what they associated with that kind of music. They were not ready for what came next.
“Introducing our special musician from The Wandering Inn! Let them hear it, Numbtongue!”
Grev shouted and pointed. Then Mrsha heard screams and shouts and ducked because she had a feeling her mom and Erin were looking at her. But she kept staring up, up—at the Hobgoblin [Bard].
Numbtongue was playing on his guitar. And—Mrsha distinctly heard a nervous tone in his voice as he began singing one of Cara’s songs. Half the crowd ready to panic at the sight of a Goblin stopped. They looked over, and Erin’s jaw dropped.
“He’s singing?”
She could see Numbtongue clearly, along with everyone else. In fact, beyond clearly because Numbtongue wasn’t standing on one of the wagons. It was hard to hide a Goblin that long, even with a cloak and hood. So Mrsha and Grev had put him somewhere else along the parade route, and on signal—
His platform had begun rising. To be more precise, a pillar of earth, brown stone, was lifting him higher into the air as Moore cast his newest Tier 4 spell.
A singing Hobgoblin with a guitar was playing one of the Singer of Terandria’s pop songs, and it seemed like even The Adventurer’s Haven slowed down to check their eyes.
The crowd looked uncertain for a second, and Erin feared they’d either riot or panic. But her friends had pulled an Erin classic. While the crowd was busy processing the fact that a Goblin could sing, they’d forgotten to scream.
And she’d also forgotten something that Numbtongue himself occasionally forgot:
He was a [Bard].
He was using his Skills, and Erin felt the nervousness of the crowd drain away like water through a sieve.
[Peaceful Melody]. And maybe—[Ballad of Bravery]. He grinned and winked at Erin and everyone else in her direction, and then someone began cheering him.
“Go Numbtongue! Look at that!”
Drassi shouted, and the voices swelled again as the music played louder. Then you had a Goblin playing music in one of Izril’s largest cities.
 
——
 
Disastrous. Horrendous! It made Goblins look like people, and it fit his class. If this were his kingdom, it would have been a terrible incident politically and socially.
