But it was too late. The Horns of Hammerad had reformed, and they were forming up with—her guests. Numbtongue leapt off the lowering spire of earth, and Mrsha stomped over, shaking her fist at Barnethei.
“We’re just making a point. Hey, someone cast [Earthen Floor] or something.”
“How about [Light Bridge]?”
A Drake pointed a finger, and Grimalkin’s bridge of light rose. The dais was poised to meet it, and Erin Solstice found her friends ushering her forwards.
“Guys, it’s not a competition.”
“Of course not.”
Ceria soothed her and then made a place for Saliss. The Drake gyrated, giving the other Named-ranks a nod. They stared at him, and half covered their faces in resignation.
“Am I supposed to appear? Alright.”
Shriekblade popped into view, and the crowd turned as Temile and a few [Actors] were pushed into frame. Selys popped up behind Pisces, scowling, and hid behind Relc and Grimalkin. The Senior Guardsman looked very pleased to be included, but to Erin’s pure astonishment, she saw not only the Silver Swords, but—
“Pelt?”
The Dwarf stood importantly, arms folded. He looked at her and growled, just loud enough to be heard. A bass rumble.
“What?”
“Why are you here? You hate this kind of event!”
The Dwarf spat as they slowly walked up the bridge and hit someone. He looked at The Adventurer’s Haven and turned his head.
“The south’s gotta represent itself. Pride in your craft matters, girl. See? Even that one’s here.”
“I am supposed to be here! Wait, wait!”
Bird was waving his arms in the crowd. Krshia Silverfang hurried him forwards, and Lism tried to climb up the bridge until Mrsha began kicking at his shins.
Grimalkin, Saliss—the only person not here was Chaldion, and Erin suspected that was purely politics. And there should have been Griffon Hunt, the Wings of Pallass—
This was enough. Seborn and Wailant were glaring daggers at a Dullahan who must have been either a [Sailor] or a [Pirate]—he had tattooed armor?—and making some offensive gestures. Normen made a path for Pawn to walk forwards and was pushed into place by Alcaz.
Numbtongue, Joseph, Kevin, Imani, Palt, Lyonette, the Thronebearers, Mrsha, Grev, Nanette, adjusting her chef’s hat, Maughin, talking shop with Pelt about his smithing projects as Jelaqua tried to shush him, Rags, wearing her disguise ring as Calescent gulped at the Named-ranks. Garia Strongheart and Viceria, trying to keep Wailant from taking off his shirt and showing off his tattoos.
Ceria was still laughing, but Pisces and Yvlon were deadpan glaring at the other Named-ranks, and Ksmvr was writing down the names and details that Drassi was calling out. Grimalkin sighed—and Erin Solstice laughed.
She looked around, and Calruz was not there, but Venaz was, for some reason. He tried to edge forwards next to Erin, but Olesm and Belgrade practically clotheslined him.
“The light! The light! Get an umbrella—Octavia, stand there!”
Fierre was hissing. But Lyonette stood there, and Relc rolled his eyes.
“I see you, Klb. Gonna come with or not?”
“I believe Mihaela Godfrey will try to murder me. Go on.”
Erin looked into the crowd and the void of space surrounding a single Antinium. He nodded to her, and she sighed.
“Guys.”
It wasn’t a competition. But it was. The Wandering Inn’s guests lined up as Salamani and Ci looked at Erin. The floating dais lowered itself ever so slightly as the two sides faced each other and a hush drew over the entire moment.
Something like an [Immortal Moment], but not quite. An expectation. Now—even the laypeople could feel two elements pressing against each other.
Erin Solstice’s aura wasn’t something you often felt. It was her inn. It was strange, silly, magical, and wondrous—and it was so her that you didn’t notice even if you were standing in it unless she was angry or something important was happening.
It was only present, like an invisible gas, when something else revealed it. And that was The Adventurer’s Haven’s aura.
It felt like the essence of magic. A charge in the air, far more vibrant than Erin’s. Like possibility, like being alive. The performing staff, the grand, floating inn, the legendary names—
The greatest [Innkeeper] of Izril stood among that crowd. Where was she? The staff? Some of the people standing on Erin’s side tried to pick her out, but perhaps she was still making her entrance. And many had locked eyes.
Lyonette and Barnethei were staring at each other with pleasant smiles on their faces. He was more relaxed than she. Mihaela was glaring into the crowd where a certain Slayer was politely looking the other way, relaxed as could be.
Colth found himself being glared at by a little Gnoll girl, and Eldertuin nodded at the Horns.
Where was the [Innkeeper]? Larracel of Havens?
Grev was peering about, trying to push forwards, and some of the others who had never been there or didn’t know what to look for had missed her.
But Erin Solstice just looked down. She saw one of the staff, wearing a less-flashy uniform than the other performers, standing behind Barnethei. Like a [Cleaner], perhaps, her hair streaked with grey. She was hardly as tall as Eldertuin, and Erin realized she might be taller.
The other woman’s skin was black, and she had no magical robes, nor a wand. In fact, even Pisces missed her as he scanned the group. Yet Erin Solstice just looked at her and saw who many of the new guests to Haven missed.
Not colorful Barnethei, who was the ‘innkeeper’ that a few idiots claimed to have met. The real one, who waited tables sometimes and listened.
Larracel of Havens was watching Erin Solstice. The moment their eyes locked, the two felt each other’s true presence.
The air was like a physical divide between the two. Not even Lyonette wanted to step forwards. She was uncertain what would happen next. Not a fight—but was this a contest? She looked at Erin and saw not a wrinkle of fear or anger on the young woman’s face.
Then Lyonette’s ears cleared, and she finally heard what Erin had been saying this entire time. After all—The Adventurer’s Haven was another inn.
If anyone would have felt the contest, the pressure—surely it was Erin. But she had neither flinched nor felt that hostility.
Slowly, the [Innkeeper] walked forwards, and the older woman did likewise. Their friends stood back, and the crowd looked at the two [Innkeepers] as they approached.
They were…the least interesting people in that crowd of names and faces, surely! Their friends were far more impressive. But Erin Solstice’s hazel eyes lit up, and she hesitantly stuck out a hand.
“I—don’t know how [Innkeepers] are supposed to meet. Hello there. You’ve come a long way. Can I offer you a drink?”
She saw two bright, blue eyes regard her, and then Larra, Larracel the Haven, spoke. Her voice was soft, and each word was enunciated, like the [Wizard] she had been. Someone who had once cast a spell to create a home even in the middle of the dungeon. She had turned that power into this inn.
“When [Innkeepers] meet, most have offered me a room and food. Some compete and show off. Others are less friendly. But we are [Innkeepers]. It would be my honor if you also had a drink in my inn and any meal you wanted. Hello, Erin Solstice. I’m Larracel Delais. [Innkeeper] of The Adventurer’s Haven.”
“Mine is The Wandering Inn, Liscor. But you knew that.”
Erin smiled. She felt the other woman’s force, pure magic behind her, an aura surrounding her entire inn. It was intimidating—or should have been. But Erin’s eyes had lit up.
Was that a hat the Haven’s guests saw? Flickering fire? Larra’s gaze flickered. She looked at Erin and, hesitantly, reached out.
Mihaela realized why Larra had asked for her to come. Perhaps it was she who was…nervous? After all, it was just her old friend, the scolding, bossy—
Larra’s fingers touched Erin’s. She took Erin’s hand as the younger woman closed her hand, and they felt their auras meet.
Magic and wonder met. They didn’t collide, but ran together in one moment. Erin felt the [Immortal Moment] open—and the crowd blinked upwards.
What they heard was different than what the two [Innkeepers] saw and said to each other. Blinking, the crowd saw spells flicker to life.
A Familiar, a spectral imp, floated through the air to The Adventurer’s Haven. The same spell Valeterisa had taught Larra. It flew through an open hatch and came out with a plate of food.
Behind Erin, a breeze blew through the air, and a shower of flower petals rained down. For a second—Mrsha looked up, and the [Garden of Sanctuary] stood open to that garden of fish. She reached out and caught a flower petal.
The crowd pointed up and gasped. Mihaela Godfrey touched her face. The Guildmistress of First Landing looked down, and nothing appeared to have changed.
She wore running pants, a tunic—and her hair was cropped short and brunette. She inhaled through lungs that worked normally—and nothing was different.
For her. She looked as young as she remembered, for a moment. Pisces blinked at a group of young men and women his age, kids, nudging each other and pointing at the garden. Teasing and fidgeting, despite the austerity of the moment.
Montressa’s mouth dropped as a [Mage] her age fiddled with her glasses and peeked over her book.
“Oh, an aura combination. How fascinating. Where’s my notepad, my notepad?”
Grimalkin nearly dropped his. And Erin Solstice looked at someone just a few years older than her as she shook hands.
For everyone else, the moment passed in, well, a moment. But Erin Solstice’s eyes ran from person to person, and she saw them. Young. Crazy. Like the Horns. Like…
“Your inn looks so strange to me. But very familiar. I can see how you got here so quickly. Hello, again. I have to admit, you scared me so much I called in my friends.”
Larra looked at Erin, and the [Magical Innkeeper] held up her hands.
“Who, me? I’m not scary. I’m silly. I’m pleased to meet you!”
“Me too. But I have to say—you know some terrifying people. The Cyclops, the Slayer—and you have a hat made out of fire.”
“That’s just—”
“A bit of bullshit?”
Erin choked on her words, and Larra put her hands on her hips and gave her a sardonic look. The other [Innkeeper] shook her head.
“Please, my own crowd gives me enough. You’re the world’s best chess player, at least. And a [Witch]? I recognize the magic.”
Erin Solstice nearly lied, then she hesitated. Ruefully, she tipped her hat, then took it off her head.
“…My hat is overfull. I’ll have to do something with it. No, I get to. And you’re a Named-rank adventurer. Larracel the Haven.”
The other woman’s chin rose. Proudly, and she nodded.
“I am. Though my days of adventure are behind me. An inn is a different kind of adventure with dangers aplenty. I’ve seen bandits and war and strife—but I can admit I’ve been retired a while. So have my silly friends.”
She looked at the others, and Erin ducked her head, smiling. Then she realized why Larracel was here and looked up.
“Oh. Is that why you came here?”
She looked south, past Liscor, to what she knew was beyond it. Lands not tamed. Larracel sighed, and she brushed at her hair. She turned to the others and shrugged.
“I would worry about these idiots too much. They need someone to nag them. We look old, you see. Mihaela’s hair is all white. But I feel only as if someone hit me with an aging spell.”
“Is that what being old is like? Don’t you get more responsible?”
Erin looked at Larra, wide-eyed with disbelief. The other [Innkeeper] looked at her, and her teeth flashed as she laughed.
“Never. Now, shall we go to your inn or mine first? Look at all these people. Invrisil was always filled with drama-loving hogs. It is the City of Adventurers. Between you and me, we can probably sell out our inns. Shall we compete?”
Erin blinked.
“I’ve never competed with anyone before. Not everything’s a compet—ow!”
Larra gently shocked her! With a bit of static electricity!
“I don’t want to hear that from the woman who just played ninety chess games yesterday. You don’t compete because you don’t have any rivals. Well—”
She turned, and her inn came to rest. Every door and window on the inn flew open, and her staff stood there as arcane familiars hovered through the air. Erin blinked up at them all, and The Adventurer’s Haven was right in front of her. Larra pulled down one eyelid with a finger, before she became an old woman again, and stuck out her tongue.
“…My inn can move. So I’ve won.”
Erin looked at her in pure astonishment, mouth open, as the [Immortal Moment] faded. For a second, the crowd held its breath, then Erin threw her arms around Larra and hugged her.
“You’re so cool!”
Larra chuckled as her friends looked at her. She glanced over her shoulder, and the [Vice Innkeeper] snapped to attention.
“Barnethei—get to work. Let’s go to my inn first. It’s closer. You can put your magic door in my inn, and I’ll charge it as much as it needs. Introduce me to your guests. Now, who’s this girl and why does she look like trouble? Here.”
She looked at Mrsha, pulled something out of a pocket, and Mrsha sniffed at the toffee. She popped it into her mouth, and it instantly glued her teeth together. Erin Solstice laughed as Mihaela came forwards.
“Hello. I’m Mihaela Godfrey. Courier.”
“Oh, I’m Erin. Say, didn’t you hit Ryoka?”
“Yes.”
Erin frowned at Mihaela as everyone held their breath. The explosively dangerous Courier with her temper stared at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] waggled a finger.
“Well—well—did she have it coming?”
Mihaela stared at the sky.
“Only a bit.”
Erin stared at her and then slowly looked around. Adventurers, new to her, clustered behind Mihaela, and the nobility were getting upset they weren’t being recognized. Barnethei was already jogging to placate them and begin organizing things, and Lyonette was hurrying after him, not to be outdone.
Erin Solstice exhaled and looked around. She took Mihaela’s grip, and the woman coughed. She tried to stop it, but she coughed and coughed, a deep, rasping cough, and produced a handkerchief. There was a bit of blood on her lips, but she just looked annoyed.
“Ah, a customer.”
Saliss rubbed his claws together, and Mihaela shot him a glare. She kicked, and Saliss’s eyes shot open. Erin blinked as Mihaela’s shoe thunked into Saliss’ shin, and he hopped up and down.
“Aaaargh! Pain! Actual consequences!”
Everyone stared at him wide-eyed, and Erin wondered if Faerie Flowers could do anything. Or…she saw the Horns nervously standing there as Larra looked at them. Both [Innkeepers] traded glances and tried not to like the other’s friends instantly.
