“Alright. Show me. No—show them what our culture is.”
Hungrily, she waited as the two Hobgoblins glanced at each other and smiled.
 
——
 
Now, they were here at last.
It had been the opposite of a boring ride north. It never was boring with Termin.
Rhaldon, the trainee [Wagon Driver], was so new to this world that he enjoyed just seeing different cities and the changing landscapes.
However, their trip north had been fairly uneventful in terms of violence or chaos. They camped rather than stayed in cities due to their Antinium passenger, and the Gnolls did not like Drakes—but they stayed out of the way.
Aside from a few furious arguments where some Drakes shouted insults at the warriors sent to guard Antherr—nothing had come close to a fight. The Antinium, ironically, had been one of the least contentious parts of the journey due to Termin’s genius strategy to keep him hidden:
He gave Antherr a cloak and a hat. Now, masterminds like Niers had camouflaged Antinium and Goblins before by making use of perception—if one did not expect an Antinium on the road, they were less likely to look closely.
Termin took it a step further. Who could imagine an Antinium wearing a hat? So a bulky figure in a cloak had sat with Rhaldon, staring out with the young man from Earth.
In that way, they were similar. Rhaldon had gotten to talk a lot with the Gnolls as well. They were fairly friendly, if clearly still haunted by the trauma of the Meeting of Tribes. But Rhaldon had gotten to talking with one of the Gnolls he actually had a kind of friendship with.
That Gnoll was a fellow who had a bunch of feathers tied to one armband like a decoration, always carried a recurve bow, and whose name was Nailren.
He was the Captain of the Pride of Kelia, and he apparently came from the tribes, but he had travelled further than most as a Silver-rank adventurer. So far, in fact, that this was not a voyage out, but a kind of return for him.
He knew Liscor, and he was only too happy to brag about knowing Erin Solstice. Now that Rhaldon and Termin were coming up to the city—no, now that he had seen the chess games that took the world by storm, Rhaldon was nervous.
Was she from home? She had to be. Could he talk to her?
If there was any feeling in his bones, it was a great apprehension. Not just that he might find someone else—Rhaldon felt at his aching shoulder. It still ached, even after being healed.
Antherr didn’t notice; their wagons were rolling across the neat road that had led them past the Bloodfields. Fox and Erma were trotting ahead of Termin’s wagon, and the old [Wagon Driver] was chatting with the Gnolls sniffing the air and twitching their ears.
They were all excited to get to Liscor for the big celebration. Termin especially. He had grumbled about his age because he had to camp out rather than sleep in a proper bed. For all that, his Skills had kept them out of danger quite easily.
Rhaldon, though…he watched Antherr bouncing excitedly in his seat. The big Soldier, like a child, stared at the square fort—a massive one to Rhaldon.
Perfectly solid walls. A square—not including the new area under construction. It amused Rhaldon because…he wasn’t sure that was a natural architectural feature. He’d heard Liscor flooded every year, and so the walls were waterproof?
Even Venice wasn’t that strange, and that was his only comparison. He wondered about the architecture that Earth would need to employ to build a city like Liscor. Could the modern era do something like this? Skyscrapers had that kind of impressive verticality due to steel and current construction techniques, but how nervous would even an engineer from Earth be about making a waterproof city that had to avoid springing a leak? If the walls gave in, a hundred thousand plus people drowned.
Well, Rhaldon was no expert in architecture. He was just a…chemist. Although he had no class, and alchemy was this world’s only equivalent.
Right now, Liscor was more than a square box. It was lit up with distant music, wagons rolling in and out and headed north, and that inn on a hill came into view slowly.
“There it is! Faster, Erma, Fox! We’re eating well tonight!”
Termin cackled with delight. The two ponies actually slowed down until he bribed them.
“Oh, come on—I’ll find you sweetgrass hay! There’s a door to the Strongheart Farms. Sweetgrass hay, an apple, carrots—I’ll make a damn salad!”
That put some pep in their step, and Rhaldon laughed. His ponies were hardly as intelligent as Termin’s. They were friendly, but Erma and Fox were people.
“Liscor. It’s changed, yeah?”
Nailren lifted his head, and his team stirred. They looked up as some of the Weatherfur and other Gnolls sniffed the air.
“Is that a team of Gnolls hunting I see? Silverfang should be here. Chief Warrior, what should we expect?”
“A friendly welcome. Find Krshia Silverfang; don’t ask me. Be on your best behavior. This city…is full of Antinium. And more Humans and less typical Drakes. I heard it was a literal backwater city before now. So it’s better than most Drake cities, eh?”
Chief Warrior Toresh Weatherfur looked warily ahead. He had rings of white on his fur and a splash of color across his chest. Torishi Weatherfur’s colors. He was related to her, and all the Gnolls of her tribe wore her markings, yellow and purple and blue like a slash across their chest.
Yet even he looked slightly excited, despite the mourning, to see the inn. Rhaldon craned his neck and frowned.
“…Is that a skating rink? Termin, do you see that?”
“It may be, it may be, Rhaldon, my boy. You expect to see that kind of thing around the inn.”
“Will we be able to get in? It looks crowded.”
Termin hesitated, then smiled affably.
“I hope Miss Erin will remember me. I did take her back from Celum. If we can’t get a place, we’ll see about the city. But we are dropping off Mister Antherr. Do you want to meet the legendary [Innkeeper], Rhaldon? She’s a character, and I’ve met almost every [Innkeeper] in Izril!”
Rhaldon smiled.
“I’d be delighted to. And Joseph. He plays football, right?”
“Right, right. I have no idea who that is. Captain Nailren, do you remember him?”
The Gnoll scratched his head and turned to his team. He kicked a snoozing Gnoll gently, and she sat up.
“Oi. Cuska, Bekr. Anyone remember Joseph?”
They all stirred from where they were napping along the wagon. The Pride of Kelia knew The Wandering Inn. However, they were not the most regular visitors.
“Joseph? Was he the one who kept drinking himself sick? And those annoying kids the Wind Runner brought in? Remember the one who kept comparing little Mrsha to a dog?”
“Oh, right. Hate them. Sounds like they’ve changed.”
Rhaldon listened with both ears to the casual banter. And the pit in his stomach grew wider. Nailren actually noticed Rhaldon’s apprehension.
“You nervous, Rhaldon? Don’t be. She’s friendly. Just don’t do anything like try to stab a Goblin. All the rumors about her are exaggerated.”
“Rumors? Like what?”
Rhaldon, of course, knew she was the Innkeeper Who Lived, who had come back from the dead, the great chess player, and had possibly been Sserys reincarnated. He wondered what rumors could add to that.
“Oh, people say she’s able to spit blood like an Oldblood Drake. She’s a Wall Lord’s secret mistress, uh…what else? She’s crazy, obviously, she has acid instead of blood—”
“No, she just throws jars of acid. That’s not a rumor, it’s true.”
Nailren jabbed his teammates.
“You’re messing up the rumors! Rhaldon doesn’t know—”
The Earther gulped. None of this helped, but she seemed like a good person. Antherr clearly appreciated the rumors, and Erin Solstice was a friend to Goblins and Antinium. From what Rhaldon saw—that was a breath of fresh air in a bog of general species bigotry, if Gnolls and Drakes were anything to go by, and that made Erin all right by him.
No, what made him so nervous was—he wondered if he could ask her for help. Just—help. Someone to explain what was going on. He liked to think he’d managed to find a way to survive after literally bleeding out on the side of a road. He’d gotten lucky, and Termin was incredibly generous and powerful in his own way.
From one person from home to another, though? Rhaldon looked at the inn, three stories tall, and the crowds surrounding it. He thought of the world’s best chess player, and he felt like he didn’t quite have the authority to approach her.
The Wandering Inn was so crowded, in fact, that Termin, Rhaldon, and the others never even got to head up the hill to it. They tried to find a path up the huge hill, but someone stopped them.
“Hey, you two wagons! No going towards the inn.”
“What? We’re on a special delivery, sir—”
A tired [Guardsman] waved them off. A Drake pointed to the city gates, and there was a line even on the south side.
“You and everyone else. If you want to get to the inn—foot traffic only.”
“But we have an Antinium—the Antinium—”
Termin seemed quite upset not to be able to roll straight up to the inn, but he hesitated as he looked up at the inn.
The crowds surrounding the inn would have made Erma and Fox’s transit up the hill impossible on their own. People were clustered around the ice-skating rink on one side, lined up for the inn on another, and the stables and one area of the inn looked clear—until a Carn Wolf trotted out of the stables and yawned hugely as a Goblin fed it a huge piece of meat.
“Ah. That’s probably not a good place for Erma and Fox to bed down.”
Rhaldon couldn’t take his eyes off the gigantic wolf with red-rust fur. It had to be three times the size of a regular wolf! How much did a creature like that eat? And if it were in the stables—Erma and Fox had instantly lined up for the gates.
“We’ll get you to the inn on foot, Mister Antherr. It’ll just be one tic.”
Termin reassured the Antinium, and the Soldier nodded happily. Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus, his full name, was an odd Soldier. He could not speak, but he seemed quite genial, which was at odds with the giant greatsword he carried. He seemed friendly, gently inquisitive—and the Gnolls and Drakes talked about him like he was a soldier from one of the most terrifying armies to ever invade Izril.
The wagons rolled through the gates after a cursory inspection. The [Guards] frowned at all the armed Gnolls, but when they saw Antherr, everything clicked.
“Is that one of the Soldiers from the army? From the <Quest>? Well, well! Today’s a big day! Go on through and take him to the inn. Hey, Sergeant, I’m off-duty in five minutes. I want to watch. Need a stable? There should be an opening if you go left and then right on the second street.”
Termin smiled, but Rhaldon cast a glance at Antherr. The Soldier’s mandibles were raised and wide, which Rhaldon knew was a smile, but aside from the [Guards], people barely noticed the Antinium. In fact—for a city ‘filled’ with Antinium, Rhaldon saw very few among the visitors. Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, even Garuda and Dullahans.
Few Antinium. Yet here was a Soldier who’d survived a deadly war, and the celebration barely focused on him. It seemed unfair to Rhaldon, but Antherr seemed so happy he kept fidgeting as Termin rolled into a Driver’s Guild headquarters and asked for a place for the wagons.
“We’d better head to the inn straightaway. Especially if rooms are as expensive as they sound. Rhaldon, help me square the ponies. Mister Toresh, are you staying with us? Captain Nailren?”
Both Gnolls nodded.
“Until the Soldier—Antherr—is delivered, we will, Driver Termin. You two, help with the wagons.”
Then the two Human men, Antherr, and a group of Gnolls were walking through the streets, headed towards the eastern gate and the inn on a hill. They attracted some stares then, because Antherr had taken off his hat and cloak. Now, the [Immortal] walked with his wounds—a missing arm, scars on his chitin—visible to all.
And his greatsword strapped to his back. People did notice him then. And they seemed to realize—
“Hey, is that the Soldier that was part of that <Quest>? Is he going to the inn? He is—let’s go! Forget the jugglers. They’re just juggling knives.”
A glaring duo of performers watched the Antinium draw a crowd away from the street shows. It seemed like there were a number of local events going on, but the bazaar and the promise of the parade was the biggest allure. Rhaldon’s eyes hurt from trying to take in foreign architecture, read signs in Drake script—and hear the babble of voices.
He couldn’t know it, but the massive influx of visitors was overwhelming Lyonette’s entertainments. Lines for Antinium figurines were so long that the [Carvers] were working overtime trying to produce enough pieces. And the larger events like the skating rink still had a capacity limit. Liscor’s unique food was the biggest draw, but since it required money—the parade couldn’t come fast enough.
 
——
 
Even the display of Master Pelt smithing was so crowded it was easier to watch it on scrying orb than try to get a view. So there was boredom in the streets as well as a sense of excitement.
“Dad. I’m bored. Dad. Daaaaad.”
A Drake girl was tugging on her father’s claw. She normally would have gone to her aunt, who looked after her a lot more than her busy father, but her aunt was engrossed in viewing some Gnollish earrings in the open market, and she was lost to time. So she went to her father.
“Dad. Dad? You said there would be things to do, but the skating rink is closed. What are we doing?”
Venim’s daughter looked up at him, and the Watch Captain started and guiltily turned away from talking with Watch Captain Zevara. He had his work face on.
“I’m sorry, Kenva. Let’s—”
He looked around with the desperation of a father trying to impress his daughter on his rare days off. He needed more Father Points, and his gift of cookies that one time had long since expired.
Kenva, for her part, was already staring at a shift in the crowds. An Antinium was walking with two Humans and a bunch of Plains Gnolls! She drifted after him, but Venim grabbed her hand.
“Careful of the Antinium.”
“But Dad, you said it was safe!”
“Don’t let her near the Antinium, Venim.”
Torkessa hissed at her brother, and Venim nodded. Kenva tried, by sheer force of muscle, to pull him over, but he insisted they stay back. The Antinium walking through the streets was the coolest thing Kenva had seen aside from the market—and that wasn’t as good as Pallass’! She wanted to skateboard in the ice rink, but it was crowded. She wanted an Antinium doll, but it was ‘bad taste’ according to her Pallassian father.
