Since it wasn’t, King Reclis laughed his ass off. He wondered how Invrisil would deal with this in the months to come. Especially if a Goblin Lord came of all this.
Queen Ielane hadn’t laughed. Nor had she done more than blink at the sight of Numbtongue playing on his guitar. She was just writing notes back to Dame Ushar.
“Fortunately, it appears our daughter hasn’t taken leave of her senses. She did not put the Goblin there.”
“What? Good, good.”
Reclis collected himself, chortling. He thought it was still a daring move, and Ielane, amazingly, seemed to agree. She eyed the Goblin.
“A [Bard]. It’s that child that Lyonette appears to have taken an affection for. Mrsha.”
“Oh?”
Reclis had a lot of thoughts about the Gnoll girl, and a lot of them were troublesome. Some, in light of the Meeting of Tribes, were interesting. Ielane had even more direct feelings—but for once, she was tapping a finger against her lips.
“The Titan of Baleros also visited that inn, and it seems he stayed in the company of that Goblin, among others, if the mess at the Meeting of Tribes was anything to go by. Apropos of nothing—that little girl has made better use of that Goblin’s class than our daughter and the Titan.”
The King of Calanfer’s brows rose as he turned his head back to Numbtongue. Never let it be said that Ielane didn’t recognize a good move when she saw it.
 
——
 
The cheering was still going on as Numbtongue played his finest. Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were staring up at him, hats raised as they craned their heads back to see. He was so afraid he was going to fall or pee, but he was also engrossed in the song. And he had a feeling—
He was going to level up.
He might get addicted to this. Kevin was swinging so hard on the drums that Numbtongue feared he’d hurt himself, but this was their moment in the sun. He finished the last verse in the song and wondered if he’d get an encore. The cheering slowed—and the Hobgoblin, so high he was at rooftop level, was the first to see something weird coming their way.
“Oh? What’s this?”
His voice was still magnified, and the Humans turned. The Hobgoblin stared at a curious sight streaking ahead of the floating inn. By now, it was closing on the city—but the oxen were slow.
Yet the dozens, dozens of rich carriages weren’t. Numbtongue saw a higher class of personal transport than he’d recently ridden in. Gold trim, painted wheels—and crests.
Dozens of crests. Some he recognized as members of the Five Families. Others?
They came sliding to a stop as the horses turned, and some were even magical. Numbtongue saw the astonished crowd turn—and one of the carriages painted almost unbelievably yellow and black, like an angry bee—rocked.
Then the carriage door blew open, and a red carpet began to unfurl. Numbtongue saw it roll out—and out as the red cloth rolled forward with the help of a nervous manservant, who was pushing it to make sure it didn’t tangle.
It was an impressive sight—but he had to imagine that all that cloth had filled up almost all of the carriage. Nevertheless, the other person sitting there must have been content to sit next to a bale of cloth just to make her entrance.
And that person was, of course—
Lady Pryde Ulta. She emerged with that very same tracksuit-style dress that she’d worn in Pallass, one arm raised, like the conquering [Warlady] onto a battlefield.
She got no applause. The crowd just stared at her, completely perplexed. Lady Pryde didn’t seem to care. She threw back her shoulders, spread her arms, and then flexed.
Numbtongue didn’t remember her that well, but he thought he saw a bit more muscle than he’d seen last time. And a group of extraordinarily muscled armsmen and women came flooding out of the huge carriage to surround her like a posse.
That was the first carriage. While Numbtongue was looking around for Grimalkin—he saw another carriage with chalk white, leaf-green, and rose-red trim open.
A [Lady] and a [Lord] he had never seen before emerged as a bowing servant opened the door. They stepped down onto no carpet of their own, but then the [Lord] snapped his fingers.
The mundane, dirt road in front of the [Lady] with a dress that matched her carriage turned from dirt to a polished, marble floor around her. She stopped lifting her dress up and opened a fan with a smile. Then she turned and nodded to another carriage door opening.
More people were emerging—and Numbtongue thought he recognized one of the [Lords] who came out next. Wait—was that one of the ones that Erin had saved? Not Lord Toldos, who’d passed away, but Lord Alman Sanito, complete with wife and even children.
They came out waving, and then Numbtongue did hear cheering. From the inn, from their own servants and staff, who were applauding and raising their voices—
And Invrisil. They certainly knew Lady Pryde, and even if all the others weren’t friends to the City of Adventurers, they could see not one, but dozens of noble families emerging.
The Adventurer’s Haven had brought a storm of the northern nobility south! Its month-long trip to Invrisil had not only pulled its regular clientele after it—it had brought a crowd of supporters.
The sudden carriage attack had completely thrown the parade. Numbtongue stared down at his guitar and wondered if he should play a song, but there was no need. Because his head snapped up as he saw the inn coming within a thousand paces of Invrisil’s walls. And now—someone else began to play music.
Them. Mrsha looked up, and her mouth fell open in outrage. She pointed and shook her fist, but she had known this was coming.
It was him! That man who’d come in, the spy! He wore a kind of suit with a bowtie at the neck, as if he were a bartender. But he was no Rufelt, and the colors of his vest over a white shirt were divided down the golden buttons running down the front. Red and black, emblazoned with the inn’s logo in the opposite color on each side.
She thought he actually looked at her, and his sparkling violet eyes and brown hair were the only things she could see. The rest of his face was blocked by the brass trumpet he was holding.
Barnethei, the [Vice Innkeeper] of The Adventurer’s Haven, was playing music. And that inn had a band. Or rather, its staff were the band.
The same group of women and men that Mrsha had seen during the first day of the parties were playing along with the [Innkeeper]. And they were performers. Unlike Kevin, who was playing on stationary drums he’d tried to make into a crude drumset, Mrsha saw the marching drums and even cymbals and other portable instruments.
Also—the staff of the inn had matching uniforms. They were bright blue, sharp cloth, and made them look completely different from a [Maid] or [Butlers]—or even regular [Waitresses] and [Servers].
The last thing that Mrsha saw as the band performed, walking ahead of the floating inn, was that the Humans looked far different from most of the nobility. A good number had darker skin, which normally meant they were Chandrarian or Balerosian.
Barnethei stood out, but he was a minority among the staff. The guests, on the other hand—the noble ones were trying to get into view of the camera, but all eyes were focused on the inn, now.
It had opened its doors, and the staff and even a lot of cheering guests, from [Merchants] to regular patrons, had come with the inn. It was indeed at least a thousand, and Mrsha saw waving people in farm clothes next to the floating dais occupied by the crops and animals. Amazingly, the cows weren’t panicking, perhaps because they were used to all this.
The marching band came towards Invrisil’s open gates as The Adventurer’s Haven floated forwards. Then the last interesting thing happened.
The floating inn slowly, slowly began to rotate. And the daises slowly began to spin around the central inn.
Like some kind of carousel ride or a child’s toy. The central inn simply rotated from left to right, counterclockwise, but the other daises were spinning around it, slowly, and rotating as they came.
The inn moved! It spun, and Invrisil’s own populace that hadn’t even seen or heard that The Adventurer’s Haven could do that were screaming louder. The Wandering Inn’s parade had come to a halt, and half of them were looking to Erin.
But Erin was just waiting. She’d stood up on the wagon to get a better look. Lyonette was almost audibly grinding her teeth over the crowd’s excitement, but Erin was just waiting.
She could feel the other [Innkeeper] in the air. It felt like magic. It felt…huge, like someone was waiting for her. But it was one strong feeling among many.
The Adventurer’s Haven wasn’t playing a pop-rock song in the same vein as Numbtongue had been. Theirs was a kind of subdued beat, almost eerie, and it took down the excitement in the air into a kind of excited suspense.
Like a racing heartbeat played out by a bass and drums and the instruments. They shrilled in the background as Erin looked at the central inn. It had outdoor tables, as Mrsha had seen, but it was also circular, designed to be entered and seen at every angle. Designed for this very feature, to rotate and float.
Now, she realized that the inn had been deliberately still all this time. It only rotated when it was in sight of the city—because it had been facing ‘backwards’. The people who were sitting at the outdoor tables slowly came into view.
There were barely two dozen of them. Everyone else was on foot, from staff to other guests. So it was as if the entire inn was reserved for them, and every eye fell on the people sitting there. Ser Sest inhaled sharply next to Erin, and Yvlon made a choking sound.
They were nodding along to the beat. Heads bobbing, staring at The Wandering Inn’s procession. Almost in perfect sync, sitting back in their chairs and snacking on food set out for them.
A huge man in armor sprawled out next to a pale Selphid wearing a Human man’s body. Ceria recognized his face—and then Jelaqua nearly swooned into Maughin’s arms. Erin’s face grew blanker, but that was because she had never gone north.
And she had been dead. Ksmvr knew one of the figures by name. He pointed—and then the crowd realized who they were.
 
——
 
Who did they see? Older men and women, probably. But the gang felt young. Young and old, as Larra’s inn reached the City of Adventurers all of them had once lived in at one point in their lives.
Of course, the inn didn’t use to float. So they were old. But young as well, like the kids they’d always been. Every time they came back, or one would go off and stories would be told—this was where they returned to. Even if they found a home, this was their first one.
This circle of friends. When—when was the first time that one had brought a little child into this inn, a baby, and everything had changed? Changed and not changed?
Then a little boy had run around, and Eld had made them all put away their blades out of concern, and the boyfriends and girlfriends and flings became serious, for some. They talked about marriage, wrinkles, and some of them began dying their hair.
Some of them died. The group became smaller. They fought, reconciled, and came back less often. They met new faces, like Colth, and he slowly became part of them, accepted.
Of course, they were slightly nervous. For Larra. This was the first time in decades her inn had come to Invrisil. So they put on a show.
Deni was sitting with both arms spread, elbows resting on two tables he was sitting behind. His own violin was resting against his leg, and he idly surveyed the adventurers.
“Those are the promising newcomers. Horns of Hammerad. Eld. You joined their raid, right?”
The huge man was wearing his armor, not the suit and formalwear he always put on when he wasn’t adventuring. Ever since marrying into the Terlands—Eldertuin lifted a cup as a plate of the colorful corn he’d brought to the inn sat in front of him. He focused on Ceria, Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr and nodded.
“Brave kids. I heard about them through the runner.”
“Don’t talk about her now.”
Colth anxiously cautioned Eld. He glanced sideways, but the figure sitting just off-center, legs crossed, staring into the parade, searching for the other [Innkeeper], didn’t dignify his comment with a reaction.
There they were. People were pointing.
 
——
 
“Who are they? I feel like I know…”
Drassi was staring uncertainly at the crowd, and some of the Humans looked outraged and offended. But even the Drake recognized some of them, if not by face, then by what they carried. She stared at the man with bright blonde hair and the violin resting by his chair. It had a sharp, sharp bow, and the strings on the violin and the bow weren’t regular. They were metal—and he had a huge wound on his shoulder and neck.
A blow from an axe, maybe. Which fit—he was an adventurer. What kind of adventurer? Well—the other thing notable about his violin, besides the strangely dark wood that came from Noelictus, was a tiny object that Pisces saw because he knew it was there.
A golden bell. It was hanging off the bow of the violin. The mark of a master of duels.
“That’s Deniusth, the Duelist of Strings. A Named-rank adventurer.”
Selys hissed in Drassi’s earhole. The Drake looked at her friend—and then at Selys’ expression. Slowly, the camera panned across the group, and then Drassi realized.
“Wait a second. Are they all…?”
Selys slowly nodded. She pointed, and Eldertuin the Fortress was nodding to the music along with his partner. His team, Gold-ranks, sat in the background, respectfully away from this central table. The only other person sitting with him was Viecel. A Selphid.
Viecel, a Named-rank who often teamed up with Eldertuin and other adventurers. He was tapping his fingers to the beat—well, one finger. He had three fingers on his right hand. The other two were stumps. The Selphid was smiling at Jelaqua and Ulinde.
Viecel the Mad Better. With Eldertuin, they were known as Variable Fortress, a famous duo in the north, who’d conquered dungeons before.
How many Named-rank adventurers were there? Deniusth had his own team, and only one member sat at the principal table. Like the [Vice Innkeeper], he had a trumpet.
“Their team is—The Orchestra of the North. Musician adventurers. A Named-rank team! I thought they were fighting a Goblin tribe.”
Captain Todi was still running bodyguard duty. He looked intimidated, and it was so rare for Todi to look anything but superior that both Drakes turned to him. Selys swallowed.
“I only see one more Named-rank. That’s—four.”
“Oh, only four. Who’s the last one?”
Selys pointed a finger at the youngest person there. They were all middle-aged or older, and the youngest Named-rank was still mid-thirties.
“That’s Colthei, the world’s greatest [Supporter].”
