Colth said it like it was obvious, but he was probably the most worldly of them all by far. Instantly, his friends turned on him.
“Don’t say it like we’re idiots, you know-it-all. Even Valley didn’t know that!”
The bookworm nodded, and they picked on him like they always did. Colth grinned, and then—Salamani rose. He pointed.
“I think your guests have arrived, Innkeeper Larra, Guildmistress. Not to be a bother—but look. Listen.”
His eyes lit up with a kind of wonder, and Mihaela turned as she heard a familiar sound in the air. Then she did smile. Despite herself, because another friend was coming their way.
“That pretentious mule. He’s putting on a show.”
“It’s Deni. What did you think?”
Her friends looked amused, but even Lady Pryde was getting up to see. The guests hurried to one side of the inn. Mihaela didn’t shove—people made a path for her and her group.
But even if she hadn’t, she would have known Deni and his team were coming. After all—they were playing.
Wagons were riding across the ground. To be precise, it was three wagons, all being driven hell-for-leather by someone intent on catching up to The Adventurer’s Haven.
“Whoa. Fast transit. I’ve seen slower carriages. Who’s delivering them?”
A group of people were sitting in the wagons, along with a good amount of luggage. Deni never went without a lot of stuff, and sometimes, admirers of his famous team. Colth just took one look at the wagons and Mihaela answered Viecel at the same time he did.
“Must be Chaoisa. A famous [Wagon Driver].”
“There are famous wagon drivers?”
The Selphid was a career adventurer of decades—but then he did work on Baleros as much as on Izril. Mihaela snorted.
“Of course there are. Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man. Wagon drivers have the stupidest nicknames. No wonder she’s sped up. She must hate Deni’s guts.”
“That’s hilarious.”
Colth grinned, but even at their speed, everyone had time to admire and listen to Deni’s team coming. After all—
They were playing music. All ten of them, and it looked like they’d pulled in six more new recruits to the regulars. Mihaela knew most of the ten, but Deni and a few others were the real old ones.
“There he is, the showoff.”
She pointed, as if everyone couldn’t see him. His bright blonde hair was blowing in the wind, as if everyone didn’t know he dyed it, and he wore a suit as if he were at a performance in First Landing. Ruffles of white blew at his sleeves—but his violin still sang. Another adventurer holding another violin was playing with him, and the music sang through the air.
A sight few would forget. Here came an adventurer of adventurers. He was beaming as he played—but his friends just laughed at him.
“Showoff.”
They were applauding as he slowed, the regular guests. Deni disembarked from his wagon and took a bow as Larra’s inn lowered and slowed so he could stride up the ramp. A red scarf blew around his neck, and all his friends looked at that for one moment, but he was actually moving. He was alive and he was here; that was all that mattered.
…And that was when they remembered how Deni was. He had a flourish to every step and a twinkle in his eyes for all the lovely young ladies—
So Mihaela put him in a headlock. She strode towards him as if she were about to give him a great big hug, and he really should have remembered that Mihaela hugged no one.
“Mihaela!”
She had him in a flash, and she began to rub his hair with a fist. The guests’ admiration turned to slack-jawed disbelief as Deni spluttered. He tried to break her grip, but he wasn’t that strong.
“Mihaela, let go of—”
He couldn’t make her. And he was an adventurer! The adventurer. His team looked up, but no one stopped Mihaela. Then Colth was there.
“I’ve got this.”
“Thank you Colt—Colth!”
The other man picked up Deni’s legs. He had nearly gotten free of Mihaela, but now he was prone in the air, and the two laughing friends swung the red-faced violinist around like a silkworm.
“I’ll kill you! Let me go! Let me—”
“Rub his dye out of his hair, Mihaela!”
Viecel egged them on, but Mihaela dropped Deni after only another moment. The other guests stared as Deni scrambled for what was left of his dignity. He kicked at Colth. Then he turned.
“You—you—”
Mihaela grabbed him in a one-armed hug and let go as Eld and the others came over. Deni’s combed hair was tousled, but he calmed down as he gave her a look of pure exasperation.
“I should have known. I dragged myself all the way here and even put on a show, and I get no respect. Mihaela, you’re looking well.”
“And so are you for a dead man.”
Mihaela had stopped teasing him when she saw the wound on his neck. It was a gash that was nearly half a foot deep, running where his neck and shoulder met at a diagonal, down into his chest.
It should have killed him. It would have—but the red scarf was covering the wound. An enchanted blade had done that, or else he would have healed it with a potion. Deni covered it with the scarf as he saw her look.
“As you can see, we had a bad scrape. I’ll tell you about it later. I could have used Colth or—is that Valley?”
He did a double-take as the woman drifted over. She had actually closed her book, and Deni was so astonished he didn’t realize she was more interested in his apparel.
“Hello, Deni. Good to see you. Wonderful music. I think. What kind of enchantment is this?”
He batted her hands away urgently.
“That scarf saved my life—and I won’t have you touching it! Back, back, you insane brat! Knowing you, you’ll rip it off, and I’ll be dead of your curiosity.”
Deni actually drew a blade, the bow of his violin, to ward Valley off and retreated down the hallway. Colth was still trying to rub his hair for ‘good luck’, but he dodged a slash.
“All of you, hands off! Larra, we’re famished. We rode in before eating. Breakfast! And I swear, if any of you poke more fun at me, especially you, Mihaela, I’ll stab you. I’m not in the mood.”
He brushed his hair back, then noticed Colth copying him motion for motion. The other man swept his hair back ostentatiously, and several of the friends nearly died laughing. Then they were all looking around as a familiar voice called out.
“I hear you. Stop bullying Deni. Come over here and eat.”
Larra stood in front of a table ready for them all, with their favorites, and then—a group of laughing young men and women were dragging Deni over, teasing him, telling Colth to bring Valley over because she was drifting off, and asking who else would come.
Young and old. Larra went around slapping hands before they could eat. She got their attention, and they looked at her obediently.
“Alright. Here’s a light breakfast—I said light, Eld. There’ll be more food later. Now, listen up. We’re almost at the City of Adventurers. Deni was the last person to make it. When we get there, there’ll be a little event. I need you to all listen to me.”
“Do we have to act? I need to rehearse. I’m terrible at acting.”
Viecel looked nervous as he sat next to Eld. He was partners with Eld, and their team was hovering at another table—this one was just for the old friends and Larra’s guests. The [Innkeeper] hurried to reassure Viecel as Deni beckoned his team over.
“No acting. It’s simple. You’ll barely do more than sit. Now, here’s how it’s going to go, and if you mess it up, Colth, I will ban you from the inn for three months.”
Chastened, he nodded, and everyone leaned forwards to listen. Mihaela listened and half-smiled. She looked out the window, though they had a bit of time yet.
After all, this inn was famous and old, almost as old as she was. But she had to own, she was excited to see this new place she’d heard about. She’d been meaning to visit, but it seemed like she’d forgotten until now. Their destination, at least, today. And, it seemed, a place with a lot of strange happenings of its own if yesterday’s broadcast were anything to go by.
The Wandering Inn. 
What a strange name.
 
——
 
On the third day of the celebrations in Liscor, Erin Solstice slept in.
Almost no one else did. But by the same token, no one woke Erin up. Not that they could avoid making noise, so Pisces just cast [Silence] on Erin’s room. The [Innkeeper] deserved it. Just yesterday, she had earned her title as the greatest chess player in the world. She had, by herself, taken on the world’s best players.
In and of itself, that was a moment. But consider the context. That had been Day 2 of the promised three-day celebrations, and the third one was when the Antinium Crusade was slated to return to Liscor and the Humans of Wales and the combined cities would be celebrated in Celum.
So Erin’s chess tournament had been the leadup to today. Naturally—today had better be good.
Now, was everything ready? Well—visitors had been pouring into Celum, Liscor, and Invrisil, where the celebrations would be held for two days straight. The door had been recharged countless times, and there were [Merchants] ready to hawk goods, festivities planned, and more organization by the various cities than there ever had been before for this inn’s parties.
In fact, there had even been a budget, and Invrisil at least knew how to throw a celebration. The Players of Celum were participating, along with the Silverfangs and a bunch of other performers who normally catered to the nobility and adventurers.
Nevertheless, when she woke up in her bed, Mrsha du Marquin had severe doubts. She woke up just past dawn, despite staying up all night watching Erin play. That was the benefit of [Twofold Rest], and the girl realized she’d still missed Lyonette and Apista rising.
She sat up and glumly saw a kilt waiting for her and a shirt. Grumbling, Mrsha put them on. She walked around on two feet, but she threw her shoes out the window like usual.
This was normal to Mrsha by now. And it slightly surprised her that it was. Why, Ekirra was always in his jersey and shorts, and he had shoes for soccer. When had he stopped running around butt-naked in his fur on all fours?
Thus attired, Mrsha sniffed the air. It was barely past dawn, and she wondered if breakfast would be extra-special today.
Due to her history with the law—Lyonette and the Thronebearers—Mrsha the Outlaw had gotten less dessert than most good children like her. So special days like this where the cake was part of the meal were to be desired. Mrsha expected good food, but she still had doubts about the, uh…how fun this day was really going to be.
Oh, she’d seen Lyonette working hard. She’d had a few lucky windfalls, like the idea to have an Antinium doll you painted. Visma had already added Starry Skies to her collection, and she was planning on how his or her life would invariably weave its way into the sordid and often violent lives of her dolls.
However, a few good ideas did not fun make. To Mrsha, Lyonette had a more fundamental problem than just her planning. It was about her character versus Erin’s.
Namely, Lyonette was boring. Mrsha had seen how her mother had ‘fun’ in Riverfarm and elsewhere.
Tea. Conversations about politics. ‘Responsibility’ and why ‘playing pranks wasn’t a good idea’.
Erin had the kind of spontaneous craziness that meant fun was something she practically generated. Even when she was calm, she was cool. Lyonette? Uncool.
Mrsha feared this party would be a dud. She was staring out the window, paws clasped behind her back, dourly envisioning a world of hemming and hawing adults standing around chattering while children died of boredom along with the Antinium.
Liscor’s bleak, grey walls rose over the colorful Floodplains changing color as orange grass ran up to the dirt roads leading to the eastern gate. Mrsha saw a few [Builders] already at work paving the roads; Hexel had planned on constructing roads heading north instead of relying on the dirt paths that flooded every spring. Floodproofing the roads so they wouldn’t completely disappear every spring would be a challenge, but a fun one, according to the Lamia.
Mrsha could even see a few [Guards] on the walls, including an Antinium, and the High Passes were still dark as they hid most of the sun. It was the calm, pre-dawn shade, rather than night that made it feel like Liscor was under a giant shadow.
Then the air exploded. Mrsha saw something flash, and the air lit up as a flickering, grey-purple bolt of light rose above the walls—then bloomed into a flash of sparkling, twisting trails of amethyst light crossed with viridian spirals that shot out into the air.
Mrsha’s jaw dropped. She saw the magical explosion pew across the air, the magical debris unfurling then vanishing as it glanced off roofs and the walls. The Watch turned—but no one shouted the alarm. Then Mrsha realized it wasn’t an attack.
She saw another bolt of magic rise—and this time, it exploded into a fiery tempest. A [Fireball]? No—Mrsha saw a grinning Drake’s head flare into life, fifty feet wide, wink at her, and rise upwards before the flames vanished.
Then the rest of the magical fireworks began shooting up, and Mrsha’s mouth opened so wide that Apista could have crawled inside and made a nest. She saw flares of magic light up the dawn as the day of celebrations began and realized her mistake.
Lyonette might be a fuddly mother—but she was a Calanferian fuddler. And they knew how to throw a party.
 
——
 
Not everyone appreciated being woken up by fireworks, but it did set the mood. By the time a little white Gnoll raced downstairs, half the guests of the inn were out of bed and blinking.
“Whuzzat. Whuzzat. I nearly shot an [Ice Spike] through my window!”
Ceria was looking slightly murderous as she blinked around the inn, but the rest of her team, especially Ksmvr, looked delighted.
“Skylights. Now this is rather fancy, isn’t it? I’d expect that of Invrisil, not here. Miss Lyonette, did you organize this?”
Pisces looked around, and a [Princess] stood, beaming, with her four [Knights] standing to attention. Ishkr was slowly lighting candles, and Mrsha stopped as she saw three rectangular tables had been pushed together to contain the breakfast buffet.
A buffet. Along with the adventurers, several Goblins had not appreciated the boom waking them up. But they too grew gentle and accepting, nay, forgiving like Ceria in the face of a bounty of food.
There were pies and cakes, charcuterie platters and hamburgers. Eight different kinds of pasta, delicate pudding, salads and fruits from every continent but Rhir, and, yes, even pizza. The Wandering Inn had pulled out a huge variety of dishes it had stockpiled over this month, and it had added Imani and Calescent’s food.
