The crystal didn’t leak any of its unmistakable aura after being connected to the tracking array, and Zac quickly activated it after confirming everything was in order. His vision doubled, gaining a new dimension that resembled echolocation more than soul sense. As it spread to cover the crowd on the other side of the wall, responses came flooding back.

Twenty-two. There were twenty-two disciples hiding a core of corruption in the main party alone, including the Vice Leader. The Guild Leader herself and half the party appeared clean on the surface, but Zac hadn’t forgotten Astora Theomore’s warning. The [Courtyard Compass] wasn’t perfect. Some infiltrators had superior means of hiding their allegiance.

Zac also wasn’t sure if it could expose Monarchs like Marai Vera. Their corrupted energy would be hidden in the depths of their Inner Worlds rather than in their outer body. Zac steeled himself before stepping onto the docks with a sunny disposition. His appearance quickly drew attention from the group getting ready to board.

“Oh? You’re the newcomer? Our guild is honored to welcome one of the Mercurial Court’s esteemed guests,” Marai said with a gentle smile.

“You’re too kind,” Zac said with a small bow. “It’s an honor to meet you, Master Vera. I’m Everit Draom, and I’m indeed from the outside. If I make any mistakes in the future, please let me know.”

“Likewise. I look forward to hearing of your adventures,” the Guild Master said with a nod.

“Master Draom, are you perchance looking for a spot? Our party is full, but we can squeeze together and make some room,” the Vice Leader said. He was a bulky warrior with a soft expression, and it was hard to think he was actually an invader twisted by the Lost Plane’s Dao. “Someone joining the guild on the day of the hunt has to have a certain fate with Goddess Sevona.”

The idea seemed to garner more support than resistance among the crew, but Zac still shook his head. “I’m more accustomed to exploring alone. I simply wanted to come over and introduce myself before we set out.”

“A pity,” Marai said with a slight pout. “There’s still a chance we’ll encounter each other during the hunt. In that case, let’s look after one another. You’re one of us now, and the competition will be harsh.”

“Certainly,” Zac readily agreed.

Zac spent another minute making some small talk before excusing himself. By that point, he’d engraved the aura and appearance of every confirmed invader to memory. Thankfully, none of them seemed to have noticed the ripple of corruption. He’d never planned on dealing with the invaders before setting out, and he certainly wouldn’t now that he knew there were at least two dozen in the Guild Master’s party alone.

No one would trust his word, and he would be fighting both doppelgangers and real disciples the second he struck. Such a force was far beyond what Zac could handle. Besides, he and Esmeralda had already agreed to limit their actions to gathering information until the hunt. Allowing their targets to spread out across the treasure island undoubtedly meant that quite a few real disciples would lose their lives.

Zac felt bad, but these people ultimately weren’t real. He had a goal to accomplish, and striking before they understood the situation would let most of the targets slip back into the shadows. The bounty would be far bigger if he could figure out what the invaders were up to and disrupt those plans at a critical moment. Zac would also be lying if he said he wasn’t interested in Sevona’s Hunting Lodge. Allowing the invaders to pave the way was the most efficient way of securing it for himself.

Zac found a secluded spot at the edge of the harbor and brought out his gondola. Minutes passed, and his anxiety worsened when the first ship started to set out. Just as Zac made up his mind to head over to the beehive, a voice drifted over.

“You’re Everit Draom, then?”

Zac turned around, startled to find a fiery woman inspecting him—or rather the chains wound around his left arm. Her black, cascading locks framed a striking face. While she lacked the otherworldly beauty that came with extraordinary affinities with the Dao, she was still gorgeous. Whatever she lacked in Heaven-blessed features, she made up for with an explosive figure crammed into tight leather pants, a buttoned-up blouse, and a corset.

More importantly, her supposedly lackluster talents hadn’t stopped her from refining an absolutely terrifying foundation. She was right at the limit of Hegemony, her aura not far from Tavza’s when she went all out. She had to be one of the guild’s peak combatants, and Zac quickly matched a name with the face: Idiche Levos, Vice Leader.

Where did she come from? Zac might have been lost in thought, but such distractions shouldn’t have been enough to let another person sneak up on him like that. Even more shocking was seeing Esmeralda securely gripped in Idiche’s left hand. The other was resting on the pommel of a rapier emitting the rich spirituality that could only come from a top-tier Spiritual Tool.

“That’s me,” Zac slowly said, glancing at the mortified toad as he got to his feet.

He tried sending a telepathic message to his companion. His words never reached the toad. They felt like stones dropped in a bottomless pond, and going by Esmeralda’s frustrated expression, she was similarly blocked. Zac felt a headache coming on.

“Thank heavens you’ve found Esmeralda. I was worried sick. She wandered off on her own, and I’ve been looking all over.”

“Oh, it’s my pleasure. In return, there are a few small matters I’d like to run by you.”

Zac glanced toward the harbor. The flagship was embarking, with the smaller ships following in its wake. “I’d love to, but we might have to postpone. I was just about to set out, so—”

The rest of Zac’s excuse got caught in his throat when a massive turtle appeared out of nowhere. It snapped Zac’s small skipper in half before sinking back into the depths. It acted so quickly that Zac would have thought it was an illusion if not for the wreckage slowly sinking.

“Bad luck. Old Rob must have been cranky from all the commotion. And now all the shops are closed,” Idiche laughed. “Don’t worry, I’ll get you two to the lodge in one piece. Provided you can satisfy my curiosity, that is.”
