“Hm? I told you I didn't intend to stay here longer than I had to.” Ren said and picked up the healer and sat him in the chair. Ren tipped some Health potion into the healer's mouth and took the key from his pocket. Ren walked over to the cell, unlocked it, stepped inside, and then tossed the key at the feet of the healer.

“GUARD!” Ren shouted.

The soldier came in a moment later. “Shut UP! Why are you hollering so much?”

Ren pointed to the healer. “He tired himself out healing and I think he dropped the key.”

The soldier looked down at the floor and there was the key right by the healer's foot. The soldier did a double take to Ren and the key, then picked the key up and pocketed it. The soldier tried to pick up the healer, but had a difficult time getting under the arm to hold the weight. After some fumbling, the soldier managed to get the healer in a good grip and shuffled out of the room and shut the door. Ren sighed and turned around to the mixed expressions of the other 3 people in the cell.

“I'm sorry... but I couldn't have an escape from jail added to the charges against me.” Ren said and shrugged.

“Hold on.” Emanon said. “You didn't let us escape because you didn't want to get into more trouble?”

Ren nodded. “The last thing I needed was to try and explain how I masterminded an escape and then stayed behind to get caught.”

Elerlyth laughed. “You... you were going to stay behind, even if we'd managed to escape?”

Ren nodded again.

“Oh... oh, you naive little darling.” Elerlyth said and laughed again. “That won't make any difference.”

Ren looked at her. “What do you mean?”

“There's no trial or tribunal or anything like that. We're brought to a room, sentenced, and then brought back here to serve our sentence, assuming we don't get hard labour.”

“You've gone through this before, then?”

Elerlyth nodded. “Twice... and you know what they say... third time's the charm.”

Ren walked over to the bench and sat down next to her. Beltach and Emanon stared at Ren in shock as he crossed the room to sit down, like it meant nothing to approach such beauty. Elerlyth had a similar look, but it was for a different reason. No one had ever approached her like that... like she was normal.

“What happened?” Ren asked.

“Does it matter?” Elerlyth said and chuckled.

“Not really... but I'd like to hear the story anyways.” Ren reached out and put a hand on hers. “Please. Tell me how you got here.”

Elerlyth looked down at Ren's hand and felt the Aura pouring into her. She'd always had an affinity for them since she started playing. She wasn't sure if it was a secret class skill or what, but this was the first time it had made her feel... well, full. She'd enjoyed feeling people's fear of her appearance, assuming that she was evil and intended them harm, but it seemed somehow hollow. Now she could feel Ren's genuine curiosity and ease with how she looked. It was definitely a surprise for her. So much so that she told Ren of how she got there, completely ignoring the fact that she'd tried to poison him earlier.

Ren listened to her intently as she relayed what she'd gone through, and how she ended up back in a cell. Ren had been feeding her ability the entire time and when she finished her story, Elerlyth felt quite energized. No one she knew would have willingly held her hand for so long. Of course, he didn't know he was feeding me, though. She thought and smiled.

“That's... quite the story.” Ren said. “Now I feel really bad about not letting you go.”

Elerlyth showed genuine surprise at Ren's sincerity. “You believe me?”

“I do.” Ren laughed. “I don't think I've ever met someone else who's as prone to trouble as I am.”

“You?”

Ren nodded. “Yes, me. Some of the things I've been through...”

“Tell me.” Elerlyth said.

Ren widened his eyes. “I guess turnabout is fair play.”

Ren regailed her with the stories of the adventures he'd had and Elerlyth laughed when he told her of how he used to run at any scary thing that happened... and her eyes widened when he got to the rock golem on the mountain.

“You defeated a rock golem? By yourself?” Elerlyth asked.

Ren nodded again. “I couldn't have done it without the trap I borrowed... but when I met 2 more giant golems later on, the trap wouldn't work because it was too small.” Ren said. “Although, I won't have that problem anymore.”

“Why not?” Emanon asked. He'd gotten wrapped up in Ren's tale.

Ren smiled and pulled out the giant leg holding trap he'd made at Donan's shop and dropped it on the floor.

“Holy crap!” Emanon said. “That's the biggest trap I've ever seen!”

Ren laughed. “It's the biggest trap that's ever been made, so that's understandable.”

Elerlyth got off the bench and knelt on the floor. “Did you made this?”

Ren smiled and nodded.

“You're a blacksmith?” She said and Ren nodded again.

“But you're so little.” Betrach said. He'd been caught up in Ren's tale as well.

“That's what everyone says.” Ren said.

“I haven't.” Elerlyth said. “I think you're just right.”

Ren's face flushed a little red at her compliment and she sat back on the bench beside Ren, taking his hand again.

“Hold on... you said 2 more giant golems?”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah... it all came about like this...” Ren told the story, and glossed over Aimus' name and where the homestead was. Ren didn't want anyone finding out he was there. Nothing was to get back to Aimus and his family. The 3 of them didn't even blink when he told the dire wolf story, and then called Aimus down to the lowest for taking the crafting station back. Ren chuckled at the vehemence in their cursing. They changed their tune when he revealed how he got the cloak.

“No way!” Betrach said. Emanon just sat in silence. Elerlyth stroked the cloak as if it were a pet.

“I know... I was so surprised.” Ren said and smiled. “I didn't even know this could be done with a pelt.”

Ren kept going and told them about how things happened since then and how he ended up here, accused of a murder he didn't do.

“So, you did kill a guy, but not the guy they think you did.” Emanon said.

“Right.” Ren answered.

“That sucks.”

Ren nodded. “I have to wait for a mage to come and verify my story. If you guys had escaped... I'd have been up shit creek without a paddle.”

They all laughed.

“All right... we'll forgive you. This time.” Betrach said.

Emanon nodded and Elerlyth snuggled closer to Ren.

“What about you guys? How'd you get in here?” Ren asked.

“Robbery.” Emanon said. “Only a few gold, but a soldier was right there and the guy said I'd taken a platinum. When they couldn't find a platinum coin on me, I was tossed in here.”

Betrach didn't volunteer anything and Ren glanced at Elerlyth.

“We don't know, either.” She said.

Ren shrugged. “You can keep it to yourself. I was just curious.”

Betrach huffed. “Affair.”

“What was that?” Emanon said.

“I was caught having an affair with a woman, okay!” Betrach said loudly.

“Please tell me it wasn't with the minister of trade's wife.” Emanon said.

“It wasn't.” Betrach said. “It was the minister of finance's wife.”

Elerlyth smacked Betrach in the back of the head with her open hand.

“You're such an idiot.” She said and grinned. Emanon started laughing, and then they all laughed, Ren included. A short time later, a soldier came in and pointed to Ren.

“You. This way.”

Ren nodded and let Elerlyth's hand go. The soldier opened the cell, Ren stepped out, and the soldier closed it again.

“Good luck.” She said then smiled a sad smile. “See you in a little while.”

She widened her eyes when Ren winked at her, and then he left the room behind the soldier.

I'm coming up the stairs, Teepo.

“There's a hallway off the side and there's a couple of people in the second room.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Good job. Ren thought I'll be right there.

The soldier led the way up the stairs and at the top opened a second door that couldn't be seen when the outside door was open. They went through that and down the hallway to the second door. The soldier knocked on it and it was opened from the inside. Ren was waved in and ordered to sit down in a chair facing a table. On the other side of the table was Lord Eric in the middle, the captain of the guard on the right, and someone Ren hadn't seen before on the left. Then the questions began. After a while, Ren had had enough.

“I didn't kill Mitchell, I killed Mitchell!” Ren said and stopped. “That didn't come out right. I mean I killed the fake Mitchell, then found the real one dead.” Ren dropped his head. “Geez, no matter how I explain it, it still sounds bad.” Ren sighed. “Look, I've told you the story 3 times already. You keep asking me the same questions. Did the captain show you the short sword I handed over?”

Lord Eric nodded. Ren looked to the mage.

“I'm sure there's some kind of ownership spell or something, right? What did you find when you examined it?” Ren asked the mage.

“I didn't examine it.”

“What? Why not?”

“My job is to determine if you are guilty of the crime, not to examine evidence.” The mage said.

Ren let out a bark of laughter. “Either you are an idiot, or you don't know what you are doing.”

The mage stood up. “I won't stay here and be insulted.”

Lord Eric put a restraining hand on the mage and glared at Ren. “I'm sure Ren didn't mean to say such things. He's under a lot of pressure.”

The mage huffed and then sat down.

“The question is... is Ren telling the truth?”

The mage nodded.

Lord Eric clapped his hands once. “Good. We're done here. Ren, you are free to leave.”

Ren stared at the trio. “That's it?”

Lord Eric looked at Ren. “What did you expect?”

Ren opened his mouth and then closed it. Elerlyth was right. They really don't weigh evidence or look at the facts. All that matters is how they see things.

Ren took a breath and spoke. “First off, I'd like all my items back. Second, there's three slightly innocent people in the cell.”

“Slightly?” Lord Eric said and smiled.

“They did the crimes, but there were extenuating circumstances.” Ren said.

“Really?”

Ren nodded. “If this is your system, then they'll be convicted of the crimes and punished.”

“That's how things work here.” The mage said.

Ren nodded. “I see that. But... if, just if... someone did steal a few coins, what would they get?”

“Several days in jail and a fine.”

“And if it was a platinum coin?”

“Minimum time for grand theft is 100 days, with option for heavy labor.” The captain of the guard offered.

“So... if the person that was robbed said it was a platinum coin instead of a few gold coins, how would you know what the truth was if you only ask the accused if they did the crime?” Ren asked.

“You're assuming the victim lied.” Lord Eric said.

“I am... and you're assuming the victim told the truth.” Ren said.

Lord Eric opened his mouth and closed it, just like Ren did.

That's it... just think about that for a minute. Let it stew.

Lord Eric sighed. “I assume you have a point to make.”

“Yes. If you only ask people if they did the crime, and they lie, they're assumed to be guilty and are punished by the account of the charges... and you don't look at those charges at all, to see if they're true or false... or question the witnesses to see if they are lying or telling the truth.” Ren said and sat back.

Lord Eric looked at Ren and sat back himself. “Very well. I was going to just ignore the charge against you for breaking and entering because you brought the murder to our attention, but since you're so adamant we question everything, we shall.” Lord Eric looked at Ren. “Did you break into Mitchell's shop.”

“Yes.” Ren answered, truthfully.

“Why?”

“I was hunting for evidence.”

“For what?”

“I wasn't sure what to look for at the time. I wanted something to link Mitchell to Tristan... so I guess that was my main goal.”

After each question, Lord Eric looked at the mage, who nodded.

“Alright then.” Lord Eric said and clapped his hands once. “You are sentenced to spend the rest of the night in the cell.”

Stat Change!

Fame: -10

“Thank you, sir.” Ren said to Lord Eric, stood up, and bowed. Ren did the same to both the captain and the mage, who was a bit shocked at the display. The captain waved to a soldier who came to take Ren's arm and lead him out of the room. Ren didn't move, however.

“One more thing.” Ren said and smiled when Lord Eric sighed. “How much are the fines for the three people in the cell with me?”

Lord Eric raised his eyebrows and turned to the captain of the guard. “The thief, if it was a platinum, is a hundred gold and 30 days in shackles at the mines.”

Ren's eyes widened at the harsh penalty. “And if it wasn't a platinum?”

The captain sighed this time. “Reparations of the amount stolen and the night in the cell.”

“The other two?”

“The man is accused of adultery. It's 30 days in the cell. It would have been longer, but the minister of finance isn't well liked, and his wife likes him even less.”

The mage snorted a laugh and covered it up with a cough.

“The woman... she's a special case. We see her a lot.” The captain said. “I'm tempted to just throw her in the cell permanently, but you won't stand for that, would you?”

Ren shook his head. The captain sighed again. “I'll let her off this time with a fine of 50 gold and a night in the cell.”

“I know I'm kind of stepping out of line here... but... would you let the man out as well if I pay the same fine for him as for the woman?”

The 3 men's eyes nearly popped out of their heads at Ren's offer.

“Are you crazy?” The captain said, dumbfounded. “You just met these people!”

Ren shrugged. “I think they just needed someone to listen to them for once.”

Lord Eric stood. “Done.”

Ren walked over to the desk, dragging the soldier with him, and put a platinum coin and 5 gold coins onto the table. “Thank you very much for your time.” Ren said and smiled. “See you in the morning.”
