Legs trembling and muscles burning, I grit my teeth and take what will likely be my last unassisted step of the day. A sharp pain shoots up my calf and makes its presence known despite the soothing concoction of painkillers making its way through my system, so I lean heavily on my walker to catch my breath. Grinning like an idiot, I hold my head up high and say, “Two hundred!”

“Yay, hubby!” Though bright and lively as always, Lin’s voice and expression are both tinged with worry as she gently pats my forehead dry with a clean handkerchief. “You’ll be all better in no time.”

“Yea, at this rate, he’ll be at full strength in just shy of a century. No time at all.”

“Well, what’s a decade or ten to a half-beast?”

“This is all thanks to you, wifey. You too Song. Thank you both for everything.” Ignoring the snickers and smirks from the peanut gallery, I pant and wheeze while Song gently helps me into the seat of my walker. Though she doesn’t say a word, her brow furrows and tail lashes in concern when she notices I can’t sit upright without her support. It’s no big deal, I’ll be fine in a minute or two, so I sit and watch my animals wander around while catching my breath.

“Truly an inspiration to us all, a breath taking sight. Get it?”

“Oh Mother in Heaven, that was... wow. Just awful.”

“Shut up! It was hilarious.”

Another day, another record, but despite doing half of my walking before lunch and half after, it’s getting difficult to reach my goal every day, much less surpass it. It’s been two full weeks since I started this journey and I’ve added an average of five extra steps per day, but it hasn’t been easy. I won’t be running marathons anytime soon, but progress is still progress, so all I need to do is keep this up, maybe add a third block of exercise time before dinner, and eventually, I’ll make it back to the top. Truth be told, I’m not in any rush to recover and head back to the battlefield. Walking one to two hundred steps takes less than half an hour and is pretty much my entire work-out regimen, so the rest of the time I’m free to enjoy my restful recuperation in relative peace. I thought I’d go crazy if left alone with my thoughts, but ever since my injury, I’ve had no mental contact from Spectres or evil puppet-masters, which is just... wonderful. Looking back on it now, it’s clear my thoughts and mindset were heavily influenced by their subtle, pervasive whispers from my very first day in this world, and things got progressively worse with time thanks to constant over-exertion and sleep-deprivation. I haven’t been in my right mind for years now, but since I’m now 100% Spectre free, I’m finally free to discover who I really am.

Mostly, I realized I don’t actually enjoy hard work or suffering. Being idle and lazy is great and sleeping in is awesome. Sure there’s a lot of pain, but only of the physical variety, which isn’t all too hard to deal with. Since there’s nothing I can do about it, I accept the aches and agonies and let them fade into the background thanks to the wonderful magic of drugs and other stuff. In fact, I’m more bothered by the heat and sweat than pain and suffering. Unpleasantly moist thanks to the water-repellent properties of silk, I undo the top button on my fur-lined overcoat and watch the steam rise from my chest. Silk isn’t the best fabric for working out in, especially considering it retains odours so well, but when the alternative is cheese-grated skin, you make do with the swampy slickness of sweat-soaked silk.

Personally, I don’t think I smell that bad since I bathe every day using gentle, fragrant soap made by my sweet wifey, but judging by the way Lin’s nose crinkles as I fan my collar, it’s still not enough. Unpalatable though it might be, she doesn’t hesitate to step closer and pat my chest dry, saying, “Careful hubby. I know you’re hot and sweaty, but it’s windy and you might catch sick.”

“Oh my, how bold to reach right in without blinking.”

“I’d like to wipe her –”

“Shut your mouth! She’s the Medical Saint’s ‘daughter’.”

“Well... the other –”

“Fool. The other one belongs to a Lieutenant General.”

What a shame. And here I thought I’d have an excuse to let Song unleash her frustrations on them. “Yes wifey. Sorry, I’ll be more careful.” Gently taking the handkerchief from her, I mop up my sweat as best I can before buttoning back up and sealing in all the flavour. Finally feeling strong enough to stay upright on my own, I quietly signal Song with my eyes and flash a grateful smile as she helps me onto the quin-drawn rickshaw. Settling in beside me, she lifts Mama Bun, Hopper, and Quake in her lap, today’s two lucky bunnies she picked out to cuddle and spoil.

Even though I’ve told her she doesn’t have to play nursemaid for me, Song has been a pillar of support during these last two weeks, a complete reversal in attitude compared to the first eight weeks after Sinuji. I’m not sure what brought about this change but it’s a pleasant surprise, especially since it’s much nicer having a lovely cat-girl helping me around instead of stern Death Corps soldiers. Not to say there aren’t any pretty ladies serving in my honour guard who would be more than happy to serve at my pleasure, but not only would it be morally grey to take advantage of indoctrinated slaves, I’d also rather not complicate my love life any more than I have to.

...Though I do think about it from time to time. Difficult not to when there are so many gorgeous women around. It’s too bad I can’t blame the Spectres for my perverted disposition, but it’s okay, because I wholeheartedly embrace my lewd and lustful nature. Got to love yourself before you can love others.

While the bears and wildcats squeeze in around our feet, Lin hugs my arm and stifles a yawn as she nuzzles into my embrace, so slender and lightweight I can barely feel the pressure through my jacket. Even Blackjack nestled in my hair seems more of a burden than my tired wifey leaning against me, his little paws shuffling about as he moves to the highest point on my head. I don’t know how Lin does it; when I Lighten, it would at most halve my weight, but Lin seems liable to blow away on the breeze while half-asleep and nodding off, her mastery over this one Chi skill far more impressive than I ever gave credit. To be fair, she’s improved a lot in the last year or so, probably because I’ve been busy fighting and she had nothing better to do.

Not anymore though. Now, she’s busy at all hours of the day mixing, brewing, and concocting all the pharmaceuticals I need to get through the day. Pain relief, skin cream, lip balm, and more, she refuses to outsource any of the labour to another herbalist because she only wants the best for her hubby, and though Song helps where she can, all this hard work is taking a toll on my adorable, indolent wifey. Since we’ve plenty of time, I give the reins a gentle flick and Lin’s dapper, dressed quins set off on a nice, quiet walk around the outskirts of the citadel.

“Are those beasts wearing silk?”

“Don’t know. I can’t see into the rickshaw.”

“Ha!”

Well, quiet except for the sarcastic quips and raucous laughter of the nobles following us around, not to mention the heavy-footed stomping of my marching Death Corps escort.

...

Honestly, it’s not so bad. This is nice. No assassins to watch for, no Defiled lurking in the wings, and since Dad is the second-in-command at the citadel, I don’t have to worry about offending anyone I shouldn’t and can focus on spending this beautiful afternoon with two lovely ladies at my side. It’s a little lonely since Dad brought Mom and the twins out to watch his troop training session, Luo-Luo is working hard with MuYang and co., and Akanai and Husolt are busy as always, so it’s just us three with nothing to do. I hope Taduk comes back soon, he’s been gone for almost a month now, hunting Spiritual Plants with Guard Leader. Too bad for the Tyrant though, looks like Runes and nipple piercings aren’t enough to keep my playboy of a Teacher in one place for long.

While Lin naps and Song glares at the unwelcome entourage trailing beside us, I settle beneath the rickshaw’s canopy and take in the sights. Aside from the westward walls, most of the citadel is still in various stages of construction, but it won’t be long before it’s complete. A few more months maybe, or possibly even sooner, but personally, it seems like a waste of time and resources. With the big bad evil guy pulling the strings, the Defiled are no longer the same mindless, frenzied mob as before, as demonstrated by Gen’s elite forces in Sinuji. I don’t know what the higher-ups are doing to prepare, but my guess would be nothing. Since they didn’t act in Sinuji, most idiot nobles and armchair generals will underestimate those armoured, disciplined Defiled and suffer the consequences when the Elites make their first move. Probably their second, third, and fourth moves too, since most nobles in the Empire are a stubborn, prideful lot and stupid to boot, which means an untold number of soldiers will die before the lesson sinks in.

Whatever. Not my problem anymore. The Empire can go suck it, because I’m on vacation, though I am worried about my friends. Maybe I should convince them not go back to the front lines after the new years celebrations, especially Colonel Hongji. Public opinion has not been kind to him since neither my supporters nor detractors are shy about shifting blame onto him, not to mention all the criticism thrown his way ever since he ordered the soldiers under his command to use crossbows. BoShui didn’t blink twice about accepting my crossbow-wielding retinue, but even he hasn’t adopted the ranged weapons for his own use. Say what you will about Chen Hongji, but he’s not afraid to make moves and stir things up. Though he only purchased two thousand crossbows, he paid for them out of his own pocket after the military refused to cover the cost. I tried to gift or sell them at a discount, but he refused and paid one gold a piece, the market price Luo-Luo came up with after factoring in expenses and a tidy profit margin.

I like the Colonel, painted face and all, and doubly so after I found out he doesn’t come from wealth. It’s okay though, new years celebrations are coming up where exchanging gifts are the norm, so I sent a wagon of art, silks, spices, and other such luxuries to his wife and children, including the traditional gift of coins on red string. 9,999 silver coins to be exact, which coincidentally is what he would’ve saved if he took the fifty percent discount I offered, while also remaining thematically relevant. Something about nine being lucky and a homonym of long or something, I wasn’t really paying attention to Luo-Luo’s explanation because I was busy poring over documents and pondering if red envelopes would catch on instead.

Though she balked at the price of all my new years gifts and keeps complaining about declining profits and shrinking market shares, no matter how I look at the numbers, we’re still making money hand over fist. The payouts from the military contracts alone made us millionaires in gold coins, not including the value of our static assets. I mean, yea our expenses are high too, but as long as we make more money than we spend, we’re doing fine, right? Why is constant growth and expansion necessary to be considered successful?

Honestly, this is what I should’ve done from the start. Fuck the Martial Path, I should’ve taken the Merchant’s Path and defeated my foes with the power of finance. Too bad it wouldn’t have worked out. My economic accomplishments aren’t mine at all, so all this is only possible because of Luo-Luo, and I wouldn’t have ‘won’ her without my Martial skills. Besides, Mom and Dad don’t seem too impressed by monetary wealth, and silly as it is for a grown ass man to crave approval from his parents, I want to be a person they can be proud of.

So I guess after I fix this mess with my Core and Spiritual Self, I’ll become a Divinity or whatever. For Mom, Dad, and bear hands.

Time flies when you’re having fun, and before I know it, it’s time for my bi-weekly meeting with Luo-Luo. Boring as it is to go over bid proposals, project plans, and other such mind-numbing minutiae, we’ve only had four meetings and I’m already seeing results. Although I don’t see how my opinion helps, but apparently, it does since Luo-Luo has found time in her daily schedule to join everyone for dinner again. After eating, she still goes back to her office, but I’m glad to see she’s at least getting some quality time with the family, and she seems much more comfortable too now that she’s gotten used to Mom’s acerbic tongue and Dad’s scary intense demeanour.

