After a quick tea break, Song and Lin bring the animals away while Luo-Luo and I get down to business. Unlike during our previous meetings, MuYang isn’t around to keep our conversation private, but Gunan steps in to take his place, a gruff, no-nonsense Aspirant who I’m pretty sure clubbed me over the back of the head when the Shrike abducted me. I didn’t exactly see who hit me, but I definitely remember his name... It’s all water under the bridge though, or at least that’s what I tell myself, and I set to reading more reports and offering my thoughts. I read much slower and retain much less after losing my Natal Palace, but I have plenty of time and there’s not as much to go through since we’ve already dealt with most of the backlog. Most surprising is a report on justice being served, one which puts a smile on my face. With the help of MuYang’s spy network, Luo-Luo has made considerable headway in two weeks and obtained proof of fraud or sabotage in three separate cases. Two have already been presented to the Adjudicators which resulted in hefty fines levied against our former business partners and orders to compensate us for lost profits.

“It’s all thanks to Lord Husband’s paper,” Luo-Luo explains, laying the flattery on thicker than usual. “For tax purposes, caravans are inspected whenever they enter or exit a city. Before, administrators would merely mark down a general description of each wagon’s contents and their approximate value to save on parchment, but with cheap paper made available, many cities now require a caravan provide copies of their cargo manifests before the administrator inspects it. In all three instances, each caravan declared possession of products or materials which they later claimed were stolen, damaged, or otherwise ruined. These documents prove our property was still in the caravans’ possession after each supposed incident, as an administrator would have made a note if anything on the manifest was missing or not in saleable condition. Once or twice could be a mistake, but for the same mistake to occur in multiple cities with multiple administrators... Hmph.”

“So they got caught scamming us because they paid their taxes? Ironic.”

Sharing a laugh, we move on to the next matter and work until there’s nothing left to discuss. Luo-Luo is an efficient businesswoman and will soon amass another fortune by selling my laxative prescription to the army once she finishes stockpiling all the required ingredients, not to mention a report on the viability of debt purchase and collection as a source of new income. She’s even finished testing the viability of beet sugar, written a proposal on the start up costs, and purchased a nearby farm as per my request. All this in ten short days, and I have no idea how she gets so much done so quickly, but she’s already well on her way to the Peak of the Merchant Path.

Sharing a warm smile with this amazing woman, I commend Luo-Luo for her hard work and suggest she join me for a break in the park, and for once, she accepts. Inwardly panicking as we squeeze into her palanquin, I do my best not to sweat while stuck in close quarters with my beautiful, busty consort, but she doesn’t seem to notice my musky stink and makes polite conversation while I avoid looking directly at her face, breasts or legs during the mercifully short ride. Pent up as I am, I’m almost too busy staring at the contours of her hip-hugging trousers to notice Taduk’s presence, seated in the grass and making reassuring kissy noises while Healing the bunbuns of the injuries they sustained in last week’s gruesome bunny brawl.

Love conquers all. Medical Saint Taduk, hare supremacist no more.

“Rain my boy,” he calls, wearing an aggrieved pout. “You must take better care of your rodents. If they die, it would take too long to train new ones.”

...Okay, so maybe still a hare supremacist. Worse, I might have turned him into a bunbun slave-driver.

Taking one last glance at Luo-Luo’s shapely rear, I hobble over and say, “Sorry Teacher, but there were extenuating circumstances.”

“Yes yes, Lin told me they were fighting over dragon whisker grass,” Taduk replies, waving my concerns away. “Don’t make that face, I’ve already made us private.” Impressive since he’s also busy Healing George’s torn ear, a feat he makes look effortless as he points at the recently returned Ginger, Peanut, and Pepper, entangled in what looks to be a makeshift harness crafted from woven grass. “See what you can do about getting more durable restraints made for these stupid rodents, they keep chewing through them whenever we draw close to a Spiritual Plant. Those three rascals almost devoured an entire patch of silverleaf watercress! What little I salvaged was pulled from their mouths and it’s barely enough to fill the prescription.”

Great. Not only do I have to drink Lin’s bitter, stinky medicine, now Taduk wants to make me something from pre-chewed ingredients. I love them both more than anything and I know they’re doing their best to help, but this is almost too much. That said, I am breathing easier after two weeks of drinking Lin’s mysterious concoction everyday, and my complexion has improved so I’m no longer ghastly white, which means it’s working exactly as advertised and improving blood circulation. Magical Healing I can get behind, but for some reason, I have difficulty believing in herbal remedies until I’ve seen them in action.

Feigning a smile while wincing at the thought of eating regurgitated salad, I make sure not to touch Taduk as I sit down beside him. Healing isn’t as simple as using External Chi to fix injuries, or it is and it isn’t. Every living being has a natural defence against foreign Chi, no matter what form the Chi takes. While Gen’s bolts of Fire Chi could burn me, once one pierces my body, my defences would kick in and extinguish the Fire Chi. It won’t help me with the heat from said Fire Chi, or put out any clothes which may have been set on fire, but the Fire Chi itself can’t surge into my veins and burn me from within. It’s the same with any other kind of Chi, and these natural defences are a big reason why even Peak Experts tend to fight in mundane ways, with fist and sword instead of Chi constructs or whatnot. This is also how Du Min Gyu rose to fame, because his Talent allows his Wind Chi to cut clean through a living person’s body without dissipating due to natural defenses, which frees him to invest massive amounts of Chi into a Chakram or whirling storm and attack enough times to make the effort worthwhile.

Essentially, this means that to Heal a patient, you need to trick the patient’s body into accepting foreign Chi, usually by imitating the patient’s ‘Chi Signature’. I don’t entirely understand it, but Taduk says I will once I practice a bit, and it sounds similar to concepts like blood types or organ rejection. Ulfsaar, Neera, and few others learned how to Heal cattle and horses, but not people, so I’m thinking it might also be easier with animals, but Taduk think it has more to do with a patient’s perception. If a Healer is trusted by their patient, then they are easier to Heal, which fits nicely with my theory of subconscious manipulation of Heavenly Energy.

Regardless, even though Taduk is an amazing Healer and fixing multiple bunbuns at once, I’m worried that if I touch him he’ll accidentally send Chi into me and mess something up. Unconcerned by such trivial matters, Taduk pulls me close for a hug with a big goofy grin, no doubt multitasking like a pro to check my general health. “So Rain my boy, my sweet Lin-Lin says you’ve made a discovery? Something to do with... turtle droppings?”

“Well it’s like this..” Explaining my theory about Spiritual Plants and Pong Pong’s poop, I watch Taduk’s reaction closely to remember this moment forever. “...I’ve yet to plant anything because there are too many watching eyes in the citadel, but I have a week’s worth of turtle poop saved up and bought a nearby farm for cover. We can go there to test things out, away from the bunbuns so they don’t kill themselves trying to steal it. So... your thoughts?”

I expected smiles and excitement, maybe even a jump or a whoop, but Taduk’s eyes have glazed over as if only listening with half a mind, but not because he’s bored. Falling silent for what feels like an eternity, Taduk struggles to get his next words out. “Do you think... this would also work with Ancestral Beast droppings?”

“Uh... Maybe? We could test it out, but I don’t think it’s prudent to ask for samples...” Well, we could be really discreet about it and offer to empty GangShu’s chamber pot for him, assuming I ever see him again. It’s been nine months since he sent Wugang and Yelu Shi to bring a message to the Abbot, and a little over three months since he left with Jorani and Daxian to find his minions. Either the Abbot is super hard to get a hold of, or something happened along the way, and though I’m worried about their safety, if an Ancestral Beast couldn’t get through to the Abbot, there’s no way my crippled ass could ever make it there alive.

Sorry Mahakala. I’ll keep trying, but I don’t know where to find the Abbot of the Penitent Brotherhood and no one can tell me. Until there’s news, my hands are tied, but if I ever do become a Divinity, I promise I’ll avenge your death.

Granted, I was going to kill the bristleboar Ancestral Beast regardless, and you’d probably advocate something like ‘live and let live’ or say ‘an eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind’, but it’s the thought that counts.

Chapter Meme

full source so you can appreciate: https://youtu.be/enOHraf3LEk
