It must kill him to say it, but I take no delight in his discomfort. “I came to offer my condolences for your uncle,” I begin, noting the flash of anger in his eyes. “He was a hero of the Empire, and his sacrifice will not be forgotten.” I didn’t ask Hongji to do it, but apparently, he placed Ken Shibu in one of the most dangerous posts of the outer wall. No big deal there, but last night, when the Demons and Peak Experts took the field, Ken-Shibu’s Peak Expert uncle died getting him to safety, and I’m guessing he blames me for the loss. I get it, he’s angry and wants to lash out, but I’m hoping a small peace offering will go a long way. “Also, I had this made for you, before I left the Citadel.”

Pulling a token out of my sleeve, which is just a terrible place to keep pockets, I approach and offer it with both hands, which he graciously accepts after putting his weapons away. Clearly confused by my actions, Ken-Shibu’s gaze alternates between the token and my face, struggling to make heads or tails of the situation. After a long period of hesitation, he finally asks, “But why?”

“Because your talents are wasted as a hundred man commander.” Shrugging, I add, “I suspect you could rank higher than a mere first-grade Warrant Officer, but you’ll have to prove yourself first, then agree to join the army before I can promote you any more. If you are lacking soldiers to fill your new retinue, you may draw however many Warriors you need from the Death Corps and lead them in battle.” Doing my best to appear regal and magnanimous, I add, “I take it you know what is to come, so you also know the Empire is in dire need of heroes. Ishin Ken-Shibu, will you answer the call?”

Again, Ken-Shibu hesitates as he tries to puzzle out my ‘true’ intentions, but when the time comes, the Officers under me need to obey orders without hesitation. If one group breaks formation or deviates from the plan, it could spell disaster for the entire second line, and the rest of the Empire will suffer for it. It’s fine though, because I never had any intention of waiting around for an answer, and promptly turn on my heels and saunter off into the night with Fung and Zian.

A perfect exit, until I notice Aurie picking through a pile of garbage and run over to stop him. Stupid wildcat. I already overfeed you, why are you going through trash and looking for scraps?

This is my life now. Prisoners and politics. Boring, tedious, and unpleasant, but a hell of a lot better than what’s to come. As if on cue, the harrowing horns of battle sound as the Defiled tribesmen begin their nightly assault, one meant to wear down the defenders in preparation of the big moves we’re about to make. After sending Fung and Zian off to gather their retinues to wait in reserve, I send word to Song that I will be visiting the inner wall again, much to Kuang Biao’s dismay. “The soldiers fight in shifts,” he begins, grimacing as he struggles to explain without triggering his oaths. “But your honour guard must remain vigilant at all times, and doubly so when you approach the battlefield. You will need us all at our best, and as such, you must give us time to rest.”

He makes a good argument, but unfortunately, I have good reason to stand so close to the battle. “Double my honour guard,” I say, “And start guarding me in shifts. I mean to be close to the fighting as often as I can, so I’m afraid you and my other guards will simply have to endure.” Zhen Shi has seen what I can do, but he’s not sure how much I’ve improved, especially since he knows I had a hand in Ping Ping’s ascension to Divinity. From start to finish, Zhen Shi has always believed I was faking my infirmity, but I never really realized it until I saw through Gen Shi’s actions. He was bait, there to test my strength and see how far I’d progressed, because Zhen Shi, the real Zhen Shi, is worried. About me.

No idea why. I mean, okay, I Devoured some Spectres when I was healthy, and Devoured some Demons back in Sinuji, but otherwise, I don’t really know what I did to warrant such caution. Regardless of the answer, I’m betting my presence so close to the battlefield will leave him more hesitant to act. In fact, he kept his Demons in reserve all day while I watched from the inner wall, which according to Hongji was an uncommon occurrence. Hopefully, this means I’m right and Zhen Shi thinks I can do… something to turn the tides of battle, whether it be Devouring, Orating, or something else altogether, so until I figure out what that is, I’ll just have to bluff and pray he doesn’t call it.

And if he does? Well, that’s what Kuang Biao and my honour guard is for. It’s a gamble, but I’ll take any advantage I can get, because Mother knows we’ll need it.

Chapter Meme
