Ever since I woke from my most recent coma, spotting people in Concealment has been fairly easy, though I still don’t really know how I’m doing it. It’s like… wandering around in the dark, but in a familiar place, so you can almost see the outline of things you know are there. You’re not actually seeing anything, but your mind is helping you fill in the blanks, which is pretty much how I’m spotting people in Concealment. If I concentrate really hard, I can sort of make a figure out, but only just barely and without much colour or substance. With Seoyoon’s guards, even squinting doesn’t reveal their physical presence, though I could point them out with my eyes closed because I just know they’re there.

There’s two types of Concealment. The first type Conceals the user from the physical senses to varying degrees, that is sight, sound, smell, touch, and I would assume, taste. The second type isn’t really a different type, but more of an advanced version of Concealment which hides the user from another Warrior’s Domain. I assume Seoyoon’s guards are using the second version, because the Royal Guardians and Sentinels posted outside wouldn’t have let any Concealed guards pass without revealing themselves. It’s mostly for security reasons, since any one of them might have been a Wraith, but I also left orders to keep the number of guards low since I wanted this to be a quiet, intimate dinner. There goes that plan, but I would love to know how it works. Grandpa Du couldn’t tell me, because he can only Conceal himself normally, and no one else wants to discuss the Dao with me. Even Guard Leader keeps a Sound Barrier around her at all times so she doesn’t overhear our conversations, though Lin-Lin listens in without fear of reprisal.

“If I didn’t know any better,” I quip, plainly eyeing the Concealed guards around Seoyoon, “I’d think you were here to kill me.”

The problem with moving up in the world isn’t that everyone thinks you’ll change, but rather that everyone expects it. Fung, Zian, and Jing Fei all freeze in place with bewildered expressions while Seoyoon and her handmaidens drop to their knees in panic, kowtowing on the carpeted rug before me. “This one wouldn’t dare,” she says, knocking her head against the carpet louder than Hoon did on stone. “Guards, reveal yourselves!”

Six panicked handmaidens join Seoyoon in kowtowing before I reach her side, wishing I hadn’t made that stupid joke. “It’s nothing, it’s nothing,” I say, pulling her to her feet, or at least trying to since she’s actively resisting. “Just a joke. Please don’t make this awkward.”

It’s immediately apparent this was the wrong thing to say, as Seoyoon’s shock and horror quickly morphs into anger as she asks, “A joke?”

Audibly sighing, Fung moves to help straighten Seoyoon’s robes, but is deftly stopped by the two initial handmaidens, while the other six remain on their knees with their heads pressed against the stone. Pursing his lips in discontent, Fung shoots me a dirty look as if it’s my fault his girlfriend’s guards are so wary of him and says, “The Legate has always been a little slow in the head, and has yet to understand the gravity of his office. He meant no insult by it, and I’m sure it won’t happen again.”

This is bullshit. I’m the Legate, which means I’m everyone’s boss, so when I make a joke, everyone is supposed to laugh. Now Fung calls me slow in the head while Song glowers disapprovingly and Lin-Lin, Zian, and Jing Fei struggle to hide their laughter. Where’s the face? I was told there’d be face. Plus, in my defense, Seoyoon’s guards came in uninvited, or at least the six kneeling ones did, but I suppose making jokes about traitorous actions is well over the line of decorum. “This is entirely my fault and I do not blame you in any way whatsoever. I didn’t think things through before opening my mouth, which is a bad habit I have yet to correct even after all these years.” Realizing I’m still holding her by the arm, I let go and gesture towards the dinner table with a sheepish grin. “Please, everyone, stop kneeling and let us settle in for dinner now. Did I ever tell you how Fung and I met? I was wandering around a market in Shen Huo when…”

After recovering from my social gaffe, Fung and I take turns telling amusing tales of our early years while the others listen intently, though Lin-Lin chimes in with a few sordid details I’d much rather remain hidden. It’s all in good fun though, and by the end of the night, most of us are laughing and smiling save for Seoyoon and Song who are mostly focused on the animals. The youngest Ryo daughter is seemingly fascinated by Sarankho’s snowy white fur, though I hope it’s because she’s a beautiful creature full of grace and majesty rather than any desire to turn my sweet kitten into a coat to match her flowing white robes.

Why am I so mean to my friends’ girlfriends and wives? If Fung or Zian treated Lin-Lin, Yan, or Mila like I treat Jing Fei and Seoyoon, I’d cut ties with them immediately. I should work on that, but I just can’t bring myself to trust Jing Fei, and I have no idea what Fung sees in Seoyoon. She is a cold, passionless woman of few emotions save for anger and impatience, and she doesn’t treat him half as well as he deserves, largely ignoring him until it was convenient to acknowledge his presence. Regardless, Fung is a friend, so I should at least give her the benefit of the doubt, which I keep in mind as I move on to the real reason I invited them here. “So,” I begin, once the dessert dishes are cleared away and we’re ready to talk business. “Things on the second line are going to get real complicated, real soon.” Eyeing Jing Fei’s pregnant belly and doing my best not to glance at Seoyoon as well, I continue, “Zian, if your wife is amenable, why don’t the two of you move into my guest suites? I’m sure she’ll be more comfortable there with my servants to attend to her needs, rather than in your officer’s quarters with you taking meetings there at all hours of the day.”

Quickly picking up on my meaning, Zian furrows his brow and asks, “Are things really so dire?”

“I’m afraid so.” Personally, I wanted to just tell them both that we’re about to engage in a bloody, fighting retreat and that they should get out while they can, but operational security aside, I doubt either of them would thank me for the warning. Zian is here to progress along the Martial Path, and Fung is here because Akanai dragged him away to war with her, saying she’d left him to his own devices long enough and it was time he did his part. There’s also the fact that it’s probably too late to send Jing Fei safely away, as the Enemy no doubt is already moving their forces into place to intercept our advancing forces and catch us during our ‘retreat’. Despite doing our best to keep the plan a secret, there is no doubt in my mind that Zhen Shi knows what we’re planning, or at least, he thinks he knows. With luck, the plan my War Council and I put together has a few surprises lying in wait, but only time will tell. Nian Zu and Shuai Jiao are both fairly confident my contingencies won’t be needed, but better to have a plan and not need it, than to need a plan and not have it.

After a bit of back and forth, Jing Fei accepts on Zian’s behalf, as he was still wavering on whether he wanted to impose on my hospitality. With their agreement secured, I turn to Seoyoon as if the idea just came to me and say, “Oh, I know, why don’t you move into the suite beside them and keep Jing Fei company? Song and Lin-Lin will be around too, and I’m sure they’ll appreciate having a fourth for majong.” Sometime during all the fighting and chaos, Lin-Lin picked up an addiction to the strange game of tiles, and she is a fiend when it comes to finding people to play with. I’ve long since been kicked out for my careless playing, and while Mila and Yan are casual players at best, Song picked up the game with the same intensity she had for chess.

Rather than answering, Seoyoon takes a long minute to study my expression, and even goes so far as to study Lin-Lin and Song as well. “Fung tells me you are a straightforward man,” she begins, frowning as she does, “Though I find this difficult to believe, seeing the position you are in now. That being said, I will trust him and speak freely, for it is what he is urging me to do. I know what you are trying to do, but I do not appreciate it.” Drawing herself up to full height, which is actually a little shorter than I am, she declares, “I am no helpless maiden or pregnant woman to be hidden away and protected. I am Ryo Seoyoon, a Warrior of the Empire, and I have come to Castle JiangHu to do battle with the Defiled.”

“I understand,” I begin, but she shoots me a pointed look and I shut my mouth, because that is a look all women share, and one Mom, Alsantset, Akanai, and Mila have all mastered well.

“I am well aware of the risk involved.” Giving me another pointed look, this one calling me an idiot, she Sends, “In case you’ve forgotten, my father is a Colonel General, one who sent me here knowing full well what you intend.”

Contrary to popular opinion, I am not a complete idiot, and the fact did cross my mind, but I’ve also heard plenty of whispers regarding the Ryo family’s lacklustre contribution to the war effort. Of the three Ryo siblings, Seoyoon will be the first to do battle with the Defiled, and after shaming Ishin Ken-Shibu for eschewing battle and forcing him to the front lines, popular opinion has shifted against the Ryo family for failing to send their children to war, when most other prominent families begrudgingly dispatched one or two talents to display a token effort. Now, a pivotal point in the war will soon take place here in Castle JiangHu, and lo and behold, in comes the youngest, least distinguished, most expendable member of the Ryo family, little Seoyoon, here to win acclaims for the Ryo family, or die as a symbol of their contributions.

Either way, the Ryo family shows they’re doing their part, and knowing this, I thought she might want a way out. Seoyoon has a mere hundred soldiers under her command, infantry no less, with her immediate commander being a career Senior Captain by the name of Mibu Ono, who on the surface has no discernible ties to the Ishin family, but none with the Ryo family either. All it would take is for the senior captain to place Seoyoon in an unfavorable position to win points with the Ishin family, and it’s possible he’s already been bribed to do just that since my people can place Ono in a very expensive brothel prior to deployment, which doesn’t mean much considering even I didn’t know Seoyoon would be setting out until we were already on the march. Granted, I wasn’t really paying attention, so who knows what others might’ve picked up on, and since I only have suspicions, and no proof, this is the most I can do.

Having kept silent for too long, I offer Seoyoon a wry smile and respectful nod, since an outright salute would make her, and everyone else lower ranked than I, exceedingly uncomfortable. “I meant no offense, and pray none was taken. If you should have need of my assistance, let me know and I will do whatever I can to help.”

With that said, Lin-Lin jumps in and cajoles Seoyoon into a game of mahjong with Song and Jing Fei, leaving me to entertain Fung and Zian. Since neither of them care to sit around and cuddle floofs, and we can’t drink since battle can break out at any time, we head out for a stroll with most of my pets and my honour guard in tow. I can tell my friends are dying to ask about the impending danger, and are also curious to know why I brought all my beloved animals with me if I already knew, but neither voice their concerns and I don’t offer an answer, because again, operational security. As we move through the castle streets, Fung is the most vocal of us three, while Zian and I chime in with mostly monosyllabic answers. Due to my status, even my closest friends defer to my lead, and eventually, we find ourselves outside one of many barracks within the castle, though I know a certain individual is stationed within.

That individual, however, is not in his room, mourning the loss of a family member, but instead out in the courtyard sparring with four soldiers who look somewhat familiar at first glance. None of them show mercy to their erstwhile partner, because none is needed, as Ishin Ken-Shibu moves about the sparring grounds in a blur of spinning steel. Picking up the pace as we arrive, he splits his opponents into two pairs, and fends off one pair with the left hand and attacks the second pair with the right, all while whirling about in a dizzying, deadly dance. Neat and precise, the longer sword aims unerringly at its target’s vulnerabilities, and both sparring partners are taken out in short order with beautifully placed slashes. Free to concentrate on the remaining two Warriors, Ken-Shibu’s shorter sword lets one weapon through its previously ironclad defense and promptly traps it between blade and hilt. The battle all but won, he goes through the motions of defeating his opponents before smoothly spinning on his heels to greet me with a flourish, offering a deep bow with blades pointed downward rather than sheathed as protocol demands.

“Ishin Ken Shibu greets Legate,” the painted dancer says, his breathing steady and makeup perfect despite his obvious exhaustion. “To what does this servant owe the pleasure of Imperial Legate’s honoured company?”

