Following my express instructions, the irregulars set to work prepping the catapult for its next delivery while the remaining prisoners screech and howl in a mixture of fear and fury. Several people warned me that by taking it slow and giving them time for regrets, it was possible these Chosen might turn full Demon when faced with the inevitable end, but I would welcome such an event since I could just drain those Demons dry in front of all these witnesses. Not just the Imperial soldiers here with me, but I’m sure there are plenty of Defiled Scrying on me from afar, no doubt hoping to find an opening to have me killed by Wraiths, Peak Experts, or Demons. If Pong Pong was here, he could let me know whenever we’re being watched, but honestly, I’m kinda relieved the little guy isn’t around. Wandering around with two Divine Turtles is just asking to get found out, but one turtle isn’t so bad for several reasons. First off, Ping Ping’s been colloquially known as the Divine Turtle for centuries, on account of both her gentle demeanor and the public perception that she must be close to Divinity regardless. Secondly, Ping Ping’s ascent was recent, as she’s barely a month into her transformation, which means even though she’s what I would call a True Divinity, she’s also unfamiliar with her newfangled strength and therefore can be easily defeated by a Divinity, At least, that’s what my Dao Protecter, Xing Yong Wei, implied, and I’ve no choice but to take his word for it. Lastly, Ping Ping is pretty much a domesticated turtle. She eats what I feed her, sleeps where I leave her, treats every stranger as a friend, and only attacked Big Poppa Piggy after he made a move against me, and not before. Even her enemies can tell Ping Ping is a big sweetheart, and of no threat to anyone who doesn’t harbour ill-intent. This makes her a possible asset, and a valuable one at that, which means rather than trying to kill her, the Imperial Clan would much prefer to have her on their side, which means I’m in more danger than she is.

Not so with Pong Pong, who is unsociable, unfamiliar, and wholly willing to throw down when left with no other option, summoning giant pillars of water and blasting an Aura of Depression whenever he damn well pleases. It’s the difference between a friendly dog and a wild wolf. Both are possibly dangerous beasts, but the former is given the benefit of the doubt, while the latter is killed on sight to protect children and livestock. Pong Pong is safer and happier living his best life in the river by the People’s district, especially since I’m pretty sure Taduk has some powerful friends hanging around to help keep the tiny turtle safe. Or yanno… keep Pong Pong from destroying the Central Province in a fit of rage. He could probably do it too, but being a turtle, he’s just never really wanted to kill, maim, and destroy for no reason. Which is really good, because if I’m right about how animals utilize Heavenly Energy directly, then Pong Pong wanting to destroy Central would probably result in said destruction actually taking place. I once likened Divinities to walking nuclear bombs, but Pong Pong is an even bigger weapon of mass destruction, one only kept in check by the reasoning of a literal turtle. I pray we never run out of shrimp to feed him, or I fear this world will never survive Pong Pong’s wrath.

“No, no, please, no, don’t DO THIS!” The high pitched shriek brings me out of my thoughts and I turn to see Dastan’s prisoner struggling to escape his bonds. The last prisoner, it appears, with all others having been catapulted to their deaths before his eyes, and now, his turn has arrived. “Mercy, please, mercy,” he cries, his brow covered in sweat and eyes wild with terror as he tries to find a sympathetic soul in the crowd. “Please, you can’t! My name is Yomen Hoon. I have a wife Yun-Ju, and two children, Tae and Su. I served at TieJian, I fought against the Enemy, and I am a loyal man of the Empire, but they made me do this. They made me! I didn’t have a choice!”

Though the prisoner does his best to avoid my gaze, I can feel the stares of countless soldiers, Death Corps, Royal Guardians, and even Sentinels turn towards me, no doubt wondering how I will handle this. Will I be merciful or heartless? React with sorrow or anger? Will I condemn the prisoner for his lies, or hold him up as a warning to the others? Honestly, even I don’t know, which is why I have yet to step in, but I can tell how unsettling his claims are for the warriors around me, even the loyal Death Corps with their unflappable, blind faith. “You were taken during the withdrawal?”

Grasping at the lifeline before him, Hoon nods like a chicken pecking grains without ever meeting my eyes, his body quivering from fear and hope. “Yes! I fought loyally under Major Ichihara Sotaro, made three tours to the front lines since the war began, but once the bulk of his forces came under threat, the Major sacrificed me and my comrades to slow the Enemy down. They captured me, did unspeakable things, and they forced me to fight on their behalf. Please,” he begs, throwing himself at my feet, though still quite a ways away since the Royal Guardians refuse to let me stand closer. “Please, this fool begs you, merciful Legate. Spare me. Mercy please, mercy.”

Ignoring the sniveling theatrics isn’t easy, because I do want to save him, but he sang a different tune when I questioned him earlier. Perhaps something has changed, so once again, I give him another chance. “The withdrawal was less than a week ago,” I say, more for the benefit of the audience than Hoon. “How many Imperial citizens have you killed since then?”

“They made me do it, merciful Legate, they made me. I had no choice.”

“I know. Answer the question. How many did you kill? One? Two? More than ten? More than a hundred?” Seeing him at a loss for words, I press the issue further. “How many of your victims pleaded with you? How many told you their names, or the names of their loved ones as you just did? It’s a simple question, Hoon. Answer honestly, and I will show mercy.”

“...More than ten, but certainly less than a hundred.” Repeatedly knocking his head against the stones hard enough to make me wince, he takes on a plaintive tone and pleads, “This one repents, this one is remorseful, this one will seek to make amends, but this one had no choice! They would have killed me slowly and eaten me alive if I did not act, and what man does not wish to live?”

“So you seek a return to the light?”

“Yes, Imperial Legate, yes!”

“Do you renounce the Enemy in all its forms?”

“Yes, Imperial Legate.”

“Do you admit to your crimes of treason and murder?”

“...Yes, Imperial Legate.”

“Very well. Since you have shown remorse, renounced the Enemy, and admitted to your crimes, I will show you mercy. As Legate of the outer provinces, I, Falling Rain, absolve you, Yomen Hoon, of the crime of treason, and forgive you for taking up arms against the Empire.” At my words, every head pivots sharply in my direction with faces painted in obvious disbelief, including Hoon’s, but I am not yet done. “Liu Xuande?”

“Yes, Imperial Legate?”

“What is the penalty for murdering an Imperial soldier in wartime?”

“It depends on the nature of the crime,” Xuande replies, but picking up on my intent, he continues, “However, in this case, as the culprit has confessed to no less than ten murders, then I am confident that the death penalty applies. How that death is served is a matter left to the Justicars, but for a war criminal, flogging and hanging are most common, though in a case this severe, beheading and dismemberment is not unheard of.”

Nodding in thought, I face Hoon and say, “For your crimes against your fellow Warriors, I sentence you to be hung by the neck until dead. Kuang Biao?”

“Yes, Imperial Legate?”

“Hang him.”

“By your will, Imperial Legate.”

Hoon barely has time to elicit a terrified shriek before Kuang Biao is upon him, using another prisoner’s bindings to fashion a noose around his neck before pitching him over the battlements. A quick drop ends in a bone-shattering crack as Hoon’s neck snaps at the end of the rope, a far better end than most of his victims received. Taking advantage of everyone’s shock, I tap into the anger simmering in my chest and speak, praying my Oration kicks in and shares it with my audience. “Let it be known that Imperial Soldier Yomen Hoon was a criminal, one who has now paid for his crimes. He made a choice and his actions shamed him, but he repented in the end, and for this, I will show mercy to his wife and children. Yomen Hoon’s crimes end with him. Cremate him as a soldier, for he died on the battlefield, and see to it that his death benefits are paid in full.”

A mercy, but not what anyone was expecting. At least now, the poor bastard’s wife, children, and extended family won’t be put to death for his betrayal, seeing as the punishment for that is nine-familial execution. It would’ve been overlooked if he didn’t mention any names, because if we set out to kill everyone even remotely related to any of these new Defiled, then we might as well hand the Empire over on a silver platter. By now, Kuang Biao has already hoisted up the dead Yomen Hoon and laid his corpse out for others to collect. My decision to have him cremated with military honours won’t sit well with many, but it’s all I can do for him. His family won’t have it easy now, what with his identity revealed, but hopefully, people will be too afraid to directly act out against them when they hear I gave Hoon a military funeral. I wasn’t kidding about forgiving his crimes, and soon enough, Xuande has a document drawn up for me to stamp, which I do in full view of everyone watching.

It might mean nothing in the end, but it is the least I will demand of myself, to offer compassion wherever I can, if only to assuage my own guilt. Perhaps Hoon truly repented his actions and could’ve eventually turned his life around to become a valued member of society again, but then what would become of Hoon’s victims? Where would they find justice? It’s a fine line to walk, and I myself am not even sure where the boundaries lie, but all I can do is follow my gut and do what I believe is right.

Unfortunately, as I grow into my role as Legate, it’s become increasingly obvious that the world is not black and white as I once hoped it might be, but rather just varying shades of gray. Perhaps Yomen Hoon deserved worse for his crimes. Maybe he was Defiled from the start and sabotaged Major Ichihara Sotaro’s ill-fated withdrawal, in which less than half of his five-thousand man retinue made it back to safety with the corpse of their commander. Who’s to say Hoon’s wife and children aren’t also Defiled, having been tainted after he returned from one of his three visits to the front lines? Honestly, I don’t know, but I can set people to watch them, both to protect them from reprisal, and to ensure they aren’t part of a deeper conspiracy. Paranoid? Maybe, but it doesn’t mean I’m wrong, and I probably won’t find out the truth until it’s too late to matter.

Yomen Hoon made his choices, and I’ve made mine, so it doesn’t seem fair that only one of us has to live with the consequences.

I hate everything about this, but I’m doing the best I can, which is only a minor comfort as I trudge down the stairs and depart from the inner wall. Though night will soon be upon us, I have yet to eat dinner, and I fear it will be a lonely affair since Grandpa Du is accompanying Yan on night duty, along with Rustram, Dastan, and most of my retinue too. Mom and Akanai are out in the field alongside most of my friends, including Wu Gam and his singular cassowary cavalryman, leaving me, Lin-Lin, and Song all by our lonesome. Rather than have a quiet dinner with the three of us, I invite Zian and Fung for a meal in my private quarters, and they are more than happy to accept. Arriving with Jing Fei on his arm, Zian greets me and Lin-Lin with a nod and a smile while his pregnant wife fakes enthusiasm for this dinner. It’s easier to see through her than usual, but it gladdens me to know she seems to truly enjoy Zian’s affection, though I still can’t tell if she really loves him. As such, while Zian is distracted dealing with my overly affectionate bears, I give Kuang Biao the pre-arranged signal and he reminds Jing Fei through Sending that even though Zian loves and trusts her without fail, I am still skeptical, and remain true to my word. If her husband dies under mysterious circumstances, I will kill her after she gives birth and leave their child with Zian’s mother to raise. Whether or not I’d actually do it is another thing, but if it keeps her honest, then it’ll be effort well spent. If Zian does die, well… I’m not above demanding an Oath from Jing Fei to find out if she actually had a hand in his death, and may the Heavens forgive her if she did, because I most certainly won’t.

While I’m busy exchanging pleasantries and Sent threats with Zian and Jing Fei, Fung arrives with Ryo Seoyoon at his side, though from the looks of things, their relationship has yet to progress to hand-holding in public, though I cannot speculate what happens in private. Arriving with them is Fung’s manservant/torturer/Healer, Fu Zhu Li, as well as two handmaidens who stand on either side of Seoyoon and keep Fung at a reasonable distance away. Trailing them is another six guards, entering my meeting room unseen under the guise of Concealment. Sensing these Concealed figures take up position around Seoyoon, I can only assume they’re here to protect the youngest Ryo daughter, who joined the last-minute reinforcements with little to no fanfare or warning.

