I hate crying.

When I first arrived in this world, I cried a lot, but I figured that since I was inhabiting the body of a twelve year old, I probably had the brain chemistry of one too. Thus since younger people have more difficulty controlling their emotions, it was no big deal if I cried every now and then, especially considering the trauma I went through. As I grew older, I did what I could to stop bawling all the time, but it wasn’t easy because there’s so much to weep about. It’s gotten so bad, it’s almost become an ingrained habit now, and the tears start up every time I’m faced with hardship, adversity, frustration, anger, and a plethora of other emotions which have nothing to do with sadness. I can’t help it. I just feel the buildup of emotions in my chest and my eyes begin to leak, but through sheer force of effort, I’ve learned how to hold them back except in the most extreme situations, because I am a man, a manly man, and manly men don’t cry.

There’s also the fact that I love adorable floofs almost too much, or more than what most people deem is appropriate, and if I were a crybaby as well, my man card might be revoked for behavior unbecoming of a man. Personally, I don’t think it’s fair that girls and children get a pass for being obsessed with animals. Why can’t a dude cuddle with his floofs? In fact, I would go as far as to say doing so should earn me man points, because what’s manlier than snuggling bears and wildcats? People just don’t understand me, but that’s okay. I’ve gotten used to taking all my emotions and stomping them flat into the deepest, darkest, recesses of my psyche, so if I have a mental break every now and then, well that’s just the price of being a manly man.

That being said, as the first prisoner sails screaming towards the setting sun, I admit I might be overcompensating for crying myself to sleep last night. What a great way to reunite with my beloved wife, to cry myself to sleep beside her while too ashamed to look her in the eyes. Yan didn’t say or do anything to make me feel like less of a man, and she never would, but it still doesn’t feel great knowing that’s how we spent our first night together in over a month. Thankfully, Yan has always been great about helping me cope, and Mila was out on the plains with Zabu and Alsantset, running interference against the Enemy and prepping for the castle’s retreat. I love her to bits, but Mila has a tendency to try and fix every problem she sees, so if she saw me last night, she’d spend the next few weeks trying to get me to understand why I shouldn’t feel bad about what the Defiled are doing for varying reasons. There’s nothing I could’ve done to stop it, I’m not responsible for their actions, the Enemy is doing this to get under my skin and I shouldn’t let them, et cetera, et cetera, but it wouldn’t have helped. I wasn’t crying because of what happened, I was crying because I had no other way to process all the sorrow, anger, regret, and other emotions which cropped up when faced with so many senseless atrocities.

While her efforts might normally have borne fruit, what Mila wouldn’t have understood is that I don’t blame myself for what the Defiled are doing. I just wanted it all to stop, but since there was nothing I could do, I cried. I cried for the poor tortured victims, hanging over beds of coals by their battered, broken limbs. I cried for the reluctant accomplices who took up the hammer because they believed they had no other choice, and ultimately could not finish what they were forced to begin. I cried for the poor, frightened souls who gave into their dark desires, their yearning for survival superseding their compassion for their fellow prisoners. I cried for all the meaningless and unnecessary suffering those people went through, knowing there was no hope for survival and that their last moments in life would be nothing but pain and agony.

And most of all, I cried for those brave souls who rose up against their captors and fought against all odds. For their courage, they earned themselves a far worse fate than what they would have received, all because they listened to me.

To be human, is to choose. What a bunch of fucking garbage. Some choices are an illusion, to die now or die later. What does it matter what happens in between?

“Judgment comes to the Empire, and you have all been found wanting! The Chosen of Heaven will bring justice to the Dog Emperor and all who grovel before him!” Struggling against his bonds as he’s loaded into the catapult, the second Chosen projectile rants and raves about crimes against nature and whatnot, but it’s all a bunch of meaningless drivel spewing from the mouth of a madman. The Spectres have a firm grip on him, as they do with all the Chosen I’ve met, and knowing what I know now, the Enemy’s methods seem all the more insidious.

It all goes back to what Grandpa Du said during my meeting with the Tyrant. “Chi is bound to the individual and inviolable until it returns to Heavenly Energy.” It makes sense considering we bind Heavenly Energy by drawing it into our Cores, which are part and parcel of our souls. A few days ago, I concluded that our souls are simply who we are, the very core of our being, so it made sense that Chi from two individuals couldn’t mix, since that would be the same as mixing souls. This, however, got me to thinking about Spectres and how they are literally birthed from Martial Warriors in times of extreme duress, as I saw with Jorani and Awdar. There are probably countless Spectre births happening all across the Empire at any given moment, and I would bet my left arm that commoners can birth Spectres too. Hell, back in Sanshu, the air was thick with Spectres, but while I assumed they’d all been brought there by Butcher Bay Bandits, who knows how many were birthed right there in the city itself?

Last night, as I stood here on the battlements taking in the horrific acts of cruel depravity, I kept going over everything I knew about souls, Chi, Heavenly Energy, and Spectres, and came up with a theory, one which ties back to Mahakala’s last testament. “No longer trapped by the cycle of samsara, itinerant souls seek to break through the barrier of existence and end it,” he said, and at the time, I had no idea what he was going on about, but when Grandpa Du mentioned the inviolability of Chi, the pieces all fell into place. Spectres are literally the darkest thoughts and desires of humanity brought to life with Chi, which is why Mahakala called them itinerant souls, because that’s literally what a Spectre is: a severed portion of a soul which was cast away to protect the psyche of the original owner. That’s what we humans do to protect ourselves from pain and misery, we do away with the bad memories and try to focus on the good ones instead. Sure, there are people like me who love to wallow in self-pity, but as a whole, humanity is quick to forget adversity and indulge in prosperity. This explains why there are no ‘good’ Spectres, because we’re selfish and keep the good emotions for ourselves, while dumping all the bad emotions and polluting the metaphysical atmosphere.

In a nutshell, Spectres, and by extension, the Defiled and quite possibly even the Enemy, is a calamity of humanity’s own devising. Humans ruining the world, what else is new?

The more I thought about it, the more it all made sense. Why is Luo-Luo’s music so highly valued as a balm against becoming Defiled? Not because she plays at an advanced technical level, which she does, or because her musical composition is superb, which it may or may not be, but because not only is she able to express her emotions through music, but she can also evoke those same emotions in her listeners. Oration is another such skill, but after a few days of experimentation and far too many corny speeches, I think I’ve figured out why it’s not widely used. Luo-Luo’s ‘Rise to Glory’ can elicit the same emotions every time, because the song puts her in mind of what she went through, which she then shares with her audience, but when Orating, I’m just speaking my mind and sharing the emotions I feel in that very moment. If I tried to write a speech beforehand and recite it for the crowd, nothing would get through, so it only works when I go with my gut and pass along the message in whatever way felt right. Though my speeches were cringe inducing to the extreme, I was honest and open with the soldiers outside the Citadel and again when addressing the Imperial prisoners across the field. This is war, but being humans, we have a responsibility to hold ourselves to higher standards than the rest of the world.

I want to drive the Defiled back, to eradicate the threat they present, to bring an end to the endless trials and tribulations of this world and make it so my children, grandchildren, and descendants born after them never have to go through what I did, and I want to do it all in a way that doesn’t involve slavery, torture, or general crimes against humanity.

...Catapulting living prisoners probably crosses the lines a bit, but desperate times call for desperate measures.

I really wish Mahakala, the Abbot, Monk Happy, or someone from the Brotherhood was here to talk to, because I still don’t really understand the rest of what Mahakala had to say. “If everything is in nihility, then time and space become meaningless. An end to suffering yes, but an end to all else, the desperate last effort of the lost and destitute, Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” As far as I can tell, this means the Spectres aren’t happy being condemned to the Void, and while some seek a return to the material world, either in the form of Demons or by inhabiting another person’s soul, there’s a subset of Spectres, which Mahakala called Anathema, who are seeking to destroy the material world and turn everything into the Void and therefore ruin things for everyone. That’s what I got from it, but even if I’m right, I have no idea where to begin to fight that. What do we do? Arrange daily concerts from Luo-Luo? Train up an army of musicians, artists, poets, and whatever to go around spreading cheer and happiness to all? I don’t think emotions work like that, because there will always be highs and lows in life, and people respond differently to each one.

Better to put all the theological fuckery aside to focus on what I can affect, winning the war effort. Sadly, I don’t think I’m doing a very good job of raising morale, judging by all the appalled looks and incredulous stares going about the castle walls, and that’s only on the faces I can see. Who knows how soldiers down the line or alone in the privacy of their quarters are reacting. Then again, this is a world in which the Purge is viewed as an acceptable cost, so I have no idea why catapulting less than a dozen Defiled across the battlefield is making people uncomfortable. Probably because most of the people present have never taken part in a Purge, and don’t understand how terrible it truly is. Unfortunately, much like signing death warrants with less than complete evidence, I believe this is a necessary evil, to show what the ultimate fate of the Chosen will be.

As an added bonus, whatever Chi working the Defiled set up to broadcast the sound of their prisoners’ screams works just as well on my Chosen projectiles, their howls of terror coming in clear as they progress through the final meters on their journey through life. After the fourth Chosen projectile lands in front of Enemy lines, the noise broadcasting finally comes down and the fifth lands in utter silence, though the Enemy no doubt can still hear them. No one amongst the Defiled does anything to save their comrades, and a good number of them even take great delight in watching the show, but this message is not for the Enemy. The Imperial prisoners across the way deserve to see their hated foe receive their comeuppance and need to understand that the Chosen are no better than the Defiled. This same message also goes a long way with the soldiers of Castle JiangHu, because now they have proof that this is not a new, stronger Enemy they face, but the same foes we’ve always fought, just dressed in a different outfit. Plus, it does everyone good to see evil brought low, and nothing says vulnerable like broken, naked prisoners getting launched several hundred meters through the air before coming in for a grisly, fatal landing.

