“She’s fine. She’ll get in contact with us. I have to…that Ancestors-damned Lism keeps bothering me about his worthless elections and ideas. Send another message to Fetohep. I don’t care how busy he is. Tell him I request an audience again to go over…”
 
——
 
Mrsha had to be around here. Rags sat in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. No offense to Lyonette or anyone else, but Rags smelled a Solstice-event. She had been there.
She sat on the hill and went over Mrsha’s day as she had heard it recounted. Mrsha had gone to Liscor. She’d shopped at Krshia’s. She’d not mentioned going anywhere to anyone. Lyonette was convinced Mrsha had been grabbed or teleported out of the inn so fast no one had noticed.
Rags doubted it. She kicked at a pile of upturned dirt and a denuded marigold stalk. Lyonette had ruled out the garden and inn because of her Skill.
Too quickly. This was Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. Rags bent and inspected the flowers. They winked up at her, bright and yellow, covering the hill.
“Dragon magic can’t find her. Saliss can’t. What’s going on?”
She brushed at one stalk of the flowers that Mrsha had clearly dug up; the ground was patted into place, and Valeterisa had recalled casting a spell to allow Mrsha to dig. [Groundswim].
If they wanted to get grim, Rags could imagine what might happen if that spell ran out, but Lyonette had sworn Mrsha wasn’t in the garden. Valeterisa had scanned the ground with spells anyways and found nothing but soil.
And yet…Rags was here. Because this was the last spot Mrsha had been.
“The flowers?”
Why would it matter? It wouldn’t. Saliss had said he’d gotten some flowers from Mrsha, but they weren’t useful in his alchemy. They were just bright, orange marigolds. And yet…they were also worth a lot?
Rags scratched her head. Had Erin once said that? Maybe these particular species were worth something? If so, Erin hadn’t shared them. Well, Rags’ tribe didn’t do much alchemy, but Prixall was now with them, and she was a [Witch].
Maybe this one could be regrown? She bent down and unearthed the stalk of the denuded flower in the ground and saw—
Nothing. Just some dirt; no signs of anything else. Rags tossed the marigold aside and grunted.
“Huh.”
She’d thought it would prove…she dug a bit deeper, but there was no trace of Mrsha going deeper. Then again, her [Groundswim] spell…
For some reason, Rags felt like she was missing something, but the marigolds were just—there. Magicless and beautiful, but that was all.
Embarrassed, the Goblin Chieftain walked away, though not before getting Peggy.
“Hey, can you get a shovel and dig here? Just see if you can find something.”
“How deep, Chieftain?”
“…All the way?”
Rags patted the dismayed Peggy on the shoulder as the Hob rounded up Antinium. Rags went back to the drawing board until someone found her. A frantic Dame Ushar.
Lyonette hadn’t come back.
 
——
 
Two people missing now. Now, Rags was searching for where Lyonette had been—but she had apparently walked into an ‘unknown forest’ with her group…and not returned, even hours later.
Rags felt a true fear in her stomach now. She kept alternating between knowing something was coming for Goblinhome, knowing her tribe was in danger—and searching for the two people more beloved to Erin.
Lyonette was missing. Dame Ushar was leading the search, but she kept receiving communications from Calanfer. Something was truly…truly wrong. She refused to say what it was, but there was no Ishkr nor Elia nor Colfa…
Himilt joined the search with Liska, Watch Captain Zevara, and they even summoned Nalthaliarstrelous and Teriarch to confer. When the [Druid] and Dragon were told Lyonette had gone—armed—to a meeting with the people searching for the wand, they had gone dead white.
When Dame Ushar had seen their reactions, she had frozen for a moment, and Rags had looked at her face.
—The Goblin Chieftain was in denial. This could not be happening. She clung to what should be her certainty, the only conclusion her intelligence told her was true:
Mrsha was in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
 
——
 
“Dig.”
The Wandering Inn was filled with voices, arguing, filling the [Garden of Sanctuary] with worry. Stress. Yelroan had taken over, and he was trying to find Dame Ushar. She had vanished. Teriarch was casting spells and shouting at the Unicorn, Taletevirion.
Peggy’s face was white. She was twisting her apron so hard it left marks on her claws.
“Chieftain, my Skills…Lyonette’s Skills aren’t working on me.”
“Dig.”
Rags stood as Rosencrantz, Asgra, and every employee and Goblin she could muster that wasn’t at Goblinhome dug in an increasingly wide pit in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Erin’s beautiful hill was gone; they’d gone below the ground level already, and dirt was everywhere.
Rags didn’t care. She couldn’t—Lyonette was not—
Mrsha. They just had to find Mrsha and this would reverse itself. Rags snapped at Peggy.
“Dig! All the way to the bottom!”
The Hobgoblin looked at her, then left the garden. Rags ignored her. She stood as the teams of diggers rotated out, cursing them, waiting, waiting for them to hit the bottom of the garden. When she heard the first clink of shovels striking something hard, she leapt in, cursing as she slid down the slope.
“There! Move, idiots!”
She pushed Sticks aside; the pit was almost vertical, accounting for the fact they’d had to widen the hole. She was directly below where she’d seen the traces of Mrsha digging up the flowers above. Rags saw shovels scraping the rounded bottom of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She flung herself down, brushing dirt away, feeling for the trap door, the hole, the…
Nothing. First, Rags felt with her hands. Then she ordered more shovels. Then she had the place washed with water, dredged, and [Light] spells cast. But all she found was a smooth, ancient wood at the bottom of the [Garden of Sanctuary], a rounded pit.
No…hole. No gap. No clue of Mrsha, and no body, either. Rags sat there, head in her hands, until she heard someone calling her name.
“Chieftain? They’re going to confront the forest. Teriarch, Taletevirion—even the [Druid] and Magnolia Reinhart. Everyone is going.”
Rags looked up. Her hair was dirty, her face was disheveled, and the tired Goblins and inn’s staff stared at Rags’ confused, bewildered face.
I was certain…all the clues pointed to this. Rags stared at the bottom of the [Garden of Sanctuary] as Peggy called down to her.
“Chieftain? You coming?”
Rags said nothing. Then she thought she heard something. A sound…so distant it was beyond anything her ears, or even a Gnoll’s ears, could hear. Yet it filled the entire world. It sounded like the world itself moving.
It sounded like:
Slam.
