“That is correct,” the Umbral admitted with a scowl. She looked aside at the last bits of the translucent dust that made up one of her former incarnations. “You did strike me down. One of my stacks, anyway. Seems we're all repeating the same sin today: pride. My companions were too proud, striding into the Fairwoods with no preparation. You were too proud in thinking you had the upper hand. And I was too proud thinking that my experiences rendered yours nonexistent.”

The Sister of the Order shook her head with dismay. “No more. I will resolve you properly with everything I have, and then I will take from you all that you know about Psychomancy—every technique, every strategy, every insight—until there is nothing left of you. And then I will harvest you for information about New Albion. You and your fellow bird.”

And as the Umbral spoke, she began to change. Her crystalline armor broke away, dissolving into transparent shards. The body that emerged below was not one that belonged to a person. No, it was wonderful. It was beautiful. It was a nightmare transformed from a daydream. Broken shards formed a set of six wings behind the girl. Then came the Psychomancy strands that wove portals within them. Through those portals, Harkness gazed into another realm, another mind, where thousands of identical copies of the girl glared back at her. The Umbral's left hand turned to gold-tinged frost, and the Chrono-Cryomantic matter spread across her body, creating a husk that resembled a Weaveress' exoskeleton. But then her right arm changed as well. There were eyes there, so many eyes, leading down into her palm, which was a swirling mass: the heart of a whirlpool.

And the greatest and most subtle change of all was in her eyes. They came aglow with color Harkness couldn't describe, and more eyes opened up along her forehead, eight in total, making her seem a mimicry of the arachnid mistresses she so served. Then came the fractals, which danced around her mouth, forming palps, but then she went beyond that. She spread her wings wide, and an emanation of color erupted as feathers bloomed, making her seem a preening peacock flourishing before a rival.

While she unveiled her full metamorphosis, her body began to shift some more, her fingers turning into spider-like claws. The girl hummed to herself. “I suppose it's not so bad giving one's physiology over to the eldritch. A transformation can feel like liberation, but only if it is your choice. What about you? Was putting on that crown your choice? Did you manage to become Usurper Queen of your own will?”

Harkness jolted as another voice came from her left, and through the crashing rapids of carnage emerged another version of the Umbral. “What is this? A trick of the mind?” Harkness breathed out. “Such a paltry spell could never—”

But then she felt another patch of stability coming from behind her, and then another, and then another, until hundreds of monstrous Umbrals slipped free from the twisting maw of madness beyond. They flooded Harkness's sanctuary, invaded her island of stability. And then they started drawing the madness into themselves. Translucent strings highlighted by eldritch magics allowed them to drain the chaos into their bodies. The Umbrals grew bright and empowered. Rather than breaking under the madness, they digested it. They were empowered by it, and suddenly the girl's true nature revealed itself.

She wasn't one mind. She was a massive webwork of minds, all of them connected by threads. And there were so, so many, all around. As the twisting tunnel of insanity vanished, Harkness realized she was completely surrounded—surrounded by a single person, split into so many. There were more of the Umbral around her than there had been stars in the sky. Harkness had thought this was a battle between equals, a duel between rival Psychomancers. How wrong she'd been.

The Umbral was gone, dead, a facade. What wore her skin was something infinitely horrible, something meant to devour mind mages.

For the first time in Harkness' life, her blood and mind went cold with absolute dread. She had no plans, she had no thoughts; she just wanted to run away, to escape. She pulled back with all her might, trying to recede her magic, draw it back into her own body, but she was gripped tight. Then she realized the strings connected to the Umbrals had formed a colossal nest. It wasn't just a web; it was a trap. It was a sphere, and Harkness was at the center of it.

“As I said before,” the creatures spoke with one voice, as one mind, “you learn a great deal when you cast yourself into the flames. And I learned more than I have in my entire life during my tenure in the Stranger’s Garden.” A faint huff that bordered on the verge of a laugh escaped them. “For a time, I was trying to decide if I was traumatized, if I had been scarred by the experience. The truth was, I wanted to confirm something. I was wrestling with my fear. I was burdened with knowledge. I wanted to know if there was something wrong with me. Rather than having nightmares, I realized that I look back on my time there, the purpose, the learning, the metamorphosis. I despise what they've forced on me, but I think I love what I have become.”

“What? What are you?” Harkness couldn’t keep the quiver out of her mind’s voice.

And when the countless monsters smiled, it was the grin a fox might give a hare. “I am beyond words, beyond sanity. I cannot tell you what I am. I can only show you. Just a shame your sense of self won’t survive the process. Farewell, Lady Harkness. I’ll be sure to use your memories better than you did.”

And all at once, they descended. Harkness wielded her power with desperation, with might, with every ounce of will she could muster.

But what hope was there for an insect at the heart of a web woven by ten thousand spiders? Even a queen bee was certain to die. Even the greatest eagle would be overrun and boiled in venom.

Harkness fought. Harkness struggled. Harkness suffered. Harkness screamed. She felt the creature pry her free, clamber down into her memories, crawl into her past. Into those moments. Those games she played with her father. Those years she spent training to become an Owl. Even those memories she'd repressed, forgotten. Of her mother's death. Of her father's execution. Of the role she played during the Rebellion.

No, no, please no, no! Those are mine! You can't have them! You can't take them! You can't eat them! Those are mine! Though Harkness pleaded, a spideress had no concern for the urges of its prey, only hunger. Only need.

And as pieces of her were swallowed whole and lost to her forever, Harkness wailed.

***

But both the spider and her prey failed to hear the laughter echoing beyond.

On the outside, Shiv and Adam heard her voice louder and clearer than all the times before.

It was the voice of the unseen narrator, the one that made herself known when they tried to change the pace of time. She spoke with heat and pleasure and a weariness beyond words. She spoke with hope and need, and with anticipation of what was to come.

She spoke, and as she did, it felt like all existence spoke with her:

Well, that was entertaining. What wonderful flames you are. What a wonderful trap within traps I have seen. Come closer, then, little Spideress, Undying Spawn, and Budding Dawn. Come closer, and greet me properly. The Watchtower needs a new heart.

And with that, the pale, chilling radiance permeating the world vanished all at once.
