Chains of Metatension

A binding item manufactured by Fae Smiths using a Skill of the same name. It can be created using any kind of material, so long as it is capable of restraining someone. The strength of the materials is then substituted by narrative tension. The chain's durability and tensile strength is inverse to how much tension is present. This effectively means that the chains are all but inescapable during periods of low tension.

However, should the bound subject induce a state of heightened drama or a climax to the building tension, the chains will weaken and loosen substantially, giving the restrained individual a chance to break free or slip out. The strength of the chains drops dramatically depending on how intense the relief felt by the System is. (Pending specific measurements; insufficient data acquired by expeditionary forces)

Even so, it is better to slip out than try to break free if your Physicality and Toughness are Sub-Hero.

Should you gain this Skill, know that boredom is the best strategy to utilize it to its fullest potential. Tie your adversary up and leave them isolated while avoiding any dialogue between the restrained and others, including yourself. This ensures their continued bondage until the time you decide on their release.

—Skills of the Fairest (Unfinished encyclopedia about the Fairwoods, started by Hero-Ranger Morgan Munny)

319Curse 2 Bear 3: If You Curse Me Again

Shiv’s shackles sang with joyous, jingling notes as they pulled hard on all his limbs.

A cruel smile crept across Harkness' face as she anticipated a summary mutilation.

What followed was a shattering.

The Non-Sequitur Skill went off like a bomb inside Shiv, and a spike of tension speared into him from all angles. With that, his bindings weakened. The chains screamed and snapped like the shitty, rusted strings they were. Instead of his body being torn apart as he'd anticipated, it was the metal that gave way with ease. Shiv barely even felt a tug before they all broke. And with that, he fell headfirst against the ground, cracking the ice with his orichalcum skull.

Absolute silence gripped the throne room. Shiv shrugged off the remaining chains and shot back to his feet. The Winter Court stared on, speechless, much like their flabbergasted queen. Harkness took it the worst of all. One moment, she was like a butcher anticipating a happy bit of bloodletting; the next, her mouth went from a monstrous sneer to a perfect “o.”

Something told Shiv she hadn't seen this coming. “Hey, Harkness, I don't know how much you spent on those chains, but you should definitely request a refund.”

“No, no, that doesn't make any sense… This is impossible. Enough narrative tension should have been retained to pull even a Hero apart…” Harkness’ incandescent irises narrowed to pinpricks. “How did they just… snap?”

Somewhat amusing, watching her flail. Thinking that she reigns supreme—that she could have even dreamed of claiming that throne if not for my unrivalled boredom…

Shiv ignored the strange whispers passing through his subconscious and committed to fucking with Harkness. “Yeah? Well, that’s clearly bullshit, because my Toughness is only Master-Tier. Those chains were just shit, Eileen. Should’ve done an inventory check.”

His eyes ignited with Enkindled Flames, and he casually spewed a gush of hate straight into Harkness’ emotional core. She responded by throwing up a hand. Shiv sensed that familiar barrier materialize around her—its oscillating distortions capable of keeping even the Composer’s melody from striking her down. But Shiv wasn’t using a magical skill—it just looked that way on the surface—and he exploited that for all it was worth. Where once the misted sphere within Harkness’ chest swirled with confusion, it now combusted with fury. And to keep the deception going, he committed to the moment, playing with the confusion.

“Ah, shit, why didn’t my Psycho-Pyromancy do anything?”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 166 > 167

Gardener of Doubt 73 > 75

“Fool!” Harkness scoffed. She whipped her shortsword high in the air in an arc, and a billowing wave of cold washed over Shiv. The mists condensed around Harkness, forming a flowing cape in her wake. All winter capitulated to her power, and within the building atmosphere of despair, an aching cold gathered at her back as the lunar glow above fueled the miniature moon hovering above her crown. “You couldn't have scratched me even before I took on the mantle of Queen. And breaking free of those chains was your misfortune. I would have plucked your limbs free from your body and watched you suffer; I would have kept you alive and restrained—but left your mind intact. Now I will have to bleed you personally, and after that, I will make powder of your ego.”

Uva's Psychomancy strands wove even tighter around Shiv's mind, but he wasn't nearly as worried. Harkness was very powerful, but she wasn't a Legendary-Tier Psychomancer. She probably had more narrative skills hidden up her ass, but the former Owl getting surprised by the broken chains revealed something to Shiv: Harkness was not omnipotent, not even as the Usurper Queen of the Winter Court, and her comprehension of the rules the Fae and their Skills operated on was limited.

Time to keep baiting her down the path of stupidity. Shiv stifled his grin. Harkness might technically be Legendary as well with her Parry Evolution, but she most definitely hadn’t performed her Delve yet, which meant she hadn't gotten the chance to fine-tune her skill like Shiv. That, and her amateurish arrogance and cruelty, made her far too predictable for someone who'd spent a good part of the last few months training against the orcs.

Shiv yawned dramatically. “One thing I don’t miss is you permanently flapping those fat and ugly lips of yours to produce the same boasts and threats I could hear at the nearest bar just as well.”

Harkness stiffened—and her right cheek turned to glass at the taunt. The hundreds of Winter Court Fae observing the scene let out a synchronized gasp. Their collective outrage and horror at his words infused Shiv with new inspiration. He began playing to the crowd, using them to incense Harkness’ anger and frustration. Her psychological fracture was obvious: pride was an easy hemorrhoid to pop, and he was going to burst the blood bubbles lining her ass-veins as roughly as he could. That would keep her off-balance—and hide the fact that Adam was currently in the process of turning to water.

Looking around to regard the Fae, Shiv pointed at their Queen. “Let me tell you all something about Eileen here: she and I have history. Ugly history. She killed me a couple of times. I mean, she absolutely beat the shit out of me and put me down like a bad habit. But the thing is, right, I come back. I don't stay dead. And she got so distracted playing with me that she failed her actual mission—embarrassed her nation, her people, herself. Then pretended that was her plan to begin with.”

“Oh, be silent, dog.” Harkness rolled down the dais with her blade raised high.

Shiv's strategy was already working. Defense was nowhere near her mind. She was fully committed to making them suffer using that little toothpick in her hands. Unfortunately, her Legendary Skill was purely a defensive one. At least, that's what Shiv recalled, and now she was walking into a trap she didn’t see coming. A mistake that might just be her last.

Shiv continued stomping down on her fragile ego. “You know, Eileen, I think any other Owl would've succeeded at Passage. Any other Owl but you. Maybe they wouldn't have been so good with a sword; maybe their Psychomancy would be weaker; maybe they wouldn't have dressed as nicely as you did. But they would have still succeeded, because unlike you, proper Aviary agents don't take their eyes off the prize. You call me mastiff. Well, I think I'm gonna give you a nickname too. How about Leech? Because you’re so desperate to suckle on my blood that you let everything else go.”

Harkness’ left arm went transparent and brittle. She tried to hide how much she was seething, but failed. Shiv offered her a taunting smile and held out his arms. Sticks and Stones leveled thrice. At the same moment, the Usurper Queen exploded across the court with her shortsword aimed to pierce the Deathless’ heart.

Sticks and Stones 93 > 96

She vanished for an instant before emerging with a burst of cold wind at her back. Her Reflexes now seemed to be Low Heroic. Quite a bit of growth in a short period of time. But the way she moved paled in comparison to her overwhelmingness in Shiv’s memories. He couldn't keep track of her at all then. Even his Momentum Core Skill Evolution barely let him match her for a few seconds when it was topped out. Now, she was quick, but Shiv had fought and killed Pathbearers much quicker.

And compared to Jessica, Harkness telegraphed her strike like a blind idiot toddler with a nerve disorder.

Shiv didn’t even bother dodging. He called his Last Morsel to hand and parried her stab dead on. Her frozen blade greeted his Legendary pan in a thunderous clash that fissured the ground at their feet and sent shockwaves through the air that threw most of the Fae off their feet. The tip of her frozen blade snapped like the brittle needle it was. Shiv saw Harkness’ eyes widen in disbelief. But he wasn’t done. The timing of his parry had been perfect. Return to Sender was a wonderful counter against spells and projectiles, but Shiv was more than happy to get more chances to test it in close quarters.

He pushed a rush of overflow vectors against her strike, and the force of her blow inverted immediately—dislocating her shoulder in the process. Before the snap even had a chance to echo, Shiv lashed out with his free hand and seized her by the head. Her still brittle cheek broke apart. Blood gushed out between Shiv's fingers as he lifted her up.

Usurper Queen though she might be, Shiv was a head shy of an average orc at present, while the former Aviary operative hadn't grown since their last encounter, where she'd only been a bit taller than he. Her weight was a feather, and he slammed her down against the ground like he was flinging a pebble. Harkness’s bones broke so beautifully. She was probably still Master-Tier in terms of her Toughness, with her current royal regalia the only thing sparing her from being splattered. The frost that was building out from behind her in the form of a cape rushed back into her body, forming pale, bright armor of divine plate. That did nothing to stop her ribs from snapping inward.

An explosion of ice magic detonated out from Harkness. Shiv Phase-Framed through the attack and stomped down, cracking her sternum in half and driving the mess of bone that had once been her ribs through the supple organs they were meant to guard. She tried to shape a spell with her free hand. Shiv obliterated the entire limb with a backswing before her mana field could gather. At the same time, the bladed rim of his Last Morsel carved a deep scar through Harkness’s fields.

A roar of pain escaped Harkness. It turned to a gasping choke as the Deathless plunged knee-first down on her already brutalized torso. His Shapeless Tide speared him downward like a stake driven into soil. The impact sent brutal tremors through the throne room, causing the ground to fracture and pillars to crumble and fall amidst scurrying Fae. A geyser of vomit and blood erupted from Harkness' mouth. The same blood was used to paint the ice-bright floors as Shiv battered her face with his Last Morsel. The edges of his pan came close to separating her neck and body, but the divine mana bestowed upon her flared to full brilliance as every bit of Cryomancy within the entire throne room, and perhaps the castle beyond, was projected in an outward-facing beam.

Shiv Phase-Framed through the attack once more.

Phase Frame 88 > 90

Harkness teleported the same moment Shiv blinked back into existence. The flood of divine ice she channeled left a massive chasm in the ceiling of the throne room, and more moonlight came spilling in. And it was into the moonlight that Harkness fled. She staggered toward the throne and collapsed upon her seat as the lunar glow restored the parts of her that had been destroyed. The faintest tendril of fear crept out from her and connected to Shiv. Her face had changed. No more arrogance, no more anticipatory cruelty. Just wide, disbelieving eyes and a mouth pressed so tightly together that her lips had gone pale and bloodless.

Comparatively, Shiv was having the time of his life. “You know, getting knocked out and brought to your throne room might've been a blessing in disguise. Saved me the trouble of flying up here. Also, I gotta say that I appreciate the irony. Last time, divine intervention saved my ass. This time, the only reason why you're not an ugly smear beneath my palm is that armor you're wearing. Power that isn't even yours. You gotta tell me how you got that Divinity, because with how you are…” Shiv shook his head. “Well, I just don't see how an incomplete Legend could have overthrown the Queen of the Winter Court.”

“You're not a Master-Tier at all.” Harkness swallowed as she fought to control her breathing. The frost armor around her grew denser, but her hand was still trembling. “But you can't be. How could you become a Legend? How could you become a full Legend before me?”

“Helps that I stayed and finished my fights while you ran at the first sight of trouble. Of course, I died over and over and over again.” Shiv chuckled as he strolled back and forth. Things were going better than he expected, aside from the little tap on his head. Harkness didn't know about Uva hiding inside his mind. She'd lost track of Adam amidst all the carnage. Now she was terrified.

