Terrified, arrogant animals made mistakes, especially psychological ones. So long as Harkness remained in such a state, Shiv could provoke her, could guide her actions, could predict what she might do. “I died deaths like you won't believe, Harkness. I faced things you can't imagine. While you weaseled off into the Fairwoods and managed to steal that throne—if that's what happened at all—I was out there, giving the System what it wanted. And it guzzled down a whole lot of fucking strife because of me.”

Shiv froze mid-step and sneered at Harkness. She probably has a bunch of narrative skills. Some she's considering using right now. But I want to see if I can provoke her into doing something different. How do you feel about a rematch, Uva? Because I want to see if we can finish this by taking her alive—finishing this fight and blue balling the System at the same time.

“What delicious words you speak to me,” Uva growled.

Shiv’s plan to make Harkness attack his mind was simple: play on her stunned arrogance. He hurt her, but that feeling of superiority was still there. Shiv just needed to give her a proper piece of bait to bite onto. That came in the form of a few well-placed words.

“You know,” Shiv began, “that fight just now could have gone really differently if you bothered attacking my min—” He interrupted himself deliberately. His acting wasn't great, but Harkness was looking for anything to reassure herself. And she found it.

The Usurper Queen's body language went from startled and uncertain to upright and reinvigorated. A wheezing laugh escaped from her, equal parts relief and venom. “Pride cometh before the fall. My father often said that to me, and I always thought he was a fool. Failures are our own doing. Pride has nothing to do with it, but now, with you, I can see that. Perhaps, above pride, we can place the concept of stupidity.”

Shiv flinched back dramatically. “No, wait, Harkness!”

Acting 21 > 25

Gardener of Doubt 75 > 76

She didn't wait. She also didn't use any of her narrative skills, eschewing them in favor of her Psychomancy. A flood of translucent mana, bound tight to her mind, came spearing out. It looked like it had undergone an evolution as well. However, the moment it washed into Shiv, two things happened: The first was that her Psychomancy bounced off of his Shapeless Tides. His Severed Shadow flared bright as the many vectors diverted her incoming attack. But then an eruption of strings and strands tore into Harkness's spell as Uva began her counteroffensive. It was like watching an owl get baited out of the dark, only to be ambushed by a massive spider lurking deeper in a nearby tree hovel.

Uva's puppeteer strings were tightened while Harkness flailed, trying to withdraw her mind magic. It was too late. She'd already overextended, and now it was she who would be the victim, not anyone else.

The beautiful thing about psychological flaws was that they had nothing to do with logic. One could understand they were arrogant and still fall victim to the same old mistakes. Behavior was a pattern to be broken, not an epiphany to be realized. And until the trauma of her hubris finally outweighed her urge to be proud, Harkness would always and forever be a puppet for Shiv to manipulate.

He grinned. Thank the System for all that time I spent with the orcs.

The Usurper Queen spasmed and shook upon her throne. A seizure tore through her, and her eyes rolled back up into her head. Strands of eldritch-infused colors coiled tighter, round and round the mind-mana Harkness had flung against Shiv. And within, he could hear a chorus of laughter slip free from Uva, her own vengeance at hand, while Harkness' horror climbed to new heights.

Leaving Harkness where she lay, Shiv turned to see what Adam was up to, only to do a double-take. Everything behind him was blocked off by countless dimensional rifts. With every passing second, Adam's clones fired even more arrows and sealed off every avenue of attack.

A single Adam walked up next to Shiv and snorted at Harkness’ incapacitated form. “So. Is she handled?”

“She reached into my mind and ended up running into Uva,” Shiv answered.

“Ah. And now I feel bad for her. But maybe we should just… shoot her in the head now. Just to be sure. My wall of layered dimensional passages will delay the minions, but not forever. And I don’t fancy another embarrassment at the hands of one of those wolves.”

“Yeah,” Shiv grunted. “Might be right. Let’s just go and—”

Without warning, the moon hovering above Harkness’ head exploded, enveloping everything in a massive blast of cold, blinding light.

Finally.

***

Harkness found herself falling.

The world blurred around her in a mess of broken sensations. Bits of sound and flashes of images passed her by, but they cut in and out, leaving the experience an incoherent mess. She was being reeled back somewhere. Her mind was as broken as her senses, and she felt her memories turn jumbled, like a jigsaw puzzle she couldn't fully complete. But even in the throes of incoherence, Harkness remembered one thing. She was a mage of the mind, and she could control the shape of her own consciousness better than any other. She turned her power inward and forced stability where there had been none.

Pillars of order were erected from the first memories she could stabilize back during her past, during those chess games she had against her father—the ones she won and the ones she learned from. They rose high into the air like the pillars in the court of her mind, and slowly they lifted the debris back up into the sky, where they belonged, reconstructing the ceiling, giving shape to her mind once more. As the space around her stabilized, she found herself back within a spatially-webbed cavern. Glistening static sparked off of thin tendrils woven by Weaveress Dimensionalists. Countless tunnels led into a single vast cavern, at the center of which was a mana bomb waiting to go off.

Harkness remembered this place. It was the crawlspace of Passage. It was the site of her most recent setback and ascension at once. The place where she faced the Deathless and his companions for the first time.

Strewn across the ground were her comrades, slain, unmoving, their blood seeping between the spider silk. But while they were most certainly corpses, she could feel them staring at her from behind their bird-shaped masks. She could feel the judgment, the blame, the hate radiating out from them, as if they condemned her and solely her for leading them to their fatal fates.

“It's not my fault, you fools.” Harkness scoffed, unfazed by the judgment of the dead. “We swore a creed to the stolen throne. We knew what was at stake. What was likely ahead. Death is a common consequence of this world, and you fell because you were not favored like I—because you were not as insightful, not as good at playing the game, not a master of yourself and a master of your enemies! I am not to blame. I am not.”

“So says the woman trying to convince herself while pretending to converse with corpses.” A cold, husky laugh echoed from above. Harkness turned, and she saw her: the Umbral girl she had broken.

A quiet scoff escaped from the Usurper Queen as she rolled her eyes. “Ah, so you survived. I suppose I should be impressed. I could've sworn you hemorrhaged and died. Such would have been a better fate than what I am about to visit upon you. I would have remembered you fondly, one so young, striving so hard, falling so valiantly. If only we were all so lucky. But here you are, back again, trying to seek retribution against a foe you couldn't hope to match before. Is that it? Is that why you are here, guarding the mind of your beloved surfacer?”

The Umbral hopped down to face Harkness on level ground. The girl was still clad in that pathetic crystalline armor, and her Psychomancy, though advanced, was still scarcely more than Master-Tier. She had grown substantially, but she wasn't a match for Harkness, especially not with the Moon of Moons boosting her mystical capabilities.

“No words for me? No taunts like your beloved?” Harkness growled.

The Umbral stared through Harkness, like she wasn't even there, like she was less than an insect. Nothing more than a stain to be wiped, rather than a trial to be overcome. “Provocation and psychology are his hobbies, not mine. You might assume you hold a great space in my mind. Perhaps once before, but now you are but a shadow beneath shadows. While you but brushed the flames, I was consumed and continued burning, but never immolated. I simply transformed. And now my worries far exceed the likes of you. That is all I have to say. Cast your spells. Struggle, fight, die. I wish to be done with you.”

Somehow, without even intending to, the Umbral's words provoked Harkness in a way the Deathless never could.

The Usurper Queen struck with aggression and raw power. Her spell swung forth like a falling hammer, infused with her intent to shatter the Umbral in a single blow. But what the girl lacked in might, she made up for with flexibility. She dove under the attack, curling out of the way before striking the side of the hammer-blow to send it tumbling off course. Umbral then delivered her riposte. She struck out with a quick jab, followed by two others. The first was meant to distract. The second to breach. The third to bleed. Harkness twisted her mind aside, battered the second attack out of the way, and the third she barely managed to evade with all her experience.

“Sloppy,” the Umbral taunted.

“Hardly,” Harkness shot back. "I just didn't think you were worth the effort. Now you've proven otherwise. How unfortunate for you."

She applied a bit more finesse this time. A spell formed above her head, and it coiled around itself, turning into a lashing spiral that projected waves of psycho-dichonetic energy. Everything within the cavern was torn asunder. The dimensional threads were frayed free. The memories that formed this mindscape were scattered, and as everything came apart, the Umbral was forced into evasive action. She had to jump from shard to shard while Harkness existed as an island unto herself. It was a reckless strategy, one that Harkness could overcome through sheer magical might alone. The constant battering of the destabilized mindscape infused both Psychomancers with strain. But a battle of attrition greatly favored Harkness.

There was no amount of ducking, dodging, or clever tricks the girl could pull to delay her inevitable death. She had to go on the attack now, had to win soon. Otherwise, Harkness would come for her, and in this maelstrom, devour her whole. “The initiative is yours, girl. Make it count. Strike me down. I grant you this one chance.”

But then the Umbral did something unexpected: She let the collapsing waves that made up this mindscape pull her away and vanished between the crashing tides of madness. Harkness found herself speechless. It was as if the girl had just thrown herself into the blaze, seeking to use the haze and fire to mask her approach, but also ensuring her own end.

“Suicide is an interesting strategy. I don't think I've ever seen that before.” Though Harkness's words were dry, a part of her couldn't help but feel admiration for the girl. This would be something Harkness might do if she faced someone truly her better, though no such person existed. Harkness thought it best to spit hate and choose death rather than dishonor, if it really came down to it.

However, respect mattered little for the outcome of this battle. Harkness held the edge in power and experience, and she knew what to look for, had used this strategy against rival Psychomancers before. The chaotic tsunamis of destabilized mind matter tumbled around her while she remained the single locus of stability within this plane of thought. But if the Umbral girl hadn't undergone a complete cognitive collapse, her presence would be as if a patch of stable water amidst a sea of turbulence.

And in seconds, Harkness felt that patch of stability, knew where the attack was coming from.

The Usurper Queen provoked the Umbral by exposing her flank. The attack came as expected, and Harkness parried as anticipated. But a proper defense was a layered thing. The bulk of her spell was shaped with the intent to defend. It exploded, knocking the Umbral aside. Within that spell was a smaller component, a single, arrow-shaped construct of translucent mana that zipped forward and tore a hole through the Umbral’s core. The fool girl's crystalline armor shattered into pieces, and her body followed thereafter, unraveling into a severed string of mana as her mind came undone.

But Harkness wasn't finished. She seized the broken bits of her enemy and shaped the metaphorical sword that she used to hack and hew. The string representing the Umbral's consciousness was diced down to the finest chunks, and then they dissolved as Harkness chucked them back into the maelstrom beyond, condemning her to madness without hope of reprieve.

As grains of translucent dust fled from Harkness's grasp, she let out a low chuckle and felt some tension subside. “This is the greatest compliment I can pay to you, girl. I decided not to toy with you this time. I gave you a proper and swift end. Few are competent enough to force my hand. Just a shame you'll never hear these words.”

“The shame is that I let you cut me down at all. Even once.”

Harkness stiffened. The voice came from behind her. She turned, unleashing a barrage of spells, and all of them were battered aside as the Umbral stood there, an unshaking presence, unwounded, unsevered, whole of mind.

The Usurper Queen staggered back, reeling with disbelief. “No! I struck you down. I destroyed you. Every bit of your mind, every component. I cast you into the madness.”

