This is an image that needs no translation. Maria can interpret it just as easily as I can, and we're left with an ominous sinking feeling.

These creatures in the drawings... They look very similar to an anomaly we faced back in the human world dungeons.

The Association called them Titans, but Ember called them Void Creepers.

I can't understand any of these other symbols to get more context, but I've never seen any other monsters that have these characteristics; faceless black forms and long limbs.

The worst part is, I may have found a clue here about what race wrote these texts in the first place, but I have no idea what they're talking about.

A Great Split? The World Eater Returns? Is this referencing something in the past, or something they're looking forward to...?

We both stare at this cave carving for many minutes, and it only becomes more strange and off-putting.

Following this, we walk around this entire small cave to see if we missed anything. Then, even double-check all of the carvings we passed already to make sure I didn't miss any more clues.

When we leave, walking past the now dried remains of the dragon, the darkness around us seems a lot more vast.

Being completely blind was almost more comforting, because it was only pure imagination for what was around us. Now, there could be demons, dragons, and maybe even another race...

–

The adrenaline and heightened instincts of a pure survival state from our battle finally wears off once we exit the cave.

Our cycling Celestial energy has grown significantly in strength just from that one Demon, yet now we have an even more important goal in mind...

Not only are we trying to survive and get out of this place to gain access back to the system; but now we have a mystery to solve. The more of these cave writings we can discover, the better chance we have of finding out what kind of place this really is...

–

While weeks have passed in the Cyan Zone's Ravine, in the Green Zone of the Upper Realm, time passes much differently.

In fact, Seraphel's dark blue eyes can still see the Realm Wave passing through the far side of the zone.

Abby still stands up straight beside him, but Arie and Raven stand up from their kneeling positions; as their minds and bodies were just bent and distorted with an invasive gravity manipulation technique like nothing they have ever felt before.

Arie retracts all of his spirit hands back into his body and looks Seraphel in the eyes.

"What do you mean, a Realm Wave... what was that...?"

Raven still grips her soul swords and looks over her shoulder, ready to fight another enemy; but the blue-eyed human speaks with a smile.

"The enemy isn't here. That was the first wave, triggered by the Overseer. It appears the four remaining families are planning something. They're either coming to kill us right now or have decided to seal this zone off for good."

He pauses, and his mind wanders, as he is now connected to Abby's general interface, and can see the vast system created by the Rising Emperor. Over one billion worlds' worth of system user data is streaming into his mind, but he keeps a straight face; looking away from Arie and back down to his hands, equally as intrigued at his new base form.

The Blue Wyvern looks up again.

"My guess is it's a combination of the two, but I believe Jay and Maria will be facing the most danger. The Realm Waves distort the passage of time between zones. While less than a minute has gone by here... it could be hours, days, even weeks up there."

He looks down at the Realm's floor and mentally tugs at everyone's spectate feeds in the system to look at the Lower Realm.

"As you can see, time is already distorted in the Origin Plane. It is impossible to guess what the dilation is in a zone even closer to the Overseer."

–

Instead of the mere seconds that are passing in the Green Zone, hours fly by in the Lower Realm.

The battle on the Great Belt of Brymia comes to its natural end, and the debris in the orbit of this star is cleaned up by neighboring systems that Alveron has commissioned.

The protective shield of divine energy and an illusion array made by the knights, commanders, and Bri, the administrator, is finally lifted as well.

Many of these knights leave back to the human world, while some stay behind to continue cultivating their divine cores on asteroids in the belt.

Pluto collects all of the demonic energy from the destroyed fleet of Vermillion Troops and returns back where he came from, using a one-way rift key to the Demonic Realm meant to be used after their successful raid of the Red Star System.

This commoner demon now must report the news of their loss to the five Great Families' armies that remain on this world, and follow out the rest of his orders exactly as planned.

Alveron's mass send-out of queries for information and quests to headhunt demons of the Great Families, sent out to over one billion worlds, has come back with far greater results than expected.

This data is shared between Bri, Fisher, and Lydia.

The craftswoman and newly appointed administrator creates a map of the galaxy with tens of thousands of lit-up points all over its surface; with teleport crystals sourced from various worlds in star systems scattered about.

The black areas of the map are Dark Zones, with no sightings or threat of demons. The red zones are where labyrinth-rich worlds are located. The orange zones are worlds with large patches of demonic energy, either soon to be conquered or with thrones already present on them.

Lastly, the bright yellow zones are where there are confirmed Demonic Civilizations linked to the Royal Families.

Information bounties are being paid out en masse, and Alveron uses his intellect and extremely fast processing speed to continuously scalp and find gaps in item trade markets to keep the galactic economy running smoothly, while continuously taking small profits off the top to pay for information and goods they need.

Fisher and Lydia are both sent out to scout the yellow zones and eliminate the threats without holding back.

Alveron and Bri are left to communicate alone but leave their spectate feeds live for the generals to see.

The two of them begin to organize another Intergalactic Trade Commission meeting. Instead of the small crowd of half a dozen 1st Class World leaders, this one aims to be far larger; sending out the requests for a single representative from every single one of the over one billion worlds.

–

Abby replies as this data streams in.

"They're attacking the Demons... we should too! Let's follow Jay and Maria to the Cyan Zone!"

He lets out a sigh.

"It is not safe to travel between zones during a Realm Wave... Our best option now is to secure the Citadels here, then make contact with the Warlords and other generals. Jay may be unable to contact us, but Ember is still here."

Seraphel grits his teeth nervously and looks off in the distance.

"For all we know, this could have been part of that Dragon's plan all along..."

–

A flash of blue light near the Sea of Corruption follows, as Seraphel releases his Wyvern Form to let Abby stand on his back for easier travel.

The two of them head toward the Fortress, while Arie and Raven fly up in the sky in the opposite direction; toward the Mensa Citadel.

Mental system commands create a shared spectate feed for them all, and Asic and Torvak are the first to join.

They both lead their armies back to the Ellipsia Citadel, receiving many cheers and praises from the citizens that know they have been secretly fighting the demons in the dark for millennia, but have finally publicly killed them and won another war.

Ava is the next to join.

Her point of view is very interesting as well.

The Goblin Queen is commanding many of the Lords in the floating stands of the arena to step forward and present themselves if they have any elemental skills.

Millions of them step forward; and she directs them all to start creating a massive circular platform in the sky.

Ava borrows the Celestial Craftsmanship skill from her long list of available skills and easily takes control of the many stray ether commands in the air that held the old Grand Citadel's stadium together.

The Griffin that watched this Goblin defeat a Noble Demon now watches as she rebuilds a small portion of the Grand Citadel from scratch in under a minute; and can't believe its eyes.

The Griffin, being the strongest wind magic user among any of the elites here, steps in and helps to imbue the bottom of this temporary citadel with the ability to float, while Ava continues to activate and even create ether commands to allow it to handle its own weight eventually.

A light red dot appears in the sky far above them, as Zashen begins to descend and calm down, releasing his battle form, proud of his ability to finally kill Noble Demons with his own strength; and a proud, fully awakened member of the Scarlet Clan.

–

The final member to join this call is Ren, the newly appointed Light Elf Administrator.

They are in the middle of some kind of spell, or ritual...

The elf's whole body glows bright white, and there is a magic circle with all kinds of runes and strange markings glowing and pulsing out from within.

In the middle of this white array of light magic spells, Ember's sleeping body lays.

"You came back for me again... I can't have you leave me yet, before you've fulfilled the last part of our promise," Ren whispers, staring far past Ember's sleeping body and toward the glowing silver Reactor far off in the distance.
