The city lord hissed, rubbing his claw. Knowledge has a cost, where these symbols are concerned. That fact didn't scare Kairon off from studying the scripts. It just made him reassess. Like his worker imps, everything had a price. And the more expensive the cost, the more valuable the prize.

He went back in his memory. Inside his head, a brilliant orange symbol now stood. A lopsided "V", curved to meet at one point. When he focused on it, it thrummed.

The city lord felt a gaze on him and broke the connection. Behind him, Vorathrex was watching. His eyes were locked on Kairon's damaged claw. The big demon's expression was unreadable, but he didn't look away.

Suddenly, as if waking from a dream, his concentration broke. Kairon realized the ritual was done and his new feeding pit was complete. Shaking his head, he tried to retain that mental state he held for just a moment but couldn't.

I have more claws... For the right price, I might be willing to part with them... Yet, no matter how hard he focused, he couldn't. This must only work during the ritual. For today, I have a new feeding pit for my imps.

Walking over to the finished structure, Kairon was a bit uncertain what to make of it. Structure was not the right word. Instead, what sat before him was a single stone circle, fifteen paces wide. In the center a purple demonic maw sat open, a set of wicked stone teeth curving inwards.

When Kairon peered inside the maw, he saw nothing but a faint purple light and empty void. Around its outside, elaborate scripture faintly pulsed.

He placed a claw on it, getting a notification.

It was morning, so there was no food. Or there wasn't supposed to be. From behind his back, Kairon discreetly pulled out a chunk of rabbit meat he had purposefully saved from last night and tossed it into the maw. With a snap, the jaw closed. Then, a moment later, the mouth reopened.

I'll check tonight and see what the results are once the processing is complete.

A massive palm landed on his shoulder. "Can I leave the wolf pack be? They are weak now. I desire stronger challenges. Consuming the weak does not please me." He pointed at the big maw. "It seems you fixed the food problem?"

"That's the idea. I'll let you know tonight."
