Mog laughed, happy, and then the moment was over. She sighed. She glanced away, giving an annoyed look to the people waiting for her, for their appointment. She looked to Erick, saying, “It was good seeing you.”

Erick said, “It was good seeing you, too.”

Mog grinned, saying, “Don’t be a stranger.”

Erick got up from his chair, and turned to her. Mog was quite beautiful, in multiple ways. Not just the physical, but most of all, she was open and honest.

Erick said, “See you later, Mog.”

Mog nodded, saying, “See you later, Erick.”

- - - -

Erick’s next stop was the Guardhouse, to speak to the orangescale Guardmaster, Merit.

Teressa met Erick and Poi at the front entrance of the huge, cube block of a building. From there, they went upstairs. Erick briefly [Scry]ed on the [Cascade Imaging] he left north of the city, mostly just to dismiss the effect, but also to see how many people his spell had attracted; he almost felt bad canceling the magic in front of thirty-odd people.

He returned his attention back to his body, and took another step up the staircase, leading into the center of the building. The bustle and anger of guards and their quarry were left behind, as Erick turned a corner, and then another. Soon, he was in the central courtyard of the Guardhouse.

Either he or Ophiel should have been here, in the central courtyard, hours before now. But time got away from him, as it usually did. Erick summoned another Ophiel. The little winged [Familiar] fluttered through the air, chirping and humming violins as his eyes wandered in all directions, catching on the other people in the courtyard. And then Erick blipped him away, to join the rest flying out across the Crystal Forest, waiting for Merit’s searching orders.

The woman in question stood to the side of the courtyard space, her silver armor glinting in the sunlight, her orange scales as vibrant as her casual glare. Merit looked to Erick like he had fucked up, and maybe he had fucked up by being a few hours later than he thought he would be…

He looked to the plates of body parts. Somehow, he had forgotten that part.

Oh yeah. He had fucked up.

Erick said, “Oh. Uh.”

What other words could he really say?

Merit asked, “Do you have a problem with me?”

“What? No.” Erick said, “It’s—”

“Because the missing people that these body parts represent could either be found dead or alive.” Merit said, “My people are still looking for them, but you can look faster, and cleaner, than anyone else I know.”

“You’re right.” Erick asked, “Where are we searching, first? What happened?”

“Just Spur.” Merit added, “There was a capture, and a ransom. If they’re not in Spur anymore, then they were tricked into accepting a [Teleport] but that seems unlikely based on the note.”

Erick cast into the center of the courtyard. A sphere of cascading light high above scanned the land with radiowaves, while a white fog floated out of the air in front of Erick, coalescing into a hovering, chunky space, five meters across. It would take minutes for the spell to properly form its map, but Erick could change the spell’s targets with secondary casts, as many times as needed.

He walked over to the silver trays. Three right handed thumbs, each a slightly different shade of purple than the last; incani, probably. Each thumb was under an individual [Preservation Ward]. Erick asked, “Does it matter where we start?”

“No. Any would be fine.”

Erick had the Ophiel on his shoulder flutter down to the leftmost thumb and touch a wing to the body part. Erick pushed mana through his [Familiar], onto the thumb, enveloping it in his power as he cast through his [Familiar], targeting the DNA within. The cascading orb in the sky flickered once, as the map below began to populate with blue markings.

[Scry] eyes appeared above the map; Merit’s Scryers, the guards whose job it was to search the city for the perpetrators. The normal silver-clad guards seen around the city, every day, would come later, after the Scryers had their prey.

Erick’s spell worked fast. The Scryers and the Guard worked just as fast. Erick managed to catch the end of the altercation through a well positioned Ophiel.

In a house on the northern side of Spur, the Guard came down like a vengeful hammer, cracking open the building with [Stoneshape] spells, distracting the occupants in the basement below while others blipped in, and slammed manacles onto the kidnappers. One minute later, three humans Erick had never seen before were thrown in a carriage, and on their way to the Guardhouse for interrogation and otherwise.

The three incani victims were released from their own manacles and blipped away by guards. Erick caught words in the air about ‘the church’ and ‘healers’, so he assumed they were off to High Priestess Darenka or, more likely, one of the doctors over at the Interfaith Church, to restore their thumbs and the other wounds, all across their bodies.

Erick came back to himself, and felt his skin go cold, despite the sun overhead.

Merit smiled at nothing in particular, and this time it seemed real.

Erick forced himself to emotional stability, then said, “Please let me know if you need help with something like this, ever again. I’ll be sure to respond a lot faster than I did today.”

Merit looked to him, and said, “Of course, Erick.”

Erick looked to her fingers, and saw a silver band. “You got the ring shipments I sent out, right? I made some better ones.” He held up his own hand, and its silver ring. “Plus 31 to All Stats—” He tried a joke, to lighten the mood. “Though I can’t quite say that, these days, can I?”

Merit was in a mood that was neither bad, nor good, but it certainly wasn’t a joking mood. She simply said, “We’ll take another ring shipment, but the smaller versions would be fine.”

“… Really?” Erick asked. “You sure you don’t want the larger ones?”

“Yes.” She said, “Most of my people wear their rings on their toes, or on a necklace under their shirt. They might not get the same benefit, but it does well enough to prevent thefts and unexpected assaults.”

“That happens?”

“Of course it does.” Merit said, “The smaller artifacts are good enough; no need to go making my people look too much like targets, rather than enforcers.”

“… Okay.” Erick turned to Teressa. “Are you going to stick around?”

Teressa looked to Merit.

Merit said, “We can still use you. [Witness] on the containment location would be a good start.”

“Ma’am,” Teressa said, as she nodded. She turned to Erick, “It’s like that, then.”

Erick placed a Handy Aura hand on Poi’s shoulder, and said, “Until next time.”

Merit nodded.

Erick blipped away, back to the house with Poi in tow.
