The Mage Guild was also called the Clan Exchange. Both titles were displayed above the gateway to the Exchange, though the second was much more prominent. Ezekiel affixed the new designation into his mind as best he could and strode through the inviting gateway, to the courtyard beyond.

Under pink blossom trees, robed students of the arcane arts discussed theory and execution while steaming tea was served by brown-tunic people who were barely seen, and never heard. The pagodas beyond were where the actual exchange took place, but the front courtyard was where the public mingled.

Ezekiel spotted no spells among any of the guests. He did spot a guard, next to the entrance, who eyed him, and expressed his displeasure at Ezekiel’s shield with a frown. Ezekiel got the message. He dismissed his shield. The guard lost his frown, and lifted his head a fraction. Ezekiel knew he probably shouldn’t walk around with that thing active, but he was not feeling the most publicly comfortable he had ever felt, especially since a lot of people eyed Odin, like he was a prize. Even here, in the Mage’s Guild, people still eyed Odin.

Tiffany drew even more attention than Odin, though, and she probably didn’t like that.

Ezekiel strode forward. He headed directly toward the exchange like he had done this a thousand times before, wanting to make this quick. No one accosted him, or his people.

Five minutes later, it was done. The four of them walked out of the Clan Exchange in a perfectly normal way. Ezekiel was as surprised as anyone else.

As they walked toward the hotels, Ezekiel had time to think. He thought mostly of money, and what had just happened. The exchange rates here were the same as in Spur, and the ordeal of transferring them at this Mage’s Guild was as easy as showing up and handing over the rad— the cores. The cores. They were cores, Ezekiel.

A 10 mana core was worth 5 gold. A 5 mana core was worth 3. A single gold was worth the equivalent of about a hundred dollars, in 1980 money, which was considerably more than what a gold would have been worth in modern-day dollars, which was about 300. Apparently, Spur had been in a bit of an inflationary period…

Which may or may not have been because of ‘Ezekiel’. Huh. He did bring the rains and all that prosperity, but most money flowed into the city in great big lumps due to adventurers and their various hauls, which was normal for Spur, but the adventurers had only been there because of Erick. So that inflation back home was probably his fault.

Coming to The Songli Highlands, which had absolutely no adventuring-based economy, might be rather easy, in a monetary sense. Ezekiel’s expectations of money had been thus:

He would be spending all of his 55 gold tonight, and likely come up short tomorrow.

But in reality… He saw the prices of tea in a chalkboard menu hanging in the Mage’s Gui— The Clan Exchange, and knew that copper was a good price for tea, and that silver would be expensive. As they left the Clan Exchange behind to find a hotel in Darzallia, they passed by food stalls selling sticks of meat or fried breads, all for coppers. They bought some, as an early dinner. Everyone was hungry.

They ate from a lot of food carts, actually. Maybe this would be dinner? Anyway; the prices were all in copper. One stall couldn’t even break a gold. Which was fine; they just got a large amount of that stall’s food, which were delicious breaded-meat skewers.

They passed a bordello with prices listed in silver on the door.

A really nice restaurant of three stories, with a band and bards singing in the center and everyone dressed mostly-nicely, had a ‘full course special’ for 2 gold. Ezekiel reminded himself that the monster meat he ate in Spur was especially expensive because it was monster meat. He had gotten used to spending hundreds of gold for a meal, and that was simply not necessary in a place like this. Monster meat would be an extreme delicacy here, for sure.

Now that Ezekiel thought of it, even Treehome’s prices were inflated, but that land was still cheaper than Spur. Maybe that was because orcols had a culture of going out and killing monsters? All those ‘cores’ would naturally make them rather rich.

As thoughts of money filled his head, the four of them discussed the hotels that Ezekiel had scouted.

As he walked through the city of Darzallia without his shield, Ezekiel found fewer eyes upon him, and usually only because of Odin. The bright purple [Familiar] was listening to the wind with just as much ability as Ezekiel, and he heard the same singing that filled Ezekiel’s ears. Music and life poured out into the twilight night, from playhouses, bars, restaurants, bordellos. It was a good sound.

They got to the first hotel option without incident. Tiffany dismissed that hotel before they even entered the lobby, and it took Ezekiel a second of stressing his mana sense to the limit to understand why. The hotel was full. Every room was occupied. Ah. Maybe it would be difficult to find a hotel? Was this a busy night? Was it the weekend?

A quick listen to the air confirmed nothing about the day of the week.

… The second hotel option suffered the same fate as the first; no vacancy.

The third hotel had vacancy, a full bar, and most importantly, an ‘oversized’ option with a large bed and larger amenities for orcols. It was one of the only hotels that offered such. It was also, unsurprisingly, the most expensive.

It was two whole gold for the night, for all four of them!

Wow! So expensive!

… So unless they found another nice place when they walked around Eralis tomorrow, then this was it. ‘The Sour House’. Odd name, but a nice place to spend the night, according to everything Ezekiel could see.

Though they might not stay that long, Ezekiel paid for three nights and the four of them got their room. It was a minor suite with two rooms of two beds each, two master bathrooms, and a nice veranda that looked south, ostensibly toward the ocean, but the view was of the city and all of its many lights, tiled roofs, and walled compounds. This room was nothing compared to Hotel O’kabil, but the four beds were big and the two baths were nice. This would be a nice stay. But, in the course of preparing the room for temporary residence, he had a choice.

Tiffany shoved open the paper divider between her and her room, exposing the sight of a massive bed, which, now that Ezekiel looked, was likely barely big enough for her. She still smiled, though, saying, “I was afraid I’d have to conjure my own bed! I’m glad I don’t have to do that. Real beds let you roll over without breaking it. This is nice.”

“It is nice, but we can move if we find some place better if we must.” Ezekiel asked, “So how do we want to do the defenses?”

Paul walked away, into his room, saying, “However you think it should go.”

He didn’t seem to care, which was fine.

Ezekiel considered...

‘Ezekiel’ was a Scion of Balance. Therefore he would have around 6000 mana, without any Stat buffs. His rings were buffs, but they ‘were not artifacts, and should not be used for normal buffing’. Normal Stat rings broke when used for more than a few mana pools worth of casting. Therefore, Ezekiel should have 7000 mana, maybe. He was a Warder, and they got reductions to [Ward], which would put his [Ward] cost at around 10% of the actual cost of the Ward. Which meant that spending 7000 mana on a defensive [Ward] would grant him 70,000 defense.

But using his actual modifiers and casting a full, 9000 mana [Ward] into the suite, would put up a Health shield worth almost a quarter million defense. It would be even more if he used Blood Mana to spend his 2400 Health like it was more Mana. But he wouldn’t be doing that. He’d make-do with a 3000 mana [Ward], then. That would be worth about 75,000 points of defense.

He could put one of Odin’s [Prismatic Ward] down across the beds in the rooms… But someone would likely check on the rooms. It wouldn’t surprise him if one of the people who eyed them in town were tracking them down right now.

So, no [Prismatic Ward] right now. Odin could pop one at the first sign of actual trouble, though. Yes. That would be good.

The [Alarm Ward]s would go up as normal; nothing special there, except for maybe a few different layers of them with a few different triggers.

It took Ezekiel all but five seconds to come up with the plan. A defensive [Ward] blossomed like magenta light to then settle into the very edges of room, but no further. Then came the layering of alarms, most triggered to be silent and upon the encroachment of unapproved people.

Paul came out of his room, saying, “Let’s get to that bar.”

Julia piped up, “How about that restaurant we passed back there. The one that was also a bar?”

“I could certainly eat more!” Tiffany said, coming out of her room. “Those snacks were not enough.”

Ezekiel smiled, happy to be around his people, and said, “Let’s go do all of that, then.”

And so they did.
