The tour continues, but I am already broken and defeated, so much so that it barely registers when I hear Dad’s name in reference to his overwhelming defeat at the hands of someone named Huanhuzi and his fleet of ships. I thought the Enemy might attack by sea, and I put countermeasures into place, but I suppose it wasn’t enough in the end. The South fell too, to some General named Yuchun, and again, I lament my insufficient preparations, but despite some small part of me wanting to figure out what went wrong, I don’t have it in me to care anymore.

Rather than kill me, the Demons bring me back to Zhen Shi, or rather the Gen being puppeted by him. The monster who took everything from me doesn’t even spare me a glance, and instead, the golden-plumed general hands me a scroll and says, “This Prince will spare your dog life, Legate of the Empire. Return to your Citadel, and present our terms. They be most generous, and this Prince urges you to accept.”

Glancing down at the sealed document, I see the scroll is labelled, ‘Terms of Surrender.’ The Imperial Army won’t accept them, else I’d just sign it right here, but I cannot return to my people like this. How can I face Taduk, Husolt, and Charok? How can I tell them everyone they love and hold dear has died? No, better if I died here with them, so I can spare myself the pain of their anger and disappointment, to be cursed at and disowned by the only family I have left. No, I can’t face that pain, I can’t do this anymore. I’ve fought long enough, but this... this is too much.

I still live, but I have no hope.

I can’t do this anymore.

Oblivion calls.

And I answer, fleeing for the safety and sanctity of a lie, seeking nihility and non-existence because it is the only escape I have left.

Better if I had never loved, so I would have nothing to lose.

Better if I had never hoped, so nothing would ever disappoint me.

Better if I had never existed, so suffering would never touch me.

I give up.

I surrender.

The world turns to darkness as I retreat to the void, where senseless oblivion awaits.

And here I will remain, forevermore.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
