...Is this even a mental prison? I never did figure out what happens when I visit other Natal Palaces. When I called him a Natal Soul, Gen Shi said my naming scheme was ‘surprisingly apt’, but I’m not entirely sure what that means. When I visit a Natal Palace, am I sending my entire soul through, or just a Natal Soul, a portion of the whole, kinda like a benign quasi-Spectre? Huh, I guess I wasn’t all that far off when I thought I was a Spectre and Baledagh the real me, though not in the way I expected. One of us was kinda a Spectre, though which one varied as I switched back and forth between personalities.

Now that I think about it, a lot of what I did has similarities to what Zhen Shi does. In fact, I think the Zhen Shi before me isn’t actually the real deal, but rather an amalgamated Natal Soul and Keystone. I already guessed that the flowing robes were some sort of Keystone, one whose purpose is to keep all those countless Spectres trapped within in line. I also think it’s a Natal Soul, but one without independent agency, in that it simply automates whatever tasks the real Zhen Shi sets forth, without the ability to make decisions on its own. That’s why he has yet to speak, because he’s waiting on the real Zhen Shi to finish up with whatever he’s doing so he has the attention to spare to take control of this Natal Soul. No idea why he’s doing things this way, since technically, this Natal Soul is him in that it’s merely a part of his mind dedicated to a specific task at the exclusion of all else, but I dunno. Maybe he’s worried about developing split personalities, a very real possibility as I experienced first-hand, or maybe he has other reasons, but whatever they are, I can’t help but wonder how he came to develop this Natal Soul technique in the first place.

I mean, it’s not like he also went crazy and started talking to himself too, right?

Wait. Hang on. Maybe I’m looking at this all wrong. I just assumed this was a Natal Soul, because I had one too, but I may have let my personal experiences colour my perception. No one else I’ve spoken to knew anything about Natal Souls, not even Mahakala, who I later assumed had a Natal Soul of his own, because when I met him inside his Natal Palace, he looked different from how he looked in real life. When I visited other Natal Palaces, like Dagen’s, Bei’s, Yo Ling’s, Ping Ping’s, and Pong Pong’s, again, I assumed I came face to face with a Natal Soul, one puppeted by the real person’s thoughts, but that doesn’t make sense. Yes, I had a Natal Soul sitting in my Natal Palace at all times, but only because I needed someone to look at while conversing with my other personality. Why would anyone else go to all the trouble of doing the same?

What I’m getting at is... what if this Zhen Shi in front of me isn’t a Natal Soul, but his actual, bonafide Soul?

...And what if I’m not a Natal Soul, but the real deal instead? I mean... that can’t be safe, letting my eternal soul wander away from my body. Great going idiot. Brilliant work like always, marching your soul out into the empty void, where... I dunno. Anything can happen. A soul does not seem like something you really want to gamble with, and I’ve been rolling the dice without even knowing it. Can my body even survive without my soul? What purpose does a soul serve? If I die here, what do I leave behind? An empty soulless Falling Rain who... what? Stays in a coma? Or wakes up and starts torturing small animals because he has no conscience? What is the soul? What is it that makes us human?

Shifting to ease the pain of my mangled, beaten feet, I notice my injuries still persist and almost want to die of embarrassment at my complete and utter stupidity. Forget the torment inflicted upon me, I’ve been willingly cutting off pieces of my soul. Just lopping finger-sized chunks of soul right off and leaving them behind. That can’t be good, especially considering the great lengths Zhen Shi went to get me to do this, jumping me when I was spent and exhausted so he could trick me into leaving and weaving an elaborate illusion to keep me docile. Then every time I discovered the truth, and there have been many, many times, he thrust me back into oblivion until I forgot, before putting me through the wringer once more.

I need information. I need to know what his goal is. Well, he seems hell-bent on convincing me to surrender. Why? Does he want me to go through Demonification during battle and strike a blow to Imperial morale? Or is he trying to puppet me like he puppet’s Gen? Maybe he’s got more reasons, but those are the only two I can think of right now. A good thing I’m stubborn and refuse to give up, but I’m not entirely sure how much longer I can keep up the good fight. Even now, with the truth revealed, I am terrified just standing in his presence, unable to lift my head and raise my eyes to study this most fearsome of foes. There are no snarky comments in mind, no disrespectful quips on the tip of my tongue, not even a pithy remark about how Shang Tsung did all this first.

No. Stop it. That’s the problem. I’m behaving submissively, like the beaten slave back in the mines rather than the person I’ve grown into since then. My soul does not belong to Zhen Shi, nor am I a slave to kneel at his feet. That’s what he wants from me, fear and subservience, and I’m not gonna lie, he probably has it. Not willingly, of course, but I’m so scared of what he can do, I can’t even bring myself to try and escape. Well fuck that. I am Falling Rain, husband to Sumila and Du Min Yan, betrothed of Mei Lin, Junior Brother of Li Song, and title pending to Zheng Luo. I am a Warrior of the People, Legate of the Empire, and Finance Minister Extraordinaire, a man who spoils his sweet pets and will never give up, because I don’t know how to quit.

It’s time to fight back.

Zhen Shi shifts and opens his mouth to speak, and my courage fades fast.

It’s time to flee.

Dashing into the void, I will myself away from this nightmare and return to my body once more. There is no sensation of movement, only the emptiness of the void, but in between blinks, the world comes to life around me as I find myself surrounded by my pets and loved ones. Beset by giggles brought about by bear snuffles, rabbit kisses, kitten headbutts, and bird nuzzles, I heave a sigh of relief and take in the fresh, Central air. Okay, maybe not so fresh, heavy with the scent of blood and death, but better than not-breathing nothingness in the void.

Mila, Yan, Lin-Lin, and Song all smile at me from my side, saying nothing as they collectively help me to my feet, their warm, soft bodies pressing against me as they wrap me in a big group hug.

Only to have all of them torn away as the world erupts into flames.

The pain of being burned alive is not the worst pain I’ve ever felt, though it ranks pretty highly. The heat comes first, your flesh seared by the flames and charring your skin black. Then, your fat boils and pops, causing your new crispy hide to crack and the pain to radiate down to the bone. Eventually though, your nerves die and the pain is only a memory, aside from the inner parts of your body which are still undercooked. It’s highly unpleasant, but the award for worst pain ever is not something I’ve ever experienced before, in real life or the millions upon millions of fake lives I’ve lived through.

The worst pain I’ve ever felt, is what I feel now, seeing Mila shove me away while she, Yan, Lin, and Song go up in a pillar of flames.

The inferno sucks the air from my lungs and steals away my screams, the heat evaporating my tears before ever touching my cheeks. A distant part of my mind notes that some of my pets almost escaped, as their smoking, smouldering bodies collapse and crumble apart. Cool, blessed water washes over me and douses the unnatural flames in an instant, but even as a stream of Healing Energy surges into my body, I feel it cut short as an armoured Demon burst out of Concealment and smashes its fist through Tokta’s chest. More Demons emerge, all cut from the same cloth, armoured entities of muscle and hatred who overpower my guards through sheer weight of numbers. Ping Ping makes a valiant effort to save me, but the attack caught her off-guard and left her frightened and injured. Her shell peeling and skin blistering from the intense heat, she makes a frantic effort and blows several Demons away with blasts of Water, but then another pillar of flames erupts from the earth and her death scream shatters what remains of my broken heart.

Leaving naught but rage behind.

A futile, impotent rage which serves no purpose as I charge the closest Demon, only to be swatted away like the useless cripple I’ve become.

Growth? What growth? I’m as worthless as I’ve always been, a weak, stupid child who doesn’t know how high the heavens truly are.

Striding out of the flames without his signature sneer, Gen-Shi marches over with an almost lazy stride, chin raised and hands clasped behind his back like a nobleman born. Grandeur and dignity ooze from every pore of his body, his cold indifference cementing the reality before me. This is no mere pretender, but Zhen Shi himself, wholly in control of Gen’s body and here to deal with me once and for all. Behind him stands an unimpressive, dusky man with an enormous glaive and golden helmet plume, as well as an armoured Demon with hate-filled amber eyes. Each holds a severed head in hand belonging to Akanai and Mom respectively, and my mind sets to screaming in abject denial even as I cry in silent despair. Studying me as I would study an unpleasant insect, Zhen-Shi makes no gesture and gives no orders, but the silent and deadly armoured Demons lift me to my feet. Faced with my hated foe, I finally find it in myself to fight and flail, scream and spit, rage and sob, but to no end, for he has taken everything from me, and I have nothing left.

“Little Worm dresses in Imperial Armour and calls himself Legate,” Zhen Shi begins, his tone dripping with bored disdain, “And believes himself powerful. Foolish child. There is no power of any worth besides personal power. This Sovereign thought to ally with you, then later use you, but you are too stubborn and not worth the effort. Might makes right, that is the law of the Heavens, and you, little worm, have been found wanting.”

His piece said, Zhen Shi turns away and unleashes another blast of flame, one which kills a handful of soldiers and sends dozens fleeing away. Powerless rage gives way to paralyzed shock, and I can do naught but watch as the Imperial Army is ground to dust beneath Defiled boots. Everywhere I look, Imperial soldiers are cut down by Chosen and Demons alike, the screams of the dying sounding clear as a bell while desperate men and women beg for mercy which they know will not come. The battle turns into a rout, the rout into a slaughter, and when the dust settles, only victorious Defiled and defeated Imperials are left alive, much to the latter group’s regret.

Not content to let me wallow in misery, the Demons march me about the defeated army and show me the horrors the Defiled have wrought, familiar faces twisted in pain and horror as they too pray for death. Try as I might to block it all out, there is no ignoring the screams directed towards me, the pleas from unfortunate soldiers begging for salvation or condemning me for my foolish ways. This is my fault, their blood stained on my hands, for I gave the order to march and sealed their ignoble fates.

A few soldiers make a good fight of it, and I see Zian lead the charge, only for his meagre efforts to be swatted down as easily as mine were. Soon, I see where he found the courage to fight, as Jing Fei’s screams fill the air and are met with cheers and laughter from the Defiled. Other men and women share her suffering, the Defiled none too picky when it comes to sexual preference, and again, I see familiar faces in the crowd despite doing my best not to look too carefully. Worse off are those who continue to fight, like Fung, Seoyoon, Vichear, Tenjin, Tursinai, and so many others, all formed up in a square and surrounded on all sides, but still fighting to sell their lives dearly. Leading them is none other than my sister herself, covered in blood and cuts as she struggles to the last, but then she sees me held captive and reason gives way to rage.

“No,” I scream, but it’s already too late, her last, desperate charge dismantled by the Enemy’s greater numbers. Were it not for me, they could’ve held out for longer, or at the very least died a better death, but in their haste to rescue me, my sister and friends have now been captured alive and doomed to suffer a fate far worse than death. The Demons stay and watch, but I cannot bear to open my eyes, my sister’s every scream driving daggers deep into my soul. Hearing Alsantset suffer is a thousand times worse than enduring the pain myself, because she was the one who saved me from what should have been my end, the one who found me and brought me to safety, the one who shared her home and hearth despite all the risks it entailed.

And I have brought nothing but suffering into her life, a calamity of sorrow and regret.

This is the Path I have chosen. This is the fate I have wrought. Better if I’d died in those mines, before my sister ever found me, a mistake I can never correct.

