Hopes and dreams.

Strange how two simple words can mean so much.

Pain and misery.

More words packed with significance. I’m not sure which pair applies more to my life.

Life. There was a time when I was drunk on hope and dared to dream of life. Of living. Of going out into the world to find my place within. To find women to love. Family to cherish. Friends to stand by. Pets to spoil. Dreams. Fantasies. Taunting nightmares to soothe my tired soul and make me forget the horror of the waking world, which only serves to make things so much worse when I wake each morning, jolted out of those pleasant dreams by the unyielding boot.

Those dreams are little more than a distant memory, remnants of remnants I can barely recollect. Now, I dream of death. Of nonexistence. Of oblivion. The abyss calls to me, the empty darkness of the void, a blissful haven of nihility where no one can hurt me, a place I can finally rest in peace. Peace of the grave, peace of the sword, the peace of surrender and non-existence. A tempting proposition, yet though death seeks to seduce me, I fear the void too much to embrace it. I am not yet ready to die, but why? What do I have to live for? Every day begins with the boot and my pain and misery resumes once again, picking up where we last left off and only growing from there.

How long has it been since I woke wholly rested? Night falls, the day ends, and as I lay my weary head down to sleep, the morning dawns and the boot returns.

How long has it been since I quenched my thirst or filled my belly? That I can still stand is nothing short of Divine punishment, forcing me to live when I should be dead and gone.

That wouldn’t be so bad. Dying of thirst or starvation. No, it would be horrible, but better than the alternative, I suppose. It’ll happen someday soon, I suppose. I’ll just stumble and fall, and no amount of punishment will bring me back to my feet. Then, I’d just die, of no fault of my own, a victory of sorts against my tormentors, and a reward for enduring more than what any child should ever endure.

Child?

I’m no child. I’m a grown ass man. A tired, beaten one, who no longer has it in him to hope. So I guess it doesn’t change anything, but still. It matters. The truth matters. I am a beaten, tired, thirsty, hungry, helpless man.

Whose life is filled with pain and misery to no end.

Also true.

Why cling to existence and suffering? What reason do I have to continue on? Better to surrender to circumstance and slip peacefully into oblivion.

Except I know oblivion is a lie. The peace of the grave is not true peace, because true peace can only come from within. If I accept death in this life, there will only be another life to live, one in which the shame of failure will follow me. That matters. I will know I gave up, will know I couldn’t fight the good fight, and that knowledge will change me for the worse. I will never give up. Never surrender. Where there is life, there is hope. Sweet, painful hope, but hope nonetheless. I hope for death, but I will not embrace it. If the Heavens want me dead, then they’ll have to kill me themselves.

I am no quitter. I have people to rely on, and I will struggle to the bitter end.

The boot arrives as it always does, and a new day begins, one full of promised pain and misery, my penance for daring to harbour hopes and dreams. Food and water? None for me, though the other slaves eat and drink a plenty. In my dreams, I was a Warrior, a Talent beyond compare, but here, I am the weakest, lowliest slave of all, one who does not deserve sustenance. To avoid madness and temptation, I stare at my bruised, bloody, body and take stock of my injuries, a litany which can last a lifetime, if I’m lucky.

My feet. Oh god, my feet. They’re still whole, but barely recognizable. Cracked, bloodied, and misshapen, it hurts just to look at them, to think about, and even more to stand, but stand I must even during mealtime lest I be beaten for laziness. My toenails are all gone, ripped away one by one for varying reasons, more reasons than I even have toes, the memories dredged up by a fresh wave of agony as I shift my feet in nervous agitation. My calves are in no better shape, with strips of skin flayed away in alternating layers, so the half-healed scabs burst and break every time I squat to gather stones. My shins are so covered in bruises it’s hard to tell where one ends and another begins, but those pains are only a dull throb compared to the sharp pangs of torn flesh. There’s a glaring disconnect between my feet and my calves, namely my untouched ankles, spared from torment so I can still walk and work despite my other injuries. My knees are the same, but my ragged tunic hides the worst of my injuries, and my mind rebels when I try to catalogue them.

There are some memories not worth bringing up, some torments best left locked away. The agony remains to remind me, but best not to dwell and move on.

I have six fingers left split between two trembling hands, the stumps still raw and bleeding. These wounds hurt more than anything else, the pain piercing through to the core of my very soul and haunting me with their absence. Every other injury was inflicted upon me, but my four missing fingers? Those, I cut off myself, a decision I made between self-inflicted suffering or having suffering inflicted upon me, and my weakness shames me more than I care to admit. I should’ve refused, should’ve fought back, stabbed my knife into the guard’s tender thigh and fought until they had no choice but to kill me, but the fear of what might happen if I survive kept me from following through. I am no Warrior, only a slave who dreams of being one, and I can envision a thousand unsettling ways things could go if I ever got it in my head to fight back.

The visions. So realistic and lifelike, as if I’d experienced it all myself firsthand, but then I would not have the strength to stand here.

Still, I could fight back in other ways. Like convincing the slaves to join hands.

How? Through the power of eloquent speech? Why would they even listen to a worthless runt like me?

I could sneak away in the darkness of night.

Assuming I can find the strength to stay awake after a long day’s work, and a spot to escape from, and avoid detection from the patrolling guards, and travel fast and far enough to escape pursuit without leaving a trace behind, where would I even go once free? Who would want me, a beaten, defeated, mutilated slave with no skills or prospects to be had?

No, better to give up and surrender. There is no hope, not for someone like me. I am but a useless, worthless child, one hated by the Heavens and fated to languish in suffering. So much suffering, yet still a lifetime left to endure. Yesterday, I cut off my fourth finger, the maximum any slave can lose, so what will they ask me to cut off next?

“Asked and answered,” the Heavens reply, as a solid fist clips me in the side of the head.

“Ye deaf or sumthin’, slave?”

While the guard administers my beating, my mind shuts down on reflex until the pain becomes manageable once more. That said, the rest of my body is still wholly functional, crying, screaming, and cowering as fist, lash, and boot fall upon me with expert accuracy, striking to inflict maximum pain with minimum injury. A good thing too, because they never stop until their sadistic natures are satisfied, as I learned to my great regret. Enduring the pain only gets me beaten worse, so better to submit and show them what they want. A snivelling coward and beaten child wholly without courage or shame. Only after the abuse comes to a halt do I understand the reason for this beating, for the other slaves are all lined up and ready to march, while I stood staring at my feet and hands.

Choking back my whimpers as best I can, I curl up on the floor and wait. I dare not move until the order is given, for trying to escape only makes it worse. Head in the dirt and arms over my head, I lay there and wait for the beating to continue or the guards to kick me away, but long seconds pass without sound or movement. For a brief, blissful moment, I wonder if I’m dying and not long for the world, but even this last respite is denied me. “Got ourselves a lazy troublemaker, we do,” the guard says, grabbing me by the hair and lifting my head to get a better look at my face. I dare not look back and avert my eyes to show submission, my body so worn and weary I can’t even tremble in terror. “A deaf mute to boot. Can’t follow orders, can’t beg fer mercy, can’t do proper work. What we keepin’ you around fer?”

No idea. Might as well kill me. I won’t even fight it.

Denied sweet relief yet again, the guard releases his grip on my hair and I drop back into the dirt, too overwhelmed with pain and exhaustion to do anything else. No one has told me to do anything yet, which means my punishment has yet to end, but I’m beyond caring already, beyond fear and self-preservation. Death will come, but I will not yield, because they can kill me, but only I can admit defeat. So long as there is life, there is hope. Hope for a quick, painless death, slim though this hope may be.

My eyes snap open at the sound of a familiar metallic clink, and before me lays the same knife which took my fingers. The dull, tarnished blade has not been sharpened in its lifetime, and my blood still stains the loose, wooden handle, ugly to behold and just within reach. “Since ye can’t follow simple orders,” the guard drawls, chuckling as he speaks, “Then ye don’t need both yer ears, now do ye?”

Why can’t they leave me alone in peace? All I want to do is survive, but each passing day, they push me closer to the brink. An eternity passes as I consider my options, and once again, self-preservation overcomes shame as the myriad of disasters awaiting me should I resist flash through my mind. There’s just too many ways for the guards to make my life even worse without ending it. Though other slaves may be beaten and killed, I suspect there’s a running bet on how long I last, because they simply refuse to let me die.

No. Use this knife and seize this chance, because even if it costs me a slow and agonizing existence, repaying even a moment of minuscule suffering seems worth it to me.

There is no hesitation as I reach out and grab the blade, no regret as I plunge it through the guard’s knee, and a smile stretches across my face even as they hold me down and strip the flesh from my wizened frame. When there is no skin left, they coat me in salt, a treatment for my wounds they say, even as the agony flares up anew, and when they are done with their games, they make me thank them for their care, which I do while wishing they left my injuries to fester and kill me.

A dream. The knife still sits just within reach, and I take it up once again, rising with the intent to gut the guard, only to be put back down by a heavy boot. I’m too slow, too weak, and my act of defiance earns me a day hanging on meat hooks, with barbed, metallic spikes driven deep into my palms while the guards light coals beneath my suspended feet. For long hours, I fight to keep away from the burning coals, but to no avail, unable to hold my legs up for any amount of time without experiencing immense pain in my hands and shoulders. Soon, the coals burn away all sensation in my feet and I pass out from the ordeal, only to wake and find the charred stumps sitting on a plate in front of me, while the guards laugh and joke about my ‘sumptuous’ feast. I will not eat it though, for a man has limits, and I would rather live in agony than cross mine.

A dream. The knife still sits just within reach, and I take it once again, only this time, I do nothing but hold it while trying to see if I’m still dreaming. The punishment for hesitation comes soon enough, but the veil is lifted and the illusion shattered. The suffering continues a few seconds more, but once it becomes clear I’ve slipped free of his hold, Zhen Shi goes through the same tired motions once again. Emerging from the thread feels all too familiar for only one or two visits, and I idly wonder how many times we’ve been through this routine before. Ten times? Dozens? Hundreds? Who knows. Not me, that’s for sure, but I’m getting real tired of this shit. How many times I gotta teach you the same lesson old man? I will not surrender.

My first instinct is not to mouth off, but fear and shame keep me from meeting his eyes as his towering form appears before me, looming overhead like a god before an ant. Sitting up high with his cold, impassive grimace of complete and utter disdain, he does not speak, and I do not taunt him, yet somehow I know his attention is fixated on some event or another happening out in the real world. Better than focusing on the worthless, helpless me, so I tremble and consider the implications of this Natal Palace around me. To my eyes, there is only me, Zhen Shi, and the void, but I’m not sure if he himself is the limit of his Natal Palace and I now stand outside in the void, or if his boundaries are so far away I cannot even begin to perceive them. The temptation to flee is almost too powerful to resist, but as much as I would like to return to the safety and sanctity of my own body, my mangled feet remain glued in place, unable to break free of this mental prison.

Which direction is my real self even in? I’ve never had to find myself, I just... return there when sent away. The void is vast and empty, how am I to find myself within?

