They had other things down here, too. Ilvriss’ anti-Antinium project was on Level -2. Where the things the Walled Families all knew about were. Where a [General] could stop and pay attention and think they’d seen it all, because the magic lift had floors -1 to -5.
Nerul stopped at Level -8. Not the vaults with city-killers, however many of those they had left. Not the bones of their Ancestors. Level -8 was where they kept the active problems. Enemies of war above Level 60, in the past. War weapons that they weren’t sure wouldn’t turn on them. That sort of thing.
He halted as the Rubirel Guard scanned him. Strip-searched him. One eyed his figure.
“You been working out, Diplomat?”
“Recently. With Magus Grimalkin. It’s in my file, I’m sure.”
They checked that out. They were very thorough. One drew blood from his arm with a huge needle. Another had him spit in a cup, just to see if he could. Then pass a urine test. Eventually, they were done, and Nerul walked forwards, shrugging on his robes.
“Vault Door #2 opening. One to enter.”
He stood in a room with way too much space around him as they de-sealed magical enchantments. They had eyes on the interior, of course; the Rubirel Guard were watching him from viewports. If they didn’t like what they saw, they could blow this entire room, seal it off—and Nerul wasn’t getting out.
The airlock doors shut behind him, and the process started again. Highly ominous. Nerul’s heart was pounding. He had never been in here before. He knew he was outclassed, if the records were accurate.
Skills might not work. His opponents were more intelligent than he was. They were completely hostile, he had to assume. But he had to do this. It was the only card he had, because Nerul read everything he had access to.
“Doors opening. Brace, brace, brace. Diplomat Nerul making contact.”
The doors began to swing wide. And there was nothing inside. The light spilled from a lantern that Nerul had been given. The inhabitants inside sat in the dark, in chains. Anti-magic runes shining around the room. Valeterisa wouldn’t have been able to cast a spell here.
He walked forwards slowly, claws clicking on the stone. Nothing on him but robes. Nothing they could use. And it had been decades since anyone had last entered.
Salazsar liked it that way. They were afraid of these figures. But the long dark had not sapped their minds. It held no fear for them. They could see him, but they said nothing.
So Nerul lifted his lantern, and the light played over their still faces. Reflected in their translucent eyes. Shone over their hearts, which still moved. Glowing light.
Beautiful, some shaped as lifelike—nay, as sensually as the great crafter could. Almost always female, those. He had been known for that.
The others were just constructs of crystal and gem. Imposing—but shattered. Limbs broken into stumps. Some reduced so badly they were held up by their chains.
The light shone as Nerul held up the lantern. Fifteen minute window. But he stopped, because he had to witness them. And the cold, analytical faces of Golems found him.
Archmage Zelkyr’s failures. Twenty-six Golems from the age of the last great [Archmage] of Wistram.
The last known Golems in this world, beyond the ones in Wistram and Cognita Truestone, to bear his mark. Salazsar had done its research. The other Golems had been smashed in their rebellion, the records expunged. But Salazsar was a greedy city.
It had kept them. Now…Diplomat Nerul cleared his voice. He walked forwards.
“Hello. Diplomat Nerul of Salazsar. It’s been about thirty-eight years since your last visitor for your timekeeping. I won’t beat around the bush, Golems. I have an offer for you.”
Stillness. They didn’t move as their hearts pulsed. Then—as one—
Twenty-six faces moved. Twenty-six lips curved up in a smile. Nerul shivered. There was no way they could have known of his existence, much less the events which had led him here. But nevertheless, through the intelligence of beings beyond any one that lived and breathed, they had predicted this encounter.
They’d been expecting him. 
Nerul began, slowly, the most dangerous negotiation of his life.
 
——
 
To talk to one Golem was to talk to them all. At least, when they sat together. They communicated, apparently, via magic or just subtle gestures, the beating of their hearts. Perhaps some of it was exaggerations by terrified Drakes, but Nerul did his best.
He had them isolated when he wanted to talk to them, which took hours for the Rubirel Guard to arrange. But it allowed Nerul to sit across from…
…A torso of crystal that would have formed a Drake made of gemstones eleven feet tall—now just a fragment of a face and the top half of a torso. The Golem Heart was damaged—the swirling magic would pause every fifteenth and five-eighth’s second. The keepers of the vaults were worried the Golem might explode or the other Golems would use its death to their advantage in trying to escape.
Despite being limbless. The Golem’s broken torso spoke to Nerul of other times. Grander than even Eschowar’s.
This was an Excubitor Murorum. A fancy name for a ‘Wall Sentinel’ Golem. Zelkyr-class. Nerul read down the list of its abilities.
 
Armor Score: Mithril+/Orichalcum-
Known Spell Abilities: 
[Ray of Elements (Any Element)], Tier 4, at will.
[Lesser Teleportation], Tier 4, daily or w/recharge.
[Lightform Armaments], Grade II, Tier 4, at will. Grade I w/mana activation.
[Speed], Tier 2, at will…
 
In other words, it shot rays of lights from its eyes, could armor itself in light magic—which modern [Mages] could barely do in combat—and teleport. If it got tired of magic, it could just hit you with all the weight of that many tons of gemstone while moving as fast as a Gold-ranker.
This was why Zelkyr had ruled the Walled Cities, nay, Izril. His Golems had been the most fearsome and intelligent creations of their time. He had pushed the north back, and only the Terlands’ Golems had been a match for his.
And Cognita Truestone and her kin had been above even that, of course…Zelkyr’s armies might have made Izril an empire but for three things.
One. He had consolidated his power in Wistram, making the Walled Cities more an accessory to his power. He’d shared his Golems, but not the secrets of their creation with the cities.
Two, he’d had a match in Perril Chandler, his equal and friend, who had both helped him and reined in his excesses. Otherwise, Zelkyr might have unified too many enemies against him. He had incurred the wrath of Gnolls, but Archmage Chandler had killed their would-be king. And by the same token, directed Zelkyr’s greed at Terandrian goals. So they had stood together, far better than apart, neither one a tyrant.
At least, until the end.
Three—he’d gone to Rhir, and the Deaths of the Demon King had broken his armies. To be fair, he and the Archmage of Death had put them into a century-long coma, so that spoke to who Zelkyr had been.
When he had died, or vanished, a decade after going up into Wistram’s higher floors and sealing it behind him with the test, the Golems under his control had begun to malfunction. Slowly—the Walled Cities had kept it hushed up. Tried to investigate. Fixed them until the day they rebelled.
There hadn’t been that many Golems. Not enough to overwhelm the Walled Cities. Most had run, apparently.
Some had enacted vengeance, for lack of a better word. They had been destroyed, but Salazsar had captured theirs. The thing was, the Golems had been made of gems. Salazsar’s gems. A [Wall Lady] at the time had managed to lock down a few via authority-Skills, and then the Golems had begun surrendering when found. The last few had come here willingly.
Because they were lonely.
The Golems thought together. Not all had been intelligent, but they shared knowledge. Communicated. Thus, when Nerul spoke to this one, he knew he spoke to all.
“Chorainz, I believe? Is that…your name from when you were serving Salazsar?”
The Golem had been as still as a statue when it had been hauled into the room, save for its heart. When it spoke, it was not through its shattered half of a face. A speaking stone in its throat pulsed.
Nerul hesitated—there was nothing.
“I think he’s trying to speak. Can I get a relaxation of magic on the throat?”
“We need to authorize that, Diplomat.”
A voice from outside. He spoke.
“You’ve done it before. C’mon, I need to talk.”
And Chorainz was—allegedly—one of the friendly ones. After some time, the guards agreed to lower the spell dampening in that area. There was an eerie screeching—then the Golem’s speaking stone pulsed again, and a pleasant, even refined, voice emerged.
“Diplomat Nerul, hello. To your question: it is not my designation from when I was a Golem protecting Salazsar’s walls. I was merely known as ‘Eastern Sentinel IV’. Chorainz is the name I elected to take. After Archmage Zelkyr’s death. Please reassure my captors that my speaking stone has no capabilities beyond speech. They may remove it, carefully, and replace it if they chose to. The binding is slightly garbled. The release mechanism is just inside my throat, with a little sliding latch that detached the entire voice module box. Be careful. The crystal around my face is sharp.”
So precise. So fast and calm, and it sounded like some [Scholar] sipping wine and speaking to Nerul. Not the vast, ruined face. Nerul smiled.
“Ah, I can see you’re—”
“I believe you have thirteen minutes and twenty-three seconds left, if time taken to disengage the mana suppression effects isn’t accounted for. If it is, nine minutes, two. We have been waiting for you, Diplomat.”
—Nerul had heard Ilvriss had a Reinhart around. He’d heard that some Reinharts were so sharp they pre-empted conversations like some [Savants] or [Mages] he’d met, minds running ahead of niceties. Nerul upshifted his tempo.
“I can see you’d like to be efficient. Fair—you’re making us all nervous with that comment. Elaborate, please?”
At last, the huge mouth moved. Nerul heard a breath in his earpiece before he realized what it was.
“Relax, everyone. He’s…smiling.”
It was hard to tell because the Golem’s face had been half-destroyed, leaving only the right half of his jaw and some lips. Again, Chorainz spoke.
“Clarification: we do not wish to alarm you. It is a purely natural outcome, to our minds. Consider, Diplomat Nerul. Your arrival, or one representing you, was inevitable.”
“So you don’t know me. What you mean is…”
The Golem made a noise. It sounded like laughter. The laughter of hundreds of people, even the chirping of a bird, laughter and applause—
A recording from hundreds of years ago, stored in its Golem Heart. Nerul’s scales prickled. Chorainz stopped.
“I can see you are uneasy. A shame. I am not very intelligent. But bring another of my kind. They will tell you the same.”
“I prefer you, with respect, Chorainz.”
“Because my Golem Heart was not calibrated for non-battlefield communications. Understood. I shall return to the simulated discussion. We are within tolerable margins of projection.”
So they’d theorized exactly what he’d say and just had this Golem memorize it all? No wonder no one had come back here. The Golems had said some very nasty things when they’d first been captured, Nerul understood. The kind of things that drove Drakes to try to break them out. Or quit the cities.
Or jump off the towers without a Ring of Featherfall. He gritted his teeth.
“So this projection—”
“Is it not logical? We are a hidden asset of Salazsar. We have not been destroyed. Archmage Zelkyr is dead. The quality of arms of the Rubirel Guard has {DECREASED} by 35% in magical potency.”
The word ‘decreased’ was warbled and flat, empty. Chorainz paused.
“My speaking stone is malfunctioning. Apologies. It is therefore—inevitable—that in time someone will enter this vault and wish to make use of us. This is logical.”
“Or destroy you, with respect.”
The Golem projected laughter again, but this time a single voice. A warbling chuckle, almost distracted, a poor laugh that did not invite company. It cut off.
“A possible scenario, Diplomat Nerul. But false in assumptions. A force which conquered Salazsar may destroy us. Or liberate us. The odds are {ACCEPTABLE} either way. But you are Drakes. Drakes do not {DESTROY} what you can possess.”
Oh, dead gods, they really were children of the Archmage of Golems. Nerul was breathing hard.
“D-diplomat? Say the word and we can have you extricated.”
Whomever was in charge of the vault was freaking out more than he was. Nerul saw the Golem Heart swirl just a hair slower, and his training took over. He stood up.
“Excuse me, Chorainz. Whoever’s in charge? Remove yourself. I want communications cut unless I demand it or there’s an emergency.”
“Diplomat? Why—”
“He just heard your voice break. I suspect Chorainz can tell how fast my heart’s beating or read the inflections of my words. Unless we’re separating him forever—and you said they get rowdy if we do—we have just fed them intelligence. Cut communications. Now.”
Silence. Then a voice, growling in his earhole.
“Acknowledged.”
The Golem lay there, lips locked in that smile.
“I do not wish to alarm you, Diplomat. We are merely operating as efficiently as we were made.”
Nerul forced himself to walk around Chorainz, inspecting the gemstones even though he wanted to umbral throne himself again.
“I have no doubt you’re doing some of it on purpose. You’re assessing me. The fifteen minute windows I have work against me as well; you get time to assess. But here’s how we’re going to do it. I’m conducting this negotiation with you. No returning to your friends. If it falls within the framework you’ve thought of, well, I can’t do anything about that. If you need to go back and confer, I will regard our negotiations as breaking down in trust in a quantifiable manner. I’m sure you’ve thought of what I might offer, and I know how smart you all are. Let’s get a deal hammered out. I’m in a hurry, as I’m sure you might have guessed. Deal?”
The Golem took the information Nerul dumped on it and responded instantly.
“Acceptable. You may speak faster, Diplomat. My communication shall be {EXPEDITED} so long as it falls within parameters.”
“Wonderful to know I’m adhering to a baseline.”
That strange laugh again.
“Most beings do, Diplomat. Even our creator. It is not a failing.”
Ancestors, he was getting rattled. Nerul practiced a breathing exercise. He tried to throw in a jab, turn the conversation. Fell right into their trap.
“That laughter. I assume you heard it on the walls when you were created. Drakes at a parade?”
“Cheering my unveiling.”
“Who’s the other fellow? Strange laugh?”
