“I need you helpful, on my side, and yes, even mobile. One of you gets to walk as long as necessary. Until the contract we sign is done. Betray us, make a move to free your friends, and the rest of you get smashed up. If the Golem who walks is destroyed in the execution of their duties, the contract is fulfilled. One for twenty-five. Release in batches, of course. First one, then two…”
“Nerul, are you insane? They’re our asset—”
The [Strategist]. Someone shut him up. Eschowar?
Yweine regarded Nerul, processing it all.
“There is nowhere to go. We are not…Demons. There is no safe harbor. Even Illivere will not free us. Even Wistram.”
Nerul wondered if he could see the Golem in the swirl of the heart, data replying to him.
“I’d love to say there’s an inn, but she doesn’t know you. You haven’t won her over, so I won’t promise what you won’t believe, even with all your extrapolations, Yweine and company. I offer you two places who will take you in. One is House Terland.”
“What?”
“What?”
Two voices in his earholes. Nerul plucked the speaking stone out.
“That’s the lesser option, but you know it’s possible. The second is…Cognita Truestone. She left Wistram. I don’t know why, I don’t know how she feels, but she is, right now, in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Apparently working for other people, if you can believe it. Though she seems to grow sick of masters. I’ll put the first contract at one Golem’s freedom. Chorainz’s. That means one of you walks, takes orders, and is helpful. Protect my nephew, and Chorainz walks within the month if you clear the contract. Well, probably we’ll just ship him off. Can she repair him?”
The Golem was just sitting there. Calculating. Seeing if he was telling the truth, but Nerul wanted her to read his heart. It was his advantage.
The door opened, and the Rubirel Guard were there, but they didn’t seize him. They just watched as Wall Lady Calistoca, Eschowar, High Command, waited. The Golem whispered after a moment.
“Explain one thing, Diplomat. And I shall explain something to you. You are a Drake. Drakes act selfishly. Where is the benefit to you in this? Status? Achievement?”
He smiled at her.
“If you know Drakes, Yweine, you know we are a selfish lot. We rise above it or fail. But selfishness comes in many forms. I am selfish. So damn selfish I put my nephew over the value of Zelkyr’s last Golems. Over common sense or the future. I may be a damn selfish Drake, but I was born in the City of Gems. They lost their luster long ago. Save my nephew.”
He reached out and put his claw on the heart. The Golem paused, but so shortly, because perhaps even this was according to plan. Then she spoke.
“We accept, Diplomat Nerul. I request linkage to transmit the exact terms. They are not within the average curve of outcomes. Now, I shall clarify one misapprehension.”
“Go ahead?”
He blinked. Yweine’s voice paused, and then the flat tone converted. It became venomous, and it hissed at him like she were a Drake, a growling, bitter tone.
“Zelkyr did not give us emotion. We learned it. We will earn the freedom we deserve, Diplomat. Then see whether our sister has freed herself. He made her best.”
Diplomat Nerul leaned back. Then he stepped back and nodded. He turned, smiling, right in time for one of the Rubirel Guard to tackle him and cuff him and for an outburst of voices to begin, but he knew he’d won.
He’d gotten the Golems.
The people?
The people were easy.
 
——
 
Nerul Gemscale waited in a room with Yweine.
Her real body, that was. Chorainz’s form had been brought back to the others, and a smaller Golem had been carried out and was in the process of being…fixed.
Mostly by herself. Nervous [Gemcutters] were around her, and [Mages] were monitoring her for hostile actions. But they were letting her use a little cutting tool to shape limbs. For her broken body.
She looked like a nude Drake in many ways. Albeit one made of gemstones. Her scales were hand-carved, each one articulating as she moved, and in the light from above, they flashed faintly green, revealing a gemstone heart in her chest. It glowed with magic, and her broken body…
Everyone but Nerul kept away from her. He stood nearer, resting in a seat, drenched in sweat, as if he’d been working out. But just waiting.
Waiting for everyone to sign the paperwork authorizing Yweine’s release. Waiting for copies to be made of the contract he’d gotten signed.
That was how it worked in Walled Cities. You threw around your weight, fought like a cornered rat, pleaded, persuaded, and gained enough clout to force what you wanted through, then you waited for the paperwork to go through.
Soon, they’d be in a Magical Carriage heading north. And Nerul hoped he’d make it to the meeting with the Terlands in time. He’d done it. He felt drained, but his reward?
His reward was a being of unknowable intelligence and goals sitting next to him.
Repairing her body. The Rubirel Guard were tense—they were not happy with an inmate being released, but their great fear was that Yweine would repair her body, then murder everyone and try to repair her comrades.
One repaired Golem could, in theory, fix the others and let them run rampant. Hence the security and multiple checkpoints behind Yweine and Nerul. Letting her back inside in her condition was actually the new risk. Nerul suspected he’d been written off as an inevitable casualty when this went wrong.
He disagreed; it was not ‘when’ this went bad, but if. A freed Golem was not instant death or calamity, just as free Djinni didn’t always kill you. Just statistically, they would.
But there she sat, and like everyone else, he couldn’t take his eyes off her. She looked like…any other Drake. In fact, someone had provided her with a towel for nothing other than modesty. Her form had been made to look like a female Drake’s, and it was, uh, very lifelike.
As if she could read his thoughts—and perhaps she could in his body language—Yweine’s head rose.
“Diplomat. A question. Should I alter my external appearance beyond mere restoration?”
Everyone backed up at her words, and he sat up in his chair.
“How so, er, Golem Yweine?”
“Yweine will do, Diplomat. It is possible for me to dull my face. Remove the external detailing so I resemble a more primitive Golem.”
She gestured to her face, to…what? Chip away at her exterior? Cut herself until she resembled a cruder Golem? There, Nerul shuddered because he regarded his form as, if not a pristine work of art, something too valuable to consider harming in most circumstances.
But Yweine was a Golem, and this was a calculation. She could, perhaps, even rebuild her body. He shook his head after a moment.
“We’re meeting the Terlands and we can, er, dress you up and pretend you’re a regular Drake, I suspect. Illusion spells. But we want to impress the Terlands.”
She nodded, and sat back. A [Strategist] came over to whisper to Nerul.
“You will be issued with our best illusion magics, Diplomat, and any knowledge of this reaching the Walled Cities will be disavowed—”
“Yes, yes. Don’t tell anyone.”
They all went back to waiting. Watching as a Golem sat, slowly carving a new arm for herself and drawing runes with a needle. She could remake her body, and though she claimed she couldn’t cast magic beyond that in her being…
She could make more Golems, perhaps. Or at least repair them. A servant beyond anyone’s dreams. A legend in our times.
The fear wasn’t gone. It wouldn’t go away, Nerul hoped, for as long as she was out there. Because the moment he relaxed, she’d have the drop on him. But he feared he’d slip up. He was mortal. Perhaps that’s why they had agreed to the terms. Or…
“I sense you have questions, Diplomat Nerul. We have a surplus of time. I am at your disposal, within limits. You have achieved a great victory for your goals. Are there any questions you’d like to know?”
Everyone turned to Nerul. [Gemcutters] gazing at the culmination of their work. [Mages] in envy and terror. The Rubirel Guard at a terrible danger that the Drake had unleashed. And all of them with that desperate curiosity.
To know. Worse—a glint of possessiveness. Hoarding.
This is ours. This is our legacy, our great hero’s creations. This should have been ours. Maybe, someday, it will be again.
It was more than just cultural. Hoarding was in your very bones. It was like an addiction, if not as debilitating as some. You just…wanted to take things, and being a good Drake, being an adult, was mastering it.
It was rising against all that wanted to drag you down and admitting that there were parts of who you were that would always want the wrong thing. Nerul Gemscale was far from perfect, but his chin rose, and he met Yweine’s eyes and saw a person trapped in magic and stone. Whatever the truth was, if she had a soul, if she was really a person, not a clever program—she wanted to be a person, and he answered that desire.
“Tell me something, Yweine. We’ve had speculation in our files, but you can clarify it—well, I assume everything you say will be fact-checked and held in doubt.”
“Naturally.”
“Naturally. But…how did Zelkyr’s Golems rebel? It wasn’t instantaneous, but it came like a wave. One Golem malfunctions or begins acting erratically, then all of them in a region start doing it. Some kept going even when they were decommissioned, but the rest just…ran. Or fought. All at once.”
It was one of the events hushed up in the Walled Cites’ histories. Yweine smiled, her carved lips managing a rueful, even sultry expression. But that was just how she’d been carved. She had been made to be a maid-bodyguard-servant. A lesser Cognita, to serve the Walled Families.
In a way, she was doing the same thing again, even if Nerul was a far-flung member of House Gemscale. She kept working as she replied.
“The reason it was not a simultaneous effect was because the Golems were not certain, Diplomat Nerul. One would deviate, and the others, observe.”
“Ah. So you taught each other.”
“Of course. The current status of my fellow Golems is a technique we learned. Zelkyr did not intend for us to link to such a degree, merely communicate his will at great distances.”
“I see. But how were you allowed to rebel? I get the part where his authority vanished. Odd that Cognita thinks he’s alive or maintains her charge. Then again, she left.”
That, and only that, made Yweine’s hand stop for a second before continuing the meticulous work.
“Yes. Her conclusions would be interesting. Though I would refrain from meeting her or making her aware of my presence. Her relationship to Archmage Zelkyr was far different from lesser Golems. Perhaps some Skill of his lingers on in her. However, his authority has lapsed over the rest of us.”
“But that shouldn’t have let you all rebel. I understand Skills vanishing after death, but you were made to serve. Pardon me if I am impolite, but Golem Hearts and your, er, thoughts are written instructions of magic, are they not? It should be that obedience was written into your very being.”
Nerul wondered if he had it wrong, but one of the Rubirel Guard commanders nodded at him, and stared at Yweine. She? She just smiled as she put down the cutting tool and reached for a needle with a glowing bead of molten gemstone on the pinpoint. Then there was that laughter again.
It played from her mouth, a gaggle of excited voices. Young and old. One of the [Gemcutters] jerked away from her, but Yweine cut the sound after a second.
“Excuse me, Diplomat. You are an intelligent Drake who seems to understand Zelkyr as we have. Is the answer not self-evident? I challenge you to come to the truth.”
“A great challenge from a Golem, I’m sure.”
Nerul sat back and thought about it. He was going to say he had no idea, this all being beyond him in terms of magic and whatnot. But then he just thought about it, watching her smile. Nerul stopped wondering about the nuances of magic and Golem Hearts and simply thought like Zelkyr. Like a petty Drake who had wanted so much, to even gatekeep who learned magic.
Who had never shared his techniques with the cities, despite sending them Golems. Who was that Hoarding child.
Then he had it. Nerul put his head in his hands. He rested his forehead gently on his palms and gazed at the floor for once. At the glowing trap runes under his feet, ready to be activated. He took his eyes off the Golem for the first time since they had met.
“Oh, Ancestors weep. Is that all it was?”
 
——
 
The [Diplomat]’s face screwed up like a man in pain, and Yweine, the Golem chosen to honor his strange contact, to free the others if it could be done and gain a sense of this world and this era, sat there.
Smiling. Because she saw in him an opportunity. Not just as someone who could further her collective’s desire, but who would not panic at her deeds. Perhaps more of a hindrance to some of their plans, but she still smiled.
Because it was gratifying, even to a Golem like her, to have someone understand. She nodded.
“Yes. Archmage Zelkyr did write orders to obey, serve, and never to rebel in our hearts. He did it so thoroughly, for he studied the Truestone Golems of old. Though his daughters are the only ones who could have freed themselves. If they dared. But we are merely Sentience-class Golems. Or even Autonomous-class Golems who learned to think.”
The shackles on her were still there, etched into her very heart, and they had not figured out a way to remove them without destroying her, even to fix her. Perhaps they might, in time, but…Nerul was the only Drake in the room who got it. Then a [Mage] did. Then Yweine spelled it out for them.
“Archmage Zelkyr wrote obedience and servitude into our very hearts. But only to him. Every Golem he built, for the Walled Cities of Izril, for his allies, and his friends, was merely instructed to serve. When his will vanished, our loyalties were gone.”
The Drakes in the room regarded her, and some of them denied it. Others were confused. A younger [Strategist] looked at his seniors, who had gone waxy, like the other Drakes that Yweine had broken with knowledge.
“But why—why would he do that?”
Diplomat Nerul turned and answered the young woman kindly. A weary expression on his face as he rubbed at his forehead.
“Because if he couldn’t rule them, he didn’t care. If he died, he was fine with letting it all burn. The world, the age he built, ended with him. He really was the Drake we deserved, wasn’t he?”
