Cosoi Reinhart never made it off Izril.
It took a little while for anyone to notice. Cecille Reinhart didn’t for some time. She was too busy trying to figure out what her daughter was up to.
Cecille Reinhart had expected Damia to go to Liscor and come back without much gold, a tattoo, perhaps a venereal disease, and a lesson in humility. Instead, the girl had antagonized Xitegen, which was problematic, even if he was a blowhard that Cecille personally detested.
But now she was…what?
“Gnolls? Silverfangs? Ugh, don’t tell me she’s got a bunch of tribal tattoos and thinks she can ‘join the tribe’. That’s so cliched. Who hasn’t tried that?”
The [Lady] had finally gotten a halfway decent servant in some quill-pusher from the Merchant’s Guild. He was a fairly well-built man, if short. Very funny; he acted like a commoner, too, because he did a double-take, even on his best behavior.
“I, ah, can only say what your [Informants] are reporting, Lady Cecille…”
He amused her. He’d been fired from the Merchant’s Guild, and she’d snapped him up. You had to look for that kind of thing.
Ulbe Tanouse. Level 30 [Collator of Data]. Unusual class. Talented and, crucially, not fired for the regular reasons.
Fired due to his strenuous and loud objections to the Merchant Guild’s new policies on contract forfeitures. Which Cecille personally had thoughts about—she didn’t like it. The Merchant’s Guild was trying to give itself more power, and she, a [Lady], had views on how much the money-grubbers were allowed.
What she liked less was that she didn’t know all of what they were doing. A decade of being muzzled meant her contacts were few and far between. What she knew was that there was a shakeup happening in the upper echelons of the Merchant’s Guild. A war of politics about its future, and change was coming via their dusty rules and contracts. But upon that ink the world would shift.
They’d always had goods and provided countless services across the world. The difference, if Cecille had to explain it to her idiot son, was that the Merchant’s Guild now seemed to be viewing its assets less as commodities and more a weight upon the world. They were quietly buying land up around their Merchant’s Guilds. Switching from gold and trade goods to the commodities of land.
And possibly, flesh. That was why she’d hired Ulbe, in part. She needed someone who understood the Merchant’s Guild, even if he was a result of those changes.
Mister Ulbe had a conscience. And, apparently, he’d once been saved from a mugging by Ylawes Byres. His tenure of over 21 years to the Merchant’s Guild meant nothing. Neither did his ethics. A month of realizing he was blacklisted from any regular gainful employment in any city where the Merchant’s Guild held sway had seen the man doing numbers for [Shopkeepers] for silvers and coppers.
He probably didn’t like Cecille. But his morality had warred with his empty pockets and lost. Excellent, excellent. She also rather found his build amusing.
He was a [Gym Rat], some new class around the weights thing that some of her family were into. They’d installed a damn smelly gymnasium, and—well, Cecille would just never go in there. The point was, she had a man she could actually delegate things to, even if he needed training.
Plus, he was so distracted by her comment about her youth. Cecille smirked.
“Tell me what Damia does next. Wernel?”
“Er, ejected from a brothel in First Landing after—”
“Predictable. Next?”
The man shuffled papers faster, keeping up with Cecille’s pace.
“Lady Cosoi. You asked to know where she went. I regret to say that her carriage has been found.”
“Damn, she gave us the slip? Which port?”
Cecille scowled. She owed Cosoi more trouble. For being free all this time. Choosing the right side…if Cecille had known, she might have grovelled to that brat when Magnolia won. But who’d have known she’d beat the entire family?
She’s in Drake lands. I should stop warring with her openly. Just take what I can and let the rest of the family burn themselves in open conflict. Then Ulbe’s comments registered.
“No, milady. The wreckage. There’s only ash and corpses—what we can identify—”
The [Lady] spun on her heel.
“Cosoi’s dead?”
“Unclear, Lady Cecille. Her body wasn’t found—”
“Ransom, then. Tell the Housekeeper to pay attention for ransom notes this month. See if the Bloodfeast Raiders are bragging about killing a [Lady]. Check auction records from Roshal—there are private ones. Or someone killed her. [Bandits]?”
Ulbe watched as Cecille’s eyes flickered, and she stood there, face blank. The thought one of her cousins was dead didn’t seem to move her, and the man licked his lips.
Had he found work for a nest of vipers worse than the Merchant’s Guild? He ventured a risk, a [Probing Comment]. One learned these things in the Merchant’s Guild to survive.
“Could it be one of your family members, Lady Cecille?”
Her eyes flicked to him, and she snapped.
“Funny Skill. Do it more subtly next time. Not the family. Not unless one of the younger ones is so stupid they want their head on a platter. We don’t kill our own. Only Magnolia does that. I’d drag Cosoi around in pink chains and shave her like a pig and make her play servant. We don’t kill Reinharts. Find out where she is or who killed her. Then dear Calidus had better have his Guild working.”
That was all she said. Cecille made Ulbe run through the list of news items, then went and pulled out a bottle of wine. He checked the time. 7:24 AM.
Perhaps that was sympathy, among Reinharts. Ulbe stood outside her room, shaking his head. No morality, but cunning genius in the House of Reinhart. Selfish men and women.
Izril was changing. If he couldn’t stand to be part of the Merchant’s Guild—the man walked off to lift some weights. Pump off the emotions he held. Cecille drank and sat in her rooms, and now she had another question that weighed on her.
Cosoi. Was it the family? Surely not. But who—?
 
——
 
Sometimes, things were a mystery. Long-held secrets that deepened and grew thick like sap until they oozed out into the fabric of the world. Great and mysterious plans.
And sometimes—the time for secrets was done. Then there was only the naked truth, terrifying in its honesty. For in the face of real truth, there was only denial, the liberty to freeze, wail, and be helpless.
Or—
Change.
Cosoi Reinhart’s knees were shaking. She had taken down a Stalker Lion with a javelin’s throw, separated from her escort. Fought off a [Pirate] attack at sea. Survived a Balerosian mercenary war, and two wars between nations, even if she’d never fought on the front lines.
But she was not ashamed to tremble. She just refused to—
The rest of her servants were cowering. Hiding behind her, quaking in her shadow like bugs fleeing the light. Her aura was shielding them. She pulled on it now and forced air into her lungs. Cosoi dipped her head.
“We meet again. I confess—I had been wondering. Was my carriage necessary?”
She didn’t know where it was. One second, she’d been in it, the next, magic had teleported her out of it, right before the flames came down. And now she was somewhere else entirely.
Corn fields. Where the hell has blue corn? A scarecrow hung next to a rather prosperous-looking farm, and in the distance, there was a [Farmer] sighing and lecturing a bunch of [Farmhands]. But Farmer Lupp didn’t glance at her, her terrified entourage, or her…guest. Which suggested he was blind to what was going on.
Or really good at not paying attention. But she had to believe it was the former.
After all—
She couldn’t take her eyes off the Dragon.
His claws were crossed before him as he lay there. Tail curled around himself, and he smiled, baring his teeth, and she thought, for one wild second—he looked like a cat. Self-satisfied, a ruler over all he beheld.
Then he spoke, and it was the same voice she remembered from Calanfer’s courts. Self-assured, grand, and the diction of a [King].
“My apologies for your vehicle, Lady Cosoi. I know you Reinharts love your transportation. I felt it behooved you to vanish. Your family has made trouble for you of late.”
She managed a nod.
“So it’s a favor? I rather thought you’d be in the New Lands.”
Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames—that was who she thought he must be after looking up surviving Dragons—extended his wings for a moment. Light flashed across the field of corn, and the [Farmer]’s head swung around. Lupp frowned, seeking what had made that odd display of light on his corn.
“I am there, Lady Cosoi. Here, there, and everywhere I am needed in Izril. That I intercepted you is merely to win a bet. Change is needed.”
“And I’m, what, to be your useful minion?”
Cosoi didn’t like that. Her lips twisted at the thought, but she had to own, it was flattering to be a Dragon’s first pick. Instead, Teriarch chuckled.
“I know better than to try to put a viper on a leash. Say rather, I have done you a small favor. Your coach appears to be burned, bodies strewn about. Ample cover should you wish to move discreetly.”
That was useful. Cosoi nodded; it wasn’t her coach, so only the [Coach Matron] would throw a fit.
“Then the rest is…?”
“An opportunity. I have contracted some rather upstanding [Knights] to do my bidding across Izril.”
“Ah, so that’s why the Order of Haegris is here in force.”
Fascinating. Cosoi saw something flying towards her and snatched the piece of vellum out of the air. She eyed the handwriting.
Dead gods, such immaculate cursive. Both pleasing to the eye and legible. The Dragon indicated it with a claw.
“They are splendidly capable men and women, in their own way. But the task is unending and beyond them. This is a little list I have worked up. Names and places. Opportunities.”
“For, what, recruitment to my service? I’d rather leave Izril.”
“You are free to leave. But would you turn down a boy with a sword given to him by a long-dead [Mercenary]? The last descendant of a [Grand Magus] of old with his spellbook entrusted to her?”
Cosoi’s hair tried to stand up. She ran her eyes down the list, and then she glanced at the Dragon.
“You’re just…giving me this list? To do with as I please?”
Another smile.
“I cannot be everywhere, Lady Cosoi, and many of these children are at the mercy of others. Too easy to mug someone for a treasure, even if it came from the dead themselves. Easier; the dead cannot right anything.”
“I might well take whatever I find.”
“True. But you’re a careful woman. And the objects’ true powers are left to the ones they were entrusted to. Or might only be unlocked with the knowledge and cooperation of those the ghosts told their secrets. In my experience, Reinharts are greedy, selfish, and cunning individuals.”
“Thank you.”
His mismatched eyes never left her, and Cosoi feared he could see straight through her. As if he had met so many Reinharts…she did not like feeling as if she were one among many. He continued softly.
“—But the smart ones know how to cultivate the gardens they raise. I am giving you an opportunity, Lady Cosoi. Do as thou wilt. But remember—”
He spread his wings, and she threw up a hand as air whirled around her. The Dragonlord of Flames grinned at her.
“I am watching.”
He took off in a single motion, and she stumbled as air blew the field of corn. Farmer Lupp shouted, whirled, and he saw the [Lady] and her entourage appear. He stared at them, and Cosoi Reinhart gazed into the sky.
Barely fifteen minutes, she realized. That’s how long the Dragonlord took on her. Burned carriage, list of insanely valuable prospects she couldn’t ignore, friendly threat.
“Dead gods.”
She felt her blood thrilling. She hated it. Because he’d delivered on his promise to her. Cosoi smiled as she read the list, then cursed.
She had no doubt he’d check back in later. Next time, she’d be more ready. Did Dragons eat? Invite him to dinner, shapechanged, then. Because that surpassing elegance…she sighed.
“What penmanship. Get up, everyone. We have a job to do. Hair dyes—no, just give me a razor and a wig.”
She couldn’t help but smile. Life was about to get fun again.
 
——
 
Izril was moving too fast. You had to run to keep up. A single [Lady] vanishing in the north, even one of House Reinhart, wasn’t that important. All the Reinharts throwing their weight around? Far more concerning to the Walled Cities, even powers on other continents.
House Terland coming south in force, sending multiple Hunter-Killer Golems after Wall Lord Ilvriss and the potentiality of a full north-south war? Sprint, damnit! 
The problem was—
Nerul Gemscale wasn’t in good shape. He didn’t run well. Oh, he had a thirty-meter dash that couldn’t be beat. He’d go through a [Waiter], vault a table, and leap through a window in a moment. After that, if you caught him before his [Bodyguards] dealt with you, Nerul would be dead of a heart attack, if nothing else.
He was a big Drake who liked his drinking and his food. He liked a party. He wasn’t ashamed of being out-of-shape. He’d never been in the shape everyone seemed to regard as ideal.
But sometimes, he felt his age of 52. He longed for a younger man’s vitality, especially now.
Ilvriss needed him. Nerul hadn’t really cared about his nephew. Oh, he’d loved him like family, but also cordially despaired over the younger Wall Lord. Like family. Like Zail.
It wasn’t easy being the black sheep of a family as proud as House Gemscale. Of being the one who didn’t really think Salazsar was perfect. Even Navine and Helessia…love them, but Nerul wasn’t them either. He couldn’t say, with his chest, that he wanted to clasp hands with the north and be bosom-pals with the tribes.
He’d met the Humans and Gnolls. Some of them were bastards Nerul wouldn’t shake hands with, even with a handkerchief. So he was caught, you see?
Not halfway between loving his Walled City, halfway between seeing all its flaws. Rather, able to see the best and worst of Salazsar at the same time. It had made it so Zail regarded Nerul as a useful, but utterly worthless member of the family, and Ilvriss had been the same.
Until Ilvriss had come back from Liscor. Now, Nerul felt like Ilvriss was becoming the lad Nerul had hoped he might be. That honest, earnest boy that had slowly been drenched in all of Salazsar’s self-importance and culture—he’d lost his love. Had someone rub him raw like a pumice stone, scouring off some of his flaws. Left him vulnerable, but strangely, more innocent. More likable.
