But Grimalkin was just nodding his head up and down. Nerul stared at him, glaring, but the Sinew Magus eyed his students.
They turned back to him, and he cleared his throat. This was an appropriate time, wasn’t it? He got an almost-imperceptible nod from his best student, the Dullahan, Giren. So Grimalkin inhaled, then bellowed.
“TESTICLES.”
Nerul stared at Grimalkin. But the Sinew Magus made a fist and actually did a hop. He punched at the air, then he was striding over.
“THIS IS WHAT I WANT TO SEE. This Drake has more will, more gonads than any of you! This is what I am talking about! Willpower! He could have stayed away. But Diplomat Nerul walked back in, and he is not going to give up! This Drake is going to go the distance! ”
“Alright, Sinew Magus. There’s no need for—”
Nerul began, but the Sinew Magus was clapping again.
“Diplomat, you have my utmost respect—which I do not convey on many beings in this world. If Erin Solstice had a shred of your testicles, she’d have crushed the Bloodtear Pirates’ heads with her bare hands instead of just being mobile enough to dodge them!”
“If she had a shred of any testicles I think she’d be quite unhappy, Sinew Magus—come on now, let’s not go overboard—”
“Double the intensity! I believe this Drake can break our record for day-improvement!”
The Sinew Magus was shouting, and the apprentices were racing for restorative tonics and poultices. Nerul held up his claws.
“Okay, I don’t need to break records—I am riding back tonight. Sinew Magus—hello?”
But he did feel a bit gratified.
 
——
 
Winning the approval of a gymnasium of workout fanatics and going down in history—albeit as a man who’d umbral throned himself and come back in to keep pushing—was nice.
People might not have known about Chief Diplomat Nerul of Salazsar before, for all his fancy titles and rank—but among a certain community, he became a legend. He had…mixed feelings about that.
After passing out after the sixth hour of working out, Diplomat Nerul received the cheers of a gymnasium and was carried to a bed like a hero.
And he heard another voice that made it actually mostly worth it.
 
[Chief Diplomat of Bijou Splendor Level 48!]
[Skill – Bodily Charisma Obtained!]
[Skill – Improved Workout Gains Obtained!]
[Skill – Negotiations: Umbral Curse Obtained!]
 
[Skill – Reputation: Workout Story Obtained!]
 
That second to last one was particularly nasty. Nerul got up, and he could barely walk with Grimalkin’s treatments. He had to slump his way into an elevator and ride it to the 9th Floor—that was acceptable. Grimalkin had told Nerul to sleep for at least a day before re-engaging any muscles.
I did it. I’m going to make the next enemy [Diplomat] crap his robes in literal and figurative terms. Ergh. Gross, actually. 
Hopefully he could tune it down so they just had terrible stomach pain. Nerul also supposed…he was a workout fellow from now on.
Well…fine. If he actually looked as good as some of those people in there, he’d take a bit of pain. Nerul had to admit, he’d surprised himself with how hard he’d pushed.
He was waiting for a Pegasus—he had to be back in time for the vote—when the first benefit of Nerul’s fame appeared.
Yellat-Skills, as they were known, reputational Skills, weren’t that useful to Nerul’s mind. But then again…
“Nerul? Nerul Gemscale, is that you? I thought you were on business in the north! Look at you!”
Someone noticed him on his slow path to the flight zones and strode over. Nerul turned and blinked.
“Mister Superior?”
Mister Superior, the alias for one of Salazsar’s other top [Diplomats], was a famous Gnoll in his own right. Past his prime, true, greying a bit, but dead gods, they told stories about him. In the brothels as well as the streets and fancy dining circles.
The man was one of those classic all-rounders. Fitter than he looked, an amateur bladesman, amateur poet, excellent bedfellow—allegedly—and cultured. He had been overweight, but the invention of the gymnasium had clearly seen him getting more in shape; he was looking rather imposing, today.
A [Renaissance Man], literally. That was his class, even if he technically had an occupation doing contracts. He strode over, and he had five junior members of the Assembly of Crafts, one of Pallass’ top [Senators], Dullahan Molge, and Wall Lord Werdin in tow.
One look told Nerul that Mister Superior was doing the old Weak Foundation trick. Simple diplomacy trick: you got a bunch of lower-level or weaker-willed yes-people around you. The young [Senators]. Then, use your Skills, win the crowd over, and peer-pressure the important figures into seeing it your way.
If you had everyone singing your tune, the person you were trying to influence often got swayed along with everyone else. Being social was a weakness that his class loved to exploit.
Mister Superior winked, and Nerul nodded.
Why are you on the business of Salazsar?
He clasped hands with Mister Superior as the man introduced him—well, re-introduced, but Nerul bet the others had forgotten who he was—and activated his [Subvocal Touchtalk] Skill.
Dealing with this damn Fissival war. Eschowar’s initiatives. Didn’t you hear? Must have not been cued in. I’ve got—
Mister Superior let go of Nerul, and the [Diplomat] swayed, frowning. He didn’t like that. But Mister Superior was just doing his job. Funnily enough, Nerul had nothing to do with that.
“I just heard you blasted out Magus Grimalkin’s gymnasiums, Nerul! I’d never have imagined it! But you got the Sinew Magus himself to shout you were a hero of weightlifting!”
“Bah, I blasted it in more than one sense.”
Nerul chuckled weakly. Of course Mister Superior loved the gymnasium. However, the Gnoll just winked at Nerul.
“We should hit Salazsar’s when we get a chance. I’m bound there, just after the Assembly votes. Do forgive me, ladies and gentlemen. I had to speak to our [Chief Diplomat].”
“And why is he not negotiating here and, ah, blasting gymnasiums instead? We are Pallass, and you’ve come to us for a huge favor, Diplomat, er, Superior.”
A slightly affronted Lord Werdin was waving his claw in front of his face; Nerul was all sweaty. However, Mister Superior simply smiled.
“He has to deal with the Terlands, who are far more obstreperous than you fine folk. Now, if I may rectify my embarrassment?”
They might not know what ‘obstreperous’ meant, and Mister Superior had a Skill that if you get in your own head about not being as intellectual as he was, you were easier to sway. It didn’t work on people with comfortable egos, but this lot? They swung back on Mister Superior as he stood there.
“We’re not asking for a full joint-declaration. But consider this: Pallass has taken the lead in a number of military ventures.”
To your cost. Werdin hesitated, and Dullahan Molge bit his lip. They’d backed General Edellein, too, which meant the political stakes were high for the career [Senators].
Not a good idea. But what was this? Nerul felt uneasy as he saw Mister Superior moving.
“The City of Gems and the City of Inventions have always been allies. Now, when sharing information about…earthy places is so vital? With the New Lands? When one city needs to lean, their sister-city is ready to lend a shoulder.”
“In exchange for taking a side against Fissival. Aren’t they doing better in the war?”
Werdin spoke, blunt. Mister Superior’s smile never wavered as he wagged a finger.
“Better, but one Walled City against two? It’s true they have magic. Well, Pallass has alchemy! Give us a hand, just a small one, to bring this conflict to a close. All we need is a battalion or two. Something to remind the haughty [Mages] of the City of Incantations they’re not superior. Or have you seen them talking up their new magical services as if they invented them?”
The magical hold Wistram had on the rest of the world had devalued Pallass’ signature products. It was an excellent tactic. The younger [Senators] were already nodding, and Molge and Werdin exchanged glances.
“We can’t lose more Pallassian lives, Diplomat. It will not play well with elections coming up.”
Molge was blunt. Mister Superior waved a claw.
“Then let’s not call it a battalion. All we need are a few experts.”
Potions for our people would turn the tide. Eyes of Pallass for covert ops. Plenty of ways to do it. Before, they would have just asked for Chaldion to command a few battles, but if not him—
Nerul’s mind ran ahead of the conversation. He put together the pieces and gasped. His eyes opened, and he reached for Mister Superior.
“If I might have word—”
The other [Diplomat] recoiled, astonished, as he saw Nerul try to break his Skill. He caught Nerul’s arm, and the two struggled.
Oblivious, Wall Lord Werdin was nodding along, thinking out loud.
“Fissival has gotten too big for its robes time and again. Those idiots lost their Archmage, and they caused the Meeting of Tribes incident, which my wife reminds me is a disaster. Why not? They might have their new magic, but we have the strongest [Mage] in Pallass—no, the world! Send him in, wait a week—it can’t be harder than fighting a Wyvern Lord, eh?”
Everyone else laughed at that, and Nerul’s weak arms gave out. He panted as Senator Molge hesitated, the only man not right on board. Mister Superior stared at Nerul, shocked, then gave him a shrug.
It’s what I was told to do. It’s just a small war, Nerul.
“There’s no such thing as a small war.”
Nerul turned, whirling and staring down at the floors below. The smiling Sinew Magus—he turned back to Mister Superior, but the Gnoll was on-guard now, shepherding the others down the floors, and he was just doing his job.
It was a classic play. If one Walled City was winning, drag another one in. Of course, they moved people around like pieces. Just—
Sometimes, Nerul stood there and was sick of it. Heartily sick of it all. He felt Pallass sending its loyal son to war even as he got on the Pegasus and began to send urgent [Messages] back home. Casually, with mere words, they moved a [Mage] onto a battlefield.
That was soft power for you.
 
——
 
Soft power. Not hard power. So weak at times. When the monster came, he had to stand back. When the armies fought, he waited until it was done and swept it all up and pretended he couldn’t smell the dead.
Sometimes, Nerul wanted to be that sharp blade. The fist that could punch back a monster.
That was why he worked out.
He hit the gymnasium in Salazsar, despite his weary body, when he got back. Did the lightest reps, then pushed until he nearly messed himself again, then sat there panting.
Because he couldn’t stop it. The Sinew Magus was an intelligent, high-level Drake.
He’d make it. Nerul had to believe that. He didn’t blame Mister Superior when the fellow actually flew in after him, deal signed, and wanted to talk. Nerul just explained what the Sinew Magus had done, and Mister Superior sighed.
They had orders. He’d done his job…
Sometimes, you were the bastard. Nerul shook the Gnoll’s hand, agreed to be workout buddies, and then sat in his rooms, hydrating, until someone rang the doorbell. He answered it and found a military [Messenger] instead of a Street Runner.
His answer awaited. Nerul ripped the communique open and nodded.
“Good.”
“You have been granted five minute windows, [Diplomat]. You’ll need a temporary badge, and we’ll need to re-certify you. If you’ll follow me, I can begin the process.”
“I know the way. Make it fifteen.”
“I can’t authorize that, sir—”
“Just relay it back to whomever’s in charge. Fifteen. I can’t do anything with five. Unlimited times per day?”
“Subject to monitoring, yes, Diplomat. If we think you’re compromising yourself or giving away anything—”
“Yes, yes. Alright, let’s go.”
Nerul barged out his room, not bothering to shower. It wouldn’t matter. In this one case, he didn’t dress up or do much prep—he’d done his reading, and his opponents couldn’t be swayed by attire or appearance.
He wasn’t in that much danger.
In theory.
I’ve done all I can. The small stuff. I am going to be the bastard now, Nephew, and the biggest one I can be. 
The Lischelles were always smaller-fry. They were nasty, obstinate, but they could not erase people like the Terlands could.
The Terlands…didn’t stop. They were one of the Five Families, haughty and powerful, and each one was equivalent to a Walled City. Perhaps…stronger.
Think on that.
Don’t laugh at their silly members, think on it. There were six Walled Cities in the south. Five Families of the north.
They had the power of a Walled City. Not as immediately, with the armies of Drakes, not as organized. But Ulva Terland had been nearly murdered by her doppelganger. And she was Terland.
Did they think she’d stop? Did they think she’d roll over, bury her fangs and claws, and play nice? Lord Xitegen played nice because he was a practical man, because he had to, and because, frankly, Drakes were less personal to him; he hated Goblins.
Ulva Terland had gone to war, and she knew them in their entirety. Nerul had understood it the moment her Hunter-Killer attacked Ilvriss.
So he had to stop her. Stop her and not rely on The Wandering Inn for magic. Some mysterious revelation as she lay on the cusp of death that changed everything?
He’d take it, but the rest of House Terland would still be there. Fight them all. Fight them with soft power since he had nothing hard to give.
He knew how. The [Diplomat] waited for four hours as they scanned his body, ran tests, asked him all the damn security questions, and issued him with a temporary badge. Gave him lectures he ignored about how dangerous this was.
One idiot wanted to make him sit down and take a history class. Nerul slapped him and told him to fall in line and shut up. He had authorization from the Walled Families; he was doing this to make them feel better.
Because they were scared. Nerul walked into one of the towers and went down. Not up.
Up was where the nobility lived and pissed gems and gold down on the common Drake. Down was where they mined. But down in the center of Salazsar, just below the heart of the city, was where they kept the secrets.
All the nasty weapons.
All the projects that should never see the light of day.
The things meant to kill cities.
The bones of Dragons, what few they had left. Vital for reinforcing the walls every set number of feet when they built it up or down. Nerul had walked here before, as a younger man, and seen the bones of his Ancestors neatly sorted and tagged.
