“This is a Foreman’s Pick. Pallassian Grade-1 steel. Enchanting is Fissivalian—a Level 30 [Enchanter]’s work. If I’m not wrong, it’s [Protection], [Lightweight], and [Sharpness]. We used to have [Impact], but it blew grit back in the faces of the miners. Oh, and the handle’s Sturdy Oak from Oteslia. Mildly magical on its own. This is a helmet—Yoldenite-made. So that means magicore lining with leather bindings. Protection and cooling enchantments.”
They were some of the best items in Salazsar, and Ilvriss was proud to say that every [Foreman] or Advance Miner got gear of commensurate quality. Obviously, you mixed and matched what you had; pieces wore out, and the best pick would eventually break down from the hard use.
He flipped the pickaxe up and swung it into one of the granite walls. Granite was a hard stone, and Ilvriss didn’t swing it that hard. There was a satisfying crack, and he smiled. Then eyed the crack.
“Weird blue streak in the granite. What’s this stone?”
“Our people identified it as a variant of greywacke, Wall Lord. Annoying, which is why we went past it. Feldspar pockets, see?”
Ilvriss took another swing, harder, sidelong, and grunted as his pickaxe hit the hard seam and rebounded. He’d chunked out a bit more of the seam, but after six swings, he barely crumpled in a small section.
“Damn. No wonder it’s slow going at times. And this is with an enchanted pickaxe! Well, our [Miners] have Skills—one of them could beat me even with a regular steel one, eh? Now, where’s our superior artifact?”
He accepted the other pickaxe, and it was so much lighter that when Ilvriss took it, he nearly slapped himself in the chin. He made a show of inspecting the tip—it wasn’t even that sharp, pickaxes not really needing to be, but still—and then test-swung it.
He was…a tad bit defensive. Obviously, they’d come to dig for just this: artifacts of old. But Naamreles had been the City of Purity, not the City of Digging! Salazsar might have lost a lot, but dead gods damnit, they knew pickaxes!
“Didn’t this thing glow red when Georgie ran into the monsters? I suppose it’s a safety measure—can we copy the enchantments?”
“Not easily, Wall Lord, but Enchanter Hedault said it is a possibility.”
“I suppose he needs one. Well, we could give it to Salazsar too, but then the teleporting rabbit’s really out of the bag, eh?”
If he needed more support, he’d do that, but he wanted to keep this from his peers for as long as possible. Because once they knew, they’d grab.
Was that too Drake of him? They needed this. The world did. Ilvriss had spent months here, and this was only a fraction of the bounty required. So yes, he wanted to find the treasure, damnit, and he’d spread it to whoever needed it, but not some grab-bag with all of his peers trying to hoard this, thank you! He’d take it—and, uh, un-hoard it!
Ilvriss sighed.
“Once we get more, I’ll consider it.”
Welsca hesitated.
“We have more, Wall Lord. Four sets. Not all complete since we think the undead are wearing some of the gear, but pickaxes, helmet, lanterns—even some clothing, though that has deteriorated.”
“We what?”
Ilvriss half-pivoted in his swing. He’d been so concerned about Osthia and the actual attack he’d not paid attention to the artifacts since they had to get them evaluated. His swing was completely off target. Ilvriss swung around, head turning to Welsca—
—and completed a three hundred and sixty degree rotation. The Drake’s head turned as someone made a faint sound. His bad pickaxe swing had hit the granite and greywacke and gone straight through and out the other side.
He had barely felt it. The Wall Lord peered back at the horizontal gash.
“I—that was—hold on now.”
He stared down at the pickaxe. Then swung it again, vertically this time.
He split the hardened seam in the granite wall, cutting through the wall like a man parting grass with a machete. The Wall Lord saw dirt and stone falling to the sides. He swung the pickaxe sideways, got it lodged in the stone as he failed to cut with the pick—yanked it out, and stared at the mess he’d made.
Ilvriss had seen Level 40 [Stonebreaker Miners] at work before. An old Drake had shown him a Skill when he’d been a lad, touring the mines.
[Cut Stone Like Water]. He’d swung his pickaxe like that for all of two hours before needing a rest at his age, due to his arthritis. But that one Drake alone had done the work of multiple teams until he retired.
That—was like this tool Ilvriss held. The Wall Lord shakily glanced around.
“Where’s the Foreman’s Pick? Maybe it’s bad stone. Try—”
One of his people lifted their pick and hit the stone wall, clearly thinking to move it like Ilvriss’—
The pickaxe bounced off and vibrated out of the Drake’s grasp. It fell into the dirt. Ilvriss stared at the Salazsarian-made pickaxe. Then he swung the one he had down at it.
The flash of light kicked Ilvriss off his feet. He landed on his back, with one of his rings shrilling at him, and spoke.
“Okay, cutting another enchanted item was stupid. Did it—”
The Foreman’s Pick was cracked, soot markings around the now disenchanted metal head. It was severed in half. The pickaxe of Naamreles?
Pristine. The Wall Lord lifted it, wide-eyed. And then he said nothing at all. Because with all due respect to his people’s gear, and even his own equipment—
Erin Solstice had given him a sword from one of her [Gardens of Sanctuary], a blade of lightning. He appreciated that trust from her, even if it wasn’t as powerful as…well, one had hoped. It was only a mithril blade that could shoot lightning; slightly better than his old sword. But he had to apologize to her now.
Because Wall Lord Ilvriss was now a pickaxe user. If he’d given this to any Gold-rank team, they’d probably have tossed their weapons and taken this. If he handed it to Yvlon—
Okay, maybe Yvlon would still use her fists. But anyone normal?
If that Golem had come at me and I’d had this, would I have pierced its armor? Maybe not so easily, but—
“Get me, um, get me some ingots. Solid steel. We have to have some for our [Smiths]. For repairs.”
Ilvriss croaked. Someone ran off. There was silence as Welsca inspected the broken Foreman’s Pick.
“It—it could only work on metals and stone, Wall Lord.”
“Oh, naturally.”
He agreed. Of course, it might only be mineable things. Everyone nodded along. Ilvriss went on after a moment.
“And—and it’s a pickaxe. I can’t just walk around with one. It’s too cumbersome, light as it is. I have an image to maintain.”
Nod, nod. Welsca licked her lips.
“I could swing one, Wall Lord. I do have combat classes.”
“Well hold on, Welsca. Let’s not jump to hasty—I mean, it’s not shaped for combat.”
“No, Wall Lord. Hard to block with—well, different ergonomics—”
“Exactly! It’s a damn pick. Plus, it’s just really good at cutting things. No flashy spells attached. My sword—Erin gave it to me—can emit lightning. That’s not nothing.”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord. It’s just a pick. Er…with a secondary enchantment. Wall Lord? Look down.”
Ilvriss was just about to finish talking down the pickaxe to some kind of reasonable level when he stared at his feet. And he realized that in his swinging around at the granite and other rocks, he should have had a bit more resistance.
After all, a pickaxe was still a pickaxe. Cut stone like butter and it still had a narrow profile. You couldn’t use it like a shovel.
But he’d parted the rock too easily. Cut too wide a gap. Where had the excess material gone? Vaporized? What a silly thing to do if it was ore you wanted.
If you were some ancient [Enchanter] of yore, making pickaxes for your people, and you actually cared about them, you’d not do that. You’d make another enchantment instead.
Like, say…some kind of enchantment beyond the scope of modern [Mages]. Something with a simple effect that meant whatever the pickaxe cut through sorted itself.
Granite to granite.
Feldspar to feldspar.
Even particles of dirt.
And it…what, compacted it? Processed it into a solid little brick of…
Ilvriss bent down and picked up a rectangular brick of granite. Then a pale, white mini-brick of feldspar. The mineral was beautiful, devoid of any other kind of rock adhering to it. And oh, to the right—Ilvriss’ claws had to scrabble around.
Then he picked up the tiniest—he grunted. Peered around.
“Welsca?”
“Y-yes, Wall Lord?”
“Get a [Prospector] over here and double-check. I think there’s a tiny bit of gold in this granite. Not worth mining, but maybe there’s a vein.”
“At once, Wall Lord.”
He nodded a few times.
“Right, you do that. I’m just going to pass out over here.”
He leaned the pickaxe down carefully and lay on the ground.
 
——
 
The [Miners] at Dig Site #1 were grumbling about all the new hires they had to train up. The Silverfangs—no one had a problem with the Gnolls! No, certainly not! Just—they had their own style.
Of course, more hands were worth it, but they hoped the Wall Lord remembered who the real employees were. No one was really unhappy. Just upset about the monsters, the brawling—so they vented.
All the bigwigs were here today, and most of the mining was elsewhere, anyways. The mining team assigned to continue probing this area was eventually told to get back to work and check on a higher tunnel that someone thought had gold in it.
Everyone made jokes about the idiot bigwig from their cushy tower-jobs having a ‘hunch’…right up until they saw the tunnel.
“Hey. Wasn’t this a rock wall yesterday?”
There was a huge, almost circular hole going straight ahead for twenty feet. The [Miners] exchanged looks. One felt at the hole in the stone, and yes, there was a bit of gold there. One of them scraped at it incredulously.
“Ancestors, it’s gold. How did they—?”
“I saw them trooping back up with the Wall Lord, no less. Talking about how much their arms hurt. I thought they were joking. Does he have a new Skill or something…?”
“I’ve never heard of him using one. What kind of object made—?”
They got to work, staring at the hole in the wall. When one of the [Miners] thought to ask the [Forewoman] who’d been on duty to make sure the bigwigs didn’t collapse a tunnel on their heads, all the wide-eyed Drake woman said was—
“I think it was new gear or something. They were comparing it against a Foreman’s Pick. I’m not allowed to say more.”
“How good is it?”
The [Forewoman] considered the question.
“I think…however much Wall Lord Ilvriss paid for it, from the Archmage of Izril or whatever, he underpaid. And we’d better hope there’s not much or he’s going to put us all out of work. Or we’re going to add five new floors to Salazsar. This year.”
The [Miners] eyed each other. Then the hole in the dig site. After a moment, one of them picked up a little bar of gold, perfectly rectangular. About eight grams.
One of the bigwigs had forgotten about it. When the team went to turn it in, against some of their instincts, they were told to just keep it.
 
——
 
Ilvriss instantly told everyone to keep silent about the pickaxe and other gear. It had just been his personal adjutants, but the [Forewoman] and his bodyguard had also been there.
Rumors would spread. But he had Welsca assign the Rubirel Guard to the Chest of Holding with the Walled City’s gear inside; it would be anchored to the floor and watched 24/8.
Ancestors. Ancestors.
And all the gear was like that. Not all of it was so—so—flashy. For instance, the lantern was just a bull’s eye lantern, one that apparently had an Everburning Flame inside. Simple. It couldn’t emit a [Fireball].
It just changed colors when exposed to various gases or hazardous materials, apparently. And it could change intensities and thus illuminate an entire tunnel by itself.
And reveal [Invisibility] spells. Wall Lord Ilvriss realized that when he was walking around camp and a giant metal Golem with spindly legs, a long, telescoping head, and huge eye-face appeared over one of the tents. He stared at it. It jerked upright and ran as an alarm was blown.
“Dead gods, another attack, Wall Lord?”
Young Dramm jogged over, pale-faced. Ilvriss shook his head.
“The Terlands are spying on us. Clearly. That thing looked observational—though unsettling.”
“Good thing you have all those artifacts, sir. Been mining to, uh, inspire the grunts?”
“It’s sharing the load, Wall Lord Dramm, and they’re employees. I’m no Alrric, but, er, yes. Just testing some new gear.”
Ilvriss reprimanded the young Drake, and Dramm ducked his head. The Drake boy cast around.
“Er, want us to take your gear, sir?”
“What? No. I’m fine!”
The defensive tone made Dramm step back. Ilvriss and his adjutants glared at him. Dramm nodded.
“Of course, Wall Lord. But isn’t that helmet, uh—”
It was just some miner’s helmet. It appeared a bit worn, and despite being glossy metal, it was far from befitting a Lord of the Walls. But Ilvriss had a pickaxe, a huge one, on his belt, and so did Welsca and two of his employees. They all had those helmets on, and the Drake had a miner’s lantern. Ilvriss adjusted the helmet.
“Er—it’s actually quite comfortable. And it emits cold air. I think I might wear it around camp. You know, safety first.”
Emits cold air? Dramm had to get a helmet like that if they were giving those out to [Miners]. He wiped at his sweaty brows as Ilvriss walked on, looking a bit stupefied. But seeing a huge Golem like that—Dramm shuddered. This job was dangerous. His father had been quite worried about the second Golem attack, and he’d told Dramm to maybe hint to Ilvriss to cut his losses.
All this work, for what? The young Drake shook his head as he watched Ilvriss march off. All they had were a bunch of undead and nothing to show for it besides some damn miner gear. But he supposed Wall Lord Ilvriss couldn’t back out without looking bad. Dramm got that; you had to hard-commit even if it was a mistake. That was real Drakeness.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss snapped out of it after a day and a half. He was holding the pickaxe on his lap in his office, tail curled around the safety-lantern of old, when he felt it.
A possessiveness. A need to snap at anyone wanting to take his pickaxe. A desire to tell Welsca to ensure any items found in the mines were his and—
“Ancestors. I’m Hoarding!”
Ilvriss leapt up. He took the helmet off his head, piled the equipment on his desk, and grabbed a speaking stone.
“Welsca? Can you take this to the chest? I’m done.”
“Wall Lord? But your gear—”
