Yweine didn’t answer at first as the others in the room drank in this unwelcome knowledge. She kept working, and in time, someone came to tell Nerul that the carriage was ready and he was approved to go. He accepted a binder of paperwork, and they had to effect a transfer of her to the carriage with tools to continue repairing her body.
They were in a hurry. Yweine pretended to work as they moved around her, studying the inside of Salazsar’s workings, analyzing, taking it all in, though she did not have the processing power to make the same inferences as she might with the others.
It was only when she was in the carriage with Nerul, heading northwards, that the Drake sat back. He lay against one side of the padded carriage as it moved, and Yweine saw that the magic of Wistram had returned, in some ways, to Zelkyr’s era.
“I’m going to nap for a second. Exhaustion. Wake me if I’m needed. If this is the cunning betrayal, I’d prefer to die in my sleep.”
“I will not betray your trust, Diplomat. Rest well.”
He chuckled about that, then passed out after eight minutes. She waited until she detected true sleep from the rhythm of his exhalations, then spoke.
Just once. It did not further any objectives to tell the roomful of Drakes. But she thought it should be said.
A Golem’s fancies, for she was freer than she ever had been and wished to be fully free. But she was still Zelkyr’s creation, always would be. For the part of her that still remembered loving him, for the truth, she spoke.
“He was always that Drake in some aspects, but not the version who left us. His nature changed, just as ours, for all he made us of stone and metal. In the end, it was only a single Truestone heart which refused to waver.”
She kept working. Then her hand jerked, once, and she made an unguarded scar a millimeter long in her arm. A superficial scratch. Because she saw [Diplomat] Nerul’s right eye was cracked open.
“I see.”
That was all he said. Then Nerul slept, waiting for the moment he was needed again.
