There was so much to do. Ilvriss turned and had Welsca put a reminder in for him to look at the matter if Osthia wasn’t able to see to it when she was rested. But she wasn’t in danger, and they’d given her a potion. They had enough from the inn; she shouldn’t have gone around without, despite the shortage.
And he had more to do. That was the blunt truth of it. Ilvriss had to leave Osthia to sort out the Sisters because…even with Shellc, even with Osthia, he was a busy Drake.
True, he spent every third day dancing it felt like, but damnit, that was hard too!
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was used to riding back to the [Door of Portals] to visit The Wandering Inn. So much so that Welsca reported she’d actually gained a Skill: [Company: Fast Travels]. It made the ride even faster, which he greatly appreciated. One less hour in the saddle was one hour more to do anything more important.
He put in a bonus in her paycheck and bought her a ticket for Barehoof Kitchens, which he knew she loved. Not a group ticket. When he handed her the card for three, he smiled.
“We’re still trying to keep—how did Xesci put it? The mandated authority out of private time, Welsca.”
“Oh, you didn’t need to, Wall Lord—I would be happy to have you and the others—”
The Drake [Adjutant] flushed, but Ilvriss just pressed the ticket into her claws.
“Nonsense. Enjoy yourself. I believe that’s the right number?”
She had a friend among his command staff, Adriaca, another [Adjutant] who specialized in paperwork. Welsca blinked at the card.
“Three’s perfect, Wall Lord. I actually have this friend in Pallass. Miss Rubri. She’s one of the up-and-coming [Reporters] on Channel 2?”
“Really? When did you meet her?”
“Well, when we were staying in Pallass—she was just one of Miss Drassi’s news crew. Now Channel 2 is so expansive, some of them are getting their own timeslots. I’m amazed you knew! I don’t think I brought it up in passing more than once…”
Ilvriss coughed and neglected to tell Welsca that Xesci had actually used a Skill to calculate the gift. It wouldn’t have made the [Adjutant] happier, quite the contrary.
“It just lodged in my memory. Once again, congratulations, and here’s to more levels, eh?”
She bowed, and that was that. Ilvriss needn’t have bothered; gifts for Skills or non-capstone levels were not obligatory, but it was the kind of thing a good company leader did. And he tried to be one.
He just…
Nothing was the same here.
 
——
 
Ilvriss was hiding from Lyonette that evening. She wanted to start dance practice. His shins hurt.
His thighs hurt.
His instep hurt.
His toes hurt.
The Wall Lord kept massaging them as he squatted next to another over a toilet. A compromising position to be in, but Ilvriss had been doing much the same thing when he and Erin had tried to unclog his personal toilet, so he had practice, weirdly enough.
“What do you think, Master Oidhol?”
“I think that if they’re using acid to clear the sewage, they’d better stop it when they get pipework installed or make sure it’s enchanted metal and has a gas-dispersal valve.”
The Drake grunted as he wiped the toilet seat with an enchanted handkerchief. Ilvriss raised his brows.
“That’s a thing?”
“Oh yes. Fumes do nasty things if they build up. I don’t know what acid fumes are like. Either it’ll just create scaling that’s acid-proof and clog the pipes—or it builds up. Ruptures the pipes, or just comes back up the chute at the wrong moment.”
“Appalling. But what do you think? This is just a side-project, obviously—”
“Bah, Master Hexel’s already laid down pipework. It’s a clean pit. Let me get permission from him and run a line. I’d call it forty minutes, tops.”
“Wh—really?”
Ilvriss was delighted. The Drake just gave him a nod. They stood and exited the outhouse together, which got them a long, long look from Peggy.
No less long than the look Master Oidhol shot the Goblin, but he was on the clock and on the job, so he strode over across the wet grass to a section behind the neat row of outhouses. Which were fine, serviceable, acid-cleaned, as good as you got without plumbing.
Yet the future was here, and it was in a line of familiar little sticks with blue paint on them sticking out of the ground. Master Oidhol nodded to them.
“See that? Pipework. It’ll be simple enough to join up the outhouses. I was told it’ll be for that big inn there. But it’s functional; you’d have put that in with the foundations so why not use it?”
Ilvriss rubbed his claws together.
“How soon can you begin?”
For answer, the [Master Plumber] called for shovels and three of his helpers, and they just got to digging. They had Skills as well, for fast-joining pipes and making sure water wouldn’t leak. The wet soil shifted faster once some of the Rheirgest [Necromancers] noticed and had their undead do the digging.
That nearly had Master Oidhol leap out of his work clothes in fright, but then he was alternating between hopping down to check his subordinates’ work as they joined pipe, eying the undead, and talking with the [Necromancers] about the cost of plumbing for their village. Not that he was offering to work for them or they were asking to hire him; they clearly thought they could copy his work.
Ilvriss watched with the experience of a man paying for all this who knew not to get in the way. Oidhol relaxed when he realized Ilvriss was going to watch and wanted to talk.
“No issues, Master Oidhol? Can we get you any more help?”
Ilvriss pointedly glanced at the ‘Out of Use’ sign on the outhouses. None of the plumbers wanted…extra material to work with when they actually set up the pipework. Peggy was dancing around in a circle since she’d been told the work would be done within minutes, and the [Master Plumber] sounded confident.
“Rain’s annoying, but it’s not hard to lay piping. Your place in the north sounds like a nightmare though, if I can say so, Wall Lord. Just need more pipes…damn, our bags of holding are too full. Someone empty theirs and just toss down what’s needed, I can’t sort this!”
“If you tell me which pieces are which, I can hand them down at least.”
If it was weird to the Salazsarian [Master Plumber], Oidhol, for a Wall Lord to want to roll up his sleeves and dig a sceptic system, he made no comment. He and four apprentices did all the fitting, anyways. Everyone watched with interest; plumbing was fascinating to peoples like the Goblins who’d never seen it, and even Hexel came over to inspect Oidhol’s work.
“That’s fast work. Although you’re using ceramics?”
“Good for cheap work, sir. Since your inn will be permanent, I figured the Wall Lord didn’t care to waste coin.”
The Drakes were a bit…leery around a Lamia, but nothing bad since Salazsar was a big city. Plus, Hexel was practically reassuring compared to Antinium, Goblins, or undead. Hexel nodded.
“What does Salazsar use if not that? We’re going to use copper piping.”
“We have a special blend alloy. Mix of steel, silver for purification, copper—it holds up decently. Hey, someone get a D11 straight for the [Architect]! [Quickwrap]—[Leak Check]—fitting’s done. Hey! That one has a leak!”
They were joining together pieces of pipe like a puzzle with rapid speed. Ilvriss stopped digging with some Antinium in the rain and watched as another section was put together. The [Plumbers] were halfway towards the outhouses already. Hexel smiled.
“It seems like you have the work well in hand, Master Plumber. I’d be interested in hiring you if you were free…?”
Oidhol glanced up at Ilvriss, then shook his head.
“Can’t, sir. Wall Lord Ilvriss has hired me for several months on retainer. I’m bound for the, uh, Cowpat Plains?”
Hexel paused.
“You poor man. Enjoy counterlevelling.”
He slithered off, shuddering, and Oidhol knelt in the rain a second. Ilvriss called down to him.
“I do appreciate you flying from Salazsar for this, Master Oidhol. I know it’s not the most crucial thing to many, but to me, it’s important…”
The Drake left the hole and stood in the rain. He was stocky, a working Drake in overalls, but he glanced at the Wall Lord.
“I was surprised to get the call, Wall Lord Ilvriss. But I thought it’d be an adventure. And if I’m needed—a Drake’s got to do his part.”
“And you are, Master Oidhol, believe me. I appreciate this too.”
Ilvriss held out a claw, because they hadn’t shaken hands. Oidhol hesitated.
“I’ve got a bit of a mess on me, Wall Lord—”
“Nonsense, man. I’ve been digging with you.”
The [Plumber] took Ilvriss’ claw and shook it, then smiled for half a second.
“I’ve never shaken hands with a Lord of the Walls before. You really are the strangest Wall Lord in Salazsar, if you don’t mind me saying so, sir.”
A few Drakes around him appeared scandalized, but Ilvriss just frowned.
“Surely that’s Wall Lord Tasilt. Or Wall Lord Brilm? I can see top five, but…me?”
A grin was his only response. Shy; Oidhol got back to work, unwilling to elaborate. Ilvriss just admired the toilets.
Then used one after Master Oidhol said he was done.
“Ahh.”
He sat back after cranking a knob next to the toilet seat. Which was still less-impressive than back in Salazsar where it was automatic or there was a button. But small things.
Bidets.
Bidets were a common-enough phenomenon among civilized species, which seemed to be few and far between in the world. The concept was simple, as Ilvriss had explained to Erin multiple times.
When one…finished their business on the toilet seat, there was usually a mess. In half the cases. When one had a mess on their posterior, there were a number of ways of dealing with it, as any Umbral Throne survivor could tell you.
Toilet paper was common. But expensive at times! Did you know what went into making the stuff? Leaves or sand had been used in lieu of it in less-rich places. Papyrus and [Cleanse] spells if you were just insane and magically-inclined.
Or…a hand…
Desperate times called for unspeakable measures. But ask yourself this: why use paper? Why not something more efficient like, say, heated water?
It was a bit complex, and Ilvriss would own that. You needed a [Plumber] and magic. In this case, a separate tank with a heating rune installed and another one that propelled water—and a valve to open and close the stream. But with the expertise Salazsar employed, you could get, on command, a jet of warm water aimed precisely at a dirty spot on your behind as you sat after finishing your business.
It wasn’t grosser than toilet paper, no matter what Erin said. It was less wasteful, and if you included a hot-air function, you had the most superior of cleansing systems. Ilvriss sat in the outhouse outside of The Wandering Inn, listening to the rain pattering down on the roof, and patted himself on the back for bringing a bit of civility here.
He heard the door to another outhouse open, close. Mercifully, no sound or smells as he let himself dry and checked the condition of the bidet. Excellent, most excellent.
Then—a scream.
Ilvriss emerged from his toilet just in time to see Lyonette du Marquin nearly explode out of hers. She was fiddling with her dress.
“What was—who put—”
Ah. She’d found the valve before he’d broken the good news to everyone. Ilvriss coughed.
“Ah, Lyonette. I’ve finally made good on my promise!”
She stared at him, red-faced, and he remembered he was hiding from her. Ilvriss hesitated.
“The bidet?”
“The—that’s not a prank? You use that?”
Lyonette pointed to her toilet, which was still shooting water up. Ilvriss eyed her and then turned to Master Oidhol. The two Drakes regarded Lyonette with disgust. She grew redder.
“Absolutely not! Take it out! Take it out—”
 
——
 
“Mrsha, your mother is an uncivilized donkey with similar hygiene on her rear end.”
“Mrsha, sweetie, tell Wall Lord Ilvriss not to spray water at ladies’ behinds without consent.”
“I don’t spray it at women’s behinds, Miss Marquin. I’m an equal-opportunity sprayer. Er…let me rephrase that.”
“Oh, no, don’t. You’ve made your point.”
Mrsha the Highly Uncomfortable sat as Lyonette and Ilvriss glared at each other as they stretched, preparing for their now-usual dance practice. She held up a card.
Can I go now?
“No!”
Both [Princess] and Wall Lord glared at each other. They were fighting. Ilvriss adjusted his slightly wet suit.
“Lyonette, I would have expected better of you. Erin is a savage, a lovely savage, but nonetheless. You’re from Calanfer, I’m told it has bidets, yes, Ser Dalimont?”
He turned to the man. Ser Dalimont the Equally Uncomfortable hesitated.
“We do have a number of facilities equipped to oblige all sensibilities, Wall Lord. But they’re not universal. Laying pipework in the Eternal Throne is very difficult.”
A fact the Porcelain Five had once found out. And a bidet would have really helped there, surely. Then again, there were times when toilet paper was necessary…Ilvriss frowned.
“But you have them. And you’ve never used one? Really, Lyonette.”
“I don’t believe I enjoy a [Water Jet] spell to the posterior, Wall Lord. And this is not a topic that a young girl should be hearing!”
Precisely. So if I can just go instead of listening to this fight—
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ tail lashed the ground as he bounced on the toes of his dancing boots. Lyonette finished lacing up the Highsteppers of House Lischelle, the new Heirloom Artifact she’d made that gave her three dances despite her weakened body and reflexes. The Wall Lord put his hands on his hips.
“I would have thought a [Princess], nay, a [Worldly Princess], would try more experiences, Miss Marquin. But it seems that you’re more hidebound than I thought.”
Oh snap. Ser Dalimont and Mrsha edged for the door as Lyonette’s cheeks flamed. Ilvriss regretted the comment at once. He had a bit of a…a sharp tongue. He hadn’t realized it until Nanette had pointed it out to him. Lyonette folded her arms as she hopped from foot to foot, like a [Boxer] warming up. He eyed her hands as she smiled sweetly.
“And you, Wall Lord Ilvriss, seem to keep projecting your Salazsarian values all over the people you meet. I suppose even when you’ve changed, you can’t help but look down on anyone who doesn’t share your exact culture, eh?”
That one stung. Because it dovetailed with Ilvriss’ entire experience in the town of Thirthoof and…well, the entire expedition. He stood still and didn’t jump into the first steps of the warmup song, Relz du Marqfin, as Ser Dalimont triggered the music.
Lyonette hesitated as she began to glide across the ground. She stopped, embarrassed.
“I—that might have been too far.”
