Perhaps Ilvriss didn’t see it. He might think that his people kept following him because they were paid to, and that was true enough. But the [Miners] and [Soldiers] who’d come north—would they have really signed up in such numbers to go north for another Wall Lord, at any pay?
He was changing. Evolving like some of those damn butterfly-things that Nerul always thought looked gross in their cocoons whenever he visited Oteslia in the spring. But it was the only analogy the [Diplomat] had, and he wanted…to see it.
“Shame he can’t make it easier. But it never is.”
That was all the [Diplomat] had said as he rode for The Wandering Inn after the failed cookout, the Hunter-Killer Golem still burning behind him. He hadn’t known if Ulva Terland was alive or dead—just what he had to do.
Find a way to avert the wrath of all of House Terland. Make a bridge between the Drakes and [Ranchers]. 
The kind of thing a Level 50 [Diplomat] would refuse to take on. And Nerul wasn’t Level 50.
But he had to try. So, Nerul Gemscale had done the only thing he could:
He went home.
 
——
 
It took time to go home, and Nerul had needed to trust Ilvriss would survive for at least three days.
Three days was how long it took to ride to the waystone that allowed him to use the [Door of Portals] to get to Liscor, then to Pallass, and charter an overnight Pegasus flight to Salazsar. Nearly a day of straight travel and flying—getting to Pallass had been fast, waiting for the Pegasus flight took hours, then a long, long flight in the cold air.
The third day was just to sleep. Twenty-four hours of nonstop travel meant that Nerul had nearly passed out on the Pegasus’ back. He reached his estates, muttered to Zail and Helessia what had happened, passed out in his beds.
—Woke up, summoned to five different meetings with members of the Walled Families who wanted to know what had happened. Nerul wrote in his request and handed it personally to Wall Lady Calistoca.
Then he, well, waited.
 
——
 
Time passed agonizingly slowly in Salazsar. Nerul spent the next few days ‘jetlagged’, a wonderful term he’d heard one of the Earthers use. And they had Earthers. As a top-level [Diplomat], Nerul did have access to most of Salazsar’s schemes.
Just not all of them. He was no [Wall Lord]. But the Earthers were common knowledge. Nerul kept tabs on what was going on in the north; Captain Osthia was good enough to brief him along with Ilvriss himself.
“No more Hunter-Killers? Good. I’ll be a while, Nephew, so just keep ducking. Your father’s inbound on Wyvernback? Ancestors. Well…good luck! Is Miss Lyonette still willing to help? Good, rely on her.”
Nerul felt bad saying it. But he had really ceded his role in the north with this move.
He had to.
He’d been bested by Marvus Lischelle. Idiotic to jump in a brawl like that—but the [Rancher Baron] was over Level 40. Ridiculously strong. In time, he’d destroy the expedition himself.
It was just a numbers game. Ilvriss could probably fight off a dozen of those stupid brawls with his people. But what about a hundred? Two hundred?
Marvus’ people had his Skills. They’d shake off broken bones and bruises. Give it another month, a year, and they’d dump every Drake and Gnoll in the north out of their lands with every bone in their body broken.
And the Terlands were worse. If they deployed their Golems, everyone was dead. No questions asked, no hope. The full might of House Terland’s Golems could wipe out any army they wanted to, and the one mercy was that Ulva Terland wasn’t dead.
But he didn’t exactly think she’d be keen on making up after what Xesci had done to her.
Nerul had a plan to deal with both issues—Terlands being the priority. Marvus? He could neutralize the man and hope that Lyonette could deal with Miss Aronia.
It just took…time.
 
——
 
A week had passed in Salazsar, and Nerul understood Wall Lord Ilvriss was taking dance lessons. Zail had left and come back, and the [Diplomat] was doing a circuit of Salazsar while he waited.
Mostly to see what his city was up to. They were at war, after all.
The war with Fissival didn’t touch the City of Gems directly; no army would be stupid enough to come within range of the wall spells, but there were signs.
[Recruiters] hunting for people to join the army. Shortages of magical items. Travel advisories about where the fighting or blockades were—more patriotism in the streets.
A sense of ire towards Fissival because the war wasn’t ending. Oh, and the Last Defenders of the Wall. Nerul didn’t like that last part one bit.
He knew Eschowar. He’d been a lad when the old Drake had been in his prime, and with all the old guard returning, there were signs.
Such as High Command being split between ‘younger’ Drakes that were Ilvriss’ age and ones twice as old. Nerul, panting, mopped at sweat pouring from his brows as he jogged up to a group of young Humans.
“So this is a ‘motor’. Fascinating. One supposes Pallass was onto something.”
General Criscotta was a Drake. Oldblood, Light-type. She had prismatic crystal armor and blinded her enemies with refracted light and mirrors. A few hovered around her even now, signs of her high level. She was projecting confidence, but she kept glancing to the side.
At Wall Lord Eschowar, Wall Lord Itreus, and Magus Nmorie. Technically, the last Drake was also a Wall Lady, but like Nerul, she wasn’t a member of the primary family.
All three were over seventy years old, Nmorie being over eighty. They were shorter, greyer-scaled, higher-level. And unlike when he’d seen them in the retirement home, lethargic and spent, they had a sharpness to them now.
Someone honing a well-used blade. It was Eschowar who spoke, voice quavering, but fighting whatever malady made him stutter.
“S-sounds like Pallass is the Walled City to b-be friendly with.”
“Especially now.”
Itreus agreed. He was the only one of the three who could move without a cane or wheelchair. But Nmorie was levitating off the ground. The old [High Mage] grimaced.
“Are they still keen to fight?”
“They keep testing new spells on us. High-grade ones. Someone in Wistram is sharing the Archmage of Memory’s magic, or they just paid attention while he was spreading magic.”
“Wonderful. The magic does work. This [Low Levitation] spell is far more effective than whatever I was using before. Ugh, until I gained my [Preserve Memory] Skill, I’ve been bleeding spells. I might as well replace them with superior magic. So, what are we going to do about it?”
Nmorie turned, and General Criscotta cleared her throat and glanced at one of their [Strategists], a Drake named Thallin Talefright. A good Drake—who was clearly nervous despite being Salazsar’s best [Strategist]. Because he wasn’t the best any longer.
“We have taken the battle to Fissival, and we’ve been spreading out our forces to counter their attempts to do the same. No more massed engagements. They refuse to approach the Erchirite Spears in bulk, so we keep pressing them with that while countering their [Mage] teams with [Rogues] and [Scout] mixes. Once we capture or kill enough of them, they should realize the rate of attrition favors—”
“No.”
All three older Drakes said it almost as one, and Itreus sighed. Thallin hesitated, and Itreus spoke.
“They’re willing to bleed [Mages].”
“Wall Lord? They’ve lost nearly two hundred so far—”
“Two hundred’s nothing to Fissival. It’s unacceptable—if this wasn’t their goal. They’re counter-levelling their [Mages] on our people. They call it Magical Advancing. They haven’t done it in, what, twenty years?”
The old Drake turned, and Eschowar muttered.
“T-thirty. Before the Antinium Wars. Before your time.”
The two younger Drakes hesitated. General Criscotta bit her lip.
“Nevertheless, if we persist, we’ll still deplete their resolve to fight.”
“After we hand their [Mages] ten levels each. And then they’ll begin killing us. We need to shift strategy now. We can’t fight their [Mages] with ours; we don’t have enough, and they have too many. Eschowar?”
“I’ll use my Skill. [Recaptured S-Sublimity]. Give you options.”
And that was that. General Criscotta snapped.
“Strategist Thallin and I will also confer and present our opinions to the Walled Families tonight, Wall Lords.”
“Good. Yes, let’s do that.”
You could tell from that exchange who was doing better. Nerul couldn’t even blame Criscotta; she was speaking to three of the top Drakes who’d dominated Izril during their heyday. How did you make up for that gap in experience and levels? 
Not his business, but he paid attention. At last, Itreus turned.
“Diplomat…Nerul. Are you sick?”
“No, sir. Just sweating. Ran up all the damn stairs for my health, one assumes.”
Nerul was still wheezing. He had no idea how Runners did it. He glanced into the room where the Earthers were conferring with Drakes. Then he pulled a door open.
“Have you talked to these young people? The Earthers?”
“Not personally.”
Nmorie shook her head, and General Criscotta snapped.
“Wall Lord! They’re in a controlled environment, and we’re having them demonstrate their tech to us! Access to the Earthers—”
There were other Wall Lords and Ladies watching around the observation windows, which were one-way pieces of glass. The rather sumptuous rooms held chairs, refreshments, blackboards, and all kinds of tools to create with. [Engineers], [Mages], [Scholars], inside, listening to the Earthers with rapt attention and racing off to try and create or find whatever the young people were talking about.
Nerul glanced around and saw Wall Lady Calistoca, who’d never actually retired and was thus old guard and new, giving him a frown. He just shrugged and held out a clawed hand.
“I’m quite aware, General. Why don’t we treat these young folk like people rather than test subjects, eh? Might be important. Hello, Diplomat Nerul!”
He strode into the room, and a young man jumped and nearly dropped a prototype motor he’d helped rig up. Nerul walked forwards, apologized about the sweat, and shook hands. He made the [General] enter the room with the noble Drakes and actually meet the Earthers.
“I’m not actually a—an [Engineer], you see. I just know a bit about making things. From repairing my piano.”
“You’re a—a [Pianist], Mister Scofield? That’s that musical instrument the Gnolls made, didn’t they? Commendable to be so gifted so young.”
General Criscotta was highly uncomfortable until the fellow explained.
“I’m not that young, General. I’m nearly thirty.”
“You are?”
She gave him a double-take; she couldn’t read Humans at all. The [Pianist] smiled.
“I’d love to play something. I can use the harpsichord—but I am somewhat good at the piano.”
“Most of you Earthers seem to be accomplished in some way. I, ah—I had your file here; forgive me, we’ve been at war. What are you known for?”
The [General] stood there awkwardly as Eschowar and the other Walled Families spoke to a young woman half Scofield’s age. Nerul saw Wall Lady Calistoca eying the girl, who was wistfully talking about meeting Troy and was, in fact, deathly afraid of heights. Calistoca broke in.
“I don’t care for them myself. We have rings—has no one given her one for altitude fright? You. Grab one, now. And if you haven’t seen the lower floors—dine with me tonight. I have rooms lower down in my tower.”
She pointedly did not look at Itreus, her divorced husband, who stood to the side, not really meeting her eyes. Calistoca took the girl’s hand.
“Enough of these tests. She’s, what, fifteen?”
Nerul just watched. It had only taken three Skills, one of which was [Hint of Empathy], and it was only a prod. His people weren’t monsters—most of them.
He saw General Criscotta fiddling with her notes, and Scofield smiled with self-evident pride.
“I’m just known for being a [Pianist], General. I won a few awards in my world. I played in the Royal Albert Hall when I was seventeen. That’s…akin to playing for royalty, I suppose. I was given a few Skills when I appeared here. [Mesmerising Performance]. [World-Class Solo].”
Old Itreus’ head turned, and his eyes lit up as General Criscotta did a double-take. Nerul’s own earholes tingled.
He’s outstanding. Itreus was over like a shot; he loved the arts. Nerul smiled and tiptoed backwards. His heart was still pounding—from that damn run.
Dead gods. He began to jog out of the room, then decided he could take a rest for fifteen minutes.
His legs were killing him. And this was just busy-work while he waited. He’d go push them all later, but he had to get through all the damn bureaucracy first.
Nerul just hoped Ilvriss was alright.
 
——
 
Ilvriss had no idea what Nerul was up to. He wished his uncle would come back, but all Nerul wrote was—
 
Busy in Salazsar. Might be another week. Two, even. I’m going to fly to Pallass on your coins now and then. Needed expense, Nephew. Try not to die or get your brains punched out. Apologies.
 
Ilvriss had to trust him. It wasn’t like things were going bad, necessarily.
Okay, they weren’t great. The [Ranchers] kept brawling. Ilvriss was very worried about the Golems coming to murder him. And they had undead problems.
The day after the undead had burst out of Dig Site #3 and nearly murdered Osthia, he was giving orders.
“We need to take them out. I want breaching teams and a full offensive, Major Shellc.”
“You’ll have it, Wall Lord. Just bear in mind that I never fought in tunnels.”
The Drake [Swordgrace Major]’s good eye glinted. He was an excellent commander, and Ilvriss was grateful his father had left the Major here. Ilvriss muttered.
“If you need me, I can—”
“We don’t risk you at the front, with respect, sir.”
“Argh—fine. But I want you to call on me if there’s a breach and I’m here, understood?”
Shellc nodded. He placated as Ilvriss paced around.
“We’ll shred the undead. They’re not infinite, just dangerous, sir. Captain Asrira prevented this from being a massacre.”
“Yes. Yes, how is she?”
She’d seemed—badly rattled. Shellc just shrugged.
“Shock. Those Sisters of Chell are damned brave. Brave as any I’ve served with in Rhir, but undergeared. I had my doubts, but now I just want them armed up and trained.”
Ilvriss sagged. Oh, yes, the Sisters. Dead. Minced by the monsters, only a few, but—
“I’ll make more apologies to their command. Xesci knows them, and they are…we’ll issue pensions. Asrira is taking charge of that.”
“I had no doubts, sir.”
