Welsca was wearing a helmet, lantern, pickaxe, and other objects he’d let her carry. It made her look stupid, and people had been wondering about it. Ilvriss shook his head. He glanced at the pickaxe and forced himself back from the desk.
“Take it. I know it’s optimal, but I’m—you’re—Hoarding. Can’t you tell?”
Her eyes widened. She recoiled and began to hiss at him, then appeared appalled. Slowly, with great effort, she took the helmet off her head.
“I’m…yes. I am. Ancestors. I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be. I’m—it’s understandable.”
She took the items, and he forced himself not to watch the precious, his valuable—
Hoarding was a Drake phenomenon. It hit most kids growing up. It could last a while; you even had teenagers who went through it. It wasn’t always items. Sometimes, it was things you loved of a different kind. Food, especially if you’d been insecure.
The cutest version was Hoarding people you loved. But even cute turned into possessiveness. Snapping at others. They got it from Dragons.
However, you could be weaned off it. Most Drake parents could find someone who helped talk children out of the habit. You were taught how to recognize you were Hoarding, fight the mentality.
Ilvriss left his tent and went for a walk.
“That is not the attitude of a good Drake. I don’t need it. It’s damn [Miner] gear. It proves we’re on the right track, and there are hundreds of pieces down there, potentially. Enough for one for me—no!”
Some of the people he passed eyed him. Lady Damia strode forwards.
“Wall Lord, can I help—?”
“Hello, Lady Damia, if you could take charge of the Silverfangs with Clan Leader Plisce today? Let’s get them fully involved in our company. I’m giving you full authority on par with Dramm. Test of your abilities and leadership. Thank you!”
He stopped, shook her hand with a big smile, and walked on. That dealt with that. Ilvriss almost ran to the only person who could help.
 
——
 
The Lifted Tail was Thirthoof’s best—and only—brothel. Everyone wanted to be in the Drake-run, alluring establishment. It had class. It had ladies (and men) who didn’t look like they hated being there. It had no drapes and clean beds.
And the other fellow who’d run a business with ladies of the night had quit, especially after having both legs broken and falling out that window like that. Xesci was making a profit, and she felt like she’d convinced a number of Humans not all Drakes should go. Even members of the [Rancher] clans.
She was about to complain to Wall Lord Ilvriss, though, when the Drake came to her. He knocked and, when she called for him to enter, strode in, looking a bit harried.
He felt chagrined, like a boy—not just how he was presenting or acting, but he was actually feeling like a child. Which was fascinating. Xesci could read the feelings of people, if not their hearts or souls, and an adult recapturing childhood, even if this wasn’t the most pleasant feeling, was rare.
“Wall Lord. Something amusing has happened?”
He adjusted his collar, visibly embarrassed.
“Xesci, I’m, uh—I had a Hoarding incident just this morning, actually. I’m coming to you for advice because it’s still ongoing.”
She blinked at him. Ilvriss had run to the only expert he knew in personality. The [Courtesan] coughed.
“Okay. Stop it?”
Her lack of a response instantly had the Wall Lord clarifying.
“No, you see, Xesci, it’s not a regular incident. This is actually in aid of good tidings! Our gear from the mines is amazing! It’s stupendous! It’s Named-rank class, and I was coveting it like I was five.”
“Right. That’s great. Where do I come in here? You’ve stopped. Don’t do it again.”
He hesitated.
“Can’t you do something? Slap it out of me?”
She eyed him, got up, then whirled her body artfully. Her tail came up, and it thwacked Ilvriss’ head so hard he stumbled. One of the Rubirel Guard who’d just caught up winced. The other really wanted to take lessons from Xesci about how to do that.
Ilvriss sat down. His cheek scales had flushed when she’d hit him.
“That was more of a joke, but thank you, Xesci.”
“No problem. I wanted to see you, anyways. Tell me what this is about.”
He did, more fully, and she sat back and whistled.
“That’s good, right?”
Ilvriss rubbed his cheek, and sighed.
“Aside from my instinctual reaction? Yes! I’m serious, we could arm our you-know-whats with them. Even a Gold-ranker would back up after seeing that pickaxe swing, and if Shellc is right, there are some weapons there. No [Miner] would go around unarmed. Well, those pickaxes are weapon enough, but imagine actual weaponry—the Rubirel Guard don’t have gear that good!”
Ilvriss jerked a thumb-claw, and one of the Drake guards coughed.
“If you’d like to give us some gear temporarily, Wall Lord, we could handle those Golems—”
“Ah, right. Another one was spying on us, Xesci.”
He said that so distractedly. The [Courtesan] paused.
“Sounds like Ulva wants to hurt you. She’s mad as hell, but like Nerul speculated, she’s coming in force. So…all’s good?”
He groaned.
“All is not good. I want you to investigate a [Lady] Damia and the Silverfangs. We’ve found the treasure, but we’re on the edge, Xesci. Can you—do something?”
“Like what?”
“Fix something. Anything!”
He said that to her, and she was astonished, genuinely.
“Wall Lord, I’m a prostitute. You’re the one in charge. I’m not Asrisa or Nerul. I’m a nobody.”
He cracked one eye open.
“Xesci, you’re the highest-level person in this entire region. I saw you deal with Ulva Terland. When problems arise around you, they vanish and stay gone. I’m not asking for Erin-style miracles, but whatever you can do; you know I’m counting on you, right?”
He made her so uncomfortable, which was nigh-impossible. She was embarrassed, flattered—so many novel emotions that Xesci glared at Ilvriss.
“I can’t put on, what, a cloak and swirl it around me and be the Wall Lord you are, Ilvriss.”
“Hah! I’m no hero.”
“You are. More than me. And if you’re no Zel Shivertail, well…we’re all in his shadow, Ilvriss. I outlevelled him too. Even before he consolidated down ten levels to become [General of Izril’s Lines], he was more than me or anyone else. I never understood how people forgot that. But then—he didn’t show off.”
The Wall Lord sat up slowly. The Rubirel Guard stared at Xesci, and she realized their astonishment was genuine. They couldn’t see Zel Shivertail hanging over Ilvriss’ back, an inspiration. Not a sexual one, though she reckoned she could have made it work if Ilvriss had ever wanted to know what a Turnscale’s experience was like.
Damn moratorium on using the faces of famous people. Oh, and respect for the dead and all that.
“He—you met him? No, don’t tell me, I don’t want to know anything that would lower my esteem of him.”
Ilvriss shot to his feet, and Xesci eyed him. But because the Rubirel Guard were here, she said nothing.
“See about this Lady Damia, Xesci? I think she’s addled by the inn, in which case she’s not bad, but just in case—”
“Yes, yes. But about the Hoarding, are you done?”
He’d almost forgotten his childishness of earlier. Ilvriss felt it again when he thought about the damn pickaxes. He rubbed at his cheek again.
“I’m serious, I could use a consultation, Xesci. We don’t have anti-Hoarding [Caretakers] in the camp…because we don’t have any children. I still feel the desire to just snatch it or take one for myself.”
Hoarding was a bit of a joke in other species; they tried to equivocate it to Gnolls running around on all fours as cubs or Humans…doing something silly, Ilvriss was sure. However, Xesci just put her hands on her hips, amused.
“I don’t have a Skill like [Remove Desire], Ilvriss. That’s the opposite of what I want to do, most of the time.”
“Damn. Is that all it is? I thought my caretaker was really good at working with me.”
“What they teach you is how to resist it. How to think about other people, Ilvriss. You’re not lunging for a pickaxe and hissing at me.”
“No, but I want to, if not in those terms.”
“Okay. Don’t.”
This time, Ilvriss was about to give Xesci some sass because she wasn’t helping until he got what she meant. He turned and gloomily sighed.
“Wait, that’s it?”
“That’s my advice. Removing the desire is just…temporary. It’s a crutch, like how Erin used magic to try to cover up her problems. Acknowledge it. You want to do it.”
“I should be better than such a petty feeling.”
He mumbled. The [Courtesan] laughed and, to his surprise, came over and hugged him. She kissed Ilvriss’ cheek, a gentle peck.
“And that’s how you stop, Ilvriss. Shame. Children don’t feel much shame. They don’t think how stealing hurts people. They think the world should be theirs. What’s the lesson they teach these days? You take the Hoarding child to someone they’ve stolen from and make them see the tears.”
“I think it’s different now.”
Xesci rolled her eyes.
“Bah. It’s just empathy. The silly way is to teach children there are consequences. Because that teaches them to hide it and when they can get away with it. You want to Hoard because we’re the children of Dragons. Be better than that, Ilvriss.”
“Better than Dragons.”
He said it like a joke, but she grabbed his head with her claws.
“It’s not hard.”
“But I’ve m—”
“It’s not hard, Ilvriss. It’s only hard if you think they were everything you should be. Instead of a flawed people who passed from this world like so many others.”
He met her gaze, and her pupils were red and yellow today. A mismatch of colors. Then…Ilvriss wanted to ask her a question. But the Rubirel Guard were here, and this was not the time. So he stepped back and nodded.
“—I think that worked. Thank you, Xesci.”
She was annoyed to realize she’d actually done what he wanted and blew out her cheeks. But he just nodded to her.
“You should get a cape. When you step up, I’m going to rely on you. I have to get back to work.”
He was going to go striding back out, reinvigorated, when she stepped on his tail. Ilvriss stumbled, and Xesci barred the door.
“Not so fast. Now we’re done with your crisis, I have a bone to pick with you, Ilvriss.”
Xesci crossed her arms as he blinked.
“What? I’ve done nothing wrong, surely.”
“Oh yes, you have. My brothel is flooded with people thanks to you.”
“Er…because of the new recruits? You’re welcome?”
She glared and pointed.
“No, not them! Your man was in here the other day, on your orders! I didn’t think about it—but now everyone is coming in just to use my damn restrooms!”
His face cleared of worry.
“Oh, the plumbing and bidets! Excellent!”
“Not if they come in here to shit and leave! I had to double my [Cleaners]!”
“Well…it’s a net good, isn’t it?”
She pointed with a sweet smile.
“In that case, you help clean them. Do you want to know what a bunch of Humans who’ve never seen a bidet get up to? In a property that’s not theirs?”
Ilvriss stopped, then bowed to her, hands at his side, very formally.
“I am very sorry, Xesci. I will rectify this at once.”
 
——
 
Plumbing. You might not care for it. You might not want it spraying water up your nether regions. But the ability to hit a lever and flush a toilet or get hot or cold water on demand?
That…
That was like diamonds in the Cowpat Plains, and the [Mayor] of Thirthoof was up-front.
“We saw your Master Plumber fellow working, and it were like magic, Wall Lord. A few twists and that pipe stuff and you got running water?”
“Well, he is over Level 40. One of the City of Gem’s finest. And I have, uh, a Skill.”
[Adaptive Plumbing]. Master Oidhol had been exceptionally complimentary when he’d heard about it. Apparently, it made the act of joining up the pipes—which was very difficult and arguably one of the hardest parts—very easy.
Mayor Bootsy nodded.
“Any way we might, uh, pay for some? Everyone in town wants one. It’d be gold in your pockets.”
“Absolutely, Mayor! It might even, uh, help with your sceptic pond!”
Ilvriss knew she hated the darn thing as much as he did. The [Plumbers] had already become heroes to his people at the dig, and the Gnolls—especially the Gnolls—liked the bidets.
Bidet-diplomacy?
Not quite. Bootsy nodded.
“If it’s cheap enough, we’ll take it. Though I just reckon…once you and your people are done, we’ll be up shit creek again, won’t we?”
She had that reserved look in her eyes of not-quite-reproach he was used to. The Wall Lord frowned.
“Whyever so, Mayor Bootsy? Master Oidhol does splendid work—”
“Yeah, and once he’s gone, who’ll fix up the stuff? He was talking about clogs and broken pipes. And the magic runework takes gold and [Mages] we don’t have. Not that I’m complaining. Much. Just a taste of that Salazsarian class would be more’n enough. Even the [Ranch] families squat over a hole.”
Oh.
That was why she was upset. Ilvriss recalled the same conversation. His head bowed…then it jerked up.
Anti-hoarding mentality. Xesci had said he was some kind of Wall Lord with a cape. Well, he wasn’t, damnit. He couldn’t be Zel, he never would be. He was just Ilvriss, [Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence], and he brought bidets when other Drakes brought armies.
And you know what? Sometimes, that was fine. Because Ilvriss was a corporate man. He raised a claw.
“One second, Mayor Bootsy. Let me call Master Plumber Oidhol in right now. I think I can reassure you on some points.”
It took a few minutes for the [Plumber] to arrive; he’d been scoping out the town. When Ilvriss delivered Bootsy’s request, the [Master Plumber] sighed.
“An entire town’ll be beyond my helpers, Wall Lord. But I can move fast with your Skills. Make a few public ones?”
Bootsy was nodding, wary. The cost…but Ilvriss was smiling in a way that surprised her. He gestured to a chair.
“Have a seat, Master Oidhol. We’re all impressed by your work. But along with Mayor Bootsy’s request, I have a solution to her reservations and the task at hand.”
The Drake sat as Bootsy frowned at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord spoke.
“Master Oidhol, you’re one of Salazsar’s best [Plumbers]. You belong to the Plumber’s Guild, and we do have a Guild, Mayor Bootsy. Master Oidhol trains and certifies [Plumbers] to varying levels of competency. Master Oidhol—would you take on Human apprentices and train them up to be [Plumbers]? As well, I’d like you to share our runes with the local Mage’s Guild. It’s not impossible to make them, even if you have to send for some of the materials, and Invrisil’s close thanks to the door.”
Bootsy blinked as the Drake eyed Ilvriss, then nodded.
