“No, it’s quite accurate. I should have warned you rather than laughed about the bidet. I just wanted to give the opportunity, but it is high-and-mighty, isn’t it?”
“What? No, I’m just—”
Lyonette turned to Dalimont, and he gave her a thumbs up and motions to indicate she was on her own. She glared at him.
“I didn’t mean it, Ilvriss! And I admit, I was highly sheltered, so I never took advantage of the bidets when I could have. I apologize.”
“No, no, I do.”
“It’s a silly fight. I was just mad you were hiding from me, or so I felt—”
“Well, I was.”
He admitted that. Lyonette was a dancing fiend. Ever since she’d found out she could keep dancing despite her condition, she had him dancing.
And the Highstepper sucked. It was the most complicated, ankle-breaking dance Ilvriss had ever found in his life, and Lyonette insisted on practicing three dances with her boots…twice a day, since her boots would recharge enough for a second go-round after twelve hours.
One warmup dance, which was a ‘standard’ Terandrian or Izrilian dance, already damn complex. Next, the Highstepper. After Ilvriss stopped holding his shins and his heart-rate had dropped to under a hundred and eighty beats-per-minute, they tried Erin Solstice’s dance. After that, even Lyonette was so embarrassed she’d let him limp away to sit in a hot spring or collapse in the inn or something.
She just loved to dance. She was also highly competitive, and Ilvriss was somehow the only person who could dance in the entire damn inn.
No, wait, Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont could do it. But the two Thronebearers refused to unless Lyonette or Ilvriss needed a sub-in for a second. Because they knew what would happen! Damn them! Weren’t they supposed to rise to any task?
Ilvriss brought this up after the first dance. Fifteen minutes of Relz du Marqfin—he was sweating despite the cold air!
“Lyonette, are you picking the longest songs to make those boots work longer?”
“Maybe. I admit the Relz is tiring. But we can do at least the first half of the Highstepper! In seven minutes. Ser Dalimont, the timer.”
“Of course, Your Highness. An orange?”
The man came around with orange slices, and Ilvriss eyed him.
“Surely, Ser Dalimont could oblige you by dancing when I’m not here, Lyonette.”
So you’re not so hellbent on me doing it? The [Knight] instantly smiled.
“Regretfully, Wall Lord, a Thronebearer must be in fine fettle to defend their charge. I cannot allow my legs to be compromised.”
“You damn Human.”
“This is surely a task only for a Drake, Wall Lord Ilvriss. I admit my inferiority with grace and happiness.”
Lyonette giggled at Ilvriss’ face. Then she nudged his leg a touch anxiously.
“You don’t mind it that much, do you, Ilvriss? We could cut it back, but I do look forwards to it…”
She seemed ready to desist, but so crestfallen that Ilvriss glanced at Ser Dalimont, then put a smile on his face.
“Not at all, Lyonette. It’s excellent footwork training. But maybe not the Highstepper every time? What if we did that only once a day?”
“I could do that. It does kill the limbs. Oh, what if we did some more Drake dances? There are Chandrarian ones I had Ushar buy manuals on to study—”
He groaned, but mildly. There was something to it when you got in the zone. When you knew all the steps and were whirling around, feet flying—
Then, he had to admit it, that’s when he felt like he was actually talented or—or had the same rush like you felt during some moment of extreme physical exertion. The sense of pure accomplishment, of knowing what came next.
It just embarrassed Ilvriss, because he could reach that height on the dance floor, but martial superiority on the battlefield had always eluded him. Then it was just tenseness, fighting underwater, swinging his sword, trying to take out his enemy and stay alive. Not the rush he sometimes heard other warriors, including his father, describe.
Grace.
When he rose to his feet, and the familiar Highstepper’s music came on, he and Lyonette saw someone watching them.
Colfa val Lischelle. And Himilt. The farmer nodded at the two, and Colfa called out.
“I had to drag Himilt here. I’ve wanted to dance in a real ballroom like this since I was a girl. No objections, Himilt.”
“I didn’t object to that, Colfa. I just objected to the part where you said it was the Highstepper.”
The Vampire was eying the grand ballroom floor, that glossy marble, with appreciation. No matter what he was, he was still a Vampire. And in his way, the quiet Himilt had a dignity unto royalty to match Lyonette and Ilvriss.
Who was he? At this moment, just another man suffering the Highstepper. Ilvriss locked eyes with Himilt and saw the Vampire grimacing as he stretched his hamstrings out. They nodded at each other as Lyonette and Colfa beamed.
 
——
 
“Come on, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Last dance.”
“No.”
He was curled up around his leg in pain. Colfa, panting, was trying to drag Himilt up by the leg.
“Stop being a baby, Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle. I forgot the Highstepper had that kick. Your leg isn’t broken.”
“It feels like it.”
“Well, you’ll heal in a minute. Up!”
Both men were on the floor. Holding hands. Ilvriss’ claw grasped Himilt’s gloved hand like a [Lover]. They held on as the [Princess] and Vampiress tried to drag them up.
Suffering. One of the Highstepper’s moves was the aforementioned swing-leg kick. A standby in line dances where you raised your leg, kicked out, kicked back, kicked to the side, to the left—an easy-enough move.
Everything the Highstepper did was to show off. So you did it so fast while facing each other before switching into another pattern that you had to be in perfect sync.
Do it out of order and you’d hit your partner with a boot to the shin with all your force. Which was enough to crack bones if Colfa did it. And Lyonette wasn’t far behind.
Ilvriss noted that he hadn’t hit Lyonette that hard. But he had a purple bruise on his scales. A huge one. He felt at the dented flesh as he sat up. Lyonette hesitated.
“Oh, um—I’m quite sorry, Ilvriss. Ushar? A small poultice, maybe? But we need to not heal ourselves or we’ll lose our muscle growth. Come on, we have three-fourths of the Highstepper down!”
They did. So Ilvriss got up after a moment, and they practiced Erin’s dance. Which was…something else.
All the frantic energy of the Highstepper, the intricate, maddening perfection of limb movements, wasn’t in Erin’s magical dance that Mrsha had found.
Oh, it was still high-energy. But there was something more graceful to it. It wasn’t for showing off. It was just—
Complex.
“Argh. Sorry—”
Lyonette performed a three-rotation spin into Ilvriss’ arms and hit his neck spines. Then she was a touch too slow when they went for a synchronized glide across the floor.
Colfa and Himilt watched; they had tried a more casual dance. This one…Ilvriss was sweating harder than he did practicing with the sword! But he seized Lyonette’s hand.
Walk four paces left, perform a three-step reversal, breakaway spin, and—
It was showy. Lyonette’s dress unfolded like a flower’s petals, and for a moment, he remembered Oteslia. The dance moved faster. It started slow, with the elegance of a Terandrian ballroom dance. Until—
He extended one leg as far as he could and stepped out, leaning back. Despite his weight being on the back foot, he pushed himself up until his front leg held the weight, and he spun his foot around, tracing a perfect circle.
His tail followed him, and the Wall Lord pushed off the ground. Twirled in the air. Landed—and Lyonette was there. She’d performed her half of the dance, and they met again. Locked eyes and smiled as he felt himself doing it.
Okay, this is amazing. They stepped sideways, minds straining to hold the dance together. It was supposed to be ten minutes of insanely complicated steps. Erin had fifty pages devoted to it, and it was so damn hard for Ilvriss to memorize that on top of everything else! Even Lyonette had problems, and she loved it.
But the more you danced it, the more you just sort of remembered what came next. Saw your partner doing it and fell into rhythm. Ilvriss swore he felt something as they strode backwards while facing each other. Like ice skaters moving backwards, despite looking forwards.
What had Kevin called it? Swing dancing, country, even a bit of disco—a blend of dance styles that even the Lord of the Dance would have had trouble cataloguing. Blended into one…
Gift of ghosts.
They were building to something, Ilvriss felt. The longer he and Lyonette stayed in-step for the dance, the more it felt natural. He forgot his aching shins, his tired limbs. He began to move, heedless of the vigor.
Stepping around her, like they were tracing a magical spell circle, turning, catching each other’s eyes, heart racing. Reaching for the impossible.
On the precipice—and then Ilvriss’ mind caught up to the dance’s flow. And he hesitated.
Just for a second.
Oh no.
Nononono, here it came—but he had to do it. It said that was the next part. He even had an audience today!
Damn you Erin Solstice! But he trusted her. He trusted that damn woman, so Ilvriss stopped whirling about. He turned to face Lyonette—threw up his arms—and began to shake his body left to right.
Like…a giant inflatable tube propelled upwards by hot air. Left, then right. Erin had even written a note that the Earthers had helpfully translated to Ilvriss.
‘Wacky inflatable tube dude dance’.
Woo! Woo! He did it from right to left, scales turning red as Colfa and Himilt stared at him. Ser Dalimont’s face was a study in perfect blankness. Then Ilvriss began to do Ksmvr’s dance. He squatted and shook his fists out up and down. First on his right side, then his left.
It wasn’t…a bad dance. And if you were an Antinium, you had a lot less mobility so it fit. It just wasn’t—
It wasn’t a fitting damn dance for this.
The humiliation of this moment might never be exceeded. Ilvriss had done it in front of the Goblin and Antinium staff, Mrsha, Nanette—it still burned his scales like Dragonfire.
But he did it because the sacred texts said to do it. His one consolation was seeing Lyonette, face red as a tomato, flapping her arms and shaking her posterior.
The quack-quack duck dance. They stared at each other until Colfa and Himilt couldn’t take it any longer and burst out laughing.
“Colfa!”
Lyonette shrieked, and they gave up doing the next moves, which were just as humiliating. And Ilvriss thought—
She has to have done that just to annoy them. Somehow, she knew Ilvriss would be the one doing this, and Erin had done this just to spite him. But there was a part of him that felt—
Horribly—
Like that was actually part of the dance. Somehow.
 
——
 
“I don’t get it. She put Ksmvr’s dance in there, and it was not invented until recently. She has to be lying. She has to be.”
After that dance, Ilvriss sat, gulping water and going over the dance again.
“It says there, in writing, Lyonette ‘must do this dance’.”
She glared at him.
“It also says, ‘hilarious, get Ulvama to do it’. It’s a prank!”
“Well, why does it feel halfway accurate?”
She threw up her hands.
“I don’t know! I’ll ask her next time she calls Ishkr, Mrsha, or Nanette! I’d ask, but—”
She paused, and Ilvriss stopped gulping water.
“You still haven’t told her? Your class?”
“I…don’t want to make her worry.”
“Lyonette, you have to—”
“She stresses! My turn’s coming up; she calls once a week, and she’s rotating through Ishkr, myself, Mrsha, and Nanette. Just give her time, Ilvriss. I…you do the wacky arms dance very well.”
“Thank you. And I admire your quack-quack dance.”
Red-faced, the [Princess] went to nudge him, then just sat next to Ilvriss. They were covered in sweat, and silly dances or not, Ilvriss had to admit he felt like he’d earned his supper. They breathed in and out.
“How’s the camp?”
“Marvus keeps attacking us. He hasn’t noticed the undead, but Nerul was right. He keeps coming, damnit. He’s too high-level.”
“I’m sorry, I don’t have a solution for—”
“It’s fine. My [Recruiters] say I have more workers coming, actually. A lot of them. With Emperor Godart’s people, we’ll have plenty of hands. So long as we counter the undead, it’s fine. And we’ve found a number of items the [Miners]—we think they were [Miners]—had. High-artifact grade objects. I’ve had our [Mages] looking at them. Nothing’s trapped. I wish we could prevail upon Fissival’s Scholarium, but…”
“Really? I thought it was hard to recruit.”
Ilvriss shrugged as he sat up.
“Apparently, some new hire made a splash. I’m riding back in the morning, and that’s good news. About the magical items—do you think Master Hedault would have time to look at them? My peers in Salazsar would cause a huge fuss about them, and I might not get the items back.”
“Hedault? Of course! And Valeterisa could do it.”
“She won’t steal them? Where is she, by the by?”
That worried Ilvriss, because he knew Valeterisa, but Lyonette just smiled.
“She’s in the mountains building her academy. Apparently, they’re actually making progress—Magus Grimalkin and Lady Pryde are there a lot too. If you have a chance, you should stay to greet them. I’ll have a word with her. If she wants funding, she’ll behave.”
And that was why this was all excusable, Ilvriss’ desire for company aside. He exhaled.
“In that case, I’ll ride back but send samples over here. With Welsca. It’s a good cover story. I’ll say it’s a reward for her latest Skill.”
“Oh, what did she get?”
“[Fast Travel]…”
They were chatting after their dancing as they had done for any number of his visits now. Ilvriss’ stomach growled, and Lyonette pointed at it.
“Let’s get some food in you.”
“What’s on the menu in the inn?”
“Nothing. I thought we’d go to Tails and Scales. If you’re free?”
“Are you sure?”
Didn’t she like to save money in the inn? And Chef Calescent had feelings, but Lyonette sighed.
“Actually, we want to give Calescent a break. He’s made food, but he needs a vacation! Imani is feeding him and the members of the staff. We had an incident with Liska. Everyone needs time off!”
“Excellent. Well, I won’t turn down Lasica’s cooking, and Rufelt does a wonderful non-alcoholic cocktail.”
“Didn’t you take my daughter there the other day?”
Lyonette eyed him, but before Ilvriss could apologize, she waved it off.
“I heard about Selys. Let’s talk it out over dinner. Ugh, and did you know Taimaguros is in Izril?”
