“That’s…he’s too important to ignore, despite how he acts. Never mind that. We’re just seeing each other. Not engaged.”
“That’s an Ekhtouch Gnoll, isn’t he?”
Damia took the time to ogle Thamert’s backside as he strode off. He had to be. Rayna nodded, and Irit explained.
“During the Meeting of Tribes, the Ekhtouch tribe and ours became friendly. It’s a custom of theirs to arrange marriages. It is, to them, what their tribe creates.”
Superior Gnolls. Damia nodded; she’d read up on the tribes. She glanced at Rayna.
“But you called it off?”
“Chieftain Gireulashia changed the practice. Plus, with the tribes in disarray, she lifted a bunch of restrictions on their clan. They can have more children, and she broke off engagements. Some of them left. Others stayed. I was engaged, but since we’re so busy, I don’t have time for children.”
“Ah, but you’re still seeing him?”
The [Huntress] grumbled as she shifted around in her saddle.
“Well…yes. He’s the one who wants children. He doesn’t have to grow them! Thamert’s a [Miner]. If you get a chance, watch him swing a pickaxe. He makes it look like a work of art.”
“I wouldn’t miss that for the world.”
Damia glanced back and got a boot in the leg. More laughter until a hither-to silent woman broke in.
“So that’s who the tall Gnolls are. Gave me itching down my spine. Yon [Miner] doesn’t look like he’s more than just a fellow who could throw a punch. The other one makes me nervous.”
Varnie. The [Gang Leader] was a bit subdued after having her gang destroyed, despite being saved. But she glanced over her shoulder, and this time, it was Rayna’s turn to grin.
“That’s Sadr. She throws things. Daggers, arrows—I saw her throw a stick straight through a wheel of cheese. She was also engaged, but she broke it all the way off. Came north because it was too awkward. She’s interested in you, Irit.”
The [Shaman] sighed.
“She just wants to be highly placed in the Silverfang tribe.”
“Eh, she likes you.”
Varnie glanced between the joking Gnolls, then turned to Damia.
“A Gnoll with a [Thrower] class? One of them fancy Gnolls? Mind if I recruit her for th’ gang, boss lady?”
The two Silverfangs went still and turned to Damia. The [Lady] smiled.
“You can make her an offer, Varnie, but I don’t want to offend our friends here. Next time, ask me in private.”
“Right, I suppose that’s a fancy way of doing that. So is that a yes or no…?”
“Mm, a yes. Very politely.”
Employees. Binevy was Damia’s right hand who kept things organized. Sule was her [Bodyguard]. And Varnie was the person who could do things. She’d said as much to Damia.
“Anyone who pulls me out of a noose deserves a fair turn. Can’t say I’ll be here forever, but let’s make a deal: I pay off my debt and see where you’re going. If I need to jump ship, I’ll do it nice and honorable, even if I run off in the night. No leavin’ with all your gold. Face’s honor.”
Damia just had to convince Varnie she wanted to work for the [Dame]. And she had a Face as an employee.
A wonderful day. Irit began to protest to Damia that they couldn’t just lose Sadr, whom he really didn’t mind, you know, it was just that she sometimes got pushy and he was his own Gnoll at the moment—when they finally spotted the dig site. Damia stood up in her saddle and gasped as she saw the huge piles of dirt excavated from the ground, orderly tents, and Drakes on patrol! She inhaled—
Then retched, and everyone laughed. All the Gnolls had nose plugs in.
“I think I swallowed a fly. Water, water!”
“You spat it out, Miss.”
Sule pointed, and Damia croaked at him.
“What do you think the flies live in? Water—water—”
Her stomach roiled at the very thought. Damia gargled, then felt so nauseous she leapt from the saddle as the Drakes saw them arrive and came out to greet the huge convoy of people. She rushed for the outhouses, clearly marked, and threw herself into one.
She did not vomit, but sat there as her stomach settled. Damia Reinhart schooled herself.
I’m meeting with Wall Lord Ilvriss. The Wall Lord Ilvriss.
He’s the closest thing to the inn besides Liska. Closer since he’s so important! I need to make a great first impression. Plus, he’s single.
She sat on the toilet, adjusting her riding dress, searching around for some perfume. The outhouse was actually very pleasant; it was newly-built of wood, it seemed, so fresh it gleamed. There was a sink to the side, a hanging charm that made it so no bad scents remained.
Dead gods, this is classier than many of the privies in our mansion! Damia stared at the working sink and turned a knob. Water began to flow at once!
“Is this…plumbing?”
Out here? In the middle of nowhere? She was dumbstruck! The newly-refurbished outhouse was classy! Was this all down to Salazsarian gold? She stared around, then noticed there was a handle on the toilet.
It flushed? And there was a button on the side of the outhouse. It had a bunch of little lines radiating upwards and a little tail lifting above it.
What the heck did that do? Damia pressed the button. Heard a gurgling sound. Then screamed.
 
——
 
“Silverfangs?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss stood outside his dig site, and [Clan Leader] Plisce looked worried.
“You, ah, did not send for us, Wall Lord?”
“Not specifically. My recruiters were searching for anyone with mining or digging Skills, and of course, if I’d thought to ask…! Welcome, Ancestors, come in! We’ll have to have a celebration in your honor! How is Chieftain Akrisa? And—how many Humans?”
There were so many! Ilvriss was astonished! And gratified! He’d heard they were numerous, but this was all down to—
“Lady Damia? I was told we hired her on a provisional basis, but I confess, I haven’t met her in person.”
He had to improvise. Reassure the worried Gnolls and others that this was all part of the plan. But internally, Ilvriss was a bit disconcerted.
Some [Lady] had hired the lot of these people. For what? The gold was his assumption. She was owed quite a sum of it. He just worried these people were here under false duress or something, or she’d made outlandish promises.
But Plisce assured Ilvriss he’d read the contract and just wanted to negotiate a bulk rate for his people.
“The [Lady] reminded us of your deeds at the Meeting of Tribe, Wall Lord, and I shall confess, we wished to see the Cowpat Plains. It has been…hard finding land.”
Ah, Ilvriss saw the issue now. He rubbed his neck spines wearily.
“The old rights issue, eh?”
“From south to north, nothing changes. But perhaps here—”
“The locals are not friendly to Drakes, just so you know, Clan Leader. Speaking frankly, associating with my company might poison the well ahead of time. If you want to enjoy our hospitality while you deliberate, I won’t hold you to any contracts. I’d be delighted to—not make introductions since that wouldn’t go well, but give you names and locations of the leaders here.”
The Gnoll smiled.
“Ah, there is some generosity. Let us see, Wall Lord. I do want to earn money, and yours is the only digging job around! As for the hostility, everyone claims we are welcome and that they are ‘not like those Drakes’. If they mean it, they shall prove it.”
Fair enough. Ilvriss shook hands with Plisce and was giving orders to get everyone settled. But where was Damia—?
A scream that sounded somewhat familiar came from the new outhouses that Master Plumber Oidhol had just laid. Ilvriss turned as a young woman exploded out of them. She turned, saw everyone staring, and put her hands behind her dress.
“I just pressed a button and—oh no. Run me over, it’s a bidet. I’ve heard of those!”
She had a rather visible stain on her—she must have been sitting on the toilet clothed and the button activated—Wall Lord Ilvriss saw Damia Reinhart turn, spot him, and turn crimson, then pale.
He coughed as he averted his eyes and waved for someone to run a towel over. Or something. Wall Lord Ilvriss was worried Damia was dangerous. But he had to admit, she seemed a bit…young.
 
——
 
Damia was so embarrassed by her first meeting with the Wall Lord she put her head under a pillow and refused to come out of the guest tent.
Good first impression—failure. She could only show him she was a friend of the inn. Someone he wanted to meet!
Certainly, the Wall Lord seemed to need to make use of her. He was speaking to Binevy, Clan Leader Plisce, and a representative from Riverfarm.
“—have had issues with, er, Drake culture from Salazsar with our workers before. I refuse to let any prejudices affect the Silverfangs we employ.”
“One thing to say it, another thing to act on it. I have heard your company does better than most with Gnolls, but we have our own ways. How would we do this, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss glanced at Damia as Binevy waved the [Lady] over.
“Liaisons. Diligent oversight. My personal staff will take part, and I hope you would do the same and relay any complaints to me personally, Plisce. I have an expert named Xesci—and I believe I should like to request Lady Damia do the same.”
He wanted to make sure the Humans, Gnolls, and Drakes got along? Damia brightened up. She saw a number of important people gathered around Wall Lord Ilvriss.
A Drake with one eye and an artificial leg spoke next.
“Operational security is also important. I am Major Shellc, in charge of the [Soldiers]. We have both a monster danger and a number of irregular Humans who come out and, for lack of a better word, brawl. It’s not a conventional job.”
“Which is why I shall pay for these unexpected contingencies and offer compensation for injuries and accidents, but I want to be up front about all of this. Lady Damia, I do appreciate your hard work, but if you’ve heard of me, I have some requests of you, pending full acceptance of your recruits.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss was precise, clear-spoken, and had everyone’s attention as he laid out expectations and background in a fast manner. He was, in Damia’s eyes, a successful, seasoned [Lord] who could make things happen.
Everything she wanted to be. He eyed her with a hint of a smile, and she smiled.
“Absolutely, Wall Lord. I am here to help! Say the word and I’ll be on it—like—that!”
So saying, she took a step, did a twirl, and raised her fingers. Damia Reinhart gave Wall Lord Ilvriss a pair of finger guns and her biggest smile.
She’d heard from Timbor they did that in The Wandering Inn. The Wall Lord stared at Damia’s finger guns.
Major Shellc bit his tongue. Clan Leader Plisce began to laugh then started choking. One of the Drakes next to Ilvriss rolled his eyes up into his head as he cringed. Damia Reinhart turned red.
Ilvriss turned and coughed-laughed, then smiled at Damia as she lowered her hands.
“I…I have nothing but the utmost confidence in you, Lady Damia. I just remind everyone that House Gemscale is a company, and I hope to deliver the utmost professionalism between all working groups. Thank you.”
Damia smiled until he was done. She went around, shaking hands, and then went back into her tent and hid her head under a pillow again.
 
——
 
Based on just…how he’d met her, Ilvriss doubted Damia was some kind of spy. She wasn’t that incompetent either, according to Welsca.
“She’s asked questions and not objected to me giving her requests, Wall Lord. Despite her, ah, antics.”
“Remind you of anyone?”
“The [Innkeeper] or the Runner?”
Welsca’s face indicated what she thought of a potential Erin or Ryoka-clone, but Ilvriss just chuckled.
“There’s a possibility she’s an excellent spy for her family. Keep an eye on her, but I doubt it. They’re good at acting. But [Spies] tend to want to be impressive. It’s an ego thing.”
Bideting oneself and finger guns either made her a super-spy or an interesting [Lady]. They’d find out which soon. Ilvriss rubbed at his ribs. Welsca put down her notes anxiously. She’d rushed back from Invrisil when she’d heard about the attack.
“Are you still healing, sir?”
“I’m fine. The damn Golem wasn’t shooting to kill. I bet the next one will just break my legs or something.”
Was this hope for peace between Terlands and Salazsar? Or a sign they wanted him to suffer before death? Ilvriss sighed.
“Tell me something good, Welsca. Please. I could use a morale boost. I’ve got upset [Miners]—about the working conditions, no doubt—rogue undead tunneling around me, the damn Terlands, the Lischelles and every other [Rancher] clan, and my thighs hurt. I need a victory.”
All his good mood had evaporated with the anti-Salazsarian press and being shot. He didn’t know how Erin did it. The Drake didn’t have to hunt.
“It’s all worth it, Wall Lord. Even the [Ladies] with the finger…guns.”
“What? I thought that was the best part of my day so far. I nearly died not laughing. I just didn’t want to humiliate the poor girl any further.”
Welsca eyed Ilvriss and shook her head.
“Each to their own, Wall Lord. Here’s your victory: the artifacts were appraised by Master Hedault, Master Grimalkin, and Archmage Valeterisa. They’re not cursed. They are some of the highest-grade artifacts the trio have ever seen. There is nothing in all of Salazsar better than this.”
She placed a pickaxe on his desk, and Wall Lord Ilvriss sat up. He was reminded of what Miner Georgie had found.
Gear from the dead [Miners]. Enchanted, but…Ilvriss picked up the pickaxe. He admired the silver-blue metal he couldn’t place and the visible runes on the haft of the pickaxe. Despite its age, it hadn’t disintegrated or worn down. It felt light, barely a pound, but when he swung it, it had heft.
“Okay, we knew it was probably what we wanted. We still don’t know why there’s a mine around the lost Walled City of Purity. But that’s a bold claim, Welsca. Tune it back a notch, though I appreciate it.”
She gave him a level look and a hint of a smile.
“Wall Lord, I had to fight to keep the [Mages] off this loot. I only made it out because Miss Mrsha and Miss Nanette attacked them with water orbs or something nonsensical. Go ahead and try the pickaxe out. You’re familiar with our Advance Miner gear for infested areas?”
“Yes…”
Ilvriss stood slowly. He cast around, then coughed.
“Isn’t there some stone in Dig Site #1? There’s a huge chunk of granite. Let’s go there and, ah…do we have one of those picks?”
 
——
 
Advance Miner gear usually was the best. Or the kind of gear that Alrric had been issued when he led by example.
The best pickaxes, shovels, and even helmets came from all over Izril’s south. You could buy the best, so Salazsar put together equipment kits; each company had their own brand. It was very nuanced, and Ilvriss himself was rather into it.
