They’d never let a lower-level member of the Walled Families on such a committee. Then Nerul just had to persuade each one of them to take his side. And whomever tried to duck him were the holdouts.
Well, some didn’t shy away. Wall Lady Calistoca was a nightmare even with Nerul’s Skills. But she wasn’t blind.
“The risk, Diplomat. If you’re wrong—”
“If I’m wrong, hang me, Wall Lady. Not literally, but publicly. If I’m wrong…what happens? We’re decades past the initial disaster. What are we waiting on? A dead Drake’s dignity?”
She eyed him.
“One might say that’s worth a lot, Diplomat. As well, the trouble even one can cause—”
He interrupted her. Ruder than he’d ever been because he did feel bad for her. She had been a beautiful, energetic, good Wall Lady if he recalled her right. But she’d married the wrong man. Decades of trying to make the marriage with Itreus work and divorce had left her bitter, but he appealed to her best side. He had to see the best sides of people, had to admire that just like his city, or he couldn’t work with the many fallible people he had to charm.
“Lady Calistoca, I understand. But Ilvriss will die whenever the Terlands land that hammer. It is dangerous. I may not be thinking clearly. However, another world has met ours. It is clear other nations are using these Earthers to gain a foothold, or worse, create weapons. If we must use one of Salazsar’s dark weapons—better to test it, yes?”
That swayed her. Maybe. If she was the holdout. Calistoca thanked Nerul and spoke directly.
“Give me…two days, Diplomat. I shall prevail on any thinkers. Two days.”
She would never be rushed into a hasty decision. He admired that about her, even if his stomach hurt. Nerul hurried off to use her toilet—then her bidet—and decided he had to take a trip.
This wasn’t working. Or maybe it was, but he needed—
 
——
 
The magical carriage was almost as fast as a Pegasus ride to Pallass, a fact that did not escape Nerul. He didn’t like it.
Wistram is growing too powerful. And apparently, Fissival is working on teleporting live people again. Not via Valeterisa. Have they bent the knee to Wistram? This war…
He knew more than most because he had access to all the reports a [Diplomat] did—and he actually read them. That made his stomach hurt more than the bowl of salad he’d eaten this morning. Nerul sipped the salty damn liquid that he’d bought from Grimalkin’s mail-order service as he stood up and squatted down in his carriage. But then he reached Pallass, and after breezing through via his passport and skipping the lines, he prevailed upon the one man who might help him.
 
——
 
“Magus Grimalkin of Pallass?”
The Sinew Magus was overseeing a free-use period of his gymnasium, which was so large now it had needed to move—twice. An empty warehouse was now a three-story gymnasium filled with Pallassians and students, and his weight sets had evolved from the simple bench presses to entire machines. Pulley bars, leg machines—even a moving treadmill animated by gears.
Gears, not magic alone. The Sinew Magus was less-common in the gym these days, but he still put in an appearance at least once a week. Not with Lady Pryde. She got…harassed. After a number of incidents, Grimalkin had agreed it was better to do without, but that knowledge had not made him happy.
Still—he looked happier in some ways. He wasn’t as huge as Nerul remembered him being in the past. Quite imposing still, but slimmer by as much as a fifth. Mobility over pure mass. Possibly more muscled than before, though.
“Diplomat Nerul. What brings you here?”
Nerul walked in, feeling quite out-of-place. He had some pants and a shirt he’d bought, baggy, and he was already sweaty. Nervous. But he was a man on a mission.
“I’m here, Magus Grimalkin, to prevail on you to teach me how to use these blasted contraptions, if I may. We have one in Salazsar, and I’ve done my best, but I confess, I have not had a pleasant time with my diet.”
The Sinew Magus blinked. Some of his apprentices stopped working out as the Drake glanced at Nerul, then gave him a sharper look. Up and down—Grimalkin walked around Nerul.
“Highly fatigued muscles. Mostly legwork…but decent upper body—ah, a tear in your right shoulder.”
Nerul rotated his shoulder.
“I hurt myself with those blasted weights. You can tell?”
“I’ve…levelled a bit. And my own understanding of my speciality has deepened slightly. Is your stomach giving you issues? Stool?”
“I’d love a stool. But if you mean, er, waste. It’s mostly liquid.”
The Drake flushed even more, but Grimalkin was purely analytical, and so were his students, who’d come over.
“Ah. I hadn’t looked into the matter. But it appears that if a person’s stomach is used to one diet, switching over has deleterious effects. Even if it is more healthy, a stomach is apparently used to one kind of food.”
“Really? Damn. I wish I’d known that.”
It made Nerul feel slightly better. The Sinew Magus kept peering at Nerul, then seemed to realize why Nerul was here.
“You’ve come to…train. Diplomat?”
“If you can tell, I suppose it’s a compliment.”
Nerul smiled weakly. He spread his arms.
“I need to get in shape, Sinew Magus. Just enough to, say, hit a man my size harder than he hits me and hold my own. I don’t need to win, but I need to prove a point. It’s diplomatic work.”
“Diplomatic…?”
One of the Dullahans mouthed silently, utterly confused, but Magus Grimalkin asked no more questions. He just put a hand on Nerul’s shoulder, studied him.
“If you have the will, I shall do my best, Diplomat. It will not be easy. How long do you have?”
“Days, ideally. If not ideally, a week or two.”
Again, the wording confused the students, but the Sinew Magus just nodded.
“Crash course, then. Anti-inflammation poultices. Get me Experimental Set #2. You know healing potions don’t work? The idea is to still let muscles perform day-after-day. They’ll be abused, but keeping them from tearing in any excessive way while pushing them provokes dynamic growth. That’s one thing we have over those know-it-all brats!”
He shook a fist at the sky, by which Nerul took to mean Earthers. The [Diplomat] swallowed.
“Wonderful. How painful is this…?”
“Exceptionally! But if you have the will—”
That was the damn question, was it? How far could Nerul push himself in the name of his class? He didn’t know. He’d long passed the days when you could level up and know you were on the right path. But the [Diplomat] had to try.
The next hour saw Grimalkin and his apprentices showing Nerul how to properly work out and formulating the best exercises to build the key muscles Nerul needed. Which meant, sadly, more roadwork.
“I’ve run up and down Salazsar’s damned towers!”
“Good! And you have a foundation, Diplomat! You were already strong, but converting more fat to muscle is our goal! Hm. You really have put in effort. Out of curiosity, have you had any meals in Liscor? The Wandering Inn?”
“A…few.”
“Interesting. I’ll have to check the water again. Do you and Baker Garry ever eat the same meals? It’s probably just a random correlation, not causation, but…five more pushups!”
The problem with Magus Grimalkin was that he was loud. The problem with him was that he knew when you could actually give him another rep. And then he’d insist that despite the evidence of his eyes, he believed you could do another rep.
Nerul grew to hate him and his students over the course of the next hour, where he strained, sweating, chewing on the damn ‘protein’ bars or whatever they were, and gulping the salty liquid that made him think of camel piss. An ‘energy’ drink, apparently.
But he kept straining and kept his whining for when he was really out of energy. Which did come—but the Sinew Magus just stood with a dozen of his students and bellowed.
“Push, [Diplomat]! Push! One more rep!”
“One more rep!”
The students were shouting as Nerul pushed a bar of metal up. Then they had him switch to a new ‘station’—one of them wiped down the metal bar as Nerul left a pool of sweat behind him.
Fun fact: due to the Drake neck spines, Grimalkin had commissioned custom seats for different species. Ones with holes for your tail and neck spines even if you were lying on your back for Drakes, and for Gnolls, anti-stick ones to prevent their fur from catching, and even stations that Dullahans could exercise with only some limbs if they detached them. Garuda-friendly ones with their claws…
A number of Pallassian amateurs were drawn to the sight of a panting Drake swearing at Grimalkin as the [Diplomat] did bench squats. Grimalkin’s now-famous gymnasiums were creating new classes.
The aforementioned [Gym Rat]—and just people who wanted to build muscle. Pallass’ gymnasium was the biggest and best in the world thanks to Grimalkin—only House Ulta could compare, and it was constructing a five-story one. Because Pryde didn’t lose.
In fact, even a Lord Mireden Raithland stopped pressing an enormous amount of weight as four nervous spotters watched him lift and glanced up.
“…Is that the [Diplomat]? What’s going on?”
The half-Giant took some earbuds out of his ears, then snorted.
“Wait, what am I asking? It’s the inn.”
Even so, he watched as the panting Drake stood and did one of the most punishing—yet rewarding—moves.
The squat.
Simple concept. Put a bar on your shoulders, maintain form, and squat. Down. Up. You could even do it without a spotter, if you had a protective bar that would let you fall without crushing yourself if you couldn’t hold the weight.
Everyone squatted. Nerul had never thought it was painful—but if you’d ever done a ‘burpee’, a heinous invention that Grimalkin loved, you’d realize how hellish it was doing the motion.
Let alone with a hundred pounds on your shoulders. His legs were already water, but the Sinew Magus was pushing him beyond his limits.
“You can rest on your way back to Salazsar, Diplomat Nerul! If you can move, I haven’t worked you enough! Come on!”
“I…can’t…”
“You can! Scream if you must. One more rep!”
“One more rep! One more rep!”
The crowd was way too supportive. Highly muscular men—and women—were shouting at Nerul, pumping their fists. It was really hard not to give it a shot.
His stomach hurt. His muscles were cramping. He’d feared falling over, but since Grimalkin would catch him, Nerul tried. He pushed.
Veins bulged under his scales. His face, already crimson, turned a shade darker. He strained as he came down—down—his legs wavered.
“All the way down! Come on! Up! Up! Get up like your life depends on it, Nerul! Push! Push!”
Grimalkin was howling like the training instructor from Rhir. Everyone was yelling, and Nerul thought of Ilvriss.
Push damnit—
He pushed.
He pushed with all his might.
He strained—and then felt it happen. He gasped.
Oh no—
The sound that echoed in the gymnasium, just below the cheering and sudden silence, was low. Deep.
It was like…frblgh. With the last bit being so—familiar to many that they went silent. Nerul’s shaking legs went still a moment. He began to sit down, and Grimalkin caught the bar one-handed.
He had fallen silent. The cheering students had fallen silent. At his station, Lord Mireden Raithland paused. He sniffed the air, glanced up, and muttered.
“Ah. That’s unfortunate.”
Nerul Gemscale sat there as he filled his underpants with what he could only, in the most tactful way possible, describe as his own feces.
When one pushed—especially if they’d been in a coach for a long time with an unfamiliar diet—
Things could come out. In the silence, Magus Grimalkin inhaled, regretted it, and spoke.
“[Cleanse]. Diplomat—”
“I believe that’s my cue. Excuse me.”
Nerul leapt to his feet. He grabbed around. Yanked up a towel, swiped at—looked around.
“Restroom?”
They pointed. He ran. It did not have a bidet. But it did flush, so Nerul watched the pants swirl around in the silence, grimly, until someone knocked and passed him a spare pair. He took them. Finished cleaning his pants and put them in his bag of holding. Excused himself.
It was amazing, really. Nerul checked himself into some temporary apartments and lay down. But he didn’t sleep at once.
He’d done a lot of humiliating things in the name of Salazsar and diplomacy. But umbral throning oneself? That…not even [Diplomats] put that in their arsenal.
 
——
 
The next day, Nerul Gemscale didn’t want to show his face outside. He knew the incident—probably—wasn’t the talk of Pallass.
He knew that. But he also knew that it had to have been the talk of Grimalkin’s Gymnasium. It couldn’t not be.
Presumably, accidents like that did happen. Just not with everyone watching. Even so, Nerul had a workout hoodie on and covering his head, and he breathed in and out for a good eight minutes.
Then?
He pushed the double glass doors open and walked in.
“Sinew Magus. My underwear is enchanted this time. I believe I owe you…one rep?”
Sinew Magus Grimalkin of Pallass turned. Nerul Gemscale’s voice was loud, and everyone regarded him. Several students nearly dropped their weights. Their heads rose. Jaws dropped.
The word ‘gape’ had been employed in regards to expressions many-a-time where The Wandering Inn was concerned. Perhaps too much. The slack-jawed fall of a mouth. The credulous opening by which an Ashfire Bee could fly in and out of your expression—it was too easy to say that.
But today, as Nerul walked into the gymnasium he had just shat himself in—that truly was the expression. Mind-boggled, dumbfounded shock.
Even Sinew Magus Grimalkin’s brows rose. But Nerul Gemscale just nodded at him. His jaw was set so hard his teeth were grinding. He was bright red.
But he had to do this, and he’d just embarrassed himself to the utmost. He might as well see it to the end. No one spoke, so Nerul stomped over to one of the workout machines.
“I think I start with the bench press? If someone can spot me…”
He was sliding himself down, taking deep breaths, hoping they’d stop staring after ten minutes, when Grimalkin broke the silence. The Drake glanced around, eyed Nerul, and then brought his hands together.
The clap of sound was, predictably, large as he was. Nerul jumped. Then he saw Grimalkin do it again.
The Drake did it a third time before Nerul realized he was actually applauding. The slow-clap was not something Erin had brought to this world. But Grimalkin performed it now, and then his Dullahan apprentice joined in. The rest of the students joined as well, and then the other people in the gymnasium joined in, whether they knew what this was actually about or not.
