“I was going to take on locals if they’d work for me, anyways. But you said apprentices, Wall Lord?”
“Apprentices indeed, Master Oidhol. Mayor Bootsy expressed the correct fear that once you left, the plumbing would fall into disrepair. But it seems to me that if people want plumbing…Thirthoof might be a good economy for it.”
“But we’ve no metal or whatever’s needed for the stuff. We’ve no industry—”
The Mayor turned from Ilvriss to Oidhol, but the [Plumber] Drake just nodded, thinking out loud.
“True, but if you’re near the coasts, there’s always clay. Ceramics are fiddly—but cheaper. Dead gods, you can do wood. And Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig site has stone.”
“And we are mining metals. We just need more smiths willing to process it. Making pipes isn’t the highest-level work. It just needs to be sturdy and airtight. I told you once, Mayor Bootsy, I came here trying to be respectful. Would this demonstrate a bit of that?”
Ilvriss put in quietly. For once, the woman’s suspicion and wariness faltered. She blinked at Ilvriss and Oidhol, then laughed as she put her boots up on the desk and sat back.
“What, make me the Mayor of Plumbers? Y’ win, Wall Lord. I’ve listened to Miss Aronia and seen your lot brawlin’ with the Lischelles, and I know how nice-folk turn around and boot you into the shit pond when they’ve got a chance. But damn it—fine. Let an old girl trust. Don’t mess me around or I’ll never forget it.”
She swung herself up to shake his hand. Wall Lord Ilvriss exhaled as he thought, for the first time, he’d won an ally in the Cowpat Plains. Oidhol added after a moment.
“Not to mention, everyone’s going to go to Liscor anyways for plumbing materials.”
He looked around at their blank expressions.
“Shieldglue? We used to buy it from Liscor in bulk! Nothing better! Waterproof, hardens fast, and stays secure for decades.”
Oidhol shook his head at the amateurs. Then rose. He wasn’t immune to smells, and this place felt filthy to him. Enclosing that damn sceptic pond would be a splendid start. Good thing Ilvriss had all the diggers.
 
——
 
Things…were changing. Yes, the Wall Lord had his woes, but that didn’t mean he was the one and only person to encounter troubles over the time he had spent here.
For instance—Ulva Terland was not happy about having a top-tier Stealth Golem uncovered. It stressed her, and she took it out on the Terlands heading south with her. It made her wary, especially since the Stealth Golem had ranked the artifacts Ilvriss was carrying as above any modern-grade enchantments.
All the more reason to bring overwhelming force than bleed Golems one by one. But her woes were nothing to the Lischelle family’s.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle got off his horse with a massive black eye and a bloody nose. Aronia, who was waiting for him, twisting her apron in her hands, started.
“Marvus! What happened?”
He normally came back from his regular brawls a bit beat up, but unless he got jumped by multiple high-level fighters, he gave more than he got. But the entire group of lads appeared beat up. Mostly lads—in the Lischelle family, the ladies cooked or cleaned and didn’t fight. That was how their parents had done it, and Aronia hadn’t changed it, no matter what her daughters said.
She was angry, upset, because of the news she had to tell Marvus and the fact that Colfa kept sending treats to her as if she were better than Aronia, though her sister never said that and only talked about how Liscor was more modern than even Invrisil, and because Aronia thought her daughters might be writing to their aunt behind her back.
“That damn Drake.”
She’d thought Marvus was wearing him down by now. Her husband had [Rough and Ready Healin’]; everyone who had bruises found them healing within a day or two. Over time, they’d beat the Drakes without healing potions.
However, Marvus winced his way over to the dinner table.
“What’s that smell? Smells good.”
“It’s a cake.”
“Ooh! But you’ve made ‘em before. Thought you didn’t like how much sugar it cost.”
He brightened up. Aronia bit her lip and clarified.
“A frosted one. Made with chocolate. Colfa sent a bag of sugar. Oteslia-grown.”
“…How dare she.”
Marvus wore the carefully-blank expression of a man who refused to turn down cake, even if it was made by Demons of Rhir—so long as it was good. But also that of a husband who knew he had to support his wife and who absolutely didn’t want to have the time he tried to court Colfa brought up?
She glared at him. She could [Read Minds: Family (Basic)] and see that kind of surface-level thing. She checked on it in the oven.
“Colfa’s just trying to play nice. Nevermind that, we’ve got real trouble. Explain your black eyes first. Burlise! Your pa’s hurt! Get some of that ice from the freezing box!”
Burlise came out with some ice from the costly magic box, and Marvus groaned as he held it over his eyes.
“We rode out like usual. At first, we were trouncin’ em like normal. But then, outta nowhere, some shrimp of a girl comes charging out. She says, ‘they’re attacking Wall Lord Ilvriss, let’s get ‘em’, and comes swinging at me.”
“You didn’t hit her, did you?”
Marvus didn’t brawl with girls, and from what it sounded like, Aronia would have been upset. Marvus glowered at his wife.
“What do you think I am? I let one of the girls push her out. Reckon she caught a few swings by accident. That’s not the problem. The problem is about a hundred Gnolls came out of nowhere and started punching!”
“Gnolls? There aren’t that many with the Wall Lord, are there?”
“Now there are. And they’re damn big. Country-strong.”
“Your Skill didn’t work on them?”
Another surprise. Marvus had [Advantage: Cityfolk]. It made him nimbler and even more of a problem to take out. If it ran out, he was still a big man, but—he rubbed at a tooth.
“Not one bit. I got three, then some Gnoll came out of nowhere. Biggest fellow I ever saw. Said he wasn’t a fighter. I gave him a number of shots. Then he landed a punch on me.”
“And?”
“And when I woke up, I decided I’d had enough.”
Aronia whistled. What kind of Gnoll…? She scowled as she checked on the cake.
“Well, we’ll sort that out later. I’ll ask some questions. Gnolls or not, they don’t have your Skills, Marvus. We have real trouble, though. I want to blame the Wall Lord, but it’s not him. Unless he’s hiring [Mercenaries]. And even then—”
She was so rattled she burned herself on the stove. Marvus half-rose.
“What’s gotten into you, Aronia?”
“Sickness. The Golvas say no less than eighty cattle have the nastiest warts they’ve ever seen. They explode. Literally explode, Marvus. And one of ours got hit. Rotworms.”
He swore and leapt up fully.
“How? We test for it! If it’s spread—”
“Just sit. That’s not the worst of it. A—I think a herd’s gone.”
She inhaled. She had Skills that helped them manage their sprawling domains. Marvus stared at her.
“Gone? Monster?”
“No. I didn’t hear from Ribreb. I sent out some [Riders], but Marvus, I want you to go there armed. With as many people as you can muster. You understand?”
He hesitated.
“Ribreb’s a drunk. Could be he’s just lost them. What’s…what’s your Skill say?”
Aronia had already mustered their best [Fighters]. She wiped her hands on her apron and stared across the plains towards where the herd was supposed to be.
Her Skill said the herd wasn’t out of control or being stolen. Her Skill said….
The cattle were vanishing.
One…
By…
One.
 
——
 
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer had a barbeque and a snack.
The first meal he’d had in…what, thousands of years? Over ten thousand?
Sometimes, he’d eaten the pests who were attracted to his Master, but they were so boring, and it wasn’t worth rounding them up.
This?
“This is excellent beef, you know. I can see why it’s considered good. Though—have you ever had Salazsarian pork? I bet no one remembers that either. Or Giant’s testicles.”
He spoke to the two dozen Humans sitting cross-legged in the grass. Tolveilouka had built a bonfire and was smoking the meat.
One of the cows was twitching after he’d tossed it on the burning logs. Oh, sure, Tolveilouka had to admit…it wasn’t the most elegant barbeque. You could argue the fear ruined the meat. And agony.
But some people could taste fear, and he?
He sucked off more meat from the bone. Opened his mouth. Began to gnash the bone up. Licked his hand. Grabbed another piece of smoking meat and began to eat.
“Could use some salt. And that ketchup from Liscor. You know, we invented that? We called it tomatus. Wish I’d brought some.”
Or another nice sauce! Maybe they had some? The Humans were trembling.
Tolveilouka was bare-chested. He kept eating nonstop. He had to, because he had a lot of cows to eat. A herd’s worth, really. But he ate so fast it was like he didn’t taste the meat. And the bones—
The sight of a half-Elf eating a cow’s worth of meat was…insane. His stomach was bulging, distended beyond belief but not as much as it should have been. After him eating fourteen cows he should have been far, far larger.
He—the [Ranchers] stared up at him. Tolveilouka glanced around as the cow he’d ‘prepared’ on the fire sizzled.
“Oh look, veal.”
A baby cow was hiding behind the terrified herd. Tolveilouka got up. At this, one of the [Ranchers] spoke.
“Stop. Y’can’t keep killing them like that. At least put ‘em down before—”
The half-Elf had the crying cow overhead, ready to toss on the fire. He turned, grease and fat dribbling down his chest.
“What’s that? Oh, excuse me. I’m not speaking correctly. What’s that, y’hear? Is that the silly accent you people take on? You sound like some Terandrians. I hate Terandrians.”
His eyes glowed in the firelight. The other Humans tried to talk the man down, but he rose.
“We’re the Lischelles. I don’t know who you are, but you think you can—”
Tolveilouka respected a good threat. Since this wasn’t one of them, he dropped the calf. Strode over, and the [Rancher] threw a punch. Tolveilouka walked into it. The punch mashed up his face. Might have given him a concussion if he were a regular half-Elf. His features visibly squished around the fist.
Then the fist ran into something that would not yield, and the man’s hand broke instead. He made a sound. Then Tolveilouka grabbed him.
“Listen here, friend. I’m hungry. And bored. And this is what I do—when—I’m—bored—”
He began hitting the man. Carefully. The shout became a choke, then gasping, then the animal sounds all beings made when you hit them hard enough. The Humans watched in a horror, trying to wake up. One of them was pinching their arms so hard, because this was a dream—
The half-Elf kept punching in the firelight after the sounds stopped. Consciousness tended to flee him annoyingly fast unless he used magic.
“Stop. Enough!”
A young man, now. He leapt up, and a girl joined him. They wanted to do the right thing and stop—
Tolveilouka seized them, and there was screaming. The rest of the [Ranchers] sat there. Frozen.
It wasn’t a lack of bravery, really. More like extreme common sense. There was nothing to do. They could see that. They sat, and more than one pissed themselves until Toveilouka got bored.
Then he walked over, killed the baby calf, and peed on its corpse. Bent down—and began to eat it.
Blood and urine and wet bones. He turned, eyes gleaming, and then their horror took on another level. Tolveilouka crouched there. Grinning.
This isn’t even one of my truer forms. 
“You don’t get it. There’s a world beneath you. A terrible, sinking world, and I have bathed in it and delved below what you can dream of. You don’t even understand. But I’m doing you all a favor.”
They nodded rapidly, thinking he wanted them to agree. They didn’t get it. Tolveilouka peered around at the cattle. Whispered.
“No, no, I am. Suffering levels. You don’t see it, but you’re all going to level. [Coward] is a class. Nightmares haunt you. But you’ll level for a brush with me. Even he will.”
He nodded to the twitching body. Tolveilouka paused.
“Assuming he lives. Maybe it won’t be how he pleases, but hey! I’m told any level is lovely. For you lot.”
He burped as he counted the rest of the cows. Then glanced around.
Soon, they’d be coming for him. Proud people of this land. He could confront them, but that was no fun. The creeping of dread when you found no monster, only stories—
That was artful. He kept devouring, faster now, a hunched half-Elf, beautiful as could be, covering himself in filth. Making a mockery of the act so many found pleasurable, that vital deed.
After a moment, Tolveilouka muttered.
“Or shoyu. Lemon juice? Anything, really.”
 
——
 
When Nerul heard about the second Golem incident, he felt his stomach twist. He had terrible diarrhea, and he went to protest—again.
Strategist Thallin had to wait for Nerul to exit the toilet. The Drake eyed Nerul.
“[Diplomat], are you well? You’re a bit sickly.”
“I assure you—just winded from all these damn stairs, Thallin.”
They were on the second floor of Salazsar. There were plenty of negative floors, but Floor 2…Nerul clarified as he mopped his brows.
“Stairs in general. I have seen too many of them of late. And my diet does not agree with me.”
“Too many drinks?”
“No, too many damn sprouty things. The kind that grow in the ground?”
“Vegetables, Diplomat?”
“Yes, them. But enough about me! Strategist, this is vital, and Ilvriss is running out of time! I insist!”
The Drake [Strategist] seemed uncomfortable as he faced Nerul.
“I understand, Diplomat, but what you’re asking is beyond even my pay-grade to authorize. The Walled Families have to vote unanimously—you haven’t gotten a ‘no’. They see the problem. So they’ve delayed the vote to talk it out.”
“Well, tell me who the ones who refuse to vote are and I’ll persuade them!”
“You know I can’t do that, Diplomat. It’s anonymous.”
These regulations were a good thing. They kept someone from abusing Salazsar’s power. But since Nerul knew that any Drake who really wanted to could abuse power in the Walled Cities, he cheated. He wasn’t the best at it—he’d never tried to do this before, but it was simple.
If a certain number of Sons and Daughters of the Wall were selected at random to be part of a secret committee that voted on the most important decisions beyond High Command in the City of Gems, all he had to do was talk to every important head of house.
