“My creator.”
The voice of Archmage Zelkyr sounded again in this room, and Nerul’s breath constricted in his chest. Damn them. Damn them, they were so damn good—he felt squeezed, and they had no Skills. But his barely worked on them. Chorainz went on.
“I did not hear him. Another of us did. Would you like to hear his voice?”
“I…please.”
Silence. Chorainz’s heart pulsed, and then there was a sound. The crash of something breaking. Nerul jumped and swore every Drake in the security booth did too. He hoped none of them had their claws on a trigger spell. Then a voice emerged, raised in frustration.
 
“Useless! Useless, worthless—these won’t do. There’s nothing valuable about them. No heartspark. No glimmer of anything like true sentience. Send them to Salazsar. What am I missing?”
“Master? They are a magnificent—”
Another crash.
“Be silent. Be silent, Cognita. Log the results. This is your fault.”
“Yes, Master.”
Another crash.
“I’m trying to give you a sister. Why won’t it work the same way twice?”
“I am a work of art, Master Zelkyr. A testament to your unparalleled—”
“I said silent. Morph to Chemath Marble, heavy ore.”
Then it was quiet. A panting voice.
“I need to keep working…truth of stone. Truth of gemstones. Send a message. Tell them I’ve got their damn Golems. I need another shipment of gems. Higher purity. I’ll get them their mining Golems. Tell them to dig. Where’s Perril? I need someone intelligent to converse with.”
 
Nerul thought he didn’t breathe until there was a soft clicking sound. The sounds stopped, and he exhaled.
“Well…thank you. I’m going to remember that. I must say, though, it matches what I know about the man. Touchy.”
He undersold that one. Chorainz replied instantly.
“Then our creator’s legacy has diminished in the eyes of Salazsar. Drakes preceding his demise refused to believe. Broke our hearts for lying.”
Well, damnit, he’d just revealed more to them. Nerul gave up. He put his feet up on the desk and thought that surprised Chorainz.
“You have me all figured out, friend Chorainz. If I may, can we skip ahead? I know you’re pumping me for information, but we do have a fifteen minute window. Since I don’t have time to deliver my request in this window, may I ask the obvious? How do you know he’s dead?”
He knew what they said, but he had to hear it. Chorainz’s heart whirled, then he spoke.
“Because we do not feel him. His influence is gone. Therefore, he is dead or incapacitated. Cognita knows this to be true. Is she still there?”
This time, Nerul just smiled. He knew the other Golem might be able to read his body language, cipher it through whatever systems they’d thought up, read the beating of his heart. So he decided to take the offensive. He attacked with the truth.
“No.”
Then there was silence. Absolute silence.
Chorainz’s heart froze up, and colors began to bleed around the crack in it. Dangerously—until it restarted and whirled around. Like a laundry of colors moving in a disjointed motion. The Golem was speechless.
Then it started to laugh again. Like a thousand voices, and Nerul sighed.
“Okay, round one, you. Give me forty-five.”
 
——
 
Chorainz didn’t ask about Cognita again. It had to be dying to know, but Nerul came in with a different tack after splashing water in his face, reviewing the files, and having a chat with the nervous security.
“Do you know the lands approximately east of…one of the cities, Goisedall. Along the western coast?”
A long pause.
“If…you are referring to the Sea Fortresses of Kablez, they were destroyed and sunken with the Walled City of Currents {LONG} prior to Archmage Zelkyr. Initiatives to recover the sunken forts have failed due to {REASON OF KRAKENS}.”
“Fascinating. Am I outside the bounds of your communications?”
A pause.
“You have reached…the 59th extrapolation layer, Diplomat. My response time may be inhibited.”
“Damn. Even that’s within your calculations?”
“Drake lands are Drake lands, Diplomat. What would you like to know?”
“Anything valuable there?”
Laughter.
“To a Drake?”
Nerul chuckled along.
“I deserve that one. Let’s put some information, or anything you lot have on file that’s actually valuable, on the table.”
“I would request conferring with my fellow prisoners as the information is not within me.”
“No, no, just throwing it out there. Salazsar might need that too. But what I need, and I’m sure this is in your predictions, is help. Terlands.”
This time, the reply was instant.
“We have returned to the 1st extrapolation layer, Diplomat. How many War Golems has House Terland deployed…this time?”
A raised eyebrow.
“Who said we’re at war?”
“Ah. Hunter-Killers then. Terland doctrine is to deploy two Stealth Golems for every one Hunter-Killer for retrieval. Unless the Golem is considered…{EXPENDABLE}.”
Just the barest hint of emotion there. Not that the voice did more than wobble, but perhaps…Nerul sat forwards. Perhaps that warble was to cover a mistake in the voice.
Everyone feared these Golems because they were intelligent beyond reason. Most hadn’t been Sentient-class—until their capture. If they’d advanced beyond that…
“Heard of the Antinium?”
“…No.”
Nerul slapped his forehead.
“The Black Tide of Izril. Dead gods, no one’s told you? They’re all over. Bug-people. Nearly destroyed the Walled Cities, but if it’s been thirty-eight years…we never deployed you against them? No, no, I saw the file asking the Walled Families to consider utilizing you. They never got to Salazsar, so it never became an option. Well, we were ready to explode the entire mountain range to slow them, and damn the rest of Izril. Glad Sserys was there. Add them to your list of problems. If they take Salazsar, I don’t think they’d leave you intact. They don’t like us Drakes.”
Chorainz’s heart moved a lot faster, processing all this.
“It would appear these Antinium are a pressing threat, Wall Lord. And House Terland. We are prepared to strike a deal. On favorable—”
Take the risk now. If they remembered Zelkyr that well—Nerul smiled with all his teeth.
“I’m sorry, Chorainz. I thought you’d know them. I meant the Antinium who have existed for a long time. If the Blighted Kingdom of Rhir is to be believed, they’ve been sighted as long as Demons, but they were never encountered until they broke through all but one of the walls. The Antinium…of Rhir. I’m told the Deathless avoided them when they emerged.”
Dead silence. Chorainz’s heart raced and raced, then froze again. Like it was stuck. Unable to process—the mouth opened, no longer in a smile, and the broken gemstones lit up slightly.
“Diplomat…”
“I think I worried it there. Just wait. It’s still suppressed. Just the speaking st—”
Chorainz {SCREAMED}.
The reverberations defeated Nerul. He clapped his claws to his earholes, and they bled. They made him fall to his knees, and he lay there.
I thought they wanted to—
It used its speaking stone—
Was it getting up? He dragged himself up, deaf. Saw the torso…lying there. Not moving a bit. Still bound. The speaking stone was utterly exploded. Nerul stared at Chorainz, uncomprehending. And then, as Drakes burst into the room, aiming weapons, there was something.
A vibration in his claws. Nerul stared at them—at the Golem whose heart paused again—and the Drakes around him whirled. Terror filling faces.
He could not hear, but they still could. So Nerul had to guess it was—a second scream. Twenty-five voices screaming in tandem, so loud the vibrations made it out of their confinement cells.
If they were separated, they got a bit upset. Screamed.
He threw up his claws, put himself between the Golem and the guards. And then grinned with his back to Chorainz.
Got you.
 
——
 
They had to pour healing potion in his earholes and cast spells to restore his hearing. Nasty, uncomfortable, and then he had to endure shouting.
Two [Generals] and three of the Walled Families had been notified, but Nerul told them what he told Chorainz when he walked back in.
“That was my victory. Wasn’t it?”
A speaking stone had been re-inserted into Chorainz’s throat. A much smaller, weaker one that meant the Golem couldn’t deafen Nerul again. The Golem said nothing for a moment. Then—
“We have validated the threat of the Antinium, Diplomat. And established a new opinion based on data presented. Please, continue.”
His voice was even more fluent. Mixed with a feminine tone. Nerul grunted.
“I don’t pretend to understand Golems that well. But if I’m right, based on the files, you just send out a…some kind of [Message] spell? But it’s not a spell, is it? Just words, ideas, data. Contained only in sheer sound. And the others thought about it and sent back information?”
A swift reply and now a feminine chuckle. Oh, they were going sultry on him. Was that a personality read or another Golem?
“The word is compression of data, and your understanding is correct. They sent me, Diplomat. To explain, it is just information. Everything is information. All that {CHORAINZ} learned and experienced was delivered. A greater consensus of us deliberated and sent back a better-equipped Golem to negotiate.”
Sent a different Golem through sound alone. As if an entire being were just…information like a book. Nerul shivered.
This was why Golems had stood out, even among Stitch-folk and the other beings.
“Is it still Chorainz in there?”
“No. You are speaking to Yweine.”
Nerul reached for a folder. She spoke helpfully.
“I am one of the serving Golems assigned to the Walled Families. Protector. Guardian. Battle Golem. Auxiliary Mage. I believe my files indicate I am one of the most dangerous.”
“And poor Chorainz is…?”
“In my form. My processing of thoughts is limited—here. However. We are within the 1st level of extrapolation.”
Back to square one? Nerul didn’t think so. The Golem was pulling a tough act, but he smiled.
“I’ve alarmed you. The Black Tide is exactly as I’ve made it out to be.”
“We understand, Diplomat. The fact does not change that you have approached us. The Terlands are a threat we understand well. What do you want?”
Down to brass tacks, eh? Maybe they’d thought of this from the start. Soften him up and send in the heavy. Nerul was going to write a book about this lot after he was done. He cracked his claws.
“Ow. I need to stop the Matriarch of House Terland from murdering a Wall Lord in the north. He is digging for something.”
A pause. A furious voice in his ear. Wall Lady Calistoca.
“Nerul, you cannot give them—”
Cards down. He was playing against her as well as the Golems. And his gamble paid off. Yweine’s reply was fast.
“In which sector?”
“Er, eastern?”
“The City of Naamreles. That is a bad idea.”
Dead silence. No one came in to haul him off. Which meant he’d just stunned Calistoca. She was no idiot, but they hadn’t known for sure what Ilvriss was doing. Hearing a Golem say it…Nerul folded his claws over his belly. Damn, his abs hurt.
“Didn’t Zelkyr ever try to dig up a Walled City? I’m sure he’d have thought of it.”
“Attempts were made for other Walled Cities. Naamreles was considered to be a poor choice. Archmage Zelkyr was discouraged after {SETBACKS}. Too many Golems were lost. Naamreles is not known to our collective.”
“I see, but then—”
“The Terland Golems would remember. The Matriarch of House Terland may be attempting to kill your Wall Lord because she is aware it is a bad idea.”
Nerul really didn’t like that. He licked his lips.
“Well…how bad?”
A pause.
“It is…{UNLIKELY} to affect our imprisonment. However, we wish to strike a mutual agreement due to the proximity of these Antinium.”
And the fact they were digging up Naamreles? Then again, they had no idea the Black Tide weren’t as dangerous as the ones back in Rhir. Play the cards out—and see what she held.
“I have an idea how to stop the Terlands. I need your help for it.”
“There are several options within our extrapolations.”
“You’re not going to like it.”
A longer flicker. Yweine’s voice became a touch frostier.
“A deal for our cooperation would be necessarily beneficial to both parties, Diplomat.”
“Well, I know you want out. There has to be a time limit on how long you can endure, even as well as Zelkyr made you.”
Her voice was a mistake. He was reading into it with his [Sense Intentions] Skill. Yweine seemed to realize it because it went flat and Golem-like. But he had her. She had feelings.
“We are stone. Stone-folk have endured in places of this world since beyond antiquity. We can wait for another offer, Diplomat, which you have not made yet.”
Interesting. Did she mean Trolls? No, they didn’t count. Nerul didn’t even bother to glance at the feint. He just countered, blind.
“Poor Chorainz doesn’t have that long. I’ve read the estimates. Even if you’re doing something to prolong his meltdown or destruction, how long does that heart have? A decade? A century? And the odds of me making you a better offer do not go up if the Third Antinium War starts. That’s right. Scream that at your friends. We haven’t lost a Walled City yet, but between that and the last two Goblin Kings—and I remind you it’s been barely more than a hundred years after Zelkyr died—the next war will see us delving into all assets.”
Using you as Zelkyr intended. The lifespan of a war-Golem could be very short. Yweine’s voice was flat.
“Your argument is excellent, Diplomat Nerul. You have not stated your request, though I infer it has clauses.”
“Defeating the Terlands or convincing them to quit. Information on the New Lands—lands risen from the sea, I’ll show you where—information on Naamreles. Cooperation without being tricky about it.”
That was his vague request. He actually only needed the first one. He needed her cooperation, but Nerul was going for the entire board because that was the play.
“And what do we receive?”
He beamed at her as the Golem waited, a viper locked in that body of minerals and magic.
“The only thing I can offer, of course. Freedom. You know, it was once speculated that if we freed even one of you, the rest would ride along in them. But I bet it doesn’t work like that. I think there’s a limit to how much of you that you can cram in there. It’s why you all get lonely. It’s why you want to strike a deal for Chorainz. Zelkyr gave you emotions. And unfortunately, I’m a bastard willing to use that against you.”
He leaned forwards.
