“No. Do we hate them? I mean, more than I’m supposed to hate Terandrians in general as a good Drake? There are a few nations we extra-hate…I think Taimaguros is on the list? What’re they actually like, Lyonette?”
He pushed himself up, and Lyonette sighed.
“They’re very odd. Taima or Guros and no in-between. And between you and me, they’re one of the few kingdoms that actually practices prima nocta. I thought it was a joke—”
“Er, I don’t know that one.”
“Ah…how should I explain it?”
They were headed for the doors to the ballroom when Mrsha the Changed threw the doors open. She stood there as Wall Lord Ilvriss tensed for a disaster, and Lyonette blinked.
“Mrsha? What’s wrong?”
The girl held up a card.
Bidets are superior.
The Wall Lord felt a smile appear on his lips. His heart lifted, and his chest puffed out. Lyonette’s expression turned into a scowl.
“Mrsha, what happened to mother-daughter loyalty? Don’t you take Wall Lord Ilvriss’ side just because it’s novel. We don’t need one in the new inn! Give me one reason why it’s good.”
The girl gazed up at her mother solemnly.
Mother? I have fur.
“Ah. Well—”
Ilvriss shook Mrsha’s paw.
“Would you like to join us at Tails and Scales, Miss Mrsha? This uncivilized scion of Marquin the Radiant is keeping me company, but I would prefer a decent guest.”
Lyonette began to scold Mrsha and Ilvriss as they walked out the doors, smirking.
 
——
 
Those were the good moments. But there were always the bad ones, after.
Wall Lord Ilvriss stood in Liscor’s square and watched people throwing produce at Krshia Silverfang as she tried to deliver a speech. She dodged a rotten Yellat. Tried to keep speaking—but the rain of refuse got too heavy, and she had to retreat.
Then he saw Lism stepping forwards to jeers.
“Listen, you idiots—do you want the old Council back? What we do in private is our business!”
“Traitor!”
“We trusted you!”
They kept hurling objects. Wall Lord Ilvriss glanced around, wondering if there was a moment for him to say something. But there were Humans in the crowd. Gnolls and Drakes, and he wasn’t Liscorian. He watched Lism take a flying tomato, and then the two Councilmembers were covering each other. Making their way away.
When Ilvriss began his long ride back to the dig site, Welsca handed him something.
 
Two brawls. 86 injured. Undead attack—3 dead, 33 injured. Two urgent complaints from dig teams. Liuss’ family has responded via [Message] spell.
 
That last one—Wall Lord Ilvriss arranged for meetings. A tour of the wounded. Made sure the dead were being compensated, and scheduled a briefing with Major Shellc for whenever he was free. And arranged for the correspondence from Salazsar to be on his desk. And for Master Plumber Oidhol to be given whatever he needed to begin work right away. All of this was his regular work.
But the hard part was…Liuss.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss knew how to deal with someone who had died in the line of duty or work. A disaster in the mines was horrible. It reflected on him and his company. If it could be prevented, he and Alrric would change things to ensure it didn’t happen again. If it was negligence, someone not following protocols, that would be uncovered.
Same with the monsters. People knew this was a dangerous dig. It was not…better. But it was easier, if that made sense. Because there were protocols to follow, as insulting as that might be to the individuals.
But Liuss?
Liuss was the Drake who’d climbed the fence at the cookout the Lischelles had hosted. Just a lad. A well-to-do family’s son who’d been part of Wall Lord Dramm’s crew. A fool who’d thought to ‘get back’ at the Lischelles the only way he knew how, egged on by his friends.
The bull had killed him very fast. It hadn’t been the Lischelles’ fault for once. They had been explicit enough with the warnings, and there’d been a fence.
No one went into a bull’s territory without using a [Sleep] wand first. So…it was not the boy’s fault. Ilvriss would never blame the dead.
But how did he explain it to the family? There was a temptation, which Ilvriss had half-embraced, to lie. If he said Liuss had been defending the camp or—or safeguarding House Gemscale’s interests, that was a nondescript way of saving face, right?
He couldn’t tell the boy’s parents that he’d died doing something stupid to no end. But lying—lying like that would mean those Drakes held it against the Lischelles and the north in general. It was also a disservice to the [Soldiers] who were risking their lives.
In the end, Ilvriss had compromised. He’d written vaguely about a horrible accident during negotiations. Let them dig and find out the whole story, but he’d added as much respect to Liuss’ name as possible.
That was not the end of it. The family had lost their boy. Liuss’ parents had written back. Asking questions—Ilvriss had put Wall Lord Dramm in charge of speaking to them personally. It was not his fault exactly, but he’d been there and the ranking Drake, damn it.
Communications continued. Ilvriss had taken a scrying orb call with the parents, a dry-eyed affair that was painfully polite. Eyes boring into him as he told the [Gem Merchant] duo how appalled he was. How Liuss had been so well loved.
Lie. But that’s what they wanted to hear, wasn’t it? That their son had been what he was to them: a hero. There had been questions.
Had the bull been unsupervised? Well, yes, damnit, it was a bull. Had it been charging? Maybe Liuss had been onto something—why were these Humans allowed to attack us?
Ilvriss had entertained it. Let them shape their own narratives. Right up until the last bit. Which was the final straw.
A missive had come for him, requesting that Wall Lord Ilvriss cite Liuss for a medal under Salazsar’s commendation system. Civilians and soldiers got different kinds of awards, often with a monetary reward because that was Drakes. For true heroism, you could even receive property or—
They wanted Ilvriss to commend their son with the Stoutscale Award, a medal for civilians who had performed acts of extreme valor despite risk to their life. It was a prestigious award—and half the recipients were posthumously awarded it. The [Representative] had written carefully to tell Wall Lord Ilvriss that all the grieving family wanted was his recommendation to the committee, nothing more.
And that they’d forgo the reward customary for the medal and donate it back to the city.
Wall Lord Ilvriss refused. He should have put his foot down before this. Shouldn’t have danced around the truth as much. Well, he’d tried to be respectful to the dead, to the family, but not this.
“No medals. Inform Wall Lord Dramm he is to withdraw his recommendation.”
“But sir—”
The young man who’d deliver the message was one of Liuss’ friends. Ilvriss glanced up, once, eyes flashing.
“Wall Lord Dramm will be asked to testify on truth stone if this proposal goes through. The scandal of a proposal being rejected after certification by Dramm is not one he wishes to have. The committee records such events.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
No medal. Ilvriss would not lie. He wrote a curt message back to the [Representative] informing him of that in no uncertain terms, and that he would not entertain similar untruths.
The next day, they put a story in the newspaper about him.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss’ disastrous expedition in the north! 
That was the headline. Wall Lord Ilvriss stopped drinking tea and flipped the newspaper over. The Miner’s Report, the leading newspaper in Salazsar. The war with Fissival was on the bottom of the page. He went back to reading the subheadings.
 
Multiple brave sons and daughters of Salazsar dead. 
Daily brawls with Humans, unsanitary working conditions?
Allegations of an affair with a [Princess]?
Is this the Wall Lord we need?
 
He read in silence as Xesci and some of his staff waited. They were uncomfortable. Ilvriss just exhaled.
“Let me know if Alrric faces trouble.”
“Should we write to the newspaper, sir? We could complain—”
Ilvriss tossed the newspaper down.
“Let them talk. I’m sure I deserve some of it. They’ll keep talking until they get bored or I switch the narrative. That’s how it works. Has my Uncle sent a message?”
“No, Wall Lord.”
“Then we continue.”
The second Golem attack came shortly after he approved Osthia’s budget for a memorial service. Long-ranged arrows fired from some kind of Centaur-Golem sniper, according to witnesses.
Four. Ilvriss’ ring caught two. He dodged one.
The last one broke three ribs and, he imagined, hadn’t been meant to kill him. The arrowtips were blunted. He drank a healing potion and lay through the night in mild agony until Courier Salamani raced into camp with a healing scroll, courtesy of The Wandering Inn.
Got back to work. That was the day that Damia Reinhart rode into his camp.
 
——
 
Today was going to be an amazing day.
It took two days to travel from the door outside of the Cowpat Plains to Ilvriss’ base camp on foot. Well, foot, horse, wagon—theirs was a huge group.
Silverfangs, recruits from Liscor, Esthelm, Invrisil, and everywhere else that Damia had talked up Wall Lord Ilvriss’ campaign. Not to mention Varnie, the [Gang Boss] that Damia had so dramatically rescued from the noose.
That gave her some social credit. More than being a [Lady] or the one who’d recruited everyone. Enough for the Silverfangs to actually be open and friendly, despite their experiences in the north and Damia’s reputation as, well, a Reinhart.
And Gnolls were, like everything else in Liscor, interesting. Damia couldn’t get enough of talking to them.
“So all your Named-rank adventurers actually know each other and get along? Ours fight like Gnolls and Dr—I mean, Crelers and everything else!”
She put her foot in it and blushed, but Huntress Rayna just laughed.
“No offense taken, Lady Damia. That’s the one true saying you northerners have of the south. Our Named-ranks meet, yes. We make a point of introducing them to each other.”
“Like one introduces pets to each other. An analogy they do not care for, yes?”
Irit was riding with them. Rayna, Irit were both young leaders of this group in the north, and Damia had naturally fallen in with them. With so many Honored Gnolls who’d passed and the tribe split up between the Meeting of Tribes, their old mines, Liscor, and the north, there were a lot of younger Gnolls in authority.
Damia thought that was a good thing. It interested her that Rayna and Irit had openly wished for seniors to be around. It was, apparently, not fun to suddenly have to take charge when you weren’t ready for it.
“So they meet with, what, mediators?”
Irit nodded.
“[Shamans]. So they can get along, know each other, and if there is trouble, ally. They don’t have to like each other, but we are Gnolls. At the mercy of Drakes, you see? So when push comes to shove—”
“You don’t turn on each other. Well, obviously. Smart. Selphids do the same thing. If our Named-ranks did that, we’d have so much less infighting.”
“It’s not easy. There’s always one known grudge. Before the Meeting of Tribes, entire tribes held huge grudges. They still do, but we can’t afford it now. So we’re all one big, happy family.”
“About as functional as mine?”
More laughter. Damia revelled in it, even if it was self-deprecation. More than one Human was listening to her, including Binevy and Sule. She’d impressed them too. Not a bad thing.
Actually, the only unhappy person was Sule. He’d lasted about half a second against Primera when Damia had pulled her stunt, and the farm boy-turned-[Bodyguard] didn’t mind his job.
But he had sort of been hoping Damia was one of those licentious Reinharts. The ones who slept with their bodyguards.
…It took a curious sort to join House Reinhart.
However, Damia was a Level 16 [Sharp Dame]. Two levels from her recruiting, four from helping Varnie escape Lord Xitegen.
She sort of wished she’d gotten more, but six levels in such a short amount of time, even for someone as low-level as Damia? She’d take it.
One of the things she’d won was a loyalty-Skill for Varnie.
[Loyalty of the Low]. Slightly unflattering, but it sounded good. Another was [Bridge the Gap]—a Skill that Damia assumed was because she was being friendly with people?
Only, it worked on…both ideas as well as things. Damia had used it to be more at-home with the Gnolls, and she used it again now.
“Whoops, pothole.”
Her horse had nearly ridden into some stupid mudhole. Instead, its hooves clattered on pieces of wood, and everyone glanced down.
“Nice Skill, yes?”
“It’s called [Bridge the Gap]. It, uh, works? I wish it were more powerful.”
“Better than nothing.”
The others rode over the gap in the mudhole, calling out warnings as people walking behind skirted it. A lot of Gnolls were on foot, but Damia had secured a horse for herself and her people, and Rayna rode in case of trouble.
Rayna’s horse tried to walk on the artificial bridge of not-quite-perfect planks of wood, perhaps a symbol of Damia’s level, but it vanished after barely eight seconds. Her horse’s hooves splashed in the muck, and she cursed as it got on her fur.
“Turn my fur white—right before our meeting with the Wall Lord!”
“Rayna, you can’t say that anymore!”
Irit called over, and Rayna blushed as Damia fumbled for a water flask. But before she could offer it, someone jogged over at a speed that made her eyes boggle. Also, the Gnoll with a fur coat like a grizzly bear and stature to match was so tall he was almost of a height with her—mounted!
“Rayna, my hunting heart, your fur! Here. I didn’t see you this morning.”
“Thamert, I’m fine. It’s just mud.”
Embarrassed, the [Huntress] snatched the water flask the Gnoll held, and Damia eyed him.
Dead gods, he is the biggest Gnoll I have ever seen in my life. The Minotaur at that brothel seemed small-chested compared to him. He smiled at her.
“So this is Lady Damia? Greetings, Lady. I am Thamert, Rayna’s fiancé and [Mine Leader] in the north.”
“We’re not engaged anymore, Thamert!”
Rayna snapped at him. He flicked his ears and put a hand over his chest.
“I would raise a family with you, Rayna. Just tell me to go and I’ll—”
“Get out of here!”
She kicked at him, leaning over her horse, and he exhaled hugely. His head fell, and Damia eyed Rayna.
“If that’s the case—”
“Oh shut up, we’re not breaking up. Just get lost—you’re embarrassing me!”
His head rose once more, and the huge Gnoll beamed.
“My lovely, spirited, fiery huntress—”
Damia did her utmost not to laugh, and Irit bit his tongue as his shoulders shook. Rayna dared them to laugh as she rode forwards, wiping at her fur.
