But not Ksmvr. So Erin clenched her fists. She leapt from the wagon with a yell—
And tripped as something snagged her leg going over the side. Erin had only a moment to yelp before she smacked into the ground hard. She groaned—she hadn’t landed in the snow, only on frozen ground. And falling from a wagon headfirst hurt. If she hadn’t managed to catch the fall on her arms she might have broken her skull, but she felt like her arms were broken instead.
“[Tripgrass]. Again.”
Erin had to get up. She pushed herself up groggily and saw the old man looming over her. She yelped, threw a punch with all her strength.
He caught it. It was a [Minotaur Punch] and he caught it. Erin blinked at the incredible strength in the man’s body. True, he looked like he was strong enough for it, but—
He released her, and Erin stumbled back. She stared at him, fists half-raised. She felt like she had long ago, in front of Gazi. As if anything she did would be useless. The old man stared around, and then at Termin. The wagon driver was sitting white-faced in his driver’s seat.
“Will you try to fight as well?”
Termin stared back, paralyzed by fear. The white-bearded stranger nodded, and turned to Erin. She tensed—
And he held up an iPhone.
“You are Erin Solstice, aren’t you? Explain this to me.”
Erin stopped. All processes went on immediate halt. She lowered her hands. Her mind went blank. She stared at the small, metallic object in the old man’s hands. Its screen was glowing, and it looked so familiar to her. But—
She stared at the old man. At the iPhone.
“That’s an iPhone.”
“Yes. It is. And it seems to be malfunctioning, although I copied it completely.”
“That’s Ryoka’s iPhone.”
The world had stopped making sense. Erin stared at the old man while she waited for someone to wake her up from the dream she was having. He nodded to her, impatient.
“A copy. See—this.”
The old man pointed to the small, glowing screen. Erin peered down at the app his finger was pointing at.
“Oh. Safari. That’s an…that’s the internet app.”
“Is it?”
The old man frowned at Erin. He tapped the app and a screen popped up, glowing, white, before the typical ‘no internet’ page flashed on screen.
“You see? I am missing something for it to work. What connection do I need to obtain?”
“Um.”
Erin stared blankly at the screen, and then at the frowning face in front of her. She felt like her brain was trying to work a million miles a second while crawling along at a snail’s pace. She answered automatically as best she could.
“Well, you need internet. But uh, you don’t have internet here. No one in this…this world does. So…it’s not gonna work.”
“I see. That is inconvenient. Well then, am I to assume these other functions do not work for the same reason?”
The old man clicked a button and the iPhone went back to the menu screen. Erin peered at the iPhone, nodding her head.
“Youtube? Oh—that’s for watching videos. Yeah, it needs internet too.”
“But there are videos on this device.”
“Oh—those are downloaded. Uh, they’re part of it. Youtube needs…the internet.”
“Ah. And the store? This one?”
“Spotify? Yeah. Same problem.”
“I see. How tedious. Is there any other function I may have missed?”
“What?”
“I have listened to every song and watched every ‘video’ on this device. I have solved the riddle of this particular function—”
“You mean the app? 2048? The game?”
“Ah, that’s what they’re called? App. Hm. And yes, it was a quite entertaining game, or rather, logic puzzle. But is there anything else I can do with this device?”
“Well, you could—hold on.”
Erin raised her hand and stared at it. Then she slapped herself as hard as she could. Her head rang a bit.
“Ow!”
“That looked painful.”
“It was. Sorry. Well…you can take notes with the iPhone. See here?”
“Ah yes. And record what is spoken. A useful function, no doubt.”
“And—oh, Ryoka had Triple Town. See—”
Erin found the iPhone nearly snatched out of her hands. The old man stared down at the screen, eyes bulging.
“How did you do that? I couldn’t fathom how I did it once. But you’ve changed the screen!”
“Hm? You didn’t know? You can change the screen since there are more apps. See? You swipe left. Like this…”
“Swipe left. Fascinating.”
Erin stared at the old man as he clumsily moved his fingers across the screen. She felt compelled to reach for the one straw of rationality she had in this moment.
“I’m surprised…Ryoka didn’t tell you how the iPhone worked. Because this is totally something she gave you, right?”
“Hm? Candy Crush? Intriguing. Oh yes, I received this from her.”
“Ah.”
The young woman nodded a few times. The old man was mumbling to himself, mostly along the lines of ‘fascinating’, or ‘yes, this certainly deserves closer study’. Erin stared at him.
“What’s your name?”
“Teriarch. Mm. I can see there is much I have yet to explore. Tell me, I encountered a terrible problem when I went here. To settings, see? And I pressed—”
“Ooh, yeah. Reset. Don’t do that. It gets rid of everything.”
“So I had noticed. But why does it exist?”
“Um. So you can put other things on the device? If you had the internet I mean.”
“Really? How?”
Erin stared at Teriarch. She stared into his multicolored eyes and wondered if today was a good day or not.
“Uh, well, you can’t here. It’s impossible.”
“Ah. Well then, I shall make do with these new…apps. Thank you for your help, Erin Solstice.”
“Oh. No problem…have we met before?”
Teriarch paused. He raised his head from the screen he’d been staring at obsessively and looked at Erin. For the first time he looked into her face, rather than just at her as an object to be interacted with. And he frowned.
“You do look…familiar. How odd. I should know anyone I have encountered. But I…hrm. I think we have met.”
Erin nodded slowly. He seemed familiar. But from where?
“Well…you’re a friend of Ryoka? Or she knows you?”
“She has performed tasks for me before, yes.”
“Oh. I see. You’re her…mysterious client?”
Teriarch frowned, and Erin realized she might have violated Ryoka’s contract of silence or whatever. But Ryoka had never told her who Teriarch was, just that she’d met with someone who was powerful and could cast magic. Teriarch studied Erin slowly and nodded.
“Yes. I am a…mage. Of quite significant ability.”
“I can tell. Um. Are my friends going to be alright?”
Teriarch looked dismissively at the Horns of Hammerad. Erin saw Yvlon was on her knees, still coughing. She thought Pisces had one eye open, but both were closed when she looked again. Ceria was still out and Ksmvr was watching them silently.
What should she do now? Teriarch was clearly absorbed in the iPhone. He kept asking Erin what various apps Ryoka had downloaded did. Ryoka had quite a few games on her iPhone. More than one Erin was tickled to know Ryoka played, or had played in the past.
It was surreal. Teriarch was just…interested. He kept harrumphing importantly, but he was keenly fascinated with the iPhone. He had just beaten up her friends, but he’d left them alive. He didn’t seem evil. More like…odd? And Erin kept staring at him, feeling that tickling in her memory.
But something prompted Erin to break off from her explanation of how to play Angry Birds and frown. The warning bells in her head hadn’t died away. Rather, it was as if they had faded during the fight to let her think and act without being overwhelmed, but now that it was over they were still blaring loudly, telling her—
“Are you um, going to kill us?”
Teriarch paused and stared at Erin with a mixture of indignation and confusion.
“Me? Why would I kill you?”
“Well, you attacked us.”
“Yeah.”
That came from behind Teriarch and Erin. She turned and saw Ceria was standing upright, supported by Pisces on one side and Yvlon on the other. Ksmvr was still tied to the ground, calling out for aid now that the danger had passed.
“Help. I am stuck to the ground.”
“Ah. See, Erin Solstice? Your friends are alive and mostly unharmed.”
Teriarch gestured as Ksmvr sat up. Ceria blinked a few times at him, eyes partially unfocused. Erin hoped she didn’t have a concussion—Ceria just looked woozy.
“You attacked us. Why?”
“You were in my way.”
The sky was blue. The grass was green. It was a matter-of-fact statement that made Yvlon grit her teeth angrily. Erin just stared at Teriarch, feeling that same disconnect. He went on, arrogant, trying to score three stars in a level of Angry Birds.
“Explaining would have been a waste of my time. And this was entertaining, however easy it was.”
The Horns of Hammerad stared at Teriarch. He frowned as one of the pigs escaped destruction.
“How did you do it?”
Pisces was next to speak. He stared at Teriarch wide-eyed, with more respect than Erin had ever seen in him in his life.
“You—all you were using were Tier 2 spells at best. But the style of your spellcasting—”
“Elementary. Any competent mage should be able to do as much, if not so quickly or with the same mana supply. You should be ashamed of yourselves not to have any counters against such low level spells.”
Teriarch shrugged. He nodded at Ceria.
“You should go to Wistram, half-Elf. With a decade of studying you may become a powerful mage yet.”
“We did go to Wistram.”
“Really?”
Teriarch’s eyebrows rose in disbelief. He stared at Pisces but seemed to ascertain that the mage was not lying. Teriarch snorted angrily.
“Standards have fallen greatly, then. Your spellcasting was beyond inferior. That was a decent attack with a sword I suppose, but unless you are a [Spellsword] or some other mage-warrior hybrid, I suggest you focus on magic.”
“Um.”
Erin raised her hand. She just felt like it was the thing to do. All eyes focused on her. Erin tapped her head.
“My [Dangersense] is still going off. Are you really not going to kill us, Teriarch?”
“Me? No. But…hrm.”
Teriarch stared off into the distance. His lips moved soundlessly, then he nodded.
“Ah. That explains much of your hostility. Your senses were alerted by a nearby Goblin Army. It is passing this way.”
“An army?”
The Horns of Hammerad went pale. Erin felt a jolt of fear in her chest, but she looked at the wagon. It was Termin of all people who wailed and clutched at his hair.
“Goblins! What will I do? Fox and Erma will be eaten for sure!”
Fox and Erma? Erin remembered those were Termin’s horses. She stared at the animals, feeling a jolt in her chest. Could they push the animals through the door? But if they did—what if the Goblins opened the door? Could they seal it off, then? But how would they get back?
Teriarch raised one eyebrow as Yvlon tried to convince Termin they had to leave his mounts behind. Pisces already had the door up and was yelling at Ksmvr to help him find a spot to hide it from the Goblins. Erin saw Teriarch tap Ceria on the head when no one was watching. Ceria frowned, blinked, and seemed to regain focus.
“Um, Mister Teriarch.”
He glanced at her, still holding the iPhone in one hand.
“Yes?”
“Can you help us? I dunno, somehow evade the Goblins?”
“You should be able to do it yourselves without my help. Unless—are you really planning to flee?”
“What would you do?”
Ceria stared at Teriarch. He looked incredulous.
“This is winter. The Goblin army is marching this way, but they are hardly filled with adept trackers and they do not know you are here. Conjure a snowstorm and evade them.”
The half-Elf shook her head instantly.
“We can’t do that. Pisces and I—neither of us know [Snowstorm] as a spell, and we’re not nearly high-level enough to cast it, let alone to affect such a large—”
“What are you talking about?”
Teriarch looked impatient. He began to lecture Ceria, much to Erin’s incredulity.
“[Snowstorm]? Why do you need to create snow? If you were standing in a jungle I could see the need, but you have an ample supply of snow right here. Use that. Even a Tier…1 spell should do.”
“How?”
Ceria’s ears drooped slightly as Teriarch’s glare pierced her in place.
“Are you really Wistram mages? Here. Like this. You—[Necromancer]! Come over here and help your friend!”
Pisces ran over as Teriarch walked over to a large expanse of snow and began ordering Ceria about. Erin stared at him as Yvlon and Ksmvr and Termin all stopped what they were doing to watch.
There wasn’t too much happening. Teriarch was just pointing to the ground at something the two mages could see and berating them. They kept flinching as he grew more and more impatient with them.
“There. Anchor the spell there and cast multiple incarnations of it—no, not like that! Why are you using your mana so poorly? A proper spell is efficient! And you—half-Elf! You’re wasting the energy of your spell with uncontrolled winds. The two of you cast in tandem like—well, that is barely acceptable.”
Suddenly, a gust of wind blew up, carrying a huge amount of snow with it. Teriarch nodded as Erin and the others gasped. The wind began to blow, and as he lent his power to the wind spells, it began to blow down the road. Erin turned to Termin, and pointed to the wagon.
“Um. Let’s get out of the way?”
He stared at her, face pale as the snow began whipping into the air. Then he scrambled towards the driver’s seat with the others.
 
——
 
The Goblin army was a massive force, thousands strong. Black-armored warriors marched with the undead, grim, sullen because they hadn’t been able to find any easy prey to kill and eat. Marching in the winter was bad enough with armor, but the stench of the undead made the Goblin warriors upset.
And what was worse, they’d run into a snowstorm. The Goblins grumbled and their scouts withdrew to form a tight perimeter around their army. If they ran into anything in the storm they’d kill it. But they could still follow the road so they pressed onwards until they reached the other side. It was a brief snowstorm, the Goblins reflected. But they took no more notice of it; they had Humans to kill, and other Goblins too for that matter.
 
——
 
Far away, the wagon Termin was driving rumbled to a stop as Erma and Fox panted in the snow. Erin hopped off the wagon and slowly walked up to the small ridge to see the last of the Goblin army disappearing in the distance.
“Wow.”
That was all she said. She turned back and saw Teriarch, sitting austerely on top of the wagon with an iPhone in hand, looking more out of place than anything she’d ever seen as Ceria and Pisces tried to ask him ten thousand questions at once.
“How did you learn to use magic like that? I’ve never seen spellcasting so—refined! And the way you do it…”
