Armed with insight, I stood up and pulled out my chunk of orichalcum. With another few hours before the operation, I tested my next ability. Over the last few days, I leveled up thermomancy to 50. I let the orichalcum float over my hand, holding it with a gravity well.

During some of my free time, I theorycrafted ideas for Thermomancy. The first idea to come up was crafting with my armor. If I melted the metal, I could manipulate it far better then when it was solid. It gave me a level of precision I couldn't match in other way.

We were also heading out later tonight. If I could arm Althea and the others with something, it might even save their life. I had no clue honestly, but it was an idea worth exploring.

With those intentions, I channeled my mana, generating a concentration of heat. In seconds, the orichalcum melted. With a pool of molten metal hovering above my hand, I spun it around using a gravitational vortex. The glowing ball flattened out, the heat off it heating the air in the room.

I played with the metal, changing its shape. I got the hang of shifting it with gravity wells. With a clear picture of what I wanted to make, I molded it into the shape of a knife. Once I had the outline of a knife, I pressed and prodded the goop until clear, sharp lines came up.

Once I created the handle and guard, I cooled the metal until it was white hot yet solid. With the softened metal in front of me, I etched runic glyphs with telekinetic pulses from my fingertips. I sharpened the edge, using my unique skill, Hands of a Giant. I even incorporated dimensional cipher runes on the handle.

I wasn't finished though. I aimed to improve my creation process from last time. An issue with many of my weapons was wear and tear on the runic glyphs. In order to hide them and reinforce the blade, I decided to cover the base of the knife with my molten skin. It would become the first knife made of dimensional fabric.

With that in mind, I tore a piece of my real, charcoal colored armor off. With a burst of mana, I melted it. I molded it into a long, flattened strip. I wrapped it around the handle, creatinga helix of melted armor hovering around the grip. Using another burst of energy, I tightened the helix of my armor over the blade. At the same time, I cooled the metal.

The result was woven plate of blackened armor over the hilt. This served several purposes. It prevented the runic inscriptions from deforming. The sheath protected others from seeing the runes as well. It even reinforced the blade since my armor was much harder than orichalcum.

Taking another strip of my charcoal armor, I melted another strip of the metal. I folded it around the shape of the blade, creating an other loose helix around the edge. Using the same tightening and cooling method, I tightened the helix around the blade. With careful scraping, I sharpened the edge on the casing till it could swipe through steel.

I gave it a bit of decoration with a few simple markings. I pulled my creation back, hovering the dagger in front of me. I grinned, impressed at my progress.

Dimensional Slicer(lvl requirement: 5,000) - Hiding forbidden runic glyphs, this reinforced blade is a beautiful bringer of death. Dimension C-138 utilized a cocktail of different skills to craft this masterclass of weaponry. The bonuses are as follows:

+100 Strength, Consitution, Endurance, Willpower,

+50 Intelligence, Perception, and Luck

+125% Critical Strike Damage | +Extra damage against other metals

+10,000 health | +1,000 health regen per minute

-10% to Charisma | -10% to Mana Regeneration

Note: Bonuses doubled for a member of Harbinger's Legion. Bonuses don't stack with copies of the Dimensional Slicer. Excess mana is siphoned to Dimension C-138.

I put my hands on my hips, admiring my work. I planned on using thermomancy for heating myself up. After a bit of thought, crafting popped up as a creative way of using the skill. If I refined the talent enough, I'd become a blacksmith of great renown. Well, probably.

With that in mind, I went to work on the next knife. Three hours into the night, I crafted three more knives giving me four knives total. I'd give two to Althea and one to Torix and Kessiah. I weakened the runic markings for Kessiah's so that she could actually use it.

I adjusted the cipher markings to each person. If the use channeled the weapons, it would draw out their individual strengths. Althea's enhanced her critical strike damage and her slicing through metals. Torix's augmented his summoning capabilities. Kessiah's improved her technical abilities while slugging it out.

It was satisfying seeing my work come to fruition. I was glad the knives enhanced the user's tankiness too. Since I was total ass at protecting people in a fight, these knives would have to do. As I finished the fourth blade, a notification popped up.

New Skill Gained! The unique skills Thaumaturge, Thermomancy, and Hands of a Giant have combined into the mythical skill, Thaumaturgical Blacksmith! Half of unearned skillpoints rewarded( 63 treepoints)

Mythical Skill Interaction! The Mythical skill, Thaumaturgical Blacksmith integrated the normal skill, Living Forge, enhancing the skills abilities!

Legendary Skill Interaction! Force of Nature enhances the mythical skill Thaumaturgical Blacksmith, evolving the skill into Star Forger! This gives the skill increased ease of use when incorporating telekinesis or gravity!

Star Forger(lvl 1) - Many bend metal to their making. You choose to bend the stars, crafting masterpieces with ease. Enhances metal manipulation, self-forging, runic carving, blacksmithing, enchanting, temperature manipulation, and dexterous ability with gravity and telekinesis. Effect enhances with level.

I shook my head, amazed I gained a mythical skill without meaning too. I was using several of my unique skills at once when making the blades. Most of the unique skills were very high level as well. That eased the process, giving me a leg up when combining them.

Before I gave the daggers to the others, I checked out my trees. I grinned. I had enough points to reach the final tier in my tree, Legendary. I put all my points into it, a sense of excitement building. As I finished it, a notification popped up.

As I read it, I raised an eyebrow.

New skill level unlocked!

Sovereign tier skill now unlocked!
