She had no choice. It was either lose everything or press onward. Against her better judgment, she reached for her domain and twisted, bending her mana aggressively, forcing it to match the domain she had unwittingly fallen into. She wrestled with it until it finally snapped into place, and not a moment too soon. Her mana poured down into the tunnel, glowing in her mana sight, and right as it passed, the Brood Queen closed the tunnel on the shrieking horde of demons clawing their way down toward her.

Ali waited breathlessly while the seconds ticked by. Nothing teleported past the barrier. No sudden dungeon rage crashed into her mind. After she had waited for more than enough time, she reached her awareness up into the tunnel to the remnants of her domain that had been cut off by the hastily summoned rock blockage. On the other side, she found none of the observer demons remaining, and the horde had dispersed. Mostly, they seemed to be eating her mana-rich plants. She flexed her skills and deconstructed everything beyond the blockage, corpses, moss, mushrooms – everything her skill would allow. The demons milled about in the tunnel for a while, and as her domain faded, she saw them slowly beginning to leave.

Her Grimoire flared with energy and light, and then she heard a chime.

Variant: Baelok Descrier added to Imprint: Demon.

Ooh, interesting!

Mato gathered up all the pots and pans, the aftermath from making dinner for so many people. He made sure each was properly cleaned before he stored them, and then he carefully placed another log on the small cookfire to keep it going. It promised to be a cold night out in the forest.

The dull ache that had begun in his chest a few hours ago had grown to be quite an uncomfortable throbbing, and for some reason, he couldn’t get the stench of undeath out of his nostrils.

“Goodnight, Mato,” Malika said. “Don’t forget to call me for the second watch.”

“Nite,” he said, rubbing at the ache, but it was far too deep for him to reach.

“Mato? Are you ok?” Malika asked, suddenly pausing halfway into her tent.

“I’m fine,” he said, removing his hand and smiling at her.

“Ok,” she said, hesitating for a moment before shaking her head and dropping her tent-flap behind her.

He took a deep breath, finishing his work, but the throbbing ache continued to grow.

What is it?

But nothing unexpected showed on his sheet.

Must be heartburn, he decided. Although nothing he had eaten should have disagreed with him so strongly.

At that moment, the soft sound of his chime went off in the back of his mind.

You have been afflicted by Touch of Undeath+1 Death damage per minute.-1 Mana per minute. Corruption

Suddenly, he knew what it was.

He had hesitated when he had first discovered the corruption, unwilling to remove his mentorship with Lira even after her death and subsequent raising as an undead. He had even ignored the slow trickle of mana loss that came with it. But tithe enchantments like his mentorship involved a two-way mingling of mana, and the exposure to her mana was corrupting him from within.

He stared at the enchantment, hesitating even now. Mentorships, like godly patronages, were almost always one-time things. Rescinding them was a permanent separation, which was why he had hesitated thus far. That, and he still grieved her loss.

Why is it even still there?

It was the question he should have asked first. Malika’s mentorship with Rezan had vanished as soon as the Elder had died – she had told him it was how she knew. Yet Lira’s mana still infected him, corrupted now, spilling over into his own mana and tainting him with the essence of undeath. Still, he couldn’t bring himself to remove it – he burned with the desire to know why it hadn’t vanished with her death like it should have.

He struggled with it, gripped by profound indecision, wavering back and forth like he was swinging from a hook, hovering between his revulsion for the undeath and the corruption spilling over into him, and his commitment to Lira, and the powerful desire to uncover what was really going on.

Maybe I’ll ask Calen about it tomorrow. He always has good ideas, he decided, pressing at the ache in his chest in a futile attempt to relieve the pain. It wasn’t like the corruption was life-threatening – at least, not yet. Finally, when he was done with his cleanup, he found an open spot of earth close enough to the camp for his aura to do some good and transformed into his Tree Form. Inwardly, he sighed in relief as the encroaching undead corruption immediately began dissolving away under the purifying influence of his Sanctuary.

I’ll find some answers tomorrow. I owe her that at the very least.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
