Falla took her hand back and laughed, then ran down the road. “I kissed a Lord! I kissed a Lord! I kissed a Lord!” She sang as she ran, then met several other girls who were about her age, and had just come out from hiding several houses away. They all looked over at Ren and started to giggle.

“I'm very sorry about that, My Lord.” Fern's wife said, and Ren stood up.

“I hope you don't think I'll have her hung for stealing a kiss.” Ren said.

The woman's face drained of it's color and she started to swoon. Ren reached out and held her steady with a hand on her shoulder.

“I said I wouldn't do that.” Ren assured her. “Are you going to be okay?”

The woman nodded. “I... I'm... yes, I'm okay.”

“Goodness, woman!” Fern said and grinned. “He doesn't have to worry about me at all! It's you and Falla he should be afraid of getting under his skin.”

Ren chuckled, let the woman's shoulder go, and looked at Fern. “Show me this field of yours.”

“It's not that far from here.” Fern said and started to walk down the road.

Ren nodded to Fern's wife and followed Fern.

“It's the closest field to the village.” Fern said. “I won the bid for it this year.”

“I assume people bid for it so they won't have far to go to work it.”

“You're pretty smart.” Fern said. “Yep, that's why. It cost me one of my best cows for slaughter, but it was worth it.” He said. “Last year I had to go all the way across the county to work.”

“That must have been hard.” Ren said.

“That's an understatement if I ever heard one.” Fern said. “It took nearly half the day to walk there carrying the tools I needed. I could only work for an hour or so, then I'd have to head back.” He shook his head. “It got to the point that I just brought along a bedroll and stayed out there until I was done of a full days work, slept, and worked half of the next day.”

“Is that what people are doing now?” Ren asked.

“Now that they know it's possible.” Fern said and smiled. “I was the first one to come up with it.”

Ren didn't say anything else until they came to the field. “This is it?”

It really was only a short walk away from the village, but nothing seemed to be marked. The wheat was over 5 feet high, and perfect for harvesting.

“How big is your field?” Ren asked.

“We're smack dab in the middle of this side.” Fern said. “It's 2 miles that way.” He pointed to the right. “And 2 miles that way.” He pointed to the left. “Then it's 4 miles right out that-a-way.” He said and pointed straight forward.

“How can you tell where your field ends and the other begins?” Ren asked.

“You just know.” Fern said. “Plus, we all start on the same side and go across.” He said and motioned from his chest out. “I'll bet that Mackie's already got a good couple of feet done on the next lot since yesterday.”

“Can you show me how you harvest?”

“I thought you said I could just stand here and watch.”

Ren chuckled. “You can, I just want to know how you do it.”

“It's easy.” Fern said and unhooked the hand sickle from his belt. “You grab a handful like this.” He said and reached out to grab a good handful of the stalks. “Then you be careful of your legs when you swing.” He said and swung the short circular blade into the bottom of the stalks and it sheared through three quarters of the bundle. He swung again and cut it off completely. Fern held the bundle tightly as he took one of the stalks and wrapped it around, then tucked it in and tossed the small bundle aside.

“That's it?” Ren asked, and Fern nodded. “Can I try?”

Fern looked at his sickle and then at Ren, then glanced down at his leg. “It's my Pappy's, so be careful with it.” He said and held the sickle out.

“Thanks.” Ren said did the same motions as Fern. He grabbed a handful of stalks and cut through the bundle with one swipe.

Notice!

You have unlocked a new skill: Harvesting Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This sub skill under Farming is used to gather crops. Higher levels will allow faster harvesting and higher quality crops to be gathered, with less damage caused in the process.

“You can work twice as fast as me!” Fern said.

Ren wasn't too sure about that, because he took the opportunity to examine the sickle and got the pattern 'Modified Sickle' from it.

Pappy's Old Sickle

This sickle isn't a family heir loom, but it still gives bonuses for family members to use it. Sharpness: +20%, Durability: +20%

Durability: 55 / 200

Sharp

Show info for Sharp. Ren thought, but nothing appeared. “Show info for Sharp.” He said out loud and got the popup.

Sharp

This increases a blade's cutting efficiency by 50%. Blades already Sharp cannot be sharpened again to increase the bonus.

“Fern? Do you mind if I repair it?” Ren asked.

“Mind?!?” Fern nearly yelled. “Dammit, man! Hurry up and do it!”

Ren laughed, took out his blacksmith hammer, and held it to the sickle. “Repair.”

The sickle was covered in a golden glow for a few moments and the tarnish on it faded away, the handle felt tighter, and the blade's edge gleamed in the sunlight. Ren couldn't sharpen it because it was already sharp; but, he could polish it to add Durability, and that's what he did for almost a full minute. He smiled when he examined it again.

Pappy's Sickle

This sickle isn't a family heir loom, but it still gives bonuses for family members to use it. Sharpness: +20%, Durability: +20%

Durability: 250 / 250

Sharp

“There we go.” Ren said and handed it to Fern.

“Wooo-eee!” Fern said and held it up. “Lookit that!”

“That sure is nice.” Russell said.

“Nice?” Fern reached out and grabbed a handful of stalks and swiped the sickle across the bottom of them, and it went right through the bundle. “It's beautiful!”

“Whatcha gonna do now?” Russell asked Ren.

“I was about to show Fern why he'll want to stand here and watch.”

“I'm good at watching, too.” Russell said and grinned.

“Then the both of you can step back a bit.” Ren said and motioned them to move back, and when they were far enough away, he took out the farm vehicle Tee-one had built and laughed at their shocked faces.
