“Yeah, maybe work on that deception a little bit more,” a Jessica replied with a wince. “You were doing pretty good before, but now, in the moment?” She tutted judgmentally as she shook her head. “You need to learn how to improvise better, Shiv. Besides, we know it's you. We knew since the moment you started talking about how your clone couldn't escape. That kind of gave away everything. Honestly, the only reason why we didn't try to beat you to death during the process was that we wanted to see which of you would come out on top. Congratulations, you're smarter than you are dumb, and you're tougher than you are fragile. That's a hell of a thing to achieve for a Pathbearer. You should be proud.”

Shiv's trembling got worse. The blood loss was getting severe, and the damage dealt to his mind and heart ensured that his Biomancy couldn't just see his body restored. “Can I trade in that pride for a favor? Maybe you guys just wait a minute or five before you start hitting me again?”

The Jessicas briefly shared a look, and all laughed as one. “Nah. Besides, we want to see if it fits. And if it fits, I want to see how deep Cripple can ram it in.”

A blizzard of pure terror flooded Shiv's stomach. “If what fits? Jessica, you can hit me. You can beat the hell out of me, but do not come near—Oh my felling gods.”

He laid eyes on it, the one she was talking about, for the first time. A dozen Jessicas carried a massive pillar along the sides like a battering ram. It had golden dragons engraved upon it, each one blazing bright, circulating the pillar. A chain of characters gleamed along the length as well. It seemed, perhaps, Eastern? Shiv couldn't read that at all.

To his surprise, the staff shrank until it was small enough to be a needle, and one Jessica took hold of it after a brief scuffle that involved a lot of shoving and slapping. She and a few others were fighting over who had the right to de-dignify Shiv before he finished this Delve.

“What the hells is that?” Shiv growled. He began generating Shapeless Tides as fast as he could, desperate to move, desperate to fight the Jessicas off. He also took extreme measures, filling his rear with clustered tumors. “Jessica, you keep that thing away from me. You can beat on me in this Delve or wherever, but you keep that thing away from me. And stop smirking underneath your helmet. I can see all of you. I can see how happy your hearts are. You're sick. You are sick, twisted women. You have a problem. Who the hells keeps targeting someone else's ass?”

“I don't know, who the hell rips their own dick off as a distraction?” she shot back. “Anyway, Cripple, let's see how strong you really are. We'll plant the stake, and you can pound it in.”

“End Encounter!” Shiv screamed, nearly begging the System. “Gods damn it, you bastard! End Encounter! It's been twelve minutes! It's been twelve minutes!”

“Sorry, Shiv,” one of the Jessicas sang along, “but I'm afraid it's only been six. Still got halfway to go. That's the way a Toughness Delve goes. Now. I think we're gonna kick the shit out of you first, so if you can do us a solid and resist, that'll make the whole experience better.”

A long-suffering sigh escaped from Shiv as he envied his clone's non-existence. At least he was getting an awesome Toughness skill out of this entire ordeal.

At least. At least.

Such consolations were the only thing keeping him sane right now. “...Fuuuuuucccckkkk.”

Coping 37 > 39

***

“Wait, why the hells am I attacking him in the Delve? Why am I the bad guy? I don’t want to be the asshole. And why is there a small army of me? One should be enough to finish him.” Jessica's annoyance climbed with every subsequent question. If Valor was being honest about what was happening inside the Delve, she didn't like it. She didn't want to be some kind of System goon used to brutalize the kid—not that she had a problem with doing so herself. She just wanted to do it for her own reasons, not someone else's.

And for the clone bit, Jessica hated that more than all the others, mainly because she had her own bad experiences with clones due to her many Delves.

Jessica enjoyed dueling herself, but that was the only thing she enjoyed when it came to facing down her spiritual shadow. All the historical and emotional baggage that came with it usually reduced her to a binge-drinking mess for months afterward. The turmoil her Delves put her through got bad enough that she delayed her Legendary Toughness Evolution for over ten years.

And meanwhile, this godsdamn pig-headed, felling dumbshit of a kid just clears it in little more than half a day. Jessica sighed. It's not fair.

And the worst and best part of it was how much she'd helped. Veronica was going to hate this. Sure, Jessica could claim that this entire misadventure was good and spin it as some kind of intelligence-gathering opportunity, but in truth, if the kid's Toughness was as good as Valor boasted, then the Yellowstone Republic needed to establish a special elimination force specifically for Shiv. Even Jessica might have to get a little creative if she wanted to keep kicking his ass, though she still had plenty of options besides the purely physical. She wasn't the trickiest Pathbearer nor a dedicated mage, which was why she had a nation's worth of magic swords and other weapons in her repertoire.

“He should be rousing soon,” Valor said, ignoring her questions. The ancient Pathbearer cast flowing streams of faint blue, binding his soul with Shiv using a chain of Animancy. He waited with patience, but his eyes were narrow, and Jessica suspected he was more worried than he let on. “If he does not wake in a few more seconds, then that means he has failed that final encounter, and I will return to assist him. Have you given thought to what I asked of you earlier? I know that it is quite a request, but—”

“It's more than quite a request,” Jessica muttered with annoyance. “There's not much I can do. You understand the worth of experience and constant practice better than even me. We've been honed over centuries, and even if he's a special, special boy, made from special, special stuff, created to do special, special things, there's too much he doesn't know and can't do that we take for granted. I can't teach him how to counter my swordsmanship and all the other Martial Skills I have in just a few seconds. He will be here for years and years. He's naturally skilled in a lot of ways, but it will take a century before he gets anywhere near either of us.”

She paused. “He's talented when it comes to the act of fighting itself. Well, potentially more than just talented. But he’s not a true genius. Not in terms of combat unto itself. Between his raw, unrelenting growth and unstoppable psychology, he might grind a few true geniuses down through raw attrition alone, but more likely than that, he’ll be better off using his real gift to crack their hearts and minds, and ruin their fucking bodies with it.” Jessica’s lip twitched. “And maybe I can help him there. If he really needs to know how to hurt me deeper than he already can—Broken Fucking Moon!”

Jessica flinched back as Shiv shot upright with an animalistic roar. His Revenant flared bright with vitality, and he thrashed about as he snapped his hips from side to side. “CRIPPLE! STOP PUNCHING THE FUCKING PILLAR! I CAN FEEL IT IN MY LUNGS! JUST BECAUSE YOU HELPED ME TURN THIS SKILL UNIQUE DOESN’T MEAN YOU CAN DO THIS! I’M NEVER GONNA FORGIVE—”

Shiv froze. Slowly, he reached down behind himself and patted his ass. “Oh… oh, holy felling shit. I’m out. It’s over. I survived.” A sob escaped him. “I made it. My ass is safe. My ass is safe…”

Immediately, Jessica knew this was likely her doing.

“This is likely your fault,” Rusty grumbled aloud.

“Godsfuckingdammit, Rusty,” Jessica hissed through gritted teeth. “Why don’t you just scream that to everyone?”

“Everyone knows it is likely your fault. I have told you many times about the unsanitary and deeply disturbing effects of deliberately targeting someone’s feces tract as a means of torture. I also suggested to you several books to help deal with your fixation on this method of pain delivery—”

“You!” Shiv wheezed, spinning on Jessica and shaking Valor off before the lich could ask him how he was.

“Oh, shit,” Jessica muttered. Her battle-honed instincts screamed. The boy’s body language was barely-chained violence. At any moment, he might—

He skipped across the room in a burst of gold and displaced time. In a half-second, Shiv jumped right beside Jessica to loom over her with both hands clasped together in prayer. Rusty was already in her hand—she didn’t know when she drew, only barely stopping herself before she drove the tip of her Awakened blade through Shiv’s skull.

“Jessica,” Shiv said, his voice heavy with pain. “I need you to promise me something.”

Her mouth opened slowly. “I, uh…”

“Never use the fucking growing dragon needle on me again.”

“Wait?” Jessica gasped, alarmed. “How do you know that I have a replica of the Pillar That Halts the Sea? The Delve showed you that?”

“Promise me!” Shiv practically screamed. “You can beat the shit out of me in any other way, but you do not ever use that thing on me—or ever show me how it vibrates again! Ever! Felling ever!”

“Ascendants—Shit! Yeah, okay, sorry!” Jessica cringed with sympathy. “So. The other mes—”

“The Delve’s done, I don’t want to talk about it anymore. I did awesome. I did great. I beat the shit out of myself. I’m the best. I’m the godsdamned Toughest Pathbearer in…” Shiv took a moment to steady himself.

“Shiv,” Valor asked gently. “Are you sure you’re well?”

The kid stared off blankly for a moment. “I will be. In a few seconds. After my mind finishes healing. After that… Wait. The Perch—”

“Duel’s postponed,” Jessica said. “No point in rushing that anymore. Roland’s given you an extension, so you don’t have to—”

“Not that: the Culturist. Adam.”

“Oh, right,” Jessica muttered. “Yeah, so—”

Shiv vanished in a splash of time magic once more, leaping out of the room—and across time.

In the aftermath, only Jessica and Valor remained—aside from Merrielmel, who was shaking in the corner, desperate to hide his presence.

“Well,” Jessica breathed. “That was something.”

“You should deal with your problem,” Valor said, his eyes blazing with judgment. “Read the books your sword suggested. I implore you.”

“What? No, man—Look, you get me, Valor—Legends develop their own quirks.”

“Indeed. But I do not consider blade-based sodomy a quirk. More like an expression of severe mental illness. One must hold themself to a higher regard. Especially when it comes to handling the young.” Valor’s Necromancy then crackled a few shades darker. “Lest there come consequences. My boy likes you, Jessica, and he can endure cruelties and torments that leave lesser men shattered. But I will not see him traumatized repeatedly—even if he can recover from them. Mind yourself. I ask this as a favor of dignity rather than an issuance of threat.”

And with that, Valor vanished as well, using his Legendary Stealth to go missing mid-conversation.

Silence returned to the room. One of Merrielmel’s drones broke it by crashing against a wall. Jessica looked on, slack-jawed, at where Valor used to be. Then came a thump as Rusty ejected a series of books.

“Read these,” Rusty suggested again. “It will be for the best.”
