Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable? That’s not the name of…

Deathless… Tanner Lowe… Earth…

Oh, Dearest Dawn, it’s him again.

Ah, Shadow-Mine: Carry these Quest-Dispatches. Expedition privileges granted—no time to delay. Cross the Leylanes with utmost haste. Split and make in two directions; one to intercept Farwalker-Martialis Produveral, one to forewarn Chorus-Higher.

Udraal’s instrument has crossed a new threshold: He is hereby marked in-field as [Legend-Extremus] and is to be treated as such by all Anticitizens until he is interviewed, tagged, and bestowed a monitoring Shadow.

Please hold to receive Quests.

[Hijacking System]...

[Quest Creation Parameters Declared]

—Mythic-Fatejacker [Redacted] of the Farwalker-Mysteria

394

The Scarforged Unbreakable [III]

Deadlock.

Such was the inevitable outcome when you faced someone your equal in every measure and skill. Shiv's new Toughness Evolution ensured a single thing: fortune couldn't intercede for either of them. The blows they traded went from calamitous to feeble in a few exchanges as rival tides flung twin juggernauts against each other. The air turned to plasma, and the atmosphere boiled with apocalyptic friction.

Elbow clashed against elbow. Uppercuts were dodged. Grabs were shrugged off and then countered. Vectors were spent in violent attrition. A shared thought manifested in both fighters’ minds, twin foreheads met, and it was as if two anvils crashed together, with silvery sparks showering the hallway, now more akin to a great ravine, cascading over the Jessicas, the surviving Urris, and Cripple, who stared on, bearing witness to the battle like all the others.

At the same time, rival mana fields exploded against each other in raw exertions of magic. Neither Shiv nor his alternate was a practiced mage, and the few spells they knew were cast aside as the necks of mana hydras became limbs as well, additional means to overcome and control their rival. Twenty-four heads coiled around each other as two Aegises of Assimilation battled, forming a chaotic bundle of crimson mana that detonated and clashed not only against their mirror image but also the surrounding Legends.

Twin waves of scintillating flame clashed, the Nihilists forming an ever-combusting threshold that marked the border between Shiv and his simulated clone. And then came the arcing clashes of blade meeting blade. Shiv grew layers of jagged teeth along his body, and his clone did the same. Crescent projections capable of cleaving through matter and shredding away at mana and soulstuff greeted each other and shattered into broken fractals.

The space between the two Deathlesses turned into a splash of warring colors, and their bodies glowed bright silver on the outside while their cores flared white and red within.

Shiv shifted, taking a half-step back as he tried to drag his clone down, breaking from an underhook clinch to secure his enemy’s arm in an outside drag into a rolling takedown. The clone anticipated the transition halfway through and reacted. He stepped into Shiv rather than inverting his tides or trying to pull away—and then spiked all his vectors down in a crushing sprawl. The impact shook the hall like an earthquake, the clash of scar against scar sent silver sparks flying once more.

The blow hammered Shiv down into the ground, and the orichalcum beneath him deformed. Rather than driving force against force, Shiv pointed his vectors forward and surged. He shot out from under his clone's sprawl and crashed into a mob of Jessicas. They halted his momentum, but they didn't shove him back roughly. In fact, the Jessicas had formed a makeshift ring, and they were holding the remaining Vultegs back to keep their end of entertainment alive.

Wait, no, it can't be just that. They're not literally Jessica. They have to kill me. That's part of the encounter. If they don't kill me, they disappear, and I win, so why are they holding back? The question was cast aside as Shiv's clone slammed into him and they began to clinch-fight for dominance once more.

Shiv fought to establish a collar tie while his clone head-butted him in the chest and wrapped both arms around Shiv's lower back. He adjusted, clamped both arms tight, and held his foe at bay, preventing another takedown. Once more, their tides clashed against each other, vectors becoming rival phalanxes across every point of contact. And it was in this struggle that Shiv remembered another thing about his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides: it wasn't just Legendary Physicality and Magical Resistance. It was also a Legendary Grappling skill.

Each tide represented a vector of force and betrayed the body's movements in vivid detail. Through them, Shiv could exert his force and establish unmatched control, rivaled only by someone else who was capable of generating their own leverage and infusing it in all they grasped.

The same principles applied magically. Their mana fields were at an absolute impasse. Everything was pinned in place, and the mana hydras themselves were coiled in such dense knots that Shiv couldn't tell where his field began and the clone's ended.

And so it ultimately came down to this: raw expressions of skill where force or power could not guarantee victory.

This, and the Harbinger that was slowly regenerating for the both of them—the only skill either could use to actually inflict true harm upon the other.

“You know something? I'm starting to get it,” Shiv gasped roughly as he suddenly inverted his tides and pulled his clone into an attempted hip toss. The clone went with Shiv's force, seizing his arm in a tight grip and rolling over him, trying to whiplash Shiv off his feet instead. But then Shiv countered again, turning until he collapsed against his clone, establishing side control, but only for a moment as the clone kicked out from below, sliding up and getting back to his knees before attempting to sprawl on Shiv once more.

“Starting to get what?” his clone grunted. Shiv rolled to his side as the clone's hip hammered a divot into the ground. They shot for each other at the same time. Shiv caught the clone's left wrist while the clone caught his in return. They rose into the sky and circled each other, trying to find an angle, waiting for a moment to break free. “That it's kind of a nightmare to fight us? That we just don't die like we used to?”

Despite the ache in Shiv's chest and the exhaustion creeping across his muscles, he couldn't help but laugh. “Yeah, that. You know, I missed the last version of you. He was easy to bully, and at least I could cut him open when I slammed an elbow into his face. Hitting you is like trying to break metal with a rubber hammer. Gods, I can't wait for the Harbinger to reform so I can talk you to death.”

“The feeling's mutual, you sack of unbreakable shit.”

Shiv and his clone slammed their skulls against each other once more, glaring each other down point-blank as their expressions shifted between seething sneers and exhausted smiles. Bit by bit, the golden shell that constituted the Harbinger began piecing itself together like a puzzle coming into shape. Time began to quiver around them, and they waited, their hearts pounding, their muscles straining, prepared for the moment where this battle gained a new dimension—that final dimension that could actually see them crack and break the other.

But before that moment arrived, both of their minds went blank as another question emerged, a question born as they realized the crowd was still spectating. The Jessicas looked on, their visors up, faces blank. Cripple’s hand was raised in a clenched fist, but even it held itself in restraint—as if the Ascendant wasn't sure who to strike down.

Shiv's clone let out an exasperated wheeze. "Hey guys, what the fuck? What are you looking at? Come here and help me finish him off. Jessica, stop staring and start hitting him! Just swap between your swords and other shit and hit him with magic. He's not immune to that. Why am I the only guy wrestling with him right now?”

It was pure chance and blind luck that the clone spoke first, for it gave Shiv a moment to process what was actually happening. It gave him a glimpse into the empathic cores around him and the minds that swirled above. They didn't look confused; they were confused, and there was only one reason why that was. They couldn't tell which was the clone and which was Shiv. Both of them were Deathless. Both of them were caged in a dense shell forged of platinum scars. Both of them had the exact same skills, the exact same attunements, and were made of the exact same vitality.

And somewhere in the carnage of battle, as their manas crashed together, shrouding them in a chain of blasts, everyone must have lost track of who was whom and which one they were meant to assist.

Holy shit, I'm glad I'm kind of an idiot sometimes. My clone threw himself into battle without thinking, like I would have done, and he screwed himself, just like I would have! It took all of Shiv's willpower to stop himself from laughing. Well, let's see these waters muddied some more.

“What the hells are you talking about?” Shiv snarled at his clone. “Don't you try to pull this shit on me; you're the guy who looks like he has an Adam lodged in his chest.”

A near-fallacious statement impossible to prove, for both should have looked around as large as each other and perfectly resembled each other due to the dense scar-shell forming their exoskeletons. They were perfect twins down to the last detail. From the pale white irises in their eyes, gleaming like twin circular rivers upon their scar-shrouded faces. Even their silhouettes matched their asymmetrical contours, ridged with scarred plating, shining platinum like misshapen armor harvested and crafted from crystalline scabs.

The Jessicas looked between the Shivs and let out a chorus of sighs. A few cradled their heads as the entertainment became a pain in their skulls.

Gardener of Doubt 76 > 78

“Oh, you lying piece of shit!” Both Shivs spat at each other. Once more, Shiv struggled not to guffaw, for he was the only one present who could differentiate himself from his foe. After all, he possessed the Harbinger, and while his clone's empathic core was filled with frustration and building outrage, Shiv was alight with mirth and consumed by an impish desire to fan the flames of chaos.

More of their Harbingers clipped back together, golden fragments assembling a shell that presented an idealized version of Shiv, captured within a mirage of gold-tinted magic. Both Harbingers had their eyes closed, but their expressions tightened, and their fingers twitched. They were on the verge of waking: the first to speak would also draw first blood.

The moment drew near. Shiv and his clone spent the last of their tides trying to overcome the other—and promptly collapsed against each other instead.

“I’m going to love watching you break apart,” Shiv growled. “You deserve it for what happened to Adam.”

It was an utterly unreasonable accusation, and the emotional harm it inflicted cut both ways. The cores of both Deathlesses grew inflamed—which meant the clone carried Shiv's regrets as well, even if he was simulated to stop Shiv from completing the Delve.

Wait. He has all my psychological flaws—plus one of his own, just like last time.

With that thought, the Nihilist laughed. Instead of being two separate voices, the hollow flame spoke as one. “Just as there is great pleasure to be found in the construction of meaning, so too is there deepest woe when you realize none of it matters. You are going to perish and dissolve in this cage, less than even a figment of reality, just cosmic detritus, set to become even less than that, destined for oblivion.”

Shiv saw his clone's core swell with dread. They both understood what was about to follow. They were equals in all aspects: physically, magically, spiritually, but there was a critical difference in the existential. Even if it took a few dozen more turns or a few thousand, Shiv was going to leave the Delve stronger than ever before, but the clone, if there was any sentience in him at all, was damned to fade from existence—until the next time Shiv Delved.

The thought of suffering such a reality made Shiv's heart coil with horror. But it also hardened his resolve and granted him the perfect means to see his adversary broken. For though the System was cruel and uncaring, Shiv had countless reasons to hope and strive.

But his clone? There was no future. There was no past. There was no progress. There was no one and nothing that waited for him. This was all he had, and desperation didn't make him any better than Shiv. It just made him less.

Meaningless.

And from the grief emanating from the clone's core and that bitter despair behind his eyes, Shiv knew what was about to follow.

A resonating crack sounded. Both of the Harbingers woke at the same time, eyes snapping open, mana fields blazing gold. Both Harbingers reached out for each other, their mouths opening as they cast forth their psionic proclamations. A wreath of enkindled flames erupted out on Shiv's core, and the clone mirrored him down to the last action.

“You will never be strong enough. You will never be good enough. You will always be someone else's pawn. You will always be the System's plaything. That promise you made to yourself and your friends and everything you cared for in the ruins is hollow. Your will is nothing before this System. We are nothing!”

