The clone's curse traveled across time and thought, striking Shiv like a bomb that went off from within. His core cracked open. His body fractured. Even his invincible body couldn't withstand the truth behind his anguish. Shiv would always defy. He would never bow to the System's will, not completely, but he couldn't step beyond it. Even when he could escape briefly to the Backstage, it was a respite rather than an evacuation. He always had to come back. There was nowhere else to go in all existence.

He lived beneath the will of a cruel master, one that yearned for him to kill and fight and struggle. One that incubated monsters like the Challenger. Its favor was like an infection, and Shiv was sicker than anyone else. But rather than withering, rather than dying, rather than being reduced in any way, the plague simply made him stronger and drew even greater threats to him. He was a nexus of peril; he was damned and blessed in equal measure. No escape, not for him nor his victims to come.

But still, the Deathless could hope. The Deathless could struggle. The Deathless could grow stronger beyond measure with the hopes that he could gain new, unique skills outside of the System's parameters. He'd already obtained some that allowed him to break every rule, to escape context itself. What was to say that he couldn't get even further? That was what Udraal made him for, after all. Despite all the misgivings Shiv held for his creator, the hate they shared for the System was deep and true.

And so, though Shiv's body bled, though the cracks spider-webbed across his entire person, causing red to leak out between the fractured scars of platinum bright, he remained unbroken.

The same fate did not befall the clone.

“This is not your cage. This is your destination. There is no after here, no before. You are never getting out. You are never going to be able to decide. You are not a person. You are a shadow. All my failures are my own. All your failures are inherited. You never had a chance to do right, and you never will. Whatever you think I did to fail Adam, you will never get the opportunity to make that right, and you know this. You can't change this, and you can't change anything besides. My promise to defy the System might be feeble, but I am not its hollow slave. Better a pawn than a godsdamn construct.”

The clone’s body fractured into pieces. His Harbinger, just restored, now scattered into orbiting fractals of gold. As he staggered back, Shiv witnessed the cascade of collapses. The clone's heart imploded in parts, his ego savaged beyond description. His mind split like a broken plate dashed against the ground, and his body followed suit, with great fissures exposing the glistening tissues within. But it still wasn't enough. The clone survived the attack, and so Shiv found himself reaching for a more desperate measure.

It was in the back of his head all this time, the reason why he was in this Delve in the first place. Scion of Pain, his evolved Blessing. Something stolen from the Challenger alongside the Red Rider's Hand. Both Shiv and his clone had taken substantial wounds, but the former was at a disadvantage when it came to actual injuries, for he'd spent the last week getting brutalized, dying, and breaking in an attempt to raise his Toughness. Should the clone survive the following detonation, then this encounter was certain to fail; should Shiv come asunder from the wound he has already taken, then the result would be all the same.

But if the gambit worked, if the clone broke before Shiv died, then he would remove the greatest threat against him, the only enemy that could reliably hurt him among the forces arrayed.

And so, with nothing to lose, no penalty beyond time spent in frustration, Shiv called upon the power of the Challenger and let every wound be amplified and every pain turn to untrammeled torment.

He learned to regret that choice immediately.

Past injuries burst open anew, spraying geysers of blood as Shiv’s limbs were nearly torn free from his torso while his chest and abdomen were nearly shredded down to the quick. Adam's tumor-cocoon was exposed to the world, and the other injuries Shiv endured across the past week and even a little bit beyond came back to grace him all at the same time.

Yet, unlike in the Stranger's Garden, Shiv wasn't obliterated. He endured, his scar-forged body gleaming bright as a collection of devastating injuries, each capable of killing him at Heroic-Tier in Toughness several times over, simply painted deep scabs upon him. His Skill tried to adapt, but the injuries came as a plethora, and so every single wound he endured added its own helping of weight.

Shiv was driven to his knees, and the moment he struck the ground, it curved beneath him, bending and groaning as he plunged straight down. His damage debt made him so heavy that even orichalcum couldn't hold him, could only distend. His mana fields were shredded. What tides he had were spent as magical attacks tore through him. Shiv's mind was ripped asunder, and insanity nearly took him. A blow across time nearly saw him eroded to dust. His Biomancy went haywire, and the Aegis burst like it had been overfilled from within. But his flesh magic proved remarkable and resilient, and the hydra that it represented began regenerating immediately, sparing him from any greater mutations.

And while Shiv shivered on both knees, unable to rise or even move with how much weight was pressing upon him and how spent he was of strength and stamina, the clone suffered a worse fate.

His insides spilled out from the brutal gash that lined his body from the prior attack. The wounds before went deep and wide, but now they were practically doorways, causing the clone's insides to pour out. The place where he unraveled physically, his mind and heart experienced another level of annihilation. All three aspects of his Tripartite were bound in the same direction: that of absolute destruction.

Witnessing that sent a surge of energy through Shiv. Though he'd lost all accumulated tides, now he activated his Harbinger, and time flowed to a near halt. He spent seconds gathering new vectors, supercharging himself with strength in anticipation of the final blow. Where a single second passed outside, Shiv's personal point in time slowed its travel dramatically, and only when he was ready did Shiv fling himself across the distance and into the future, striking the clone with a temporal leap.

He drove his hand deep into the clone's open body—clutching his rival's heart and squeezing tight.

The clone's Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable refused to let him sustain any physical injury, but he continued breaking regardless, for the body had to mirror the heart and the mind, and both were on the verge of complete devastation.

Shiv felt the clone's heart thunder in his hand, each beat sending blast waves through the room. He tightened his grip not on the clone's pounding flesh but his boiling emotions, threatening to unravel; his mind, coming apart at the seams. Shiv struck the clone with his free hand, but rather than delivering physical blows, he used his Harbinger to convey mental anguish and emotional torment. His fist struck home, and every impact sank deeper than the Onus could deny.

“There is no freedom for you. There is no escape and no choice. You are here, not even because you chose to be here, but because the System decided to create you from nothing for this singular task. Even with the Harbinger, even with everything I have, you can't be anything, because there is nothing that's waiting for you.. There is no victory to be had. You are fighting a perpetual war to delay. I know who you are. I know how you feel. I know my own stupidity. I know my own virtue. And I know what I would become if I were severed from everything that gave me meaning.”

The clone let out a whimper and wrapped both hands around Shiv's elbow. He tried to extricate himself, but Shiv took another step forward, and suddenly the clone shattered apart. His greatest magical field burst first, causing the Harbinger to scatter into fragments. For just a moment, Shiv saw that realized version of himself close his eyes in quiet acceptance of death, and that sent a flicker of pride in him. Watching another version of himself face an absolute end with dignity left Shiv touched in a strange way.

A final display of psychological strength before inevitable oblivion meant nothing, for oblivion set everything to nothing. When one existed relative to oneself, the emotions mattered, the thoughts mattered, the deeds mattered; the deeds endured. Especially for all who bore witness.

The clone stopped trying to pull away. Even as he started to crumble, he squared his shoulders and faced Shiv down. His eyes gleamed bright, pale, and defiant, while his heart went empty of all trauma and all fear.

“But you're wrong,” the clone whispered, his throat choked thick with blood. “I am not nothing. I am not non-existence. I am more than a construct, just like you can be more than a slave. I was here. And you,” he said, placing a disintegrating finger against one of Shiv's platinum scars, “will bear my mark here.” Slowly, his finger drifted upward, and his hand and arm and body began to dissolve into fading fragments. “Here,” the clone repeated as his face dissolved, and pressed his digit against the center of Shiv's head. “You'll remember…”

His words went unfinished. His death arrived before what felt like the proper time. Shiv watched as his other self, this System-simulated version of him, came undone, collapsing into a mess of pieces that were burned away by Shiv’s enkindled flames. Where once stood a rival, now there wasn't even ash. With no turmoil to burn, nothing of the Tripartite remained. The enkindled flames parted, slithering away, not as smoke but nothingness.

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 335 > 338

“Was he truer to who we are, or are we? Is the deepest self fully expressed when there is no hope, or is it only whole when there is something to fight for?” In the aftermath, in an uncanny moment, both the Nihilist and the Harbinger spoke as one, and the question they posed to Shiv left him silent and thinking.

The Jessicas looked on, their cores alight with pride, but their minds condensing as they snapped down their visors and woke the manifolds within their weapons. The Urris began shouldering forward, stomping as a renewed avalanche seeking to leave him a bloodied smear. Cripple did not move. Instead, the Ascendant looked on and waited, its empathic core alight with admiration, shame, fear, and more. Its single orb-like eye gazed in the direction of Shiv's alternate, and it fell deep in thought while the rest of the great ravine of red and gold came alive once more.

Both and neither, Shiv answered his Skills. I don't think there is a true version of me. I think that truth constantly changes because I'm not just myself. I'm also what the environment forces on me. I'm also the problem I face and the memories that changed me.

As he formed these thoughts, a twinge of existential dread snaked through Shiv. The shape of one's ego and the state of one's consciousness were fragile, fickle things, and it was so easy to see oneself mutilated. All you needed to do was take certain things away. Jessica didn't need to be Veronica's dog, but grief compelled her to accept the metaphorical leash, and where Shiv judged her before, now he found himself wondering what needed to be ripped away from him before he finally became a parody of himself. The same question applied to Roland and everyone else Shiv knew.

Who were they if not sculpted by the world?

Shiv's clone was his equal in every single way except the existential. And now that clone was dead, broken in a single exchange—his shattering ensured as Shiv called upon the Challenger's blessing to make all wounds magnified, to make all pain unbearable. Shiv barely survived himself, but he did survive.

“Circumstance,” Shiv whispered to himself. “Always and forever, circumstance has a say.”

And then, all around him, he heard clapping: metal gauntlets clashing together in exultation and near mockery of his triumph. He found the Jessicas cheering him, their tessellated armors shifting and shrieking against the ambient mana.

“Congrats!”

“Congratulations!”

“Nice job killing yourself, kid. That's a new kind of suicide. The System should give you a skill for that. Congratulations!”

“Congratulations!”

The moment went on and on and felt ever more surreal with each passing second. Shiv blinked as he took in the Jessicas around them and noted how their weapons were brandished, leveraged over shoulders, yes, but clutched in ready hands.

Ah, shit. I still have to deal with her. And Cripple too. Wait, how many minutes was that? Please, please be close to twelve…

“I don't think he's dead,” Shiv grunted. “That's why it hasn't reset. I think he accidentally turned himself into dust using one of his new Unique Skills. We gotta wait for him to come back.” Unlike the half-truth Shiv used to blur the separation between himself and his clone before, this lie was hasty and desperate, and he couldn't keep the exhaustion out of his voice.

