The deepest room of the tombs were strewn with cobwebs, skulls, and an atmosphere installed by experts of their field. It was home, it was home to 'him'. To honor the great Echo, he turned to the foolish adventurers that had dared enter his catacombs. The struggling warmth of life disgusted him and he, the great necromancer of Duval (ranked 41st out of 100 local necromancers), would usher in the forgone conclusion of these intruders.They were arranged before him in an upside down star sigil on the ground with two of the star's points cross hatched with repeating dark lines. The Great symbol of Absolute-Satin bubbled with power and despite the events to come, the necromancer had moments to fondly recall the many debates in his magic lessons at school. Most of the students were dead which did dampen the mood; the natural life expectancy of an apprentice wizard was between 2 and 200 years after leaving their place of education.Something about unleashing overconfident hormonally-charged teens able to throw fireballs into the world seemed to invite disaster. Still, despite the fact that many of his fellow practitioners died via pulling a small furry mammal out of the wrong location, he never did figure out why this particular symbol made every ritual it was a part of turn dramatically malevolent. Lights turned red, winds picked up, candles burned black, eerie music sung by an unseen choir drifted through random closets, and the average wizard's orb signal dropped to two bars.The symbol was just that evil without any known reason.Still, it did make doing actual unlawful deeds easier. He paused as he looked around suspiciously at dark corners of his lair."Note, mentally add 'hypothetically' to all future thoughts about evil deeds in case of mind lawyers," the Necromancer announced to himself and turned to the panicked adventurers who surely could use the power of friendship and love to escape cast-iron chains.Surely."This is where you all hypothetically perish," the man declared as he raised his mana to focus this sacrifice to his patron. The dreaded Echo of utter malice and consumption. Shefu-dood rewarded all his followers for inhaling and indulging in disgusting meals that would turn a good person's stomach.Rotten fish head and mashed green egg. The crunchy knuckles of a deadman and guacamole. Thricely reheated cheese pizza slices.The Necromancer held his stomach as even he, a favored amongst the Echo, could only endure so much foulness.The leader of the group struggled, cursing him as they struggled. The leader was typical, some dashingly good looking person that the Necromancer had to admit... he hadn't the foggiest what they might be. He hadn't seen fresh skin in years.It made him feel naked for a moment."Cry out in terror, young sack of flesh with anxiety!" he cackled.That should cover most people."As soon as I read forth this passage of my lord, you shall all eat until you die. Jam-covered fish fingers, Cold chicken chunks in watermelon sauce, bananas dipped in ketchup, and pickles covered in ice-cream!" the Necromancer said as the ominous chanting coming from under a nearby bench picked up pace.Ignoring the panicked screams, he reached for his tome of darkness, the book that he had spent nearly all his life compiling. The book held sordid details on how to communicate with Echoes and some hidden magic to even bind them...It also listed everything the Necromancer needed to live day to day since his memory was a little spotty at times. The book sat on a stand nearby, covered in so much protective magic that any mortal man would rot from the inside from simply spying its cover. No mortal or god-touched mortal could touch the book, no beast under the command of a mortal could harm it either, and no elements brought forth by demons, mortals, and even gods could scratch the book.He opened the book and paused as three rats tore his pages up to make a nest, eating through nearly seventy years of work to have three little pink children.It took all of five seconds to confirm a few things.One, the rats were connected to divinity but none that directly controlled them. Two, the rats' eyes glowed a dull orange, and the third he noticed was his tomb was filled with staring orange eyes."I curse you with the uh... the spell of Demogor..." he trailed off as his mind came up blank as he only ever memorized the same four or five spells and they were all designed to single-target beefy people to explode them from the inside.The rats in his grimoire arranged torn paper shreds into a passage.'You're. Boned. Bone. Man.'He didn't even have a chance to scream.---The adventurers slowly walked into bright sunshine in wary confusion. The leader turned back to the cloaked figure that looked lopsided under his black robe."So you're letting us go?" he asked, just to be sure and the Necromancer nodded, flopping his head dramatically to the point it almost fell off one side.The leader was pretty sure this wasn't the same necromancer as before but they had no reason to doubt the new one. Skulls, limb bones, and rib cages all danced at his command."Thank you?" someone said and the necromancer waved them off before the arm just fell off in a heap and they hastily rushed to reattach it with a hiss to themselves.Without warning, their upper torso spun 180 degrees and the legs began walking backwards without any concern as they slammed down an 'under new management' sign nearby before clicking their fingers at confused but obedient skeletons to start picking up weeds and cleaning tombstones.This was the tale they told everyone back in town."Rats and Necromancer-mimes rising up? This could be dangerous, mistress," a fashionably dressed maid warned her patron who sipped warmed goat blood with some crackers nearby. The red eyes shot up once, showing some disinterest."Of course I wouldn't bring it up because I wish to see the magic rats. I would never. I am your loyal maid, Snug," the woman bowed, her joints clicking as she curtsied. The young looking vampire pointed her finger on the table in the inn, indicating a solid intention to head west with no detours."But miss... I didn't get to see the magic rat lawyers who ate that judge who was burning people for all crimes, nor did we get to see the rats running for mayor in the last town because the mayor tried to become a god by turning into a giant snake. I heard some rats are even becoming maids!" Snug said with excitement as she held her face.Sarah ran her finger around in disgust."Yes, I know full well that turning into a giant snake never helped anyone, but I can't help but want to meet these rats," Snug admitted. Their waitress came over in a full robe and hood combo, their lower body moving like a swarm of tiny legs while their upper side seemed to be at war to stop their own hands eating the food they were bringing out."Best waitress I ever done seen around these parts," a grouchy old man said, sipping from his beer."But it's no rats," Snug sighed.Sarah looked between her maid and the waitress with disbelief and then simply exhaled, tapping the table three times to indicate it was time to leave."Yes, mistress. You've been really eager since yesterday to reach this location. Was it to do with all the mages suffering mild heart attacks? Was the Archmage in trouble?" Snug pestered as she got the carriage ready with such efficiency, the horses didn't dare argue with the maid.Sarah turned and made several hand gestures that indicated a lot of concepts in as few motions as possible."Yes, well the Arch-Fragment being corrupted in any form would likely allow the god in question to reform and since he perished before the accords were in place by the Sister... he would be exempt from them and be able to bring untold catastrophe to the lands," Snug said and Sarah frowned, then looked at her own hands as if surprised what she managed to convey."I was around when your father was alive. I recall such topics," Snug reminded as she ushered her mistress into the back of a carriage.Sarah was still for a moment before making a few more gestures."I shall awaken you when we near Durence. I suspect it shan't take us long," Snug promised with a smile.In the wheel of the carriage and on the roof, little shapes settled in for a long ride.---Delta felt great! She stretched and stood, getting her bearings after what felt like a much needed power nap. Nu and Prim seemed busy so she took the time to go through a few notifications, mostly interested in the new window under 'goddess' that appeared.'You have unlocked Goddess goals 1-30. Would you like to review these goals and rewards?'"Oh, I must have done a 'bless ten times' or got an avatar achievement," Delta said as she opened the list.You have achieved the following goddess goals

"Stop," Delta said, smile becoming fixed.

"Oh free pet, no wait, stop, go back!" Delta shook her head."Error, Rat King in secret garden is superior. Merging blueprints. Rat God-King usable as a future boss.

