I walk because it still hurts to run. I move because it’s just a bit better than staying still.
But yeah. I’m in pain.
Overhead, the sky is clear for a brief window of time, exposing clear skies. But clouds are coming in fast, and there will be a blizzard before nightfall. I’m no meteorologist, but I’ve got a bunch of flying faeries that tell me this is so. And I believe them.
I’m not crazy, I swear.
Some days I think I am, actually. In the past, I was sure I was sane despite what other people thought*. Now though, I’m beginning to wonder if this is all because I’ve snapped and I’m in the straightjacket at last.
*Lots of diagnoses from people with long degrees. What all the talk of social disorders really meant was that I was an uncooperative brat who hated authority figures. I locked a therapist in his office one time and walked out with the key. Good memories.
But as I take another step in the snow, I decide that fantasy doesn’t hurt nearly as much as this reality. My entire body is—
Frankly, it feels like I’ve been hit with a car and then beaten with sticks for a few hours. I feel like curling into a ball and crying every time I move, but that would hurt even more.
The potion Teriarch gave me has worn off by now, obviously. I sort of slowed down about twenty minutes after I drank it.
I say twenty minutes, but what I really mean is this endless blur of motion – all sped up in my head, but at the time it was all moving at normal speed for me. I ran out of that battlefield, and back towards Liscor. I think I covered over fifty miles in those twenty minutes—I could be way off, but I was literally running faster than a car so who knows.
Anyways, after the potion wore off I just fell down. The faeries laughed their little asses off when I started feeling the pain from my legs, but I somehow managed to drag myself into a cave they found for me.
That’s another thing. The faeries were with me while I was running, the entire time. They were actually faster than I was—no, I don’t even think they were having a hard time keeping up. How fast are they really?
Back to the important bit. You know how you can tear muscles if you run really hard? Imagine what running that fast does to your body.
I had several healing potions in my pack before I made it to the Necromancer. They were good quality potions too. They’re gone now, and my body still hurts.
For two days I think I sat in a cave, trying to heal my torn muscles and just—just remembering. After I stopped, for a while I couldn’t even process the world around me. My mind was still too busy catching up from where I’d left it.
Fast forward to now. I finally left the damn cave and started moving again because I was feeling better, and because the faeries were getting bored and dumping snow into the cave. If I’d left it another day, I probably would have been trapped inside.
So yeah. That’s what my life has been recently. I stumble through the snow, heading back the way I’ve come. It’s a long way to Liscor, but I’ve got plenty to think about.
Like Az’kerash. The Necromancer. The battle, Wall Lord Il—whoever he was, and…
Periss.
“Damn it.”
It all happened so fast. I was a runner, and then a prisoner, and then a noncombatant in a warzone, and then…
I led them to their deaths. That was my fault. True, they were chasing me and probably going to hit me a lot and take me prisoner, but—
My fault. There’s no way to escape that. Periss might have been a loyal hound for her master, but she was also brave. And she let me go to fight what she saw as the greatest threat to her people.
The Necromancer. Az’kerash. Perril Chandler. I remember what I saw him creating, and my stomach heaves.
“Oh right. The letter.”
I pause.
“Fuck that dragon.”
I hate him so damn much. One of the faeries hears me muttering and floats down to laugh at me.
 
“What’s wrong? Is it not what ye expected?”
 
I glare at the faerie. How is it that I’ve probably talked to these floating freaks more than anyone else in this world or—most of my life?
“When I get told to deliver—no, when a Dragon casts a spell on me to do a delivery and pays me nearly a thousand gold pieces to send something to a legendary Necromancer, I expect it to be important.”
 
“Hah!”
 
The faerie laughs in my face. She flips upwards and settles on my head. For some reason they really like sitting there. I’m not sure if she’s one I’ve talked to before; I think she is, but I’m not being racist when I say they really all do look alike. It’s hard to make out frozen features on minutiae, alright?
 
“If it was important, the Dragon would have used magic, fool! But he had no wish to break through the dead raiser’s wards and he wished to be polite. More fool you for thinking what ye carried was valuable.”
 
I grit my teeth, but she has a point. If Teriarch can alter memory and disguise himself as a Human – and if he can teleport me all the way back to Celum in a few seconds – he really doesn’t need even the best Couriers.
Polite damn Dragons. Who would have guessed?
“Fine. Whatever. Get off my head. You’re giving me a headache.”
 
“Ooh, and what will you do if I don’t?”
 
I raise my finger and point it at the faerie.
“[Flashlight].”
For a second the world around me lights up, and the faerie shouts in surprise. I grin as she takes off; swearing in what sounds like…Welsh? Their accents seem to vary between faeries, which is odd, but not so much if you assume they occupied different parts of Europe. I could swear I heard one of the faeries talking with a German accent, but they might have just been messing with my head.
But of course, any action against faeries prompts a greater or equal reaction. She dumps snow on my head. I swear and flash her again.
With my finger. It shines into the sky, so bright I can see the beam even in the light of the day. It turns out that I can adjust the intensity of the light very well, and so I blind the faerie again.
 
“Ye daft bugger!”
 
She flies around erratically, as I shine my light at her, and then she stops, flies back on my head, and grins at me.
 
“Ah, well. ‘Twas quite a good surprise!”
 
That’s faeries for you. Insult them a bit and they’ll hound you, but do something like that and they just regard it as a bit of fun. I’m starting to understand them more, but they always surprise me a bit. The faerie on my head doesn’t even seem to mind the light anymore. I frown at her as I walk on, trying to substitute the pain in my head by thinking about faeries.
“Did you just turn off your eyes or something?”
 
“What? Are ye stupid? Nae. I just saw past the light, ‘tis all.”
 
“…I see.”
Multiple layers of vision? Obviously a faerie might have access to all kinds of spectrums of light. But even that might be too simple; she could very well just ignore the light on my wavelength if she wanted to. Huh.
A tiny head lowers into my line of sight as the faerie grins at me.
 
“If you really wanted to surprise us, ye’d do better to make the loud sound and noise along with the light!”
 
“What? Oh—you mean the [Flashbang] spell.”
That was a good one. I had no idea I could do it, but while I was in the cave I started experimenting with the two spells I did know. [Noise] and [Light]. My reasoning was that if I could alter the [Light] spell with some work, why not the [Noise] spell? Hell, why not combine the two?
A day and a half later, and two aching eardrums prove I’m right. The burst of noise and sound isn’t exactly like being hit by a real life stun grenade—and there’s a whole lot less death and injury since this is just light and sound, not actual explosive force like the damn things people use, ‘non-lethal’ my ass—but it works.
Sound and light. Light and sound, just amplified. It’s the easiest thing to remember, especially if you’ve actually seen a flash bang go off*.
*Yeah. Police drug raids, wild party, and I wasn’t actually doing drugs. But try explaining that to a bunch of officers tearing up the place. The one time my father’s connections actually bailed me out of trouble I didn’t start.
It’s a great spell, and I can see how useful it would have been with all those soldiers. Hell, it might have slowed Periss enough—well, the [Flashlight] spell works well enough just to blind people. The [Flashbang] spell is a bit more intensive, and it hits me as well which is a major problem. Since I can’t move the [Noise] spell, it’s always set to friendly fire which sucks. And there’s one more problem.
“I feel sick after using that spell just once. I don’t have the mana to keep using it.”
 
“Weakling.”
 
I glare up at the faerie dangling her cold legs on my forehead.
“As far as I understand it, magic isn’t something I can actively train myself to have more of, unless I want to alter my body somehow. What I have is what I get and I’m grateful for that. Unless you know something about magic that I don’t?”
I’m sure they do. For all I hate these faeries at times, they’re a damn goldmine of information. If they choose to share it.
Which this faerie does not. She sniffs at me, arrogant as a queen despite the fact that she’s naked and tiny.
 
“Of course we know how magic works. But why should we tell you? And how would you understand? Would ye explain breathing to a rock?”
 
“I’d give it a shot. And I could try to understand your view of magic. Unless you don’t understand your powers enough to explain it in the first place, that is?”
The faerie pauses, and I think I’ve got her. But then she laughs, clear and bright as a bell. She takes off, and a few more of her friends fly down to laugh at me as well.
 
“Ooh, look. The plaything is trying to be clever. Take this!”
 
They flick their fingers at me and I flinch. But no snow appears. I frown, take a step—
And slip on the ice patch they’ve just created. I crash to the ground, swearing as they laugh and sit on my side as I struggle to get up.
Faeries. But I guess I deserved that? Wait a second, no I didn’t. I just asked a damn question about magic. Screw their opinions about what I should or should not be allowed to learn.
But each time I talk to them, I swear it’s worth it. Bruises and all.
Plaything. That was another word they kept using. Once the faeries have stopped laughing I ask them about it.
“What do you mean when you call me ‘plaything’? I’ve heard you call me that before. Whose plaything am I? Teriarch’s?”
Huh. That makes the faeries stop laughing. They exchange a look, and I watch them. Then one of the faeries shakes her head.
 
“As if the Dragon would bother with you. Nae, ye are a plaything of greater powers still. But you don’t even know what ye’ve given up, do you?”
 
“Given up? What do you mean?”
 
“Ach. How would we explain it? What good can a slave do with the chains on their neck? But you put it on willingly, didn’t ye?”
 
She looks at her companions and shakes her head again.
 
“Your…classes, fool! Your levels and foolish things. You are a plaything, and you know not what that means or who plays this game.”
 
And there it is. Part of the mystery, right there if only I was smart enough to put all the pieces together. I frown, but then I notice the faerie’s expression. She’s…glaring at me. So are the others.
Hm. They really, really don’t like this subject. And I can see they’re getting ready to either fly off or do something nasty to me, not just prank me.
So I look her in the eye and shake my head.
“I’m no plaything.”
 
“Liar!”
“Lies, you are all playthings! Ignorant slaves!”
“You cannot hide the truth!”
 
Okay, now they’re pissed. The faeries fly around me, and more of them come down. They look angry.
Faeries. Quick to change emotions. And dangerous. I gulp, but hold my hands up.
“I’m telling the truth. I have no classes and no skills. I never leveled. I chose not to.”
They freeze. One of the faeries squints at me.
 
“Truly?”
 
“Can’t you tell?”
They hesitate, and then shake their heads reluctantly. Huh. Seems like that’s one of the things faeries can’t do. One of them, the first one, I think, floats closer and eyes me suspiciously.
 
“Do not try to trick us, mortal. Tell us plain: do you have levels? Did ye accept the power of this world?”
 
I look her straight in the eye. If ever this was a time to be honest…
“I swear it. I swear it on the water, by the grass and earth and sky and on my name. I swear it by honor and life itself.”
I’m not sure if those are the right words. I don’t know any faerie oaths and I’ve forgotten any famous ones in the moment. But it seems to work. The faeries exchange a glance and then look at me. one speaks.
 
“That is…good. And interesting. It changes much, Human.”
“And nothing.”
 
Another one mutters that. Some faeries nod and others shake their heads. For the first time I see them start to argue, but then they look at me. Almost all of them fly out of earshot and the first one—I think it’s still her—remains.
“Would you like to explain any of that?”
She lifts her small nose up at me.
 
“‘Tis for us to discuss. We will tell you if you need to hear it.”
 
“Thanks.”
I sigh. Faeries. Secrets. It’s not as if I’m not used to this already. I glance over my shoulder the way I’ve come. A long, open stretch of snow is behind me, and a small forest seems to be ahead.
“Damn it. Do you at least know where I am? Am I even headed back to Liscor?”
She hesitates, and then nods stiffly.
 
“You go the right way, Human. You and others march towards the city that floods.”
 
Wait, what? Two parts of that sentence bother me.
“Me and others? What do you mean?”
She squints behind me. I look over my shoulder, but I don’t see anything. But the faerie does.
 
“‘Tis a great column of the children of Dragons and the walking dogs following your trail. About a day’s journey behind.”
 
Oh no. My heart begins beating faster again. I remember Ilvriss and the other one. Zel-something.
“Do you know which army it is? Is it the one who captured me, or the other one?”
She shrugs. Well of course faeries don’t care about mortal affairs. She eyes me as I try to pick up the pace.
 
“Ye know we will not interfere in mortal affairs.”
 
“I know. But you seem to interfere a lot in my life.”
She shrugs as she floats by my head.
 
“Some rules may be broken. Some may not. But we speak to you now because your life is not in danger. We will not save ye if you were to fall off a cliff, say. We do not interfere with death.”
 
For a second her eyes are ancient again. I shiver.
“Because of the price? Or because it’s forbidden?”
 
“All things have a price. Ye would do well to remember that.”
 
