Silence follows that statement. I mean, what the hell do I say to that? I clear my throat as I try and force my legs to move faster.
“Well. Ah, I will remember. But thank you for helping me before. With everything.”
I wonder if they broke the rules a bit to help me get to Az’kerash? True, I might not have been in danger of dying until I got in sight of the castle, but—
The faerie eyes me as if she can see inside my head. And if she can see on different planes, why not? But she nods.
 
“You are a curious mortal. Almost interesting, even though ye art a fool.”
 
“This mortal does have a name, you know. My name is Ryoka Griffin.”
 
“Good for it.”
 
I glare at the faerie. But part of me actually wants her to know my name. This is not like the phone call with the person who wanted to scry on us or Teriarch. This is a faerie. I want her to remember my name and—
“What’s your name?”
I look at the faerie, and realize I’ve never asked. I thought faeries didn’t even have names, but perhaps they do. She looks at me.
 
“Why should I tell you? Names are important and not to be thrown around lightly, Ryoka Griffin.”
 
Damn. Was that a mistake? But they can find me and mess with me even without a name. I shrug.
“I’m just curious.”
 
“Curiosity has killed many cats. Few come back. Besides, ye would never pronounce it.”
 
“Try me.”
The faerie stares at me archly as I raise an eyebrow at her. Okay, it’s clichéd, but faeries don’t know modern tropes and taunting them often works. She opens her mouth, hesitates, and then vanishes.
“What?”
I blink. One second she’s there, the next…wind and silence. Why? Did I bother her that much? Did I offend her by asking for her name?
Faeries. Let’s see. Names…ah, they’re bad to give to faeries. But I told her my first and last name, and my first name is in kanji, so that would make it difficult for her to control me. I don’t even think they’re that evil, but I didn’t mention my middle name either.
Maybe it’s just because she didn’t want to answer? But even when they get snippy they still talk. So what—?
Hold on. Hold on. The faeries don’t disappear except in one case. When they can’t interf—
I look around. I’ve kept walking as I talked to the faeries. Hell, it’s practically my default state of motion. I’ve gone a small ways into the forest, and the trees were sparsely planted so I have plenty of room to walk between them. All is silent, and I don’t even see any animals.
…And neither do I hear any birds, which I would expect to hear in a place like this. Even in the winter there should be some around.
Immediately I lower my stance. My body’s sore, but it can move. I can cast [Flashbang] if need be, but I have no more potions or bags. I look around warily. Nothing but trees, and yet the faeries are gone.
“I know someone’s out there. Come out!”
Silence. Even the wind is still. I look around.
“Show yourself!”
For a few seconds I’m tense, waiting. I can’t see anything that makes me think there’s someone nearby, but now my skin is crawling and I’m sure there is something there.
And then someone steps out behind a tree that seems far too slim to hide them. A Gnoll walks out from behind the brown, snowy bark, holding a bow in her hands.
She was so invisible that my heart skips a few beats when she moves. I flinch, but if she’d wanted to kill me, she would have while I was standing around like an idiot. The Gnoll is wearing only a few garments despite the cold, and her breath clouds the air. She nods at me, gravely.
“Mrr. Ryoka Griffin. I am Hekra of the Stone Spears Tribe.”
Her bow is lowered, and I relax when I hear what tribe she’s from. I smile at her.
“Sorry. I was wary—are you out hunting?”
“Hunting, yes. But not for game. There are none to be found.”
Some Gnolls are taciturn, but Hekra seems more distracted than anything else. Her eyes flick around the forest, and then to me.
“Were you talking with the Winter Sprites?”
I frown. What’s this?
“Yes. I was. Were you expecting something else to be nearby?”
She shrugs.
“I am not sure. There is something in the wind.”
Hekra hesitates, and then points out of the forest, east and to the north.
“It is dangerous to be alone. Our tribe’s camp is that way. I will take you there. Follow.”
I nod, and the Gnoll begins to walk through the snow. Not fast; in fact, she’s silent as she moves through the trees, despite the landscape. I feel like an ox as I blunder after her in my heavy shoes. And her head is scanning left and right as she moves, and her ears are twitching.
She’s listening for something. And looking. For what? A monster? Enemies?
I don’t know, but I frown as I walk after her and try to keep silent. The faeries reappear slowly as I continue moving. Perhaps they didn’t know if Hekra had been a threat or not either. Good to know they’re not omniscient. But their sudden disappearance and the news of the army following me bug me. Almost as much as Hekra’s own wariness.
Is there something out here? Something else? I follow the Gnoll as she leads me towards her tribe’s camp. And now I’m listening as well.
Where have all the animals gone?
 
—-
 
“There is nothing out here.”
Ilvriss snapped at Zel as the two Drakes marched through the snow, at the center of a huge column of soldiers and prisoners. Zel Shivertail wondered if he could ignore the other Drake, but politeness dictated he reply. Plus, Ilvriss would remember any slight.
“I’m sure there isn’t. but this is the way the Human Runner went, and I want to follow for a bit.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss glared at Zel. He was a prisoner, as was the bulk of his army. They’d surrendered fast after Zel had charged their lines and they’d realized their leader had been captured. Now Zel was marching with a huge number of them captive among his lines.
He wasn’t worried about the prisoners trying to stage an escape or attacking in his army’s sleep. For one thing, his soldiers were on alert and for another, it would violate the laws of war and Ilvriss’ own sense of honor. Say what you would about the Lord of the Wall, but the Drake was honorable. He’d as soon break the rules of warfare as he would cut off his own tail.
That was also why Ilvriss was marching next to Zel in the snow. He’d even been allowed to keep his armor; it was cold, he needed his dignity, and without his sword Zel could trounce him with one claw tied behind his back.
None of that improved Ilvriss’ mood.
“This is pointless, Shivertail. We should be headed back to your damn alliance cities so I can be ransomed. You are wasting time following a Human who is long gone.”
“She can’t have gotten that far.”
“Oh, really?”
Ilvriss made a sound that in a lesser Drake would have been called a snort. Zel thought of it a snort anyways.
“Didn’t you see her escape? At that speed—”
“At that speed, I’d be surprised if she could sustain it for more than five minutes. And afterwards, she’d have to rest. Potion or not, there are limits to what bodies can handle.”
“The Human’s tracks might be there, but she is still a Runner. She is far faster than this slow army.”
“True, but I want to head this way anyways.”
“Why?”
“Curiosity. She helped me win the battle, if you don’t recall? And there is also the matter of Periss and the soldiers you sent after her.”
Ilvriss looked at Zel out of the corner of one eye. He and Zel hadn’t talked much aside from the ritual offer of surrender and a few short acerbic conversations while they were marching. He shrugged.
“She disappeared. She must have lost the battle.”
“You can’t believe that.”
Zel knew Lord Ilvriss, and he also knew Periss. The very idea that she would have lost a fight to the girl named Ryoka Griffin was ridiculous, and both generals knew it. But Ilvriss just shook his head.
“I will not speculate. I will investigate this matter when I am restored to my city with all the power and resources I have, however. The city we are marching away from as we speak.”
Well, that didn’t bode well for the Human. Zel sighed.
“We can go this way until we hit the main road. Then we’ll start moving south. A day or two of detouring won’t slow us, unless you have another army waiting in ambush?”
Ilvriss shook his head.
“Would I need one? My army would have defeated yours easily. If—”
“Yes, yes.”
Zel ignored the Wall Lord as he walked ahead. He’d deployed heavy scouts ahead of his main army. He didn’t know why, but his instincts were telling him to do so.
He was no [Tactician] or even a [Strategist]. Zel had ranks in the [Commander] class, but only that. In truth, he was a [General] who led from the front and he did his best fighting when he trusted his gut.
And his gut told him there was something else. Not just the Human; she was interesting and possibly important, but there was another presence in these empty forests and highlands.
Zel tightened his fist and silently assessed his condition. His army might be battered, but they were more than capable of managing the prisoners and Ilvriss. With him, they were more than a match for any army a city-state might field, with the exception of the Liscorian army and a few others. But Liscor had sent their mercenaries far to the south. So what was making him so uneasy?
He didn’t know. But Zel ordered the pace to be picked up. The supply lines could damn well catch up later. He had a mystery to solve.
He hated mysteries. This foreboding he felt reminded him of the Antinium and if it was them—
No Hives were allowed to be constructed outside of the six already present on the continent. Even then, they weren’t allowed to expand past certain borders. It wasn’t beyond belief though that the Antinium might hide something this far out here. How else would the girl have made Periss vanish like that?
It was an outside chance. But if it wasn’t the Antinium out here, he wanted to know what it was.
And if it was an unauthorized Hive…Zel’s claws clenched. If it was, it would mean another Antinium War.
He hoped it wouldn’t come to that. But he had to investigate. So Zel marched onwards, wondering. Listening.
What was it?
 
—-
 
Ryoka walked into the Stone Spears camp, smiling as she saw Urksh, the Chieftain of the tribe, standing at one of the huge bonfires the Gnolls liked to make. But that smile faded as she took in the camp.
It was not the same place she had left.
Before, the camp had been sprawling chaos, but organized for all of that. Children had run around freely, and Gnolls had been at work performing various tasks.
Now though, the camp looked like it was under lockdown. The children were nowhere to be seen, but Ryoka thought they were in the tents. Gnolls with bows and spears stood at the edges of the camp, and groups of them moved into the camp and out of it, talking with Urksh before heading out again.
Something was clearly wrong, and Ryoka jogged over.
“Urksh.”
He looked at her.
“Ryoka Griffin. I am pleased to see you well. But this is a bad time for greetings. Forgive me if I do not offer you all the hospitality.”
“No. That’s fine. But what’s wrong?”
Urksh nodded to Hekra and she trotted off to join a group of hunters heading out. Urksh watched them go and shook his head before he looked at Ryoka.
“Mrsha. She is missing.”
A hole opened up in Ryoka’s stomach. She stared at Urksh.
“How?”
He shrugged.
“We do not know. This morning she went out to help gather plants from beneath the snow. She wandered from the gatherer with her and we have not seen her.”
“She just left? Did anyone hear anything?”
“No. But that is not uncommon. Young cubs, they wander a mile or two away to help or play.”
That seemed like a risky way of looking after children, but Urksh explained.
“Even if they are a ways away, children may howl. And we take care that they do not enter places where any monsters may lurk. She was only gone for a few minutes, but when the caretaker searched, she was nowhere to be found.”
“Wouldn’t she have said where she was going?”
Urksh shook his head. Ryoka knew she was asking all the stupid questions, but she had to. Her stomach was beginning to churn. Mrsha? It seemed like just yesterday she’d seen the Gnoll rolling in the snow and following her about.
“Mrsha is different, no? She is healthy, yet she does not speak though her throat is undamaged.”
“Is she mute?”
The Gnoll looked at Ryoka, confused. Did they not have mute Gnolls? She shook her head.
“Can she make any sounds?”
Urksh nodded.
“Yelping, growls. Small sounds. She is young, but even children can howl. That we have not heard her is worrying.”
It was a terrible question, but Ryoka had to ask.
“…Could she have gotten hurt? Injured? If a monster—”
The Gnoll instantly shook his head, which made Ryoka feel better.
“If she was attacked, she would have made a sound, no? And if she were dead, we would smell blood. No. Something scared her as she was wandering. That, or else she went looking for something.”
There was an inflection in his tone that made Ryoka hesitate.
“Something? What kind of thing?”
The Gnoll Chieftain did not immediately respond. He looked towards the sky. It was just past midday, but the storm clouds the faeries had warned Ryoka about were closing in.
“A smell in the air. It is faint. And it may be nothing, but some of our hunters feel as though they are being watched.”
He looked at Ryoka.
“Normally we would have more searching. But the miners, they are not back, no? We have not the numbers to mount a search.”
He was worried. Ryoka could tell in the way he changed his manner of speech. Gnolls usually said ‘yes’ at the end of sentences, but they only used ‘no’ when they were upset or angry.
“You can’t get in contact with them?”
He hesitated.
“We may howl, but they are a few day’s journey away. If we do not find Mrsha before the storm comes…”
He didn’t finish the sentence. If there were tracks, or…a body, they would be covered by the deep snow. And even if the young Gnoll was alive, could she survive that cold a night?
“Forgive me Ryoka. I must go lead another search. We are combing the mountains where she was.”
Urksh bowed to Ryoka and began to walk off. She didn’t even think. Ryoka caught Urksh’s arm as he started to leave the camp with other hunters.
“Let me help. I can run, and I owe your tribe a debt.”
The Gnoll looked at her, and then nodded.
“You are limping. We have a poultice. Use it and then join us. We will need to move quickly before light fades.”
He loped off, and Ryoka stared around the campsite. High in the air, the Frost Faeries hovered, watching.
“Do you—?”
