Fate. The word sent a chill down Ryoka’s spine. Was this all fated? She was too afraid to ask.
“Please. Give her a chance. I’m asking you—as one who called the fae her friend. As someone who needs help. Please. For a child. For life.”
The wind began to pick up. Overhead, the snow began to fall harder. The faerie glowed in the darkness, but not with any light to chase away the horrors of the night. The glow she gave off was terrible and beautiful, but it was not kind.
 
“Very well. So it is agreed. We promise nothing, but we will offer you a chance.”
 
Ryoka looked up. Urksh stared at her as she stood.
“What do we need to do?”
 
“Only follow. And only you.”
 
She pointed at Ryoka. The girl hesitated, and turned to Urksh.
“I need to go alone. They’ll take me to her.”
He grabbed her. The old Gnoll’s eyes were full of fear, but also hope.
“Go. Please. And take this—”
He hurried inside a tent, barking orders. Gnolls scattered, and then one came towards Ryoka holding a torch. It was wood coated with resin, and the Gnoll muttered words to get it to light. He must have been the [Shaman].
Urksh came out of the tent holding bottles. Potions. He handed them to Ryoka.
“For healing. Take. And this.”
He gave her something else. Ryoka stared at it.
“What is this? A rope?”
He nodded as he helped store it in Ryoka’s pack. The rope was unlike the gear she had seen Gnolls use. It was long and thin and light, and it seemed to coil itself naturally as Ryoka put it into her equipment.
“It is magical. It will stretch a long ways. If you go where I fear, you will need it.”
Another Gnoll came over with a fur coat, and another, small enough for a child. It was hard to wrestle them into her pack, but Ryoka discarded her clothes and everything she didn’t need to make room.
“I’ll go. I don’t know what the faeries will ask or if I might fail. This is like—”
She hesitated. It reminded Ryoka a bit of an old Greek myth, like the tale of Orpheus. Quests involving life and death always ended badly. But she had to try.
“—It could be bad. If I don’t return, don’t send anyone after me.”
Urksh nodded. He grasped Ryoka by the shoulders.
“Go. With all our hopes. Save her, we beg of you.”
He lowered his head. Ryoka grabbed his arm and squeezed it once. Then she turned. The faeries were still floating overhead, watching.
“I’m ready.”
 
“Follow, then. And quickly. May ye not regret your choice.”
 
With that, the faerie flew off. North, towards the mountain. Ryoka didn’t hesitate. She ran after them, as fast as she could. She ran across the open plain, picking up speed, and then uphill as the land began to rise.
The air grew colder around her, and the snow began to fall harder. Soon it would be too cold for all but the most determined to survive. Yet even that could not match the cold in Ryoka’s heart. A pit of fear held itself in her stomach, but her body was burning. Exhaustion fled. She ran. She ran with more force in her step than she had put in anything before.
She saw a young Gnoll in her mind, and knew that she could not fail. Ryoka ran on, and overhead the faeries watched her slow progress with eyes that beheld immortality.
In the distance, Zel Shivertail’s army marched onwards, ignoring sense which told the [General] to make camp. His scouts had seen the bonfires in the distance, and even if they had gone out, he was sure he could find the Gnoll tribe. He marched on, listening to the wind and the sound of the foreboding in his heart.
And high above the rest, watching from a distant place, something twisted the Gnoll [Hunter]’s head around and lowered the dead Gnoll to the ground. The other Gnolls lay where they had fallen, arrows sprouting from their bodies, magic-torn wounds gaping open and steaming for only seconds in the cold air.
Dark shadows stood on the cliff, watching as the faint fires of the Stone Spears tribe were rekindled. They looked out, and more shapes moved. Hundreds of them. Thousands. The night was filled with shadows, and as the blizzard began to engulf the land in earnest, the dark shape stood. It bit into the Gnoll and ripped flesh away, chewing.
And then the Gnoll slowly sat up. Lifeless eyes stared at the one who had brought it back, and the Gnoll stood with its fellows.
Waiting. And the blizzard consumed everything and the girl ran on, hoping, praying.
She would not fail. She could not. But the word whispered in her ears again. The word of despair and madness. The word to shatter all hopes and dreams. The word of playthings. The word that meant she could do nothing.
It whispered to her, spoke to her. Haunted her steps.
Fate.
