At the end of the song, Ranthia and her mirror image partner took a bow—with Ranthia dismissing the image instead of having it rise. Without fanfare, the next song began a heartbeat later.

She’d never actually heard <Seven Nights> before, but the book she’d seen it mentioned in hadn’t been wrong about the song—the pace was delightfully energetic. It contrasted well with the previous slow song; even if she was a bit surprised that the musician had clearly changed instruments to perform it.

Ranthia danced through the song alone. The first song had been serene, but the new one had her thrashing about her designated area with energized movements. Which was a lot more fun! Even if Ranthia was left sweaty and just a touch breathless by the time the song came to an end.

“And now for one of my own originals!” The musician shouted at the top of his (admittedly impressive) lungs, before he switched to some sort of percussive instrument.

The new song was absolutely meant to screw with them. The song bounced between different speeds and intensities before a predictable rhythm could be established. Which was obviously meant as a test or act of sabotage.

Ranthia, of course, loved it. One moment she moved gracefully and with care, as though she was back on the stage at Fausteo’s Musical Theater a lifetime ago. The next, she twirled at ill-advised speeds, before she launched herself into the air for a sweeping kick. She even formed her knives—wait, how in Xaoc’s glory had the [Artisan] managed to direct her paint under Ranthia’s bracers too?!—at one point when it felt natural to incorporate them into her dance.

The song came to a somewhat abrupt end, but Ranthia narrowly managed to transition her step into a firm movement that conveyed finality—without losing her balance in the process. There was no moment of silence when it was done; the crowd started to make noise before Ranthia had even sucked in her first desperate breath.

The elf that was responsible for the ordeal was bouncing in place, grinning Ranthia’s way. The musician was dismissing the hard light instrument he’d conjured for the performance and nodded their way. Ranthia’s ‘opponent’ seemed to be fully in control of his breathing, but his hair had gone somewhat wild during their contest. Clover was still perched on her cushion and had seemingly dozed off during the contest. Rude!

Ranthia scanned the crowd for familiar faces. She found the scarred elf that had ‘welcomed’ her to the city almost immediately; the woman stood near the front of the crowd with what Ranthia assumed to be a subtle smile on her face. Surprisingly, Sunny was there too, albeit at the very back of the crowd. The rest were strangers to her or elves that she hadn’t interacted with much—there wasn’t a single Hunter that she could spot amongst those present.

The dancer that Ranthia had competed with approached the crowd, and their roar of approval dropped to a respectful murmur.

“This has been my final performance in Dancing; I thank you all for witnessing it. And I do hope you’ll give my Sculpting a respectful look once I’ve trained enough to not make a mockery of the art. But! For the moment, I ask you all to witness this—I hereby cede my rank to Ranthia! For she deserves it!”

“Yes, yes. As Rank 4 in Music, I witness.” The musician called out, though he was already walking away.

“As a sitting Maestro, I witness as well. Well done, I hadn’t expected a human to land in the top fifty, but the Rank has been undeniably earned!” The scarred elf’s voice seemed to part the crowd from around her.

“You go, girl!” The body painter that got Ranthia into the entire mess screeched excitedly.

And with that, the crowd pressed their way in to offer Ranthia assorted flavors of congratulations and gratitude for the show. Ranthia could have definitely lived without that, but she tried her best to put on a brave front as she smiled at the first elf that wanted to lay his hand upon hers.
