“Mm, I agree. No hard feelings, Darlantise. I hereby witness Myntheria as Rank 11 in Body Painting.” A different woman spoke up, her tone formal.

“Ee! Levels and a new Rank? You’re the best!” The [Artisan] excitedly leaned in and planted a wet kiss on Ranthia’s paint-covered cheek.

“Congratulations!” Ranthia was really hoping that the body paint would cover her blush.

“Oh, by the way, I never did ask—what rank did you end up getting for dancing? I need to know for my own bragging about my achievement!” The excited elf asked, one arm still around Ranthia’s shoulder.

How did she even know that?! …Okay, yes, Sunny had instantly pegged her as a dancer too, but she was the only person that Ranthia had actually told! It felt especially strange, given Ranthia still had no explanation for how the woman knew her name. The City of Arts wasn’t anywhere close to being a small enough city that gossip should travel so readily.

“I… haven’t bothered yet.” Ranthia’s response came out stiffer than she intended—and she certainly hadn’t meant to say ‘bothered’ out loud. Her damned mouth and its especially damned habit of running amok whenever she was distracted!

“Oooh. Okay, no, that’s not a good thing. Most people do it within a day—often hours—of getting into town; and Dancing is definitely not an art you want to leave open. Because right now any number of the top people could challenge you and make a spectacle out of crushing you; you’re only protected from ill-suited challengers if you have your own Rank.” The [Artisan] hurriedly explained with a (okay, yes, it was cute) thoughtful expression on her face.

“I appreciate the concern—Sunny told me the same thing—but I’ve had a lot on my plate with integrating into elven society, Clover here, and becoming a Hunter. And I don’t really care to be ‘competitive’ in my art, it’s just a part of who I am. It’s important to me, and I don’t need some number assigned to it to validate what it means to me.” Ranthia tried to explain. Her bunny was, amazingly, still on the cushion, albeit half occluded behind a large hill of plucked grass that she’d greedily harvested for idle snacking.

“It might not matter to you, but it does to the rest of us. Hm, how should I explain… Okay, so you want to integrate into our society, right? Well, if you refuse to seek an appropriate ranking to your level of artistic Skill, you’ll develop a reputation as someone that is disruptive to what we’re trying to do. Those of us that come to know you might realize this isn’t true, but others will see you as trying to challenge entire fields of art—as though you were saying their experts are beneath your notice.

“I know you have your reasons, but I also think you’re expecting getting a rank to be some grand ordeal. It really isn’t. Look, we can even do it tonight—I happen to know a guy, Rank 41. He’s planning to cycle soon, so he wouldn’t mind doing a challenge with you. You do a dance, either take his slot or get permission from the crowd to claim a lower slot he recommends, and you’re done. From there, the only one who can challenge you is the person right below your Rank. And challenges aren’t pressing, even if you are challenged you can take a few days to finish with whatever you’re working on. So come on, one little dance? Let’s knock it out!” The [Artisan] finally released her arm from around Ranthia’s shoulder and started to bat at her own blue-tipped blonde hair to pass the moments while she waited for Ranthia’s decision.

Ranthia’s immediate impulse was to refuse. Sure, there was the (minor) fact that she really didn’t want to bother, and that highly competitive arts felt vaguely repugnant—but it wasn’t like everyone seemed determined to climb the ranks. There were other excuses too, like the fact that Ranthia didn’t have any outfits worth wearing for a dance beyond her armor or a tunic, but those were just excuses. And the more she dwelled on the impassioned elf’s words, the wiser they seemed. If she could get the damned thing done with a single dance with someone who didn’t have the albatross of success on his shoulders…

“Fine, I guess you can see when he’d be available.” Ranthia consigned herself with a slight smile on her face. She wasn’t exactly looking forward to it, no, but she supposed it would be nice to get a firm date for when she could expect to be done with being bothered about it.

“Oh, he’s usually free this time of day. We’re getting this done tonight, trust me!” The elf answered with a pump of her fist over her own painted chest.

“Wait, really? I guess my tunic will still show some of your hard work, at least. I was kind of planning to wear my armor for this ‘match’ though.” Ranthia hurriedly spoke up, before the elf could turn to address anyone else.

“What are you talking about? You look amazing—if I’m allowed to say so, which I am. Just perform as you are! It’ll be great advertising for me, and you couldn’t look any better!” She replied with a wink, before turning back to the other elves.

“I…!” Ranthia swallowed her distressed reaction forcibly. Honestly, at some point she’d lost even the remaining self-consciousness about her state of undress in a mixed crowd. And it wasn’t like she didn’t constantly see elves walking or lounging around bared to the world. And it would be a damn shame to cover most of the [Artisan]’s hard work…

Ranthia took a deep breath and inverted her [Divine Eye] to take a look at herself. It was still pleasantly novel to have no need for a mirror—or to waste the mana to shift to a different body—just to do such a simple thing.

As promised, the artwork seemed to blend in with her (sole remaining) mistweave blindfold. The woman had been remarkably thorough in her paint job and Ranthia couldn’t find a single glimpse of her usual skin tone, except between the strands of her hair. Yet there wasn’t a smidgeon of paint out of place either—her hair remained free of it, as did her eyelashes and eyebrows.

Naturally, the paint itself was impeccably applied. There were tiny holes worked into the paint—matched to those in her skin—to make it breathable, just as promised. And the golden design was subtly applied, yet it somehow created an illusion that Ranthia had clearly defined edges to her own body. It was as though the trim had been properly applied where it was needed, rather than as a decorative flourish. Then there were the hidden patterns and shapes, ordinarily indistinguishable from the green of the base layer, that shimmered only when the light caught them just right.

Honestly, it was breath-taking. She had expected to be a canvas for the elf’s art, but instead the effect felt… almost natural, as though Ranthia herself was such a work of beauty. She was, of course, but never a green work of beauty—yet the deep emerald hue plainly suited her better than she had ever imagined it did!

Flattered and awed, Ranthia immediately started to create a new image based on the [Artisan]’s incredible creation. There was a time that she would have convinced herself that she couldn’t hope to have replicated such artistry, but thanks to Avyna’s pushes and the games and exercises she’d demanded, Ranthia felt confident. Sure, the designs were complex, but they were also somewhat predictable and sensible, plus the base was her own natural body. With the shortcuts she’d learned at her beloved’s behest, she knew she was able to recreate and immortalize the masterpiece painted on her flesh.

Not that she’d be able to shift into it—she had no good way to recreate the paint—but it was still a great memory to preserve in [Image Recall]. And that was even better than her (failed) attempt at an immortal memory Skill ever could be, because she could share the image with Avyna in the future!

Even with everything she’d learned, the process still took more than a little time. She often had to subtly adjust how she was standing—and crouched down at one point to pet Clover—just to get better views of certain angles and areas of her own body to make sure her image was perfect. She didn’t want to spell out what she was doing to anyone else though, so she tried to make each movement feel natural and did her best to keep her concentration from causing her facial muscles to tense up.

[*ding!* [Image Recall] has leveled from 686 to level 688!]

Two levels were wildly unexpected—she usually only got one after making multiple new images, and that was without using her true body. But Ranthia couldn’t dwell on her surprise, because the [Artisan] that she owed her gratitude and praise to was approaching again.

“Guess what! I managed to snag the Rank 4 in Music to provide something for you both to dance to!” The elf was visibly giddy as she reached for Ranthia’s arm.

Mutely, Ranthia allowed herself to be seized and pulled—she was too busy staring at the crowd that had gathered.

“What happened to this not being a grand ordeal?!” Ranthia hissed.

The elf paused for a moment, looked at the crowd, then looked back to Ranthia and shrugged.

“A few people were bored, I guess!” She offered in a chipper tone that wasn’t even remotely apologetic, then started to drag Ranthia forward again.

Ranthia tried to swallow her nerves while she was introduced to her plainly dressed competitor—name went in one ear and vanished somewhere within, never to be seen or heard again—and the lanky musician. Okay, so she just had to dance. Naked. In front of a crowd of several dozen strangers that were amongst the most attractive beings she had ever seen. In a competition. That would determine how and if she belonged in the city.

…Something had gone horribly wrong and she wasn’t entirely sure how letting a cute woman put paint on her skin had led to disaster!

“I’ll play three songs. Each of you will choose one, then I’ll play something I select myself at the end. Let me know your selections and we can get started.” The music [Artisan] instructed in a haughty tone.

“A Moment of Eternity.” Ranthia’s competitor answered immediately.

That… Okay, Ranthia actually knew that song, or at least she knew of that song. It had shown up in one of the books she’d read, during the slow, intimate dance number between the lead and her lover. Slow dances weren’t exactly Ranthia’s normal preference, but she could work with that. Still, she wanted something more… energetic for her own choice. But she was hampered by the minor fact that she barely knew any elven songs. Still, if one book’s music was real, maybe, just maybe…

“<Seven Nights?>” Ranthia requested a song that was mentioned in another book.

The musician nodded! Thank Xaoc.

Stiffly, Ranthia let herself be directed to the adjacent park where they would dance. The grass was soft beneath her toes—she’d been forced to take her sandals off to get her feet painted—and Ranthia tried her best to manage the embers of her panic. There was a crowd, yes, but so what, right? RIGHT?!

She had danced before larger groups. The competition she had with Ass-face or whatever the horrid woman’s name was had been performed before the bulk of the people that lived in Remera, along with numerous figures from the caravan. She had worked the crowds of what had to have been half of Ariminum’s population while stuffed into sexualized ridiculousness that she’d hated—and she actually did legitimately love the body paint she was wearing. She was still in control, even if the situation wasn’t what she’d expected.

Surprisingly, the thought helped. With a few deep breaths, Ranthia’s head felt clearer and the rhythm she longed to embrace once again felt within reach. The moons had risen at some point while she was working on her new image, and there were floating balls of pale silvery light scattered throughout the park—which meant there was plenty of light to catch the hidden forms within Ranthia’s body paint. It really was exquisite work.

“Best of luck to you. My advice is just to enjoy yourself.” Her opponent called over from his area.

“I appreciate it and I intend to. Same to you!” Ranthia called back with a nod.

She was ready. Which was good because the music started up almost the very moment the thought—or rather, her determination—crossed her mind. Ranthia absorbed the music and started to move a heartbeat later.

The trick to dancing to music wasn’t to let the music guide her—it was to use the music as a foundation and metaphorically build the dance she wanted atop that foundation. Sure, she could ignore the confines of the foundation and build beyond its intent, but why be reckless when she had almost limitless creativity within the space intended? The tone and the beats were her foundation, which meant her dance needed to reflect the warmth and intimacy that the harp provided.

Ranthia danced for a time and led in with a solitary, sweeping dance before she tapped [Scattered Reflections] and conjured an image of herself wearing her (abandoned) mistweave dress. [Submind] had no place in her dance—instead, she manually seized control of the image and swept it into her dance as her impromptu partner.

The crowd and her opponent were meaningless. Ranthia kept her eyes closed while [Divine Eyes in the Void] remained fixed directly above her, allowing her to watch her footing from an angle that she had largely acclimated to. Sure, there was some curiosity about how an elf danced, but she could always catch a performance from one of the top eight at some point or another. For the moment, she was dancing and she wanted to focus on that.

