f his shoulder.“What now?!” Estal hissed, moving away to a more open clearing in case the worm decided the chase was back on. Karn was ready to win or die because this event was sort of his fault, but he would really prefer to win.The surprise figure was a giant frog-like man who had powerful bunched muscles that rippled with every movement, showing his skin could barely contain his immense prowess.“Oh my God!” Estal moaned in fear.The frogman turned, his rippling abs and confident grin on full display.“Oh my... God,” Estal repeated with less terror and more interest.“I... am here,” the newcomer announced, spinning a strange three-pronged spear about and the river to his side sloshed abruptly as if the frog was some conductor and the water his instrument.The worm gave a shriek and the frog merely looked up with a long expression.“But your friends simply restore themselves as critters. Death is a concept that holds no true meaning for Dungeon-lifeforms giving rise to unanswered questions about what life truly means and if we might one day go insane from time itself!” the giant frog reminded the creature before he sniffed.“I bet death is like river-rafting but like a cool Halloween event river,” he muttered before the Worm deflated with a more whiny screech.“The Pygmies incite their own troubles, you know that,” the frog went on, then he turned to them and Karn had to admit, he felt ‘confident’ against the giant worm.Against this guy? Something in Karn’s soul insisted there were things that would simply break him and this close to the river... this frog would break him.The worm gave one last petulant noise.“Yes, they are rude,” the frog agreed as he rolled his neck, making more muscles than Karn had in his entire body flex.“It was Karn’s fault,” Estal insisted and he nodded in agreement. It was true after all.“Well, in the end. It doesn’t matter really. Visitors who arrived by flesh and moon, I am Rale; lord of the river and the first of the Second Floor. Do you seek trial by combat or trial by water?” the frog continued, arms crossed.“Combat means we fight-” Hazhur began and Rale’s smile turned far too eager.“Me.”As Rale said this, the river heaved, making the currents turn rapid.“I find the prospect... less than exciting,” the Order of the Silver announced quickly. After the others agreed and Rale looked deflated.“Fine, fine. One day, eh?” he winked and Estal twirled her staff.“Oh, definitely,” she promised and Hazhur shot her a horrified look which made her blink.“I gotta kiss some frogs for a prince, right?” she muttered and the trees around them began to give horrible creaks and Karn thought he imagined the branches going for Estal’s throat like someone was angry with her but the effect stopped as Rale tilted his head at the treeline but said nothing.“So, that leaves us with the trial of water then?” Karn brought the subject back to not dying to giant worms.“Sort of. As you came in the backway I guess I’ll explain about the challenges. If you cross the river here, you’ll miss out on a potential task... but the trial is simple. Simply don’t get thrown off the boat!” Rale announced, clapping his webbed hands brightly, causing a hollowed out log to rise out of the river.Hazhur gaped.“Challenges?” he asked, tone tight.“Oh, it’s so... quaint!” Estal tried to praise.The Order creep was just staring into the treeline like something had caught its attention.Rale’s smile widened as if he couldn’t wait to explain... everything.Karn looked down and a root slithered into the underbrush as if teasing. Something or someone was enjoying the show it seemed...---“No redeeming features?” Wyin asked lightly and Mharia shrugged.“I said they were ‘not Delta’s sort’,” she corrected and Wyin pretended to crane her neck as if to hear better.“‘Total... annihilation’... you say?” the tree said softly with saccharine sweetness.“...Sure, go wild.”---
