Finally, Pax smiled, and the tension dispersed in an instant. The crossroads demon raised her gloved hands in a placating gesture.

“Sorry sorry, sometimes I get a little carried away.” She chuckled. “At my age, you have to get your kicks in somehow, or things’re far too dull. I’m sure you’ll understand one day.”

“When you put it like that, being old doesn’t sound very fun,” Pyre said dryly.

“Oh no, it’s great. I can sit back, eat a soul every decade or so, and decide exactly what deals I want to bother with.” The demon stepped away from Callan, whose shoulders slumped in relief. He still looked rattled, Pyre noted, ghostly face somehow even paler, but it wasn’t anywhere near as bad as before.

“Let’s continue,” Pax said, returning to the edge of the etched crossroad. She gestured to Pyre. “You want a way to conceal your presence?”

“Yep.” She pronounced the ‘p’ with a pop. “From magic, spell detection, whatever else is out there. The whole shebang. For the kid, too.”

“I can do that. And what’re you offering in exchange? Your soul?”

“Pretty sure a soul’s worth more than that.”

“Well, not necessarily. I don’t need to take the entire thing.” Pax’s eyes gleamed, their translucence once again becoming more prominent. She hummed thoughtfully. “Then again, I might have trouble accessing yours.”

There it was—the unspoken fact that had hung over their entire exchange so far. Pyre was vaguely aware of Callan’s brows furrowing in confusion behind them, but she kept her eyes on the crossroads demon in front of her. She’d been wondering if Pax would be able to tell before starting the summoning, then became increasingly certain the longer she’d spoken. Now, it was confirmed.

After all, if anyone could see what was going on with her soul, it would be a soul eater.

Pyre grinned. “Oh, I don’t know. You think you could break through the blockage? Since you’re so old and powerful.”

The other demon took a step closer, smile equally sharp. “I might be able to. No, I probably can.” She cocked her head. “But that’s the problem. I don’t deal in probabilities. I won’t sell something with even a chance of failure.”

“How honest of you.”

Pax laughed. “Of course. Only weak crossroads demons need to lie.” She turned, casually pacing around the clearing.

“I won’t promise a fix for your little problem, but I can do a simple… scan. Tell you what’s wrong, the source of your soul woes. I’ll even bundle the cost with your presence concealers; that way you only need to give me one payment.”

The crossroads demon finally came to stop directly in front of the setting sun. Backlit by the warm rays, her long shadow stretched across the ground in front of her. She raised an eyebrow.

“Well? What do you say?”
