Two days after sparring with Ameliah, Rain was still sore. His armor was uncomfortably tight too, already overdue for another resizing. Mercifully, though, his hunger had been less constant of late. The changes weren’t done, but it looked like they were at least winding down. That was good. While Tallheart could resize his armor endlessly, there was nothing any of them could do for his Forceweave. The stretchy fabric had its limits, and Rain was already feeling a bit like an overstuffed sausage.

It was the 27th of Fallow, not even a week since they’d entered the depths. It was amazing to think that so much had happened in so little time, but despite that, Rain was already anxious to move on. Tallheart wasn’t ready, however. Even now, Rain could hear the rhythmic clanging of the cervidian’s hammer as he worked on Ameliah’s new bow.

One of her old ones—technically half of one—was currently serving Rain as an oversized stylus. After Tallheart had shooed him away from his anvil, Rain had spotted the broken weapon lying where Ameliah had dropped it. To keep himself busy, he’d picked it up and started tracing simple runes in the dirt. The runes were mostly an idle curiosity, born out of a desire to better understand what exactly it was that Tallheart was doing. Soon enough, however, he’d given up and transitioned to just idly doodling in an attempt to relax. That, also, hadn’t lasted long. Now, Rain was still scratching at the dirt with the broken bow, but his thoughts were on something else entirely.

Yesterday, too soulstrained for more physical training, Rain had devoted the morning to working on his soul and the afternoon to running some experiments of more immediate practicality. Ameliah had asked for his help in planning her build, and he was determined to do a good job. That had involved getting a baseline.

Calculating the damage of a mundane bow shot was more straightforward than it seemed at first glance. The key thing to realize was that the arrow didn’t matter that much—not when it came to how the system calculated damage, anyway. Provided that the projectile survived being fired, the most important factor was the bow. Higher draw weight and longer draw distance directly translated to increased damage.

When an archer pulled on a bowstring, they were essentially storing energy. When they let go, that energy would then be transferred to the arrow. A bow, at least as far as the mathematics was concerned, was just a spring. The transfer of elastic potential energy to kinetic energy was one-to-one—assuming you ignored the mass of the bow, its motion, friction, and other such bullshit. When fired, the arrow’s velocity would sort itself out based on the energy stored in the bow relative to the starting mass of the projectile. Once it was flying, more bullshit non-idealities popped up, particularly air resistance; however, as long as the arrow wasn’t stupidly light or the target ridiculously far away, such things could be mostly ignored.

Rain wasn’t after a perfect mathematical description. He was just looking for a way to exploit the physics involved. Working with a spherical archer in a vacuum was good enough for that.

Unfortunately, his hopes had been dashed, just as they’d been dashed weeks ago when he’d tried stone-throwing with Velocity. There would be no taking advantage of the squared term in the kinetic energy equation. There was only one skill they’d found that directly increased arrow speed, and it explicitly stated that it didn’t affect damage. Whoever or whatever had designed the system, the label ‘killjoy’ definitely applied.

Undeterred, Rain had continued his experiments. Not having a way to measure the speed of an arrow, he had instead turned his attention to calculating how much work the archer was putting in.

The force required to draw a bow wasn’t constant. Before you started pulling the string, it was zero, obviously. The further you pulled it back, the harder it became. ‘Draw weight’ was simply what people called the required force at full draw. Rain had discovered that he hadn’t actually known much about bows from his old life. Granted, that wasn’t too surprising, but there was also a notable gap in his YouTube history on the subject. Fortunately, through his discussions with Ameliah and some practice, he’d found that it wasn’t that complicated.

The force needed to draw a bow was a linear function of distance, F=k*d. ‘F’ for force, ‘d’ for distance, and ‘k’ for ‘springiness’. He was sure there was a real word for what k represented, but he wasn’t going to beat himself up for not knowing it. It was just how bendy the bow was. If you drew a plot with force on one axis and distance on the other, ‘k’ was the slope.

Making that plot had proven to be a bit of a trial.

Rain had needed an accurate weight reference to make his measurements, and for that, he’d gone to Tallheart, asking him for a 5cm iron cube. With Le Nouveau Faux Grand K, a beam balance, a tree, a bucket, some rocks, a very patient Ameliah, and more time than he should probably have spent on this project, Rain had finally gotten himself a graph. From there, it was just simple calculus to get the area under the curve.

Technically, you didn’t even need calculus. You could do it with geometry. The line made a right triangle with the axes, the area of which worked out to E=1/2*k*d2.

On average, the steel training bows Tallheart had made boasted draw weights in the 80-kilogram range—kilograms-force if you wanted to be pedantic—or about 800 newtons. Crazy, but not too crazy. Rain didn’t feel bad about rounding, given how little he trusted his initial measurement. Ameliah’s draw distance was 63 cm, so by the formula, the energy stored was 1/2*k*d2=1/2*(800N/63cm)*(63cm)2=252J.

J was for joules.

Rain’s confidence in the accuracy of that number was abysmal, given all his sources of error, but it was something he could worry about when they were back on the surface. Ascension already had councils, so adding one for weights and measures wouldn’t require any significant changes to the codes.

To find the relationship between energy and damage, he had enlisted Ameliah again, who had been more than willing to shoot him at this point.

After compensating for her Sharpshooting passives and his own Force resistance, a full-draw shot had done 504 damage. Exactly twice the number in joules.

The evenness of the conversion factor was a little scary.

To make sure, he’d then had Ameliah shoot him with the bow only half drawn. The equation predicted that the base damage would be 126, and the result was 123. Rain had been even more surprised than Ameliah at how close his prediction had been.

Apparently, she had never doubted him, despite all the teasing she’d been doing about how he chose to spend his free time.

In any event, though the ratio between joules and damage was suspect, Rain could now use his formula to predict the damage of an arrow for various scenarios with some level of confidence.

Scenario one was an unawakened archer. Assuming a regular, wooden bow with a more reasonable, though still respectable, draw weight of 30kg, the formula predicted just under 200 damage from full draw. That sounded moderately fatal, given an average person only had 200 health, but it was more complicated than that. Someone hit with a 200-damage arrow in the forehead would be dead, no question. Someone hit in the toe would survive easily—minus said toe and barring any unfortunate infections. They wouldn’t even lose the full 200 health from the experience. The buffering effect of health was another complicated topic.

Staying on track, the second scenario was the case of Stint. At level five and invested in the Sharpshooting tree, he’d have access to Strong Draw. Assuming it was rank ten, the skill would double the effective draw weight of any bow he cared to use. 200 damage became 400. Also, being awakened, Stint had likely invested points into Strength. That would let him use a better bow like the steel ones, bringing the damage up to four digits.

It was an impressive number for someone at level five, and it was fairly indicative of why you tended to see more warriors than mages in that level range. Already, however, problems were starting to appear. Not everybody had access to a legendary blacksmith who could make a bow out of metal while keeping it supple enough to function. Bowstrings became an issue, as did the arrows, which also needed to be stronger to survive the rapid acceleration.

Skills made it worse.

The term for the effect was ‘item strain’ or, more commonly, just ‘strain’. The accepted rule of thumb in the adventuring community was that a weapon skill would deal 10% of its damage back to the weapon. It wasn’t that simple in practice. Not all skills did damage, but using them would still cause strain. The extension to the rule of thumb was, therefore, to guess based on the damage of a similar skill in the same tier.

At low skill ranks, most materials had sufficient hardness for item strain to be only a minor issue. By silver, however, standard equipment could no longer stand up to the forces involved. Warrior, mage, defender; it didn’t matter. Use too much power, and you’d find yourself unarmed, perhaps literally. Rain could speak from experience there; though fortunately, the Focus stat ring that had failed on him hadn’t detonated with quite that much force.

Getting back to the scenario, the Drilling Shot skill at rank ten would let Stint double his damage again, bringing it up to 2,000, or thereabouts. A steel bow would survive that, possibly even unscathed, but a wooden one would have trouble. There were skills like Sturdy Bow that helped, but they had their limits, as evidenced by scenario three.

Rain looked up from his doodling, a blue window popping into existence before his eyes.

sharpshooting.odt

B

U

I

Color

*

Sharpshooting

An offensive tree focusing on physical skills with bows and crossbows.

When it comes to defining what a ‘bow’ is, it needs to bend and have a string. Bows are fine, obviously, but so are crossbows, whether lever or crank.

Extremely unconfirmed rumor: even something like a ballista can be okay if you can manage to pick it up before you fire it. Anden the Strong did it in Legends of the Green Wood. Probably bullshit. #todo: build siege weaponry, test.

There is no distinction between an “arrow” and a “bolt.” Common uses the same word for both.

Most physical skills require a valid target to gain experience. “Valid” is somewhat subjective. For bows, the condition seems to be that the target is either alive or a challenge to hit, such as a distant archery target or a falling coin. Or me :/

Tier 0

Drilling Shot

Shoot an arrow that spins, dealing increased damage

Multiplies base physical damage by [1+(RNK/10)*(1+STR/200)]

Cost: 10 stamina

Seeker Shot

Shoot an arrow that tracks its target

Turn speed [(RNK*90)(1+FCS/200)] deg/s

Tracking effect expires after [10*RNK] meters

Note: Target does not need to be an entity

Cost: 10 stamina

Tier 1

Hardened Arrowheads

Hardness of arrows multiplied by [1+RNK/10]

Note: Despite the name, it is the whole arrow, not just the arrowhead

Requires 5 ranks in Sharpshooting

Sturdy Bow

Durability of bows multiplied by [1+RNK/10]

Requires 5 ranks in Sharpshooting

Strong Draw

Bow draw weight multiplied by [1+RNK/10]

Toggleable

Requires 5 ranks in Sharpshooting

Piercing Shot

Shoot an arrow that ignores [RNK*5%] of target’s hardness

If physical damage is dealt, arrow pierces through the target

After piercing, physical damage to any secondary target is reduced by the hardness of the primary target

After piercing, magical damage to any secondary target is reduced by the appropriate resistance of the primary target

Effect can recurse indefinitely

Cost: 25 stamina

Requires Drilling Shot 5

Tier 2

Sharpened Arrowheads

Multiply physical damage of arrows by [1+RNK/10]

Requires Hardened Arrowheads 5

Endless Quiver

Conjure a copy of any arrow in your possession

Copy persists for [RNK] minutes

Cost: [100/RNK] stamina + [SM] mana

Note: SM = mana stored in the arrow

Note: Copies function like lair-matter, not mana constructs

Requires Hardened Arrowheads 10

Pinning Shot

Fire a shot that roots an enemy

Effect only activates if physical damage is dealt

Cost: 50 stamina

Root the enemy for [RNK*6] seconds

Requires Seeker Shot 10

Sniper Shot (Hidden)

Fire a powerful charged shot with extreme range

Multiply physical damage by [1+(RNK/3.33)*(1+STR/100)]

Arrow is not affected by gravity or wind within 1km

Note: “wind” may or may not mean air resistance in general. More research is needed.

Cost: 100 stamina

Charge time: 10s

Requires Piercing Shot 10

Requires Drilling Shot 10

Tier 3

Bleeder Shot

Shoot an arrow that drains the target’s blood

Effect only activates if physical damage is dealt to health

Target bleeds freely for [RNK] minutes until wound is sealed

Note: Bleed is a status effect that deals 1% of the original physical damage of an attack every second as additional physical damage, not affected by physical defenses

Bloodless entities are not affected by bleeding

Cost: 200 stamina

Requires Sharpened Arrowheads 5

Requires Pinning Shot 5

Splinter Shot

Arrow splits into [2*RNK] arrows just before impact with the original target, striking up to [2*RNK] enemies within [RNK/2] meters

Split arrows deal [50%/RNK] of the original’s damage

Split arrows have [50%/RNK] of the original’s hardness and durability

Note: Copied projectiles function like lair-matter, not mana constructs

Cost: None

Requires 50 ranks in Sharpshooting

Multishot (Hidden)

Fire an arrow that splits into [RNK*2] projectiles

Each projectile deals 10% of the original damage

Arrows fly in a fan up to 45 degrees wide, equally spaced

Note: unlike with Endless Quiver or Splinter Shot, these copies are mana constructs. They no longer have hardness/durability, but are now susceptible to metal absorption/disruption.

Speculation: mana construct arrows might be compatible with some metamagic, such as Guide Sending. Could compensate for the aim disruption that comes from a metal bow. More research is needed.

Cost: [10*RNK] mana

Requires Mana Manipulation 10

Requires Endless Quiver 10

Tier 4

Stacked Shot

Up to [1+RNK] Shot skills may be combined

Cost: additive

Requires 60 ranks in Shot skills

