Eskau Meallain’s eye twitched, but she also seemed to be connecting the dots. “The iron dasgannach… you somehow bonded with it? That shouldn’t be possible.” She shook her head. “Eskau Tala, that’s like saying you ate a cloud.”

Tala shrugged. “And yet, here we are.” She frowned, then. “Though, merged is likely a more correct term for what happened.”

Eskau Meallain barked another laugh. “Oh, there are going to be so many questions when a proper accounting comes out in Platoiri. No one brought up your survival in our back-and-forths, because it’s rather rude to ask ‘why aren’t you dead?’ and they assumed you’d be reading the communications.” She gave Tala a flat look, but Tala simply shrugged, prompting the elf to shake her head and continue. “Regardless, there will definitely be an inquiry… The City Lord is going to have to pay a penalty for his collar failing, even if the House of Blood will likely waive most of it in honor of your miraculous survival. We’d thought someone here saved you with techniques we don’t know about… which I suppose could still be the case?” The question was rather explicit, but she asked it anyways, “Is that so?”

Tala hesitated a long moment, before deciding that it would be okay to share a little. “Sort of, but mainly it was a combination of things unique to me. I won’t say more.”

The elf grunted. “Fine, but iron? How are you going to make a body that works with magic out of iron?”

She seemed genuinely curious, so Tala decided to reveal just a little bit more, yet again. “Well, it’s actually Reality Iron.”

The look of utter confusion that crossed the elf’s face was momentarily satisfying.

Tala felt incredibly proud that she knew something the other Eskau didn’t. She was aware of a material that Eskau Meallain wasn’t and—

“How did you get any of that away from a Baba Yaga? Let alone enough to make something the size of a person?”

Tala felt her pride shatter. …Of course… She’s confused how I got it, not what it is… Tala sighed. “Well, we had just left the Lunar Hunt…”
