"What is the reason for all of this? Why do you keep seeking out this soul to complete this cycle...? What do you stand to gain?" I reply back through the void, staring into Ember's now golden eyes.

His golden body in the void becomes more and more familiar with every passing moment.

The corners of his grin turn up, the posture of his wings, even the subtle fluctuations of laws that still interact with his being. They're all becoming second nature as I watch memories resurface showing how many of these habits were built. Yet, the actual mechanism for how this cycle continues still eludes me.

As my instincts seep further into the outer edges of the membrane, I'm hoping for more clues or clarity. However, the many pockets of space I start to uncover only lead to dead ends. It is as though my mind is pouring into open space that is far more empty than the void we're currently floating in.

"It is not as simple as trivial gains and losses. It is a responsibility, to walk the path of a supreme."

I've heard this title being used before. Many times from the Demons and dragons of higher ranks. Even sifting through all of my compounding memories, none of them illuminate its true meaning. The only proof I have is the existence of the golden threads before me.

"What is a Supreme? What exactly is it you need me to do...? The only ones that seem to live on are you, and this blade... If anything we're just pawns in your game. What if Noctus was right...?"

The rate of golden glyphs rising to the top of Ember's eyes slows, and the remaining Crimson light completely vanishes.

He laughs, and another pulse of mind cleansing laws wash through me.

"This is always my favorite part. I hate it in the moment, but have grown to enjoy it after. You and I truly are stubborn ones aren't we?"

"We? What do you mean we? I may be soul bound to you, but I want answers. I don't want to be another lifeless soul in your grand game. I want to remember. If you want help with whatever lies beyond this membrane, I want to become a Supreme."

I retract all of my mental prowess back from exploring, and fortify it within my Immortal Body. I raise my blade, and prepare to drain the entire Origin Plane of its system power.

Ember's smile widens even more, showing almost every single one of his teeth.

"There is no need to fight me now. Especially so close to the Origin Plane. Wouldn't you at least like to meet with the mortals you will leave behind one more time?"

I look away from the enormous dragon in the abyss, and down toward the Lower and Upper Realm that have been thrust hundreds of years into the future in order to kill one Demon.

Even without any use of spectate feeds, or my enhanced senses through the waves of laws; the orb of life in the center of this calm membrane shines bright.

It looks like an enormous green tree full of stars.

I turn back to Ember once more, then to Maria by my side.

His voice rings through the void to answer my thoughts before I even pose the question, "Maria must leave with us too.She is as important to the Great Cycle as you are... though, for reasons you will soon understand, she cannot ascend to become a Supreme."

My eyes widen, and tremors of new laws start pulsing out of me disrupting the void. These fluctuations even react with Ember's illusive form, as though he's never felt them before.Yet, he continues speaking in a calm tone, looking down at the Origin Plane with an intriguing gaze.

"You have inherited the Creator's Legacy. No matter what you decide, your actions are not wrong. You may live out your remaining years in the Origin Plane, there is nothing stopping you. I will wait for your decision, as I have since the birth of this realm. It makes no difference."
