“An old mentor liked to say that they are filled with wisdom.” Avyna agreed while she openly watched Ranthia’s reactions.

Okay, so it wasn’t just a leather brick with some writing on it. Once Ranthia turned it in her hand she saw a different texture along three sides.

“Bricks of wisdom?” The joke slipped out before Ranthia quite realized that it wasn’t funny.

“Just open the book.” Avyna replied with a roll of her eyes and a barely-suppressed grin.

In truth, Ranthia had seen them before. Avyna had a few—in elven—in their home. She might have assumed that there was some enchantment in play that turned the leather-covered ‘bricks’ into sheets of paper, but the paper turned out to just be bound together between the covering.

Apparently, even paper ended up heavy when you piled hundreds of bricks of it into the same crate.

“In the Tympestshard Council … well, actually, in almost civilized region of Pallos, there are repositories,” the unfamiliar word was sounded out one piece at a time, “of books for people to use. Fantastical tales, historical accounts, myths and legends, and even knowledge are contained within each book.”

Ranthia somehow missed the implication that the Remus Empire wasn’t civilized for just long enough that Avyna resumed speaking again before she could protest.

“I am taking the essence of these,” an Elvish word that Ranthia didn’t yet know followed, “and making some tweaks to make it a business. Those stationed here will be able to pay a pittance—a touch less than a day’s contribution points they receive just for being in this base while off-duty—to get access to any one book they choose for a full month. The only rule is that they have to keep the book inside Remera’s walls. …Well, and not damage it. Once they finish it or at the end of their month they return it, and they can renew it for a second month or rent another.

“I’ve largely focused on recreational books, mostly those written in Creation of course. Romances, adventures, heart-warming tales of innocence and joy, legends, books that one might consider spicy… Things like that. There will be a small selection of more factual books as well, of course.”

“What makes a book spicy?” Ranthia asked.

“Books with numerous scenes that describe things like what we did throughout much of yesterday.” Avyna answered matter-of-factly.

“Is there really demand for something like that?” Ranthia asked. She was interested, but she was trying to downplay just how interested she was.

“Oh, my love. It will be the largest section of my book rentals. Once I go through what I have, I look forward to recommending some for you. I cannot speak to their Creation translation, but I made sure to order some fine tales of passion between two—or more—women for you too.” Avyna whispered in that seductive tone that made it quite clear she knew exactly how interested Ranthia truly was.

Ranthia just blushed—she really, really should have known better than to try to hide things from Avyna. Her elf was entirely too aware of her sometimes.

It had been a couple of days since the books arrived and—by all accounts—they were a surprising hit. Ranthia had really expected the average legionary to be baffled by the concept of reading for entertainment—little got written in Remus that wasn’t a dry report—but it took less than a day for interest to spike. The dwarves swarmed the shelves immediately (Avyna actually had a line outside her tent), which drew enough interest that plenty of legionaries followed them and decided to rent books too.

It was barely midday and Ranthia had already concluded her daily obligations, which left her lounging on the plush not-a-bench with a book. It wasn’t one of the spicy ones; instead, Ranthia was reading for serious reasons. One of the books that Avyna received was a collection of popular stories from across Remus—mostly derived from [Bard] songs—and recorded them faithfully. In both Creation and High Elvish.

Sure, she also had the Creation to High Elvish dictionary and a study guide meant for children, but Ranthia felt like she was getting more out of the Reman story book than any of that. And she was only a little awkward about her fight with the kraken showing up in the book—thank Xaoc, it was the version that glorified it, the… other one would have been unforgivable.

Self-study wasn’t as useful as the lessons that Avyna gave her were, but she wanted to do everything she could to master Avyna’s language just a bit sooner. It was challenging; Ranthia was more impressed than ever with Paulla and the rest of her language team’s efforts to master the shimagu tongue.

“My lo—Ranthia!”

Ranthia’s peace shattered and she launched herself off the bench. Avyna shouldn’t have been there—her shop was open, and her voice was clearly distressed! Ranthia snatched her tunic as she passed it, but she didn’t even pause to pull it on. Her mind was spinning elaborate, terrible theories.

The curtains parted before Ranthia and revealed Avyna—visibly upset and consumed by a blush that had covered her ears, face, neck, and even her upper torso.

I need to kill someone. The thought silenced the scenarios that had threatened to overwhelm her. Ranthia sent out an image—one that was wearing the tunic—and began the process to shift into it. She didn’t need her armor to murder anyone in the base—whomever had dared to harass the woman she loved.

“What happened?” Ranthia asked with deadly calm while she waited to shift.

In answer, Avyna held up a book. The title was written in High Elvish and Avyna’s shaky hands were doing Ranthia’s weak grasp of the language no favors. An explanation—or analysis—of… several words Ranthia couldn’t parse, followed by a spacing word that loosely meant as… and yeah that was about all Ranthia could understand.

Ranthia, in her fresh body, blinked. …A book? So… she didn’t need to deal with the repercussions of leaving a body in the middle of a Legion base?

Still, her confusion didn’t matter—she had never seen Avyna so upset. She stepped closer and raised her hands to try to cup Avyna’s. They were shaking and gripped the book so fiercely she half expected it to deform.

“I don’t know what that says. Please love, tell me what’s wrong.” Ranthia used her best soothing tone—warm and affectionate—hoping to calm her elf down.

Instead, Avyna’s blush deepened.

“This book! It… it is…” A deep inhale, followed by a long exhale—and more coherent words. “A famed elven [Scholar] spent the past several years in your Remus, learning about your people and their customs. This is the third volume; it deals in…” A pause, before Avyna continued; her pronunciation a bit shakier than usual. “…interpersonal relationships and the bonding of families in your culture.”

That… felt like something that Ranthia should have heard about. A prominent elf wandering around Remus? The immature trio were supposed to have been the first elves in Remus—so how had one that had been there for years never come up? With mental effort, Ranthia shoved the questions aside—Avyna was flustered, and she plainly wasn’t done speaking.

“I wanted to read these… You took an interest in my language and have followed my culture, and I wanted to learn more about your own in return. And I… Oh… Fractal flaws!” She followed that with multiple grumbled words and phrases in her own language—curses, given the acidic tone—and Ranthia swore Avyna’s blush was getting even worse.

Ranthia had no idea what else she could do, she just kind of stood there, holding Avyna’s hands with a loving, supportive smile on her face. She wanted to hug the slender woman, but something about Avyna’s posture felt… prickly, for lack of a better word.

“I never realized! I knew you reacted when I said them, but assumed it was because you were surprised that I knew such words in your language!” Something about Avyna’s words almost felt like she was pleading—but for what, Ranthia couldn’t even begin to guess.

An awkward silence descended for several moments while Avyna chewed at her own lip.

“When I said that I loved you! I never realized the words had such… intense meaning!” Avyna practically shouted.

Oh.

Ranthia stilled her own mind before it could race to conclusions—instead, she threw caution to the void and pulled Avyna into her arms. The book pressed rather uncomfortably into Ranthia’s chest and stomach, but she still held the woman she loved tightly. Reassuringly, if she was lucky.

“The reference I had learned the term from simply described it as a statement of affection. I assumed it was something along the lines of,” Avyna switched to High Elvish and uttered a short, sweet phrase that Ranthia had nowhere near enough context to understand.

“It’s okay, love. I… well, I really enjoyed hearing the words from you, but it was an honest mistake. You just said it a little earlier than you meant to.” Ranthia kept her mind silent and spoke from the heart, hoping against hope that she could keep her tremor of fear out of her voice.

Avyna remained quiet. In that ominous silence, Ranthia hesitated—her mind strained to whisper poisonous thoughts—but she mustered her courage. It wasn’t a gamble, she knew Avyna. She knew that Avyna loved her, just as much as she loved Avyna.

“And it’s not like the words are untrue now, no?” Ranthia offered with a rigid abomination of a smile.

She was certain, wasn’t she?

Avyna stiffened in her arms. Ranthia’s nerves frayed, and tears threatened to spill, but Ranthia tried to fight them off. She just had to wait. Everything would be okay if she could just wait.

“I…” Avyna started before she trailed off.

Ranthia bit her tongue before the silent—distraught—prayer to Xaoc could form. She wouldn’t involve Him; the matter was between her and Avyna.

The book fell on Ranthia’s bare foot, and—even before she could decide whether that hurt or not—Avyna’s arms slipped around her and returned the tight embrace.

“You are right, my love.” Her beautiful, beloved elf quietly agreed.

Ranthia’s emotions broke through her grasp, but she was too busy meeting Avyna’s lips for a kiss to care about the tears that fell. The first moment of the kiss was tentative, but it quickly became messy and reaffirming—and the salty, sweet traces of moisture made it clear that Avyna was crying too.

By Xaoc, that had been terrifying, but they were okay and—

Avyna suddenly broke the kiss and pulled her head away, glaring at Ranthia through her tear-stained eyes.

“You have been saying it for nearly as long as I have! You knew what it meant!” Avyna accused in a fiery, over-emotional tone.

Ranthia felt her face heat up, but she was too emotional to figure out her words and just had to trust in what tumbled out of her mouth.

“Yeah, well. It didn’t take me long to completely fall in love with the most incredible woman on Pallos!” Oh Xaoc, that was bad.

Avyna stared at her, obviously in full agreement with her mind’s own judgment.

“I… was worried that it was early, and I’d tried to hold back… But my heart demanded I affirm how I felt about you. And… Well, I needed to tell you just how important you were to me every chance I got, okay?! I love you, Avyna. With all that I am. With all that I have. I love you.” Her emotions were tempestuous, but her words came easier than she would have ever expected. It was a bold and open declaration, but—far more importantly—it was true.

To reinforce it, Ranthia cast off her shame. She followed the words with—what she sorely hoped—was the equivalent phrase in High Elvish. She had never heard it spoken, but “I love you” was in the story she had just been studying—a tale about two people that were supposedly literally divinely intended for one another. It was one of the greatest romances to be found in Remus’ histories or legends. Which meant that, if the author was accurate, Ranthia actually had the words she wanted Avyna to hear.

Shock seemed to physically jolt through Avyna’s lithe body, complete with her lips forming a perfect, tiny o. But then her beautifully faceted eyes lit up and a somewhat silly—but undeniably happy—smile split her face.

They kissed again. Emotion blurred into passion somewhere along the line.

Avyna, half peeled out of her clothing and sprawled out across the table, interrupted Ranthia with a finger pressed gently against her nose.

“We will have to practice more, that was terrible. This is how you say it:” The elf playfully corrected.

Ranthia had to admit it, the phrase was far more poetic on Avyna’s tongue.

But she could worry about that later.

It was late in the evening before Ranthia finally succumbed to fatigue. She wasn’t even entirely sure when they had relocated to the bed, but it was as good a place as any to convalesce. She just needed a moment to catch her breath.

Avyna wordlessly slipped out of her embrace and waved off her feeble protests before she passed through the curtain to the less personal area of their home. Soon enough—and, simultaneously, entirely too long a time later—the still undressed elf returned, carrying a familiar stack of papers. It was the contract that defined their relationship.

“I… I was thinking. I believe that we could… consider the trial period concluded?” Avyna offered. Her ears were red, and she was fidgeting ever-so-slightly with shyness—gods and goddesses, she was so beautiful.

“I am yours, love. My heart, mind, and body belong to you.” Ranthia breathlessly agreed.

Avyna still had to fetch the quill and that bottle of purple ink, but a short time later, the two snuggled together on their bed. They both had plenty of dexterity, a desk or table wasn’t necessary. Avyna wrote out an addendum to the contract that stated that the trial period had concluded. They were less than half a year into their first—of eighty—years together, but they were both certain. They were ready to be undeniably pledged to one another. It took monumental willpower on Ranthia’s part—and she was certain it was the same for her beloved—to maintain her composure through the writing, signatures, and safely setting the contract and implements out of the way. Then they sought one another’s lips—and bodies—anew.

The final line of the addendum had been written in Ranthia’s own hand:

Let no one—mortal, immortal, or divine—question our love for one another.
