“My apologies, Miss Runner. I mean you no alarm. I was simply impressed with your pace. Not many can keep up that speed, City Runner or not. You might have kept even with a regular horse. I am a [Knight] in service of the order of Clairei Fields. We prize speed above all. I tender you my sincerest compliments for the display.”
“Oh. Uh, thanks. It’s well-taken. Although you’d outrun me in any race.”
The [Knight] tilted his visor up, and Ryoka caught a glimpse of pale indigo eyes. She blinked, but the [Knight]’s voice was calm, conversational even. He didn’t remove his helmet, but it seemed locked into place.
“On horseback, perhaps. But you kept pace at a good clip. And with bare feet, no less! Tell me, is it some feature of your class? It seems dangerous at speed.”
“What? This. It’s just a hobby.”
“A hobby?”
“Yes, well, I do have the, uh, [Barefoot Runner] class. But barefoot running is just a choice I make. I think it feels better, and I can run faster. You see, bare feet help my form. And you don’t actually step on that many rocks. Er…”
Ryoka slowed to a jog as she ran alongside the [Knight]. She gave him a quick pitch for running barefoot, and he listened politely. He nodded after she was done.
“Truly admirable. I’m almost relieved you weren’t a Courier, Miss. Or I’d have had to explain to my order why I was left behind by a barefoot runner.”
The said barefoot runner grinned, and she caught a smile behind the visor. The Clairei Knight rode onwards, and after a moment, tilted his head to Ryoka.
“Miss Runner. I notice the wind has been blowing behind us steadily for the last few minutes. Unusual, but dare I ask—are you the infamous Wind Runner of Reizmelt I’ve heard about?”
“None other. Are people talking about me from that far away?”
Ryoka blinked. The [Knight] dipped his head.
“The children are, if none other! And where children talk, surely their elders at least whisper? I’m honored, again. And perhaps our meeting is fortuitous. You see, I have a delivery tasked upon me by my order. I am to hire a Runner in Reizmelt to bear a gift. And it occurs to me that none other than the Wind Runner would best represent our interests.”
“A gift? I can definitely do that. Is it priority?”
The Clairei Knight halted his horse.
“Not priority. But the circumstances around the request are strict. It is to be delivered tomorrow, just past morning to a precise location. Not far; within the city’s confines, in fact. To a [Lady] of some renown. The delivery is one of ceremony, I understand. My order has sent a number of my brethren and, uh, sisters of the order to carry these gifts from city to city.”
“Why not deliver it yourself?”
The [Knight] sighed.
“I asked my order’s grandmaster the same thing. It appears that this is some matter of politics. Regardless, the fee is quite handsome, and I understand it would fall under a direct request.”
Ryoka’s ears instantly perked up. A direct request? That meant it would be something registered as a personal delivery. Her reputation could only benefit from having one of those under her belt. And free gold?
“If you don’t mind having a barefoot runner do the delivery, I’d be honored, sir. And I can spare you a trip to the guild. I can take your details and log the request when I return to the guild…”
The Clairei Knight brightened up when he heard that.
“That would truly be helpful, Miss Wind Runner. Sparing the effort of selecting a Runner for the delivery and journeying to Reizmelt would mean I could rendezvous with the rest of my order at another city. You would do me a great personal service. On that note, I have been remiss. May I ask your name, fair lady?”
“Ryoka Griffin. And I’m not that fair or much of a lady.”
“A damsel who rescues a [Knight] from distress is as much a lady as one that requires rescuing.”
It was prettily said, so Ryoka smiled and fished out a quill and parchment from her belt pack. She noted the [Knight]’s request, then handed him one of her seals so he could ensure the package was delivered exactly as he wanted and hold her accountable if need be. Not that it was necessary; it was a straightforward delivery at a certain time of day.
“I’ll have the paperwork done the instant I return to Reizmelt, Sir Molte.”
“And that’s it?”
Ryoka nodded. Sir Molte sighed in relief.
“Excellent! My order seldom makes use of City Runners. Since we all have speed Skills, our junior members are often tasked as [Messengers]. I’ve had enough of it, and this after I was denied the right to join Lord Veltras’ army—but I shouldn’t complain. Thanks to you twice over for taking my burden, Miss Griffin! I wish you all the speed the winds grant you!”
He saluted Ryoka and flipped his visor down. She nodded, and he turned his horse. The stallion took off down another road as she watched him go. Ryoka saw the Clairei Knight accelerate until he was a blur, and then disappear. She blinked and stared down at the very slim parcel she’d received from him.
“Don’t open until right before delivery, huh? Wow. I guess this was a coincidence and a half. Good luck for me, though.”
She smiled and kept running. Soon, she returned to Reizmelt. And after delivering some milk and corn to a very surprised daughter, who was a [Shoemaker] of all things, Ryoka successfully avoided buying a pair of shoes and returned to the Huntress’ Haven. There she stopped a while. And thought.
 
——
 
The Huntress’ Haven was closed. It had been closed all day, and it continued to be closed, not least because there was no more sitting room. Madain had kicked some of the broken chairs and tables out of the way, but absolutely no attempt at actual cleaning had taken place.
Obviously, dinner was cancelled. But Ryoka still stopped in the inn, and not for her room or to find Fierre. She walked to Madain’s room on the ground floor and knocked once.
“Get lost.”
“Madain. It’s me.”
The door stayed closed. Ryoka fidgeted. At last, the door opened a crack.
“There’s no dinner. Get lost or I will throw you out.”
A bloodshot eye stared at the City Runner. Ryoka tried to smile.
“I know. I thought you’d still be hungover. Here. I brought something to eat.”
She held up an ear of corn. Madain stared at it. Ryoka lifted the basket she was holding in the other arm. Some of Helma’s fresh bread was in the basket too, along with some tarts. Ryoka heard Madain’s stomach grumble.
“What the hell’s this?”
“Food. Look, we don’t have to eat together. It’s just something I thought you could use. I’ve—”
“Fuck off.”
The door slammed shut. Ryoka stopped, mid-sentence. She stared at the door. At her basket.
She’d spent thirty minutes coming up with something to say and buying all the food. Thirty minutes, trying to figure out what she’d say to herself. And he just—
Hot fury swept through Ryoka. For a second, the wind threatened to gale, and she raised a fist, ready to kick the door down and break the damn basket over that ungrateful bastard’s head. Then she caught herself.
“No.”
Carefully, slowly, Ryoka looked around. She found a table, dragged it over, and even tried not to make the wood screech. She placed the basket on top. Ryoka glanced back once at the door and turned to go. She didn’t expect the door to open or Madain to say anything. And he did not.
 
——
 
“Fierre, you want to get something to eat?”
Somewhat grumpy, but oddly satisfied, Ryoka found Fierre as she finished her shift. The Vampire had been working as a [Builder] all day, and she was covered in grit. She looked not the least bit tired, despite having hauled heavy bricks and stones about all day. She smiled at Ryoka.
“Sure. Steaks?”
“You can have them. Let’s find somewhere good to eat.”
And so they did. That was all there was to it. Ryoka sat with Fierre, and they talked. Today’s conversation was about [Knight] orders. Fierre didn’t like them. Ryoka thought the Clairei Knight hadn’t been too bad, even if he had been slightly condescending. The Vampire girl didn’t agree.
“They’re all the sons and daughters of the rich. Usually nobility. Sometimes there are commoners, but you can’t trust all of them. It was [Knights] who hunted down my family. Dad hates them. Especially the old houses, like the Byres family. At least they’re just individual [Knights]. Orders are the worst.”
“What’s the difference?”
“Orders train their [Knights] in a system. You can get the class other ways, but an order has specific types of knight. Even special classes. They have…specialties. Clairei Field’s a larger order around here that specializes in speed. Not that they’re that much. Compared to Terandrian [Knights], most of Izril’s are lackluster.”
“How so? Are they under leveled?”
“No…but Terandria has ancient [Knight] orders. And they’re larger, better funded in general—they’re more depended upon. So the Clairei Knights aren’t much of anything compared to, say, the Order of Seasons. Speaking of which, did you see the Titan’s game in Daquin?”
“I heard about it. But I don’t have a scrying orb. Do you have a video?”
“A what? And I do have access to a mirror. We can watch it—I hear it’s amazing. And you can see real [Knights], for what it’s worth. You see, they have actual specialized classes, like their [Summer Knights] or their [Knights of the Summer], I forget which one it is. They have unique abilities and…”
Ryoka watched the game in Daquin. And she was suitably amazed, even caught with the scope of the battle. And worried. By the time she tiptoed into the inn and fumbled her way upstairs into her bed, she was so tired she nearly forgot it had been a bad day. In fact, it even felt okay. Ryoka lay in her bed, staring up at the ceiling.
“I did it.”
She’d gotten through a day without ruining something. Wasn’t that a victory? Ryoka thought about it.
She still felt miserable. But she clung to that thought. She hadn’t made anyone else’s day worse. That was enough. So Ryoka slept. And the next day, she felt better.
 
——
 
“Griffin.”
Ryoka looked up as she ate some runny eggs at her table. She glanced around the swept inn, at the few righted tables, Alber eating, Fierre slurping up bloody soup, and then at Madain. The [Innkeeper] still looked hung over, but he had made breakfast. He was even speaking.
“Morning, Madain. Need anything?”
“No. I—”
The big man hesitated. He glared at Ryoka and slapped more eggs onto her plate. She eyed them.
“The damn corn was good. And the other things. Thanks. Don’t bother with it again.”
He turned and stomped off. Ryoka watched him head into the kitchen. And she smiled. It was a small victory. She looked up and saw Alber and Fierre staring at her. Ryoka waved, and both went back to their food.
 
——
 
“What was that about? Corn?”
Fierre stared at Ryoka. The City Runner hummed as she left the inn. Alber was already outside, putting on his gloves. He’d come back with a black eye last night.
“Just something I got from a run. I think it worked. Hey, Fierre. I have a big delivery in about twenty minutes.”
“Really? I didn’t hear anything about that.”
The Vampire was instantly curious. Ryoka plucked the thin package out of her bag of holding. Fierre’s eyes locked on it.
“Who gave you that?”
“The Clairei Knight I told you about.”
The Vampire looked excited.
“Really? Then I can definitely open it. I won’t charge you more than—”
“Whoa. I’m not opening this one. I’m delivering it honestly.”
Ryoka forestalled Fierre. The girl was disappointed.
“But if it’s an important gift—”
“He gave it to me, and apparently any City Runner would do. I think it’s ceremonial. And I want to prove I’m good for some deliveries. Especially ones with [Knights]. This is my first personally requested delivery. Ever. So I’m doing it right.”
Ryoka smiled. Fierre sighed.
“Oh, fine. I have enough work anyways. Have fun on your delivery. Where’s it to?”
“Inside the city, believe it or not. To a [Lady].”
Ryoka smiled, even as memory pricked her. Fierre frowned.
“A [Lady]? But Reizmelt doesn’t have a [Lady].”
“Well, she must be passing through.”
“But that might mean—”
Fierre glanced up sharply at Ryoka. Then she clicked her fingers.
“I have to go. I think I have clients.”
She hurried down the street. Ryoka frowned at her and tucked the slim package into her bag of holding. She’d get to see what it was right before she delivered it, anyways. She hummed softly as she strode to the Runner’s Guild.
“Ryoka Griffin!”
Todel strode towards Ryoka the moment she entered. Ryoka turned and gave him a very real and cheerful smile.
“Todel. How were the swamps?”
He clasped hands.
“As nasty as ever. But I earned my coin! I owe you one. And after this, I can buy you at least a round! Fancy a drink later today?”
“It’s not even morning.”
Ryoka glanced out the window. Todel chortled.
“A few drinks won’t kill you. Or a day off, Wind Runner! Listen, it’s all on me. I just got my first personal delivery, and I’m ready to hit the city after I finish it!”
“What, really? Congratulations!”
“Thank you!”
“I got my first delivery as well. I met a [Knight] on the road and he offered me one.”
“What?”
Todel looked delighted. He slapped Ryoka on the back.
“Now that’s luck. Me, I think I was the only City Runner around when whomever it was made the request. That, or my run to Blaiseford really impressed someone. Either way—when’s your delivery?”
“Very soon. You?”
“Soon. But I’m not worried. It’s simple. Let’s have a seat. I’m so nervous—but I got the package tested, and it’s straightforward. Some kind of lover’s token, I think. It’s—”
Ryoka held up a cautioning hand as they took a seat.
“Steady. I don’t want to know, and you need to keep it a secret.”
Todel looked abashed. He ran a hand through his hair.
“Right, right. Sorry. I’m just so—Melodie! Come over!”
Another City Runner that Ryoka had been introduced to recently had just jogged through the doors. She made a beeline straight for Alime’ desk.
“In a moment, Todel! I need to get my delivery. Is it here, Alime?”
“Right here, Melodie. Congratulations.”
“Thank you!”
The girl trotted over towards Ryoka and Todel. She had wild green hair and olive skin. It was apparently all-natural, and the girl was always leaping from spot to spot. She had a jumping Skill that could let her reach the roof of a house with the right run up. She beamed at Todel and Ryoka.
“The Wind Runner! And Todel.”
“You’ll have to come up with a name for me soon, Melodie. Fancy a drink?”
Todel rubbed his hands together as he grinned at both of them. Melodie smiled.
