I am dreaming. Dreaming of a small child following me with wide eyes. Her fur is forest brown, and she sniffs as she pads along behind me. She makes no sounds, but she trusts me. As I descend into the crevasse and reach for her, she trusts me. As the Goblin takes my fingers, she clings to me. Even later, I think, she trusts me.
Me, the one who brought doom to her tribe. Who awakened the Necromancer’s wrath. If you trace my path, you can see the bodies of everyone I’ve ever met. The Horns of Hammerad. Periss and her soldiers. The Stone Spears tribe. Brunkr. Ulrien. Zel Shivertail. Valceif Godfrey. They meet me and die.
Even Ivolethe.
But Mrsha? I left her behind. I left everyone behind.
I ran away. I left her and ran. I should have never met her.
I shouldn’t have ever taken Teriarch’s request.
I should never have come here.
I should never have been—
And then I wake up. I sit up in bed and clutch at the sheets. I smell sawdust. I can hear someone thumping around beneath me, hear a voice, a crash of wood. For a second, I want to curl up. Or jump up and hit something.
Then I feel the wind on my face. I see a tiny figurine, carved of ice, sitting by my bed on the dresser. I reach for it and feel it. Cold and painful. And I remember.
I’ve felt this way before, so I take a deep breath. Once, twice. You’ve been here before. Calm down. In this moment, I hate myself. I hate everything and everyone, except perhaps Mrsha. But I hate and I despair and I know I’m feeling this way.
It’s happened before. And because I can remember it, because I can learn, I won’t make the same mistakes again.
Or, at least, I’ll try.
 
——
 
It took a few minutes for Ryoka Griffin to come back into her own head. A few minutes before the bleak, utter weight in her stomach evaporated enough for her to recover. Then she sighed, let go of the icy figurine she’d picked up, and looked around.
“It’s going to be a bad day.”
The young woman sat up in her bed, tossing some of the thick, itchy sheets off her. It was dark. Nighttime, in fact. Outside, the wind rattled the shutters, but Ryoka could tell that, while the sky was lightening, it was still far from dawn.
“Bad dreams.”
That was all she said. But it wasn’t just a bad dream. She felt it on her, that heavy, apathetic, and wretched feeling. It was already a bad day. Sometimes they came about. Days when she wanted to do nothing more than distract herself. Watch the most mind-numbing show. Steal a drink. Punch something.
Go for a run. And on these days, she would run like fire, until everything hurt. But you couldn’t outrun your own head. So today, Ryoka just sat up. She listened to the thumping and banging from below and realized those sounds weren’t in her head. So she got up, grabbed her belt and the pouches, and trotted towards the door as she tied them around her waist.
Slowly, carefully, the Asian girl opened the door to her room, creaking it open bit by bit. Her hand was on one of the alchemist weapons at her belt. She was listening, but the crashing about seemed to still be coming from downstairs, so Ryoka put one foot out the door. The hallway’s doors were closed. Dark shadows filled the corridor. Ryoka glanced towards the steps leading downstairs. She hesitated. Memory pricked her tired mind. And then someone spoke.
“Don’t go downstairs.”
Ryoka jerked back, heart pounding in her chest. There was someone in the hallway! The dark shape resolved itself—not into an [Assassin], but into a very real, and very familiar shadow in the doorway opposite hers.
“Alber?”
He nodded. The [Fist Fighter] was similarly undressed, and his bare chest was pale in the moonlight. His pants were long, ragged. And he was lowered, as if ready for a fight. He glanced up at her, and then nodded to the stairwell. The young man’s voice was low.
“He’s at it again. Drunk.”
Ryoka took a second to process that. Then the pieces fit, along with the memory. She whispered back.
“Madain?”
Alber nodded. Ryoka relaxed. But only a tiny bit. Alber held still as she tilted her head. Both of them listened to another crash and a slurred, raging voice. At last, Alber indicated the stairs with a tilt of the head.
“If he comes up the stairs, I’ll shout.”
The Runner girl hesitated, and then nodded.
“Thanks.”
She retreated back into her room and closed the door. But now Ryoka was tense. It wasn’t thieves or a fight, but it was dangerous. She imagined the huge man, Mad Madain, the adventurer-turned-innkeeper, overturning tables. She could hear him swearing, and then a muffled shout. The words were indistinct, but they made Ryoka’s heart jump in alarm. She was tensed, imagining what would happen if she or Alber had to stop the man.
Time ticked by, agonizingly slow, and then flashing by in a blink. Eventually the violence below subsided. Ryoka lay in her bed, too awake to go back to sleep. She yawned as she relaxed a bit, but knew her sleep wouldn’t come back so easily. Ryoka lay back, staring at the ceiling and felt amiably miserable for a while.
Eventually, she drifted off to sleep, but it was a half-sleep, a dozing, waking, not-at-all sleep that passed by the hours until morning, but left her feeling tired and groggy. Ryoka Griffin got up, dressed herself, and walked out her door, all the while feeling empty, tired, and quietly, desperately sad underneath it all. That was how she started her day.
It was a good thing she was used to it.
 
——
 
Alber got up after a few hours had passed since the last sounds from the inn’s common room had died out. He hadn’t slept since then. There was no point, since you couldn’t tell when the Madman’s tantrums would last. Or how dangerous they would get. He’d kept his word and stood sentry at the door until the worst had seemed to pass. But you never knew.
The [Fist Fighter] was a young man. His name was Alber, and that was more information than most people needed to know about him. He earned a living by taking fights. If people knocked him down, they earned money. If he stayed up or knocked them down, he earned money. Alber loved the simplicity of it.
Silver for normal folk, gold for adventurers and experts. That was how he did it when he was in a a new city. He’d adjust his rate if he felt like he was losing too much against local fighters. Or conversely, doing too well and needed to drum up more business.
Generally, though, Alber could pull in good money by beating passing travellers or the local toughs who thought they could win because they had a Skill or two, and the adventurers and other sorts kept him honest. They were the challenge. Sometimes, Alber beat even Gold-rank adventurers who relied too much on their artifacts and walked away with a full purse. Other times, he woke up on the ground with a broken nose or ribs.
It hurt. Sometimes, it was agonizing. But it was what he knew, and he liked it. It was his life. That was why anything that intruded on that cycle was unwelcome, especially the Madman. Alber had faced the inn’s owner once. That was enough. The Madman, or Mad Madain, or just ‘Madain’ if you wanted his real name, deserved Alber’s nickname. He was crazy. But he was strong. Alber could have taken him down if the man were drunk enough. But it wasn’t a fight the young man would have relished.
Alber scowled as he opened the door. It was early; he was tired, cold, and hungry. But there would be no food after the Madman’s fits of rage, so Alber would have to find food elsewhere. As for the cold, he’d pick somewhere in the sun to ply his trade. He exited his room, the leather gloves slung carefully over one shoulder, and found that the Braggart was leaving her room at almost the exact same time. She turned and blinked at him as she locked her door.
“Morning.”
The Braggart smiled. She looked as weary as Alber, but she was smiling. She’d begun greeting him every morning. Alber almost resented that, but he ducked his head.
“Morning.”
She nodded, and down the stairs they went. The Braggart was dressed, unlike the times she’d come to her door, half-naked. She had a fit figure and was tall, unlike most of the girls Alber had ever met. More like an adventurer than a Runner, really, although she fit both bills. He remembered the sight of her half-naked form in the night and was glad she was walking in front. She did look strong. Maybe she could throw a punch.
But she was still the Braggart. Alber knew her real name was Ryoka Something, but he didn’t bother with names when nicknames served. He didn’t stay long enough anywhere to bother remembering, and for this girl, Braggart fit. She was arrogant. He had thought of her as just the Drathian before, but he vividly recalled the one conversation they’d had a full week ago when she’d claimed to know more of fist fighting than he did. Hence the name change.
Still, she was better company than the Madman, if only because she was usually quiet. Speaking of which…Alber paused as he descended the stairs with the Braggart and entered the common room.
It was destroyed. Alber had seen bar fights, tavern brawls, and participated in a few himself, although he didn’t drink that much. But he was still impressed; the Madman had smashed enough chairs, tables, and ceramics all by himself to leave only a fraction of the room intact. And—Alber’s stomach clenched—he was still there.
Unfortunately, the Madman hadn’t slumped off to his room to pass out there, or even fallen asleep in the kitchen. He was still awake. The huge bear of a man was sitting at one of the good tables, staring blankly ahead. His eyes were bloodshot, his beard and tunic stained. He didn’t look like he was ready for more fighting, but you never knew. Alber watched him for a second, and then noticed that the Madman was sitting next to someone.
A slight, shorter girl. She had black hair, very pale skin, and was dressed in a number of layers in dark clothing. She even had a hat on, inside, and if she could have huddled more into her clothes, Alber thought she would have. Cougher was eating from a bowl of stew, the exact twin of the bowl Alber had eaten for dinner last night. Gristle and fat stew, heavy on the meat and spice and little else. The Madman’s specialty dish.
“Fierre.”
Braggart greeted the slight girl after a quick glance at the Madman. He jerked as Cougher put down her spoon. Her bowl was nearly empty. The Madman looked up.
“You two. Where’s my rent?”
Both Runner and [Fist Fighter] blinked. After a second, Alber grimaced and dug at his belt. So that was the score today, was it? The Madman had done so much damage he needed more coin. Or he wanted a drink.
“Here.”
He placed a silver coin and two bronze ones on the table in front of the Madman. The City Runner fumbled for her purse and did likewise. The Madman glared at Alber and the Braggart. He swiped the coins from the table.
“Bad night?”
The Braggart looked at the Madman, and Alber could have sworn her tone was sympathetic. Which was stupid; the Madman didn’t want or deserve sympathy. Sure enough, he spat as he glared at her.
“Mind your own business, Wind Runner.”
Ah, that was the other name for her. Alber felt the wind blow on his tunic from an open window. Wind Runner. It was true. He’d taken to closing the shutters each night because the wind did blow harder when she was around. The Braggart looked undeterred by the Madman’s comment.
“Just asking. Hey, is there breakfast…?”
The Madman twisted to stare at Cougher. She put down her bowl quietly. The little click of wood on wood made his eyes bulge, and he snarled.
“No. Get out. All of you!”
They did. Quickly too; the Madman looked ready for more smashing. Alber left the inn, mentally calculating how many days he’d prepaid in advance. If the Madman asked again…was it really worth staying at his inn? Well, the rent was dirt-cheap, the food was free when it was available, and the Madman didn’t turn his nose up when Alber walked in beat up or bloody. He did laugh, but Alber could ignore that.
Just a waste of a man. The [Fist Fighter] sighed and began walking down the street. He’d get something hot, and then find a place to knock down a few hungover drunks in honor of the Madman keeping him up. And then? Hopefully there would be new faces coming into Reizmelt he could make money off of. Otherwise, it would be those who hadn’t tried themselves against him. Another week or two and he’d have to travel south to find more business.
And that was all Alber thought on his day. He walked out of the inn and saw the Braggart stop in the street. Her feet were, of course, bare, and the wind swirled around her as she brushed at her hair with her right hand. Alber noticed her two missing fingers and wondered again how she’d lost them. But it wasn’t his business, so he’d never have asked. The one thing he liked about the inn, about the Madman’s domain, was that no one bothered anyone here. Except for good mornings. And—
“Ryoka. How’d you sleep last night?”
“Pretty good. Except for the crashing about. After that, things took a turn for the worse. How’d you get your bowl of soup without Madain killing you?”
The Cougher smiled. Alber paused as he took his gloves off his shoulder and pretended to check them.
“I’ve known him for a while. You do look tired. Want to get something to eat? I know a spot that’s open.”
“Sounds good. Unless you need to be at work?”
“Not me. And I could use something else to eat.”
“Lead on, then. Hey, how often does he do that…?”
The two strolled off down the street. Alber turned his head to follow them for a second, frowning. That was the sixth day in a row they’d shared a meal together.
“When did they become friends?”
The [Fist Fighter] unconsciously flexed his hands, shaking his head. Girls. What could they possibly have in common? Then he trotted off to get some food. They had nothing to do with him, after all. He had a job to do.
He liked it.
 
——
 
Fierre the Vampire noticed Alber going as she led Ryoka down the street. The Human girl was yawning. Fierre was not. She’d gotten six hours of sleep, and that was all she needed. By contrast, Ryoka looked as weary as Fierre had ever seen her.
Granted, she had only known Ryoka for a few weeks, and only seriously watched her this last one, but it was a noticeable difference. Normally Ryoka’s heart would be pounding faster as she warmed up for the morning. Now, her pulse was slow. Sedentary. Fierre could see the City Runner also had messy hair.
“You didn’t get any sleep at all, did you?”
“Some. Like I said, it was a bad night. Not just because of Madain.”
Fierre nodded.
“Was that the first time you’ve seen that?”
“Hm? No. I saw it once before. He does that every other week, then?”
