“A bit early, isn’t it? But I’m up for it! And I’ll buy you a round.”
“No, no, it’s on me. I’ve got great news!”
“So do I. Guess what just happened last—”
The doors burst open. A Street Runner that Ryoka knew, a Dullahan of all people, burst into the guild, fastening on his head.
“I’m here! I’m here! I’m not late, am I?”
“Ghalim! What’s—”
Todel’s voice was drowned out by more Runners pouring into the guild. Six City Runners, eight Street Runners, and two other Runners that Ryoka didn’t recognize were hot on the heels of the Dullahan. They came in all at once and swarmed around Alime’s desk, shouting for their packages. Ryoka stared.
“One at a time! I have your packages! One at a time! Line up!”
The [Receptionist] had to shout until the Runners formed a rushed line. She began passing out packages. And Ryoka saw they were all the same size, more or less. The wrappings varied, and some looked…opened. But each Runner took theirs and checked it hurriedly. Some clearly knew what was inside.
“Todel. Miss Ryoka. Melodie. Good to see you all.”
Ghalim approached them, looking pleased as he tucked his package into his armor. Ryoka stared at it. The Dullahan looked smug as he glanced at the three City Runners. He was quick, but he’d been demoted to Street Runner twice for tardiness, Ryoka gathered. Normally he seemed troubled by it, but today he was positively bursting in his armor.
“You’re here early, Ghalim? Have a job already?”
“As a matter of fact, someone asked for me. Me. I’m about to do a personal delivery. How’s that for a morning, eh?”
The Dullahan puffed out his chest. Melodie and Todel looked astonished. Ryoka narrowed her eyes.
“A personal request? Congratulations, Ghalim! Ryoka and I just got ours. Is this some kind of luck or what?”
“Actually, I just got a personal delivery too, Todel. My second one.”
Melodie spoke up. Todel turned to her.
“What? But that’s—”
“Did someone say a personal request? I just got one!”
“Me too!”
The other Runners looked around. Ryoka leaned back as they crowded around the table. She started counting. More Runners were coming into the room. And they all wanted the same thing from Alime. No—three didn’t want anything from her, but they looked like they had their packages already.
“Hold on. Hold on. Does everyone here have a personal delivery they’re doing today?”
Todel had to shout. The Runner’s Guild went quiet. Nearly every Runner in the room raised their hands and nodded. The partly Dwarvish runner looked astonished.
“Is there some kind of huge event we don’t know about?”
“No clue. But I’m being paid well to do my delivery. Speaking of which, it’s nearly time!”
Ghalim pointed at the position of the sun in the sky. A number of other Runners nodded. Ryoka got to her feet. It was indeed time. But suddenly she didn’t feel so good. She looked around.
“Anyone else going on their delivery? Want to run together?”
The other Runners looked at her and nodded. Ryoka glanced at Alime. The [Receptionist] had noticed what Ryoka had. She met the Runner’s gaze, but didn’t stop Ryoka as the young woman jogged outside. And the other Runners followed her.
“I’m not going with you far. It’s just a short trip for me. Good thing too, or I’d be holding you back, eh, Griffin?”
Todel joked as he ran alongside Ryoka. She didn’t immediately reply. She headed down the main street and the others followed her. City Runners. Street Runners. They laughed. Melodie ran faster, next to Ryoka, grinning as the wind blew her hair from behind.
“Thanks for the wind, Ryoka! But we’re going to split at—”
She faltered as Ryoka turned right, off the main street. The other Runners blinked, but some whooped. They poured down the street, surprising the early-morning pedestrians, who stared at the cavalcade of Runners as they followed Ryoka. The girl ran straight. And then she turned left, off this street. The crowd turned with her. And, suddenly, there was a lot less laughter.
“I’m going down this street. You?”
Todel looked at Ryoka. She nodded tightly. The precious package the Clairei Knight had given her was in her hand now. And she saw some of the other Runners taking theirs out.
“Down this street. And then—”
“Left.”
The Runners turned as one. They looked at each other, and their steps slowed. There was only one street they could all be going to now. Gladwell’s Walk, one of the richest districts in Reizmelt. They looked at each other.
“Everyone?”
Melodie looked around disbelievingly. Ryoka just nodded. She tugged off the wrapping of her package, pulled away the delicate paper that had been secured with string. Todel’s eyes widened.
“But that’s—”
Silently, Ryoka looked around. The other Runners of Reizmelt stared at her. She saw the copy of her item in their hands, held delicately to avoid injuring the runners. Ghalim, whose hands were armor, stared at Ryoka.
“Is—is this a joke? But I was paid well. They asked for me by name.”
“Me too. I have a message to deliver.”
“And I—what do we do?”
Todel looked at Ryoka. She glanced at him and the others. They stared at her, the Wind Runner, as if she had the answer. Calmly, belying the tremor in her heart, Ryoka pointed.
“We do our job. Follow me.”
So down the street they came. Over twenty Runners, running in a group. The pedestrians stared. And the Runners came to a stop in front of a large, suburban…it could have been a mansion. Inside of a city. But there was even a lawn.
Ryoka’s heart was beating too fast. Her skin was tingling, and she was shivering. She rang the bell at the gate and saw the doors open. The [Butler] stared as he spotted the crowd of runners.
“What’s the meaning of this?”
“Runners. Here to call on the [Lady] of the mansion. We have a priority delivery.”
Ryoka spoke for all of them. The [Butler] hesitated as he slowly walked towards the gates. He counted and stared at all of their faces.
“Please wait. I will inform the mistress momentarily. Her company has just arrived. Please—”
He hurried back. Ryoka stared at him. She didn’t recognize him. But now the memory was washing over her.
A mansion in the city. A [Lady]’s request. A delivery to—
She saw the door close. Around her, the Runners shifted, looking uneasy. Todel was muttering something.
“…present to you…”
Ryoka stared at the mansion. A [Butler]. But she had [Maids], didn’t she? And she travelled a lot. And she was—
What had the [Knight] said? Politics. Ryoka waited. She had forgotten how to breathe. It couldn’t be. Did he know it was her? Was this all some chance? She waited. And then she heard a scuff. The door opened. The [Butler] reappeared, bowing, and someone stepped out of the apartment. Ryoka saw a flash of pink. Her mouth opened.
“Magnol—”
A pink [Knight] stepped out of the door. The word caught in Ryoka’s mouth. She stared. A pink…[Knight]?
Yes. The armored woman strode forwards, and another one exited on the left, through the double doors. One was male, the other female. They marched as the sun shone off their bright, rose-pink armor, their helmets removed. Ryoka saw an older man, a young woman. And flanked between them, gracefully walking down the steps, a surprised look on her face was—
A stranger. Not Magnolia Reinhart. She was taller. Thinner. And beautiful. Not that Magnolia Reinhart hadn’t been beautiful, but this was a [Lady] among ladies. She wore a free, riding dress, slashed yellow and red, and her hair was short. She was younger than Magnolia, by a bit. And her voice was spirited, loud even. But captivating, too.
“What’s this? It’s a small army of Runners. Are they all here for me? Thomast? Thomast, come and look at this!”
Lady Bethal Walchaís clapped her hands together and laughed as the Runners stared at her. The [Butler] dabbed at his brow.
“I’m terribly sorry to disturb you, Lady Walchaís. I understand you’ve just arrived, but it seemed—”
“Nonsense! I’m delighted. Although I wonder who’s arranged this on my holiday of all things. Sir Kerrig, was this your idea?”
Playfully, the [Lady] turned towards the [Knight] on her left. The older man, who had a battleaxe strapped to his back, bowed slightly.
“Not I, Lady Walchaís. May I suggest caution? This is unusual. Please allow me to inspect whatever is being delivered.”
“And ruin the fun? Oh, no. If no one’s [Dangersense] is going off, I want to be the first to see. Thomast! Come and look, dear!”
Bethal clapped her hands as she walked towards the Runners. Ryoka stared at her. She had never seen Lady Bethal before in her life. But she had something of Magnolia’s air. Todel bowed hurriedly as she approached.
“Lady Bethal of House Walchaís?”
He stepped forwards. Instantly, the female [Knight] reached for her sword. Todel stopped, his face pale. Bethal clicked her tongue, frowning.
“Lady Welca, please. These are Runners. Let the man speak.”
The [Knight]’s cheeks flamed, and she bowed hurriedly.
“Apologies, Lady Walchaís.”
She stepped back, glaring at Todel. The City Runner gulped. He looked at the others, and the words spilled out of him.
“Lady Bethal Walchaís, I have a small token for you. A—a mark of esteem from one of your colleagues. I beg to offer—”
He fumbled for the object he’d put behind his back and stumbled over his words. Ryoka stepped forwards. She felt Bethal’s eyes travel to her and felt a small shock. There was power behind that cheerful gaze.
“We beg to offer you this gift. A gift given to those who earn it. So bear witness to this lowly bloom, and let all who witness it know its significance. The smallest of things.”
So saying, she lifted the item in her hands. Slowly, as one, the other Runners did likewise. Lady Bethal blinked as she saw the same small item held in each hand. Some of the Runners knelt, others offered it up like a gift from an admirer. And it was a lovely sight.
Dozens of black roses, the petals stained so darkly purple as to be black on first glance, blooming in the spring air. Each one was delicate, freshly plucked. Some were enchanted, so the dew still glimmered on the petals. Others were crushed by indelicate handling, Ghalim’s fist. More than one had drawn blood from the carrier. The thorns were razor sharp. But they rose, and the Runners knelt or bowed, holding the gifts aloft.
Sir Kerrig stared. He looked from flower to flower, and slowly relaxed his hand from the battleaxe on his back. He looked at Lady Bethal.
She had gone white. And she wasn’t the only one. Welca Caveis gasped. She stared at the flowers in horror, then began to draw her sword. The [Butler] had also gone pale. He backed away, into the house. Ryoka stared at Lady Bethal’s face.
“We beg to accept—”
“Who gave you that?”
The female [Knight]’s hand closed over Ryoka’s wrist. The young woman jerked. Welca’s eyes were blazing.
“How dare you. How dare—”
“Lady Caveis! Control yourself!”
Sir Kerrig snapped. His eyes darted from Lady Bethal’s face to the uncomprehending Runners. He pulled Welca back, and she let go of Ryoka’s wrist.
“Lady Walchaís.”
Ryoka was afraid. She looked at Bethal’s face. The woman’s eyes were locked on the black rose Ryoka held. A thorn pressed into Ryoka’s skin, cutting into her flesh. She tried to shift her grip and cut herself. Red blood dripped down the stem.
“This is a gift? To me?”
Bethal looked from flower to flower. The Runners stared up at her. Sir Kerrig glanced at Welca.
“What does it mean?”
“It’s a message. A flower code. One of the symbols used by Izril’s nobility. But—”
Welca broke off. She was trembling. Melodie looked uneasily at her face.
“We—we don’t know what it means. Lady Walchaís, we were hired to give you this. We didn’t know it would be all of us. We swear—”
“Who?”
Bethal’s voice was quiet. She looked at Melodie. The young woman froze, her eyes wide. She’d stopped breathing.
“Who?”
“The Order of Clairei Fields sends this one.”
The gaze swept to Ryoka. The City Runner felt her heart freeze in her chest. Todel stuttered behind her.
“Lord Erill sends this one, Lady—”
He too froze. Lady Bethal looked from him to Ryoka.
“Who else?”
Melodie gasped.
“Lady Ieka’s. This comes from—”
She trailed off. But more Runners spoke up, their voices mingling together.
“Lord Sandic.”
“Lady Danica and her husband, Lord Vite.”
“The House of Averin.”
“The Indivu Estates.”
“Lord Pellmia.”
“Sir Ashca.”
“The Houses of Wekle, Kelid, and…”
On and on the names came. One by one. Each one with a flower. A rose, as black as could be. They were beautiful. But Lady Bethal stared at them with unblinking eyes.
At last the halting flow of voices came to a stop. The Runners stared at Bethal. She looked across them.
“I see. So this comes from my peers, does it? From orders of [Knights]. From noble houses. Do you—does anyone here know what this means?”
No. The Runners shook their heads. Ryoka was staring at the flower. Now that she saw it, she knew it had to mean something. A black flower. If you didn’t know flowers could be a language at court—no wonder Todel had thought it was a lover’s token. She looked up and met Bethal’s gaze. It was like staring at lightning. Ryoka looked down.
“The black rose. Perhaps only Izril talks with flowers.”
Bethal’s voice was the only sound on the street. The only sound in the world. She looked from flower to flower. Her voice was soft.
“In days past, it meant something else. But that changed with the passing of decades. With the Goblin King. When he rode across Izril, these roses, rare and precious, were cut from their gardens. Did you know? They were sent to men and women. Across the north, after Velan had been slain. And half of those who received the flower died soon thereafter. Do you know why?”
No one replied. Welca was shaking. She stared at her [Lady]. Bethal slowly reached out and plucked the black rose from Ryoka’s hand. She lifted it.
“They killed themselves. Because everyone knew their shame. Never mind if they burned the rose or hid in their homes. Because of what it meant. The black rose was a symbol of cowardice, sent to all the peers of the realm who fled, or hid, rather than face the Goblin King.”
Ryoka’s breath caught in her chest. Bethal looked up. And her eyes glittered. Her lips curved up into a smile. As graceful as the curve as a flower’s petals. As dangerous as the thorns.
“This is a token from my peers. With it, they’ve named me a coward. For siding with Magnolia. For condemning Tyrion Veltras at Liscor. They sent the black roses to me. Me.”
