“Still, it’s a long run. Here. Try my corn yourself and you can tell I’m not all talk and no stalk. Go on.”
Lupp reached up and plucked the nearest piece of corn from the stalk. Ryoka was about to refuse as politely as she could. Then she caught herself.
“Thanks.”
The corn was heavier than she was used to. A bigger yield, and when she pulled off the husk, she blinked down at the corn. It was huge. It would have driven every genetic food scientist to tears if they saw it. This was a unit of corn. So, mindful of Lupp’s stare, Ryoka raised it to her mouth, and took a bite.
The field was very silent. The cow wandered out as Lupp and Ryoka stood on the edge of his field. Ryoka made very little sound as she chewed, and Lupp just waited. After a few seconds, Ryoka turned the cob and worked her way down it. She chewed, swallowed, bit again, and repeated the cycle. Then she looked up.
“This is delicious.”
The [Farmer] laughed, and his voice crackled like footsteps rustling through hay.
“Good, right? Before I tasted the real thing, I imagined this was what gold tasted like. Well, they’re my golden fields. I may not have as much as the huge farmers, but I sell my crops to folk I know, and they love it. What I keep from the animals, that is. Go on, finish it.”
Ryoka did just that. The corn wasn’t nearly as sweet as some of the stuff she’d had, but it was much more savory and so good that she didn’t mind eating it raw. With that said, if you grilled it, added a bit of butter and salt? But she ate the entire cob there and then, never mind her breakfast already in her stomach.
“Go on and toss it. Helli’ll eat it.”
Lupp indicated his sole cow. Ryoka tossed it, and the cow stared at her before turning her head and nibbling delicately on a piece of grass. Lupp laughed, and Ryoka smiled.
“Thank you. I appreciate that. Your corn’s the best I’ve ever had, and that’s no lie.”
“Ah, thank you, Miss. That’s what a [Farmer] wants to hear after leveling up all his life.”
The man looked proud. Then he noticed the package Ryoka had set aside.
“That mine, is it?”
“Oh. Yes. It’s a delivery from Reizmelt. The sender is, uh…”
“Kamine? She’s my daughter.”
Ryoka nodded. She handed the small, carefully wrapped package to Lupp. The old man took it, and Ryoka saw his wrinkles return. The laugh lines deepened, and his face sagged. For a moment.
“Ah. She’s good about sending packages on the regular. Every month at least.”
He looked happy to have it. But also sad. He hesitated, glanced at Ryoka, and opened it up. Ryoka blinked. The package had been small, hand-sized. It was, in fact, a whittler’s knife, a small knife with a short blade. It had a bit of cork protecting the head from cutting through the wrapping. Lupp looked at it.
“Nice bit of steel. I wrote to her that my old knife’d grown too dull. Hope she didn’t spend too much on it. This—looks good. Level 20 [Blacksmith], at least.”
He ran his hand down the whorled wood handle. Ryoka saw him stare at the handle, and then glance, just once, back at the farmhouse. She wondered what had happened to Kamine’s mother. And she knew she would never, ever ask.
Lupp cleared his throat after a second.
“I have a seal. Let me find it.”
He trudged back up to the farmhouse, and he held the whittler’s knife very carefully as he went in. Ryoka waited for a few minutes this time before Lupp came back out.
“Sorry, sorry. I kept the place more organized when my wife was…around.”
He held out a dusty seal to Ryoka. One that identified his location as Nonsfru, the equivalent of a stamp. Only, Runners received them. Ryoka took the wooden token and tucked it into her belt.
“Thank you, sir.”
“I wish I could give you a tip. I would, but—”
For the first time in the conversation, anxiety stole over Lupp’s face. He flushed, and Ryoka instantly held up a hand.
“No need for a tip, really. This isn’t a hard run. And the corn was good enough for any tip.”
“Still, you came all this way—”
“On a circuit. You weren’t the only delivery, believe me. And I’m not in a hurry. Today’s an off-day for me.”
Lupp relaxed a bit as Ryoka gave him a reassuring smile.
“Eighteen miles is an off-day?”
“For me, it is. But I’m not working hard.”
“Oh. Injury? Or just tired?”
He peered at her bare feet and then stared for the first time.
“What’s happened to your shoes, girl?”
“I run barefoot.”
“You’ll step on a nail! Or have them torn up by rocks.”
“My feet are tough. And if you’ve got nails lying around, I’d watch your feet, boots or not.”
Lupp blinked, and then he conceded with another laugh. He shook his head.
“Eighteen miles. So what’s kept you from your real running, if you don’t mind me asking?”
He glanced at Ryoka. And she hesitated.
Here was the point where she could give him an easy reply, like she was tired, or resting, or even mention the Pithfire Hound’s rescue as an excuse. Anything would work; some answers would prolong the conversation. Only one was the wrong answer as she knew it. But that answer was the most honest. So she gave it, with a shrug. Something about Lupp made her want to be straight with him. And she so seldom was. So she was honest.
“It’s just a bad day. You know? I woke up on the wrong side of the bed. And I guess it’s following me around. My [Innkeeper] had the same moment. Last night, he was tearing up the common room. Me? I just wanted to roll under my bed and stay there. You ever have days like that?”
She waited, her heart beating a touch faster. Fierre had just given her a blank look, but Lupp didn’t. The man blinked at her, and then he glanced around.
“Days when you wake up and the shadows are long? When there’s crows in the fields, but you can’t find the heart to chase them? I know those days.”
Something in Ryoka’s chest eased. And not just because Lupp didn’t look at her as if she were mad. Because, suddenly, they were looking at each other. With far more understanding than two strangers had any right to. All because of an honest moment. Lupp beckoned Ryoka over to a seat on his porch.
“You too?”
He gave her another smile.
“What do you mean, ‘me too’? I should be asking you that. You’re too young for days like that.”
“I don’t think it has anything to do with age.”
“It should. Old folk can have these days. But young ones? That isn’t right. You and the [Innkeeper], huh? Seems like the mood spreads. I wouldn’t know; I keep to myself. I can go a week without seeing more than a few people on the road.”
Ryoka glanced down his hill. The road that passed by his farm was empty. It had been empty all the time they had been talking. She looked at Lupp. She could have left. But instead, she continued the conversation she wasn’t supposed to have, the one she didn’t know you could have with a stranger.
“It’s not that bad today. I’ve had worse days. But—how do you do it? Deal with this kind of day?”
Lupp sat next to Ryoka. He stretched out his legs, groaning softly. Ryoka heard quiet clicks. And the [Farmer]’s voice was quiet as he looked across his land.
“Some nights are bad. Like when there’s rustling outside, and my [Dangersense] is screaming at me to make no noise. Those nights, and the day or days thereafter, I bar the door and hold up with a knife in hand. Healing potion at the belt. If it’s real bad, I send a [Message] spell with a scroll. The worst time was when the team didn’t scare it off. And I found bits of them when I dared open my door.”
Ryoka shook her head. Lupp went on.
“Those are bad days. Terrifying. But the worst are the ones where I wake up like you. And sometimes the days become weeks. Sometimes I don’t know what to do. I think of Suzaine, or an old friend. And those moments are the worst.”
He looked at Ryoka. She nodded. She understood him far too well. Lupp glanced at her. Then down at his hands and up again.
“Used to be, I’d drink too. Like that [Innkeeper] of yours. Drunk as a rat, was he? Thought so. I gave it up—well, I can’t say why exactly. Just grew too miserable. And it didn’t help. In the end, I came up with my own method. When I start staring at the shadows too much, when I stop talking to myself, I get out of the house. Leave the farm.”
He gestured to the gates, the wooden fence around his property.
“Sometimes I go to the road with a basket of corn. Or some bread I baked myself. Or I take a trip into Reizmelt. Other times, I get a letter from my girl, just like today. And I invite the Runner in if they’re the right sort. Never on a bad day. But sometimes I have to talk no matter what—I’m going to market. Or the times I do talk come back and hold it all at bay for a week.”
He smiled quietly.
“It’s all it takes. A friendly hand. Offering someone some corn and watching them smile. Even a good old cursing match with one of those damn [Wagon Drivers] who hit my fences when they’re drunk. It helps. Other times I just have to be alone.”
Ryoka nodded quietly. She watched Lupp’s face.
“I wish I’d done that. Or tried. I had people when I was younger. I just hated them. I wish I’d gone somewhere else. Tried something.”
“It’s easier when you’re out here. You can stay away when you have to. Not that hard. Worse in a city. Can’t imagine being an [Innkeeper]. Sounds like a shit job, so it does.”
“I can agree with that. Although, my best friend’s an [Innkeeper]. And she’s twice as nice as I’ll ever be.”
Lupp laughed.
“The good ones are like that. Although, I knew a devil of an [Innkeeper]. Hated everyone’s guts, but the man brewed the best ale I’ve ever tasted. Hung himself in the center of his inn one day. Used a keg of his latest batch of ale as a stepstool. Took himself out right in the center of the room so you’d see him as you walked in, just like that.”
“Yikes.”
“We found him the next day. Big stink it was, people thinking he was murdered. Turns out he wasn’t. Big stink. But you know what we did in the end?”
Ryoka didn’t have to think. She looked at Lupp.
“You drank the ale.”
“Of course. Were we going to let it go to waste? Best ale I ever had, too.”
He laughed, and Ryoka laughed with him. It wasn’t funny. It was just…funny. The two sat and talked, as if they had known each other for years. At last, Ryoka stood up, embarrassed.
“I have to get running, or I won’t get back before nightfall. Thanks. I didn’t mean to keep you.”
“From what? The corn will keep. And I enjoyed that. Here. Before you go, take some corn with you.”
Ryoka blinked as Lupp walked with her down to the field. He plucked eight ears off and handed them to her. She piled them into her bag of holding.
“You’re sure? These are so good—”
“Go on. Have a few. And boil them or crisp them up when you eat them. Call it a gift from one kindred soul to another. Your tip.”
Abashed, Ryoka ducked her head.
“Thank you. Oh—do you have anything you’d like to send to your daughter? I’ll be going back to Reizmelt. I could bring her some corn.”
Lupp drew in his breath.
“I don’t usually send by way of the Runner’s Guild. How much would it cost? Money’s tight—”
“Free of charge.”
“I can’t do that.”
“Give me four more ears, then. That’s worth silver to me.”
“Not gold?”
The [Farmer] looked pleased, mock upset, and grateful all at once. He cleared his throat a few times.
“I’d—I’d like that. You can get it to Kamine? Really? Could—could you bring her some milk? It shouldn’t spoil too fast, but—”
Ryoka grinned. She turned to face Lupp.
“Sir [Farmer], I’m the Wind Runner. If you want to bake her a pie, I’ll get it to her before it’s cool. Free of charge. Just dare me.”
Lupp blinked at Ryoka. And then he laughed and slapped her on the shoulder. She waited while he milked his cow, found a jug to hold the milk in, and listened to his message. She left the farm as the wind blew. And it did blow, a mighty gust that made the corn bend and rustle in the field. Lupp watched her go.
“Wind Runner?”
He stood on his farm and watched the girl go. Whatever day he might have had before this moment, it was better now. For him. And for her.
 
——
 
Back she ran. Well, forwards and back. Ryoka completed the rest of her deliveries and ran faster than before. Not a sprint, but the wind was at her back. Each time she stopped or met someone on the road, she spoke for a little bit. If the client wanted it. If they weren’t busy.
Sometimes, it was a remark on the weather. Other times, it was a comment on the place, or just a greeting. And often, it was responded to with a curt reply, or a nonanswer that went nowhere. But sometimes, twice, her conversation turned into something longer.
The second time occurred on her way back to the city. Ryoka was running down a dirt road, fast. She was headed north, and she passed by a wagon, startling a group of children dozily riding with their parents. They laughed and clapped as Ryoka blew past.
“Wind Runner, Wind Runner! Make a tornado!”
Even twenty miles away from Reizmelt, they knew her. Ryoka turned and the wind blew around her and the children laughed in delight as the mules pulling the wagon stopped in surprise. Ryoka raced past them. Then she heard an exclamation from behind and turned her head. Instead of the wagon, she saw a blur racing towards her.
Green and blue. A mounted shape. An armored warrior riding a horse, standing up in his stirrups. Fast as—Ryoka blinked. Then she turned, prepared to sprint off the road.
“[Knight] errant! No fear, Runner!”
The rider called. Ryoka relaxed slightly, but she kept a hand near her bag of holding. She kept running on the road, and the [Knight] caught up to her in seconds. Instead of passing, he slowed his horse. Ryoka, running at full-tilt, saw him glance down at her.
Was this a challenge? She gritted her teeth and sped up. She was nowhere near as fast as the [Knight], but the wind blew hard on her back. It did not do that for the knight, and Ryoka accelerated a half-step. She kept pace with the [Knight] for a hundred paces, then two hundred. At four hundred, Ryoka felt herself running out of steam, so she slowed rather than force herself to keep going. To her surprise, the [Knight] slowed with her.
“Need something?”
Warily, Ryoka slowed further, panting. The [Knight] drew almost to a standstill with his horse in response. He held up a hand, and Ryoka took him in for the first time.
He was certainly a [Knight], or at least, he looked like one. His chest plate was a gentle green, while his shoulders and legs were a sapphire blue. His insignia was emblazoned on his chest—some kind of wheat stalk of all things. His charger was similarly adorned, and Ryoka saw the man had a sword and spear. Neither one was near his hand as he held it up.
