Fierre cast her gaze upwards towards the brim of her hat. She tugged it a bit lower with a cloth-wrapped hand. The sun’s rays were yet weak, but they still felt unpleasant on her skin.
“Nearabouts. Sometimes he has a dry spell, but he always has a fit like this at least once a month. He’ll go around smashing things, fighting with his friends—if they haven’t left already by that point—and cursing until he passes out.”
Ryoka frowned. She shifted her feet, stepping lightly on the cold paving stones in the morning. Fierre glanced about the street; she saw a woman fifteen feet away rubbing her fingers together and blowing on them with the spring chill. Fierre could see a little embroidered flower on the gloves the woman took out as clear as if she were standing right next to the woman.
Ryoka groaned as someone threw open their shutters above them. Both Fierre and Ryoka stepped back fast; the chamber pot emptied over the side, and Ryoka cursed up at the window.
“Use the toilet! That’s why you have sewers!”
The man in the window stared down. About to hurl down an insult, he paused when he recognized Ryoka.
“Up yours, Wind Runner!”
“Don’t make me blow that in your face!”
Ryoka glared. The man snorted, realized she was serious, and closed his windows hurriedly. Ryoka sighed. She skirted the splash on the road as Fierre hurried around her. The Vampire wished Ryoka had made good on her threat; she could smell blood in the piss and stool very clearly. Being hungry and disgusted wasn’t a fun feeling.
“And his neighbors don’t stop him?”
“What?”
Fierre glanced at Ryoka and then remembered their conversation. The Vampire opened her mouth, realized her canines were showing, began to cover her mouth, and then relaxed. She gave Ryoka a toothy grin instead and saw the young woman’s eyes lock onto her teeth.
“How? They complain, of course, but the City Watch isn’t interested in trying to stop him. Sometimes they slap a fine on Madain, but he’s generally ignored.”
“Poor neighbors. Well, I know how he feels.”
“Who? Madain? Turn left here. There’s a [Baker] down this street.”
“Good choice. Does she do anything with vegetables? I need something green after eating another meat stew. I know you’re fine, but I need plants.”
Fierre grinned again, then covered her mouth when she noticed a [Laborer] exiting his house, his jerkin twisted.
“She does a very nice spinach-and-cheese puffed pastry. And I eat plenty of green things, thanks.”
“Frogs?”
Ryoka grunted as Fierre leaned over and shoved her lightly. The push was light, but Fierre had used her full strength, so Ryoka skipped a few steps before she caught her balance. She looked over at Fierre with raised eyebrows. The Vampire smiled, a thrill rushing through her stomach.
“Don’t insult me. I told you once.”
“So noted. Sorry. I am in a bad mood. It’s one of those days, you know?”
Fierre eyed Ryoka. She didn’t know. Moreover, she’d expected Ryoka to bite back, as it were. Embarrassed now, she pointed.
“This is the shop. Miss Helma?”
The [Baker] had an open front to her shop, a window and a counter, from which delicious aromas wafted forth. Ryoka eyed a basket of bread and instantly dug for her purse. Helma, whom Fierre knew from her [Laborer] job, came to the window at once.
“Fierre? And who’s your friend?”
“This is Ryoka Griffin, Miss Helma. The Wind Runner. We’re both here because Madain’s had one of his nights.”
Fierre spoke more carefully to the [Baker], keeping her lips closed and not showing her teeth where possible. Helma, a woman with a surprisingly sultry voice given her age, propped her hands on her hips. Dusty; she was baking, Fierre could tell from the heat emanating from the inside.
“That man is trouble. I’ve told you again and again, Fierre. You should find somewhere else to sleep! I’d take you in myself if I didn’t have children running about and my husband wasn’t coming in at odd hours. And—the Wind Runner? So you’re the young lady my children can’t stop talking about!”
Ryoka ducked her head, smiling ruefully.
“Hello, Miss. I’m nothing special. I just have a way with the wind.”
Helma laughed pleasantly.
“Could you conjure me a breeze, then? It’s hot in here, never mind the spring day. I dread the summer. But what can I do for you two? I have some pies, tarts, fresh bread, and if you wait, I’ll fill one with some fruit paste. That’s a treat my children love.”
Ryoka looked longingly at the breads on display.
“I heard you had spinach and cheese pasties.”
“Of course! Fresh! How many would you like?”
The tarts were still hot and pleasingly plump. Ryoka bought six and one meat pasty. Fierre was less hungry and bought some cheesy bread, which she liked. The two walked down the street, holding their hot food while Ryoka offered Fierre two of her vegetarian pasties for a bite of Fierre’s bread. The hot food filled their stomachs, and before long, both were smiling.
“That’s better. Hey, Fierre. How bad does Madain get? Alber was suggesting he might come up the stairs and start taking swings at us. Should I be sleeping with one eye open?”
The City Runner let the wind pick up the crumbs she was dropping. A breeze was now blowing down the street, a nice cool one that passed right by Helma’s shop, Fierre noticed. The Vampire smiled and raised an eyebrow.
“Sometimes he does. But it never bothers me. Madain likes me, I think. And if you need help, I can handle him.”
It was a boast, but Ryoka didn’t give one of her snippy replies this time. She just smiled, bit into her meat pastry, and nodded.
“That would be welcome. Madain looks like he could snap Alber in half like a twig, barehanded or not. And I’ve seen him throw his axes. Myself, I think I’ll just jump out the window if he comes up the stairs. I think it’s not all his fault, though.”
Fierre paused. She looked at Ryoka quizzically.
“How do you mean? If you mean his friends—they’re not his friends. They only drink with him because he’s good for free alcohol. Once he starts talking about his team and the old days, they get lost fast.”
The young woman grimaced.
“I get that. What I mean is—I think he and I are a bit the same. I feel like we’re kindred spirits. We have good days and bad days, Fierre. Neither of us can help it. Some days it rains and pours, even if the sun’s shining. Sorry, I don’t know how to say it. It’s…a type of sickness. Only it’s all in the head.”
Now Fierre did pause in her tracks. She looked hard at Ryoka and sniffed. Sometimes you could smell if someone had been drinking, or—or anything. Her mother was really good; she could even tell if someone was using something like Smilingsand on an animal. Or other tricks to make them look better at fairs. But Ryoka smelled normal. Fierre’s eyes didn’t tell her the Runner looked any different. Disturbed, Fierre shrugged.
“Madain? He just drinks a lot. And you seem normal to me.”
The crooked smile Ryoka gave her was different. Not like the quick and brilliant grin she’d give at a comment that Fierre had learned to spot, or the relaxed grin of satisfaction. Or the not-a-smile she was so good at. This one was tired. But somehow, it also reminded Fierre of her father’s smile. Ryoka shook her head.
“I have a bad temper. And some days are tough. Don’t think too much into it, Fierre. I know my problems. I feel bad for Madain, that’s all. No one ever told him it’s not all his fault. But you’re right; the drinking probably does a lot of the work, even on a good day.”
“Is that what this is? A bad day?”
“Oh, yes. And I’m being careful today. So I’m warning you in advance, Fierre. If I’m snappish or lash out—”
“You’re anything but. Actually, you’re disturbingly calm.”
Again, Ryoka smiled, and it was bitter.
“I’m trying to not do what I normally do. Believe me, if you gave me a gold coin, I’d go back there and try to kick Madain through his own privy door.”
Fierre thought about reaching for her belt, but the joke was childish. Suddenly, Ryoka felt a lot older. In truth, Fierre was the older one by a number of years. But…the Vampire cleared her throat and averted her gaze, embarrassed.
“I’m not bragging. I could actually take him down if I had to. Especially if he’s drunk. I think.”
“I know you can.”
Fierre felt her cheeks turn red. The heat wasn’t much, but given her cold body, it felt like a hot spot. She turned her head so Ryoka wouldn’t see.
She was so strange. Even more than Fierre’s normal friends had been growing up. Not only had she found Fierre out, she hadn’t flinched even when her mother had used her Gaze on her, and she had all those weird Skills that Fierre had never heard about. And she wasn’t afraid of Fierre for who she was. That was the strangest part of all. And the most welcome.
Sometimes she was combative or challenging. But at other times, times like now, Fierre would say something that was a boast, and Ryoka would just nod. And when she looked at Fierre, the Vampire thought that Ryoka believed every word she was saying. And she still wasn’t afraid of Fierre or filled with envy.
It made Fierre too much at ease around Ryoka. She had to remember the girl was a stranger. Her parents, Bamer, they’d all warned her to stay wary. Stay wary. Fierre bit her lip and changed the subject.
“About those people you wanted me to find…I haven’t gotten any leads. I told you it would take a while, especially with Magnolia Reinhart. And there are waves around her.”
“Oh?”
“Politics. A lot of people want information, so I’m trying not to let them know I want different information than the stuff they’re after.”
“Ah. Well, you have time.”
“I’m still looking. Don’t worry. It just takes a while for information. Uh…will you be doing deliveries? I’m going to spend an hour or two at my brokering job, but then I’m helping lay down a foundation by midday. So…”
Fierre hesitated. More people on the streets. She could smell them, feel the blood pulsing through their veins. Normally it didn’t bother her, but she was feeling more Vampirish than usual. Probably because of all the nighttime exertions. She’d have to have more of the goat’s blood for a midday snack.
“Do you—do you want to go for a run tonight? I’m free. We could race north again. Or you could show me more of those fighting moves.”
Ryoka’s lips quirked up.
“And you can throw me through a tree?”
“That was an accident. Really.”
“You’re too strong. And it would be fun to run. But—”
Ryoka studied the sky, and then shook her head.
“Not today, sorry, Fierre. I think I’ll have a short night of it.”
“Bad day?”
“Exactly. Tomorrow should be good, though. Hey, I’ll see you later, alright? I probably won’t stop by to have my letters opened, though. If I’m not there in thirty minutes, there’s your answer.”
“Alright. Uh—get better soon?”
The City Runner nodded. She took off, jogging down the street while Fierre turned to go to the place where she conducted her information brokering. She paused to stare at Ryoka as she left. Exactly what did she mean? Sickness in the head? Fierre shook her own head, but she watched Ryoka as she left.
She was an enigma. But she knew who Fierre was, and she didn’t flinch, even when Fierre gave Ryoka her best smile. To the Vampire girl, that was as attractive, as fascinating as the sweetest blood. Fierre licked her lips. And then she disappeared into the shadows. She was already getting a tan.
 
——
 
You’d never have guessed Ryoka was having a bad day. Well, this time. Before, Ryoka distinctly recalled telling Ceria to go to hell and picking fights with Minotaurs while trying to punch Yvlon’s face in. Or just being unpleasant to be around. Had she punched Erin in the face?
Probably. So this time she watched herself as she entered the Runner’s Guild. Ryoka was bracing herself, because she knew she had more talking to do in this guild than in Celum’s guild, where Garia and Fals had been the only people to speak to her. But, strangely, the instant someone called out her name, Ryoka didn’t feel the instant surge of visceral resentment she normally did.
“Miss Ryoka! Good morning!”
Ryoka turned. A familiar face was at the counter. The [Receptionist] leaned over and smiled. Ryoka smiled back.
“Good morning, Alime. Anyone ask for me? Any emergency calls?”
It was the question she always asked. Alime shook her head.
“No, and no, sorry to say, Miss Ryoka. No one’s requested you by name, and no one’s in need of an emergency Runner. You’re first on my list, aside from the Couriers.”
“Well, that’s fine today.”
It wasn’t as if Ryoka wanted to be the first on call or she enjoyed those emergency runs. It happened more than you thought; someone needed an antidote from a high-level [Alchemist], there was a need for a lightning-fast delivery of gold, or perhaps a spice for a banquet, or…well, some emergencies weren’t really all that. But sometimes adventuring teams got into trouble. And Ryoka had cemented her reputation as the first person to call after the Pithfire Hounds had gotten into trouble.
It had changed a lot around the guild, actually. Some of the Runners waiting for their delivery turned in their seats. A few called out; Ryoka waved a hand. She was walking over to the requests board when another City Runner, dark skinned, short, perhaps even Dwarfish, caught her. He was chewing a lip nervously.
“Griffin. I’ve got a favor to ask. Let me take the delivery to Blaiseford. They’re asking for the fastest runner in the Guild, but I’m plenty fast, and I need the coin. Call it a favor?”
He looked pleadingly at her. Ryoka blinked. Normally the rule was the fastest Runner usually got the contract. One of those rules she’d taken advantage of in Celum. Let’s see. What would she have said back then? ‘My contract, get lost?’ Sounds about right.
This time, Ryoka forced a smile. And it wasn’t forced after a second.
“No problem. Todel, right?”
He nodded, relieved. Ryoka shook her head.
“I’m not looking for a big run just now. And Blaiseford? I did that a week ago. Miserable. Those damn swamps…”
That was all she had, but Todel grinned.
“They are disgusting. And those bugs—gah! But I know a quick route through that usually isn’t submerged even when it rains.”
“Really? Show me that, and you can take all the big runs today.”
He grinned.
“Deal. Thanks!”
He trotted off, relieved. Ryoka walked over to the board, smiling a bit. She came back after a moment to the desk where Alime was working.
“Hey, Alime…”
“No deliveries suit you?”
Alime looked surprised. Ryoka shook her head.
