Havok stood radiant against the onrushing undead, girded with gleaming mithril and the light of his Holy Shield. Shining hope against the tides of darkness. White flames sprang from the ground, and holy fire was greeted with unholy screams.

The tide of undead Calen had trained onto them broke against their shields.

You have been afflicted with Decrepify. -6 to Intelligence.Corruption – Aura – Count: 2

Of course, both tanks were literally shining from the immense volume of healing magic landing upon them, and throughout the horde, dense thickets of Mato’s summoned thorns and brambles sprang from the dirt, twisting, tearing, ripping, and impeding progress. A volley of his arrows, ripping through the horde with Grappling Shot and Explosive Shot, ensured that most of the undead were at least pinned down.

With the horde safely rooted and chained in place, secured by the tanks and the vast reach of Mato’s roots and vines, Calen saw the path to the Well finally opening.

“Now, Seth!” Calen yelled.

The quiet, unassuming necromancer, now decked out in a rather dramatic set of macabre bone armor – bone-white with black stains that emphasized the wicked-looking spikes – produced the small, intensely shining sphere and offered it to an enormous Skeletal Frost Dragon waiting beside him.

The Soul Jewel! All their hopes rode on this; all their planning had required it. If this approach failed, Calen had no idea what else they might even try. Even so, how could they even be certain what it would do? We need information.

The instant the massive skeletal dragon grasped the powerful orb in its bony claws, Nathaniel Sunstrider snapped his shadowy head around and fixed it with a piercing glare. The betrayer summoned an enormous spellbook that hovered before him. It sprang open at once, flipping through pages with a sudden riffling sound that could be heard even over the moaning undead horde and the staccato thumps of spells going off. Then a single page burst into flame, crumpling into dust nearly instantaneously, and a massive fireball shot forth to strike the skeletal dragon squarely on its ribcage. Seth flew, cartwheeling across the ground as the corrupted sludge snuffed the flames clinging to his armor, but his Skeletal Frost Dragon roared its fury and took to the sky, trailing smoke from its still-burning, but rapidly healing bones.

Apparently unperturbed, the betrayer’s eyes tracked the dragon and its precious cargo while he flipped through his immense book of spells.

Calen drew back his bowstring with a speed borne of urgency, enchanting Speed of Light, Light Damage, and Explosive Shot. Oh, no you don’t! He released the string to the tune of a melodic but mournful sigh. He shivered at the sympathetic swell of soul magic, but his new bow leapt powerfully in his grasp, as if eager, the runes upon the ancient heartwood shining brightly with a sense of aligned purpose. A bolt of pure light and energy leaped from the bow, connecting with the distant wraith instantly, piercing clean through the glowing Mana Shield held around his body. An intense explosion detonated within the shield, blasting the incorporeal monster several feet backward and into the rim of the Well.

Three rays of light shot from the wraith’s back, vanishing into the distance behind it. Normally, arrows would stop on impact, and the legendary bow’s arrow-forking enchantment would simply spawn two new ones that shot off to hit whatever might be behind it. However, any time the target was insubstantial, incorporeal, or if his arrows would otherwise pierce the target, he found he’d get the original and the two forked arrows. Given Calen’s unique skills, his arrows always pierced. That had been the first thing he had tested.

The wraith howled, turning its fury upon Calen in the form of a long volley of ice bolts swishing their quiet, deadly path across the battlefield. Unashamed, Calen turned and fled, leading the volley across the sky in an arc that would fail to hit anyone as he dodged. As soon as it ended, he banked hard, taking a second shot at the boss from the opposite side of the field.

From the corner of his eye, he glimpsed the Skeletal Frost Dragon diving for the Well. The jewel shone beams of radiant light like rays of hope eking their way past the clutching bony talons of the undead dragon. If he were a poet or a bard, he might have a few things to say about portents or fateful images.

Nathaniel howled in fury, a rasping, hissing screech that sent shivers down Calen’s spine. Gushing from the wraith’s hand, a dense cone of flame engulfed the undead monster, but it was far too little, and already too late. As Seth had so brilliantly put it, since the corruption of the Well of Souls made undead monsters invincible, they should leverage that for their most dangerous endeavors. Bones dripping with sticky, persistent flames, the dragon splashed down into the dark, bubbling waters of the Well and vanished from sight.

Please work. Please work. Please! With all his strength, Calen willed it to be so. It was fortunate they had Seth in the group; an undead monster was literally the only creature that could survive being so close to the center of the corrupting aura. By the time it had begun its dive, there was nothing Nathaniel could do that would have killed it.

Silence reigned supreme.

Nathaniel stared at the Well. Calen stared at the Well. Only in the distance did he register the continuing clash of battle and the chime of his notifications telling him he had lost more attribute points.

“Oh, my!” Ali cried.

A deafening gong rang out; a sound so powerful, he was forced to clap his hands to his ears, even though he knew it was magical. The ground shook, and nearly every being was knocked from their feet as if struck by an earthquake.

[Realm] Skeletal Frost Dragon has cast the legendary spell: True Purification.

A tiny spark of intense, forest-green light ignited deep within the seething black waters. It pulsed softly for a moment, and then slowly began to swell. Calen stared, holding his breath as the light rippled upward through the murk, accelerating in pace and growing power. It flashed outward in silent brilliance, and its wake, the water of the Well of Souls stilled. Blackness dissolved in an instant, and pristine clarity suddenly reasserted itself upon the waters.

The gong sounded again.

[Realm] The Well of Souls has been restored.

A cheer went up from the entire raid group as Calen felt the debilitating aura of corruption fade and his attribute points come ticking back. He found himself cheering, too, grinning from ear to ear. Their daring plan had worked!

“He’s corrupting it again!” Ali shouted, silencing the cheers in an instant.

Then, all hell broke loose.

Several new layers of spherical, purple bubble barriers sprang up around the wraith’s indistinct body. Hundreds of purple bolts of arcane magic burst forth in waves, raining down upon the entire raid group in deadly clumps.

A near-imperceptible glitch rippled out across the battlefield, as if everything had suddenly frozen for the briefest instant of time, and suddenly, the immense form of a glittering purple Galdrone Tetrad was simply there.

“Raid boss!” Calen screamed as his Explorer skill convulsed in the back of his mind. How… where did that come from? He had watched the wraith summon a raid boss while he and Mato struggled to escape, but this had appeared without warning, in an instant.

Blazing crimson fire and massive shards of pale blue ice burst forth from Nathaniel as pages crisped and decayed within his spell book, the resulting spells detonating amongst the suddenly struggling healers. Glittering golden barriers snapped up to save them from the onslaught, but there was a boss loose among their raid.

With a surge of domain mana, a great cloud of arcane elementals began to pour forth from the newly summoned Galdrone Tetrad, filling the air with clouds of arcane bolts and rippling bursts of explosive magic.

But Calen could hardly remain idle while the raid was destroyed around him. “Tank the boss!” he yelled, drawing his bow and loosing a full volley of arrows skyward. He didn’t even bother to aim; the sky was blotted out by flying elementals. He enchanted Explosive Shot, Light Damage, and Grappling Shot, and let the arrows cascade through the swarming elementals. A cascade of Forking and Spectral Arrows propagated his Explosive Shot enchantment through the airborne monsters like a rippling stormfront of explosive energy. The sky filled with glowing light as anything struck by arrows or countless explosions sprouted thick, glowing chains, and as the monsters were blown backward by the force of his bow, they were suddenly recoiled as the luminous white chains snapped tight, catapulting them into the ground, where the rest of the mages unleashed fireballs and frost novas to decimate the suddenly pinned monsters.

“Impressive,” Lyeneru said, not even looking at him. “Three ammunition enchantments?”

“Yes, I reached the second tier in that skill,” he said, glowing inside at her compliment.

“Now that’s a great advancement,” she said, and then Lyeneru unleashed a barrage of arrows into the towering elemental, giving off waves of heat from her flaming bow that scorched his skin even from where he had believed himself safe.

Holy shit! How strong is her third-tier evolution?

Calen clenched his teeth as he picked up the pace, his hands blurring as he set the sky afire in his mentor’s wake. I can’t wait for mine… but I’ve got a job to do first.

The same horrific writhing tentacles of eldritch magic she had observed on Nathaniel so long ago burst from the wraith’s eyes, mouth, chest, and back, piercing the surface of the Well. Wherever they touched, black vortices and streamers of corruption marred the purity of the waters, and slowly, ever so slowly, the corruption and madness of the nightmarish magic began to spread from the writhing tentacles, turning the waters black once again.

“He’s corrupting it again!” Ali screamed. Shocked gasps and shouts of alarm rippled across the raid group, replacing the cheers like the crash of the crystal decanter of jubilation dashed to the floor.

A storm of complex mana arose within the wraith as dozens of spells manifested nearly simultaneously. Arcane Insight and Sage of Learning kicked in with a sudden drawing on her mana pool.

Amplify Casting… Meta Magic? Ali recognized the formations from all her studies, her dungeon tithe, and the minions she had learned that could cast similar spell enhancements. How could the cleansing be so fragile? That’s just wrong!

Empower Spell.

Increased Duration.

Whatever was coming was going to be empowered to the gills.

A formation Ali had never seen before bore down on her Sage of Learning with the weight of a mountain crashing down. Mana vanished, gobbled up as her prodigious knowledge spell struggled to make sense of it.

Time? Is it time-related? Time… Stop?

Ali did not pause to think. Her understanding of the spell was not even remotely complete, and still she summoned her golden darts, her only chance of disrupting whatever was coming. She had to disrupt it. She, more than any other here, knew from personal experience what kind of devastation such a spell might unleash. There was absolutely no question in her mind as she flung her partial formation at Nathaniel Sunstrider and the immense formation reaching its climax.

Darts flickered across the intervening space in an instant, but Nathaniel waved his staff lazily across the path of her spell. Ali’s golden darts diverted from the course she had set them upon. Drawn in by the rune-inscribed staff of the Archmage, her magic vanished, leaving the large jewel at the top glowing brightly with new golden radiance.

“Thank you for your generous… gift.” The Wraith’s whisper sounded like an ancient, attenuated version of Nathaniel’s voice, but delivered right beside her, directly whispered into her ear. The intimacy of it sent shudders of disgust and revulsion coursing through her, but in that instant, his vast formation was completed.

The world glitched briefly.

Suddenly, a raid boss appeared, as if summoned without magic. It simply was not. And then it was. But that was not all: a fresh glittering radiance sparkled around Nathaniel Sunstrider – an array of a dozen new defensive magic spells. Spells that had not been there before.

Fuck, he stole my Disrupt! It was the first intelligible thing that sprang to mind; the frustration of having spent her recharge for no effect. Worse, somehow Nathaniel had stolen it with his staff. She just knew that was going to come back to haunt her later.

But worse – far worse – Nathaniel had at least three metamagic skills, and a Time Stop that seemed just as powerful as her own Arcane Recall. He had just summoned a Raid boss with it. She knew it had been summoned by domain magic, but she had not even seen the formation. Her mind raced. How could she begin to fight that?

The Archmage’s giant spell book hovered before him, and under his deathly hands, the pages flipped with unnatural speed. Mana flared, pages burst into flame, or decayed into dust instantaneously, and an avalanche of devastating spells burst forth.

Maximize Damage.

Increased Area.

Meteor Storm.

Ali screamed a warning, desperately casting barriers into the air, trying to intercept the sudden hailstorm of burning boulders.

Nathaniel thrust his staff forward, and her own golden darts shot out from the crowning jewel to shatter against her barrier, but, while she flinched, the barrier did not vanish. Nathaniel hissed in frustration, but it was no surprise. Ali’s disruption required a specifically tailored formation for every use, and the one that he had stolen with his staff was still partially configured to target his Time Stop spell. It would not affect anything else.

“Take that, you transparent… wraith,” Ali muttered, before wincing at her weak challenge. Perhaps I need to take insult lessons from Morwynne. Or Tol’brekk.

Ali must have let her thoughts leak into her connection to her minion because Tol’brekk roared, “Mighty Archmage? You cast like a novice!” Spoken in Trollish, it had an excellent cadence and a double meaning involving goats. The next fireball hit him squarely in the chest.

“Thanks,” Ali sent, getting an impression of a chuckle back from the enormous Troll.

The mana storm within Nathaniel’s body did not abate.

Instantaneous Casting.

Greater Mass Dispel Magic.

Instantly, every single barrier she had cast vanished, and the falling meteors began to rain down upon the raid group as Ali scrambled to recreate them.

Increased Area.

Mana Drain.

