She sighed, "Yeah. I couldn't believe another bomb went off though. Kind of...took me by surprise."

I raised an eyebrow, "Why? Seems pretty normal to me."

She shivered, "I'd have died if it almost killed Caprika."

I tapped my teeth, tsking under my helmet. Kessiah wasn't the most practical person, but she was grounded when it counts. She realized how close to death she came. I waved my hands, "Eh, you'd have been fine I'm sure. I wouldn't stress about it too much."

Kessiah rolled her eyes, "Yeah, coming from Mr. Immortal, that's easy to say."

I frowned, "Yeah, you're going to be just fine."

Kessiah nodded, "Yeah, I'll be alright. I just need to...rethink a few things. I mean for Schema's sake, Torix got a fucking class. I got to start moving before I'm left behind."

Torix leaned to her, "Left further behind."

Kessiah rolled her eyes while Torix pointed at the entrance,

"Banter aside, would you mind showing us the inside? Time is of the essence."

I turned and shuffled down the steps while waving them over, "Come on in."

They both walked down, Kessiah mumbling, "Woah, I haven't even found a family of roaches yet. Yay."

I waved a finger, "You haven't seen anything yet."

They walked down into the expanse, Kessiah whistling, "Woah, you really outdid yourself with this one. This is almost as nice as the hotel room."

I shook my head, "No plumbing or electricity here though."

Torix shrugged, "It matters little. Basic investment into endurance and constitution makes us nigh immune to discomfort from the environment. Water will be the only issue, and I can solve that with a bit of origin magic."

I pointed at the rooms, "Cool. That's where you guys will be staying. The rooms are all the same besides Althea and mine. It's bigger since there's two of us."

Kessiah propped her weight onto her hip, "Is there anything to do out here?"

Torix patted her shoulder, "I'm certain a cave-woman like you can entertain yourself with sticks, stones, and probably the mud as well."

Kessiah crossed her arms, "Hah, hah. Funny."

Althea raised a hand, "Hey, everybody."

We turned to her. Althea pointed at the center of the room, "So uh, Helios is going to be here soon."

Torix raised an eyebrow, "Could you contextualize soon for us. A day, a wee-"

A portal appeared at the center of the room. Helios walked out of it, his head almost scraping the ceiling. The amber glow brandished off his cape, his fur jutting out from around his neck. It gave his clothes a comfortable vibe, making them look hella comfy.

Helios glanced around, inspecting my handiwork. He nodded his head up and down slowly, "Well...This isn't the shanty shack I expected. It far exceeds the provisions offered by the gialgathens here in fact. Did you make it, sorcerer?"

Torix shook his head and pointed at me. Helios scoffed, "Multi-talented aren't you?"

I crossed my arms, "You wanted to know about us, right?"

Helios raised a hand, a crackling sound spreading around us. As the air turned blue, he coalesced the atomic energy and snapped his fingers. From beneath him, azure spines of ice rose up and created a throne for him. He sat down on it, leaning onto a hand like he was a king,

"Tell me everything."

I pressed the gray square over my armor, lying not an option here. As the disguise came off, Helios rose up off of his icy throne and laughed,

"Well, well, well...Do my eyes deceive me here? The killer of Yawm was right here under my nose all along..."

I spread out my arms, the gray square for cloaking me in hand,

"It's the Harbinger of Cataclysm in the flesh."

Helios steepled his fingers and leaned forward,

"Interesting."
