Helios even constructed 3-D, visual spaces from 2-D maps of Svia. He actually made the areas well enough they mirrored reality quite well. Helios kept at it more than necessary, however. He etched in details, finalized the colors, and added depth to rocks.

Turns out, Helios was an artist.

I quit watching, letting him get everything ready. In the meantime, I sat down and brainstormed a way of organizing my many minds. I had thirteen made right now. Eight dedicated themselves to the furnaces. One read the book in front of my face while another practiced the cipher. The other three helped me cast magic, speak, and visualize my surroundings.

Despite my profusion of multi-tasking, I ended up sharper than average, though nothing too crazy. Just as well, I hadn't actually had any free time since uncovering the mana into mental processing power phenomenon. Pushing those limits, finding its use cases, and discovering those inner workings would take me to the next level, mentally, that is.

Aiming for that, I sat down cross-legged in our spacious metal globule, and I pushed a bit more energy into mental processing power. My mind responded in turn, becoming faster. Even tiny, minuscule amounts of mana made a tangible difference, so I put in a bit more. Once again, positive effects manifested, and the many tasks my minds handled became easier.

I gave it even more juice, and suddenly, my thoughts turned in different directions. Focusing became a burden, and it was as if I was on some kind of stimulant. Considering how little mana I injected, the speeding up process carried no limit. My ability to control it was the deciding factor, and like runaway trains, my psyches ended up running off the rails.

I dwelled on many aspects of my life, my mistakes, and my hardships. Emotions ran rampant, overwhelming me in a surging tide. Anger, rage, hatred, sadness, and even happiness all hit me in a sort of mania.

I grabbed the sides of my head, pulling mana back into the cipheric runes. I bit through my lip, my silver blood gushing out before reconstituting in an instant. I let out a small gasp before settling myself down. Florence peered up from his status work, "So, uh, you ok?"

The sociable albony was as perceptive as ever, though it wasn't hard to notice. I nodded, "I'm fine."

Florence tuned back to his screen, but he kept an eye on me. I waited a bit before doing anything else, scared of what may happen. Before I paralyzed in that fear, my insight mind fed me a, well, insight about what just happened - I just experienced mana devolution. However, that was only the early stages of it.

My insight psyche explained that mana devolution involved a mind running rampant, no longer under the user's control. It was similar to getting too lost in your own thoughts but amplified many times over. If a person couldn't pull their mind back, then the person fell into an insane mania. My eyes widened as a few realizations popped in my head at that fact.

First, I would've 100% have devolved into an animal if not for my blood magic. After all, my mana output vastly exceeded my capacity to control it. By taking a more physical approach to my magic, I avoided being possessed by my own volatile mana flows.

My second realization came from an article I read about mana devolution; ascendant mana carried the highest chance of it occurring. Interestingly enough, quintessence had the least, and that made intuitive sense to me. I mean, quintessence just motivated you to build yourself and others up. Even if you 'devolved' with that mana type, your manifested personality wouldn't be all that bad. It would be like an ambitious CEO or something.

On the other hand, ascendant mana was the energy of consumption. Of the advanced mana types, I gained it first from my exposure to inter-dimensional miasma. If I fell into ascendant mana's influence, I'd be a raging monster hell-bent on eating everything in my path. I'd be like the worst incarnation of an eldritch, one that evolved rapidly and couldn't be killed.

That's probably why Schema considered me such a risk factor. It's also why Spear considered letting me live to be such a huge blessing. I represented a real chance at becoming something abominable. Despite the gloom cast by those realizations, I also gained some confidence from these facts.

Not discovering this processing facet of my mana probably saved me a lot of headaches. Considering how difficult it was to control, I'd never have managed this early on. It would've consumed me like a hungry shark mauling an injured fish. This also explained why Baldag-Ruhl made this armor like this.

Baldag-Ruhl intended on this metal to bolster his mental capabilities, and that's why it generated so much mana. Torix and my experiment with the rip in space-time ended up shifting the carapace's evolutionary path, making it more a dimension than just a mana shell. Feeding it eldritch helped me generate ascendant mana too.

Peering at my own skin, the dark gray metal sheened from the quintessence overhead. It could've blessed me with my talent for runes and gravity even. At this point, it spiraled out of control, a forbidden relic further bolstered by Schema's system. With my cipher runes enhancing it even further beyond, this armor left me awash in limitless possibility.

It was an amazing, utterly unique artifact.

Tapping into that unending potential meant mastering this aspect of it.  Even if it would be a challenge, I'd faced plenty of those before. It was time for another, so I prepped my mind for a flood of emotions, disciplining myself to prevent the ensuing chaos they'd cause. I closed my eyes, and I oriented several personas to that end. Dribbling mana into each anima, I ramped up my mental processing.

It expanded, and the five free minds began wobbling. They struggled with controlling the overflow of thoughts, each preventing my descent into madness. I put one furnace burning psyche to the job of managing those minds. This psyche acted as a manager of the other Daniels, setting them straight and helping them stay on task.

I put more of the furnace psyches to this new task, and my thoughts flourished from it. I found the upper limit of productivity for this manager Daniel to be right at seven minds. Any more, and it no longer assisted them all. Any less, and it had gaps in its schedule, causing it to micromanage. Finding this balance, I managed a careful equilibrium of augmented minds.

I kept at this process, entering a deep state of meditation. Taking slow, shallow breaths, the different consciousnesses acclimated to the mana flows. I wasn't about to suddenly master this ability, but I gained a much more defined idea of what I could and couldn't do. Knowing my limits, I kept this manager Daniel over the 'free' minds. I also put fewer minds on Matter Conversion in general.

Even over just a few hours, I gained quite a few skill levels in that mythical skill. Seven times more than usual, in fact. Combine that with the processing power, and I could put four furnaces to three minds now. These adjustments gave me two more psyches to work with. One of those psyches became manager Daniel. He put mana into the free minds and helped keep them from spiraling out of control.

For the other freed consciousness, I put it on insights and magic duty. Once it was all said and done, everything flowed smoother compared to before. Manager Daniel stopped me from messing up the simple stuff while getting more processing power out of each mind. Having dual psyches put on insight patrol also meant I'd respond faster and better to situations.

Eh, most of the time.

My speaking and thinking self stayed at the forefront of all those minds. After an hour of practice, it turned from a wonky attempt into a solid structure. Gaining a method for A Manifold Mind gave me a lot of breathing room. Everything clicking into place, I peered around. Helios kept reaching out, envisioning various warp summons. Florence and Amara kept at their relevant studies. I turned a palm to Helios,

"Are you ready to head out?"

Helios took a breath, calming himself before he snapped his fingers. A picture-perfect warp spawned, one leading to another colony like this one. Helios cracked his neck and stood, "Of course I am. I'm a Novas, after all."

He walked through the portal before we all followed, the veil snapping shut behind us. Once within Wrath's domain, we found more green drone slimes rolling about. Enamel lined the tunnels as reinforcement, and the same sterile, burning scent effused this place as well. Bruiser slimes came up to us over the next minute, each of the fighters deep blue in coloration, just like Reason's guards.

Unlike Reason's troops, these slimes charged us with unquenchable ferocity. I stood between the blobs and my team, holding each of them in my fingers. They snapped several toothy shards and spears against my skin, snapping their chosen weapons against me. They recreated those tools over and over, their biomass shrinking over time.

When Wrath showed up, the guardians wrestled against me while surrounded by piles of shattered teeth. Wrath rolled up before spreading her form thin. She swallowed the expanse of debris before forming blades of her own. With needle tendrils, she sliced into each of the slime guards. From within, she expanded bushes' worth of spikes from their insides. Those slimes gurgled before she pulled them into her steel blue membrane, assimilating each of them.

Florence shivered, "Sheesh. It looks like Wrath also lives up to her namesake."

Wrath trembled, "I do. You've visited me, Harbinger. Finally. We may kill my species' ultimate enemy...together."

Unlike with Reason, Wrath lacked the same nonchalance before battle. She stayed aware of her surroundings, several thin feeler tendrils inspecting around her at all times. Wrath's spikes and teeth also carried a different composition, being more than simple crystals. One of the claws tapped me, and it mirrored some organic fusion of graphene and adhesives based on the hardness.

How she got graphene, I didn't know. As for the adhesives, they turned dull carbon to shimmering gold. When ready for battle, Wrath exuded danger, both majestic and deadly. I smiled at her, spreading my arms, "It's good to see you too. We'll be focusing on scouting for now, but we'll be spilling blood soon."

I sent over a telepathic burst of bloodlust, and Wrath quivered in joy. I grinned, "I can promise you that much."

Wrath receded, "Then killer of wolves, what have you visited my colony for? Plazia rests beneath every colony, and mine is no closer than the others. We have spread my domain far and wide, but not deeply. Reason or Awe would serve you better if burrowing deeply was your goal."

Her feelers groped Amara and I. Wrath shivered, "But you have visited Reason already. And you, little one-" Wrath pooled up near Amara.

Avoiding the same aggressive conversation again, I cut in, "She's with me. She's my technician."

Wrath's tendrils touched Amara's hair. Wrath uttered, "Of course she is. She holds bloodshed in her skin and blood on her hair. I love its taste, little one. You also carry the skin and flesh and bone of your leader. You serve him well for the Harbinger to indulge such gifts."

Amara leaned back, turning her palms away from Wrath, "I...I have done what I may."

Wrath shuddered, "We may one day taste each other, should you desire."

I turned to Florence, who turned to me. We both gawked at each other, each of us having a conversation with that glance. Helios rested his face on his hands, "A razor queen who wishes to mate with our eldritch technician. Ah yes, how charming."

An awkward silence passed before I spread my hands, "Alright guys, do whatever the hell you want to on your off time. We're on a mission right now, so stop all this."

Amara pushed away Wrath, who showed no signs of doing the same. Unlike Reason, Wrath stood by herself, the drones around here giving plenty of space to their queen. Even the guards kept their distance, no slime wanting to be devoured without warning.

There may be multiple kinds of devouring going on if I had to guess.

Either way, that was none of my business as I pointed down, "Take us to the bottom of the colony, and we'll take it from there. Don't worry about the burrowing."

Wrath balled herself up before firing herself away. I pulled everyone along, keeping pace with Wrath. We winded through the tunnels fast as an echo, the twists and turns passing by my eyes like a roller coaster ride. Seconds later, we rested at a much higher depth than Reason's colony depths. Enamel struts remained a rarity here, and the supporting tunnels still let us move around.

Before leaving, Wrath let one last tendril feel over Amara as the razor queen left here. Once Wrath departed, Amara mumbled under her breath, "Perhaps...perhaps not all razor queens are bad."

Florence covered his mouth under his black mask, "Oooooh."

Helios sighed before shaking his head in disgust, "I would've never have imagined, not in a thousand lifetimes, that I'd prefer going to a different world with Hod instead of you, Amara."

Helios lost tension in his arms, and they flopped on his sides, "And yet, here I am, wishing he were here instead. Their bulbous eating contests were far less disgusting than...whatever this is."

Amara cackled before hissing, "Is that jealousy I hear?"

Florence and I bust out laughing at Helios. The ice mage simmered, "Wrath's disposition may explain why she's allied with Plazia, hm? Regardless, may we please fight the world-ending horror instead of experiencing this grotesque coupling? I would much prefer the former to the latter."

I got my chuckles out before wiping away a tear with a branch of armor. Damn, I hadn't laughed that hard in forever. I sighed, "Ok, ok. Let's go get him."

