Before I could use my newfound, fancy elevator technique, insects composed of magma crawled out of the ground. These insects assimilated together, forming a blob of lava. This lava then spoke out in a familiar and ominous voice,

"You have come and with others of use. They bring a wealth of talents, ones we may turn to our own uses, soon enough."

Amara lifted her palms to the living magma, "So this is Plazia? He is less than he first appeared to be. I'm disappointed."

The magma tilted its head, "Amara, it is good to meet you. I studied you when Yawm first stole you from the prison your rulers commanded. It is from my research of your origins that I uncovered the inner machinations of Schema's system. Your research into cipheric energy flows was groundbreaking in that regard."

The magma smiled with igneous teeth of blackened stone, "So while you may be disappointed in me, know that the feeling is far from mutual."

Amara shivered before grabbing her elbow and pulling it against her side. She snapped, "How do you know so much about me? Are you so shameless in your spying?"

Plazia chided, "Spying is merely gathering information others wish to hide. My curiosity is never-ending, and so I engage in all methods of obtaining information. That pursuit sustains me, and from it, I know much of everything, spawn of the Builders. Remember that the next time you judge my surface, for I am like a book; my cover only shows but one of my many pages."

Florence spread his hands, "So, I've heard from Daniel that you're not trying to kill us. I just, you know, wanted to verify that."

Plazia opened dark, umbral eyes of igneous rock, and they bent into a raised brow,

"I aim for far more than your deaths, silver tongue. Your demise would mean little but the loss of your powers, for it is in living that your value is manifested. In life, you may help me rise above my corruption. You may offer us salvation."

He referenced all eldritch there at the end. Amara took a step back and snarled, "Salvation? You speak as Yawm did, and he tormented many. You'll find we are no fools, and if you wish to bend us to your will, we will retaliate in kind."

I listened as Plazia cackled. He reverberated from the stone all around us, "No. I manipulate only when I must. You each carry your own ideas and virtues. I will aim those virtues at a new goal, a far greater one than any of you may imagine. Follow my children, and I will offer each of you my truest form."

A piece of the ground glowed before more of his glowing insects walked out of this spot. Where rock once stood, a tunnel formed. Some of Plazia's vessels stayed behind, holding the tunnel upright. Helios found nothing wrong with the mana, and Amara couldn't sense any cipher shenanigans either. All of our senses showed nothing as well, but we prepared for the worst.

I charged dozens of singularities into my blood. Amara's hair grazed all of our surroundings where it could. Florence prepared several messages in his status for help, and Helios generated a portal. Unlike other warps, Helios dragged this one behind us. I'd never seen someone do something similar, yet he did.

I created a shell of Event Horizon around my teammates, and I generated an antigravity well ready to stop a tunnel's sudden collapse. After we set everything up, we paced down the tunnel for about a hundred yards. We reached an excavated cave. It stood twenty feet tall and forty wide, kind of a tight squeeze for all of us at that point.

Plazia-Ruhl spoke from the bowels of Svia, "I invite you forth."

On the wall farthest from us, a spearhead cleaved through dimensional space. I blinked, recognizing the dimensional slicer to be one of the Sentinels' weapons. Reaching out my hand, I readied a swarm of singularities at the entrance point. No violence came our way, so I stayed my assault for now.

He could've reached us at any point, so I noted that. He brought us here for some other reason.

The violet, cackling blade sheared space-time before a Sentinel's hands grabbed the dimensional tear. These sharpened gauntlets colored dark azure instead of the bright turquoise of most Sentinels. Many black tubes lined the hand's palms, but the fingers ended in sharpened claws, gripping into the sliced fabric.

Once pulled opened, a complete, azure Sentinel walked out of this warp. Cipheric runes coated the outer plating, and primordial mana oozed from every iota of it. That dark blue energy spawned lightning which clashed into the Sentinel's surroundings at random. The sparks dissipated against the shield of Event Horizon I made earlier.

Once past the veil, the Sentinel's primordial lightning died down. In its wake, the mana warped the space around us, bending it to the twisted Sentinel's will. This hollowed guardian sheathed its dimensional slicer onto its back, the air around it popping with volatility. It held the dimensional tear open with comfort, as I often did.

We gawked at the being, and from under its plates, a discordant thrum of cracking ebbed out. At first, I believed it was insects under its skin. Listening closer and finding absurd sums of mana, the Sentinel used furnaces underneath its armor at all times. Quite a few of them, actually. Helios gasped while stepping back, "You...how many furnaces are you using? Four? Five?"

Plazia-Ruhl raised a hand, one that showed the convoluted tubing of an Overseer's gauntlet. He grasped the large fingers into a fist,

"I am wielding several hundred, but not here. They lay throughout Svia, and they establish my domain upon this world."

Sensing the mana around him, I verified his claims. The energy coursing through the Sentinel's armor paled compared to my own, being about one-fifth of mine. He struggled with that much while his body both incinerated and healed in tandem.

For him, this was likely the limit of his mana potential. Anymore, and he'd burn away to ash. At this apex of his potential, Plazia spread out his hands, his polished Sentinel armor glistening in the magma's light behind his warp,

"I am Plazia-Ruhl, of Many Faces, and I have much to show you, Harbinger."
