“That's always the way.” The older marked lady said. “I've lost count of how many days I had off at the kitchen in the town hall, and still had to cook for the old goats.”

Several people laughed, and Ren nodded.

“How are your cooking skills now?”

“Considering I was still working there when I was kidnapped two weeks ago, they're pretty good.”

“How would you like your own cafeteria that provides affordable meals for Adventurers, and anyone that visits the county?” Ren asked her.

“I'd ask you if you like sleeping with older ladies.” She said, and several people laughed.

“I... ah... don't think you need to thank me that much, Ma'am.” Ren said, and that made them laugh more.

“You have dashed my hopes, young man!” She said and laughed. “But... once again, I'll gladly take your generous offer.”

“Good.” Ren said. “I suggest that if you need helpers, see if anyone here wants the job before asking the locals.” He smiled. “Actually, now that you're going to be living here, you're the locals, too.”

The older lady nodded.

Ren looked at the man he had met in the bakery. “I'll build an inn down the road as well, so you can get back to work.” He said. “You might not have a lot of business right away, but I hope to change that soon.”

The man nodded and hugged his wife.

“I'd like to hear what everyone else used to do, now that I've got you all here.” Ren said.

One of the marked men used to be a member of the militia for the town, and had learned various fighting tactics. He had even trained as a town guard before being kidnapped.

“I'd like to hire you right away.” Ren said. “I don't expect any trouble, but there's supposed to be guards posted at the Main House.” He smiled. “I'd also like to have people placed at strategic locations around the county.”

“Basic defensive tactics.” The man said. “I don't know if I can train any of the locals in everything I know, but...” He smiled. “I know a few tricks that can help.”

“Thank you.” Ren said. “I'll have some kind of Barracks built by tomorrow.”

“How are you... no, I don't want to know how you can do so much so quickly.” The man said. “I look forward to working for you, My Lord.”

“I'm having 60 horses delivered sometime this week, so transportation won't be a problem soon.” Ren said. “Which reminds me, again, that I need to build carts.”

Two of the women had been teachers. One had been taken with a small group of children, and ended up becoming marked. The children had been too small for the process and hadn't made it, and because the both of them had lost their students, the other teacher had come along with her friend into exile. Ren walked over to the marked woman and knelt, and she had tears in her eyes after telling the story.

Ren had felt her sorrow and had surprisingly fed from it. It tasted horrible, but he could tell as he consumed it that the woman felt better and better about it. She reached out and touched the back of Ren's hand, where the skull and spider mark was, and she touched the spot over her heart where her skull mark was.

“You're taking it for me.” She said. “How?”

“I don't know.” Ren said, and his tears matched her own. “I just know that I can carry some of your burden, and I'm going to do that.”

“My Lord... I... thank you.” The woman sobbed and Ren hugged her.

“I'm not going to lie and say that things are going to be all right from now on.” Ren said, and the woman's sobs broke apart and she chuckled.

“But that's the best lie to tell.” She said and let him out of the hug.

“It's also the most damaging.” Ren said. “What I can say is that you will get through this.” He pat her hand, stood up, and looked at the others. “We all will.”

They all nodded, and Ren felt a general sense of hope from them.

“Now, what else can you do?” Ren asked, and they all told him what they could do. He listened to their list of skills and abilities, then smiled as he realized that he had received the best and broadest skill set that anyone could have ever asked for in such a small group of people.
