I always figured I’d end up fighting for my life on the day of my wedding.

I just never thought it’d be against my grandfather slash father-in-law, or that he would beat me black and blue without mercy.

Inwardly grumbling as I limp back downstairs with my family in tow, I do my best not to scowl or glare as Husolt hovers over me like a mother hen. His meaty hands brush the dirt and dust from my cloak before straightening my shirt collar and no doubt leaving dirty fingerprints and sooty nail marks as he goes. “There’s a good lad,” he rumbles, his expression twisted with uncertain concern now that he realizes he may have gone too far. “Lookin’ sharp as ever, you are. Ah, got a little smudge on your cheek there.” A fat thumb presses down on the growing bruise he mistook for dirt and my scowl breaks free, earning me a sheepish shrug from Husolt before he continues with his unhelpful ministrations.

But, my father-in-law made plans it seems, for upon emerging from the staircase, he leads me away from his apartment where my beloved Mila awaits and down six or seven doors to Tokta’s apartment, where the taciturn Healer stands waiting in the doorway with his customary neutral expression. Behind him, his lovely wife, Khorijin, putters about the room and pretends she’s not glaring in my general direction while Tenjin awkwardly stands around with nothing to do and Tursinai basks in the communal tension. I suppose they all heard about my attempted blackmail, but in my defence, stairs are the worst and I was already sweating enough after rappelling down five stories in twenty-odd kilos of armour. I may be a crippled Martial Warrior, but I’m in pretty good shape for a regular human.

“Hello sir,” I begin, putting on my best smile for the grumpy Healer and his angry wife. “Ma’am. Tenjin. Tursinai. Sorry about the whole... insinuating you had a shameful secret thing. My future father-in-law set a very strict time limit on the retrieval, and I’m not sure I would’ve made it if I had to take the stairs.” Turning to accept a giant red pocket from Mom, I hold it out with both hands for Tenjin to take and say, “Please accept this token of thanks for being a part of my wedding ceremony.”

“No thanks is needed, my friend,” Tenjin says, even as Tokta snaps up the red pocket and tosses it back to his wife, who catches it without pausing her glare. “...But I will gratefully accept it.” Left unsaid is the ‘I suppose’, and we exchange pained expressions over shared hardships. We both know it was meant in good fun and were laughing the whole while, but everyone else is making such a big deal out of it. Mom even scolded me for being shameless, and I suppose I can see how it could get out of hand, but I could always just lie and say his dark secret is his penis is too big or something.

“Hmph,” Tokta grunts, taking me by the chin and turning my head this way and that. “Old age is making you soft,” he says, shooting a dry look at Husolt. “Hardly a scratch on him. Be a waste of effort to Heal this.”

“Come now, Tokta,” Husolt pleads, eyes darting down the hallway towards his apartment. “Don’t be playing around, not today. My girl will have my hide if I bring him back scuffed like he is, then my old wife will stomp on all over what’s left. Did my best to keep all the bruises hidden, but the lad is a tricksy one he is. Slipped past my guard and almost stepped on my toes. Had to put him down harder than I meant to, so hurry up and fix him before someone comes looking.”

Harder than he meant to. What a nice way of saying he bashed me in the face with his giant metal staff. Least I turned away in time, else he might’ve broken my nose, but it cost me a few loose teeth which will need fixing. Thankfully, Tokta is only teasing and quickly takes care of my injuries, though I notice he leaves behind the bruised ribs from when Husolt jabbed me in the chest and the throbbing knee I got from banging against the wall on my way down the building. This stupid golden armour is more ornamental than serviceable, which wouldn’t be an issue if it was Runic like the Legate’s, but no, mine is just plain vanilla steel gilded with a gold alloy. Not even pure gold, though it makes sense, since pure gold would dent real easy.

Then again, Runic Armour wouldn’t even work on me, as evidenced by my experiments with Taduk’s Runic shields, so I suppose kitting me out in Runic gear would’ve been a waste of money.

After handing over another red pocket to Tokta as thanks for his help, I make my way over to Akanai’s with an exaggerated limp, just so I can see Husolt sweat a bit more. I’m not really angry, just a little exasperated and annoyed that he couldn’t go a little easier on me, since there was absolutely no way I could’ve gotten the token in time without cheating. Also, that riddle wasn’t fair, how am I supposed to pick which of my pets live and which ones die? It’s impossible to give a good answer, and he didn’t even give me enough information. Like, why couldn’t my pets just jump off the crumbling ledge? The wildcats in particular can jump for impressive heights and distances, and the bunnies are no slouches either, not to mention the fact that my bears can climb better than most monkeys so they shouldn’t be in too much danger from crumbling cliffs.

Now I’m worried. Should I teach my pets to hold onto ropes with their mouths? Better yet, maybe I can teach them to climb a rope, though I have no idea if bunbuns can do that. It’d be best if I taught them all how to Cloud-Step, but even I don’t know how, so that’s a bust, unless little Blackjack learns on his own and teaches the rest of his fellow floofs...

The hypotheticals melt away as we arrive outside the door to Akanai’s apartment, with the large, red silk scarf tied in a fat knot hanging in front of it. Clearing his throat, Husolt intones, “Falling Rain of the People, I, Husolt, invite you into my home, so that you might become a part of my family.” With that said, he tugs the knotted scarf down and drapes it around my neck before opening the door and heading in first. Customs says I bow and follow inside, but all of a sudden, I find my mind blank and legs locked in place.

This is my wedding. Once I walk through the doors, I’m technically married. The rest is just a formality, because this right here is the ceremony. There’s no turning back after this, no coming back from a mistake, so it’s do or die. Quite literally in fact, because if down the line, Mila discovers she’s made a huge mistake and leaves me, there’s a very good chance Husolt or Akanai will murder me in a fit of pique. I don’t think I’d even blame them for it either, because if Mila ever left me, it would be because I screwed up big time, which isn’t all that hard to imagine considering I’ve got another wedding on the calendar less than months from now, as well as a long list of hang-up, neuroses, physical, deficiencies, metaphysical ailments, and deep, dark secrets which I hope to never reveal.

Am I wrong to marry Mila without revealing who I really am? I’m not even sure how I would explain it, or what I would do if word were to spread. Would I be burned as a witch? Or taken away to study? Would the Brotherhood want to know more, or would they see me as some sort of karmic aberration or something? What about my parents? How would they feel about it? I thought about this and more during this last week, and while I could twist the facts all I want, but at the end of it all, there were no certain answers. There are plenty of reasons to turn around and walk away right now, but only one to move forward.

I love Mila, and I am not strong enough to go through life without her by my side.

Is it selfish? Probably, but I can’t help it. I want to be happy, even if I’m not sure if I really deserve it.

My feet carry me through the doorway and Mila is all I can I see, not because she’s right in front of me, but because my mind will not register anything or anyone else. There she sits with her feet together and hands resting over her knees. Prominently displayed on her fourth finger is the wedding band I gave her last week, nestled in her dainty but formidable fists which are balled up to keep from fidgeting with her long, clingy dress. A red silk affair embroidered with golden clouds and phoenixes, the dress is a sleeveless, high-necked affair that hugs her body tight all the way down until flaring out around her ankles. Golden phoenix bangles adorn her wrists, and a sheer silk stole is draped neatly around her bared shoulders, covering her pale, freckled skin without obscuring it in any way, shape or form. Her lovely, lustrous hair hangs down in fiery ringlets and is held in place by an ornate red and gold tiara, from which hangs a veil of stringed beads of red and gold which hides her lovely face. Despite this, I can still imagine the surly scowl she’s directing at her hang-dog father who’s taking his seat, no doubt knowing he’s being silently berated for taking so long, and my cheeks feel ready to burst from my unrestrained smile.

There sits my beloved wife, Mila.

Prompted by Mom’s Sending, I finally remember what I’m supposed to do next, except my tongue feels ten times too large to speak. Looking around the room like a lost puppy, I finally take in the rest of the beautiful decorations, not to mention the veritable horde of dressed animals lingering about, including sweet Mama Bun thumping at my feet, looking oh-so-adorable with her fake-flower headband perched atop her nubby horns. It had to be fake because she kept eating the flowers, but this is not the time or place to cuddle my floofs as there are things to be done. “With the Heavens as my witness,” I begin, removing the decorative silk knot from around my neck and presenting it to Mila with a bow, “I, Falling Rain, ask Sumila to accept my love and devotion. Take this string so that our fates may be tied as husband and wife, from this breath, until my last.”

Mila’s hands reach for the knot before I’m even done asking, her palms under mine as she stands with me. “I, Sumila of the People,” she begins, and I can almost make out her bright, burning eyes from behind the beads, “Accept Falling Rain as my Husband, from this breath until my last.”

A staff strikes the ground and I finally notice Monk Happy, beaming as he stands off to one side in full Brotherhood regalia, with bright yellow and orange monk robes as well as a bronze, mohawked headpiece. “This monk bears witness to this union on behalf of the Heavens,” he begins, in the soft cadence of ritualized speech. “Let it be known that from this day forward, Falling Rain and Sumila of the People, are now husband and wife. May the Heavens bless their union and...”

While Monk Happy waxes on about love and Balance, Mom and Akanai are busy tying me and Mila together, binding our wrists in silk with the ornate knot suspended between us. It’s not really all that restrictive, since we can easily stand side by side and even move around separately if need be, but we can’t go more than a meter apart. Once this is done, Husolt makes a big show of removing Mila’s chair, and places two other silk-laden decorated chairs for Mom and Dad to sit on. With all four parents seated in a row, Mila and I move on to the next part, which is making tea for everyone to drink. The water is already boiled and being kept warm on the stove, so we carry it together to the waiting tea set and use my right and her left hand to set everything up. All the while, I can’t help peeking behind the beads to look at her beautiful smile, and she blushes beneath the intense scrutiny. Beautiful as she is each and every day, she looks especially stunning this morning with her hair and make-up done, and I find myself lamenting the loss of my Natal Palace because it means I won’t be able to keep this memory untarnished for all time.

I’ll just have to remember it the good old fashioned way, which is fine by me, since it means I get to look at her more.

Eventually, amidst much fumbling, giggling, and hand holding, we finally finish going through all the complicated steps of pouring water on leaves, of which there are far more than needed. It’s all a bunch of ceremonial flourishes which are supposed to enhance the tea’s flavour, but I am a heathen who puts butter and sugar in my tea, so I’m not really the target tea audience. Filling two porcelain cups with excessively fancy tea, we bring them over atop porcelain plates to stand in front of our parents, and Monk Happy exclaims, “One cup for the Heavens, and one for the Earth, both of which sustain our lives within this world.” Mila and I drink the tea, and bow three times towards the open window before returning for new cups of freshly poured tea. These ones go to the father of the bride, then next the mother, followed by Song, my parents, and lastly, Alsantset and Charok. Technically, we’re supposed to present tea to my grandparents as well, but seeing how my grandparents are Mila’s parents, I’m guessing they decided to omit this step.

