This was the crux of Nian Zu’s ‘controversial’ proposal, to bring in condemned criminals and slaves to help bolster the Imperial Army’s numbers. He understands the beauty of ranged warfare, and knows that bows and crossbows firing over the lines of defending soldiers add so much more killing potential. Problem is, Nian Zu wasn’t kidding when he said it’d be controversial. Even with the Legate hammering it through and paying a quarter of the costs out of pocket, there was a lot of pushback on the issue and not all of it was ridiculous as I expected. Civilians scare more easily than Martial Warriors, meaning troops and officers are needed to keep them in line, because in the heat of battle, hard-pressed soldiers won’t stop to check whether their fleeing comrade is a Martial Warrior before panicking and setting off a chain rout. There’s a whole host of other problems too, including Tainted civilians infecting the regular troops and bringing down morale, as well as logistical issues like the fact that vanilla humans can’t march seventy-five kilometres a day like Martial Warriors can. Twenty kilometres while carrying a full load is about all you can ask for from professionally trained civilians, but it’s not as simple as giving them wagons. You can’t have slaves and criminals riding in comfort while hard-working soldiers slog through the mud, so there’s really no good solution.

To fix this, I’ve been recruiting and training my own private army of civilian crossbowmen who are meant to fight from fortified positions only. I don’t have a military rank anymore, which means I technically shouldn’t be raising troops, but I found a nifty little loophole. Technically, soldiers, by definition, are Martial Warriors, and regular civilians bearing arms are just militia, and there are no laws against training a local militia, nor are there limitations to equipping them, because who cares about civilians with weapons? I’ve had Bulat and Jorani running things on that front, and thus far, their efforts have been constrained to my beet farms, which amounts to two-thousand fighting aged males who have enough training to load and loose crossbows with only minimal risk of killing friendlies. Not the best results for six weeks of work, but with a little luck and a lot of War Bond money, I’ll be able to expand my civilian militia efforts greatly, with only minimal effort.

Zian’s quiet cough brings me out of my thoughts and back to the present, just in time to see Ral emerge victorious from the speed-eating competition and ask for more hard-tack. Laughing along with the crowd, I turn to my greatest rival-turned-friend and raise an eyebrow in question, wondering what it could be that he needs to get off his chest. “My mother would like to know,” Zian hesitantly Sends, which brings up all sorts of wrong signals, “If you have any more unstamped War Bonds, and if they’re for sale.”

Nice. The more business-savvy people who see the value in War Bonds, the more relieved I am, because I really need this to work. It’s not printing money, but it’s the next best thing, and my next plans will need a hell of a lot more capital than I can raise on my own. “I can give you nine more, but that’s all, because I’ll be auctioning them in batches of ten and can’t be seen favouring any one person by giving them more. What you could do, however, is...”

After much greeting, drinking, laughing, and cavorting, the fun and games portion of the ceremony is finally over and done with as Mila and I find ourselves swamped by well-wishers arriving to congratulate us on our marriage. It’s not just my friends, but Mila’s as well, including a whole bunch of Sentinels I recognize, but am not so close with. The soldiers of my retinue are also here, including the Sentinels who were there with me in Sinuji. Charok’s friends Agadei, Kiril, Hadai, and Tuya all greet me with a clap on the shoulder, while Tomor and Mugi hug me tight. Altan does too, but only a brief hug, as he’s still a little spooked from the homo-erotically charged Spectre Cleansing which took place in Sinuji. Maral and Gansun have big smiles for Mila and curt nods for me, while Orgaal is already reeking of drink after getting a jump start on the festivities. Jigari and Abjiya are here too, looking closer than usual, and I can’t help but think love is in the air.

Best of all, Yan, Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo, and the rest of my loved ones have arrived, including Taduk and Grandpa Du who look equally sulky at not being included in the ceremony. By this point, I have shared so many drinks, I can barely stand straight, but I still hoist a cup to the two grumps as thanks, which does plenty to alleviate their scowls and leaves my wife and I free to greet my future wives. Already holding Mila’s hand, I pull Lin-Lin close so she can hug my waist and take Yan’s hand before realizing I have nothing to offer Luo-Luo, but Mila and Yan catch on and bring her into the circle. “Listen,” I begin, trying my best not to slur during such a dignified moment. “Today is my wedding with Mila. It’s too late for her, she’s my wife and I’ll never let her leave.” My blushing bride elbows me in the ribs hard enough to feel it through the thick armour, which reminds me I need to be careful later tonight. “It’s not too late for the rest of you though.”

“Not this again.” Rolling her eyes, Yan shakes her head and says, “I don’t envy you this job, Mila. You’ll have to teach him how to be a proper husband all by yourself.”

“Don’t you dare abandon me in this time of need.” Even though I can’t see her face, I can tell she’s scowling underneath the beads, with no hint of a smile at all. She’s serious about this, dead serious, even though Yan is clearly teasing. “I can’t handle him on my own. Mother knows what sort of trouble he’ll get into without all of us to keep him in line.”

The girls all share a laugh and I thank my lucky stars for finding so many lovely and loving women, while still feeling a little conflicted about having a harem. I really, really, really want one, but it’s still scary now that it’s almost here, because I love all of them, and I want the best for my wives, but the best would be one man wholly devoted to keeping them happy, which is at odds with my dream of a harem. Complicated stuff, and I have no idea how to get around it, but once again, I go with my selfish desires and don’t try to convince any of them to leave anymore.

Bidding Yan, Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo farewell, I watch them collect all my pets away, including a wide-eyed Mama Bun struggling to free herself from Lin-Lin’s grasp, but my little wifey is relentless. Poor Mama Bun, she just wants to spend all her time with me, but today is Mila’s day, and I must reserve all my love and affection for her. Tearing my eyes away from Mama Bun, I bring my beautiful bride over to board our rickshaw, which is hitched to Mafu and Atir who look absolutely darling in their adorable silken outfits. With every eye upon us, it’s impossible to steal a kiss or cuddle, but at least I can freely embrace her from the side as we stand and wave to the crowd. “Hello, beautiful wife,” I say, whispering into her ear as we set off to distribute food and red pockets throughout the city. “Sorry about using our wedding to my political benefit. This is supposed to be your big day and all, but you’re going to hear me talk about War Bonds a lot today, because the first auction will be in three days when the Master of Coin’s seal arrives, and I want everyone to be ready and excited.”

“You apologize far too much, Husband,” Mila replies, and I can sense the love and reproach intermingling in her use of the appellation. “This is our big day, and if this benefits you, then I am supportive of it, because what benefits you, benefits me. You and I are a household now, our own little separate family.” Never before have I hated this custom of absolutely no shows of public affection, because it is all I can do to keep from kissing Mila’s cherry-red lips. “Besides,” she adds with a distracted look in her eyes, hopefully struggling with the same pressing issues as me, “We had our ceremony already. We are husband and wife now, and nothing else matters.” Her voice grows husky as she leans into my embrace and Sends, “Now I’m just waiting for tonight. I’m certain I’ve solved my... issue, and you should be in no danger at all.”

Arousing as this sentiment is, I’m also mildly terrified too, which for some strange reason, only arouses me even more. Well, not so strange when you think about, because the signs were all there from the start. I’ve always had a bit of a sadistic streak, but one can’t overlook my blatant masochist tendencies, so a restrained wife who might possibly injure me just checks all my boxes. Heh. Wife. It still feels weird to call myself someone’s husband, but it’s true.

I, Falling Rain, am a happily married sadistic masochist, with a beautiful, loving wife, who hopefully will not physically cripple me on our wedding night.

Chapter Meme
