And then the ceremony is over. That’s it. No vows, no documents, no kiss, nothing. Weddings amongst the People are not exactly showy affairs, since they’re for immediate family only, so all that’s left is to celebrate and make merry over this most joyous of affairs. Finally free of formal constraints, I part Mila’s beaded veil with both hands and take in her beautiful smile, wishing I could drag her away for a taste of her lips. That would be a big no-no amongst the People though, so I settle for a stroke of her cheek, and am rewarded with the sweetest, most adorable nuzzle I have ever seen. “Oh wow,” I say, not needing to fake my overenthusiastic tone. “Did I luck out or what? I got me a beautiful wife, I did, and strong, confident, and valiant to boot.”

“And me, a handsome, heroic husband,” Mila shoots back, clutching my lapel in a possessive manner. “A clever, loving man who best stop his dumb rabbit from chewing on his wife’s wedding dress.” Flushing as she struggles to keep George at bay, she growls, “I can’t bend over or crouch while wearing this cursed thing, not without worrying it’ll rip.”

Laughing a little too hard at her plight, I rescue her dress from George’s rabid attempts to devour the embroidery and stuff a dandelion in his mouth instead, which of course brings the other rabbits rushing for their fair share. Ignoring their horned headbutts clinking off my greaves, I scatter handfuls of treats all around me without taking my eyes off Mila. “Well, you look incredible.”

“You do too, though your armour is a little too shiny for my tastes.” With a smile like hers, she could say I was hideously under-dressed and I’d have no argument to give, but that’s all the time we have to ourselves before our parents come over for hearty hugs, cheery congratulations, and light-hearted stories about the both our childhoods and the silly, stupid things we got into. Even though it’s not even nine in the morning, we had to start this early on account of having to greet two-thousand plus guests before dinner, so Charok breaks out the alcohol and we all hoist a small cup, even Happy who I figured would abstain on account of being a monk.

A thought that returns after an hour or so of trading tales, and I bring Mila over to speak with the perpetually smiling monk. “Hello, good monk. Hi Kukku.” Without the Abbot around to direct my attentions, I’ve never been able to see through the Silkie Rooster’s Concealment a second time, but the silly bird is easily tricked. Upon hearing me greet him, he drops his Concealment which he thinks is no longer of use and takes shelter behind the monk, poking his white, floof-feathered, eyelinered face out to peer at me in alarmed concern. Though I feel kind of bad for spooking the poor guy, my guilt is offset by how adorable Kukku looks as the fledgling Laughing Birds all flock over to nestle atop his head.

Faced with Monk Happy’s disapproving frown, I bow my head to show contrition. “Thank you for officiating,” I say, not sure if the term applies, but no one looks at me funny and Happy bows his head back in acceptance. “Though I am a little confused. I didn’t think the Brotherhood would support my marriage, on account of the whole ‘Three Desires’ thing.”

Not put off by my clumsy wording, Monk Happy presses his palms together and smiles, which gives him an almost ageless look, neither young nor old, but untouched by time. “Unlike the Abbot, this monk did not believe inducting you into the order against your wishes was the right move. The Brotherhood’s precepts are not a yoke to slip about the necks of the ignorant, but a distant landmark for the willing to seek out. What’s more, the first of the Three Desires speaks against the cravings for sensual pleasures, but this does not mean the Brotherhood is set against love and marriage, for love is a beautiful thing. What we preach against is the wanton indulgence in lust and carnality, amongst other things, which this monk will happily go into if you so desire.” His smile darkening ever so slightly, Monk Happy shakes his head and adds, “Unfortunately, this monk fears the Brotherhood is not as united as it once was. Between the dissenting factions, the Abbot’s absence, and only two of five Wisdoms available to hold things together, my Brothers lack much needed guidance and leadership to steer them through these tumultuous times.”

...Right, right, because I’m one of those Wisdoms. Mahakala was another, and the third one, Jorani’s Old Healer Vyakhya, defected to the Defiled. Bad times all around. “Still no word from the Abbot or the others?” I ask, while keeping a close eye on Mila’s reaction. Like it or not, Guan Suo is still probably her father by blood, and people do strange things when family is involved.

Thankfully, my beautiful bride seems more concerned with straightening her tiara and veil of beads, but I can tell she’s keeping an ear on the conversation. Shaking his head, Monk Happy’s smile turns wry. “Unfortunately not. Battles between Divinities are not the same as battles between Peak Experts, for they stand within a half-step of God-hood itself. Their clashes transcend the physical world, and can last for months without end, but there is little more this monk can add. All we can do is wait and pray the Abbot and his allies return victorious.”

Hard to imagine a duel lasting several days, much less weeks, and it’s been four months since that fateful day in Sinuji when the Abbot, GangShu, and Guan Suo left to square off against Vyakhya, Mole-Rat Lady, and Big Poppa Piggy. I have to wonder why no other Divinities have seen fit to reinforce them, but everyone I’ve asked either doesn’t know anything, or they won’t say, my parents and the Legate included. It can’t just be the Treaty, because I have to imagine that all out conflict would render it null and void, but for some reason, there’s been no word of other Divinities lending aid, whether it’s Imperial Beardies, Mama Gam, or even Ancestral Beasts of the People, who I imagine exist somewhere, else Mom would’ve never been so confident about killing Zhu Changzui for me.

Honestly, just thinking about that offer makes me feel warm and fuzzy inside. I wonder what would’ve happened if I took her up on it? Nothing good, probably, since the Big Pig has got his all-consuming goop, Anathema, in his back pocket.

Despite my soaring spirits over my marriage to Mila, it is in my nature to dwell on the worst, and it follows me downstairs as I bring my blushing bride to share a drink with my friends and begin the bridal games. Ping Ping greets us warmly with her lovely floral wreath, which sweet George fixates on and tries to eat, but the big girl is savvy enough to keep the dumb bunny from devouring her prized hat, and even makes a game of teasing him by letting him climb up her beak and get real close before Deflecting him away.

I bet she played these sorts of games with the red-pandas too. It might be a little callous and crass, but I hope someone gifts me with a red-panda, even if it’s meant as a veiled insult towards Mila. I could forgive a lot for one of those cute little ring-tailed sweethearts, and a lot more for two.

Holding my hands up to stop my friends in their place, I say, “Before we begin, there are a few small matters which must be addressed, so that we may continue forward with this most joyous of days with nothing to hold us back.” Even Mila doesn’t know what I mean to do here, but I flash her a reassuring smile before pointing at Fung. “I believe someone needs to come out and greet his Senior Martial Brother-in-Law.”

“Bah!” Feigning outrage amidst the amused chuckles, Fung hefts a gourd of rice wine and says, “Never. I refuse this toast and drink a forfeit!”

“Good!” Clapping as Fung downs the bottle, we all laugh and cheer at his reddened cheeks until I hold my hands up for silence once more. “The next forfeit I must demand goes to Huu.” On cue, Fung slaps a full gourd against Huu’s chest and holds it there until the big guy takes it, his expression a mixture between anger and confusion. “I understand and accept that you’ve been busy these past months, my friend, but you forgot that your comrades are here to help share your burdens.” Pausing to make sure he knows I’m being sincere, I grin and shout, “So, for forgetting you have friends to lean on, you must drink!”

I can see the hesitance in his eyes, but I also know Ghurda is now telling him his wine gourd was watered down. I understand being wary about lowering his inhibitions, but I want my friend and brother to know that he is and always will be a part of our group, no matter how hard he might try to escape. Under the crowd’s urging, and his mother’s assurances, Big Huu finally empties the gourd into his gullet and we all laugh and cheer before I hand out a few more forfeits, which is mostly just an excuse to get my friends drunk. Zian, BoShui, Dastan, Wu Gam, Ravil, Bulat, Jorani, Pran, Saluk, Viyan, Birca, Silva, Jochi, Argat, Tenjin, Tursinai, and everyone else who came out to join my ceremonial marriage guards, they all drink forfeits followed by a shared cup with me and Mila, leaving us all well and drunk before lunch time.

And me without a proper breakfast, just a half-dozen reheated meat buns scarfed down before getting dressed...

In between doling out forfeits and playing silly games (which usually result in more forfeits and drinking), I make time to indulge my inner defeatist. While Ral, Wu Gam, Pran, Saluk, and a few other brave souls square off in a hard-tack speed eating competition, I clap Zian on the shoulder and pull him close during this rare moment of distraction. “Glad you could make it back in time for the ceremony. How’s Sinuji look these days?”

Though expecting the question, Zian’s smile still falters. “Still in shambles,” he quietly admits. “The Defiled are relentless in their attempts to finish what they started and constantly interfere with our attempts to rebuild, but the Legate is loath to commit more Martial Warriors to an unfortified position now that Defiled cavalry have taken the field.” Switching to Sending, he adds, “It looks like they’re probing our defences and searching for the best place to punch through. Every week or two, a sizable warband will make an appearance along the front lines, but they no longer fight to death and will retreat when all seems lost. Worst part is, they bring no Demons with them and the ones that are born on the battlefield retreat right away. If this keeps up, my provisional status will remain in place until I run out of time to prove myself strong enough to kill a Demon.”

“If that’s the biggest problem we have at year’s end, then I’d say that’s worth celebrating.”

“You make a good point,” Zian says out loud, before Sending, “Colonel General Nian Zu thinks they’re preparing for another big attack, and I don’t see any reason to disagree. Problem is, we don’t know where, though Sinuji is likely due to its central location, weak defences, and the knowledge that there will not be a second fire-trap to even the odds.”

Damn it. This is too soon. “I may have something in the works, but I still need time to test the product, iron out the details, train workers, purchase materials, arrange supply lines and all that.” Zian’s curiosity is evident, but he refrains from asking questions and simply nods, trusting that I will do what I can. Truth is, there’s not much either of us can do to enact change on a large scale, because despite our lofty statuses, we’re still small fish when it comes to the war. “How’s the Colonel General’s pet project coming along?”

“...poorly at Sinuji,” Zian replies, shaking his head, “but BoShui has found great success further north in DangDon. The irregulars fare better with walls to stand upon, but they’re utterly useless once the cavalry reach them.”

The irregulars. A nice name to call a cadre of condemned criminals drafted into war, but Nian Zu was adamant we not risk the lives of good Imperial citizens on the battlefield. “Of course they’re useless,” I mutter, knowing Mila is keeping quiet just to be polite. “They’re not Martial Warriors, just regular people armed with spears and crossbows. They need to be better protected.”

Zian nods, followed by a shrug. “I’ve done my best to keep them safe, but there is only so much I can do while also ensuring they hold the line and don’t fill my soldiers’ backs full of bolts. Then it becomes especially difficult once the Defiled mark the irregulars as both easy target and dangerous threat.”

That’s why volunteers would have been better, because then you’d only get the bravest and most patriotic candidates amongst the civilians, but Nian Zu refused to listen to my advice. “Well, they’ll work better here in the Citadel,” I say, picturing it in my head. There’s the outer wall, an unobstructed plaza, then a line of buildings that form the inner wall, which is not only higher than the outer wall, but also close enough for my repeating crossbows to unload on attackers without risk of friendly fire.

And with luck, maybe they’ll have more support, though that’s still up in the air.

