“Leave the most dangerous areas to my group of Soldiers, Belgrade. We will not retreat. And we…we will do our duty.”
There was nothing more to be said. Pawn was a Worker, and he commanded Soldiers. They had been created to fight, to protect the Hive, as had Belgrade. And now Pawn understood something else as well. If he did not fight, Belgrade might die. Or more Soldiers and Workers might die. It wasn’t a choice where his Soldiers would die or not die if Pawn refused to fight. If he did not fight with them, Antinium would die. If he did fight, Antinium would still die. But perhaps if his Soldiers fought, less Antinium would die.
There was no good outcome. But there was only one choice that Pawn could take. And Belgrade saw it. He nodded. The shaking had stopped. Slowly, the [Tactician] got to his feet and placed his hand on Pawn’s shoulder as the other Antinium had done for him.
“I must rest if I am to fight at peak efficiency. Pawn, you must promise me to stay behind your Soldiers. If you die…I would not know how to speak to Erin.”
“I know.”
Belgrade left the room. Pawn remained. He clenched his fist. Now he had no other choice. Not that he’d ever really had another option. He turned to go, to seek out Erin despite the late hour, when someone called out his name. Pawn turned, and saw another Antinium staring at him across the room.
“You are the Individual designated as Pawn, are you not?”
The other Antinium was not a part of Pawn’s Hive. He could not be. No Antinium looked like him, not even Klbkch. This Antinium was as tall as a Soldier, and had the same build, but he had only two arms, and he carried a mace and shield at his side.
And he was wearing armor. It shone in the light, and in the eyes of the Workers who stared at him. Tersk, the Prognugator of the Armored Antinium was an armored giant, and he had a helmet which protected his head, which had no antennae.
“Prognugator Tersk.”
Pawn bowed his head as Tersk strode forwards. Tersk nodded in reply. Pawn had not spoken to any of the special Antinium who had come to visit the Hive, although the others, Belgrade, Anand, Bird, and Garry had all had strange interviews with the other Prognugators.
“How may I help you, Prognugator Tersk?”
“I wish to speak with you, Individual Pawn. I had wished to make your acquaintance when I heard of your existence a few days ago, but I have not seen you about until now.”
“Ah. I have been…busy.”
Tersk nodded.
“Yes. I understand you command a detachment of Soldiers. Tell me, Individual Pawn. How do you feel they would match up against a similar unit of Soldiers from my Hive?”
It was a military question, a question of tactics and analysis. Pawn stared at Tersk blankly and shrugged.
“I don’t know.”
The armored Prognugator paused. He seemed surprised by Pawn’s response.
“You don’t know? But you have levels in [Tactician].”
“Only a few. I have not fought, Prognugator Tersk. And I do not know the capabilities of your Soldiers.”
“Ah. I understand. I will signal my Soldiers to approach.”
Tersk turned his head and to Pawn’s surprise, took his mace and struck his shield with it, making a dull metallic beat that sounded like some sort of signal. And in less than a second, two Soldiers appeared, striding into the room and halting behind Tersk.
Why hadn’t he used Klbkch and Ksmvr’s inaudible way of signaling Antinium, like the Queen? Pawn’s eyes went to Tersk’s helmeted head. Oh. He didn’t have antennae.
“Here are two examples of my Hive for you, Pawn.”
Tersk indicated the two Soldiers, and Pawn noted that these Soldiers had a greatsword and a spear respectively. They stood completely still, staring ahead like Pawn’s Soldiers.
“We are the Armored Antinium, the sole Hive to use steel and metal to reinforce our bodies. We fight with weapons because they are more efficient, and allow for greater survivability of each individual in combat. We fight in formation, and are adept at battle above and below-ground. Now that you have analyzed these two Soldiers, tell me, what chance would your special unit have against them?”
“Well, there are two of them and I have over two hundred Soldiers under my command. I think we would win.”
Pawn’s reply made Tersk pause again.
“I was referring to an engagement of equal numbers.”
“Oh. In that case I don’t know.”
Pawn stared at Tersk, almost daring the Prognugator to ask another question as Tersk paused. He didn’t know why he was feeling hostile towards Tersk. Maybe it was because Tersk wasn’t fighting and Belgrade had been. Even Klbkch was leading the Antinium, when he wasn’t above-ground. But what had Tersk done for Pawn? According to Garry, all he did was wander around and ask questions. He had armor and a mace. He could be fighting!
“I understand your assessment capabilities are somewhat limited, Individual Pawn. I ask these questions to ascertain how your Hive’s capabilities match my own. It is a matter of strategic importance.”
“I have not heard of your Hive, Prognugator Tersk. But I am sure it is a capable one. However, I have never seen another Hive besides my own or other Antinium until recently.”
“Yes. Contact between the Hives is limited. That is a situation I feel must be rectified if we are to combine efforts.”
Tersk nodded repeatedly. He seemed so serious. Pawn felt a bit bad for being deliberately obtuse. But then Tersk turned to Pawn and began asking more questions.
“What is your class? What do you do besides lead Soldiers, Individual Pawn?”
Why did he keep calling Pawn that? The minute tolerance Pawn had felt evaporated. He answered shortly.
“I am an [Acolyte]. I pray.”
“An [Acolyte]?”
“Yes. Would you like me to repeat myself?”
Tersk paused, and his mandibles clicked together inside his helmet.
“I am unfamiliar with this class. I take it that it is unusual?”
“Yes.”
Perhaps unique. Why was Tersk asking all these questions? Pawn…didn’t feel like talking at this moment. Even to a Prognugator. It was an insidious, rebellious thought, he knew, but Tersk wasn’t his Prognugator. And Pawn hadn’t cared for Ksmvr, his former Prognugator, either. Why did he have to obey anyone, for that matter? Why did he have to obey Klbkch?
Oh. Right. He had swords. And Tersk had a mace. And two large armored Soldiers following him. Pawn grudgingly continued to talk rather than walk away.
“And what is prayer?”
“It is believing in something. It is believing, and having faith that something is true.”
Tersk waited, but that was the only answer Pawn was going to give him. The Worker crossed his arms, and Tersk noted that.
“Ah. And is this prayer activity enjoyable?”
“Not really. Not all the time.”
Tersk paused.
“It is helpful in some way?”
“Sometimes.”
There was no way of knowing. Pawn had prayed the day Soldiers lay dying, clinging to life after trying to kill themselves. Had more survived because he had prayed while trying to keep them alive? Did a prayer do anything? Pawn asked those questions every day, but he still prayed. He prayed that there was a meaning to prayer itself.
“I see. In that case, perhaps you will instruct me in the method of this prayer activity at a later date. It sounds intriguing.”
That surprised Pawn.
“Why? I doubt it would be useful to you, Tersk.”
Tersk nodded, looking thoughtful.
“The utility of this activity does not concern me, so much as the value of entertainment derived from it. You see, the Prognugator class is meant to oversee, to learn. However, one of the failings of my station is the nature of boredom.”
“You get bored?”
Tersk paused, and seemed to grow a bit guarded.
“At times. I serve my Queen best when my mind is alert. To that end, I require mental stimulation. It is a careful balance of factors that contributes to my most efficacious state. But another question. You are assigned to combat the monsters attacking from Liscor’s dungeon tomorrow.”
“Yes I am.”
“How do you believe your detachment of Soldiers will fare—”
“No clue.”
The two Antinium stood in silence for a minute. Tersk stared at Pawn.
“Do you not wish to tell me your evaluation, Individual Pawn? If so, I must ask why—”
That was it. Pawn raised his voice slightly.
“I don’t know. I told you, I cannot make such judgments.”
“But surely, based on your previous experience—”
“I have never fought monsters from the dungeon.”
The Armored Antinium stopped.
“Oh. But surely you are aware of the dangers of the dungeon?”
“Of course I know. But I have never been assigned there myself.”
Tersk paused.
“Ah.”
How could Pawn not know? He knew Workers were assigned to construct defenses, shore up and fortify tunnels, all while Soldiers fought and died. He knew how many died each day. He could see the empty spot in the barracks. But he had never been there, never really thought about the cost. They were all Antinium, and they died for the Hive. That was all. It hadn’t really mattered so long as the Hive was fine, in Pawn’s mind.
Until now.
Tersk looked at Pawn, calculating, and then turned his head to look around the chess room.
“I understand the effort of this room is to create more Individuals like Belgrade and Anand. That is a logical way of thinking. The monsters that attack from Liscor’s dungeon are of a considerable threat, which surprised me given my understanding of this Hive’s…capabilities.”
“Did you fight on the front lines?”
Tersk shook his head.
“I did not. My safety is important to my Hive and I would not risk myself. However, Revalantor Pivr did participate in battle and was wounded. Three of the five warriors accompanying him were slain, and the heavy-combat variant he brought was heavily damaged in the fighting. He underestimated the monsters your Hive fights against.”
For some reason, that really cheered Pawn up. He didn’t like the buzzing Revalantor of the Flying Antinium, and suspected no one else did either. The thought that Pivr and his elite warriors couldn’t do better than Soldiers from Pawn’s Hive was…well, it wasn’t a bad feeling.
“Revalantor Pivr’s failure is instructional for us all.”
Tersk nodded.
“Yes. I believe he is somewhat of a failure of the Prognugator class. Moreover, I would argue that he does not deserve the title of Revalantor either. He does not command the same presence as Revalantor Klbkch, nor does he possess half as much experience in battle as Klbkch the Slayer.”
He spoke about Klbkch almost reverentially. Pawn tilted his head.
“You know of Klbkch?”
“Revalantor Klbkch? Of course. I was instructed to learn from the examples of my predecessors, and Klbkch the Slayer’s exploits are notable within my own Hive’s history. According to my Queen, Klbkch is the most stable and trustworthy of the three remaining Centenium.”
Curious. Pawn only knew fragments about the Centenium, and Klbkch hadn’t told him more than a few things. Like how all the current Antinium were based on the form of Galuc, the Builder. He realized Tersk might know more and pressed the Prognugator.
“What do you know of Prognugators, Tersk?”
The Armored Antinium tapped a hand on his armor, making a ringing sound as metal struck metal.
“I am familiar with my duties, and that my creation was an arduous task for my Queen. Prognugators require too many resources to justify the cost at the moment, hence my desire to remain alive to serve my Hive. However, I am aware this was not always the case.”
“Really?”
Tersk nodded.
“Before we came across the ocean, it was apparently a common practice to appoint multiple Prognugators per each Hive. As many as thirty in some cases, or so my Queen has told me.”
“Thirty?”
“Apparently. This was a time when we remained on Rhir. But my Queen has not spoken on that subject, and I am afraid that Revalantor Klbkch or Prognugator Xrn would know more than I. Ah, I had one more question for you, Individual Pawn.”
“What is it?”
This time Tersk visibly hesitated before he spoke.
“I have witnessed the Soldiers under your command. I noticed the markings on them, the paint markings. They are…striking. I wonder if such paints would allow for greater visual recognition on the battlefield. However, I do not understand why each Soldier is painted differently. Please explain that aspect to me, Individual Pawn.”
“They are important because they define the Soldiers, Tersk.”
The Armored Antinium waited.
“Only that? I thought there would be some greater meaning to the paint.”
Pawn nodded.
“That is everything. That is what makes the Antinium…Individual.”
“No. That is not what I understand Individuals to be. If paint were all that it took to create an Individual, why not paint every Antinium?”
“Because they need to do it themselves. It is a choice, Tersk. The Soldiers under my command chose their markings, chose to be Individual. That is what makes the paint so special.”
Tersk folded his arms, sounding testy as he replied.
“I do not understand. That seems illogical. Soldiers should allow themselves to be painted if it means they will become Individual and better serve the Hive.”
He really didn’t understand. Pawn felt a hot bubble of anger bubbling up inside him. He had places to be! He’d spoken with Tersk so long, he was sure Erin was probably asleep by the time it would take to reach her. He stared at Tersk, unmarked by battle, striding around asking questions not understanding anything.
“You remind me of a former Prognugator I served, Prognugator Tersk. Prognugator Ksmvr did not understand what it meant to be Individual either.”
The words struck Tersk, and Pawn saw him straighten slightly.
“I understand Prognugator Ksmvr was expelled from the Hive for incompetence, Individual Pawn. I am not sure I appreciate the comparison.”
“I think it is apt.”
Tersk stared down at Pawn. He opened his mandibles slowly as he clenched his fists.
“It occurs to me, Individual Pawn, that your statements throughout this conversation have been deliberately inflammatory and unhelpful.”
Pawn nodded slowly.
“Yes. I believe they have been.”
Tersk clenched one hand and took a step towards Pawn. The Soldiers did likewise, and the other Workers quietly playing chess froze and stared at the Armored Antinium. Tersk spoke quietly.
“I am a Prognugator of the Hive. I am not your Prognugator, but I will be answered with full clarity. That is what Revalantor Klbkch promised me. Need I take the issue up with him?”
Pawn nearly laughed in Tersk’s face. If that was a threat, it was the worst one Pawn had ever heard. He spread two of his arms out.
“You wish to understand, Tersk? Then understand this.”
He pointed at Tersk. He didn’t poke the other Antinium, because Pawn was sure that if he did, the other two Soldiers would kill him. But he did shout.
