Ryoka halted, her bare feet in the grass. She felt a leap of apprehension, but Belavierr was gazing at her. Talking to her. So she smiled. She had met immortals after all, befriended a Vampire. She had to try.
“I understand that. And I beg your pardon, Witch Belavierr. But I’d like to speak to you. You might remember—”
“Leave me.”
The words made Ryoka stumble over hers. She tried again, more desperate.
“I know Wiskeria. And I can talk to her. I know you two had an argument. I asked Wiskeria about it. She’s angry at you. And I think I can—”
“Now.”
Belavierr’s eyes were very bright. Ryoka took a step back. But then she gritted her teeth. She had bargained with a Dragon. She studied Belavierr. Try. If she didn’t respect Ryoka, acknowledge her, there was nothing Ryoka could do.
“Witch Belavierr, I can help. Listen, about Wiskeria not liking you—”
Belavierr moved. Ryoka blinked. She tried to continue, say something. But her lips were glued together. She looked down, but she couldn’t feel anything. Then she felt pain. And she raised her fingers to her mouth and felt something thin and hard.
Stitches.
“—!”
The scream was muffled. Ryoka’s lips were sewn so tightly together that she couldn’t even move them. And the pain—it had been so fast—but Belavierr was standing in front of Ryoka. In one hand, she held a bloody needle.
She’d sewn Ryoka’s lips shut.
Ryoka tried to scream again. The needle had gone through her lips! It had been so fast—but now she felt the pain and gathering blood from the places where the needle had pierced her skin. She stumbled back, clawing frantically at her mouth, then her belt.
Blood was dripping into her mouth from the perforations. And the thread—Ryoka desperately sawed at it with a knife. It didn’t break. Not even when she cut hard.
Belavierr watched it all impassively. Ryoka was breathing desperately through her nose. Her eyes were wide, her mouth filling with blood. She tried to open her mouth a crack, and the thread pulled at the holes in her lips. She screamed again, muffled.
The [Witch] bent. She met Ryoka’s eyes. The City Runner stared up at her. Belavierr’s whisper echoed.
“Leave me.”
Ryoka ran.
 
—–
 
The coven of three [Witches] was Alevica, Mavika, and Wiskeria. They were cheering up Wiskeria. Or just entertaining her presence. Either way, they were first to see Ryoka running towards them. Blood was trickling from Ryoka’s mouth. The red thread—even Mavika paused.
“Dead gods! What happened, Ryoka—”
Wiskeria caught herself as she shot up. She stared at Ryoka, then cursed.
“Belavierr.”
“Wow.”
Alevica blinked. Mavika stared at Ryoka as the Runner frantically gestured at her face. The [Witch] peered at the red stitches. The bloody holes. She nodded to herself.
“You must have truly angered her. She’s put a small working on the thread. You won’t be able to cut it without a magical blade. A decent one. It is not my craft. A pity; you should not have scorned Belavierr’s wrath.”
“Mavika!”
Wiskeria snapped at the other [Witch].
“I’ll find my mother and have her undo it. Just wait—”
“What? Now? She’s peeved at you already, Wis. And Ryoka must have annoyed her. She might sew Griffin’s eyes shut if you word it wrong. Here. Don’t bother. I’ll do it.”
Alevica stood up, yawning and stretching. She walked over to Ryoka. The City Runner was waving her hands and making small sounds. Alevica saw why and winced.
“Ouch. Those are pulling your flesh. That has to hurt. Well, I can cut it. I think. Give me a second.”
She pulled a knife from her belt. Then she clenched her shortsword.
“Hm. Better steel in the knife. Alright. Here goes. Ryoka, don’t move or squirm. I might slice a lip off.”
So saying, she laid the knife on her arm. Ryoka watched, trying not to choke on the blood running from her wounds. She was half-mad with needing to open her mouth, the shock—but she still stiffened as Alevica chanted, her voice harsh but triumphant.
“Grudge, fester. Knife, cut. Anger, grow. Envy, grate. Slice sharper. Prick harder. Hate. And the honed edge—make.”
The knife didn’t move or flash or do anything else on her arm. But with each sentence, the edge seemed harder to find, thinner.
Sharper. But the chant was quick. Alevica plucked the knife from her arm and grinned at Wiskeria and Mavika. Wiskeria looked somewhat impressed. Mavika did not.
“A simple chant for a simple working.”
“And a simple task, Mavika. We don’t all need to write poetry in verse. Now, hold still, Ryoka.”
Alevica turned back to Ryoka. She raised the knife, and Ryoka froze. She felt the blade working at the tight thread, and Alevica cursed.
“This is enchanted! But that’s some thread—I have no leverage. Hold on—I think it’s giving—”
Alevica kept sawing away. Then she stared at her knife.
“Uh…hold on.”
She adjusted her angle, and Ryoka, who had tears in her eyes, made an articulate sound of pain. Alevica was pushing at the threads. It hurt! The Witch Runner cursed.
“It’s not—what’s going on? This could cut Mithril.”
“It isn’t, Alevica. I warned you, Ryoka.”
Wiskeria’s voice was too satisfied for Ryoka’s liking. Alevica swore.
“There’s no way she can make a thread I can’t cut! Even Oliyaya’s best charms I could—hold on. Little knife, little—”
She bent over the knife, then produced a flame and whetstone. Twice more, she tried to re-charm her knife to cut, and each time, it failed. In the end, Alevica hurled the knife down with an oath, and it went straight into the floor and vanished from sight.
“You have angered the Witch of Webs. But she seldom has such spite.”
Mavika observed, looking between Wiskeria and Ryoka. Wiskeria just sighed.
“She’s angry because of me. I can make her undo it.”
“That is not needed; this magic I shall undo. A favor from me, and a punishment to you. And you.”
Mavika replied. Alevica broke off from trying to fish her knife out from the hole in the floor.
“What? Think you can make a better knife than I?”
“I do not contest, Witch Alevica. Now watch. Griffin? Will you take my cure?”
Mavika hopped closer to Ryoka, and the desperate Wind Runner nodded. So, Mavika tapped her on the brow and produced something. A feather…and a piece of what looked like chewed up cardboard.
A huge feather, brown and dandruffy. Mavika stuck it onto Ryoka’s head and whispered.
“Griffin in name, Griffin thou art! Fierce of body, and fierce of heart! Fight pain with all your might!”
Another rhyming-charm. This one did something weird to Ryoka. She didn’t turn into a literal Griffin; she just felt—
Fiercer. Just like Mavika had said; suddenly, the pain was vexing, but not all-consuming. Ryoka sagged in relief. Mavika nodded in satisfaction as Ryoka gave her a thumbs up.
“Now, we come to it. Alevica, your knife.”
Alevica handed over the sharp knife, and Mavika held Ryoka’s mouth carefully. Ryoka waited for another sp—
Mavika sliced Ryoka’s mouth vertically, then made two more cuts, and one of the strings snapped out of the holes in Ryoka’s flesh, and the Crow Witch pulled the rest of the strings out.
It hurt. Not as bad as it could have, thanks to Mavika’s charm and Alevica’s sharp blade, but only Mavika’s hand like steel kept Ryoka’s face from jerking.
“Oooh! Dead gods!”
Even Alevica covered her face. Wiskeria just nodded.
“Yep, that’s what I would have done.”
My mouth! My mouth—Mavika pocketed the bloody string and then offered something. It turned out to be Ryoka’s own healing potion.
“Drink. The string I take as payment for my services. You did not even need a sharp knife, Witch Alevica.”
Healing potion spilled from Ryoka’s cut lips before they began to heal. Alevica was spluttering as Mavika strode away. Ryoka tried to focus.
I’ve had worse. I’ve had…
The Frost Faeries tormenting her? Things around a fire?
My lips just got sewn together then cut apart! This might have been one of the worst things in her entire life! And that included the leg smashing! Ryoka stood there, shaking, until Wiskeria spoke.
“So would you say, despite my mother’s magic, on the whole, it was a good thing for you, Ryoka?”
Her sardonic look would have gotten her punched if Ryoka could make a fist. Alevica strode back into the house, swearing.
“That damn Mavika. She’s—she’s—she’s almost as good as my mentor. Oliyaya will love that tale. Hey, Windy Girl. Oh, your lips aren’t messed up. Cool.”
She was twirling the knife she’d gotten back from Mavika. The Witch Runner clapped Ryoka on the shoulders.
“Don’t thank me. I’m only too happy to help a fellow Runner. And now you owe me a favor. Remember it, Ryoka. Because I’ll call it in.”
“What favor? You didn’t do anything.”
Alevica shrugged.
“But I tried. My magic doesn’t come free. Favor from me—you’re lucky Mavika didn’t ask for something. She just wanted to one-up me. Remind me not to cross her. Or Belavierr.”
With that, she left. Ryoka was speechless. In outrage, shock—when she turned to the last person left, Wiskeria, the [Witch] managed a bit of sympathy.
“Listen, I did warn you. I guess my mother is upset. She never does that normally; it’s a waste of good thread. What did you need to speak to my mother for? Why did you try without me?”
“I—thought I could get her to listen to me. I wanted to talk to her about you. Try to patch things up between you. Or convince her to help…I thought I could reason with her. I’ve done it before.”
Ryoka muttered, tasting more blood. She got a water flask and spat out bloody water. Wiskeria paused. She closed her eyes, then looked around. She began to pick up one of the regular kitchen knives in Alevica’s shared house, then sighed and tossed it down.
“What’s that for? I don’t have more thread in my face, do I?”
Ryoka needed a mirror. She saw her features were all correct—or so she thought—when Wiskeria flopped down in a chair across from her.
“No, I was going to stab you. But I suppose that would just add to the trouble Riverfarm’s facing. Say that again? And if I don’t like what I hear, I will break a knee.”
“What? What did I do?”
Wiskeria stared at Ryoka, expression hardening.
“Why are you so determined to force me and my mother to talk? What gives you the right to interfere in our lives? Say she’s an ambivalent person who makes fair deals again. Say it.”
Her hand was twitching for the knife. Part of Ryoka, the part that challenged Minotaurs to fistfights, wanted to say it. The rest of her dragged that part back, locked it in solitary confinement, and tried to answer Wiskeria honestly.
“I—look, I was wrong.”
“Thank you for saying that. Go on?”
Ryoka edged back an inch in her chair. Wiskeria inched forwards and put her hand around the knife.
She’s not really going to stab me or break a knee if she doesn’t like what she hears, right?
She’s a [General] and Belavierr’s daughter. And a [Witch].
Nothing would save Ryoka but honesty, so she blurted it out, turning red-faced with embarrassment.
“I—look. It’s not just me wanting to know right from wrong, okay? I just see you and Belavierr—and believe me, Belavierr is not the same—but it reminds me of my mother.”
Wiskeria’s arm relaxed. She stopped leaning forwards, unhooked one foot she’d snaked around Ryoka’s chair leg, and stared at Ryoka.
“…What?”
Ryoka turned red. This was almost a hundredth as bad as having your lips sewn together. But since she’d just had that happen—this was almost easy. Almost. She spoke, trying to say what she’d been trying not to say.
“Look…I don’t like my mom. You’ve never met her. Heck, no one—I mean, no one I know around here has ever met her.”
Because she’s in another world. Ryoka never talked about her family. It didn’t mean she didn’t think of them, and she did, especially now. She looked at Wiskeria.
“My mom—well, my parents are both wealthy. My dad’s a business tycoon—”
“What’s that?”
“Uh…a super [Merchant]. He’s into politics, too. Likes to put his thumb or a damn weight on the scales. He talks to slimeballs like Mayor Whatshisface and that Councilwoman Beatica. My parents are wealthy. My mom? He married her when he was abroad. She’s kind of a trophy wife, but she’s also rich in her own right.”
“Thank you for explaining. What does this have to do with me?”
Wiskeria seemed genuinely interested as she watched Ryoka’s face. She had her mother’s blankness, Ryoka realized. Ryoka had…well, she had a lot of things from her parents. Hair color, eyes.
Alcoholism she wasn’t sure about, but there was always time. Certainly other things. She lowered her head.
“Listen, my life story’s probably boring compared to yours. But the long and short of it is that my mother…sucks. It’s not all her fault. I realized that later. Part of it is just—well, if we talk about my dad, we’ll be here till fall. But the point is that she’s like Belavierr.”
Wiskeria raised her brows, and Ryoka clarified.
“She doesn’t get it. She doesn’t understand me. I hated her guts, of course, most of my life, but I’d try and help. Sometimes, I’d get in trouble for covering for her mistakes, and I just wished, sometimes, she could be—better. You know?”
Ryoka’s eyes stung unaccountably, and Wiskeria’s semi-hostile look softened. Ryoka shook her head.
“It’s stupid. But when I saw you and your mother—I sort of felt like there was the same thing. If I could meet my mother and make peace, even if we didn’t like each other—or better yet, change her? I guess I projected too much. I’m sorry.”
She hung her head. Belavierr was definitely not Ryoka’s mother. But now she said it out loud, she realized how much she’d projected onto Wiskeria. Her own hopes and regrets—and denial, probably. Certainly, Wiskeria adjusted her hat and sighed.
“You’re right. You’re completely wrong about my mother, and you stuck your nose into our business, and you had no right.”
Ryoka hunched her shoulders, and Wiskeria paused.
“…But you are right that we’re a bit alike in how we wish things were different. I just wish you’d led with that.”
The Wind Runner glanced up, and Wiskeria offered her a handkerchief.
“For your face. It’s covered with blood. Listen, Ryoka. My mother is purely dangerous. Don’t bother her. But—thank you. I guess I can respect that kind of attitude.”
“Thanks.”
Ryoka took the handkerchief, and after a second, Wiskeria sat back and smiled as if she’d thought of something funny. When Ryoka glanced at her quizzically, she spoke.
“Oh, nothing. I just thought you were only the second person who ever bothered my mother that much for my sake.”
