“Anything can be done at any price. Mister Pr—”
“Mother, stop! You swore! Laken has ordered you to make no more bargains!”
Wiskeria ran forward, interposing herself between Belavierr and Prost, and tried to get the man on his feet. But he couldn’t move, and Yesel was sinking downwards.
“I must continue to rebuild what I have lost, Daughter.”
“No! I forbid it! Mother, don’t do this!”
Belavierr hesitated. But when she shook her head—she moved Wiskeria aside gently.
“Even for you, Daughter, I must be who I must be. As I said. Take my hand, Prost. There is no cost to seeing what I offer.”
No cost—but the man’s haunted eyes that were both filled with horror and longing. Ryoka was paralyzed. The memory of having her lips sewn shut wasn’t the only thing rooting her in place.
She’d wondered what a deal with the devil looked like. Prost was staring at his wife. He couldn’t want to take a deal. Not for something like Rehanna’s baby. But Belavierr crooked a finger.
“A picture is so very, very inexpensive. A speaking stone? For you, servant of an [Emperor], I will offer something better.”
“No. No…”
Prost groaned, and Wiskeria seized her mother’s arm, but Belavierr just kept moving, slowly reaching into her robes, as if Wiskeria were lighter than a feather. That was when Ryoka felt anger.
Poor Mister Prost, who had worked for Riverfarm. Kneeling there with grief, an old wound—surely not healed, but at least older—reopened. Tormented by what might be.
That was Belavierr. That, Ryoka realized, was the Witch of Webs. That contempt, not even conscious, for someone else? Ryoka balled up her hands. She wasn’t sure what the consequences would be for leaping in—
Ryoka took a step and nearly tripped as someone grabbed both legs. She flailed, and Nanette hauled her back.
“You can’t, Miss Ryoka!”
“Nanette! Let go!”
The girl had grabbed Ryoka’s legs! She’d lost her hat, and her pigtails shook with her head.
“You can’t! Miss Califor told me to hold you!”
“Let go! Let—”
Ryoka took a step as a red-faced Nanette tried to hold the much bigger young woman back. Ryoka stopped—and realized Califor was gone.
And so was Nanette’s hat. Ryoka’s head swiveled around, and there she was. Striding down the street, her apprentice’s hat in her hand. Califor reached into the hat, then flung it back towards Nanette.
The girl jumped up, caught the hat, and she and Ryoka saw Califor gesturing. Wiskeria let go of Belavierr, backing up to Ryoka and Nanette, and the Stitch Witch paid no attention to Prost. She was bending down, smiling, paying the rest of the world no heed.
—Until she heard a voice.
“Father!”
A girl’s voice. No, two girls and a boy raced forwards. The girls were both over ten, the eldest fifteen, and the boy was younger than Nanette. He might have been only six.
They ran down the street, and Prost looked up. His sightless gaze of horror fixed on his children, the three of them, and Califor came to a halt, her black hat blowing in the wind.
“Finnon. Margery—”
Prost’s voice broke. He stood unsteadily, and they grabbed him—then flinched back from Belavierr. The Stitch Witch was no longer smiling. She glanced at the children—then at Califor.
“What are you doing, Witch?”
“Preventing you from striking a pact. As the [Emperor] of this land has requested, Witch Belavierr.”
Califor tipped her hat gently to the woman. One of her hands was clenched, and Ryoka saw Nanette holding up her hat and inspecting it. Belavierr’s voice was cold, impartial.
“I was negotiating with the [Steward] on that very subject.”
“You were. As head of the coven you joined, I say it is against the spirit of the request. Nor does it serve our cause in Riverfarm. A cause you swore to uphold, Witch Belavierr.”
Califor’s voice was polite and crisp, but Belavierr’s orange eyes seemed to glow under her shadowy hat. A shadow…that Ryoka saw was deepening, concealing her features, spreading down the street. People backed away, and Ryoka realized as Wiskeria retreated, eyes wide—
Belavierr was not happy about having someone interrupt her deal. Ryoka almost went to support Califor with the power of her bare feet—but they wouldn’t move.
Even from afar, her legs were shaking. Belavierr’s eyes seemed larger now, beyond vexed, hidden under the brim of her hat.
“Out of my way, Witch. My magic has been lost. Replacing it serves myself, and thus the coven.”
“I find that argument pedantic, Witch Belavierr. Will you not heed me? I say again: I lead this coven. I did not interfere with your business with Rehanna, for a witch is a witch, and we should not meddle in each other’s business. Now, I have cause. Perhaps [Witches] should have done so before, for I have heard grave things of Noelictus. I would speak to you of both this and your actions in Terandria.”
Califor’s voice was polite, clipped, and Ryoka saw the rest of the [Witches] walking in a line down the street. They halted where Nanette and Wiskeria stood, facing Belavierr; Alevica was licking dry lips. Mavika was just eying Belavierr as Hedag rolled one shoulder. Eloise’s eyes were flicking from Belavierr to Wiskeria—but Belavierr ignored them all.
“My affairs on Terandria are my own. Witches do not meddle in each other’s affairs, woman.”
“Largely. Unless we find what other witches do to be distasteful. Or beyond condoning. I confess—we did not know where you were or if you even existed until recently.”
Califor cast a glance to Wiskeria. It seemed to be an admission of fault, and Belavierr laughed. An unpleasant laugh that dug beneath the skin and squirmed there.
“My affairs. If you could not even tell if I was alive, you had no right to interfere with my affairs.”
She sneered at Califor, and the other [Witch] nodded.
“True. I now know, or suspect, you are alive. Your business is now that of the Witches of Izril. Desist, Witch Belavierr. You are not a [Witch] alone.”
Her voice rose, and despite herself, Ryoka wanted to whistle. Belavierr just turned away from Califor and addressed the people in the street.
“I am Belavierr. I offer you who gather here a boon like no other. I am the Witch of Webs, the Spider of Terandria. You may know my name. My tales. They are true.”
The people stared at her as she swung her cloak, and a shadow lengthened across the street. Belavierr, already towering, seemed to grow even taller as she turned.
“I offer you a boon. For a price. Have you ever known loss? Have you lost love, friendship, a child? I can restore all things. Do you wish for a potion to besot the heart? Mine shall never run dry. Do you wish a cure for your eyes? I can mend bone, make beauty out of stone. Simply speak my name, whisper it in vanity or shame. And I shall offer you what Djinnis cannot. At a price. Speak your wishes to me. This is the one chance you will have in a lifetime.”
Her eyes were hypnotic, and when they passed over Ryoka, even she felt a whisper in the back of her mind.
…could fix those fingers. New ones, ones that no one can ever bite off or hand back to you again. Love? You could walk into any room and have anyone, man or woman, with the right trinket. You could run faster than anyone in the world.
For a price. For a terrible price. Ryoka tried to put her hands over her ears. But the entire village was surely hearing Belavierr; she was growing taller, taller than houses, and her voice was in every ear.
How many people might take her offer? Who wanted new looks or a reminder of a friend? A piece of magic? If you could buy it for one year of your life, what would you trade?
Ryoka was cowering, and she heard a moan from Prost again. Belavierr’s voice rang in her ears like chanting—and a single [Witch] stood in the shadow of the Witch of Webs and looked up.
Witch Califor stared up past Belavierr at the sky. It was dark; a shadow had fallen across the very summer sky, but Califor took her hat off her head and fanned her face.
“It’s a hot day. Blazing, until now. It should have been drizzling, I think. Someone’s dried the air out.”
The Stitch Witch, Belavierr, heard the comment and paused as she turned. Her eyes met Califor’s.
“Yes. And?”
It was the one and only unguarded statement Ryoka had ever heard Belavierr make. A note of surprise in immortal tones, as if Belavierr was shocked Califor had noticed.
For answer, Califor gently opened her closed hand. She tossed something straight up.
“Let it be.”
Something glowing flew upwards past Belavierr’s face, slowly at first, weaving past the [Stitch Witch] as she snatched for it. A glowing, shimmering bit of…
It flashed up, and the black sky cracked. Pieces of shadow fell, and one part hit Ryoka in the face. She recoiled with a cry, flailing. Then she realized it wasn’t shadows but…
Rain?
A drop of rain hit Ryoka in the face. A little speck of water. Ryoka blinked as it ran onto one palm.
“Orange?”
An orange drop of rain in her hand. Then another bounced off of Nanette’s hat, and a blue teardrop landed in her hands. A green patter of raindrops rained off one of the houses’ roofs—and Belavierr stared as multi-colored drops of rain began to fall.
They landed in the pooling shadows, interrupted the whispers in Ryoka’s ears. Rain…just a drizzle. But on this hot day, the people of Riverfarm looked up and felt a refreshing downpour on their skin.
Just for a moment. But that was all it took. Belavierr swished her cloak and began to raise her voice. Then she whirled, and Califor was standing there. A satisfied half-smile on her face.
“She just—called a rainstorm? Wait, is this her big craft? Really?”
Alevica looked up, shielding her face from the colorful raindrops. However—Hedag just nudged her.
“It’s working. Look.”
Like people waking from a nightmare, Riverfarm’s folk stopped cowering from Belavierr and blinked. Prost, holding his children for dear life, was hit by a shower of red droplets and spluttered.
“My clothes! Your clothes, Prost! They’ll all stain!”
Yesel shouted reflexively—then looked at the man. Of all the things to care about with Witch Belavierr looming over them—Prost turned to Belavierr. Then looked at Yesel. The tears in his eyes were invisible with the falling rain.
“Look! Look! Rain! Hey! It tastes like colors too!”
His son ran around gleefully. Prost blinked at him—then a bewildered laugh escaped Prost’s lips. Rain.
It washed away more than just Belavierr’s voice and the shadows. It felt like…Ryoka closed her eyes a second, wondering why it was so familiar. Then she turned to Nanette, and Wiskeria mumbled.
“She did all that with just Ryoka’s happiness?”
My—Ryoka blinked. She stared down the street, and Witch Califor lifted her hat and nodded to Nanette. Nanette, from whom she’d borrowed some of her craft.
Then Califor whirled a hand, and the drizzle spiraled down in a gust of wind, and the skies cleared. The people gasped and shouted—and the sky was bright and clear.
“Well, that was shorter than I’d like. It seems it really is unnaturally dry. A refreshing shower, though.”
Califor stood there, and Belavierr glanced left and right—and people stared at her and backed away. But her voice, her offer? It was like a memory from last night, and she turned, frustrated.
Then glanced down at Califor’s hand. The other [Witch] had hold of Belavierr’s arm.
“I would stop there if I were you, Witch Belavierr. It would not do for you to be thought of as a woman who breaks her word.”
The rest of the coven approached, and Belavierr stared from face to face. Alevica tried to hide behind Eloise, but Belavierr only exhaled.
“Who are you, Witch?”
“I’m sure it doesn’t matter.”
Witch Califor smiled. Wiskeria shot her a wide-eyed look of delight and hid a smile. Belavierr glanced back at her daughter’s face—then whirled away. Without a word, she stalked out of Riverfarm. The people waited until Belavierr was gone before they began cheering.
“They cheer as if this weren’t our mess to clean up. Nanette. Why are you applauding?”
Califor shook her head, and Wiskeria stood there, demanding to know how she’d done that with Alevica. And Ryoka?
 
——
 
Califor came over to apologize to Mister Prost, who thanked her. The brief shower of colored rain wasn’t staining clothing; it was just water, but it had refreshed the village and cleared troubled faces.
“That Belavierr—”
“I believe she will stop. If not, I will oppose her with the coven. My word on it, Mister Prost. I can only apologize for what she put you through.”
“I’ll trust that, Witch Califor. No harm done from you. Thank you.”
Prost shook her hand a few times, and Wiskeria whispered to Ryoka.
“I’ve never seen anyone best Mother! Mavika apparently knew her, but she’s old. She never—did you see Califor do that? No wonder they tell stories about her!”
“I just hope Laken can deal with Belavierr.”
Ryoka was relieved, but worried now about how Laken would do. Wiskeria waved this off, which Ryoka found odd.
“He’s an [Emperor].”
“He’s from my w—he’s just like you and me, Wiskeria.”
The [Witch] gave Ryoka such an arch look that Ryoka got annoyed.
“He’s an expert, Ryoka. At least, in dealing with unnatural things.”
“Wh—Laken is the expert?”
That stung so much Ryoka instantly called bullshit. But Wiskeria gave Ryoka a deadpan nod as the Wind Runner stared at her.
“I actually think he might be able to persuade Mother when he gets here. You see, he’s done this before. I heard tales about it, but once, just once, I saw him greet these…people. His [Lords] and [Ladies]. Visitors. But they were like us, but not.”
Wiskeria leaned forwards. And Ryoka felt a jolt of adrenaline run through her. Laken had offered Ivolethe—
“Wait. What visitors? You mean, they came here? In the winter?”
“No, the spring. They were these strange, dangerous folk—”
“The fair folk? Wait? Are they here? What did they do? They came here in the spring?”
Her hands were suddenly gripping Wiskeria hard enough to bruise. The [Witch], alarmed, tried to pull away. But Ryoka was staring at her. The [Witch] felt it from her. The strongest emotion she’d ever sensed from Ryoka.
The desperate longing. Hope. She stammered as Ryoka asked—practically shouted questions. Ryoka let go and stood up.
“They’re here. Laken can summon them? Or—they have ties to this place?”
Her eyes flickered. She reached into a belt pouch and grasped something. Wiskeria, coughing, saw Ryoka murmuring to herself.
“Maybe a ritual? A faerie mound? No. The Summer Solstice. If it’s here—”
She turned. And Wiskeria felt a surge of hope and desperation bordering on madness. She coughed.
“Ryoka.”
“I’m going.”
