“It is a pact they agreed to, Daughter. If you are sad, I would undo my promise with the boy. However. It was sealed in the old ways. For you? I could try?”
“Would it destroy him?”
“Perhaps.”
Wiskeria turned away. She couldn’t do this. Once, she had thought she understood her mother, and it had been perfect and fine what Belavierr did. Trades that you could not regret for they were fair.
Now? She knew she was still Belavierr’s daughter, but she could not forgive. Either herself or her mother.
“There is no kindness, mercy, nor equality in what you do, Mother.”
“Of course not. It is an exchange. When one wishes, another’s wishes are destroyed. That is how all things are done, Daughter.”
She paused. Belavierr glanced up, and a slight frown crossed her features.
“We have had this conversation before.”
“Yes. We have. And I still can’t accept it, Mother.”
Wiskeria was crying. But she refused to sob or scream. Belavierr would not understand. She tried one last time.
“Mother. I want you to change. I want you to stop killing because you’re asked. Stop stealing life and—and offering these deals. Stop your craft. Practice other magic. No—keep using your stitch-magic. But don’t—take like you do. Can you do that? For me?”
Belavierr paused. For a moment, for one wonderful, frightening moment, Wiskeria thought she might agree. But at last, she shook her head.
“No, Daughter. You ask for more than I can give.”
“But why—”
“Because I would fight for you, Daughter. I would take lives for you. I would use my magic. Defend. Protect. Seek what you desire. But you ask me to change my craft. To change who I am. If I did so, I would not be Belavierr. I would not be your mother.”
She gazed down. Wiskeria saw Belavierr’s lips move. She saw, but it took her minutes to understand. When she did, her eyes did fill with more tears.
“Oh.”
Belavierr was trying to smile. But she had forgotten how. Wiskeria’s eyes ran, and wetness trickled down her cheeks. Belavierr’s smile vanished. She reached down.
“Daughter. You are crying again.”
“I know, Mother.”
“Why are you crying? Are you hurt? Do you need something?”
“No. No, I—”
Wiskeria brushed away the hand. She gulped, then looked up. It had been like this once. And then, Wiskeria had left, gone so far she’d hoped she’d never see Belavierr again. But that had been running away. This—she wished she’d done this.
“Mother. Let me say this so you understand it. I…”
She searched for words. Belavierr waited, patiently, standing impassively as her horse stood by the tree. And the night shone down on the two. Wiskeria sighed. She took her hat off and was a girl again, standing before her mother.
“It was good to be your daughter growing up. When we lived in the village, before Kaliv, I thought you were the most wonderful mother ever. I wanted to be like you. I thought the other [Witches] who told me how grand and terrible you could be all admired you, even if you could be scary. I saw the darkness in your craft, but also the good. You helped people. And yes, you were…distant. You could be thoughtless or unkind. But I was happy to be your daughter.”
Belavierr tilted her head sideways. Her hat moved with her, and Wiskeria couldn’t help but smile at the uncomprehending look on her face. She went on.
“But, Mother. One day, I saw you for what you were. When you made a daughter for a father out of thread. Something—horrible. Something with no life that looked like what he wanted. And I realized. I asked, and I found out what made you—you. The dead you took life from over the years. The deals you made for your power. The dead, Mother. The dead you left hanging because they opposed you! The threats you made! The people you killed! How old are you?”
“I do not recall, Daughter.”
“That’s not the point!”
Wiskeria stamped her foot and screamed. The night took the scream. Belavierr looked down at her, and the horse shook its head.
“Then what is the point, Daughter? You know what I am. Sometimes, I believe I do not know what you are. But you are my daughter and I, your mother. Is that not enough?”
Wiskeria put her hand over her heart. She closed her eyes. When she looked up, her eyes were clear. It still hurt to say. More than any words. But she said them.
“No, Mother. I wish it could be. But it’s not. Because what I never told you when I saw what you are is this: I hate it. And Mother, I hate you.”
The glowing gaze widened. The wind died. All things paused. There was only Wiskeria and Belavierr. And the [Witch] looked up at the [Witch]. Her words continued.
“I hate you, Mother. I hate what you do. And because you will not change, because what you do sickens me to my core, because I cannot ignore what you do and what you have done, I hate you.”
Belavierr stood stock-still. She didn’t move. But her eyes were wide, wider than Wiskeria could ever remember. And she looked—Wiskeria would have rejoiced if it didn’t hurt. She turned away.
“I’m sorry. But I hate that I’m your daughter. And if I could stop you, I would. If I can, I will.”
She reached for her side as she stumbled away back towards the quiet village far from the hill. And she turned back with wand in hand. Wiskeria’s hand shook as she pointed it at Belavierr. But that was all. She couldn’t, so she lowered it and turned away. She walked, then ran away. Leaving her mother standing on the hill.
If Wiskeria had looked back, she would have seen no horse. Nothing save for her mother standing stock-still. Staring at her back. As still as a statue. But there was nothing blank, nothing timeless about Belavierr’s stare. She watched her daughter disappear. Then Belavierr blinked.
“What?”
After a moment, she touched herself, two fingers on one hand resting on her cheek. Belavierr’s voice was…hesitant.
“Me?”
 
 
Day 61 – Ryoka
 
Ryoka had no idea how everyone else had fared last night. She herself had been up far, far later than she would have liked trying to figure out whether what had happened to Rehanna was…but when she woke up, she felt a certain schadenfreude in seeing that Wiskeria looked as tired as she did.
Everyone else was more rested, purely by virtue of being so tired that they’d slept like rocks. And that had the secondary effect of giving them the time and energy to process Rehanna’s deal with Belavierr. The result? When Ryoka, Charlay, Durene, and Wiskeria went into Riverfarm, they found the mood in the town was distinctly changed.
Towards the [Witches]. No one had forgotten two days ago, of course. But now—people were visiting Rehanna. They were talking, not just numbly shocked. And they had heard Laken’s pronouncement, seen Belavierr’s uncaring face. You could find that unsettling—or you could hate the impassiveness.
That is who she is. Eloise’s words were another double-edged sword. Belavierr’s actions reflected on the others as well. If that was whom she was, what were the other [Witches]? They all occupied their own bubbles of space that day. Even Eloise; few people stopped to have tea with her, and then only quickly, furtively.
You could feel it in the air. A word unspoken. It wasn’t about classes, but a superstition across worlds. A word. Condemnation. Fear and loathing.
Witch.
However, what it changed was actually very little. The eight [Witches], even Wiskeria, went about their business as usual. Despite the lack of visitors, Eloise brewed her tea and chatted with anyone who wanted to talk. Hedag spoke to children and occasionally some parents, laughing when no one was about. Alevica went flying, ignoring the muttering. Mavika sat on a rooftop for an hour while her flock patrolled the fields, then she vanished. Califor and Nanette took their lessons—none of the [Witches] reacted to the hostile looks.
It was something Ryoka didn’t know about [Witches], but which she should have understood. A fundamental quality of their natures and class. When they were pushed, [Witches] did not give in or change. They doubled down.
And that went for more than just outside hostility. Because the most notable thing Ryoka saw that day was at midmorning. She saw Wiskeria striding down the street, peeved. But that was one thing. Seeing Belavierr following her daughter, matching Wiskeria’s two strides for every one of hers, made Ryoka choke on her lunch. Wiskeria glared up at her mother.
“I told you, Mother. I hate you. Stop bothering me!”
“Why?”
Belavierr followed Wiskeria, tall, silent but for that one word. Wiskeria rounded on her.
“I told you.”
“But my nature is who I am, Daughter.”
“Well then, maybe I hate your nature, Mother!”
Belavierr blinked. She was more immediate, more in this world than Ryoka had ever seen her. She seemed genuinely confused as she regarded her daughter. Ryoka was edging closer. Her and a number of people, including a crowd of Lancrel’s folk that Ryoka was vaguely uneasy about. But Belavierr only had eyes for Wiskeria.
“But—why? You did not hate it growing up.”
“Because I did not know who you were, Mother. As I said. Now leave me alone. I don’t want to talk with you!”
Wiskeria stormed off. Belavierr made to follow, but perhaps even she sensed how futile that would be because she stopped. Ryoka stared at her back. Belavierr seemed bothered. No—Ryoka turned to Wiskeria as the younger [Witch] hurried off. She would have given gold to know what Wiskeria had said to Belavierr!
Then Ryoka heard a voice.
“Excuse me! Miss [Witch]! We must have words!”
“Uh oh.”
Ryoka turned around. A familiar woman was striding forwards followed by at least two hundred of Lancrel’s people. It was a sizeable crowd, but how Councilwoman Beatica had thought it was a good idea to lead them against Belavierr was beyond Ryoka. Maybe she was just deliberately suppressing her sensible instincts. Either way, the woman came striding up just as Belavierr was watching Wiskeria’s back.
Normally, Ryoka expected Belavierr to walk off without another word. But as Ryoka had noticed, Belavierr was in the world of reality. Her head turned as Councilwoman Beatica snapped at her.
“Your behavior has been unacceptable! You have assaulted one of Riverfarm’s citizens! For this, you must issue an apology and forthwith cancel the mag—”
Beatica got that far when her tongue gave up in her head. Ryoka, who’d been looking around to find Beniar, Prost, Rie, or Durene, froze. Her head turned back to Belavierr. Because something was different about the [Witch].
An intensity. A shift in her posture. Her gaze swept across the crowd, and the angry people from Lancrel froze. Ryoka felt her stomach drop. Because there was no blank stare. The glowing eyes had force behind them. It was simple but terrifying when Ryoka realized the reason behind it.
Belavierr was angry.
No. Vexed. It wasn’t true anger. Ryoka couldn’t even imagine what that would be. But vexation—annoyance? Yes. Belavierr’s eyes, immortal, magical, and ageless, still held that familiar emotion. And Ryoka, the mob, and Charlay, who’d trotted over to see what was happening, all paused.
Unfortunately, Beatica wasn’t able to back out and save face so easily. Her mouth dried up, and she backed up. But her plan—which might have been hurling insults at Belavierr while being safely ignored—was suddenly derailed. All she could do was plough ahead.
“Miss Belavierr. I said that your—your behavior has been unacceptable. We, the citizens of Lancrel, are censuring you. You—you must issue a formal apology. Or else we will find you…”
She trailed off. Belavierr was staring at Beatica. And she was seeming more annoyed with each word. She peered at the crowd behind Beatica. Their anger turned quickly into a terror that made them still, rather than flee in fear.
“No.”
“I warn you—”
Beatica’s high-pitched voice broke off in a small scream as Belavierr lifted a hand. The [Witch] crooked a finger. Then she turned and strode off. Ryoka, who’d ducked along with Charlay at the gesture, breathed a sigh of relief. She straightened, and Beatica, looking pale and relieved, stood taller. She glanced around, then turned to give a speech as Ryoka prepared to run after Belavierr.
At that moment, every stitch in a three hundred foot radius suddenly unraveled. It was abrupt, and so fast that all the clothes just dropped off the crowd, Ryoka, and Charlay. Bits of fabric fell to the ground in its component parts as the stitching neatly fell into spools of thread as well. Ryoka blinked as her clothes fell off her body. It was actually sort of nice for a moment; the day was sunny, and the skin could breathe in the mild wind that followed her about. Then her eyes went wide, and everyone processed what had happened.
“Dead gods!”
“What the f—”
“My clothes!”
It was probably telling what the first action of each person was. Whether they covered themselves, gawked—and who they gawked at and where—or immediately tried to show off, like one muscular [Blacksmith]—it was all pandemonium.
Ryoka, for her part, glanced around just to make sure everyone was similarly undressed as she grabbed at her clothes and tried to cover the essentials. Charlay wailed as she grabbed at her shirt. Then her belt! Even it had fallen to pieces!
“Don’t look at me! I’m naked!”
The Centauress wailed as she raced off, clutching what remained of her shirt to her chest. Ryoka stared after her.
“You’re naked? What about me?”
She screamed, but Charlay was already running. The crowd was in chaos. People were bending over to pick up clothes on the street, then realizing that was a very exposed situation. There were red faces, tears—Ryoka saw Councilwoman Beatica running into the nearest house. Ryoka looked around, then realized something.
“Oh. Bag of holding.”
She pulled out a change of clothes and breathed a sigh of relief. Whatever Belavierr had done, it hadn’t hit the bag of holding or the stitches in the magical bag itself. That was a relief. Ryoka hopped into some pants, forgoing underwear, tossed on a shirt, and then ran like hell as more people came to see what was happening and stare. She was laughing. Right up until she made her mistake.
 
—–
 
Belavierr was standing in the same spot where Ryoka had visited the picnicking [Witches] a few days ago. Right in front of the tree where she’d been resting, close to the river. Only, she was standing. And she seemed annoyed. Her back was also turned, so Ryoka was too hesitant to walk up and tap Belavierr on the shoulder. She elected to call out instead.
“Um—excuse me!”
The figure was silent. Tall. Her shadows seemed too long. When she turned her head, the orange eyes glowed beneath the brim of her hat. Belavierr’s voice was cold.
“I do not wish to speak to you.”
