Day 60 – Ryoka
 
“She knows it’s not alive.”
Wiskeria spoke softly. Her eyes were shadowed by her pointed hat. Her face was pale. She stood in the light, a flickering candle’s illumination in a lantern aided by the embers in a fireplace. They cast long, dancing shadows. But no one was suggesting using the [Light] spell. The silent gathering did not want to see magic.
“She knows it’s fake? You’re sure?”
Prost leaned over the table. The former [Farmer]’s face was pale. He had fought Goblins, lived for decades in Riverfarm. But this had shaken him. Wiskeria looked up. Her yellow-green eyes reflected the lantern’s light. She nodded once.
“She has to. I know the deal she took. At least, in part. It would be hard, very hard, to make something that fooled her against her will. Too much work. Moreover, what would be the point?”
“To trick her?”
Lady Rie sat at the table, flanked by her bodyguard, Geram, and Nesor. She looked up at Nesor, but the young [Mage] was silent. This magic was beyond him. Wiskeria, the sole [Witch] in the room, shook her head.
“It didn’t feel like that. I can see her magic. My…mother’s. I can’t see all of it. But it looks fair.”
“Fair?”
The word was incredulity. It came from more than one person. Charlay. Durene. Not Ryoka. But from others. Wiskeria tugged her hat lower, hiding her eyes.
“Yes. In a sense. It was fair in that Rehanna gave something and she got something. That…doll is casting a spell on her. It looks like a baby. If you let it, it would probably seem like a baby to you.”
“Why don’t we see it that way, then?”
Wiskeria shook her head.
“Because you don’t want to, Lady Rie. You don’t want to. The magic works on you if you’re willing. Like I said, it’s an easier illusion. But Rehanna wants the doll to be her son. So it is. That’s the nature of the deal. The baby—the doll is hers. And my mother has what she wants.”
And what was that? The listeners exchanged silent looks. In truth, they didn’t need Wiskeria to say. They had seen Rehanna. The woman was aged. In a single day, she had developed grey in her hair. Her body was older. And all of the vitriol, the anger, and the hatred she had had towards Wiskeria, towards Riverfarm and Laken and the world, all of it was gone. Rie murmured.
“So. Is it a threat?”
“No. It’s just a baby. It can’t do anything other than cry.”
“Can it eat? Will it grow?”
The words made Prost’s heart jump. They came from Ryoka. And they were the first she’d uttered since the emergency meeting had been convened. Wiskeria glanced at the City Runner.
“No. It’s not alive. Not like a String-person. It’s just well-sewn.”
That statement made no one relax. The air felt unsettled. Clammy with nerves. Durene shook her head and then coughed. She was weak. Woozy, in fact. The healing burns were still fresh; her body still smelled of smoke. Come to that, Wiskeria was wearing a borrowed tunic and leggings. She’d been literally naked but for a blanket less than ten minutes ago. Ryoka shook her head wearily, feeling her sore feet and tired body from a day of exercise. She hadn’t slept since yesterday morning.
It was late. So late the sun was rising into the next day, casting long shadows out of the night. But no one was abed or even thought of it. Tired as she was, Ryoka feared sleep. She feared the sight of that infant, the piercing, familiar wail. But it was not alive. She shivered with fear. But at least she had seen things more terrible.
Most of those standing around the table had not. Ryoka looked at them and saw the horror. For Wiskeria? Disgust. Regret. Anger?
She had none of it. She had looked at that crying infant made of cloth, Rehanna’s aged features, her mother’s craft—and it moved her not at all.
She too had seen worse, and Wiskeria gave Ryoka a little nod. There was only one emotion that Ryoka could read there. Just disappointment. As if she had hoped for something else. But her mother would never change.
Mothers, in Ryoka’s experience, were like that. Now, Wiskeria was left to explain, so she did, like a girl having to tell people why her mother had stumbled downstairs, unable to even stand for the drink. It was a tired, practiced explanation of half-truths, and there was a girl there, trying to defend something she knew was wrong.
Ryoka found herself trembling as Wiskeria’s tone became more matter-of-fact, soothing. She wasn’t shaking for the reason the others were.
“It was a bargain. There was no malice in it. Not from my mother at any rate. Sometimes, she makes deals you could call unfair. She’s on her best behavior right now.”
Prost fixed Wiskeria with a searching eye, but his voice cracked.
“This is her best behavior? She didn’t seek Rehanna out because the woman destroyed your brew, Wiskeria? You’re sure?”
The [Witch] barely hesitated.
“No. My mother doesn’t mix business with vengeance. Believe me, when she goes for vengeance, it’s very clear. If she was angry at Rehanna, she would have killed her or done something far worse. I know what we saw. But it only concerns Rehanna. If…”
She hesitated.
“If there were anything to worry about, it would be if she makes a second deal. Someone should watch Rehanna. And anyone else with something to lose.”
Then the silence deepened, and a shiver ran through Riverfarm, as if the winter had never left and this summer were an illusion. Ryoka stared at Rehanna, and Rie’s voice rose shrilly.
“Someone else? Who would look at that and think they wanted—”
“Lady Rie.”
Wiskeria cut in, voice polite.
“I am not giving you the reasons. I am telling you what I know from experience. The best thing to do would be to watch Rehanna. Not to take the child from her, and to tell everyone to stay away from Belavierr. The contract cannot be undone.”
Lady Rie looked at Wiskeria, both with a strangled fury and now…her eyes darted to Ryoka and then a scroll of parchment Ryoka had received via [Message]. Nesor had just finished copying it, and Fierre had signed it herself.
“Is this what the woman did on Terandria? Belavierr. I know that name, now. Not her name, but—the Temptress of Izril. What did she do in Noelictus?”
Wiskeria’s shoulders hunched further.
“I don’t know. Ryoka?”
Bad news often came too late. Ryoka stared down at the…list of Belavierr’s crimes. Her stomach lurched. It was long. Long, disturbing, even hilarious in parts. Then just horrifying because it was probably true.
“It doesn’t even say. The bounty’s too long to—mass-murder of a city. Is that even possible? Seduction of a [Prince]?”
“Allegedly.”
Charlay unhelpfully pointed that out. The entire room glared at her, and she quailed.
“What? It says that there.”
“That’s probably a lie.”
Wiskeria looked uncomfortable. But she hadn’t been surprised by the list of crimes either. On the other side of the table, Rie and Prost were greatly disturbed. Prost muttered to himself.
“This goes beyond regular crime. If even a tenth of what’s written here is true, let alone the bounty, Belavierr is a monster on the same level as…why was she allowed in here? Wiskeria, you didn’t tell us to—”
Wiskeria’s voice rose.
“I tried to banish her. No one can just get rid of her. It would take three [Kings] to even remove her without a good cause—and she took a position in the coven. She’s here for me. This is, again, her best behavior. You don’t want to make her mad. Believe me. Please.”
That drew the man up short. Prost looked at Rie. She paused, her face pale, and nodded.
“Another question then: why is her name not known the world over?”
Wiskeria gave Rie a sardonic look.
“Isn’t it? You know her. The [Ladies] and [Lords] of Izril do. She’s not as well-known as Az’kerash. Perhaps because she doesn’t kill armies…often. She comes and goes. She’s most dangerous when people try to attack her or stop her. I know what my mother is capable of. But believe me, she didn’t come to harm Riverfarm. I know how she thinks. For her, this is business. And her coming with the coven is because they need to deal with Laken. Because of me.”
Wiskeria looked around the table. No one could immediately respond. They had known she was unsettling from the start, but not what they had welcomed into their village, however reluctantly. Now? Ryoka did understand. If a tornado touched down in Riverfarm, she would be astonished if it left no casualties. Belavierr was that, unto [Witches]. This? This was the first sign of who Belavierr was.
Ryoka recalled the thing in Rehanna’s arms. It had been skillfully done. Everything was right. In fact, it was far, far more realistic than any mannequin baby from her world. Plastic could not take the shape cloth had.
It was not alive. But it moved and cried. Ryoka’s skin crawled, and she felt her stomach heave, trying to eject reality.
However, she had seen worse. Worse, and better. More glorious magic, more tragedy. She had seen a Dragon. Things sitting around a fire, reaching for the light. So it was Ryoka who stirred as the first rays of dawn crept into Rie’s home. She raised her hand as the light struck her face. Her two missing fingers made the beams blind Ryoka anyways. The young Asian woman sighed, then stood.
“Well, we’ve sent a message to Laken. And everyone’s inside, if not asleep. Rehanna’s being watched. So I think I’ll talk with the coven tomorrow. I mean, later today. Maybe I’ll take a nap before that. Unless anyone has anything else to say?”
She squinted at the brightening window. Ryoka stared at the rising sun and wondered if four hours would allow her to function. Maybe with a stamina potion. She’d trade someone else’s left leg for coffee. Then she realized everyone was looking at her.
“What?”
“We can’t just go back to work. We haven’t resolved this issue, Miss Griffin!”
Lady Rie was quietly horrified. She rose, smoothing her dress.
“Emperor Laken is sure to respond, but we must make some announcement or preparations—”
“About what? Belavierr? Wiskeria said she made an honest deal. We can watch Rehanna, and I’ll ask the [Witches] like I said, but what else can we do? Make plans against Belavierr? I tell you what, you can muster an army of a thousand. Ten thousand and ambush her as she sleeps. I’ll watch. Would that even work, Wiskeria?”
The Wind Runner turned to Wiskeria, and the [Witch] bit her lip to stop from laughing. Ryoka raised her hands, looking around.
“If you want to do that, feel free, Lady Rie. But I’m not going to. Belavierr’s not a threat right now. And I’d like to keep her that way.”
Lady Rie pursed her lips, gazing out the window.
“But if she were to endanger us—”
“We’ll do what? What plans could we make? If she attacks us, how many of us even get away? Will Riverfarm still stand?”
The City Runner stared around the room. Lady Rie went pale, and Geram, the [Fistfighter], shifted. He looked uneasily at one arm, as if trying to imagine stopping Belavierr with that.
There it was. A terror of the unknown. Fear of dangerous women. Or just women. From these things, Ryoka knew how witch hunts arose. It might have spread like a contagion out of this room, but Ryoka clung to something else.
“There’s one thing we can count on, though. And I think Prost will back me on this.”
The [Steward] had been grasping the edges of the table so hard his knuckles were white. He stared up at her, and Ryoka thought of the other [Witch].
“Califor. The rest of the coven. If we’ve got one…bad witch. Don’t you think we should rely on the others to reign her in? Or is Califor not someone famous, Prost? Trust in her.”
Califor had not yet returned from her own mission, but her name broke the tension in the air. Not completely, but Prost inhaled as if he’d forgotten she existed and turned to Wiskeria.
“That’s right. I knew I’d heard of her. There’s a—a good witch to balance an ill.”
“I don’t see much balancing going on.”
Geram muttered, but the tension eased. Rie looked exasperated.
“Witch Califor I don’t know, Mister Prost.”
“I heard of her, but never by name. Maybe you don’t know her by Witch Califor, Lady Rie. Would the woman who broke the Wellfar’s dam at Lake Roisemead ring a bell? The one that was set to flood out a dozen villages and dry out dozens more so they’d have an inland port?”
Ryoka’s ears perked up, and she made a note to ask Fierre about Califor. Rie’s eyes flickered.
“—That’s an older story. I, of course, remember the incident. It almost looked like it would be a battle. That was…eighteen years ago when my family—”
She broke off. Swallowed hard as Geram looked at her.
“Of course I know…Califor was the woman who did that? Wellfar is still hunting for the perpetrator!”
“Which is why she travels. She’s been to Baleros, Chandrar, Terandria—maybe even further. I know of her. I thought she’d hunt me down after I ran away from my mother. In the end, Mavika just found me. I thought, at the time, it was the better of the two.”
Wiskeria muttered. Califor sounded like some kind of wandering detective or problem-solver to Ryoka. Whatever the case was, her name was like a balm against Belavierr’s ominous presence. Ryoka nodded.
“Don’t forget Eloise, or even Hedag or Mavika. They might be dangerous in their own ways, those two, but Hedag would protect a child to the death, I’ll bet.”
She glanced at Wiskeria for another nod, then pushed herself away from the table.
“I don’t feel like making useless plans. Especially when we’re all tired. We have a lot of new arrivals in Riverfarm thanks to the aid mission. Mister Prost, they all have homes, but I’ll bet they’re reconsidering their choices. We should put them to work, even if everyone’s tired.”
The [Steward] started. He looked up and nodded.
“I can do that. We’ll all be sleeping in late, but—yes. We should get some sleep. All of us.”
He stood up. Lady Rie looked at him.
“Prost—!”
“Miss Griffin’s right, Lady Rie. There’s no sense in letting the fields go to waste or standing about. Work will keep folk’s mind off it. But I will tell Beniar to keep his [Riders] close to the village. The [Bandits] aside—”
He glanced at Wiskeria. Her walking out of a [Fireball] unscathed was small potatoes compared to the rest of tonight’s events, but it did merit some attention.
“—we’ll get back to work. Miss Griffin, talk to the [Witches] by all means. I’ll deal with what I can and wait for His Majesty’s orders.”
He nodded to the others. Lady Rie protested, but that was that. In truth, everyone was too tired to think. They just left the house. But sleep was hard to find, even exhausted. No one could forget the baby.
 
—–
 
