Witch Califor rode past the man, staff in one hand, and a handful of leaves of all things in the other. She tossed the leaves into the air as she snapped at Ryoka.
“Run to Nanette!”
Ryoka scrambled to her feet as the trio of fake [Hunters] dove out of the way of Califor. She rode in a tight circle, striking left and right with the staff.
“Witch! Kill the Runner and—”
Their crossbows had all snapped to pieces, but the three were armed with swords, and they had another trick up their sleeves. One charged at Ryoka, slashing, as Ryoka saw Nanette waving her arms frantically. Ryoka ran backwards, and the cursing [Hunter] was slower than her. But the woman raised her wand instead of the crossbow and—
Shot fire?
A scorching jet of flames escaped the wand and nearly cooked Ryoka. The Wind Runner threw herself sideways, screaming as flames burnt her back, grabbing for a healing potion. Another [Hunter] shot fumes of green-black gas at Califor, who rode away from it instantly.
Poison? What the hell! They were using wands! Was that standard equipment? The female [Hunter] went to track Ryoka—then she coughed and gagged. The flames went out.
As she the [Hunter] had gone to inhale…a leaf had flown into her mouth and gone straight down her windpipe.
That wasn’t an accident. The air was suddenly full of leaves. They were blowing from the dry trees, a storm of thousands, obscuring vision and giving Ryoka a chance to run for it.
“Miss Ryoka! Miss Ryoka! Are you alright?”
Nanette rode towards her as Ryoka got out of the leaf-storm Califor had conjured. Ryoka turned back. Nanette had returned! She was on her pony, travel-worn and terrified. Ryoka spun.
“Califor! Get out of there! Nanette! We have to get Beniar!”
It was three against one, and they were three dangerous fake [Hunters] too. Califor’s leafstorm and charge had startled them, but they had too many strange abilities.
The flailing figures avoiding the [Witch] jumped onto horseback and scattered.
Two shot flames from their wands at Califor riding at them, and the last shot another cloud of gas—then pulled out an object and chucked it down.
Ryoka had seen flasks made by [Alchemists] that exploded—but the detonation of whatever this fake [Hunter] had thrown created a fiery orb of destruction fifteen feet wide.
“Califor!”
Ryoka shouted in horror. Nanette screamed—and the [Witch] emerged from the explosion mid-detonation. Her horse was screaming and trailing smoke, but Califor was just grim-faced. She had a knife in her hand, and as Ryoka watched, she cut the flames in half.
“Holy fuck!”
Ryoka scrambled for a weapon as the three [Hunters] recoiled. They were clearly wavering between retreat or attack; it was Ryoka they wanted. One tossed something at Ryoka, and a glint became a glass orb filled with a very bright, yellow liquid—
Ryoka grabbed Nanette and tried to drag her behind the girl’s pony. Califor shouted.
“Nanette, Ryoka—stay there!”
The [Witch] came to a halt as Ryoka slammed into the ground and covered Nanette’s head. The girl was shielding her own face, but the explosion or whatever that orb did never came. When they peeked up—Califor was holding the glass orb, inspecting the contents. At this, the fake [Hunters] clearly decided they were outmatched. They broke, each riding in a separate direction. Ryoka saw Califor glance at Nanette. Then, when she turned, Ryoka covered Nanette’s eyes.
She hadn’t seen Witch Califor angry before. The [Witch] leapt from her saddle, landed on the ground, planted the staff in the earth and let go of it. The staff remained fully upright, and Califor spoke to it.
“Grow a second.”
She plucked something from the ground as she stooped. Califor produced a piece of string, wound it to the glass orb, and flicked it.
“Return.”
Finally, she clapped her hands. Three quick gestures—Ryoka stared at Califor as the [Witch]’s head rose to regard the three fleeing figures.
Each one was heading in a different direction. One was riding into the forest bordering Riverfarm, already vanishing from sight, another shooting north, and the last heading south along Riverfarm proper.
The one going through the forest juked left as something shot out of the foliage and tried to hit them. They twisted right—and a tree, an actual tree, exploded around the rider and horse.
The growth of the tree was so fast and violent Ryoka could only imagine it was like being punched by a hundred branches at once. The figure went down; the second, speeding north, was also juking wildly. But the glass orb—Ryoka saw a flash, then an explosion that blinded her for a second.
As for the last? The figure riding southwards suffered neither the returning orb nor the wrath of trees. They just kept going until something hit them.
The wind. Ryoka felt the thunderclap of air blast the final figure, and they dropped like a stone off their horse, who ran for it. The Wind Runner stared at Califor as the [Witch] lifted her staff, ripping it out of the ground, and saw it had begun growing roots!
“Nanette. Are you alright?”
“I’m fine, Witch Califor! What happened?”
Nanette fought Ryoka’s hands off, and the Wind Runner stood. Califor was in the center of a sea of fallen leaves, leaning on her staff, grimacing. As if nothing had happened. Nanette stared about.
“Where did the [Hunters] go? Miss Griffin! Are you alright?”
She turned to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner caught Califor’s warning gaze. The [Witch] glanced towards Riverfarm.
“First, we reach the village. Then we investigate. To the horses, now.”
 
——
 
They lost about six minutes riding to Riverfarm, where Ryoka’s shouting had Beniar and his [Riders] in their saddles and chasing after them. Califor deposited Nanette almost on top of Eloise and Hedag.
“Keep her safe. Mavika, there are three of them. [Hunters], it seemed, but ones ready to kill rather than talk. There’s one in the forest that way. Beniar, take your riders north; I am after the one that might still be alive.”
The one she’d windclapped. Ryoka actually raced after Califor, but when they reached the spot where the third [Hunter] had been, all they found was…
 
——
 
“Hmm. Ash. We took too long.”
Not just the one Califor had incinerated with the orb; the second [Hunter] was nothing but ash when Califor found the body. Or rather, the remains.
“What? But you just hit him off his horse.”
Ryoka wiped at her brow, feeling at her knee and praying the potion had reversed the damage. Califor bent over a scattering of black soot; all the evidence of the [Hunter].
“Yes. I meant to take this one alive. He fell—here. Then he must have realized I would catch him. My guess is that he killed himself to avoid being taken prisoner. Odd, for a Hunter of Noelictus to do, but if he didn’t wish to be traced back to Noelictus…”
She trailed off, tapping her foot and frowning. Ryoka was still in shock.
“You saved my life. You came back just in time!”
“Or too late. I heard from one of Mavika’s crows about Rehanna and cut short my trip with Nanette. Too late for Rehanna. Too late to take one of these strangers alive. And the last is…fled.”
One of Mavika’s crows was circling the air, and Ryoka heard the screaming.
“Got away! Got away! No body! Hunting!”
Califor sighed.
“That must have been their leader. Higher-level. I thought I’d broken every bone in his body. I only wonder…”
“Wonder what?”
Ryoka was shaken from the experience, but Califor looked troubled almost as much. The [Witch] responded absently.
“[Witch Hunters], [Undead Hunters], and [Demon Hunters] make up three of the kinds of Hunter that Noelictus produces. But they hunt more regular monsters than my kind. It’s rare they’d be so aggressive or attack bystanders like you. These ones carried a lot of magic. Perhaps too much, but then again, if they were sent to deal with us or her…I can only wonder what Belavierr did to Noelictus. Many [Hunters] I have met were downright reasonable.”
“These weren’t. They were going to kill me!”
Califor nodded, checking Ryoka over. The Wind Runner was profusely thanking her when Ryoka saw a dust cloud as Beniar’s [Riders] headed their way. Explanations would be needed, and Califor was glancing at Ryoka and the village. But for this one moment…Ryoka felt like she’d found another piece of a puzzle.
A [Witch Hunter]. Trying to rabble-rouse or tell people about Belavierr. Also gathering information. Why? To stir up trouble?
Or because he was waiting for something? That certainty bothered Ryoka. What was he waiting for? She had almost died, but she was grateful for Witch Califor’s return. Ryoka only hoped that it spelled better news for the village. Rehanna, the fake [Hunters]—
It felt like a kind of chaos even Ryoka didn’t always bring. Swirling around the actions of one person who’d drawn all this trouble here.
Belavierr.
 
 
Day 60 – Durene
 
Telling Laken about all the trouble in Riverfarm, from Rehanna to the strangers Ryoka had met, made Durene feel better. But he didn’t have a magical solution to everything. The reply from Laken was simple. Durene squinted at it over Prost’s shoulder, trying to put the words he was reading to the page.
 
…Regarding Ryoka’s attackers, I could not find these ‘[Witch Hunters]’ anywhere. Continue patrols, but they may have evaded my sight. Keep vigilant.
Let no one strike a deal with Witch Belavierr. But do not try her yet. Collect evidence for a trial, which I will preside over. If this coven is to be trusted, see what they do when no bargains are struck. And give Rehanna every kindness. Do not take the baby away. Leave her be.
–[Emperor] Laken Godart
 
Just that. And it didn’t exactly fill Durene with confidence. But it was something. And Prost set out to fulfill Laken’s orders the instant he received them.
“Witch Belavierr!”
A group of men and women, Beycalt, Ram, and Beniar and his [Riders] among them, followed Prost as he confronted the [Witch] in the street. Belavierr was walking. Slowly walking down the street.
It was an ordinary thing, and obviously everyone did it. But Durene shuddered to see Belavierr even do that as she stood behind Prost. After last night, she couldn’t help but suspect even that innocuous action of some dark meaning. Belavierr didn’t turn as Prost strode towards her. The [Steward] called out again.
“Witch Belavierr! By order of His Majesty, Laken Godart, no one in Riverfarm is to strike a deal with you! Until His Majesty arrives, you are to refrain from attempting to bargain with anyone in the Unseen Empire! Is that clear?”
He hurled the last words at full-volume at Belavierr, barely ten feet from her. Not once did the [Witch] turn her head.
“Witch Belavierr! Do you hear me?”
She walked right past him. Prost’s voice gave out for a second. He faltered, staring as she continued down the street. Then he whirled.
Two of the [Witches] were gathered, inspecting a chess board. Eloise and Alevica. The older [Witch] and the Witch Runner were playing, much to [Carpenter] Jelov’s displeasure. But he’d retreated into his open-air studio rather than confront the two. Prost strode over, and Eloise looked up. She regarded him and the small crowd of Riverfarm’s authority behind him.
“Witch Eloise. I have a message from Emperor Godart—”
“I heard, Steward Prost.”
“Witch Belavierr does not appear to have heard me. Will she heed Emperor Laken’s request? If she refuses, we shall have to…”
Prost’s voice trailed off. And Durene wasn’t certain herself of what Prost would do. She’d been eying Belavierr. The woman was tall, but Durene was still taller and a lot bigger. She could surely grab Belavierr and restrain her. But somehow, Durene’s image of that scene never quite seemed to work in her head. Eloise shook her head in reply to Prost’s question.
“She may not have heard you, Steward Prost. But we shall attempt to remind her if she attempts to practice her craft again. That I may promise you.”
“Didn’t hear—”
Ram made a strangled noise. Eloise looked at him and adjusted her hat.
“That is who she is, I’m afraid. And I thank your [Emperor] for his considered response. We will attempt to honor his request.”
Attempt to honor. Even Durene knew that wasn’t a promise. But what could be done?
It was beyond clear that there hadn’t been a real hope of controlling Belavierr via this coven. She had arrived. The fact that she had arrived was an unexpected development for the coven’s plans, for Riverfarm…the other [Witches] were like leaves trying to stop a storm.
Yet for points Belavierr lost, and it was an avalanche of them, the other [Witches] did make up some with their actions. Califor had won praise for apparently reaching three other settlements in her ride before coming back here.
Her defense of Ryoka? Less praise. Few people would admit to having met the ‘[Witch Hunters]’, or that they’d believed what they said about [Witches] in general and Belavierr specifically. There was the faintest suspicion, even after Ryoka’s account, that Califor had attacked innocent people. Or, since there were no bodies, she’d made the entire thing up.
What was clear was that the coven was no closer to their goal of winning Riverfarm over than they had been. Laken? Well, only he could say how he felt.
Annoyed, Prost dismissed the crowd. Which left Durene to look for her house-guests as the sun set.
She’d been watering the fields all day. Some of the [Farmers] had been used to irrigation, but the newly-planted fields didn’t have that yet. It wasn’t too hard to draw water from the river, and in truth, the crops would have survived longer without rain—it was just that to grow them quickly, you wanted a lot of water. Which meant even Durene’s arms hurt from hauling wheelbarrows of water from the river.
That was what she had occupied herself with, and Charlay had actually pitched in! The Centauress had dragged water over to the [Farmers] and only stolen a few handfuls of wheat to snack on. On the other hand, Wiskeria and Ryoka had refrained from helping and instead gone off on their own ways. Durene had no idea what they’d done all day. But she found both at her cottage when she returned with food for a meal.
Ryoka was sitting in Durene’s cottage, staring at a wall. Frostwing was pecking at a handful of nuts. Wiskeria was in her tent. Durene hesitated, but decided to see Ryoka first.
“Ahem. Hi. I brought dinner.”
Durene hefted the basket as she came in. Ryoka turned. Durene was alone; Charlay had stayed in Riverfarm to eat food before coming back to the cottage for a second dinner. Ryoka blinked at the half-Troll girl.
“Durene.”
“Ryoka.”
