Absently, Ryoka walked off. Wiskeria tried to go after her, but Ryoka broke into a run. The City Runner was filled with maddening thoughts. Hopes. A single one. And suddenly, she had every reason to talk to Laken.
But before that came her. Belavierr stood alone far outside the village. She looked annoyed. Angry. She turned, and her eyes fixed on Ryoka. The City Runner slowed.
“Begone.”
Ryoka hesitated. She was afraid. But she clutched the bit of frozen water, and it gave her strength. A hot wind blew around her. She had to try. And she raised her voice.
“Hi. I’m Ryoka Griffin. A friend of Wiskeria’s, or at least, I hope.”
Belavierr paused. She stared at Ryoka, fingers twisted as if to do something. Ryoka went on, speaking clearly, meeting the [Witch]’s eyes.
“She isn’t certain you love her, you know. And you drive her away every time you seal yourself.”
The [Witch] said nothing. Ryoka went on, trying to speak from the heart.
“You have to change. So does she. But neither of you can do it alone. And the other can’t do it without you trying. That’s all I have to say. And if I can help you two, I will. Please don’t kill me.”
Belavierr peered at Ryoka. The City Runner braced. After a second, Belavierr lifted a finger. She pointed up. Ryoka felt her clothes move.
“Wait—wait! I only—”
Belavierr ignored her. She stared at Ryoka. She flicked her fingers, and the clothes hurled Ryoka through the air.
About four hundred feet away, Mister Ram and some [Farmers] were working the fields, grumbling about dry soil. They looked up as they saw a big shape flying towards them. Ram stared up and swore as he heard a screaming voice.
“Ohgodohgodohgod—”
Ryoka didn’t die when she hit the river. Her fall wasn’t at terminal velocity. But she still sank to the bottom and swam out, gasping at the cold shock. She looked around wildly as Ram and everyone who’d seen her flying rushed over. Ryoka clambered out as Ram reached for her.
“Dead gods! Miss Griffin! What happened?”
“Belavierr.”
Someone uttered it like a curse. But Ryoka just nodded. She gazed at a distant figure. Belavierr was still standing there. Ryoka felt at her wet body. Then she crawled onto the bank and lay on the grass. She looked up at Ram, wide-eyed.
“I’m not dead. That probably means progress.”
He gaped at her, and she smiled. Then put her head down on the grass and passed out.
 
 
Day 65 – Ryoka
 
Waking. Explaining what had happened to Prost. Talking with Wiskeria, who marched off to shout at her mother. Sleeping and waking in a cold sweat. The next day, Ryoka still shuddered. But she thought she’d made progress. She still wasn’t sure if the wind had saved her, blowing her into the river, or if Belavierr had aimed for that.
But it was something. Ryoka had hope. Because the day was clear, if too hot. And she could try again, this time with Wiskeria. A mother-daughter talk with her acting as intermediary, for what it was worth.
And she had no idea what was happening. Because in Reizmelt, a Vampire girl wrote down Belavierr’s name and was attacked by sewing needles. Across the ocean, the Order of Seasons waited, and a group of [Hunters] and a [Knight] stood, hoping for confirmation. A single name.
On that day stood a [Witch]. Belavierr. She might have slept. She might have woken. But how she lived was a mystery to most. It made sense to her, though. Her actions had purpose. Her magic was connected, a product of thread and skill and power.
This is what she saw. The [Witch] held up a ward. A needle tied with a thread. The needle tied with thread vibrated and twisted and turned as she held it. Moving despite the absence of wind. Belavierr watched as it stabbed. And Fierre screamed. The Stitch Witch waited. But the stabbing needle kept moving. Desperately.
Then it stopped. The magic was gone. And Belavierr saw the needle snap. She stared at it.
“Hm. Four. The last is failed.”
Her head turned. The wide brim moved towards the sun. Belavierr, staring straight into it.
“Death is hunting me. Flame, this time.”
That was intuition. But the Stitch Witch had certainty as well. She abandoned the failed ward and reached into her sleeves. From somewhere, she brought out something.
It was a tapestry. A small woven scene on a fabric. Silk, or something just as fine. Belavierr looked at it.
She had not woven it. It had woven itself. What it showed her was a burning figure. And fire. Fire, a burning figure. She touched it, and the very fabric was hot.
“So. Two deaths.”
To Belavierr, it was clear as could be. And the Stitch Witch did not question. She knew, and so she acted. She walked, and a thread in her mind, in reality, a bit of magic, led her straight to a [Witch] taking breakfast with Ryoka. Belavierr’s attention was on her daughter. She only vaguely recognized Ryoka; she had forgotten all but the other [Witches]. And she spoke.
“Daughter. I am leaving. There is danger following me.”
That was all. And it was a clear message. But her daughter, the one thing in the world Belavierr couldn’t understand—tried to understand but was incomprehensible—spluttered and asked questions. Belavierr only said what she knew.
“It is too dangerous for me. I will return for you. And the pact with this [Emperor] if there is time.”
“Mother! You can’t just run off! Hold on! Wait! I want to speak with you!”
Belavierr was already leaving. But she paused. Because of Wiskeria. Only for her, despite the danger. The tapestry was smoking. Burning. In Reizmelt, Fierre stomped into the tavern and grabbed the [Mage].
“Daughter. I must go.”
“Mother—what have you done?”
“Nothing?”
Belavierr had no idea. She did not ask the origin, only sought the nature of the threat. She showed Wiskeria the tapestry. Her daughter was uncomprehending.
“I don’t understand.”
“It is a warning. Like other wards, but prophecy. You would know this if you had continued studying your craft, Daughter.”
Belavierr frowned. And she was distracted. Wiskeria glared up at her mother. Someone else spoke urgently by her shoulder.
“Witch Belavierr? What kind of threat is it? Can you tell us if it’s aimed at us? Or just you?”
Belavierr’s eyes swung to Ryoka. In annoyance. The City Runner froze, but Wiskeria blocked Belavierr.
“Don’t glare, Mother! This is Ryoka. My friend. I want you to listen to her, understand?”
“I understand. But, Daughter. I must leave. The death follows me. It may affect you—”
Across the world, the Knight-Commander spoke an order. The [Autumn Knights] called on their grand ritual.
Belavierr’s head snapped up. Across Riverfarm, seven [Witches] looked up. Wiskeria. Nanette. Califor. Hedag. Eloise. Alevica. Mavika. Even Nesor felt it.
So did Ryoka. She gazed up. The wind had changed. It blew, suddenly a gale. Belavierr sighed and turned.
“Daughter. I must go.”
“What is that?”
Wiskeria was gaping. The air was shaking. Ryoka heard a voice. A thunder, like the cracking of the sky. Her hair was standing on end. Prost and Rie gazed up and called the alarm.
They all felt it. And then they saw it. The sky and ground were merging. Outside of Riverfarm, the air warped. Ryoka, turning, saw them.
Ranks of armored Humans. [Knights], hundreds of them, standing in line. Some were dressed like the spring, in green. Others blazed. Still more were dressed in robes or wearing the russet colors of fall. And few stood like ice. One of them was closest, standing on a dais. He pointed, his sword aimed straight through the disturbance in the air. His eyes found Ryoka and moved past her. They widened with hatred. And Belavierr blinked.
Ryoka saw a band of seven in the center of the disturbance. Seven figures, all on foot. Six wore dark clothing, the same capotain style hats on two. Set faces. Each carried weapons. A pair of crossbows. A golden axe. A wand and rapier. A longbow, already nocked with a shimmering arrow. A hammer and shield.
The last was a [Knight]. He walked forwards. He was at the very edge of his forties or the end of his thirties. And his armor was yellow and orange and gold. It shone. But brighter still, the burning in his gaze, as if fire itself flickered in his pupils. He walked first, and the six [Hunters] were behind him.
Through that disturbance in the air where magic itself was affecting reality. Behind him, the Order of Seasons roared. Ryoka froze.
“What’s happening? Dead gods, what’s happening?”
Someone was shouting that. Riverfarm’s people couldn’t have ignored the magical disturbance. They flooded towards the rift, staring. Mister Prost, Beniar and his [Riders]. Lady Rie.
And the coven. The [Witches] came forwards. Even Mavika and Califor stared. Alevica’s jaw dropped. Ryoka’s head spun. She gaped at Wiskeria. The [Witch]’s face was white.
“What kind of magic is this? A Tier 7 spell? Tier 8?”
Ryoka turned back to the rift. Then she glanced around. Her eyes found Belavierr. The Stitch Witch was staring into the rift, at the band slowly walking towards her. The [Summer Knight]’s gaze was blazing, the [Hunters]’ intent. They never looked away from her as they crossed that divide. Nor did Knight-Commander Calirn. He stood with three of the four Grandmasters of the Order of Seasons. And the ranks of the [Knights] beheld her. Belavierr.
“Why is this happening?”
There were many answers. Ryoka thought of a [Witch Hunter]. If she had known more, she might have thought of Fierre. Or Belavierr’s ward spells. And perhaps she might have seen the larger picture if it was explained.
But she didn’t. Because Mavika’s words came back, echoing.
This is not your story.
“Belavierr. This day has been ages coming. Stand and face your fate!”
Knight-Commander Calirn bellowed across the rift. The [Hunters] and [Knight] were closing on her, stepping into Riverfarm. One held a scrying orb. And even as the grand ritual’s magic began to fail, the rift began to close, the [Hunter] lifted the orb. She tossed it, and it paused in the air. The Order of Seasons was reflected there.
The [Hunters] and [Knight] stopped on the grass. The magic vanished from the air. Ryoka staggered back. They had crossed from that other place over to here in less than a minute! She could still feel the shuddering in the air. And now—they were here.
Silence. Nobody could speak. Ryoka’s eyes were wide. How could this be happening? But she was a bystander. And this was not her final act. The [Knight] had no eyes for her. He drew his sword. A greatsword, two-handed. And he spoke.
“Belavierr the Stitch Witch.”
There she stood. Tall as midnight. Dark as shadows. Her glowing eyes fixed on the man as the [Hunters] spread out. And there was a flicker of recognition.
“Do I…know you?”
The [Summer Knight] didn’t blink. He only smiled. And his eyes blazed.
“Belavierr, the Witch of Webs. The Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus and the Order of Seasons ordain your death. Come to execute this duty are six [Witch Hunters] from Terandria. And myself. I am Ser Raim, [Summer Knight] of the Order of Seasons. Today, for the dead, for those who still suffer from your deception and malice, I will bring you to justice.”
He lifted his sword and saluted her. Ryoka was frozen along with the coven. Wiskeria looked at her mother, but she too was transfixed. It was all happening too fast. And it was not her tale.
Belavierr paused for a moment after Sir Raim delivered his vow. She stared at him. And then the six [Witch Hunters]. They were spread out in a semi-circle, flanking her. Four women, two men. One of them looked up. The sun was at her back. And she lifted her weapons in both hands.
A pair of crossbows, bolts tipped with silver. The string was metal, the weapons shining with magic. She aimed at Belavierr as the [Witch] considered.
“I have no quarrel with the Order of Seasons.”
That was what she said. The [Witch Hunter] called out.
“[Magicslayer’s Shot]. [Seven-League Bolts].”
Ryoka saw her pull the triggers at a distance. She never saw the bolts fly. But she saw Belavierr stagger. Wiskeria cried out as Belavierr stumbled back. Two bolts were lodged in her chest. She stared down as the [Witch Hunter] flicked her crossbows.
“[Automatic Reload].”
The crossbows drew back, cocking themselves. Two new bolts appeared in the grooves. The [Witch Hunter] raised the crossbows again. Belavierr stared at the bolts in her chest. Slowly, she touched the liquid running down one bolt.
Red blood. The Stitch Witch looked up and spoke normally. As if the crossbow bolts weren’t there.
“I possess the life of the [Prince] of Kaliv—”
The second pair of bolts struck her right arm. Belavierr stumbled back. She stared at her arm. Tried again.
“His fate is—”
Her hand rose. Two more bolts appeared halfway through her hand. They would have struck her face. Belavierr gazed at them. At blood, which spattered as her arm jerked with the impact. Wiskeria made a sound. Belavierr frowned as the [Witch Hunter] with the crossbows paused.
And then the [Witch] twisted her fingers and flicked a needle.
Where had she pulled it from? Ryoka had no idea. But one needle suddenly shot across the ground at the [Witch Hunter]. Then it multiplied. A hundred. A thousand shot across the ground at the woman, like hail. She cursed.
“[Perfect D—]”
“[Shield of Valor]!”
The [Hunter] with the hammer and shield slammed his shield down in front of her. Ryoka saw a barrier of light. Heard and saw the needles snap as they struck the shield in the air. Belavierr paused.
“Tagil! Attack in tandem! Watch her threads!”
Another [Hunter], the one with the axe, called out. She advanced as the two other [Hunters] aimed. One with a bow, the other with a wand. The [Summer Knight] was still as Belavierr turned. She pulled a bolt out of her chest easily. And then she flicked her hand.
More needles. This time, ten times as many. They sprayed outwards, striking at all the [Hunters] and Ser Raim. The six [Hunters] shouted, but they were equal to it. They dodged or blocked. One simply took the hits; the needles stood out on her leather armor as she blocked the ones aimed at her face. She ignored the metal lodged deep into her armor.
Advancing. The silvery needles flew, trying to shred the hunters. But there stood Ser Raim. He wore no helmet. As the sewing needles shot at him, he spoke.
“[Aura of Righteous Fire].”
And he burned. The air ignited. The area around Ser Raim turned to flame. The metal needles melted before they touched him. The [Summer Knight] walked forwards. His steps lit a trail of fire. His armor burned with it. For twenty feet, fire burned. And it walked with him as he advanced on Belavierr.
Seven. They came forwards. Belavierr abandoned the needles. Frowned. Then she inspected Ser Raim again. Recognition flickered in her eyes.
“Have we met before? I almost remember…no. Nevermind.”
