The first shout made the young boy’s heart jump. He prayed he wouldn’t hear another. But he had no one to pray to, and he didn’t even know how to pray. It mattered not either way. He heard a quarrel. Another raised voice. And then a slap. A cry.
Heart racing. Hands clenching the sweaty sheets. The boy got up and searched his bed desperately. He found what few things he owned. A leather ball he’d won from a friend. A bit of quartz he’d tried to polish. Three copper coins. He grabbed the ball and squeezed it. But then he heard more fighting. And another cry.
Now he was standing. Shaking. But he knew what was going to happen. It was a pattern. Not the first time, either. The young boy stared at the light through the door. And he was afraid. He’d been out there before. Tried to block the man, his father. Fight back. Last time, he’d lost a tooth. He was afraid.
Because the wrath would turn towards him soon. Already, his mother was sobbing. The boy, desperate, wanted to hide under the bed. Or go out the window. But to where? This was home. So he shuddered.
And he remembered something. A smile. A huge face. A booming voice and a promise. A [Witch]’s promise. She’d sworn on her hat. And she had told him if, if he needed her, to call her name. And she would come. She’d touched the ball, and he’d seen no magic. But she had promised.
In that dark night, the boy had no one to turn to. His father was passing from drunk into a dark temper. Beyond just fury, in fact. The brooding, bitter rage that wouldn’t end in slaps or tears or even blood. So the boy hesitated. He grabbed the ball and clenched his fists. He had to be a man. A man wouldn’t let his mother cry out like that.
But he was small. Afraid. So the boy grabbed the ball. He hesitated and then raised his prized possession and cried out. His father heard and tore towards him. The boy heard the furious pounding on the door and hid under the bed. Praying without words. But there was no one in his house besides him, his father, and his mother. His neighbors were quiet, asleep or silent. There was no one to hear him.
Except the [Witch]. In the mess hall, nodding off, Ryoka saw Hedag’s silent form move. The hat, which had partially slipped off Hedag’s head, rose. And the [Witch], who had fallen asleep, looked up. There was no laughter. No smile.
Hedag was on her feet in a second. She ran. Ryoka jerked upright. She was quick, but Hedag was out of the doors, tables and chairs still tumbling aside as she charged outside. Ryoka stumbled after her, the alcohol in her veins disappearing. What? She hadn’t heard a thing!
The [Witch] was outside, head turning. She looked left down a street of houses with few lights flickering behind the shutters. Then she ran. Ryoka shouted.
“Hedag! What is it?”
The woman didn’t respond. She kept running, and Ryoka chased her. But Hedag was fast. She ran without form, holding her hat on her head, pounding down the dirt street. But she was still faster than Ryoka. She ran until she stopped. Ryoka nearly missed her. Hedag stormed up to a house with a faint light flickering behind the door. Ryoka heard a few sounds from inside, a raised voice, a pounding sound.
“What—”
Hedag’s fist struck the door. The [Witch] bellowed into the night. And her voice was like thunder.
“You inside! Touch not that child! Step away from that door!”
Ryoka heard an oath from inside, and then a muffled voice. Hedag’s fist slammed into the door.
“Step away, man. And leave him be. Open this door or I will open it myself!”
She roared the words, heedless of the doors opening, the people stirring. Ryoka stared. She did not know what was happening. But then she saw Hedag lower her shoulder and slam into the door.
The wood was solid. The frame was sturdy. It had been made by good [Builders] out of strong wood, and it was fresh. It held, but Ryoka heard the creak. Hedag didn’t stop. She backed up and struck the door again, hurling her entire weight against it. The door cracked.
“—off! This is my house!”
A man’s voice was audible now. He was shouting in a fury. And Ryoka heard a woman’s voice. She understood. But Hedag didn’t stop. She rammed the door a third time. Then she raised her foot, kicked, and the door broke. Ryoka heard an oath and exclamation. Hedag strode into the house, knocking the broken parts of the door aside.
“Step away from the child and woman.”
There was a shout. Ryoka saw a flicker of movement as she ran for the doorframe. She watched Hedag step back, move—the man was swinging at her. The [Witch] blocked the blow and struck back. Ryoka heard a cry—and then a thump. And then another one.
“Listen to me, you poor excuse for a man. You’ll never touch her or him again. Do you hear me?”
“Let go of me! I’m—”
Ryoka heard a slurred voice and then another blow, so loud her own teeth clenched at it. A cry of pain. Hedag sounded like thunder still, rolling and distant.
“Never again. This is a lesson. So pay heed: never again.”
A giant wearing a hat stood in the kitchen. Tall, taller than the mortal man she held. She raised her hand, and the man screamed. Ryoka saw a woman grabbing Hedag, pleading. A boy—perhaps eleven—standing and watching, wide-eyed. Watching his father’s pain. Ryoka grabbed at Hedag’s arm as the woman raised it. And the backhand that struck Ryoka sent her stumbling into a wall.
“Don’t interfere, Runner-Girl. Nor you, wife. This is my craft. My business. And this man will not touch you or his son so again. Or the next time I return, I will break his bones. And he will remember it. A Hedag’s promise is never broken. So remember this. What you were going to do to a boy less than half your size. Remember this.”
Ryoka stumbled upright. She saw Hedag standing over the man. There was a terrible light in her eyes that scared Ryoka. Hedag moved, grabbing the father as he tried to run. And the next blow doubled him over.
“Hedag! That’s enough!”
Ryoka called out. But the [Witch] did not stop. The father tore away from her with animal strength and ran out the door. Hedag caught him in the street.
A crowd had gathered. Most in their night clothes. They stared at Hedag as she caught him and delivered another blow. The father gasped.
“Help—”
And he was struck again. He made a wild sound, and that moved the crowd. Some of them stepped forwards, but stopped when Hedag looked at them.
“Here now! What’s he done? You have no right to attack a man in his house—”
“Silence.”
Hedag barked the word. It stopped Ryoka behind her. The crowd. Prost, approaching with Beniar. Hedag glanced around, and the [Witch]’s eyes were wide under her hat. She spoke, her words tearing the illusion of the peaceful night apart.
“I am Hedag! And I am teaching a man who would beat his wife and child a lesson. He will suffer for it. He will not die of it. But he will suffer. And no one will stop me. I am Hedag, and this is my right. This is justice. Will any woman or man gainsay it?”
She stood, holding the whimpering man in a grip of steel. The crowd protested. But it was at Prost the Hedag was looking. The [Witch]’s eyes met his. And the [Steward] stopped. He gazed at Hedag.
“Hedag the [Executioner]. Do you say this is just?”
“Just?”
The exclamation came from a dozen voices, outraged. But Hedag just nodded. She glanced around. The outraged people hesitated.
“Should I show you the wife’s bruises? The cuts? Or should I show you the way he beat her? Should I reveal his sins? I will, if you wish it, and you will see what sort of man you call neighbor and friend.”
No one spoke at that. Hedag’s eyes blazed as she lifted the man. He made a sound between terror and pain.
“I don’t need to. And better left, those sins are. Each one has their own. But this one I do not stand. Come, you gathered folk. If you didn’t know what a Hedag’s justice was, you know now. It is this. No man or woman will beat a child. No crime will be done that is not punished. And the punishment is this.”
She raised a hand and struck the man across the face. Ryoka saw a spray of blood and heard a mortal groan. It might have come from Ryoka. Hedag dropped the man. He was alive. But the suffering—she stood over him, and the crowd flinched from her gaze. Hedag continued calmly, her voice ringing in the night.
“Time was, a village wouldn’t sit by to see such things done. When worst came to worst, they’d gather. Go in and see justice done themselves. But they say civilization and progress put an end to those times. Now people wait and pretend not to see bruises or a blackened eye. Tears or torment. But Hedag sees. And wheresoever Hedag walks, she carries the old ways right here.”
She touched her chest and hat. The [Witch] looked around. And Ryoka understood. It wasn’t a story she knew. But it was a universal story. Hedag had seen it a thousand, ten thousand, a hundred thousand times.
She ignored the protests. She left the man where he lay. Her lesson was done. And it wasn’t him she’d ever cared about. It was the young boy in tears Hedag walked to. The [Witch] was not guilty or remorseful, and she grabbed him where he might have struck at her and talked.
“It was a harsh thing, young lad. But better your father learned it. And it was bravery to call me. If you ever need help, call my name. And listen, because I tell you this plain: your father was wrong. The poorest of people beat their kin, let alone a child. And also know this. You will be safe. I swear by my hat on it.”
That was all. Prost stood over the man, and the city folk saw what the oldest justice was. What a Hedag was. [Executioner], yes. But also judge. Protector. Some shouted it was not right. Or just. But Ryoka looked at the wife, who was bleeding and bruised. And then at the man Hedag had left on the ground.
This was Hedag’s craft. She talked to the boy. And he hit her, then cried, and he listened as she held him and told him it was going to be alright. No one was asking him to grow up yet. But he’d been a man tonight. And—Ryoka saw—he was years and centuries older than the boy he’d been yesterday. Then Hedag talked to the wife, and the woman was just as conflicted.
That was what Hedag took. That was what she offered. As she left the house, Ryoka saw hundreds of years on her. Men. Women. Children. All of whom saw and heard her promise.
“Call my name. And I will be there.”
That was this [Witch]’s craft. She took gratitude, pure and simple. Simple gratitude. Innocence lost. Pain and fear and regret too, though. But part of it was gratitude. For being there.
And yet, what a cruel justice. Ryoka stared at the man. He wasn’t broken. But he was bloody. No one had healed him with a potion. Even if they did, he would feel the blows she’d dealt him. He would remember. Ryoka stared at the man as he made faint sounds. And then she went after Hedag.
The [Witch] sat alone, calmly drinking in the mess hall. She glanced up as Ryoka hesitated behind her.
“A Hedag has eyes in the back of her head, Ryoka-Girl. Literally. It’s a Skill, not magic. Useful, too. Sit.”
Slowly, Ryoka did. Hedag gazed at her. Ryoka hesitated. Then she pointed towards the door, the commotion growing. Another night of peace turned to unrest. But this one of a different kind.
Justice? The City Runner spoke, meeting Hedag’s gaze.
“You know they’ll turn on you. That husband you beat down. He’ll do it again as soon as you’re gone, if his wife doesn’t divorce him. Even if she does. And he has friends. They could come after you.”
The [Witch] laughed. It was coarse, almost mocking. But then gentle. She tipped the flask up, and it was empty. She sighed and tossed it on the table.
“Of course I know. I’ve been doing this for decades, Runner-Girl. But what’s the better way? To stand here and listen to a big, strong fellow beat his wife bloody? Is that just? While I’m here, folks will think twice about doing what he just did. And by the time I leave, he will know better than to touch a child. Because I will only leave when I am certain he will not. Elsewise, I will come back again and again. And every village hereabouts will know the same. That’s my craft. What do you think of it?”
Ryoka paused.
“I—I think it’s—you didn’t have to beat that man so badly.”
The [Witch]’s eyes glinted.
“Wrong. I did.”
“You could have stopped him.”
“And what would that do, Miss City Runner? Would that have stopped him from trying again? Would he think twice if I’d have paddled his rear and given him naught but a warning? No. Now, he will think many times.”
The young woman saw the logic. But she shook her head.
“You just made him angrier. Violence begets violence. He’ll take it out on the kid if he can.”
“And if he does, I will break his arm.”
“But that won’t change—”
Hedag’s fist slammed on the table.
“Change? It won’t change him. But who said I must be the one to change him? I will stop him, and stop him cold! My craft is not to coddle, Ryoka Griffin. It is not to show mercy to those who do wrong. If that man strikes a child, I strike him. If he kills a neighbor, I will judge him. And if a man or woman commits a crime as warrants it, I fetch my axe. That is justice. It is my craft. Not change.”
Ryoka paused. She studied Hedag. The woman had abandoned her first flask. She was rummaging around. And she pulled out a second flask and began drinking from it.
“So that’s a Hedag.”
“That is my name. My purpose. There have been Hedags before me. And perhaps there will be some after. But perhaps I am the last. I think every Hedag has always said that, though.”
The [Witch] drank. Ryoka hesitated.
“I understand. You’re the law in far-off villages. That’s what Prost said. A Hedag. A wandering [Executioner] and…but what gives you the right? If you weren’t as principled as you were—”
“What? You mean, if I wasn’t as ‘principled’ I’d do what? Ignore a child’s cry? Punish a man harder than I ought to? Say, ask for those who might pay me and protect only them?”
Hedag’s eyes flashed. Ryoka nodded.
“Yes.”
She waited. Hedag gulped down her mouthful, then lowered the flask. She reached out and grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder before the young woman could dodge. Hedag’s grip was steel. Her voice a rumble.
“In that case, I would be a monster. Some call me that anyways. But I carry my justice here. And here. And in my axe.”
She tapped her hat and heart and then let go of Ryoka. The young woman felt at her shoulder.
“I understand that, Hedag. But you still went into that man’s house and beat him. If—Riverfarm has laws. The boy could have called for help. The man could have been locked up. We have laws for a reason. They prohibit abuse. Prost would, if he’d been there. Why not trust him?”
