Wiskeria recognized it. One of her mother’s ward-spells. She had no idea how powerful it could be. Normally, she’d want to make a spell or ward out of strong emotion and magic. Conventional artifacts of great power, for instance, were never made of pot metal or clay because those were weak materials. Of course, you could make a very specifically powerful wooden enchanted sword, but material mattered.
Unfortunately, Belavierr’s craft was such that logic stopped applying to her abilities. Grand magic could turn even weak thread into powerful tools. It was probably a thread made from a Griffin’s mane or something, anyways.
It was also trembling. Wiskeria paused. That usually meant the magic was being used. She didn’t know what this ward spell did. Perhaps it had stopped some bird droppings from landing on her mother’s hat? Or…it had done something else.
It was just more of the same. Wiskeria squared her shoulders. She had come here for a reason. And she should have done this long ago. Ryoka was infuriating, but she was also right.
“Mother.”
The head rose, and Wiskeria felt a bitter pleasure. She had loved, in that long ago, that only one word and one voice could ever make Belavierr react consistently. But now she looked down and saw that ringed gaze, the orange, luminescent eyes, and she saw…
“Daughter. Do you need something of me?”
Belavierr stood in one motion. She looked down at her daughter, and Wiskeria stared up at her. And just like that…it was like she was a child again.
Without hesitation, despite her task or work—Belavierr stopped and put aside her craft for only one being ever. Her daughter.
It used to make Wiskeria feel so special. Even now, she understood what it meant.
Do you need something of me? Ask and you shall receive. Wiskeria was tempted to ask for a fish or to see the moon and show Ryoka what such requests meant.
But she didn’t.
She sat, regarding the charm, and Belavierr sat too.
“You’re making a ward.”
“Yes. Many of my magics were shattered. Lost. Burnt away or ripped to shreds. You see?”
Belavierr lifted an arm, and Wiskeria saw it. The same strands of broken fiber, like a spiderweb but infinitely more thin and vast, trailed behind her. Wiskeria’s breath caught.
“So it’s true. How many is…? What did that? An Elder Creler?”
“No. That would not be enough. See, Daughter? I have not been so weak in mortal ages. It will take aeons to rebuild. But I begin with thread by thread. As we must.”
Belavierr went back to working, and Wiskeria could admire that. Kick over a sandcastle and Belavierr would rebuild it grain by grain. If it mattered.
“Who did this? What did? What happened in Noelictus, Mother?”
The Stitch Witch’s lips pursed.
“It is a long story. I do not wish to tell my part of it completely. I shall, if you ask.”
“Is…someone going to tell a famous tale about it? A [Bard]?”
Wiskeria would actually prefer to hear it like that than from her mother, who told complex stories, much like the thread she wove. Belavierr stared at her thread, and Wiskeria saw an actual glower.
“Perhaps. But not in song. I would be displeased by a song.”
Now that…that was interesting. Wiskeria raised her brows.
“Someone bested you with a song?”
Dead silence. Wiskeria crossed her legs. She refused to give Ryoka any credit, but seeing her mother so upset gave her a kind of schadenfreude.
“Mother, I ask you tell me the story in its entirety.”
And because she asked—Belavierr did. The Stitch Witch looked up, sighed as she wove her anger and annoyance into the charm, and began to speak.
“It began when I sensed ghosts.”
“In Noelictus?”
“Yes.”
“What…actual ghosts? You couldn’t ever summon them for me; you said they were hiding from you and something else. You found actual—”
“Daughter. I am trying to explain. It began with ghosts.”
“When was this? Give me a date.”
“After you left.”
“Everything is after I left, Mother. Years? Months? A decade?”
“…After you left, I noticed ghosts.”
“How many?”
 
——
 
It was hard to say who grew more exhausted from listening to a story from Belavierr. Wiskeria interrupted constantly, but she had to.
Belavierr had no sense of time, distance, or even…people. When she said ‘I went there’, did she mean she walked a thousand miles, projected herself, or something else? When she said ‘there’, she might mean palaces or forsaken bogs.
Plus, she didn’t know the minutiae, the drama of the Kingdom of Shades, and had mentioned an entire war…and had no details on what had actually happened. Wiskeria was sure there was a better version of the story out there, but she got pieces.
“Alright, so there were ghosts, a [Singer], a lot of angry [Knights] and [Hunters], a war…and they ruined your big plan. The one you were working on when I was a kid. Those stupid Helpful Servants.”
Belavierr paused as Wiskeria summed up what had taken hours in this place away from places to retell.
“My great work.”
“Your stupid Helpful Servants. I never liked them. Even less when I learned who they were. There was a reason you never showed them to me until I was older, Mother.”
Belavierr didn’t dignify this with an answer. She sat, the loop of thread she’d begun now so complex it resembled a creature of its own, which flexed and moved with each new loop. Perhaps it would be alive; Wiskeria could imagine this ward protecting Belavierr from…well, anything.
“And they beat you. I can’t understand how.”
“It was not they who did it. A few were dangerous. But when I strove against them, my magic was shambles, Daughter. I told you: the tale of the others matters little. It was what ate my magic as I worked.”
“As you were distracted. Mice, you called them?”
“Yes.”
Belavierr’s eyes were wrathful. Mice. Something had stolen away with her mother’s power. Whoever they were—Wiskeria didn’t envy them. She got up and paced around.
“So something took a lot of your power, and it allowed your plans to fall to dust. Now, you’re on the run from them, and you chose to come here and bring all this trouble down on the Witches of Izril. And me! And Riverfarm!”
“I wished to see you, Daughter. I have grown more…awake with my protections ruined. I lost much, and I wished to see you.”
Wiskeria turned away. Belavierr might mean it. Or might think she meant it. It didn’t matter. Wiskeria took a huge breath. This was—hard. Hard, but it had been her idea, and so she turned back. There was no point beating around the bush; her mother didn’t care.
“Mother. I need a favor of you. A big one.”
“Of course. Name it, and I will do it if it is within my power.”
Wiskeria nodded. She looked into Belavierr’s eyes, and they were familiar. She didn’t know why people shuddered. If you stared long enough, you could see what was in the ever-smaller rings. Deeper and deeper. Wiskeria hesitated. And then she spoke.
“Mother. Please stop using your stitch-magic. Please throw away your creations of thread. I—I beg you, as your daughter. Stop using your charms and curses of needles and cloth. Don’t use any of it.”
It was hard to say. Harder than Wiskeria had thought. But it was a relief to come out with it, even if Wiskeria knew the answer. She lowered her head. Belavierr paused. But then she nodded.
“Very well, Daughter. For how long?”
Wiskeria’s head snapped up. She gaped at Belavierr.
“What? You’ll do it?”
She hadn’t expected that! But if Belavierr said it, it was true. That—that would change everything! Laken, Riverfarm, the hostility against [Witches]—for a second, she grew excited, and she searched her mother’s eyes for a hint of a lie.
The bright gaze never wavered. Belavierr inclined her head slightly.
“Of course. For you, Daughter. How long do you ask this of me?”
Oh. Of course. Wiskeria closed her eyes. But—could she live with that? She looked up, biting her lip.
“Two hundred years. Can you do that, Mother?”
“Of course. If you wish it, for two hundred years I will use no spell of stitching, no cloth artifacts or magic of thread and needle. Does this satisfy you?”
Belavierr said it as if it were the lightest thing in the world. Even her daughter had to stare. But then Wiskeria nodded. She even smiled.
“Yes! Yes! Of course! Thank you, Mother.”
For a moment, she envisioned throwing her arms around her mother, like she’d seen other children do. But Belavierr’s face didn’t change one whit. Wiskeria hesitated, and the moment was gone.
Belavierr bent forwards and regarded her daughter. She paused again.
“It is what you wish, Daughter. But why do you ask it of me?”
“Because I don’t want you to take lives, like you did to Rehanna, Mother. So—you will do it? For two hundred years, you won’t steal life or trade curses? You’ll be better. Maybe I could learn from you or help you. Without all that, I could be proud of…”
“Ah.”
That one sound pierced Wiskeria’s heart. Belavierr straightened. And then slowly, she shook her head.
“No. I’m afraid you misunderstand me, Daughter. I will not do that. I will give up my stitch-spells and pacts of thread. But the deal I made with the woman Rehanna I will continue to make. Else I would die.”
“But—you promised!”
Wiskeria stared up at her mother, shocked. Belavierr never lied. Yet the Stitch Witch didn’t appear guilty.
“I promised to give up my magic. My spells and lore. For you, Daughter, I would give it away and seal my knowledge for two hundred years. But what you ask is different. You ask that I would change my craft. The very essence of what I am.”
“Yes! Will you do it? I will never ask you for anything again, Mother! Please?”
“No.”
The word echoed. And the face that delivered it never changed.
Then Wiskeria felt something hurting in her chest and cursed Ryoka. If she hadn’t tried…Belavierr gently drew out Wiskeria’s pain and regret and, yes, damned love and wove it into her charm.
“I do not understand why you are sad, Daughter. Is this not what you wish? I could capture another fish for you. Would you like another dress? These are easier things to do, instead. I cannot change my nature.”
That was what was the worst of Belavierr. Not her magic or her deeds. It was the way she moved through life, uncaring. Uninterested. It hurt to argue with her. Wiskeria clenched her hands, her nails digging into her flesh.
“But that is all I want. All I want from you, Mother. I would be happy if you did this.”
“It is my craft.”
“It hurts people. You take their lives, Mother. You take their emotions. You take. And you hurt people. Sometimes, you kill—because someone asks it of you.”
“Yes. Because we make a fair deal.”
Fair. Wiskeria’s head snapped up, and then she raged at her mother. She stood, shaking.
“Don’t talk to me of fairness! Don’t talk like Ryoka, who’s grown half a brain and thinks she can talk about good and evil! Fair? What about Ostevien? You don’t even remember him, but do you think that was fair?”
Belavierr paused in her sewing and seemed to check something in the air. A thread only she could see.
“Ah. Now we come to the heart of it, Daughter. Though which heart and why, I know not. You are angry. I do not know why. You speak a name, and I…remember it?”
She raised a hand to her head, concentrating.
“There was a boy.”
“He and I grew up together. He was my only friend!”
“Ah. Yes.”
She didn’t care. Or maybe she did care, but only for Wiskeria. Belavierr shrugged.
“He pleased you.”
“He was brave, honest, and the only person who was willing to trust you—and me! His mother, his entire damn kingdom offered you—me—the chance of a lifetime.”
“Of their lifetimes, yes. It was a bargain for them. Did I not save his life when we first met?”
Wiskeria was fuming, but she knew she had to explain—again—the past so her mother would even understand why she was upset. She stabbed a finger into her palm.
“Let’s get one thing straight, Mother. Yes. You saved his life when you met him because he fell off a Griffin. And the entire Kingdom of Kaliv was in your debt! But Oste trusted you. He liked me. When he offered me friendship, not just a bargain, it was the happiest time of my life.”
“I recall taking a bargain to protect Kaliv. For you, Daughter. That was my love. It was unprofitable, save where you were happy. Thus, I balanced the scales.”
That was her love. Wiskeria closed her eyes.
“Yes, and I still thank you for it, Mother. Because that, of all things, made me a person. Oste and I had so much fun.”
“I see. This is good. Why do you hold it against me?”
“Because of how it ended.”
The Stitch Witch stopped sewing and looked up. She held a needle in her hand that looked like it had been cut from the moon itself, a sliver of reality. If she willed it, she could have pulled down the moon like a balloon and attached it to a string.
Or so Wiskeria believed. So a child had believed, and who knew? It might have been true. But the one thing Belavierr could not do was understand her daughter.
This troubled her so much that, again, the Stitch Witch put aside her work and rested her chin upon her hand.
“I shall think on the matter.”
Wiskeria waited, pacing back and forth, as Belavierr mused out loud.
“It ended in flight. Hunted as a thousand Griffins bearing riders took to the skies. To fly against me in violation of their treaty and die. But I killed them not, for my daughter begged—”
“No. Before that.”
Belavierr sat there, puzzled. Then her eyes whirled, and she stared back through time as though it were a looking glass.
“Upon her throne, the Griffin Queen, Novakya, wept. She exiled her only son.”
“Why, Mother? What did you do?”
The Stitch Witch sat there, and at last, her eyes brightened. She looked up and, with a smile, answered Wiskeria’s crime.
“My beloved Daughter came to me with a request. So I fulfilled it. As I have always done. Ostevien was the boy’s name. I offered him a pact of old, a great pact, at no cost, which endures to this day. Only for you.”
She looked at Wiskeria, and the younger [Witch] wept. Tears fell from her eyes; the tears she had only learned to cry on that day. First in her life, a young woman of sixteen. The day she became a [Witch].
“Daughter. Why do you cry? I still do not understand.”
Belavierr lifted a finger as if to stem the flow of tears. Wiskeria answered in a choked voice.
“Because I ruined his life. Because you did, Mother.”
“The opposite is true.”
“No. No. He did not know what he asked for. I didn’t either. That day, I beheld your cruelty. Ryoka can talk all she wants about the good and ill you do—the Helpful Servants? Is that fairness?”
