The baby. Ryoka woke up in Durene’s cottage seven hours later. It was already late morning, so she got up cautiously, only to find Charlay staring right at her. The Centauress’ eyes were sunken.
“I dreamt about screaming babies.”
“You did?”
“Mhm.”
Charlay knelt on her horse legs as Ryoka got up. The City Runner stared at Durene’s kitchen and decided she didn’t have the strength to make a hot meal. It wasn’t that kind of day. Some days you didn’t want food to make you feel good because it couldn’t. She dug in her pack and pulled out some nuts and a couple dried fruits. Charlay copied her and came up with some dried oats and nuts.
They ate quietly. It felt like a wake to Ryoka. It was almost a relief when Frostwing dove from her perch and tried to steal all of Ryoka’s nuts. That woke Durene up. She joined them, and after tossing potatoes out at the Mossbear lying in the remains of Durene’s garden, they found Wiskeria.
She was lying in her tent. Awake. She crawled out and stared at them. Like Charlay, her eyes were worn by exhaustion. Perhaps not from nightmares; she looked worn by memory. Another familiar thing. Ryoka offered her a hand, and Wiskeria stared at her. At Durene. Charlay.
Ryoka could see the looks on her companions’ faces. They were remembering the baby. But that wasn’t Wiskeria’s fault. In no way had she condoned or helped that occur. It was only that Belavierr was her mother. And that she was a [Witch]. Ryoka looked down at Wiskeria’s face. To Wiskeria, it seemed, both meant she was partly guilty.
“Uh. Morning. Want some nuts? Charlay’s got oats if you’re interested.”
Wiskeria blinked as Ryoka offered her the travel rations. The comment Ryoka made was incredibly stupid, but it helped break the gravitas of the day. Durene snorted a bit, and Charlay eyed Ryoka.
“I thought you hated my oats.”
“I do. Maybe Wiskeria’s allergic to nuts, though.”
“Um. Thanks.”
The [Witch] slowly got up. She faced Ryoka. The City Runner gave her a half-smile.
“Shall we?”
 
—–
 
The strange mood filled the village. Not exactly horror, not in the light of the day. And not grieving; no one had died. But a strange, quiet mood. Like that after some huge tragedy too large to encompass. Unease, that was it. Ryoka looked at the quiet faces, the way no one, not even children, made loud sounds.
As if it were against the rules. As if they were all dreaming. But in time, people began waking up. Someone made a loud sound as she slapped two pots together, and everyone jumped. Someone else made an inane joke about oats and Humans, and no one laughed, but the world became normal. Ryoka and Charlay gave each other high-fives, and Chimmy was able to run up. Like that, Riverfarm became normal.
Ryoka realized she was actually hungry for food instead of a handful of nuts and fruit. She joined the queue in front of one of the cooking halls where food was being passed out. Today’s was, almost predictably, a stew. They were easy to make, but someone—Prost—had decided to let the [Cooks] add a generous helping of lard and some of the meat, and there was some really nice bread.
It wasn’t quite as well-risen as something from Ryoka’s world—she blamed a lack of baking powder—but it was just as tasty. And hot! She ate greedily and found Charlay stuffing her face as well.
“Charlay, can you eat all kinds of meat?”
“Don’t be racist, Ryoka. Of course I can. But I don’t eat too much; it goes straight to my lower belly.”
Ryoka eyed the Centauress’ lower half. She couldn’t argue with that. She saw people standing around, talking, until men and women began walking through the crowd with authority, shouting.
“Alright! Enough time stuffing faces! We need to get those fields tilled, or do you think our seeds will sprout in fresh air? [Farmers], with me! You new folk, anyone who’s got a farming class, come with me until Prost sorts you out!”
“Building team! Muster up!”
“Ladies and children, we’ll be setting up those drying racks. And washing clothes and seeing to the rest of our tasks! It’s a fine day to dry what needs drying, so we will be cleaning and letting the air do our work—”
Ryoka had another reason to admire Prost, then. The unsure crowd began to move with a purpose. From her seat, she watched a group of [Farmers] get up. Her hermit-friend, the spear fisher, was good-naturedly hefting his spear and arguing with Beycalt, who was clearly not about to let him wander off and pursue his passion and calling. A group of farmers, including Mister Ram, trooped past Ryoka, groaning.
“We’re going to have to water the fields, aren’t we? It’s too damn bright, and we need rain! At least the river’s nearby.”
“Stop complaining. We’ve any number of hands. And some of us have [Water-Retaining Soil]. But would you rather wait for rain with nary a cloud in sight?”
“It’ll be half a day of watering! We’ll have to do it all by hand!”
One of the female [Farmers] slapped a man on the back.
“Well, you were complaining about the rain right before this. Make up your mind, man!”
He groaned.
“Can’t [Witches] conjure rain?”
Everyone in earshot paused at that. The other [Farmers] scowled at the loudmouth, and half of them smacked or elbowed him. The woman [Farmer] glowered.
“Yeah. How much of your soul do you think they want for a shower? Forget it. Let’s get some buckets. We do need a canal or two, though…”
They moved out of the mess hall. Ryoka sighed. The village was still mostly in shock. She was certain that would change. She got up and bussed her and Charlay’s dishes.
Yes, shock. You could see that on most faces. With the daylight hitting them and the dark night behind, it was easy for people to laugh off what they’d seen. Or pretend it wasn’t as real. Just a doll, perhaps. Some trickery of magic. Not…
It was a bad memory. Until you heard a baby’s wail and looked about wildly for it. Twice, it happened, and both times everyone in earshot froze, then laughed. But no one laughed when they went past the house where Rehanna lived.
Rehanna had her own home. Of course she did; she had once had a family.
A family.
You would think, on this day, she would be cloistered away in her home with no one to see. Like, Ryoka had imagined, someone in a care facility in a padded room to protect herself. But when Ryoka saw the woman—she understood why the village was so unsettled.
“Time to work. Someone give me a hand with these linens? They need darning, all of them.”
A woman was trying to lift a basket of damaged clothing up onto a table as she sat outside her home. There was a crowd of people watching that Prost was trying to chivvy to work. But they could not help it. People passing in the streets slowed.
They stared at a woman, hair white, hands covered with liver spots and older—far older than she had been a day ago—trying to lift a basket. After a second, another woman hurried over and helped Rehanna put it on the table.
“Take care of your strength, Rehanna.”
“I…I used to be able to do that. My. How will I pull my weight? Thank you…Miss Eloise? Witch Eloise?”
Rehanna turned, and she seemed older, now, than the [Witch] with the flowery hat. Rehanna was still taller, but Eloise was the more—lively of the two. The woman rested on the table, clearly fatigued from that one exertion, then felt around for a needle. Thread.
A wail rose, then, and Ryoka felt her blood chill, and the crowd shivered. It was a baby’s wail. Nothing more. Nothing less.
“Oh, there he goes again. One moment. Mihka. Mihka, hush—”
And Rehanna hurried over to a basket and hamper. She bent over, looking, of all things, slightly harried, annoyed, like a mother at work would be to have to constantly attend to—
She lifted something up, and tiny fingers grasped for her as she adjusted her blouse, offering the wailing infant made of cloth a breast. Then the crying stopped, and someone retched quietly. But Rehanna just hummed and stood there until she placed the—her child down.
“I hope I’ll survive teething. I…I never thought I’d be so happy. Now, where’s the linens? Miss Yesel said I needn’t worry, but someone has to darn them. And I am a [Mother]. I levelled up last night, you know, Miss Eloise.”
Eloise. The Tea Witch slowly sat there as Rehanna sat back in a rocking chair and pulled the first piece of cloth over to her. She began to sew in a practiced manner, and Eloise watched.
The [Witch]’s face was very…very kind. And very old, Ryoka saw. Eloise patted Rehanna on the knee.
“That’s quite wonderful, Rehanna. I hope you don’t mind the staring. I will have something to restore your strength. You must take care of your body now, you understand?”
Rehanna’s head lifted, and her aged features swept the crowd. It was not, Ryoka realized, as if she hadn’t seen them. She gave her audience a tremulous smile and lifted a hand. When they flinched—she lowered it.
“I quite understand, Witch Eloise. I should just like everyone to know that I’m happy. I apologize for all the trouble I’ve been. I’m happy. So—”
Her eyes flickered.
“So please. Let me be happy?”
Her eyes stole to the basket, and Ryoka heard a slight gurgle from it in the silence. When Rehanna looked up, no one could meet her eyes. But it seemed as if Eloise, for all her own quiet grief, sat like a sentinel.
Only then did Prost raise his voice and order everyone to work. He shouted everyone along, then stood there in the street. Ryoka saw him take several huge breaths, square his shoulders—then march over to smile and take Rehanna’s hand and ask her how she was this morning.
That took a bravery Ryoka didn’t have this morning. She herself hurried away. Away from the smiling woman. Away from the infant made of cloth.
The mood was quiet in Riverfarm due to that, for all Rehanna tried to call greetings. But Ryoka was certain it wouldn’t last.
Shock would be replaced by other emotions, soon. People might avoid Rehanna’s house and the woman, but for how long? They could try to ignore her or pretend this was all a trick, but the thing about magic, real magic, was that it didn’t tarnish in daylight.
They would see and have to deal with it again, and then all the chickens would come home to roost.
Or crows. The streets were absolutely deserted around the houses as Ryoka and Wiskeria approached. And even the [Witches] looked—
Hesitant. Mavika, Hedag, and Alevica sat together, speaking quietly. They too looked uneasy. This magic was clearly not something they were used to, either.
The most…normal was Mavika. She was snapping at Alevica. She just looked unhappy, and when Ryoka trotted over, Mavika’s expression only grew more annoyed. Ryoka lifted a hand.
“Uh…”
“Go away, wind’s child. We aren’t in the mood to speak of what your eyes and ears can see. No more are we here to comfort thee.”
Mavika was feeding half her breakfast to the raven perched on her shoulder. She cast Ryoka a black-eyed glance, and Ryoka hesitated. But then she sat down at the table. Affronted, Mavika’s eyes narrowed, and Wiskeria hastily came up behind Ryoka.
“Ryoka has a few questions, Witch Mavika. On behalf of Riverfarm. They need some assurance.”
“Of what? The doll? It was—”
“—a deal fairly struck. So Wiskeria’s said, Witch Mavika. A good morning to you, by the way.”
Ryoka spoke tactfully. Mavika eyed her and clicked her tongue.
“Then why do you ask?”
Alevica grinned, or tried to, as Hedag grabbed the last heel of bread. They listened as Ryoka responded.
“To be sure it was fair. No offense to Witch Wiskeria, but Belavierr is a powerful magic-user. And I know some stories about [Witches]. Very few of them have fair endings.”
The trio of [Witches] fell silent. Mavika broke off some bread and ate it. She replied, chewing, as her raven snatched the last of the bread.
“And do you hold these tales to be true of all [Witches], wind’s child?”
“No. But I haven’t met any [Witches] before all of you. And Belavierr is unique.”
Not even Mavika could contest that. She sat back, annoyed, and Ryoka took that as acceptance. She looked around.
“The baby. I get that Belavierr traded it to Rehanna. Can you all tell me why? And how she struck the deal?”
The [Witches] looked at Ryoka. Then Alevica leaned over to Hedag.
“And here I thought she was halfway smart.”
Hedag boomed with laughter. She slapped the table, making all the cups jump, and leaned forwards.
“Don’t insult the girl, Alevica! Miss Runner! You want to know what bargain was struck? Can’t you see what it was? Or do you ask if there’s some other trick to it? If so, I’ll tell you what any [Witch] would: there’s not, and it was honestly done!”
She eyed Ryoka, her huge face smiling beneath her brown hat. Of all the [Witches], Ryoka had spoken to Hedag the least. Not at all, in fact; she’d been playing with the children all of yesterday. She looked at Ryoka, eyes bright beneath the huge grin.
“Califor said you understood our craft. So you tell me, Miss Runner Ryoka, what was the nature of the bargain? It should be plain to see.”
Ryoka thought for a moment.
“It looks like Belavierr made the doll for Rehanna because the woman missed her child. In exchange for part of Rehanna’s life. Or her lifespan. But—it’s not that simple, is it?”
“Why not?”
Hedag’s smile was challenging. Ryoka turned to look at Wiskeria and got a nod. That was what Wiskeria had said, but…Ryoka frowned.
“But it’s just a doll. What makes it worth…forty years of her life?”
“It looks like her child. Sounds like it too.”
The Wind Runner blinked. That made sense. But…it did feel too simple. She raised her eyebrows, meeting Hedag’s gaze.
“So it’s not going to disappear or fall apart or…suck the life out of her?”
“Do you believe the Stitch Witch is of so little skill? Did you not see her daughter’s clothing? Nothing Belavierr makes will come undone with age, for better or ill.”
That retort came from Mavika. The [Witch] looked peeved at Ryoka’s questions. The City Runner shook her head.
“But it’s just a doll. It’s not worth…does it eat? Will it grow up?”
The [Witches] shrugged, but they turned as a fourth figure joined their number. Eloise had returned from Rehanna’s side. She looked tired, and she did not greet Ryoka as she spoke.
“It will be a baby forever. It may even eat. I don’t care to know. I have studied the doll as much as I could. Rehanna did let me touch it. I had Prost set two of her friends to watch her.”
“Sensible. A fool might take that doll from her. What did you see, Eloise?”
Hedag leaned over. Eloise cast a glance at Ryoka, but was too distraught to obfuscate.
