“I’m not a tenth of Belavierr’s skill, and needlework is not my exact specialty—but it is simple. Simple and damned elegant! It is a pure vessel, and it will take Rehanna’s grief. For her, it is her baby, and perhaps she might even dream her husband is just around the corner, laughing, as she holds it. It is…just that. Just that, but too much nevertheless. Just a spell. A Cloth Golem that eats grief. And provides a dream of happiness.”
She breathed, in and out, and it was Mavika who glanced around.
“Perhaps we should have…tea? I offer you my hospitality, Witch Eloise.”
Awkwardly, she produced a handful of what turned out to be broken acorns and what might have passed for the world’s first tea bag ever made. Eloise looked at Mavika, and Ryoka realized the Crow Witch was trying to be…nice?
Mavika’s glare said Ryoka wasn’t invited, but Eloise made a pot with Mavika’s dubious tea bag. It seemed to calm Eloise, or the ritual did. But her words were blunt.
“Sisters. I have failed. Let it be a lesson to you as well, Miss Ryoka. I strove against Belavierr, set myself against her, and I don’t believe I even had a chance.”
Set herself against…Ryoka remembered Eloise trying to talk to Rehanna, offering her tea and sympathy. Oh.
“You were trying to stop her from taking Belavierr’s offer.”
“Yes. Subtly. With small things to let her process her grief. A kind ear, a warm cup of tea, a snack—it feels like tossing crumbs into a storm. I have failed. Now, a woman has lost twenty—no, forty years of her life.”
Eloise’s lips were pressed tightly. Hedag slurped noisily and grunted.
“You hadn’t a chance, Eloise. That’s the honest truth. Perhaps if Califor hadn’t gone off to that village—”
“It is my domain, Hedag. My responsibility. Belavierr is practicing her craft; she is clearly wounded and has lost her magic, but she’s taken some of it back. How much forty years is, to her, is anyone’s guess.”
Forty years. Rehanna had obviously aged overnight, and Ryoka made an educated guess.
“So she’s using Rehanna’s age to fuel her…craft? I have that right? That’s what Belavierr gets out of this?”
The [Witches] nodded as one. Alevica joked, grinning, or trying to.
“Forty years sounds like a hell of a thing to me. I’d take it and be young for that long.”
Mavika stared at Alevica, and the Witch Runner glared at her.
“You could not use forty years if you had it, Witch Alevica. It is not something you can merely take and eat or wear like a pretty thing. Only the Witch of Webs can use what she harvests. Nor will she stop at one.”
That was…not good. Ryoka licked her lips as Alevica opened her mouth to argue—then sat back. For all her bravado, Alevica was clearly shaken. She muttered, directing her words at Ryoka.
“—Just so you know, the doll isn’t that amazing. I could probably do it in a few months. My master could probably make one that good. It’s just—doing it that fast. And taking age. I’ve never seen anyone take time like that. And it’s generating happiness, Eloise?”
The older [Witch] nodded grudgingly.
“Rehanna is happy. And, I hope, she will continue to be. The doll will help with that, I think. It will make tragic days hurt less. It is not all-powerful. But she will give it strength. Until she decides she has no need of it.”
“What if she doesn’t?”
“Then it will be her child, sweet and there for her to love, until the day she dies. Or it is taken from her.”
Eloise sat her cup down. She looked at Ryoka, her face tired. Her eyes direct.
“There is no trickery in the doll. No function in it to steal Rehanna’s life or emotions. She already gave Belavierr her price. Belavierr has no need to siphon her life away. Again—it was a bargain struck between the two. And things given willingly are worth far more than what can be stolen.”
“But—”
Ryoka struggled for words. She had seen worse, but this bothered her. Because this was no majestic Dragon and his hoard that could be bargained for, where even his smallest trinkets were things of incredible worth. And it was no Necromancer, who committed terrible evils because he could.
It was so…small. A petty magic in one sense. The doll wasn’t real. But it would make Rehanna happy forever. In that sense, it was grand. Petty and grand and—a [Witch]’s magic. Ryoka sat back, conflicted. She sipped the tea automatically, then looked up.
“Okay. Thank you for explaining it to me. I have only one last question. Was it a good deal for Rehanna? It seemed like Belavierr made the doll quickly. So did she pay too much? Was it fair? Was there a better deal she could have struck?”
The coven looked at her. Old and young. Even Wiskeria. For one moment, they were united. All seven smiled or laughed or shrugged. And they replied in different words, but with the same message.
“It depends on her.”
 
—–
 
[Witches]. They were about bargains and emotion. No—give and take. As Ryoka went for a run on the dry, warm day, she thought about Rehanna. It was too bright outside. The skies were too blue. It felt like summer had come, even though according to Prost’s internal calendar they still had time yet.
Either way, it was all too easy to run and forget about yesterday. At least for a moment. But the baby—Ryoka didn’t want to avoid it. After her meeting with Eloise, she had decided there was only one logical step. To psyche herself up for it, Ryoka went on a brisk run.
There was nothing eventful about the run itself. Just a big lap around Riverfarm, avoiding rocks or patches of nettle-like plants. What was interesting was the man she met who stepped out from behind a tree about two miles south of Riverfarm. Ryoka saw him, jerked in surprise, and doubled left as she reached for a potion at her belt.
The wind blew fiercely and then died. It was acting up here. At the worst moment. Ryoka was tensed—but the man held up two hands.
“Peace, Miss Runner! I come in peace, on my honor! Might I have a word?”
He smiled with all his teeth, and Ryoka instantly recognized him. The strange man that Charlay had met three days ago. The same one Rie had said was lurking around Riverfarm. She grabbed a Tripvine bag and held it, but didn’t yank it loose and throw it. She halted, panting.
“Can I help you, sir? I’m a City Runner, but I’m not looking for any deliveries—”
“Nothing of the sort, Miss! I’m just a wanderer, looking to speak to someone. Might I have a word?”
He stepped forwards, and Ryoka took his full measure now. Including his clothes. Instantly, Ryoka’s eyes widened. Because she recognized the style of the garb he wore. It was so easy for Charlay or anyone else to mistake. And their descriptions were all generic because describing clothing was hard unless you had the background and terminology.
The man had a hat, yes. Dark clothes. But the style was…Ryoka fixed on the long-sleeved, trench coat-like design. The gloved hands and what might have been armor concealed underneath the cloth. But light armor, nothing heavy. And the hat! That gave him away too.
It was a capotain, cylindrical and tall, complete with a buckle. It didn’t need to be a buckle. It could have been an insignia. Or left blank. But the hat, the style of it, was as iconic as if the man had owned two swords and possessed cat-eyes.
The dress was a costume. A symbol. The hat alone—it probably wasn’t totally real to what pilgrims might have looked like in the 1600s. And it wasn’t a style that existed in Ryoka’s world except as an icon, a particular style as old as…[Witches]. But it told her something in silent words.
To her it said [Witch Hunter]. The man stepped forwards, smiling that strange smile. And Ryoka hesitated. Because his presence put pieces together in her head.
Bounty on Belavierr. The [Bandits] targeting Wiskeria, a [Witch]. The stranger asking questions about Riverfarm. The Circle of Thorns?
Pieces. But she wasn’t sure. So Ryoka warily rested on the balls of her feet, ready to move. She couldn’t see if the man was armed. His hands were spread away from his body. He was trying to be…friendly. He nodded to her, his eyes flicking to her belt.
“Good day to you, Miss Runner. I hear you’re having a bit of trouble with [Witches]. May I ask what they’re up to in Riverfarm? I’ve got my head against the ground so to speak, but rumor is hard to sort from fact sometimes.”
“Who are you?”
“Just a traveller—”
“Really? Because you look like a [Witch Hunter].”
Ryoka circled the man. He turned with her, raising his brows. And she detected a hint of wariness. The wind blew cautiously around Ryoka’s shoulders.
“That’s a bold assumption and claim to make upon seeing someone, Miss City Runner.”
“What about a man who’s been spotted around Riverfarm asking questions about [Witches]? Agitating people? And who dresses like half the [Witch Hunters] I’ve ever seen?”
Only if you counted movies and other media from her world. But it was a gamble Ryoka was willing to take. The way the man’s eyes flickered was a dead giveaway. He lowered his hands, sighing.
“Ah. You’ve caught me out, Miss. Are you from the north? Terandria, perhaps? Izril has few of my kind, I’m sorry to say, although we’ve been present in greater numbers in times past.”
Ryoka refused to nod or shake her head.
“Let’s just say I’m familiar with your look. Mind walking back with me to Riverfarm? The [Lady] in charge of this region would like to meet you. And have a chat with a real [Witch Hunter].”
The man glanced over Ryoka’s shoulder back towards Riverfarm. He shook his head, still slightly smiling.
“I’d prefer not to get closer. [Witches] tend to see right through me, and I think I’d be at odds with them. Which I’d rather not be, given which ones are about. I’m just concerned for the wellbeing of folks here.”
“So you’re after them? On the hunt?”
A slight pause, then that smile again.
“I prefer not to say, Miss. I’m just a traveller asking questions. If you take umbrage with me, I’ll gladly depart. But for your safety, it might be better to avoid that lot. I can’t say what I’m about yet, but I swear by my own hat.”
He tapped it, and Ryoka realized the buckle she’d seen on the hat was actually a badge. It looked like…three arrows? That was the symbol of some kind of guild. She just bet it was the Hunter’s Guild. For a [Witch Hunter].
Ryoka folded her arms, suspicious.
“So you’re a [Hunter]?”
“Again, Miss—”
“Is Noelictus or whatever kingdom hired you doing this? This isn’t their land!”
There was only one Hunter’s Guild in the world—at least, these days—and Ryoka didn’t know if they actually had the same system as an Adventurer’s Guild. But she bet they did!
The man paused a second.
“I cannot confirm who I am or my purpose, Miss Runner.”
“Oh? Then you’re unlawfully hanging about asking questions and stirring up trouble with the [Witches]. Would you start telling me what Belavierr’s done or the crimes of the other [Witches]?”
“Do you know what they are? It’s ghastly stuff, Miss Griffin. Heard of…Helpful Servants? Another thing Belavierr has done. Far less pleasant than even the baby.”
The way he said it made Ryoka pause a second—but she shook off her shiver.
“Well, you know about the baby. Sounds like you’ve been talking to a lot of people. Who are you? Also, you just said my name.”
The smiling man had been gesturing expressively, speaking quickly and fluently. But he had the slightest pause—and at this, his eyes flickered, and Ryoka saw him grimace.
“Ah. Well, everyone knows the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I’ve done my research.”
“Bullshit. You’ve got two seconds to tell me what you’re actually doing, or I’m calling Laken to—”
The man sighed as Ryoka raised her voice. Ryoka was ready to dash back to Riverfarm; it wasn’t far at all. What she wasn’t expecting was to see a flicker from the tree—and for a woman wearing [Hunter]’s clothing to step out from behind a tree and shoot Ryoka through the chest.
The second [Hunter] lowered a wand as the first lowered his hands, cursed, and sighed. Ryoka landed on her back, a scream caught in her mouth—
Not bleeding. Not dead. A wand had struck her. Hit her and…paralyzed her?
Not killed her? The first was speaking to the second.
“That’s torn it. She’s an associate of the local [Emperor].”
“Yes, well, we couldn’t have her warn the [Witches], could we? What’s the call? Interrogation or disposal?”
Help! Help! Ryoka was trying to move, but her entire body was locked up; she could only breathe and roll her eyes around. Then she saw a third figure riding their way with two more horses.
“Orders, sir?”
There were more of them! The first [Hunter] looked annoyed. He glanced at Ryoka.
“[Witches] have tracking Skills, and I don’t like the rumors about the [Emperor]. Disposal. Make it look like birds pecked her to death. No, wait. Hang her by string as well.”
They were going to frame the [Witches]? Wind began to blow around Ryoka, but she couldn’t see the [Hunters] fully, and one of them sounded amused.
“I think she’s using her wind powers on us.”
“Be more professional. Get it done.”
“Sorry, sir.”
The third one aimed a crossbow at her without a word and fired.
Thunk.
The pull of the crossbow was loud. The [Hunter] with the strange smile glanced over and frowned. The crossbow bolt had landed wide of Ryoka’s head by an inch. He addressed the third member of his group.
“Skill?”
“No. The wind yanked my crossbow left.”
“Interesting.”
The second [Hunter] casually lifted her crossbow. The wind yanked her hand as her finger tightened on the trigger, and she steadied it. Ryoka stared at the woman. Something was off with all three of them. Her smile? Why her sm—
The woman pulled the trigger, and her crossbow exploded. The string holding the bolt snapped across her arm, so hard it tore at the leather, and she recoiled with an oath. There was a loud pinging sound, and the woman cursed.
“Another Skill? Her dossier says she doesn’t have any—”
“No. That was a curse. Finish the Runner and take evasive action! Regroup at rally point!”
Their leader shouted. He was staring at something hanging from his wrist; a glowing oval of stone. He whirled, lifting a crossbow.
This one exploded as well. And with it, something wet splashed over Ryoka.
Suddenly, Ryoka realized she could move. She tried to get up and saw one of the fake [Hunters] charging at her with a sword.
“Ryoka!”
A high-pitched, young voice screamed. Ryoka recognized it. Was that—Nanette? She saw the [Hunter] open his mouth, glance sideways—and a quarterstaff clipped him so hard he went sprawling.
