She shook her head. As Ryoka watched, breathless, waiting to see what she would do, Belavierr turned. And began to walk away.
“Belavierr! Hold!”
The [Hunters] advanced faster. One of them, the one with the longbow, raised it and aimed at her back.
“[Hunter’s Quarry]!”
The arrow sped towards Belavierr from behind. It never struck her. It did hit a face that pulled itself out of the earth. A huge, misshapen face. Staring button eyes. A golem of cloth. The [Hunters] charged, but two more golems rose out of the ground. And more needles flashed through the air. One as thick as Ryoka’s arm, a javelin of a needle—
“Halt! Belavierr!”
The [Summer Knight] was charging. But the Stitch Witch was just walking away. Calmly as you please as her creations screened her. But each step seemed to carry her far farther than they should have. She was walking towards a black horse who galloped to her, a giant of a stallion. Ryoka saw she was going to mount it. And ride away.
“Give me a clear shot! I have to mark her!”
The [Hunter] with the longbow was screaming. The other [Witch Hunters] were carving down the cloth golems. Ser Raim swung his sword; the golem blocking him burned, and his sword cleaved the thing in two. But Belavierr was far away. So far, she was a speck. In moments! He charged after her. But it was too late.
Too late—until a voice rang out. A [Hunter] had fought clear of her golem. She saw Belavierr departing. And she changed targets. Instead of running at Belavierr, she ran straight at Ryoka. Ryoka and Wiskeria. The City Runner jerked back, but it wasn’t her the [Witch Hunter] was aiming at. The woman swung her axe.
“Belavierr! Hold! Hold or your daughter dies!”
And the black speck paused. Wiskeria froze, eyes wide. The [Witch Hunter] panted, a needle buried in her cheek. She spoke, her eyes dispassionate, locked on Belavierr’s distant form.
“We know you have a daughter. So hold, and return to face us. Or she dies.”
“[Hunter] Gaile! Enough!”
Ser Raim whirled. His eyes blazed with fury. He lifted his greatsword, but Gaile pressed her axe into Wiskeria’s neck. The blade dug into Wiskeria’s skin, parting it without effort.
“Don’t move, Ser Raim. You can’t stop my blade. No one here can.”
“Lower your axe, [Hunter]. Should Witch Wiskeria die, you will ere my crows fly.”
Mavika hissed at the [Hunter]. Alevica lifted her wand, and Califor turned, her gaze flashing. The coven of [Witches] faced the hunters and [Knight]. But Gaile didn’t move.
“Our quarry isn’t you, Mavika the Crow.”
“Nor is it the child! Leave her, Gaile!”
A [Huntress] called out, shifting her bow to aim at Gaile. The [Witch Hunter] just shook her head. She spoke. To the crowd. To her comrades. To the coven. And to the distant [Witch].
“This goes against your pride, Ser Raim. Your honor. But I am tired of this chase. If I swing, I die. But I will swing before any of you can stop me, even the Stitch Witch. This is our chance. If she refuses to do battle, she flees again. As she always has. But this time, I will take her daughter from her. That, at least, I can do.”
She looked at the blazing [Summer Knight], unafraid. And then at Wiskeria. The [Witch] was frozen, her eyes wide. Gaile’s gaze was distant. As distant as Belavierr’s.
“I’m sorry, girl. You did not choose your mother. But for her, I would break my honor. Because of her, I buried my own daughter.”
That was all. There she stood. And Ryoka, who had been part of this play, stumbled. She might have gone forwards, but the [Witch Hunter] was looking at her.
“Move closer and I cut. Step back.”
Ryoka hesitated. But Wiskeria was bleeding. Blood ran down her throat, soaking her robes. So Ryoka stumbled back. She glanced around. The [Witch Hunters] were paused. Two were aiming at Gaile. But the rest were staring past Ser Raim, who’d turned back.
Watching the distant speck that was Belavierr.
She had not moved. Nor had she come closer. And Wiskeria’s eyes shifted. Her head moved, cutting into the axe slightly. Looking at her mother.
“Belavierr.”
Ryoka didn’t know when she started running. But she was. She ran after Belavierr. Would Belavierr run? She wouldn’t leave?
But Ryoka felt it. A terrible feeling in the air. Belavierr had fled. She had sensed the danger. The [Hunters] and [Knight] had been sent for her. What was more—
They were all watching. Ryoka had to fight free of the crowd. Run past them for Belavierr. Everyone was there, an audience of thousands. And more. She bumped into a figure, heard a curse.
 
“Watch it, ye daft cunt. We’re trying to see!”
 
“Sorry, I—”
Ryoka turned her head. And then there they were. Standing. Sitting on the roofs of houses. A gathering of bright figures. Individuals who had no place in this world. But they had come. The young woman stopped, and her heart paused.
The fae looked down at her. Then up. They watched the [Summer Knight] and the lone figure. Belavierr. And Ryoka understood. They had come to see something even the fae deemed worthy. A story.
Perhaps only Ryoka saw them. Only she could see the watchers gathered invisibly among the others. But then—someone else saw. As Ryoka tore herself away, running, she saw a black figure. And two ringed eyes, glowing orange.
Belavierr looked past Ryoka. At the watching fae. She saw, and she knew. For a moment, she hesitated. The fair folk looked to her, waiting. And Ryoka, panting, saw the Stitch Witch hesitate.
Was that fear in her eyes? She looked back at her daughter, at the [Witch Hunter] holding her hostage. Ser Raim called out.
“Belavierr! If it is in my power, I will not let your daughter come to harm! But I cannot stop my companion. Should she strike, I will cut her down. I cannot save your daughter where I stand.”
He planted his sword in the ground, burning. And the world waited. Ryoka looked up at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch sighed. She gazed back at Ser Raim.
“Your word on it?”
“I swear. Return and she lives.”
Gaile called out. Belavierr peered at her. Then she dismounted from the horse. Ryoka’s breath caught in her chest. The [Witch Hunters] paused, incredulous. But Ser Raim nodded. He looked at Gaile.
“Gaile.”
“No. End it, Raim. While she lives, the axe stays. And if Belavierr flees, her daughter dies. If she lives, I’ll lower my axe and submit myself to justice.”
The [Witch Hunter] gritted her teeth. Ser Raim bowed his head. Then he turned. Belavierr was walking back towards them. Slowly. But she seemed to grow with every step. Her shadow grew longer despite the day.
Four [Hunters] and a [Knight] barred her way, blocking Wiskeria and Gaile. To the side watched Riverfarm’s people, the coven. Ryoka and the fae. Behind the [Hunters], an orb floated in the air, and there watched the Order of Seasons, Wistram. But no others.
Ser Raim stepped forwards. He blazed brightly. But Belavierr’s every step called darkness. The ground shook. And Ryoka saw him smile wistfully.
He was not her match. None of them were. But they didn’t flee. The [Witch Hunters]’ faces were set. And then Ser Raim gazed up. He pulled his greatsword out of the ground. The flames around him, his very aura, were flickering out as the shadows seemed to eat at the fire around him. He called out though, smiling.
“The sun is bright today. Glorious. Look—the sun shines!”
The [Summer Knight] pointed up. He spread his arms, as if embracing the sky. Then he glanced around. At his comrades, half a world away. His audience. And the fae stirred. Ser Raim looked back at Belavierr. His voice rang, building.
“I am a small flame. My worth is but kindling before the darkness I face. But even the smallest fire may blaze bright. So, to face this foe, let me offer a sacrifice worthy of the deed!”
He raised his sword. And the fire around him faded. And then a brilliant flame slowly engulfed his armor. Incomparable to the fire before. It burned brighter than the sun’s light.
“I carry the last torch of Paladin Arteis—hallowed by her name. For this act, I offer time. I offer my life! [Lifeburning Flames]! Come, [Witch]! Watch, fate! Let me burn the Stitch Witch until nothing remains!”
And there was fire. Pure essence of flame. It burned everything by sight alone. Ryoka felt it scorch her. The fae stirred. Hundreds of miles away, a Dragon woke. In Reizmelt, Levil the [Pyromancer] turned and felt the heat.
“Flame.”
It burned the crowd. Mavika shrieked, her crows screaming and fleeing the flames. Alevica stumbled away, her robes and hat smoking, crying out. Some in the crowd fell. Others burned and fled.
And Belavierr? She shaded her eyes. Ser Raim advanced. He looked up at her, she down at him.
“Is that all?”
“No. I offer everything.”
The [Summer Knight] raised his sword.
“[My Life, be Thou My Fire].”
Then the flames were all-consuming. They burned the shadows themselves. Spreading. Ser Raim charged, and Belavierr flung up her arms. He struck at her, struck at her body, the invisible threads running from her through the sky. The flames consumed both.
And she screamed. The thread burnt. The shadows fled. Belavierr screamed, and the shriek was the sound of immortality dying. She struck back at Ser Raim, and he struggled. The air shifted. Threads reached down, claws of fabric.
The [Witch Hunters] attacked and advanced, battling monsters that stepped sideways out of the world. A screaming apparition tore open the sky, and a [Witch Hunter] shot at it. Another battled a giant as tall as a hill made of cloth.
In the center of it stood Ser Raim and Belavierr. They struck each other, one burning, the other aflame. They tore at each other with spell, with Skill and steel and rage. And Belavierr burned.
She could have run. She could have fled. But her daughter stood hostage, so the mother refused to flee. She walked through fire as the [Knight] burned her. And her blood was red. Belavierr fought and burned.
The fire met thread.
