The two regarded each other. After their last conversation where Ryoka had told Durene she couldn’t help Durene, the two hadn’t really spoken. But, strangely, after the [Bandits] and the not-baby, all their earlier tension had vanished. A large crisis was a wonderful unifier. Durene began unpacking her bag, and after a second, Ryoka got up and tried to help.
Tried, because Durene really knew her kitchen better than Ryoka. But the other young woman was determined, and she could peel potatoes—even if her first reaction was to throw away the skins.
“You can eat those, you know.”
“Oh. Right. Sorry.”
The two worked in silence for a moment. Durene was making a cheesy scallop dish, which was really exorbitant, but the first cheeses had been finished, and Prost had given Durene some to take back with some milk. It was going to be a lovely feast, and one Durene felt was needed. She was concentrating on that, but she knew Ryoka was deep in thought. The City Runner was absently working, her brows drawn. After a while, she spoke.
“Laken told you about my world, didn’t he?”
Durene jumped and sliced her hand with her kitchen knife. Ryoka hissed, but Durene waved her hand.
“It’s alright! Didn’t even get through the first layer of skin!”
“Oh. Right. [Iron Skin], huh? That’s a great Skill.”
“Um. No. Even before I had the Skill, I never cut myself.”
“Really?”
Ryoka looked impressed. Durene smiled. She clenched her hand absently as she got back to work. She could still remember the thump as she hit the [Bandits]. Strange, to be making food now. After a moment, she recalled what Ryoka had said.
“Your world?”
“That’s right. You know about it, right? Laken told you everything?”
Ryoka glanced up. Her brown eyes were searching. Durene paused. Ryoka had hated talking about anything from her world, especially possible inventions. The half-Troll girl nodded at last.
“A bit. Well, he told me lots of stories. I can’t believe most of it, but I know…about airplanes? Cars? Um…electricity and the internet? Guns?”
“Huh. Those are the basics, I guess.”
“Well, he talked about more, but yeah. Why?”
The City Runner was silent as she chopped a potato.
“I went to see Rehanna.”
Durene looked up, missed her potato, and brought the blade down on her fingers. Ryoka stared again. Abashed, Durene cleared her throat.
“Oh. Is she—”
“She’s okay. Actually, she’s pretty good. She was asking for work to do, so I…helped her find more things to do. She’s a [Seamstress]. Did you know that?”
“I didn’t.”
“Well, she’s making clothes. For the…baby.”
“The doll?”
“Her baby. And she’s going to make more for infants and newborns. Which is a good idea, to be honest. They need special clothing. So I got her what she needed.”
“Huh. That’s sort of ironic, her being a [Seamstress] and Belavierr—”
“Yes.”
Silence. Durene kept cutting, although it seemed like Ryoka was edging her hands away from Durene’s knife. After a bit, Ryoka continued.
“So. My world. Has Laken told you about modern medicine?”
“A bit. Just like…you can reattach hands. Or make these medicines—drugs—which aren’t potions, but can cure all kinds of things. But you don’t have potions, so you’re behind in a lot of ways.”
The comment made Ryoka smile, just like it had Laken. She put a few potato slices in the pan as Durene got some firewood out for her stone stove.
“Hm. Yeah, I suppose you could say that. But has he talked about how we deal with sickness other than, uh, physical?”
“No…”
Ryoka nodded. She watched as Durene began to strike her flint and tinder on the kindling. She crouched absently.
“I was thinking about the deal Rehanna made. And the effects.”
“She looks older. Is she going to die soon?”
“What? No. I think she’s about…fifty. And she was in her thirties, maybe. Maybe she’s lost more time, but she should have anywhere from a decade or more. But she will die earlier.”
“Yeah.”
“Even so. Was it a good deal?”
Durene paused as she put her milk and cheese-covered scalloped potatoes over the growing fire.
“What? That doll’s awful! Did you see it?”
Ryoka met her eyes and nodded.
“Yes. I did. And that’s why I’m thinking. Uh, your hand’s in the fire, by the way.”
“Oops.”
Durene put the pan over the hot fire. She’d have to watch the potatoes to make sure the part over the fire didn’t get too hot and burn. She tended to her dish as Ryoka went on.
“We don’t make things like that…doll. But we do prescribe medication for ill people. There are a lot of parallels between what we do in my world and what the [Witches] do. I think that’s what Eloise does, in a way. She’s a therapist. And a pharmacist, if her teas are magical.”
“I have no idea what those are. Are they like [Doctors]? Laken says your world has [Doctors] instead of [Healers].”
“Specialized [Doctors], yeah. But that’s my point. Belavierr—she’s a different sort. She took Rehanna’s life, yes. And her hate. But she gave her…in my world, we have medicines that really change you. Even our painkillers just…take away pain. Morphine. And we prescribe medicine for depression. Not for loss—unless we diagnose it as needing treatment. But medicine, therapy—magic’s different, yet similar, right?”
Durene didn’t know where Ryoka was going with this. But she nodded as she watched the fire and Ryoka out of the corner of her eye. The young woman was pacing.
“You could argue that Belavierr’s just a—a—she’s giving Rehanna a vision of her baby. Is there anything wrong with that?”
“Yep. It’s not real.”
“No—that’s not the problem, Durene. It’s what Rehanna paid. She gave up part of her life. That’s the real problem. Otherwise, what’s the problem with the baby if it had been given freely?”
Durene opened her mouth to protest that the baby was creepy, had given her nightmares—but Ryoka was right. It hadn’t done anything to anyone. Except Rehanna.
“Isn’t what it’s doing to Rehanna bad?”
“What? Making her happy? I was thinking about that. It’s a mental crutch. She’s dependent on that, and anyone could tell you that’s unhealthy. But—”
She shook her head.
“The main problem is what Belavierr took from Rehanna. She thought it was fair. But she wasn’t in her right mind when she made that deal. Again, not everyone is. If we fault Rehanna for making a deal while she’s grieving, what about someone who…drinks when they’re depressed, or if they’ve just lost a friend? A wife? They have a right to do what they want to themselves. If they endanger themselves, that’s another thing, but is this wrong? Rehanna’s harmed herself. But then again—”
Ryoka had never talked this much in Durene’s presence. Ever. The half-Troll girl said as much as she carefully checked her baking scallops, all without gloves. Ryoka smiled bitterly.
“I’m a regular chatterbox when it comes to debates or issues like this. Moral ones, I mean. I’m just trying to work out whether it’s right or not. Objectively. Is the baby good for Rehanna if you take out the cost of the deal?”
“It looks wrong, Ryoka. How can you look at that and be okay?”
Durene objected as she found a spoon. She directed Ryoka to a cupboard with plates. Ryoka sighed as she set four. She looked back.
“Have you looked at Rehanna’s face, Durene? Today, I mean.”
“No. I didn’t even see her once.”
“Not everyone did. But they’re not locking her up in her house. I visited her, Durene. She’s smiling. She’s happy. Genuinely. This isn’t her being high on a drug or delusional. She got mad when I annoyed her, and she’s not delirious. But she is happy. How is that wrong?”
Durene had no answer. Silently, she put the scallops on a table. Charlay was trotting towards the cottage, but she’d stopped to get Wiskeria out of her tent. Bismarck was staring through the kitchen window as Frostwing choked on a nut and then spat it out. Ryoka sighed.
“I don’t think it was a good decision, what Rehanna did. If I were in her place, I would never do it. But I’m not a mother. I haven’t lost a husband. Part of me—most of me—says that regardless of what she thinks, that there’s a cost beyond Rehanna cutting her life by twenty years or in half or whatever she did. But what if there’s not? What if it really is fair? In that case, why not take it?”
She leaned on the table, staring at the scallops as if they were a gateway to the soul. Durene silently checked to see if she had any alcohol. She did not. Ryoka sighed.
“I want to believe we can’t run away from our problems, can’t rely on things or use magic to…escape. Back home, I relied on coffee to get up. I needed my medication, or I had a bad day. I…relied on my parents’ money. On the government and laws that surrounded me. I leaned on all these things. If I could have something that made me happy—would I pay ten years of my life? Twenty? What about just one?”
“Hey, Ryoka! Hey, Durene! Ooh! Are those cheesy potatoes! I’m not a fan of cheese.”
Charlay trotted into the cottage, practically dragging in Wiskeria behind her. Ryoka didn’t look up from the table.
“If you could be happy whenever you wanted, Durene, would you give up ten minutes of your lifespan? If the answer’s yes, isn’t giving up more for less or anything else just…haggling? Do we have a right to condemn Rehanna for her decision to choose happiness? If she were permanently sick and decided to trade half her lifespan for being well for the rest of her shorter life, would we fault her? Can we blame her for wanting to see her child again? What right do we have to choose for her? Or judge her?”
They stared at her, Centaur, half-Troll, [Witch], Mossbear, and blue bird. Charlay silently opened the door and trotted out.
“Bathroom! Tell me when she’s normal.”
“I don’t think there are good answers, Ryoka. Nice potatoes, Durene. But I know that I can’t forgive my mother for what she does. Maybe Rehanna’s happy. But my mother still stole her life. She does that.”
Wiskeria answered as she sat down quietly. Ryoka glanced at her. And then she sat down across from Wiskeria. She shook her head, and Durene closed the door in Bismarck’s face.
“Your mother preyed on Rehanna in a moment of weakness, Wiskeria. That’s true. But she also gave Rehanna something. If she asked for one year, could you live with that?”
Wiskeria had been relaxing; now, she clenched a fork in one hand and spoke slowly. A note of real vexation entered her tone as she met Ryoka’s gaze.
“You don’t know what she does. This is the least of what she’s capable of. I appreciate your philosophy, Ryoka. I don’t think it’s needed right now.”
She stared at Ryoka, her eyes flashing. The City Runner did not look away.
“I’m just asking if, in this case, it was at all reasonable from her perspective—”
“Reasonable?”
Wiskeria slammed one hand on the table. Durene nervously tried to put a plate down.
“Um—let’s have some potatoes, everyone. Ryoka, we can talk about this later—”
Too late. The [Witch] was on her feet in a rare show of anger, and Ryoka was raising her hands.
“I’m not saying it’s good—”
“You think you can moralize with my mother? With the Witch of Webs? ‘Reasonable, says the louse to the spider!’ You’ve seen one of her smallest works, that took her five seconds to make, and you just found some grand, philosophical argument to resolve? She gave Rehanna’s deal less attention than you would to scratch an itch! Enough.”
Ryoka colored as Wiskeria sneered at her.
“But she did help Rehanna. Wiskeria, I’m just trying to figure her out.”
“She made a deal. No more, no less. I know you like to think you know all, Ryoka—don’t try to figure my mother out. You don’t know her. You don’t know her stories.”
Wiskeria whirled away to help Durene with the cooking, and Ryoka snapped back. She’d recently been nearly killed by those [Witch Hunters], and she had a temper, Durene knew.
“Oh, and you’re so sure she’s completely crazy and unchangeable? Have you actually, seriously talked to her? Because I haven’t seen you talk to your mother!”
“We have nothing to talk about.”
“What about Rehanna?”
The blue-haired [Witch] closed her eyes.
“Why would I talk to the end product of something I have seen too many times? Talk to my mother. Hello, table. How are you doing?”
Wiskeria stared sarcastically down at the table. She stood there as Durene nervously put the potatoes on a plate. The steaming scalloped potatoes grew colder. Wiskeria’s glare could have burnt them to a crisp. Ryoka cleared her throat after a few seconds.
“Listen, I know it’s pers—”
“Shut up! If I speak to this table long enough, it will probably answer, even if it takes an age for it to regrow into a tree, then a Dryad. I will enjoy that. More than my mother.”
“I’m trying to help, Wiskeria. I just think you’re being unreasonable. And I can tell; I’m often unreasonable too.”
“Yes. You are.”
Wiskeria met Ryoka’s eyes, and the Wind Runner exhaled, then glowered over the table at her.
The door cracked open, and Charlay peeked in.
“Um. Everything okay?”
“Yes.”
Ryoka and Wiskeria glared at the Centauress. Durene decided to start ladling food out before someone threw a dish.
The dinner was silent. Wiskeria, not exactly happy beforehand, looked angry and distraught. Ryoka was still thinking. Twice, she tried to keep talking, and Durene interjected with a loud joke, or Charlay decided to regale everyone with one of her famous runs. Wiskeria and Ryoka just stared at each other.
It wasn’t even as if Ryoka had been angry at Wiskeria. But—who was right and who was wrong? As Durene let Frostwing and Bismarck finish off the scraps of scallops, the half-Troll girl had to think that was Ryoka summed up. Someone had to be right and wrong. And Ryoka was thinking about Rehanna. She had visited her. Where the others shuddered and drew away, Ryoka looked at the crying child made of cloth. And at Belavierr. She did not draw away.
That night, Durene was exhausted. She still hadn’t caught up on sleep since the…baby. So she retired early, and everyone was tired enough to join her. Wiskeria left the cottage, and Ryoka and Charlay bedded down with Durene.
The three bodies made the cottage smaller and warm. But it was still comfortable. Durene lay in her kitchen, staring at the ceiling. She was ready to drop off and get some good sleep. Tomorrow would…well, tomorrow would be different. Hopefully. But as she was closing her eyes, wondering if she’d level as a [Farmer], Durene heard Ryoka’s voice.
