“But she might! Everyone says Witch Califor doesn’t do grand things because she has to mind me! Some of them call her a coward!”
“Coward? She rode down three killers for me—”
“But she used to be so much more amazing, Miss Griffin! You know her stories, right, Witch Wiskeria?”
Nanette turned, and Ryoka gazed at Wiskeria. The [Witch] coughed, but to cheer Nanette up, she dutifully reported some of the tales.
“Oh, you know. That she’s tougher than nails. She could eat nails and teach an Ogre manners. Cross her and you’d better put the noose around your neck and jump. Once Califor decides to deal with you, you should deal with yourself just to save yourself the misery. She’s the most powerful [Witch] in generations…”
“Does that count Mavika or Belavierr?”
“Generations, I said.”
“Oh.”
“But she’s nice! She’s as good—better than any mother! I can prove it!”
Nanette banged her hands on the table. Ryoka and Wiskeria turned back to her, embarrassed again. Red-faced, the [Witch] girl took a deep breath. Then she looked abashed.
“This is a private story, alright? You mustn’t tell. But it’s about Miss Califor. She raised me since I was very small. In a cottage, in fact! I learned from her, and she was strict—but also kind. Back then, before she travelled and took me as her apprentice, she had a cottage by the High Passes. She did some work from there, and she had goats. I had a special one named Belfaus who watched over me.”
Wiskeria blinked as she mouthed at Ryoka over Nanette’s head as the girl went on. Califor owned goats? Ryoka was busy listening to Nanette. The girl closed her eyes solemnly.
“When I was small, I made a bad mistake. The worst I ever made. I don’t know how old I was. But one day, I was very bored, and Miss Califor had to see to someone who’d broken both legs in a fall. So…I left the cottage with Belfaus. I thought it would be fun to go exploring, but I forgot to tell Miss Califor. And I went far. So far I couldn’t find my way back.”
She looked up, and Nanette’s face was very pale. Wiskeria and Ryoka stopped and started paying more attention at the look on Nanette’s face.
“Miss Califor always said the land around the cottage was warded, so I shouldn’t wander too far without her. But that day I did. And Belfaus didn’t know better. I kept looking for the way back, but I’d forgotten it. And I went further and further—and I went into the High Passes. Because we lived right near the mountains, you see.”
Ryoka inhaled sharply. Wiskeria glanced at her. Nanette’s voice was lost.
“They said it was a pack of Gargoyles. One of them snatched Belfaus. And the other grabbed me. They—they must have been hungry, because one of them ate—ate Belfaus—but they took me to a cave. And—and I was in the cave for ever so long—and there were so many Gargoyles.”
“How many?”
“Many. Dozens.”
Nanette’s voice sank to a whisper. And her eyes were wide, her hands clasped together. Ryoka remembered the giant stone creatures, the monsters of the High Passes. The girl’s voice went on, conjuring a story until Ryoka could see the huge shapes, snapping, devouring Eater Goats and Belfaus, saving her for later.
“I thought I was going to die. Because even Gold-rank teams won’t enter the High Passes. And there were so many Gargoyles. But I called out. I begged Miss Califor to find me. Save me. And she did.”
Children were poor storytellers. Ryoka and Wiskeria stared at Nanette. Ryoka blinked.
“Just like that? She did? How?”
Nanette looked up and shook her head.
“I don’t know. I was in the dark cave and was trying to hide beneath a rock. And then I saw the light. And I heard terrible fighting. And then Miss Califor was there. She picked me up and scolded me. Then she brought me back, and we buried Belfaus. And that’s when she taught me to use magic to defend myself. But I never knew how she did it. I asked everyone, but no one said they knew. Only that Miss Califor tore up half the mountainside looking for me. And she found me.”
“How? How’d she beat that many Gargoyles? A decent Gold-rank team could only get—three. How’d she do it? Scare them off? Is that—could Mavika do that?”
Ryoka demanded incredulously. She looked to Wiskeria for confirmation, but Wiskeria seemed surprised herself.
“That’s powerful magic if she literally just beat them in a fight. Any [Witch] can trick monsters, but if that story’s true, she’s definitely one of the best. Any clues, Nanette?”
Nanette shook her head, eyes wide and earnest.
“She never told me how she got rid of them all. But everyone says that it was a grand feat, even for Miss Califor. And it wasn’t easy. She still has a scar from that day. Right here.”
She pointed at a spot just above her hip. Ryoka gazed at Nanette. The little [Witch] concluded, folding her hands on the table and looking at them earnestly.
“I never forgot. And Miss Califor’s always been there. She’s the best. I want to be like her when I grow up. I don’t want to disappoint her. I’m sure Witch Belavierr cares about you just as much—almost as much—as Miss Califor cares about me, Wiskeria. And your mother too, Ryoka.”
She couldn’t have known how those words went through Wiskeria and Ryoka. Or why they looked at each other, and for a moment, each wished they had a story they could tell like that. Something so pure, so simple. And why it hurt that Nanette could tell that tale of Califor with such sincerity.
Ryoka thought of her own mother. She tried to imagine her mother—she had disappointed her parents greatly. But they had also disappointed her. Even Ryoka the adult wished they had been more, even if they’d been people, not perfect paragons. And she saw something similar in Wiskeria’s gaze. Similar, but different. But there they were. They got along and annoyed each other because there was something similar.
Of course, Nanette had no idea why Wiskeria and Ryoka started crying. Neither Ryoka or Wiskeria could explain the pure, contemptible jealousy in their hearts. And Nanette eventually began sobbing in sympathy.
That was how Miss Califor found them. The old [Witch] stared down at the three crying girls at the tea table. And she sighed.
“Up, the three of you. We have business.”
Nanette scrambled up, remembering her fear. But all Califor did was take Nanette to Eloise’s house, and to her delight, the [Tea Witch] had something freshly-baked.
“Shortbread slices with a dash of forgiveness for girls like you.”
It was a treat! Nanette took a piece and looked up at Califor, and the [Witch] patted Nanette on the head.
“You’ll get your sickle back in time, Nanette.”
All was forgiven, and the little girl hugged Califor and promised to be more careful. Ryoka and Wiskeria snuck pieces of the bread, and it was delicious.
 
——
 
“You know, Witch Califor, I thought you’d hunt me down.”
“Truly? Why?”
Witch Califor was walking down the streets of Riverfarm with Nanette tipping her hat and waving to the villagers of Riverfarm with Ryoka and Wiskeria. The little witch would greet people by name, and they would wave back, wary.
It was hard to be on-guard around Nanette. Every other [Witch]? Yes. But the little twelve-year-old girl had happiness under her hat. She was innocent, and Califor herself?
Some people eyed Califor, but she just walked sedately along, and Wiskeria seemed to be reconciling her reputation to the woman herself.
“I…well, when I first came here, I was worried people would take offense. Because I am my mother’s daughter. I thought you might come to deal with me. When Mavika found me, I thought it was all agreed upon.”
Califor shook her head, looking faintly amused.
“You think too much of our schemes. We [Witches] squabble. If I recall right, Mavika expressed to me that she would seek out Belavierr’s daughter and see who she was.”
“So you did talk about me!”
“When we knew you existed. But not to control. In my experience, for what little it’s worth, guidance matters more than control. We are [Witches]; we try not to meddle in each other’s business. We thought you needed help. Mavika has offered to teach you, hasn’t she?”
Wiskeria made a face as Ryoka listened.
“And put me in her coven. She’s pushy.”
“But she does not force you?”
“No…”
“Then your decision stood. I imagined that if you had the need, you would seek me out. But I would have been a poor teacher even if circumstances threw us together. As you can see, Nanette fills my attention.”
Califor gestured, and Nanette was following a cat around, grinning in delight as it noticed her. Wiskeria shook her head.
“The great Witch Califor raising a single apprentice.”
“A great witch should be able to do that, if anyone can. We shall see if I have the right to that title.”
Califor’s neutral response made Wiskeria flush. Ryoka eyed Califor, wavering between saying anything, but Califor just glanced at Ryoka.
“Miss Griffin, I would caution you to stay clear of Belavierr. But since that would be wasting my breath, I will just ask where you hail from?”
“Me? Oh, Reizmelt.”
“And before that?”
Ryoka grew a bit tongue-tied as Califor began to press her about her origins. As it turned out, Califor was mostly interested in how Ryoka had met Laken, but the [Witch] seemed altogether too knowing.
“Liscor? I have heard Liscor has some oddities of note. I might go there after Riverfarm—if I could find a place and community fit for Nanette. She doesn’t wish to part from me.”
Wiskeria and Ryoka, mindful of their conversation with Nanette, exchanged glances, and Califor noticed.
“I simply cannot take her into danger. If I had known this was the situation at Riverfarm, I would never have brought her. My own peril is one thing. My apprentice’s—unacceptable.”
That was so responsible a position Ryoka was surprised it came from a [Witch]. But then again—she glanced at Califor.
“Do you think you can convince Riverfarm to let you stay, Witch Califor?”
“That depends on who Emperor Godart is. I am taking a measure of him as well as Riverfarm. We shall see.”
Califor’s tone was neutral. Wiskeria looked around at the people staring at them.
“I think my mother’s jeopardizing those chances, for all she swore to be part of the coven, Witch Califor.”
Here, Califor did pause.
“Yes…she’s every bit the Belavierr of legends. I thought she might be different, but her very presence meant it would never be anything normal. However, we do what we can. It is good that the people and the [Emperor] see who [Witches] are. An honest pact will rest on nothing less.”
That was one way of looking at it. Ryoka hesitated.
“So are you doing anything to win over Riverfarm or show who you are, Witch Califor? Besides delivering aid and saving me. Thank you for that, by the way.”
Califor raised her brows, amused once more.
“Of course. We’re doing it right now.”
The two women looked around, and Wiskeria actually peered at Califor’s hat before Califor nodded to Nanette.
“Taking the air. Walking through Riverfarm. Helping if we see someone who needs a pair of hands. That is witchcraft, and for that, I am glad Nanette is here. We have too many great [Witches] and not a single one who is like most [Witches]. Agratha would have been perfect here.”
Wait, was that what she was doing? Ryoka glanced at Nanette and realized—it might be working. There was nothing to make you think a [Witch] could be innocent like cute, little Nanette. And Califor wasn’t beating someone down with her bare fists or summoning flocks of crows.
“[Witches] are sometimes normal as well, Miss Griffin. Belavierr is still a mother. And she can still be petty. Extraordinarily so, according to story.”
Califor’s voice made Ryoka jump and blush. Wiskeria glanced at Califor, tugging at her hat, as if about to ask something.
“Witch Califor…about my craft. I don’t have one, but you’re said to not have one either. Do you think we could be alike?”
She looked wistfully at Califor, and the older [Witch] raised her brows.
“I do have one, Wiskeria. Or rather, I’ve had several. I used to wear happiness, like Nanette. Then I went to passion, great deeds; it’s more that I’ve shifted focuses over the years. These days, you could say much of my craft is Nanette and teaching. I think your issue would be finding one to begin with. You are allowed to change. But it must be earnest.”
Oh. Was that why she didn’t do great magic anymore? It wasn’t what Wiskeria wanted to hear, clearly. Witch Califor looked at the two, as if thinking. Whatever she might have said as advice never came out, though.
Califor slowed as she saw Nanette standing in place on the road. The girl had the cat she’d been following in her arms, which was surprising. But maybe cats liked Nanette just like people?
…Or maybe the cat had climbed into Nanette’s arms to escape the [Witch] standing like an obelisk of cloth, hand outstretched to a man on his hands and knees in the center of the street.
Belavierr.
“Oh no. Mother!”
Ryoka’s good mood vanished instantly. Belavierr was there. And she was standing in front of a man who had collapsed in front of her. Almost in a sick pantomime of a kindly woman helping someone who had fallen up.
But there was nothing kind nor natural about Belavierr’s half-smile, all fakeness, nor her swirling robes. And the man? The man looked up, shaking, unable to stand. With a terror in him that was all the worse for how strong Ryoka knew he could be.
Mister Prost. His eyes were wide with terror and—desperation as he stared up at Belavierr. Oh no.
No, no, no. Ryoka saw another woman covering her face as she stared, flinching away. Miss Yesel. They were in the street, cowering away from Belavierr. Why?
Mister Prost lost children in the avalanche in Riverfarm. Ryoka felt the pieces of a puzzle fall into place like thunder as she started forwards. Someone grabbed her arm. Califor.
Wiskeria had no such arm to block her path. Califor moved Ryoka back, bending down to shield Nanette, as Belavierr spoke.
“Let me show you more, Prost Surehand.”
“Leave. Leave—don’t show me that. Stop.”
Prost couldn’t stand. The same man who’d shouted at Belavierr to her face couldn’t push himself up. All his anger and authority—
Replaced by a terror of something Belavierr was holding. Ryoka couldn’t see it. Was it a baby? A…?
“Mother!”
A picture frame. Belavierr turned, and Ryoka caught sight of a simple, framed picture in glass as Belavierr looked at Wiskeria. Just a picture.
Of a boy. Hands pressed to the glass of the picture. Waving at Mister…Prost…
The picture was moving. And Ryoka would just bet it had a face she had never seen before. Belavierr lifted her hand, and the picture vanished.
