She didn’t know why she was arguing. But she had to, to understand. Hedag snorted. She poured herself a third drink from a third flask. It was water. She gulped it down, looking at Ryoka. Shaking her head.
“You speak of the law as if it were some grand thing, Runner-Girl. But to me, the law is a man or woman with a stick or sword. They wield it, and if you cross them wrong, they beat you. In cities, it’s a pack of folk. Humans, Drakes, never mind if an [Emperor] lays down the law or a [Mayor]. It’s all the same. What’s so different with what I do? In your cities, the law is a uniform and a book. Out here, it is one woman. And she calls herself Hedag.”
“But we have law in Riverfarm. That man—”
“Would be punished after. If his neighbors had the heart to stop him or call out. Or if your [Steward] saw the woman’s bruises. Or heard of the boy’s broken arm. But that would be after, Miss Griffin. You say the law protects. But that is not what I hear of your cities.”
Hedag tossed down the water.
“Your [Guards] patrol the streets. [Watchmen] man your walls. And you say if there is crime, there will be punishment. But where is the law on a dark night when a man has been drinking? Where is the law when the girl hides under the bed and the father stumbles in, full of wrath? The law waits. But if that girl calls my name, I am there.”
She stared at Ryoka with such a piercing look that Ryoka had trouble meeting it. But then Ryoka looked up.
“In my…home, we have a system. If a child is in trouble, she can call. And our law will save her.”
“And if she is too bruised to speak? Too terrified to call? Or perhaps she just loves the father when he doesn’t hit her. What then?”
“We…have people who investigate. Or a neighbor can call. Anyone who sees it.”
“And if they do not see? Or they do not look?”
Ryoka didn’t reply. No system was perfect. Hedag nodded.
“That is better. Better than most villages and cities have. But, Ryoka-Girl, it is not enough. Because your system waits. I do not wait. I am Hedag, and I have been that girl. My craft made me a [Witch]. So where I go, I do not just wait. I go to villages, large and small. Far and wide. And I look at every child, every wife and husband. I stare into their faces. And I bring my justice. That is my purpose. That is what I can offer your [Emperor]. That is what he must accept. What say you?”
She watched the City Runner, and Hedag smelled of alcohol and sweat. Blood and dirt. And she was just a woman with a pointed hat. A drunk. A laugh louder than reality. And sometimes, a giant in the night. Someone who could hear the voices no one else could. Ryoka gazed back at her.
“I won’t try to stop you again. I just wish you didn’t have to exist.”
The [Witch] stared at Ryoka, and then she laughed. She slapped the table and howled with laughter. Ryoka listened, waiting, for minutes until Hedag had stopped. Then the woman pulled herself up, adjusted her hat, and grinned.
“I cannot argue with that. Nor can I say I’m perfect, Miss Griffin-Girl. After all, there have been poor Hedags. And I will not be here forever. I am no Belavierr. Someday, I will batter down a door and find a knife in my gut. Or a few folk will gather around to end me. I know that. But this is my craft. And Riverfarm has need of me. It is the biggest place I’ve had to ply my craft yet. I only hope I’ve the strength to do it.”
She poured herself another drink and raised it. Ryoka watched Hedag drink. Content. Tired. So this was what she was. And she thought of all the other [Witches]. Ryoka realized she understood Hedag the most, because she was simplest.
So Ryoka got up. Hedag watched her calmly. Ryoka hesitated. And then she bowed to the [Witch] and heard her laugh. She bowed and wished there were a thousand Hedags. A million, the world over, dispensing their flawed justice. Or none at all.
The old ways.
 
 
Day 64 – Wiskeria
 
“Call it what you will. But it is the old justice. And I have granted Hedag her right. It is old. Older than cities. Until His Majesty returns, she is free to enact her justice. No man died today. And no child was beaten. His Majesty has been told of it, and he will rule on it as well as Belavierr when he returns. But I say it is justice.”
That was all Prost said to Beatica. For once, the Councilwoman’s indignation and protests fell on deaf ears. Because it was a balance. If Belavierr was one thing, Hedag was another. You could protest she was a law unto herself. Because she was. You could worry about corruption or bias, but the [Witch] had the support from every side. From children and adults who had grown up wishing for a Hedag. For those who cried out.
The coven could be proud of her. They might be different in nature, but Ryoka spotted Eloise helping patch a hole in Hedag’s clothing the next day, and Califor herself nodded to Hedag, who smiled at her as they sat together. Nanette was in shy awe.
Mavika wasn’t as impressed. She gave Hedag the same look, as if Hedag had brewed a cup of tea. It was part and parcel to her. And Alevica wasn’t as moved either as she explained to Ryoka.
“Hedag’s a legend, yes, yes. She goes around beating evil parents and killing murderers. She’s not my kind of [Witch]. I get along with her because she’s free with alcohol. I don’t kiss her shoes like you do, Ryoka.”
The City Runner glared at Alevica. It was custom, now, for Ryoka to try to have a lunch with any [Witches] willing to suffer her. Today, Wiskeria had cooled down enough to have a civil conversation with Ryoka. But they were still at odds. Ryoka regretted how she’d brought up Belavierr to Wiskeria, but she had hope that Hedag’s moment had given them an opportunity to mend the gap. But Wiskeria didn’t seem as impressed as Ryoka either.
“I have to agree with Alevica, Ryoka. Hedag’s practicing her craft. It’s not as noble as you think. She does it because she needs the power she derives from it.”
“But she uses that to help people. Children!”
Wiskeria shrugged.
“And helping children is her selfish choice. Don’t let’s talk about morality or I’ll stab you. I told you, [Witches] are inherently selfish. Good [Witches] obey the law, or they make them, like Hedag. But she could just as easily be called a bad [Witch] because she imposes her craft on people.”
“Like me. We’re not so different, Hedag and I. The only difference is that I only bother [Bandits] with my evil craft, and people who annoy me. Hedag’s a tyrant in a hat.”
Alevica winked at Ryoka. The young Asian woman didn’t wink back.
“I disagree. I understand she’s flawed, but what she does is…”
Ryoka grasped for words. It spoke to her. It wasn’t acceptable, not in the society where she’d grown up. Hedag would be jailed in a moment on Earth. But it was what should be right.
That was how Ryoka felt, even if she couldn’t articulate it. Wiskeria and Alevica exchanged a glance. The Witch Runner rolled her eyes.
“Well, looks like Hedag’s got another follower. I can’t fault her for being popular. Although, you know she has a bigger bounty than mine.”
“Really?”
Ryoka looked up. Alevica grinned as she summoned her broomstick.
“Of course. Do you think villages are happy to see her? She’s not just some amazing crusader who stops wife-beaters, Ryoka. She’s left dead in the villages she passes. People who won’t change. Or who committed old crimes. She’s an [Executioner]. She’s got a bounty. Only about three hundred gold pieces. Poor folk can’t afford more. But think about that. Wipe the awe out of your eyes, Ryoka. If Hedag judges someone, she’ll kill them. Her law doesn’t bend. Belavierr’s not the only person who needs an [Emperor] to protect them. ‘Specially because Hedag’s slow. Me? I just fly off when I’m in trouble. Like so.”
Before Ryoka could reply, the [Witch] flew off, laughing merrily. Ryoka clenched her fists and turned to Wiskeria. The other [Witch] shrugged, a bit embarrassed.
“She’s right, you know, Ryoka. Hedag’s just a good [Witch] with good principles. But it’s—”
“Selfish. I get it.”
She was biased, Ryoka realized. But she couldn’t help it. Wiskeria eyed Ryoka’s expression, but she didn’t say anything. The two watched each other in silence. The Wind Runner cleared her throat.
“If you were willing to talk with Belavierr about—”
“Talk to her about what? Noelictus? She told me the entire story. She messed up, now she’s here.”
“You don’t want to ask her to make amends? Or—or—try to show more willingness to help Riverfarm?”
Wiskeria laughed shortly.
“Ryoka, from what I understand, the only ‘amends’ would be a crossbow bolt through her head. As for willingness—you saw Rehanna. She’s making deals to regain what she’s lost. I tried to forbid her from doing any more. That failed.”
“So you’re giving up on her?”
Wiskeria glanced under the table as if to see where to kick Ryoka.
“You’re implying I haven’t done this a hundred thousand times before. Don’t be dense. You said it was like your mother. How are you doing with her?”
“I—I just think maybe—”
“You think you can fix the problem in one go?”
Ryoka was saved from a kneecapping when a quavering, timid voice interrupted the staring contest.
“Please don’t fight. You two are friends, aren’t you?”
Both Ryoka and Wiskeria paused. They turned and saw a young [Witch]. They’d completely forgotten about Nanette. The youngest [Witch] looked wide-eyed at the young women. Abashed, both sat back. Miss Califor, who had been silently eating at the table, cleared her throat.
“Nanette.”
“Yes, Miss Califor?”
The [Witch] broke off eating a jam-covered biscuit that Eloise had made. Ryoka waited for a grain of wisdom from Miss Califor. The [Witch] paused, eying her and Wiskeria.
“You have jam on your face. Eat more carefully.”
Ryoka blinked. Nanette felt at her face and squeaked. Miss Califor produced a handkerchief and cleaned the jam off Nanette’s cheek.
Abashed, embarrassed—they’d forgotten Califor was there too—Ryoka and Wiskeria settled back. Ryoka thought Califor was another mystery. She’d saved Ryoka’s life and shown off some amazing magic, but she did everything sort of…low-key.
As if she were trying not to be impressive. Plus, she had no side work in Riverfarm, unlike even Belavierr. Califor was focused on Nanette almost to the point of exclusion. Teaching the girl everything from how to bake to casting spells was Califor’s obsession and craft, it seemed. And cleaning jam off Nanette’s face.
Even so, it wasn’t a completely harmonious relationship. Nanette was a growing girl, and sometimes it seemed like Califor’s mentorship chafed at her. On the other hand…Ryoka also saw that she respected Miss Califor and hung on the woman’s words. Nanette always had a truism of Califor’s to repeat. And she valued the older [Witch]’s approval more than anything else.
Sometimes, that could result in tears, especially today. It was an inadvertent slip up as Ryoka and Wiskeria tried to be civil.
“I guess I have been a bit annoying about Belavierr. I just don’t want to make a mistake. I feel like I have to address her. Or what’s the point of me being here?”
The City Runner muttered into her tea cup. Wiskeria hesitated and tugged her hat down.
“And—I could talk about my mother without threatening to injure you. It’s just that it’s hard, you understand? I’m sorry for snapping, Nanette.”
Miss Califor nodded approvingly. Nanette seemed happy to see the two making an effort. She smiled as she reached for another biscuit.
“I’m so glad. You two were ever so nice when we were on our walk. Miss Califor, Ryoka even healed my hand when I—”
Nanette’s face went pale. Miss Califor’s brows snapped together.
“When you what, Nanette? Did you injure yourself so badly you needed a healing potion? And you did not inform me?”
Ryoka felt like every teacher in the world was giving her the death glare. And that was nothing to the way Nanette stammered and tried to lie. Ineffectually, of course. Nanette was hiding under her hat as Califor prised the truth out, and Ryoka took a quick bathroom break, following Charlay’s example.
When Califor finally found out about Nanette slicing her palm open with the sickle by accident, she did just what Nanette feared. She took the sickle away. Ryoka returned to the table a few minutes later to find Nanette sobbing at the scolding she’d received. She wasn’t being punished beyond having the sickle confiscated, but Miss Califor’s disappointment was enough.
Wiskeria gave Ryoka a look that said she’d hex Ryoka into oblivion if the City Runner left her alone. So Ryoka sat back down as Miss Califor left to put the sickle in a safe place until Nanette was older and ‘knew how to respect it’.
They had to comfort Nanette, of course. Although, Ryoka had to point out that neither of them had actually told Califor (mainly because they’d forgotten to), and Nanette had let it slip. Wiskeria glared and kicked Ryoka under the table. Ryoka considered that she’d deserved that.
“Look, I know Califor can be harsh, Nanette, but she’s just looking out for you. It’s actually touching, really. Parents are strict because they love you. Generally. I mean, I know Califor’s just your teacher, but—”
Ryoka lamely attempted to comfort Nanette. The young [Witch] gulped as Wiskeria kicked Ryoka under the table again. Wiskeria nodded.
“Califor’s like every [Witch]’s mother. I know I wanted to make her proud of me. She taught me, Nanette. She’s not mad. In fact, she’s pretty caring of you, like I said.”
“I just don’t want to disappoint her.”
Nanette gulped, her eyes watery. Ryoka patted her on the back.
“You didn’t do that. Sickles are dangerous. One time, I nearly cut my hand to the bone when I was trying to cook by myself. And Durene—you should see her handle a knife!”
Nanette smiled, but she shook her head again as Wiskeria poured more of Eloise’s fine tea.
“I know. I know, but…I think I’m Miss Califor’s worst apprentice. I’m always causing her trouble, and she’s always having to help me or fix my mistakes. And she always does! I’m afraid she won’t keep me around.”
The two young women blinked and looked at each other. Ryoka hesitated.
“Nanette. Aren’t you her only apprentice?”
“Yes! And I’m the worst one! All the other [Witches] say I ought to be talented, but Califor says to ignore them. But wh-what if she decides someone else had better teach me? Like Witch Agratha? I like Witch Agratha, but Califor’s my teacher!”
“She’s not going to get rid of you for the sickle, Nanette.”
Wiskeria encouraged the girl, but Nanette was sobbing again.
