Ryoka grinned, hiding her embarrassment. Then she saw Wiskeria’s eyes grow serious.
“Just be sure you don’t end up like Ostevien.”
“W-what happened to him?”
Wiskeria leaned forwards.
“That’s a long story. The end of it is ongoing. They call him the Griffin Prince of Kaliv. The Cursed Prince. The exile.”
Ryoka’s heart leapt. An actual—she leaned forwards.
“What’s the curse? Belavierr did it?”
This explained everything. Wiskeria exhaled and, with infinite regret, whispered in Ryoka’s ear.
“Simple. He will never die.”
She stared at Ryoka until the Wind Runner’s smile vanished. Then Ryoka got up in the dead silence, walked to the door—stared at Wiskeria—and left.
 
——
 
Ryoka was wandering around Riverfarm, trying to think, when she saw Nesor hurrying towards her, waving a bit of parchment.
“Miss Griffin! Miss Griffin! There’s a message for you! A [Fence]! He’s dead! It—”
“The [Fence]? In Filk?”
And Ryoka heard of the dead Ratwhisperer, his mouth and nose sewn shut. Her own mouth throbbed and burned. To her credit, even Alevica looked uneasy.
“Don’t let your [Opener] friend talk about Belavierr, Griffin. That’s a curse Belavierr’s used. And I don’t think many people could dodge that. Even if they’re [Mages].”
Ryoka agreed. She looked at Nesor and sent a swift reply.
 
Everything’s fine. She’s dangerous, but I think it’s safe for us. I’ll be here a bit longer. Don’t cross her, Fierre. And don’t worry about me. I have to do this. Thanks for the help.
 
A lie. Because Ryoka wasn’t fine. That night, she kept opening her mouth, running her teeth along her healed lips. Shuddering. And she stayed away from Riverfarm, using Durene’s cottage to sleep. Refused to go near the village. Or the [Witch] with the glowing eyes and wide-brimmed hat. If she hadn’t run—Ryoka’s dreams were filled with a man she’d never met, mouth and nose sewn shut. Staring into oblivion as blood ran down his throat. And Belavierr’s blank, impatient stare watching as he died.
 
 
Day 63 – Ryoka
 
For two days, Ryoka ducked at every passing person wearing clothes that were even remotely black. A pointed hat and she fled the other way. The worst part was that no one, not even Charlay, called her silly for doing that. In fact, everyone took the time to tell Ryoka how stupid she had been for crossing Belavierr.
They were right. Right and wrong. Because Belavierr might be—probably was—a monster. But one who obeyed her own laws. She was like the fae. Or Teriarch. A mix between him and Az’kerash, perhaps. So what anyone with sense would do was avoid her until Laken returned. Let him handle her and not provoke her wrath.
Yet Ryoka had never been accused of having sense. And the issue of the [Witches] was greater than just Belavierr. That was what Prost didn’t understand, or Rie, or anyone else. They had come to Riverfarm, this coven, to ask Laken to grant [Witches] sanctuary. And if Emperor Godart was anything like the Laken she remembered, Ryoka expected him to honor that vow.
The problem was whether it would be safe. Half of the [Witches] seemed fine. Califor, Eloise, Nanette, even Alevica could behave. But Mavika? Hedag? Belavierr? It was a quandary. And the only person who could solve it wasn’t Ryoka.
It was Wiskeria, Belavierr’s daughter. But the irony was that the daughter wanted nothing to do with her mother. She hated her mother. And—thanks to Ryoka—she had said it at last. That bothered Belavierr.
She followed Wiskeria until her daughter told her to leave her alone. Asked questions as Wiskeria shouted at her. Listened. Until that glacial face hardened and became angry. Frustrated. Uncomprehending.
“She hates Belavierr for who she is. But Belavierr won’t change her craft. It’s like watching two trees hit each other.”
Charlay summed up the conflict as Ryoka hid behind her on the third day after a one-sided shouting match. Wiskeria stormed off, and Charlay, Ryoka, and everyone who’d stopped to watch fled as well. Because Belavierr was angry. She stood in the street, her head bowed, gazing at Wiskeria’s back. And undone clothes were the least of what Ryoka feared from her now.
There was something else that was brewing in Riverfarm as a consequence of these fights. No—of Rehanna. The woman sometimes went outside, holding her baby. And that was a terrible sight, in daylight or at night. Belavierr’s encounter with Councilwoman Beatica had also caused trouble. The woman had shown more sense than Ryoka and refused to engage with Belavierr directly, but bad will towards Belavierr and [Witches] in general had spread across the village.
Into that confused tangle of events, a mother and a daughter’s war, and the hot days without a hint of rain that continued to roll on, the dark looks and trouble brewing, there was Hedag. Ryoka had paused from a day of trying to talk with Wiskeria and hiding from Belavierr as people trudged back from the fields.
No one was happy. It was hot, and the river that fed the village was now being used to partially irrigate the fields. But hand-watering still had to be done, and it was hot. The [Witches] had kept to themselves today, mercifully, and Eloise had even relegated her tea service in lieu of helping Califor teach Nanette how to make some bread that may or may not have been magical.
Mavika and Alevica were nowhere to be found as dusk settled, then night. Ryoka ate a meal with Durene and Charlay, on the lookout for Wiskeria and Belavierr. That’s when she saw her.
Hedag. The woman was sitting at a table, laughing, drinking, and eating with [Forewoman] Beycalt and a few other laborers. Completely at ease. She ignored the looks she was getting as she poured a generous drink from her flask into each cup. Despite the volume of the flask, she filled each polished wooden cup to the brim. Ryoka didn’t have to see the way Beycalt brightened or how the others lifted the cups to know it was alcohol.
“To your [Emperor], then! And a hard day’s work!”
Hedag laughed, and her voice boomed through the mess hall. She lifted the flask and drank with the others. Ryoka blinked. She glanced around.
“What’s Hedag been up to all day, Durene? Charlay?”
The Centauress shrugged. But Durene leaned over.
“Haven’t you seen her? She’s been helping build houses.”
“What, with magic?”
Ryoka turned back to Hedag. The woman’s plain brown hat and travel-worn clothing made her seem the most normal of all the [Witches]. She was a big woman, bigger than Beycalt, and she looked strong. And she had chopped off a man’s head with her axe. Yet here she was jovial, smiling. Durene shook her head.
“Nope. No magic at all. She just helped. She’s good with a hammer, and she knows how to put up a house.”
“Huh. Interesting.”
Ryoka watched Hedag drinking with the other villagers. She had an infectious laugh and an openness about her that was the exact opposite of what Ryoka was used to. She reminded the City Runner of Erin, actually. Only, an Erin of a different sort.
And yet, she was a [Witch]. No one had forgotten how she’d walked into Riverfarm and pronounced judgment. Many of the people stared and murmured, and few would drink with Hedag, despite the free liquor. If the [Witch] noticed—and she surely did—she paid no mind. In fact, she noticed more than Ryoka thought, because though she never turned her head, after the second round, she raised her voice.
“Share a drink with me, Runner-Girl?”
Ryoka jumped. Hedag turned and waved a hand. Ryoka felt a stab of embarrassment as everyone glanced over at her. But there was nothing for it. She stood up and walked over.
“I didn’t mean to stare.”
“Ah, what a kind lie. But you don’t fool me! Come, sit. And perhaps you won’t be as wary of Hedag as you are of my coven!”
Hedag’s slap nearly catapulted Ryoka into her seat. Ryoka blinked as the woman grabbed a cup from the table behind her. Someone had used the cup, but Hedag sloshed in a bunch of pungent…rum? Ryoka inhaled it. Certainly not just an ale or mead.
“That’s a hard worker’s drink there. Hard to get and expensive! For us at least. But a reward best used, not hoarded. Stand a round?”
Hedag grinned. Ryoka was surprised, but she wasn’t about to refuse. She raised the cup and downed half with the other drinkers. After some of the coughing and laughter, Ryoka lowered her cup.
“That burns! What is that, a magical flask?”
“This? Naught but a little trick. It’s wider than it seems. I don’t do grand magics, if that’s what you’re asking, Miss Ryoka. And if you’ve been wondering whether I’m a threat to your village, have no fear. A Hedag is justice, not aught else. I don’t use my craft for myself like young Alevica, or in spite as Mavika does. Nor am I Belavierr. But I am a [Witch].”
Hedag casually drank from her flask again, her eyes twinkling beneath her hat. Ryoka studied her, embarrassed.
“I’m sure you’re not. I’ve only—”
“Been asking? And talking with your [Emperor], haven’t you? What a slow lad! I thought he’d be here days ago! Tell him to hurry up!”
Hedag laughed, ignoring the askance looks some of the other villagers were giving her. She spread her arms, sloshing some of her drink. She was actually drunk, Ryoka was sure of it! But the [Witch] wasn’t ashamed.
“What’s the point of holding a drink if there’s no fun in it, Runner-Girl? I work hard, I sweat, and then I drink and sleep! Occasionally, I eat, and I’ll own to a few other things. But I don’t want for anything else. I am a [Witch], but I’ll work for coin when my craft doesn’t call.”
“But what is your craft? Justice?”
Ryoka tried to press Hedag. But the [Witch] only smiled and filled Ryoka’s cup.
“It calls me sometimes often. Sometimes once a month or even a year. And what it is is justice.”
Beyond that, she wouldn’t say. And Ryoka realized after the third cup that Hedag was just as crafty as Eloise in her way. She’d bought goodwill with her strong drink. And she was content to just let people drink and insult each other and…be people, unlike Eloise. She was amid them, challenging Beycalt to an arm-wrestling competition or laughing uproariously at a bawdy joke. But what did she do?
Ryoka had to excuse herself from the table to sit back and think. She was sure she was holding her liquor well—until Charlay pointed out Ryoka was about to fall out of her chair. The young woman sat up and tried to think.
She had seen Mavika selling crow’s feather charms to a few brave people. Eloise sold her tea. Alevica was a Runner, and Califor seemed content to teach Nanette. Belavierr and Wiskeria were their own thing.
But Hedag had been the real mystery. Day after day, she’d been talking with children. Letting them show her a ball or a doll, playing with them by pulling up a stone so they could scream at the bugs, or giving one a ride on her shoulders. The parents had been uneasy, but Hedag had just been kind. Then she’d stopped and begun helping out in the village.
“Why? Is she collecting fun? Goodwill, like Eloise?”
Ryoka muttered as she inspected Hedag with one bleary eye. Charlay shrugged.
“I have no idea. But she’s fun to be around.”
That was true. Hedag’s laugh filled the hall into the night. And she drank like an alcoholic and laughed without guile. Not once did Ryoka see anything ‘witchy’ about her.
Because there wasn’t. She was looking in the wrong place, at the wrong person. It wasn’t Hedag Ryoka should have been watching. So she only saw the end of it when the fire in the mess hall was low and most had taken to their beds. Hedag sat, smiling, pleasantly drunk, at her table, occasionally belching.
She was waiting. That night, her craft did call. It was no large thing. Rather, it was a young boy Ryoka had never met. She had never seen him. To her, he was a face, one of Riverfarm’s many families displaced. She couldn’t have seen anything unique about him. Her eyes were on the [Witches]. She did not know the young boy, who had shown a leather ball to Hedag and heard her promise. Ryoka did not even know his name. His story.
But here it was. The young boy had had a fulfilling day. He’d been corralled into a work force of boys all bursting with energy around his age, too young to take up a task that involved anything bladed, but too old to stay with the young children. He’d been sent, under the eye of a pair of [Hunters], to the forest near Riverfarm to gather some edibles.
Of course, the boy had played with his friends, but they’d all come back with some edibles or bits of bark and kindling to appease Prost and the supervisor in charge of them. But responsibility wasn’t something the boy had a grasp of yet. He was a city’s child, and he’d laughed at the diligent villager-children who refused to so much as try and catch a rabbit barehanded and gathered most of the day.
And then he’d come back and eaten a hot meal, which he liked. He missed his home in Lancrel. Terribly. The fascination of a new village, the relief of fleeing the Goblins was worn off. Riverfarm was boring where Lancrel had been huge and exciting, a proper city. In his way, the young boy had been contemptuous of Riverfarm’s villagers.
The only exciting thing was the visitors. The Centauress, the strange-looking City Runner. And the [Witches]. They were terrifying and exciting to someone his age, and he’d tried following around the young [Witch] until the old one snapped at him. Or the Witch Runner until she’d conjured a swarm of stinging bugs and scared him and his friends off. The young boy had gotten into a fight twice with the villager boys and a girl named Chimmy. And he’d been told off and slapped hard for each.
Misery. Fun. Boredom and joy. That was his life in the day. But at night—on this night in particular, the young boy sat in his newly-made bed and listened. He shook, because he heard a man’s voice. Familiar, rough. And yes, drunk.
It was a story Ryoka didn’t know, but that she knew.
The young boy listened. He had a mother and father. She was often impatient with his father. The boy’s father had expectations and didn’t like being here in Riverfarm. The father was a [Jeweler] by class, and he didn’t take well to the work he had to do since he couldn’t pursue his class.
So he was impatient. Annoyed. And that night, drink provided by Councilwoman Beatica at the Lancrel gatherings, fueled a long-burning fire. An old problem. The boy listened as the voices murmured, then grew loud. And he was afraid.
Dark thoughts. A temper. Bitter words, perhaps over losing his home, his family moving here. Grievances at work. Councilwoman Beatica’s words. The lack of rain. [Witches].
