The huge dire bear roared his challenge, flecks of froth spraying from his mouth toward the giant double-greataxe-wielding troll so far into his rage that the red mist about him was pulsing with palpable fury.

The axes swung, whistling through the air as they smashed into the flagstones, carving slices through the dense hide of the deranged bear before him. From behind, another troll shot forward, leaving trails of bone spikes in his wake, cutting low and ruthlessly across the giant troll berserker’s hamstrings, eliciting a furious howl and an angry pulse from the red mist of rage.

It was into this chaos of blood and steel that Malika willingly leapt. She shot in from the side, sprinting faster than the twin axes could react, stepping on the haft of one and vaulting over the Holy Avenger that swept upward to meet her. She floated past the troll’s face, taking in the lips curled back to bare clenched teeth in a smile that had nothing to do with joy, the bloodshot, unnaturally wide eyes that echoed the eldritch orbs floating above.

“Come on, Ali, we need this curse gone,” Malika yelled. For a moment, they had stabilized, but more parasites had come, and they’d lost Mato again. “Ali!”

Her foot came down on the blood-slicked fur of Mato’s back, taking all her dexterity and balance just to catch her weight, but she caught herself with a fistful of sticky fur and a pulse from Divine Step. She punched downward, releasing Soul Strike into the writhing tumorous mass of black flesh that was digging tentacles into Mato’s neck. The instant her fist connected with the parasitic monster, a backlash of dark, incomprehensible energy ripped at her health, triggering a nauseating bout of vertigo. She gripped harder as Mato bucked like a warhorse to throw her off, but he was pinned down by the trolls, the ones that were not already insane, and all she had to do was dodge the flying swords and axes.

Right below her hand, the flesh ripped apart, revealing ichor-stained teeth that snapped at her, drawing blood and triggering yet another rush of dizziness as the world lurched. Malika gritted her teeth, shoved her hand deeper into the mouth, grabbing a fistful of slimy flesh and sharp teeth.

“I bet Rezan never thought of this when he counseled investing in strength,” Malika muttered.

As if in response, she saw his enigmatic half smile in her memories and recalled his words: “When the moment comes, the light of understanding will illuminate your path.”

“No. No, you can’t claim you foresaw this shit,” Malika grunted as she yanked hard. Soul Strike flickered and flashed as she unleashed burst after burst into the grotesque writhing mass while it struggled to free itself. Teeth bit down, tentacles thrashed, slapping her with freakishly uncanny strength, but she persevered, tearing the monster bodily from Mato’s back. Tentacles more than three feet long ripped out of his flesh with a stomach-turning wet sucking sound, while the shrieks of the parasite mingled with Mato’s furious roars of pain.

“Got you, you ugly pest!” Malika crowed. “Calen! Heads up!”

With the monster firmly gripped in her fist, she held it up overhead while ducking down, never faltering in the onslaught of Soul Strike blasts she delivered through the nauseating touch. Tentacles squirmed, trying to find purchase through her Soul Armor-reinforced skin. Mouths formed and vanished as the thing struggled to bite her, and then it exploded with a violent detonation of radiant light and flame as Calen’s arrow picked it off right out of her hand.

A dark pool of tar-like sludge suddenly appeared under Mato and the trolls, releasing hissing discharges of toxic necrotic steam.

You have been poisoned.+49 death damage per second.Duration: Area.

“Zone of destruction,” Calen shouted.

“Move, you big lug!” Malika yelled, but Mato was too far gone to be taking any of her advice. Instead, she reached down along his ribs, finding another squishy tentacle embedded in Mato’s flesh. She grabbed it and yanked. She ignored the waves of dizziness and the ground rippling in waves. She ignored the pumping sensation within the tentacle she grasped, focusing her entire attention on tearing it out of the bear and burning it with soul magic.

With a slurping, wet suction and a spray of his blood as the teeth ripped out, she parted the parasite from Mato’s flesh and offered it to the wrath of Calen’s bow.

“Ali! Any time now!” Malika yelled. Even before the monster had been consumed by fire and light, she poured her stamina into healing the bear she rode. A shudder rippled through his body, and he grunted.

“Malika?” His mind-voice sounded weary and confused, but she was just happy he was sane enough to recognize her.

“Move out of the poison zone, Mato,” she told him, a little more gently this time. As soon as he did, his health began to stabilize, and with her Clarity and the furious decursing by Ali’s witch doctors, he seemed to be recovering. She hopped off his back, landed on the ground, and sized up the massive berserker bearing down on them with glowing red eyes, a writhing mass of tentacles on his shoulder, and axes winding up to strike.

This… this is not going to be easy.

Calen raised his bow, risking a glance in the direction of the Well of Eternity. Or more accurately, the air far above it – he wasn’t nearly brave enough to attempt to look at whatever it was that had emerged from the well.

But even the mere sight of the dozen floating red eyes was enough to stagger his mind. Seductive whispers echoed in his ears, shifting suddenly to the terrifying screeches, only to come crawling back with vague offers of rest, relief, and power.

He ignored them as best he could, but knowing they were false did little to help him shut them out, and he finally understood the scrawling of the deranged scribe, sharing the experience of madness from ages past.

Cinderstrike smoked in his hands as he drew the bowstring, firing multiple volleys up at the dreadful eyes glaring down at them. He managed three volleys of fire and light before his arrows ripped through the eyes, leaving explosive detonations every time they struck.

But the instant he hit, the whispers screamed with anger deep within his mind, the sound like claws rending steel. The battlefield vanished as his vision blacked out, and when he came to, he was facing the other way, shooting at Parasitic Nightmares and Dark Souls. Something skewered him with a searing lance of pain, and he whirled about to find two fewer eyes hovering in the air, but most of them were attempting to impale him with their unblinking stares while shooting unerring beams of pure blackness in his direction.

He launched two decoys, ducking sideways as he engaged Eclipse, folding light around him like a shroud and welcoming the invisibility it provided. But the eyes still tracked him, their beams continuing to shoot at his shrouded form, entirely ignoring the illusory decoys he had deployed. He found himself frantically dodging, but when he raised his bow, he found an irresistible compulsion to aim the other way. The parasites grabbed his attention with an unnatural fascination that sent creeping chills down his spine, and the Dark Souls suddenly felt far more important.

Is it still in my mind? Beginning to doubt his sanity once again, he raised his bow, forcing himself to shoot at the eyes. Instantly, the whispers rose to a new crescendo, and his mind blacked out a second time.

It couldn’t have been for more than a second, but once again, when he came around, he was facing away from the eyes, and he found his hands shooting at the parasites.

Reverse Taunt. The realization dawned upon him in a flash of insight. Taunt skills were mind-altering attacks that forced or encouraged enemies to attack the source of the Taunt. Reverse Taunts were far rarer, but not entirely unheard of. They were used to force enemies to attack literally anything else.

And with the Creeping Nightmare curse, my resistance is low.

He teleported through one of his motes, dropping himself right beside Malika.

“I can’t shoot the thing behind us,” he said. “It has a reverse taunt.”

Without a word, she obligingly let out a spherical rippling pulse of healing magic.

You have gained Clarity.

He spun about, aiming at the eyes once more, and again they had shifted to track him, regardless of his illusions, stealth, or teleportation, beams of death blasting down from on high. He returned fire, taking full advantage of Malika’s buff to resist the rising screams and whispers. Despite the pain causing flashes of light behind his eyes, each a stabbing migraine in its own right, he forced himself to push through.

A massive black tentacle lashed out, smashing into the terraced stone steps of the amphitheater and pulverizing rock several feet away and leaving a crater where it had impacted.

It missed? The tentacles were hard to see, shifting in and out of the spirit realm and elsewhere, but he had not needed to dodge this time. He glanced up at the smaller cloud of eyes, his mind calculating the possibilities.

It sees through everything I have, he thought. Then a fierce grin lit his face. But it can’t see if the eyes are dead. He fired volley after volley, filling the sky with explosions.

“Ali’s in trouble!” Malika yelled.

Calen snapped his head around to find Ali slumped over in the middle of a dark cloud. Her eyes were fluttering and her limbs twitching. Every single Parasitic Nightmare suddenly stopped, quivering, and then let out a chorus of squeals and shrieks, and as one, they all charged her.

He reacted, his hands blurring with the speed of desperation. With a single thought and a puff of mana, he traded bows, retrieving The Scourge of Deadly Creep.

The twisted Darkwood branch, infested with spore pods, was heavier than Cinderstrike and far more powerful. A dusting of toxic spores blasted outward as needle-sharp thorns sprang from the wood, piercing his forearm and hands, drawing energy from his body.

But he welcomed it; he needed the power of nature this bow possessed. He drew and fired, arrows conjured and flying in mere fractions of a second. Each arrow trailed clouds of deadly spores that drifted to the ground behind them, to be stirred up by the next volley, and the next in small toxic vortices that scampered around the battlefield like tiny wind sprites. Undead were typically immune to poisons, which was why he had been using Cinderstrike; however, the Parasitic Nightmares were not undead.

Let’s see how you like poison!

The arrows struck true, and to his relief, the sudden abundant growth of Grasping Roots blossomed across the dark amphitheater, arresting the parasites in their tracks. And for the ones that hadn’t procced his bow’s powerful crowd control skill, he unleashed the light chains of his Grappling Shot.

From the spores lying on the ground, small spherical blobs of familiar fungus formed, warping and twisting as they grew larger until they broke off and scampered around.

Oh yes, this thing summons Creep Spores.

But he had no control over his unwittingly summoned monsters, and they simply scattered, blowing themselves up on whatever was nearest. Almost all of which were trapped parasites.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
