The monster could not be. It simply defied reason. It took reality by the throat and impaled it on the fact of its own existence, leaving it broken and whimpering in the corner.

Ali’s Sage of Learning punched her in the stomach with the force of an avalanche behind it. Her mind twisted, sprained by the impossible contradictions it was forced to endure, leaving her stunned and reeling.

Dimly, in the dark recesses of her mind, she realized just how mistaken they had been. Relying on Malika’s buff had become a crutch, leaving them overconfident and vulnerable. As the world exploded into dark tentacles, eldritch eyes, and slavering mouths that oozed out to bite from every available surface, Ali quailed in fear. Terror that knew no reason rose within her as the sheer pressure of the monster’s force of presence dominated her mind.

“Ali!”

Something was screaming in her mind, but the uncanny whispers drowned it out. She struggled against it desperately, but she had no idea who or what she was even fighting. Or why.

“Ali!”

She struggled some more, but she was drowning in the nightmare. Somehow, she clung to that voice, like a lifeline. She did not understand, but she knew she must. Moving at a level barely above instinct, she reached out and grabbed at understanding in the only way she knew how.

Her mind reeled as Sage of Learning continued to surge like waves crashing over her helplessly drowning psyche; a deluge of impossible, forbidden understanding cascaded into her, threatening to wash away her very self, but she clung on, clutching to the sound of that voice, the only semblance of stability in a world of disintegrating reality.

“Ali, come back. I can’t do this by myself.”

Malika.

Slowly, she opened her eyes, her mind still feeling brittle and fragile after the enormity of that assault, dropping her study trance. She lay on the floor in a fetal ball, her barrier glowing brightly around her. The borders of her vision still swam, walls swaying and bending like willow branches in a storm. An enormous battle raged, but Ali couldn’t tell the difference between reality and the nightmare.

But Malika was crouched beside her, looking on with deep concern etched upon her face.

“What… what’s happening?”

“Don’t look at it,” Malika said. “It causes some kind of insanity.”

In the corner of her eye, dark tentacles reached out and lashed at something, and the world suddenly lurched, the whispers rising to a howling crescendo. Immediately, she squeezed her eyes shut, and a few moments later, the insidious voices in her head began to fade, and the world stabilized once again.

Slowly, Ali stood, trying hard not to look. What she could do, though, was see her minions. Half of them were already dead, bodies strewn about like chaff. The other half were locked in a furious battle against each other, and somewhere in the depths of the chaos, a bear roared, and an archer of light darted. All the while, Dark Souls rained lightning down upon everything.

What a disaster.

Frantically, Ali searched through her notifications, desperate for any information. She needed information – without it, she could not act. But nothing in there helped in the slightest.

“What’s causing all this?” she asked, frustration and urgency leaking out in her voice. Something powerful was messing with their minds.

“I don’t know,” Malika said. “But you and I are the only ones who resisted it.”

I’m not sure this counts as resisting, she thought, wincing at the throbbing pain behind her right eye. Still, if there was nothing useful in her notifications, there had to be something she could find. Focusing her mind, she activated Study Trance a second time and went inward with Arcane Insight, searching for anything that might give her a clue.

Malika and I both possess high wisdom, so it must have a profound mind-altering effect. One powerful enough to overcome her Clarity. What did Mieriel say? You can’t defend against mind magic if you don’t know it’s there. She redoubled her efforts, searching for anything, any tell, sight, or abnormality.

Suddenly, she saw it. A faint hint of mana, a twisted shadow of a formation. Something she might never have noticed without her immense investment in perception, Arcane Insight, and countless hours of practice trying to see through all manner of concealment, stealth, and illusions. The moment she saw the first signs, Sage of Learning pulsed with new insight and knowledge began to unfurl almost reluctantly, yielding itself to her intellect. Her chime sounded moments later.

You have been cursed with The Creeping Nightmare.You are plagued by confusion, nightmares, hallucinations, and insanity.Stealth (This curse is hidden from perception and awareness).You are insane, proportional to the count of The Creeping Nightmare.Resistance to mind-altering effects is reduced by 5% (per count).When the count reaches 100, your mind’s defenses are overwhelmed by The Creeping Nightmare, and you become permanently trapped within it, thrall to its caster.Curse – Count: 15

“Malika! It’s a stealth curse!” Ali gasped.

“A what? Can you get rid of it?”

“I’ll try.” Armed with new knowledge and a powerful, desperate urgency, Ali immediately began dismantling the curse on Malika. She glanced about, searching for help, discovering Kir’vella staring at her with strangely alert eyes.

“Does it not affect you?” Ali asked.

“It’s fresh and bracing,” the troll said, giggling as she wiggled her fingers in an obscure gesture.

“Never mind,” Ali said, ignoring yet another quirk from the crazy witch doctor. “Here, help me remove these. This is how to unravel it.” It took a few moments to teach her how to recognize the curse, but with the heightened mental connection to her minion, she was able to get it done in short order.

Then she removed most of the curses from herself and surveyed the battlefield with new clarity in her eyes. What she saw almost made her wish she hadn’t.

“M…Malika, is that thing eating Calen?” A black writhing mass about the size of his head had latched onto the back of the tall half-elf’s neck. Tentacles gripped him around his throat, shoulders, and neck, some even piercing into his back. Several fanged mouths opened, moving as if they were speaking, but without sound.

“I don’t know, but we need to get rid of it, immediately,” Malika said, vanishing and reappearing behind Calen, fists flashing. Calen dodged, drawing his bow to attack her. In seconds, they were engaged in a furious flurry of fists and dodges, so fast Ali could barely track them.

But Ali had eyes only for his curse, a writhing mass of dark formations that preyed upon his mind like a suppurating infection. When she realized his count was already approaching sixty-five, she began frantically dismantling them one by one, struggling as the curse kept trying to grow.

She fought the curse to a standstill for a moment, and then Malika finally outfoxed Calen, reaching out to tear the parasitic monster off his back and neck with hands that pulsated with blue-white mana. The monster’s screech stabbed into her mind like a rusty dagger. Only then did Ali begin to make headway against the curse, but before she could register relief, a second crawling, black mass caught her attention as it lashed out and slithered up onto Mato’s back. Tendrils lashed out, stabbing into his hide while a large mouth appeared and bit down on the side of his neck. It was only then that she saw three others already feasting upon him.

Parasitic Nightmare – Eldritch Monstrosity – level 154-157 (Mind) x4

“Mato’s badly infected!” she shouted. Struggling as she was trying to keep up with Calen’s curse, there was no way she could save Mato, too. Unless…

The fight paused, color fading to gray as her Arcane Recall shifted her into the Spirit Realm. Although she could move, she could somehow sense the presence of the monster and the Well just behind her. Too scared to turn around and take the risk of accidentally meeting its gaze, she hastily manifested her Grimoire and began summoning a witch doctor. The book glowed with her magic, and the unseen searching presence instantly froze in a state of sudden alertness.

Ali’s heart stopped, or would have if it were beating here, and she held her breath, willing her summoning spell to finish faster. Instead, it felt like she was dragging her mana through sticky tar. Out of the corner of her eye, she sensed movement where there should be none. A dark tendril of blackness reached past her, seeking blindly, and in sudden shock, she recognized it. Here in the spirit realm, the monstrous tendrils looked identical to those which had infested Nathaniel Sunstrider when she had first met him in her dungeon. Back when Clarence had saved her from their touch.

But there was no Clarence to help her this time. She closed her eyes, but not before she sensed her curse tick up from the sight of it. Another presence passed her on the other side, still seeking, searching, but she refused to open her eyes.

Then, to her intense relief, her Grimoire surged, completing the summon, and she dropped back into the mortal realm with her new minion.

“Decurse Mato,” she commanded.

As soon as she finished removing Calen’s curse, his mind returned to sanity.

“Ugh, what happened?” he gasped, bending over and retching.

“You got chomped by a parasite,” Ali told him. “Those black things are eating Mato. Shoot them.”

“Oh… shit! What are those things? I had one on me?” Calen yelped, but his bow steadied in his hands and conjured arrows that lit the room as he unleashed his onslaught.

Mato had far more wisdom than Calen, but the parasites were carriers for the curse, and it took both him and Malika to rip them off the Bear’s back before Ali could get his curse down to a manageable level. As soon as she did, he stopped lashing out whenever Malika got close, and she was able to heal him and grant him Clarity.

Arrows of light shot skyward, trailing glowing chains to drag Dark Souls to Mato’s waiting claws, as Calen smoothly transitioned to trying to exert some sort of control over the rest of the disaster, but Ali ignored that chaos, devoting all her attention to freeing her remaining minions from the Creeping Nightmare curse. With so many of them, it was impossible to keep everyone clean, even with the help of her two witch doctors, but as soon as she got the count low enough, her minions were fortunately functional. For her remaining healers, she just turned them to face away from the Well of Eternity.

That’s a start. She bit her lip hard, letting the pain help her concentrate. What’s next?

Finally, with her minions no longer trying their best to kill each other, she could focus on the primary goal. Armed with Clarity and the aura of her Baelok Descrier, she gritted her teeth and turned to face it. She’d never hated Mieriel’s advice as much as she did right now, but there was wisdom in being able to see what was coming.

The monster spilling from the Well of Eternity was truly a thing of nightmares. As her eyes beheld it, Ali’s mind quaked and trembled, even supported by all her buffs and prodigious wisdom. Insidious whispers rose within her, promising impossible powers and insane delights, and the curse immediately ticked up. Then, it ticked up again. And again. It was all she could do to hang onto her sanity. Just from looking at it.

Sprawled up and out of the well, it was a being of twisted darkness. Slimy black tentacles waved in the air, lashing out to deliver pain in all directions. Slavering mouths filled with too many teeth opened and shut at random, spread out all over the shifting surface of its body. Parts of it shifted in and out of existence, warping her perceptions in dangerous ways, and, hovering in the air above it, flew a dozen crimson, glowing eyes, surveying the battle while shooting beams of pure black death magic.

Gulping, she cast Identify – and immediately wished she hadn’t.

B̴͈̟͒ạ̵̾̀̄̚a̷̪͚̙̎ͅo̸̯̞͖̓̌͘h̷̻̃͑͌͠t̵͙̮͂͆̍͜ ̵̤͛͐̇̋Y̷̥̙̎͆̒͝l̶̗͆̀̈́ͅl̵̤͖̼̞̈͆́̿'̵̤̲̟̫̇̐̊̔s̴̘͕̊̈́͑̃h̸̦͚̼͋̐̈́́u̵̱͚͂̃̕u̶̡̙̗̩͑m̷̢̛̟͋̓ [Devourer of Dreams] – Undead Eldritch Monstrosity – level ??? (Death / Mind)

The golden text appeared in her mind with an unearthly screech, a mind-shuddering blend between an unravelling banshee’s wail and bleeding fingernails scraping grooves into a chalkboard. The name shivered and twisted under her gaze as if writhing its way into her mind, and the golden color darkened to festering blackness as the monster’s essence seeped into it from elsewhere. Heart hammering like a stampede of Bristletusk Boars, Ali dismissed it as fast as she was able, breathing heavily only when the pain in her mind began to fade.

Holy shit! She shuddered as her guts tied themselves into knots trying to get away. What the heck was that?

As she stared, a mouth stretched wider, and it vomited up a black mass that hit the floor with a splat. It quivered briefly and then writhed, tentacles slapping the ground wetly before it crawled off into the battle.

Parasitic Nightmare – Eldritch Monstrosity – level 156 (Mind).

“You got this, Ali?” Malika asked.

You have gained Clarity.

“Yes, I think so.” Ali’s mind failed to buckle, even under such enormous pressure. Still, she reminded herself that her curse was building rapidly and quickly began to dismantle the insidious formations while refusing to take her eyes off the monstrosity. She had a job to do, and there was no excuse for missing spells just because it might be difficult. Someone had to keep eyes on the boss, even if the mere act of looking risked insanity.

Another mouth opened, and the domain mana surged. But it surged in a recognizable, familiar pattern. “Summoning,” she called, sharing the spell with the others. The mouth widened, and it vomited out a dark, burning ghost.

That looks like two summoning abilities, she thought. The Dark Soul was definitely a domain-granted skill, but the mind parasites were not. At that moment, a black orb shot up out of the dark well and opened, revealing another eye. Three summoning abilities, she amended, verifying that it too was an eldritch monster. Are those all part of it? Or is it using them like I use my minions?

Domain mana surged again, and this time, all the eyes suddenly turned to face her. A formation she had never seen appeared, etched with barbs of eldritch mana that glowed intensely within the body of Baaoht Yll’shuum. Before she could even yelp, the formation descended upon her like a thousand freezing wet blankets, and the entire world vanished as she was plunged into a nightmare.

